

ma VESTA
t jr
\
'
Jsti
“VESTA IS THE ONLY BATTERY WITH THE PLATES
LOCKED APART, AND THE ONLY BATTERY WITH A
TWO YEARS’ UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE”
FOR CARS- MOTOR CYCLES - RADIO - HOME LIGHTING
From good garages everywhere, or from these central distributors:—
AUSTRALIA:
New South Wales Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Victoria Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltdi, Melbourne
Queensland ..... Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston
West Australia . . Airzone (1931), Ltd., 886 Hay Street, Perth
NE W ZEALAND:
w
ŵ
AND THE EAST:
Malaya—Philippine Islands Getz Bros. Inc. (Singapore)
Hong Kong and Southern China . . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong)
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd,
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia)
Fiji Islands Marlows. Ltd., Suva. Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva
New Caledonia Maison Barrau
V 245 VESTA BATTERIES are manufactured by VESTA BATTERY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., Leichhardt, New South Wales, Australia.
*
The Bulletin
Results of Success Competition (Page 22)
Vol. 56. —No. 2871.
Wednesday, February 20, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ẁ
‘Jhe daily
uaeof.
_ Relieves
uji/iitcdlon
And keeps your skin clear,
healthy and In good condition.
Mildly antiseptic and containing
super-creamy emollient and me-
dicinal properties, Cntlcnra
Soap* used regularly, soothes
and protects the skin, preventing
minor affections from becoming
serious. Make Cntlcnra your
daily toilet soap. It is made of
the purest materials, selected for
their emollient and cleansing
properties, and is perfumed with
natural flower odours;
JLcarn
story !"!3
atllQMEj
ẃ
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age’’ ia a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age’’ a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter poet free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1 >OOO,OOO
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Your 1935 Queensland
Advertising Campaign!
Queensland is a vast State to cover, with many minor publications
dotted over its length and breadth; hut there are two outstanding
advertising mediums upon which you can base your 1935
campaign with certainty of success.
THE COURIER-MAIL
62,617 Copies Daily
(A.B.C. Certificate for 6 months to Sept. 30, 1934.)
Queensland’s outstanding daily newspaper with, by far, the largest
circulation of any newspaper published in the State.
THE SUNDAY MAIL
47,205 Copies Per Issue
(A.B.C. Certificate for 6 months ended Sept. 30, 1934.)
Companion Journal to the Courier-Mail, and showing a more pheno-
m «® al Increase in circulation than any newspaper in Australia. A
comparison of the monthly net averages from April to September with
Us previous A.B.C. Certificate of 40,342 copies per issue should prove
to national advertisers that it is worthy of inclusion in any campaign:
NET AVERAGE CIRCULATION PER ISSUE.
April . . ~ . . 42,780 July 47,682
• • • • . • 44,091 August . , ~ . . 49,646
une 47,530 September . . . . 51,501
September’s figure of 31,501 is 27 per cent, greater than the average
net circulation six months ago.
The combination of the circulations of the Courier-Mail and the Sunday
Mail offers the most comprehensive and economical cover that can be
bought in Queensland.
INQUIRE ABOUT THE COMBINED ADVERTISING RATES.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
, Sydney Representative; B. Jackson. 74 Pitt Street,
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper House. Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street.
The Red Page
CAPITAL POTTED
BIOGRAPHIES
Several theories
might be pro-
duced to account
for the fact that
n o n-fi c t i o n a 1
prose writing is
just now enjoying a high popularity. It
might be that the public is getting tired
of the thin variations on the theme of
murder, which has been the chief stock
in trade of recent fiction, or tired of the
general low quality of fiction altogether
(not to be wondered at in a time when
viftually everybody who has learned to
compose a sentence writes a novel, and,
judged by what is being issued, finds a
publisher).
It might go deeper than that, be ac-
counted for by the compulsory interest
in actualities that life to-day is forcing
on the individual. Whatever the cause,
the reading fashion tends more and more
towards biography, autobiography, travel
—anything in the way of prose that deals
with common actuality. Ten years ago
work of this kind was almost as low on
the library lists as poetry: to-day it
threatens the position of fiction, even in
spite of the fact that women are not its
chief supporters.
Great Contemporaries, recently ar-
ranged by Cassell, is a contribution to
the fashion. Even if it were not it would
be an interesting and edifying book. The
publisher has selected thirty-seven men
of the contemporary world scene who
are accepted now, and might be accepted
by history, as Great. Several aspects of
the selection must strike the reader im-
mediately. One is that the collection
does not include one Woman. Also, only
two women contribute: Mary Agnes
Hamilton, who presents Lloyd George,
and whose most original remark is that
her subject has bad legs (she seems to be
the first to notice that, and perhaps only
a woman would), and Maude Royden,
who visited Australia, and whose contri-
bution is so shockingly emotional that it
might be used with effect as an argument
for the admission of women to the pulpit
by those who feel that emotionalism is
a necessity there. ,
Another aspect —possibly more signi-
ficant—is the complete omission of poets
from among the great. There is, also,
only one whose novels are mentioned,
and he is not included as a novelist —
indeed, his novels are, as they thoroughly
deserye to be, held up to annihilating
ridicule; that is Bernard Shaw. Two
things might account for this; Cassell
might have felt that no contemporary
poet or novelist could be called Great,
or might have felt that they write more
than enough about each other as it is.
Therefore, Yeats has no place, but De
Valera has ; Roosevelt and Ford are in,
but T. S. Eliot, Hemingway, Dreiser,
Faulkner are not; Roy Campbell is' out,
but Smuts is there; Stalin and Trotsky,
but no Gorky ; Gandhi, but no Tagore;
and the same of Britain and elsewhere.
The book might have been better titled
“Great Political Contemporaries,” but
for the fact that it includes a brilliant
contribution by another Australian
visitor, Father Martindale, on the Pope,
and a few on musicians, conductors,
scientists. In no case, however, though
most of the subjects have written, and
some of them voluminously, is any
approached from a literary point of
view. The outlook of almost all the con-
tributors—possibly enforced —is political
(using the word in the larger sense of
having to do with policy for the guid-
ance of mankind).
Thus, the Aga Khan, though his reli-
gious position and his place in horse-
racing are mentioned, has become “a
statesman with a purpose” and “is to-day
an established international personage”
who has “achieved the rare feat of
standing astride the gulf between East
and West.” The position of the Pope in
international affairs is what Father
Martindale most emphasises; and,
though Paderewski’s playing is sym-
pathetically assessed, it is his political
position which secures him a place
among the Great.
In spite of this overbearing objective
of the book, about two-thirds of the con-
tributions are written in the spirit of
genuine criticism. They are an object-
lesson to at least two recent Australian
would-be biographers—George Taylor,
on Macpherson Robertson, and E. J.
Brady, on Cardinal Mannix —in that
an attempt is made to get beyond mere
adulation. There are exceptions, but the
general attempt is to present critical
biography. In this respect the choice of
some of the critics might be considered
bad, but even the worst of them has
attempted to be, at least, judicial.
For instance, Robert Bernays was
probably chosen to write on Ramsay
MacDonald because he is an up-and-
coming member of the House of Com-
mons himself. He was in Australia when
Bavin made his lamentable attempt
to win an election by whinging from
every platform he stood on, and
Lang got in. Maybe someday When
no trouble is involved Bernays will
tell his opinion of the condition of Lang.
Lang may console himself that Bernays’s
opinion of Bavin was even less compli-
mentary; at any rate, the present writer
would much rather be in the condition
in which Bernays thought Lang mostly
was than in the state which he ascribed
to Bavin. Bernays at the time was an
ardent Lloyd Georger, which possibly
takes much sting out of his criticism of
MacDonald. Still, his picture of Mac-
Donald is interesting: “Watch him on the
platforms of the National Government
now. He is hesitant, uneasy, verbose,
involved, sometimes almost unintelligible.
The confidence has gone, the appeal has
lost its vibrance, the message is not
there It is the same in the House of
Commons. Mr. Ramsay MacDonald
is seldom at his ease there Of all
the Cabinet none has a worse recbrd
of attendance.” Bernays stresses this.
He sees MacDonald in his present
position as an alien who has ratted
from his kind and feels it as most
rats do (Bernays asks what rat is ever
happy in his new sphere—a question
many Australian politicians are in a
position to answer). His summing-up is
that this is not an age of giants. The
events are too big for them. But when
the turmoil has passed and it is possible
to get the men of to-day in perspective,
MacDonald will not hold an ignoble
place.
The woman writer on Lloyd George
has an exactly opposite opinion of her
subject: “It is the fashion, nowadays, to
cast to President Wilson’s account the
decay of idealism, the radical mistrust of
high professions, that lies like a blight
over intellectual Europe. Part of the re-
sponsibility he must bear, but he bears
it very largely because, at Versailles, he
was bamboozled by the Welsh wizard.
Here, indeed, Mr. Lloyd George has left
behind something that lasts, an evil that
will outlive him and remind succeeding
generations of him... .If history assigns
to his account a limited share of respon-
sibility for the outbreak of the war, for
its protraction and the disastrous issue
that was part and parcel of that protrac-
tion, he bears more than anyone.... His
major legacy is the contemporary distrust
of democracy and blind'inclination to
dictatorship.” It seems a lot to put on
to the shoulders of one man, and the
writer produces nothing logical to sup-
port it, though, apart from opinion, her
picture of the politician is admirable.
Of the others who are not merely fic-
titiously political, there is an excited
picture of Venizelos by Compton Mac-
kenzie, a staid Hindenburg by John W.
Wheeler-Bennett, a careful Mussolini by
Sir Charles Petrie, a loose Roosevelt by
Ernest K. Lindley and a Gandhi by
George Slocombe which is so brilliant
a narrative that it deserves to be taken
from the book and issued separately.
The collection includes also Bergson
(rather enthusiastic), Viscount Cecil
(ditto), Chaliapin (really an excuse for
shrewd dramatic criticism by the Aus-
tralian W. J. Turner), Epstein (who, like
De Valera, is one of America’s contribu-
tions to European affairs), Havelock
Ellis (which does not much clear an
already cloudy issue), Einstein, Ford
(adding nothing about Ford that is not
already known, but interesting for
G. D. H. Cole’s ideas on Ford’s brutalis-
ing of men), Sir James Fraser, Freud,
Hitler, ’Abdul ’Aziz ibn Sa’ud, Lawrence
of Arabia, Sir Oliver Lodge (by Sir
Arthur-Keith), Marshal Lyautey (possibly
as poor a thihg as Andrd Maurois has
signed), Marconi, Mustafa Kemal,
Picasso, Reinhardt, Maorilander Lord
Rutherford, Dr. Albert Schweitzer, Sibel-
ius and Toscanini.
There is nothing in the book that is
not worth reading, though some of the
writers, especially (with the exception of
Turner’s contributions) those dealing with
musicians, who might seem to most to
have a disproportionate representation,
are inclined to boost their wares. Taken
as a whole, it is most fascinating stuff:
it is more than biography: it is a his-
tory of recent world events and a wide
range of opinions on them.
S. IMBER.
[Great Contemporaries; from Moore’s Book-
shop, Sydney ; 10s. 6d.j
The
Censorship
of Books.
The censorship
of books will not
be brought into
accord with the
educated opinion
of the country by
mere complaints that too many books or
that the wrong books are banned. That
is only a result; it is the system that is
at fault, and I should like to suggest what
seems to me a better system. It will
apply only to the moral and religious
censorship, not to the political, but it
might be used for local as well as im-
ported publications.
Books may be banned at present, so
far as I can make out, by the Customs
officials or by the Minister for Customs
on the advice of his department or of
three “censors” at Canberra, or on his
own account. I don’t know who does
the reading ft)r the Customs Department,
o Continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our policy which knows no deviation.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
"THE SENIOR STORE:
USE OUR
D, P. S.
mu
Hill
i
I
■Hi
11111111!
II 'll1 11 !
]|!lini | » o' II 1111111 l
mu
Footwear for men who know value
at prices to suit every pocket !
Nothing is more uncomfortable and annoying than ill-fitting
footwear. Anthony Horderns’ carry a full range of styles
and qualities, all built on comfortable lasts from good
materials and in all shades. Each boot and shoe is guaran-
teed to give real satisfaction, and now that the prices are so
considerably reduced it will pay every man to buy his
footwear at “The Senior Store.”
ẅ
A Shoe we can recommend for
comfort! It is available in full
and half sizes and there is a
selection of Tan Willow,
Havana Brown and Black Box
21/6
Calf. Bespoke model. Genuine welted soles.
Price, pair 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair .... 21/6
w
This style will appeal to the
well-dressed man! A stylish
“Tree” Brand Brogue in Tan
Willow and Black Box Calf.
The extra stout genuine welted
216
soles make it an ideal walking shoe. Also suit-
able for golf. Price, pair 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair .... 21 /6
ŵ
ẁ
Made for comfort and extra
service! “Tree” Brand Officers
Boots in Tan or Black. Full
and half sizes are available
with sewn standard screwed
m
soles. Buy them now and benefit by the genuine
reduction of 2/- on every pair. Price, pr., 16/1 1.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair .... 14/1 I
ẃ
ẅ
“Tree” Brand Elastic-side
Riding Boots in Tan or
Black Calf. Light soles,
standard screwed. Full and
25/-
hall sizes. Price, pair 18/6
Sale Price, pair 17/ 6
Also in Tan Willow and Box Calf. Genuine
welted soles . , . full and half sizes.
Price, pair • ; 27/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair .... 25/-
A
At right—l 4 6 “Hordura” Work Boots at 12/11
“Hordura” (Regd.) Work Boots are famous for their wearing qualities. . .and at 14/6 were considered the
keenest value. Now they are reduced, so order early. Tan or Black with extra stout sewn and standard
screwed soles. All sizes. Price, pair, 14/6. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 12/11
• Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
’Phone; M 2401, Day and Night. SYDNEY Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
w
ŵ


w. JNO. BAKER LTD
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
CUTLERY, EAR MARKS AND VETERINARY
INSTRUMENT MAKERS
W.JNO.BAKER
g‘ o a
a _4L»;a
/«
W. JNO. BAKER DAGGING,
BOTTLE AND SKINNING OUTFIT.
Outfit consists of Red Tang Double
Hollow-ground Dagging Shears,
Boundary Rider’s Skinning Knife,
Steel for Sharpening and fpt. Tin
Bottle. The Sheath is made of the
very best leather, riveted through-
out for lasting wear, with Loops to
attach to saddle, and doublehand
girth strap.
No. 17 —Outfit, with plain Beech
Handle Knife and Steel, com-
plete, 39/6; postage, 1/9.
No. 19 With strong Rosewood
Handle Knife and Steel, com-
plete, 42/-; postage, 1/9.
SWUM
EIBTH STRAP
M-.IN
W. JNO. BAKER DAGGING
SHEAR, IN SHEATH, to carry on
saddle.
No. I—Sin. Shear in Sheath, 13/9.
Postage, 1 /-.
No. 2—6 in. Shear in Sheath, 14/9.
Postage, 1/-'.
No. 4—7£in v full-size Shear and
Sheath, 17/6. Postage, 1/3.
COMPOUND.
W. JNO. BAKER TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCU-
LATOR. A well-made, first-class Nickel-plated
instrument, combining the blunt cut and the
crushing block. Its simplicity and thorough
effectiveness in operating commends it to both
the novice and expert. Price, 55/-.
THE HUNTER DOUBLE LEVER SHEEP DEHORNER, extra
strong. Length overall, 30in. Price £4/4/.
Postage: N.S.W., 2/9; Interstate, '5/6.
P2O—W. JNO. BAKER DOUBLE EDGE FOOT ROT
SECATEURS. Solid Metal Handles. I Oin. overall.
Price, 11/6 each. Postage, 6d.
GENUINE TURKEY STONES, Prices, 8/6 and 9/6.
Postage, 9d.
TROCARS FOR HOVEN CATTLE. Length overall,
7fin. Complete with 2 Sheaths. Price, 9/6 each.
ALUMINIUM SHEEP EAR LABELS
Very Light. Never Rust.
3000
m
w
OPEN.
CLOSED
STUD LOCK (REG.) PATTERN ALUMINIUM SHEEP
EAR LABELS. These can be closed with a Flatnose
Plier, and will not pull open. 15/- per 100.* In lots
of 500 or more, 12/6 per 100.*
Pliers for Closing Labels, 4/- each.
The above Prices include name or initials and numbering.
f T *Uri
W. JNO. BAKER DAG-
GING AND BOTTLE OUT-
FIT. This Outfit contains
Sin. Red Tang Double Hol-
low-ground Dagging Shears,
f-pint Tin Bottle, and
small Oil Stone. The
Sheath is made of the best
picked leather, and riveted
throughout. Has loops for
attaching to saddle; also
double-handed girth strap.
No. 15 —The above Outfit
complete, 23/6; postage,
1/3.
BLOODLESS EMASCU-
LATOR. Length overall,
12in.; width of jaw, 2|-in.
Price, each .... £3/15/6
Postage, 2/-.
This size is the most suit-
able for all-round work.
Smaller size for Sheep.
Length overall, 9in.; width
of jaw, 1 fin.
Price, each .... £2/19/6
Postage, 1/-.
150—W. JNO. BAKER STATION
OR FARMER’S KNIFE, the stan-
dard favourite of the Australian
Bushman ; 4in. Stag Haft, 13/6
each.*
\
TREBLE AGE.
HAND FORGED STEEL SHEEP AND CATTLE EAR PLIERS, any design, made to order in accordance with Stock Department’s requirements.
W. JNO. BAKER LTD., 3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
{near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
A MODERN NOVEL OF AUSTRALIAN CITY LIFE
fORTy-ffiC
a novel
PRICE 6/-
Plus 3d. Postage.
FORTY - SIX
By STEWART HOWARD.
A modern novel of Australian city life, set in Sydney at the present day,
it states the problem of a normal, active, virile man v/hose amatory excursions
catch him enmeshed in a closing net of feminine possessiveness. Three women —
his wife, his mistress and a new flame—have their hands to the net; the problem
of Dick Westring is how he might cut the painter and escape.
The author is a young writer who has seen this aspect of modern Sydney life.
Its hectic atmosphere, cocktail parties, promiscuous amorousness, are as actual
and true to life as that sunlit scene of its near coast which makes a moderating
splash of beauty in the novel’s texture.
All Booksellers, or from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
or what moral or literary qualifications
he may possess or by what principles he
is guided. Of the three at Canberra, Sir
Robert Garran and his two colleagues,
we know that they are men of education
and reading, but we do not know in
what circumstances their advice is asked
or whether it is always taken. As for
the Minister, he changes with his party,
and it will be a lucky chance if he
happens to possess the temperament,
reading and judgment that are, or should
be, required in a censor of books.
It would be safe to condemn such a
system even if we did not know that it
has resulted in the exclusion of books
that are good enough for England, of
books that have a real literary value and
of cheap editions of books whose reading
has been long accepted as part of a
liberal education. Little wonder that
some people contend that there ought
not to be any kind of censorship! As
to that, however, everything depends on
what is meant by the term. We have all
come across printed matter that is with-
out either literary merit or genuine
informative value, and that has no
object but to make money by stimulating
a perverted appetite. There is no more
reason to allow the publication of this
sort of thing than there is to allow the
exhibition of gross indecencies in the
theatre. What most people mean, I
think, when they oppose all censorship
is that they would leave the prohibi-
tion of such matter as I have men-
tioned to the ordinary laws against “in-
decency, blasphemy and obscenity.” But
this would simply mean making police
magistrates the censors ; that is, it would
give power to decide whether a book
should be allowed publication to a man
who might know nothing of literary
values and whose conception of decency
might be derived from what the law
allows to be done in a public place. What
are we to do then?
I would suggest that we rely upon the
existing laws against indecency and all
the rest of it, but that the place of the
magistrates under this system be taken
by a board of three paid censors, who
would be made magistrates for this pur-
pose. Their chairman might well be the
chairman of the three Canberra “cen-
sors,” Sir Robert Garran, but one of the
members should be a younger man, well
read in the literature of the day. When-
ever there seemed to be reason for a
prosecution the police would report to
this board ; it would either disallow the
prosecution or order it and proceed to
try the case.
What would happen would be c'~me-
thing like this. A member of the ..olic
thinks, let us say, that a particular book
is immoral. He may be the representa-
tive of a society or he may be acting on
his own account; that doesn’t matter.
He makes an affidavit of his opinion and
lodges it at the nearest police station with
a copy of the book and perhaps affi-
davits in support. The police authorities
report to the board, and it, or perhaps
in simple cases one of its members, reads
the book. If the board is of the opinion
that the book contains matter to which ex-
ception may reasonably be taken it orders
a prosecution. At this point, in bad
cases, the publisher or bookseller might
plead guilty in order to get off lightly.
If not, the board would sit and hear
what evidence either side might care to
present in a court that would be open
at least to the press, though it might be
advisable to prevent the publication of
some of the evidence. The board
would have to consider whether the
matter complained of was what it was
made out to be, and, if so, whether the
matter was such as to damn the book as
a whole or whether it was justified by
treatment, motive, literary quality. It
would pronounce accordingly, and there
should be no appeal except to the High
Court.
A few incidental points: First, in
order that a bookseller or publisher
might know in advance whether it would
be safe to import a particular book, he
should be allowed to state a case at any
time to the board, which would order a
trial if it thought fit, just as if a. formal
complaint had been made. And, second,
since social conditions and conventions
alter, in recording an adverse judgment
the board might give permission to apply
again after a period, and in any case it
should be permissible to make applica-
tion for the reversal of a judgment after,
say, three years. It might be well to
make the censorship only a half-time job,
in order to preserve the censors’ sanity,
but in that case more than three censors
might be needed. There is, of course, no
reason why one of them should not be a
woman. I believe that as soon as the
principles on which the board acted be-
came settled and known there would be
no more stir over the banning of a book
than there ought to be.
H. M. GREEN.
Blood Bath
Obelists FI y
High (Collins;
7 S . " bd ) j s the
most ambitious
of this batch of horror-novels. C.
Daly King, the author, is said by the
blurbist to be one “whose real interest
is scientific research.” There is a good
deal of deep psychological stuff, most of
which emanates from Hugh L. Craven,
an alleged Englishman who is a pas-
senger aboard the U.S.A. airplane in
which nearly all the action occurs.
Mr. Daly King is an American, so
Craven’s colloquialisms are almost as un-
English as the Englishman of a French
farce. “I found myself awake, and
thought I’d have a bit of pipe.... Better
have a spot of nap yourself, hadn’t you,
old chap?” And so on.
When not trying to talk like Bertie
Wooster, Craven is ponderously scientific.
Captain Lord, a detective, is on the ’plane
to protect Dr. Cutter, who has had a
message that he will be killed. Within a
second or two of the specified moment
Lord gives Cutter a harmless drug ;
Cutter collapses, and is pronounced dead,
and Craven explains fluently that the
murderer is Cutter’s brother-in-law, who
is not on the ’plane.
“Consciously or unconsciously Wotan
Mann has been projecting strangulation,
suffocation, some violent form of asphyxia-
tion upon Cutter. Wotan Mann’s energy
is enormous The sudden change in
Cutter’s nostrils from ordinary air to what-
ever is in those bulbs was the cataclyst
that precipitated the phenomenon Mann
was visualising.”
Cutter isn’t really dead, but in his help-
less state he is very effectively slain
when the ’plane lands. Craven is by no
means discouraged.
“Are you so sure that there is a knife?
I take it there is a wound now; but how
do you know that that isn’t a projected
wound also? You haven’t the instrument
you suppose caused it. What if there
wasn’t an instrument in the ordinary
sense?”
The simple explanation is that several
passengers meant to kill Cutter (a nasty
bit' of work, despite his eminence as a
surgeon), and one of them brought it
off. Fonda Mann, Wotan’s daughter, is
the broad-minded heroine, and Hood
Tinkham is the passenger who behaves
suspiciously. Hood, Wotan, Fonda —
what Christian names these Americans
have!
Shot at Dawn (Collins ; 7s. 6d.) is by
John Rhode, the creator of Dr. Priestley.
Superintendent Hanslct, of the Yard, is
required to solve a mystery death on a
river yacht. It is hardly necessary to tell
Rhode fans that he repairs without delay
to the doctor’s house in Westbourne Ter-
race. Harold" (Watson to Priestley’s
Holmes, as usual) follows his idol aboard
the Alondra and is ordered to construct
a graph.
His first business was to convert the
tidal velocities, as observed, into the prob-
able velocities at spring tides. For this
purpose he multiplied Dr. Priestley’s figures
by the factor four over three. Thus the
velocity observed at eight-fifty, .42 knots,
became .56 knots. The maximum velocity
observed, 2.3, becomes 3.1, and so on.
What had all these calculations to do
with the murder? puzzled poor Harold ;
but, of course, the doctor knew what he
was about, and proved, with the aid of
Harold’s graphs, that the dead black-
mailer had been shot by one of his vic-
tims—the last man the reader is likely to
suspect unless he or she turns to the end.
The story flows smoothly along, and the
author shows his customary knowledge
of mathematics and everything to do
with boats.
Halcott Glover, author of Dead Mans
House (Dent; 7s. 6d.), begins his story
outside Rome, where Tom, a London
doctor, strikes up a friendship with
Michael, a whimsical vagabond. And so
to Paris by way of Genoa and Marseilles
with Kate, a mystery girl whom they
meet on the way. Olivia, Kate’s friend,
is the owner of the house of death in
Maida Vale, and a bad lot. Kate, though
a nice girl in ways, is an opium addict.
Michael explains to Tom in the presence
of Olivia’s corpse:
“It wasn’t the real Kate did this, but
something primitive. We can’t talk about
it now, but don’t think of murder; to you
and me it was nothing of the kind.”
They conspire to such purpose that the
police are outwitted, and Tom and Kate
are able eventually to “risk a little house
of their own, coming to it as man and
wife, with a week-end cottage.”
Sometimes Michael was with them there,
sometimes they visited Michael, when
always they drank in sorrow to Olivia.
Not a good example. The people are
stagy, and the narrator hasn’t mastered
the art of leaving out information that'
doesn’t matter.
The Ha-Ha Case, by J. J. Connington
(Hodder and Stoughton; 7s. 6d.), is
easily the best of the four. The.charac-
ters talk and, to an extent, behave like
everyday Britons; the plot, which ft
based on “borough English” (the rare cus •
tom under which the youngest surviving
son inherits), is unusual, and the denoue-
ment is plausible as well as exciting.
Johnnie Brandon gets a charge of shot
in his head at a shooting party on his
twenty-first birthday. A verdict of acci-
dental death is returned, but the inspector
isn’t satisfied. It might have been suicide ;
Johnnie was being blackmailed. He
might have been murdered by his vil-
lainous host, Laxford. Or by somebody
else. The chief constable clears it up by
a masterpiece of pure reason, and hands
the credit to the envious inspector.
A satisfying picture is drawn bf Eng-
lish country life ; the talk is natural; the
reader’s brain isn’t wearied with abstruse
theories, and justice is done at the finish.
In the other three books the murderers
escape the gallows.
J. D.
Thrillers for
Kids
Victorian schooi-
children in re-
sponse to a ques-
tionnaire, decided
by a majority that
the character
they mostly admired among all those,
real or fictitious, of whom they had read
was Sexton Blake.
The heroes of helpful books for the
young also ran, but Ned Kelly got a
good place among the country kids, and
the Girl Who Helped Ned Kelly finished
well up with the girls.
Moralists, highbrows and similar other
serious-minded persons may draw a mul-
titude of conclusions from the result.
Deplorers may see the end of the world,
and wax sad over the degeneracy of the
rising generation. Let us leave those
aspects of the youngsters’ judgment to
them and consider another side of the
matter.
The Sexton Blake series of detective
stories is not good stuff. I don’t mean
that it is not high-class literature. What 1
mean is that it is not good thriller stuff.
It is not, for instance, in the same class,
whether looked at from the standpoint of
the average reader, the unlettered moron
or the schoolboy, as the detective works
of, say, Aidan De Brune, to mention one
of our own authors. The only difference
is that De Brune’s stories are not turned
out for juvenile consumption. The boy
element is missing, and in Sexton Blake
there is just sufficient of this to tempt
the ordinary kid to plunge deeply into
the books.
Australia possesses a dozen authors,
to my knowledge, who could turn out
thrillers as good as, or better than, any
Sexton Blake book, regarded from any
standpoint. They would be better
written, better constructed, more con-
vincing, would depict just as much hero-
ism and thrill and have much better
dramatic effect.
Why don’t they do it? The question-
naire shows plainly that there is a solid
demand for the Sexton Blake type of
story-cheap, tawdry, ridiculous if you
like, but distinctly entertaining to the
youthful reader. That demand could be
supplied to-morrow, or at any rate next
week—for I know authors who would
guarantee to deliver a complete story of
the sort ready for the printer next Mon-
day morning. There must be a sale for
such books if the questionnaire proves
anything, and here apparently is a unique
economic instance of the supply exceed-
ing the demand.
However they have succeeded or have
failed, Australian authors have aimed to
produce good books—books that might
take their places in competition with the
great works of other countries. They
have hitched their waggon to a star, but
generally it has proved a star which does
not diffuse any financial light. I realise
well that the people who aim to write
high-class stuff are usually incapable of
turning out cheap stuff, however great
their failure is to attain their objective,
however great the prizes to be won by
stooping to conquer. But there are other
writers who can never hope to be great
literary figures, and they have just as
great a need for earning their living. In
between the days on which they are col-
lecting their dole some of them might
find it profitable to turn off a few master-
pieces based on the formula which made
Sextojn Blake the superman of the Aus-
tralian small boy.
MONIAGUE GROVER
A Satchel of Books
Anson’s four years’ voyage round the
world which culminated in the capture
of the Acapulco treasure galleon is
familiar to those who read of such things
in youth. In Commodore Anson’s World
Voyage, by Admiral Boyle T. Somerville
(Heinemann ; 155.), the epic story is re-
told for the benefit of a generation which
takes its history from Hollywood. The
voyage was not only an epic of the R.N.,
but stands as a grim classic of the
terrible history of scurvy. Of the squad-
ron muster of 1939 which left Ports-
mouth, 1051 died of scurvy alone, dysen-
tery and tropical fevers claiming many
others. But in those spacious days lives,
especially sailormen’s lives, were even
cheaper than they are to-day. The wast-
age, as far as the Admiralty was con-
cerned, was more than balanced by the
booty taken on the voyage. In coin and
bar silver this was valued at £314,000,
and other cargo brought the total to half
a million pounds, or a round million in
to-day’s money. Officers and crew
shared a record amount of prize-money.
History doesn’t tell us where most of
this went after the remnant of the Cen-
turion’s crew got hold of it. It can be
taken for granted that little of it re-
mained long in the hands of the men who
had won it with such unspeakable priva-
tion and risk.


■■
1
sf
mm
■ | ~;
■;
HI
gpl ■M||
■■■-.
K9B
'V »
/
H
■V
:
tLJ
K.
■
r&
»
I
'
H
■
■■■l
■f
R
■
■HR
H ■
f W'-A rail
*:
LV*l
■
-■■/
.
«■
.#
’>*.
JL
?
■
K
ISSH
- ■
?
sy j
mh
:;■; :
I f-"
n
■■
mmm
RHRRHRR Ttoft 1
| ■ JT.7 . pr-*
/ ;RHRR
8 -HMP
€onmMSml


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2871.
February 20, 1935.
HE WOULD DOUBLE THE PARTS!
PETER QUINCE: “Nick Bottom, the Weaver, you are set down for Pyramus, a lover that kills himself most gallantly.”
BOTTOM THE WEAVER: “Let me play the lion, too: I will roar, that I will do any man’s heart good to hear me.”
QUINCE: “An you should do it too terribly, that were enough to hang us all.”
-"A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” Act I, Scene 2.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
W.estralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T> B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas; 72 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
SUPERFLUOUS.
The Australian censorship has always occupied an
untenable position. Mr. White made his attitude clear
long ago ; he is on the side of those who believe that
sexual impulses are evil in themselves, and should
be suppressed.
What were the censors to do about it? Most
plays, all operas and musical comedies, 95 per cent,
of talkies and a similar percentage of novels make
what is called a sex appeal. Free, universal and com-
pulsory education has imposed a new literature on
the world ; a literature of escape. It is designed for
tired—but not too tired—businessmen and -women ;
and it is provided in the novels of Ethel Dell and
her kind, and in movies which feature Greta Garbo,
Claudette Colbert, Clark Gable, Ronald Colman and
dozens more. Nearly all works of the sort are primarily
aphrodisiacs; the advertisements on the hoardings
and in the tabloid papers are quite frank about it.
In theory, Ministers of the Crown who defer to
politically powerful ministers of religion would like
to see desire-fulfilment novels, plays and movies sup-
pressed ; but it isn’t practical politics. There are too
many of them, and they stand for too many votes.
Yet something has to be suppressed from time to
time in order to prove to the electors that the Gov-
ernment is doing its duty by morality, and to justify
the expense of the censorship. So we get the absurd
spectacle of books being banned and talkies being
cut which are not only in no sense erotic, but which
make eroticism appear revolting.
Take three novels which are selling well in
Britain and the U.S.A., and which have been banned
here of late. “Sanctuary” describes what may happen
to an American girl who behaves like the heroine
of a co-ed film. The girl goes for a drive with a
drunken boy friend, and falls among gangsters. Her
tragic experiences, which the author gives in ghastly
detail, are no more calculated to inspire voluptuous
emotions than a visit to a lock hospital. “Sanctuary”
debunks the type of thug whom George Raft and
Chester Morris portray so sympathetically ; debunks
houses of ill-fame and their frowsy inmates, whom
exotics like Marlene Dietrich are accustomed to
glorify; debunks the alleged delights of drunkenness.
“Appointment in Samarra” shows how drink may
drive a popular, fairly prosperous and happily-
married young American car-dealer to suicide. Except
for its language, which is as free from genteel reti-
cences as the Old Testament, “Appointment in
Samarra” might be a mediaeval morality play.
“Twisted Clay”—perhaps the most horrifying of the
three —is a coldly objective study of homicidal mania.
There is no moral, but the reader loathes the girl who
commits the murders, and sympathises with her victims.
Clearly in the case of these books the censors
have tried to protect, not the morals, but the manners
of the public. The fostering of gentility is now their
only function. They don’t object when vice and
crime are romanticised, as they are in English books
about Arab ravishers, and in Hollywood films about
gangsters ; they do object when immorality is shown
as disgusting. Luscious bedroom scenes in palatial
surroundings are passed in talkies ; sordid bedroom
scenes in filthy shacks are barred in novels.
The formula appears to satisfy the Minister, but
it has long ceased to satisfy the ministers. Hence
the appearance of Leagues of Decency to do work
which the censors haven’t even attempted. The clergy
mean to use their influence over churchgoers to dis-
courage genuine pornography. Could anything
emphasise the futility of our censors more strongly
than this clerical vote of no-confidence in them?
From the time the leagues begin to function in earnest
the censors will be revealed to the Commonwealth as
existing for no other purpose than to shut out, on
the score of ungentlemanly language, such passion-
ately moral works as “Brave New World”!
TUDOR AND BONAPARTE.
Rome is canonising that great Englishman Sir Thomas
More, who was beatified in 1886, and Cardinal
Fisher, who suffered with him for denying the royal
supremacy in church matters. The decrees, read in
the presence of the British Ambassador to Italy and
the British Minister to Vatican City, said;
The persecutions in the sixteenth century began
owing to the lecherous nature of Henry VIII., who,
unable to obtain from the Pope —the custodian of
the indissoluble tie of matrimony—the divorce for
which he lusted, proclaimed himself in anger head
of the Church in England in order to proceed by his
own authority to a second sacrilegious marriage.
This is far from being exact history, and it will not
help to promote the reunion of churches. Henry was
a scamp, but he had a case. Betrothed in boyhood to
his brother’s widow, six years older than himself, he
married her at 18, the match being forced on his
Council by the bride’s father, Ferdinand of Spain,
“who regarded England as his tool.” According to the
“Encyclopaedia Britannica,” “doubts as to the validity
of the marriage were expressed by Pope Julius 11.
and Archbishop Warham.” Other worthy people pro-
nounced it incestuous. It was certainly ill-starred.
Catherine bore Henry six children, but only Mary
lived ; and no queen had reigned alone in England:
it was the popular impression that women were
excluded from the throne. When Matilda asserted
her claims there was a civil war.
By 1526, when Mary was 10, it was “fairly
certain” that Catherine was past child-bearing. In
the following year Henry commissioned Wolsey to
get him a divorce.
Other royal marriages had been dissolved, notably
that of Louis XII. of France, who cast out “his
virtuous and ill-favored Queen, Joan.” While the
proceedings against Catherine were dragging on, the
Pope sanctioned the divorce of Henry’s own sister,
Margaret of Scotland ; freed from Archibald Douglas,
the lady promptly married Henry Stewart. There
were signs that Henry’s own case would be equally
successful. “But in 1529 the Pope had to submit to
the yoke of the Emperor Charles V.,” Catherine’s
nephew.
This involved a rejection of Henry’s suit, not
because Charles cared anything for his aunt, but
because a divorce would mean disinheriting Charles’s
cousin Mary, and perhaps the eventual succession of
the son of a French princess to the English throne.
The “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” from which this
extract is taken, denies that “Henry’s character was
primarily the cause of the project of divorce.”
Had this been so, a succession of mistresses
would have served as well as a series of single wives.
The real occasion was the King’s desire for a
male heir.
Charles V. was a Hapsburg. In 1810 another
Hapsburg emperor gave his daughter to a divorcee
with the blessing of the Church. Like Henry, Napoleon
put away an ageing wife because he wanted an
heir. He had married his Josephine in the Repub-
lican equivalent of a registrar’s office. Rome secured
a religious ceremony for her, and a Pope was
present at her crowning ; but it made no difference
when she had failed to give her lord a son. He
was no less “lecherous” than Henry, and he had the
weaker claim ; but he got his divorce, as Henry was
refused his, for political reasons.
STERILISATION OF THE UNFIT.
“Seven years’ imprisonment, with hard labor. He will
be out in five years, but that is all I can do —I can only
protect the community for five years. It is a case where
medical science should be brought to bear. He needs
sterilising.” —Queensland Judge Brennan, passing sentence on
a ruffian who shot a settler and tried to rape the wounded
man’s wife.
Not a month goes by without its quota of sex-maniac
cases, even in healthy-minded Australia. In a large
proportion the charge is “indecent exposure” or
“behavior.” Then the magistrate mutters something
to the effect that gaol is not the right place for such
people but there is nowhere else to send them. And
off the culprit goes to brood in celibacy and on hominy
and cold meat till he is released uncured.
Sometimes he proceeds from solitary beastliness
to violence, and ruins or destroys a life or two. There-
upon a Judge speaks more strongly than the magis-
trate, and he goes to the gallows or for a longer
sentence in gaol or to a lunatic asylum.
But wherever he goes he has not been prevented
from marrying and begetting other and perhaps worse
degenerates. In Australia marriage is not forbidden
to human refuse not actually under restraint; in
N. S. Wales it has been admitted by the Minister
that the Child Welfare Department has no control
over the sexual life of half-witted elder girls nominally
under its care. The State concerns itself only with
results, such as those of the marriage of an invalid
pensioner to a young girl who at womanhood
impressed the doctors as having the mentality of a
child. In that case the husband is dead of a bullet
wound ; the wife is now spending 20 years in gaol.
Sterilisation of the unfit has been tried on a small
scale in some of the North American States. Ger-
many is the first country to adopt it as a national
policy. It has had its lesson. Berlin, 10 years ago,
was Sodom and Gomorrah rolled into one. Perver-
sion of every sort abounded ; it was part of the every-
day atmosphere of a capital which seemed to havg
gone completely mad. Hitler tackled the evil with
high courage, for formidable opposition had to be
overcome. It is one of the things for which the great
mass of honest and clean-living Germans honor him.
Other countries need the same purge in a greater
or lesser degree. One of the main reasons why certain
parts of the Balkans have always been productive
of strife and crime lies in the legacy of long breeding
by diseased or unbalanced parents, washed up by the
tides of endless wars and migrations. The author
of a book describing Adana, in Asia Minor, where
scarcely a quarter-century has passed without the
wholesale spilling of blood, found among the inhabi-
tants “degenerates of all the worn-out civilisations
and marauding armies.... faces with scarcely any
chins formed about mouths that were tiny slits....
foreheads that receded like those of monkeys ; twisted
hands.”
Sterilisation has ceased to be a painful or
dangerous operation. It causes little discomfort, and
interferes not at all with the normal life of the indi-
vidual —gives him less trouble, in fact, than having
a broken finger patched up. It does not even pre-
clude unions between the sexes. In Germany it is
resorted to voluntarily by married persons who, be-
cause of some mysterious taint, have brought idiot
children into the world and desire to be spared a
repetition of that cruellest of human experiences.
WHY NOT JESS?
Lieut.-Col. (temporary Colonel) Lavarack is to
succeed Major-Gen. Bruche as Chief of the General
Staff. The appointment has caused a great deal of
comment among Staff Corps men, for not only will
Lavarack go above the two members of the Military
Board with whom he will have to work —Brig.-
Generals Jess and Phillips, the one Adjutant-General
and the other Q.M.G. —but he will also be promoted
over the heads of seven other members of the Staff
Corps, including two District Commandants —Briga-
diers J. L. Hardie (S.A.) and A. M. Martyn (W.A.).
The brevet-colonelcy given to Lavarack in
August, 1926, when he was made a substantive
lieutenant-colonel in the Staff Corps, will no doubt
be used to justify his elevation above such men as
Hardie, Martyn, Lorenzo, E. M. Williams, McColl,
McFarlane and Bilton. That made him senior to
them in the gradation list of the A.M.F., although
it did not affect his relative seniority in the Staff
Corps. But even his brevet-colonelcy does not put
him senior to Jess. or Phillips, both of whom
were substantive colonels in the Staff Corps when
he was promoted in August, 1926. Jess had been
made a colonel in April of that year ; Phillips received
his promotion a month later.
The fact that Phillips is not a Staff College
graduate may be some justification for passing him
over; but the same argument cannot be used in the
case of Jess, who was at Camberley in 1920. I
have been there, and I know that Jess was looked
upon by the Commandant and the instructors as one of
the soundest, as well as one of the most brilliant,
students of his class.
Jess’s supersession is made no easier to under-
stand by a comparison of the records of the two men
during and since the war. Jess left Australia in 1914
as staff captain to Monash’s brigade. After serving
in that capacity at the Landing, he was prbmoted the
following month to be brigade-major of the 2nd
Infantry Brigade, with which he served until after
the Evacuation. For 12 months (March, T 6, to
March, T 7) he was in command of the 7th Battalion.
During that period, which included the Pozieres
fighting, he was looked upon as one of the out-
standing battalion commanders of the Ist Division.
In March, 1917, he was selected to go to Aldershot
as an instructor at the Senior Officers’ School there.
After that he was G.S.O. II at Australian Corps
Headquarters, G.S.O. I of the 3rd Division and
(in October, 1918) commander of the 10th Infantry
Brigade. He was then only 34 —one of the youngest
brigadier-generals who served in the war.
Jess was transferred to England in March, 1919,
to take charge of Codford Depot. Four months later
he was made Commandant at Horseferry-road, and,
while still holding that position, he succeeded Monash
as Director-General of Repatriation and Demobilisa-
tion. From November, 1919, until January, 1920, he
officiated as G.O.C. A.I.F. Upon returning to Aus-
tralia in 1921 he served as G.S.O. of the 4th Division
for three years, since when he has been successively
Commandant in Tasmania, Westralia and Victoria.
From May, 1933, until the end of last year he was
lent to the Victorian Government as organiser of the
Melbourne Centenary.
Lavarack was a student at the Camberley Staff
College when war broke out. From August, 1914,
until February, 1915, he was a G.S.O. 11l at the
War Office. Most of his service during the next two
years was with artillery; he was successively
brigade-major of the 22nd Divisional Artillery, 8.E.F.,
Staff Officer Artillery XVI Corps, B.E.F. (both
appointments at Salonika), and brigade-major sth
Australian Divisional Artillery. He held the last-
named appointment in France from September, 1916,
until May, 1917. In the latter month he was appointed
G.S.O. II of the Ist Australian Division, and in
December of the same year he became G.S.O. I of
the 4th Australian Division, which position he retained
until he left France in May, 1919. He returned to
Australia in August of that year.
From February, 1920, until January, 1924,
Lavarack was director of military art at the Royal
Military College. A year as G.S.O. 2nd Division
was followed by two months’ attachment to the
General Staff branch at Army Headquarters. From
March, 1925, to December, 1927, he was director
of military training at Melbourne. The following
year he spent in England as a student at the Imperial
Defence College, and on his return to Australia in
February, 1929, he rejoined Army Headquarters as
director of military operations and intelligence. In
January, 1933, he became Commandant of the Royal
Military College.
While not for a moment suggesting that Lavarack
is not fully qualified for the high position for which
he has been selected —I thoroughly believe he is—
it is hard to see what qualifications he has that Jess
has not. The latter’s experience with troops, both
during and since the war, is much greater
than Lavarack’s. The staff experience of the
two men is practically equal; taking war service
alone, the balance is in Jess’s favor. Can it be, as
has been suggested, that Lavarack’s experience at
the Imperial Defence College in 1928 turned the
scales in his favor?
General opinion in the service is that Jess has
been badly treated. Staff Corps officers are wondering
what one has to do to ensure promotion when one is
due for it when a man with Jess’s qualifications can
be passed over for a junior and a younger man.
OWLITE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Voiceless Interests.
When the nominations for the Victorian elections
closed on Thursday it turned out that 12 of the
retiring Assemblymen, among them the Premier and
a Minister, were unopposed and that the remaining
53 seats would be contested by 144 candidates, “the
largest number since 1927.” It is interesting to
examine them on a vocational basis.
Forty-three land men (farmers, graziers, fruit-
growers) are contesting country seats, and nine
barristers and solicitors are contesting metropolitan
seats; several lawyers are also standing for country
seats. Among the other candidates are a couple of
doctors, a few engineers, journalists, secretaries, clerks,
skilled tradesmen (a jeweller, a cabinet-maker, a hair-
dresser), a miner, a teacher, a “gentleman” and six
merchants and manufacturers.
Scarcely anybody in the next Victorian Assembly
will be in a position to speak authoritatively for the
banks, insurance cos., trustee cos., shipping cos., or
for great inter-State concerns such as Dalgety’s and
the C.S.R. And among the land men are now no
Staughtons, Fairbairns or Manifolds, able to relate the
problems of the country to those of the city. Bloated
Capitalism, the Money Power, or whatever oppro-
brious name may be preferred for those who have
succeeded will be virtually voiceless in Victoria’s
popular House—a phenomenon which may be
observed-in most other Australian Parliaments.
In the House of Commons and the French Depu-
ties, though the law is usually over-represented as
here (lawyers, being trained, and often born, talkers,
find it easy to get into elective bodies), the land rarely
is, and the city, bourse and great national industries
(particularly shipping) always have capable spokes-
men. Mussolini is literally governing Italy on a
vocational basis.
As a result of Parliamentarians being immune, as
such, from libel and slander actions, a tradition of
vituperation has established itself in Australia. Trading
banks are among the favorite targets, and as a banker
of standing is almost as rare in an Australian Lower
House as a platypus the critics of the banks get free
runs. Contrast the hostility of legislators to big finan-
cial concerns with their consideration for farmers. It
isn’t all due to jealousy of wealth. Parliamentarians
understand the farmers’ difficulties; farmer-Parlia-
mentarians are always talking about them. That
there are few in the Parliaments of Australia to give
publicity to the difficulties of the great industrial and
commercial concerns is largely the fault of the con-
cerns themselves.
*
Exit Weaver.
Nature played a fantastic prank on Mr. Weaver when
he was born a little Conservative. He is the com-
plete demagogue in everything but policy. In love
with the sound-of his own voice, he talks too much,
blusters, trails his coat, and when making personal
attacks has a wild contempt for facts and fairplay.
But for the old dame’s joke at his expense the
Trades Hall would have been Mr. Weaver’s spiritual
home. Mr. Lang would, of course, have expelled
him, but he would have formed another Labor party
which Granny, of Hunter-street, would have described
as preserving the best traditions of the grand old
Labor party that used to give her hysteria every day.
Mr. George Fuller left Mr. Weaver out of his
Ministry, and Mr. Weaver was so hurt that he resigned
at the end of his term and was out of the 1925-27
Parliament. Nor was he included in the Bavin
Ministry, as originally formed, but after the death
of Mr. Bruntnell he succeeded Mr. Chaffey as Minister
for Mines and Forests. One result was the Rothbury
stunt. It did more than any other act of the Govern-
ment to alienate working people and prepare the
debacle of 1930.
But the Lang regime gave Mr. Weaver great
opportunities of parading his talent for destructive
criticism. He availed himself of them to the full, and
was taken into favor again. When “Labor” fell it
was decided to give him two quiet portfolios where
he could not get into too many disputes except with
the spiders who infest departmental buildings.
It was an error of judgment. Mr. Weaver could not
keep quiet or refrain from treading on corns. He
fell foul of country councils desiring to make their
own arrangements for electric current; of hospital
committees, employees, doctors and the B.M.A. He
took it upon himself to announce that the Hospitals
Bill would be withdrawn, obliging the Premier to deny
it; took to absenting himself from Cabinet meetings,
Parliament and his office when he was wanted. He
must have felt at times that he was embarrassing
the Administration, for on December 8 he informed
the Premier by letter that he was suffering from sleep-
lessness and “nerves”:
It would be unwise for me to go in to see you
to-day as I am not fit to talk to man or beast....
and I find it difficult to be barely civil to anyone.
I am almost biting myself with indignation over my
own doings.
He bit the B.M.A. instead. The Minister had the
whole public behind him when he demanded that all
medical graduates should be obliged to take a hospital
course; he threw away the advantage thus gained by
denying honoraries—alone among the people of N. S.
Wales—the right to sit on hospital boards. He pro-
vided a characteristic example of his attitude to
doctors and his methods of controversy when defend-
ing his administration in Parliament:
Dr. , of [name and place mentioned],
has been guilty of many acts of malpractice. I say
this in the House, and will say it outside. I ordered
an immediate inquiry into his dastardly charges and
the filthy condition of the hospital which he controls.
The inquiry is going on.
Challenged to “say it outside,” he has said nothing.
Mr. Stevens has reconstructed his Ministry without
Mr. Weaver, and it will get on better without him.
♦ —
What Have We Done?
What has Australia done to Persia? There is no anti-
Persian feeling in the Commonwealth, even though
bulbuls have become a nuisance, and the few Persians
we have among us have registered no protest against
their treatment. They are so few that the census-
takers don’t number them ; in the State with two-fifths
of the population, after the Chinese, Japanese, Syrians
and natives of British possessions in Asia have been
enumerated, Persians are lumped among 402 unclassi-
fied immigrants from that continent. True, a man
from Queensland, William Knox D’Arcy, struck
oil in Persia, but, considering that from this have
sprung huge royalties and a wonderfully favorable
trade balance, it can scarcely be accounted a grievance.
Yet when Ray Parer, the airman, called on the
Persian Consul in London for a permit to fly over
Iran, the Consul foamed at the mouth when he dis-
covered that Parer was an Australian. Other airmen
from these parts tell that the Persian authorities make
no secret of their animus towards Australians. This
was unpleasantly demonstrated in the case of two
Australians, man and wife, travelling overland from
India to Russia. At every Persian town they reached
they were taken to the police station and stripped
stark naked, their clothes being searched to ascertain
whether they were taking any Persian money out of
the country.
Now what has Australia done to these Persians?
Can the Diggers who were with Dunsterville throw any
light on the mystery? Did they prescribe “medicine
and duty” for that old Persian reprobate “Kushy”
Khan?
♦
The Melbourne Hospital Site.
For years discussions have raged around proposals
for shifting the Melbourne Hospital, and everybody
appears to take it as a foregone conclusion that the
existing buildings, erected at immense cost, will be
torn down. But while public men have talked glibly
about removing the hospital, they have one and all
admitted that it will be necessary to retain one central
depot for hospital cases. This means that removal
will entail only a partial demolition of the present
structure.
Melbourne Hospital is not up to date, in the sense
that it has not been built within the last three years.
But it is a modern hospital; compared with, say, St.
Bartholomew’s, London, it is as modern as a stream-
lined car. There are no complaints about its suitability
for patients ; the equipment is splendid, and the wards
are hygienic and comfortable. Every patient who
has had the misfortune to spend some time in the
Melbourne Hospital speaks well of it.
Premier Argyle refers repeatedly to people who
can well afford to pay for medical attention using
the hospital free. But the erection of a new build-
ing would not meet imposition. What is really
wanted is the development of intermediate hospitals
for persons of limited means and the establishment
of minor hospitals in the outer areas. Both these
ideals could be accomplished at considerably less cost
than would be involved by tearing down a building
which has in it another century of vigorous life.
Politicians have in their eye as the place for the
new hospital the pig-market site in Sydney-road. The
usefulness of this area for the selling of pigs has
departed. Rebuild the hospital there on land that
can be got for nothing and the Government would be
in a position to sell an immense city block which is
becoming more central every day. It looks a tempting
proposition ; but there are other factors to be con-
sidered.
If the hospital were demolished there would
immediately arise a demand that Little Lonsdale-street,
which runs at the back, should be widened to make
a worthy thoroughfare for the facade of the Public
Library buildings. Other persons who place civic
beauty before money in the Treasury would claim
a portion of the block for a park. And the people who
want a railway station to serve the northern suburbs
are rearing up their heads once more to suggest the
hospital site.
Premier Argyle would be well advised to content
himself with provision for intermediate hospitals and
suburban extensions.
♦
Film Quotas and the Public.
N. S. Wales is evidently doomed to have a film
quota of some kind. The Government’s bill passed
its second reading last week, and it is now being
taken through the committee stages. Lang Labor’s
only stated objection is that the measure doesn’t go
far enough.
A quota means that audiences in Australia will
be afflicted with the kind of movies that Britain
exported to Australia for a long time after it adopted
the quota system—productions which were sure
house-emptiers, and which gave the mentality of the
old country very bad advertisements. The chief argu-
ments of the quota-ites are that the forcing of a
percentage of local films on the public will give
employment, and that in time Australian films will
improve as British films have improved.
The principle having been accepted that N. S.
Wales movie-addicts must pass through a period of
suffering for the nation’s ultimate good, it remains
for Parliament to see that the miseries of these people
are not endured in vain. It would obviously be
absurd to impose an exhibitors’ and not a distributors’
quota. And what about the prices that exhibitors
will be asked to pay for Australian films to make up
their quota requirements? It was alleged in the
Assembly last week that “on account of the monopoly
held by the Stuart Doyle group” exhibitors were
“unable to show an Australian picture at a profit.”
The producers wanted £4OO for “The Silence of
Dean Maitland,” yet the best picture produced in
America can be procured for £l5O.
Mr. F. W. Marks declared against a clause giving
exhibitors the right to reject. Lang Labor demands
a 25 p.c. rejection right, and H. W. Lloyd and other
Government supporters concur. “Everyone’s,” the
film paper which is being boycotted by distributors,
argues that rejection clauses can be evaded.
Suppose a distributor knows his year’s schedule
will actually be 40 pictures, there’s nothing to prevent
his announcing his output as 52. As the distributor
really has only 40 to sell, the supposed rejection right
of 25 per cent, diminishes, in practice, to per cent.,
and disappears altogether if the distributor cares to
elevate the supposed number of his releases to 54.
A means of countering this would be to make the
right of rejection apply only to pictures that had been
through the censor’s hands.
Filmgoers are in for some agonising evenings
when the Quota Bill passes, and exhibitors will feel
the breeze in the form of diminished attendances. The
least Parliament can do is to make sure that the
exhibitors are given a fair deal, and that British
and Australian pictures imposed on filmgoers are not
abysmally below Hollywood’s standard, such as it is.
♦
Churches and Transport.
Whatever justification there may be for tearing down
St. Andrew’s Cathedral was stated officially in the
“S. M. Herald” last week. “Prominent churchmen”
say that
the cathedral is almost surrounded by streets that
carry great vehicle and tram traffic day and night,
and is disturbed by the rumblings of trains on the
underground railway. A favorable opportunity now
presents itself to solve the problem.
St. Paul’s, London, is surrounded by streets thai
carry practically the whole of the city aboveground
traffic ; there is an underground station at its doors,
and a railway at the bottom of Ludgate Hill. Amiens
Cathedral, Milan, Notre-Dame, practically all the
cathedrals of Continental cities which haven’t retro-
gressed are in noisy surroundings. Westminster Abbey
is within a few yards of an underground station and
of the vast traffic between Whitehall, the Embank-
ment, the south side of the Thames and Victoria-street.
The site of Westminster (R.C.) Cathedral, quarter of a
mile further west, was chosen at the end of last century
just because it lay in a busy part of London. The
Brompton Oratory, which attracts huge R.C. congre-
gations, is near an underground station, and it is
passed by the whole of the Kensington traffic, west
and south.
In short, the proximity of St. Andrew’s to an
underground station and to the aboveground traffic
between the northern and southern suburbs is an
immense advantage.
Remains the scandal that would be created
throughout the Commonwealth if in these hard times
a beautiful building were sacrificed to no good pur-
pose and the public levied on for the wherewithal to
put up another. The present is not a “favorable”
time for such vandal wastefulness ; there has rarely
been a less favorable time.
*
March of the Motor.
“H.S.”: The horse is rapidly being withdrawn 1 from
warfare. In the British Army and in the chief Conti-
nental armies one division after another is being
mechanised. Heavy machine-guns, anti-tank guns and
mortars are replacing horse-drawn artillery ; cavalry
regiments not already “converted” are being equipped
and trained with armored cars and horse transport is
a thing of the past. All reconnaisance work will be
done in ’planes, all charging in armored cars and tanks.
It will be a black day for racing and hunting when
horses cease to be employed in armies. These
typical British industries have survived for centuries
in face of attacks by anti-gamblers, opponents of blood
sports and killjoys generally because it was possible
for their supporters to argue that they were essential
to defence. Racing was necessary to improve the
thoroughbred, and so enable the army to be supplied
with better and better chargers ; hunting was necessary
to enable cavalrymen and artillerymen to learn cross-
country riding. Shorn of such justifications, horse-
racing becomes a medium for gambling like “the
dogs,” and hunting degenerates into pointless cruelty.
Already in Britain, with its superb and ever-
growing network of concrete roads, its cheap petrol
and its mechanised farms, almost the only horses in
sight are luxury horses—racehorses, show-horses,
hunters and coachers owned by members of the Four-
in-Hand and Coaching Clubs. They are bound to
follow carriage-horses, cab-horses, ’bus-horses, vanners
and hacks into oblivion as the last national excuse
for producing high-class sires and dams disappears.
The position in Australia is a little different.
Petrol and machinery are still expensive ; the roads
are still bad by overseas standards; farms are big and
rough, and repair-shops few and far between ; and
at latest advices the Commonwealth and States owed
over £1,200,000,000 between them. These factors,
the depression and Australia’s natural capacity for
breeding good stock have helped to keep horses on
the farms, and even bring them back to some farms
that bought machinery during the recent boom. It
is still economical in some businesses to use draughts
and vanners for short hauls. But these things only
represent the flicker of a dying fire.
In spite of the slump, neglected roads and petrol
at Is. Bd. a gallon, there are more registered motors
in Australia than in any previous year—675,782 of
them ; more than one to every 10 men, women and
children in Australia.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pitt St.”: She drifted nonchalantly
into our office and asked, “Whom do I
have to see when the man I’ve been
working for won’t pay my
wages?” The liftman re-
membered that a trade-
union had once tenanted
the lower floor. “What’s
your line?” he asked. “I’ve
been in a laundry,” was the
reply. “Well, go and see So-
and-so at the ‘Worker’
office, near the Town Hall.”
She floated gracefully away,
but returned within a
minute with “Where, ex-
actly, IS the place? The
taxi-driver doesn’t know!”
* * *
“M.G.”: “Some of you
young people seem to think
that sex was invented in
1914,” observes a character
in “The Old Folks at
Home.” Some of the older
ones suffer from the same
delusion. A certain Major Haver-
field, it is cabled, in a speech made
at Glasgow, denounced the awfu’
immorality of Scotland, blaming modern
novels and movies for the fact that
one child out of every five is born
out of wedlock. Apparently Bobbie
Burns got his lax ideas from reading
Aldous Huxley and spending his spare
nichts at the talkies.
* * *
“Jindivick”: Speaking of pubs bi-
sected by boundary lines (B. 6/2/’35),
near Maidenhead in England is a tavern
which is partly in Buckinghamshire and
partly in Berkshire. The dividing line
actually cuts the bar in half, a nail in
the counter marking the precise spot.
One county has 11 p.m. as its closing-
time and the other 10.30 p.m. ; at
the latter hour the barman sings out,
“Time, gents., please! Pass along the
bar there,” whereupon the customers
transfer themselves and their liquor into
the next county.
“Jobber”: In Nairobi (Kenya Colony)
there is a pub run by an ex-R.N. .officer
which is in two hemispheres. Along his
bar runs the line of the Equator.
* * * *
“8.C.”: Magistrates have to listen to
some queer defences and excuses, but a
Fitzroy man tried a new one on the
Melbourne City Court the other day. He
had hopped into an unattended motor-
car and driven away with it, and, having
been taken with the goods on (or under)
him, he had no choice but to plead guilty.
He submitted, however, that “pre-natal
influence” ought to extenuate his mis-
demeanor ; his mother had suffered a
nervous' breakdown shortly before he
arrived into the world (22 years previ-
ously), and he regarded his lapse from
the path of rectitude as directly attribut-
able to this. Six months.
* * * ♦
“Keg.”; Let me hasten to assure
“Niet Verstaan” (B. 13/2/’35) that no
sneer was intended by me. No old sol-
dier who knew Delville Wood in ’six-
teen speaks disparagingly of the fighting
qualities of the South Africans. I simply
quoted a South African shaft at one of
their own kilted regiments to stress my
point that, as an Australian, I object to
any other uniform for men who know
no other country but mine. The wear-
ing of a uniform borrowed from other
lands is ipso facto a statement that the
Australian uniform is not good enough.
“Second Murderer”: “Parliament Houses
[in Australia] are” not all “modelled
on St. James”; “Mundus” (B. 6/2/’35)
must except the one at the top of Bourke-
street, Melbourne. Architects consider
this to be as near perfect in design as
any building of the kind could be. It is
still unfinished. Every year almost it is
set, as a standard of excellence, to the
students of the London Society of Archi-
tects.
* ❖ * *
“Norbell”: The paragraph about the
occasional resourcefulness of a blind man
(B. 6/2/’35) recalls an experience of my
own. After the Royal Show at Mel-
bourne had been written up from all the
ordinary angles the editor of the
“Herald” sent me out to view it from a
new one —an idea of his own. “Write
about the people who are there every
year but who never see the Show —
grooms, waiters, telegraph operators
and so on,” he directed. I got into a
Showgrounds train at Spencer-street.
“I’ve always ’ad me doubts about that Mrs. Spragg. Look, she’s got two
shirts on ’er line!”
Opposite me sat a blind man. “People
who never see the Show,” I mused, and
bade him good morning. “Going to the
Show?” I asked. “Yes,” he said; “I
haven’t missed one for five-and-twenty
years.” I offered to see him through the
barriers, but he laughed at me. “I’ll lead
you,” he said. And he did, up one
“street” and down another, pointing out
various attractions as readily as if he
actually saw them. When I shook hands
and left him, I had a really good column
for the “Herald” about “people who
never see the Show.”
“Manunda”: I learned to play the organ
from Hans Bertram, the blind musician
in Adelaide. After every lesson, if time
permitted, we would go for a walk. H.B.
never had to count his steps ; he kept up
a conversation all the time, and always
knew exactly when we came to a gutter
or any other obstacle. Often he would
catch the train to the beach by himself,
and after alighting at the terminus would
stroll up and down the jetty before re-
turning to Adelaide. He is still a fine
pianist, although well over the 70 mark.
* * * *
“Yellow Robe”: Modernity is fast en-
croaching on the customs of the im-
memorial East. Burmese Buddhists are
at present bitterly divided over the ques-
tion of whether or not an aeroplane shall
be used in a religious rite at Rangoon.
When a priest of the Shwe Dagon temple
dies it is the custom to carry his body
seven times round the vast temple, an
arduous job in any weather and a speci-
ally stiff one in Rangoon’s humid climate.
It is now suggested that much time would
be saved and strenuous exertion avoided
if the transport was done by ’plane. The
proposal is being hotly combated on
the grounds that aeroplanes were not in
use when the custom was originated, and
that the many who would otherwise
acquire merit by humping the deceased
over some 30 miles of stiff going would
lose a valued right.
# * * *
“C. Cure”: But is it “evolution of the
language” to turn the verb “plod” into
a noun (B. 6/2/’35)? Plod as used in
the mining vernacular is a corruption of
“plot,” a term used in draughting. Slopes,
drives and winzes are first surveyed,
then plotted on the plan of the mine ;
miners on contract have their plot en-
dorsed on the agreement. Careless pro-
nunciation] does the rest, and equally
loose use of miners’ jargon evolves a
useless substantive.
-1= * * *
“Whitehall”: Ernst Carl, who claims
to have arranged the sinking of H.M.S.
Hampshire, says that he
secured an interview with Lord Kitchener
on the subject of old furniture because
Kitchener was a collector.
I believed that Kitchener was a collector
of old furniture till I went to Broome
Park as a guest of Hugh D. Mclntosh.
The big place proved to be furnished
throughout with reproductions. The
chief drawing-room, for example, con-
tains imitation Adam pieces ; even the
pictures are copies. Experts say of one
(a “Blue Boy”) that a magnifying-glass
is needed to distinguish it from the ori-
ginal. All through the house are huge
period mantelpieces; Kitchener used to
draw any mantelpiece that he liked in
a friend’s house and have an identical
one made for Broome. There is a Chats-
worth mantelpiece in the dining-room,
and a Ramsey Abbey one in the hall.
The only reputed originals at Broome,
when I saw it seven years ago, were
some Chinese screens that had been
taken from the Summer Palace at Pekin
and a refectory table in the library.
* * * *
“Sideline”; Remarkable item from
Sydney “Sun” (8/2/’35):
A request that the Government should
buy Bronte House, in which Charlotte
Bronte wrote “Jane Eyre,” and which is
one of the few remaining examples of early-
colonial architecture, was made to the
Premier by a deputation representing the
Waverley Council, the Historical Society
and the Institute of Architecture.
This beats Cook’s cottage —so-called be-
cause there is no evidence that Captain
Cook was never there. Most people asso-
ciate Bronte House with Robert Lowe,
who lived there while in Australia
and returned to England to finish
his political career as Viscount Sher-
brooke. Anyhow, it’s a far cry
from Haworth Parsonage, in York-
shire, where the Brontes lived and
wrote, to these shores. And, since Bronte
was Lord Nelson’s second name, the odds
are that the old house was named after
him.
% Jfc J{! $
“Oxon”: Before the war a British
schoolmaster with a military decoration
was unknown ; now few good schools
are without decorated heads. The four
best (meaning most expensive) are Eton,
Harrow, Rugby and Winchester. The
first three have heads with respectively
an 0.8. E., a D.S.O. and an M.C. ; the
headmastership of Winchester is vacant.
Marlborough has an M.C., King’s
School, Canterbury, a D. 5.0., M.C.,
Cheltenham an M.C., Bradfield an M.C.
and Dartmouth (where the R.N. officers
come from) an M.C. Fettes, Loretto and
Edinburgh Academy, three of Scot-
land’s best, have respectively a D. 5.0.,
a D.S.O. and a C.8.E., M.V.0., in charge.
In the case of the other masters a war-
time decoration is regarded as quite as
big an asset as a ’Varsity blue was in pre-
war days. I have a theory that it makes
for pacifism. All these masters were
amateur soldiers, and most of them said
good-bye to the battle fronts with a loath-
ing of war which professionals are in-
capable of feeling. They probably had
a lot to do with the pacifist resolutions
which were passed by so many British
undergrads, last year.
* * * *
“Exposure”: I quite agree that artists
should take more care (B. 6/2/’35). Even
Hanke, winner of the Archibald prize,
has painted the lapel of his shirt lapping
over the wrong way. But the fact that
he had no model and painted himself
reflected in a mirror fully explains the
lapse. Otherwise I bow to him.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Years ago, when golf
was something new, Vic. Railway Depart-
ment erected a new station in an outer
suburban area and called it Golf Links.
As time passed the actual
links were cut up and sold,
and the place is now a nest
of des. vil. res. ; still, the
name Golf Links survives,
though there is no golf
played within miles. The
anomaly has led to a change
being suggested, and Chris-
towel is the name likely to
be chosen—from an adja-
cent street. Nobody in Vic-
toria ever seems to see the
desirableness of utilising
native names. Prahran is
the only abo. suburb to be
found among the closer
districts, though Sydney sets
a remarkably good example
in tViis respect. Possibly
the most grotesque place-
name in Australia is Bon-
beach, on the Frankston
line. Somebody there wanted the
Railway Department to call the station
Bondi, and when the Postal Department
wisely intervened he compromised on
Bonbeach. It will serve to amuse future
generations with a sense of humor.
* * *
“Argentine”: Surely the reason for
the general success of naval and mili-
tary gents, as Governors in Australia (B.
30/l/’35) lies in their professional socia-
bility. When men live together as much
as soldiers and, even more, sailors must,
an enormous amount of give-and-take is
necessary to peace and harmony. In the
closed society of the mess or the ward-
room a man must learn to get on with
his fellows. Also, his job as an officer
and commander of men requires that he
control and contain his feelings. The
naval or military man has learnt
throughout his career to be forbearing,
patient, polite, friendly and a good fel-
low ; admirably suited, in short, for the
responsibilities of an Australian Gover-
nor as they now exist.
* * * 4
“Scribe”: London “Times” has just
celebrated its sesquicentennirl. I spent
a year in the old ramshackle building in
Printing House Square, and found it
one of the few newspapers which
are completely independent and honest
according to their lights. It takes
the greatest pains to secure men of
judicial mind for its staff of foreign cor-
respondents, and it does not hesitate to
tell the truth in the face of massed bat-
talions. The most accurate paper in the
world, it employs a staff of men who are
not sub-editors in the ordinary sense, but
whose sole duty it is to check statements
in proof. Every statement, cabled or
otherwise, of ascertainable fact must be
verified by reference to its wonderful
library. On the other hand, there are
features which appear comic to an Aus-
tralian. With hundreds of columns of
good news thrown away, a full column
is devoted to the first skylark on Hamp-
stead Heath or the annual tossing of
pancakes on St. Swithin’s Day. In point
of material efficiency, too, the office is
far behind the times. It has one lift,
which can’t rise if four people crowd in.
The distance from the composing-room
is so great and the service so slow that
the proofs reach the sub-editors bone-
dry. And the Walter family lives on
the premises, just as the original Walter
did 150 years ago. That was a
point they insisted on when Northcliffe
bought in.
THE CROWN OF SORROW.
“One elector, asked if he could furnish any valid
reason for his omission to vote at the last Federal
elections, bluntly replied that he was ‘in the cooler." ”
“Stone walls do not,” some old-time poet notes,
“A prison make, nor iron bars a cage.”
But, notwithstanding, when it comes to votes —
The hardly-won and precious heritage
Of all who’ve reached the one-and-twenty
age—
The hapless captive needs must kiss the rod.
He’s like an actor hustled off the stage:
One cannot mark his ballot-brief in quod.
You hear occasionally anecdotes
Of free men scrawling on the printed page
I haven’t time for any of the goats.”
By this discourteous method they assuage
Their cynical contempt and noble rage,
Yet risk no fine thereby or legal prod.
But boobs admit of no such persiflage:
You cannot even spoil your vote in quod.
You hear no slogans pealed from brazen
throats;
No canvassers bespeak your patronage;
No hustjngs eloquence towards you floats;
No stirring cries, no aphorisms sage
Your mind from gloomy broodings disengage
About the primrose paths whereon you’ve trod.
Here is crime’s sting, here misdemeanor’s
wage:
They utterly disfranchise you in quod.
Stone walls no prison? Clink a hermitage? .
How quaint a fallacy it sounds, how odd
In these enlightened days! And here’s the
gauge:
A fellow cannot cast his vote in quod.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Selma”; He had been playing the
cornet before the block of flats for
some minutes, so when he was seen
limping up the ramp most of the
residents lay low and did not re-
spond to his ring. But one kindly dame
produced a penny, whereupon the caller
inquired “Who was the lucky one in
these flats who won the lottery to-
day?” The news flew through the
building like a tornado ; every door was
flung open as the flattites, fumbling in
their pockets for small change, clustered
round to demand details. No, he couldn’t
remember the name or anything else,
but it was here all right. Plus a fine haul,
he moved on. We heard later he worked
the same game all along the street, but
we haven’t seen him since.
* * * *
“King’s Regs.”: A swagman may be
able to carry a weight as big as an in-
fantryman with less exertion because it
is better distributed (B. 6/2/’35), but how
would it be if he were hampered with
a rifle? Wouldn’t he feel a trifle dis-
commoded in the effort to carry his arms
properly at the slope, with a swag ex-
tending across his spine? And suppose
“Oh, John, have you shown the gentlemen your trick of palming the ace?”
he had to do a turn of guard duty in
full marching order, how would he
present arms with a tucker bag dangling
across his chest? Professors Osborne and
Paul ought to take a holiday on the track
for a while before they do any more talk-
ing about soldiers and swagmen.
?
“D.E.”; The years have been unkind
to some of the smaller Christian denomi-
nations in N. S. Wales, and to certain
other bodies of believers and un-
believers. Between April 4, 1921, and
June 30, 1933, while the C. of E. flock
increased from 1,027,410 to 1,143,493
and the Presbyterians from 219,932 to
257,522, the Quakers declined from 303
to 207, the Unitarians from 622 to 345.
and adherents of the little Australian
Church (a Melbourne foundation) from
132 to 88. In the “Indefinite” class there
was an all-round slump—Spiritualists
from 1687 to 621 ; Freethinkers from
1270 to 510; Rationalists from 302 to
181. Theosophists also diminished from
459 to 207 ; on the other hand, Chris-
tian Scientists went up from 1146 to
4096.
* * * *
“Runa”: Buyers always “bid blind” at
railway left-property sales ; in M.L. the
other day two young
men who discovered
an opulent - looking
case of considerable
weight eagerly con-
tended for its posses-
sion. When they
finally got it they
staggered outside with
it and opened it in a
secluded corner. The
contents were mainly
bricks, and not whole
bricks either. As they
gloomily regarded the
mass of rubble that
had cost them £2 an
excited youth dashed
up with a shabby
dressing-case he had
secured for a few
shillings. Everything in it was decorated
with monograms in heavy gold.
* * * #
“Jungor”: W. A. Holman, in his post-
humous memoirs, notes that an Attor-
ney-General or Minister for Justice with
a reputation for being kind is sure to be
bombarded with requests from prisoners
for reduction or remission of sentences.
The star example of this sort of thing
was Tommy Walker, who was Westralian
Labor’s Attorney-General from 1911 to
1916. Tommy had not only a deep sym-
pathy for anyone who was “up against
it,” but in his journalistic days he had
made a specialty of articles rocking it
into the police, and vehemently insisting
that the vilest criminal was seldom, if
ever, as bad as he was painted. When
he arrived in office there was a general
agreement in Fremantle Gaol and subor-
dinate establishments that the right man
had at last been selected as arbiter of
prisoners’ fates, and for months after-
wards his desk was cluttered up with
documents designed to show that Bill
Sikes was a wronged innocent and Toby
Crackit the victim of gross perjury.
Tommy responded nobly—what else
could he do, without stultifying himself?
—and scores of convicts—not all first
or second offenders—profited by his
benevolence. Judges and magistrates
bucked in the end—tired of seeing the
old familiar faces so soon again—and
induced Tommy’s colleagues to curb his
u tra-humanitarianism. ___
“Jeeves’s Olfsider”: Ever since Brum-
mel’s day the hall-mark of the well-
dressed Englishman has been simplicity,
Let Continentals wear queer little green
or blue hats with colored feathers stick-
“A nice thing for a husband to find when he comes home! What about
my dinner?”
ing up behind, and narrow cloth-topped
boots with a couple of inches of superflu-
ous toe-space ; let Americans play golf in
white plus-fours and pyrotechnic shoes:
the West End has always scorned such
oddities. There is no more inconspicu-
ous figure on earth than an Englishman
who has had his suits, boots and shirts
made in the right places. Yet we have
the Prince appearing at Kifzbuhe in
blue trousers with a zipp-fastened over-
blouse and white wind-jacket, scarlet muffler
and cuffs, white mittens and red and blue
hat.
Shortly after the war the King of Spain,
who had been regarded by the West End
for years as the best-dressed man in
Europe, revolted fashionable London by
appearing in a purple dress suit. The
lapse was attributed to his four years’
absence from the fountain-head of sar-
torial taste —the acre or so that lies
between Bond-street and Hanover-squarc.
The Prince is plainly spending too much
time on the Continent—America’s only
rival as an originator of all that is ridi-
culous in men’s clothes.
* $ $ HE
“Bellamy”: The forthcoming Royal
Jubilee sends one’s thoughts back to
Queen Victoria’s diamond shivoo 38
years ago and to the
Premiers Australia
sent: Reid, Turner,
Kingston, Nelson,
Forrest and Brad-
don —M aor i 1 and
contributed Seddon.
Each in his separate
carriage, they made
a brave show at the
procession through
the streets of Lon-
don. Nelson was
the only Australian
Premier who didn’t
enter Federal poli-
tics four years later.
Braddon was the
first to pass over;
he died in 1904,
Nelson and Seddon
in 1906, Kingston in
1908, Turner in 1916.
Reid and Forrest
lasted the longest,
and each was in har-
ness practically to
the end. Forrest
died off the coast of
West Africa on Sept.
3, 1918, while on his
way to England,
where he might have
taken his seat in the House of Lords ;
Reid, who finished up as a member of
the House of Commons, survived his old
opponent by nine days.
* * * if
“Shep”: Post-war blah has convinced
me there were two types only in it. On
land and sea were mere men, and in the
heavens supermen. Airmen’s stories and
Hollywood flicks have made a feature of
the knightly etiquette displayed by fly-
ing fighters towards their enemies. Maybe
an airman whose pal had just been
killed did not see as red as his brother
down-under in a trench raid who saw his
roates crumple up in the mud and filth
alongside him; there at times it was
hard enough even to take prisoners, let
alone fuss over them, and this applied to
all armies. Now Lord Cavan (B.
13/2/’35) widens the superiority gap still
further by stating that the Air Forces of
all armies refused to use gas. Fortunate
for them to be able to refuse ; the sequel
to any branch of the army or navy re-
fusing to handle gas if ordered to do so
can only be imagined. I fully believe
they were never asked to tip over gas en
masse on defenceless cities, but I’m
unconvinced that Fritz fliers refused to
drop it down on us, around supports, if
it was practicable to do so.
“Ex-Londoner” on the royal family:
Whenever a Scottish Laborite is at loss for a
grievance in the Commons he comes out, as
one did last week, with an attack on the King
and Queen as “'costly parasites.” The truth is
there can be little left over from the Civil
List (£470,000 p.a.) when the expenses of places
which are really public museums and picture-
galleries (Windsor Castle and Hampton Cpurt,
for example) and of Buckingham Palace,
which symbolises the nation’s standing in the
world and gives employment to over 1000
people, have been met. If all the royal palaces
were handed over to Commissioners; if all the
offices connected with the royal households
(Privy Purse, Archives, Mews, etc.) were abol-
ished, and if the King were paid the same
allowance as an American President (£20,000
p.a.) it would merely mean the adding of
several thousand specialists to the ranks of the
unemployed.
If there is an argument for sky-high wages
a modern British King provides it. Every
shilling he is paid goes straight back to the
shops, thus enabling others to be paid; and as
the King (unlike other rich men) never leaves
the country all the money goes into British
shops. There is only one valid objection from
a Labor point of view to the present King
and Queen; they are frugal. If, instead of
living within their incomes, they emulated demo-
cratic politicians and put millions of borrowed
money into circulation their prestige would be
greatly added to in some quarters. And then,
and not till then, would it be logical to call
them costly parasites.
* * * *
“Mells”: I know nothing of Flerr Egon
Kisch’s works, which, according to some
of his admirers, have “enriched litera-
ture,” but this is hardly my fault, be-
cause, according to the author himself
(“Australian Journalist,” 31/1/’35), none
of his 22 books has yet been translated
into English. Into 12 other languages,
including Polish and Yugoslav, they have
been “automatically translated”—what-
ever that may mean —but not into Eng-
lish. For this curious omission Kisch
offers the following explanation:
It is only a small minority of authors
who are translated into other languages.
It would be nearly impossible to find a
German or a Frenchman who has ever
heard the names of John Masefield, J. M.
Barrie, Thomas Hardy, Arthur Pinero or
others.
As all of Kisch’s books were ordered to
be burned in Germany, his prejudice
against the literary and intellectual stand-
ards of that nation are understandable.
But I fancy that an educated Frenchman
who had never heard any of the names
mentioned above would take some find-
ing.
HERE’S HOPING.
I’m tired of Dismal Jims and Jacks
And all such gloom-provokers;
I only want to see the backs
Of those persistent croakers.
We’re getting round the corner now,
The time is done for moping.
Too sanguine, am I? Anyhow
Here’s hoping, chaps, here’s hoping!
Will Lyons, think you, and the pack
With whom o’erseas he dashes
Bring something more substantial back
Than figurative Ashes?
Has poor old Joe the punch and pull
For adequately coping
At put-and-take with Father Bull?
Who knows? But, well, here’s hoping!
Will Page, on shouldering the stress
And strain of our domestic
Affairs, become a trifle less
Aggressively agrestic?
Will Parkhill mend his sluggish ways
And start the air-mails loping
Across the world in seven days?
In either case, here’s hoping!
Will wheat, that dropped years since like bricks,
Like gold go upward winging
To line the patient cockies’ kicks
And set their hearts a-singing?
Will wollstra queer the jumbuck’s pitch
And send the squatter sloping,
Or fade and finish in the ditch
Like sniafil? Here’s hoping!
Here’s pleasant dreams to all the nobs
Who’ve fled the fret and fever
Of strenuous Ministerial jobs
(Particularly Weaver).
Best wishes, too, for all who stay.
Towards Utopia groping.
They may succeed, and, anyway,
Here’s hoping, chaps, here’s hoping!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


★ Factory-freshness, distinguishing
Smoothness, Coolness, and Flavour,
await you in every tin of Craven ‘A*
Cigarettes . . . they never vary and
they are absolutely non-irritating.
io for 9 d —2o for 1/6
Wrapped in moisture-proof
Cellophane for factory-fresh-
ness.
“They
have not
provoked
a single
Cough
from me”
**
J1945M/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
■
‘
■*%
f '
A
/
m
xSS ■ X> . ■
POLITICAL POINTS
After rolling in surpluses for years, the
Commonwealth Government suddenly
finds itself with a deficit. For seven
months of 1934-35 expenditure exceeded
revenue by £433,000. Everything is
blamed but the real cause, which is that
the Government has been giving money
away at a great rate. This prodigality
will have to cease.
Premier Forgan Smith replied, after a
fashion, to A. W. Fadden’s exposure of
the confiscatory taxes levied in Queens-
land ; but he did not specifically answer
the Country Prog.’s charge that State and
Commonwealth taxes are £1 Os. 4.8 d. in
the £ on the last £lOOO of a property
income of £7OOO and nearly £1 2s. on
the last £lOOO of £BOOO. He said, in
effect, that Labor is concerned only with
small and medium taxpayers and that the
big men can look after themselves. It
is very stupid, though Foggy evidently
thinks it clever.
Queensland, with magnificent resources
and a favorable geographical situation, is
noticeably short of heavy industries. It
should have them, but will never get
them while income of the investing
class is confiscated and confiscation is
impudently justified.
A report from England says that all
the Australian canned fruit sent to that
country last season has been sold. This
is pleasant to read, and probably
privately- and co-operatively-owned fruit
canneries will pay increased dividends,
but the chances are that it will make little
difference to the cannery on the M.I.A.
(N.S.W.). That lamentable enterprise
cost £217,900, and has contrived to make
a cash loss of £100,928 ; with interest and
depreciation added, accumulated losses to
June 30 amounted to £506,700. A Gov-
ernment concern, of course.
The chairman of Westralia’s Transport
Board admits that the Government rail-
ways charge £3 10s. 4d. to carry a ton of
wool from Kojonup to the coast and
15s. lid. to carry a ton of wheat. This
kind of thing was tolerated when wool
was 18d. a pound or thereabouts. It
looks plain banditry when the price has
fallen below lOd.
Once more there are reports of a
millers’ boycott of bakers not in the
union. It should be put down once and
for all. Every citizen should have the
legal right to buy flour at a mill. Re-
fusal of supplies, from 501 b. up, where
good money is tendered and nothing is
owed to the miller should be a police-
court matter.
Premier Stevens can take care of him-
self when tackled by La'ngs and Weavers,
but he is no artist in words. In a letter
to Weaver he said he had made “full
allowance” for “the particular and, extra
strain you have been placed under be-
cause of the poor state of health you have
enjoyed for quite a long time.” How can
a poor state of health be “enjoyed” for
any time?
The Butler Government has had to
alter its plans for milk-control in Adel-
aide. Its measure, as redrafted, provides
for “a non-Government board,” with
power to fix prices to be paid to the pro-
ducer and by the consumer —in the
latter respect, it differs from the Acts in
force in Sydney and Melbourne. Of
course, the consumer will pay more, but
the trade declares that he will get milk
for 3d. a pint delivered, and a pint
at the dairy. Sydney prices are and
4d., delivered.
Lang to one of his tame “Labor” con-
ferences ;
The question of overseas interest [is]
no longer a problem for any one State
but a very serious headache for the Com-
monwealth Government... .The old bogey
that a Federal Government would tie up
the State’s finances has lost its punch.
This may be interpreted to mean that
if Lang got back and defaulted again
the Lyons Government would not apply
the Financial Agreement Enforcement
Act. If it can be imagined as let-
ting its own law and its own Constitution
and its own finances go to pot —and there
is nothing to warrant the belief that it
would be such a set of cowards and
traitors —the taxpayers would not let
Lang get away with it. They would take
the matter into their own hands.
The British Conservatives are prepar-
ing to scrap Ramsay MacDonald.
Rammac leads what he is pleased to call
the National Labor “party.” Australia
had several National Labor “parties”
after 1916 ; they made as much noise as
they could, but they never had many
more adherents than a few politicians,
their families and personal friends, and
some of the friends fell away after a
time. It is much the same with Ram-
mac’s faction. The Tories have found
it —and him —out.
Kenneally, Perth’s
“full-time Minister
for Employment,”
has put in still an-
other week in Syd-
ney on Labor-
unity business.
The Lang negotia-
tors agreed to
everything'— aboli-
tion of caucus dic-
tatorship, accept-
ance of Federal
A.L.P. authority
and readmission of
all the active mem-
bers of the Federal
Labor organisation
—till Theodore’s
name was men-
tioned. They re-
fused to have Ted
back, for Lang
wants no rival near
the throne. The
difficulty had not
been overcome
when Mr. Ken-
neally announced
that he really must
return to the full-
time job that must
occupy quite half
his time.
Bulk-handling is necessary to the
Westralian wheatgrowers—to many it
may mean the difference between profit
and loss—and for two or three seasons
their big co-operative company has oper-
ated a plant which, though admittedly a
makeshift, has worked well. Extension
to the whole wheat belt has been blocked
by the “Labor” Government in the fan-
cied interests of Fremantle lumpers. Now,
to delay the project still further, the
“Labor” Government has set up a Royal
Commission with Bill Angwin on it. Bill
is 71 years old, was a joiner or some-
thing before he turned politician, speaks
for the lumpers on the Fremantle Harbor
Trust, and was an opponent of bulk-
handling when in politics.
This Vic. election will demonstrate, in
Kew at least, whether the civil-service
vote is as strong and united as is sup-
posed. Addressing a meeting of women
clerks and typists, I. B. Nicholls, presi-
dent of the Public Service Association,
said “Politicians are blind to justice, and
can be moved only by expediency.”
Minister Kent Hughes replied that no
man had a right to make such a state-
ment and that a man who did would be
“out of the service as soon as I can get
him out.” Special meetings of public
servants were summoned, and far more
bitter things were said about politicians
in general and Kent Hughes in particular.
The Minister bowed to the storm so far
as to withdraw his remarks; but the
public servants are organising against
him and against the Government.
Kent Hughes wrote a series of articles
under the heading “Why I Am a Fascist.”
He now says he is no Fascist but believes
in democratic rule. Careless statements
have a way of returning like condemned
cats. Hughes, by the way, was a Rhodes
scholar at Oxford at the same time as
barrister Herring, now opposing Attor-
ney-General Macfarlan at Brighton.
Customs Minister White apparently
sees the writing on the censorship wall.
A deputationist who sought removal of
the potato ban referred to his keeping
out bad plants as he had kept out bad
books. White chided the speaker for
dragging in a foreign subject; the other
explained that he supported the book-
banning, and had been trying to pay the
Minister a compliment. “Then,” replied
White with a wry smile, “you are a voice
crying in the wilderness.”
Launceston (Tas.) has municipal tram-
ways, and wishes it hadn’t. They cost
£194,000, and, although 46i p.c. of that
“I’m willing to revive the partnership, Jack, but not with-
out dear little Ted. The concern couldn’t get along
without him.”
is held in sinking and reserve funds built
up in good times, the budget is balanced
only by increasing recourse to the rates.
The tramway rate used to be 2d. in the
£ ; last year it was 6d., returning £lO,OOO,
and at a recent council meeting an aider-
man gloomily suggested that it might
have to go up to Is. or “25 p.c. of our
rateable revenue.” Said Mayor Von
Bibra:
Our system is very costly, and we may
have to scrap it. The public wants new
methods of transport, trolley- and crude-
oil ’buses, and the public must have them.
In Sydney the cry of the transport com-
missars is that the public shan’t have
them.
Demanding more pay for less exertion,
the men at Brisbane abattoirs, controlled
by the Queensland Meat Industry Board,
have gone on strike. Premier Forgan
Smith reminds them that they already
have the 44-hour week, and that direct
action is not only unnecessary but illegal.
Westralia has waited six weeks for a
similar reminder to the striking gold-
miners from the Labor Premier of that
State. Instead, it learns that
The Chamber of Mines has agreed, under
protest, to a settlement; the Premier has
taken no action to enforce the award of the
Arbitration Court and has expressed the
Government’s determination to support the
union’s claims.
Meanwhile, the Government at Canberra
has appointed a defeated politician
(Arthur Blakeley) at £9 a week “to police
awards,” and it is confidently expected
that a whole staff of award policemen
will be set up.
Vic. Labor has pronounced definitely
against two of its candidates standing for
the one seat. It is still thinking in the
dark ages when vote-splitting was pos-
sible. To-day, the second candidate
would probably drag to the leader on
first preferences many votes gained for
personal reasons, and thus give the party
a better chance of success than it would
have with one candidate.
Melbourne Reds have thrown down
the gauntlet to capitalism by opening a
bookshop in Toorak. Presumably the
books are produced “for use,” but
“profit” is not despised. It is difficult
to pass the shop without seeing a luxury
car parked in front. The borjoy who
owns it gets to know what the other
side is about, and the comrades get some-
thing for the Cause from a “non-
projucer,” so both parties to the trans-
action are satisfied.
The N.S.W. Railway Department is
reported to be bombarding the Govern-
ment with plans for extending electrifica-
tion beyond the suburban radius.
This is denied —in the “Labor Daily,”
of all papers —Tut the repeated refer-
ences to the subject are disquiet-
ing. In the latest piece of kite-flying
Hornsby-Newcastle, Hurstville-W ollon-
gong and Strathfield-Goulburn schemes
were mentioned, and it was light-heart-
edly estimated that the Newcastle section
alone would cost £1,500,000. If it could
be shown that electrification had been a
financial success about Sydney, these pro-
jects might be considered; as it is, they
look crazy.
Once more comes the agitation for
subways from Flinders-street station,
Melbourne, to relieve congestion of the
streets at peak hours. The City Council
has always frowned on subways, prob-
ably because of the cost, for sewerage,
water, gas and electric reticulation would
need to be recast. But a simple form
of subway could be carried out by the
Railway Department at small cost. The
continuation of the island platforms be-
neath the bridge over Swanston-street
would enable all passengers going to the
east side of the station to leave on the
far side of Swanston-street. Such a
device would relieve / Flinders-street of
over a third of the trafec which makes it
one of the world’s wonders —and pests —
for two hours every day.
The collapse of the dirigible Macon
will probably result in the total scrapping
of the lighter-than-air fliers—in the
U.S.A., at least. Up to the present
Germany is the only country to produce
a reliable gasbag, and its utility in another
war is problematical. Seventeen or 18
years ago the Zeppelin could slow down
to stationary and drop bombs sighted to
hit an object below. Now a gyroplane
can rise over any Zeppelin and drop a
sighted bomb on the middle of it. Cer-
tainly, the gasbag can carry men and
munitions which would require a fleet of
’planes, but late experiments show that
a fleet of heavily-loaded gliders can be
towed by a high-powered ’plane.
Drew, M.L.A. for Albert Park (Vic.),
addressing an election meeting, told his
hearers that hours of labor would have
to be reduced. In reply to a question,
he added that, of course, “wages would
have to fall proportionately or costs
would kill our export trade ; but when
everybody is employed wages rise.” For-
tunately, nobody asked the candidate
what would happen to the export trade
when wages rose.


If we taxpayers subsidise opera
f
C-ANIT we HELP THE
Shakspereaw actor. t
AND THE. pulpit
Orator
And what about
B6LuR\NG\SRS 1-
\md GiAEUC MUSIC ?
AND IMPRSSS'OKIST ARTISTS^
AnO PROHiSiTiOI>U&T S
SUBSIDIES FOR THE UNAPPRECIATED.


17 k 77
B
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
What can teach p
A’s plant is worth a thousand times B’s car. “A” dare not
buy oil by guess. He buys by test. His tests have
proved that Shell Oil lubricates best.
In fact, Australian industrial plants use more Shell Oil than any
other lubricant. What engineers do to conserve the value
of their plant you can do to conserve the value of your car.
Be guided by experts use Shell Motor Oil.
ŵ
PERSONAL
ITEMS
One of the first uses Harry Hanke put
his Archibald Prize money to was the
renting of a 17s. 6d. a week studio at
Circular Quay. He hadn’t to wait long
for commissions; Sam Walder, aider-
man and former Lord Mayor, is sitting
to him now, and other notabilities are
on his waiting-list.
Bernard O’Dowd, known throughout
Australasia as a poet, has retired through
effluxion of time from his bread-and-
butter job—that of Vic. Parliamentary
draftsman. O’Dowd was a barrister
before he became known as a poet, and
during the 15 or 20 years he has been
Vic. Parliamentary draftsman the bills
he has prepared have never been faulted
on the ground of ambiguity.
“Mattie” Moss, K.C., whose name has
been mentioned several times in the cables
in connection with the W.A. secesh peti-
tion, has been practising in London for
over 20 years. He is a native of M.L.,
and is now in his 72nd year. He left
his native city—Dunedin—in ’9l and
settled in Fremantle. Four years later he
became M.L.A. for Fremantle North. He
was a member of the Morgans Cabinet
—it lasted a month only—and he also
got into the Ministries of Walter James
and Hector Rason. Taking silk in 1906
he was offered in the same year a Puisne
Judgeship. Why he refused is another
story.
From “Also R.A.N.”:
The eighth Earl of Granard has all the quali-
fications needed to patch up the Irish trouble
before the King’s Jubilee. Vice-Admiral of Con-
naught and Lord-Lieutenant of Co. Longford,
he fought with the Scots Guards in S’Africa,
and raised and commanded a battalion of the
Royal Irish Regiment in the Great War. He
has a seat in both the House of Lords and the
LF-S- Senate. A leading English Catholic, he
is Scotch by origin (the founder of the family
fought for the royal cause under Montrose),
and he was Master of the Horse to King
Edward before King George employed him in
the same capacity. He also has French affilia-
tions; a younger son of the first Lord Forbes
fought for France against Henry V. This
human League of Nations was sent round as
special ambassador' to foreign Courts to an-
nounce the present king’s accession. He is an
accomplished linguist as well as a miracle of
tact
Adelaide gets two good schoolmasters
from Tasmania. Mattingly, who goes to
Prince Alfred’s, is a noted oarsman.
Trood, who joins Scotch, is an all-round
athlete, who started at Caulfield (Vic.).
Hon. Vic. Minister A. E. Chandler,
who died suddenly last week, was the
owner of the largest daffodil farm in the
British Empire, Situated at Boronia, near
Femtree Gully, it has been one of the
sights of Victoria in the flowering season
for many years. Chandler’s daffodils
were famous among foreigners who had
never heard of him as an M.L.C. or
knew what an M.L.C. was. His prowess
as a gardener even won praise from Peter
Barr, the “Daffodil King,” when he
visited Australia a few years back.
“W.E.”: John Higginson, one of Aus-
tralia’s most capable journalists, is fight-
ing a stiff battle against ill-health at
Springwood (N.S.W.). He knows some-
thing of fighting. A fine horseman, he
served as a trooper in the Boer War
with the 2nd Queensland Mounted In-
fantry ; then he secured a commission
with the sth Q. 1.8. He was severely
wounded at Onverwacht on January 4,
1902, while saving a “pom-pom” from
capture. Higginson served as a major
in the Ist Light Horse Regiment
(N.S.W.) under Johnnie Meredith, of
Raymond Terrace, in the World War.
He was a representative Rugby Union
forward in his young Queensland days.
Martin Hannah, formerly Vic. M.L.A.,
has been fined in Melb. for a breach of
the building regulations. Hannah had
stiff luck. With the intention of show-
ing centenary visitors some of the in-
genuity with which the pioneers utilised
the gum-trees surrounding them, he
erected a bark-hut in a vacant block in
Little Collins-street and included in its
furnishings a number of exhibits of Aus-
tralian woods. Hannah’s intentions were
honorable, but they violated city regula-
tions. In court he gave his occupation
as a bricklayer “when working.” While
in the State Parliament Martin was a
useful Labor representative. He gave
Tom Bent the idea of starting State brick-
works.
Brigadier-General
the Hon. Sir Alex-
ander Hore-Ruth-
ven, V.C., D.S.O.
and bar (and many
more decorations
for valor), the new
Governor of N. S.
Wales, is the most
distinguished fight-
ing soldier who has
ever come to Aus-
tralia in a vice-
regal capacity. He
was Military Sec-
retary to Gover-
nor-General Dud-
ley 27 years ago,
and Governor of
S. Aus. 1928-34. A
lean, humorous
Scot, his last mili-
tary command was
C. the Guards at
Aldershot, and he
looks it, being the
complete Guardee
as regards clothes
and bearing. He is
one of three
brothers, all of
whom have been
badly wounded,
and have been
awarded C.M.Gs.,
D. and in-
numerable men-
tions.
Melbourne’s
City Newsboys’
head serang, John
J. Griffin, has re-
tired at 80 - odd
after 32 years’ ser-
vice. Before de-
voting himself to
the interests of the
newsboys he was
president of the
Engine- drivers’
Union. As one of
the leaders of the
1903 railway strike,
he made the cele-
brated speech indi-
cating that the
wheels wouldn’t go
round till the men
got satisfaction.
From a Westralian friend:
A London Sunday paper has been letting
itself go regarding Claude de Bernales: “the
genius behind several Westralian goldmines”—
“a spectacular figure,” with an office “rich in
tapestries and luxuries,” and so on. He is Eng-
lish, and was at school at Uppingham; the
Spanish flavor in his name comes from the
Basque provinces, where his ancestors were re-
putedly marquises. Claude arrived at Coolgardie
in the early days, and got a job in a broker’s
office; within 12 months he owned it. He
soon became a prominent figure in the West-
ralian world, and he has remained one ever
since. He took up claims, sold and rebought
them, trafficked largely in mining machinery,
established and ran foundries in Kalgoorlie and
Perth, and generally dabbled in everything (in-
eluding the turf) at which money could be made
or lost. A plucky speculator as well as a
shrewd investor, Claude has had his lean years,
and if he is on a good wicket nowadays there
are few who will begrudge him his luck. He
has kept in touch with England by numerous
trips, and is far from unknown in Melbourne
and Sydney. Nothing could be more congenial
to him than to burst on London as a kind of
modern Colonel North, and there are few who
could sustain the glittering role better.
“M.G.”: Last week one Melbourne
evening paper announced that Escoffier,
the famous chef, was dead, while the
other asserted unkindly that he was visit-
ing London! The former interviewed
Melbourne’s oldest chef, one Salvatore,
who mingled with his praises the criti-
cism that Escoffier’s modernistic cook-
ing had wiped out the elaborate dinners
of the good old Victorian days. “He
was a great man,” commented Salva-
tore, “but he killed the kitchen.” Actu-
SIR ALEXANDER HORE-RUTHVEN, V.C.
ally, it was Edward VII, (then Prince of
Wales) who made three-course dinners
fashionable; Escoffier (inventor of
Peche Melba), Joseph (inventor of
Canard a la presse) and the rest of the
nineteenth-century super-cooks merely
obeyed orders.
W. T. B. McCormack has reached his
majority as a member of the Vic. Coun-
try Roads Board. An engineer by pro-
fession, he joined the Public Works De-
partment 30-odd years ago. On the for-
mation of the Country Roads Board he
was appointed engineering member, and
on the death of the chairman he auto-
matically succeeded. He served with the
A.I.F. engineers (Major, M.C., C. de G.).
Victoria has to thank him to a great
extent for the wonderful roads system
that wins the admiration of motorists
from all the other States.
S. W. Moore, who died at Roseville on
Friday, aged 81, was elected M.L.A. for
Inverell as a Parkesite in 1885, and re-
tired after holding his seat for four years.
Five years later he stood for Bingarra as
one of George Reid’s supporters. He
held the seat for 16 years, during which
time he was Minister for Mines under
Carruthers and for Lands under Wade.
He was a devoted Newingtonian ; helped
to found the Old Boys’ Union (of which
he was made a life member), and did
good work as member of the school
council. Almost a first-class cricketer, he
captained the school XI, and played for
New England against Ivo Bligh’s team.
His father was a Wesleyan missionary at
Ban (Fiji), where S.W. was born.
“D.”: From a Sydney daily: “Despite
the fact that Major-General Rosenthal
was nominated by the Government Whip,
Mr. Shand, few members of the Govern-
ment consider that he has any chance in
the Legislative Council by-election.” That
Rosenthal has ability of a high order
goes without saying. He is an F.R.1.8.A.,
London, and a former president of the
Federal Council of the A.I. of Architects.
And look at his achievements in the
A.1.F.! Yet any nonentity with a politi-
cal pull is preferred to such a man when
it comes to a choice of legislators.
Archbishop Kelly, who was 85 last
Wednesday, may get that cardinal’s hat
after all. His admirers say there is no
prelate in Christendom who has a better
right— not because he has built millions
of pounds’ worth of churches, convents
and schools, but because he has done so
much to bring creeds and classes together
in Christian peace and understanding. At
one stage of his illness —pneumonia—he
wasn’t expected to recover; now the
doctors say he is almost as well as ever.
But they won’t let him leave Lewisham
Hospital yet.
Bernard Hall, director of the Mel-
bourne Gallery for the past 43 years, has
died in London of a chill. He was born
in Liverpool 75 years ago, and had his
first picture hung in the Royal Academy
in 1882. He had long been accepted as
one of England’s leading illustrators when
he settled in Melbourne nearly half a
century ago. The various exponents of
art nouveau who have become articulate
since then have consistently damned his
work, examples of which are to be seen
in both the Melbourne and Sydney gal-
leries, but they faded out and he re-
mained. He had taste, great technical
ability and a kindly nature, which was
expressed in charming manners.
“Lex”: E. J. Loxton, K.C., of Sydney,
who has died at 70, was the N. S. Wales
Bar’s leading all-rounder. Bankruptcy
was his specialty, but any kind of Equity
or Common Law work came alike to
him ; he was listened to with respect by
the High Court, and he excelled on the
floor of the House. The Bar briefed him
to address Parliament on the amend-
ments of the Legal Practitioners’ Act, and
agreed afterwards that the late B. R.
Wise couldn’t have done better. Like
Wise, Loxton was a politician; he repre-
sented Ryde first as an Independent Nat.
and then as an official member of the
party. Tall, small-featured, lean and
ascetic-looking, he was an impressive
figure in and out of court. The vehem-
ence of his convictions alone prevented
him from being made a Judge ; he hated
drink, religious intolerance and many
more respected institutions, and whatever
he felt he had to say. He was born,
educated and called to the Bar in Sydney.


II
A/WVfrkjL erHMjs
ARDATH DE-Ll
100% (/Ovtitut
i
■■l
m
■ *•■ XU
Han
:
I I
iM
WMmSMmmmm
illlipi iiipiiiii
■■■Mil
SKh
v■ i »
m
m
ii
: v
;
H
H
H
KI
HB
The traditional English blend
of pure Virginia Tobaccos in
Ardath De - Luxe— plus the
smart modern packing
appeals strongly to me."
in&M'Su AtUvm£tii it tmj {JvwtuJt
mm( AttriAttiA it mtj tvth&eL.”
'SWsx .
%
i
ARDATH
DE-LUXE
Smart Flat TINS
10-9 d.; 20-1/6
Also Flat Pocket 50’s,
Tins of 100, also Round
Airtight 50’s.
88 8 2- 2-5


The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
„ Towards
Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. • Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927 - 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,618 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed ; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .., 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,378 . . 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243,544 1,872.041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061.. 1,831,980
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,439 246,233 2,078,213
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152. . 2,054,061
1980.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 245,160 2,299,221
Transferred to specific reserves, £12,623. . 2,286,598
1931.. 434,442 182,074 118,298 134,070 2,420,668
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO. . 2,419,668
Inner reserves disclosed, £12,941 . . 2,432,609
1932.. 384,011 216,043 87,392 79,976 2,512,585
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,511,585
1933.. 365,478 192,134 99,239 74,105 2,585,090
Taxation refund, £18,307 . . . . 2,603,997
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO. . 2,602,997
Taxation reserve included. £21,000 . . 2,623,997
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 51,533 2,675,530
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders ; 1920,
£9359 ; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086; 1925,
£20,352; 1928, £17,015; 1929, £8537; 1930,
£8926; 1933, £4463 ; 1934, £8926. fNine months.
It was a very sick business when E. S.
Paul and those associated with him took
control about eight years ago. Now
policy-holders, whose interests have been
placed in the foreground, can look for-
ward to regular bonuses, and as a long-
term investment the shares possess attrac-
tive possibilities.
Though last year’s income was less
than the 1926 figure, the board has mean-
while distributed £281,180 in bonuses
to policy-holders, shareholders have had
only £47,867 in divs. averaging approxi-
mately 2 p.c., and no less than £368,942
of intangibles have been replaced by solid
revenue-producing assets. In addition,
substantial sums have been written off for
bad debts, depreciation, etc., and actuarial
and other reserves have been strength-
ened. After deducting actuarial reserves
and the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, £267,791 of the capital was unre-
presented by tangibles eight years ago ;
now the whole of the capital (£357,208)
and £74,448 besides is intact.
During the last term an extra £104,142
of new business was put on the books
in the Life department:
1926. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Sum assured £1,356,663 £418,829 £412,251 £516,393
First pre-
miums . . 42,884 11,951 12,212 15,511
Renewal pre-
miums . . 234,961 281,026 210,241 200,982
Interest, etc. 68,410 113,133 118,169 115,533
Claims . . 51,156 202,881 179,202 196,661
Exes. .. 111,628 78,462 87,247 79,836
Excluding taxes (£6358, down £25,061)
and the amount written off for deprecia-
tion and mortgage losses (£19,105, down
£5630), exes, took 25.1 p.c. of the net
premiums as against 22.9, 22.6 and 23.7
p.c. for the three preceding years. The
year’s first premiums were gathered at
a cost of approximately 153 p.c. as
against 169 p.c. in 1931 ; that is on the
generally-accepted basis that new pre-
miums are 10 times more expensive than
renewals. Surrenders (£19,103) were
£23,394 lighter, and death claims were
only 51 p.c. of the amount allowed for
by the actuary.
Including a tax refund of £18,307, the
year’s surplus income from all sources
was £78,766, down £5802, due mainly to
a heavier crop of endowment maturities.
Of the £78,766, £68,840 was added to
the Life fund (now £2,601,560) for
policy-holders, £8926 was distributed
among shareholders in a 2\ p.c. div., and
£lOOO was struck off the co.’s Canberra
leasehold. The amount distributed in
reversionary bonuses (they ranged from
30s. p.c. to 50s. p.c. on whole-of-life poli-
cies) was £33,007. In addition, the basis
of valuation was reduced from 3| p.c.
to 3J- p.c., the aim being more protec-
tion for policy-holders and better bonuses
later on. After deducting taxes, last
year’s net return from investments was
4.2 p.c. on the mean Life fund as against
3.5 p.c. in 1933.
The year’s growth in the book value
of net tangibles was £73,257;
1926. 1933. 1934.
Public securities.. £639,474 £1,381,027 £1,462,583
Mortgages . . 521,155 790,694 695,565
Loans on policies,
etc. .. .. 35,234 146,819 144,945
Book debts, cash,
etc 102,911 93,836 92,587
Equipment .. 16,302 7,833 7,730
Properties.. .. 198,270 448,259 509,214
Shares in other
cos 71,172 228,236 229,559
Tangible assets. £1,584,518 £3,096,704 £3,142,183
Sundry creditors.. 318,151 121,442 93,664
Net tangibles .. £1,266,367 £2,975,262 £3,048,519
Assurance fund*.. 1,195,112 2,545,661 2,616,863
Paid capital .. 339,046 357,028 367,208
*lnclUdes reserves for unexpired risks—
£l2,l7B, 1926; £12,942, 1933 ; £15,303, 1934.
Public securities, up £81,556, appear at
£45,828 less than their face value. The
most troublesome item in the portfolio
is mortgages, down £95,129, making the
reduction £146,751 since 1930. “Mort-
gagees to-day have less security than a
bill-of-sale holder had over furniture
prior to the Moratorium Act,” the chair-
man says. It took the co. 15 months
to obtain leave to foreclose on a pro-
perty which had actually fallen into
ruins. No wonder the management looks
askance at mortgages.
At 10s. sd. the lOs.-paid shares give an
immediate return of 2.3 p.c. Presently
each two existing shares are to be amal-
gamated into pound shares.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1924.. 56,184 8 p.c. = 49,867 6,317 40,522
1925.. 55,086 8 „ „ 49,867 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „„ 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927.. 50,488 8 „„ 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „„ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „„ 49,867 58,267
1930.. 39,501 6+ „ „ 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28,739 6 „„ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 . . 57,607
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 57,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB . . . . 56,329
From inner reserves, £10,408 .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 6+ „ ~11,050 54,986
The Harbor Bridge wiped out what used
to be the co.’s chief source of revenue
for over 60 years. Fixed assets were
vigorously written down, liquids accumu-
lated, and, with a little help from the sale
of property, £453,332 of capital was re-
turned, reducing the figure to £170,000
in ss. shares. The backbone of the busi-
ness is now the Mqsman, Cremorne,
Athol, Neutral Bay and Balmain ser-
vices and the Land and Harbor Trans-
port Co., a subsidiary which took over
the parent’s land properties, or most of
them, in 1919.
A year or so ago the co. put three new
water ’buses, which together cost in the
neighborhood of £21,000, on the Lane
Cove-Hunter’s Hill service. They were a
failure, and have since been replaced by
some of the old craft, which are to be
converted to Diesel power, following the
success of the Lady Chelmsford. Dur-
ing the last term the visit of the Duke
of Gloucester and harbor tourist traffic
helped takings, and an extra £1235 of
profit was claimed, or £5901 in all, equal
to 3.4 p.c. on capital. That leaves out
of the reckoning an unexplained reduc-
tion of £lO6B in reserves. Still, owing
to an undisclosed return from the subsi-
diary, shareholders were handed 6y p.c.
as against 6 p.c. for 1933.
Although seven of the hulks were sold
during the year, there was a net growth
of £19,906 in the book value of ship
property, due, apparently, to the pur-
chase of the water ’buses already re-
ferred to:
IQ9Q -loao 1Q33 1934
Paid capital. . £623,332 £170,000 £170,000 £170,000
Liabilities . . 05,520 41,478 25,361 28,788
Landed property 42,820 28,434 27,864 27,294
Ship property 212,413 29,921 35,706 55,012
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 26,278 1,000 1,000 1,000
Plant & machinery 6,696 4,787 6,968 6,370
Fuel & stores, etc. 13,725 7,942 7,568 7,736
Shares in other
cos. . . 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 24,018 30,909 30,863 33,291
Public securities,
etc ' 330,528 62,251 42,464 19,158
Cash . . .. 8,572 2,271 2,232 2,281
To meet the outlay liquids were drawn
upon, the contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£25,922) being
£24,276.
In the pup’s sheet freeholds, which in-
clude the Clifton Gardens Hotel and
Royal Guesthouse at Neutral Bay, figure
at £88,035 ; ship property, etc., £65,158 ;
stocks, debtors and cash, £15,981. There
was £2942 coming to sundry creditors
and £40,392 to the parent on loan and
plant account.
On the market the parent’s fully-paid
ss. shares fetch Bs. 6d., at which figure
the return is 3.8 p.c. on a 6\ p.c. div.
basis. The book value of the net tan-
gible cover is 6s. 7d.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co.
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct. Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
* £ £>£,£,£,
1924.. 18,693 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 4155 44,357
1925.. 15,358 10 „ „ 9,538 5,250 570 44,927
1926.. 20,065 10 ~ „ 9,538 5,000 5527 50 454
1927.. 22,533 22+„ ~ 21.461 5,000 46,526
1928.. 22,963 10 „ „ 9,538 11,000 2425 48,951
Profit on sale of assets, £875 . . 49,826
1929.. 15,990 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 1452 51,278
1930.. 16,172 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1634 52,912
1931.. 16,415 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1877 54,789
1932.. 16,825 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 2287 57,076
1933.. 17,305 19.3„ ~18,470 5,000 50,901
1934.. 16,204 10 „ ~ 9,538 4,000 2666 53,567
Trade was a bit better, though competi-
tion sharpened—two mills, one at
Timaru and the other at Invercargill, re-
opened during the year—and there was
a 16 p.c. increase in the cost of materials
used by all Maoriland’s woollen mills
during 1933-34, due mainly to the rise in
the price of wool. Still the recession in
this co.’s gross earnings from all sources
(£39,007) was only £2343 (= 5.6 p.c.).
Exes. (£22,803) were got back £1242.
After visibly striking off £4OOO (£lOOO
less than in the previous term) for depre-
ciation, enough remained to show 12.7
p.c. on capital as against 12.9, 12.4,
11.9, 11.7, 11.5 and 18.8 p.c. back to
1928. The div. was kept at 10 p.c. ; and
the facts that it remained steady and was
paid out of earnings during the big
collapse of prices in 1930-31 are en-
couraging for shareholders.
At the end of the 1933 term a special
cash bonus of 7s. 6d. a share was sent
out to celebrate the co.’s diamond
jubilee. Founded in 1871 by A. J.
Burns, a grand-nephew of Bobbie Burns,
the business became a public co. two
years later, and John Roberts, the first
chairman, sat at the head of the board
table until his death last year.
While technical efficiency enabled the
co. to fight prejudice and competition
(its products won awards in Britain,
Vienna, U.S.A., Canada and Australia as
well as Maoriland), liberal allowances
for depreciation, etc., enabled it to keep
plant abreast of modern developments
and its finances snug:
1923. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital . . £95,380 £95,380 £95,380 £95,380
Liabilities . . 33,625 13,011 18,681 . 16,792
Plant and property 51,952 44,006 35,129 34,003
Stocks . . . . 64,668 49,341 31,756 36,251
Book debts, etc. . . 33,101 26,281 18,219 13,039
Cash & investments 35,505 61,813 109,497 103,107
Over the last seven years £30,256 has
been spent on plant, etc., out of earnings,
and £40,000 has been written off from
the same source. The most vulnerable
point in the co.’s armor is stocks, iup
£4495 last year, but still less than half
the 1925 figure. When the books last
closed the more or less liquid surplus
(£135,605) was £5186 less than at the
previous balance, due to payment of the
bonus already referred to.
On the market the £5 shares paid to
£4 fetch £ll as against £8 10s. a year
ago. At the higher figure the return is
3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is £6 4s. lid. in net tangibles.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov,, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,162 54,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926.. 13.488 Nil 41,352
Profit.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
1928.. 34,158 5 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil 55,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
Trade-marks disclosed, £lOOO .. 49,651
Profit.
1932.. 18,409 2J p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 2i „ „ 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 2+ ~ „ 12,281 757 52,037
The bottom fell out of the Australian
meat export business when the war-time
contracts ran out and the Argentine got
a strangle-hold upon European trade
with chilled baby beef. The story since
has been largely one of lost markets,
high costs and falling prices. For the
14 years to the close of last accounts,
this co.’s shareholders have averaged a
shade over 1 p.c., and reserves were bitten
into for £79,415 to pay it and extinguish
trading losses. Still, the co. managed to
hold on to more money than it could
find employment for in the business. It
was thus able to return ss. per share
(£163,744) early in the 1933 term, re-
ducing paid capital to £491,232 in 15s.
shares.
Under ordinary circumstances this
might have meant a lift in the div. rate ;
but low prices stood in the way. More
beef was exported last year, and, after
paying all exes, and striking off £11,668
for depreciation, net earnings were
£1163 better at 2.6 p.c. on capital, and
2\ p.c. was distributed.
What the future holds for the busi-
ness it is difficult to say at the moment.
Though not barren, the Ottawa agree-
ments have failed to produce the results
originally anticipated. To assist her
home producers Britain now proposes a
levy on meat imports of Id. per pound
foreign and id. per pound Dominion,
plus “slight” quantity restrictions. The
declared aim is to lever up prices. For
the Australian exporter, restriction
threatens to be the villain of the piece.
The chilled-beef trade, now well on the
way to becoming established here, pro-
mised to open up new possibilities for a
sorely-tried industry. Much will depend
upon the result of Mr. Lyons’s forth-
coming negotiations on the subject in
London.
There is nothing to worry about in the
co.’s finances:
1923. 1931. 1933. 1934
Paid capital. . £654,*976 £654,975 £491,232
Creditors .. 119,806 17,610 64,038 75,047
Property, live-
stock, shares
in other cos. 425,798 423,532 335,726 324,931
Stock.. .. 85,557 35,243 56,445 78,819
Stores . . 45,865 20,180 18,689 15,399
Debtors & cash 270,688 244,282 207,972 211,449
The growth of £22,374 in stocks and of
£11,009 in the amount coming to credi-
tors suggests that trade was better. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£230,620, including stocks) was
£11,552.
At 7s. 2d. (6s. a year ago) the 155.-
paid shares return 5.2 p.c. on a 2\ p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 16s. 7d. in net
tangibles, of which 9s. lid. is represented
by fixed assets.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
& £ £ £
1925.. 15,590 10 p.c. = 7,647 7943 10,072
Transferred to capital, £12,000 ) com
1926.. 17,241 12+ p.c. = 12,100 5141 \ 6,iLA
1927.. 15,722 12| „ „ 12,500 3222 6,435
1928.. 25,748 12+ „ „ 16,146 9602 16,037
1929.. 34,236 „ „ 27,083 7153 23,190
Loss.
1930.. 2,982 2 „ „ 5,208 15,000
Written off investments, £7500.. 7,500
Profit.
1931.. 6,250 2ip.c. = 6,250 7,500
1932.. 7,500 „ „ 6,250 1250 8,750
Written off investments, £1250. . 7,500
1933.. 17,165 6 p.c. = 15,165 2000 9,500
1934.. 18,5.05 6 „ „ 16,505 2000 11,500
Most of this co.’s funds are invested in
subsidiaries in the bread- and biscuit-
making and flour-milling businesses, and
the curtain is kept drawn over their
figures. During the five years to the
close of accounts in 1929, shareholders
put up an extra £170,000, and a run of
12y p.c. divs. was paid from profits
averaging 17.8 p.c. on capital. Then earn-
ings and divs. collapsed ; slump and a
price war were responsible. At the end
of 1932, those in the trade agreed to bury
the hatchet, and the co. extended its
activities by the formation of a new sub-
sidiary, Southern Cross Flour Mills, and
the purchase of Hunter’s old-established
baking business in North Sydney. Earn-
ings responded, and the div. was lifted
to 6 p.c.
During the last term the flour mills
worked to capacity, and an additional
freehold has been bought to provide for
their extension. But the Federal flour
tax made off with £2OOO for each of
the first five months of the term, and
the net result, up £1340, remained at 6.7
p.c. on capital—an extra £16,612 of
capital was gathered.
The new capital and more besides was
used to lighten the overdraft (£29,903,
down £12,932) and the amount coming
to sundry creditors (£18,341, down
£10,540):
1925. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital .. £BB,OOO £250,000 £263,899 £280,511
Diabilities . . 1,032 16,804 71,716 48,243
Land, buildings,
i n v estnients,
etc 84,095 251,783 303,414 310,410
Plant, etc. . . 1,534 9,134 24,992 24,086
Stocks . . . . 2,217 6,896 11,940 9,888
Book debts . . 7,210 11,033 21,039 14,395
Cash, etc. . . 7,311 6,173 896 1,575
Fixed assets, up £6996, include an un-
specified amount of goodwill. The ex-
cess of liabilities over more or less liquids
was £22,385, an improvement of £15,456
over the twelvemonth.
As for prospects, the rise in copra
prices has taken some of the drabness
out of the outlook in the South Sea
Islands, where Hardman Bros., the bis-
cuit-making subsidiary, has strong con-
nections. Locally, the State Govern-
ment has fixed the retail price of bread,
thus preventing bakers passing on the
new £2 12s. 6d.-a-ton (about id. a loaf)
Federal flour tax. Doubtful of the
result of this, the market prices the pound
shares at 19s. or thereabouts as against
245. a year ago. At 19s. the return is
6.3 p.c, on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924 .. 8744 10 p.c. = 7930 814 14,310
1925 .. 8830 10 „ „ 7930 900 15,210
1926 . . 8790 10 ~ „ 7930 860 16,070
1927 . . 9131 10 „ „ 7930 1201 17,271
1928 . . 9730 10 „ „ 7930 1800 19,071
1929 . . 8540 10 „ „ 7930 610 19,681
1930 . . 6032 7$ „ „ 5947 85 19,766
1931 .. 1484 6.},, „• 4758 16,492
1932 . . 5028 7 ~ „ 5551 15,969
1933 . . 6257 7 „ „ 5551 706 16,675
1934 . . 4477 5j ~ ~ 4362 115 16,790
There was no difficulty on the sales side ;
production was maintained at full capa-
city during the whole year. The slip in
net earnings was due to the sustained
increase in the price of hides, the co.'s
principal raw material. The revival of
the motor trade was responsible; it
created a keen demand for all high-class
skins for upholstery. Competition in the
co.’s own markets prevented the increase
from being passed on. After paying all
exes, and making full provision for con-
tingencies, including depreciation—an
important item in this class of busi-
ness —the net result was £l7BO lighter at
5.6 p.c. on capital as against 7.8, 6.3, 1.8,
7.6, 10.7 and 12.2 p.c. back to 1928. The
final div. was at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a.,
making 5i p.c. for the year.
The co. has a very happy history. Since
the public became interested in 1911 it
has built up and held an export trade
with Asia in belting and the other leather
products it manufactures, and widened
its local connections, despite disturbed
conditions. A steady 10 p.c. was paid
for the 14 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 ; for the next five years the aver-
age was 6.7 p.c., thanks largely to sav-
ings in overhead, the introduction of


@
The Latest Development in Mining, the McRICHPALS GOLD
and TIN SAVING MACHINE, for Alluvial, Beach and River Sands.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS (hand and power operated).
CUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Rd., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA 1
“A sure friend in uncertain times.”
Investment in
HAPPINESS
Let- 1935 bring you contentment and
peace of mind.
THE New Year is now well in its stride, so to say. The
first flush of excitement is passed. Each man and woman
is settling down to the task of making the most of 1935;
settling down to the task of wringing as much contentment
and satisfaction out of it as possible. There will be almost as
many ways of securing satisfaction as there are men and
women, but there is one way above all others of winning peace
of mind and contentment as to the future, and that is the
way of adequate Life Assurance.
Membership in the A.M.P. Society opens the door to happiness
and a contented mind. Through membership men and women
can complete their plans for the future with the sure know-
ledge that their old age will be sweet and comfortable and
that, when the Great Reaper gathers them in, their loved ones
will be protected.
That more and more men and women are realising the value
of A.M.P. membership is shown by the ever-increasing volume
of assurance effected with the Society;—-
New Policies issued :
1931
1932 - -
1933 - -
1934
£1 1,500,000
£13,600,000
£15,600,000
£17,900,000
A large proportion of this immense volume of new assurance
was taken out by existing members of the Society who had
come to realise the great merit of their policies, and the con-
tentment to be had out of them. The balance was taken out
by other citizens attracted to membership for the same reasons.
The A.M.P. Society is a mutual or co-operative body. All its
great assets belong to its members. If you, who read this, are
not a member, get in touch with the nearest office of the
Society, or the nearest representative, or write for full par-
ticulars as to the advantages of membership. Correspondence
welcomed and answered promptly.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
D. E. WALKER, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, WELLINGTON.
new lines and the opening of a branch in
Melbourne.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances: —•
1928. 1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Capital .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities 30,723 31,141 25,904 32,273 33,124
Freeholds. 50,881 50,881 50,881 60,881 50,881
Plant, etc. 9,450 7,360 6,653 6,485 6,360
Stocks .. 50,925 51,209 42,239 49,532 53,427
Book debts 21.732 21.762 23,751 23,634 19,150
Cash, etc. 1,315 2,840 1,786 1,802 2,293
Plant, etc., is reported to be in first-
class order; it stands at approximately
two-thirds of the 1928 figure, despite
additions meanwhile. There was little
movement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£41,746, including stocks), up £3895.
Owing to the fall in interest rates, the
market prices the pound shares at 255. 6d.
as against 245. a year ago. At the higher
figure the return is 4.3 p.c. on a 5i p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
245. 2d., mostly plant, etc., worth what
it will earn.
Dr. Jensen left for Noumea on the
18th for the Diabot River Dredging Syn-
dicate, a co. registered in N.S.W. but
subscribed for mostly in Adelaide. He
will supervise scout-boring tests over
12,000 acres on the banks of the Diabot
River, in the north-west of New Cale-
donia. John Hay, well known in timber
circles in Tasmania, tested the area by
dish, and reported values exceeding 4s.
a yard on the surface. The gamble is
whether these values go down. An
adjoining 3000 acres, held by the Upper
Diabot Syndicate, is also to be tested
by the Jensen party. The Fernhill Gold
Mine, adjacent to this property, has pro-
duced 21,0000 z. of gold from 13,000
tons. This and other reefs are believed
to have shed their gold into the valley of
the Diabot.
* * * *
It is an astonishing thing that gold at
Mt. Coolon does not appear to go deeper
than 500 ft. On the neighboring Charters
Towers field, the Brilliant Extended paid
dividends from a depth of nearly 3000 ft.
Recent drilling by Mt. Coolon Co. proved
the lode down to 1000 ft. at least, but
there was no gold in it where cut. A
final deep hole is being put down further
west on the lode, in case the ore-shoot
is dipping longitudinally. Failing that,
it looks as if the shutters must go up
permanently in about six months’ time.
Meanwhile an American crack geologist
is to be asked for advice on the patient.
# * !B *
One of the biggest disappointments in
N.Q. mining has been the abandonment
of the option at Kidston, or The Oaks,
on the Etheridge field. It was held in
conjunction with Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia. An extensive system of tunnelling
and assaying gave results that, it was
thought, would carry it through. It is
evidently not a 3dwt. proposition, as
B.H. Prop, discovered a few years back,
but there are hundreds of thousands of
tons reputed to go not less than 2dwt.
The same interests have thrown in the
Golden Hill Buck Reef at Ravenswood,
values not being constant enough.
* * * *
Minister for Mines Stopford has just
paid a visit to the Cracow (C.Q.) gold-
field. Golden Plateau gives the centre
a great appearance of industry and pros-
perity ; outside of that there is no con-
spicuous success. Having got wind of
the alms to be distributed by the Com-
monwealth for mining, Cracow made the
most of the Minister’s visit, and schemes
for deep sinking and drilling on the lodes
will probably get a little help. The
, Golden Mile, a showy dud up to the
present, is to be keenly prospected under
a new organisation, and manager Miller,
from the Plateau, is to keep a paternal
eye on developments.
* * * *
Federation tin mines at Heemskirk
(Tas.), reconstructed in London with a
capital of £lOO,OOO in a million shares of
2s. each, are being reopened. When tin
values dropped below £ll5 operations
ceased, although the co. could pay its
way at that figure. J. W. Fair, who has
had experience with Tassie’s mines on the
West Coast and at Mount Victoria, has
been brought from Africa to manage the
show. It is estimated that there is be-
tween 50,000 and 60,000 tons of ore
available for immediate stoping over an
average width of 40ft., and a scheme has
been adopted for opening up extensive
ore-bodies. The plant, which has been
well cared for since the mine stopped, is
to have some additions, chiefly in the
way of saving the fine tin, a lot of which
had previously gone into the tailings.
The Cumberland dam, which provides
the water supply, is to be raised.
* * * *
Bulls claim that Yellowdine gold find
(W.A.) is only bent, not broken. They
argue that something more than a little
shallow prospecting, a few short bores
and a geological opinion (from an expert
of standing) that the formation looks un-
commonly like a syncline is required to
show how the auriferous cat is going to
jump. Meanwhile some of the cos. in-
terested continue pegging ; others are giv-
ing up.
* * * *
The recent rise in the price of Boulder
Perseverance’s scrip has puzzled local
speculators. No reports to cause any
demand for the shares have been issued,
and the mine has been idle for weeks on
account of the general strike, now settled.
There is talk in London of amalgamation
with an adjacent property, but nothing is
known of such a fusion locally.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.), which has
abandoned its option on an area at
Yellowdine, is now negotiating for an-
other on a “big and valuable property”
elsewhere. But what about its Coolgardie
venture, where, to celebrate the starting of
the plant, a banquet, attended by Lieut.-
Governor Mitchell, politicians, market
operators, reporters and others, was held
a few months ago?
* * '■ *
Kanowna Pug Deposits, an Adelaide
venture which tried but failed to get
profitable returns from the sticky
Kanowna pug, has appointed an expert
to investigate its operations and its treat-
ment methods before calling in the under-
taker.
$ * * $
The B.A.N.Z. Co., a newcomer in
Westralia, has successfully floated in
London two Ora Banda goldmining ven-
tures. One was worked by Associated
Northern, and both were looked at by
Gold Fields Australian Development, but
no business resulted.
* * * *
T. Leonard has again inspected and
check-sampled the Alma May leases,
Gum Creek area, East Murchison (W.A.).
Samples show from sdwt. to 2oz. of
gold. He considers the deposit the best
surface proposition he has yet seen.
Negotiations for an option are proceed-
ing with Pearse and party, who are ask-
ing £20,000 for the property.
* * *
Messrs. Waiter, Nylund and Egan, of
the Untold Wealth mine, Yellowdine
(W.A.), crushed 180 tons for 189 oz. over
the plates. This property is under option
to Commonwealth Mining and Finance.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.J.A.L.: Calcium does not occur in a
native state. Calcium carbonate (limestone), both
of organic and inorganic origin, is a common
rock-forming mineral, and is widely distributed.
On burning limestone the carbon is driven off
and calcium oxide (quicklime) is formed. Lime-
stone is of value for making lime and for
agricultural purposes... .V.M.: (1) Wiluna and
Lake View and Star. (2) Raub, Lancefield,
Upper Watut... .H.L.McI.: There are legal for-
malities; consult a solicitor... .W.A.J.C.: (1)
Cannot say definitely, but should not be long
delayed. (2) Yes... .A. 8.: There is a fair chance
of a better market price later on V.D.: You
can turn up all the old records of the show at
the Mines Department... .J.W.C.: (1), (2) and
(3) Yes A.C.C.: A speculative stock. Co.
now depends mainly upon engineering section.
Divs. averaged 2 p.c. since 1927, when reserves
were approximately same as at last balance....
P.M.: (1) Secretary of Star Explorations is
James Bros., Finsbury House, Blomfield-street,
London, E.C.2. (2) Sir Herbert Gepp, c/o Sub.
Treasury, Commonwealth Bank Building, Syd-
ney. (3) Australian Gold Development, 422
Collins-street, Melbourne Mugwump: New
Golconda is in the Lake Austin district (W.A.),
where the old Golconda Co. got specimen stone
30 years ago H.C.A.: Hold (1) and (2); the
remaining four are much more speculative.
Lancefield, Ora Banda and Boulder Perseverance
have better prospects H.T.S.: No record;
address, please R.F.8.: (1) Value of old
gold depends upon assay and weight of article.
Write to the Royal Mint, Melbourne or Perth.
(2) Competition is, keen, which means careful
valuation if satisfactory profits are to be won.
J.C.: (1) Probably; it all depends upon the
management. (2) Regular bonuses to policy-
holders are not yet in sight. (3) You will have
to make your own choice. The best assistance
policy-holders can give the co. is to keep up
payments. (4) Face value plus bonuses, if
any W.O’D.: Hang on to your capital and
sell your labor W.W.: If security of capital
and regularity of income are important, look
the other way 8.D.: They are a long-term
speculation. Write to the secretary; he may be
able to find a buyer... .T.C.M.: (1), (2) and
(3) All have good speculative possibilities. (4)
Doubtful.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys; 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND "TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * sS
ORES.—Try O. f. LEMPRIERE k CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— 4dvt.
* * * *
MINERS! Are you receiving the highest market
value for your ore? Write Norman Hill & Co., Ltd.,
Cathcart House, Sydney. Buyers Wolfram, Gold
Concentrates, Complex Tin Ores, etc. Queensland
Agents, Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd. — Advt.
* * *
BICYCLE CHAIN OILERS. Fit a Russ-Mill, Back
Stay, Needle Valve, Patent Chain Oiler, for Push or
Motor Bikes. Weight under loz. ; carries oil for a
month. Only 6/3. All Cycle Agents or direct
F. A. Spriggs, 60 Miller Street, Pyrmont. ’Phone;
MWl242.— Advt.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Chained”
A medium for the presentation of Joan
Crawford in a wide range of fantastic
dresses, hats and coiffures. She gets
away with most of them, having a beau-
tiful figure and a humorless, ox-eyed face
that wouldn’t cause surprise if she chose
a horse-collar as a setting for it.
In the first sequence she is in speed-
boat attire, and in the next she wears a
get-up suitable for a secretary who is
about to have it out with her employer’s
jealous wife. Otto Kruger is Joan’s
elderly lover ; he smiles and smiles, and
is a complete fool. The wife won’t agree
to a divorce, so Joan leaves on a luxury
liner for S. America, and falls in love
with Clark Gable on board. One
assumes that she has lost her heart, but,
in fact, she gives no more sign of having
done so at this stage than a mannequin
on parade. She appears in evening
clothes, day clothes, wraps, pyjamas and
bathing things, in a variety of head-
coverings, and with her hair concealed,
flattened, fluffed and worn in a sort of
windblown chignon. She mostly affects
jodhpurs on Gable’s ranch. After her
return to the U.S.A. she finds that
Kruger’s wife has changed her mind
about the divorce, and as Mrs. Kruger
II she goes everywhere—the opera, horse
show and so on —and always in stagger-
ing costumes.
She has been yearning for Gable all
the time, and when he reappears she
goes to him unhesitatingly. This is the
only situation in which she registers
genuine feeling. She is so overcome that
her normally stupid expression becomes
cataleptic. Whatever he suggests she
agrees to dumbly. It is a lifelike presen-
tation of a subnormal female’s reaction
to an infatuation; but she soon reverts
to the affectations of self-consciousness,
and the film reverts to unreality.
Clark Gable is adequate as an exu-
berant playboy of the type portrayed by
George Brent in the other St. James film,
and Stuart Erwin is comic on familiar
lines as Gable’s oafish friend and butt.
The settings and photography are superb,
and the liner sequences are very interest-
ing ; they show practically every _ aspect
of life on a modern passenger ship,
“Stamboul Quest”
The difference between film and legiti-
mate melodramas is to a great extent
osculatory. If Bland Holt had staged the
Henry Gordon and Myrna Loy in “Stam-
boul Quest,” at Sydney St. James.
Clark Gable in “Chained,” at Sydney
St. James.
romance now being unwound at Sydney
St. James the heroine would have been
limited to a couple of respectful kisses ;
the first after the hero’s proposal, the
second at the end of their troubles.
In the film Myrna Loy, as a war-time
of the German Secret Service, spends
so much time being kissed by George
Brent that she gets few chances to serve
her country. She and Brent meet in Ger-
many shortly before she is sent to Turkey
to investigate the bona fides of Henry
Gordon, G.O.C. the Turkish army on
Gallipoli, whom Berlin suspects of
treachery.
Brent is one of those large toothy
American playboys who are equally adept
at delivering movie punches and putting
their hats on the heads of butlers. An
accomplished kisser, he expounds every
branch of the art in collaboration with
Miss Loy. The Scuffle {Ang., Give over
Now!) is displayed a number of times
in the early stages when the hero is im-
portunate and the heroine is loyally
Lionel Atwill in “Stamboul Quest.”
anxious to get on with her spying: the
innumerable Garbos, though stereotyped,
are technically sound. After the bowling
out of Ali Bey the heroine goes tem-
porarily insane, and is found by the hero
behind the bars of a convent. One of the
rarer movie embraces follows —a Zoo or
Monkey-cage.
“Dangerous Corner”
Priestley’s play, very effective on the
stage, does not stand the cold, hard light
of analysis that must beat upon a film
reproduction. Even if it is all a dream
there is no reason why presumably intel-
ligent and sober people should, without
any necessity whatever, indulge in con-
fessional orgies calculated to wreck their
lives, The version of the play now show-
ing at Sydney Capitol suffers from the
defect that the male characters only are
articulate' during the first 20 minutes.
The women slur their words. After-
wards, when tense drama occupies the
stage, the multiplicity of characters is a
handicap. The audience can gather at
long last that certain people stand in
marital relationship, but the revelation
comes too late for a ‘ building-up of in-
terest. Frequent assertions by one of
the principals that the whole business
seems more like a dream than reality
epitomise the play’s structural defects.
“West of the Pecos”
In this “heart-stirring drama” Zane
Grey, with his unerring instinct for situa-
tions that will enthral picture fans with-
out annoying the censor, hits upon the
idea of a young lady, the daughter of a
Kentucky colonel, taking part in a cross-
country cattle-drive in male attire, to
protect herself from the unwelcome at-
tentions of border ruffians. In an age
when women rush into pants for any
other reason than that they fear the
molestation of ruffians, the conceit may
be hailed, anyhow, as original. But it
is the full extent of Mr. Grey’s origi-
nality.
Richard Dix, having discovered that
the slender youth (Martha Sleeper) who
declined to strip off and dive into the
first river met in a long, long trek had
nice reasons, becomes thenceforward as
nearly the perfect lover as his age and
the necessity for shooting dozens of
border ruffians permit. When Mr. Grey
isn’t Deadwooddickish he becomes ladies-
novelettish, and in both moods he is
painful to people over the mental age
of 12. At Sydney Capitol.
“Lottery Lover”
A contingent of about a thousand West
Point cadets, billeted in hotels in Paris
on their way to win the Great War,
attends a revue performance at which
one of their number secured the princi-
pal dancer’s garter. Result is a battalion
lottery, the winner to restore the find to
the lady. Lucky number falls to Lew
Ayres. It is deemed that he needs coach-
ing for his task, and Miss Pat Paterson
is engaged by the regiment to represent
the dancer, best military brains supply-
ing the pair with suitable dialogue. Sing-
ing by company and principals at fre-
quent intervals.
After about an hour and a half of
mildly-interesting fooling, garnished by
immediately forgetable music, Mr. Ayres
and Miss Paterson plight eternal troth,
and the embryo officers march off to
slaughter Boches.
Seen at preview, Fox Theatrette. To
be shown at Sydney Capitol next Friday.
“Imitation of Life”
Like the Victorian novel, this Sydney
Plaza attraction has a major and a
minor plot running side by side and occa-
sionally entwining. The former is con-
cerned with the rise to fortune and fame
in the business world of a beautiful
young widow (Claudette Colbert). The
young woman is experiencing a lean time
following the death of her husband when
she obtains a wonderful recipe for pan-
cake flour from Aunt Delilah (Louise
Beavers), a negro servant. With the aid
of Aunt Delilah and a tight-lipped adver-
tising expert (Ned Spark), she practically
corners the pancake-flour industry. At
the height of her success she wins the
heart of a romantic-minded aquariumist
(Warren William). Her flapper daughter
makes an unworthy pass at the gentle-
man, but is eventually steered away from
him —not without bitter tears.
The subsidiary plot deals with the
attempts of Aunt Delilah’s half-caste
daughter (Rochelle Hudson) to cross the
color line —the indignities the girl suffers
at school, her attitude towards her
mother, her brief escape when she
“passes” for a white and her return to
the negro community are poignantly
handled.
“Kid Millions”
Rather less amusing than Eddie Can-
tor’s previous best. Many of the gags
are old, and much of the support is un-
funny. Warren Hymer’s Americanisms
are particularly trying.
■ Egypt—represented by a camel or two,
a sheikh, his wives, a dozen mummies,
a fakir and some sand —is the back-
ground for most of it. Cantor goes there
to claim a fortune ; he uses it to build
an ice-cream factory and supply the
youngsters with free ice-cream. The
whole thing winds up with a Walt
Disney color show, done by living actors
in the factory. It’s amazingly clever.
All the Disney genius for mechanical
devices and massed color effects is there.
“Murder in the Clouds”
Another air drammer. There are a
stunting hero, a pretty heroine (Ann
Dvorak) who doubts whether he’d be the
ideal husband, villains and ’planes galore.
“Student Tour”
At the Civic. Bartlett College wins
a boatrace and the right to go to Eng-
land to race an English school. The
crew consists of likeable young fellows
who, judging by shots of their perfor-
mances while training, can’t row. On
the other hand, they are better at croon-
ing than any Eton (or indeed Oxford,
Cambridge or Leander) eight that has
figured at Henley. The college boys
make the trip with a bevy of co-eds, who
also dance and sing delightfully.
Schnozzle Durante is their trainer;
Charles Butterworth is a professor of
philosophy, and the professor’s niece
(Maxine Doyle) is a bespectacled young
lady whose eyes,, it transpires, are quite
good, and who dances better, sings more
sweetly and looks prettier than any of
the other young ladies.
Some First Nights
On a night when thunder crashed and
lightning flashed in the best Sydney
summer fashion the Flying Dutchman’s
eerie craft made its phantom appear-
ance on the stage of the New Tiv.
Its last visit to Sydney, so old opera-
goers say, happened 28 years ago, so
the Dutchman, who according to legend
puts into port once every seven years
and always brings a storm with him,
seems to be still running true to form.
On this latest occasion his orchestral,
choral and scenic backgrounds were all
that could be desired. The choruses of
sailors and spinning maidens, oases of
Verdian melody amid deserts of heavily
Germanic recitative, went well, and
earned the usual plaudits. Senta Austral
declaimed her ballad in one of the most
effective stage pictures this critic has
seen;. the grouping and the focusing
of interest in the narrator were superbly
managed, and for a few brief moments
the Wagnerian ideal was achieved and
eye, ear and mind were simultaneously
enchanted. Erik Widdop’s nice tenor
blended more gratefully with Senta Aus-
tral’s powerful notes than did those of
Dutchman Horace Stevens. De Vries,
who is a Dutchman, might have been a
better selection. Browning Mummery
gave a fine concert platform recital of
the steersman’s song, and Norman Allin
was a manly but not very nautical
Daland. The last act was a good piece
of teamwork, but these Wagnerian
heavy climaxes, so laboriously heaped
up, seem to be losing their punch as
the years creep on.
# * v
The A.B.C. on Friday night strength-
ened its claim to be considered a national
cultural institution by calling on Sydney
composer Roy Agnew to say a few
words and play some of his music. The
words were very brief —Mr. Agnew is as
reticent as Mr. Grainger is talkative —
and the music had to speak for itself.
Some of the pieces performed are fairly
well known, and it is possible that many
musicians besides the composer have
mastered the idiom. The style is indi-
vidual ; the mental outlook seemingly
that of a Schumann or a MacDowell,
introspective and keenly sensitive.
Musical figures employed are brief and
simple; rhythms are ever-changing, in
the modern “free” manner ; there is great
play with pedals and a Debussy-like joy
in unexpectedly reconciling incongruities.
“Rhapsody” is like racing peals of bells
(or gongs) through which there occasion-
ally scampers a figure that by hops, skips
and jumps overtakes all the rest. Time
allowed for the recital was only 20
minutes, and “Rabbit Hill” and “Dance
of the Wild Men,” which have, perhaps,
a wider circle of admirers than most of
the other Agnew compositions, were not
included.


PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Each week prizes of original " Bulle-
tin black-and-white drawings are
offered to contributors of Society
pars., Aboriginalities, Hints for the
Farm and gags for joke-blocks. In
addition, all matter published is paid
for at the ordinary rates.
J. GRILLS, 7 Turner-street, Moonee
Ponds, Victoria;
C. H. FORTUNE, P.O. Box 610,
Dunedin, Maoriland;
B. H. JOHNS, Wyonga, Lucinda-
avenue, Wahroonga, N.S.W., and
p. MAZEL, 670 Hay-street, Perth,
share the prizes for contributions to
B. 13/2/’35.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Yet They Are Secessionists!
Most of the Westralian cockies are in
favor of secession. Why, Heaven alone
knows. I can’t remember anything this
Perth Government has done for them,
apart from holding up payment of money
voted by the Commonwealth for the relief
of wheatgrowers and charging higher
freight-rates for bulk wheat. It won’t let
Westralian Farmers extend their bulk-
handling scheme, and it has appointed a
Royal Commission to shelve the subject.
For its anti-bulkhandling manoeuvres
Labor has been flatly condemned by T.
H. Bath, its old leader, but, it doesn’t
seem to care. — Gnamma (W.A.).
The T.B.Ls.
I was one of two or three thousand
young fellows who-were in camp at the
signing of the Armistice. Sad has been
our fate.
Someone called us the T.B.Ls. (Too
Blanky Late), arid the name has stuck.
The medal issued to us has not the crown
on it, and those who retain theirs have
them packed away as a memento of
what we hoped for and never received.
The returned ’ men regard us as lead-
swingers; those who never enlisted laugh
at us, and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment would never recognise us. Spare a
kind thought for the T.B.Ls. — Sach.
(N.S.W.);
The Siamese Way
I enclose a cutting from the “Straits
Times,” a Singapore paper, which should
interest-you:
Bangkok, Jan. 23..
Thirty-eight . Japanese found ' fishing
■ from motor trawlers in the headwaters of
theGfilT of SianTwefe arrested and fined.
The boats and gear ;were confiscated and
the catches sold by auction. The discovery
was made by a- Siamese, torpedo-boat on
patrol duty.
If Siamese can deal effectually with these
poachers, why can’t Australians? —
Kahtong (Siam).
A Port for the Murray
Though it is-, almost a century since
Sturt’s journey from the Murrumbidgie
to the Murray mouth, no tangible effort
has been made to get a safe outlet from
the Murray to the sea. The late
Admiral Cresswell was never tired of
saying that Australia should make an
outlet for the Murray by utilising that
natural waterway the Coorong, which
runs parallel to the sea —-only a ridge of
hummocks divides them —Kingston to
be the port. The Coorong is navigable
for vessels of light draught from Lake
Alexandria to Salt Creek ; 60 miles on
to Kingston there is a succession of
swamps in winter.
Many millions have been spent by
four Governments on irrigation pro-
jects in the country drained by the
Murray. When these schemes are fully
developed the Murray Valley will carry
a far greater population than it nourishes
at present. With further locking and a
canal from Lake Alexandrina to Kings-
ton, light-draught vessels or barges could
take cargo from the Murray and its tri-
butaries direct to overseas vessels at
Kingston. Of course, the existing outlet
would have to be blocked and the river
diverted to its original course, the
Coorong. It is too big a job for South
Aus., but here is a real national under-
taking.—A. H. W. B. (S.A.).
Is Dentistry Stagnant?
I say it is ; practically no advance has
been made since the war. I except sales-
manship.
True the once-favored gold crown has
been condemned, and X-rays definitely
tell the dentist whether the tooth to be
yanked out is a normal or abnormally
rooted tooth. But oil of cloves and zinc-
oxide and gutta-percha are still the usual
temporary dressings ; the same old in-
gredients are used for amalgam fillings,
and pressed gold fillings or gold inlays
are shoved in as of old. As for arti-
ficial dentures, vulcanised rubber is still
the most satisfactory material for hous-
ing the gum-blocks, and the system of
and the materials used in taking impres-
sions, waxing, casting, setting-up and
vulcanising were known years ago.
But the origin and prevention of dental
caries are still mysteries as dark as ever.
And though improved articulators and an
excavator or two are to be found, these
are mechanical, not scientific, alterations.
Apart from a sort of holy war on teeth
which are “possibly” root-affected, and so
“possibly” causing nine and ninety bodily
ailments, a dentist of the modern school
can offer his patient little more than the
pre-war practitioner could in the pro-
cess of getting ss. for an extraction and
12 to 18 guineas for a set of artificial
teeth. — Kariah (N.S.W.).
An Outworn Privilege
Owing to the venerable doctrine of
Parliamentary privilege, coupled with the
advent of a poor class of member, foul
slanders are levelled light-heartedly by
politicians at defenceless private citi-
zens. One result is that Legislatures have
become mines of misinformation. Ridi-
culous tarradiddles go uncontradicted be-
cause those who know the truth are not
in a position, as a rule, to make it
public ; and this leads to more lies and
more misconceptions by members and
others.
Parliamentary privilege was a useful
convention in the days when hardly any-
“Wot’s the matter,- Reginald? Off yer tucker?”
body abused it; it is now a serious
menace, not only to private individuals,
who, on suspicion of being hostile to
one of the machines, may be first slan-
dered on the floor of the House and then
libelled in “Hansard,” but to the good
name of Parliaments generally.
I suggest that the time has come to
modify the doctrine. In the case of a
demonstrably false and malicious attack
a committee of both Houses should be
empowered to investigate the facts and —
where it is shown prima facie that a
wrong has been done —recommend the
Government to waive privilege and allow
the victim to vindicate his reputation in
the courts. Amongst other beneficial
effects this would force members of Par-
liaments to be careful in making state-
ments for public consumption. Those
Parliamentarians who like to fight fair
would have no cause to object; loose-
mouthed blackguards who bring the
name of democracy into contempt are
not entitled to be considered. —H. S.
(N.S.W.).
An Ex-Patient’s Blast
Public hospitals, in my experience, are
places to which the sick dread going.
Poor people suffer until they are car-
ried in, rather than go voluntarily. They
have been there before ; have been made
to feel they are privileged to be allowed
in, and fortunate to escape.
Public hospitals are very definitely for
the staff first and the sick second.: A
patient’s request is a complaint, and its
first effect is hostility, which comes in
various forms, and is a dreadful thing
to have while sick.
Excessive importance is attached to
keeping beds straight and orderly, and the
clothes are tucked in under the mat-
tresses until the patient is literally lashed
down. Nobody sleeps lashed down in
his own home, nor do doctors, matrons
and nurses in public hospitals. And the
latest beds are made of steel frames with
big mesh dingo-netting mattresses.
Patients are called Brown, Smith, Jones,
as if they were dogs (lie down, Rover,
Bluey, Baldy!), but even the lowliest
member of the staff has a title. —
Arthritis (Q.).
Make Them Air-minded
Flying is right out of the reach of the
average youngster. Yet there is nothing
in the building of the average ’plane,
apart from the engine, which lads who
have been through a wood-working
course can’t master, as lots of them have
shown by building gliders. Here’s a
suggestion.
Form a branch of the R.A.A.F. open
to lads who have been through a wood-
working class and have shown ability
with their hands. First step is to build
a primary glider under an instructor.
After ' the glider has been proved air-
worthy and pilots have passed their tests
on it, let the Commonwealth Govern-
ment refund the cost of the materials
used in its construction. Next step is
the building of a sail-’plane glider, with a
similar refund of material cost, and then
of a light ’plane, the engine to be pro-
vided by the Defence Department and
the cost of building repaid when pilots
have secured their A tickets.
In this way Australia could not only
secure numbers of trained pilots but —
something equally important—trained
aircraftsmen. The last war not only
taught us the value of the man behind the
man behind the gun, but also the value of
the skilled aircraftsman and shipwright.
The scheme I’ve outlined would cost
little, but the fact that it would lead
to getting into the air and enable
those who joined to wear an Air
Force uniform should be a ’ big in-
ducement to join. Even the dark days
of depression haven’t stopped German
youngsters from becoming trained pilots
and aircraftsmen through the gliding
clubs, where they build their own “birds”
as well as fly them. Why can’t we do
the same? — Bert the Carpenter (S.A.).
Press Censorship
Hugh Adam, of Melbourne “Herald,”
spilt the beans in South Africa when he
told the Empire Press delegates that,
although a censorship does not osten-
sibly exist over Australian newspapers
in peace-time, papers that publish matter
incurring the disapproval of Federal and
State Governments are liable to have
avenues of information closed against
them.
Adam called this practice a censor-
ship. He might have gone further. The
sale of news is a newspaper’s trade, and
the Government which holds a gun to
the heads of the owners and tells them
that it will refuse to supply them with
their raw material if they use the raw
material which they obtain from some
other source varies only in degree from
the Chicago gentleman who offers to
protect a shopowner against bomb-
throwers and, if the shopkeeper doesn’t
“come across,” pitches a bomb through
his window himself.
Last year a paper in one of the capi-
tals commenced printing a series of
articles. The writer was of the highest
personal character; the articles were
written observantly and temperately.
There was nothing pornographic or
revolutionary or inciting about them.
Yet one of the Australian Governments
intervened and “ordered” the newspaper
to cease publishing them. The pro-
prietors, who supported the Government
politically, explained that they did not
publish to please it, but to please their
readers. But their representatives found
a sudden drought of the routine news
they were accustomed to receive from
Ministers. Rivals suddenly achieved a
number of mysterious scoops. Sundry
hints reached headquarters that Govern-
ment advertising experts had found that
this particular newspaper lacked “pull-
ing power.”
The articles stopped abruptly, and the
story which was being told was left in
the air.—Old Hand (Vic.).
F.A.Q. Standard for Politicians
Numbers of earnest reformers have
advocated an examination for those
aspiring to become members of Parlia-
ment. The proposal has never been
taken seriously, and does not deserve to
be. An examination, however devised,
would fail to sort out the legislative
sheep from the goats. Examinations are
necessarily tests of education, and edu-
cation is not intelligence. What the coun-
try needs is not educated men in con-
trol, but intelligent men, even though
they are unaware what happened in
1066 or who were the wives of Henry
VIII. in order of deposition.
A recent Premier of Victoria remarked
that “he was not like Napoleon putting
his blind eye to the telescope” ; and he
was a capable Premier, as Premiers go.
A Minister of the Crown in an adjoin-
ing State told a gathering that Mary,
Queen of Scots, couldn’t have gone to
Hollywood, for moving pictures weren’t
invented then. Old Man Parkes dropped
his aitches, and one of the most capable
financiers Australia ever had grew up in
the gutter.
Intelligence is the great requirement.
Why not apply scientific intelligence tests
to the vast number of men, young and
old, who have dreams of some day be-
coming legislators? Like the good
Hebrew who repeat's every Passover
“Next year in Jerusalem,” there are thou-
sands who murmur to themselves “Next
election in Canberra.” Added to these
are those who would be satisfied with a
seat in a State Parliament, those others
who aspire to a city aldermanship and,
at the bottom of the list, those who lust
for the power of a seat in a suburban
council or a country shire.
Let all these men be registered. Then
let them submit themselves to an intel-
ligence test by qualified psychologists,
each party appointing its proportion. Fees
might be charged for the registration
and the test and the diploma that would
have to be issued. Armed with that
diploma the holder would be entitled to
submit himself for the Federal or State
Parliaments or for any municipal or
shire council throughout the Common-
wealth. It would constitute the f.a.q.
standard, and the first thing demanded by
any political party whose support was
asked would be the production of the
diploma.
Of course, evil-disposed candidates
would resort to trickery. They would
use other people’s diplomas, or even forge
them at times. In such cases provision
might be made for heavy fines, which
would also help to balance Budgets.—
Grasspan (Vic.).


ABORIGINALITIES
“Spare Walton”; 1 freely admit to
“S.G.” (B. 6/2/’35) that I was a novice
in the days when the water-rats stole my
fish. Later I was to learn more about
their ingenuity. Not only have I
known them to devour cod tethered
to the bank by a short line, as “S.G.”
recounts, but I have known them
watch night-lines and, when a bite
came, pull up the line with a fish on
it and sit down to dinner.
They are even more enterpris-
ing than that. Once on the
big waterhole at Doondi sta-
tion, on the Balonne (Q.), I
had just baited a line when a
call from the station buildings
on the bank above made me
drop it and go up to see what
was the matter. Coming back
to the top of the bank a few
minutes later I was just in time
to see one water-rat take the
baited hook in his mouth and
swim out to midstream, where
he dropped it, while a cobber
on the bank paid out the line.
Always more of a naturalist than a swim-
mer, I patiently observed the subsequent
proceedings. The swimmer rejoined his
mate, and when a bite came the pair
started to haul in. I must have made
some slight noise, for, looking up, they
saw me. At once the pair picked up the
coil of the line in their teeth and, swim-
ming the wide hole, coolly proceeded to
land their fish. How did those rats know
I couldn’t swim?
“Como”: Bendigo has discovered a
fish with feet. The find was made in
Golden Square—right in the middle of
the city—where the creature was fished
out of a dam and safely grabbed before
it could escape and sprint down the main
street. It has no scales and no fins, and
its two legs, shaped like those of a bird,
finish in a pair of web feet. From the
description it looks like a platypus gone
wrong.
* * * *
“Marra”: Some of these amateur
fishermen who go to the Hawkesbury
River for the week-ends invariably bring
back tall yarns of the monster black
bream or 801 b. jeweys that they “just
missed.” I like to remind ’em that the
Hawkesbury River harbors Australia’s
(possibly the world’s) tiniest fish —the
goby, or Berowra lidwilli. Imagine the
sport a fully-grown goby would give you
on a number nine gut! He’d be three-
quarters of an inch long and weigh about
—well, I just can’t imagine what he’d
weigh.
* * * #
“F.T.”: Near Camooweal (Q.) in
1923 I advised a down-and-out scion of
a well-to-do pastoral family to give up
drifting about the countryside with a
saddle- and packhorse and go home
again. “Your family ought to be pleased
to see you again, anyway,” I said. With
that we parted. In 1925 I again came
across young Driftwood, this time at
Julia Creek, about 400 miles west from
Townsville, “Did you go home and
see the mater and pater?” I asked him
between drinks. “Oh, yes,” he replied ;
“I went home all right.” “They killed the
fatted calf and all that, I suppose?” I
queried. “No chance,” said the still-
broke wanderer; “the old man nearly
killed the prodigal son.” Then we had
13 drinks and went to bed —or, rather,
slept somewhere.
% * *
“E.R.1.”: Grasshoppers! A man left
Longreach (Q.) with two bales of lucerne
hay on his truck. When he reached Arri-
lalah, 32 miles down the Thomson, there
were only a few armfuls and the packing
left.
sfc 4' H* ,4*
“Timothy Tywire”: The bushman’s
carry-all is usually not a waistcoat (B.
30/1/’35), but a belt. Stowed in leather
pouches on his girth-strap he carries
knife, watch, matches and sometimes
tobacco. Shirt- or trouser-pockets too
easily develop holes from the jolting of
such contents when much riding is done,
and the consequent loss of an article may
not be noticed at the time.
* * * *
“MG.”: Entomologists in Victoria
are still talking about the prevalence of
flies in Australia, and are still powerless
to suggest a remedy. My advice is to
seek the fly parasite which must cer-
tainly operate in the United States to
reduce the fly population to its insigni-
ficant proportions. I spent seven hot
summer months all over the States, and
“ ’Urry up an’ get the brat to sleep! ’Ow d’yer think a man c’n practise with
that blasted row goin' on?”
found scarcely enough flies anywhere to
fill a decent square of sticky paper. Cold
London possesses more flies in mid-
winter than sultry Los Angeles can boast
in July. Apropos, the Australian fly was
not one of the pests imported to make
it look like England, nor can the intro-
duction of horses be blamed. When
Dampier landed on the north-west coast
in the seventeenth century there wasn’t
a horse in all New Holland ; yet he refers
to the terrible plague of flies which beset
him the moment his foot touched the
beach.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: That Maoriland shear-
ing record —433 Romney Marsh ewes in
nine hours—leaves me stone cold. I’m
wondering what sort of fist the record-
breaking “Sonny” White would have
made barbering some of our hard-cutting
Australian wethers. Not many years
ago at a shed in central-west Queensland
were half a dozen Maoriland guns.
All had references showing tallies of 250
and over, but the proud reference-
owners wondered what was wrong when
none of them could do better than 100.
Any budding record-breakers ought to
try themselves out in sheep that cut a
decent weight of fleece before they talk
of records.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”; Won’t magpies eat mice?
“Canopus” (B. 30/1 /’35) will lose that
five bob before he’s much older. During
a western Vic. mouse plague three years
ago the mice invaded my tent in
dozens every night. I scattered poisoned
wheat on the floor, and next morning
would find anything up to two dozen
mice with their toes up. Magpies darted
out of the near-by trees and grabbed up
the corpses as fast as I threw them out.
I expected that the poison would stiffen
the magpies in turn, but they seemed to
thrive instead. Even now I have a semi-
tame magpie hanging around my camp,
and whenever I catch a mouse in the
trap Maggie comes chortling up for it.
* * * *
“Tilcum”: In spite of the “evidence”
of so-called authorities who aver that
curlews are all hatched in Siberia, I state
definitely that some breed in the En-
counter Bay district of S.A. I have seen
the birds rise from the egg and disappear
in the scrub. The egg is laid on the
bare earth, and is marked with dark-
grey splashes like the turkey egg’s
(this was in grey-soil country). The
mournful cry or whistle of the eerie
fowls can be heard in this district for
many miles on any calm night through-
out the year.
* * * ' *
“The 0.D.”: The Australian persists
in wearing a felt hat (B. 6/2/’35) because
his country would never have been de-
veloped without it. This article is more
than a hat —it is a useful tool and an
ever-present friend in need. What could
take its place as a stopper of hollow logs
while the snake is cut out, a beater for
incipient grass fires, a bellows for the
campfire, a handle for the hot iron, a
container for drinking from waterholes,
a goad for stubborn stock, a draught-
stopper, a carrier for matches and to-
bacco? All men look alike in boaters,
but no two Australians look alike
in felt ; and many an old cobber has
found another cobber in a crowd by
his felt hat This is a country of diver-
sified types. A ’Bidgee whaler in a
panama, a wheat cocky in a straw-decker,
a boundary-rider in a tweed cap would
look as incongruous as The Bulletin
in a green cover. Finally—for we are
all apt to “do our nuts” on occasion—a
man couldn’t bash a straw on the pub
verandah and maintain his belligerency.
* * * *
“Bill Jack”: Those wrigglers (B.
23/1 / ’35) found at the bottom of a 70ft.
shaft on Lightning Ridge (N.S.W.) did
not fall down. They crawled down—
for the coolness or in search of a stray
frog in the possible water at the bottom.
Wells 60ft. deep in the Burnett (Q.) are
frequently inhabited by the brutes, which
seem to get out as easily as they get in.
Once, having left the bucket down over-
night, I was surprised to find 6ft. of
vicious brown half-way up a quarter-inch
steel rope, twined round it a couple of
times for comfort. Anyway, if falls
didn’t shake the stuffing out of snakes,
what would happen to the kookaburra’s
star act?
* * * *
“D.A.”: “I’ve crushed some hard ore in
my time,” said “Pyrites” Pollock, “an’
I’ve seen some smart minin’ men. Once
we were workin’ a sulphide show up Noo
England way, and, believe me, we were
havin’ trouble with that refractory ore.
The company ’ud done in about twenty
thou, without a divvy in sight. The
metallurgist—an’ he was a good ’un, you
take my word for it —was worried stiff.
Wickleford his name was. A bloke
blew in who knew the boss and
had been on every goldfield in Aus-
tralia (by his own accounts) bar those in
the very south of Tasmania. When he
heard of our difficulties he sniffed. What
he didn’t know about cyanidin’ wasn’*
worth knowin’. He impressed the boss,
who gave him a free rein. We got him
up some ore, which assayed about
eight ’weights. He got his solutions ready
and we put that parcel of ore through.
He samples the tailin’s. ‘Not a trace,’
he yells out. ‘Nearly 100 p.c. recoveries.
Poor old Wickleford,’ he says, turnin’ to
him; ‘he tries, anyway.’ Wickleford
looks thunderstruck for a while, but he
knew that ore better than the smart cove.
‘Where’d you get the grindin’ stones fer
yer tube mill?’ he asks thoughtfully.
‘Down in the creek there; why?’ asks
the smartie. ‘Nothin’, only I reckon that
sulphide ore has ground up yer blinkin’
stones, ’stead o’ the other way round, and
that’s what y’ve got in the tailin’s,’ says
Wickleford. The boss makes an examina-
tion. There was the ore still in the mill
with hardly the corners knocked off it.
Yes,” said “Pyrites,” “I’ve handled some
troublesome ore.”
** * * *
“R.H.T.”: The Maori was pulling
“Inaha’s” leg (B. 23/l/’35). There is
no mystery about the missing ears and
tails of Hod’s pigs. The Maori dogs
attend to that long before they reach
the bacon stage. The Maori cure for
garden-scratching fowls, however, is
simple and effective. I have seen hun-
dreds of these with their toenails neatly
amputated.
* * % :jc
“1.W.A.”: The impounding of the
lone camel at Cardiff (B. 16/l/’35)
was far from being the first example. In
1930 Bourke cameliers were behind in
their dues for running their teams on
the town common, so the ranger made a
grand muster and impounded the lot.
All that were not paid for and released
by excited and indignant owners went
under the hammer. Some 27 were sold
at an average price of Is. 3d. per head.
* * * #
“Gam”: “Nerang” (B. 26/12/’34) re-
minds me of a happening some old
friends of mine participated in when they
were children. While playing on a lonely
beach near the mouth of the Gawler
River (S.A.) they discovered a case of
pineapples. Knowing that their parents
would object to their opening it, they
hid it and visited it every day. Then
one got sick, and the cat was out. Their
mother lectured them on their dishonesty,
and when a new sister arrived bearing
a birthmark on her leg resembling a pine-
apple the guilty ones received a lesson
they have not forgotten yet, although
they are all around about the allotted
span.
* * * *
“Howsthis”: “Kell B.” (B. 9/1 /’35) says
he’ll show anybody who drops in on
him a cat that rolls his swag every night.
Visitors to a house in Claremont (W.A.)
saw a cat put out at dinner-time.
Half-way during the meal the door-
handle was rattled vigorously, and
one of the male visitors, thinking
that the hostess was trying to juggle
a tray and open the door at the same
time, chivalrously sprang to the rescue.
Courteously standing to one side after
he had opened it, he was astounded to
see a full-blooded Persian strut in with
tail and nose well up in the air.
* * * *
“Verri”: For days I have been watch-
ing one of the queerest sights in bird circles
—the ministering to the wants of a young
cuckoo by a pair of tiny wrens. All
through the spring the mother cuckoo
lived in the top of a huge pine near the
house, and her monotonous call was to
be heard day and night for weeks. Now
her orphan is fully fledged, and sits all
day on a pine limb cheeping for food.
His foster-parents, two green specks
against his bulk, work feverishly
to satisfy his enormous appetite, each
mite seeming in danger of annihilation
as the young cuckoo grabs wolfishly at
the morsels they present. It’s a weary
world for them while the cuckoo is
young, and the puzzle is to find a spare
moment in which they can take a little
nourishment themselves. A naturalist
hazards the theory that no two small
birds ever have to go through a second
experience with a young cuckoo, dying
of exhaustion by the time their raven-
ous charge is ready to fend for himself.
Should they die before that, the young
cuckoo, with inherited assurance, looks
round for another home for himself,
easily ridding the chosen nest of its right-
ful occupants and establishing himself as
the star boarder. Nearly every small bird
will assist to feed him when he sits on
a bough and broadcasts his wants: Willie
Wagtail is about the only one who
actively demonstrates his disapproval of
cuckoos and their habits.
THE INSEPARABLES.
I mind a pair of grizzled mates, with corks
around their battered hats,
Who “followed gold” and chased the ’weights
for years around Westralian flats.
Their real names were known to few, although
they had some, I suppose;
The sobriquets they answered to were “Spare-
Me-Days” and “Stone-the-Crows.”
Twas clear they’d gained their titles, each —
had been long since rechristened, both —
From just a staple turn of speech, a pleasantly
innocuous oath.
They even used them when alone, so fellows
said who knew their ways,
And called each other “Spare” and “Stone,”
old Stone-the-Crows and Spare-Me-Days.
They raked the gullies round and round; full-
time their creaking shakers went;
And if it wasn’t much they found at least they
mostly seemed content.
Good luck or bad, they made no fuss, and
fickle Fortune’s smiles or blows
Drew nothing more impetuous than “Spare me
days!” or “Stone the crows!”
You'd see them in the pub, perhaps, when all
the week’s drab toil was done,
Drinking with other thirsty chaps and list’ning
to the yarns they spun.
But wildest talk of glitt’ring shows no comment
from the pair would raise
Beyond a quiet “Stone the crows! ” or an un-
hurried “Spare me days!”
They’re dead, no doubt, those whiskered mates;
long since their souls have hit the breeze
And slithered past the golden gates, where
good St. Peter keeps the keys.
For, when he’d looked their records through,
he’d never let those portals close
On those inseparable two, old Spare-Me-Days
and Stone-the-Crows.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Rindy”: Not often does a fellow feel
pleased at being the victim of theft; but
here’s a case where grateful thanks are
due. The heat and humidity of a recent
day, together, probably, with long de-
cease, found our family’s prospective
meal far too high to cook. That set up
the question of its disposal. The gar-
bage-tin and burial were both out of the
question. Carefully wrapping it up in
brown paper we placed it reverently in
our car at the gate, to await our evening
journey and the opportunity of throwing
it out of the window in some quiet spot.
Two hours later—the wife not being
more than 40 minutes late on this occa-
sion—we went joylessly to the car, and
were relieved to find that the parcel had
been stolen. The thief’s reward? Three
high-to-heaven flounders.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Tell “Mallee Root” (B.
30/1/’35) that the same old hole in
Muddy Creek, Hamilton (Vic.), still
yields its treasure of petrified sharks’
teeth, though they are, of course, rather
scarcer these days. A very interesting
“Look at the old trick, dad —all dressed up like a man!”
collection of marine objects, including
several of the teeth, was forwarded from
the district to the Warrnambool Museum
only a few years ago. Sea shells
and fossilised fishbones found in other
parts of this area have led scientists
to believe that the whole southern strip
of Vic.’s western district was sea bed
in the long ago. But I’ve yet to find
the learned gent, who can explain why
sharks’ teeth are so numerous in that
one particular spot. Was it a breeding
ground, a battlefield or a cemetery?
* , _ *
****
“Ned Kelly”: “Ex-Croweater” (B.
16/1/’35) reminds me of a mate’s experi-
ence. He essayed to sail a flat-bottomed
punt loaded with seven beagle hounds
from Speer’s Point to Swansea (N.S.W.)
single-handed. He had to beat a passage
in the teeth of a howling southerly, his
craft rigged with a bag sail and without
a centreboard. Any Aboliar who has
had experience in sailing small craft in
heavy weather will appreciate his diffi-
culties when the dogs recovered from
their seasickness and began to throw their
weight about. He finally put in at Coal
Point, about half-way. Here his dogs
took to the bush. What with the delay
of re-collecting them and waiting for
better weather, he arrived at his desti-
nation a week after he first shipped his
cargo.
* * * *
“Regent’s Park”: Whipsnade, Eng-
land’s country zoo, has been watching
the social and domestic life of
our scrub turkey, which makes
its mound-nests and breeds
freely over there. One experi-
ment has been the weighing of
one mound which represented
only a year’s work. It was 6ft.
high and 48ft. round, and when
shovelled into carts and taken
to the weighbridge the total
weight was over five tons. Close
observation has rather upset
some Australian ideas as to
the turkey’s methods. It was
found that the cock bird was
the architect and builder, and
that he continually supervised
the incubation of the eggs,
thrusting his bare neck into the
mound at intervals to test the
temperature. Further, instead
of leaving the young to find
their way out of the mound
after hatching, as most Abo-
liars suppose to be the case, papa assists
them to the surface before he counts the
job over and done with.
* * ♦ ' ♦
“Cyprus”: It astonishes me that
“Bitter Bark” (B. 23/1 / ’35) hasn’t noticed
sparrows north of Brisbane. Rockhamp-
ton, Bundaberg. and Maryborough are
infested with them. I have even seen
them in Cairns.
* * # *
“Ikey”: Touching these natural weather
prophets, is there one it is safe to bet on?
The frog is totally unreliable. On a dairy
farm on Wallamba River (N.S.W.), frogs
sheltering on wallplates of the bail shed
regularly set up a chorus when hand-
milking operations began, even in the
driest weather. When milking-machines
were installed the rainy sound was
eliminated, and the frogs remained silent
unless they heard real rain on the iron
roof.
, * A * _. * . ' * ,
“Mary Anne : Primitive sympathy.
O n our n.-w. Queensland station a fat,
soft-hearted black-boy walked across to
a cow mooning over her dead calf,
“Poor mummy—him dead, eh. esa
Piling her. V 1 in T J T. m s * ee P » lm
no s^ee P im dead. Better you come
away now—soon him stink.
****
“H.R.McD.”: The parson was enter-
taining dad with a selection of high-
class items on the gramophone. At the
conclusion of one song dad, bored stiff,
remarked, “I don’t think much of that
bloke s singin . The parson smiled,
Don t you really, Mr. Haystack ? That
as °r a Tomcatelli, the cele-
brated Italian tenor, m an excerpt from
Verdigris’s famous opera T Chuada-
garlic.’ He is considered one of the
world’s greatest artists, and has sung be-
fore all the crowned heads of Europe.
In his own country he is lionised. Mus-
solini has said that the first time he heard
Signor Tomcatelli singing it had him
feeling” “Too right,” interrupted
“You look a decent young feller, so I’m givin' y’ a shakedown in the shed
where Dolores the Fourteenth had her calf.”
dad enthusiastically; “I’ll bet it had ole
Musso. feelin’ for his hat —or a shotgun.”
* , * * *
“Hamer”: I wonder what happened in
regard to Australia’s long-ago market
for kangaroo-tail soup? One never hears
to-day of that luxury, even in Australia ;
but when I went to England as a boy
it had an established reputation and was
served at the best dinners. That was in
the days when kangaroo drives to thin
down the animals, whose skins, of course,
were the most valuable product, were
commonplace, although how the tails
were sent to England I do not know.
The old-time taste has been completely
forgotten, apparently—as has the demand
for smoked mutton-birds, which were
sold and served in all the fish-shops in
Sydney 30 years ago. Although it never
appealed to me some friends were en-
thusiastic about grilled mutton-birds as
dainties.
¥ I*
“Quareef”: During the hot months,
Nov. to Feb., the flowering gums along
Stephens Creek, far-west N. S. Wales,
exude prolific quantities of
nectar. Free from eucalypt
or gum flavor, it seeps from
the invisible pores of the
smaller limbs and stems (even
the leaf stems), but not from
the leaf itself, nor yet from
the trunk or larger limbs.
Possessing the amber hue of
bee-honey, it slowly forms
into drops and drips off,
causing a conglomeration of
leaves, bark, twigs and gravel
to cling endearingly to the
feet should one meander
thereunder. And woe betide
the inexperienced who
thoughtlessly sits upon the
sand! I have a sweet-tooth
sheep-dog that purposely
scampers beneath the gums
in order to lick the candied
debris from his paws. As
bush youngsters we enjoyed
sucking the stuff from bark
or leaf. Birds thrive on it. Emus relish
feasting on the honey-stained gravel
below the trees. Can any Abo. natural-
ist tell the wherefore of this exudation?
And why the absence of any eucalyptic
taint?
* * * *
“Kingsley T.”: For ingenuity the
yachtsmen of Manly (Q.) take some beat-
ing. For an anchor one mariner has
substituted an ordinary pick, the handle
of which has been drilled to admit a
cross-member. Except that the flukes
aren’t barbed, the substitute looks no
different from the rule. Another boat,
usually anchored near the pierhead, has
a scarecrow for birds, a thing unique in
marine archives.
“Bogaduck”: Rigging tents “Noel
r.’ s ” way (B. 30/1/’35) went out about
jqjg This is better. Have sewn eye-
j ets j n p ] ace Q f me tal ones. Get as
man y round pieces of wood as there are
J. h , .
f^ el f s Y 1 ® „ same ? g , 1
the depth of the tent wall (broom-handles
are suitable), and in one end of each
P u * a l ar § e > round-headed screw. In the
other drive a 6in. nail and cut off the
head, leaving 2in. projecting as a spike.
Put this spike through the eyelet in the
tent hem and into the ground ; slip the
eyelet in the eave directly above over
the projecting head of the screw in the
other end of the stick ; tie the guy to the
screw above it, lead it to the peg and
strain taut. Use poles and ridge of
smooth, painted Oregon. From the top
of each pole lead a guy to the farthest
peg on the same side. Then you have a
tent whose cross-stays keep it in shape
in the strongest blow, and which won’t
wear out through chafing. As a bee-
keeper who shifts his apiaries about the
country with a tent for his home for
eight months of every year, I long ago
became “tentwise.”
sf; # * *
“B’kali”: Sharks in fresh water (B.
30/1 /’35)? The Nicaraguan blue shark,
identical with our grey nurse, is found
in Lake Nicaragua, a body of fresh
water that years ago was in some manner
connected with the sea. In Vitu (Fiji)
there is a lake that not so long ago was
cut off from the ocean by an earthquake.
Though the water is now absolutely
fresh, the lake is alive with man-eating
sharks of three varieties that have bred
and multiplied more rapidly than when
in their normal habitat.
* * * *
“Parawurlie”: Buffalo-shooting on the
banks of the Adelaide River (N.T.) I
paused to watch the crocodiles drifting
seawards on the ebb tide. In 10 minutes
I counted 14. A bull buffalo with a horn
broken off entered the water from the
other side and began to swim over the
150 yards. When he was about a third of
the way across a crocodile hoisted itself
on his back with its foreclaws, gradually
pulling itself higher up ; it then held on,
evidently with the idea of drowning the
bull. But the old chap took little notice
of his queer rider; the extra 5001 b.
seemed to make no difference. Reaching
dry land the bull shook himself hard,
but the 13ft. saurian stayed where it was.
Suddenly the buff, saw me out of the
corner of his eye, and galloped on to
the open plains, the croc, still hang-
ing on. Just then my three skinners came
up. I pointed out to them the remarkable
sight; but blackfellows very seldom show
surprise at anything. One casually re-
marked: “My word, boss, that alligator
cheeky beggar, eh?” Suddenly the croc,
slipped off the buffalo’s back into
the long grass. Three months later, on
the other side of the river, I came across
a solitary old bull feeding. I let drive
for his shoulder, but he whizzed around
and, seeing me, came at a full gallop.
As he approached I could see that his
near-side horn was broken off short. I
dropped him at 30 yards. His back was
scored all over with half-healed scratches.
It was the buffalo that I had seen carry
the crocodile on to the plains.
SHOW DAY.
It is but once a year it comes,
So let the strippers go
And rush the last twelve milkers through.
There’s pigs to feed and poddies, too,
And all the same old jobs to do
Before we see the Show.
You’d hardly know the old town road,
With white dust all a-blow.
As roaring cars sweep headlong down
Past creaking traps and horsemen brown,
All happy, heading toward the town,
Bound for the local Show—
The Show where, round the grassy ring,
The cars press row on row,
Where glib-tongued salesmen congregate,
Where spruikers shout, and spielers wait,
And thirsty cronies celebrate
Chance meetings at the Show.
And past the stands, for all to see,
The country lasses go
In gay diaphanous array,
Fair butterflies for one brief day,
While escorts eager homage pay
To beauty at the Show.
A glance at cattle sleek and fat,
A nod from friends we know,
A drink or two with some old mate.
And then we edge toward the gate,
For milking cows can never wait,
Not even for a Show.
The sun is slipping down again,
So let the strippers go!
They’ll rush the milkers through all right,
The young folks want to dance to-night . .
Thank God we’ll get a year’s respite
Before another Show!
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


SUCCESS COMPETITION.
FIRST PRIZE, £20.
T. KIDSTON, Licensed Surveyor, 170 Phillip-street, Sydney.
SECOND PRIZE, £3.
A. T. PATTERSON, P.O. Box 2, Yeppoon, Queensland.
THIRD PRIZE, £2.
“CACTOBLASTIS,” Bullamon Plains, Thallon, Queensland.
“BULLETIN” DRAWINGS TO:
Mrs. M. E. Rankin, Westwood, via West Wyalong, N.S.W.; Eunice Edwards,
II Ocean-street, Woollahra, N.S.W.; E. C. H. Lousada, 31 Hilltop-crescent,
Manly, N.S.W.; Jack Track.” The Stream, via Mudgee, N.S.W.; May
Gorely, Missalotti, Bowraville, N.S.W.; C. H. Robin, P.O. Box 14, Karoonda,
South Australia; T. G. Mann, Hollywood, Proserpine, Queensland; H. A.
Lindsay, Bordertown, South Australia; H. Welch, Proston, Murgon, Queens-
land; H. E. Hayes, Weridge State School, via Bracknell, Tasmania.
(T:
m
H|
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
- \ ( ©
C°-)(sZ5)
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £• Son Lfd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS Ply. LTD., Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,"
SYDNEY.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALU
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South AustraHa.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
The Success Competition,
The problem of the judges in the Suc-
cess Competition was not to pick winners
but to choose those who were not in
themselves winners.
Entries numbered 171. They came
from all over Australia —stories of men
who started with nothing but their
swags, of Diggers-out-of-jobs who made
good, of shepherd boys who began life
on ss. a week and lived to own stations
as large as Old-World principalities, of
N.S.W. North Coast dairymen who
pushed into the big scrubs on packhorse
trails and lived, during their pioneer
years, on damper and wallaby.
The tales touched every industry—
there is opportunity waiting in every
corner of Australia for men of grit and
ambition.
The most difficult task was to set a
factor by which to judge success. There
were so many different kinds of it. In
the end, it was decided that it should be,
firstly, counted on the criteria of human
doggedness and determination rathep
than on the measure of it in terms of,
money ; secondly, that the result of the
effort should be enduring ; thirdly, that
the story should be unusual, illustrating
Australian resource and ability to recog-
nise and use an opportunity. It was
easy to find sagas typical of whole dis-
tricts—of settlement on rich'but almost
inaccessible land with little capital by
farmers and graziers, dozens of whose
neighbors could tell an almost exactly
similar story to those told in the entry.
The other kind was rarer, but plentiful
enough.
One feature was common to almost
every entry —the reference to the part
played by Australian women in pioneer-
ing. There is not a single story pro-
duced by the competition in which the
man concerned was not married.
It is not told in the original entry
which won the first prize, but the little
woman who joined with Jim Ramage in
building up his holding bore a great deal
of the brunt of establishing their selec-
tion. For the first few years of their
marriage, while her husband was still
keeping the pot boiling in the intervals
between “moonlight nights and Sundays,”
she had a weekly walk of 16 miles to buy
stores in the nearest township—in
summer no small feat. And that was
only a tithe of her hardships.
The following was the first-prize entry :
“Moonlight Nights and Sundays.”
(By T. Kidston, Phillip-street, Sydney,
sometime N.S.W. Staff Surveyor at Inverell
and Dubbo.)
During 1906 at Inverell I met Jim
Ramage, then a boundary-rider on a
sheep station and living by himself in a
hut on 255. per week and found.
Jim was a slimly-built chap about
sft. Sin. in his socks, weight about Bst,
age about 35. He had been thrown on
the world in his early teens, to sink or
swim. For a while he barely floated,
but in the end he swam.
I received an instruction to report on
an application by J. T. Ramage for
a Special Lease for part of the Mining
Reserve. A letter suggested that I should
meet him on a Sunday. (We surveyors
sometimes work on Sundays.) When I
found it vvas Jim, the boundary-rider, I
Wa ] S what he proposed to do
w j t h the land—hilly to undulating forest,
thickly timbered with box, pine, gum and
stringybark; in parts, covered with
scrub and undergrowth. A small area
°f ara ble land fronted the creek,
J be a nswer was:
“Put 20 to 25 acres under corn,
potatoes and pumpkins ; fence the boun-
danes Wlth a six-wire fence ; nngbark
and kill all useless timber and scrub, and
maybe stock it with wethers which the
boss wd l trust me with on a bill.”
“What means have you to do this?” I
asked.
None, j‘ m T ’ barring my labor
and a cw P° unds . 1 bave saved
u^ re Y°u throwing up your job.
blot I, sir ; I couldn t carry on if I
did that. Do it in my spare time,” he
• , J v ’
T ’ d His hut wa „ mile - awav
f 1 sl ?l , .f was miles , away
£rom * he lan A hl ? J f ob P
sun ? et °. ne ; added t° wl he ha *°
, co ° k a . nd £ f nd himself.
P° übt,R f! y I , sald i. ...
Sf> a P '™ e! Where Wlll S'™ « et
s P are '™ e - , t .. ,
• < S n a i y MoonllBht
mgh,s and Sundays.
The man’s manner, small and fragile
as he seemed, impressed me. He got
the lease.
Later, while I noticed that he was im-
proving the land, I received another
application for an “additional.” I again
met Jim on a Sunday. He had a two-
roomed hut, 25 acres of corn, potatoes
and pumpkins; and had fenced and
ringbarked his holding. He was putting
in his week-ends there and still holding
down his job as a boundary-rider. Of
course, he got the additional.
A few years later, I rode through his
property and found him ringbarking, but
he was not alone. He had taken a wife,
who kept house in three rooms, with a
horse, a dog and some fowls for com-
pany between those moonlight nights
and Sundays.
Six years later, when I left Inverell,
Jim had left his dreams behind. He was
the owner of a living area, a small
woolshed, a six-roomed cottage and three
kiddies. He had grown out of the
boundary-rider’s job and was housed,
happy and independent.
Mrs. Jim was always pleased to see
me ; she had clothed me with a mantle
that was not mine. Such was their bush
modesty.
The change in Jim’s fortunes came at
a time when most men have either suc-
ceeded or failed. But after I met Mrs.
Jim I realised what had happened to
Jim. It takes more than man to make
successful land settlement. Without a
mate, the so-called stronger sex almost
always caves in.
ENTERO-TOXA2MIA.
“F.L.8.”: I have obtained excellent
results from inoculation against this
curse of the fat-lamb breeder. It should
be done when the lambs are about four
to six weeks old, according to growth
and stamina. It gives immunity for at
least 12 months. Any fat lamb should
have been got off by then.
• It does not knock the lambs about if
done properly.
A slight lameness after the first inocu-
lation passes off in about two days and
leaves no ill-effects.
We treated the whole drop this year,
and only lost 1 p.c.—this was before the
second inoculation. It is only after the
second one that immunity is assured.
The vaccine is obtained from the N.S.W.
Government Vet. Department, and costs
approximately Id. per sheep. It is given
subcutaneously in the inside skin of the
back legs, with the usual sterilisation of
instruments and containers. The lamb
is held as if for marking, but the left
hind leg remains free. Each lamb gets
two c.cs. of vaccine on the first dose.
Care must be taken that he does not get
more.
Four weeks elapse, and then he gets
another five c.cs., a total of seven c.cs.
in all.
After the second dose, immunity is
assured as soon as the lamb’s system has
assimilated it. There could be a death
after the second day, but it would be
unusual any later. The treated lambs
can be allowed to graze on the richest of
paddocks with no ill effects. We treated
ours as usual, as we wished to make a
full experiment. Big sheep are treated
the same way, excepting that they get
three c.cs. the first dose, and seven c.cs.
after four weeks.
Our lambs never looked back after the
inoculation, while every flush season in
the past we have had big losses.
All infected carcasses should be burnt,
as the germs live in the ground. Remem-
ber that e.t. gets more prevalent each
year, and that inoculation gives one
year’s immunity, and anyhow strengthens
the sheep’s powers of future resistance
to the disease.
FLUSH-SEASON TROUBLES.
“Upilio”; Continued good seasons in
N.S.W. tend to make pastures wormy
throughout the Tablelands, Slopes and
Plains. Pot-bellied lambs and pale-faced
sheep (sure signs of worms) are to be
seen. Loss of energy and weight with
further signs of black scour, green drib-
bling at the mouth or bottled throats all
promise serious loss.
i will not save worm-infested
lambs. Ive seen them die on luxuriant
lucerne until dosed. Warmth and mois-
ture breed worms. When the grass is
wet with rain or dew, the larvae crawl
up the blades and the sheep eat them as
they feed. The larvae continue to de-
velop in the sheep’s stomach and mature
in two or three weeks, when the cycle
commences again.
One drench is practically useless. Dos-
ing should be repeated in about 14 days’
time and again in another 14 days, then
continued every three weeks while the
pastures remain infested. I vary my
physic, giving the sheep two successive
doses of bluestone and two of tetra-
chloride. When administering bluestone
I mix Boz. to 3gal. of water. This treats
200 grown sheep, 400 lambs three-nine
months, and 350 9-12 months. Any-
thing older is given the full 2oz. dose.
If necessary to dose lambs under three
months old, twice the quantity of water
should be mixed with the bluestone and
a loz. dose administered. When mixing
this drench, use only hard, blue crystals
and discard white, powdery lumps. The
lambs should be kept separate in the
yard for the 12 hours before dosing and
the four hours after. It also pays to
have a spelled paddock to put the sheep
into after they are dosed. A fresh pad-
dock seems as good as a tonic to them.
ON BUYING CULLS.
“Warramulla”: “Curly Horn” (B.
21/11/’34) admits that the small man
should work on the principle that a few
good sheep are worth a host of poor
ones, but tells the beginner to make a
start with aged ewes and rams from some
large holding.
My experience was bought with cast-
for-age ewes and rams. The first wet
season came along about six weeks be-
hind schedule time, and all I got from
about 80 p.c. of the flock was dead wool.
My later efforts were always in young
stuff. It is one of the few sound things
in a big gamble.
Australia has been a century raising
the merino to its present level by care-
ful selection and mating. Yet “Curly
Horn” airily instructs beginners how to
save male lambs from nondescript ewes
for future service flock rams.
The ultimate result is always a run-
out type carrying thin, hungry, common
fleece. Many people do keep ram lambs
of their own breeding, but very few.
TREATING PINK-EYE.
“Albarmount”: “Tumbe Munda” (B.
6/2/’35) is fortunate in never having
had a sheep with an ulcerated eye
as a result of pink-eye. Ulcers fre-
quently occur from this cause, and
without treatment sheep would lose
their sight. Spreading through a mob
can be prevented by treating both
affected and unaffected —twice, with a
five-day period between. “Tumbe
Munda’s” suggestion to leave pink-eye
alone might prove disastrous. Some good
remedies were mentioned in recent
Bulletins, but I prefer plain boracic.
DIPS AND FLY.
“W.D.Mc.”: If anything were needed
to convince me that his dip and methods
are wrong, “Albarmount” himself (B.
23/1 /’35) supplies it. He “lifts his sheep'
in.” Grandfather did it, and it is the
hardest kind of “yakka” I know.
Then, he says, he has only one drain-
ing pen, so he wastes time waiting for
the sheep to drain; I’ll wager that
they are often let go too soon and the
dip is wasted. There should always be
two pens, even to the smallest bath.
“Albarmount” cleans out his dip after
every 2000 sheep have been through.
{Continued on page 24.)


ẁ
4 Growing Majority
Decides on -
TOOHEYS
PI LSENER
ẃ
*4
tliil
I
• T9,° M e v°s '-I?..
•m -e b.-e 's to'-e-e


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
m
%
3J
ET
H
f
Flawless fit and finish
It’s an exclusive Abbey design ... a
smart-looking shoe that fits perfectly
in both width and length. Careful
modelling of the last ensures com-
plete foot comfort. The instep arch
is accommodated without the least
tightness. The sole is made of the
hardest-wearing leather.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full and
half size . . . narrow, medium, wide
and extra wide. When ordering,
state which you need and ask also
for the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 425.
Cultivate a National Outlook with
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
Australia’s National Illustrated Weekly.
Pictures, Sporting Notes, Literary Reviews,
Household Page, Children’s Section and
Special Articles for the Pastoralist and Farmer.
On Sale All States. Price, Gd.
Patent A.PLW16596
Design Registered.
fIAMr.
| p RE
SfFIOM
SEMI-AUTOMATIC
REFRIGERATOR
Non-Electric
Produces a dry, frosty cold, it keeps
all foods pure, wholesome and appe-
tising. OPERATES ON KEROSENE at
a cost of only 3d. per day and it is
so simple to operate that a CHILD
CAN DO IT.
Summer is with us, but you can dis-
regard the heat with a "Hallstrom".
CASH OR TERMS
Prices on application.
Write for descriptive, illustrated folder
Distributors:
Simplex Baltic Machinery Co. Ltd.
608-614 Harris Street, Sydney
Box 2425 MM. G.P.O.
‘LIFE’ Begins at
48-if Kidneys O.K.
‘Life’ Ends at about 40 —
if Kidneys break down!
Several million filters operate in your
kidneys. If they function as Nature
intended, Life is an open book for
years yet to come, for each year in-
creases your experience on how to live.
But let these filters fail (as fail they
often do in middle age) and no ex-
perience can save you from misery—
all knowledge becomes useless in the
face of pain. If you suffer from Back-
ache, from Joint Pains, Rheumatism,
Night Disturbances, Burning, Smarting,
Difficult Urination, Palpitation, Blood
Pressure, Loss of Vitality arising
out of Weak or Disordered Kidneys,
Bladder or Urinary Organs take
Harrison’s Pills —quickly. This remedy
of a London Doctor is a proven success
—gets to the cause of the trouble like
nothing else —soothes, remedies, and re-
stores. Harrison’s Pills will not only
give you surest relief, but they are safe
for young, middle-aged and old —under
all conditions. 18 Pills, 2/-; 32 Pills,
3/; or 68 Pills, 5/ at any good Chemists.
Money back if not completely satisfied
with results from very first bottle. But
be sure you do get Harrison’s Pills!
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
! •
::
rrrrrmnmTrp
if
(DO
iO
171
c
U
DO
Ul
I u <\| ■ 11 ■ • ■'' ‘
in
tlml
minimum
1
%
Lysaght’s are not only the
pioneer manufacturers of
galvanized iron in Australia
they are probably the
oldest surviving in the world.
Each of the years since the
firm was founded has meant
added experience. It is this
experience which enables
Lysaght’s to make galvanized
sheets which are thoroughly
dependable under all con-
ditions. There is a special
grade of Lysaght’s Galvanized
Iron for every job.
FOR ROOFING
LYSAGHTS
PRB
GALVAN HID IRON
Buy the make you have
altvays known to be good.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) LTD.
Sydney Melbourne
Brisbane* Adelaide Fremantle
That must make the job pretty expensive,
as a properly constructed dip should
contain 1900- gallons of water and a
packet of dip to every 100 gallons. At
present price dip costs Bs. 6d. per packet,
plus freight—£B Is. 6d. every time the
bath is cleaned out.
If “Albarmount’s” dip was of modern
type, with proper draining yards, catch-
pits and strainers, and all his yards
paved, he would not need to clean it
out after 10,000, let alone 2000.
I can quite believe that his ram was
blown 18 days after dipping. I have
no doubt that the ram had a box-on
and broke the skin about the horns, and
thus gave an opening for Mr. Fly.
After 40 years of dipping, I am cer-
tain that where it is properly done it is
the cheapest and best preventive for
fly-blow. But “Albarmount’s” dipping
habits badly need revising.
BACTERIA AND FLY-BLOW.
“G.H.H.”: I do not associate tissue
breakdown which induces fly attack (B.
9/1/’35) with skin exudation. The latter
is only known to invite fly attack in con-
fined conditions. “Albarmount’s” sheep
with old wool-rot need to be watched to
see what bacteria can be revived after
rains and passed on. Normally, these
may be impotent, but become a source of
trouble under right conditions. It may
pay to cut out infected areas on sheep
to save contaminating clean sheep.
It was not kind of “Albarmount” to
quote old C.S.I.R. reports against me.
Ideas recorded there may be back
numbers now. Professor T. Harvey
Johnston enumerated the bacterial theory
in 1923, saying that “bacterial activity
may be the prime factor in inducing
blowfly attack.” Dr. H. R. Seddon
proved this in 1931. We have marched
ahead since then.
Whilst entomologists are still playing
with traps and chemists with maggot
poisons, let us try what can be done with
bacterial control. It is hard to get away
from old ideas, but this new one may
supplement the work already done. A
good bacteriologist is needed on the job.
’WARE DROUGHT!
“Valerin”: Dr. H. I. Jensen’s warning
of the approach of a drought as severe
as that of 1901-03 is worrying believers
in the sun-spot theory and periodicity.
Sun spots wax and wane, reaching
their greatest expansion every 11 years.
Our rainfall varies according to the
area of the spot, reaching a maximum at
the greatest expansion of the sun storm,
and vice versa. Unluckily for scientific
exactitude in forecasting, the 11-year sun
spots get tangled with another sun storm
of an approximate 35-year period, which
causes irregularity in storm areas.
The 1901-03 drought was the worst
experienced for generations. Sheep num-
bers declined from 72,040,311 in 1901
to 53,675,210 in 1903. In N.S.W.
1,279,760 acres under wheat yielded
1,585,100 bushels, an average of 1.2
bushels.
I don’t want to be a pessimist, but
there is nothing like being prepared.
SHEEP AT TEMORA.
“Granova”: During 1934 I kept a
record of the sheep carried in each of
the paddocks of a mixed-farming pro-
perty near Temora (N.S.W.). Two
’hopper invasions interfered with fodder
crops.
Wheaten stubble carried .3 sheep per
acre p.a. on dry feed and .38 ewes with
lambs on green feed before ploughing in
September. Oaten stubble carried .6
sheep per acre p.a. on dry feed after
harvesting.
Oats April sown carried .75 ewes with
lambs and .5 dry sheep per acre p.a.,
and in November a foot-high growth was
eaten by grasshoppers. Two paddocks
of fallow supported .23 and .16 sheep per
acre p.a. An old cultivation paddock
with a good growth of umbrella grass
and clover in winter carried 1.1 ewes with
lambs and .6 dry sheep.
NUT GRASS.
“Jimmac”; Attempts to eradicate this
pest are generally attended by an expen-
sive process, and quite often are disas-
trous to the manure content of the soil.
Where nut grass is present, harrowing
should be avoided like the plague. When-
ever possible, throughout the season, re-
peated hoeing and frequent use of the
cultivator should be resorted to. When
it is not possible to use these implements
a handfork will dig out the tubers at-
tached to the creeping root stock.
It is possible to partly smother the pest
with sod-forming grasses or by growing
lucerne, clover or M.L. spinach, cow-
peas, rice or beans.
On low lands, close to water, badly-
infested areas should be inundated for
a few weeks when the plant is in full
growth. The plants will perish and the
tubers rot.
Tan-bark, fresh stable manure and
similar substances will assist materially
in preventing the growth and formation
of tubers.
SOWING LUCERNE.
“Pick”: Broadcasting results in un-
even distribution and a consequent irre-
gular crop. Broadcast, too, at least 201 b.
of seed to the acre is necessary. Little
more than half drilled in will produce
a yield of equal uniformity and density.
Early autumn is the season for sow-
ing. When the driller is used remove the
tube conveyors to give a swirl to the
grains.
Sow one or one and a half inches deep
and cover by light harrowing. In fertile
fields sow through the seedbox, but in
inferior soil mix the seed with super, and
sow through the manure-box.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Tockilly”: When bees are swarming
spray water over them, and usually this
will cause them to settle at once.
“Bill R.”: Periodically saw off any
inward-curling tip to a beast’s horn. Left
in the paddock unattended, the lengthen-
ing horn sometimes grows deep into the
animal’s cheek or neck.
“1.A.M.”; Here is a preparation that
will stimulate the growth of tomatoes if
it is repeated every two or three weeks.
Side-dress the plants with 24cwt. to the
acre of six parts of super, and one of
ammonium sulphate.
“Bundalinga”: To rid a horse of bots,
give the animal 4oz. of double strength
carbon tetrachloride (fluke remedy) after
it has been starved for 12 hours. Do
not give water for at least two hours
afterwards. Repeat the treatment in a
fortnight.
“Upilio”: For transporting bulky
articles when riding use a wheatsack
sewn up at the end, with one side split
across the centre. Weight both sides
evenly, and the bag will ride comfortably
across the seat of the saddle. Thus, two
waterbags or two 251 b. bags of flour or
24 steel traps, etc., can be conveniently
carried. Be careful always to see that
there are no sharp corners to rub the
pony.
“Yeno Ham”: To determine the ton-
nage in grass haystacks, measure the
length and width of the stack, the height
from the ground to eaves. Add one-
third of the vertical height from the eaves
to the ridge, all in feet. Multiply all
three together. This will give the volume
in cubic feet. To find the number of
tons, divide the volume by 400 in the
case of new and 350 for old grass hay.
For' oaten hay, follow the same pro-
cedure, but the divisor for old sheaf hay
of good qualify, well headed but not too
long, is 250. For new hay it is roughly
300.
“The 0.D.”: Young pigs are likely
to show signs of rickets about weaning
time, when they are placed on solid
feed not well balanced. To prevent, give
a correctly-balanced ration and keep salt
and charcoal available for bone-building.
Good grazing is essential, which may be
supplemented by a little sterilised bone-
meal fed in the slop. Give the animals
plenty of room, plenty of sunshine, pure
drinking water and clean and warm
sleeping quarters. If necessary, their
bowels can be kept active with Epsom


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Fhillip and Young Streets, Sydney
f, I
if;
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
LOVERS DIVIDED.
Come, darling, yield those cherry lips to
me
That I may take my final, farewell
kiss.
Oh, damn, why can’t you comprehend or
see
There’s simply got to be an end to
this ?
’Tis saddening, I know, when joy’s com-
plete
That circumstance love’s idyll swiftly
ends,
But it’s ridiculous to quarrel, sweet —-
Quick ! let us kiss again and part good
friends.
I hate, of course, to leave you sighing
thus —
Alas! you’ll never know how grieved
I am —
But, dash it all, my dear. I’ve missed my
’bus
And yonder comes this magic night’s
last tram /
P. O. M. C.
SMOKE-OH!
“Herr Dorff, her father, was a rather un-
bearable bore; but the girl was beautiful.”
— “Sun.”
So he stood Dorff and admired her.
* *
“The Scottish tourists will have the after-
noon free.” —Sydney paper.
That ought to please them!
“Blondes are going out of fashion.”
Oh, well, they’ve had a fair season!
* *
“It is proposed that a representative of the
egg producers should be sent to England to
advise Mr. Lyons in his trade discussions with
the British Government.— “ Herald.”
But won’t there be enough cackle
without sending a hen?
* v •
“Melbourne seed merchants are complaining
of the poor quality of Queensland canary-
seed.”
Even the canaries ironically murmur
“Cheep, cheep.”
* *
“School-children are often hazy about things.”
Schooldaze.
“A man returned from America says that
existence in Chicago is very strenuous.”
Other reports suggest that they take
life easily there.
“What, then, is the future of Australian
defence?” — “Telegraph.”
It should be ’plane.
* *
“There was a time when pur flappers were
proud of their pigtails.” — Woman’s paper.
Now it’s cocktails.
* *
“An overseas tour for lifesavers may be
arranged.”
A better idea would be to send the
sharks abroad.
“Complaint is made of men smoking in lifts
in Melbourne.”
But Melbourne men must have some
fun.
¥ *
Marriage is a sort of mental arithmetic.
When it comes to settling down with one
you take away the number you first
thought of.
MODERN PROVERB.
Look after the pennies ; the Taxation
Department will take care of the pounds.
* *
“Excessive cigarette-smoking had exhausted
him.”— “Sim.”
Fagged out.
* *
“New Js.P. —Three Hundred Sworn.”
In, then at! /
INFALLIBLE.
No longer do long-winded individuals
accost me on tramcars and trains. I
have found an infallible remedy for the
worries caused by the would-be gossip
who attempts to distract my attention
from my newspaper. Take, for instance,
the wav I handled that fellow the other
morning.
“Wen,'’ he said as he sat down beside
me, “I see Bradman’s back. Wonder
if he’ll go to South Africa?”
“Bradman?” I repeated in a tone which
conveyed that the name was unfamiliar.
“Who is he?”
He tried another line. “What’s Kings-
ford Smith going to do?” he said.
“Kingsford Smith?” I echoed. “I’ve
never heard of him.”
But with a certain bulldog tenacity my
victim went on.
“I suppose old Jack Lang will spring
another surprise on the public soon,” he
said.
“Jack Lang?” I said in a tone of inter-
rogation.
Despair showed plainly on the other’s
face. He made a last valiant effort.
“I say,” he said, exasperated now,
“have you ever heard of Captain Cook?”
“I’m delighted to meet you, Captain,”
I replied ; “my name’s”
But with a howl of anguish my would-
be tormentor seized his hat and sought
seclusion in another compartment.
Vante.
PUTTING MANKIND RIGHT
Refutation of the gross libel on
woman that she must always have the
last word is long overdue.
In vain through the years woman's
vehement denial of what must now be
exposed for the fallacy it is has beaten
against the ear and brain of man. His
obfuscated intellect refuses to recognise
the real truth.
Even a golden-wedding celebrant, who,
by the very fact of his having survived
a half-century of marital strife, could
claim to be a super-cynic, recognises
this cheap lie for what it is. On behalf of
a too-long traduced and calumniated sex
I fling it back into the teeth of mankind
Woman never has wanted, doesn't
want, never will want the last word'
For her there is no such thing
S. W. K..
* *
MEMORIES.
The Tired Businessman leaned back in
his chair and gazed reflectively at a land-
scape which hung on the wall opposite.
It showed a bush cottage with cows
grazing in the foreground beside a scarred
gum-tree.
How it took him back! Twenty long
tempestuous years since he had left home
up Wobbulgullagulla way! Blinded by
desire for power and the lust to make
“Froggin’s Flavored Frankfurts” a word
in everybody’s mouth, he had never had
time to go back.
Happy memories drifted across his
mind.
Haymaking, bathing in the billabong,
birdnesting and ’possum-catching, lazy
days dreaming and fishing in the back-
paddock creek!
Night-time. Peaceful sleep on the back
verandah, with a cool breeze caressing
his forehead. The querulous note of the
kingfisher, the chuckle of the nightjar,
the croaking of frogs, the scratching of
’possums on the roof.
With a happy sigh he roused himself
and touched a bell. His secretary en-
tered.
“Buggins,” said the T.8.M., “it is time
I had a holiday—a really good one.
Book me a suite of rooms for a month
—at the Hotel Stupendous, Ocean Beach.”
Rich. J.
* *
“Duke Loses 300 lb. Mako.
“The fish appeared to be well hooked, and
made two spectacular leaps out of the water,
from which it was seen to be a striped mako
weighing about 33001 b. The Duke was just
settling down with zest to play his captive
when the line came back slack —the fish had
gone.”
Losing a 33,300-pounder is certainly
tough luck, but merely to hook a fish of
anything like 333,3001 b. is an achieve-
ment to remember with pride. After all,
it isn’t every fisherman who has even lost
a 3,333,3001 b. mako.
INDUSTRIAL HARMONY.
“Negotiations have begun for the affiliation
of the Medical Practitioners’ Association of
Great Britain with the Trades Union Congress.”
—News item.
The Registrar of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court has approved of an
industrial agreement entered into between
the B.M.A. and the Journalists.
Main provisions of the agreement are:
(1) B.M.A. members to forswear writ-
ing on simple medical topics, such as
“Is Sunburn Harmful?” “Is Baldness
Contagious?” and other such matters on
which information is readily available to
working journalists.
(2) Where a journalist is engaged to
write article material for which is pro-
vided by doctor said journalist shall be
entitled to anaesthetist’s fee as for major
operation.
(3) In return for medical men writing
sporting articles, members of A.J.A. shall
be entitled to treat any athlete (or horse)
injured in a sporting contest, and to
charge B.M.A. fees for same.
(4) Sub-editors with six or more years’
experience in handling doctors’ copy to
be entitled to perform minor operations,
such as appendicitis, tonsilitis, etc., pro-
vided always that such sub-editors shall
charge full B.M.A. rate and use full
B.M.A. kit. Any sub-editor caught per-
forming an operation with a blue pencil,
clipping scissors or spike file shall cease
to be entitled to the privileges conferred
by this clause.
(5) Matters in dispute between the
parties to be referred to an arbitration
committee consisting of the Archbishop
of Sydney, the Director of the State Lot-
tery, the president of the Master Butchers’
Association and the secretary of the Gas
and Coke Workers.
Angus O’Cohen.
PEEPS AT THE PROFESSIONS.
XXII.—THE SAILOR.
A sailor’s life is the life for me,
Innocent, restful, blithe and free.
A crash with an iceberg, a fire at sea
Or a wreck upon treacherous rocks
Are matters that seldom fall in the way
Of a man who stays home in the
docks;
And you can’t get washed up on a
cannibal isle
If you never go near the sea ;
So fill up your mug and repeat with a
smile:
“A sailor’s life for me.”
It is hard to say just what makes a
man become a sailor. In the case of
married men it is perhaps understand-
“Does your aunt know the boat is sinking?”
“I didn’t tell her.”
“Well, not a word — let’s hurry off.”
able, but most sailors are single when
they first go to sea.
The profession is badly paid, the food
is not of the best, home comforts are
lacking and there’s nothing to do at the
week-ends. Furthermore, the risks are
appalling.
A vessel may spring a leak, capsize,
turn turtle, catch on fire or founder. It
may run into a hurricane or another
vessel or even aground. It may strike a
rock, hit an iceberg, take a header or
just open up and sink. It may also be
struck by lightning, thunderbolts, St.
Elmo’s fire, meteorites or high-explosive
shells. These are called acts of God or
of the King’s enemies, according to the
point of view. Finally, if a vessel has
a cargo of spring onions or Turks’ heads
she may just merely burst through these
items swelling a bit. This is called the
inherent vice of the goods, which are
expected to accept full responsibility.
Whatever happens to the ship the
sailor is well in the soup or, to be more
accurate, in the water.
If he was blown up, burnt, hit by a
meteorite or struck by lightning he is
probably dead. If still partly alive he
faces the probability of death by drown-
ing, freezing or shark-bite. Some
sailors escape all three, and reach land
half drowned, half burnt and three-
quarters dead from cold and exhaustion.
There a fresh danger confronts them,
because it is almost certain that the land
will be a barren island without food or
water. They will slowly starve to death.
The alternative is that the island will be
inhabited by cannibals who, after put-
ting the sailors to fiendish torture, will
kill and eat them.
Of course, all sailors don’t die violent
deaths. Quite a lot of them die of rheu-
matism, but even these have invariably
had many hairbreadth escapes from
death, as they will tell you themselves at
the slightest provocation.
Most ships are manned by sole sur-
vivors from wrecks of other ships, and
even the cabin-boy has two or three to
his credit when he is in unknown ports.
The legend about sailors having a wife
in every port is an exaggeration. Very
few sailors call at every port. Moreover,
the domicile clause in the marriage laws
of many countries militates against a
sailor’s being married during a short stay
in port.
It would be more correct to say
that all sailors have a wife in at least
one port. Most of them certainly have,
and that is the port they avoid like
poison.
As regards other ports, when sailors
strike one all they ask is a tall schooner
and a bar to steer her by. Then, as
Shakspeare said, they “fall to’t yarely.”
JASBY.
DERIVATION.
She owes her talents to her pa;
Her looks, beyond resistance,
Came only partly from her ma —
The chemist gives assistance.
H. M.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
£59 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, «/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families
V „ , FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.). Dinner from 6.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45
lables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved,
wanted to Sell” or ‘‘To Let” notices are not admissible.
ŵ
Under what conditions are they allowed to
enter the Commonwealth ? They would have
™ turn tickets (from and to India ) Would it
be necessary for them to deposit a sum of
money on arrival at Fremantle ? Or could
Fj^pJoT?-Sw"*” *'
Xhere is
an arrangement between the Indian
and Commonwealth Governments under which
Indians of good standing who wish to visit
Australia temporarily for sightseeing purposes
may obtain passports from the authorities in
India which will admit them into the Common-
wealth. Such persons should hold return tickets,
and are also required to satisfy the Customs
authorities at the port of examination that they
ai 'e merely on a tourist visit and are in posses-
sion of sufficient funds to maintain themselves
duriag the P eriod 9 f their visit. No deposit or
bond 1S ret i u,red in satisfactory cases,
(1) If an old-age pensioner sells his house,
will the Pensions Department demand repay-
ment of pension paid to date ? (2) Will the
pension cease after the sale ? —5477.
(1) Not immediately. In accordance with the
existing provisions of the Act, all pension paid
after 31/12 / ’32 will be a debt due to the
Commonwealth on the death of the pensioner,
and be payable °V, t of bls estat .e all other
debts whoever have been paid. (2) Depends
0 V amount rece,ved ' The Act P rov,des tbat
where a pensioner has property, other than the
home in which he permanently resides, the net
capital value of which equals £4OO no pens ion
shall be payab l e . Where a pensioner has
property, other than the home in which he
permanently resides, the rate of pension other-
wjse payab i e j s subject to a deduction of £1
£° r every complete £lO by which the net capital
value of such accumulated property exceeds
£SO. A pensioner’s bank credit or cash in hand
j s r eg ar ci e d as property within the meaning of
tbe J? ct ■ &
rr/ , /'
rVhat is the H. and D. speed of (1) Kodak
N.C. films No. 120 ? (2) Of verichrome films ?
(3) Are all Kodak films the some speed regard-
less of size? (4) Why has the Kodak film box
the word “speed” written on it and no
number? -5422.
(1) The approximate H. and D. speed of
Kodak N.C. film Regular is 300. (2) 400.
(3) The size of the film does not have any
bearing on H. and D. speed. (4) The word
“speed” marked on the Kadok film cartons
j s to indicate that the type of emulsion in
that film is of a particularly faster variety. All
Regular Kodak films are now known as speed
films. At one time an emulsion was used of
a slower variety than “speed.”
y
U) The difference in the time of sunrise
between Sydney and Narromine ( N.S.W.) ?
( 2 ) What difference would the Blue Mountains
make in the time of rising between Sydney
and Narromine ?— 5483.
(1) The variation in the time of sunrise at
Sydney and Narromine differs from day to
da y- Taking the seasonal differences, they are
as follows: March 21, 1935 (autumn), the sun
rises 13 minutes later at Narromine; June 22,
1935 ( wjnter ), eight minutes later; September
24, 1935. (spring), 12 minutes later; and Decem-
ber 23, 1935 (summer), 16 minutes later. (2)
This could not be stated unless one knew the
angu ] ar elevation of the Blue Mountains as
seen from Narromine. But this angle must be
very sma ]] ; and a t the most should affect the
time of sunrise not more than a minute or two.
Besl cour se of study to take up to cover
tfie hybridising of different plants, ferns, etc.,
and the treatment to procure different colors in
flowers. Where can it be learnt ? —5386.
ou could take a course of elementary
botany at Sydney Technical College, after which
a ? tU( ?y °f suc h works as. “Cross and Self Fer-
tihsation of Plants,” by Darwin, will be found
helpful.
,xZ°f to Propagate dahlias from cuttings?
to use, and best time to plant ?—-5356
Force the tuber clumps to sprout in October
S e are about
■' • ' ( . b ° b . cut .A 1601 -° j us * a bovc the bottom
an A dl , em 1 P ° f or box ■, c .° nta ' ning
P-c. of sand. A glass frame with a tem-
P erature of about 75 deg. is best to assist the
C u Uttin . gs to root ‘ After about three weeks Hft
the glass t 0 harden the P lants - Before shiftj ng
the grce ? P lants to the °P en B arden soak thi
K?™* water and th us top the soil about
esmhfished She ter the p ants untd they are
h . ,
What is the plant known as Chinaman’s
Breeches ? How is it grown, and where obtain-
able?—sslo.
Dielytra spectabihs is the botanical name.
A Is a tuberous-rooted herbaceous plant, and
J? ears drooping heart-shaped pin k-and-white
“ owers °u a graceful arched stem. It is known
also as Bleedin g Heart or Ladies’ Locket. It
B rows well in pots, but when planted in the
open garden needs a sheltered position in rich,
Chris,mas
S l i nc V! th ; ives bettel ' if left undisturbed, it
uS:
~ ; ,
1 a pr ! vet hed S e the roots from which
s ?° l M near-by gardens. How can 1 get over
the trouble ?— 5499.
, 8 a trench about 3ft. deep along the side
• . e £§ e place a sheet of galvanised
ir 9 a upright to stop the roots. The treatment
HikesAhe Sood flom flmAnil wA the hed , 8e
a lot o" K
plant a row of arum lilies or some of the
dwarf hydrangeas near it.
Provinces of Canada, with capitals, areas
and populations ? —5503.
Alberta (Edmonton), 255,285 sq. miles, pop.
731,605; British Columbia (Victoria), 355,855
sq. miles, pop. 694,263 ; Manitoba (Winnipeg),
251,832 sq. miles, pop. 700,139; New Bruns-
wick (Fredericton), 27,985 sq. miles, pop.
408,219; Nova Scotia (Halifax), 21,428 sq. miles,
pop. 512,846; Ontario (Toronto), 407,262 sq.
miles, pop. 3,431,683; Prince Edward Island
(Charlottetown), 2,184 sq. miles, pop. 88,038;
Quebec (Quebec), 594,434 sq. miles, pop.
2,874,255; Saskatchewan (Regina), 251,700 sq.
miles, pop. 921,785; Yukon (Dawson), 207,076
sq. miles, pop. 4230; and North-West Terri-
tories (administered from Ottawa), 1,309,682
sq. miles, pop. 9723.
Is “pibroch” the Gaelic term for bagpipes, or
is it a distinct sort of bagpipes? —ssl9.
It is not an instrument, but a form of music
for the bagpipes. A pibroch is usually descrip-
tive or commemorative of some incident of the
battlefield, and intricate variations make its per-
formance the test of a piper’s skill.
(1) I have held a commission in the militia
since 1920, and previously had three years’
commissioned war service. Am I entitled to any
of the new service medals ? (2) Any informa-
tion about new medals ? (3) Are they addi-
tional to present-issue medals? —5517.
(1) Not yet. You have completed approxi-
mately 17 years’ commissioned service. For the
Australian Efficiency Decoration, 20 years’
commissioned service on the active list (not
necessarily continuous) is required. If you had
belonged to the military forces at August 3,
1914, your war service would have counted two-
fold, thus making you eligible now or at an
early date. (2).There are three. The Australian
Efficiency Decoration for militia officers con-
sists of an oak wreath in silver tied with gold,
with centre of royal cipher and crown in gold.
It is worn on left breast from silver bar-brooch;
riband is green with yellow stripe down centre.
Recipients are entitled to add the letters E.D.
after their names. The Australian Efficiency
Medal for warrant officers, n.c.os. and men with
12 years’ continuous service in militia is of
silver, oval-shaped, with a silver bar inscribed
“Australia,” to be worn on left breast. Ribbon
is green with yellow stripes down edges. The
Long Service and Good Conduct Medal for
warrant officers, n.c.os. and men of perma-
nent forces with 18 years’ service is silver, with
a bar inscribed “Australia.” Crimson ribbon
edged white. (3) No. With the institution
of these medals and decoration all previous
awards for similar services (volunteer officer’s
decoration, etc.) are discontinued.
(1) What is pumice-stone, and where does
it come from ? (2) Are its cleansing proper-
ties due to something in its composition ?
5514.
(1) It is a light porous rock formed under
the influence of intense subterranean heat. The
pores or spaces in its sponge-like formation
were originally filled with gas. Pumice-stone
is thrown to the surface during volcanic erup-
tions. (2) No. The effect is solely due to its
abrasive qualities. Removal of discolorations
is accomplished by rubbing away a thin layer
of skin.
.How to remove (1) paint and (2) indelible
pencil marks from a silk shirt ? —5516.
(1) If the paint is fresh, it may be removed
with petrol. If dry and hard, soak in warm
water, gradually adding more hot water until it
is fairly hot; with a blunt knife scrape the
marks carefully, then wash in hot soapy water
containing a generous dash of household
ammonia. Dab on a little kerosene or turpen-
tine, and go on with the washing. If still in-
tractable, nothing more can be safely tried;
but, if desired, a further drastic attempt may
be made by soaking the marks in a mixture of
ammonia and turpentine in equal parts, shaken
together until the liquid is milky; then wash
again. This may destroy the silk. (2) To
remove indelible pencil marks, stretch the silk
over a clean, folded towel of no value, and
dab the stains with methylated spirit applied
with a little brush or piece of cotton-wool.
If there is no result, try a mixture of ammonia
and water applied in the same way. Or wash
in hot soapy water containing ammonia and
rinse well. Probably nothing can be done, as
this stain is most intractable, and silk will not
stand the drastic chemicals which may be used
on cotton and linen.
Recipe for linoleum polish containing bees-
wax ? —5479.
The wax should be clarified by boiling in
water, then left to stand until cold; impuri-
ties will sink to the bottom, and the cake
of wax may be lifted off and scraped clean.
The clarified wax is shredded and left to dis-
solve in enough turpentine to cover it.
(1) Who wrote :—
Life, of thy gifts I will have none,
My queen is that Persephone,
By the pale marge of Acheron,
Beyond the scope of any sun.
. —5539.
Edward Dowson in “Villanelle of Acheron.”
(1) Where is the following verse:
Has the maid who seeks my heart
Cheeks of rose untouched by art?
1 will own the color true
(2) What is the fourth line ? —5534.
(1) In R. B. Sheridan’s “The Duenna,” Act I,
Scene 2. (2) “When yielding blushes aid their
hue.”
What was the idea behind the Grecian custom
of throwing cakes of flour into a pond ? —5540.
At festivals in memory of Ino, a daughter
of Cadmus and Harmonia, it was usual in
Laconia to throw cakes of flour into a pond.
If they sank, prosperity was indicated; if they
floated, the reverse.
Pronunciation of (1) Fdtlinger, (2) Deutsch-
land ? —5462.
(1) This contains the German b, or oe (as
in Goethe). Purse the lips to shape the letter
“o,” as in foe, but make the sound of “ey”
in obey instead. The “g” is feard, as in gale.
(2) Doitshlant (the “a” as in cart).
How long did it take Gray to write the
“Elegy in a Country Churchyard” ? —5532.
From 1743 to 1750.
Brief Answers.
Morpho: The cure rests with yourself. Adopt
an outdoor hobby, indulge in sea-bathing (other-
wise a cold shower or plunge-bath each morn-
ing), and exercise daily according to occupation.
Curtail red meat and condiments in the diet,
take an aperient saline each morning and sleep
on the right side. And don’t worry~ .. .M.W.:
A quern was a primitive handmill used before
the invention of water- or windmills for grind-
ing corn... .R.L.M.C.: Swapston-street, Mel-
bourne, 99ft.; King William-street, Adelaide,
132 ft.; building alignment to building alignment
in each case... .T.C.G.; Applications close on
February 25, 1935 J.E.W.: It is understood
that such is the procedure R.A.A.: You will
find the whole subject well set out in an article
in the “Australian Woman’s Mirror”
(25 /12 / ’34), price 4d. posted, from this office.
... .H.A.: Under the Statute of Limitations the
drawer of a cheque remains liable for six years.
You presented the cheque, and, it having been
dishonored, took legal proceedings to recover
the amount. The Court having found in your
favor, all that now remains for you is to follow
up the judgment 0.W.: Write Nock and
Kirby, 417 George-street, Sydney J.C.: Take
the motor to Ginter and Cos., 105 a Clarence-
street, Sydney E.A.C.: (1) Caused by de-
fects in paper, mounting or framing. You may
have had it hanging in a damp spot or on an
outer wall of the house. (2) Send to a reliable
restorer. John Young, 19 Bligh-street, or S.
Parker, 330 George-street—both Sydney—would
advise. Too risky a job to do at home
D. 8.: The songs mentioned are all in stock
in Sydney. If your local music-seller does not
stock them he can get copies from Paling’s,
Nicholson’s or Allan’s H.J.S.: Legend is no
better authenticated than the one that was men-
tioned. Wanganui, M.L., also claims the honor
for its river. Probably the librettist was entirely
responsible M.V.0.: There is no Nobel prize
for surgery. There is one for medicine or
physiology. No award was made in 1915, 1916,
1917 and 1918. In 1919 this prize was
awarded to J. Bordet; in 1920 to A. Grogh.
In 1921 there was no award. In 1922 the win-
ners were A. V. Hill and O. Meyerhof;
in 1923 F. G. Banting and J. R. Macleod. In
1924 the prize went to W. Einthoven. In
1925 there was no award T.A. and A.C.:
Write Berger and Sons, Box 23, Burwood,
N.S.W W.N.: Titles and addresses can be
obtained by writing to the Consuls in Sydney
of the respective countries E.V.H.G.: (1)
He is not in “The Dictionary of Engravers.”
(2) Could not say without inspection... .C.T.:
Probably “The Truth,” by Clyde Fitch. You
can inspect the script at J. C. Williamson, Ltd.,
80 Market-street, Sydney K.M.: Wisden’s
“Five Cricketers of the Year” is contained in
“Wisden’s Cricketer’s Almanac,” obtainable all
leading booksellers... .A. 8.: (1) Approval
would not be given for a horse to be raced
under such ownership. (2) No L. 1.8.: Write
Burnaby Bolton, 70 King-street, Sydney....
W.A.H.: (1) Not known. The question
is one for decision of the tenant appointed.
(2) There is no canteen at present on board
the Brisbane. (3) The canteen staff usually
comprises the tenant and one or two assistants,
according to the size of the ship’s complement.
(4) Not known F.S.: Blood’s “Faces and
How to Read Them” (2s. 3d.), Laffan’s “The
Hand and the Mind” (6s. 9d.), Phillips’s “Scien-
tific Palmistry” (65.), Hill’s “Hands and Faces”
(11s.), Cheiro’s “Language of the Hand”
(165.) and Laffan’s “Hand Reading” (95.)
J.F.C.: A legally-adopted child takes the sur-
name of the adopting parent J.F.: (1), (2)
and (3) If the wife leaves the home and refuses
to return to her husband she cannot compel
him to maintain her unless she can show cir-
cumstances making it impossible for her to live
with him. He must, however, maintain the
children, and should he fail to do so the mother
may obtain a maintenance order. (4) No. If,
however, she refuses to obey his reasonable con-
trol of the home, then, as she is earning her
own living, he may require her to leave G.S.:
If she bought it out of her own money,
without reference to her husband’s means, then
she alone is responsible. Her husband would
be responsible only if he gave her authority
to purchase it and was a party to the contract.
. ...H.W.G.: Cannot see your object in doing
so. Why not, in the circumstances, make
a will leaving the property to her? A transfer
would not avoid death duty, if any were pay-
able, and would involve costs —certificate of
title, etc. —as well as stamp duty. It
would not have the effect of increasing your
invalid pension, as the property would still be
taken into account... .F.F.; A case for legal
advice. Can give only general information. As
the term ends in August of this year, you
may find the cheapest and simplest course to
be to let the contract expire and then act
as you think fit... .F.M.D.: The lines are
from “The Fiftieth Birthday of Agassiz,” to
be found in most editions of Longfellow in the
section headed “Birds of Passage—Flight the
First”... .W.L.S.: The timber most frequently
found in the stressed part of aircraft is spruce.
It costs about 2s. Bd. a super, foot. Fabric
covering for aircraft costs about Is. Bd. a
yard. The manufacture of aircraft involves
highly technical problems, and a clear under-
standing of the stresses to which aircraft in use
are subjected is only acquired by years of study.
Some idea of the magnitude of the problem
may be obtained by reference to the “Hand-
book of Stress Calculations,” published by
H. M. Stationery Office, Kingsway, London,
price 3s J. 8.: Write to H. Hedger, manager
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution, William-
street, Sydney J.W.S.: The missing word is
“ironic.” It occurs in a passage in “Sartor
Resartus,” Book 11, Chapter 4....8.N.:
“Shadow Pictures, Pantomimes, Charades,
Tableaux,” by S. L. Stocking (2s. 6d.); “Tab-
leau and Scenic Readings,” by Marie Irish
(2s. 6d.); and “Mrs. Jarley’s Famous Wax-
works” (2s. 9d.) M.E.F.: Yes, entries in
the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize should be type-
written C.C.R.: (1) No. (2) Write Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra, for copy of
“Memorandum on the Development and Settle-
ment of North Australia” H.N.: A list of
books on philosophy is being compiled, and
will be posted to you when completed
(Many others mailed.)


FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times ot
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ẁ
ne
RING-LOCK
FENCE
THERE’S a reason for the enormous
strength of a “Cyclone” Ring-lock
Fence, A ring of steel wire is
locked around the upright and hori-
zontal wires (which are of HARD-steel)
wherever they cross; this locks them
together so securely that they cannot
he moved upwards, downwards or side-
ways the fence remains completely
rigid under all conditions.
Wiring a “Cyclone” fence takes a
quarter or less of the time required for
wiring a plain fence. Fewer posts and
no droppers are required. If correctly
strained, a “Cyclone” Fence never
becomes untidy. A special “Cyclone”
Strainer is lent free on request (see
your dealer).
A “Cyclone” Ring-lock Fence follows
every rise or dip of the ground with-
out buckling, twisting or breaking.
“Cyclone” costs less in the long run,
and often less in the first place, than
any other fence. For paddock sub-
division, main paddock fences, or
boundary fences wherever beasts of
any kind need to be confined with no
risk of escape use “Cyclone” always.
* * * * * \
Post the Coupon for literature showing the correct
type of “Cyclone” Ring-lock for every class of
fencing (sheep, lambs, cattle, horses, pigs),
including temporary or permanent paddock-
subdivisions.
“Cyclone” is not a type of fence, but is our
registered trade mark and can only be legally
applied to fencing manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO.
PTY. LTD.
THE GRACE BLDG., 77 YORK ST., SYDNEY
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates ana
Ring-lock Fences.
Name .
Address,
••• B. 20/2/’35.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
P. 8.: Your description of the tropical island
might have come from a guide book, and its
inhabitants behave unconvincingly... .A.L.J.:
Story of a mother’s love left us dry-eyed^and
hard-hearted C.K.: We don’t believe in the
efficacy of curses—even after reading your
5000-word effort R.W.: The henpecked hus-
band’s sudden aggressive tactics don’t ring
true H.S.J.: Thirty pages to describe what
is worth only one D.C.: The villain’s unex-
pected surrender is not in keeping with his
character... .J. 8.; The killing of one’s closest
friend before recognition is on our list of hack-
neyed plots A.N.: Yes, we prefer manu-
scripts typewritten—especially when authors
write as badly as you d 0... .P.H.W.N.: Same
old tale about the precious stone which brings
death to all that own it... .W.J.8.: No break
for Horace here F.C.H.: Dozens of para-
graphists have used the idea in scores of
women’s weeklies... .C.R.: Another costly-
pearl yarn which follows the beaten track.
C.R.B.: With patience you might dispose
of it elsewhere... .0.L.: Feeble political satire.
B.L.: A rather futile study of a frustrate.
G.M.: Throws no new light on the calm-
ing-down of an adventurer... .W.W.8.: Humor
is labored J.M.L.: You might find a market
among the flapper weeklies N.R.: No use
for guide-book material L.N.: More suited
for an English fiction magazine T. 8.: Your
humor is still in the calf stage W. 0.: An
unlikely happening unconvincingly told
D.A.: A schoolgiriish effort.,. .M.W.: The
sort of small fish that one throws back into
the water R. 8.: None of the characters acts
like a real person F.A.F.: Nothing personal
meant: the verse was bad and we said so
J.C.N.: Quite a lot in it, but you beat it
very thin... .Hori: Doesn’t uphold your belief
that it’s a poem M.D.S.: We don’t like
loquacious barbers... .L.P.M.; These pidgin-
Dago poems are all so painfully alike
Bellerive: Sorry to hear you’re
NOT THE SAME AS I USED TO BE.
I’m not the same as I used to be.
Not the same old charm has my den.
Merely to break monotony,
Prose and odd verses I pen.
A phantom o’er life is destiny.
For ever hovering far and near.
Bestowing success in its journeyings,
And blasting many a rising career.
I’m not the same as I used to be.
There’s a limit to the longest fight.
But I still retain my tendencies
To try and do what is right.
I’m not the same as I used to be.
My dreams of success are gone.
Sped with days of my early years,
Leaving a mist like a wintry morn.
If free from pangs of sufferings,
Though poor ’tis sweet to live.
There’s mistakes a pleasure to rectify
And wrongs that are hard to forgive.
I’m not the same as I used to be.
Not the same charm has my den.
Merely to break monotony,
In the ink I dippoth my pen.
J.P.K.: “My pen-name will be ‘Cart
Wheel.’ ” Your poetic axles will need tons of
grease before you see it in print H.E.W.:
Prom Chaos Order breeds the Cultured Mind
To grapple ills obscuring joy from man;
By Primal Force life’s problems were designed
And Evil poised with Good since Choice began.
Maybe, but it sounds like a mathematical
proposition. And why all these capital letters?
... .G.S.W.: It might make a prose paragraph;
it doesn’t run pleasingly in numbers... .H.G.:
There are some tolerable lines, but your
rhyme and metre are very weak F.M.: Send
it to the lady herself... .E.J.8.: Labored
humor in a faulty setting... .E.A.W.: Not
enough of it to make even a featherweight
poem... .A.C.: There are the makings of quite
a good yarn in it; the mistake you made was
in trying to put it into verse... .J.8.C.: Found
it a bit tame —prosaic, too, in places
N.J.P.: Condensation is laudable, unless you
indulge in it at the expense of syntax and
sense... .N.M.S.: But we’re not that sort of
editor; we don’t want sensations, only honest
impressions Appin: One from your defi-
nitions: —
Selfishness is a loathsome hog, a greedy, ugly beast
Who, taking all (his appetite gorged)
To prevent of competition, contaminates his feast,
And groans aloud for pity in the chains of pain he
forged.
O.T.: Not 50... .N.8.A.: One more “Sun-
set” gone down... .T.H.A.: Tempted to use
every line of it —here... .S.F.: Nothing what-
ever in all that... .J.L.C.: Something in it, but
you should have knocked up a stronger ending.
M.W.C.: “Tit-Bits” stuff A.0.H.: Travel
may have broadened your mind, but a pocket
rhyming dictionary would be of more practical
assistance to your verse... ; Quite a
promising theme, but we don’t like your rhyme-
scheme. You ride Pegasus on much too loose
a rein 0.A.; It has too strong a flavor of
Masefield. But try again; you should be able
to stand alone P.J.1.: Weak, unimpressive
verse-endings are your handicap..R.J.K.T.:
A slovenly manuscript and a poorly constructed
yarn J.N.: No woman would be sentenced
to death in those circumstances L.C.H.:
Once more the providential gold nugget comes
to the rescue of the short-story writer stuck
for an ending E.W.: Characters should be
more than names on paper R.R.: Thank
Heavens it was a “short skit” M.G.V.:
Offer it to a woman’s paper M.E.E.: Felt
no compassion for the old man and his little
white dog J.P.M.: Yes, a failure L.1.A.:
A dreary “change of front” tale H.G.G.:
Liked parts of it, but it is hardly for u 5....
H.H.: Always bumping up against these wives
who only recognise their husbands’ good points
after a lover has deserted them D.H.A.:
Could see the anti-climax a mile away
J.8.A.: The housemaid’s ruse was detected
early in the yarn 1.V.: Tooth-pulling
episode was rejected for the third time —appar-
ently you have only one story to tell L.W.:
Rescue of beautiful half-caste by valiant young
prospector too lurid and banal.... J.R.A.: You
had one thin story to tell, so you entwined it
with another thin story with the idea of making
one strong one. It didn’t work C.C.: No
reward for that dull essay R.S.: Forced
jesting P.S.: You can bury the yarn along
with the victims of the accident A.S.: It
would take a James Edmond or a “Kodak”
to extract the fun from that plot T.E.D.:
Just another unreal henpecked-husband yarn.
N.C.: “The Sailor” is the only one of the
three with any possibilities. Change the
“death ending” to a satirical one... .W. 0.8.:
Good old stock depression yarn with inevitable
Good Fairy appearing on the last page to save
victim from suicide R.R.: Same old stuff.
P.G.: Something Australian, please!
E.N.P.: Carelessly told, and the slang of the
bookie grows wearisome... .V.H.S.: Needs a
stronger climax.... L.W.T.: Throws no new
light on the uselessness of fleas. .. .G. 8.: He
would take it as a slight J.E.C.: “The
Drunkard” might suit a Rechabite journal....
M. 8.5.: Altogether out of our line.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
~
J ; B ; : ~L a. b els> ]. abels everywhere and two
wretchedly-drawn figures E.J.K.: Still m the
fashion . plate sta ge... .W.C.: The jest emerged
from th £ Ark.. .J.C.M.M.: Not bright; aid,
anyhow, it arrived weeks too late... .W.N.G.:
infantile scribblings and juvenile jokes....
H.J.: Pencilled figures too angular and out of
proportion J.E.: Some good poses, but the
linework is scratchy and the wash drawings are
muddy H.W.: Same idea, twisted slightly,
has been used by others A.C.T.: Not a
laugh-raiser, and the lady is carelessly thrown
together M.S.: The lifesaver has a with-
ered right arm and no back to his head.
D.K.; A niggardly little effort further han-
dicapped by a feeble wheeze E.S.Y.: It
looks as if a walrus is passing sentence on an
eagle W.J.W.: Another graduate from the
Scratchers’ School R.J.: About as crude and
as untidy as any sketch could be E.H.G.:
Draw Australian abos., not American negroes.
D.D.: In time you might land a cheque.
G.H.R.: Not a single sign of improvement.
M.R.; “I don’t suppose you will want
this drawing.” Supposition correct S.C.:
It is not encouragement you need, but someone
to point out your errors J.S.: A topsy-
turvy scene peopled by human beings resem-
bling telegraph poles.


“SILVER
EDGE”
ffiouAedb^
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
YOUR STOPPING DISTANCE REFLECTS THE
EFFICIENCY OF YOUR BRAKES
' RAYBESTOS” Brake Liners fitted Why not check the performance
to your car will ensure reliability. of your car against these
Use a quality lining. figures?
FSAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep, s JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
TWO-WAY DOUBLE ACTION
TYRE INFLATION
The “RENRUT” QUADRUPLE TYRE PUMP gives a
remarkable service in tyre inflation. Built on the principle
of quadruple compression, which provides a double-acting
main barrel, drawing in air on both the up and down strokes,
this unique mechanism doubles the capacity of the large barre ,
and so halves the time of inflation. The inner high-pressure
cylinder ensures easy delivery of this large volume.
Sturdily built for a long life of faithful service, the RENRU 1
QUADRUPLE offers quicker and easier pumping than you
have ever known.
"RENRUT
" QUADRUPLE
TYRE PUMP
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England
JOHN ARNOLD, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
PRICE...
60/-
With gauge,
5/- extra.
3
The Steering Column.
BUICK “8/40” UPHOLDS FAMILY
REPUTATION.
FULL MARKS IN ALL-ROUND PERFORMANCE OVER
“THE BULLETIN” COURSE.
BY FRED BERRY.
BUICK cars have established an enviable reputation among
Australian motorists for performance, reliability and low
cost of maintenance, and so far as service is concerned even the
strenuous work on outback black soil roads has failed to find a
weak spot in Buick make-up.
Latest product, the series “40,” with an eight-cylinder
motor, tested recently over “The Bulletin” course, is distinctive
in appearance, incorporating sloping radiator, streamlined body
and a number of other modem engineering features, yet, while
outward appearances comply with the conventions of to-day,
basic principles of construction, from a mechanical viewpoint,
remain characteristically “Buick.” Valve-in-head motor and a
host of other proven worth-while individual features are retained.
One must be ultra-critical to be able
to fault the new Buick. Distinctive in
appearance, relatively cheap in price, a
splendid performer, ' comfortable and
roadworthy at any speeds over all types
of road, the car is easy to handle, and
gives one the impression of extremely
solid construction despite snappy accel-
eration and high maximum speed.
Synchromesh silent gears eliminate
the need for skill in operation, while at
the same time providing quiet transmis-
sion of power in any ratio.
Interior Appointments.
Interior appointments are of high-
grade materials, instruments are neatly
Buick’s Latest sedan, series “8140,” complete with six-wheel equipment,
no-draught ventilation, integral luggage compartment and safety glass in
ventilating windows —a remarkably efficient car.
arranged on the driver’s half of the board
and a glove box of similar shape occu-
pies the other half.
Steering wheel is adjustable, three-
spoke type, light control and throttle
lever being located on the central boss.
Th? 8-cyl. motor, bore 3 3-32 in., stroke
3|in., gives a piston displacement of 233
cub. in. R.A.C. rating is 30.62 h.p., but
93 b.h.p. is developed at 3200 revs. The
detachable cylinder head is of the non-
detonating type, incorporating “stream-
line” combustion chamber and Venture
type intake and exhaust valve ports;
compression ratio is 5.45 to 1. Over-
head valves operated by push rods are
fitted, guides being of cast iron and inter-
changeable. Camshaft in bottom half
of crankcase is driven by silent chain.
Cylinders are cast en bloc integral with
crankcase, crankshaft rigidity being
assured by three sturdy cast reinforcing
webs housing the main bearings.
Crankshaft is of the five-bearing type,
statically and dynamically balanced and
fitted with eight counterweights. A ring-
type torsional vibration damper is built
into the fan-drive pulley on the front end
of the crankshaft. Pistons, full-skirt type
tin-plated cast iron, are each fitted with
four rings, three above and one below
the gudgeon-pin. Connecting rods are
drop forged, of “I” beam section, with
bearing caps split on a 45-degree angle
instead of horizontally to provide clear-
ance for removal through cylinder dur-
ing overhaul.
Trouble-proof Oiling.
A force-feed lubrication system is in-
corporated, oil being pumped under pres-
sure to main connecting rod, camshaft
and overhead valve gear. Cylinder walls
and gudgeon-pins are lubricated by oil
forced through a small hole drilled
through the lower end of each connect-
ing rod, which registers with holes in
the crankshaft once each revolution. The
oil-pump, of gear type, is driven from
the distributor shaft, and is provided with
a gauze screen of generous dimensions
to protect the pump intake. The crank-
case ventilator permits air to be drawn
into the crankcase through a “breather,”
and after circulation through the valve-
lifter compartment forces it out through
a trailing pipe extending below the
engine tray.
The Marvel carburettor (dual down-
draught type) is bolted to the induction
manifold, attachments being thermostatic
heat control, thermostatic cold idle con-
trol and automatic choke. A combina-
tion intake silencer, flame arrester and
air cleaner is fitted to the intake end,
mounted above and bolted to the engine
block. Fuel is drawn by mechanical
pump from a 13-gallon-capacity armored
tank located at the rear between side
members of the chassis. A thermostat
located in the radiator inlet controls the
temperature of the cooling system, water
being circulated by a centrifugal-type
pump with a separate unit attached to
the front of the cylinder block, mounted
on and driven by the fan shaft.
Ignition Point Adjustable.
Coil-and-battery ignition is employed,
automatic spark advance being fitted to
the distributor head. An octane selector
Buick “ride stabiliser,” designed to
prevent rolling or swaying when driving
round curves or on corners.
with vernier adjustments is also incor-
porated in the distributor, thereby enab-
ling the motorist to adjust firing point
to the most suitable position when using
varying grades of fuel. The starter motor
has positive-gear drive with an over-
running clutch, the gear engagement
being actuated by solenoid when the
accelerator pedal is depressed, no dash-
board switch being necessary.
The motor is suspended in the chassis
on five live rubber supports. Transmis-
sion is through single-plate dry-disc-type
clutch to constant-mesh helical-cut silent
gears—three forward and reverse. High
and intermediate gears are provided with
synchromesh clutches, giving easy gear
shifting at all speeds.
Final drive is through a tubular pro-
peller shaft enclosed in a torque tube.
A yoke-type universal joint is fitted at
the forward end, whilst ball bearings are
used at the rear.
The back axle is semi-floating, with
pressed-steel banjo-type housing. Final
reduction through crown wheel and
pinion is 4.33 to 1.
Chassis is X-girder construction, with
a specially-designed cross member for
carrying independent front-wheel suspen-
sion.
Independent Suspension.
Suspension is by conventional under-
slung semi-elliptic springs at the rear, and
by knee-action gear at the front.
In the construction of Buick indepen-
dent suspension each front wheel is sup-
ported by two control arms, upper and
lower, somewhat in the form of an. “A.”
The two legs of the “A” are fastened to
the frame, the upper integral with shock
absorbers and lower mounted to the
front cross member by a threaded shaft.
Outer ends of control arms or tips of
the “A” are connected to each other by
the steering knuckle support, which, in
turn, carries the wheel. This construc-
tion provides hinges at end of legs at
top of the “A” and so permits vertical
movement. Horizontal movement, how-
ever, is impossible, thereby assuring a
rigid support for the steering knuckle.
The front wheel, therefore, can move up
and down to conform with road inequali-
ties, but cannot move laterally ; conse-
quently the wheels are kept in perfect
alignment.
Coil springs, together with robust
rubber buffers, control movement due to
road shock and assure riding comfort.
Service brakes are four-wheel mechani-
cal internal-expanding, cable-controlled,
duo-servo type ; hand brakes are internal,
expanding on front and rear wheels
through independent linkage.
Steering is of worm-and-double-roller
type, fully adjustable, with tapered roller
bearings at each end of the box. Wheel-
base is 117 in.
The car tested over The Bulletin
course was a stock model, four-door
sedan, series “8/40,” with speedometer
reading standing at 6779 miles ; and with
full tank, driver and passenger weighed
36icwt.
Simplified Driving.
Driving through city traffic, the first
impression was of an extremely silky
motor, splendid acceleration and ease and
precision of steering. Though there was
no semblance of hurry or bustle, the
time to Parramatta through congested
traffic equalled the best so far recorded,
and once on the open road through
Baulkham Hills one could not discern
vibration or motor hum despite a speed-
ometer reading of 50, which, incidentally,
appears \o be an ideal and comfortable
cruising speed on open highways.
Approaching Windsor a test of rolling
was made, commencing from 15 m.p.h.
in neutral, and the Buick coasted 676
yards before coming to a standstill. Dur-
ing this test, and in subsequent sections,
the running gear appeared perfectly
Section of chassis showing robust
X-girder construction of frame,
torque-tube final drive, and banjo-
type rear-axle housing.
free, but a strong head wind prevented
better results in coasting. Passing
through Windsor, and on a surveyed mile
of concrete road near Richmond, a test
of maximum speed was made, the time
occupied being 45sec., averaging 80


Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
m
Wheel-wobble and high-speed
“ tramping ” are frequently
caused by road wheels being
unbalanced. The illustration
from the “Motor” shows how
lead strips may be attached to
spokes in order to secure perfect
balance.
80
K
70
feis]
60
r\
50
/ t f
hmmf'v
'dtpty
mrm
h /L
of an overheated engine.
Bearings, rings, etc., are liable
to go, and a whole heap* of
trouble set up.
Don’t take a chance with your
cooling system: be sure your
radiator is functioning per-
fectly.
We specialise in radiator
repairs and manufacture.
Our latest flushing process
from 15/- restores 100%
efficiency to a choked radi-
ator.
A famous “COOLAHCORE”
Radiator can be fitted to your
own tank from £3.
Don’t take a chance; take it
to Muller’s.
S~ cAtuU&v XM
At
05
SIN
VEBESm.
L 3201 (3 LINES)
MO
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test IHr
DOMINION” overshadowed its com
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
LEMITE
-not (^'UZOAJe.j
■
©Marks the important points in
a motor vehicle requiring lubri-
cation of the hightest order: From left to right below:
Wheel bearing, water pump, cylinders, universal joints,
spring and shackle. Above; gear box, clutch release
bearing, differential.
For each vital part, Alemite has developed a special
lubricant and, where needed, high pressure applica-
tion cleans bearings as Alemite lubricant is forced in.
Proper grade and consistency
of lubricant for the rear axle is
found in Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant, developed for the several
types of differential gears and
to meet temperature variations.
♦
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars from. Mr. Kenneth J, G.
Smith , Resident Manager
554 George St., Sydney, N. S. W.
ẃ
Or irom the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD. Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd.. 894 Hay St., Perth
E, A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Anst—4-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE
MOTOR
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
-
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
Why this
STOMACH
REMEDY
o/waus succeeds
In order to make a complete recovery
from Indigestion, Gastritis or Stomach
Ulcer your treatment must reach the
root cause of the mischief. It is because
* Bisurated' Magnesia does this with
amazing efficacy that it has held the field
for over 20 years as the supreme remedy
for stomach troubles. There are thousands
of men and women who have enjoyed
good digestion for years simply through
the restorative power of ‘ Bisurated ’
Magnesia.
GASTRITIS ended after
29 years.
Mr. H. P. Martin, Corn &
Seed Stores, High Street,
Kelvedon, Essex, writes;—
“I have suffered with gas-
tritis for the last 29 years
and have had two opera-
tions an d been in 5 h ospitals
. . . Seeing your advcrtise-
ment for ‘Bisurated’
Magnesia I bought a bottle
and am pleased to tell you
I got free from pain almost
at once ... I can cat my
food without fear of pain
and am better in health
than I have been since I
was 20 years of age.”
from a recent photo
of Mr, Martin
from a recent photo
of Mrs. Butman,
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia
BROUGHT INSTANT RELIEFI
Mr. Bulman.of Hull writes:—
“My wife suffered stomach
trouble for fifteen years, tried
nearly everything possible
without relief until she tried
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia which
worked wonders. There is
nothing to beat it, and after
what I have seen her suffer,
absolutely prostrated with
pain, I think it my duty to
sullcrers to let them know
of your wonderful remedy.”
Advice to Sufferers.
Perhaps you are even now dreading
your next meal. Then why not make it
the occasion for putting ‘ Bisurated'
Magnesia to the test ? Get a bottle of
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia, powder or tablets,
from your chemist and take a little after
your meal. Eat what you fancy. The
result will be a revelation to you. The
customary pain and wind will not occur
and digestion will be completed with
ease and comfort.
BISURATED’
M MAGNESIA
The Stomach Remedy with over 20
years* Proof of Efficacy and is very
economical in use.
Every package bean the
oval ‘ Bismag' Trade Mark->
ẅ
m.p.h.—a splendid result for a closed
car weighing 36idwt.
Absence of Vibration.
Over this section roadholding and
steering qualities were beyond reproach,
while the 8-cyl. motor delivered its maxi-
mum power without appreciable fuss or
vibration.
Through Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong, the “back-country” dirt road
via Grose Vale was taken, and over these
several miles of rugged and narrow going
the Buick showed to advantage, the in-
Complete front-end “knee-action” assembly, illustrating action of independent
front-wheel suspension.
dependent front-wheel suspension facili-
tating accurate and shockless steering.
The speed hill-climb of Kurrajong
Mountain, 2 1-5 miles, was then made
against the watch, second and top gears
eing used. Time occupied, 3min. 34
l-ssec., was good when it is realised that
the driver elected to make a fast four
of the hill rather than a speed climb.
Consequently, the Buick held much in
reserve, and maintained an even keel
even through the several acute hairpin
bends—a decidedly comfortable though
fast climb.
Returning down the mountain, a test
of emergency brakes was made on one
of the steeper grades at 15 m.p.h., and
as the hand brake operates on all four
wheels the car stopped in a few feet
without skidding.
Traffic Tests.
Through Castlereagh and approaching
Penrith, traffic tests were conducted.
First, that of acceleration in top from
10 to 30 m.p.h. over 350 yards, followed
by a similar distance on full throttle. On
the slow-running section, clocked in
2min. 24 l-ssec., averaging 5 m.p.h., it
was apparent that the idling adjustment
had been set too fast, and that with a
little careful tuning the car would show
better results. On the accelerated section,
however, the Buick quickly got into its
stride, covering the distance in 16 2-ssec„
cross i n g the finishing line at 60 m.p.h.
and avera gi n g 43 9 m .p.h.
A .. ° , .. . . ,
* ,est acceleration m top and sec-
? ni t ® ear ' on . 1 f tn*P-h. gave
.rther pi oof of remarkable response, the
*, imes being respectively 7 4-ssec. and
2-ssec. From a standing start at 50
m.p.h. through gears took 14 4-5 sec. —
additional evidence, if needed, of snappy
road performance,
The four-wheel braking equipment was
next tested from a speed of 25 m.p.h.,
ŵ
Checking an American Speed
ẃ
Moter Oddities.
w
ŵ
The Trouble Lamp.
ẁ
(Continued on next page.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
FRED
mm %
i
:
w/
mm
m
Si
r<
1934
SECOND
EDITION
VAL
Hints, advice and technical infor-
mation for Australian motorists.
Features and Tests of all New Cars.
AT ALL
NEWSAGENTS
Posted direct from The Bulletin,
252 George Street, Sydney,
3d. extra.
If any illustration in ‘THE BULLETIN"
lakes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price lor the original.
Cbc mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
‘‘The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
15 Hamilton Street.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: P. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. 'Phone: F 3348.
THE
Westralia’s National Weekly
The paper with
HOME CIRCULATION.
The HOME
is WHERE
BUYING CAMPAIGNS
are planned.
Sydney Representative:
MR. H. J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Gone the hazard (hat
onee prevented many
an alluring tour
WJ
'25
'f.-.
• 5 '
KNEE ACTION
makes
C^ll^Htalde
a safer,* sounder *
investment
GONE is the nightmare of strain and
tenseness in negotiating a pot-holey
road . . . gone is the danger of slipping
or rolling at an unexpected curve.
Knee Action carries your Oldsraobile
smoothly, in an undetected course
through roughness, through ridges and
ruts—and there’s never a jar or a roll
or a jolt.
Slip into the driving seat of an
Oldsmobile. Relax in its luxurious
roominess discover how easily this
powerful car responds. Take it over a
really rough stretch and enjoy a
completely new sensation of utter
confidence and serenity. Oldsmobile
offers 4 designs Roadster, Tourer,
Coupe and Sedan ... at prices that are
unprecedentedly low for such superb
models.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDENS LTD
Consult your local authorised
Oldsmobile dealer.
*SAFER:
Each front wheel is steadier.
Shocks to one wheel are not
transmitted to the other.
Shocks do not affect the
steering. The body does not
pitch, roll, sway. Knee Action
gives unequalled safely
* SOUNDER:
Knee Action saves wear, tear,
stress and strain of wheels,
lyres, bearings, chassis, body.
Fewer adjustments, repairs
and replacements are needed.
7017 [
J.O.E. (Longreach, Q.). — Most of my travel-
ling is done in fiat country. Would you advise
me to fit an extra gearbox or some type of
overdrive to my 1927 car so that I can secure
higher speed and better performance ?
Unless you “hot up” the engine to give
greater power extra gears will not be worth
while, the additional friction losses offsetting
any gain due to ratio. Rather try to pick up
a crown wheel and pinion with higher ratio
than those at present fitted. Doubt whether the
engine is powerful enough to give you more
than a mile or two more per hour without con-
siderable modification.
W.N.K. (Ballina, N.5.W.).- When I pass a
car driving at night I experience difficulty in
locating the foot dipper-switch, and usually pass
before getting the light beam down. Can this
he altered ?
Wires can be extended to either dashboard
or steering column. Fit an ordinary tumbler-
switch wherever you decide. The beam can
then be controlled by hand.
A.A.T. (Stamford, Q.). — My 1930 Chev. has
done 25,000 miles. It has never been touched.
(1) What mileage should I expect? (2) Rattle
has recently developed; sounds like a wobbling
shaft. Would it be possible for this to be in
the distributor shaft ?
(1) With reasonable care this car should give
satisfactory service for at least 100,000 miles,
but you are not giving it a fair deal by running
25,000 without at least a top overhaul and a
general inspection of motor and transmission.
(2) Yes, a worn bearing on the distributor shaft
frequently sets up a noticeable rattle. But
you should have a look at the timing wheels.
F.R.N. (Swan Hill, Vic.). —(1) Address of
Sydney agents for Triumph cars ? (2) Have
done 20,000 miles in my car. What are the
relative merits of petrols ( named) for use in
this machine ?
(1) Buckle and Harden, Ltd., 119 William-
street. (2) Provided carburettor is properly
adjusted, your engine should give maximum
power with either fuel.
M.L. (Sydney).— My 1929 car at 21,000 miles
has suddenly developed the habit of boiling on
hills. Cylinders were decarbonised 5000 miles
ago. / have checked ignition, tappets, valves
and manifolds, examined all accessories and
cleaned out muffler and radiator without
success.
Check timing. The chain may be slack and
have jumped a tooth. If this is all right the
radiator is at fault, this particular model
having a very shallow radiator and extremely
fine mesh coring. The slightest blockage will
cause the engine to boil.
J.S.K. (Drummoyne, N.S.W.). —(1) Is
a good engine oil ? (2) Can colloidal graphite
be used to advantage in gearbox, diff. and
petrol ? (3) Should fuel consumption in my
car be better than 16-17 m.p.g. ?
(1) Very good results are being secured from
the oil you mention. (2) Yes; one ounce to
gallon of lubricating oil; one ounce to lOgal.
petrol. (3) In conventional gear for city driving
this is about a fair average. Free-wheeling
would improve the result by perhaps two to
five m.p.h.
5370.—(1) What is the significance of “40-50”
as applied to the Rolls-Royce ? (2) Approxi-
mate maximum speed of this model ? (3) What
types of starting and braking systems are fitted ?
Rolls-Royce do not publish maximum b.h.p.
R.A.C. rating of this model is 43.3 h.p., and,
apparently, as this lies between 40 and 50,
it is so catalogued. (2) Ninety m.p.h. (3)
Starting gear push button and dashboard con-
trol operate by magnetic
switch, pinion being en-
gaged before full power
is applied. Brakes are
Rolls-Royce special de-
sign, four-wheel mech-
anical servo type, servo
action by friction disc
clutch behind gearbox.
M.E.M. (Bredgere-
bong, N.S.W.).— Which
of the two cars (named)
should better stand up
to hard country wear ?
First car named.
C.S.T. (Kensington
Gardens, S.A.). —I wish
to increase all-round
performance of my new
Hillman Minx. (1) Can
I obtain an aluminium
head ? (2) If not, what can be done to increase
speed ?
(1) Aluminium heads for this model are not
available; must be made to order. (2) Advise
experimenting with higher compression ratios
by planing existing cylinder head.
E.V.W. (Hurstville, N.S.W.).—(I) Oil pres-
sure in my 1928 Nat. Chev. (22,000 miles )
shows 15, but oil filter cartridge has not been
renewed since car was new. Have been advised
to alone while oil pressure holds. Is that
advice sound ? (2) 1 filled sump at 19 000
miles with fresh oil, and since have added two
s Sump is now three-quarter full. Should
j dmin mf Qr aM anothe ? t> and shou]d
j continue to use expensive oil ? (3) Instruc-
don book advises changing each 300 miles
summer and 500 winter. Why such a great
variation ?
(1) Filter in oil cartridges becomes clogged
with fine particles of carbon and crankcase
sludge after 10 to 15 thousand miles’ running,
and for safety sake should be changed some
time during this period. (2) With new filter
cartridge you might safely run to 3000 miles;
otherwise refill sump now with fresh oil. (3)
Manufacturers’ instructions naturally err on
the side of safety. Crankcase dilution in winter
is much more serious than in summer. With
an efficient filter would suggest summer 3000,
winter 2000.


CONVERT
Your Broadcast Receiver to
ALL-WAVE
with a
yrr>
:
EASY installation,
EASY tuning,
EASY band selection
with COLORCODE
selector.
w
ŵ
D.W. RADIO CO.
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest
It Pays
To Buy Quality!
We are specialists in the manufacture
of all fine electrical equipment,
including:—
Rotary Converters;
Battery Chargers;
Transformers;
Electro-medical Equipment;
Low-voltage Electric Grillers and
Stoves;
A.C. Portable & D.C. Arc Welders;
Eliminators;
Resistances: Rectifiers.
•
Manufacturers of Specialised
Electrical Equipment
•
Don Electrical Go.
112-116 Salisbury Rd., Camperdown, N.S.W *
’Phone: L 2839.
RADIO NEWS.
PHOTOELECTRIC DEVELOPMENTS IN
SOUND REPRODUCTION.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
With the development of radio, the recording and reproduction of sound
reached its present-day high standard. One would not have been possible
without the other. This article, written specially by a prominent overseas
authority, deals with the latest methods of recording.
The almost universal employment of
the sound film as a source of amusement
and entertainment sometimes gives rise
to the impression that, since every pic-
ture theatre is equipped, there remains
little to be done. The technique of
making a film, the two principal methods
of recording and the principles involved
in reproduction are so well known that
they call for no comment. There have
been, however, some recent developments
in recording which are intended to secure
more faithful reproduction in the photo-
electric portion of the equipment, and a
number of useful applications of sound
films in industry have also been taken up.
Considering, firstly, the two well-
known methods of recording, it is clear
that, in the case of the variable-density
record made from the fluctuating dis-
charge of a neon-mercury lamp in the
output stage of the amplifier, there can
be no disturbance of the record due to
resonance, since the discharge tube is
free from inertia, and in consequence
can have no natural frequency of its
own. The same remarks do not apply to
variable-area recording, for here the
moving system which deflects the light
spot in the recorder has a small but
appreciable mass, and this becomes an
important factor in the registering of the
higher audible frequencies. In order
to reduce the attenuation of the higher
frequencies due to the inertia of the
oscillograph, a method of recording
known as the variable-area split-track
system has been introduced. The high
note response is improved by halving the
excursion of the light spot on full modu-
lation (Fig. 1). When there is no modu-
lation, the light spot is deflected to the
edge of a double mask, in which case
the sound record consists of two narrow
white lines on a dark background. The
two parallel tracks enable the total trans-
mitted light variations to be the same
as in the case of the single track and yet
to record more accurately frequencies of
much higher range.
Another development has been the
almost complete elimination of back-
ground noise, which is largely due to
grain size in the film. This has been
achieved by silent-background recording.
Sound records on discs can be made
reasonably free from this trouble, since
the range of the background noise lies
above the frequency limit required for
tolerably good reproduction, and in any
case a simple electrical circuit can be
designed to cut off at a frequency just
below the background-noise level. With
film records, owing to the high amplifi-
cation, the noise due to the granular
structure of the film becomes audible.
Obviously this becomes of less import-
ance the smaller the afea of film illumi-
nated. In this new method of recording,
the datum line corresponding to no
sound is at the edge of the track. As
modulation occurs, the mean line moves
towards the centre of the film, this
motion being controlled by rectification
of a portion of the current passing to
the recording tube. In the projector, by
means of a biased valve, the light reach-
ing the cell is kept to a minimum, so that
the background noise due to grain size
is negligibly small during silent passages
in the film (Fig. la and lb).
Attention has naturally been directed
towards reducing the size of projectors
with a view to improving the portability
of both instrument and film. To this
end, cellophane film, which is consider-
ably lighter than celluloid film, has been
successfully used, and with its introduc-
tion, particularly by the Cinelux Co. (Eng-
land), a new use for the light-sensitive cell
in the sound projector has been found.
Cellophane film may be printed by con-
tact from standard negative stock, the
original sprocket holes appearing as white
spots on a dark background at the edge
of the unperforated film. Projectors
using this type of film in consequence
dispense with the usual sprocket-wheel
drive, and the film is guided through the
gate by a friction drive from a rotating
cam. At the same time, the images of
the sprocket holes pass through an opti-
cal system which is quite independent
of the picture-projection system. The
sprocket-hole images interrupt the light
which normally falls on to a light-sensi-
tive cell, and the correct timing of the
interruption serves to keep the picture
framed and in correct register on the
screen. Incidentally, besides having the
Fig. I. —Showing the sound track with
the new silent-background recording.
advantage of extreme lightness, cello-
phane film is not inflammable, nor is it
as easily torn as ordinary celluloid film.
The increasing popularity of sub-
standard size film for home-talkie equip-
ment has produced a number of photo-
electric problems peculiar to miniature
recording involved in making this type
of record. Principal among these are
the adequate accommodation of the
track and satisfactory frequency re-
sponse, One method to increase the
available space for the sound record is
to eliminate one set of sprocket holes,
though, mechanically, this has obvious
objections. A second method, which has
been tried, but which has not yet come
into general use, is to register the picture
turned through 90 degrees, leaving the
narrower dimension of the picture in the
direction of the length of the film. When
reproduced, the picture is again rotated
through 90 degrees by the optical system
of the projector, and thus appears in
correct position on the screen. For the
same number of picture-frames per sec-
ond, a greater length of film is available
for the sound track, and more faithful
reproduction of the higher audible fre-
quencies becomes possible.
The sound film has now become es-
tablished outside the cinema in a number
of useful commercial applications. A
good example of its utility in industry is
shown in the case where it may be em-
ployed in automatic telephone exchanges
to give clear and unmistakable indication
of the state of the line to a subscriber
who is making a call. The British Post
Office Research Station has carried out
some work with a view to establish-
Fig. 2a. —Old method of variable-
area recording.
Fig. 2b. — Silent-background recording.
Light transmission very small during
silent passages on film.
ing such a device as a standard portion
of the equipment of telephone exchanges.
In an automatic system, the state of
the line is indicated to the subscriber by
one of a number of different signals.
There is a characteristic note to show
that the line is engaged ; another to show
that the number is not obtainable ; an-
other to indicate that the call is not com-
pleted, and so on. Many users of auto-
matic telephones are not familiar with
the significance of these tones, and a
good deal of confusion often results. To
overcome this difficulty, the words “Line
engaged,” “Number unobtainable,” etc.,
are recorded on a band of film which is
rotated on a circular frame, and which
passes across an optical system the light
from which is normally directed on to a
photoelectric cell. The various answers
corresponding to the state of the line are
recorded side by side, and specially de-
signed mechanism picks out the appro-
priate one, so that the subscriber hears
the words repeated and there can be no
possibility of any misunderstanding.
In a rather similar way, a system has
been used in Paris to enable telephone
users to be informed of the correct time
by ringing up the exchange. The hours,
minutes and seconds are recorded on
three different parts of a paper chart
which is mounted on a rotating cylinder,
and each record has its own light source
and photocell, in this case the light being
reflected from the paper record instead
of being transmitted through it as in the
case of a film. The light source and
photocell travel along the cylinder axially
at a rate determined by a standard clock
which keeps them in uniform motion.
When the equipment operates, the hours,
minutes and seconds are repeated in turn
during three successive revolutions of the
drum, the selection of the correct record
being made by a cam mechanism.
Warning devices using similar prin-
ciples are becoming extensively used, par-
ticularly in lift's to indicate the closing of
the gates. A timing device to select the
correct moment at which the warning is
given, and another to ensure that the
record starts to be reproduced at the be-
ginning and not in the middle of the
track, are the only essential differences
from the other applications previously
described. Such an audible and auto-
matic warning as “Mind the gates,
please,” is thus always given without fail,
and at the same time the attendant is
relieved of what would otherwise be a
very monotonous duty.
R. C. W.
SHOULD THE A.B.C. BUY AN OPERA
COMPANY?
During the last four or five months
an opera organisation which includes
two very competent conductors, an ex-
cellent orchestra, a fine choir and some
Wagnerian singers of the first rank has
been making a sort of “last stand on the
stage” in Melbourne and Sydney. A
fair sprinkling of the members of this
organisation are Australians, some others
are English, and every opera in its very
extensive repertoire has been sung in our
own tongue. Settings have been devised
with considerable artistry, and nothing
that the management can do to make
operatic fare palatable to Australian
audiences has been lacking. Notwith-
standing all these points of recommen-
dation, the venture has been financially
unsuccessful, and it has been stated by
or on behalf of the management that the
experience proves conclusively that opera
cannot be performed in Australia on any
adequate scale without substantial sub-
sidisation. It has been suggested, there-
fore, that some Governmental authority,
State or Federal, should take over the
financial responsibilities of management,
turning the company now before the
public into a permanent institution for
the stage performance of operas, or, as
an alternative, that the A.B.C. should
take the company into its fold.
The first proposal, discussion of which
involves considerations of political prin-
ciple, need not be touched upon here,
beyond remarking that it does not seem
likely to recommend itself to the Gov-
ernments concerned in these days of
financial anxiety. The second is a horse
of another color. The A.B.C.’s ability
to shoulder the financial burden is not
seriously in question. From the point
of view of the Commissioners, the main
question, it would seem, must be whether
as good entertainment value can be got
by expenditure in this direction as in
various others which experience has
proved to be popular. The proposal,
though it cuts out some very expensive
features of stage production, involves
fairly heavy expense. The retention of
the existing opera orchestra with at least
one of its conductors should be part of
the plan if any extensive annual pro-
gramme of operatic broadcasts is em-
barked upon, for the A.B.C.’s general
orchestra, if switched to this work, would
have time for nothing else. A choir of
adequate dimensions must also be main-
tained, and there must be a well-varied
selection of principals engaged on terms
that will make their services available
whenever required.
Is the game worth the candle? From
a musical standpoint, present commen-
tator thinks it is. Even robbed of its
visual features, opera, as a high develop-
ment of musical expression, ranks with
the symphony. Unlike what may be
called “pure music” (in the sense of
which one speaks of “pure mathematics”)
it enlists a wide circle of appreciators
through the human interest of the story
unfolded. For one person capable of
tasting to the full the intellectual and
sensuous delights of a Brahms symphony
there are a million whose sentiments are
deeply stirred by “Home to Our Moun-
tains” or “Elizabeth’s Prayer.” And as
far as the writer has been able to gather
from a fairly wide circle of musical and
not-so-musical acquaintances, the opera
broadcasts of recent months have been
very popular. The transmission of these
operas, too, has been greatly improved.
(i Continued on next page.)


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
I—, s, V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street. Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
j Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 82Z61.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again:
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
We are purchasers of all classes
of Scrap Copper, Brass .303
Shells, Boiler Tubes, and
other Non-ferrous Metals.
AUSTRAL BRONZE COMPANY. LIMITED.
O’RIORDAN STREET,
’Phone: Mascot 465, ALEXANDRIA, N.SnW
Telegrams; Ausbronze, Sydney.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. Al.
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Perfection in this respect, the technicians
say, will not be attained till the man at
the control board knows just as much
as the conductor about the work being
performed, but every month of experi-
ence in this class of broadcasting brings
improvement, and if opera is made an
all-the-year-round A.B.C. feature there
should not be much to grumble about.
It is objected by many earnest opera-
goers that a performance that cannot be
seen is not opera—it is merely a con-
cert at which the music is performed.
That view scarcely allows the listener
the benefits of imagination. Most of us
have seen the operas of the current re-
pertoire performed sometime somewhere,
and can conjure up the scenes again. The
writer, who throughout the Sydney opera
season has sandwiched personal attend-
ances at the New Tiv. with broadcast
transmissions, prefers the latter, finding
the ritualism that passes for acting in
opera more destructive than constructive
of the illusion of reality.
One of the reasons why the idea of a
permanent opera-broadcasting organisa-
tion should appeal to opera-lovers and
musical folk generally is that the reper-
toire of such an organisation is not
limited by such considerations as pre-
clude the stage presentation of some of
Wagner’s grandiose works, and which
have banished into limbo so many of
the older operas, particularly those of
Gluck, Weber and Mozart. A broad-
casting organisation can take within its
scope all opera, from Palestrina down to
Giordano and Richard Strauss.
A. MAIOR.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
These notes cover two weeks. Re-
ception during the first part of the period
was very poor, and save late at night
none of the stations was worth comment.
Autumn should bring better signal
strength.
Lately, before 10 p.m., stations have
been weak on all bands below 40 metres,
but quite good reception could be had
from NIROM and the Japanese round
44 metres. The No. 1 transmission of the
8.8. C. was quite inaudible in writer’s
district, except for a short period at the
beginning, and GSF, 19.8, suffered badly
from fading in the No.. 2 transmission.
GSE opened fair, and steadily improved
till maximum strength was reached about
midnight. GSB, 31.5, has replaced GSF,
but so far has been only fair. GSA on
49.6 metres has replaced GSE, 25.3,
after 12.30 p.m.
GSA has been quite good, and the
general noise level on the 49 band has
been much lower.
The Germans in the 31-metre band
have been very weak until quite late at
night, but after that both DIN and DJA
A group of “hams” pose for the camera at G2NM
[England). Note the oversize “bottles” and meter.
Left to right: A Canadian amateur from the 2nd
District, G6YK, G2NM and G6CJ.
have been verv eood. Little difference
can be found between them, although
they use aerial systems with quite differ-
ent directional properties.
By far the most consistent station has
been FYA, 19.68 metres. From opening
at 10 p.m. until closing at 2.30 a.m. it has
been very good, signal strength being ex-
ceptional from about midnight.
Rome (2RO according to the announ-
cer, not 12RO as often printed) has been
coming up to fair strength about 10.30,
and on several nights changed to its
30.7 m. wave-length at midnight, being
better strength then. This station is still
the best early-morning transmitter from
that side of the world.
The 8 p.m. transmission from RNE on
Sundays and Wednesdays has remained
weak, and has attained only fair strength
at 9 p.m.—a great contrast to last year,
when this station’s signal was at maxi-
mum.
RNE has gone over again to very rabid
propaganda, and is not as interesting as
formerly.
FYA has been showing considerable
improvement in the daytime, and was
generally at full speaker strength after
2.30 p.m. WBXK was also much better
on a recent Sunday, and quite good
strength after 3 p.m. on its 25.28 m. wave.
A faint station has also been on about
midday, and is probably DID.
Country listeners should have very
good reception from many stations this
coming winter at hours to suit everybody.
With the improved aerial systems the
8.8. C. No. 1 transmission should be
even better than last year. However, it
is unwise to forecast short-wave con-
ditions. We do not yet know enough of
the reasons for their vagaries. There
appear to be definite cycles of maxi-
mum strength in each of the bands used.
NIGHTOWL.
Ten-metre Amateur Work.
“L.T.E.” (Bombala, N.S.W.) is keeping
up his observations on the amateur 10-
metre band. He reports: Conditions on
3/2/’35 were fair, though the skip has
altered. Nothing was heard until 9.10
a.m., when ZL3AN was QSA4, R 4. Be-
tween this period and 10.40 a.m., after
which the band went “dead,” I heard
VK4GK, QSA3, R 4; VKSKL, QSA4,
R 4; VK3IO, QSAS, R 6 ; VK3IJ, QSAS,
R 7 (with raw signal and key clicks).
VKs 3NM and 3BW had a long con-
tact, both being better than R 6 and very
easily copied. VK3IX was heard at
QSA3, R 4, and hard to copy. Later on
1 heard VK3BW working a Maorilander.
At 4.15 p.m. VK7KV was working with
ZL2CI and 2CW. ZL2CW was heard
here for a few seconds. VK7JB was also
QSA4, R 5, working a ZL. Fading was
excessive all day. VK4BB, usually
“parked” on 10, was heard strongly on
the 20-metre band. This band is “alive”
all hours of the day and night at present.
VK5s are very strong on ’phone around
midnight. Europeans are heard about
9 p.m., and Maorilanders are always like
locals.
Amateur Chatter.
Fifty-six me. work takes precedence
at present in these notes, and rightly so,
for things are happening on that band.
At one time VK2BP was a doubtful hope
for Sydney 5-metre men, but now Hazel-
brook is “local.” Since VK2BP put in
a beam Sydney stations using directive
aerials are dumped into his receiver at
R max. He comes back
with reports such as
“can go outside the
house and follow every
word”! So far VK2BP
has conducted two-way
contacts by replying on
80 metres, but by the
time this is in print he
will have a 5-metre trans-
mitter hooked to his
beam.
On the evening of
8 / 2/ ’35 a terrific thunder-
storm broke over Syd-
ney, but 5 metres doesn’t
notice such trifles. It is
uncanny to work on,
uninterrupted, with no
sign of static, through
such weather.
VK2WD is getting fine
results with his bi-direc-
tional aerial. This type
is certainly a convenience for two-way
DX work.
VK2CG has completed an array facing
north, and hopes to hear something of
VK2TX, Wyong, any day. It is known
that VK2TX is almost ready with 5-
metre gear, but Newcastle (N.S.W.) ama-
teurs show decided apathy. As New-
castle is one of the Sydney 5-metre objec-
tives, if no co-operation is forthcoming
from the north, a group of Sydney men
will erect a test station in the Newcastle
area.
VK2NS, of Bathurst, after a chat with
the writer, is getting steamed up to try
to break through the mountain barrier
to Sydney on 5 metres. Anything within
reason seems possible on this most inter-
esting of amateur communication chan-
nels, and the wonder of it all is why the
“back fence” 40-metre ’phone hounds
don’t get on to it whilst the going is good.
On Sunday, 10/2/’35, 3 p.m., S.M.T.,
VK2BP, Hazel brook, and VK2NO tied
up in the first 50-mile Australian two-
way 5-metre contact. The channel proves
to be thoroughly reliable, as VK2BP is
R 8 in Sydney when using temporary
single-ended transmitter .and his beam
off tune. This contact was followed by
others in the evening, including VK2WD
and VK2CG. The beam aerials prove
their worth, as stations not so equipped
either cannot hear VK2BP at all or ex-
tremely weakly. This proves that the
aerial and not the receiver is of greatest
importance. Big things are expected on
5 metres in N. S.
Wales from now
on, followed by
still higher fre-
quencies.
Will the gentle-
man indulging in
40-metre contacts
on Sunday after-
noons please take
notice that there is
only one VK2NU,
and that is the
special portable
station license of the
writer? It is wiser
to desist before the
sword of Damocles
falls heavily in the
shape of the radio
inspector, a fine
and confiscation of
the pirate gear!
For some weeks
the bubbling, un-
steady, chopped D.C. carrier emanating
from a powered box-kite over Sydney
has been a source of comment among
amateurs. Is there any reason why, if
frequencies other than ultra-shorts must
be used, the humble piece of shivering
quartz is not in charge? Self-excited
oscillators, coupled, however loosely, to
vibrating antennas, cannot be expected to
put out a steady T 9 carrier.
VK2NO.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
The quest for a rigidly economical
broadcast receiver which will possess all
Receiver. —Special battery model. Type
D.19. Superheterodyne. Four valves:
IC6 pentagrid, ’34 I.F., 19 regenerative
detector and audio driver, 19 Class-B out-
put. Price, £25 10s. Manufacturer,
Kreisler (Australasia ), Ltd., Myrtle and
Pine streets, Chippendale, N.S.W.
the attributes of the big receiver and do
this with a minimum of valves operating
from batteries has been a long one. Fol-
lowing closely on the introduction of the
Regenerative Reflex Superhet by Don
B. Knock (B. 21/11 /’34), Kreisler ap-
plied the low-consumption 2-volt valves
to this principle with marked success. The
culmination is the Kreisler D. 19 model,
and it is something to delight the
heart of the man in the bush who counts
pennies for battery replacements and
charging. Country dealers speak enthusi-
astically of the performance of D. 19,
and on test in The Bulletin radio lab.
the reason for this enthusiasm was
apparent.
In the first place, the receiver is sen-
sitive. It has to be, or it is of little use
to the country. It has sensitivity with
striking absence of noise level, due to
the unusual application of valves. Selec-
tivity is normal, and there is nothing
lacking here. With the Class-B audio
channel and permagnetic speaker, the
A busman’s (or policeman’s) holiday! Sergeant Salmon
(VK2SA), of N.S.W. Police Wireless Department, recently
holidayed at Burragorang, plus a portable transmitter and
receiver. This glimpse was “shot” by H. A. Marshall
(VK2HM), chief engineer of 2UW, who also likes radio
wherever he goes.
tone is sweet, with what may be con-
sidered “commonsense” volume.
Add to these points that the tuning
is done smoothly by one of those very
attractive black-finished Kreisler aero
dials, and here are the essentials of some-
thing unusual in battery sets. Four
valves do the trick, and the first 19
twin-valve, used as regenerative detector
and driver for the second, has the
feature of adjustable regeneration. If
the user desires a little more sensitivity,
according to the requirements of a par-
ticular location, a touch with a screw-
driver in a slotted screw through the top
of the chassis gives the required gain.
During The Bulletin test no aerial
other than a short inside length was
used. This was sufficient to bring in all
the usual distant stations comfort-
ably, so that in the country, with the
usual long and fairly high aerial,
the ability of the Kreisler D. 19
should be manifest.
The A battery consumption is well
under one ampere, and the B bat-
tery load will not exceed about 20
milliamperes on the strongest signal.
Examination of the chassis showed
extra-good workmanship, with care-
ful and neat wiring. It is obvious'
that the set is well planned and not'
merely an experiment.
Australia’s Oldest Radio Club
Celebrates.
Every year in McPherson-street a
happy crowd of Sydney amateur
radio transmitters, young and old,
fills the Waverley Radio Club rooms
to overflowing. This year’s annual
gathering, the sixteenth, was, like its
predecessors, a great success, with
a full programme of toasts and
speeches. No Waverley Club re-
union would be complete without
the oldest member, Malcolm Perry,
Australian radio pioneer, who pro-
posed the club toast. He touched
upon the influence of the younger
members on the future of radio,
particularly regarding television and
ultra - short waves. Speakers
included Petersen (VK2HP), Stewart
(Zenith Radio), Caletti (2nd Div. Sig-
nals), Came (VK4RP), McLaughlW
(VK2ML), Light (VK2QM), A. G. Hull
(Tech. Ed., “Wireless Weekly”) and the
editor of this page, Don B. Knock
(VK2NO). Menus signed by all present
were retained as souvenirs of the occasion.
“T 9,” the club journal, edited by
Gordon Wells (VK2GC), is a recent in-
novation which provides some very in-
structive and interesting reading. Pro-
spective members can get in touch wiffi
the hon. sec., W. H. Garland, at 287
Clovelly-road, Clovelly, Sydney.


WHILE YOU DRIVE WITH
0- L
AUTO
•/
RADIO
TRAV E LTO N E “
Telephone and arrange a demonstration.
'Phone: MA1336.
Merchant Distributors, Ltd.,
20 Steammill Street, Sydney.
What's What in Radio.
ẃ
njng medium, a thin strip of black
celluloid or film is used. This film is per-
forated with a number of small holes
spaced at regular intervals in just the
same manner as the usual disc. It will
be seen that there is a strong resemblance
tq a movie projector. The film is driven
by sprocket wheels past the neon lamp at
the correct speed. A home-movie pro-
jector with its correctly positioned film in
relation to the lens could be adapted to
this process. The English experimenter
who wishes to try these things is for-
tunate. He can get them.
tstt * * * %
There is no end to the possible uses of
the photoelectric cell. Latest of appli-
cations is in the Hotel New Yorker for
self-opening doors between dining-rooms
and kitchens. As the waiter walks with
delicately-balanced trayful of edibles and
breakables through a light beam, the
door in front of him jumps open.
Maoriland Broadcasting Board, con-
trolling the national broadcast service of
the Dominion, announces that Amalga-
mated Wireless (A’sia), Ltd., is the suc-
cessful tenderer for the new transmitting
equipment for the Dunedin station 4YA.
This new station will be erected at High-
cliff (Otago), and will have an aerial
pow6r of 10,000 watts, unmodulated.
What the television receiver of to-day
looks like. This is an English console
type shown partly dismantled, and built
for high-definition television, with which
the cathode-ray-tube method is used.
The image appears on the white disc
encompassed by the black circle under
the controls. The loudspeaker for sound
with vision is the lower disc.
(From “Practical Television.”)
Dunedin will thus be brought to the
same power as IYA, which was officially
opened at the end of January, and is the
most powerful broadcasting station in
Australasia. The aerial of the Dunedin
station will be of the umbrella type. This
is a recent design, and has proved very
satisfactory at Auckland.
* * # *
A loudspeaker with all the kick of the
proverbial mule is in use on board the
U.S. coastguard vessel Tampa. It was
first tested in connection with the inter-
national yacht races between Rainbow
and Endeavour, and was used to warn
shipping off the course and to issue
instructions to launches carrying spec-
tators. This super loudspeaker magni-
fies the human voice 1,000,000 times, and
at full power it hurls sound into the air
with the force of a 501 b. hammer.
Measured at the mouth of the horn the
sound is about 1000 times louder than
the roar at the foot of Niagara Falls.
Such a “devil’s bellow” can be used to
direct throngs of people where there is
too much noise for the ordinary loud-
speaker, for firemen inside burning build-
ings where the crackle and roar of fire
are all-pervading or for rescues at sea
The W.E. Co. (U.S.A.) is responsible for
the design.
* * * *
The Dunedin station represents the
sixth large order secured by Amalga-
mated Wireless from the M.L.8.8. in
pursuance of that body’s policy of mod-
ernising the broadcasting service. The
first order was for a portable transmitter,
used in various parts of the country for
site-testing purposes. A.W.A. was also
commissioned to construct a transmit-
ting plant of 200 watts for the Welling-
ton station. In 1933 Christchurch was
equipped by A.W.A. with a 3000-watt
plant. In December last the new Auck-
land station was opened, and A.W.A. is
now constructing an additional plant to
bring the Christchurch station up to
10,000 watts, the same as Auckland.
Casual Comment.
“Soft Speaker”: Are the A-class pro-
grammes fixed up by tossing a coin,
alphabetically or by geometrical progres-
sion? On New Year’s Day in Mel-
bourne, when big racing and big cricket
are in opposition, it does not require any
Napoleonic genius of organisation to think
of putting one of these on one station
and the other on the second. But, in-
stead of such a simple and obvious pro-
cedure being followed, both sporting
events were broadcast from both
each one chipping in and interrupting the
other every little while. Listeners inter-
ested in one, but not both sports, played
a sort of musical chairs all the afternoon.
* * * *
American motor-car manufacturers
are making bodies with all-steel tops for
their 1935 season, and this will present
a problem for the car-radio engineer.
The reason for the change to steel roofs
is that thieves are getting away with too
many cars of the fabric-top type. It is
easy to make a hole with a pocket-knife,
insert a stick and unlatch doors from
the inside. Aerials will have to go some-
where else in the steel-top cars. The
underslung type was used in the earlier
days of car-radio development, and is
not altogether satisfactory. The fore and
aft bumper bars, insulated from the
chassis, should make reasonably good
aerials.
* * * *
In an article in “Wireless World”
(Eng.) on the future of broadcast trans-
mission and what part the ultra-short
waves may play, the author outlines an
interesting and by no means improbable
scheme. The idea is for a large number
of ultra-short-wave transmitters, with an
average reliable range of 15 miles, to
cover an area such as the Home Counties.
In 10 years this and many other at
present unlike'y schemes may well
materialise, and, as more is discovered
about the properties of directional-radiat-
ing systems, the ultra-shorts will be right
out of the experimental and into the com-
mercial class.
* * * *
It’s no wonder they call Maoriland a
radio paradise! The winner of aDX con-
test in Timaru bagged 546 overseas sta-
tions between 200 and 550 metres. There
were 15 European, 377 U.S.A., 15
Canadian, 11 Mexican, 90 Australian and
22 Japanese ; to say nothing of odds and
ends in such places as Bolivia, Cuba and
Venezuela.
* sj: H* *
Every progressive radio experimenter
should subscribe to “Radio” (U.S.A.),
which is issued monthly, and is always
chock-full of interesting material. January
features include “The First Practical 5-
Metre Superhet,” by Frank Jones, an
engineer who knows his radio ; “Practi-
cal High Fidelity,” information on the
The voice that covers the great inland of Australia. Mr.
M. Anderson, chief radio officer of the Australian
Inland Mission, at the microphone of VJI Cloncurry.
new R.C.A. 802 amplifier-oscillator tube
for transmission ; “The 222 Communica-
tions Receiver” (an amateur 6-tube super-
bet), also by Jones, and the “Jacobs 5-
Metre Duplex Transmitter-receiver.”
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) Is it possible to connect a valve as an
amplifier with a crystal set tuned by a con-
denser ? (2) If so, is it necessary to use an
audio transformer ? (3) What kind of valve
would be required ? (4) Are the sketched cir-
cuits correct ? —228.
(1) Yes. (2) No, but more amplification
would be obtained with the transformer. (3)
A general-purpose triode, such as a 30 or
PM2DX. These are both two-volt valves, and
would require a small two-volt battery. (4)
The circuit showing the audio transformer is
not correct, as the plate voltage to the valve,
through the headphones, is also through the
crystal and tuned circuit. This would damage
the crystal. The other diagram is workable,
and the amplification of the valve itself will
have the desired effect. Speaker reproduction
would just be possible on a near-by local
station, but don’t expect much in the way of
volume. A 2000-ohm horn-type speaker such
as the old Amplion would do. These can be
obtained very cheaply from Radio Supply
Stores, Royal Arcade, Sydney.
I am building the Wide-World Four receiver
(B. 2/1 /’35), but propose using R.F. trans-
former coupling between the R.F. and detector
stages. The detector will be a 77, with 642
R.F. stage. What method of primary coupling
is best; also details of the various windings? —
229
The coil data for grid and cathode coils
will be the same for the 77 valve as for the 15.
For the primary coupling, a winding over the
earth end of the detector-grid coils, approxi-
mately one-third the number of turns of the
particular grid coil, and wound on a layer of
empire cloth or waxed paper, will do. A more
efficient way is to interwind the primary and
grid coils. Instead of the 77 valve the newer
6C6 could be used with advantage. This is a
more ready oscillator at higher frequencies than
the 77, If you intend using the 6.3-volt series
throughout, the driver will be a 76, and the
Class-B valve a 6A6. Such a receiver would
run nicely from a genemotor.
I was interested in the Zero Beat Radio Club
lectures appearing from time to time in “Aus-
tralian Radio News.” I am unable to com-
plete the series, and would like to have the
missing lectures. Where could they be
obtained ? —230.
Write to C. Moginie, hon. sec. Zero Beat
Radio Club, Gregson Studios, Sydney Arcade,
Sydney.
Having had my Airzone model 555 twelve
months, I presume the time is near when new
valves will have to be fitted. If so, which of
these three ( named) are most reliable ? —232.
If the receiver has been functioning well,
and the valves have been running at their normal
loads, 12 months should be only a portion of
their life. The thing to do is to have them
tested. Any dealer equipped with a Slade-
Paton valve-tester can tell you their condition
at a glance. Of the valves referred to, one
and two are by the same maker. These are
recommended.
My new four-valve battery superhet gives
excellent results, but trouble is experienced with
interference from the home-lighting plant , This
is only in use at night-time, and, not having any
accumulator bank, the generator must be run
continuously. Con denser!
have been fitted across the
generator brushes, and a sup-
pressor on the engine spark-
plug. What else can be
done to cure the interfer-
ence ? —233.
This seems to be an ex-
treme case. If the house
wiring is replaced through-
out by lead-covered cabling
and the lead sheath con-
nected to earth, the inter-
ference may disappear. If
this is tried, continue the
lead wiring right up to the
generator, and, furthermore,
if possible, totally enclose
the generator in a metal
screen. In order to avoid
overheating of the generator,
this screen could be made
up of a wooden frame
with copper gauze, and
arranged so that it can be
easily removed from the
generator for oiling, etc. The
screen and the generator
frame, plus the centre connection between the
two condensers across the brushes, must be
earthed. Another probable cure would be to
change the position of the receiving aerial. As
now placed, it may be running parallel to a
fair length of the house wiring. If so, place
the aerial at right angles. Finally, you could
try a twisted feeder doublet, with the actual
aerial some distance away from the house. Such
an aerial would be very lengthy for the broad-
cast band, about 180 feet per side, but if the
space is available it might get you over the
trouble. The length of the twisted pair feeders
to the receiver would not matter.
Are there any Class-B output audio trans-
formers suitable for public-address systems or
modulators for transmission available on the
Sydney radio market ? —231.
Not advertised, but any type of audio or
power transformer for any load requirement
can be obtained on order from K. H. Jones,
5 Gladstone-street, Bexley, N.S.W.


National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, SO Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
| "If you'd advanced
I the Spark, Dad,
| wed a" caught 'em!'
-
m
mmm
sMm
i
■:'y
*»»
SSS
Few of us like to be
left behind, so if cars of
similar make to yours
pass you on hills... use
Super Plume Ethyl
yourself I And do not
forget to have your
garageman advance
the ignition for you.
He will confirm the
fact that advancing
the spark means extra
power, swifter accel-
eration and increased
mileage in every
gallon.
SUPER
ETHYL
ẅ
w
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“D.”: From Sydney’s “Labor Daily”
and “D.T.,” same day:
Herr Egon Kisch, accompanied by
Gerald Griffin, has left Brisbane for the
south. He said he would go to France if
he could depart peacefully.
Accompanied by Gerald Griffin, Egon
Erwin Kisch has left Brisbane for the
south. He said that the only thing he
wanted to do now was to go back to
Czecho-Slovakia.
How do the legions of the bone-headed
retain their faith in the printed word?
* * * *
“Pen”; Bird-migration still remains a
mystery. How tiny and outwardly feeble
birds contrive to cover vast distances on
the wing without stopping, and how they
guide themselves on strange journeys—
strange to the younger generation at
least—have yet to be discovered. Some
endurance tests have lately been car-
ried out in Britain with the lap-
wing, or green plover, a bird well
known in Australia. Instead of moving
north to south and vice versa, as so many
birds do, the lapwing, when it leaves
Britain, crosses the Atlantic to America.
A number of these birds were marked
at Ullswater, in Cumberland, and re-
leased. Twenty-four hours from the time
they had been liberated several of the
birds were shot in Canada, where their
arrival had been awaited. With a fol-
lowing wind they must have travelled
at over 100 m.p.h. for more than 2000
miles without a stop.
* * * •-!;
“H.S.”: Many Australians imagined
when the meat row began that it would
be easy to arrange for the Dominions
to share the pick of the U.K. market
with British farmers, and let foreigners
come in for their cut later. They
have been rudely undeceived. The
Imperial spirit remains—in fact, wars,
sport, intermarriage and the diplo-
macy of the royal family have intensified
it—but there is still a strong Little Eng-
land party, and Britannia no longer rules
the waves or the markets. Last year
Argentina supplied 62.7 per cent, of
Britain’s beef to Australia’s 10.5 per
cent.; Denmark, 2,519,119 cwt. of butter
to Australia’s 1,693,545 cwt. Mean-
while British statesmen, remembering
the situation in the summer of 1917
when a few food-supply ships stood be-
tween the nation and starvation, have
been legislating to make their country
self-supporting as regards some food-
stuffs, anyhow. The truth is that present-
day Imperialism is only sentiment; we
prove it ourselves by borrowing from
and selling to Britain’s rivals in the
struggle for naval supremacy. We have
to, for we are living in an age whose
economic motto is: “Every trading
nation for itself.”
* * * *
“Cinna”: Most of the so-called mod-
ernist poetry is quite beyond me, and I
came across a couplet the other day
which struck me as quite the aptest de-
scription of the Sitwells and the T. S.
Eliots that could be framed. It referred
curtly and disparagingly to
The howling dervishes of song
Who craze the brain with their delirious dance.
You might put it down as a modern pro-
test against the new note in poetry, and
yet it was written before the Sitwells
and the Eliots were born. The lines are
from a sonnet addressed by Longfellow
to Tennyson, and certifying the Laureate
as having nothing in common with the
howling dervishes aforesaid. One sus-
pects that Longfellow must have had
Walt Whitman and Browning in his eye.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The House of Lords is a
long-suffering institution. The other day
a peer took his seat there who had never
been on the premises before, although he
was ennobled in 1914. This was Rother-
mere, younger brother of the late North-
cliffe and chief proprietor of three daily
newspapers. Lots of peers would have
liked to see him there sooner, especially
those whom his papers had said hard
things about without their being given a
chance to tell him what they thought of
his papers. However, he was introduced
with the proper formalities, and there
the matter ended. The powers of the
House of Lords, even with regard to its
membership, are strictly limited. Says
one authority:
No minor can take his seat; neither can
any Peer who is bankrupt or insane. But
the House has long grieved over its in-
capacity to exclude a Peer notorious for a
disgraceful life.
Yet even the most rickety-rackety peer
could hardly have offered the House a
worse insult than by ignoring it's existence
for over 20 years.
H= * * *
“Hamba Gachle”: I note from an
East African paper that lions along the
Kenya-Tanganyika border have taken to
raiding fowlhouses, the increasing in-
cursion of white farmers having driven
the buck and zebra, the natural food of
the -lion, further afield. I recall a
similar situation around Salisbury in the
early days of the Rhodesian Chartered
Company. The country was lousy with
lions, and, though they had *never
troubled the native poultry, which roosted
high in the trees, they soon took a fancy
to those of the white settlers. It became
impossible to keep a chook, and money
could not buy an early-morning eggflip
at the stores. A resourceful Australian
solved the difficulty. An aunt kept a
noted boarding-house at Potts Point —
it would be called a “guest-house” to-
day—and he wrote asking for a con-
signment of the special variety of fowl
served on Sunday to Sydney boarders.
On arrival the shipment was divided
among the farmers, and in a month all
the lions which hadn’t died of acute
stomach troubles had migrated to Por-
tuguese East, never to return. The Kenya
sufferers may find the experiment worth
trying. I am credibly informed that
large supplies of the guest-house fowl
are still available at reasonable rates.
* * *. *
“G.M.”: South African Minister for
Defence Pirow told the press delegates
in Capetown that in 1914 General Brits
wired Botha: “Mobilisation complete.
Whom do we fight—the Germans or the
English?” According to the cable,
Pirow’s revelation caused laughter. There
was nothing comic about Brits’s attitude ;
it is the usual one of the militarist,
whether he be British, Boer, German or
French. Your true militarist cares not
who is to be his enemy or the moral
issues involved in the dispute. He is just
a tradesman skilled in the technical job
of killing and anxious to prove his dex-
terity to his fellows. Vanity is the basis
of the militaristic spirit—vanity plus
ignorance.


ẃ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Carrying 71b. more than weight-for-
age, Arachne earned the right to be con-
sidered one of the fastest three-year-olds
in Australian racing history by capturing
the Oakleigh Plate at Caulfield. It was
an astonishingly easy victory. Shrewd
punters had predicted that the daughter
of Cor ban would be troubled by the
opposition of Melason, Croden Lad and
Silver King in the early stages, and might
gallop herself to a standstill. Croden
Lad’s trainer, Homan, felt confident that
the Adelaide gelding could lead —for a
while, at all events. “It would suit me
for something to carry Arachne along
to the home turn,” commented J. A.
Donohoe, “but I am afraid that will not
occur.”
Arachne had shown Donohoe a won-
derful trial. With a substantial weight,
and wearing flat shoes, she had sprinted
half a mile in 48|sec. Figure, a previous
Oakleigh Plate hero trained by Donohoe,
could not have done it in 49sec. with con-
cave shoes, remarked the Randwick
mentor.
Donohoe is noted for optimism, but his
pronouncement that Arachne could not
be beaten was amply verified. Drawn
wide out in a field of 20, the filly jumped
into stride as soon as the barrier lifted.
Bert! " 'ts overrated ''
Qert "vn/h/VT IS, ?
Bert l " Motor under these
clohoitioNs "
GiERT: ' WISH THIS WA,S
A. MOTOR. EjOCkT ,
Before 50 yards had been traversed, she
was in the front and on the rails. Silver
King and Croden Lad unavailingly en-
deavored to overhaul her; they soon
punctured, and at the straight entrance
Winooka, heroically handling his lOst.
51b., appeared the only rival with a
chance against the favorite. Arachne
came along unfalteringly, and Winooka
made no impression on her, the winning
margin being 2\ lengths. When the issue
was beyond doubt, Pike refrained from
punishing Winooka, and this contributed
to Heros getting within half a neck of
Poison’s candidate on the post. Time,
Imin. 6sec.
Norman Robinson, owner of Arachne,
is a nephew of the late Lionel Robinson,
who was interested with William Clark
in the ownership of The Victory, King
Offa, Lucknow and other great gallopers.
Norman Robinson’s father imported
Polygamist, winner of the Australian
Hurdle of 1917. Nine years have elapsed
since Norman captured the G.N. Hurdle
with Sparkling Moselle, a mare that he
held on lease. Donohoe bought Arachne
on behalf of his patron for 125gns., as a
yearling. An offer of 4000gns. for the
filly has since been refused.
If the advice of her trainer is acted
upon, Arachne will not compete in the
V.A.T.C, Futurity Stakes, but will be re-
served for the Newmarket. Not having
incurred any penalty, she is looked upon
as a “moral” for the latter event. Though
the distance is half a furlong farther and
Winooka will meet her on 21b. better
terms, Poison takes a gloomy view of
the stallion’s prospects.
Sydney horses fared badly on the open-
ing day of the V.A.T.C. autumn meet-
ing. Arachne is owned in Melbourne,
and has undergone a large part of her
preparation there this season. Solfast,
who accompanied her on the present trip,
captured a division of the Federal Stakes,
for juveniles, and was the only horse to
score for a sportsman from beyond the
Murray. Strathardale and Homer failed
in their respective divisions of the young-
sters’ race ; Buller, the colt from Queens-
land, rated on the handicaps as 21b.
superior to Strathardale and 31b. better
than Homer, also was weighed in the
balance and found wanting. Whether
these two-year-olds showed their real
form remains to be seen.
Solfast (Equator—Lady Swinton), a
filly bought privately last autumn as a
yearling by R. Walder, was bred by H.
Alan Currie, of the V.R.C. committee.
She now carries the colors of Mr. “Con-
stable,” who won the Australian Cup of
1923 with Prince Cox, in partnership with
knight Samuel Hordern.
Lou Robertson, the Mordialloc trainer,
has struck a vein of luck. He collected
two races at Caulfield—the first division
of the Federal Stakes with Sithon and
the St. George Stakes with Farndale. And
if she had not come on the scene a trifle
late, Nalda would have vanquished Sol-
fast. Sithon (Thracian —Deturmilla) be-
longs to A. T. Creswick, Farndale
(Curialis —All Chatter) to A. G. Hunter
and J. Fell, and Nalda (Verbius—Ravis-
sante) to Sol Green.
Farndale, favored by the conditions —
he had only 7st. 71b. to carry—won the
St. George Stakes in runaway style. Theo
was a poor third to Hall Mark, who
found his 9st. 101 b. too great a burden.
Theo, it is true, conceded Farndale 201 b.
in weight, but his display was disappoint-
ing.
......
Sylvandale, Theo’s stable-mate, fin-
ished a close third in the Bond Handicap,
for which he started favorite. By no
means a bad performance; still he could
not dispose of Dark Chief, and that one-
run horse failed to withstand Burlesque’s
finishing effort,
- •
Ned Moss could not have found punt-
ing profitable. He expected Sir John to
do a lot better in the Oakleigh Plate.
Whittingham, in the same team as Sir
John, gained second place in the Salis-
bury Welter, which went to Nappatara.
Nappatara is owned and trained by a
brother of Bob Lewis, the veteran jockey.
If they all go to the post (there is
a doubt about Arachne) Winooka will
have 13 opponents in the Futurity
Stakes next Saturday, He has lOst. 21b.
(the same as Waltzing Lily), 81b. more
than Heros and Press Gang, 91b. more
than Break Up, 131 b. more than Arachne
and 151 b. more than Dark Sky ; so, com-
pared with the nine-stoners, he is well
treated. No doubt the handicapper
would have given the Windbag horse
a few pounds more, but the conditions
of the race shackled him. When Winooka
won two years ago with 9st. Waltzing
Lily (sixth) and Gaine Carrington (third)
had Bst. 121 b. Chatham was seventh
with lOst. 31b.
The increasing popularity of Warwick
Farm is welcomed by bookmakers, for
results are generally in their favor. They
were decidedly so on Saturday, when the
going was heavy, particularly at the turn
for home. The attendance was excellent.
Little Myra Tip was always favorite
for the Glenfield Handicap. She stumbled
passing the three furlongs, but at the
time her rider was driving her along and
she was losing ground. Norman Con-
quest (20 to 1) was suited by the soft
conditions ; leading throughout, he won
easily from Questionnaire and Regular
Bachelor. Celebrate was fourth, and as
he can be improved is worth following.
Scratchings reduced the field in the
Warwick Handicap to five runners.
Limyris, the lucky conqueror of Capris
in the Adrian Knox Stakes, opened favor-
ite, but Regal Son a.nd Love Song were
the popular fancies at flagfall, the latter
starting at 5 to 2. Limyris went to the
front, but made it slow ; Marsden un-
availingly tried to get a break turning for
home. Regal Son was on terms as they
straightened up ; then Love Song made
a dash on the rails. He went right away
from Limyris and Regal Son. The dis-
tance was a mile and a quarter ; the time,
2min. 15sec., was the slowest for many
years.
Dandaloo (12 to 1), a promising stayer
by March Along, won the Farm Novice
in really good style. She was not sighted
in the early stages, but commenced a long
run from the half-mile, and worried
Flying Bullet and Hot Stuff out of the
big end of the prize. The favorite,
Limoux, disappointed after being well
placed early.
Bundar (Rossendale —Bundle), carrying
Donald’s colors, annexed the first divi-
sion of the Maiden Handicap, at tens,
from Bruno and Galadeer Boy. The
ŵ
with 2 for 46 ; Tall on’s ’keeping was
great. Queensland replied with 261:
Sides 68, Hansen 63 and Tallon 40;
Chilvers 4 for 68. Gilbert took two
wickets early in N.S.W.’s second innings.
Thanks largely to Marks (107) and Chip-
perfield (69) it was 7 for 322 on Monday.
* * * *
“Collingwood”: Experts on the laws of
cricket have been discussing a complaint
forwarded to the V.C.A. by a country
club. Objection was taken to a bowler
who, starting from where mid-off stands
to a right-hand batsman, ran a curving
path between the umpire and the wicket
and delivered round the wicket. There is
no rule against this, though the umpire
might take action and ask the bowler to
stop his capers if he considered his action
unfair. But there is plenty of precedent.
Jack Saunders, the Victorian and Aus-
tralian left-hander, always affected this
disconcerting approach to the wicket.
Another was C. A. Smith,- known as
“Round-the-corner Smith.”
H= * *
“Cottesloe”; The programme for the
N.S.W. cricketers in Westralia is not
a heavy one. The team will be blooded
with a game at Canberra on March 2,
and will then make for the West. The
first match there will begin against Wes-
tralia at Perth on March 9, lasting three
days. A one-day match against a team
of colts follows, and then another three-
day meeting with the State side. Then
the tourists hop it for home.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Notts insurgents are
realising that they have bitten off more
than they can chew. The new com-
mittee has apologised to the doctor who
declared Voce’s shin did not permit his
playing further in the Australian match,
and has resolved that its definite policy
will be to “abide by the rules laid down
by the M.C.C. both in letter and in
spirit.” Against that we have the declara-
tion of Mr. Larwood that he will play
ẁ


Ask
for
Blue
111 11 elites
if- per packet of 5 blades
FIT ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
ẅ
WET PROOF
and KLEANBORE
The Greatest Improvement in
Shot-gun Cartridges in a
Generation
w
Absolutely WETPROOF —top wad, crimp and body; protects
the powder and prevents the case from swelling when the
weather is wet or extremely humid.
KLEANBORE Shotgun cartridges protect the inside of the
barrel from rust, corrosion, pitting and leading, and give
better patterns.
Distributing Agents for Mew South Wales:
PAUL & GRAY LIMITED
82 and 84 Sussex Street, Sydney
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 686 E, G.P.0., Melbourne
The Prontac
( Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The "Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET; SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
Under the Whip
In heavy going at Victoria Park (Syd-
ney) on Wednesday Closing Time (7 to 4)
beat Rogilla (5 to 2) in the Flying Handi-
cap, furlongs, run in Imin. 23isec.;
but the chestnut, who conceded 41b.,
was not disgraced. He was nine or ten
lengths behind Closing Time at the half-
mile, and had reduced the gap to 2\
lengths at the finish. Four lengths away
were Silver Scorn and the three-year-old
Mitebite, whom the judge could not
separate. The critics were impressed with
Silver Scorn’s finishing run, but she is
an in-and-out mare.
Closing Time’s performance decided
Jamieson to take him to Melbourne for
the Newmarket, in which he also has
9st. 71b. Rogilla has gone, too,
and so has King March, notwithstand-
ing a wretched showing in the Vic-
toria Park Handicap; backed down
to 5 to 4 on, he was beaten lengths
by two outsiders, Starlike and Antique
—each 10 to 1 in a field of six.
The stewards asked Bartle to account for
the running of his mount, and were
satisfied with his explanation.
* * * *
“E.D.”: Publication of prices on big
races to be run is forbidden in Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Adelaide, but is
allowed in Perth and Brisbane. So,
though punters in the places subject to
the prohibition can’t get the information
in their own newspapers, they can get it
in papers from Perth and Brisbane. It
is the most idiotic feature of an idiotic
law.
* * * *
“Red Herring”: The Associated Hunt
Clubs of Victoria have resolved that,
subject to certain conditions, professional
riders will be allowed to compete with
amateurs in hunt steeplechases next
season. To be eligible the professionals
must be regular followers of the hounds
and must be approved by the hunt com-
mittee. The riders will have to concede
allowances to amateurs, following on the
rule in England, where amateur and pro-
fessional riders take part in hunt-club
events. It seems a pity that drag hunting
should have been permitted to die out
in N.S.W. In spite of all the ill-informed
sneers, there is no better school for mak-
ing an all-round horseman, as opposed
to the roughrider variety which seems to
be the Australian-cwm-Hollywood ideal.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Leichhardt Stadium is challenging the
supremacy of the concern at Rushcutter
Bay, which is now matching American
with American every week or so. Leich-
hardt has brought out Georgi, an Italian-
American light-heavyweight of repute,
to meet Palmer, who, though so seldom
seen at the other joint, stands at the head
of present-day Australian boxers. Unlike
some Rushcutter Bay importations,
Georgi has a really good record.
* * * *
Tod Morgan is taking an interest in a
bantamweight named Carr. The youth
is improving with every appearance, and
at Leichhardt on Wednesday he gave
a sterling exhibition in outpointing
Leonard, a heavier and more experienced
lad. Like so many good boxers of the
past, Carr is a country boy.
* * * *
Mick Dooley is dead in the Old Men’s
Home at Claremont (W.A.). In his day
Mick fought every Australian heavy-
weight of distinction, from Jackson to
Doherty, and beat most of them, for he
was all grit and had a great left hand.
But he was little more than a middle-
weight, and stocky withal, so taller and
heavier men like Jackson, Slavin and
Goddard contrived to wear him down.
Mick was a native of N. S. Wales and
always used to say he had been educated
for the priesthood ; “and a thunderin’
good priest I would have made,” he
would add over the fourth pint. Going
to Westralia in the late ’nineties,
he fought till he was past 40. Like most
pugs, he spent freely and, having no
other calling, he fell on evil days, though
old friends (Bill Doherty, who has a
comfortable job at Fremantle, was one)
did what they could for him till the end,
“M.G.”: I saw Mick Dooley when he
beat Tut Ryan in Melbourne for the
heavyweight Australian championship.
Dooley was on the down-grade then,
and, despite the fact that he held the
honor for four years, he showed distinct
signs of age as compared with his oppo-
nent. His hitting was slow, but his timing
was perfect. He had an uncanny judg-
ment in dodging the solid swings which
Tut-ank-Amen Ryan sent, moving his
head only a fraction of an inch each time
in avoidance. He lost the championship
to Bill Doherty in 1899 ; but, at his top,
would probably have accounted for
Ryan, Doherty, Felix and the rest of
the giants of those days. The obituaries
printed in Melbourne assert that he num-
bered Joe Goddard among his victims.
Wrong ; Goddard beat him. The rugged
Barrier boxer in his prime was inferior
to only one white man in the world—
Paddy Slavin.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: Jack Dowridge, who
has taken the final count in Brisbane at
54, was an amateur glove champion in a
day when the lilywhite end of the game
was of an exceptionally high standard.
A great boxer, he won the Australian
“Come on, Alf, let’s chuck it. I’m sure there’s no fish ’ere”
feather title in 1903 and 1904, and added
five State titles to that. He was the son
of a noted Brisbane identity, another
Jack, who hailed from the West Indies
and cut some fistic ice in his day as
“The Black Diamond.” “Old Jack”
kept a tobacconist-tote-shop business
in George-street when Brisbane was a
wide-open town for any one who liked
to back horses, and the place was a
favorite resort for the amateur who
fancied himself with the gloves. Many
was the willing go in the boxing-saloon
behind the shop where tfce old West
Indian negro taught the noble art to all
and sundry and, incidentally, trained his
son to follow in his footsteps.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip” r A very considerable por-
tion of Australia’s burden was lifted
when it was announced that O’Reilly had
left the N.S.W. Education Department
and taken on a job which would enable
him to give his country the full benefit
of his talents. The Australian bowler
has joined the teaching staff of Sydney
Grammar, and is to be given an open
go in the matter of absences for inter-
state and overseas matches. William
recently made the remarkable announce-
ment that he intended to put his liveli-
hood before his cricket, having lost a
spot of seniority in the State service dur-
ing his absence in England. By refusing
to go south on the Sheffield Shield tour,
he showed that he meant what he said.
Of course, this sort of thing couldn’t be
allowed for a moment, and a way out
was found.
* * * *
“Spare Wisden”: In these days when
N.S.W. cricket selectors are despairingly
wondering where all the bowlers have got
to, the feat of one McGuffog in a match
between Bendemeer and Walcha may be
worth considering. The trundler took
10 wickets for 7 in the first innings
of Bendemer and 7 for 7 in the
second, and is described as a medium
spin-bowler—just what everyone is look-
ing for in these googly-obsessed days.
It should be said that McGuffog is what
the mid-Victorians used to call a Young
Female, but in view of the performances
of some of our he-men bowlers in the
Sheffields this season the selectors might
do worse than give the lady a spin.
* * * *
“Old TEson”: By way of encouraging
the young blood in cricket the N.S.W.
selectors have appointed Campbell to the
vacancy in the W.A. team. He is a slow
bowler of a type all too common in
N.S.W. cricket. In club cricket he has
been most successful; in the big stuff,
contrariwise. In seven Sheffields he has
taken 20 wickets, averaging 41. He is no
batsman.
* * #
“Demarara”: More freak captaincy
marked the match between Wyatt’s Eng-
lishmen and British Guiana. Wyatt
struck a bad wicket and closed with 5
down for 41 on the chance of better
days when the second turn came round,
B.G. having closed with 8 for 188. The
rum-and sugar crowd went for 57 in
their second try, and England, on a dried
wicket, lost one for 205 (Hammond
106 n. 0., and Townsend 93 n. 0.).
“Aigburth”: Wyatt’s reckless tendency
to give things a flutter in the West Indian
matches has alarmed the last-ditchers of
England, who regard the taking of chances
in the hope of winning as black heresy.
Already some of the experts are predict-
ing the axe for him and shoving for-
ward Allen as the skipper of the next
team to visit Australia. Whether an Aus-
tralian should play against his own coun-
try for England, much less lead an Eng-
lish team against it, is debatable. Much
is made of the fact that Allen has spent
most of his life in England. So did Sam
Woods for that matter, but though the
Britons played him against South Africa
they jibbed at pitting him against his
own countrymen. But then some of the
old spirit of sportsmanship still clung to
cricket in Sammy’s days.
* % * ❖
“Jolimont”: Victorian cricket is like
to lose a promising colt in Trembath, the
Carlton fast bowler, who played with
the second eleven recently in Sydney.
Trembath is a powerful, stocky youngster
who can wheel them up all day, and last
season he took 42 wickets at 15.78 in
pennant cricket. He came to Melbourne
from South Australia, and the Lancashire
League has made him an offer on the
recommendation of McDonald. South
Australia, which has been looking for a
fast bowler to replace Wall, seems to
have missed a chance here.
“Onehunga”: Dacre, who joined the
Gloucestershire county side as a profes-
sional some years ago, has been taking
a spell in his native Maoriland, and there
has been some conjecture as to whether
he would settle down there. However,
he is off to play again with the Grace
county, and may officiate as stumper as
well as opening batsman.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Westward Ho”; Entries for the Brit-
ish open and amateur golf championships
have been increasing to such an extent
each year that St. Andra’s has a perma-
nent headache from thinking out ways
and means of stopping the rush. Reduc-
tion of entries to those holding a four
handicap was considered drastic, but had
no effect. This year only players on the
two mark may figure in the big events.
Exception may be made in the case of
certain promising youngsters.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Golfers, like doctors,
differ. Talking on the game when in
Maoriland, Sarazen decried the methods
of those who relied on reading books
to build up their style and improve their
play. Said the American, “You can’t
become a champion by reading books.”
Still, there are certain mechanical prin-
ciples in golf that can be learned
from books. I have in mind as an out-
standing example of the reading golfer
the Victorian W. J. Travis, who settled
in America and was the first player from
that country to take back a British cham-
pionship when he won the amateur title
in 1904. Travis has recorded that he
taught himself to play by .putting in prac-
tice the methods described in all the
books on golf he could get hold of.
“Lily White”: The British Women’s
Golf Union —renamed by the polite
Sydney cablemen the “Ladies’ Golf
Union” —has rejected Surrey’s attempt
(B. 6/2/’35) to have the word “amateur”
cut out of the conditions of events run
under the Union banner. Voting was
272 to 187 against. Backers of the
proposal held that a change would bring
about more honesty and less shama-
teurism. The opposition contended that
there should be no difference in the con-
ditions for amateur status as between
men and women —that the axe should
fall dispassionately on both for straying
from the strait path of amateur golf.
This settles the Wethered-cwm-Wilson
uncertainty. In future no golferette,
however exalted, may make money out
of her skill in or knowledge of the game
and remain in the fold.
* * * *
“Hoylake”; Not only are the golfing
women banning some of their crack
players who have become technical pro-
fessionals (B. 6/2/’35), but the men


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 244 of 1933.
BETWEEN ELLEN DOREEN WALLIS Peti-
tioner
And STEPHEN JOSEPH WALLIS Re-
spondent.
TO STEPHEN JOSEPH WALLIS late of Hill-
ston in the State of New South Wales
Grocer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN
DOREEN WALLIS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion by you for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirtieth day of April One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
F. J. DOWNING, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Noticet
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO ERIC ALLEN STRETTON.
WHEREAS OLIVE ANNIE LUCY STRET-
TON of Pearson’s Point in the State of Tas-
mania claiming to have been lawfully married
to you has filed her petition in the Supreme
Court of Tasmania for dissolution of the said
marriage on the ground of desertion for the
period of two years and upwards NOW you
are hereby notified that unless within forty-
two days after the date of the publication
hereof you enter an appearance in this Court
at its Registry Macquarie Street Hobart in Tas-
mania the said Court will proceed to hear the
said charge proved and pronounce judgment
your absence notwithstanding.
DATED at Hobart aforesaid this Ninth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five.
(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Deputy Registrar.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
V
E
D
O
0
<2
<2
a
o
m
o
o
MBS
%
i
; ;#s
m
c--
IB
a
am
STOCKED BY ALL GARAGES THROUGHOUT AUST
■ 1 i; •'•*■*■ / •>• -• ■ *•* <«s; :.*.■• •■' ■ • 't. '-•--***- 'X’L' • - ••- - ; ~ 1 . ~-- -■ - --•■•■
CROWN LAND
/oaDAIRYINC^MIXEDFARMINC
'"Si-,*
MB*r*s
// fcr
' i
LAND SETTLEMENT INQUIRYOFFICE
LANDS DEPT, LAND OFFICE;INNISFAIL.
CLUMP POINT AND
EAST PALMERSTON LANDS
!NNISFAILDISTRICT,H™QUEENSUHD
CLUMP POINT—
Comprising- 32 portions ranging from 174
to 390 acres. Capital values from 16/8 to
| £l/12/6 per acre. Situated from 2 to 8
miles south-easterly from El Arish Rail-
way Station, which is distant 4 miles from
\ Silkwood Butter Factory. Mostly dense
tropical scrub with fair to good soils,
interspersed with patches of forest. Per-
manently watered by numerous creeks and
watercourses.
i EAST PALMERSTON—
Comprising 53 portions ranging from 152
to 258 acres. Capital values from £l/10/-
to £3 per acre. Situated from 16 to 22
miles south-westerly from Innisfail and 1
to 7 miles from Nerada Railway Station,
which is 22 miles from Silkwood Butter
Factory. All dense tropical scrub with rich
volcanic soil. Permanently watered by
numerous creeks and watercourses.
Applications on the prescribed form restricted to
landless men with dairy farm experience and
capital. Priority decided by ballot.
Approved applicants wishing to inspect will be
granted half-fare concession rates on the Queens-
land railways. Inspection fares paid by success-
ful applicants will be refunded after selection.
Applications will be received at LANDS DEPARTMENT.
BRISBANE, and LAND OFFICE, INNISFAIL, up to 3rd
APRIL, 1935, for Clump Point Lands and 2nd MAY, 1935,
for East Palmerston Lauds.
For Plans, Application Forms and Further Particulars
have now started on a heresy hunt.
Cables state that the status of three
leading amateurs has been chewed over
by the British Golf Union. These per-
sons have been concerned in the sale
of golf goods, and if this charge is proved
will be excluded from all amateur cham-
pionships. The controlling bodies in
Ireland, Scotland, England and Wales
have been asked what they are going to
do about the question of amateur status
in view of the definitions of professional-
ism issued by St. Andrews last year.
These are so sweeping that a player can-
not even get an extra discount on a box
of golf balls without rendering himself
liable to the professional brand.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Joe Kirkwood hopes to
be back in Australia before long with
Bobby Jones in tow. But the money
must be good. Joseph makes pointed
reference to Australian golf audiences
as he encountered them, saying that those
who objected to parting up half a dollar
to see two champions give an exhibition
would cheerfully cough up much more
to see the races or a tennis match.
* * * *
“Baffy”: Pennant competitions are a
dashed nuisance to the ordinary club
rabbit, who is shoved off his course on
most of the Saturdays in the season to
make a short-markers’ holiday. V.G.A.
is seeking to give the sufferers some relief
this year. The inter-club pennant games
will be played on the knockout system,
thus considerably shortening the com-
petitions. The Victorian amateur cham-
pionships are set down for Kingston
Heath from September 6 to 12. Adelaide
has the Australian open and amateur
championships, to be played at Seaton
from August 12 to 30.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: That scheme to
dispatch Bolger to Amurrica (B.
13/2/ ’35) is expanding, and it is
likely that a team will be sent along.
Paul Runyan, captain of the Ameri-
can professional team here last season,
forecast before he left that the U.S.
Professional Golfers’ Association would
send an invitation for an Austra-
lian team. Paul handed the fine cup
presented by the Lakes club of Sydney
over to the P.G.A. on his return to the
States, and the invitation is expected any
time. It is hoped that the cup will be-
come a trophy for a regular challenge
match between Australia and the U.S.A.
Racquet and Bawl
“Simon Legree” : Old S. Aus. cricketer
Karl Quist has been “rousing” because his
son Adrian has been practically played
to a standstill by the gate-money brigade,
who have hustled the kid from one tour-
nament to, another without pause. The
story of Quist is practically that of Mc-
Grath, and that of young Bromwich may
be the same. When McGrath’s freak
style whetted promoters’ appetites, he
was rapt from his class in Sydney High
School and practically hurried round in
his little perambulator giving exhibitions
in town and country. The Bulletin
commented on the eventual outcome of
this cradle-snatching practice.
* * * *
Randolph Lycett, dead in England,
was an Englishman who was prominent
in Victorian tennis before the war, play-
ing for the State and Australia on many
occasions. He was a member of the
A.I.F. team, and after the war returned
to England. He was a very fine doubles
and mixed-doubles player, and , won the
All-England doubles three times —once
with Anderson as partner. He also
played for England in the Davis Cup
tourneys of 1921-22, and had many other
notable performances to his credit.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. tennis
heads have declared against open tour-
naments, but by the narrowest of margins.
The L.T.A. had asked for an opinion on
the question ; the vote was 50-50, chair-
man Frank Peach giving his casting (and
only) vote against the change. There
was some uncommonly frank comment
on present-day amateurism, and, since
most of the speakers were men who had
been prominent players not so long ago,
their opinions carry weight. Norman
Brookes is to represent Australia when
the International Federation considers the
open-tourney question.
* * * • ' ♦
“Top Spin”: The Ma State tennis
authorities announce a gross profit of
£5500 from the State championships and
international matches, with expenses
totalling £l5OO. Of the net profit, the
association gets £584 and the company
which runs the White City courts £1167,
Ma’s share of the profit on the Austra-
lian championships (£600) was £127, so
the season has been quite a paying one.
* ❖ * *
“Roland Garros”: Qualifying competi-
tions for the Davis Cup have been abol-
ished after a short life. Under this
scheme the four nations taking part in
the European. zone semi-finals were
assured of their places in the final
rounds ; the others played off at the end
of the season to decide the other four.
The idea was always unpopular with the
small nations, which were deprived of
their fleeting bit of limelight. Those sure
of facing the starter welcomed the
change, since it meant cutting out many
matches the result of which was a fore-
gone conclusion and the saving of much
travelling.
Miscellaneous
“Maryborough”: Reg Clemson, who
resigned his job of starter to the Vic-
torian A.A.A. the other day, had held
it since 1920. He started close on
30,000 races. He had intended to hang
up his pistol sooner, but the A.A.A.
asked him to stay on until after the
centenary meeting. W. H. Brown, an
ex-mile champion of Australia, will do
the starting for the Victorian champion-
ships, and will probably succeed the
departing official.
* * * *
“Hermitage”: Tom Miles, of Bunda-
berg, is training for the “world’s” pro-
fessional championship in Melbourne.
Miles has been out o,f the game for a
bit and is getting his form back in an
unusual, manner. He takes a start from
30 yards or so and is chased home by
a pack of tin-hare hounds. Tom reckons
it is a first-class idea for pacemaking,
but he has not adopted the idea of a
local genius that he should attach a
sheep’s liver to the back of his running
shorts and do his best to beat the dogs
to the tape for it.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian athletics have
lost one of their staunchest officials by
the resignation of H. R. Weir, honorary
secretary of the Victorian A.A.A. since
1924. Business pressure and his connec-
tion with the Australian A.A.U. as hon.
sec. are his reasons for giving up the job
he has filled so efficiently. An Austra-
lian selector and a committeeman of the
Empire Games Association and the
Olympic Federation, he also found time
to manage the Australian team at the
Empire Games in Canada in 1930. For
years the organisation of athletic events
in Melbourne has been a shining example
to other States, and the retiring secretary
is chiefly to blame.
* * * *
“Blade”: B. S. Williams, the N.S.W.
rowing selector, has astonished the critics
with his selection of the crew for the
King’s Cup. The usual practice the
world over is to have the weight in the
middle of the boat. Williams’s crew run
from a bow of 12st. 21b. to a stroke of
12st. 81b., the heaviest man being Gould,
of the Police, at No. 7; he weighs
12st. 121 b. The stroke is Mackney, of
the Police and the Wallabies, who took
his crew into second place in the State
championship on the Nepean. Only one
of the Mosman crew that won the State
title has been selected, Bromley, also in
the giant class. Turner, State and Aus-
tralian champion, picked himself for the
sculls.
“Swivel”; John Burrell, the 20-year-
old Mosman oarsman who many think
should have been stroke of the N.S.W.
crew for the inter-State championship,
is, in spite of his youth, a finished oars-
man, having learned the game .at
“Shore.” As stroke of the Mosman eight
he lifted the State championship from
the much weightier Police crew; three
of' his crew were also “Shore” repre-
sentatives. One of the chief objections to
Burrell is his youth. Haesmer was picked
to stroke N.S.W. at 16, though he was
unable to row in the race. Tom Mc-
Donell, of Riverview, stroked an inter-
state eight in the ’nineties when only 17.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Joe Davis evidently
benefited by his encounters here with
Lindrum; cables credit him with a record
break under baulk-line rules, 2002, in
the tourney for a “Daily Mail” cup.
McConachy’s 1943 in Brisbane last year
was the standing record.
* * * *
“Taffelspiel”: It is distressing to note
that ping-pong is becoming tinctured
with the ugly, unsportsmanlike behavior
which of late has made international
cricket, yachting and even croquet (B.
6/2/’35) notorious. In a match between
France and Latvia at an international
tourney in London a riot was only pre-
vented by the removal of an umpire who
had given a ruling with which the bar-
rackers did not agree. The shopworn
claim that international amity is strength-
ened by these sports meetings stopped
another punch when one of the West
End hotels refused to take in the Indian
team. The matter was eventually ad-
justed, but, considering the personnel and
rough-house reputation of the huskies
who affect ping-pong, it cannot be denied
that the proprietors of the offending pub
risked having the place pulled down
about their ears.


Notice.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES
NO LIABILITY.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
One shilling (1/-) per share has been declared
on all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 22nd day of March, 1935.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 21st day of Febru-
ary, and reopen at 10 a.m. on Saturday, the
23rd day of February, 1935, and the dividend
will be payable to shareholders registered in
the books of the Company on Friday, the
22nd day of February, 1935.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
HUGH G. BRAIN,
Manager.
February 8, 1935.
A Policy
«/
THE P. & C. was the first Life Office in Australia to
apply Co-operation to Life Assurance. In adopting
this principle it undertook a policy of greater help-
fulness and service to members. The passing years have
proved how faithfully its aim has been carried out. The
spectacular growth of the Company proves how much
such a plan was needed and appreciated.
In joining the P. & C. you, too, may
enjoy the extra benefits of co-operation.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Directors
H. FELL.
Chairman of Director*:
Hon. A> K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
Patents.
FERROUS METAL AND PROCESS FOR
PRODUCING SAME.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10129/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Business For Sale.
BRISBANE WHOLESALE WINE AND
SPIRIT MERCHANT’S BUSINESS FOR
SALE.
Within city area.
Established over fifty years.
For full particulars apply—
BOX 296 E, G.PO., BRISBANE.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Golden Opportunity
New gold won in all countries during
the past three years has represented the
equivalent of about 100 million sov-
ereigns a year. In August, 1930, before
Britain left the gold standard, present-
day gold outputs would have been valued
in pound notes on the same basis as
sovereigns. But to-day the sterling pound
is worth only three-fifths of a sovereign,
and the London price of gold (£7 2s. per
fine ounce) is 66 p.c. above the August,
1930, level.
English wholesale commodity prices,
on a sterling basis, have dropped from
117.8 in August, 1930, to 104 in
December, 1934. On a gold basis the
drop has been from 117.8 to approxi-
mately 63. In Australia, gold basis, the
commodity-price index (Sydney) has
fallen from 186 in 1929 to something
like 73 in December, 1934. Mining
materials have not dropped in price so
heavily as average commodities, and
Westralian mine labor, at least, is likely
to be dearer in the future. Still, while
the price of gold remains so heavily out
of balance with other prices, low- and
medium-grade goldmining in Australia
has a future the like of which has never
before existed.
But though dealings in shares of
mining concerns on the Stock Exchanges
at one period of last year reached a
point where business in investment stocks
was thrown right out of gear, the in-
crease in production of the metal itself
was only about 16 p.c. Some authori-
ties predicted a 50 p.c, increase in 1935 ;
they, of course, didn’t reckon with the
stupid strike. The noise and activity
apparent for months have been more
than half due to Stock Exchange opera-
tions and promoters’ activities. It takes a
good deal of organisation on the promot-
ing side to float a goldmine, and investors
have been paying through the nose for
promoters’ services.
Provided labor troubles can be over-
come, prosperity of a more substantial
nature is in sight. Lancefield, operating
at Beria (W.A.), has taken about 15
months to get its plant ready for crush-
ing and the mine unwatered. A com-
pany floated by Hoover worked this
show over 30 years ago ; in those days
the ore was somewhat hard to treat, and
gold was only 85s. an ounce. There is
reputed to be 300,000 tons of Bdwt.
stone in the old workings, and drilling
and development suggest much larger
tonnages. The plant, capacity 10,000
tons a month, is now ready to start, and
good returns are generally looked for.
Triton Gold Mines, N.L., was formed
about October, 1933, to take over the
old Mararoa Co.’s property near Cue
(W.A.). When its 10s. shares are fully
paid this concern will have a capital of
£400,000, of which £150,000 represents
vendors’ consideration. Diamond-drill-
ing disclosed 300,000 tons of 60s. stone
(gold at £7). Recent developments in
the Emu North section have disclosed
rather lower values, but in November
the management decided to instal a
60,000-ton-p.a, mill, expected to com-
mence work in July this year.
A smaller concern is Rothsay ; though
this co. was floated about the middle of
1934 its plant is now nearly completed.
“Probable” ore disclosed by present de-
velopments has been put at 120,000 tons
of B|dwt. grade, and geologist Gibson
says that “further large tonnages will un-
doubtedly be developed.” The lode is
of good width. Capital of this concern
is £62,500 in 500,000 half-crown shares.
The Lady Shenton, at Menzies, has
been getting into rich ore. Values of 2oz.
over widths up to 7ft. are reported, these
results being “steadily maintained.” No
recent announcements have been re-
ceived as to the probable ore reserves,
but in December an order for plant was
to be “placed immediately.”
In N. S. Wales New Occidental aims
to commence crushing shortly. Sulphide
Gold (Junction Reefs) is milling ore, as
yet on a rather low scale, from its show
at Mandurama. Euratha G.M. is run-
ning its treatment plant on rich ore, but
costs so far are high owing to the extrac-
tion difficulties. Bismarck, at Lucknow, is
showing excellent production figures.
Victoria has attracted the attention of
at least two large companies with world-
wide interests. In 1933 Oroville Dredg-
ing, Ltd., of London, in conjunction with
other cos., formed three subsidiaries to
work the Bet Bet leads on the Avoca
field. Borings have disclosed very pay-
able wash, and Placer Development has
"Suppose you’re going to be a farmer when you grow up?”
“No fear, mister — I’m gointer be a bank manager.”
recently taken an option over the dredg-
ing area owned by Middle Creek Allu-
vials. New Pyrenees, N.L., another con-
cern working on this field, has proved
something like 20,000,000 cub. yards of
dredging ground averaging about Is. a
yard, and three overseas companies are
interested.
Taking a wide view, there seems to
be a large amount of ore, particularly in
Westralia, yielding about lOdwt. that
can be treated profitably. Unwise pro-
motion practices—the loading of a con-
cern too heavily with “considerations,”
for instance —have made the investing
public somewhat hesitant in putting up
the money to develop unproved shows. It
will be a shame if such greediness does
anything to retard the progress of the
goldmining industry when other condi-
tions are so highly favorable.
The last Australian quarterly banking
figures showed definite signs of revival
in business. Comparing the figures at the
end of 1934 with those at the end of
1933, advances to industry increased by
£8,877,000, while there was a reluctance
on the part of investors to place money
on fixed deposit —the low interest obtain-
able diverted savings into other forms
of investment, notably Stock Exchange
securities and mortgages. Bank clear-
ances, indicating within limits the rate of
currency circulation, are greatly improv-
ing. The full benefits of high wool
values, it is noticeable, have not dis-
appeared, even though the staple is now
down to 9d. or lOd. ; there will prob-
ably be a similar time-lag before we feel
the full effect of low wool prices.
* * * *
Broken Hill Proprietary’s output of
pig-iron, the basic metal from which
nearly all its other products are pro-
cessed, was 38,224 tons for the four
weeks to January 20. That was 8000
tons less than the high figure for
December, but holidays intervened. Pro-
duction so far this year is up nearly 45
p.c. compared with last, when the co.
earned 14.3 p.c. on. its capital. Unifica-
tion of railway gauges would mean huge
rail orders for 8.H.P., which already has
four blast furnaces in operation.
* * * *
There are 555 textile factories, large
and small, in the Commonwealth, em-
ploying 35,547 hands. The figures do
not include those factories which merely
turn textiles into clothes. The develop-
ment of this industry has been particu-
larly encouraging. Socks, stockings and
other articles which have a large market
stand comparison with the best overseas
products, both in quality and price.
* * * ❖
Gold continues above £7 2s. an ounce
in London despite the uncertainty created
by the U.S. dollar-bond test case. Many
Australian mining investors wonder what
effect, if any, the outcome will have on
Australian gold prices. If the U.S.
Supreme Court gives an adverse de-
cision, the Secretary of the Treasury
says, the $2,000,000,000 exchange-stabi-
lisation fund will be used to prevent
“undue appreciation of the dollar.”
Whatever happens, if gold continues to
be bought freely at 35 paper dollars an
ounce in New York, and fewer paper
dollars go to the pound sterling than
hitherto, Australian gold sold to U.S.A.
will fetch the same number of dollars
an ounce, which will convert into more
sterling and more Australian currency.
* * * *
Queensland’s share of the Common-
wealth’s goldmining grant is £70,000, and
£3787 has already been earmarked for
drilling in the Clermont district. Clon-
curry, Bowen, Herberton and Cape York
are other areas in which the Mines
Department will encourage prospecting;
the search for lodes beneath the con-
glomerate capping at the head of the
Mossman will also be assisted. At Black
Jack (Charters Towers) £l5OO is to be
advanced for the installation of crush-
ing machinery. Queensland has been
assisting miners on a smaller scale out
of State revenue for some time.
* * * *
Cement, a drug in the market three
years ago, has become a commodity of
interest again. Practically every co. in
Australia turning out the product is do-
ing enough business to induce investors
to pay par or more for listed shares.
Kandos Cement has a 12 months’ con-
tract with the N.S.W, Government for
the supply of 35,000 tons at £2 17s. 6d.
ex works. N.S.W. output for 1934 was up
54,000 tons, and there may be
expansion in respect of “works.” Still,
with the industry overcapitalised as it is,
the proposal to establish a new £225,000
cement plant at
Granville (N.S.W.),
the limestone to
come from Marulan,
seems scarcely justi-
fied unless remark-
able things are pos-
sible in the matter
of production costs.
* *
The price of shell
is so low that
Broome and T.I. are
feeling the pinch
severely. Fed er a 1
Government is grant-
ing £5OOO to the
industry £2500 to
Westralia, £l5OO to
Queens land and
£lOOO to the Terri-
tory —besides which
the question of a
bounty is being con-
sidered by the Tariff
Board.
* *
Britain was the
Common wealth’s
best wool customer
during July - Dec.,
1934, with pur-
chases at two-thirds
of the 1933 figure.
France’s orders were
worth about half
those of the 1933 period, Belgium’s
a third, Italy’s a fourth, Germany’s an
eighth and Japan’s about half.
* t- * *
It is expected that a trade treaty with
Japan will be concluded when Gullett
returns from England. “Definite negotia-
tions” for trade agreements with Ger-
many, France, Belgium and Italy are
also in train.
* * * *
Billingham-on-Tees, in the cables lately
as the site of Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries’ oil-from-coal plant, was to have had
a synthetic-ammonia factory. The war
ended before production began, and
Brunner Mond took the plant over. It is
now the second-largest chemical works in
the world, with 10,000 employees. The
hydrogenation plant produces ammonia,
fertilisers and acids, and by June next an
output of 30,000,000 gallons of petrol
p.a. is anticipated. The coal is ground,
mixed to a paste with coal-oil, forced
through heaters into large cylinders and


If YOU would make a SOUND truck buy
you MUST have
SIX CYLINDERS
CAST IRON PISTONS
Low Engine Revolutions
f
m.
m
A
is
\ *
Over 2 million 6-cylinder CHEVROLET truck engines in actual use
throughout the world prove that CHEVROLET’S design is right.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
CHEVROLET TRUCK DEALER
CHEVROLET’S FAMOUS over-
head valve truck engine has been
designed and built so that no one
feature has been OVER DEVEL-
OPED at the sacrifice of any other.
That is why it has 6 cylinders
AND NO MORE.
Multi-cylinder engines revolving
at higher engine speeds, to de*
velop sufficient power and torque,
demand the use of light weight
alloy pistons. Such a design, as
all truck users will agree, is un-
suitable for Truck work.
CHEVROLET’S rugged cast iron
pistons and low engine revolu-
tions give more working miles
without re-boring, longer piston
life and, what is most important
HIGH POWER OUTPUT AT
LOW ENGINE SPEEDS. This
also means less oil consump-
tion and freedom from constant
irritating engine maintenance.
C. 26.44
CHEVROLET HAS BUILT UP WORLD TRUCK LEADERSHIP ON THESE BASIC
FUNDAMENTALS. CAN YOU, AS TRUCK OPERATORS, RISK DEPARTING
ENGINEERING
FROM THEM?
POST THIS COUPON TO YOUR CHEVROLET
DEALER.
Please send me Free Booklet, entitled “101
HINTS ON ECONOMICAL TRANSPORTATION."
Name
Street
Town
SOVO.I
N OX
OX
mmm
s
G£
then treated with hydrogen at high tem-
perature. The non-mineral part of the
coal is thus converted into heavy oil,
from which the petrol is vaporised. The
£4,000,000 plant for the production of
petrol covers 60 acres. According to
recent reports, production cost of petrol
is under 7d. per gallon. The Govern-
ment is granting a preference of 4d. a
gallon as against imported motor spirit.
Progress should be interesting to those
concerned about the Australian coal and
shale industries.
* * * *
Latest estimate for the Common-
wealth wheat crop is 128,000,000 bushels,
a drop of 47,000,000 bushels on last
year, and the lowest yield since 1929.
* * * *
S’Africa had a better year in 1934.
Business conditions in the first six months
of the term were exceptionally good,
merchants stocking up in anticipation of
big things in the mining industry. But,
as in Australia, it was found that a great
deal of the renewed “mining” activity
was for the moment restricted to the
Stock Exchange; actual mining pros-
perity has not reached its full stride. In
the second half of 1934 business fell
away. The outlook, however, is excel-
lent, the overseas trade position having
improved out of sight, thanks to the
premium on gold. The surplus of ex-
ports over imports is likely to become
embarrassing, the S’African pound being
kept on a par with sterling. Customs
and railway revenue is bouyant.
Volume of gold production in Canada
for 1934 was actually below that for
1933 or 1932, partly due to the low-grade
milling policy of some mines. In Canada,
too, there has been a drastic marking-
down in the market prices of shares in
unproved mining shows ; previously the
position was threatening to become very
unhealthy.
* 4-' '!•'
Figures issued by the Midland Bank,
London, show that new capital issues in
Britain, exclusive of conversions and
loans by the British Government, were
£17,000,000 higher in 1934, the total
being £150,000,000. Of the lot,
£106,700,000 was in respect of U.K.
industries and corporate bodies;
£40,000,000 went to British Dominions
and dependencies, mainly S’Africa, Rho-
desia and Australia —a good deal of it
encouraged by the world-wide revival of
goldmining.
* * *
Belgian textile exports have fallen
30 p.c. in volume and nearly 70 p.c. in
value since 1929. The industry’s aggre-
gate financial results show a heavy loss.
About 44 p.c. of Belgian textile workers
are unemployed. Belgium’s imports of
our wool during the first six months of
the current fiscal year fell away by about
two-thirds; the industry is asking its
Government for “a more liberal policy
for imports of raw material.”
* * * *
“No Hooks”; Billy Hughes has been
taken to the pick-up places of the
Melbourne wharfies and found them
to be what others have known them to
be for years—open, unsheltered spots
without provision for rest or even sani-
tation. Billy, who was hailed as a com-
rade by the assembled men, was sym-
pathetic, and possibly something may be
done. The wharfie spends half his life
waiting for something to turn up. He
gets nothing for his enforced idleness.
At Darwin he sometimes works 39 hours
without a decent break. It is bursts like this
which lead people to regard the wharfie
as a capitalist. He gets big money for
overworking himself cruelly, and possibly
has no more work for a month. His
average is away down among the lowest,
and the fact of his receiving money in
lumps leads inevitably to the pub, the
two-up school and the s.-p. book.
* sK * *
“Ortho”; Professor John Read, one-
time Professor of Organic Chemistry at
Sydney Uni., was one of the first to
draw attention to the possibilities of
manufacturing power alcohol in Aus-
tralia. In his book on organic chemistry
he says;—
Neither coal nor petroleum has any
claim to be regarded as a permanent
standard source of organic energy. The
combustion of coal and petroleum repre-
sents an inroad upon large but constantly-
decreasing natural products, which are in-
capable of replacement, besides being far
too valuable for other purposes to be
merely used as fuel. Alcohol is suitable for
use in modern internal-combustion engines,
and as long as the sun shines and plants
grow it may be produced in unlimited
quantities.
Thus, besides the economic aspect (B.
16 /1 / ’35), there are scientific reasons
which will sooner or later compel every
country to cease burning coal and
petroleum and use power-alcohol.


w
ROSS f° r HEIGHT/
(client, age 19$, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks. No Appliances
' „ 21 „ 5 „ in 5 mths. —No Drugs.
„ 20, „ 3$ in 16 days. No Dieting.
„ „ 30, ~ 2 „in 4 weeks.
„ „ 40. U„in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3fins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from dll over the world.
Pee £2 2s. complete. Details Free. Write now:—
A. K. ROSS; Height Specialist, J
1 Scarborough. Eng. (P.O. Box 15.)
The Neiv SIMONIZ KIEENER RESTORES
Gar Beauty Quickly and Easily
ŵ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
NORTH OF
TWENRY-EIGHT
“Shallow”: Judge Wells, trying a case
at Alice Springs in the heart of Aus-
tralia, was offended by the sight of coat-
less jurymen, and sent them off to pro-
cure the garment which he apparently
regards as indispensable to the proper
administration of justice, whatever the
temperature may be. Some of them, it
seems, * had to borrow the insignia of
respectability— coats being regarded as
either a luxury or an infliction, or both,
at Alice—but eventually the judicial re-
quirements were met. What a fatuous
idea is this insistence on the etiquette
of the cities being observed in the oppres-
sive heat of an outback courthouse! I
can recall a broad-minded clergyman on
the Westralian goldfields who let it be
known that he had not the slightest ob-
jection to the male members of his con-
gregation listening to his sermons in their
shirtsleeves —indeed, when summer was
at. his height he would invite them to do
so. It isn’t stated whether his Honor
showed due regard for his conception of
the dignity of the Law by wearing his
own official horsehair.
*
“Sakki”: Coats have become almost a
national matter during heat-waves. Judge
Wells told a jury at Alice Springs
to put them on. A Methodist pastor in
Ipswich (Q.) told his congregation they
might take them off. And Sydney’s
most miserable spectacles have been
visiting Terri torians, who in similar
weather on their native heath would be
arrayed in shirt-sleeves and white
trousers, sweating in tweed suits, com-
plete with waistcoats. The coat, collar
and tie are stupid garments in the heat.
A sarong is far more sensible, but Indian
shorts, which everybody wears in Delhi
and Lahore, would fill the bill. The
tailors wouldn’t approve of them,
though. You can buy a summer outfit
in Northern India for about 15s.—one
that even the Asian washerman who
bangs the washing on a stone cannot
destroy.
* * *
“N.T. ’: When the development of the
N.T. comes seriously to be considered
somebody should remember that so far
it has not followed the example of other
States and experimented with imported
grasses. In N.S.W., Vic. and coastal
Queensland, English and American, with
occasional African, species are ousting
the native fodder. In India, large areas
of sand country as dry as Centralia have
been reclaimed by the use of grasses with
binding roots and a better sole than any-
thing we have in the interior. Four or
five hundred pounds spent on sending an
agrostologist to Hindustan would prob-
ably pay for itself a good many times
over. The ’Ghans brought over two or
three grasses with their camel feed, and,
although nobody has paid much atten-
tion to them in the Land of Doesn’t
Matter, they are spreading nicely enough
to make experiment with them worth
while.
* * * *
“Vic”; It is all right for medicoves to
sneer at the possibility of caterpillar bite,
of which somebody is alleged to have
died at Ilfracombe (C.Q.); but —different
constitutions, different idiosyncrasies. I
once had a man in a party I was in com-
mand of who was useless after he had
taken five grains of quinine. To the rest
of us it was jam. The common cootie,
after a night of revelry, always leaves
me without my breakfast, even if he has
done his dirty work while I am so tired
that I am not conscious of his goings
on. And it is the same with the giant
stinging tree. I have seen a native carrier
barge straight into it, apparently receive
the same treatment as any ordinary
human, and join in the evening’s sing
sing. But I, who merely brushed a hand
against a couple of leaves, could not
sleep for the agony for a couple of days.
* * * *
“Eck de Sulzbach”: The League of
Nations Malaria Commission is investi-
gating cost and supply of quinine (B.
9/1/’35), The tree at present used for
production (C. ledgeriana ) requires
special conditions of soil, temperature
and altitude; so South America and the
Dutch East Indies have a virtual mon-
opoly. The Malaria Commission’s pro-
duct, called Totaquina, can be made by
the extraction of the alkaloids from the
bark of common chinchona, and stand-
ardised by the addition of more or less
quinine. These more robust species may
be grown in any tropical country ; an
opportunity for North Australia to de-
velop a new industry. A ready market
exists in the whole of Asia.
# * * *
“Kaloa”: Queensland Mines Depart-
ment is pushing ahead with mining en-
couragement, and, apart from operations
of larger companies at Mt. Morgan,
Charters Towers and Gympie, the gouger
and syndicate are receiving attention.
Excellent reports recently have been
made by a southern engineer on shows
at the old Cape River diggings, which
were discovered in 1868 ; and the Cape
York fields—particularly Batavia River,
which ceased to be worked a few years
ago because of climatic conditions —are
doing well. Clermont, Croydon,
Etheridge and Kidston are all being
“Want a job diggin' up spuds, Jacky?”
“S’posum you get pfeller wot bin plant ’em —’e know where they are.”
turned over with a pin. And if reefs
that have returned their capital to the
shareholders in dividends in a year
can be discovered on the old Lucknow
field (N.S.W.) within a few miles of
the spot where gold was first found, any-
thing should be possible in the North.
* * * *
“Vic”: Queensland had 498,000 people
in it at Federation. The population has
doubled in a little over a generation, and
increased 25.3 p.c. to 947,000 since 1921.
There has not been the intensive rush
to the capital that there has been in some
other States, though since 1921 the metro-
politan population has increased from
27.9 p.c. to 31.8 p.c. And 28.6 p.c.—
slightly larger than in ’2l- —are employed
in the pastoral and agricultural indus-
tries, while percentages engaged in Gov-
ernment jobs and the professions actu-
ally have decreased.
* * * *
“32 x 40”: I nominate willy-willies
as the most reliable of all weather
signs. If the willies spin right-hand, it’s
a sure sign of a dry time ; if they spin
the reverse, look out for big rains. After
30 years’ watching I’ve yet to see a willy-
willy before 12 o’clock in the day. In-
cidentally, the best I ever saw was one
that lifted Nugget Hutton’s loaded wool-
team from Lucknow station (Q.) and de-
posited it at Winton, 150 miles away.
* * * *
“O’Jones”; At low tide on North-
West Island (Great Barrier Reef) the re-
ceding sea often uncovers sand strikingly
patterned. Large schools of stingrays
feeding in the ebbing shallows leave out-
lines of their forms upon the loose sand,
the imprints lying almost flap to flap.
The pattern generally stretches for a
hundred yards or more along the beach,
and the design would do credit to any
linoleum manufacturer with a leaning
towards something ultra-modern.
* * * *
“Heather”: I see Lord Sempill has
had another forced landing—on the
North Westralian coast this time. When
he was in Queensland a Longreach
station-hand, having a quiet smoke after
dinner, saw an aeroplane appear from
the north and, after circling, try twice
to land. The ground was a bit rough
for the pilot’s liking, and he went a
few miles further on. The station-
hand immediately got on the ’phone and
inquired at the next place if a ’plane
had landed there. The pilot answered
him ; it was Lord Sempill, and he and the
station-hand were old acquaintances.
The latter had left Scotland eight years
before, after having leased a farm
on Lord Sempill’s estate. His lord-
ship flew over next morning and
spent a few hours at the station, remark-
ing that it was the pleasantest forced
landing he’d ever had.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mrs, Conrad Glindemann, sen., who
celebrated her 90th birthday last week,
came from Germany 72 years ago with
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kuder.
She was married in 1864, and ran the
Mt. Gravatt dairy with her husband for
many years. A son carries it on now,
but Mrs. Glindemann still looks after
the fowls and takes an interest in the
garden. Our climate again!
Mr. and Mrs. T. Page, both over 90,
have just returned from Sydney. Their
family, all married, mostly live there,
and the young couple thought it would
be a good idea to celebrate their
seventieth wedding anniversary among
the children.
Cool in blue and white, Mrs. Eric
Fernandez entertained a party at bridge
at Montpelier. Mrs. F. Tritton was
among the guests with daughter Madame
Nadejine, who soon will be returning to
London and her songster husband.
Mrs. Edgar Harris, who leaves for
England by the Orford, has been enter-
tained at a round of farewell teas. The
Lyceum Club had its party for her
at the first Wednesday afternoon-tea ; the
teas were dropped as usual during the
hottest weather.
Fred, the elder of the bright Ewen
Loxton boys, recently was admitted to
the English Bar. He was sponsored by
John Singleton, J., of the King’s Bench
Division.
Jean Estrelle White, who became
Mrs. Robin Lashmar at St. John’s Pres-
byterian Church, wore a veil of Brussels
lace with her magnolia satin gown. The
bridesmaids—in blue—were Gwen Watt
and Fordyce Campbell, G, Brandon and
A. Lashmar supported the ’groom, and
the Northern Rivers will see the honey-
moon,
Kathleen Nolan, second daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. Stanley Nolan, of Too-
woomba, said her “I wills” to Dr.
Maxwell Ramsden, son of Mr. and Mrs.
E. G. Ramsden, of Victoria, in St.
James’s lovely old church, where the
huge blue banner sewn with silver stars,
each one commemorating a Toowoomba
lad in khaki who stayed “over there,”
hangs above the chancel. Crinkly flat
crepe formed the wedding garment, and
the bride, who was given away by her
father, also wore a priceless veil of
Mechlin lace. Mrs. Harold Walsh (Kath
Connolly), of Toowoomba, a school
friend of the bride, was matron of
honor in Nile-green draperies that set
off her Titian hair. Russell Cuppaidge
was best man. The newly-weds will
settle down in Goondiwindi.
Mrs. Lorimer Walker, down from
Aramac, hostessed a gay tea-party at
Rowe’s in honor of Beverley Wymond,
who shortly marries Don Grant. Mrs.
Walker is staying with her mother, Mrs.
Hockley, at Chelmer for a few weeks.
George White, Robert Miller, Ernest
Llewellyn and Adrian Ashton (the Syd-
ney String Quartet), visiting Brisbane,
were entertained at a studio party by
Eunice Cochrane and Hugh Brandon.
Host, hostess and guests all contributed
to a musical programme,
Brisbane Girls’ Grammar School cele-
brates its diamond jubilee this year, and
the O.G.A. has decided that its
Dramatic and Musical Club shall help
with the concert which is set down for
May. The O.G.A. alsp will run a fete at
the school in October. Mrs. R. J. Webb,
president last year, handed over her
chair at the annual meeting to headmis-
tress Kath Lilley. The association has a
membership of 570, and the financial
statement showed a credit balance.
W. F. Gardiner, Brisbane manager of
the Adelaide Steamship Co., has cheered
the hearts of the Limbless Soldiers’ Asso-
ciation by telling them that the Manoora
has been placed at the disposal of the
committee for a ball in aid of the asso-
ciation, The Manoora arrives in Bris-
bane for the first time on June 1, and
the ball will be held on June 14. Only
400 tickets are to be sold, and our Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Jones, is convening a
meeting to make the necessary arrange-
ments.
The Musical Association entertained
its president, Leonard Francis, and
Mrs. Francis, who leave for England by
the Hobson’s Bay, and vice-president
Dailey Scarlett, aided by Mrs. Dailey
Scarlett, received the guests.
Mrs. G. H. Mocatta is planning a trip
to America, She sails by the Mariposa
early in March, but probably will put
in a few days in Sydney before leaving.
Our Deputy-Governor, Blair, J., and
his lady entertained 26 guests at a dinner
party in the roof-garden at the National
Hotel, including the Premier and Mrs.
Forgan Smith, the Percy Pease pair, Lord
Mayor Jones and his wife, Archbishop
Wand and his better-half, Justice and
Mrs. Macrossan and Clare, Justice W.
Webb and Mrs. Webb, Commander and
Mrs. J. C. McFarlane, Brig.-General and
Mrs. E. M. Ralph, Mr. and Mrs. J. D.
Storey, Mr. L. M. McKillop and Kath
McKillop, Mrs. J. J. Buchanan, Mrs. J.
L. Woolcock, Mrs. Lucas, Archbishop
Duhig and Norman White.
Lord Forteviot and his wife, with
whom Aileen Bell, of Coochin, stayed
while she was in England, arrived in
Australia on the Monowai, and are
going up to Coochin, and then on to
Mackay, where some relatives, the
Heaton-Ellises, live.


The
built with
_ __ . CORD
r - Ql>|S GOODYEAR FEATURE)
(AN t’ tCtUS
Gives you genuine
GOODYEAR QllttlTl
at a low price
di
i
P*
JkahfincUti •
Wkm m am mW a i 1 ■
14-C5-3S.
GOODFYEAR
Goodyear has built the
Pathfinder to Goodyear
quality standards has built
long mileage into the thick,
deep-gripping tread with its
tough, massive shoulders.
Goodyear has built the
Pathfinder carcass with the
famous Supertwist Cord in
every ply, to give the well-
known Goodyear endurance
and long life.
To-day's Pathfinder prices
are the lowest at which
Goodyear quality has ever
been offered. Ask your
* Goodyear Dealer for the
price on your size.


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
JHE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so safe
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
gPCUl&ris cmexican;
Vkdrud Stairn,
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
w
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rales Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
ŵ
Do not miss
the King’s
Silver
Jubilee
celebrations
1935.
HOWARD
g I NORFOLK ST.
MU ItL STRAND
LONDON
London’s luxury hotel,everything newand
up-to-date. Every room has either private
bathroom or running water, central heat-
ingand telephone. The restaurant is unsur-
passed, the bathrooms and suites are really
beautiful. Perfect environment for relax-
ation and pleasure. Close to all Theatres.
12/6, including breakfast. Early reserva-
tion advisable. Wire: HowdotH London.
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
Booklet jrom “Bulletin/ 1 byancy.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The world of Sydney will gather at
the Man-o’-war Steps to-morrow morn-
ing at 10.40 to - greet the State’s new
Governor, Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven.
Official Secretary Harry Budge went
over to Perth with his greetings.
The medical profession sat up to atten-
tion at the screening of the film by
which Sister Elizabeth Kenny demon-
strated the results of her system of treat-
ing paralysis. The method is one evolved
by the unselfish worker over years of
nursing, starting with meningitis patients
on troopships during the war. It shows
particularly good results in infantile
paralysis cases. Dr. Johnny Hunter was
interested in Sister Kenny’s work, and
she has been honored by her own State
to the extent of having a clinic opened
by the Government to train students in
her methods. She is presenting the re-
sults of her research to Australia “for
the good of humanity,” having refused
tempting offers from other sources. This
true patriot is a tall, serene and charm-
ing woman, addicted to pictorial black
velvet hats. She is an ardent and popu-
lar member of the C.W.A. Some years
ago she invented the Sylvia stretcher for
ambulance work.
Byron had quite a little innings last
week. This was nothing to do with
Authors’ Week, but was mainly due to
Amy Kane, who arrived from Maoriland
on her way to Istamboul. Directly she
named her destination, the listener
quoted;
Though I fly to Istamboul,
Athens holds my heart and soul.
However, Miss Kane is amiable, and her
pleasant smile didn’t crack under the
strain. The lady is a niece of veteran
Ted Kane, who was, till death called the
long adjournment last year, Enzed’s
Clerk of Parliament. Before she took to
public work, she was on the staffs of the
M.L. “Times” and the “Dominion.”
Miss Kane goes to Istamboul as dele-
gate to the International Alliance of
Women for Suffrage and Equal Citizen-
ship. Mrs. Albert Littlejohn will repre-
sent Australian women at the same parley.
Turkish, Egyptian and Greek sisters will
throw their arguments into the discus-
sion. This should flutter some silver-
ankleted, tinkling ghosts of purdah, as it
will be held in the Yildiz Kiosk, part
of the old Sultan’s harem. Kemal Pasha
himself is hosting a reception to the
ladies from many lands. These Maori-
land presswomen move about a bit.
Nelle Scanlan, of Wellington, is helping
to feed the machines in Fleet-street in
between writing novels; another of
them, Evelyn Isaacs, has a job on the
Manchester “Guardian.”
Passed out in her home at Wollstone-
craft on Valentine’s Day, Miss M. A.
Robertson, a sweet singer of verse that
found its way into many Australian
papers and magazines. Her charming
personality made her a loved member of
the Sydney Lyceum Club and of the
Society of Women Writers. A book of
her collected poems was published in
Sydney a year or so ago.
Already would-be entrants in the City
of Sydney Eisteddfod are clamoring for
the 1935 syllabus. There were ten
thousand or more vocalists, musicians,
elocutionists and other sound-makers
keeping the judges working overtime
last year in spite of the persistent deluge.
The affair has shot up till it rivals
Ballarat’s South-street competitions, and
organiser D. G. Macdougall looks
upon it as his special bean-stalk.
Up it many competitors have climbed
to good broadcasting engagements;
one or two have even progressed
into opera. There’s a democratic
appeal about an eisteddfod that stimu-
lates talent in unlooked-for places.
One entrant in the operatic section was
an extra girl in a hotel. She has prob-
ably left that job a long way behind, for
her teacher said she was a hard worker
and her voice was of great sweetness.
The Overseas Club in London is a sort
of home from home for travellers from
the Dominions. Its gospel is Bonds of
Empire and Hands Across the Sea, and,
like the Royal Empire Society, it has a
tremendous roll of members. There is
an Overseas Hospitality Committee, and
the hostess is a Sydney woman, Mrs.
Cooper Day. Arline Waddy, whose por-
trait by a Freeman camera is here pre-
sented. is secretary of the Sydney branch
of the Overseas. Last week she returned
from England, where she had been holi-
daying for 12 months. Occasional Medi-
terranean and Norwegian cruises and
trips to Scotland and Ireland were tucked
into the itinerary, and Austria, Palestine
and Cairo proved other highlights of
interest. Of course, being a Waddy, she
timed her visit to take in the Test
matches.
At the farewell to Mrs. Littlejohn
all the little green chairs in the Blaxland
Galleries were blooming with the seed-
lings and the full-grown plants of
Feminism. An acre or so of intimate
green tables was crowned with teacups,
and beyond the waves of stripes, dots,
flowered silks and chiffons the guest,
slim and alert, could be seen banked
about with garden loot. This was a
United Associations party, and here was
an ambassador from every known
woman’s organisation. They all spoke.
If it had been an eisteddfod, the palm
would have gone to Mrs. Littlejohn and
Dr. Constance D’Arcy— to the first for
clear incisiveness, to the second for
beauty of tone. Probably in such tones
Isolde spoke to Tristan. Mrs. Littlejohn
takes with her letters to high officials in
Berlin and to the head of the Greek
Church.
Women simply clamored for seats in
the House to hear former Minister for
Health Weaver in reply to the Premier.
All the galleries were packed with the
fan-waving sex; by half-past two every
woman in the stuffy, drab chamber was
an ardent supporter of the anti-sweating
bill —even the mad-to-get-slim ones. No
world tenor could have been listened to
in a more complete silence. Even the
“Good on you, Weaver! ” from one fair
supporter was but the equivalent of an
enthusiastic bravo. The Speaker’s Gal-
lery was tense with Ministers’ wives.
Mrs. Bruxner was there, smart in black-
and-white. At the end of the front row
sat Mrs. Spooner, and a sister of Speaker
Dan Levy, Mrs. Bertie Lloyd, sat further
back. Pretty girls from town and coun-
try were eager followers of every word.
Phyllis Nelson, from Dubbo, leaned for-
ward on the railing, looking like an atten-
tive orchid.
The first charity music party of the
year was held in the Mayoress’s rooms
at Sydney Town Hall on Friday. The
expenses of the Legacy Club Ball, at
which new Governor Alexander Hore-
Ruthven will preside, should be mostly
provided for as a result. The rooms
were crowded with humans and brilliant
with flowers. Orange and crimson
cannas, exotic tiger-lilies and the tropical
hibiscus mingled their color with the
rhythm of a programme starry with
talent. Mrs. Parker received her guests
in flowered chiffons of primrose greens
and yellows, topped by a shady straw
hat.
Alice Bolger, who goes abroad at the
end of next month, is to be given a testi-
monial performance of “Meet the Wife”
on March 4 at St. James’s Hall. In this
play Miss Bolger played the part of Ger-
trude Lennox, the leading lady, a few years
back. She will take the same part again,
and associated with her will be Helen
Kent, William Rees, William Leahy and
Paul Johnstone. Miss Bolger gained her
stage experience with the Mosman Musi-
cal Society. Andrew Beresford’s Reper-
tory Theatre, the T. O. Y. Theatre, the
Burdekin Players and with Scott Alex-
ander. She leaves to gain further experi-
ence, and to seek stage and musical
engagements.
Patricia Littlejohn, still in her teens,
has the distinction of being the first and
only woman demonstrator in the School
of Veterinary Science at Sydney Uni.
Patricia is a bachelor of the “be kind
to dumb animals” science, and is very
serious in her intention to make a career
for herself ; but this is what you would
expect from a daughter of Mrs. Albert
Littlejohn. The photograph is from Alan
Rowe.
Artist Neville Smith, who has joined
the staff of the Con., came back to
Sydney on the Monterey, and novelist
Vicki Baum was aboard as far as Maori-
land. Vicki is a dazzling blonde, flaxen-
haired and blue-eyed. These eyes, he
says, are most arresting, and have almost
a clairvoyant expression—as though they
looked not only at the object, but
through it and beyond. Miss Baum is
industrious, and spent all her afternoons
writing. Every night she danced, and
almost always wore blue —Pekin blue.
She is an interesting talker, has a well
modulated voice and was very popular,
Mr. Smith has come, by way of New
York and Chicago, from Arizona, where
he has lived at a town with the self-ex-
planatory name of Phoenix. He knows
Mexico intimately, and spent his last
holiday in a primitive corner called
Altar. All the houses are of adobe ; the
w 7 alls, of immense thickness, have in the
course of ages become a rich copper
color. The houses have no windows, no
water, no light, no gas. It is a grand
place for a slimming cure. There is little
food, and what there is is so badly
cooked you never want it. However, all
is not lost. The inhabitants make a most
intoxicating drink called tequila from
the cactus plant. (Can’t some inventor
get busy on our prickly pear?) The
horses and their riders are the most
handsome products of the district. The
horses wear hand-cut leather saddles ; the
Mexicans are gallant in somberos, curved
spurs and leather trappings. Inciden-
tally, who has heard of champagne made
from grapefruit? Arizona claims that
England has ordered tons of it for this
purpose. Somehow this Letter thinks
tequila might be less of an experiment.
The East Sydney branch of the Tech.
College holds its students’ exhibition of
art work —designing is a feature of this
big class, under the all-seeing eye of
teacher Phyllis Shillito—at the Blax-
land Galleries. Official opening was on
Feb. 18, when the Minister for Education,
Mr. Drummond, gave it his departmen-
tal blessing. Miss Shillito, trained in the
big English art schools, was represented
by a strong portrait study, “Inc
Aviator,” in the Archibald Portrait Prize
competition.
One of the first parties on every
Mayoress’s social calendar is one to the
presswomen. Last week the civic hostess
invited the brewers of the social columns
to a tea and talk. And that brings up
the question, What do presswomen talk
about? Not the latest titbits simmering
in their brain. No ; they must be served
hot in the next edition of each one’s par-
ticular paper. But there is pleasant chat
of holidays and sunburn and coral rash
(if you’ve been one of the lucky ones at
the Barrier Reef). There’s talk of sales
bargains and change of jobs, and a good
deal of cigarette smoke. Last week two
of the girls remembered that before they
were word-builders they had been song-
makers, and provided an impromptu pro-
gramme. Not nearly so exciting and re-
putation-wrecking as Mrs. Clubwoman
thinks.
The lunch to Commander Reynolds
brought Royal Empirians flocking to the
Australia. How few of us knew until
we listened to the guest’s speech that the
R.E., then known as the Royal Colonial
Institute, was founded just about the time
a great Personage was declaring that “the
colonies are a millstone around our neck.”
A small room above a shirt shop off the
Strand was the society’s first home—very
different from the new one being built, j
which will have no fewer than 70 bed-'
rooms, Maoriland, by the way, is send-1
ing a gift of timber to be used in thej
panelling. Sydney tops the list with 9001
overseas members ; Montreal comes next
with 400.
There was a great flutter in Chief j
Secretary Chaffey’s office the other day|
when a deputation, fifty strong, over-1
flowed its accommodation. The Minister j
paled and recoiled on seeing the visita-|
tion, but was all smiles when the spokes-;
man assured him the call was one of con- ‘
gratulation. In the company were repre-
sentatives of literary societies and out-of-1
work actors and actresses (some of them
Canon Hammond’s guests), who make an
occasional pound doing extra work on
the films. Feminists were there, too, and
even members of the Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation. The talk was of the Film Quota
Bill. Calculations seemed to be that the
novelist in Australia netted about £125
out of a novel it had taken him a year
to write. But if Australian films had to
be produced, then the writer might easily
make £325 out of his novel. Scenarios,
the expert reckons, bring about £2OO
each.
Mrs. W. D. Langton is leaving Col-
laroy and is about to make her home at
Mudgee. She has bought the home of
the explorer Lawson, and she and daugh-
ters Betty, Winifred and Mary are look-
ing forward to settling down amid the
scenic beauties of the district.


COME to Sydney
and STAY
i at
$
\0
s
$
4 s
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
/ 'Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Personal and Missing Friends.
SMITH.—WiII WILLIAM DUDLEY HAR-
LAND SMITH, who was last heard of in
Sydney, N.S.W., or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with
POWELL, ROGERS & MERRICK, Solicitors,
2 Clement’s Inn, Strand, London, England,
when he will hear of something to his advan-
tage.
o
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Don't miss the issue on sale this week-end; special colored cover
and wonderfully interesting contents. Price, 3d.
SPECIAL KNITTING NUMBER.
Prize-winners in the £65 Knitting Competition, together with the six winning designs,
illustrated and described.
FIRST INSTALMENT OF A NEW SERIAL.
A charming romance with a New Zealand Setting, Author and Artist,
“HOME'S WHERE THE HEART IS,"
By ROSEMARY REES.
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MABEL LETHBRIDGE.
A Review of an extraordinary young woman of to-day.
FREE PATTERN OF A SMART SKIRT.
EYE LOTION
H. A
lamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
ROSE Co, Ltd. King St. Sydney
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Centenary Club put its best foot
forward on Saturday afternoon in the
J. J. Olneys’ garden. The open-air
gathering was arranged to help defray
expenses of the Mallee Mothers’ and
Children’s holiday camp. The Rev.
Nichols (“Brother Bill”) gave a few stat-
istics and introduced his wife with “I’m
the Rector, but she’s the Director.”
He said that it was his business to do
good, for he’s “in the parson trade.” Mrs.
Britomarte James made a speech, and
Edith Harrhy produced a bush fantasy
wherein her daughters were mortals and
Judy Joy Davies and other pupils of
Florrie Green danced as fairies in pink
tulle. The children were intrigued with
their dressing-room, a red-and-white
beach-tent. Margaret Marshall gave abo.
items, and Colonel Holman James made
a tiger stockwhip behave like an obedient
domestic pet. The band played beside a
bronze prunus; the audience sat in
the shade of an elm, walked about among
the gnomes, kangaroos, stags and other
garden statuary and took tea beside a
lily-pond.
The pioneering names of Kiddle and
Snodgrass figured at the Quamby Club
one afternoon last week. Possibly the
roots of these family trees were watered
with a farewell glass of spiced wine
about 90 years ago when sailing ships
cast their moorings for long journeys to
this wild and savage country. The
Quamby reception-room was filled with
hydrangeas which hadn’t made up their
minds whether to be blue or green, and
the tea-tables were strewn with an abund-
ance of gold zinnias, bronze leaves and
phlox. The hostesses were two sisters:
Mrs. Evelyn Snodgrass, in black chiffon
strewn with a mist of leaves, and Miss
M. Kiddle, in Arab-brown chiffons pat-
terned with a delicate floral design.
Guests of honor were Mrs. Rupert
Kiddle, of Wagga, and daughter Juliet;
Mrs. Kiddle’s black georgette had a trace
of cherry in its weave, and Juliet wore
floral ninon with a white ribbon as an
anchorage for her blue hat. Among the
other guests were the Miller, Cresswell
and Elder ladies, Mrs. Robert Power, all
in black, with twisted metal trimmings
upon her hat, and Mrs. Arthur Bullivant,
also in the midnight shade. Black-and-
white color schemes were chosen by Mrs.
Seymour Dennis and Mary Chomley, and
Mrs. L. F. Mcßean and Mrs. Hugh Bulli-
vant were among those who chose light-
weight flowered draperies.
The Alex. Russells, who sailed this
week for England, were toasted with
cocktails and farewelled with hot and
cold collations round the buffet supper-
table at Banogil, Skipton, the home of
the Osborne Fairbairns. The hostess
wore a gown of slinky black crepe suede
with white gardenias upon the shoulder,
Mrs. Russell was in sapphire. Among
the guests were the J. V. Fairbairns, of
Mount Elephant, Derrinallum, the Pat
Fairbairns, the Gordon Chirnsides and
the Andy Chirnsides, the Ernest Austins,
the Geoffrey Streets and Mrs. Clive
Currie. The chatelaine of Mawallok
(where royalty was entertained last year)
is taking her youthful daughter overseas.
Plans are afoot for the Polo Ball to
be held on the night of the first polo
match, March 7, at Earl’s Court. The
year’s social season gets it push-off with
the polo and March races about the time
that holiday-makers are packing up and
preparing to return to town. Proceeds
from the dance will go to the C.W.A. and
the Lady Northcote Free Kindergarten
at Montague. Mrs. Harry Creswick, at
whose house the first meeting was held.
has been elected president of the com-
mittee.
Every day from nine o’clock onwards
there are long queues waiting to see
Titania’s Palace. On Sunday afternoon
little cripples from Yooralla and the Aus-
tin were among the admirers. On Feb-
ruary 23 the palace leaves Melbourne for
Adelaide and Perth, but it will return
in May. Later it will be shown in Gee-
long, Ballarat, Brisbane, Newcastle and
once more in Sydney before being
shipped overseas next October.
The lass in the Jack Cato portrait is
Mignon, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. H. B. Munro. Elder daughter
Gwen, who had a trip to America as a
result of being chosen as Australian re-
presentative in the quest-for-beauty com-
petitions, is at present touring M.L. with
“The Wind and the Rain,” Gwen and
Mignon went to school in Switzerland ;
they are both keen on languages and
share similar dramatic inclinations.
Mignon is a Little Theatre recruit,; and is
now rehearsing with “Sorry You’ve Been
Troubled,” the Power-house Dramatic
Club’s effort in aid of the Somers Camp
which commences at the Garrick on the
23rd.
Lads who have been on the roll at
Somers automatically become members
of the “power-house.” At Somers the
scheme is to mix 50 per cent, of the
public schoolboys and industrial workers
in each “house.” There are various
scraps, for boys must fight their own
battles, but there’s a good sporting inter-
house rivalry which helps lads situated in
different walks of life to get a glimpse of
one another’s point of view. The big
annual camp at Somers took place in
January, but smaller camps are run every
month,
Catriona MacLeod is being made
much of by her mother’s family, the
Justin Carrs, of Brighton. Mrs. Angus
MacLeod (who before her marriage was
Jean Carr) has come to Melbourne to
visit her family, and will be joined there
later by her husband. The MacLeod
stronghold is at Skeabost, on the Isle of
Skye, where nearly everybody speaks
Gaelic, and there are three schools to 50
crofts. The Angus * MacLeods travel
abroad a good deal, but are always at
Skeabost for Christmas.
Everybody who can possibly scrape
together the fare and a bit over seems to
be off to England this year, and every
bunk was booked months ago on all out-
going steamers. Most people sail off in
a whirl of fuss, flowers, smiles, tears,
streamers and wild embraces with mere
acquaintances whom they forget as soon
as they grow their sea legs. But before
any of these frills can happen there’s a
scuffle with the taxation octopus, and
some red-tape to be unknotted at the
Customs, amidst angry murmurings about
the innocent photographer and his all-
revealing passport photo. Passport offi-
cials are usually patient people, but they
do get weary of arguments when women
with dark auburn hair spill ink over
their passport's on the line which, inter-
preted, means platinum blonde.
A vise for Argentina was refused to a
man born in Buenos Aires of British
parents. He was brought up in Eng-
land, all his interests are British, and
he did not return to the republic for his
military training. Now he has to do
without a job offered to him in Buenos
Aires. Most foreign wives living
in Argentina pack a suitcase with baby
clothes and set off in good time across
the river to have their infants in
Uruguay. The Argentine republic doesn’t
bother over girls, but it claims the mili-
tary service of every boy born within its
boundaries.
Here is Mary, elder daughter of Judge
and Mrs. Drake-Brockman. Though she
is only 21, and has always had her en-
gagement-book filled with dates for
parties, dances, picnics, etc., Miss Drake-
Brockman has decided that her social
life must fade into the background, for
she has just been elected by her father
as his associate. For several months, under
the guidance of her predecessor H. C.
Finnis, she has been preparing herself for
her new responsibilities. She also in-
tends to continue her study of economics.
Miss Drake-Brockman has a flair for
clothes, and it’s a lucky shop which gets
her custom, for she seldom buys hats
and frocks one at a time. With the dig-
nity of Portia’s robes at the back of her
mind, she designed the black gown which
she wears in court; its severity is re-
lieved only by a white collar. The young
associate envelops this dress with her
undergrad.’s gown and leaves her hair
uncovered. Portrait by Broothorn.
Judge Drake-Brockman is the third
Federal Arbitration Judge to choose one
of his family as an associate. Chief
Judge Dethridge is served in a similar
capacity by his son, and Judge Beeby by
his daughter. Doris Beeby does not let
her responsible position absorb all her
interests. She plays a good game of
bridge, drives a car for pleasure as well
as business and is attached to the old-
world garden in Stonnington Place
which is such a delight to her mother.
One of Mrs. Beeby’s sisters, Mrs. Met-
calf, is made of adventurous stuff. With
her husband and a crew of four or five
she sailed in a small boat from Sydney
to Singapore. The little cockleshell had
a bad trip. It was blown out of its
course and becalmed for days in the
China Sea, while the crew kept them-
selves alive on flour and water. In
Singapore the other oddments of crew
deserted, and Mr. and Mrs. Metcalf
worked the Gullmarn as a river-trader.
This sounds romantic, but isn’t, for
the rivers are more noisome than the
Werribee, native river-traders are hostile
and the European population unsym-
pathetic about things “not done.” After-
wards the adventurous pair sold the
Gullmarn and took seriously to journal-
ism. They are now living in Singapore.
Travelling in a ship one meets people
who are always ready to find fault with
the steward, the way fish is cooked, the
mayonnaise, the person who grabs the
least windy corner for deckchairs and
the woman who gets off with somebody
else’s husband. But Mrs. C. Butlin has
no complaints to make of passenger
steamers. She returned to Australia last
week on a very short visit to collect her
two young sons. When with Commander
Butlin she left Australia 18 months ago
it was under sail by way of Cape Horn.
She and a Canadian apprentice were the
only women on board, and the journey,
with storms and headwinds and without
sight of land, lasted five months. During
the weeks spent in battling along the
roaring ’forties Mrs. Butlin felt like an
iceberg, for the galley fire was only lit
during meals. She took 100 books with
her and read every one of them.
It was bad luck that the 50 English
tourists doing the round trip on the
Orford gathered their first impressions of
Australia in an elongation of winter in-
stead of in the sunshine they had ex-
pected. They found that their clothes
were all wrong ; rounding Cape Leeuwin
they caught sniffly colds, and in the Bight
their noses turned an unbecoming shade
of blue. Explanations of the most un-
orthodox season ever known aren’t very
comforting to these travellers, who have
come thousands of miles in search of
blue skies, warm breezes and bathing
from hot beaches.
It’s dusty work sorting books and
magazines and nailing them up in pack-
ing cases. Guests who shared a pot of
tea in the Victoria League’s drawing-
room one afternoon last week were per-
mitted a peep within the lumber room
from which cases of reading matter are
dispatched to bush folks. The tea-party
was hostessed by Mrs. O. Tiegs and Mrs.
Harold Brookes for Mr. and Mrs. E. R.
Pitt, who are off overseas. Mr. Pitt is
travelling under the auspices of the Car-
negie Corporation in search of the very
latest library wrinkles. For many years
he and his wife have been reliable props
of the Victoria League.
Princess Marina has fallen like a ripe
plum into the world of fashion. Fashion
journals have snatched her name for a
lovely shade of green, which is mostly
jade with a hint of turquoise; London
and Paris designers, male and female,
who spend their lives behind thick velvet
curtains altering fashions every few
weeks, so that last season’s clothes look
too appalling for words, have pinched
the name for all sorts of hats. Some
come from the Cossack family;
others, pulled down over the eyes, take
a rakish tilt upwards at the back. When
the rest of the world wore dresses to its
knees the Duchess of York followed in
the Queen’s footsteps and wore long
frocks almost to her ankles. But she
didn’t set a new fashion. She gained
the affection and respect of the nation
through her disposition and her charm-
ing smile. The Duchess of Kent has
won enormous popularity through her
good looks, dress sense and romantic
marriage with a handsome prince. She
has an inclination towards shorter skirts,
and Dairie Fashion, being somewhat
weary of length, immediately orders that
tailored dresses must cease in the region
of the calf.
By winning the Melba Scholarship,
conducted by the Albert-street Con.,
Hinemoa Rosieur is entitled to a £3OO bur-
sary, which covers a certain number of
singing and piano lessons per week, tui-
tion in languages and dramatic art and
a living allowance. She is also eligible
to compete for the same scholarship in
1936 and 1937, The old Maori name of
Hinemoa suits Miss Rosieur, who has a
curl in her dark hair and a sparkle in
her brown eyes. A Maorilander, she
came to Melbourne and the Albert-street
Con. last year as a result of winning
Mary Campbell’s Scholarship, in which
she competed with singers from all over
the Dominion.


SSS
m
m
LAKE
LOUISE-
On the way to Europe
Set like a flawless jewel in exquisite
mountain grandeur . . . nature’s vir-
gin loveliness side by side with all
the social amenities of twentieth cen-
tury civilisation. Cosmopolitan crowds
. . . riding, swimming, tennis, climb-
ing, dancing—never a dull hour at
the famous Chateau Lake Louise.
Stopovers arranged on your trip
home. Rates moderate. Illustrated
literature on request.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAI NS STEAMERS HOTELS
Complete Instruction
in all branches of
Radio Engineering
THE MARCONI
SCHOOL
OF WIRELESS
(Established 21 years)
Australia’s Oldest and Best
Known Radio Training Institu-
tion conducts courses for
RADIO ENGINEERS
RADIO TECHNICIANS
RADIO OPERATORS
for Ships, Aircraft and Police
Patrols.
RADIO MECHANICS &
. SERVICEMEN, also
TALKING PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Combined Home Study and
Practical Tuition or Home Study
Courses, only.
MODERN EQUIPMENT for
Practical Instruction.
Engineering and Technician sections
are under the direct control of Dr.
W. G. Baker, B.Sc., 8.E., D.Sc.E.
Write , ’Phone BW 2211, or Call for
our 40-page illustrated Prospectus.
Marconi School of
Wireless
97 Clarence Street, Sydney
Conducted under the auspices of
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia) Ltd.,
Australia’s TSational Wireless
Organisation.
■>
::
\\
z
/
The heart
©f a good
cocktail.
AND what a real drink it is! Introduce
it at your next party—it will enhance
your reputation as a perfect host (or
hostess).
Here's how;
§ Cream
Van der Hum
| Gordon's Gin
But be sure the gin is GORDON'S . . •
because only by using Gordon's Gin can
you be sure of a "True" Cocktail. Trans-
lucently clear, unimpeachably pure, Gor-
don's has a delicate flavour that has made
it the aristocrat of gins.
Your cocktails will be better with Gordons.
GORDONS
DRYIiIN
P^TJLURY
LONDON
&m2J
\&i
London Dry Gin
By APPOINTMENT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Kathleen, daughter of Commander
and Mrs. S. R. Symonds, was given a
coming-of-age party at their home.
The rooms were glowing with roses,
dahlias and zinnias. Mrs. Symonds was
smartly gowned in sapphire-blue lace,
with which she wore a shoulder spray of
carmine gladioli. Kathleen chose a
dainty caped frock of pink ninon
trimmed with tiny frills of soft grey and
pink. The huge birthday cake was the
gift of Mrs. R. Warren, and Miss
Symonds cut it with her father’s sword.
Ursula Barr-Smith and E. W. Hay-
ward, since married at St. Peter’s College
chapel, were guests of honor at a cock-
tail party given at the South Australian
by Mrs. Richard Legoe (bride’s sister)
and her husband and T. E. Barr-Smith,
jun. Over 100 guests attended. At the
wedding the bride was frocked in lemon
crepe de Chine, with brown flowers on
her shoulder and matching hat.
Christine Tipping, who left in the
Comorin, was given a farewell luncheon
at the Wentworth tearooms. Her hostess,
Esme Reid, gathered together a large
party of mutual girl friends.
Ronald, son of Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
Fox, of Kingswood, and Joan, eldest
daughter of the C, L. Jessops, were mar-
ried at St. Andrew’s, Walkerville. The
bride wore Alice-blue wool georgette
with a small hat of the same. Her coat
had a cape effect, and she carried a
bunch of lilies-of-the-valley. Canon
Hewgill officiated, and bridesmaids and
best man were dispensed with. The
Jessops entertained afterwards at lun-
cheon at their home.
Edna Lawrence gave a cocktail party
at her home at Gilberton in honor of
Mrs. John Paulin (Melbourne) and Ettie
Parker and Blanche White (N.S.W.).
WESTRALIA.
Consistently high thermometer readings
marred the enthusiasm of the decorations
committee for Karrinyup Country Club
dance. The customary masses of flowers
in the lounges were replaced by pot-plants,
which retained their look of coolth to
the end, and the only spots of color were
the roses and carnations on the supper-
tables—weary blooms as the evening
wore on. The Norman Temperleys
stayed the distance, and the Walter Saws ;
Captain and Mrs. Athol Hobbs stuck
nobly to their guns and the heat was
hardly noticed by young fry, among
whom were Joy Ruse, Ursula Goyder,
Nancy Ward Hughes, Vans Anderson
and Betty Merryweather.
Robin Black and Nell Manford crossed
the bridge of matrimony at St. Luke’s,
Cottesloe, with Canon Henn to guide
their steps. Cloth of gold fell from the
bride’s throat in soft undulations which
wended their way lengthily along the
ground. The parchment tulle veil was
held in place by a halo of tiny pearls, and
the bouquet of roses and stephanotis ran
to garlands of the blossoms hanging to
the ankles. Little Judith Manford held
the train, her Kate Greenaway turquoise
georgettes traced, bowed and sashed with
silver. Next in the procession were
Judith Black and Jane Manford. Their
shimmering French taffetas, one pink, one
turquoise, were striped with silver, bowed
on the shoulders and frilled on the skirts,
which ended in fishtail trains.
Mary Henn ran the gamut of bride-
elect parties with breathless rapidity. Mrs.
A. E. Hall, Beryl Lockwood (adrip with
black floral georgettes), Edith Barrymore
and Kathleen Cooper (in yards of moon-
blue chiffon) all chose their own homes
for entertaining, and Marjorie Huddle-
ston, Dick Broadfoot and Olive Daven-
port poured cocktails at the Esplanade.
Another soon-to-be-wed whose fetings
are well under way is Helen Woodhouse.
Mrs. Donald Tregonning set the ball
rolling with a “towel” afternoon at her
home in Claremont, where her autumn-
tinted georgettes moved between frag-
rant roses and lavender. Dorothy Royce
and Freda Lunt tapped it along with
bridge at Dorothy’s home, with the guests
bringing odd-shaped parcels for Helen’s
kitchen.
The noses of city youths are still out
of joint. No sooner had the stars of the
tennis firmament faded from view than
500 country cricketers arrived in Perth
plus their managers, scorers and other
appendages. Their cheerful disregard for
minor traffic laws, their bronzed com-
plexions and breezy camaraderie have
made them popular.
Corry Bunbury, fledgling of one of the
oldest pioneer families of the State, kept
a tryst with John Coote at St. Mary’s,
Busselton. Beige lace softened her
Marina-blue flat crepes, and blue balli-
buntal shaded her eyes. Marjorie Bun-
bury attended in frothy daffodil georg-
ettes. Marybrook, the Richardson Bun-
burys’ south-west home, saw Mrs. Bun-
bury’s navy marocains being admired by
the hundred guests.
Pauline Burgoyne and Fergus Canny
slipped quietly into matrimony at the
Guildford Grammar School chapel,
where headmaster Rev. R. E. Freeth
pronounced the blessing.
Eddie Nicholson, second son of John
Nicholson, M.L.C., and the late Mrs.
Nicholson, has captured the heart and
ringed the hand of the Roderic Davies’
only daughter Bettie.
TASMANIA.
Big hats and summer frocks came into
their own at the Government House gar-
den party. The sun shone and pretty
frocks showed up well on the green
lawns and held their own with the
flowers. His Ex. and Lady Clark re-
ceived at the bottom of the steps to the
garden, the vice-reine in cornflOwer-blue
georgette and lace with short coat and
pastel-tinted flowers in her , hat. Tea
was served in the ballroom. Many main-
landers and a few country folk were in
the throng.
Regatta Day also was smiled on by
the Weather Clerk, and People’s Day was
a huge success, in spite of the fact that
the navy didn’t supply the flagship. The
regatta ground was black with picnickers
at a very early hour, and the water was
soon covered with craft of every descrip-
tion. The visiting yachts Te Rapunga
and Ngataki were centres of admiration.
His Ex. spoke at the official luncheon,
and veterans exchanged reminiscences of
the “earlies,” for the function will soon
be celebrating its centenary. President
Turner can recollect being carried round
the grounds on King Billy’s shoulder.
Glenorchy has an asset in the New
Grove Esplanade Reserve, on Mr.
Wright’s estate, officially opened by
warden R. J. Stourton. A sizable crowd
turned out, and tea was spread under
the noble old trees planted there more
than 60 years ago. Mr. Stourton is
presenting two oaks grown from acorns
from Lowestoff (Eng.) to add to the
boskage.
Bellerive Regatta was not favored with
the fine day vouchsafed to the parent
show, but though rain threatened it did
not fall, and quite a good crowd turned
out. The Governor and his wife went
across the water to be present. Lady
Clark did the round of the sideshows
and enjoyed the informalities of the
outing.
Alys Jones hostessed a very cheery
party at Hadley’s for Mr. and Mrs. Joy —
Mr. Joy is Resident at Vila, New Heb-
rides, and says he is relishing our grey
skies and coolness after the tropics.
About 30 guests enjoyed tea and talk.
The hostess was in a dark seal-brown
turnout with wide-brimmed hat, and the
guest of honor sported a navy-and-white
floral frock with short coat.
Anne Ashton Jones was hostess at a
dance at the Continental, where supper
was set out in the Oriental room. Mrs.
Ashton Jones stood by to receive her
chick, who wore a charming frock of
silver brocade. Many of the guests came
from the hostess’s home district, the
Ouse, and several from Melbourne and
Sydney, among the latter the Bad-
ham Jacksons (she was Nell Pitt before
her marriage), who are holidaying in
Tassie.
The wedding of George Dick and
Zelda Bisdee linked up two of the Speck’s
big clans. The bride looked stunning as
she came down the aisle of St. David’s
. Cathedral when the Dean had completed
his job. Her gown of heavy magnolia-
tinted satin was made on tight, long
lines —sleeves coming over the wrists and
the skirt flaring low in a long, heavy
train. The tulle veil was held by a
coronet of orange-blossom. The three
’maids (cousins Cecily Davies and Edith
Bisdee, and the bridegroom’s sister Peggy
Dick) were dressed alike in frocks of
daffodil-yellow made with slight trains.
Haloes of gold leaves were worn.
Molly Eady presented a surprise
packet to her friends the other day by
announcing her marriage to H. A. Broad-
bent, “Uncle David” of 7HO.


A
r *\
W
/The Autumn Modes from overseas are showing
a new trend altogether in the matter of millinery.
The styles are many and varied. Read Arlette’s
• fashion talk on hats, bags and gloves in
9 %e
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
The Popular Woman’s Magazine. Price 3d.
HATS
ON SALE FRIDAY.
SPECIAL KNITTING NUMBER
Prize-winners in the £65 Knitting Competition, together
with the six winning designs illustrated and described.
FREE PATTERN OF SKIRT-NEW SERIAL
IS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Some
Principal
Boys
The recent
season’s panto-
mimes make me
look back and
consider the
pantomimes I
have seen —some hundreds of them, there
must be. The result of this retrospect is
that I can recall only four or five women
who were really efficient principal boys.
It is comparatively easy to find a dozen
women who can play Lady Macbeth or
Juliet satisfactorily; to discover a girl
who makes a first-class principal boy is
like looking for Lasseter’s Reef.
But there have been principal boys who
stood out like a sunburst in the panto-
mimic heavens —women who revealed to
audiences what a principal boy can do
if born to the part, women capable of
carrying a bad pantomime to success
through their own personality. I can,
however, recollect only four or five of
these in a lifetime during which I de-
voted considerable study to matters
dramatic.
The best principal boy Australia ever
saw was Billee Barlow, who headed
several Australian pantomimes about 30
years ago.
Billee, by the way, gained fame by
taking out a writ against The Bulletin
for many thousands of pounds damages,
the said damages being contained in a
theatrical criticism by Edmond. Edmond
had written that the costume worn by
Miss Barlow in one act did not suggest
merely a study in the nude ; “it rather
suggests that Miss Billee has taken
off her flesh and is wandering about
clothed in her naked soul.” Miss
Barlow rocked in the writ—not for
advertising purposes, but because she
was genuinely hurt. The defence of The
Bulletin was a masterpiece of tactics.
It was at this time most hostile to George
Reid. In articles, cartoons, paragraphs
and verse, it lampooned him and his
Freetrade policy without mercy. So The
Bulletin management accomplished a
master-stroke by briefing George to
defend the case. He called Hopkins,
the artist, as a witness. “What is your
name?” he asked. “Livingstone Hop-
kins,” was the reply. Reid—a born actor
himself —started as if shot. He raised
his eyeglass and fixed it carefully.
“Then you are the man who has been
criminally libelling me for years!” he
cried dramatically. The court was con-
vulsed with laughter, even the plaintiff
could not refrain, and from that on-
wards the whole trial became a farce.
It was agreed that Miss Barlow should
appear on the stage that evening in the
criticised costume so that Judge and jury
might form their own opinions. Specu-
lators sold tickets for double their
marked price. The upshot was that the
lady lost her case. As a matter of fact,
Miss Barlow’s costume would be deemed
wowserish to-day. Girls wear less in
shows produced under the patronage of
various churches, but in those dark ages
it was distinctly daring.
Billee radiated good nature the
moment she appeared on the stage, and
made audiences feel they had known
her for years. She was a woman of great
beauty, facial and physical, and could
sing and dance with the best of them.
She was the noblest principal boy of
them all.
Fanny Robina, whom the Brough-
Boucicault company imported when it
ventured into musical production, was
another delightful principal boy. Nellie
Stewart was a third ; Maggie Moore a
fourth, though she aged early and had
to drop out of such frivolous parts. For
the rest, they seemed to me good-lookers
with delightful legs, possessing nothing
more memorable.
I never saw Marie Tempest as a prin-
cipal boy, but I am ready to believe she
fulfilled all requirements. Nellie Farren
was successful, but lacked that faculty
for making the audience believe she was
a personal friend. Another actress I
never saw in principal-boy parts but who
appeared to me to be made for the pur-
pose is Lizzie Benson, now, I believe,
the wife -of a leading manager. She
seemed to possess all the required quali-
ties when I saw her at Sydney Tivoli
some years back. She was never given a
chance.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
The Dog That Points the Bone.
The abo. tribe at Bugaboo
Decreed the death of Oolaloo.
(They point the bone, this heathen race,
To cast a spell that through the space
Can lay the victim prone.)
But when the chiefs, with gestures grim,
Prepared to point the bone at him —
They couldn’t find the bone !
They sought the death-bone everywhere.
In dilly-bags and lubras’ hair;
And so the blacks were very blue,
Because no other bone would do,
But only that alone.
At last they saw a shaggy pup
Unearth the bone and chew it up —
It ate the potent bone!
And then —it made the abos. pale —-
The dog began to chase its tail.
As round and round the puppy spun
To point the bone at everyone
Catastrophe is sown.
They dodge, they duck, their plight is
dire;
They can’t escape the line of fire
Of that infernal bone.
The skulls that line the arid land
Explain the fate of all the band;
A dog that roams the far outback
Has made each long and lonely track
A desert danger zone.
A legend of the blacks describes
Hov? it annihilates the tribes —
The dog that points the bone.
N.S.W.
RIP.
Seeking an
Australian
Type
Two Austra-
lian actors who
died recently,
Walter Cornock
and Gilbert
Emery, owed
their chief fame, although they did many
better things, to their representation of
characters in stage and screen productions
of C. J. Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke.”
Similarly, when the. curtain falls for Bert
Bailey (may it be long delayed!) he will
be chiefly remembered as the Dad of
“On Our Selection.”
Yet both plays are extraordinarily
crude, made amusing by comedy which
is mainly farce. Bert Bailey, who has
had over 40 years of hard stage work,
has written better plays which are for-
gotten, and done better work as a per-
former than is possible in such a char-
acter as Dad Rudd.
Three reproductions from the arresting
show of large colored posters in the Travel
Exhibition at 300 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The display, run by A. E. Martin,
who was J. C. Williamson’s advertiser,
is the brightest art burst at present
on show within coo-ee of the harbor.
In the phenomenon of such plays
being able to give reputation to actors
is involved the whole mystery of Dad
and Dave (who have achieved a com-
plete literature of their own) and their
acceptance as types. Nobody really be-
lieves in Dave or Dad, although they
can be laughed at as humorous cari-
catures, and there are many who regret
that screen plays like “On Our Selection”
should go abroad, where they may be
accepted seriously as samples of the best
we can produce.
The basis of the hold is any country’s
hunger for types which, although cari-
catures, can be given a national recogni-
tion.
The war helped C. J. Dennis to accept-
ance of a national type. Dennis in verse
had merely followed Ed Dyson in giving
expression to the factory hand, the rabbit
hawker and the pushite, types which im-
proved conditions and general education
have eliminated. Until the war the
doings of such characters had stirred no-
thing but a passing amusement; but
when the Ginger Micks rushed to enlist
they became types of a national heroism.
“The Sentimental Bloke” became almost
national because it presented what ap-
peared to be a national type ; the stand-
ing it achieved at that time has enabled
it to live long beyond the existence of
the types it portrayed,
Dad and Dave are more lasting ; how-
ever unreal and unsatisfactory they may
be, they will probably survive until some
better type is discovered upon which
to fix the national humor. They are
related to the American hayseed, for
long a boom in U.S., but now virtually
dead. Curiously enough, Steele Rudd,
although he was their father, did not
intend them to be the farcical crudities
they became. Alex. Montgomery, who
was Bulletin sub-editor and a great
slasher of manuscript, took charge of
stories which were serious representa-
tions of the life of the struggling cocky,
and cut them down to the farce. Steele
Rudd’s later stories, developing types of
human reality, give a better idea of his
original intention than does his accepted
work ; but the farcical comedy had an
appeal which became national.
The people want types for their litera-
ture and humor, even as the picture pro-
ducers want types for their productions ;
Dad and Dave, although they may be
dead or they may never have existed,
will prevail until some other types are
discovered.
HAROLD MERCER.
Current
Artbursts
Since the
Middle Ages,
clerical artists
have been a
rarity; in Aus-
tralia they have
hitherto been an unknown species. The
Rev. George Green, Anglican clergyman
of Melbourne and chaplain of Trinity
College, has come forward to show the
paganistic dabbler in form and color that
the church can do more than also run.
Mr. Green has designed a stained-glass
window for St. John’s, Sorrento, which
is capable of standing beside the work
of any modern and many ancient prac-
titioners of this form of art. More than
that, it is a . transparency which has
thought in it —propaganda, if you will.
It shows Christ in a light not generally
accepted. Instead of the “gentle Jesus,
meek and mild,” it reveals Him as the
vigorous fighter Who hurled the money-
changers out of the temple. He is repre-
sented as beardless and perhaps younger
than the 30 years behind Him when He
started preaching. With uplifted club He
is acting the part of protector to humanity,
beating off the big, bad wolves of sin
who seek to devour. The figure is ex-
cellently drawn, anatomically correct, and
the colors brilliant and harmonious.


w
OVER A CENTURY OF BANKING SERVICE
In a spirit fully alive to the public interest, and anxious
to serve and promote the welfare of the country as a whole,
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited has
for over a century prudently transacted all classes of
hanking business to the satisfaction of its customers. To-day
T nil its great resources and facilities its policy remains
in.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Is there a BEST
REFRIGERATOR?
FOR a really modern quality machine investigate the
Healing. Built on latest American patents, incor-
porating every 1935 improvement, offering a greater
capacity at the price, and fully guaranteed for three years
by A. G. Healing, Ltd., manufacturers with 30 years’
reputation—Healing is definitely a leader.
SOME OF THE
HEALING FAMOUS FEATURES
Automatic Control—Automatic Defrosting
—Automatic Lubrication —H ygie n_i c
Rounded Corners—B4 Ice Cube Capacity
—Twin Compressor, absolutely silent and
rubber mounted —All-steel Cabinet
“Healatex” Sin. Insulation—'“Bonderized”
Rust-proof Process —Surprising Economy
—Larger Capacity at the price. A 5.7 ft.
storage space machine.
orator Showrooms;
Melbourne:
Healing’s Pty., Ltd.,
261-263 Swanston Street.
Sydney:
A, G. Healing, Ltd.,
162-170 Gonlburn Street.
Brisbane:
Brisbane Electrical Supply Co.,
47 Elizabeth Stree!
ŵ
Adelaide:
A. G. Healing, Ltd.,
Cnr. Pirie & Pulteney Streets.
Perth:
Radio Supply Co.,
804 Hay Street.
. or your own local Healing: dealer.
ẁ
Humor
Story Competition
Entry:—
The Strange Profession
of Commerc
Deputising
By W. M. MOLONEY.
SKETCHES BY UNK WHITE.
Had it not been the wife’s birthday
I never might have gained an in-
sight into the intricate business
of commercial deputising, nor had the
honor of meeting its most brilliant ex-
ponent.
As it was, I had been hovering be-
tween the fourpenny and threepenny
knick-knack counters at Colworth’s, try-
ing to finalise on the ideal gift, when my
attention was distracted by a sudden
commotion near by.
Two burly men (obviously detectives,
for each carried an umbrella and wore
odd coats and pants) seized an inoffen-
sive-looking shopper, and shook him until
his pince-nez fell into the underpants,
such being the mercery under inspection.
The victim appeared a quiet, honest
type, tidily if not expensively dressed,
and his demeanor suggested that his forty
years had not been unmixed with sorrow.
He uttered a mild protest at the rough
handling he received, but was howled
down by the loud re-
marks about shoplift-
ing. The detectives
dangled a pair of
nether garments in
front of him.
“We’ve had our eye
on you all day,”
snarled one. “This
shoplifting has got to
be stopped,” shouted
the other; and then,
as if in studied dis-
cord, they chorused:
“You’d better come
up to the office with
us.”
A fierce push started
the unfortunate fel-
low on his way to the
sanctum where he was
to be questioned, and
in the excitement of
the moment I found
myself replacing a
few articles which I
had absent-mindedly
It took three brandies to stop
the haemorrhage.
picked up from the counter. Evidently
the incident had a salutary effect all
around, for the toothpaste section was
littered with garden-seed packets, and the
face-towels were sprinkled with pocket-
knives.
A few minutes later the detectives
emerged dragging the tearful culprit with
them, and as they passed the counter
where I was standing I heard one of the
officers mutter: “This will be worth three
months at least.”
THE whole affair so upset me that, with-
out making a purchase in the store, I
adjourned to a near-by hotel. My heart
bleeds at the misfortunes of others, and
on this occasion it took three brandies
to stem the haemorrhage. Then I felt
fortified to resume the search for the
birthday present.
This time I chose
Bye r ’ s Emporium.
Just as I was on the
point of deciding
upon the purchase of
“T h e Housewife’s
Friend and Home-
brewing Outfit,” again
there was a lament-
able disturbance. To
my amazement it was
the unhappy victim of
an hour or so ago,
apprehended by two
different detectives on
another . shoplifting
charge. The same
harrowing and noisy
procedure had to be
gone through, and I
wondered at the
depths of a plight
which could drive a
man to such despera-
tion.
I had to take a
handkerchief from
one of the counters to stem my own tears
(purely an absent-minded gesture, of
course), when the victim, knowing fiiat
I had seen him before, added to my con-
fusion by winking slyly. As he was be-
ing hauled to the street with the usual
violence I followed him out until he was
taken into a neighboring laneway. To
my surprise the detectives patted him
on the head, slipped off his handcuffs and
helped him straighten his clothes.
“That ought to frighten a few of the
pilferers away,” remarked the “culprit”
in my hearing. “I’ll have to hurry along
if I’m to get to Harmer and Bones’s sale
before five o’clock.”
Puzzled and inquisitive I caught up
with him, and without finesse asked for
an explanation of the incidents.
He could see that I was a sympathetic
type, and he received me with friendly
tolerance,
“Wait outside the store for me, and
I’ll tell you all about it when I finish the
job,” he promised.
Yes, he was arrested once more. The
discovery, the accusation, the tears and
the noisy scene were all reproduced.
When he rejoined me in the street he was
differently dressed. Very smartly so.
“I use this shop as my dressing-room
and headquarters,” he said, in reference
to his sartorial change.
In the seclusion of a hotel he offered
me his card. “Perhaps this will explain
matters a little.” Oh it I read: “Pro-
fessor Tuppitt, Commercial Deputiser.
Rates and roles on application.”
My brow wrinkled in perplexity until
he explained that he was engaged by vari-
ous big stores to act as a warning to shop-
lifters.
“But that’s only one of my commercial-
deputising occupations,” he said proudly
during his fifth tankard. “I also do a
very nice line of converts at revivalist
meetings, and I’ve given testimonial.
Started in a baby show.
photos, to all complaints from back-
firing tonsils to surfing kidneys.
“That’s me,” he explained, with a
modest droop of the eyelids, as he pointed
out the blurred photo, of the patient who
had been cured after only one dose.
I begged him to continue.
“Of course, I specialise in weddings,”
he then told me. “There’s always a de-
mand among social climbers for someone
to pose as the rich squatter uncle, and
during the past few weeks I’ve been
working up a new department in funerals.
The undertakers find it’s hard to get the
proper atmosphere at debt-collectors’ and
moneylenders’ burials without a profes-
sional mourner.”
Obviously he was a man who revelled
in his occupation. A strange, ethereal
light blazed in his eyes as he outlined his
early career.
“Deputising is an art you have to be
born to,” he commented, with a serious
nod of the head. “For instance, I started
off at a baby show as one of the
examples of ‘Before and After Using
Doctor Bingee’s Baby Food.’ My role
was ‘Before,’ the miserable expression
being induced by an extra spoonful of
the mixture. Naturally, I had to go
through all the routine apprenticeship,”
he added. “Strange boy called from the
audience to help the magician ; holding
the tin-pan for the ‘Blind Violinist In-
jured in Treacle Explosion,’ and all that
sort of stuff. That,” he said, “was the
only job 1 was ever fired from. I came
The detectives took off the handcuffs,
on, duty with a red tie, and the violinist
said it wasn’t professional.”
I suggested respectfully that divorce
co-respondent work would be just in his
line. “Only the once,” he countered,
with a nonchalant laugh. “It Vvas really
a sort of ’busman’s holiday. Un-
fortunately, the wife didn’t take the
broad view of it.” He fingered a scar
on his eyebrow.
How such a man of parts escaped
being one of the dramatic giants of his
day amazed me. 1 told him so, smugly
conscious of the fact that he would feel
flattered anyway. But he snorted. It
was a most indignant snort, perhaps
even more sneezelike in its rapidity of
deliverance.
Apparently he had no time for actors
or the stage. “It’s a mere showy sub-
sidiary of our profession. I know I’d
shine as an actor, but the work is non-
productive and non-utilitarian. Now, for
instance, you take Henry Irving and put
him in a funeral. What could he do?”
Gently I pointed out that the under-
takers already had taken Henry as a
leading man in his own funeral. A
dashed good joke I thought it, too. How-
ever, Professor Tuppitt was quite un-
appreciative and quite unruffled as he
took another line.
“Well, you take Charles Laughton or
one of the Barrymores. Just put them
in my place in one of the shoplifting
roles. They simply couldn’t get away
with it. The actual performance might
be all right, but they’d be certain to
spoil the entire effect by coming back to
take a bow.”
As I surveyed his smartly-cut dark
suit, new bowler and faultless cravat I
felt that it was not only highly interesting
but also a most lucrative profession, but
my tactful inquiries about that angle of
his business were received with a gloomy
shake of the head.
“The overhead is too high,” he com-
plained. “Those shop detectives are very
hard on one’s clothes. And then I have
to have an extensive wardrobe. This
suit I’m wearing is good for weddings,
and is just the thing for my job as Uncle
Cuthbert, of Onkaparinga, who is giving
the bride away to-night. Quite a nice
family, too. Always look into their cre-


IN
SYDNEY
w
• The head-waiter at Petty's
prides himself on the ser-
vice that he and his Con-
tinentally - trained staff offer
each guest—a perfect service
indeed!
Petty's is ideally situated away
from noise and bustle, yet
convenient. Appointments are
comfortable. And tariff, from
10/6 per day for room and
breakfast: 17/- inclusive.
Wire or write for reservations.
Q
PETTY'S
HOTEL
FOR SERVICE
YORK STREET, SYDNEY
R. J. Langley, Manager
-evtf
I*Ated a isute,
fiejvunstsftj 'tmytJi jtuiste?
/^tu^c
.
m
I
IF you really want whiter, more attractive-
looking teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth. It
catches bits of food. Harbors stains from smok-
ing. Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. And worse still, film is
laden with millions of tiny germs that are
often the forerunner of tooth decay. Film
unremoved invites dental disorders. Thus film
must be removed —kept off teeth.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satisfac-
torily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders may
be ifi£/T&',Wve in removing film. There is now
a dentifrice you can depend on regularly—a
dentifrice thousands of dentists use in their
own homes and millions of people have used
successfully. This dentifrice is Pepsodent—the
special film-removing tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
No other equally safe way removes film as
thoroughly as Pepsodent. Pepsodent is different
in formula, hence different in the way it
works. It contains no grit, pumice, or soap.
The basis of this definitely modern toothpaste
is a new and revolutionary cleansing and
polishing material —recently developed. This
cleansing agent is far softer than the polishing
material used in other leading tooth pastes or
tooth powders. Yet it removes film and polishes
teeth to new gleaming lustre as more abrasive
kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain” denti-
frices or questionable ways? Remember that
this unique film-removing agent is contained
in Pepsodent exclusively. Thus no other tooth
paste can assure you of true Pepsodent results.
Use Pepsodent twice a day—-see your dentist
at least twice a year.
FREE— 10-Day Tube 1
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. |
(Dept. 5.8.),
Box 488 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial |
Tube of Pepsodent. 1
Name I
Address j
I
k2os3m/a Only one tube to a family. |
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ot
IRew
(Guaranteed
South TOales
by the State Government.)
Assets, £28,262,687.
Reserve Fund, £1,289,667 (invested mainly in Commonwealth Stock).
Commissioners:
H. ROGERS. C. R. McKERIHAN (President) P. KEARNS.
Head Office; 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
Branches:
SYDNEY, 350 George Street (opp. Wynyard Street).
ARMIDALE
BATHURST
BEGA
CASINO
COWRA
DUBBO
FORBES
GOSFORD
GRENFELL
GRIFFITH
INVERELL
LEETON
MUDGEE
NARRANDERA
ORANGE
PARKES
QUIRINDI
TAMWORTH
TEMORA
WAGGA WAGGA
WEST WY ALONG
YASS
73 Agencies at Commonwealth Bank Branches.
USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
Current Accounts. Fixed Deposits.
Loans on Overdraft to Primary Producers.
dentials, you know. The girl’s old man
can’t do the job, as he hasn’t got over
the attack of the horrors contracted at
the engagement party.”
At this stage I was so completely in-
trigued by the many aspects of the depu-
tiser’s profession that I asked for the
address of the wedding, so that I might
study him at work. I promised not to
obtrude. Just to see him arrive would
be an experience. Flat-
tered by my interest he
obliged with all the details,
and I was there on time
to see him leave for the
church, and also return to
the girl’s home for the
wedding reception.
Never before had I seen
such a brilliant piece of
acting. Boucicault, Guy
Bates Post and Grossmith
were but tyros compared
with him. His avuncular
dignity and affection were
impressive, and he moved
with easy grace amongst
the family and the guests.
Without him the wedding
would have been an entire
A model prisoner.
failure, for as I peeped through the win-
dow at the festive board I could see that
his merry quips and speeches were the
life of the party.
THRILLED at the realisation of hav-
* ing seen a genius at work, I decided
to wait until the end to congratulate him
on the perfection of his art.
For half an hour or so I remained in
the obscurity of the side garden whilst the
reception was drawing to a close, and
might have nodded off to sleep but for
a sudden commotion at the front door.
I hurried around the corner just in time
to see my brilliant friend the deputiser
hurled out the front door right into the
arms of the local policeman.
“Tried to pinch the wed-
ding presents, he did!” ex-
plained the buxom hostess
to the bewildered guests
as the policeman snapped
the handcuffs on Tuppitt’s
wrists.
Feeling that there must
be some mistake I ap-
proached the captive.
“Is there anything I can
do to help?” I asked.
“Just a foolish misun-
derstanding, old boy,” he
murmured with surprising
resignation as he was
escorted to the cab. “I
must have . overtrained.
Sometimes I get my roles
mixed, and when I saw
all those presents I instinctively started
into my shop work.”
I HEAR that he is doing very well in
gaol. A model prisoner, appointed as
a special example to the others, he was
given so many remissions for good con-
duct that the authorities had to extend
his sentence to avoid owing him a couple
of months.
A Fresh Comedy of the Barrier Rats:—
A COUNTESS
RAMPANT
BY FRANK WALFORD.
The Countess was the first woman from the outside world to view the
squalor of Garradunga, but she accepted it calmly. She certainly had
been prepared for anything.
Pushing through the door in advance of her escort, she surveyed a
remarkable spectacle. In a distant corner, balanced unsteadily on a table,
stood a lank form with a bottle in either hand, chanting “Rule Britannia”
with tremendous volume and an equally tremendous lack of tune. He
concluded the song with a roar, and invited all “foreign scum” to come
forward and be whangdoodled.
MR. SAMUEL EDWARDS, ship
chandler at Palmtown, was
seated in his office, with his legs
on the head of a cask of tallow, his
coat on the floor and his shirt-sleeves
rolled above his elbows. An evil-smell-
ing pipe was emitting prodigious clouds
of smoke, and he was spitting at regular
intervals, with great accuracy, into a
wooden tray covered with a layer of
sawdust. Already that week he had pro-
visioned two pearlers, five beche-de-mer
boats and a yawl and a schooner which
had no defined objective. He was feel-
ing at peace with the world ; and he
lolled and puffed and spat like an auto-
maton while he mentally reviewed his
banking account.
Into this Eden irrupted a tall woman
with an amazing mop of fiery hair
coiled about her head, on whose sum-
mit rested a hat crowned with the plu-
mage of a nondescript bird. She closed a
multi-hued parasol as she entered, spread
her flared skirt over bony ankles, plucked
outward the depressed sleeves of her
blouse, and sat down heavily in the chair
which Mr. Edwards kept for his visitors.
He blinked, placed his pipe on the
table and hastily donned his coat. “I
beg your pardon, ma’am,” he exclaimed.
“I was not expecting lady visitors.”
“It certainly did not seem as if you
were,” she agreed tartly, lifting a gold-
rimmed lorgnette and inspecting him
with deliberation.
Mr. Edwards coughed and grew red.
“Anything I can do for you, ma’am?”
he inquired nervously, and spat into his
makeshift cuspidor.
She eyed him with open disgust. “Yes,
you can cease spitting in that filthy
manner and try to behave like a gentle-
man.”
He blinked, turned to spit again, con-
trolled himself with a tremendous effort
and sat blushing like a schoolgirl.
“I’m seeking my son, the Honorable
William Delisle Balliol Mortagu,” said
his visitor, dropping her lorgnette into
her lap. “His last letter, written some
three years ago, was postmarked from
this town, and contained certain —ah—
evidence that he was on a boat.”
He gazed at her open-mouthed. “The
Honorable William Delisle —Delisle —er
—Delisle —er” he stammered.
“Don’t splutter like that!” she com-
manded. “William Delisle Balliol Mor-
tagu! Do you know anything of his
whereabouts?”
“Do I know anything of his where-
abouts?” He gaped like a blue groper
newly landed, “I’m afraid I don’t.”
Then, gaining confidence: “No, there’s
no one named William De —er, no one
of the name you mentioned on this
coast.”
“But there is, man! I have his letter.
He’s on some cursed boat round here.”
Mr. Edwards took thought and was in
spired. “Do you think it possible—that
—that—er, that he —er”
“That what? Spit it out, man. No-
thing that you can tell me about my son
will surprise me. Do I think what pos-
sible?”
“That he—er—has changed his name.”
She lifted her lorgnette and surveyed
him steadily. “Of course, he’s changed
his name,” she snapped, dropping the
glasses again. “You surely don’t think
that he’s gallivanting round an uncivil-
ised place like this under his real name,
do you? Damme, have some sense!”
Mr. Edwards gulped. “There are hosts
of men on boats in these waters,” he ex-
plained, “and it would be impossible for
me to identify your son without some-
thing more —er —explicit.”
IT was at this juncture that Captain Tom
entered. He was clad in white duck,
against which his bronzed face and
hands loomed dark as those of a Maori.
He signalled his arrival by hurling his
cap into Mr. Edwards’s face and howl-
ing for iced limejuice. Then he noticed
the visitor, and halted on the doorstep.
She turned slowly and examined him
through her lorgnette, studying him care-
fully from head to foot. “Humph,” she
muttered, and turned her back.
“Don’t go, Tom,” called Mr. Edwards
hastily, as Tom retreated through the
door, “You may be able to assist this
lady to find her son. Come right in!”
(Continued on next page.)


BACKACHE
Makes you Look and Feel so Old
HERE IS SOUND ADVICE
But act quickly. Get a box of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills from your chemist, and take them as directed. This
is the right thing to do, for De Witt’s Pills contain ingredients
which enable your kidneys to extract the harmful uric acid from
your system —just as Nature intended they should —and when
you get rid of this harmful uric acid, your back will cease aching.
Nothing else will do. You cannot obtain the same results
by any other means. Rubbing with embrocations or liniments
would probably aggravate the trouble, and add to your suffering.
But relief quickly follows the use of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and you know the pain is not likely to return,
because, by taking De Witt’s Pills, you have got rid of the cause.
ACT QUICKLY
Don’t wait, or the pain will get worse- Don’t experiment with
things you think may do you good. Get the remedy that has
been used with success all over the world for nearly fifty years.
JLlttU LJUL
used the
1
14'
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URICrACIO
s&
Heed the good advice of those who have already
used the remedy.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs,
swollen feet or ankles, foul breath,
scalding pains, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede attacks of
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica, Lum-
bago or serious Kidney Trouble, and
much suffering and expense may be
saved by quickly getting a box of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, price
3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6
from your chemist to-day.
I
lili
r
m
m
mmrnmwmmmsssB&
l\
m
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of De Witt’s Pills to-night, and
in the morning you will see, feel and know
for certain that they are doing you good.
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
w
Captain Tom re-entered, with more
decorum, and Mr. Edwards essayed an
introduction. “Captain Harkaway,” he
said with owlish solemnity, “let me intro-
duce Mrs. —er —Mrs. Delisle.”
“Mrs. Bumblefoot,” corrected the lady
sarcastically. “I’m Lady Beltane, the
Countess of Beltane.”
“I beg your ladyship’s pardon,”
mumbled the astounded Mr. Edwards,
and spat into the cuspidor.
“Beastly habit, that infernal spitting,”
commented Lady Beltane to Captain
Tom. “He seems unable to control it.”
Captain Tom shook his head.
“Madam,” he said, “you must make
allowances for him. He has acquired
many abominable habits”
“Blast his habits! ” interjected Lady
Beltane. “Perhaps you can assist me.
I’m hunting for my scapegrace son. Have
you any idea where he is to be found?
Sit down, man; don’t stand there as if
I’d bite you.” When he was seated on a
case of sardines: ,“My son, William
Delisle Balliol Mortagu, probably under
an assumed name, is finicking about
these parts in some filthy boat or other.
That’s all I know ; but I wish to locate
him. He’s had a fair fling; and his
father, the Earl of Beltane, is about on
his last legs. Effects of lifelong dissi-
pation. William will have to take up the
title when the inevitable happens, so it’s
necessary for me to find him. Can you
help me?”
“I’d be only too happy to help you in
any way in my power. Lady Beltane.
Would you mind describing your son,
then I’ll have something to go on?”
She screwed up her face. “He’s a
tall, bony chap, something of my build,
with long, skinny legs like your own.
He has a lantern jaw, and no more brains
than that spitting codfish over there. He
used to like champagne ; but seeing that
he’s not likely to have the price of it,
now that he’s thrown on his own re-
sources, it’s probable that he’s culti-
vated a taste for a cheaper drink. Any
drink would satisfy him after the first
one.
“It’s a fairly candid description, and
amazingly lucid; but, unfortunately, it
fits fully twenty men along this coast.
What age is William?”
“Thirty-seven.”
“H’m,” said Captain Tom, and men-
tally reviewed the men of the Barrier.
.Suddenly he looked up with a boyish
grin softening his grim mouth. “Does
he spout Latin when he’s imbibing?”
The Countess grimaced. “He might
get off a tag or two, though I can’t
imagine where he learned it. All he
learned at Oxford was how to run up
bills and play cricket.”
“Ah,” he said softly. “How to play
cricket! Was he a good cricketer?”
“He was opening bat for Oxford, and
once was twelfth man in a Test match.
I suppose he was a good cricketer, but
it was about the only thing he could
do ; that and drink champagne.”
“Twelfth man,” commented Captain
Tom. He pondered on it, “Samuel, my
solemn codfish,” he said at last, with a
wide grin, “do you know Billy Jenks?”
Mr. Edwards, who had been listen-
ing to the dialogue with sullen indig-
nation, glared at the Countess and spat
defiantly. “Of course I know Billy
Jenks. What about him?”
“I’m almost positive he’s the one,”
Captain Tom replied.
“Then, can you take me to him?” de-
manded the Countess.
“Wouldn’t it be better to bring him
here?” he asked uneasily.
“No ; he’d bolt like blazes if he knew
I was after him ; I’ll have to go to him.
Tell me, what does he do?”
Captain Tom reflected. “He smuggles
opium, runs Chows, drinks rum, shies
bottles, sings ‘Rule Britannia’ and swears
better than any other skipper on the
coast.”
The Countess sniffed. “It sounds like
William, though the singing is a new
departure. Where is he now?”
He waved his hands expansively.
“Anywhere between Thursday Island
and Rockhampton, or maybe round in
the Gulf. It would be like searching
for a needle in a haystack to try to find
him. The best plan would be to wait
here. He’s bound to touch at Palmtpwn
sooner or later,”
She shook her head vigorously, caus-
ing her hat to rock on its pedestal.
“Can’t afford to wait. His father’s
on his last legs, and we must both get
back to London as quickly as possible.”
CAPTAIN TOM never could decide
whether it was her auburn hair, her
profanity or her obstinacy which pre-
vailed ; but it remains a fact that she
boarded the Lamia two days later with
changed headgear and an amazingly un-
feminine paucity of luggage, to quest
along the coast for the Honorable Wil-
liam Delisle Balliol Mortagu, presumed
to be masquerading under the pseu-
donym of Captain Billy Jenks. The first
clue was found at Thursday Island,
where it was ascertained that the Doris
Maud had sailed for Port Musgrave four
days before. At Port Musgrave in-
quiries revealed that Captain Jenks had
sailed down the Gulf coast just twenty-
four hours prior to their arrival.
This information left no doubt in the
mind of Captain Tom about their
quarry’s destination. To one acquainted
with his habits, it was manifest that he
was bound for Garradunga. He re-
volved the knowledge in his mind, un-
decided whether to enlighten the'Coun-
tess or not. It was a conviction that
the resolute lady would keep him sailing
the coral seas until her son was found
which influenced him to open confes-
, ~ , _ , , . „
He described Garradunga graphically,
He exaggerated its customs, distorted the
characters of its habitues, transformed
Mike O’Flanagan into a fiend and his
female satellites into furies. He por-
trayed a hell beyond the imagmation of
a Dante, stained Mike s shanty crimson
with streams of gore, and generally exer-
cised his fertile brain to discourage the
Countess from visiting the scene It
proved futile; his wildest flights failed
to deter her; she had set out to find
her son, and nothing would be permitted
to intervene. Later he harbored the dis-
quieting suspicion that his bloody narra-
live had inspired her with a desire to
witness the atrocities which appeared to
be the regular pabulum of her son and
his confreres.
Yielding to the inevitable. Captain
Tom hoisted sail, and coasted south to
the rendezvous of those who hewed man-
grove wood in that beche-de-mer-curing
de ps k
They anchored before Mike’s shanty
early in the afternoon. Captain Tom
grinned as he noted the shabby hull of
the elusive Doris Maud tied to a tree
on the bank. By this hour of the day,
he reflected, her skipper would be well
under the influence of Mike’s potent
rum, and acutely patriotic.
He proved a veracious prophet. Be-
fore they landed from the dinghy they
could hear the raucous strains of “Rule
Britannia” ringing on the still air, and
shrill laughter from Mike’s quartette of
females.
THE Countess was the first woman from
the outside world to view the
squalor of Garradunga, but she accepted
it calmly. She certainly had been pre-
pared for anything.
Pushing through the door in advance
of her escort, she surveyed a remark-'
able spectacle. Ranged along a rough-
hewn counter of hardwood were~ a
crowd of Japanese, Malays, Kanakas
and aboriginals, all drinking from coarse
glass tumblers. Behind the bar were a
red-faced man with a beard of even
more fiery hue and a slattern with faded
hair and red-rimmed eyes. Dotted about
the room were a dozen rude tables, sur-
rounded by upended cylinders of log on
which sat white men in motley raiment,
each with a bottle of rum before him!
Three other women, pathetically draggled,
hastened to and fro with fresh bottles
of liquor.
J n a distant corner, balanced un-
steadily on a table, stood a lank form
with a bottle in either hand, chanting
“Rule Britannia” with tremendous
volume and an equally tremendous lack
G f tune. He concluded the song with a
roar, and i nv i ted all “foreign scum” to
com e forward and be “whangdoodled ”
However obscure the word might have
bee n out of context, its meaning was
most ap p aren t when considered in con-
j unc tion with the uplifted bottles,
»i n .
and Ye ‘ l1 S ,°"S S '«-
* .WJJ ,a P* nese , b , es “l e . ,' he fl ba l
L.ke a flash
°T lg “ “J^ urt ' d ac ™ s t s ‘. he
. - , . , "if le chest, knocking
, • . ‘ , e r^ c ?y ei T d bls ba T
’ , , pp , a ( ? 1 ? 8 kmfe from a lac-
? ~ f , m , 118 cummerbund, and
, /Y a k d ,’ tC V b< t down
by a second bottle which crashed on his
or f *T a ‘
A dozen Japanese leapt to avenge their
countiyman, racing across the room at
,gaunt ngure which continued to
bellow insults and hurl bottles into their
™ bBt- J wo m^ n went down under the
bombardment; but the rest reached their
objective, and pulled him from the table,
fighting viciously and roaring oaths,
Captain Tom seized a piece of man-
gf°ve wood which propped the door
a J ar ) sprang to the assistance of the
struggling thrower of bottles. Followed
by several white’ men, he held his stick
ih both hands, but did not use it as a
ü b ; Instead, he jabbed it end-on, crash-
ing its stiff butt into every colored face
that came within range. Soon the cause
of . the riot was on his feet, striking
blindly to left and right with his bottles,
.
’THE affray ended as suddenly as it had
* begun. Impelled by racial hatred—the
white man’s chief safeguard in the Em-
pire’s outposts—the Malays and Kanakas
joined forces with the Caucasians, and


iiiiliiiiiil
*iii ii
•" n"'
y /-■ >
Ml 1 V! r*'-“
-4j.jil l \lw y\
9 he Wonderland 1 ri " '• iiin .-i!jjiii^
ii ! l|i[
Phis "Garden of the East"
has countless attractions
for the tourist. Beautiful
landscapes towering
mountains—ancient tem-
ples —bazaars—colourful
native life—palatial hotels.
. Equipped with every
modem convenience the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" sails
regularly from Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane by
way of the Great Barrier
Reef, Thursday Island,
Darwin, Sourabaya, Sama-
rang and Batavia, to Sing-
apore. Fares have been
greatly reduced and are
free of exchange.
At your request we shall be pleased
to forward folder No 25.
m
(I I
*
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
312 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE 128 ADELAIDE ST.. BRISBANE
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
r
KING’#
m
i ItPM
m
m
i
■
O
» :
i Hi:
<i .;
• SA.
IV.
FORTNIGHTLY
SAILINGS ACROSS
THE PACIFIC
Full particulars from:
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William St., Melbourne
C * A and UNION Roual Mail Lines
Government Planned Economy
Will Prices Hold?
Need for Stable Currencies
Economic Developments
To be successful, the investor must keep one eye on
economic and trade developments.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal, enables him to do
this and other things.
February Issue Now on Sale
the Japanese retreated to the bar, where
they stood, a sullen cohort, awaiting the
issue. One by one the white men re-
turned to the tables, where they licked
their wounds and repaired their energy
with draughts of rum. The black men
gathered at the end of the bar away from
the Japs; and the latter, after protracted
chattering, returned to their bibbling.
Seeing that the trouble had ended, Cap-
tain Tom took the arm of the gaping
Countess and forced her down upon one
of the logs which served as chairs. He
then led the bellicose Captain Jenks to
a seat, and pulled forward a third log
for himself.
“What a devil of a hole this is!” de-
clared the Countess.
r “I warned you about it,” rejoined Cap-
tain Tom.
She snapped her fingers. “To blazes
with you and your warnings. Where is
rrly son?”
He looked his amazement. “Why,
there,” jerking a thumb at Captain Jenks,
who had sunk his head on the table and
gone to sleep.
The Countess glared. “I’m not in the
mood for joking, Harkaway. I paid you
to take me to my son. Where is he?”
For once he failed to orient himself.
“Isn’t—isn’t Captain Jenks your son?”
“My son! That —that damned piffler
riiy son! I should hope not. God knows,
the Honorable William is a sorry enough
cross for any mother to carry ; but at
his worst he’s slightly better than that
maudlin imbecile who nearly got all our
throats cut.” She bent forward, took the
somnolent Captain Jenks by his fore-
lock, and jerked his face upward. “I
seem to know the man, though. Where
the devil have I met him?”
Still clutching her victim by the hair,
she studied his features. “By God, it’s
Tommy Desbrough. Wake up, man!”
She thumped his head on the table with
passionless vigor.
This Homeric treatment brought Cap-
tain Jenks back to consciousness. “Wha’s
marrer?” he inquired, striving to wrench
his head clear of her grip.
“Wake up, Tommy, and listen to me,”
she said, banging his head again.
He sat bolt upright and gazed at her
with swollen eyes. “Who are you call-
ing Tommy?” he asked. “My name’s
Billy—Billy Jenks.” He blinked owlishly.
“Good Lord, it’s Lady Beltane! What
are you doing here?”
“Searching for William. This price
less specimen thought you were my son
Where is he?”
He pondered. “He’s across ir
Broome,” he answered at length. “Ht
was here three or four years ago, but
left for Broome in a Jap pearler. You’l
find him in Broome, Lady Beltane.”
“Where the devil’s Broome? It sound;
like a Scotch thistle or something
Where’s Broome?”
“West Australia.”
“Good God, West Australia! How
far’s the place from here?”
He blinked, and tried to calculate.
Captain Tom interposed. “It’s about
3000 miles away.”
The Countess cursed venomously.
“What a damned mess ; what a hope-
less set of idiots,” she commented, re-
leasing Captain Jenks, who promptly feli
asleep again and snored like a foghorn.
“I forgot to ask his name,” she said
a few seconds later, and thumped Cap-
tain Jenks on the back till he woke.
“What alias is William sailing under?
she asked.
He glared glassily. “They call him
Blowfly. Ask anyone for Blowfly, and
they’ll put you right.”
“Blowfly,” cried the Countess. “Am
I to go round Australia inquiring for
Blowfly? Good God, what a collection
of congenital idiots!”
She got on to her feet. “Take me out
of this sink of cutthroats and fools,
she exclaimed to Captain Tom. “Damme,
if I don’t prefer the cut-throats to the
others. Blowfly! Good God!”
As they passed through the door, they
heard Captain Jenks bellowing lustih
for more rum.
«CAM,” said Captain Tom to Mr
Edwards, after describing the fore-
going events a fortnight later, “I think
I’d be justified in calling you a malig-
nant fiend for saddling me with that in-
fernal Countess.”
“It’s all one to me,” said Mr. Edwards
complacently. “What I would like to
know is why you picked on Jenks.”
Captain Tom laughed good-humoredly.
“The joke’s on me,” he admitted. “You
know what a hand Jenks is at shying
bottles. Well, I linked that up with this
other chap being twelfth man for Eng-
land. They always pick twelfth man for
his fielding.”
“Ha. ha. Oh, damn clever,” said Mr.
Edwards.
My Political
Life
By W.A. HOLMAN
BEEBY’S LAND
SCHEME
Beeby, who
had not Nielsen’s
extraordinary
familiarity with
every detail of Lands work, had not been
able to drive forward Nielsen’s scheme
like its originator, but meanwhile an
idea of his needed legislation which there
seemed to be little hope of passing.
His plan was to strike out an area
around every town and alongside every
railway within which, primarily, the
plough should be applied to every acre.
To enforce this, he proposed to impose
a super-tax upon the values of the lands
within the proclaimed areas, from which
owners could find exemption only upon
their obtaining a certificate that they
were using their property, or a certain
specified part of it, to actually produce
crops. This was an admirable proposal,
and would have led to many sales of
large properties whose owners were not
in a position to work them themselves.
Mr. Beeby was not destined, however,
to stay in office long enough to realise.it.
THE ROW OVER
GOVERNMENT
HOUSE
At an early
stage of our Min-
istry we had de-
cided that the
Com m onwealth
should pay us a
reasonable rent for State properties which
it had hitherto occupied free. Our deci-
sion covered, among other things, State
Government House. The Fisher Gov-
ernment flatly refused.
A spirited correspondence led to a
declaration by us that further Federal
occupancy of the building was at an end.
Nothing would have been easier than for
the Commonwealth to pay the very mod-
erate sum demanded. But Fisher, who
had been ready all his life to do, at any
sacrifice, what was right, was congenitally
incapable of imagining that any conclu-
sion which he had once arrived at could
possibly be wrong. On the present occa-
sion he had decided not to pay, and ir
his judgment the thing was finished.
Very well, said we, falling with un
expected aptitude into the role of the
bowelless landlord, there will be no Gov-
ernment House.
The new Governor-General, Lord
Denman, landed. Fisher, through a col-
league who was visiting Sydney, in-
formed the State Government that he
regarded himself bound to secure him
the Sydney house. We determined to
give Fisher the opportunity of redeem-
ing his pledge to Lord Denman on
terms which were still more liberal, and
which involved the expense to us of
entirely reversing our policy, by then
announced. For reasons best known to
himself, Fisher was unable to accept any
offer we made. He seriously took up
the position that because he had made
a certain promise to Lord Denman the
State Government should carry out the
promise at its own expense.
Requests for further postponements of
our decision to employ this piece of State
property for State purposes were made —
and acceded to. Fully 14 months elapsed
between our making and communicating
our final decision and our acting upon
it. The moment finally arrived when,
largely upon my own prompting, we
decided to carry it out.
SYDNEY
PROTESTS
A howl went
up. There were
the society people,
not keen politi-
cians, some of whom were just beginning
to like us; there were the ardent loyal-
oContinued on next page.)


The Ideal Book for Boys
PEARLS OF PAPUA
'PAt>m
By Commander H. C. Brewster
A really topnotch book for boys—indeed, for anyone who
retains some boyish love of exciting open-air adventure. Pearls
of Papua takes the reader first pearling on the North Australian
grounds and then into a series of excitements while the leading
characters are wandering amidst hostile and friendly tribes
through the heart of Papua. The adventures are not imaginary:
Commander Brewster bases them on life experiences, making
of them a lively narrative, touched with humor. Pearls of Papua
can be heartily recommended as a wholesome, stirring tale that
any boy will joy to have as a gift.
Price 5/- (postage 4d. extra)
Obtainable from all booksellers, or direct from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
252 George Street, Sydney.
THE OLDEST DAILY IN TASMANIA!
(Est.
years’
1842), 92
service.
“The Examiner” is the only daily
paper now published in Launceston, in
which city it reaches 90 per -cent, of
the homes. It is delivered also in 332
centres throughout Northern Tas-
mania. It is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM THAT REACHES THE HOMES
IN THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers. 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given m next week’s Bulletin.]
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
ists (/,<?., the fussy type of pre-war Im-
perialists), who saw nothing in the whole
thing but a studied outrage upon the
King’s representative ; and there were the
more virulent Federalists, who made it
a point of honor to assert that the State
was wrong and the Commonwealth
right whenever a dispute arose between
them. As to our regular critics, they
criticised away like mad all through the
episode, keeping well up to their usual
high standards.
So much attention was awakened that
this ridiculous dispute assumed the
dimensions of a first-class national ques-
tion. The contract with Lord Denman
was appealed to. As the legal spokes-
man of the Government, I explained that
we were not parties to that contract.
That was the Commonwealth’s business.
Process in the courts was threatened,
but we, who had seen so many previous
disturbances, were stoically indifferent to
the idea of a mere writ. A deputation
of ladies waited upon me and implored
me almost with tears “not to rob us of
our Government House, a building of
sc many historic memories.”
A final effort to stampede us was
made by alleging that the King contem-
plated visiting Australia, when he would
desire to use Government House as a
residence. The statement happened to
be absolutely untrue, and I was in a posi-
tion to say so, and did say so with quite
considerable effect.
GOVERNMENT
HOUSE OPENED
TO THE PUBLIC
The interesting
day at length
arrived when, all
preliminaries hav-
ing been com-
pleted, we deter-
mined to open the beautiful grounds as
a new park. This public demonstration
was a step into which I almost forced my
leader against his own judgment. Mc-
Gowen, in his new mood of following
the line of least resistance, would, if he
could, have dropped the whole business.
There was talk for a day or so of the
enemy organising a demonstration in
force against us at the ceremony, but
this scheme, if it had ever been enter-
tained, was abandoned. We took the
precaution, however, of having a few
uniformed policemen scattered around
the grounds, and there was a great and
excited gathering of our own supporters,
drawn to the spot by the rumor that
there were likely to be interesting doings.
A platform had been erected just out-
side the gates. From this McGowen and
I briefly addressed those within hearing.
McGowen then unlocked the gates and
declared the gardens a public park (as
the greater part of them have remained
ever since), and the whole multitude
streamed joyously in, most of them, no
doubt, for the first time in their lives. I
remember a little girl handing our chief
a small paper Union Jack, which he re-
tained half-unconsciously in his hand, all
through the proceedings. It was a sight
worth seeing: the Premier of our State
—always an imposing figure—leading a
procession of some 20,000 people round
these historic grounds with a penny flag
in his hand.
THE MURRAY
VALLEY
Towards the
end of 1912 we
commenced nego-
tiations with the
Victorian Government on a railway
scheme relating to the valley of the
Lower Murray, a tract of country hitherto
almost entirely unserved by railways.
The main line from Sydney to Mel-
bourne crossed this river at Albury, and
a branch line tapped it at Corowa, some
40 miles lower > down. Between that
point and the South Australian border—
that is to say, for hundreds of miles
westward down the river—the primitive
calm was only broken by one straggling
New South Wales line to Finley. A
line running through Narrandera and
Hay had been built along the Murrum-
bidgee. The whole of Murray Valley,
a most important stretch of country, had
otherwise been abandoned to nature.
All along the southern bank of the
Murray came the tentacles of the splen-
did railway network of Victoria ; numer-
ous, beautifully built to a broad gauge,
well served. Along a portion of its north-
ern boundary ran the Hay line, with its
one meandering tentacle, not nearly so
effective a piece of campaigning organisa-
tion as the Victorian system, but, still,
not so bad as far as it went. Between
them lay millions of the finest acres we
had, without a railway anywhere. One
reason for this, we found when we came
to inquire about it, was that the people of
the Lower Murray had long formed the
habit of trading with Victoria, and had
learned to regard Melbourne, and not
Sydney, as their commercial centre. The
ladies of the district did their shopping
in Collins-street; .holiday-makers went to
Queenscliff or Hobart. For* a generation
the whole area had experienced all the
incidents of peaceful penetration from
the South. . . ..
THE GRIFFITH
SCHEME
Was this fine
region, a veritable
kingdom, to be
left without com-
munication for ever? Griffith answered
with a decided negative. He aimed at
meeting the difficulty by measures which
outraged all accepted ideas. He was pre-
pared to penetrate this neglected area
by railways which were to link up with
the existing Victorian lines, and to give
our citizens in the Riverina direct touch
with their natural outlet —Melbourne.
Such a scheme was then enough to
take away one’s breath. The idea of
“handing over” a rich and important pro-
vince to be exploited by the railway sys-
tem of another State was unheard of.
Griffith had much difficulty in getting
his colleagues to agree with him. I was
an early convert to the scheme, and
eventually Griffith’s plans were taken
up.
The assent of the Victorian Govern-
ment was easy to get, but the .N’.S.W.
Legislative Council, weighing interests of
State against those of a special-region,
allowed those of the State to predomi-
nate. There the measures were rejected.
(This rejection caused the hanging up of
the whole idea during the war ; it was
given affect to by Ball when Minister for
Works in the Fuller Government.)
In December, 1912, Beeby electrified
us by resigning. None of us had
the slightest warning of his inten-
tion. Motoring up to Sydney from some
town on the South Coast. I obtained a
paper at a roadside shop and read under
scare headings of the resignation of a
Minister. This was the first inkling 1 had
had of his having arrived at any such
decision.
_ I need hardly say that I was deeply
chagrined by this action on the part of
my oldest friend. It was a complete rup-
ture of our personal co-operation, and
I had, 1 considered, a right to something
better at his hands than the surprise con-
fronting me when I bought the “Evening
News.” It seemed to me a step which
was calculated to remedy nothing, but
only to bring about the destruction of the
movement which we had both been plan-
ning to save. These criticisms must not
be taken as captious. They are the best
expression I can give of my actual feel-
ings of the moment. Our friendship sur-
vived this, as it survived many later
shocks.
ENGLAND AFTER
TWENTY YEARS
In December,
1912, I left Syd-
ney for Great
Britain, which I
was to see for the first time for over 20
years.
At Fremantle I met Sir Gerald Strick-
land, the Governor-nominate, who was
to succeed Lord Chelmsford in New
South Wales. Sir Gerald', although his
reign among us was destined to wind ,up
in a rather startling fashion, was an extra-
ordinarily good Governor- At the same
time I doubt whether training in the
Colonial Office is the best qualification
for the headship at a later date of demo-
cratic States like those of Australia. The
Governor reigns among us, but'he most
emphatically does not govern, and the
man who has been accustomed all his
life to being the executive head of minia-
ture colonies gets a conception of his
own functions which often leads to un-
desirable collisions with public senti-
ment and sometimes actually with public
men. Sir Gerald’s term was not entirely
free from one or two examples of both
kinds, and one of them, led to our separa-
tion.
SYDNEY
GAS STRIKE
During my
absence my col-
leagues had one
principal adven-
ture, the gas strike of 1913. It put the
Government in a most awkward position
and showed it in a very bad light. It
furnished further illustration of the utter
lack of general loyalty with which Labor
Governments in Australia are ,sur-
rounded.
On the initiation of half a dozen hot-
heads any union will take matters into
its own hands, and, in entire indiffer-
ence to the effects its action is likely to
have on the general prospects of the
movement, go on a warpath of its own.
Nothing is easier than to reconstruct
the intellectual process by which such
enterprises are resolved upon. There is
a Labor Government, isn’t there? Very
well ; grievances A, B and C ought by
now to have been definitely redressed.
If they are not it is because the Govern-
ment is useless, or treacherous, or worse.
(There is never any lack of voices to
suggest such possibilities.) Let us fight
our own battle. To the devil with the
make-believe Laborites who are batten-
ing in office at our expense. We’ll right
these wrongs by the strength of our own
right arms, and if incidentally the Gov-
ernment is injured in the struggle, a very
good thing. We are sick of this Gov-
ernment and all its works.
That may be taken as a kind of model
address to be used by any aspiring union
leader at any crisis during the incum-
bency of a Labor Government. By such
addresses, at such moments, men may
hope to rise in a movement of short
memories and easily stirred passions, and
some of them actually do.
McGOWEN
RETIRES
The Premier
was caught be-
tween two minds.
On the one hand
there were his own long association with
the trade-union world and the inumer-
able sentimentalities which bound him to
unionists rightly struggling to be free.
'On the other there was his official duty.
He. decided to go no farther with the
leadership of the party. Flowers and
Cannj who had supplied the steadying in-
fluence in our party’s counsels all through
the crisis, and Carmichael and Hall, who
had supplied the ingenuity, now all
united in ' advising him to send for me
'as his successor, and recommended the
party to elect me..
Early in June I set foot on the soil
of Australia after an absence of some-
thing over five months. Flowers had
come to meet us at Adelaide, and posted
me in all the happenings of my absence
and the present position. McGowen had
agreed to continue to carry on as Pre-
mier for the rest of the month of June,
to give us all breathing space, and after
that I was to take over.
My reception on all sides was emi-
nently cordial, though the purity of my
democratic principles was supposed to
have been sullied in London by my too-
numerous contacts with a bloated aris-
tocracy. I had, it had been reported,
collogued with Lord Harrowby, that
staunch friend of all visiting Australians,
Lords Haldane, Beauchamp and Emmott,
members of the Government, Lord
Goschen, the head of the London bank
with;.which we dealt, and Lord Cowdray,
the head of Pearson’s big firm, who was
interested in our city railway scheme.
It was necessary ■ for .me at an early
Trades Hall meeting to stress the entirely
innocuous character of my intercourse
with these distinguished public men.


mm
u >
U GOLDS”
Smas
99
the 1935 way
with wwfcj
tv 19
xtXact
A mild form of ’Flu is very prevalent at present, often starting with
a cold in the head,” The Double ”D” Eucalyptus treatment, which
has been proved so efficient in breaking up ’Flu and Cold attacks,
should be immediately resorted to-—
123
Take 3 drops of Double “D” on a lump
©f sugar—being pure, Double “D” is safe
to take internally.
Rub Double thoroughly into chest
and back—Double D” is strong, and
will quickly penetrate.
Inhale 16 drops of Double “D” in a jug
of hot water. Double “D” cont- ; ns no
irritants, and will have a very s^thing
effect. /
Repeat this treatment every four hours, and Double “D” Eucalyptus
will quickly drive away all traces of Tiu and Colds. This treatment
is also recommended for Coughs, Bronchitis, Asthma, Catarrh and
all Pulmonary Affections.
Beware of cheap Eucalyptus, as this frequently contains Phellan-
drene, a poison which is injurious to the human system.
Every drop of Double "D” Eucalyptus is double distilled, and is
guaranteed to be entirely free from Phellandrene, to contain over
70 per cent. Cineol, and to conform in every way to the standard
laid down by the British Pharmacopoeia.
Double D’ is the highest grade, purest and strongest Eucalyptus
sold in Australia. For your own safety, demand it, and take no other.
9d — ENORMOUS SALES — 1'3
% Send 2d. in stamps for the Double "D” Hiking Game —the kiddies will
love it. The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Box 201D, G.P.O., Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ŵ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue. 1 t
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and Ne*
Zealand should send JO/-).
with
m
Backache ?
‘‘For many years I suffered with
my kidneys, and could not get relief
until I commenced taking Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which cured
me of backache.”
MRS'. F. HADLEY,
78 Brighton Street,
Richmond.
‘‘l suffered with pains in my
back lor some considerable time,
but since taking Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills I have derived the
greatest benefit. I would not be
without them.”
MISS VIOLET KOHEN,
14 Rowley Street,
Caraperdown.
5 Jb
db SHELDON'S
Mon-Alcoholic) Kitnct w
the conttituetm of GIN *
f combined with other diuretic*
method formulated by *bt. E: M
This remedy will
bring you relief
overnight.
If those “down-dragging” pains
which you call Backache are caused
by your Kidneys, and they usually
are, then positive relief can be had
by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Take two of these thoroughly re-
liable Kidney Pills before retiring,
and while you sleep they will gently
but surely help your Kidneys back
to strength, and assist them in fil-
tering impurities from the blood
streams.
Pains in the back will quickly
cease, and not only will you be free
of this most painful of ailments,
but you will also be guarding
against that dreaded Kidney
Disease, which often comes when
“tell-tale” Backache is neglected.
Made with exacting care from
pure and safe ingredients. Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills can be taken
by anyone, no matter how young
or old, for their composition is such
that they cannot help but do you
good.
Never neglect Backache —protect
your Kidneys . by taking Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills at once.
27 Pills - - I'9
60 Pills - - 2'9
I » i ■ i. mi.
ShJhdckm
GIN PIUS
X
s>
,0*
K ° c°V
iX* bN^\V c rf\ c e /
** V‘
v«> vva^.-v' u, ov, -"
ST ** V K
\P
\0
s''-cj£ ...•** ..•
. »’ V ,<A ..*• ..•• ..••
»\0* 1 s •-* .••■ .-••■
A' , ...••• ..•••
Vi'- .■•■■ ..••■ C J' .^ a t' e o'^'V' 4 '*’ 0


ẁ
