

o ohs-a y; -
M
V/
J
as
IS !
—■•—■•■'V
>1
i 1 ’ii"
V
]lJ : m?!&'m !l f i/ 17/7:
r--v--
M 1
lliMlil/iiiM
W7 lf»///«/«
i i if
ll %
¥
v->
r
ir'lLil
iii _
: ''7s77
v'NV^vjsr*
/ /
nhi
in
• 5~
W
iiMl
3
Wv.
M
ImirttV
d
:.n
i,/ a\ v
\ m
iV l.i^j
IHI
/
<?$SsS?
ft
■Y>
h!
0
;^'S,
- *»
/j
■*?
a
JL *
urnwm \
V'<
m
W.
M
im
m
w
m
STABILITY
Broad-based, permanent, immutable—since
the dawn of History the pyramids have
endured —monuments not only of Pharaohs,
but also of Stability. Civilisations have
come and gone, cities have flourished only
to languish, to be sacked and destroyed—
but the pyramids remain. Infinite toil and
labour, as marshalled armies piled stone
upon stone, built into them that Stability.
Into Cranwells’ policy, likewise, stability
has been moulded —broad-based upon the
principle of careful investment —offering
shareholdings in ESTABLISHED companies
only.
Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd., believes that
balance sheets and full information about
an investment should always be available
to the investor, and so offers its free service
to clients covering such information. This
policy has earned for Cranwells its out-
standing reputation for stability, integrity
and probity.
Inquiries are invited to
CRANWELLS (Australasia)LTD,
Authorised Capital: £250,000.
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers.
’Phones: 87888, 87889.
Barrack House,
Barrack Street,
inev
Branch Offices at
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane,
Auckland, N.Z.
<£
The Bulletin
The Misadventures of Strawberry (Page 27)
VoL 56.—N0. 2879.
Wednesday, April 17, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION'* overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can fine? the market.
HEAD OFFICE;
“The Dominion" Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone:- 84038.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
'
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the
.
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE ANl> MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 435
Advertising Efficacy
'he Examit
is the oldest
and most effi-
cient advertising
medium in Tas-
mania.
For 92 years “The Examiner,” the oldest
daily paper in Tasmania, and now the only
one pubished in Launceston, has been THE
Advertising Medium for Northern Tasmania.
It is a record of Advertising efficacy, based
on known results, and establishes its claim
of being
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Ralph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors allso of “Weekly Courier*’ and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. (j. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE'
Established. 1854,
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
A Novel of
Vincent
Van Gogh
That all great
art is the result
of that same un-
tiring, individual
effort which is
sustained by the
leading character
in Irving Stone’s novel Lust for [Life is
a suggestion singularly anathema to the
Australian temperament.
It has only to be mentioned to be
pathetically resisted by all those who
think there is some comfortable road to
creative achievement, who can only
breathe easily in the atmosphere of arti-
ficial societies, who measure literary suc-
cess in terms of'finance, who consider
that all adverse criticism of Australian
writing is, ipso facto, envious or malici-
ous, who regard rejection of MSS. as a
personal affront, and who accept all
praise, however fulsome, as encourage-
ment.
The novel is a fictional representation of
the life of the painter Vincent Van Gogh.
That leading character has the failings—
ih the Ladies’ College sense of the term
—as well as the gifts of violent genius.
His appearance is uncouth, he bathes
with intellectual infrequency, he lives and
eats coarsely and in dirt, he makes love
like a baboon, he accepts a prostitute
with child as prospective wife, as an
evangelist he is expelled by his superiors,
he lives on the money that can be spared
from his brother’s salary, he cuts off one
of his ears and presents it to a street-
walker, he chases a fellow-artist with
a razor, he threatens with a revolver
the doctor who is befriending and
treating him, a
peasant discovers
him chattering in
the branches of a
tree, and, culmin-
ation to this cres-
cendo in lunacy,
he shoots
himself. The
coffin rests
awhile on a
billiard-table,
then he is
buried, and
s u.n fl owers
are planted
on his grave.
All this,
and more, the
author re-
cords, with
sta t uesque
He gave a girl one of his
ears.
solemnity. He represents Van Gogh as not
only a great painter but a great human
figure. This necessitates attack on Van
Gogh’s opposites. So religion’s repre-
sentatives appear mostly as weaklings,
fools, hypocrites and charlatans. Van
Gogh is expelled from his evangelist post
among the sweated and starved Belgian
coalminers for the crime of being
too Christ-like. His baboonish love-
making is represented as failing be-
cause the favored women are in-
ferior clods, whereas the one or two
women who fall in love with him
appear as creatures living in lumin-
ous colors on a canvas. In relating the
experiences with harlots the author works
in the light of Mary Magdalene’s story,
and out of Van Gogh’s living on his
brother’s bounty he contrives a pleas-
ing variation on the theme of brotherly
affection. Van Gogh’s suicide is so
etherealised that in it the fierce pattern of
the artist’s life finds proper and beauti-
ful consummation.
Thus, the representation not only
affronts conventional morality ; it justi-
fies the affront. It does not say that
the conventional should emulate Van
Gogh’s mode of life, but it does say,
in almost so many words, that they, in
comparison with the genius they invari-
ably fear, hate, persecute and deride, are
only so many animals; poor, dull, smug,
bemused beasts, of as much importance
in the scheme of things as their fellow-
creatures already at the abattoirs.
As a novel it is no work of genius.
The author suffers from exactly the same
creative trouble from which Van Gogh
suffered —he works too close to his
sitter to realise perspective. On the other
hand, in depicting his minor characters,
he works too far away to see the details.
Still, the picture is broadly authentic,
and there are aspects of it —in particular,
the depiction of the horrible coalmines of
Belgium—which are as moving as they
are informative.
Another
Study of
Genius
Giovanni
Papini’s superb
biography Dante
Vivo, which was
awarded the Pre-
mia Mussolini for
1933, and has
been brilliantly translated by Eleanor
Hammond Broadus and Anna Benedetti,
also presents a moral and spiritual por-
trait of genius.
As in the novel, there is no attempt
to avoid the realities of the principal
character’s mode of life, but Papini does
not find himself under any necessity of
either justifying or sentimentalising.
His Dante is above the need of the one
and the degradation of the other.
Papini speaks enthusiastically of his own
personal qualifications for writing the
life of a genius, and he achieves a work
which robs that self-estimate of its flavor
of bombast.
The conventional physical appearance
of Dante —“that harsh face of a
sour spinster or of a metaphysician in
mental travail”—Papini shortly rejects.
He spurns the Dante of the “poetising
moderns whose imaginations soar the
higher the more they themselves wallow
in the mire,” the Dante a la Carlyle,
“incarnation perfect and entire of the
Hero as Poet.” He does not say all
this is a false, he says it is not a wholly
true Dante. Against it he sets the less
pleasant side of the legendary version—
the Dante who was not a well-bred
person, who was not ashamed to ill-treat
or abuse anyone who offended him ; the
Dante who, himself highly sensitive, took
pleasure in deriding others.
This Papini accepts as probably true.
He goes further afield, to the side of the
muck-rakers themselves, and presents the
Dante of their version—the tale-bearer,
the pilferer, not ashamed to vie in scur-
rility with a jester, to consort ‘with pros-
titutes, to be greedy of titbits ; a Dante
always in situations ridiculous or humili-
ating, on intimate terms with buffoons,
set to train cats, derided for his low
stature and his greediness at table,
soundly thrashed, sought as adviser in
the matter of seducing a woman.
Papini does not accept all this ; neither
does he reject it. He simply gives it a
place in his pages, and his own nobility
of outlook, no less than the supreme
nobility of Dante, overshadows it for the
rubbish it is.
“ . . that harsh face of a sour spinster.”
As an impressionist Life the work is
notable enough. It is also an intelligent,
understanding and vigorous study of
Dante’s work, and, in addition, it is itself
an authentic piece of literature. The
English publishers have paid it the com-
pliment of a beautifully-made book;
but, then, these particular publishers
never make an ugly one.
CECH MANN.
[Lust for Life, by Irving Stone (Bodley Head;
Dymock’s; Bs. 6d.); Dante Vivo, by Giovanni
Papini (Lovat Dickson; 12s. 6d. net).]
The Poetry
of a
Cockroach
By processes
that do not re-
dound to the credit
of either of us, I
have got back my
copy of don mar-
quis’s archy and
mehitabel from a—well, from the person
who borrowed it from me. May his beer
evaporate!
That is a stiff curse, but he deserves it.
To borrow a book for two days and hold
it for three months is bad enough, and
with the book of archy excusable, too ;
but to give this book up at the end of
that time uncut!!, 1 ! Come on, archy—
at him:
i hope he turns into a flea
on the back of a hound of hell
and is chased for a million years
with a set of red hot teeth
exclamation point
Thanks, archy, little cockroach; though
I’m sorry to have to tell you, archy,
that you’re the only one of your race —
l don’t mean the American race ; I mean
the cockroach race—that I’ve ever had any
time for. But there, the brief biographi-
cal detail of yourself which mr marquis
has written—how a piece of paper was
left in the typewriter, and how you were
discovered climbing painfully upon the
Iramework of the machine and casting
yourself down headfirst with such force
on to the key that a letter was struck
(though you could not, of course, strike
capitals), and in this difficult fashion
spelling out the curious story of how in
a previous existence you were a vers-
libre bard, whose soul in this present
incarnation had got into the body of a
cockroach—that, archy, is a story to
bring tears into the eyes of a hangman’s
photograph. Why, even a critic might
conceivably weep, visualising you there,
night after night, taking your perilous
headers on to the keyboard! And a
Professor in Modern Morality, or Mus-
solini surely either would be moved to
a lofty defence of your friend miss
mehitabel the cat, her courage, her re-
source, her exemplary fecundity! I don’t
wonder, archy, that you, a poet, were
moved to admiration of her that evening
you saw her dancing with Boreas in the
alley, what time, whirling and twisting
there, she sang (to repeat just a little of
her song):
whirl mehitabel whirl
caper my girl and grin
and pick at your guts with your frosty
feet ■
they re the strings of a violin
girls we was all of us ladies
until we went and fell
and oncet a thoroughbred always game
i ask you wotthehell
it s last week up and this week down
and always the devil to pay
but cripes i was always a lady
and the word is toujours gai
But —and do not think this is only
flattery, little cockroach —it is you your-
self, doomed, for whatever is the cock-
roachian span of life, to lodge with things
like fred the rat, who used previously
to be a poor poetaster and who now eats
your poems, and that braggart other be-
whiskered cockroach with his pretentious
boasting of having been to hell, and that
perky flea with whom (you will recall it)
you had this swift passage at arms:
i have just come from a swell
dog show he said i have
been lunching off a dog that was
worth at least one hundred
dollars a pound you should be
ashamed to brag about it i said with so
many insects and humans on
short rations in the world today the
public be damned he said i
take my own where i find it
. . . yes, you, archy, driven —in what I
dare to call your noblest passage—-driven
to cry:—■
i with the brain of a milton
fell into the mincemeat at Christmas
and was damned near baked in a pie
i with the touch of a chaucer
to be chivvied out of a sink
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the conscience of business.
THE SENIOR STORE.'
ANTHONY HORDERN
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
'PHONE: M 2401.
Winter Warmth at “Famous Low Prices”
Men’s all-wool Coat Sweaters in dropstitch
ribbed knit. A smart V-neck style in Dark
Grey, Heather and assorted Marl shades.
Sizes, 36in. to 42in. chest.
Prices, each . 12/6, 15/-
Better qualities 16/6, 21/-, 22/6
K
m
2$
mm
Men’s Fancy all-wool Coat Sweaters in smart
V-neck style. Medium weight. A range of
Black /White Jacquard tones for selection.
Sizes, 36in. to 42in. chest. Prices, 10/6, 12/6
Better qualities 17/6, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-
m
:
H HI
is V
All Wool
Lumber Jacket
136
These Lumber Jackets are cosy and
serviceable for Winter Wear. They
are made with turn-down step Collar
and front buttoning up to chin. Smart
Check designs in Grey, Fawn, Brown
and Lovat shades. Sizes, 36in. to 42in.
chest.
Price, each 13/6
Better qualities 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
A smart sleeveless Cardigan for sports wear.
All-wool finished ribbed armholes and welt,
button front. Select from self-Marl tones and
clerical Grey. Sizes, 36in to 42in. chest.
Price, each 13/6
■ .
■
1
am
m
m
as
n
Cosy roll-neck Pullovers in all pure wool,
Cashmere knit. They are well made and
finished. Select from Light or Dark Grey,
Lovat, Brown and Navy shades. Sizes, 36in.
to 40in. chest. Price, each 15/6
T3m
/
Two Serviceable Styles
Choose from
Two
Collar
Designs
They are so
warm for
Winter
Wear. Made
with turn-
I3'e
down collars and patent
fasteners in a smart range
of Check and Overcheck
designs in Fawn, Brown,
Blue and Grey tones.
Choose from two collar
styles. Sizes, 36in. to 42in.
chest. Price 13/6
Other qualities—
Prices .. 18/6, 21/-, 25/-
These
fancy
all-wool
Pullovers
are made
lO'6
in a smart style with V-
neck and finished ribbed
cuffs and welt. There is a
wonderful range of Jac-
quard Grey and Fawn tones
for selection. Sizes, 34in. to
42in. chest.
Price, each 10/6
Better qualities. Prices—
-12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 22/6
9 Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to
all Seaports in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
*9


Mil
Kill
' M
M|
m
LI 11
• i
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
THE exhilaration of a trip to Cairns thrills even the most hardened
travellers. Halcyon days truly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Interstate liners to Australia’s Wonderland.
WHILST gripped in the mantle of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
rings a clarion note. The wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
the home of Warmth, Color and Beauty.
VISIT . . . MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND,
BARRON FALLS AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
Book your Passage by CANBERRA, MANOORA, ORUNGAL, KATOOMBA.
A SUNSHINE CRUISE TO THE WARM
NORTH
5^
/\' n
Full particulars and pamphlets from Howard Smith, Ltd., Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd., Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd., A.U.S.N., Ltd., at all Ports.
. . . and, further, driven to that last
resort of the desperate:
yesterday maddened with sorrow
i leapt from the woolworth tower
in an effort to dash out my brains
gods what a wretched pathetic
and anti climatic attempt
i fluttered i floated i drifted
i landed as light as a feather
on the top of a bald man s head
whose hat had blown off at the corner
and all of the hooting hundreds
laughed at the comic cockroach
... so that, still condemned to live on
where, as you cry:
even the demons i talk with
ghosts of the damned that await
vile incarnation as spiders
affect to consider me comic
. . . yes, condemned thus to live, you
shout out in the torment of your spiritual
anguish:
wait till their loathsome embodiment
wears into the stuff of the spirit
and then let them laugh if they can
. . . yes, archy; yes, little cockroach, it
is you yourself, you and your boss mr
marquis, who may take, and make such
use of it as you will, my esteem, my
respect, my adoration and my love.
In honor of the two of you I doff
both my caps., and subscribe myself, for
the first time in my life since I was a
very small boy,
billy smith. \
[archy and mehitabel by don marquis faber
and faber copy three months ago from angus
and robertson castlereagh-street Sydney ns w
australia price 7/6]
The
Thunderer
Appears
There shouid
be a method
of transporting
those who are
shocked at the
venality of some
modern news-
papers back to the eighteenth century.
Then, as told in the first volume of
The Thunderer in the Making (“Times”
office ; 165.), the “Times” came into being.
It was founded in 1785 by John Walter,
a ruined coal-market manager and under-
writer who, having failed to solve his
bankruptcy problems by getting a Gov-
ernment job, set out to promote a new
syllabic method of printing. The
“Times” —called for the first three years
of its existence the “Daily Universal
Register”—was his specimen sheet.
It had its troubles. Walter went to
gaol for saying that “the insincerity of
the joy of the royal dukes at the recov-
ery of the King from a mental illness
was visible.” The King humanely re-
mitted the pillory from his sentence, and,
after he had spent most of two years in
what he termed “this vile receptacle,”
Newgate, Walter was restored to Gov-
ernment favor, and began to receive the
£3OO p.a. bribe, paid, him as a “pension, ’
so that the “Times” would not fail in
its duty to the Administration. When it
did, in 1799, the subsidy ceased, and when
John Walter 11. took control in 1803 a
new “Times” and a new type of news-
paper were born. It stood on its own
feet. It attracted the best writers of the
day. It brought in that “damned boy”
Barron Field, friend of Charles Lamb
and afterwards a N. S. Wales Supreme
Court Judge, who could slay the dramatic
author like this:
Mr. Cherry is undoubtedly the lowest
dramatist of this wretched day: Mr. Rey-
nolds can make a Jaugh sometimes, and
Mr. Dibdin can write a song; but Mr.
Cherry can do neither.
In his independence Field was ably sup-
ported by his colleague on the Walters’
evening paper, Leigh Hunt, who “would
have as lief have taken poison as accepted
a ticket from the theatres.”
The foreign-affairs service which has
always been a “Times” feature began to
be built up at this time by Crabb Robin-
son. By 1813 it was so well established
that Lord Castlereagh at the Foreign
Office could “present his compliments
and request that Mr. Walter will have
the goodness to tell him if he has re-
ceived any intelligence of the reported
defeat of the French near Dresden.”
The leading article was not neglected.
Peter Fraser, Edward Sterling—the origi-
nal “Thunderer” who inspired Carlyle’s
nickname for the old paper—and Barnes
attended to opinion, while Walter in-
stalled the first steam presses ever used
in a newspaper, doing it secretly and not
announcing the revolution to the staff
until he could say to them dramatically
one night as they waited for formes:
“The ‘Times’ is already printed—by
steam.” It was indeed a revolution —
the amazing contraption could run off
1100 sheets an hour.
The greatest phenomenon in the
“Times” office from 1817 ownard was
Thomas Barnes, the editor, who became
solely responsible for what was published
in the paper. He was a scholar who
revelled in the Latin classics and read
Greek well. His mathematics were good
enough to almost make him a wrangler
at Cambridge. He was athletic, but a
born Bohemian, and in later years he
suffered from rheumatism and asthma.
It was his friendship with Barron Field,
made through Charles Lamb and Leigh
Hunt, which brought him to Printing
House-square, and there he became an
erudite theatrical critic and an outstand-
Jng Parliamentary authority, one of the
best masters of the English language in
his day and later, according to Lord
Lyndhurst, “the most powerful man in
the country.” He achieved this position
in spite of somewhat loose personal
habits and a strict anonymity which did
not even permit him to sign his name to
official correspondence. The “Times”
carried on this tradition at his death, and
the only obituary on him which it
printed was:
On the 7th instant, at his house in
Soho-square, Thomas Barnes, Esq., in the
56th year of his age.
He left behind him the most powerful
newspaper in the world. His fearlessness
and vigor of expression made the paper,
and this volume breaks new ground in
showing for the first time how much
modern conservative journalism owes to
him for its form and habits.
EL V.
Australia’s
“Near-enough”
Novelists
Why is the Aus-
tralian so color-
ful, brief and con-
vinc i n g when
spinning a yarn,
and so lacking in
these attributes
when he comes to write novels?
A few nights ago some good com-
panions were swapping yarns over their
half-pints. Two in the company had
novels to exhibit in the Authors’ Week
display. As novelists they both tell
good stories badly. In the pub they
related incidents from their novels
vividly and concisely. They produced
masterpieces in the art of entertaining.
In their books they are shoddy and
long-winded. Pen in hand, or sitting be-
hind their typewriters, they had almost
always failed to find the inevitable word,
the telling phrase, the pithy sentence.
They seemed unable to run their
thoughts along a smooth track. They
missed in the written just where they
scored in the spoken word.
The Australian, as a general rule, tells
a bar-room or a drawing-room story as
well as, if not better than, the English-
man or American. As a fiction writer
he, with one or two exceptions, fails to
hold his own with the second-raters in
either of the other English-speaking
countries. It is not that his subject-
matter is poor. Some of the local efforts,
properly handled, would compare with
any of the imported stuffy It is the solid,
conscientious workmanship that is miss-
ing.
The workmanship in our novels is, to
put it mildly, a reflection on the powers
of our writers to take pains. The vivid
word that would sug-
gest itself immediately if
telling the story in the
pub gives place almost
always in the novel to
the journalese of the
afternoon paper; the
characteristic national at-
tribute of plain speaking
is lost altogether in in-
volved sentences that
frequently fail to reach
their ends.
It would seem that the
Australian writer of fic-
tion must set out to con-
quer this “anything good
enough” attitude. He
must use the blue pencil
and toss out the hideous
jargon of which we get
far too much in the daily
Einstein.
papers. Many, far too many, of the
recent novels bear the obvious traces of
“ghosting,” in which the author’s story
is buried beneath a torrent of words,
poured out in adjectival gushings that
would do credit to the best police rounds-
man of the afternoon press.
The basis for a solid literature is here ,
but, like Arthur Adams’s old-time Aus-
tralian, our writer still prefers to “slouch
down the centuries” rather than get to
solid work with the blue pencil.
G. B.
Australians
Poor
Readers?
The efforts be-
ing made to in-
duce Australians
to believe they
are poor readers
become amusing
when the facts are known. The best
book-buying country in the world per
head of population is Maoriland, with
Australia occupying second place.
Also, it is said that Australians read
very little else except fiction. This is
a monstrous untruth, the fact being that
Australians buy— not borrow, mark you
—a greater proportion of books of his-
tory, travel, biography, etc., than any
other country in the world except Maori-
land.
There is such a howl going up at
present to induce Governments and
municipal councils to find money to
spend in enabling people to borrow books
that one is tempted to ask: If the nation
is to be lent books, then why not wire-
less sets, motor-cars, gramophone records,
works of fine art, bread and all other
sorts of food?
A. H. SPENCER.
A Satchel of Books
The Autobiography of Cornells Blake (Cas-
sell ; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). The latest novel
of George R. Preedy lacks the rapid action
of The Rocklitz and General Crack. Cornelis
himself is to blame for this. He is a prosy
fellow, too much given to introspection, and
he spends so much time weighing up the con-
sequences of any projected action that by the
time his mind is made up it is too late to
act. Nevertheless, the book conveys excellently
the atmosphere of revolution and intrigue that
existed in Naples during the early 1800’s.
The war serves as a background for A. H. S.
Hinchcliffe’s The Bar Sinister (Heritage;
7s. 6d.), not as a great adventure or terrible
disaster, but as the opportunity for bringing
about a change in the old class distinctions.
James Briscoe looks to the building up of a
new upper class in England, based not on
birth or education, but on efficiency and ser-
vice. He’s a born fighter. In France, a private
in the New Army, he gets the D.C.M. and
M.C., but loses an arm. Invalided out, he
goes to India, and there secures a V.C. At the
finish he’s still there, preparing himself for
the changed condition he believes will come.
An interesting personality; more should be
heard of him later.
The World as l See It (Bodley Head; Bs. 6d.
net) is a selection from the speeches, letters
and so forth uttered by Albert Einstein mostly
on topics of international import. So far as
Australia is concerned, the object of whoever
compiled it—to counteract the exhibiting o
Einstein’s character and opinions in a distorted
form —has little point. Einstein may not be
widely known here, but he is not badly known.
Generally speaking, he is a vague and remote
figure, and on his own state-
ment that is what he would
prefer to be. His friends
prefer otherwise, and his
compulsory exile gives them
opportunity to exhibit him:
possibly it even makes him
a willing victim, though he
has declined to be an accom-
plice of France against Ger-
many, and, despite what
Germany has done to him,
he remains loyal to his
Fatherland. The book’s
value is that it makes the
scientific genius visible as a
human being. Behind even
the trivial utterances—and
about half of it is trivial—
the personality of Einstein
stands definite and intimate.
He is as self-revealed in his
bantering . remarks about
women as he is in his
vigorous panegyrics on
pacifism. He tells U.S.A.,
after an American Women’s
League has protested against
his visit there, to “give
heed to your clever and patriotic womenfolk
and remember that the Capitol of
mighty Rome was once saved by the cackling
or its faithful geese”; and he informs a
woman who has sent him her MS. that “it is
so typically feminine, by which I mean deriva-
tive and vitiated by personal rancor.” Like
most pacifist supporters of the ideal of a League
ol Nations with sanctions to enforce its ver-
dicts, he can be conveniently illogical. He
would rather be torn in pieces than fight in a
war and kill his fellow-men, yet he advocates,
in the event of a nation not submitting to
an International Court’s decision, proceeding
against the delinquent with all “economic and
military force” available. In plain language
that resolves into one word—war. In this
deplorable eventuality what would the sup-
porters of the Einsteinian peace scheme do?
Would they fight, or would they let others do
it for them? And in either case how would
they quieten conscience?
The hero of Arthur Crocker’s Australia
Hops In (Shakespeare Head; 4s. 9d.) is a
superman. Shortly after War begins in 1914
he feels a great desire to see again an old
friend Whose name appears in the newspapers
as having rescued an officer from a cannon’s
mouth. Accordingly, he gathers together 200
men to form a Light Horse brigade, all of
them imbued with the idea of “seeing Billy
Howarth again.” Then he takes them all-to
his Northern Territory cattle-statibn to train
them; shows them how to catch and break
brumbies for their mounts, and with their aid
brings off a drive of 2000 wild cattle. Of
course,
“Arthur Roberts’s stockwhip was the best
in the Territory; in the Territory are the
best stockwhips in the world; and it was
conceded that Arthur handled a stockwhip
second to none. At a gallop he could
bring down a bird from the treetops.”
So that accounts for a lot of it.
“The stockwhip can be a terrible weapon
in expert hands. Arthur flung out and
circled the long lash. It was a beautiful
tool. The handle was a hardwood, carved
m quaint but beautiful design, the carving
serving as a grip on the butt. The thong
was horse-hide, not tanned, but preserved
and softened by some aboriginal method.
At about a fifth of its length from the
handle, it was thickest, as thick as a man’s
forearm, gradually falling away to a
needlelike lash.”
Arrived at Gallipoli, he performs with notable
success. With Billy Howarth—both of them
are privates—he is responsible for the dis-
patches making arrangements for the evacua-
tion being safely piloted to the right hands.
At headquarters after this final achievement
the group of officers
“looked at Private Roberts with a great
wonder in their eyes. The hearts of all
were beating fast; the breathing of all was
quickened; the fingers of those holding the
strip of paper were trembling.
“ ‘Oh, thank God,’ the O.C. said.
“ ‘Amen,’ responded the others in tones
ol deep reverence and gratitude.”
And the love story; it’s too, too beautiful.
Though it holds enough good sporting anec-
dote to pass as fairly general reading, Rum
Vns to Follow by a Melton Rough Rider
(Country Life; 10s. 6d. net), will find its chief
public in England’s hunting shires, or among
exiles from them. To any of these last it can
be solidly recommended. It is racy of the
sport and sportsmen of its setting, and the
atmosphere is quickened by brilliant carica-
tures and cartoons from the “Bvstander ”
“Vanity Fair” and “Tatler.”


BSffl
ms
■y-
■ll
iliii
. ■
m i
m
is;
7’V vi ' / -i > ' '! $ ~ ' \
i
npilil
|||sS
' ? ■; I
s’} ;,»• if i •i. V. •- i!a|" . ■ I
A« A A® •
Si£aaimtriQ
in
5
iSiliyisssfiSii'
jSjwMHft
.:-,; ;;
IS
;# ;■;
Vj> ( . -*
•■* *. .. ; y. v: • »■ •■? "■
’ KtHii»§v 'Vr 1 « w’riha*
. :
■ ■ ■"■- ®’:' '■
iSillillllSli
7
■; ’ S'-
mm-
m
i&mm . >
-
iflipw
,
■>
’ '-' J|: - - .
M r ' r:Z
Tjf 1 .
V
issaift
: f ■, ■ w \
•IS'-, .vf\ s :*-4%
m
V,* ■ _ V*
!j|*i Sjj ‘i ” i VS!. } *+“ 1 VT, ■7."#sF' I
*
S®?*-
sli v,f / ■-.
' mmmm
<■ :
-' i - -••; t.- ■ > ag
?'"•!> v '■ •
V v ■ • i ‘- 1 “ •*“ - * , “■• P T V'-k '-■s*
;<;■ *■■■■ h
j
*p;j
’n»i- ' ■
fr
clouds of financial worry can be
-*■ quickly dispersed.
Most of us neglect to put a little away
to tide us over a “rainy day.” If we
have managed to save a little, some
emergency generally arises calling for the
immediate disbursement of the nest egg.
YOU NEED A LOAN QUICKLY
on furniture, player-pianos, or other securities at an equitable rate of interest, and without any fuss or
embarrassment, call and discuss the matter with N.S.W. Monte de Piete D. & I. Co., Ltd.
Since 1882 this Company, which was established to suppress usury, has been noted for its friendly and fair
treatment, and does not impose vexatious charges.
REPAYMENTS INCLUDE BOTH PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
ADVANCE £10 REPAYMENT WEEKLY
ADVANCE £20 REPAYMENT 7 y 6 WEEKLY
ADVANCE £30 REPAYMENT 10 f - WEEKLY
ADVANCE £50 REPAYMENT 15/- WEEKLY
ADVANCE £100 REPAYMENT 25 WEEKLY
Special rates of repayment arranged if above not suitable.
Advances made on Jewellery of all descriptions, Diamonds, Precious Stones, Modern and Antique Silver and China, and all classes of
portable security.
NO FEES CHARGED FOR ENQUIRIES, PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS OR VALUATIONS.
Every Allowance made for sickness.
N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & l. Co., Ltd., is an All-Australian organisation, its complete capital being subscribed
by Australians, and all its employees being Australians.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE
D. and I. Company Limited
Paid-up Capital: £300,000
Established 1882.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
* * (same side as David Jones). Telephone: M6465.
DIRECTORS: JOHN K. HARDIE (Chairman)
JOHN A. MIN NETT
GEORGE E. DALE
JOHN M. EDWARDS
FRED C. SMITH (General Manager).
i'or the convenience of suburban, country and interstate clients, the Company lias established these branch offices
285 ELIZABETH STREET (Opp. Anzac Memorial).
A. W. Grave, Manager.
Telephone: MA2901.
18 CITY ROAD (Opp. Grace Bros.).
J. A. Doutty, Manager.
Telephone: MA4563.
217 FOREST ROAD, HURST VILLE.
.T. Gooding, Manager.
Telephone: LW2780.
1(54 CHURCH STREET. PARRAMATTA.
M. Cutlack, Manager.
Telephone: UW97CII.
Cessnock Branch •-
VINCENT STREET. A McHarg, Manager.
Telephone: Cessnock 415.
Newcastle Branch:
260 HUNTER STREET WEST. William Flatrier, Manager.
Telephone: Newcastle 274.
F.
Wol Lon bonk Branch:
BALGOWAN BTJIRDINGS, CROWN
Summers, Manager. Telephone:
STREET.
Wollongong
CIS.
e


9
i
m
m
i
a
■ ■
S»J
lift
a


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2879.
April 17, 1935.
PRELUDE TO ANZAC DAY.
“Politicians Lyons, Pearce and Parkhill are on the new Council of Defence. A.I.F. Generals White and Chauvel are off it.”
“We don’t want you chaps any longer. We’ve got me.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AUSTRALIA WON’T BE THERE.
We are told that the four Australian Ministers in
London have been kept informed of recent adven-
tures in British foreign policy. It is to be hoped that
the progress reports were reassuring, for indignation
has been aroused in Japan by the mission to Moscow
—there has been no mission to Tokio —and hence
uneasiness in Australia, to which the maintenance of
friendship with Japan is necessary. In any case, there
is no welcome in this country for the prospect of
another alliance with Russia. Our experience, shared
with other parts of the Empire, is that Russia is not
to be depended upon in war or peace.
Australia has been exposed to Red Russian propa-
ganda for 17 years, and in one way and another it
has caused considerable mischief. It has failed in its
main purpose, as it has failed everywhere else ; but
discontented minds are still dazzled with dream-
pictures of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
which wrested its freedom from a capitalist world
in arms, and in which there are no capitalists, debts
or unemployed—only workers and peasants, guided by
supermen. Nothing could be farther from the truth.
The Russian Revolution is the most overrated
event in history. It escaped being snuffed out by the
Germans only because of the victory won by the Allies
while the Reds were still cringing to their conquerors.
It was saved again because those same Allies inter-
vened in a tired and ineffectual fashion on behalf of
the Whites (who were even more contemptible than the
Bourbonists that England supported just as fatuously
during the French Revolution), and thus made Bol-
shevism seem the national cause. A great deal of
rubbish has been written about the prowess of the
Red Army, but its only victories have been gained
over subjects of the murdered Czar ; and it has not
always overcome them. When it tackled the Poles it
was horribly beaten; and the bosses at Moscow were
so scared that they made a hasty peace and paid an
indemnity. Their feet were still cold when Roumania
annexed Bessarabia, ethnically more Russian than the
Crimea, and their Red Army has never tried to regain
Bessarabia, Finland, Latvia, Esthonia or Lithuania,
though they have subsidised seditious movements in
those former parts of the Russian Empire, as in most
other countries.
Their economic achievements are as grotesquely
exaggerated. They began with great advantages, rich
with the plunder of dynasty, church, nobility and
“borjoice”—no debts, internal or foreign ; factories
and workshops stolen from British and Americans;
vast belts of oil, coal, precious and base metals;
immense forests and numbers of fur-bearing animals;
the greatest tract of wheatgrowing land in the world,
and an inexhaustible supply of cheap and docile labor.
Yet they were such duffers at organisation that for
years after the revolution the people were short of
every requisite, and half of them would have perished
of famine in 1921 if the “capitalist” nations had not
rushed to the rescue. By all except Communist
accounts, they are still ill-clad, -housed and -fed.
Despite all the mush about the immense produc-
tion of tractors, Soviet Russia has utterly failed to
regain Czarist Russia’s predominance in wheat. Wheat
is exported, but it is at the expense of a population
which has become habituated to tightening of belts.
And the exports are all carried in foreign bottoms.
This wonderful industrial country, with an outlet to
two oceans, has only coastwise shipping. Sydney is
one of the great ports of the world, and the Russians
have to buy Australian wool. Nobody has ever seen
in Port Jackson a ship flying the flag with the hammer
and sickle.
The Communist leaders have not even learned
from their own experience how impossible it is for
one nation to impose its system on another, whether
by force or intrigue; but they have suddenly dis-
covered that white-anting is dangerous work. The
only effect of their everlasting intrigues has been to
raise up formidable enemies on two fronts. They
thought to Bolshevise Germany, and helped to
create Hitlerism ; and with the same clumsy misunder-
standing of national feeling they have contrived to
strengthen what they call Japanese Imperialism. In
the result their tails are down again, and they
are imploring Britain to help them. Australia is not
interested. If destiny summons Germany to expand to
the north-east; and the Japanese to the north-west,
Australia, alone or in association, cannot thwart it,
and will refuse to make the attempt.
One of those British pacifists who are never
happy unless they are interfering provocatively in
the affairs of other countries has suggested that, to
keep Germany in check, it will be necessary to have
a defensive front extending from the Thames to the
Urals. The gentleman does not speak for the Com-
monwealth. If it comes to fighting in the Urals or
about Lake Baikal, Australia Won’t Be There.
FORGAN SMITH’S OPPORTUNITY.
Except for one term, Labor has been in power in
Queensland for just on 20 years. Its opponents have
become weak for lack of corn ; they propose at the
May election to contest only 50 seats out of 62,
leaving the others to Douglas Creditites and nonde-
scripts. Labor has become fat and lost its daring,
its policy scarcely differs from that of U.A.P.
Governments in other States—scads of relief work in
the south, opening of small farm areas in the north,
subsidies for the beef industry, and “firm opposition
to restriction of exports.”
Deputy-Premier Pease has been telling Atherton
farmers that his Government has not increased taxa-
tion, as if that were a merit. Actually its rates are so
stiff that its tax-revenue in 1933-34 was the highest
per head in the Commonwealth —£6 3s. against
£5 Bs. Bd. in N.S.W. and £4 12s. 9d. in Victoria. It has
increased 10s. per head since Labor regained office,
whereas there has been a decrease of 255. per head
in N. S. Wales. The Forgan Smiths spent £5,500,000 of
loan money in their first two years of office, and this
year they budgeted for another £4,400,000. “On top
of that they have had from the Commonwealth over
£5,500,000 in grants. With drought looming, they
propose to spend £2,000,000 on a bridge across the
Brisbane River.
Queensland has a very competent Bureau of
Industry. At the end of 1934 it said:
Investors still pay high prices for securities yielding
from 3 p.c. to 4! p.c., rather than venture into new
enterprises. Were it not for Government borrowings
the position would become very embarrassing to
financial institutions.
In March the bureau reported that “two-thirds
of the State’s inward pastoral areas are in the throes
of an intense drought, which some districts pronounce
the worst for 30 years.” The United Graziers have
implored the Premier to reduce railway freight-
rates on cattle, sheep and fodder at least 50 p.c.
They also ask for a 50 p.c. reduction in pastoral
rentals ; but, with city bridges to build and industrial
electorates to serve and mounting deficits and
reduced buoyancy in taxation, the result of the wool
position, they are unlikely to get much help.
So far there has been no word about important
issues which Forgan Smith raised at the Premiers’
Conference last year. On that occasion he attacked
the Commonwealth for “tending to secure the over-
lordship of the States and reduce them to a vassal
condition.” On major policies, he declared, the Com-
monwealth made no attempt to consult the States,
and he advocated “the centralisation of authority in
a national Government which would delegate local
autonomy to other bodies.”
A Parliament which ceases to exercise control over
its own financial policy becomes a mere shell. That is
the position which has arisen in Australia.
Mr. Forgan Smith has a good opportunity to become
the Cortez of a new political era. If he decided to
stand boldly for reform of the present lopsided finan-
cial arrangements and for a complete separation of
Commonwealth and State functions and taxes, bog-
gling not at national control of education, navigation
and industry, he would consolidate his power in
Queensland, and people in other States who have little
sympathy with Labor-socialism would hail him as
a national leader. So far he has merely been on the
defensive against opponents who have shown them-
selves equally barren of resource.
MUST IT BE A POLICEMAN?
“The proposal that a member of the royal family should
succeed Governor-General Isaacs will not be proceeded with,
mainly because of the possibility of a Governor-General
becoming embroiled in party issues. Members of the
Cabinet warmly approve of a suggestion that Lord Trenchard
should be named.”
Until a few years ago Governors were the real
executive heads of communities which the Motherland'
did not altogether trust to look after themselves. But
British political institutions continually and easily
adjust themselves to changing conditions. To-day, to
quote from a summary by an officer of the Depart-
ment of External Affairs which appeared in The
Bulletin last week, “the Governor-General
holds in all essential respects the same position....
as is held by the King in Great Britain.”
Differences remain, as the first sentence of the
above cable message indicates. If a British Prime
Minister, whether defeated or not, advises a dissolu-
tion he automatically gets one. Dissolutions, never-
theless, have always been rare in Britain; in 1856
Lord Palmerston’s Government was defeated on the
floor of the House 15 times, yet Palmerston carried
on. In Britain the issues are usually large ; here they
may be trivial. In Australia a Government stands to
score by going to the country ; in England it is often
disadvantaged. In England Parliamentary majorities
are always large, and general elections take place
every five years ; here majorities are usually small, and
elections take place every three years. Clearly, a
Governor-General might do the Commonwealth a
serious disservice by putting a scattered population
to the expense of an election merely because it suited
the book of a given party ; particularly if an election
were due shortly in any case.
So in Australia a Governor exercises discretionary
powers which the King does not exercise. To enable
him to avoid the rows so many Governors from
Britain have been involved in, he needs qualities
which it is almost impossible for an imported
Governor to possess. Knowledge of Australian con-
ditions and of the ins and outs of party politics ;
skill in handling Australians ; above all, that prestige,
earned by achievements, which impels the average
Australian to say “if that is So-and-so’s opinion it’s
good enough for me.”
Governor-General Isaacs has had an unprece-
dentedly smooth passage, in face of unconcealed
hostility on the part of some opponents of the Govern-
ment which appointed him, because he fulfils most
of these requirements. Other Australians have them
in perhaps a greater degree. The Bulletin has
already discussed Chauvel. Brudenell White also
would make an ideal Governor-General. Born in
Victoria, and educated at a Queensland State school,
he was the first Australian to graduate at the Staff
College. Bean wrote: <
His view of his duty to the army and to his country
was an exalted one —to do the work which lay ahead
without a thought to the reward Never during the
war would he so much as raise his little finger to
solicit the distinctions which might have come his
way An extraordinary personal charm served White
in place of the thrust which brought many soldiers to
the front. But behind it he possessed rare qualities,
both of brain and character.
White’s record is certainly not inferior to that of
Lord Trenchard—Commandant of the Central Flying
School (1914-18), Chief of Air Staff (1918-29), Com-
missioner of Metropolitan Police for the past four
years. This Londoner, of whose nomination as
Governor-General Ministers “warmly approve,” has
great qualities ; but just as he has caused friction at
Scotland Yard, so he would be liable to cause it here.
Men of his type rarely have judicial minds, and,
though authoritarians, they often refrain from exer-
cising their powers in a desire to avoid the kind of
controversies which have hampered the after-careers
of so many Governors here, in Canada and in
S’Africa.
Finally, there is the miserable figure Australia
would cut if it told the world inferentially that, after
experimenting, it had discovered that it still wasn’t
sufficiently grown up to be governed by one of its own
citizens. We took a step forward when Governor-
General Isaacs was appointed, and even if he had
been a failure there should be no going back.
UNIVERSITIES.
Melbourne University’s new Vice-Chancellor, Dr.
R. E. Priestley, delivered what he termed his “policy
speech” at last week’s Commencement. It would be
unfair to say that Dr. Priestley tried to run with the
hares and hunt with the hounds, or that he was willing
to wound but afraid to strike, for he was manifestly
honest and straightforward in his remarks. Yet they
are open to both accusations. Demanding that the
University should not be a mere degree-shop, he called
off his attack long before he had reached the logical
objective.
A university to return the maximum benefits to
a community should be its cultural centre. It should
embrace and encourage and develop every art and
every science. It should not content itself with turning
forth on the world young men filled to saturation-
point with a mass of book-learning; it should aim
at diffusing the facts, and the fantasies at its command
throughout every section of the public. It should
remember always the great truth that knowledge is a
valuable thing, but far less valuable than wisdom,
and that if wisdom cannot be taught it can be stimu-
lated by a wider distribution of knowledge.
The universities of the world to-day are class-
conscious institutions, almost secret societies. They
render good service as what Dr. Priestley calls
“degree-shops”—that is, they fit men and women to
practise certain professions, provided they possess the
natural ability to do so ; but, outside that, they are
simply huge buildings which the general public gazes
at with awe. Behind their walls something occurs
which is as mysterious to the man in the street as the
ritual of the Dalai Lama.
Occasionally conscience gets busy, and the uni-
versities endeavor to reach the public by patronising
the University Extension movement and the W.E.A.
But these organisations are generally carried on by
a handful of enthusiastic people who happen to be
graduates; the universities content themselves with
giving a crust of patronage, their leaders privately
scoffing at the public as being interested in nothing
but results of football matches and pony races.
Like most of the evils of the day, the apathy of
the public towards things cultural is largely economic.
Give the people a free show and they will always turn
up ; give them free culture and the academic man-
darins would get a shock to find in the audience many
a man whose daily demand of the tram conductor is
“Wot won the larst?” and many a flapper who
seemed to have no thoughts above paint and powder.
One of the best critics of modern etching in Sydney
earns his living as a taxi-driver. Possibly the most
profound philologist in the same city is an under-
taker’s assistant. People like these cannot afford to
go to a university; they cannot often even afford
the small prices of admission to the lectures of the
Extension or the W.E.A.
It is the duty of a university, if it is to justify its
existence, to devise some means of giving the people
the culture they want. Those who are interested in
nothing else but pony races and “boys” will not bother
to take advantage of such a scheme ; but there are
many thousands who will.
ERIC THE RED.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Nation’s Business.
The first part of the 14th Commonwealth Parliament’s
first session closed before Christmas in a welter of
divisions after the Estimates had been gagged through
in 13f hours. The second part excelled it in disorder-
lies.
On April 5, with, according to the Government
programme, three days to run, the Representatives
began to sit in the morning, and their lunch-hour
was cut from an hour and a quarter to half an hour.
Members responded to this call to duty by coming in
when it suited them. After each lunch hour, there
were loud cries for a quorum.
The Government’s notion was that in three days
the House could get rid of Wheatgrowers’ Relief, Port,
Augusta-Red Hill Railway, Customs Tariff Validation,
Immigration Act Amendment, Navigation Act
Amendment, legislation to regulate soldier-settlement
agreements with the States, to recast the Constitution
of Norfolk Island and the copyright law, and some
minor measures. In its spare time, it planned to pass
supply—£6,7oo,ooo, enough to tide over a legislative
holiday till next September.
Mr. Scullin rightly objected. He moved that the
House, having sat for fewer than 40 days since the
general election, should disapprove of five months’
recess, including the first three months of the next
financial year. He pointed out that the reports of
the Petrol and Wheat Commissions remained to be
dealt with. The Government flung them into the
hot-pot of debate. Dr. Earle Page proceeded to justify
the Opposition’s accusation that “the Government’s
main activity was moving the gag.” The wilder spirits
of the Opposition set out to give him an excuse for-
doing it. Mr. Lazzarini was suspended for disobedi-
ence to the Chair. References to “snakes,” “liars,”
“dingoes” and “lunatics” were hurled about the
Chamber. One gentleman referred to another as
having “the manners of a blackfellow and the morals
of a billygoat.”
Some tribunes could not curb their impatience to
see their electorates even for a day. To prevent the
session lapsing for want of a quorum—at one stage only
30 members were available out of 75—police and
special messengers had to be used to drag them off the
train and turn their fleeing cars back at Collector, Yass
and Goulburn. The Wednesday sitting lasted till dawn
on Thursday ; closure was applied incessantly. Labor
responded by calling for 83 divisions in 18 hours. The
Government kept the House open a day longer than
it intended, and seized the opportunity to put through
Carriage by Air, Patents and Seat of Government
Supreme Court bills, together with Farmers’ Debts
Adjustment and many other measures returned, with
little or no debate, from the Senate. That Chamber
has meekly accepted the subordinate function designed
for it by the bosses of the other House.
The Parliamentary system has many enemies, and
their number is growing. But its worst enemies are
in Parliament.
4
Passed Out.
It has been written of Monash that he returned from
the Great War with plans for putting the defence of
Australia on an enduring basis.' He was never asked
to set them down, much less carry them out. Instead,
he was allowed to pass out of the service of the
Commonwealth into that of Victoria, being named
chairman of its Electricity Commission. An im-
portant job, certainly, but still a State job.
White, Birdwood’s right-hand man, who had most
to do with the successful evacuation of Gallipoli, was
the A.M.F.’s Chief of Staff for three years. He was
then promoted to the Public Service Commission,
where he was engaged for five years in determining
how much time typists and junior clerks required
for morning- and afternoon-tea, and what the girls
might be fairly allowed by the nation for stockings
and lipstick. He then retired to “enter commercial
pursuits”—he became a Loan and Mercantile Agency
man. There was no place for him in the army, into
which by this time politicans had introduced the
principle that Great War commanders of genius were
25 p.c. less useful to the nation than Defence Depart-
ment clerks, and were to be paid accordingly.
Chauvel, leader of the Australian and Maoriland
armies in Palestine, became Inspector-General of the
A.M.F. in 1919, and chief of the General Staff three
years later. In the former capacity he annually warned
Ministers that the forces under his nominal control
were being starved of requisites, but he was never
listened to.
A “Labor” Government arriving in office in 1929
ditched the grand democratic principle of national
service and complimented Chauvel out of what was
left of the army. For reward, he was told that if
he liked to call at military barracks now and then he
would be allowed a free ride on a Government horse,
if there was one in the stables.
In this “Labor” Government’s time there was a
Council of Defence. On it were supposed to sit the
heads of the A.M.F., the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F.,
the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence ; but
it was seldom summoned. Since the “Labor” Govern-
ment went out of office at the end of 1931 it has not
met at all. Its existence has been recalled to the
country by the announcement that it has been recon-
stituted. It will now consist, Mr. Parkhill says, of “a
permanent panel of Ministers and the chiefs of staff
of the three services.”
The Ministers will be the Prime Minister, the
Assistant Treasurer, the Minister for External Affairs
and the Minister of Defence.
The Assistant Treasurer was a soldier ; the other three
Ministers were always civilians. They are to be assisted
by the Secretary for Defence, another gentleman
without a martial history. While these neophytes will
be in the majority, the two Australians most
qualified to give advice, the two most distinguished
survivors of the A.1.F., each likewise with half a
lifetime’s knowledge of the Australian soldier in peace-
time, will not be there.
Exit White, exit Chauvel; enter Parkhill and
Pearce!
4
After Three Years.
The thirtieth N. S. Wales Parliament expired quietly
on Thursday. Labor members tried to prolong its
life, but the Government sent its big majority silently
away while the sands in the glass on the table ran
down. The session died for want of a quorum.
Nobody who saw the end could fail to contrast
it with the demise of the previous Parliament. There
were no police in Macquarie-street, no excited crowds
around the newspaper boards, no Ministers scuttling
out of their offices while the papers were hurriedly
carted away in taxi-cabs. The armed guards of the
Treasury were gone, and the Government bank
accounts functioned smoothly. In fact, Sydney looked
like an average civilised British community, with
nothing on its mind but speculations about the form
at Warwick Farm on Saturday.
Mr. Lang was not in at the death. He was
never the worker that Mr. Stevens is, but he was
regular enough in his attendance in Macquarie-street
till he acquired the quaint notion that an elderly and
oft-defeated politician can jazz his way back to office.
He proposes to entertain the community for the next
five weeks with a season of “radio plays, music and
speeches” at anything from £1 per minute per station
up. It would have been a nice introduction to his
new role had he been present to pronounce the radio
uncle’s benediction: “Bunky-doo, listeners! Goo-d
night! ” but he was evidently nursing his sweetness for
a wider audience.
Mr. Stevens was there, wearier, rather less portly,
and much less unsure of himself than when he entered
on the Premiership in 1932. He has learnt a lot in
three years, and has become an adept at handling
Labor muckrakers. After all, he is the only Premier
who has made really substantial cuts in taxation, and
his experience with Mr. Weaver proved that he could
be master of his own Ministry—his predecessor, on
the other hand, allowed the Red Rules Easter Con-
ference of 1927 to “instruct the Premier forthwith to
proceed with the reconstruction of his Cabinet.” The
U.A.P. leader has worked in perfect amity with the
U.C.P.
Altogether, considering the turmoil and despair
which he faced when he came into office, Mr. Stevens
has done a pretty good job. If time teaches him that
relief work is no short cut to re-employment and
that still more tax-concessions are needed to pro-
mote industrial recovery, he will live to do still better.
4
“One Law for the Rich.”
“The individual citizen is becoming more and more
impotent in the hands of the vast machine of government
which has been built up to police our life.”
On the day Professor Bland, of Sydney Uni., issued
the warning quoted above, Premier Stevens received
a deputation which asked him to stop drinking at
dances. One speaker said that “lorry-loads of drink
were frequently taken to dances in halls on the
outskirts of country towns.” The Premier promised
to legislate “especially for the small centres.”
Why pick on “the small centres”? Lorry-loads
of drink are also taken to halls for picnic race balls,
and there is as much drinking at these functions as
at those of a humbler social status. Bigger lorry-
loads of drink are taken to Sydney Town Hall for
fashionable balls than are taken to any outlying hall,
and the drinking is as hard. There is no country, and
there has never been an era, in which the rich have
been soberer than the poor.
Though raids on pak-a-pu shops have been a
feature of Sydney life for years, the Darlinghurst area
proliferates bridge clubs at which far more money
changes hands than in Campbell-street; and every
social club of standing has its cardroom.
Drinking at dances, cocktail-drinking on un-
licensed premises and gambling away from race-
courses are among the follies of the age. But if they
are to be stopped, let them be stopped everywhere.
r— 4
Medicine and the Law.
A significant feature of the Stockinbingal (N.S.W.)
case was that nobody realised that there was anything
abnormal about Rosie Officer, who shot herself dead
after wounding her adored friend Sophie Tenzer.
A hard-working farm girl, she told a hard-working
city tailor of her “fabulous wealth” ; of a Melbourne
solicitor who had “given her £l5OO to buy a car and
all the clothes she needed” ; of the world tour on
which she proposed to take Sophie—and he believed
her.
Rosie Officer almost certainly had a neuro-
pathic background. The normal girl controls her
emotions when they conflict with reason, self-interest
or ethics; those with defective mental make-ups
inhabit a dream-world in which nothing matters but
the gratification of their immediate desires. They
may be harmless while all goes well; when trouble
comes they stick at nothing—as many reputable
citizens accused of rape, performing illegal operations
and so on have found to their cost. They have
distinguishing marks (Rosie’s habit of telling
megalomaniacal lies is one), but it takes a trained
psychiatrist to identify them.
The Coroner, after finding that Rosie had com-
mitted suicide and attempted murder, “gave warm
praise to the police for the manner in which the case
had been marshalled.” How much better if an
official had been able to compliment the police on
having averted a tragedy! This will never come to
pass till we have legal and what may be called medical
police working in co-operation.
At present, unfortunately, the law and medicine
are rival corporations. Judges who prefer the evidence
of one policeman to that of four doctors in a
drunkenness charge are not confined to N. S. Wales.
A doctor who warned the police that a seemingly
hard-working and respectable citizen was a mental
defective who, if subjected to any kind of severe
strain, would be liable to commit an appalling crime
might be treated as a mental defective himself. Yet
there are numbers of these abnormal beings about, and
the community periodically wakes up to the fact
when a family is butchered by a reputedly devoted
parent.
Efficiently organised by the Government, and
received in the right spirit by the police, medical
specialists might do much to minimise crime among
mental defectives and sexual perverts. Also to ensure
justice as against legalism in the courts. Judges are
apt to look on the law as their monopoly, and to imply
that only lawbreakers think otherwise. Actually, the
public would benefit if the administration of the law
were shared in certain cases by psychologists. Many
who are now deteriorating mentally and morally in
gaols might be improving in the right kind of asylum ;
some who are now at large should undoubtedly be in
asylums.
4 —-
The British Viewpoint.
The text of the British White Paper on Meat has
reached Australia. It is a fair statement of the
British case, and Australians who are for Australia
first, last and all the time will not challenge the
position that to Britain British interests are para-
mount.
It is pointed out that in 1931 British agriculture,
“in which the breeding and feeding of livestock are
an essential element,” gave employment to nearly
1,500,000 people. The output of livestock and live-
stock products was worth about £180,000,000. Yet
during quarter of a century in which population has
increased by 10 p.c., agricultural population has fallen
off 14 p.c., and imports of meat have increased 33 p.c.
Agriculture is still the biggest single industry in
the U.K. It is nevertheless declining, and there also
is difficulty, due to depression and other causes, in
maintaining export of industrial products which it is
essential to sell if town workers are to be kept in
employment.
The British Government believes that the Ottawa
agreement embodied as big a sacrifice of foreign trade
as could be made. As a result of it, British imports
of foreign chilled and frozen beef, veal, mutton and
lamb in 1934 decreased by 1,581,000 cwt., 13.55 p.c.,
compared with the Ottawa year; but British imports
of Dominion meat increased by 1,123,000 cwt.,
frozen and chilled beef and veal showing an advance
of 81.8 p.c.
While Australian beef and mutton prices on the
British market have improved, there has been a
marked decrease in British cattle prices, which “are
now well below the already unremunerative figure of
a year ago.”
The Government feels that, to keep U.K. livestock
prices up, it must go in for a drastic reduction of
imports or a levy. The latter alternative would leave
imports free as to quantity unless they reached a point
where they were likely to break the market. The
British Government favors the levy, with a preference
to the Dominions, since reduction of imports would
damage trade in general.
Negotiations are now in progress. Threats will
get us nowhere. Improvement in the quality of our
produce is the main thing. Argentina has the drop
on us in London only because it produces a better
average grade of meat.
4 __
The Lunatic Circle.
Dear Bulletin,— My income is nominally about
double what it was in 1914, but I have to forego
practically all the little luxuries which 1 took as a
matter of course then. The luxuries have doubled, and
in many cases trebled, in price, and taxation has done
likewise. Practically every minor necessary has
doubled or trebled, too.
In the transport field the modern of moderate
means is banged to leg at every turn. If a car-owner
lets a friend share the expenses on a trip he is liable
to be heavily fined.
In Sydney the other day shopkeepers who had pre-
sumably been making a profit from bread at 44d. a
21b. loaf over the counter were authorised to charge
sd. A small matter, no doubt, except to the very
poor, but significant. The change was made by Gov-
ernment proclamation. On the same day the president
of the Retail Traders’ Assoc, and the secretary of the
Commercial Motor Users’ Assoc, voiced bitter protests
against Government interference in industry. The
former complained that the Federal Government was
taking “more than £8,000,000 a year from the retail
trade through the sales tax”; yet “he doubted if the
effect was as detrimental as the mounting list of
regulations which Government departments had
fastened on industry.” The spokesman of the other
institution mentioned that “£26,000,000 had been lost
in operating the railways in the 10 years ended June,
1934,” yet the Government was still struggling to keep
an obsolescent form of transport going at the expense
largely of road-users.
The party system is chiefly to blame. It produces
a demented species of competition which calls for more
and more funds. The funds have to be got out of the
money-making classes, necessitating more and more
taxes, and more and more taxgatherers, and more and
more departments for taking proceedings against
defaulting taxpayers, for regulating prices and issuing
new proclamations ; and this produces more and more
unemployed as the overtaxed forego first the luxuries
and next as many necessaries as they can do without.
The Retail Traders’ president prophesied that it
would end in a revolution of sorts, and I shall be
surprised if he isn’t right.—Yours etc., D. J.


Socity
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“The Ex-Subaltern”: Macßlank began
the war a major ; then he commanded
a battalion as lieutenant-colonel and got
a decoration for good work at Lone
Pine. At the end of 1915 he was in-
valided to Blighty, a very sick man. Sent
back to Australia to recover, he had
some differences with the Defence Depart-
ment and brass-hats on the home front.
Fed up with them, he enlisted as
a private (in Brisbane this time) under
the name of Mac Dash He was pro-
moted temporary corporal in a rein-
forcement for a Queensland battalion,
and wangled to France without going
through the usual training battalion
course in Blighty. (I know, because I
helped him.) In France he had, as a
reinforcement n.c.0., to drop his stripes,
and became a private once more. His
former second-in-command discovered
him quite by accident, and took him
straight to Birdie, who made him second
lieutenant in yet another battalion. I
met him in France with two stars up.
He was invalided soon after, and died
in Sydney not long ago. Can anybody
beat his record: Major, lieutenant-
colonel, private, temporary corporal,
private, second lieutenant, lieutenant?
* * * *
“Wusslean”: The American “boule-
vard stop,” which is being tried in
Prahran (Vic.), is not so novel in Aus-
tralia as “M.G.” (B. 3/4/’35) would have
us believe. For years motorists in Hobart
have enjoyed safe and speedy driving
along the principal traffic channels,
Before turning into or crossing “right-of-
way” streets, vehicles of every descrip-
tion, from pushbikes to the most aristo-
cratic limousines, must stop dead—slow-
ing down is not sufficient —and wait until
the road is clear. An occasional fine
ensures observance of this sensible by-
law.
Hr'' * * $
“Ack-ack-ack”: Touching “Hamer’s”
query as to whether the Englishman is
noticeably kind to his domestic animals (B.
3/4/’35), I should say that if the war-
horse ranks as one of them the answer is
in the negative. Any L.H. or N.Z.M.R.
man who was in Sinai in T 6 will recall
the shingled mounts of the Yeomanry
regiments. Hogged manes, docked tails
and forelocks —particularly forelocks —
were no kindness to a neddy in that
region.
“Shep”: I’ll back office-boys to muti-
late messages as effectively as Diggers
ever did. I remember the boss’s wife
once ringing him to book her seats for
“The Tales of Hoffmann.” A youngster
nervously took the message and scribbled
it on his employer’s pad. Not long after
we heard that worthy questioning his
spouse over the ’phone as to why the
blazes he should concern himself about
any sales at Hoffnungs.
£ 0 & #
“Jurgen”: I have often wondered what
constitutes the “small mixed business”
one sees advertised for sale so often in
the papers. 1 got an inkling the other
day when visiting a N. S. Wales moun-
tain town. A tradesman with whom I
did business ran a ladies and gents.’ hair-
dressing saloon, and also marketed to-
bacco in all its forms. Other sidelines
were a lending library and an employ-
ment agency, while the many-sided one
was also the local undertaker. I fancy
if I had wanted to back somethin’ in th’
Flyin’ he would have obliged.
“Clarence, and down to it again! That lad never could hold his liquor.”
“Climber”: I’m having a rotten job
trying to teach my youngsters to drop
their aitches. Ever since they could first
talk I hammered into them the necessity
of making their aspirates clearly audible
in order to differentiate them from the
Lower Orders. Now I read, on the
authority of an eminent Oxford philolo-
gist, that England learned the dropped
aitch from the Norman invader, the very
cream of the aristocracy. The aboriginal
Celt exaggerated his aspirates and
demanded “Phwat?” The Saxon invader
brought gutturals and still more aitches
“Do you enjoy these passionate love films?”
“No, but the wife WILL send me along.”
into the language ; but when the Nor-
man arrived he hadn’t got an aiteh to
his name, and observed “The ’orn of the
’unter is ’eard on the ’ill,” just as the
modern Frenchman does. The absence
of the aiteh is therefore an indication of
dinkum Norman ancestry. But I’m afraid
it’s too late to do anything with the kids.
They must go forth into the world bear-
ing the stamp of the proletariat in their
speech.
“Boosey”: A hotelkeeper at Rock-
hampton (Q.) has been fined for publicly
displaying a list of individuals who had
come under his displeasure. Appended
descriptions such as “waster” added salt
to the injured parties’ hurts. This is the
first instance in my experience, of a
Rogues’ Gallery (Bung’s own descrip-
tion) operated solely by private enter-
prise. In St. Helier, Jersey, however,
publicans are compelled to exhibit photos,
of all local identities temporarily placed
under the “Dog Act.” Some of the pic-
tures have become as familiar to Channel
Islanders as Old Masters are to National
Gallery frequenters.
“Gidya George”: The manifold
uses to which The Bulletin can
be put (B. 20/3/’35) don’t include
the making of cigarette-papers.
Often in the bush a man runs
short of these incidentals of modern
civilisation. The covers of sauce-
bottles go first —they’re nearly
made for that purpose. No Chinese
cook ever buys papers ; he handles
too many sauce-bottles. After that
lot is finished there is a demand
for papers with wide margins.
“Truth” in John Norton’s time
wasn’t bad, though the paper was
a trifle porous; but the best news-
paper I ever smoked was the old
“Western Champion,” printed at
Barcaldine (C.Q.). One of the
worst, due to small margins, was
the “Australasian.” I’ve actually
known fellows who liked the flavor
of printer’s ink in their tobacco and
who got down on the illustrated
page with a good block picture.
But The 8., as long as I’ve known
it, has been quite unsmokable, the
glazed paper having, in addition to
other defects, a flavor which is
nauseating. I remember once, dur-
ing the ’O6 floods, when cig.-papers
were unprocurable for months, we
were so trained we could tell what
literature a man was using by the
smell of his smoke.
“Dark Room”: In fairness it should be
mentioned that there is a reason for the
destruction of allegedly indecent films
(B. 27/3/’35). One of my snaps, a study
in the nude, was returned (negative only)
with a warning that any similar photos,
would be destroyed, as the developing
and printing were carried out chiefly by
girls. As this is the policy of most photo-
graphic firms, the camera-man who de-
lights in beauty naked and unadorned
would be wise to make careful inquiries
before submitting his best efforts,
t ** * * .
“Tydides”: Some of these Prime
Ministers and ex-Prime Ministers must
find a certain amount of embarrassment
in the political
affiliations of their
sons and heirs.
Stanley Baldwin’s
son Oliver, for
instance, has been
a Labor M.P.,
and probably will
be one again;
among his recrea-
tions, as listed in
Who’s Who, are
“Socialistic pro-
paganda.” Joe
Lyons’s eldest
hopeful recently
had an article
published in a
Canberra maga-
zine containing
some shrewd
attacks on mod-
ern democracy,
or what passes
for it and made
his father what
he is; amongst
other things
Lyons, jun., ques-
tioned the advis-
ability of giving
civil servants the
votes which en-
able them to hold
a pistol at the
heads of their
employers at elec-
tion time. Finally,
a deputation of
unemployed
which marched on
Parliament House, Canberra, last week
to demand increased work and pay was
led by “Mr. E. Hughes, son of the Min-
ister for Health.” Still, there is prob-
ably more of the “like rather, like son”
in the Hughes case than in the other
instances.
* 4 * *
“Hobartian”: Digging up the earlv
history of Tasmania recently, someone
rediscovered the origin of a familiar
Australian word. In 1803, a certain
Major Brumby, interested in horse-
breeding—he brought the first thorough-
bred sire to the island —settled near
Cressy, in the north. Some of the horses
he bred got away into the bush ; these
were dubbed “brumbies,” and the term
presently became applied to wild horses
all over Australia.
“Also R.A.N.”: It isn’t only police-
men who cannot diagnose sudden illness
(B. 3/4/’35). A Melbourne man, driving
out to see a friend, had a stroke when
turning his car opposite the house he was
bound for. The car ran into a near-by
fence, and the irate owner-gardener, after
one look at the half-paralysed, speechless
driver, shot off down the road to the
police station. When he got back with
the cop they found the unfortunate man
had crawled to his friend’s doorstep, un-
able to ring the bell. Both decided he
was drunk, and, still incapable of utter-
ing a word of protest, he was half-
dragged, half-frog-marched, for 300 yards
to the police station. The doctor on
arrival rang for an ambulance, but the
victim was dead before it reached the
hospital.
“Verri”: One of the blessings of radio
not yet mentioned is the entertainment it
gives to those afflicted with chronic
insomnia. In the block of flats I in-
habit there are two unfortunates who
suffer that way, and each confesses to
rising in the small hours and putting in
time with the wireless. Turned down
beyond the point when any of the other
flatters can hear it, the radio passes the
hours more easily than book or task,
and entirely removes the depressing sen-
sation that the sufferers are the only
people awake in a dark, unfeeling world.
* * *
“G. Trotter”: A hold-up like that
recently reported in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, could hardly have occurred in
any other big city. Where else in the
world would two young bank clerks have
been sent to take £1750 on a twopenny
tram ride through crowded streets? A
cubmaster of Boy Scouts would have
sent two more of his trusty lads to cover
youths carrying a fraction of that
amount of money.
THE QUESTION WITH INTENT.
“Mr. McGuinness, the N.S.W. School Teachers’
president, said that every candidate would be asked
whether lie would vote for repeal of the Salaries’
Reduction Act. Failure to answer would be taken
as a negative. The question was asked with intent.”
We chalk-and-duster union heads are not the
sort of homines
To definitely tie ourselves to either party
clan;
We simply aim to do our best for school-
marms and for dominies,
And get the most for both of them by any
means we can.
But non-committal platitudes and glib evasions
weary us;
We ask what views about our screws you’ll
take in the event
Of being returned to Parliament. And, don’t
forget, we’re serious;
The question’s shot at you with undeniable
intent.
Be sure you don’t attribute it to vulgar
curiosity,
And mentally consign us to sulphureous
realms below.
Forbear to toss it basketwards with petulant
velocity,
The mere neglect to answer it will stamp
you for a foe.
Does our complaint that pedagogues are palp-
ably, essentially
And lamentably underpaid win your entire
assent?
We aim to drag it out of you, direct or
inferentially.
The query’s launched at you with that
particular intent.
Lab. you may be, or U.A.P., or in the Cocky
coterie;
They’re mostly immaterial to us, your party
views,
But nobody in quest of votes will find in us
a votary
Unless he’s pledged to rectify the shrinkage
in our screws.
You may be Douglas Crediter or Communist
fanatical,
We’ll rate you as desirable as any other gent.
If only you return us an affirmative emphatica!
On the issue that’s submitted with deliberate
intent.
We teachers’ representatives are naturally critical
Of anything that may our rights and per-
quisites curtail;
But keep it in remembrance that we’re strictly
non-political,
We wouldn’t hawk our suffrages to either
crowd for sale.
None the less, we’d change our bosses, floor,
to ceiling, pit to galleries,
Just as oft as an addition to our pittances
it meant.
Tell us, gentle hustings spruiker, would you
supplement our salaries?
There’s the question that we’ve framed with
unmistakable intent.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“S.G.”: In Sydney the other day an
elocutionist of parts got 12 months for
extracting money from flappers by the
representation that he would give them
roles in a talkie he was to make with
money to be furnished by a former Bul-
letin man. I remember the gentleman as
an actor of sorts. In an unhappy moment
two pressmen who had miraculously
saved a bit of money engaged him to
appear in Perth as leading man in an
improvised company - theirs playing
stock drama. The leading lady was a
young woman from Maoriland; very
nice and clever—she has since made
quite a name for herself in England —
but green. On the day of her arrival
from Sydney the inky showmen arranged
a reception for her at a swagger hotel,
and invited all the elite. Unfortunately,
they left the rest to the lady; and
she chose to arrive at the pub in a
creased shipboard frock, borne by the
oldest four-wheeler in the place. From
this she descended, and, having rewarded
the cabby with eighteenpence and a be-
witching smile, she blithely tripped into
the reception-room carrying a metal hat-
box. “Just look at her!” groaned one of
the entrepreneurs to the other. “There
goes our dough!” It was a true predic-
tion, for “society” cold-shouldered her
and “the mob” kept on going to the “Red
Hots.” Presently the financiers and
the leading man fell out, the news
being conveyed to patrons of the drama
by plain and fancy invective, delivered
from the footlights by a painted chap
in costume. Heard for the first time, it
was voted far more interesting than the
main performance, but nightly repetition
staled it. The season ended abruptly.
“Secesh”: Why is so much said about
Captain Cook and so little about William
Dampier, who was exploring the west
coast of Australia nearly a century before
“Come along, dear, he might kick us.”
“If ’e did I'd kick 'im back.”
Cook made his leisurely cruise along the
length of the east coast? Dampier put
in two long spells on the Westralian
coast, landing here, there and every-
where, and leaving for us recognisable
descriptions of the varied flora and
fauna. He makes mention of pearl
oyster beds, and in his log speculates on
<he probability of rich minerals being
found in this new land. The Pilbara
goldfield, discovered two centuries later,
is not very far from where Dampier
vvrote that entry.
“M.”: “Hlobane” (B. 10/4/’35) is
wrong in suggesting that the paint-
ing of Rorke’s Drift in the Sydney
Art Gallery is a replica. The pic-
ture is the original painting by
A. de Neuville, a French artist; it was
exhibited in London in 1880 and pur-
chased for the National Art Gallery in
1882. A prominent figure in the fore-
ground is the Rev. George Smith, hand-
ing out ammunition. The cleric, who was
on a visit to M.L. in 1913, came specially
to Australia to see the painting, for
which he had posed for the artist in
London. He was an old man then, and
was visibly affected upon seeing his old
comrades portrayed ; the picture, he said,
was all too real, and brought back the
tragic experience poignantly to him.
Major Chard, who was in command of
the British force, died in 1905. The Rev.
George Smith died at Preston (Eng.) in
1918, and was accorded a military
funeral. Before he died he wrote The
Defence of Rorke’s Drift, by an “eye-
witness,” and forwarded the writer a
copy. Elizabeth Thompson (Lady Butler)
painted a picture of the same subject.
“Liang”: “Hlobane” overdoes it.
Not the entire Zulu Army but 3000
men who had helped to wipe out
the first battalion of the South Wales
Borderers at Isandlwana attacked the
post. The 80 men of the second
battalion of the S.W.B. had a couple
of hours’ warning, and in that time
built a nice little barrier of biscuit-
boxes to fight behind. The burning of a
hut which was part of the defences and
was being used as a hospital for the
wounded and sick rather complicated
matters, but the Zulus called it a day at
the end of eight hours’ scrapping, mostly
with assegai and bayonet. The 2/S.W.B.
recently applied for “Rorke’s Drift” as
a battle honor on their colors, in addition
to the usual “Zululand, 1877-8-9.” As
the party was awarded no fewer than
four V.Cs. it is probable that this extra-
ordinary honor will not be granted.
“Manana”: A Sydney journalist hav-
ing included “rrtestizos” among the popu-
lation of Argentina, the Consul for that
republic immediately wrote to the paper
to deny, with a trifle of asperity, the mild
impeachment. “The word ‘mestizos’,”
he explained, “means the result of a mar-
riage or simply friendship between a
Spaniard and an Indian, and since we do
not have the last ones the ‘mestizos’ is
not a problem we have to deal with.”
Still, “mestizo,” according to Webster,
means little more than a half-breed, a
person of mixed European and non-
European stock, and there can hardly
be any Spanish-American countries with-
out a generous proportion of such. As
to there being no Indians in the Argen-
tine, the latest Statesman’s Year-Book
records that “the Indian population,
steadily dwindling, is estimated at from
20,000 to 30,000.”
“Serjeant Snubbin”: Breach-of-pro-
mise cases always hold a certain interest.
In a Sydney case last week the plaintiff,
described by her counsel as “no gold-
digger but a respectable young woman
who asks compensation for the losses she
has sustained,” had compiled an itemised
account of the expenses in which the
broken engagement had involved her,
the list ending up with two dustbins
and a cook-book. The defendant was
equally businesslike ; his counter-account
included not only jewellery but the cost
of “three trips to Gympie.” >ln the end
the lady got £lOO, a kindly Judge point-
ing out that, even if her chance of mar-
riage had been decreased, “not only
young women get married nowadays.”
A Melbourne plaintiff in a similar case
was less fortunate ; she sued for £lOOO
and was awarded a shilling. Still,
if you look at it in another way, she
“Aw, dad, she must have the stummick-ache.”
hadn’t much to complain of in the loss
of a matrimonial prospect whose value
was assessed by a dispassionate jury at
twelvepence. And the verdict carried
costs, which isn’t always the case when
these small coins are regarded as healing
the wounds of heart or pocket, or both.
“Dugald Dalgetty”: Notwithstanding
“Mells” (B, 3/4/’35), there is a distinct
type of Australian Minister. In a letter
written to Queen Victoria in 1891 the
Countess of Jersey succinctly describes
him. “Your Majesty will readily imagine
that they [the delegates to the Federa-
tion Convention] are not exactly like the
Ministers who serve your Majesty at
home. Many of the men, however, are
shrewd and intelligent... .Others are ex-
cellent and homely sort of people, and
were highly gratified with any attention
paid to them.” I do not number any
Federal Ministers among my acquaint-
ance, but I have vivid recollections of a
talkie film in which Priminister Lyons
introduced his Cabinet to the cinema-
going public ; and I still recall uneasily
the plebeian guffaws that greeted each
successive usurper of the screen-idol’s
rightful place.
“El V.”: Persia must be im-
proving as a place to live in.
When 1 was last there there
seemed to be only two drinks
obtainable in most places —ab
(water) and sharab (wine, for
which the recipe might easily
have been a pint of sulphuric
acid diluted with a pound of old
iron). Now I notice that the
Government anticipates such a
trade in Australian liquor that
it is compelled to estimate duties
on a hundredweight basis.
Whisky gets past at £9 16s. per
hundredweight. O to be beside
the little stream that runs
through Kirman (the Xanadu of
Coleridge), the poplars waving
overhead, the duststorm coming
up through the Mahun Pass and a hun-
dredweight of Old Court beside me in
the wilderness!
“Hillsider”: While there may be other
restraining factors, I think humanitarian-
ism is the controlling force when a
driver pulls up to avoid running over
a dog or a cat (B. 27/3/’35). I’ve known
an engine-driver stop his train to save
young turkeys that had strayed on the
line from a neighboring farmyard. This
happened on the Dugandan line, south
Queensland, which runs for a long stretch
through a thickly-settled farming district.
The trespassing fowls were so slow in
shifting themselves that the fireman had
eventually to hop off and shoo them
away. On the same railway, which for
about 10 miles follows the main road,
the train frequently has to pull up to
avoid damaging cattle and horses.
“Kaa”: The “Saturday Evening Post”
was quite in order when it made a python
swallow a kangaroo (B. 10/4/’35). About
18 months ago newspapers published
photographs of a N.Q. python which
had swallowed a full-grown walla-
roo, the thickest black variety of
Macropus which affects mountain coun-
try. One photo, showed the im-
mensely distended serpent lying on a
rocky ledge. The second showed the
strangely inadequate beast after it had
been slit open, with the neatly packed
and compressed wallaroo beside it. The
stockman who found the pair said there
was evidence that after swallowing its
meal the snake fell out of bed on a ledge
higher up, and was killed by the drop.
“Whangamomona”: The Moa, a 99-
ton vessel, went ashore the other day at
the mouth of a South Island (M.L.) river.
The name awakens some war-time
memories. Count von Luckner and a
party of German prisoners-of-war
escaped from the Motuihi Island intern-
ment camp on December 13, 1917, in a
launch, and captured the unarmed Moa,
an auxiliary scow, in the Bay of Plenty.
The fugitives made for the Kermadec
Islands, hoping to raid the food depots
which were placed there for castaways,
but before they got any further they
were recaptured by the cable steamer
Iris.
“Como”: There has been an epidemic
of tree-felling in Melbourne parks and
gardens of late, and more is threatening
unless public opinion calls a halt. The
landscape gardener is like the amateur
who spends months nursing his flower-
bed and the moment it is in bloom digs
it all up and starts over again; your
landscape gardener plants a lot of young
trees, and directly they have grown into
something worth seeing he wants to cut
them down. The craving is probably in
the Australian blood. The early settler
in Australia was faced with a mighty task
in clearing his holding of gum-trees, and
the desire to “clear” a park breaks out
in his grandson.
“Scribe”: In Queensland, where Labor
Governments have been so solicitous
about the wages and conditions of the
workers, city firms still stick to monthly
pays. It may make little difference to
the older and higher-up wage-earners, but
with the young bloods conditions tend
to alternate between feast and famine.
After about the tenth of the month they
pursue their daily avocations with an
empty pocket and a wistful eye on the
calendar. Unless Forgan Smith knows a
way of putting old heads on young
shoulders he should look into this.
OVER THE ODDS.
“The vicar of St. Augustine's, Hruuswick (Vic.),
refused to perform a wedding ceremony until exposed
portions of the bride’s and bridesmaids’ bodies had
been hurriedly draped with silk handkerchiefs.’’
“Beauty when most unclothed is clothed the
best”;
“Beauty when unadorned adorned the
most” —
Poetic axioms that stand the test
On many a beach along our Austral coast,
Where yellow sands warm to the sun-god’s
kiss:
But not in churches, not in churches, Sis!
’Tis naked truth, of course, in studios
Where all the artistry of Nature falls
On artists’ shapely models; and it goes
For gospel, too, I’m told, at artists’ balls.
But where the altar stands, the organ peals,
They have a derry upon dishabilles.
“The Voice That Breathed O’er Eden,” you
can swear,
Faltered nor failed its benison upon,
Though Adam’s pelt was manifestly bare
And Eve had absolutely nothing on.
But then the world was young. One must
allow
That there’s a devil of a diffrence now.
What did they wear and how were they
arrayed ?
What shimmering silks and other costly stuff
Enclosed the bride and each attendant maid?
Who knows? But anyhow it wasn’t enough.
To pass the censor and to fill the blanks
They had to supplement the lack with “hanks.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“I have smoked 44,000 during the past j
years and have never suffered any
throat trouble"
Try Craven “A.” Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour:
their freshness and freedom from all irritation. Carreras con°
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
J1944V/a
'' swS >
m
Jm
POLITICAL POINTS
E. F. Harrison, the member for Ben-
digo, who used to be in charge of Dun-
troon when there was a Duntroon, again
reminded the House of Reps, last week
of the parlous condition of the defence
forces, and implored it to consider the
changed international situation. He was
answered by the usual cocksure Labor
pacifist, who blithered that war could
be avoided for all time by trading with
and showing a friendly spirit towards
neighbors. Belgium did both.
Maoriland Ms.H.R. are expected to
work for their living. They have just
entered upon a spell after a session
which lasted nine months, off and on;
there were 113 sitting-days. The
Ms.H.R. at Canberra haven’t had that
many sittings in two years.
For doing more legislative work in a
twelvemonth than the Australian M.H.R.
will have done in two years and a
quarter, the M.L. M.H.R. gets £364 10s.
p.a., less “deductions for absence not due
to sickness or other unavoidable cause.”
The Australian M.H.R. gets £825 p.a.
whether he attends Parliament or not.
And when he raised it to that figure
from £750 p.a. he said he was astonished
at his own moderation.
Since S.A. won’t have Port Augusta-
Red Hill, it is to be asked to take a
smaller white elephant, Port Augusta-
Port Pirie, and build a Port Pirie-Red
Hill extension itself. It is alleged, of
course, that the substitute would pay.
But the Adelaide Government is well
primed with the facts about the standard-
gauge line from Grafton to South Bris-
bane. • In the five years to June, 1934,
losses on the N.S.W. section amounted
to £172,000.
A commission reported that Westra-
lian Agricultural Bank funds had been
madly squandered, and by way of solv-
ing the problem the Labor Government
appointed a new board, headed by its
Minister of Works at £2OOO a year. The
Commonwealth was evidently relied
upon to do the rest. Premier Collier
coolly suggested that his State’s share of
the £12,000,000 farm-relief money should
be used, at his Government’s discretion,
for new Agricultural Bank loans and
reduction of old Agricultural Bank debts.
Request refused.
Lyons’s Petrol Commission has pre-
sented majority and minority reports run-
ning to 250,000 words or so. The cost
to the taxpayer pans out at about ten-
pence a word, and the expenditure of
£10,394 won’t have a penn’orth of effect
on policy.
Nearly all the North-Eastern Province
o l ' Vic. Leg. Council has U.C.P. mem-
bers in the Assembly, and Inchbold, the
party’s'candidate at the by-election, got
the Labor vote, which is considerable.
Thus supported, he beat Paton, the
U. A.P. man, by 3458 to 2369. Only 41
p.c. of the electors bothered about it.
Dunstan claims it as a victory ; it is really
a warning.
Impersonation and assault and battery
featured some of the Queensland Labor
selection ballots. The Q.C.E. ordered
new plebiscites in Buranda, where the
Chairman of Committees, E. J. Hanson,
had been ousted, and in Baroona, a new
and much-coveted Brisbane division,
won by Alderman Power. Power held
his own in the second ballot; and Han-
son won by 293 to 290. He has been
Buranda’s member for 11 years.
Before the Vic. Dunstan Ministry was
formed Labor-leader Tunnecliffe gleefully
observed that he had “driven a wedge
into the enemy.” Now he is telling Dun-
stan to hit “the capitalists” by increasing
the income tax on large incomes to the
Queensland level, and at the same time to
“touch” “the capitalists” for £50,000,000
for public works. Dunstan is willing to
borrow as much as the Loan Council
will let him have, and he would like to
arrange the operation before he meets
Parliament. But, as he testily complains,
the Loan Council “can’t hear him.”
The North-Western Province of Vic.
Leg. Council, with 25,000 electors, has
two Ministers (Goudie and Pye) in the
U.C.P. Government. North-Eastern
(14,000) and Northern (17,000) have one
apiece, Dr. Harris and Tuckett respec-
tively. There are about 480,000 electors.
This is going beyond a joke.
Westralian breakaways have got into
the habit of blaming the Federal octopus
for everything. They now whine that
“Senator Johnston’s strong secessionist
attitude robbed him” of a free jaunt to
the jubilee celebrations.
Johnston was regarded as certain to go,
but the anti-secessionists were too strong.
Foil was preferred for wholly differ-
ent reasons, one being that he has been a
BALANCE OF POWER.
“You vaita till Adolf leaves my backa door. Den I come across and giva you
vota-for.”
Senator since 1917, whereas Johnston
dates from 1929. Anyhow, the seces-
sionists will have one representative in
the party—Gregory, the grand old
separatist from Kyneton, Vic. —so what
are they jawing about?
C.O.R. told the Petrol Commission
that it had been the means of reducing
prices in the past, and could control
them in the future. Chairman Lamb’s
comment on this is that C.O.R. has had
only 6 p.c. of the total trade. The Com-
monwealth Government subscribed half
C.O.R.’s capital (£750,000) plus £l,
and the Auditor-General complains that
“an excessive amount” has not been em-
ployed. He also objects to “the large
sums written off for depreciation” and
carried to reserves, but the student of
State Government railway accounts will
regard these offences unmoved.
Kojonup, a wheat-and-sheep place, is
160 miles from Perth by road and 250
miles by Government railway. Wool
carriage to Perth costs £2 7s. sd. a ton
by road and £3 6s. lOd. by railway. Ton-
charges for first-class goods are
£3 ss. lOd. by road and £4 Bs. by rail-
way ; for second-class goods, £4 6s. 3d.
by road and £5 15s. 4d. by railway. At
least, this was the tariff by road until the
Government Transport Board inter-
vened. Now competition with the Gov-
ernment railways is forbidden.
After a lifetime spent in advocacy of
Protection, Melbourne “Age” supported
an Imperial Freetrader against a Protec-
tionist at the last Senate election. Hav-
ing contended almost as long for one
vote, one value, it is backing a party
which (in its own expression) stands for
“one vote, many values,” and whose
Assembly Ministers represent 85,000
electors out of 1,100,000 enrolled.
Nowadays the “Age” doesn’t seem happy
unless it is standing on its head.
Lang’s absolute majority in Auburn
three years ago was 711. His Fed. Lab.
opponent was Percy Coleman, a sick man ;
this time Ben Chifley, formerly M.H.R.
for Macquarie and Scullin’s Defence
Minister, is the Fed. Lab. Chifley is up-
right and forthright of speech. His friends
say the Squire of Ebenezer can’t afford to
miss any dances this time.
From the first, the cause of the
sudden drop in the birth-rate was obvious,
though numbers of articulate persons
appeared to regard it as a mystery and
put forth any number of fantastic ex-
planations. These grew so loud that at
last the statists in Melbourne were
moved to action. They pointed out that
in every depression the birth-rate falls to
pieces; and in previous depressions con-
traception was not practised to any great
extent. The marriage-rate bucked up
last' year, so it is only natural to antici-
pate that this will return dividends before
1935 closes.
“The struggle for secession has been
transported from the goldfields of Kal-
goorlie to the King’s robing-room at the
House of Lords,” says “S. M. Herald.”
The only struggle for secession that ever
took place on “the goldfields of Kal-
goorlie” was for the right to quit W.A.
when there was an imminent danger that
coastal interests might block the people
from entering the Commonwealth.
“Separation for Federation” was the
goldfields slogan in those days (1900).
The present movement for a breakaway
from the Commonwealth failed of a
majority on “the goldfields of Kal-
goorlie.”
The High Court quashed the convic-
tion of Gerald Griffin as a prohibited
immigrant. Said the Acting-C.J.:
The original Act presented difficulties
of construction; in the course of amend-
ment the legislation has become most con-
fused and confusing.
The same Judge made a similar com-
plaint when the Court had occasion to
deal faithfully with the Sales Tax Act,
and he said of the Income Tax Assess-
ment Act:
It is a thing of shreds and patches, and
resembles a kind of statutory Joseph’s coat.
Draftsmen are blamed, and evidently
the staff should be permanently enlarged
or periodically reinforced. But job-
scamping politicians are the worst
offenders.
As communicated by Hitler to the
wandering Eden and reported in the
newspapers, “Germany requires 36 divi-
sions of soldiers, including a division of
Black Guards.” Friends of Russia pro-
test that the last part is a misprint.
With joyous optimism, S. A. Premier
Butler told a London audience that
“Nature would soon even up overpro-
duction.” This is good news. The world
may now sleep o’ nights confident that
earthquakes, droughts, storms, and floods
will settle all our woes.
“M.G.”: That hopelessly-misused word
“migrant” is reappearing in the press. A
migrant is a tourist; Lady Mountbatten
is a migrant. The man or woman who
comes to Australia to make a home in
the country and become one of its
citizens is an immigrant. The trouble is
that too many of our immigrants have
become migrants, returning to Britain
because of the depression, and realising—
too late —that the depression doesn’t end
at the shores of Australia.
After two years of the New Deal, there
are still 25,000,000 Americans on the
dole, and Green, president of the Federa-
tion of Labor, estimates the number of
unemployed as 7,000,000. So more and
more public works are to be started;
before Roosevelt went on one of his fre-
quent holidays a Work Relief Bill appro-
priating $4,880,000,000 became law.
Politicians ought to have learned by now
that public works are a costly palliative
which in the long run really prevents re-
employment ; but, Australian or Ameri-
can, they never learn it.
Walking about the neighborhood of
the N.S.W. Government lottery office, it
is hard to realise that a few months ago
it was given over to agents who charged
Is. 6d. for a one-fifth share in a ss. 3d.
ticket. Amidst the angry protests and
fierce predictions of Lang’s newspaper,
Stevens snuffed them out; and nothing
has been heard of them since. One
gentleman gave it out that he was
to be hired at a vast salary by
the Queensland Government. Another
talked of setting up a lucrative agency
in California. It is to be hoped
in his own interest he thought bettei
of it. California is so set against lotteriet
that its Legislature is forbidden in the
State Constitution to authorise them, and
is expressly enjoined to pass laws to pro
hibit the sale of lottery tickets. And
Californian sentences are ferocious com-
pared with the penalties handed out in
N. S. Wales.


HERSEU ACAIM •
Tails up laddies !
The CEI-e3I?iVTE twe livestock.
SUBSIDV,
LoSH , | JuiST offered the CAUL-AWT A, tvF* >v
R\ C « T ,
BUT* IT DOESKA. POLIOW YE-VG
NO GOT TO S.AY v4hE.^ >,v
The.y do Go Back, across *thb Tweed .
NO LONGER STERN AND WILD.
“Business has revived in Scotland in a marked degree.”


TOUR FOR LESS on
k
mi
i
Kjh
M
iCt>
Bi-—•
Run the whole of your Easter
tour on Super Shell and watch
particularly instant starting,
faster acceleration, greater
power on hills, and . . . greater
. . . economy.
Deeds speak louder than
words.
Give Super Shell the deeds to
do, note the answers and cal-
culate the cost.
You will prove for yourself
that Super Shell gives far finer
performance and costs less
per mile —that you actually
SAVE by using Super Shell.
%
%
m?
S.ll/K
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ex-Minister Simpson Newland, son
of a farmer-preacher-pioneer of the
Encounter Bay district, is to be remem-
bered in the S.A. _centenary next year
by the filming of his mostly-true novel,
“Paving the Way.” A Newland of the
present generation is one of Adelaide’s
leading surgeons, and was president at
the recent Melbourne conference.
Rev. A. C. Nelson, chairman-elect of
the Congregational Union in S.A., has
held the same office in N.S.W. and in
Tasmania. He was a Port Adelaide boy,
but preached first at West Maitland and
Woollahra (N.S.W.). He holds Adelaide
and Hobart degrees.
“Hooge”: The promotion of Major
Clowes, O.C. Darwin, revived bitter
memories among veteran Duntrooners.
During the war, any general who sug-
gested appointing a senior Duntroon
major to a lieut.-colonel’s job under his
command was sharply told that the pro-
motion was not acceptable “for political
reasons”! If the general showed fight
the major was transferred to another
command—still a major.
Arthur Feez, K.C., dead in London,
at 75, was Rockhampton-born, but got
his schooling in Sydney. After passing
through King’s and the Uni., he was
called to the Queensland Bar, where he
built up a big practice, taking silk in
1908. He came back to Sydney to prac-
tise in 1925, and was created a K.C. in
N.S.W. the same year. Feez was once
a fine Rugby three-quarter. He played
in the first “intercolonial” match between
N.S.W. and Queensland at Sydney in
1882.
FRANK FOX, Author, War Correspon-
dent and Soldier.
When Frank Fox, here depicted by Noel
Counihan, left Sydney in 1909, he was a
Disloyalist. That is to say, he had fought
for years as a Bulletin leader-writer for
citizen service and the R.A.N., both of
which were anathema to local Imperial-
ists. He carried on the campaign for
Empire unity, as he understood it, in
England on platforms and in the “Morn-
ing Post.” When the war began he
joined up with the R.F.A. (he had been
a C.M.F. officer in Sydney), was badly
wounded on the Somme, joined the
Q.M.G.’s staff in France and was trans-
ferred later to the War Office. He was
knighted in 1926. Fox has written
enough books about war, politics, social
questions and out-of-the-way places to
stock a small library.
From one who knew him:
A just-published biography of W. Knox
D’Arcy, who made millions in Persian Oil,
contains more tarradiddles than most. It repre-
sents him as bent on the conversion of the Per-
sians to the Catholic Church; also as a patriotic
Australian who longed to return to his native
Queensland to die. The truth is D’Arcy was
English (born in Devon and educated at West-
minster), and he wasn’t an engineer, as the
biography states, but a lawyer. He kept in
touch with old Australian friends and enter-
tained some every year at the Derby (he had
a private stand at Epsom): but he had no affec-
tion whatever for Australia and no desire to leave
England, where he owned a Grosvenor-square
mansion and a couple of huge country homes.
He may have been more religious than the
average racing man, but, if so, he kept it dark.
The crowd that thronged the Y.M.C.A.
hall at Seymour (Vic.) camp the other
day to bid farewell to padre Jim Gault
included Gen. Nevill Smyth, V.C., Brig.-
Gen. Stewart and Col. C. J. Steven-
son, Camp Commandant. Gault
first became known to the A.I.F. at
Le Havre when he demonstrated
that 1000 men could be entertained
with a bag of peanuts, and he won
fame afterwards up and down the
front for his talks on personal reli-
gion. The padre wrote a capital war-
book. He has been at Seymour for
13 years.
General Sir Robert Cassels, who is
succeeding Field-Marshal Sir Phillip
Chetwode, Bart., as C.-in-C.' the army
in India, was, like his predecessor, one
of those cavalry leaders who stultified
armchair critics by proving that modern
war did not consist entirely of lurking
in burrows and waiting for the other
chap to do something silly. Cassels com-
manded the cavalry turning movement
in November, 1917, which set the Turks
retreating helter-skelter on Mosul. It
proved to be the beginning of the end
of the campaign in Mespot. As Allenby
did at Gaza, Cassels deceived the Turks
into thinking that a frontal attack only
would be launched; it wasn’t till he was
right across their communications that
the truth dawned.
“Whitehall”: John Buchan, Canada’s
next G.-G., is anything but vice-regal in
appearance. Small, drab and the pos-
sessor of a strong northern burr, he
always reminded me, as I watched him
functioning in the Commons, of
Harry Lauder. He had plenty to say
—his ability is tremendous and un-
questioned—but because he said it
like a pawky comedian he failed to
impress the House. Buchan might
have been a success as Governor of
Victoria ; countless Melbourne men
and women bear a vague resem-
blance to him about the nose and
eyes. But that’s nothing: I once saw
a Scottish battalion march past and a
composite picture of the regiment would
have provided a recognisable picture of
Buchan.
“Old-timer” on a Napoleon of the
Trade:
Forty-five years ago James Richardson came
from his native Kilmarnock to Melbourne,
where he got a job as barman at the White
Hart Hotel. Then he became licensee of the
hotel at the corner of Russell and Bourke
streets, which he still runs. He acquired it
from the father of Stephen Morell, a former
Melbourne Lord Mayor, who was born on
the premises. Richardson now owns or con-
trols, besides the Russell-street pub, the
Exchange Hotel in Swans ton-street, the Cos-
mopolitan, the Town Hall Hotel, the Cathedral
Hotel, Hosie’s Hotel and Cafe, the London
Tavern, the Kerry Family Hotel in King-street,
and the vast Hotel Alexander opposite Spencer-
street station. ’He has wine and spirit licenses
for premises in Flinders-street, Lonsdale-street,
Little Collins-street, Bourke-street, Russell-
street, the Town Hall Hotel, the Cathedral
Hotel, London House, and the Alexander. In
addition, he has a bonded store in Russell-
street, and wine cellars in the Eastern Markets,
and he runs Arbuckle and Co.’s wine and
spirit store in West Melbourne.
G. T. Thalben-Ball, the first official
organist at London Albert Hall, is a
Sydneyite. He first became known to the
English musical world as organist of the
Temple Church off the Strand.
A. W. SKIDMORE, of the R.A.S.
“How these Englishmen love one an-
other,” ought to be the text for this
Frithian version of A. W. Skidmore, man
of works behind the Sydney Show, and
so busy this week that the people riding
the buckjumpers are sedentary workers
in comparison. Born in London 44 years
ago, Skidmore did a spell in Asia
before coming to Sydney. He has been
with the R.A.S. 13 years, and it’s testi-
monial enough to say he now com-
petently does the 2789 jobs which the
widely-known Rafferty used to do. His
other leading vice is golf.
The twelfth Earl of Dundonald, just
dead in Scotland, was the grandson of the
famous freelance sailor who as Lord
Cochrane helped to free Chile and Peru,
and finally died in the odor of gold lace
as Admiral of the Fleet. Dundonald
was in the Blues when he went with the
expedition to the relief of Khartoum.
Later he served under Kitchener in the
Sudan and commanded Butler’s cavalry
in Natal, being the first of the relieving
army into Ladysmith. An unlucky
chance offered him the job of reorganis-
ing the Canadian Defence Forces. He
had all his grandfather’s pugnacity, and
when he found that politicians were
bringing his work to nothing he used
language that brought about his abrupt
dismissal. He was promoted to major-
general on his return to England, but
he held no more appointments, and
Kitchener would have none of him in the
World War. Dundonald claimed that the
smokescreens used so successfully at
Zeebrugge and Ostend were borrowed by
the navy from his grandfather’s scheme
of combining smoke and gas (sulphur in
Cochrane’s case) in attacks from the sea
on land fortifications.
One of the most-prized mementoes
which General Evangeline Booth will
carry from Australia is a blackwood
baton with a silver mount inscribed
“Pentridge, 1935.” It was made by
prisoners. Which recalls the farewell
luncheon given to Colonel “Bob” Bur-
rows when he relinquished the gover-
norship of Melbourne Gaol many years
ago. The function took place in the
governor’s office, but when the
assembled guests sang “He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow” the chorus was so disproportion-
ately loud that the singers paused. The
chorus continued. It rose from the
prison yards outside the iron grille.
“D.’s” tribute:
Unfortunately Sydney is not to see at the
R.A.S. Violet Skuthorpe, aged 15, probably the
best rider of her sex and age in the world.
Lance Skuthorpe, her father, was as good in
his day as Billy Waite or either of the Demp-
sey brothers, and his father was a rider ot
buckjumpers before him. Violet was to have
met the American girl champion, Ahce
Greenough, in a Showground contest. But
the Australian’s strong suit isn’t buckjump-
riding so much as style and horsemanship, at
which she is a consummate artist.
Queensland University has lost its
oldest servant in J. P. McCaffrey, who
was seconded out of the public service
in 1910 to become acting-clerk to the
Senate. He took the Senate’s first
records ; since 1926 he had been Regis-
trar. He died at 53.
“Norbell”: Cyril Vernon, of the Eng-
lish comedy co. which has just reached
Sydney, is an actor by heredity. I saw
his father, W.H., play “opposite” Gene-
vieve Ward in the ’eighties. A great old
actor, he was the male lead, Sir Horace
Welby, in “Forget-Me-Not,”. Dandy Din-
mont in “Guy Mannering” and. Wolsey
in “Henry VIII.”
Montagu Marks, manager of London
Film Productions (the co. that filmed
“Henry VIII.”), studied under Bernard
Hall at Melbourne Art Gallery before
the war. Then he went to England and
studied at the Slade. He served with the
R.A.F. in the war, and drifted after the
Armistice into the U.S.A. picture indus-
try. He did most to put Korda on the
movie map, and they are now associated
in England.
The late Professor Emeritus Gibson,
of Melbourne, lived to see a son (Alex.)
installed in his chair a month ago.
An Australian record. Gibson, sen., an
Oxonian, had held the chair for 23 years
when he retired.
Here is General Booth, D.S.M. When
not in the front line personally directing
operations against the forces of Beelze-
bub, she rides and swims ; but her spells
“ EVANGELINE .”
in back areas are few and far between.
She is taking the field against the
hereditary foe in Sydney this week, with
the Town Hall as her base.


•v A+VQIHTmSNT T©K.f».TH E KIMS
BORN 1820
still going strong
mm
mm
■? o.
m.
NS
liLr
Over 115 Years’ Experience
guarantees the quality of this superb whisky
Only from Scotland pan true Scotch Whisky
come. Nowhere else are conditions so suitable
for its production. But conditions are not the
only essential—experience is needed, too.
Because Johnnie Walker is made in Scotland,
and has behind it the vast experience of three
generations of unbroken family manage-
ment, many people will tell you that it is
Remember, though speed is essential in
modem business, maturity in whisky comes
slowly. This maturity—huge reserve stocks
—the skilled blending and the fact that
Johnnie Walker is imported in sealed casks
and bottled by OUR OWN STAFF IN
OUR OWN WAREHOUSE under the
supervision of the COMMONWEALTH
the finest whisky in the world
. . . for 115 years we have
endeavoured make it so.
Johnnie
SCOTCH
fsa
m
m
mi
CUSTOMS, ensure in Johnnie
Walker a genuine Scotch Whisky
of unsurpassed quality.
Walker
W H I SKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SYDNEY, LONDON,
KILMARNOCK.
ONLY FROM SCOTLAND CAN TRUE SCOTCH WHISKY COME.
J.W.I6a.FP.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Oriunarv Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.) Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
££. £ £ £
1905.. 256,130 64,962 33,454 20.572 136,051
1920. . 1,383,575 789,726 131,286 10,245 452,318
1926. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1928.. 1,941,408 1,187,815 146,746 3,321 ) r - q ™
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £50,000 ) ’’
1929. . 1,997,015 1,279,446 159,340
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000; 498,229
to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO
1930.. 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870
Transferred to General Reserve, £200,000; 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
1931. . 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488 131,981 1 m 74()
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 ) ’
1932. . 1,987,772 1,482,202 183,976 321,594
To Staff Fund, £14,023 .. .. 1 aw 70“>
1933. . 2,071,868 1,486,785 188,306 52 5 00 * J ’ “
To Staff Fund, £7189 .. .. t 545 903
1934 . . 2,202,168 1,456,873 192,823 )’
‘lncludes dividends to shareholders.
tAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.) Claims-. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,590 8003 173,378
1928.. 774,993 270,683 283,702 2610 1 „ n 7 pa
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO ) ’
1929.. 786,542 324,782 290,392 4438 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000; [-115,930
to Income Tax Reserve, £lOOO J
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 6138 j. . 7 sq 9
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 ) 0 ’
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284,009 267)
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £2OOO j ' ’
1932.. 757.097 307,014 268,310 4062 177,711
To Staff Fund, £6293.. .. .. 1 901 942
1933.. 784,758 297,798 274,704 4750 )
To Staff Fund. £6312.. .. .. 1 9Qf; 400
1934.. 869,449 281,242 283,595 2834) ’
tAfter deducting taxes.
The figures disclose continued improve-
ment in all matters which make for pro-
gress and prosperity in a life office. At
the end of Dec. the business in force
(£60,045,971) was £2,191,797 greater than
it was a year earlier. Combining the
figures of the two departments, total in-
come (£3,123,181) sprang £140,703, of
which £84,774 was in respect of net
premiums (£2,116,448), £ll6B considera-
tion for annuities (£2448), £44,585
interest, rents, etc. (£994,109), and there
was a profit of £10,176 on the sale of
securities. The tax bill (£51,563) was
£74,258 lighter. Surrenders (£313,931)
were down £38,775. Including £lB,OOO
transferred from reserves, £858,809
(£274,805 more than for the previous
year) was added to the Assurance funds,
raising them to £20,427,702. In addition
there were other reserves totalling
£889,543, up £6lll, despite the transfer
just referred to, to supplement earnings
of the Assurance funds, and thus con-
tribute to bonuses.
The surpluses distributed in each
department compare as follows:
1929. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Ordinary . . £692,946 £552,326 £556,512 £623,363
Industrial .. 76,730 70,530 74,851 82,297
Total . . £769,676 £622,856 £631,303 £705,660
The spring of £74,297 in last year’s total
reflects the reduction in taxation. It
was passed to ordinary policy-holders by
a lift of approximately 10 p.c. in the
rate of bonuses declared.
The reduction in taxation is again re-
flected in a growth in net interest returns,
which -were £4 13s. 9d. p.c. (up Bs. 2d.
p.c.) in the Ordinary department and
£4 13s. 7d. p.c. (up 12s. lOd. p.c.) in
the Industrial section. The effective rates
were £4 19s. 4d. p.c. and £4 17s. sd. p.c.
respectively.
In the Industrial department the rate
the office assumes its funds will earn
has been lowered from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c.,
which is the strongest basis of valuation
yet reached in Australia. The reduction
was made possible by the improvement
in the mortality experience over the last
30 years, and by the low cost at which
the business is handled. The aim is to
strengthen policy-holders’ bonus pros-
pects. In the Ordinary department the
assumed rate remains at 3 p,c. The
probabilities are that it, too, will be
lowered to 2\ p.c. when the co. is ready
to make the change.
Exes, were a shade lighter in the Ordi-
nary branch at 13.2 p.c. of net premium
income and 8.4 p.c. of total income. The
corresponding rates in the Industrial sec-
tion are 32.9 p.c. and 25.4 p.c. respectively,
as against 33.8 p.c. and 26.4 p.c. for 1933.
Over 83 p.c. of the balance-sheet total
is invested in public securities. Con-
sidered in relation to the rate of interest
earned, it suggests that assets are worth
a lot more than their book value:
1933. p.c. 1934. p.c.
Public securities. £18,270,832 83.0 £19,104,727 83.2
Mortgages .. 740,206 3.4 890,450 3.9
Loans on policies 1,916,471 8.7 1,911,402 8.3
Cash, book debts,
etc .. . . 503,959 2.3 470,400 2.0
Property.. .. 90,773 .4 133,362 .6
Other assets .. 485,693 2.2 463,919 2.0
£22,007,934 £22,974,260
Liabilities* .. 1,308,256 1,367,134
Net assets .. £20,699,678 £21,607,126
*Otber than under policies.
The £1,367,134 of liabilities includes
£962,081 of short-term deposits, which
reflects a very keen investment policy.
In the Widows’ Fund section (it is
a closed circuit) policy-holders got a
compound reversionary bonus of £2 4s.
p.c.; 4s. p.c. more than for 1933. It
was equal to a reversionary bonus (on
sum assured only) of £3 17s. p.c. Actu-
ally the cash surplus divided was 112.9
p.c. of the year’s premium income: a
unique experience in the. history of life
assurance in Australia.
Wunderlich Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £. £ £ £
1925.. 36,209 5600 10 p.c. = 30,000 609 43,805
1926.. 45,336 5600 121 „ ~ 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO . . • • 43,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 .. 88,041
1927.. 64,143 6600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103.184
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 . . - • 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930.. 56,955 5600 Hi „ „ 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ „ 22,000 99,231
From specific reserves, £16,227.. .. 115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. .. 109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917.. .. 99,769
1933.. 15,725 ''47l4°' 5 p.c. = 22,000 58,780
Written off Vic. tile factory, £19,750.. 69,030
Premiums on new shares, £3748 . • 72,778
From specific reserves, £1503 .. .. 74,281
5.1 p.c.
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,000 392 33,903
*Aftcr deducting bonuses to staff.
This co. turns out tiles, architectural
terra-cotta, shop fronts, show cases and
other building materials and embellish-
ments. The business is scattered through-
out the Commonwealth and Maoriland,
and has an alert and enterprising man-
agement, whose policy has been to dis-
tribute profits as they were earned. The
ords. averaged 12 p.c. for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1930, and
£107,369 of staff-partnership certificates
was provided out of earnings and £36,454
in divs. paid thereon over the same
period. Although slump brought the
building trade almost to a standstill, a
steady 5 p.c. was paid for the next four
years. This and pref. divs. called for
£45,702 more profit than was claimed.
Last year there was an increase of
nearly 64 p.c. in the aggregate value of
building permits issued in the capital
cities and suburbs of the Australian
States. The co.’s net earnings sprang
£5909, reaching £28,355, or enough to
pay the pref. divs. and show a shade
over 4 p.c. on ord. capital as against 3.2
p.c. for the previous term. To continue
handing out more than was earned would
gradually eat up working capital, so a
point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to 4 p.c.
Reserves were drawn on for £33,076 to
write down the book value of buildings
and plant. To what section of the busi-
ness this cut related is not disclosed
in the report, nor is any hint given
whether further adjustments may be
necessary. In the previous term the old
tile factory at Brunswick (Vic.) was dis-
mantled, and its book value (£19,750)
written off out of reserves. At the same
time new works were erected on a fresh
clav site at Vermont, at a cost of
£22,835. To meet this and other outlay,
including redemption of a mortgage
(£32,3.55) on the co.’s Perth property,
£BO,OOO of 7 p.c. third pref. money was
gathered. These and other things are
reflected in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital: 19 2 0. 1933. 1934. , 1935.
Shareholders’ £379,666 £520,00'0 £599,984 £600,000
Employees’ . 14,040 39,700 36,000 35,200
Liabilities .. 38,244 111,919 63,534 110,057
Freeholds .. 151,559 380,142 385>,486 392,137
Leaseholds • • 9,659 801 770 760
Plant etc. . . 108,926 242,990 244,214 219,766
Stocks • • 136,390 109,490 106,968 116,321
Book debts .. 64,342 33,901 37,703 55,662
Cash, etc. . . 16,598 6,436 7,144 8,492
The year’s net reduction in the book
value of plant was only £24,448. On
freeholds £6651 more was spent than
was written off. To do this, carry
£17,959 more debtors’ balances and
add £9353 to stocks, the board went out-
side for an extra £46,523. The slip in
the more or less liquid surplus (£70,418)
was £17,863.
Capital is in 40,000 first, a like number
of second and 80,000 third prefs., and
440,000 ords. The prefs., which are all 7
p.c. cumulative (the firsts and seconds less
22\ p.c. statutory cut), rank in the order
stated for capital and divs. The firsts
and seconds seldom come ‘on to the
market; the' thirds at 265. 9d. return
5.2 p.c. The ords. at 20s. 6d. return 3.9
p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or 4.8 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. distribution. The net tangible
cover is £6 18s. sd. thirds and 21s. 6d.
ords., nearly all in fixed assets, worth
what they can earn.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Ordinary. ' serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 265,464 12 p.c. = 240,000 25,464 154,990
Profit on liquidation of subsidiaries £91,976 246,966
1925.. 221,041 10 p.c. 200,000 21,041 268,007
Taxation reserves taken in, £lO,OOO .. 278,007
1926.. 211,608 lOp.r.r: 200,000 11,608 289,615
Pref., Ord.,
6 p.c, 10 p.c.
£
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
7£ p.c.
1928. . 161,348 11,780 150,000 289,400
2J p.c.
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300.274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 3p4,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
14 p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
2 J p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
It is mainly a holding co., with
£2,250,000 of capital to feed in 250,000
6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2,000,000 ords.
The latter include £1,550,000 of bonus
scrip, most of which was scattered shortly
after the co. passed over its shipping and
coal interests to subsidiaries in 1914. The
pref. money was gathered in 1927 to help
pay for scrip in iron and steel, cement
and blue-metal ventures, none of which
has yet contributed to the pool. The
ords. averaged 11.5 p.c. for the 13 years
to the close of accounts in 1927. Then
the sickness in the coal trade and slump
withered earnings, and for the last seven
years, three of which were dry ones,
they averaged only 2 p.c.
A few years ago the co.’s holdings in
its principal subsidiaries were as follows:
Howard Last
Issued Smith’s Ord.
Capital. Holding. Div.
Australian Steamships. . £1,850,002 £4,849,990
Caledonian Coal .. 1,487,894 1,191,270* Nil
Invincible Coal.. .. 104,000 66,321 Nil
Aus, Iron and Steel .. 3,473,507 400,000 Nil
S. Portland Cement .. 850,940 368,299 Nil
Vickers Commonwealth
Steel 318,193 61,300
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 48,000 Nil
*325,034 6 p.c. prefs. and 866,242 ords.
Its shipping interests (this offshoot’s
figures are not broadcast) are the chief
source of income, which is supplemented
by the co.’s own pickings as managing
agent, and by returns from a holding in
Australian Sugar (paid capital £207,915),
which sent out a steady 12 p.c. from 1924
to 1932 ; the curtain has since been drawn
over the figures.
Apparently the shipping co. sent along
a little more last year—Huddart Parker
and Adelaide Steam both showed marked
improvement in earnings, and both lifted
their divs. Howard Smith’s net earnings
sprang £26,811, reaching £73,979. or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
2.9 p.c. on ord. capital as against 1.6 p.c.
in 1933. A point was added to the div.,
making 2\ p.c. for the year.
Immediate prospects still depend
mainly upon the shipping section and
upon the co.’s agency earnings. It is hard
to say when the coal, steel and cement
cos. are likely to contribute.
At 235. 6d. the prefs. return 5.1 p.c.
The ords. at 15s. yield 3.3 p.c. on a 24
p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for 5.3 p.c. on his money counts on a
4 p.c. div., which, together with a year’s
pref. requirements, would call for
£95.000, or £21,021 more than was netted
last year. The book value of the net
tangible cover is £lO ss. sd. prefs. and
235. 2d. ords.
Shareholdings figure at £3,220,288, up
£94,lls—the iron and steel co. got in
some of the uncalled balance on its scrip.
Premises, plant, etc. (£192,476), were
up £13,969. The excess of liabilities
over liquids increased by £69,106:
1928. 1933. 1934.
Liquids £420,711 £119,234 £155.945
Liabilities . . . . 664,333 831,333 937,150
Excess liabilities .. £243,622 £712,099 £781,205
Liabilities include £821,322 (up £87,49,1),
“held on behalf of subsidiary and asso-
ciated cos.”
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. ten Oft’, serves, serves.
£> £ £ £ £
1925.-47,371 10 p.c. = 40,'000 7,371 119-252
Premiums on new shares .. 32,500 151,752
1926.. 54,924 10 p.c. = 41,974 1 7 g . Q - g
Staff provident fund, £5OOO )
1927.. 57,134 10 p.c. = 48,299 l 7 sq r Ifi7 r. 07
Staff provident fund, £lOOO ) 7 ’ 835 16/>do7
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,608 l •> qq. .gg g..
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ) A ’ UU4
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. = 52,974 —1 16 336 18 4,877
Staff provident fund, £3500 >
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,877
1930.. 71.910 10 p.c. = 58,295 lin 115 141 992
Staff provident fund, £3500 ) ’
1931.. 62,763 10 p.c. = 58,300 ) 4fiq 143 , fil
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ) 1,409 1 d,4OJ
1932.. 49,052 71 p.c. =43,725 t 2.827 146,288
Staff provident fund, £2500 )
1933.. 47,125 7J p.c. =43 725 - ) 900 147,188
Staff provident fund, £2ooo )
1934.. 48,788 71 p.c. =43,725 —■ \ 9 rg 3 449 754
Staff provident fund, £2500 ) ’’
Inner reserve disclosed, £26,000.. 175,751
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46,640 —I 5 354 IST 105
Staff provident fund, £2500 ) °’ ao
Considering the size of its plant and
stocks, the fall in prices, the spring in ex-
change and other difficulties, this co. has
weathered the storm very well. Certainly
the div. was lowered from 10 p.c. to
7j p.c. for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1934. But P- c * waB
worth 81 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the 10 p.c. bonus scrip issue in
1929. Last year the declared rate was
lifted to 8 p.c.
The co. owns four fertiliser works, four
warehouses and a pharmaceutical factory.
During the decade to the close of
accounts in 1930 it added over half a
million to the book value of plant and
stocks, mainly on account of super., and
leant upon outsiders for an extra £175.813,
raising the debt to over quarter of a
million. It has since worked down stocks
and debtors’ balances without interfer-
ing with trade connections. The money
that thus became available, together with
surplus earnings, including substantial
allowances for depreciation, has been
used to lighten the debt (it includes pro-
vision for taxation) and strengthen the
cash position:
1920. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. £367,140 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities .. 76,650 252,463 133,584 84,438
Factories, etc. 140,114 466,943 390,202 366,221
Stock.. .. 188,874 373,891 308,916 274,477
Boole debts .. 105,283 172,094 137,870 133,802
Cash, etc. .. 133,976 —• 55,167 105,002
Last year the apparent reduction in
liabilities was £49,146, of which £26,000
was an inner reserve, now disclosed as
provision against possible fluctuations in
stock values arising from exchange or
other contingencies. On fixed assets
£23,981 more was written off than was
spent, stocks were reduced by £34,439
and £49,835 was added to cash, etc.
They are all healthy movements.
After setting aside £25,000 (up £1000)
for depreciation and £2223 for repairs,
last year’s gross earnings were £9465
better: -
Gross Profit. Expenses.
1920 . . £139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.c.
1925 . . 147,344 99.985 67.8 „
1930 . . 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1931 .. 177,996 115,227 64.7 „
1932 . . 145,388 96,336 66.2 „
1933 . . 131,957 84,832 64.3 „
1934 . . 127,761 78,973 61.8 ~
1935 . . 137,220 82,732 00.2 „
Exes, took £3759 of the increase, leaving
the net result at 9.3 p.c. on capital as
against 8.3, 8, 8.4, 10.7 and 12.3 p.c. back
to 1930.
The fully-paid £2 shares fetch 795. in
the market. Allowing for the final div.
(Is. 94d. a share), the return is 4.1 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The visible cover
is 525. sd. in net tangibles.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
Nominal
Net r Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Prolit. Pref. •Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 93,842 6 p.c. 6 p.c. = 89,274 4,568 102,064
1925.. 89,242 0 ~ 6 „ „ 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 ~ 4 ~ ~ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3„ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5,, ~ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,193 Nil 55,544
Profit.
1930.. 675 Nil 675 56,219
1931.. 15,975 Nil 15,975 72,194
1932.. 12,585 Nil 12,585 84,779
1933.. 13,279 Nil 13,279 98,058
1934.. 12,322 Nil 12,322 110,380
The co. is Howard Smith-controlled, be-
ing thus favored so far as markets are
concerned, and it owns the four Aber-
dares and three other pits on the north-
ern N. S. Wales field. The Aberdares
are oni the- Greta seam, which is the least
expensive to work, and produces some
of the best gas-coal in the State. Also,
on paper, shareholders can see the whole
of their £1,487,894 of capital intact, and
£110,380 besides. But that doesn’t mean
much unless the assets can be made to turn
in satisfactory profits. This they haven’t
done for the last seven years, and it is
difficult to say when they are likely to.
There are still too many in the industry
for the volume of trade available, and
the larger cos. with heavy overhead find
themselves severely handicapped, not-
withstanding that they may enjoy advan-
tages in other directions. The increased
use of oil and electricity for transport
and other industrial purposes doesn’t
make the outlook any better either. Even
the inter-State shipping cos., which have
invested heavily in the industry, are
turning to oil; most of the export trade
has been lost, too, despite the advantage
which exchange has conferred upon ex-
porters.
Last year trade was a bit better, but
prices were lower. Net earnings dropped
£957 ; they were little more than half
a full year’s pref. requirements. When
the books closed payments to the prefs.
had fallen £152,100 (6s. 6d. per share)
behind.
The financial position improved:
1923. 1929. 1933. 1934.
Pref. capital. . £464,295 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital.. 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors . . 188,930 219,972 109,899 121,781
Overdraft . . 16,671 98,365 63,803 49,737
Collieries, etc. 1,645,298 1,738,708 1,630,788 1,610,048
Stores . . 103,724 61,555 48,183 51,119
Coal stocks . . 6,306 758 9,958 16,672
Book debts . . 48,662 9,074 12,824 34,070
Shares . . 51,302 51,302 57,438 57,631
Cash, etc. . . 809 378 • 462 252
To clip £14,066 off the overdraft, carry
an extra £21,246 of debtors’ balances,
('Continued on page 18.)


The Symbol
e
of Service
SELFRIDGES (Australasia) LIMITED
(No Connection with Self ridges of London)
Head Office: 183 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Branches: Parramatta, Hurstville & Auburn, N.S.W.
Authorised Capital: £250,000 in 250,000 Shares of £1 each
Proposed Issued Capital: £150,000 Ordinary Shares at £ I each
of which 65,927 Shares have been issued,
leaving a balance of 84,073 Shares available for Public Subscription
Board of Directors:
E. C. B. MIDLANE, Esq., Chairman
(Co-Managing Director of Midlane Bros. (Aust.) Ltd. and
Midlane Bros. (N.Z.) Ltd.)
V. J. PLUMB, Esq.
(Governing Director of V. J. Plumb Pty. Ltd.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne)
F. W. HARPER, Esq. ?
A. W. LAMBELL, Esq. $
Joint Managing Directors
H. PHILLIPS, Esq., General Manager
[Late Merchandise Director, Allan & Stark Ltd., Brisbane)
Secretary: J. B. O'CONNOR, A.F.1.A., J.P.
Auditors: YARWOOD, VANE & CO., with G. MASON ALLARD,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 28-30 O'Connell Street, Sydney
Solicitors: ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY, 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Bankers: THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
194 Pitt Street, Sydney
THE OBJECTS of the Company are inter alia to
establish an extensive Chain Store Organisation which will
provide the Public with the best values possible at the
lowest prices.
The Company was registered in Sydney in November,
1932, and commenced trading in Pitt Street, Sydney, in
April, ,1933. The Company has traded at a profit since its
incention, and th« results thereof to date may be seen at
the Registered Office.
The measure of establishment can be gauged by the
Company’s excellent Stores in Pitt Street, Sydney, Parra-
matta, Hurstville and Auburn.
The success of this type of Store in America, England,
and the Continent, as well as in Australia, is too well known
to need recapitulation.
The foundation has been laid for a big Australasian
business, and the requisite organisation of management,
buying, overseas connections, is already established.
INTERSTATE EXPANSION.— The Board of Directors is
continually approached with propositions for expansion in
other States and New Zealand, and as the Chain of Stores
increases, it will be part of the policy of the Company to
expand its operations, on sound lines, bevond New South
Wales.
This is an exceptional opportunity of investing in an issue of Ordinary Shares at par in a
progressive Chain Store Company with wonderful prospective value to its shares.
The Directors have decided to extend this opportunity , not only to the present Shareholders ,
but also to the Public generally , who are the Company’s present and prospective customers.
Vi
To enable this progressive extension policy to be carried
terms:—
out, the Company is offering Shares at par, on the following
2/6 per share on Application; 2/6 per share on Allotment; and 2/6 monthly until fully paid up
When this issue is fully subscribed, it is the intention
of the Board to apply to the Sydney Stock Exchange to have
the Shares listed.
Application for Shares should be sent direct to the
Secretary, who will register them as and when received, and
in the event of over subscription the allotments will, as far
as possible, be made pro rata. The Directors reserve the
right to refuse and/or reject any application. Intending
applicants whose residence is at a distance may reserve
their requirements by telegram pending arrival of applica-
tion by post.
Immediate application for Shares is necessary.
Private and Confidential.
Application for Shares
SELFRIDCES (Australasia) LIMITED
(No connection with Self ridges of London)
NOMINAL CAPITAL - £250.000
To the Directors;
I.
Occupation
(Christian and Surname in full)
of
(Address in full)
hereby apply for Ordinary Shares at par in the above Company, and I enclose herewith cheque
for £ , being 2/6 per share application money, and agree to pay the balance of 17/6 per share, 2/6
per share on allotment, and 2/6 per share per month.
I agree to abide by the decision of the Board in allotting shares and to accept and hold any shares allotted to me subject to
the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and I authorise the Company to register me as the holder of
such shares.
The Secretary, Yours faithfully,
Box 3534 RR, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A SUPvE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
3 i
m
& ' ;
A message of abiding
COMFORT
r jpHE duty of all A.M.P. counsellors is to “carry
the message” of the abiding comfort there is in
A.M.P. membership; to carry it wherever men and
women yearn for a feeling of security.
So that they may learn from each other, and from the
senior officers of the Society, of the ever-widening use-
fulness of the Society’s policies, periodical conferences are
held; representative counsellors are gathered together
from all corners of the Society’s vast field. Pictured here
is such a gathering dedicated to the task of spreading the
message.
What is this message of abiding comfort? Just this: that
if a man become a member of the A.M.P. Society half
a million fellow members will co-operate with him (aye,
and back him with their £93,000,000 of assets) in a plan
to give him and his dependents financial security for the
future. That’s the message! That co-operation is now
operating on so wide and grand a scale that the Society
has become known as “the greatest Mutual Life office in
the Empire.”
The Society’s policies help men and women to obtain peace of
mind; to provide for dependents; to educate children; to build
homes; to pay off homes; to succour charities by bequests; to
tour abroad; to do so many pleasant and useful things that no
man (or woman) should rest content until he has thrashed out,
with a counsellor from the nearest A.M.P. office, the rich possi-
bilities of his life.
Write to-day and say: ’’Send me a counsellor. Evidently I am
missing something.”
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart. t
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay,
WELLINGTON.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for
April discusses:
Britain’s Trade Policy
Gold Costs and Prices
The Share Market
Meat Wool Wheat Metals
and other things investors want to know.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth anti foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. —Advt.
W. J. STAGG, A.C.1.5., A. 1.1.3.
Formerly Commissioner jor Western Lands and eight
years State Secretary N.S.W. Branch Returned
Soldiers’ League.
General Representative and Broker.
Sound advice on all matters of Land, Real Estate,
Finance, Insurance (all kinds).
AV. J. STAGG, A.C.1.5., A. 1.1.5.,
36 Hunter Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 83731; .1X2946 (Private).
Box 3050NX, U.P.U., Sydney.
and add £6714 to stocks and £2936 to
stores, the amount coming to sundry
creditors was increased by only £11,882.
Fixed assets were reduced by £20,740, or
£15,392 less than in the previous year.
The excess of liabilities over more or
less liquids was £33,063 lighter at
£11,774, making the improvement
£183,000-odd over the last five years.
Self ridges (Aust.), Ltd.
This youngster, which has no connec-
tion with the big London retailers of
similar name, set up in the chain-store
business in Pitt-street, Sydney, in April,
1933. Branches have since been opened
at Parramatta, Hurstville and Auburn.
To finance or help finance further ex-
pansion of the organisation, the public
is now offered 84,072 new £1 shares at
par.
Nominal capital is £250,000 in £1
shares, of which 62,927 have already
been issued. What amount has been paid
up is one of the things not disclosed in
the published invitation to subscribe, a
sketchy document. Precise and detailed
information would be preferable to such
assurances as that “the co. has traded at
a profit since its inception, and the results
thereof to date may be seen at the regis-
tered office.” It is intended to apply to
the Sydney Stock Exchange to have the
scrip listed.
Aloha Syndicate, Melbourne, has
thrown off another prospecting concern,
Aloha Central, to test a 30-acre block
in the centre of the Tavua field, Fiji,
close to the Emperor mine, which is being
developed privately by E. G. Theodore
and his associates. The Central Co. has
a nominal capital of £12,500 in £5 shares,
of which 500 paids went to the parent.
Parent’s shareholders were entitled to
take up 1800 (15 for 1) at par, and Pat
Costello (the owner of the lease) had a
lien on 200 at par. Those on parent’s
register also got £3O a share in cash. The
terms of the option are £6OO cash for
six months from May 1 ; if exercised,
cash and shares equal to 30 p.c. of the
capital of any co. formed to work the
property. R. M. Boyd, who inspected
the show, reported free gold in many
parts of the lode, specimens of wire gold
were numerous, and dish prospects were
rich. He was also impressed by two
alluvial prospects to be secured by the
parent syndicate, which will throw off
two prospecting cos. to test them. After
rocketing to £6OO cum rights, Aloha’s
£lO shares sold from £2OO to £250 last
week. Aloha Central’s £5 shares changed
hands freely at from £25 to £3l.
* * * *
Geologist J. H. Reid’s research into the
Croydon (N.Q.) goldfield has disclosed
that the area produced 770,000 fine
ounces of gold and an equal amount of
silver, practically all between the surface
and 300 ft. A rapid succession of ore-
shoots was cut off by reverse faults at
shallow depth. Another obstacle was a
superficial crust of “cap-rock,” almost
completely covering the richest known
portion of the field. It is claimed to be
a practical certainty that economic ore-
bodies lie hidden in this vicinity beneath
a veneer of foreign crust that baffled
early prospectors. The Minister for
Mines has announced several drilling
schemes to test unexplored ground, as
the principal lodes are stated to be large
and persistent. The full report should
interest mining corporations looking for
new gold deposits.
* * * *
C. B. Rooke, fossicking on an alluvial
flat at the northern end of the Golden
Mile (W.A.), has unearthed a 16oz. slug
at a depth of 12ft. There was a lot of
mustard gold—it is usually derived from
decomposed telluride —in the vicinity.
He argues that a reef from which the
gold was shed must exist near by. If it
does, some consider that it might be the
continuation of the west lode channel of
the Golden Mile, which was lost north
of Great Boplder years ago.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
A critical test for part of the Gympie
(Q.) field is nearing completion. It is
the Sovereign drillhole just south of the
Inglewood crosscourse. Last week a
depth of 650 ft. had been reached, the
bore having passed through the con-
glomerate beds with plumbago layers
that announced the succession of Phoenix
slates in the productive Monkland and
Smithfield. Since several quartz-reef for-
mations have been cut, a succession of
plumbago in the Phoenix beds should
mean economic production according to
Gympie mining tradition. It is proposed
to go to 800 ft., if necessary, and boring
may be supplemented by crosscutting
from one of the neighboring shafts. This
is one of three chances at Gympie. The
others are the area around the New
Gympie and the dredging of the Mary
River flats.
•j!
Staffs of the aerial geophysical
survey have assembled at their meet-
ing places in N.Q., North Aus. and
W.A. The scheme appeals to some,
but many professional mining men
look dubious when the discovery of new
mineral deposits is mentioned as a pos-
sible result. At most it is expected to
produce topographical maps that will be
of use to prospectors and others in
isolated and distant regions, and may
remotely facilitate further prospectors’
discoveries.
Horseshoe and Chaffers sections of the
Lake View (W.A.) can always be relied
on to furnish a rich telluride of gold
development now and then. The latest
is at 3400 ft. down in Chaffers, where
some of the richest stuff ever met with in
the mine is being opened up. It is be-
lieved to be the southern downward con-
tinuation of the shoot in the Horseshoe
levels, from which millions of ounces
were extracted.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Princess Royal has received a report
from G. C. Klug and Victor Edquist on
McLennan’s new find, 20 chains south-
west of the old mine at Westonia (W.A.).
They recommend a working option for
nine months, deposit £2OO ; the purchase
price is £lO,OOO, plus 10,000 fully-paids
in Princess Royal. The new reef is m
a strongly-sheared zone. Last month
Princess Royal crushed 278 tons for
610 z., and cyanided 475 tons for 250 z.
of gold.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
London-controlled Youanmi Gold
Mines, Ltd., has amended its prospectus.
Vendors’ consideration has been reduced
from 2,500,000 to 2,000,000 fully-paid
ords., with a two years’ option on 500,000
ords. at par. The public is offered 500,000
prefs. and 500,000 ords., subscribers to
iake one of each class, and to have the
right for two years to take another ord.
for each one held. The issue has been
underwritten. Australian subscriptions
run into six figures.
¥ ¥ * *
Yellowdine keeps its end up above the
100 ft. level. Between this point and the
surface, an estimated million pounds
worth of gold (Aust. currency) awaits
extraction. Boring is being continued to
determine the value of the shoot in deeper
ground. The bore cores are collected by
an honorary inspector for mines, and sent
under seal to the Government mineralo-
gist, who hands the result of the assays
to the co.
* ¥ * *
American capital, represented by smil-
ing D. R. Pitt, is pegging away at the Big
Bell, near Cue (W.A.). It keeps to
itself, but, judging by the amount of
money being spent, development is being
pushed ahead with vigor. Mines Depart-
ment records show that Big Bell produced
about ll,ooooz. when worked by two
battlers years ago. In 1928 and 1929 the
State Government put down several
bores, some of which proved values rang-
ing from traces to 22dwt. The lode in the
Bell is probably the biggest in the State,
and worth, in bulk, somewhere in the
vicinity of 16s. a ton with gold at 84s.
an ounce.
* * ¥ *
Western Queen, a recent addition to
the list of Westralian goldmining cos.,
has paid £3500 in option money, and if it
decides to complete the purchase next
month it will have to hand out a further
£16,500, plus £lO,OOO in fully-paids, to
the vendors. A grab sample recently
assayed 16dwt., but that doesn’t mean
very much.
¥ * * *
Mt. Martin, Hampton Plains (W.A.),
is not living up to expectations. It has
put through another 400 tons from de-
velopment and stoping at various points
for a trifle over sdwt. a ton. When the
co. started Bdwt. returns were spoken of.
j{« jJj >i>
Negotiations between Gold Fields of
Australia and North Kalgurli for pur-
chase of the last-named’s Oroya North
lease have been suspended pending
further investigation. This block adjoins
the Iron Duke on the Westralian Golden
Mile, to the south, and the continuation of
the Iron Duke lodes into Oroya’s ground
is mooted. The Iron Duke was recently
taken oyer by Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Plant erection on the Edjudina,
Yarri (W.A.), will begin immediately,
and should be completed within six
months. The equipment, to cost about
£20,000, will deal with 4000 tons a
month, and output can be doubled at
small additional expenditure. There is
10,000 tons of ore at grass and a further
200,000 tons developed.
Rich ore from a recent firing at Lady
Shenton, Menzies (W.A.), has been ex-
hibited at Perth. The stone came from
the main drive north on the 12ft. lode,
and toward the crosscourse where the
make was lost in the early days.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.S.: Tellurides are chemical compounds of
the element tellurium with one or more metals.
Except as a telluride, gold is seldom found
chemically combined with another element....
J.J.H.: (1) In Sydney antimony ore fetches
from 6s. per unit (£l3 10s. per ton) for stuff
containing 45 p.c. metal to 7s. per unit (£2l
per ton) for stone assaying 60 p.c. metal. (2)
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney,
and O. T. Lempriere, Macquarie-place, Syd-
ney. .. .R.C.: (1) First sheet due any time now.
(2) Subject to the number of consumers being
adequate, the co.’s prospects seem bright
enough. The control is right.


tnn
m mm
*A
■
wmm
m
WMtm
■
9
m
m
jl* \
m<v. -si . . >
mm
wmmm
§§s§
\ v..”
■
wmm
iiii
■■
c »
mmm
■
■■■l
jj
: §M:fMr
■
iiM
*
ip
M
.
ill
■■ H
w
1
& J O‘..«KS
, "V,-
WBm
H
HHI i
: - V.
H
MW®
H
I
. ,:•:■<
■I
■ Mb
..... *
Em
".> ■ !
Pifpgg
■
99
V
*
\ fm JpSwKr '«§IS
u rijifiiii
?:>:':S;7 .
B
ip mm
mmmm
'i~\'
wmm
I
ff»i»?Tvn
■ ■
n
:. • ■
HSHH
■
' \:t_
vF-
lUppMt
Iw F FFORT
I 1
■
V •
iS&r . ;
" ■■
(■
■ «
■■'.
■1
n
iP
Hi
■ ' ■
mw
W
M
ppy p
BH
■ .
sm
HHMI
■1
£J
•'
V . ,-'.
m
m
' :
■
mm
H
ran
Brags
■
• .
PPSS
11
mm
■
W%BSm
PPP
_ - .~j."
If,
■
pppr 4 1 11
S*!- fv?'' <- '' "*' mWm
«y■* <fc££ *, r-sfe.
n
■. : ;
y
p| r-jgg
■
0F ;i -ppp ; ;:_;-.;;p-:FF;-::- v; F
i :
sum,
mm 1.
9r ■ 19
<V.“
M*
TV « To n
Hi
TO
WHEN GOOD FELLOWS MEET
THEY ORDER


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ped O’Mug”: While sympathising
with “M.R.P.” (B. 23/l/’35), I think she
could be worse off. I am h.t. of a small
country school in South Aus. As well as
trying to convince 30 future cockies and
cockyesses that Napoleon did not cross
the Nullarbor in 1492, I do my best to
fill the following offices: Chairman of
local home-project club, curator of
recreation grounds, Scoutmaster, instruc-
tor in life-saving and first-aid, president
of literary society, librarian, lay preacher
and Sunday-school teacher (I once read
the burial service at a funeral), income-
tax assessment compiler (we have no
policeman), committeeman of progress
assoc, and inland mission, sec. of racing
club, sec. and captain of cricket, foot-
ball and tennis clubs, M.C. at local
dances, correspondent for city paper and
sec. of agricultural society. These are
considered my duties —so says tradition.
Good-fellowship declares that I should
help with the milking during seeding and
harvest. Small wonder I have little time
to practise my one hobby: s.-p. book-
making on Saturday afternoons. I am
not a J.P.
=s= * * *
“Kariah”: Recently an escaped canary
was found with its wings bound to its
body by many turns of a N.S.W. spider’s
web. After it had been freed the fowl
was so worn out by its earlier struggles
that it lay prostrate for two hours.
* * * *
“King Cyril”: Crikey, Mr. Editor,
me big pfeller all right this time, gottum
tchillin easy way. Suppose this last
Tuesday me catchum eel, takum p’lice
station. Sergeant say he no wantum. You
chopit wood, he say, me gibbit tucker.
By cripes, that all right pfeller, big bag
tucker that one. Wednesday me takum
eel longa parson. Him say, you poor
pfeller, Cyril ; you keepum eel longa
tucker, me gibbit tickapence. That good
pfeller parson, all right! Alonga Thurs-
day me takum eel Mick Kiley’s pub.
Missus Kiley sayum good pfeller talk.
Mick likum eel, she tellum me. Me
buyum tchillin that pfeller eel. By cripes,
that worth it. What you tinkit?
* * *
“Lion”: Walking into a N.S.W. coun-
try shed, a man was nearly bitten by a
large brown-snake lying on top of a
low rafter near the entrance. Two guns
were loaded, a single- and a double-
barrel, and the hunt began. Joe Blake
was soon located, and being poked out
of some bags he made a rush at the man
with the s.-b. gun. That chap pulled
the trigger, but the cartridge failed to
explode; the other man shot the snake
within 2ft. of the first man’s legs. It
all happened in about two seconds. In-
vestigations revealed that a perfectly-
made Eley-cartridge cigarette-lighter had
been loaded into the s.-b. gun by mistake.
“Unity”: During the dry weather a
Goulburn (N.S.W.) woman, watering her
garden in the dusk, noticed that the hose
had apparently become twisted round
the upright waterpipe. She hurried over
to unwind the hose, and was just about
to grasp it when the twisted part slid to
the ground and vanished among the
bushes. A wriggler, seeking water, had
apparently been lurking near the house
in the hope of a drink, and the drip
from the turned-on garden tap had solved
the difficulty for him.
* * * *
“A.R.”: Pulled an Athaldo in foxes
out of a C.Q. hollow log the other day,
and while relieving him of his pelt was
surprised to see a motley crew of asso-
ciates leave the same dugout. There
were two ginger cats, two half-grown
goannas, a native mouse and a stumpy-
tailed lizard.
* * * *
“Billabong”: Many of the stations in
the drought-stricken Barcoo (Q.) district
are finding difficulty in getting enough
boree for scrub-cutting. No, there isn’t
a shortage of the trees ; it’s merely that
grasshoppers got in first. During the
hot weather it was possible to flush tens
of thousands of the things from these
acacias, though all others of the clan
the pests left strictly alone. Under each
tree attacked there appeared to be a mat,
inches thick, of finely-“minced” foliage.
* H= * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Out of the dim
mists of the past it wound its leisurely
way through Bowning (N.S.W.) a few
weeks ago. A bullock-waggon drawn
by milking cows, whose progeny of vary-
ing ages followed in company with sheep
and horses (saddle and draught), two
“You should be ashamed of yourself, sitting there with that load on
your cart.”
“It's all right, lady — it's a strong cart.”
horsemen keeping the “taiiers” up. The
waggon—a table-top—had erected upon
it a substantial shack, and womenfolk
and children moved about the house as
freely as though it were the orthodox
anchored article. No, it was not a talkie
advertisement. Just a family of well-
sinkers who, having worked for two
years at Broken Hill, had spent three
years working their way back.
* * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: Can any Aboliar ex-
plain the “jackie-lamps” that one sees on
the N.S.W. western plains? They can
hardly be jack-o’-lanterns, as those phe-
nomena are caused by burning methane
or marsh-gas emanating from swamps.
The “jackie-lamps” appear in the driest
part of the country, and look like the
headlamps of motor-cars. They re-
semble jack-o’-lanterns in retreating when
one approaches, and hang about cer-
tain localities for years I had one re-
ported to me recently as being “as big
as a tree on fire” (size of tree not speci-
fied) ; and I have known one fall on to
the road in front of a buggy. I suppose
that it is some sort of electrical pheno-
menon, but, as I have not had the benefit
of a scientific education, that doesn’t
convey much to me.
* * * *
“La Belle”: I assure “Ikey” (B.
20/2/’35) that there is one natural
weather prophet he can depend on.
Trees. If an exceptionally dry season
is on its way there will be no growth
of shoots or blossoms ; trees have been
known to shed their leaves just prior to
a dry spell. If, on the other hand, the
season is going to be a good one new
growth and bloom will be prolific.
“Inglegar”: Before the 1902 drought
a venerable abo. from west o’ Darling
pointed to a well-laden quandong-tree
with the significant remark “Plenty
quandong, plenty bad time.” Already
sheepmen in the N.S.W. quandong
country are anxiously scanning the skies
for rain portents, but if Black Brother’s
beliefs hold good they will scan in vain.
In early summer the quandongs were
so heavily weighted with their scarlet-
and-yellow globe-shaped fruit that the
leaves were almost indistinguishable.
* * * *
“Woodman”: Some of Australia’s
finest timber is ruthlessly destroyed year
after year by Victorian cattle-owners
who thoughtlessly fire the bush for grass-
growing. On the Blue Range, between
Rubicon and Marysville, the whole ridge
for 15 miles was once thickly and beauti-
fully clothed with a magnificent forest.
To-day thousands of dead, burnt-up
gums, giant mountain ash'and woolly-
butts remain. A lower rainfall, a spoil-
ing of scenic beauty and land corrosion
are all directly, caused by ignorant firing
of our forests.
* -* *, *
“Val”: Tasmanian blacks were not
satisfied with merely scorching the feet
of their dead to prevent their spirits
walking. They cremated the body,
planted huge boulders over the ashes and
never afterwards referred to the deceased
by name. The main tribes spoke dis-
tinct dialects and this superstition
caused frequent changes of nomenclature.
Persons were called after natural objects
and occurrences, so when Lagunta (The
Tiger) discovered his little Weetapoona
(Light of the Moon) keeping a secret
tryst among the boobyallas with Teepoo-
kana (Kingfisher) at least one beautiful
word was lost to the language and
another invented. It needed a forthright
people to name its womenfolk Ploorana-
loona (Sunshine) and Wuttawantyenna
(Nausea). Few of their words were imi-
tative, but prattaratta, for falling hail,
will take beating. The abo. skull found
recently on the East Coast is one of the
few remaining to anthropologists for the
study of this race of early Stone Age men
so lately extinct.
* * * *
“A.E.Y.: The doorkey embedded in
solid chalk in a pit at Geelong (B.
3/4/’3s).reminds me that future French-
men will come across a similiar mystery
in a chalkpit near Clery bridgehead. A
forward runner waiting for dispatches
during the assault on Mont St. Quentin,
I scraped out a flat position under an
old chalkpit. Lack of food, a drizzling
rain and an empty belly, plus the
constant bombardment from Fritz
during a wearing night, so reduced
my corporeal substance that a massive
gold finger-ring which I had been
unable to shift for years slipped off
in the darkness. Before I could re-
cover it an extra blast from Fritz’s
h.e. blew in the lip of the quarry and
buried me and the ring lightly in a few
hundredweight of fractured chalk and
other material, from which my mate and
I were able to struggle clear. In the
morning there was nothing to mark the
spot from many others like it. 1 can
see, in fancy, a group of, say, civil
engineers splitting open a mass of that
chalk after it has reunited and puzzling
over the appearance of a modern gold
ring in the centre of it.
* * * *
“J.8.J.”: Are tunny spreading or
merely changing their feeding-grounds?
Following definite proof of their pres-
ence at Albany (W.A.), they are now be-
ing taken from waters about Fremantle
and below it; Rockingham has several
to its credit. I fished the s.-w. coast of
Westralia for over 10 years with all
varieties of tackle, from shark lines down-
wards, and, although I hauled in dozens
of different species of fish, tunny was not
amongst them. Neither did I ever hear
of anyone else catching, or even seeing,
them until this last 12 months.
* * * *
“Wonga Berry”: Your musterer utilises
the felt hat (B. 20/2/’35) as a drinking-
vessel for a dog. I’ve seen shearers make
moccasins of the crown. And what
abo. colt-breaker doesn’t use his dirty
old felt to whack his nag when showing
off?
* * # *
“Toheroa”: Just as mysterious as the
wholesale tragedy of the mutton-birds
round the Australian coast was the fate
that overtook M.L.’s most popular shell-
fish. In their ancestral fastnesses on the
Ninety-mile Beach the toheroas died in
millions, and ancient inhabitants prophe-
sied dolefully that the famous soup would
soon be a thing of the past on the M.L.
menu. Many theories were propounded,
the most popular being that an aris-
tocrat like the toheroa could not tolerate
a suggestion of benzine in his diet, the
aftermath of an orgy of car-racing on
the beach. But, as in the case of mutton-
birds, science pronounced that the fatali-
ties were due entirely to starvation, a
long period of stormy weather having de-
stroyed the minute organisms that the sea
carries in to stock the toheroas’ larder.
* * *
“Point Charles”: Not the least remark-
able reported incident of the recent
cyclone at the Lacepedes (N.W.) was the
finding of a seagull with all its
feathers and most of the skin
blown off one side only. It is
not unusual in such circum-
stances to find completely
stripped sea-birds, but this un-
lucky fowl seems to have been
caught on the thin edge of the
wind, and to have had its other
wing flapping helplessly in the
calm centre. Unfortunately it
is not stated whether the feathers
were lost from the port or the
starboard side. This informa-
tion would be of great use to
meteorologists, particularly if
the seagull had understood the
Buys Ballot Law of cyclones,
and had known that, with its
back to the wind, the barometer
would in the Southern Hemi-
sphere be lower on its right side. If the
feathers were also blown off its back, it
would be reasonable evidence that the
unlucky bird had tried to test the matter.
He *
“Q.E.D.”: One of a mob running in
a thickly-timbered paddock, he was
belled. As soon as he saw us
riding as if to yard the mob he
got behind a patch of gidya scrub
and, by arching his neck, was able to
hold the bell against his chest with his
nose, standing as still as a rock. We
rode right up to him, and he didn’t move
a muscle. Sometimes he did this for
hours, only making a move when the
other horses were turned out again.
* * * *
“Bellawat”: Down by Twilight Cove,
on the shores of the Great Australian
Bight, lives a half-caste blessed with
the name of Tommy Upright. Not only
is he a clever dingo-hunter; he also has
business acumen which has enabled him
to organise the local abos. as scalp-
hunters, with profit to all concerned.
With scalps at £2 apiece comparatively
large sums of money came his way. His
agent in Kalgoorlie suggested opening a
bank account. Tommy thus became the
possessor of a cheque-book, and his
staff was paid by cheque. Stores—the
nearest 60 miles away—would negotiate
Tommy’s cheques without concern. This
puzzled the abos. beyond comprehension.
I met one of these cheque-holders at the
Israelite Bay store. His dark, piercing eyes
gleamed as flour, sugar, tobacco, jam,
etc., came over the counter, and proudly
he handed across a cheque which satis-
fied the bill. “Tommy Upri’, ’im clebber
pfeller,” said the abo.; “all-same white
man —he makum money from paper.
By-’n’-bye I tryum, too.”
THE SCEPTIC.
“I ain’t the sort of bloke,” said Dick, dispos-
ing of his rum-and-cloves,
“Who ever got or gets a kick from knocking
other blokes and coves.
I take them as I find them, straight, my
fellow-men —-and women, too —
But still I wouldn’t like to state there’s nothing
any wouldn’t do.
“ ‘Shame upon him who evil thinks,’ we
learned at school in days gone by,”
Said Dick, and lightly rapped for drinks upon
the bar, “and so say I.
But howsoever, first and last, there’s lots of
shady plots and strokes
I wouldn’t put entirely past no end of honest-
looking blokes.
“This rum I’m holding in my hand,” said
Dick, and slowly sniffed the stuff,
“May be some tip-top Queensland brand or
reel Jamaica, like enough.
Or was it some illicit still brewed it, the hills
and rocks among?
We do not know, nor ever will—l wouldn’t
put it past a Bung.
“Most girls,” said Dick, “are dinky-di, there
ain’t a shadow of a doubt,
And true as steel, and right as pie, until one
day you find them out.
I’ve got the gate from five or six, and I admit
it used to hurt.
Now, when it comes to fickle tricks, I wouldn’t
put it past a skirt.
“And these here candidates,” said Dick, and
rapped once more upon the bar,
“They may be all as straight and slick and
righteous as they say they are.
They may do all that can be done for those
whose votes in power have cast them,
But, if the claims of Number One intrude, I
wouldn’t put it past them.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“This concludes our
running commentary on
to-day's ring events, listeners.
Cheerio, cheer-i-o!”
“Old-timer”: The coming of Evange-
line Booth reminds me of the conversion
of “Frosty” Bob, one of the younger
school of ’Bidgee whalers, who got away
with the A.1.F., saw three years of it,
and returned to his river roaming a
tougher citizen than ever. Bob was
fruit-picking (“F’r a change,” he said) in
Mildura, and word was passed along that
a local Salvarmy adjutant had yarded
him. Soon Bob was telling interested
crowds all about it on Saturday nights,
and his picturesque language and flights
of sentimentality were a serious rival to
the local picture show. I watched him
make the usual appeal for funds one
night, and, being suspicious, soon spotted
that some of the cash went into one of
his pockets. Later, having a yarn with
him over a surreptitious pot, I said, “But
what’s the idea of putting some of that
cash in your pocket and leaving the rest
in the cap?” He seemed surprised. “The
Army has got to get somethin’!” he
declared.
■t * sK *
“The 0.D.”: All right, “Limpopo,”
get up in your ’plane and have a go at
our grasshoppers (B. 3/4/’35). You’ll
find most of them in the wheat country
when the crops are ripening off. But
don’t blame me if the cockies let drive
at you with shotguns for dropping Paris
green and other poisons all over their
wheat. And have a silent engine. The
beating of empty kero.-tins scares our
grasshoppers to ground ; the roar of a
’plane engine would probably drive ’em
to the nearest rabbit burrow.
* * #
“Oran”: Likewise ask “32 x 40” (B.
20/3/’35) if he has ever heard of the
three MacDonald brothers, who in the
’eighties trekked from their home town,
Goulburn (N.S.W.), to North Westralia,
where they established on the Fitzroy
River their cattle-station of Fossil
Downs, held by the family to this day.
It took them three years to make the
journey, during which they encountered
much the same hardships as the Duracks,
and they arrived with their original
herds considerably augmented by natu-
ral increase. Their chief difficulty
was in obtaining drinkable water.
Some of the holes they met contained
so many deceased reptiles, birds, animals
and so .forth that, after being a
dozen times boiled and treated with
ashes, the liquid was unspeakably hor-
rible in taste and odor. The young Mac-
Donald who manages the station to-day,
W. N. MacDonald, of Goulburn, takes
the service ’plane to Fitzroy Crossing.
* * * *
“Scent”: I have just been reading the
story of an enthusiastic dog-owner who
describes a difficult bit of tracking by
his tyke, the quarry being a snake. With
a considerable experience of the first
co-re., I cannot remember ever having
detected an odor about live members of
the family. Of course, a dog has a
nose for scents no human can distinguish,
but has any Aboliar heard of one ac-
customed to pick up the scent of a snake
and hold a line on it?
jj» $ *! ;
“Vulcan”: “Ornithos” (B. 27/3/’35) is
correct. The Tampoon is the only hotel
to function on the Adavale-Windorah
road in recent' years. When I was last
there the landlord handed out the most
accurate road directions it has been my
good fortune to receive. His distances
for a hundred-mile radius tallied with
speedo. readings to a fraction.
* * *
“M. Turlutu”: The danger of so-
called “pea-rifles” has been again demon-
strated by an accident in a Brisbane
outer suburb. The bullet, one from
a short .22 cartridge, was fired at
a hawk. After breaking the bird’s
leg it travelled 700 yards across a
valley and penetrated the chest of
a woman walking across a pad-
dock, inflicting a dangerous wound.
Expert evidence was called to show
that bullets from the short pattern
of .22 cartridge have a danger-
range of over a mile. That of the
long cartridge is considerably less, in
spite of the larger charge of propellant,
owing to the tendency of the longer
bullet to topple over in its flight as the
velocity decreases.
H*
“Laetitia”: “I.W.A.’s” par. (B.
20/2/’35) about impounded camels at
Bourke (N.S.W.) recalls a football match
at that town in 1926. After it was over
we, as the visiting team from Cunna-
mulla (Q.), to a man slaked our collec-
tive thirst in a billabong near the field.
Just then three “ships of the desert”
reared their great bulk from the water.
Most of us, being westerners, weren’t
greatly perturbed, but one chap, an im-
ported professional coach from the city,
was openly and unashamedly sick.
* * * *
“Phalanger”: Though many Aboliars
have trapped ’possums and discussed
bears, over a long course of years I’ve
watched in vain for any mention of the
cuscus. Please don’t rear up and tell me
this is any creature of the imagination.
The cuscus is an oversize ’possum living
up in York Peninsula. His name de-
scribes him —his mode of speech, his
actions —and he’s as full of fight as a
butcher’s dog. This fellow has a pelt
rich enough to make the best ’possum
look like a worn mosquito net compared
with velvet when placed side by side.
Of course there’s a catch in it; there are
two, in fact. One is that the cuscus is so
rare and so hard to get that he isn’t a
commercial possibility unless someone
took him in hand and bred him on ’pos-
sum farms. The other is that his skin
is so tender, so tissue-papery, that a
special preparation would have to be pro-
duced to hold it together sufficiently to
bind the fur. And such is the crittur’s
fury that almost invariably he tears him-
self to pieces when trapped.
“Dungeness”: Poultry-keepers
in the south often suffer from
raids on their stock by foxes,
dogs, hawks and persons with
the Robin Hood outlook on
property, but the hardy tropic-
dweller sometimes gets a rougher
spin than any of these. The
duckpond of a farmer at Alli-
gator Creek, near Mackay
(N.Q.), having been mysteri-
ously raided at night, the owner
kept an ear awake. Roused by
a commotion, he was just in
time to see a crocodile heading
for a deep hole in the adjacent
creek. A trap was set round the
duckpond, but the croc., on his
next visit, tore it to pieces. The
following day he carelessly took
a siesta with a log as a pillow;
a .303 bullet did the rest. He
was lift. 6in. long. The post-
mortem revealed a quantity of
duck feathers, the hoofs of a
calf and half a bushel of corn,
amongst other odds and ends.
“Ornith”: Surprise seems to be ex-
pressed by “Pen” (B. 20/2/’35) at the
“newly-discovered” fact that birds have
travelled at the rate of 100 m.p.h. It is
a very long time since Gatke established
that curlews can fly at the rate of 240
m.p.h. Bird migration takes place with
unceasing regularity and on an enormous
scale. It was already an ancient problem
when Homer watched the autumnal
thronging of myriads of water-fowl by
the rivers of his homeland.
* * *
“Nagheer”: Kamakura, a diver out
of Broome, describes a cyclone: “Big
wind come sou’-sou’-east. My boat break
anchors and blow him 75 mile out, 60
fat’om. All day we hide in cabin, big
wind blow. Big, big sea throw us all
about. All men hide along cabin. Hatch
locked up. Think close up finish. No
can cook, no eating, no can do any-
thing two night. Wait till finish. Two
mast carry away. Wind, sea, he more
big, he more blow. We more know close
up finish. All man sleep. Then Tano
sing out to men down cabin, quick he
“O o, Jim! I can hear something throbbing.”
“Y airs — it's me bunion.”
see ship. Pretty quick we come up.
Koolinda lifeboat pick us up. Plenty
dam’ pleased all men. Dozo for cigar-
ette. All good now.”
$
“G.G.”: In the Solomons it was my
custom, travelling per launch, to carry
a couple of bottles of cold tea —no milk.
Returning from a trip I poured what I
took to be an unused bottle of tea over
the verandah-rail; too late the fumes told
me it was my only bottle of whisky—
not another one within 50 miles. Driven
to desperation I made up four gallons of
beer —hops, sugar and malt-extract. It
tasted like putrid fish. A friend enlight-
ened me —I had been served with a tin
of malt-extract and cod-liver oil.
%
“What-O! ”: Cyclones aren’t always as
obliging as one was to a selector near
Charleville (Q.) in the 1927 drought. It
began in some hills at the back of
his property, came straight across his
main paddocks, broke, went north as
well as east, then petered out. It pro-
vided feed (blown-down mulga trees) for
three months for 3000 sheep. This en-
abled him to get his shearing done with-
out mulga-cutting.
% % *
“Awbeca”: On the roadside near
Narooma (N.S.W.), where they are get-
ting swordfish, is a huge spotted-gum,
spared by the Main Roads Board during
road construction. It is an old landmark,
known to the local folk as “the Jaco-
bean-tree.” One look at it leaves no
doubt as to why. It is perfectly marked
with the Jacobean spiral round its entire
length of trunk.
* :p $ *
“Eureka”: During the floods on the far
South Coast (N.S.W.) last year a cow
was left high and dry in a tree on the
river-bank. Only the skeleton remains.
Now a magpie has selected it for a nest-
ing site, using some of the bones as foun-
dation for a nest composed of wire,
string and twigs.
* * :Js *
“Koopa”: Someone commented not
long ago on the danger of eating some
poisonous fishes. In several instances
powerful toxins are developed in the
generative organs of the females during
the breeding season. This applies to the
porcupine fish ( Dioclon ), which is eaten
by the Japanese; but they always care-
fully remove every scrap of the innards.
The females of certain spiders also have
been proved to produce deadly toxins
under similar conditions. Spiders are
rich in proteins, and some tropical races
have a keen appreciation of them as an
article 'of food.
* * * *
“Fore Royal”: Commencing at a point
some two miles south of Catherine Hill
Bay (N.S.W.) is a stretch of coastline
which, for sheer beauty and uncommon
rock formation, is almost unbeatable.
One spot, situated directly under what is
known locally as Land Mark, is of extra-
ordinary interest. In the southern face
of the lower cliffs is a blowhole which,
given favorable conditions, creates a
fountain of spray rising to 20ft. At the
eastern extremity it is possible to stand
with one foot resting on an island and
the other on the mainland and watch
the seas, 30ft. below, surge between.
A hundred yards to the north progress
is stopped by a gulf, 25ft. wide, cutting
square into the cliff through the rock;
on the northern side, where the cut
meets the main headland, is another
blowhole through which the water
shoots in a solid 4in. pipe to strike
an overhang many feet above. The seas
sweep along this gulf, through an open-
ing in the main cliff-face, into a huge
cave, where they can be heard after an
interval breaking on a shingle beach.
The extent of the cave is not known, as
there is no negotiable entrance, the only
one being through the gulf by boat.
BUSH MUSIC.
In some shaded forest clearing there may chance
upon your hearing
Half-heard notes that bid you linger ere you
go;
The rich fluting of the thrushes or, while
drowsy evening hushes,
The faint ringing of the bellbirds far below;
As the grey storm clouds are breaking, the gay
song of magpies waking
As the first pale sunshine glints across the
trees,
And the thousand bush notes blended ere the
morning mists have ended.
Could you ask for sweeter minstrelsy than
these?
There is music in their singing, and there’s
music in the ringing,
Running echo of a distant falling axe,
In the creak of saddle leather, in the clink
of chains together,
And the throb of shodden feet along the
tracks;
In the creek its trickle spilling, in the drone
of crickets shrilling,
In the fox’s moonlit melancholy call,
In the thunder’s distant rumble as the first big
raindrops tumble —
There is music for the bushman in them all.
There’s a rhythmic tune a-singing when the
crosscut’s sweetly swinging,
And the tiny crumbling heaps of sawdust
grow.
And a rolling cadence crashing as the heavy
mauls come smashing,
And the solid timber shudders at the blow;
While the battered wedges shiver ’neath the
blows, and ring and quiver,
Till at last, like joy-bells breaking on the
ear,
You may hear the note you’re seeking, hear the
tough log groaning, creaking.
That’s the music bushmen really love to hear.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


A
C
H
I
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-cjomz
e mm
«fmQZ' JHQ
Representatives: McPHERSONS PIV. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
A
I£E:
93SS
m
W.
If
LIT
* _*f; ; "' ' '''• -.v - •-' •"* •'
*
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,
SYDNEY.
532
lV &
tiki
é
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
V MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
.RAPSON&DUTTON PTY LTD
■VA LLE V ' BRISBANE • '- r '■
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO SIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Superfine Wools.
“Liss”: “Sheepo” (B. 27 /3 / ’35) barks
up the wrong tree when he states that
“the finer the w 001.... the greater the
value.” The superfine growers supply a
specialty trade.
In past years their market was re-
stricted. This resulted in higher values,
pound for pound, than in the other sec-
tions. Super wools were more widely
and not so well grown. So that the mar-
gin between good, sound, medium wools
and the super lines gradually disappeared.
This was most marked last season at
Ggtelong, where crack fine-wool clips
from the Vic. Western District are
offered. Choice comeback clips licked
the hide off the fine wools sale after
sale. In point of fact, the man always
comes off best with merinos who aims
at a good-quality medium wool, of a type
to suit his country. He gets the average
price per pound that counts, and also the
weight per head. The demand is fairly
constant at whatever the market price
may be.
Twin-lamb Disease.
“Corriedale”: The coming of autumn
brings the possibility of this disease
closer. It is easily recognisable.
Three to four weeks before lambing
ewes leave the mob and with heads hung
low and hollow flanks refuse all food.
They die in from three to seven days.
Twin lambs are usually found. The
heavy drain which they make on the
ewe, combined with failure to give
enough good feed during pregnancy,
causes the disease. It mainly occurs in
dry seasons when the ewes are getting
down to the more indigestible portions
of the dry feed.
Fatty degeneration of the liver leads
to toxaemia.
Prevention alone is of use ; cures are
almost nil. When feed gets scarce don’t
delay hand-feeding, and be chary of high
protein concentrates, as they increase fat
on the liver if degeneration has already
set in. It is better to get in before that
stage. Don’t feed in one spot. Make
the ewes travel each day. Walking dis-
perses the fat. On the other hand, travel-
ling pregnant ewes on starved stomachs
can cause heavy losses.
The sheepman should not have losses
if he remains aware of the cause —diet-
deficiency.
Male or Female in Sheepbreeding.
“Right Angle”: By breeding to type,
by selection, deep culling, etc., flock rams,
“specials” and “extra-specials” have been
brought to high standard. I have seen
otherwise good young rams, at 12 months,
culled out to be trucked to the canners.
Thirty years ago the same rams would
undoubtedly have been used.
“Corriedale” (B. 3/4/’35) has only to
consider the selection of any good flock-
sheep breeder when nicking flock rams
to his ewes. Does he not pay attention
to good frame, even covering, density
and general quality in the female?
Good flock-rams are often blamed for
the faults in the progeny of ewes that
should never have got past the culler.
When buying “special” and “extra-
special” flock-rams, the purchaser may be
paying for animals bred from pure stud
ewes. I have seen sold “extra-special”
flock-rams that could claim to be “top”
stud sheep.
“Corriedale” suggests that character-
istics of rams are transmitted solely to
their male progeny. To a great extent
this is so, but to aver that the ewe has
no influence in transmitting some of her
own quality to her male lamb is wide of
the mark. Generally, there is a marked
difference, to the expert woolbuyeres eye,
between the wool of a wether and that of
a ewe, this being attributed to male
virility. However, one will find among
highly-bred merinos two types of wool
so closely allied that it is difficult to
distinguish between male and female
samples.
The highly-bred, densely-covered ewe
transmits her forceful characteristics. It
can be proved that well-bred ewes dis-
playing pronounced quality in covering,
plus stamina, have a marked influence
on the value of the wool clip.
Dead Wool on Stock Routes.
“Mulgo”: A vexed question cropped
up again at the N.S.W. graziers’ confer-
ence —the ownership of dead wool on
stock routes and travelling stock reserves.
Hundreds of sheep die on the roads. If
mobs strike poison weed or a bad drought
the routes are littered with carcasses. The
value of the wool thus lost amounts to a
considerable sum, but nobody can gather
it without risking prosecution, for if one
had the right to do so he would have
a good defence if he took loose wool
from adjoining properties.
It was suggested that ownership be vested
in pasture protection boards when the
dead wool has been left unclaimed for
14 days. This would offer a fair solution,
if the “14 days” didn’t leave a wide
margin for pinching. And if the board
didn’t get after the wool till it started
to blow about, who’d be the owner when
it blew on to private property, there being
nothing to swear by?
The Rabbit Again.
“Upilio”: In clearing netted country
of rabbits my contention is that digging
out is the only answer. If burrows are
filled in, the country remains a breeding
ground for any and every bunny that
gets back into the paddock; but if
burrows are dug out, a strange rabbit will
return to the breeding ground he knows.
In 1929 I cleaned out a 500-acre netted
paddock with steel traps and filled in the
burrows at a cost of 2s. per acre. River
crossings were troublesome, and strange
rabbits kept finding their way in again.
Some burrows had to be attended to con-
tinually ; and they have been visited so
often since that had they been solid stone
it would have paid to root them out.
I spent a lot of money on keeping
rabbits in check on a 1000-acre unnetted
paddock with steel traps ; but, as it ad-
joined Crown land, the effort was futile.
Last winter the land was netted and the
rabbits dug out'. The cost of digging out
by day labor worked out at Is. 6d. per
acre. Although rabbits have got back,
none have bred—our dogs make short
work of them.
Homemade Cheese.
“Pick”: You need a dairy ther-
mometer, rennet tablets, cheesecloth,
hoops, press and coloring.
Into a vat on the stove pour 10 gallons
of sweet milk. With the thermometer
floating in it, and stirring to keep the
heat uniform, bring the temperature to
86 degrees Cent.
Remove from the stove and, when
the heat has lowered to 68 degrees, stir
in one diluted rennet tablet and a tea-
spoon of coloring.
Stir thoroughly. Then cover with a
cloth, and for 40 minutes let the milk
set into curd. Cut this curd into 4in.
blocks and, when whey overflows them,
heat slowly to 98 degrees, meanwhile
breaking up the curds by rubbing them
to pieces the size of maize grain.
Lift off the stove again, drain off the
whey through a cloth, and salt sparingly.
Press the curd into a cheese-hoop lined
with cheesecloth.
A handy press is a stout rail mortised
loosely into a post, and weighted down
at the other end with stones or an
anvil.
After pressing for six hours, remove
the cheese from the hoop. Straighten the
cloth, turn your cheese, and press again.
Take it out after a night in the hoop,
rub with butter, place on a shelf, and
reverse it night and morning.
The cheese will be cured in 40 days,
but age adds to its quality.
Strong Wheats.
“Hope Vale” : At the S.W. Agricultural
Bureau at Weethalie (N.S.W.) a warning
was given to farmers against the whole-
sale production of strong wheats.
At present North America produces
sufficient quantities of these wheats for
world’s markets. Wheats like Manitoba
Red, if used alone, produce dough like
rubber and a dark, heavy loaf.
In order to produce an attractive loaf,
American millers eagerly buy up all
frost-bitten wheat for blending. English
millers need 10 p.c. of white Australian
wheat.
There is naturally a strong demand
from Australian millers for strong wheats
for local consumption, but this is a
small market. As soon as it is satisfied,
the surplus must be sold at world parity
prices in competition with Canadian
wheat, and there is no premium. Also,
strong wheats give 25 p.c. less yield than
most others.
Australian farmers would be well
advised to concentrate on medium-strong
varieties like Ford and Dundee, which
would be acceptable to local millers, and
could be blended in England at the rate
of up to 40 p.c. with Canadian wheat.
The place to grow strong wheat in
N.S.W. is in the dry marginal areas such
as Hillston. A sample of Pusa No. 4
grown at Wyalong and tested in England
proved to be stronger than the best Can-
adian.
Two Salt Licks.
“Doitnow”: Make your own salt lick :
To one bag of salt (1861 b.) add 201 b. of
best bonemeal. Mix dry on concrete or
iron, and keep dirt out. Add enough
molasses to bind the finished mixture. If
the sheep need a clearing medicine as
well, mix in 101 b. of Epsom salt with the
other two ingredients—dry.
Another good lick can be made by bor-
ing an inch hole three parts of the way
into the centre of a lump of rock salt,
keeping the bored-out salt carefully.
Next, fill the hole to the top with best
turps, and slowly put the bored-out salt
back, but avoid overflowing the turps.
We have used it with success as a worm
preventive.
When giving it to the sheep at first,
place a treated lump near the salt trough
which still holds some of their usual lick.
It is more expensive than the first lick.
The Enemy in Our Midst.
“Valerin”: The annual toll which weeds
take of our primary industries must run
into huge figures. The wheatgrower gets
it with both barrels. His labor costs are
increased, and his crop yields are reduced,
sometimes to vanishing point.
At present, N.S.W. noxious-weed con-
trol is vested in the Local Government
Department, which delegates powers
to the shires. Each shire is a law to itself.
In N.S.W., only five weeds are noxious
throughout the State —prickly-pear, Cape
tulip, St. John’s wort, Bathurst and
Noogoora burrs. Not one seriously
affects wheat crops. There are scores of
others —such as skeleton weed —that do.
In January, 1934, a conference of
wheatgrowers, graziers and departmental
officers recommended a transfer of
noxious-weed control to the Agricultural
Department. Nothing has happened.
The position is now so grave that
action cannot be longer delayed without
jeopardising the wheat industry. Central
weed control is imperative.
Spraying Stinkwort.
“K. Me.”: As stinkwort is an annual
with a very short life, usually from
December to March or April, to eradicate
it every effort should be made to prevent
the plants seeding. Once land is seed-
infested, stinkwort is likely to reappear
every summer up to seven years.
I have found arsenic spraying much
quicker and cheaper than hoeing or pull-
ing out. A boy with a knapsack or
bucket-spray pump can cover as much
ground as two men using other methods.
Directions for mixing are: In a kerosene
tin three-parts-full of boiling water put
31b. powdered arsenic and 61b. washing
soda. Keep boiling, and stir the mixture
until thoroughly dissolved. Add enough
water to bring the quantity up to 30 or
33 gallons. Spraying is most efficacious
when the plants are only two or three
inches high. Care should be taken to
avoid the arsenic fumes.
Drunken Swine.
“Valerin”: “West’s” swine (B. 6/3/’35)
may have suffered from some fancy
complaint. When mine tried similar
antics they were simply “blotto.”
It perturbed me to see them one even-
ing swaying home and tumbling about.
Next evening the performance was re-
peated, with the addition of squealing
and skylarking.
I traced the cause to a recently-emptied
silage pit. It contained fermented drain-
age which evidently had enough kick to
cause the swine to make hogs of them-
selves. I established prohibition, and
with it decorum.
Don’t Burn.
“Upilio”: Poor sandy loam country
off the N.S.W. coastal belts often grows
prolific, coarse, useless grasses. Some
settlers try to make it more palatable
by firing it. I hold that this is a mis-
take. The more this class of country
is burnt the surer are the humus and the
seeds of the finer grasses, clovers and
trefoils to be permanently destroyed.
The only grasses that survive are those
with dense, woody, insulated roots that
can outlive scorching.
The better plan, where it is impracticable
to cut the old grass with a mower, is to
clean out the rabbits and carry only dry
stock on the pastures to give them time
to recover. This they will do. Wire-
grass country, if reclaimed from rabbits
and netted, responds in an uprush of
coarse grass, which appears to smother
all else ; but if it is not burnt it com-
mences to sicken and grows itself out.
Then, if the country is not overstocked,
the finer grasses and herbages assert
themselves.
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


Lu
ffi
1
V
—HarS
i
N*
\
£
<Z
Qc
111
a
o
i
o
8
o
i§
ob|
O
%
LU
<
>
<
Q
£
at
isg
r
HI
i
o
3
CT’-tf
r
«/*
o
$
hi
1
r
*§§
m
m
<vi
m
sm
SPORT
m:
m-mmom
PROGRESS
ACHIEVEMENT
ANNOUNCING^***
CULBRANSEN
RADIOS
EVER ahead in radio advancement, we take pleasure in announcing
the New Series GULBRANSEN “ Living Tone ” RADIOS, each
a masterpiece of precision building and tone conditioning.
The result of extensive research and scientific application of acoustic
principles, these receivers will establish new standards—standards
which will remain supreme.
e
Many advanced developments, with exclusive
additional features, give a maximum of effi-
ciency, highest fidelity and world-wide range.
These models are designed to reproduce per-
fectly the new process of wide range recording
used by leading stations, and special provision
has been made for any additions and alterations
to the existing Australian Broadcast Band.
Hear the Gulbransen in your own home, at
our expense; compare, point for point, with
any receiver you have ever heard and you will
be convinced that your next radio must be a
Gulbransen.
These true musical instruments are obtain-
able for a small deposit and the payments
are so easy that no home should now be
without one of these “ World’s Best ” Radios.
Special features incorporated are
the inclined sound-board, repro-
ducing every vibration AT EAR
LEVEL, and the revolving
cabinet, mounted on a stationary
base. “IT FOLLOWS YOU,"
makes sound directional, and.
projects a beam of glorious music
to any part of the room. An
acoustic improvement exclusive
to Gulbransen.
ELECTRIC AND BATTERY SETS
V
/r FOLLOWS
so^
Your present radio, piano or
player piano accepted in
straight out exchange or as
part payment, according to
value.
»‘ • • 1 ;" * * * rkzi ; ,>r' .
■ '. •** : '
* r; ••'
m
DUAL.
WAVE
*
E.F.WILKSIt°
124 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY. M 6361.
And at NEWCASTLE, 583 HUNTER STREET
Also at the HALL OF INDUSTRIES, R.A. SHOW
Country Agents are invited to apply for agency
è
é
Please send me literature on Gulbransen “Living Tone Radios,
Electric and /or Battery operated.
Name * .............
Address ... .


l7ufsxillclz/n^
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
Modelled for comfort
Flawless in fit and finish, this smart
Abbey Shoe is an exclusive style.
It is made to fit your foot in width
as well as length. The upper is
carefully shaped t'o the curve of the
instep arch. The sole is made of the
toughest leather.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full and
half size . . . narrow, medium, wide
and extra wide. When ordering,
state which you need and ask also
for the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 433.
VAUCLUSE!
To Squatters and Gentlemen requiring a
Home in Sydney’s beautiful garden suburb.
The pick of positions facing beach, park and
gardens.
Charming Home, built of brick, with solid brick
foundations; containing lounge, billiard-room,
dining-room, four bedrooms, bathroom, office
and den, kitchen, laundry, linen and book cup-
boards, verandahs (back and front), garage,
electrical fittings throughout, hot-water service,
gas, refrigerator, lawn, flower and vegetable
gardens.
’Phone owner, FU9720, for inspection.
Price £5500
No agents.
For SPORTING NOTES
TIPS ... RESULTS
and Turf Gossip from all States
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d
STOMAGH
REMEDY
with over 20 YEARS’
PROOF of EFFICACY
Doctors the World over will tell you that
‘ BISURATEO * MAGNESIA
NEVER FAILS TO REMOVE
INDIGESTION
and all STOMACH TROUBLES
Here are more letters which prove how
easily and quickly you can get permanent
relief from the pain and agony of indiges*
tion. They tell of amazing recoveries
when hope had almost been abandoned.
f
■
GASTRITIS & ULCERS
-NO PAINS NOW!
Mrs. Jones of Worcester
writes:—“l have been ill for
seven years with gastritis
which turned to ulcers —the
pain almost drove me mad.
I was not able to take food
of any kind. A month ago,
whilst in dreadful pain a
friend told me to try
‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia which
I did, and 1 have had no pains
since—the first month with-
out pain for seven years.
from a recent photo Can now eat any kind of
of Mrs. Jones, food with comfort.”
Complete recovery effected by ‘.Bisurated’
Magnesia after other means had failed 1
“MARVELLOUS FOR
STOMACH TROUBLES”!
says Mr. Dyson of Birming-
ham, who writes: “I have
suffered with my stomach for
the last five years without
relief. It was like being in
hell. I saw your advertise-
ment and sent for a bottle
of ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia. It
seemed to drown the pain.
It is marvellous for stomach
troxibles. I am a dead man
come back to life as the
hardest work does not hurt
me now, thanks to ‘Bisurated’
Magnesia.”
<«*
<: : *4 i
■■ .
/>ow a recent photo
of Mr. J. Dyson.
After 5 years torture Bisurated’ Magnesia
brought this man complete relief!
For indigestion, heartburn, gastritis, or
stomach ulcers there is no more effective
remedy than ‘Bisurated 9 Magnesia. If
you want to put your stomach right, don’t
waste time and money on experiments,
get * Bisurated 9 Magnesia first.
feISURATEo’
MAGNESIA
Powder or Tablets, of all chemists.
‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia is a concen-
trated preparation and is therefore
the most economical in use.
Every package bears the
oval t ßismag ’ Trade Mark ->•
w
ŵ
/IHQI3H -‘of SSOM
TClient, age 19£, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
' „ 21 „ 5 „in 5 mths.
„ „ 20. „ „in 16 days.
„ „ 30. 2. „ in 4 weeks.
.. „ 40, „ li „ in 6 „ ROSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3f ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee 22 2s. complete. Details Free. Write now:—
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, J
Scarborough, Eng. ( P.O. Box 15.)
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Attractive Wool Figures
There must be something that leads to this success. Over
the last ten seasons we have sold, each' season, from
120,000 bales to 155,000 bales.
DURING A PERIOD OF LOW PRICES IT IS MORE
ESSENTIAL THAN EVER THAT GROWERS SECURE
THE HIGHEST FIGURES FOR THEIR WOOL.
It is the finishing touch to all consignments that ensures
this success, whether it be Wool, Fat Stock, Hides, Skins, etc.
EXPERT ATTENTION IS ALWAYS DISPLAYED
TRY us with your next Wool Clip, Fat Stock, Hides,
Skins, etc.
LIBERAL-ADVANCES ON GROWING CLIP, STOCK, ETC.
—A.M.L & F. Co. Ltd.
35-1
THE WEEK’S SUCCESS STORY.
FROM FARINA TO HARDEN.
“8.J.5.”: Because of my father’s death
I had to strike out at the early age of
14. That was in 1887, and my first job
was horseboy on Avondale station,
Farina (S.A.), a large pastoral proposi-
tion carrying 30,000 merinos of Canowie
blood. Avondale was owned by the late
Henry McConville. I started at ss. a
week and keep, and rose in five years
to be manager.
Then I had three years in the N.T.
and west Queensland among cattle and
horses, one job being on Monkira, Dia-
mantina River. Here I had a good deal
of experience overlanding fats to Her-
gott Springs (now Marree), thence by
rail to Adelaide.
After the big drought in the early
’nineties, I spent some time in more
settled parts, and eventually selected on
the subdivided Arkaba station, cut up by
the S.A. Government.
It was infested with rabbits and
dingoes, and had a sparse rainfall. How-
ever, after some battling, I got it im-
proved, and erected probably the first
dog-proof fence in northern S.A. That
was in 1905. I sold out satisfactorily,
and took on wheat- and oatgrowing in
the Laura district (S.A.). Being used to
large areas and large numbers of stock,
I felt confined, and again sold out.
I had married there, and finally selected
near Harden (N.S.W.). I bought 2000-odd
acres at £4 10s. under the hammer,
the country being heavily timbered
with big gum, white and yellow box
and apple. Some was ringbarked,
and it was heavily stocked with vermin
and rabbits
We pitched a tent, later building a log
cabin. I had paid nearly £2OOO deposit,
and the balance of my available cash was
absorbed in stocking up. My wife and
1 worked hard in those early years.
Block after block was grubbed and made
rabbit-proof, and everything possible was
turned into cash. My first venture was
a crop of wheat and malting barley. I
got a phenomenal yield. The crop was
sown on fallow.
By 1910 things had begun to flourish,
wells were sunk and good water
obtained. We made steady progress until
1914-15; then we got good crops off
800 acres of fallow in a dry season, when
wheat was scarce, war on and prices
rising. I believe that those years put
us on the map.
A homestead was erected later on at a
cost of £2500. This was the culmination
of my programme.
To-day my property is one of the
recognised model mixed farms of the
State. We produce wheat, wool, export
lambs, dairy products, pigs, fruit and
poultry. We have a stud of Southdown
sheep and one of Berkshire pigs. Pure
seed wheat is also produced. Every
sideline is part of the whole. We have
won R.A.S. wheat competitions, fat
lamb, inland dairying and best-farm
competitions.
Many English arid Scottish immigrants
have been trained by us, and most of
them became successful farmers. A few
years ago a party of British Empire re-
presentatives, headed by the Marquis of
Salisbury, inspected the place as a model
of mixed farming. Later, South African
visitors came. Again, I entertained a
party of 30 English farmers and their
wives.
I’m getting on now, and am anxious
to see a little of the world. My family
consists of two boys and three girls, who
have all had land training, and are now
about to carry oh. It is 27 years since
I pitched our tent in the back paddock,
and what I have achieved is as much
due to my wife as anything else. She
learned hard lessons in thrift as my
partner.
We have never accepted the depres-
sion as anything but a challenge to
greater effort. Although much of my
success is due to advice received from
Government agricultural experts, I have
never applied to any Government for
financial assistance, and never will apply.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: To make a handy
bush lamp take a pickle-bottle for the oil,
enclose the wick in a tin tube and pass
that through a flat cork capped with tin.
This lamp doesn’t spill the oil when
knocked over.
“Mulyan”: The best binding for a split
axe-handle or light shaft is a strip of
freshly-killed wallaby-skin. Wrap it
round neatly and leave it for a day or
two. As the skin dries it draws tight.
A little oil or vinegar can then be rubbed
over it.
“The 0.D.”: It is not much good
applying sodium chlorate to skeleton
weed now, as-the pest has seeded. Weedi-
cide should be applied in the spring,
when the foliage is thick and there is
plenty of surface to absorb the poison.
At present the best thing is to cut off
the plant about 3in. below the ground
and drop a double handful of coarse, wet
salt into the hole.
“Kooragai”: If you want to cultivate
the sandpatch in the bend of the creek,
prepare it by ploughing in weeds, leaves,
and other vegetable matter, and sow with
legumes. A good transforming agent is
the clover-like Melilotus officinatus.
“Moonie”: To make five-bar sheep-
proof gates last longer, put the bottom
hinge on to the second-lowest bar instead
of the bottom. This simplifies boring
holes in the post, as the bottom hole is
always hard to handle. Secondly, in-
stead of the bottom rail having all the
s'train, portion is transferred to the second
bar.
“Tockilly”: When rigging a grind-
stone fit an old iron flywheel (not too
heavy) to the axle on the opposite side
from the handle. It makes turning much
easier.
“Bahb Dwyer”: At South Carolina
Experiment Station it was found that
calves given a decent start on whole milk,
and weaned to skim at four to five weeks,
can be weaned from milk altogether at
50 to 60 days, and carried on with a
dry concentrate mixture plus good
quality hay or grass.
“Rostrevor”: To attain a keen edge
on a tree-felling saw without a vyce saw
off two saplings, wrist-thick, 4ft. from the
ground and a suitable length. Cut
grooves with an axe on top the depth of
the saw down, and insert the saw, teeth
up. To ensure steadiness while filing,
lean two logs across the saw, moving
them along as you progress.
“Mt. Holly”: Another very handy
horseback knapsack (B. 20/2/’35) can
be made from a sugarbag. Knot a stout
cord or strap round one of the bottom
corners, place article in bag and attach
other end of strap or cord to the top of
bag. Carry this bandolier fashion over
one shoulder, i.e., the top of the bag be-
hind one shoulder and the bottom behind
and above the hip on the opposite side.
“Pick”: Experiment with improved
grasses on Redbank (Monaro, N.S.W.)
suggests the efficiency of subterranean
clover in a rigorous climate. In
1929 a 15-acre paddock was sown
with mixed seed, Wimmera rye, giant
fescue, lucerne, cocksfoot and clover.
After a hay cut and a season’s grazing
the Wimmera rye died out. The fescue
and cocksfoot failed to reappear after
being closely fed down with sheep. The
lucerne was a failure from the beginning.
The sub. clover, however, took perma-
nent possession. With a top-dressing of
841 b. of super, every second year, the
area has become densely matted, and
now runs five sheep to the acre all the
year round.
“Upilio”: Touching on queer births.
A draught foal near Mudgee (N.S.W.)
was born with its navel cord on the
crown of its head. It was not very big
at birth, but appeared to be well
nourished and lively. The owner cut
the cord (he was told after it would have
been better to tie a cotton thread tightly
round it and let it wither off), and dressed
it each day until it healed. The foal is
now six months old, and looks quite a
good draught youngster, except that he
is bald on top, as the hair refuses to
grow there.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
m I
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“Trust Companies —Wind Up.”
—News heading.
Exactly!
*!• 4* 4* 4*
“The honest Scot was delighted at receiving
the King’s pardon.” — “Truth.”
A free pardon at that.
4* -V 4* 4*
How's That!
“Hobbs at his best was the ideal technician;
never did he make an ungrammatical stroke.”
—Neville Cardus.
As a matter of fact, he was super-
latively adjectival when at his best.
Verbs fail to describe the vital phrases
of his scoring shots, each of which pre-
dicated the use of uncommon nouns by
Mr. Cardus and was the subject of
much analysis by the experts. In con-
junction with adverbial taste, the bats-
man handled his bat so prepositionally
that often the sub-editors parsed the
writers’ clauses right out. He was never
known to use a split infinitive, even to
the easiest ball sent up, and he pre-
served the strictest rules of syntax in
his most positive moments. Compara-
tively speaking, his past-tense play was
an objective to be sought by future
players of either gender. He was the
ideal technician, for even on the hard
Australian wickets he was most posses-
sive of the bowling, whether it was in
the first or third person.
O. D.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Just as Mr. Tandy, a Canberra golfer, was
about to drive off from the 13 th tee a hare
started up about 15 yards away. Mr. Handy
threw his driver at the hare, killing it outright.
— “S. M. Herald.”
After that, who will doubt Granny’s
contention that Tandy was Handy?
•I* 4 4* 4*
Martyrdom of Man.
As he stood there in the church facing
the officiating clergyman, the girl in her
long white dress gazing up at him with
adoring eyes and her hand put trustingly
in his, conflicting emotions surged
through his breast. He loved her ; there
could be no (joubt of that. He had loved
her from the first minute he had seen
her. And he was enormously proud of
her. Yet as the solemn ceremony pro-
gressed he could not suppress a feeling
of unutterable boredom. He would, in
fact, have been far happier pottering
around his garden at home.
After all, to be dragged out on a Sun-
day afternoon by a lot of ceremony-
loving women just to witness the christen-
ing of an eighth child would bore
most hard-boiled fathers!
S. W. K.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In uncivilised times neighbors were more
friendly than they are to-day.”— “Telegraph.”
That was before the invention of wire-
less.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Her husband frankly admitted that he be-
longed to a nude club.” — Divorce item.
Obviously, he didn’t wish to conceal
anything.
4* 4* 4* 4*
End of a Gentleman.
As a small boy, Bogley always used
to give up his seat in trams to women
or to aged men. The habit stuck, and
when he grew up he was ever the first
to offer his seat, not only in trams and
trains, but in parlors and even in restau-
rants. After he had fought for three
hours to get a seat at a Test match he
surrendered it to a woman with a parcel.
Bogley is in Parliament now. He
won’t give up that seat in a hurry.
Sef.
Something Fishy.
I feel it my duty to notify fellow-
fishermen of the strange experience I had
last Saturday.
I was fishing in a rowboat in one of
those spots where the beauty is quite in-
toxicating.
Knowing the penchant sharks have for
devouring little fishes, and knowing how
vindictive little fishes can be, 1 began to
wonder how shark flesh would act as
bait.
I resolved to try the idea, so I caught
a shark, cut a tender morsel from be-
neath the wing, and baited my first hook.
A whiting was fixed on it before it even
touched the water!
A large cod leapt suicidally on to the
second bait; and when a swarm of flat-
head rushed at the third three remained
fixed on the hook.
In high glee I watched the boat rapidly
fill with fish, until at last the entire shark
had been used. The beauty of my
scheme was that if 1 had required more
I had only to use one of my myriad
“I’m awfully glad I wore my fur. It's getting quite chilly."
catches as a bait for another shark, and
the process could be continued ad
infinitum.
However, I was satisfied. But the
strenuous work had left me in need of
stimulation, so I opened the last bottle
of sustenance. A severe shock, occa-
sioned by the appearance of a large
marine creature near the stern, caused
me to drop the bottle on the fish.
No sooner did the vital fluid touch
them than they became galvanised into
life. There was a sudden stir; they
flapped ; they squeaked ; then, one after
another, they began to leap wildly back
into their native element. I made desper-
ate efforts to stop them, but they slipped
through my fingers with consummate
ease. Yes, every one of them escaped. It
was heart-rending.
And so overcome was I with grief
that the water police arrested me by mis-
take, thinking that I was intoxicated.
T. W. N.
v 4* 4* -I-
“Our ears may function perfectly one > day
and be useless the next.” — “S. M. Herald. ’
Hear to-day, gone to-morrow.
•f*
Arctic Night.
Old man Rajiik stirred uneasily in his
igloo. He listened attentively, but only
the cracking of ice and a sibilant whisper
came to his ears. The silence became
oppressive, and finally the papa Eskimo
could contain himself no longer.
“Hey, daughter!” he cried. “Are you
there?”
“Yes.”
“Is Roona there?”
“Yes.”
Satisfied, Rajiik settled down to sleep.
Time passed. Suddenly he awoke with
a start. There was no sound below,
but his daughter was not abed. As-
tounded, he looked at his watch.
“Hey, daughter! ” he cried. “It’s
nearly April. Isn’t that young man
going home to-night?”
J. L. P.
I and Myself.
If I had only taken my own advice I
might be a wealthy man to-day. Actu-
ally, there’s nobody can give better
advice than myself; but I never take it.
“What do you want to marry her for?”
I told myself ; and even just before the
wedding took place I said “You could
easily make a dash past those pews and
out the side door.” But, no! I took no
notice of my own good advice.
It’s the same way with the races.
‘Don’t be a fool. Stay home!” I tell
myself. The one advantage about the
argument I have with myself, walking
home, is that it takes my attention off
the hardness of the road. “If you’d put
all your money—the whole five bob —
on Swindler, you’d have done some good.
I told you it was going to win,” I tell
myself. “But you go and back Also-
ran!”
“Don’t be a mug all your life,” I urge
myself. “You know if you go in for
one drink you’re likely to have half a
dozen.” But I take no notice; and it’s
ten to one I ignore my “Better get home
now while you’re still sober.”
There it is! I know just what is the
wise thing to do, but I never listen to
my own advice. “Don’t ask him for a
rise in salary now,” I told myself the
other day. “He's just had lunch, and
after lunch he always suffers from in-
digestion. Leave him until to-morrow.”
But I’d just had lunch myself, and the
third glass of it had put me in the mood
to ask straight away. So I breathed
beer and my request on the boss.
“You know, Aitchemm,” he said (it
was amongst other things), “you are your
own worst friend.”
I had hardly got outside before it
started again. “There you are,” I told
myself. “Even other people are noticing
it now. Didn’t I tell you”
There are limits to human endurance
of this sort of nagging. With all the
power at my command I punched myself
in the eye.
At time of writing I am still uncon-
scious.
H. M.
v *!-
“The fast car in the hands of the reckless
driver will always be the road’s greatest
menace.” — “Telegraph.”
That’s the thing that strikes most of
us, too!
Glimpses at the Globe.
VII— A Mexican Emeute.
You’ve probably never been to
Mexico, and you probably don’t intend
to go there, and you’re probably quite
right. To each his taste. If you prefer
Patagonia or Kamschatka, that’s your
affair. But if you ever do go to Mexico
be sure to arrive on a Tuesday or a
Friday if you wish to see the place at its
best. There’s always a revolution on
those days. Of course, you may be lucky
enough to strike one on a Monday or a
Thursday, or even a Saturday, but it
isn’t likely.
At one time Sunday was a very popu-
lar day for revolting, but it was found
that it interfered too much with the
attendances at the bullfights.
There is one case on record of a Wed-
nesday revolution, but it was a hope-
less failure, Wednesday is washing-day
in Mexico, and the women were too
busy to make coffee for the combatants,
or to dance and sing with them. So, to
be on the safe side, you’d better make
it a Tuesday or a Friday.
The usual routine for a revolution is
something like this. A party of Govern-
ment supporters arrives at a village inn,
calls for drinks, and begins indulging in
badinage with the village senoritas. The
village band strikes up, and soon a
simple dance —a rumba or a crambo or
something like that —is in progress.
The President (whom we will call
Pedro) emerges from the bar and calls
for a song. One of the senoritas —her
name is probably Paquita —obliges with
an old Mexican air. All hands join in,
their voices blending wonderfully con-
sidering that they are quite untrained
and that, as far as the onlooker can see,
there is no conductor.
When all are throwing themselves
wholeheartedly into the song-and-dance
business, the experienced visitor will
begin to look around him. He won’t
have to look for long. What is that
cloud of dust on the horizon? . . . Right
first time! It is Ramon and his gang .. .
On goes the dance ... Nearer draws
the dustcloud. There’s no doubt about
it. Ramon’s going to be the next Presi-
dent.
His men burst upon the village.
Shouts, shots and shrieks mingle with
the dust-filled atmosphere as the singers
break off abruptly in the middle of a
bar. Ramon and his men make a dash
for the bar.
Presently the dust dies down; also
most of the shooting and shrieking. The
shouting is only just beginning, and the
drinks are on the house. Pedro and a
few supporters are making for the hills.
The remainder, together with the seno-
ritas, creep out from shelter, and soon
the music is in full swing again. They
make it clear that they’ve been on
Ramon’s side all along. Not that it
matters much. As long as you’re on
someone’s side you’re all right.
Ramon is probably the illiterate son
of a mule-driver. Most Presidents are
illiterate, and the best ones are invariably
the sons of mule-drivers. That’s pos-
sibly what was wrong with Pedro.
Ramon doesn’t trouble to pursue
Pedro. He knows he won’t come back.
An ex-President is seldom resentful.
He’s had his turn, and bears no grudge.
Moreover, he knows that Ramon will
be with him one of these Tuesdays or
Fridays.
Jasby.
Love in Exile.
How could my raptured heart divine,
As nightly on our bench we sat,
With your small hand held tight in mine,
That you proposed to leave me flat ?
How could I know until too late
That bliss would turn to bitterness,
Or, Magi-like, foresee that Fate
And you would be so merciless?
Ah, dearest heart, life’s vain and grey,
And holds no joy or zest for me,
Now you have moved to Neutral Bay
And l remain in Waverley!
P. O. M. C.
Re-collections.
She told me, “I still can recall
Our burning romance in the past.
My memory treasures it all,
From the first thrilling kiss to the last.
I can even remember the glow
That came into your eyes when we
met!” . . .
Yes, still she remembers, although
I have paid her five times to forget!
T. W. N.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.). Dinner from 6.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities.for the transaction of all general banking business
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers!
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, wants spare-time
typing work. —6370.
Queenslander (24), educated, nine years’ sheep
and cattle exp., seven years last place, from
jackeroo to manager, wants position of trust
Qld. station or Islands. Refs. —6331.
Young man (19), South Aus., wants work.
Knowledge farming, engineering and mechani-
cal drawing; has worked at sea. Energetic;
13 stone. —6365.
N.S.W. mother and daughter (19), gentle-
folk, used to country conditions, would take
charge country home. Drive car, ride, cook,
gardening, all duties, return small remunera-
tion and comfortable h0me.—6379.
Lady (Vic.), capable nurse, would give ser-
vices any capacity in return part fare to
America or England.—639l.
Elderly gentleman, Sydney, active and will-
ing worker, honest, wants light duties, cleaning,
messages, lift-driving.—6433.
Youth (Vic.), industrious ; and trustworthy,
public-school, year on Mallee farm, wants
position where, he can get useful experience
sheep, wheat-growing. Will pay premium if
required.—64ol.
Gentleman (38), ex-officer Imperial Army,
at present engaged in freelance journalism,
wants unfurnished room with fireplace in any
suburb handy to Sydney. Would help chil-
dren with homework in lieu of rent. Has
previous experience as tutor. —6384.
Young man (27), English education, thorough
business training, excellent credentials, desires
position, Vic. or elsewhere, secretary or similar
work. —6377.
To buy Max Flambard, Only the Morning
and No Armour —all by John B. Dailey.—
63)87.
To buy copy of The Australian Students’
Song Book. —6410.
To buy copy each of two issues of “Lone
Hand” containing article on the self-medication
and treatment of tuberculosis. —6395.
Bulletin reader wants 3d. Blue Victoria
Centenary stamp and 3d. Blue Macarthur
Centenary stamp, both on envelope.—6296.
Words of verse “Bill, Who Stayed at
Home.” —6439. »
Information Sought.
How can a young Australian, college educa-
tion, enter (1) the Australian diplomatic ser-
vice, and (2) the British colonial service ?
639.9.
(1) No diplomatic service for Australia which
may be entered from colleges or universities.
(2) Selected graduates of Australian universi-
ties can, however, enter the colonial service,
and a scheme is in operation for admission.
Apply for information to Professor K. H.
Bailey, University of Melbourne, who is secre-
tary to the Colonial Appointments Commit-
tee. Positions at the disposal of the Colonial
Secretary cover agricultural, veterinary, forestry,
survey, medical, geological, financial, educa-
tional and various other technical appointments.
Hs He sfc sfc
(1) Does cancellation of war debts mean
abolition, or does it only mean the transfer
of debt from one set of taxpayers to another ?
(2) What is the difference between cancelling
and writing down ? (3) When Russia repu-
diated its debts to Britain and France did
British and French bondholders lose the money
they had invested, did interest payments cease,
or are the French and British people taxed to
pay interest on the repudiated debts ? (4) What
is the method of floating a loan overseas ?
—5822.
(1) If one nation cancels or reduces a debt due
to it by another (as Britain, in effect, did in
respect to a very large proportion of the money
owed by the Allies after the Great War) its Gov-
ernmental revenue is diminished to the extent
of the repayments of principal and interest thus
relinquished, and its need to levy taxes is
increased, though not necessarily to an iden-
tical amount. (2) A cancelled debt is entirely
forgiven. A debt “written down” is reduced.
(3) Private British and French investors in Rus-
sian loans lost their money. But where “votes
of credit” were made by the British Govern-
ment, which financed the advances out of loans
for which it took responsibility, the investors
did not suffer. (4) Usual procedure is to entrust
the business to a financial firm which offers
the scrip on terms likely to appeal to the
market and undertakes to purchase at that
price all scrip unsold.
* * * *
(1) Is there an Australian publication giving
particulars as to local markets for newspaper
contributions, novels, scenarios, plays, radio-
dramas, music and songs ? If so, price and
where obtainable ? (2) Any local work which
furnishes details as to preparation and sub-
mission of manuscripts ? —6426.
(1) and (2) Yes, The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook, 2s. 6d., all booksellers.
* * * *
How to cure a septic fingernail ? 1 have
tried iodine without effect. —6146.
Septic fingernail is of somewhat frequent
occurrence ; the infection spreads to other nails
if untreated. Foment affected part with hot
boracic solution twice daily, poultice if pus
accumulates, and smear blue mercurial oint-
ment under the inflamed cuticle at night.
lodine in any form must not be used with
the mercurial application. Keep the part clean,
and do not bind during the treatment; a
rubber stall may be worn if the hands are
frequently in water.
s|c H 4 - H* 'fc
(1) Is tincture of iodine (mild) any good as
a preventive of tetanus in cuts of scratches ?
(2) Any danger of poisoning in using picric-
acid solution on burns or scalds ? —6107.
(1) Yes, but not of itself. Too much stress
cannot be laid on the importance of thoroughly
cleansing small wounds received during garden-
ing and similar occupations. Use an antiseptic
wash to bathe and remove ingrained dirt, then
dry and dab over with tincture of iodine. If
there is reason to suspect contamination by
soil or dust, an injection of serum may be
given. This demands medical supervision.
(2) As a treatment for superficial burns, the
application of picric-acid solution over large
areas is not advised. Toxic absorption may
result in a troublesome dermatitis.
* * * *
Where, could I obtain plans, specifications
and method of construction of a septic tank
suitable for an average-size country house with
a good supply of hard water ? —6155.
A publication, Simple Aids to Sanitation,
obtainable from the Government Printer,
Phillip-street, Sydney (price, 2s. 3d. posted),
contains an illustration of a suitable design for
a septic tank, together with a.written explana-
tion of its construction, method of computing
sizes in relation to number of persons to be
served and wastes connected, and a resume
of the law regarding septic-tank installations.
* * * *
We wish to plant some palm-trees at Charle-
ville (Q.). Would Cocos plumosa be suitable ?
If not, can you suggest others? Suitable
climbers for same district ? —6182.
Charleville is far too cold in winter for
Cocos plumosa to thrive; coastal conditions suit
this palm better. Cocos yatay (the Brazilian
wine-palm), Phoenix dactylifera (the date-palm)
and Phoenix canariensis should all do well there.
Regarding climbers suitable for Charleville,
Akebia quinata, Jasminum grandiflorum
(white jasmine), Jasminum primulinum (yellow
jasmine), Tecoma capensis and Tecoma
mackenni are suggested as evergreen climbers,
and Wistaria japonica, Ampelopsis quinque-
folia (Virginian creeper), Tecoma radicans and
Tecoma grandiflora as deciduous ones.
* * * *
(1) / intend building a home shortly in Syd-
ney, and both sides of property require fencing.
Both neighbors declare they will not pay their
half-share. What course must I adopt to force
them to pay ? (2) Six months ago I sold a
second-hand motor-pycle for a deposit and 10s.
per week. No instalments have been paid, and
£4 is still owing. Repeated reminders have
met with promises, but no cash. The debtor
is employed. What action can I take, and
method ? I possess his promise to pay. —6286.
(1) You should make a written request to
each owner of the adjoining property to assist
in equal shares in the cost of providing the
dividing fence. If he refuses or neglects to do
so within six months after service of the notice
you may carry out the work yourself and
recover half the money expended in the Small
Debts Court. (2) Write to him stating that
unless the debt is paid you will sue for it in
the Small Debts Court, and do so if he does
not pay.
* * * *
(1) Can an Australian settle in the Cook
Islands? (2) Is it possible to buy land there?
(3) What are the income-tax rates ? (4) Is if
possible to market fruit from the place? (5)
Where could I obtain a brochure on the
islands ? (6) Accommodation available for a
person wishing to make a short stay ?- —5899.
(1) Admittance to the islands' is governed by
the Cook Islands immigration laws. Provided
the immigrant has ample means, is of good
character, and is not likely. to.become a charge
on the native population or the Administra-
tion, no objection would be raised. Applica-
tion for admission should be made to the
Resident Commissioner, Rarotonga. (2) All
land is native-owned, and sale by the owner
is prohibited. ; Large plantations are few, but
it is possible to lease small sections. There is
no extensive European settlement. (3) No
income tax. (4) Fruit for the .Maoriland mar-
ket is shipped at regular four-weekly intervals.
(5) A folder has been posted. (6) There are
two private hotels in Rarotonga. The tariffs
are roughly £3 10s. and £2 per week respec-
tively.
* * * *
A woman divorces her husband for desertion,: *
(1) Does she revert to her maiden name auto-
matically, or is it purely optional ? (2) Should
she desire to marry someone else, how wduld
she sign the marriage register—Miss or Mrs.?
(3) If she has a child by the first marriage
would that child take her second husband’s
surname ? —6305.
(1) Legally she reverts to her maiden name,
but social custom recognises the use of her
late married name. (2) She signs in her Chris-
tian name, or names, and her maiden surname
without the prefix of Mrs. or Miss. (3) No,
he takes his father’s surname.
* * % *
(1) Various uses of photoelectric cells ?
(2) Particulars of their construction ? (3) To
what colors are they most sensitive ? —6364;
(1) In nearly all cases where it is required
to convert light variations into corresponding
electrical variations, such as television and
sound-picture transmission. (2) A thick film
of alkali metal is deposited on the inner wall
of an evacuated glass bulb, this forming the
light-sensitive surface, or cathode. In front of
the cathode is fixed a straight wire, loop or
mesh, called the anode, which is made highly
positive. _ When the sensitive surface of the
cathode is illuminated it emits electrons which
are attracted to the anode. (3) Depends upon
the nature of the alkali used. Caesium hydride
is most sensitive to yellow light, sodium hydride
to violet light, and potassium hydride to blue
light. Caesium hydride cells are mostly used
for sound-picture apparatus on account of their
sensitivity to yellow light.
* * * *
Origin of the line: “And the lonely seabird
crosses with one waft of; the wing”? —6os3.
Tennyson’s “The Captain.”
* * * *
(1) In what well-known English novel is
Egdon Heath described ? (2) Where can I buy
a cheap copy ? —6198.
(1) In The Return of the Native, by Thomas
Hardy. (2) Any large bookshop.
* * ❖ *
Some literary references to the Angel
Raphael ? —6137.
Called by Milton “the Sociable Spirit” and
“the Affable Archangel” (“Paradise Lost”).
Longfellow calls Raphael “the Angel of the
Sun” (“Golden Legend”). See also the Book
of Tobit (Old Testament Apocrypha).
=i= * * *
Author of the lines:
Love, eldest Muse! Time heard thine earliest lay
When light from Heaven led forth the new—born day.
The stars that give no accent to the wind
Are golden odes and music to the mind:
So passion’s thrill is Nature’s minstrelsy,
So to the young heart Love is poetry.
—6055.
Ebenezer Elliott, in “Love.”
* & * *
(1) Is Torres Strait pilotage considered to
be more or less difficult than English Channel
pilotage with regard to (a) winds and currents,
(b) atmospherics, (c) foul ground, (d) charted
dangers, (e) efficiency of survey and lighting and
(f) traffic? (2) Which is the most difficult
regular trading route in the world from a navi-
gator’s viewpoint ? (3) What track is followed
by passenger vessels trading between Sydney
and Hong Kong ? (4) What literature is avail-
able dealing with (3)? —6140.
(1) ( a ) Torres Strait is subject to severe
tropical cyclonic disturbances; nature and ex-
tent of current less known, (b) About equal.
(c) (d) and (e) Torres Strait more difficult.
■ (/) Greater volume of traffic in English Channel.
(2) The regular trading route from east coast
of Australia to the Far East via inner Barrier
route and Torres Strait would probably com-
pare with any other regular route for difficulties
from a navigation point of view. (2) Two
routes are adopted: («) the route via inner
Barrier route to Thursday Island, thence west-
ward of New Guinea through Manipa Strait
and eastward of Celebes Islands to Manila,
thence to Hong Kong; ( b ) the route outside the
Barrier Reef to Rabaul in New Britain, thence
eastward of New Guinea and southward of
New Ireland and the Pelew Islands (Palau) to
San Bernardino Strait, thence through the
Philippine Islands to Manila, thence to Hong
Kong. (4) The official literature for (3) (a) is
“Australia Pilot,” vol. 4; “Eastern Archipelago
Pilot,” parts 1 and 3; “China Sea Directory,”
vol. 3. For (3) ( b ) “Australia Pilot,” vol. 3 ;
“Pacific Islands Pilot,” vol. 1; “Eastern Archi-
pelago Pilot,” parts 1 and 3; “China Sea
Directory,” vol. 3.
* * H: *
What poem of Sappho’s contains the lines:
I burn, I bum, as when through ripened corn
By driving- winds the spreading flames are borne.
—5849.
These lines are not by Sappho, but occur in
Pope’s translation of Ovid’s Heroic Epistle XV,
called “Sappho to Phaon.”
* * ■ * *
(1) In what artists’ paints and plaster-work
are colors transparent ? (2) How to make
plaster of Paris set very hard yet reproduce fine
modelling accurately? Would a proportion of
cement be advisable ? —5937.
(1) Rose madder, gamboge, transparent oxide
of chromium, Prussian blue, Prussian green,
Italian pink, Alizarin crimson, Alizarin scarlet,
blue-black, raw sienna, transparent gold ochre,
cobalt, aureolin and purple madder. (2) Try
4 per cent, of finely pulverised marshmallow.
This retards the setting for about an hour,
but when dry the cast will take a good polish.
After the marshmallow has been added and the
cast made, soak _in a strong solution of hot
alum; .the cast will then be as hard as marble.
A good soaking in hot paraffin wax will also
harden plaster-work considerably. If the
modelling is very fine dentist’s plaster will give
very good results. An admixture of cement is
not always successful.
* * * *
My sweet-peas are yellowing in the foliage,
-and appear to be dying. What is the reason;
and how can I save them ? —6300.
Examine the foliage for rust or aphis. The
former is a brown, dust-like powder which robs
the plant of vitality. Remove affected leaves
and burn them; then spray with lime-and-
sulphur solution (trade strength). For aphis,
spray with Black Leaf 40 or nicotine. Some-
times sweet-peas fail because of spongy soil
at the base of the plants. To get over this,
press the soil firmly, and apply all moisture from
a shallow gutter dug about 12in. away. An-
other reason for the failure is bad drainage,
which causes damping-off. It may save the
plants if a trench about 2ft. deep is dug 4ft.
from the plants and stones or pipes placed in
it. It is better, however, to remove badly-
affected plants,' relime the ‘ ground and make
another sowing of seed. .
* * *
Name of the English writer who desired to
marry • a lady who, afterwards became the wife
of a distinguished French statesman? —6141.
Edward Gibbon. He loved Susan Curchdd,
a Swiss girl. His father disapproved, and the
young lady later became the wife of Jacques
Necker, Finance Minister of Louis XVI., whose
career she materially assisted.
Brief Answers.
E.G.0.D.: Know of no method of get"
ting in touch with a likely purchaser other
than by advertising... J.D.: By making direct
application to the officers-in-charge of the
various departments and offices... •V-Cj. -
Collected Poems of Arthur Albert Bayldon,
published by the author. Address: Byrorua,
Paris-street, Balgowlah, N.S.W F.R.M.:
Question too long and confused to answer
here. See The Encyclopedia Britannica, avail-
able most public libraries... .8.8. C.: Write
Dr. A. C. D. Rivett, C.5.1.R., 314 Albert-
street, East Melbourne, Vic H.E.H.: Write
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd., Bridge-street, Syd-
ney. A small advt. might also produce results.
G.O.M. : “The Quartermaster,” by M. Bar-
nard Eldershaw, was published in book form
under the title A House Is Built. Price, 4s.
L.E.: Norman Lindsay’s A Curate in
Bohemia was published by the N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney... .J.C.C.: Their addresses
are all in Who’s Who, 1935... .P.T.P.: Seventh-
day Adventism arose in America in 1844 from
the successful efforts of Mrs. Rachel Preston,
a Seventh-day Baptist, to induce an Adventist
church in Washington, New Hampshire, to
observe the Sabbath on the seventh day of the
week G.S.: W. L. Murdoch died on Feb-
ruary 18,1911, of apoplexy while watching a
match between Australia and South Africa on
the Melbourne Cricket Ground... .A.N.W.: At
Sydney in the summer solstice the sun rises
28deg. 38min. S. of E. and sets 28deg. 38min.
S. of'. W. At the winter solstice it rises 28deg.
38min. N. of E. and sets 28deg. 38min. N. of W.
At the equinoxes it rises and sets due E. and
W. respectively.. . .T.K.: Imperial preference
was introduced into the Australian tariff of
1907, though discussion on the subject goes
back at least to the Ottawa conference of 1894.
The 1907 schedule increased protective duties
nearly all round (many being almost doubled)
and then conceded a reduction of about 5 p.c.
on roughly 300 items of British origin. This
preference affected about 60 p.c. of the goods
imported from the U.K J. 0.: The Comet
(80 tons), built in 1843, ran on the Parramatta
River (N.S.W.) until 1852, and then was sent
to Port Phillip. She left there in 1862 for
Maoriland, crowded with gold-diggers, and was
never heard of again... .N.R.F.: Gaimard’s
rat-kangaroo (B. gaimardi ) of New South Wales
has a distinct black tail-crest, and the hind
feet and underside of the tail are white....
J.8.N.: It’s “Rivven” A.L.: The words
“Defender of the Faith,” which occur in the
title of English kings, were originally bestowed
on Henry VIII. by Pope Leo X., in recognition
of his pronouncement against the doctrines of
Luther; the Pope withdrawing the title, Henry
had it renewed by his own Parliament....
A.8.C.: The details required are not avail-
able; refer to chapter IV, “Local Govern-
ment,” under section 5, “Water Supply,
Sewerage and Drainage,” in Commonwealth
Year-Book, No. 26.... U.H.: Use Duco clear
brushing lacquer, which dries almost at once.
Hold the books by the leaves and paint the
covers. Any cover can be painted, but the
lacquer will stain the leaves if allowed to flow
over. A better plan is to make war on the
cockroaches with plenty of hot turpentine
painted into cracks and joins of book-
cases, and polishing with beeswax and turpen-
tine frequently E.M.: (1) When the leaves
have fallen. (2) Yes. (3) No, but they should
be soaked before working to make them pliable
and save cracking. For rough baskets the
bark is left on; for fine work, rods are peeled;
for brown peeled work, canes are boiled with
bark on. It is important to use the right
kind of willow, of which there are many
sorts. Write Technological Museum, Sydney,
for further particulars W.T.H.: Rather diffi-
cult to polish shell without power-driven
buffers, but, if patient, you may do good work
by dipping a finger in raw linseed oil, rubbing
well over the surface, and then polishing with
the palm of the hand until the shell feels hot
and shiny. Finish with a silk cloth. If the shell
is carved use a fine, small brush and chamois
leather.-.. .G.W.T.: A Faculty of Medicine,
though proposed, is not yet established in the
University of Queensland. Queensland students
desiring to proceed to Sydney or Melbourne
are advised to take the following subjects in
their senior examination: English, French,
Latin, mathematics A and a science subject
(chemistry or physics) D.G.J.: Use 3Jb.
shellac to every gallon of spirit, which should
be strong and of good quality. A few drops
of pure raw linseed oil may be applied to the
rubber if it sticks; most polishers are unable
to work without a little oil, used sparingly in
drops... .F.A.A.: Acknowledgment is in order
and affords the necessary protection.... F.H.:
Impossible on the facts furnished to say
whether a partnership exists. Rule is that “regard
must be paid to the true contract and inten-
tion of the parties as appearing from the whole
facts of the case.” That would be for a
Court to determine. If a partner, you would
share equally in profits and have a right
to inspect all books and accounts; if
simply an employee, you would be entitled to
wages only J. 8.: (1) An adult son working
for his father is under ordinary circumstances
entitled to wages. (2) Such words would be
defamatory and,. if. published—that is, made
known to others —would be actionable. (3)
Anyone who keeps such a place commits a
common nuisance and is guilty of a mis-
demeanor at Common Law. (4) Write Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry, Sydney N.H.:
You would require to be absolutely certain
that the person in Sydney is the man against
whom you obtained the judgment. If his
identity is beyond doubt and you know his
address, then you could have service effected
by a solicitor in Brisbane through his agent
in Sydney C.W.: The International Who’s
Who (£3 35.), published by Europa Publica-
tions,- Ltd., 6 Duke-street, Adelphi, London,
W.C.2 A.A.M.: You will find a chapter on
Pelton wheels in the Engineer’s Year Book
(Kemp), and W. G. Watson and Co., Ltd., 279
Clarence-street, Sydney, have in stock a book
called On the Development of Water Power,
which they will send free on request. .. .A.S.-
Write A. F. Bassett Hull, Box 704 FF, G.P.O .
'Sydney K.F.: Write A. Kitson, Box 1039 FE
G.P.0., Sydney L.L.8.: Cannot trace novel
entitled Far Above Rubies. Alfred Sutro wrote
a play of that name.. . .(Many others mailed.)


THE MISADVENTURES OF STRAWBERRY.


“SILVER
E*DGE n
TRADE
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the
uncanny feeling of pressing
your brake pedal and nothing
happens? Do not wait for
this experience to be yours,
but have your brakes watched
and adjusted at definite
periods in the same way as
you attend to the oiling ot
your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RAYBESTOS
BRAKE LININGS and so ensure reliability, uni-
form wear and safety.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England
Factory Rep.: John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
m
A
m
%
V
/
U
above a,
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru-
ment that cannot tell a lie. It gives immediate,
truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures.
To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the flat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unequalled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
Complete in Wallet.
Price
8/6
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER, LTD,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
KISMET mms
Representative: John Arnold, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
The Steering Column.
By FRED BERRY.
THE CASE AGAINST PANEL DUTIES.
No country needs cheap and efficient
transport so much as Australia, yet the
motor-car, a vital transport necessity, is
sold to the Australian public at a price
which, in other parts of the world, would
be considered well-nigh prohibitive.
The most important factor in boost-
ing up the price of motor vehicles to
Australians is the tariff on motor-body
panels. Motor-car bodies in Australia
cost approximately 150 p.c. more than
they could be made for in the country
of origin.
The Tariff Board in July last year in-
quired into the reasonableness of recom-
mending to Parliament a substantial
reduction in the duties on motor-body
panels, which at the present moment are
£32 10s. U.K. (subject to Exchange
Adjustment Act) and £37 10s. per set
foreign.
The enormous costs involved in pro-
ducing the necessary panel dies, tools, jigs
and manufacturing equipment—for each
body model anything from £BOOO to
£25,000 is necessary—together with delay
in commencirfg production and the inade-
quate equipment possible to Australian
quantity body-manufacturers, make it
quite impossible for those who are im-
porting and selling cars which do not sell
in large numbers to have their body re-
quirements catered for, save by importing
the complete body or by paying absurdly
high prices for handmade bodies.
When the duties were imposed 15 years
ago the motor-car body was of simple
construction, mainly of the “open-
tourer” type, made with hand-beaten
panels and finished with paint and var-
nish. This condition continued until
about 1926, when, with the advent of
lacquer, preference for the closed body
and the necessity for die-pressed panels,
the whole complexion of the industry
changed. Employment figures for the
industry are:
Number of Factories
Employing
Fewer Total * Total
More than than Fac- Em-
-100. 50. 20. 20. tories. ployees.
1926- 14 17 27 98 156 9283
1927- 7 17 30 104 158 7842
1931- 3 1 15 134 153 2176
1932- 4 5 19 131 159 3668
It will be noted that the maximum
point of employment was reached in
1926-27, yet in 1927-28 the number of
employees had considerably dropped, and
the number of factories capable of pro-
ducing bodies in quantities had dropped
from 14 to 7, notwithstanding the fact that
the importation of chassis continued on
the most liberal scale right up to 1930,
and plenty of work was available. The
impossibility of making panels for many
of these cars was the cause.
From 1930-32 importations of chassis
practically ceased owing to the effect of
the depression and the huge carry-over
of importers’ stocks. Chassis imported
for those two years totalled only 13,500 ;
1932-33 saw a rise to 15,700 for the year,
and 1933-34 increased to 32,906, whilst
for six months, July-December, 1934, the
importation of chassis totalled 26,933.
The drop in employment during the
boom years is reflected in the importa-
tion of complete motor-bodies. For the
years 1922-23 to 1929-30 there were
87,725 complete motor-bodies imported,
representing a value overseas of over
£8,600,000, whilst complete sets of panels
imported for the same period amounted
to the absurdly small sum of £2327, thus
proving the practicability of importing
the complete article and the impossi-
bility of importing merely the panels.
The peak year of body importations
was 1928-29, when the number of em-
ployees in the motor-body-building in-
dustry had been reduced very consider-
ably. In that year there were 14,546
complete bodies imported, to a value of
£ 1,470,000-odd ; sets of panels for the
same year represented £l7 in value.
Complete bodies imported 1930-34:—•
Complete Value of
Number. Bodies.
1930- 137 £14,007
1931- 61 7,360
1932- 108 12,233
1933- 1116 86,899
July-Dee., ’34 1202 96,318
Advocates of the high rates of duty
on panels state that their factories are
at the present only working 60 p.c. of
capacity, yet they are still unable (due
to the panel situation) to cater for the
body requirements of the country, as
the above table indicates that the impor-
tations are getting back rapidly to the
old figures.
It has been contended that if the
panel duties are removed no body-build-
ing will take place in Australia at all.
This is, of course, absurd, because the
panels would still have to be assembled,
trimmed, painted and finished, the same
as is being done now. Indeed, the
panels that are being made in Australia
in Maoriland, Lord Nuffield, the British car-manufacturer, com-
plained that, while Maoriland was playing a worthy part as a
member of the British Commonwealth of Nations, Australia, by its lack
of reciprocal feeling, was undermining the very foundations of its trade
relationships with Britain. In Australia Lord Nuffield had expressed
deep satisfaction with certain aspects of the Australian tariff designed to
foster the industry of automobile-body-building. Those who agree with
Lord Nuffield and those who do not are here given space to state their
respective cases.
now in satisfactory quantities would
continue to be so made.
For the years 1922-23 to 1929-30
the 87,725 bodies that were im-
ported complete cost Australia over-
seas £8,600,000. Now, if the panels for
these bodies had been imported and the
rest of the work done in Australia,
allowing the overseas panel-manufacturer
the liberal sum of £lO per set (including
the steel) for the panels, Australia would
have saved over £7,500,000 in cash. The
bulk of that money went to the U.S.A.,
which supplied 68,000-odd of these com-
plete bodies.
Let it be assumed, for the sake of
argument, that no panel-manufacturing
would take place in Australia at all if
the duty on panels were lifted, Australia
would still save many millions in the
cost of its transport. In the four peak
years 1926-27 to 1929-30, 309,961 bodies
were built and imported, and, allowing
the overseas manufacturer the liberal
amount of £4 per set for the fabrication
of the panels (the steel was and is im-
ported, in any case), Australia would
have still saved £5,500,000 in overseas
payments in four years, and increased
local employment would have resulted.
Dropping the panel duty will mean
that Australia will be able to purchase
cars of any make or country of origin
at about £35 cheaper all round (a saving
to the country of £1,500,000 p.a.), and,
moreover, will remove an undeserved
handicap on cars of British manufacture.
THE CASE FOR PANEL DUTIES.
Whichever way it is looked at, the
argument of those who want to bump
the Australian car-body-building industry
amounts to this: If overseas workers are
allowed to make the car-body panels
now fashioned by Australians, the latter
will be given more work! This is a
unique addition to the Freetrade argu-
ment. An endeavor is made to give
some sort of semblance of fact to the
statement by a parade of depression
employment figures.
Where these figures come from is a
mystery, but they suit the purpose of the
bumpers by showing a progressive falling
off in employment to half-way through
1932, and then a slight rise during the
next 12 months to account for the im-
provement in car sales.
These figures, quoted in numerous
press statements over the last few weeks,
put employment in the car-body-build-
ing plants at 3668. In actual fact,
there are 7000 men finding jobs in the
car-body-building factories, and another
estimated 3000 earning a living providing
the £1,000,000 worth of Australian
timber, steel, wool, lead, castings, copper,
leather and lacquer, etc., that go to the
making of an Australian-built body.
These figures will swell, of course,
when car sales get back to peak turn-
over, and with the normal growth in
road transport. At date the body-build-
ing plants are working at only a little
over half capacity.
Furthermore, 60 per cent, of the car-
body factory workers are employed in
preparing the dies and preliminaries
before a body panel is pressed. Make
it economically impossible for a panel
to be fashioned in the Commonwealth,
and at least this 60 per cent, must be
pushed out on to the street. So much
for the bumpers’ anxiety for workers.
In the last few months the whole com-
plexion of car-body-building has changed,
and it is in this change that a noisy
minority, interested mostly in U.S.A.
cars and one or two British makes, has
sensed an opportunity to reap a rich
harvest by pushing the case of the British
panel-makers.
The real danger to the Australian car-
body-building industry has not come
from Britain, but U.S.A. The U.S.A.
huge mass-production factories have per-
fected a process by which they turn out
a complete all-steel body in panel form.
All Australian bodies, and practically all
British, are what are called composite.
There is a timber framework to which
the steel panels are fixed. It takes 62
man-hours to build a composite body.
The U.S.A. all-steel body can be run
together in 18 man-hours. Let these
U.S.A. bodies into the Commonwealth
as panels and neither Australian nor
British bodies could get a look-in.
Australia wants cheap road transport,
the more and the cheaper the better, but
there is no guarantee it would get it
if not a car-body was turned out by
an Australian factory. Maoriland im-
ports foreign pressed panels and com-
plete bodies, yet there is just the same
disparity there that Lord Nuffield grew
warm about in the case of Australia.
The gulf between prices is just the same
for chassis that carry neither body nor
cabin, Australian-made or any other sort.
A list of prices in support of these
facts went unchallenged at the Tariff
Board inquiry last year.
In the 10 years to half-way through
1933, car-bodies worth approximately
£30,000,000 were built in the Common-
wealth. Divide that up over the period
and the value of the bumpers’ oft-
repeated wild assertion that dear car-
bodies are costing car buyers millions
a year can be weighed. It is still a pro-
position to import complete bodies, for
during the same decade bodies with an
overseas value of £8,702,000 came
through the Customs.
These figures hardly coincide with
monopoly accusations. The Ford Co.
makes its own bodies, and that co.’s
business and General Motors-Holden’s
house-jobs account for 65 per cent,
of the Commonwealth market. Holden’s,
T. J. Richards and Sons, the Ruskin
people and some smaller organisations
compete for the rest. General Motors-
Holden’s get less than a third of this,
so that stories of unfair treatment
couldn’t amount to much if proved.
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd., is the
biggest car-body producer. Its recently
issued balance sheet showed accumulated
losses over the last four and a half years
of £332,615. On an investment in the
car-body-building branch of £832,105
its profit for the 12 months was £lB,OOO.
A wry interpretation of the monopoly
business!
Cost of dies for pressing the panels is
a big item where volume is small, but
for a popular make of body it is not
excessive. Furthermore, in handling this
precision die- and tool-making, an army
of skilled labor is being trained that
could be immediately enrolled for pre-
cision armament- or munition-making.
The value of this class of worker cannot
be overrated in a nation’s economy. No
other industry offers the same scope for
this sort of training, but if foreign
pressed panels were given a free run in
the Commonwealth it would go by the
board.
This is what the British Economic
Commission (Hirst, Duckman and Clark)
had to say of the Commonwealth indus-
try in 1929:
Australia can at present produce eco-
nomically car-bodies, tyres, springs and
sundry accessories, but not chassis, engine,
etc. It should be the aim of both countries
that Australia should produce, when the
demand and local industrial conditions
warrant it, further parts of the car, until,
possibly, the whole manufacture is carried
out in Australia, thus finding work for
more people....
Nothing has happened in the industry
since then to make that comment any
less valuable.


V
4
m
.Everybody
jD©ufo'es»up
j
Discriminating motorists
always return to Muller’s!
They know they are play-
ing safe in trusting their car
to our expert hands with
the knowledge that our ex-
perience extends over a
period of nearly 30 years.
For Panel Beating or Radi-
ator Service—send it to
Muller’s.
-Ctct/
At
SIN
05
TOfM1
agr/.rrra
Itkpiunu, 13201 (3 LINES)
HAWKINS P.3.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 (SECOND
A EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/•
OI posted direct from “The Bulletin."
252 George Street. Sydney. 3d. extra
y'sSf.'yssssAy.+ys^^^+^X^-y.-y^
Why Mohiloit is Always First:
wmmrnmmmm
Mmmmmmm
H
LM
SWgy - .X--#£N •X-
mm
wm
v-:-*
mV
mm
mmm
m
mm
VACUUM HAS MANY
PLANTS LIKE THIS
/Picdelwt $ywu2hjUi6
cmJ 1 r )ROCES§£$
Mobiloil is being continuously improved. The Vacuum
Oil Company, makers of Mobiloil, have unequalled
resources as regards modern refinery equipment; man-
power; and technical knowledge and experience.
The most UP-TO-DATE PROCESSES applied to the
very best of crude oils produce the World's Quality
Oil—Mobiloil.
REGDi
FIRST FOR PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMY
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
The Trouble Lamp.
H.A.C. (Yass, N.S.W.) drives a ’2l model
car fitted with magneto ignition. When driven
at speed the magneto gets very hot, and if let
stand until cold gums up, preventing an easy
start. Cause and cure ?
Bearings of armature spindle are evidently
worn, allowing the windings to touch the field.
This generates intense local heat and destroys
insulation. The gummy material mentioned is
a sure indication of a complete failure at an
early date. Only certain cure is to dismantle,
fit new bearings and carefully test armature
windings.
* * * *
R.C.S. (Wangaratta, Vic.). — 1 should like to
boost up the performance of my 1927 14 -h.p.
Talbot in keeping with modern cars, and pro-
pose raising compression ratio to 6.5 to 1 and
spraying cylinder heads with aluminium. Will
this do the trick ?
Valve guides, cylinder bores, cams and
other units will by now show considerable
wear, and it is doubtful whether the motor
will stand up to the increased compression.
Aluminising the combustion chamber, to-
gether with thinner cylinder-head gasket, will
be of some benefit, but in no circumstances
can you convert the motor to equal modern
performance.
* * *
W.W. (Bendigo, Vic.). — The electric petrol
gauge on my new car is behaving in an irregu-
lar manner. After switching off it takes some
time to return to zero; during running the
needle jumps about, while recently, although
showing two gallons, the engine ran out of
petrol. How can the defect be rectified ?
Unless all electrical contacts are in perfect
order the gauge will not give a correct reading.
Suggest you dismantle unit in fuel tank and
make sure that the float arm is perfectly
free, and also that all contacts and earth
returns are in order. As a further safeguard
it is advisable to drain out fuel and with
switch on refill tank one gallon at a time in
order to calibrate the gauge.
* * * *
G.E.B. (Seymour, Vic.).— During heavy rain
recently my vacuum-operated windscreen-
wiper stopped, forcing me to stop on an
urgent mission. Is there any way to service
these necessary but apparently unreliable
fittings ?j
Drivers of closed cars should attend to
wiper assembly at regular intervals. Each
month rubber tubing should be inspected, and
if perished or cracked a new length of tubing
should be. fitted. Three or four times each
year the part should be lubricated by discon-
necting air-line, and, after opening the air valve
and moving the wiper blade about three-fourths
of its travel, immerse the open tubing in some
receptacle containing an ounce or two of light
machine oil. Move the wiper blade back by
hand, lift out tube and repeat process two
or three times, so drawing in sufficient oil to
ensure adequate lubricating of moving parts.
* * %
H-J-F. (Mudgee, N.S.W.).—/ have been
troubled with the ignition of my six-cylinder
car. Mileage 23,000, and using original spark
plugs. Tested with a screwdriver or on top
of cylinder block, each plug sparks well. What
can be the trouble ?
The fact of a spark jumping across the
electrodes of a plug whilst resting, on the
cylinder, or a spark through the screwdriver
externally, is no certain indication that similar
conditions exist within the combustion cham-
ber. Compression pressure under load will
frequently cause an apparently sound plug to
“fade” and misfire. Only certain test is to
insert plugs under suspicion in a special
machine supplied with air pressure equal to
that in the combustion chamber.
# ❖ * ❖
A.E.G. (Goulburn, N.S.W.). — My U-h.p.
sports roadster is fitted with twin carburettors.
Although pulling well, it has recently
developed an annoying habit of refusing to
idle properly, and stalls at the most inconveni-
ent times. Can you suggest a remedy ?
Possibly there is a serious air-leak in the
induction system, which should be a simple
matter to locate. Failing this, check up the
dual throttle controls. If wear has developed
it is possible that throttle openings are not
synchronised. See that all lost motion is taken
up and that both open and close equally
throughout the complete range.
* * * *
E.M.A. (Moree, N.S.W.). — As I live a con-
siderable distance from a town, 1 sometimes
find my supply of distilled water inadequate
to fill batteries of car and house-lighting set.
Is it imperative to use this water?
Wherever possible, yes. Spring-, bore- or
dam-water contains mineral salts in solution
that, reacting with the electrolyte in the bat-
tery, may quickly ruin the unit. Rain-
water collected in a clean vessel may in an
emergency be substituted.
W.L. (Cunnamulla, Q.). — Will you settle a
dispute? Are there any poppet-valve petrol
engines used in cars to-day other than over-
head-valve and side-by-side types ?
Yes. While valve design may be classified
broadly into side-by-side and o.h.v. types,
yet there are two different layouts of the
former —L-head and T-head. L-head design
uses exhaust and inlet valves side by side, but
in line and actuated by a single camshaft.
T-head design—antiquated certainly, but applied
to many old cars —provides for exhaust valves
on one side and inlet valves on the opposite
side of the cylinder block, two camshafts being
necessary in this system.
* * * *
E.P.C. (Perth). — Although I have owned
and driven different types of cars for many
years, I am confused by some descriptions set
out in catalogues. Please tell me what is
intended in describing a Buick as 8/40, Chrysler
as “72,” Vauxhall as 23/60 and Ford as VB,
and woulti it be possible to reduce all to a
common level for purposes of comparison ?
Apparently each group adopts its individual
ideas in describing its particular model. Buick
8/40 is intended to convey the idea that the
machine is an eight-cylinder motor, series
“40,” meaning to the public nothing in par-
ticular. Chrysler “72” is also apparently a
series, but, in studying the different models
over a period of years, the series number indi-
cates maximum speed of a stock model of
that type. Regarding the 23/60 Vauxhall, first
figure indicates R.A.C. horse-power rating, the
latter maximum, b.h.p. at peak revolutions,
o Continued on page 30.)
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.


Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
0
O
SOLDERED
/ OR
, RIVETED
Movement in doors of closed
cars can be prevented by taking
up wear of metal stop as illus-
trated.
Entirely made in England
for Australian Conditions
<t
rnn i
TheNew
CMij/ltih. .
Fordson
Tractor
The new English Fordson has the power, stamina,
dependability and economy required for Australian
conditions. Important features include. New
cooling, lubrication and ignition systems. New
air cleaning system. "Hot-spot” vaporiser. New
governor control. Easy steering. New heavy-duty
transmission. Crankcase ventilation. Optional
gear ratios. Optional wheel equipment. The new
English Fordson is available for immediate delivery.
Easy payments spread to suit your convenience.
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS :
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
South Australia; ADELAIDE CAR
& TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Waymouth Street, Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
E.T.3
Use The New SIMONIZ KLEENER to
Restore Your Gar’s Original Beauty
“SEND OUT
A WILLARD-
no more ordinary
batteries for me”
MM
m
§m
mmi
Battery dead —a cold rainy night and miles from
home. The few shillings saved buying a battery of
unknown make and quality turned out to be expen-
sive economy.
That’s why every year more and more motorists
buy Willards —they’re dependable, Willards have
a world-wide reputation for quality and cost no
more than many less dependable batteries.
Willard
SEE
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
whilst V 8 in Ford means an eight-cylinder of
V type —two banks of four. Only sound
method of reducing to a common level would
be to compare performance figures as pub-
lished from time to time in '“The Steering
Column.”
h= * * *
S.P.O. (Armidale, N.S.W.). —1 have fitted
an idea to my car whereby headlights turn
with the steering wheels, providing safer light
when driving at night on winding roads. Has
this scheme been applied before, and could it
be protected by patent ?
Swivelling and dipping headlights are used
extensively overseas, and numerous patents are
held for different types. N.S.W. regulations,
however, prohibit tire use of such headlights,
and as a consequence no car so equipped
would pass registration
* * * *
J.O’N. (Rockhampton, Q.). —My 1933 six-
cylinder car is not performing as well as it did
some months ago. During a long tour recently
I noticed that, although pulling on hills still
remained normal, more throttle was required
to pick up speed, and the maximum dropped
almost 10 m.p.h. Can you suggest the trouble ?
Suggest timing chain has jumped a tooth,
retarding both ignition point and valve timing.
This, by the way, should also cause the engine
to overheat on long pulls. Alternatively, the
automatic ignition advance has ceased to func-
tion. Remove distributor head and rotor arm,
and with a feather or small oilcan put a few
drops of sewing-machine oil on the screw gear.
This should correct any defect in the auto-
matic advance mechanism.
A.S.D. (Petersham, N.S.W.). —7 have recently
purchased a late model six-cylinder car of
British manufacture which is fitted with a
device in the cooling system whereby water
temperature can be adjusted. What is the
most effective setting ?
The adjustable thermostatic control fitted to
your machine provides a ready means of secur-
ing maximum operating efficiency, as the
majority of engines in use to-day with fixed
control are grossly overcooled. Suggest you
conduct a few experiments after the engine
has been thoroughly run in, and endeavor to
keep cooling-water temperature around 85deg.
to 90deg. Centigrade.
* * * *
G.N. (Prahran, Vic.). —When first pur-
chased, the charging rate shown by ammeter
at 30-40 m.p.h. was about 10, but now, after
three months’ use, mostly in daylight, the
charging rate is only about 6 after the engine
is warmed up. Is this in order?
Running mostly without lights, your battery
is now charged to the fullest extent, and, as
modern-type generators are fitted with a voltage
regulator, the charging rate is automatically
reduced in value immediately the engine reaches
normal working temperature. This avoids
overcharging the battery.
C.I. Engines in Passenger Cars.
Compression ignition engines, loosely
termed Diesel types, have for some con-
siderable time proved their value in the
heavy-duty field, particularly when used
as stationary plants, and such remark-
able progress has been made over the
last few years in improving such vital
features as weight-to-horsepower ratio,
flexibility, ease of starting and elimina-
tion of vibration, that to-day they con-
stitute a serious rival to petrol engines
for use in buses, lorries and the like.
So far, however, the application of
C.I. motors to passenger cars seems to
have been neglected, except in a few
isolated experiments, and it is rather sur-
prising to find the first “production”
effort sponsored in U.S.A. and not
Europe, the home of C.I. types.
The Cummins motor, to be produced
this year, is known by repute to all keen
followers of motoring. In 1931 Cum-
mins created interest by driving a C.I.
six-cylinder engine car at a speed of
100.7 m.p.h. at Daytona Beach. This
effort was followed by a non-stop run in
the Indianapolis 500-mile race at an
average speed of 86 m.p.h., finishing
ahead of many fancied speed merchants.
There will be no reason to complain
of the new machines on the score of
economy, but whether the public will
take kindly to the rougher and noisier
engine remains to be proved.
Campbell and Speed Records.
Although Sir Malcolm Campbell has
failed by a narrow margin to achieve his
ambition in driving at five miles a
minute, yet both man and motor have
made a profound impression upon the
motoring world.
With particular regard to the extraor-
dinary Rolls Royce aero engine used in
the Blue Bird, it is not generally known
how remarkably light it is when the huge
power output of 2500 h.p. is taken into
account. Whereas the average touring-
car engine of to-day weighs in the neigh-
borhood of 101 b. for each horse-power
developed, the 12-cylinder motor used, by
Campbell weighs only 0.171 b. per brdlke-
horsepower, and when revving at its
top fuel is consumed at the rate of three
gallons per minute.
In perfecting this wonderful motor
some interesting and strenuous tests were
conducted by the Rolls Royce experts.
To comply with their standards of effi-
ciency and durability, the engine had to
stand up to a bench test, with open
throttle, for one hour at 3200 r.p.m. In
early tests, 20 minutes at top revs,
found a weakness. After 10 weeks of
research and experiments, the engine
withstood 30 minutes of continuous run-
ning at full throttle. Eighteen days later
a run of 58 minutes was recorded, the
engine developing 2360 h.p. Nine days’
more work saw the power unit measure
up to requirement's and the full hour
run at peak revolutions.
Subsequently, after further tests, an-
other 300 h.p. was obtained without in-
crease of cylinder capacity, and the re-
markable output of 2650 h.p. achieved.
From this it will be noted what a huge
reserve of horse-power hours is avail-
able in the power unit of the Blue Bird
to meet Campbell’s demands, which do
not exceed in the aggregate more than a
few minutes on each occasion upon
which he makes an attempt on the record.
One often hears the question “What
good is derived from such speed tests?”
The following statement, attributed to the
managing director of Rolls Royce, sup-
plies an adequate answer: “The lessons
learnt in improving the power output of
engines for speed demonstrations taught
his experts more in a few months than
could otherwise be gained in nearly as
many years”—and the same statement
applies to the racing tyres made by
Dunlop for Campbell’s super-machine.
Motor Oddities.
“Bogaduck”: It isn’t often that a spare
tyre gets punctured on the carrier, but
it does happen sometimes. I once met
a highly indignant motorist who was
displaying a punctured spare tyre to a
garage-keeper, and holding out the cause
of the puncture on the palm of his hand
—a .25-20 rifle bullet, which, fired into
the air somewhere near the road, had
dropped on to the tyre with sufficient
force to pierce it. An equally queer
happening occurred to R. E. G. Mc-
Donald, of Naracoorte (S.A.). Crossing
the Payneham tram track, near Adelaide,
he heard a sharp clang on the offside of
his Fiat, but failed to find the cause.
That evening he found that the spare
tyre, which was carried on the running-
board, was flat. He took it off to repair
it, and found that in crossing the tram-
way track the front wheel had picked
up a sharp-edged flake of steel from the
rail and had flung it up with such force
that it had pierced the aluminium tyre-
holder and the tyre and tube as well.
*. * *
“Jay”: A Warwick (Q.) resident ex-
perienced a thrill in his small sedan
when journeying to Brisbane via Mt.
Lindsay. This route was taken owing
to the state of other roads. He had
hardly got over the second motor grid
on South Canning Downs property when
an old ram which was grazing near by
suddenly became skittish and charged.
The front door on the driving side was
dented all over, while the door window
was also shattered. After doing his bit
in the way of showing contempt for
“baby” cars, the old warrior turned un-
concernedly away and went on with his
self-interrupted feed. It cost the owner
a few quid by way of repairs to his
latest model.


é
WIRELESS
VALVE
I? !
iioi
Ob
BiOl
ttm
tm
imm
'm
lOTRONS
w
Every Radiotron is
laboratory tested
and guaranteed by
Amalgamated Wire-
less Valve Co. to re-
tain its tonal quality
and give longer life
than any other valve
in the world.
DISTRIBUTORS:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney.
ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES LTD.
93-5 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
Opera Over
the Air
Opera has lately
come in for a
great deal of ad-
verse criticism by
Bulletin contri-
butors. I would
swell the chorus, but not for any of the
reasons so far advanced. The opera
which I think should be abolished is that
broadcast from the theatre.
Opera at the theatre I like ; certain
operas I could watch and listen to any
number of times, and I can listen with
pleasure to broadcasts of recorded opera.
But I suggest that the person who likes
the broadcast theatre opera is one with
a taste for nothing but
noise. A steel drill
would serve his pur-
pose just as well.
In the theatre itself
opera has many
attractive qualities. If
it is a good theatre
the voices are heard
pure, without distor-
tion. The stage spec-
tacle, though it may
be fustian, has color,
swagger, bravado;
and, though not
noticeable in some of
If you’re listenin’ to me, Larry.
the companies inflicted on Australia, it
is possible to see good acting in opera.
Over the air all this is absent, and
there’s worse than that. The stage posi-
tions of the singers make an even trans-
mission impossible. If you turn your
wireless set up so as to miss none of the
softer passages, the high notes will cut
holes in the ceiling ; if you tone it down
you get a series of jerky bits. What-
ever you do you do not get opera. You
get a crude distortion excruciating to
all but noise addicts and musical charla-
tans. If any argument is still wanted
to knock on the head the scheme for sub-
sidised opera it can be had at the lis-
teners’ end of things—the amounting
almost to certainty, that the A.B.C. will
again be stupid enough to broadcast full-
lergth performances from theatres.
The A.B.C. should itself listen-in to
one of these wretched broadcasts, and
then listen to a broadcast of the same
opera recorded. It ought to do so in the
interests of listeners, and it deserves to
do so for its sins.
B. L.
Talk: “Wild
Man from
Boggabri”
. . . the con-
cluding . . . faive
. . . numbahs . . .
all being . . .
recordings ... bai
... Columbia!) ...
Station . . . OIC
is now crossing . . . ovah ... to the
Sydney . . . Agriculchral Ground . . .
for our national . . . prograhm . . .
surpraise . . . for this avening ... a
naine . . . minutes’ talk . . . entaitled
“Whai . . . Ai . . . Adopted . . . the
Peculiah . . . Occupation ... of Waild
Man . . .• from Boaggabrai.” . . . Just
. . . faive . . . seconds . . . please.
Whatcher say? Jus’ be meself? Rich-ar.
Well, I gotter tell y’ ’ow I come t’ take
t' this game. Well, y’ see, me an’ Larry
lackson, an’ if you’re
listenin’ t’ me talkin’,
Larry, I’d like t’ give
y’ the straight oil t’
stay in Haddlehaid.
There’s a Guvermint
snoozer over in this
joint be th’ name er
Spooner, an’ th’ ’Oly
Fathers er got nothin’
on ’im. Strike me roan,
Larry, I’m ’ere in me
pit gnashin’ th’ ole
ta 11 s an’ frorthin’
through me whiskers
when I ’appen f take
a decko aloft, an’ there’s a codger up
there with a face like th’ road ’ome from
Th-’ Granites takin’ a hawk’s eye uv me
through a flamin’ microscope.
Well, Larry, I bares me fangs an’ spit
at ’im, an’ makes a noise like a coupler
keresene-tins, but
’e stands there an’
sings out, “Fel-
low,” he says,
or words to that
effeck. “Go inter
your cave at once,”
he says, “an’ put
your clothes on an’
cover your shame.”
Well, I can tell
y’, Larry, that got
me goat proper.
“Cover me shame!”
I shouts. “Don’t
Frorthin' through me whiskers.
you stand up there makin’ dirty insinua-
tions at me,” I shouts. “You oughter
talk!” I says.
Well, Larry, he looked as if he was
goin’ t’ throw a back ’un.
“I’ll ’ave the police onter y’,” he says.
“Police!” I says. “Who th’ hell d’you
think you are —th’ Governor?”
“I’m Spooner,” he says.
“Spooner?” I says. “You a spooner?
Y’ wouldn’t,” I says, “except in a coat
of armor. An’ will y’ stop dribblin’ inter
my pit ?”
When ’e comes back, Larry, ’e ’as a
“Roll up! Tumble
up !”
coupler coppers
with ’im, an’ ’e
insists on
me cover-
in’ up the
girl friend
on me left shoul-
der - blade y’
know the one,
L a r r y—an’ of
course business
ain’t been 50 per
cent, what it was
since. So y’ see,
Larry, it’d be no
good y’ cornin’
over here with the
God i v a show.
You’d ’ave to rig
Madge out in bathin’ togs, an’ even
if Madge is puttin’ on er bit er weight
I reckon it’s a better show as it is.
What’s that, mister? O.K. Well, I
jus’ been given th’ oil to stick t’ fellin’
y’all what made me come at this game.
Well, y’ see, there’s me an’ Larry doin’
pretty good down in South Aus., an’ if
you’re there, Larry, I want t’ tell you. Y’
know that bloke Joe we struck up at
Alice with the camel team? Well, I’m
’ere in me pit yesterdee leapin’ erbout
like a paddymelon and spittin’ out
knuckle-bones, an’ puttin’ up a flamin’
good show, when I ’ears someone yellin’
out “Hi, there!” from up aloft. Well,
Larry, I takes a sorter side-on screw,
th inkin’ the voice was sorter familiar, an’
it’s ’im all right.
He’s standin’ up there among
the audience on the parapet
where Fred puts all th’ shins an’
leg-bones I’m supposed
to ’ave ’ad for break-
fust. Well, Larry, one
look’s enough f me
I jus’ keeps me head
down an’ prances
round as if I never
’eard ’im. But ’e ain’t
satisfied. No. He ieans
well out over the pit,
an’ sings out, “Hey,
you there!” he say§.
“Bill, you silly ole cow,
its on’y me. Doncher know a bloke?”
I tries t’ warn ’im off by wavin’ me
arms about, but she’s no go, so I gets
down to it an’ sticks me big toe in me
mouth and pretends I don’t know he’s
there. But there’s no shakin’ ’im off.
“It’s no damn good y’ chewin’ your
feet,” he sings out. “You’re Bill
Not Only
B-class Blah
Even if “L.J.H.”
(B. 10/4/ ’35) is
right in accusing
commercial sta-
tions of having
no other ideal
than to sell the goods advertised through
them, they are not the only ones addicted
to blah. In fact, in talks they are not
nearly so tiresome or offensive as our
A-class stations.
The excuse of the A-class people
hitherto was that they had most, of their
talkers wished on to them under “popular
education” and other such schemes out-
side their control. That excuse is wear-
ing a bit thin now, and, in any case, it
could only excuse the wretched voices
that carved the night; it could not excuse
the matter in a talk, since all talks by
unknown speakers have always been sub-
ject to editorial inspection before going
to the mike. No; the worst blah-
offenders are not the casuals, but the
regulars employed to talk on certain
topics. Apparently few of these get
employment by virtue of good voices,
plus ability to say what has to be said
in decent, straight, logical statement.
They seem to be employed on the
strength of reputations built up else-
where than at the only place that
matters —the mike.
The result can be heard by anyone
with the patience to listen to some of
these regular commentators. And the
worst offenders are not the cricket talkers,
though one cricket expert, at least, would
be in the running for first-prize wire-
less bore of the world. Pretty well
all of them dither away, saying in a
quarter of an hour what can be read in
10 lines of the newspapers from which
they got their information.
As purveyors of blah of this kind —
the solemn, portentous, patronising kind
—our A-class stations have no equal.
S. Imber.
Saunders. I’d know y’,” he says,“if y’ was
chewin’ th’ back of y’ neck. You’re gettin’
damn flash since y’ stepped up in the
world,” he says; “but y’ can’t kid me.”
Well, I could tell be th’ sound of ’im
that he’s gettin’ damn cranky, an’ I’m
thinkin’ of retirin’ inter me cave, when
Fred goes round from
th’ back of the tent an’
up onter th’ parapet,
an’ starts yellin’ out to
dro w n d th’ other
bloke’s voice. “Kum-
mon,” says Fred. “Roll
up! Tumble up!
Fire! Fire! Fire! Fire
away, boys! Kummon!
’Ere’s your chance t’
see th’ Hon’y Wild Man
from Boggabri hever
hexibited hin captivity!”
That bloke
we struck up
at Alice.
But I can tell y’, Larry, this Joe bloke’s
a dinkum nark. “Wild? Wild?” ’e yells.
“Y’ call ’im wild? Wild, me foot. That’s
on’y ole Bill Saunders. Strike me lucky,
don’t y’ think I know ’im? Hey there,
you, Bill! ” ’e yells ; an’ when I takes
no notice, but starts t’ scratch meself, ’e
starts t’ jump up an’ down, shakin’ the
whole pit, an’ yellin’ out: “Flash,” he
yells. “Flash. That’s what’s up with ’im.
Puttin’ up a flamin’
good show.
Knows a bloke in
th’ bush, all right,
but ’e won’t speak
to ’im in th’ city.
Wild!” he howls.
“Wild man, eh?
You watch ’im —
he’ll be damn wild
in a minute! ” An’
with that ’e ups
with a bone as big
as a pick-’andle
and lets me ’ave it.
It got me on th’
back er me. neck,
an’ I damn near
bit me toe in half,
an’ what I called
th’ lop-eared, cross-eyed
Lo-ong to-oo re-eign o-ver us,
G-od . . . save . . . our . . . King.
Station OIC. The Governah . . .
General . . . has just arraived ... at
the . . . Showground . . . Stations will
“Flash,” he yells.
“Flash. That’s
what’s up with
’im.”
now resume . . . their ordinary . . .
prograhms . . .
The taime . . . is . . . naine . . .
faive ... p. ... m.
Sizzle and A.
All Round
the Dial
“Mike”: Lionel
Lun n, recently
given a verdict
for £4OOO - odd
damages against
2UE Sydney, has
had, like the majority of microphone en-
tertainers, a pretty varied career. In
1917 he tried to be a sailor, without con-
spicuous success; then he understudied
Cyril Ritchard for a while ; next he had
a shot at wool-classing and selling motor-
cars before going back to the stage with
Guy Bates Post. More car-selling and
other such things, until he drifted into
2GB to become chief announcer, and
thence, after about 18 months, to 2UE.
“La Vivacita”: The A.B.C. issues a
periodical programme of its forthcoming
talks, including precis. How anyone can
listen to a talk after having read a sum-
mary thereof completely passes my com-
prehension. All the adventure, the charm
of the unexpected, which attends the hear-
ing of a good discourse by a personality
is donged on the napper. And these ora-
tions are so brief that a synopsis is virtu-
ally the talk itself in different phrase-
ology.
“Oke”: 2KY Sydney has roped in
Captain T. D. Bairnsfather to do feature
broadcasts. He is a brother of “Old
Bill” Bruce Bairnsfather, and had a first-
class war career. He entered the army
from school, served throughout the war
in France, Italy, Belgium and Germany,
was three times wounded, twice men-
tioned in dispatches and twice decorated.
After the war he was with the army in
India and China. His broadcasting
career is just as varied. Stations from
which he has been heard include 2LO
(London!, 3LO, 3AR, 2FC, 3GL, 2CH
and 2UE.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
l.atlio Accessories at give-away prices. All
folly tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
1 S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.). 1111111
! 4 Rowe Street, Sydney. 1
j Specialist in Battery-operated
i Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 822H1. I
Country Readers!
At the recent Radio and
Electrical Exhibition at the
Town Hall, Sydney, widespread
interest was aroused by the
stand of Messrs. F. T, S.
O’Donnell, Griffin and Co. and
the Don Electrical Coy., exhibit-
ing the new
Myers “Compleat” Radiant
Heat Low-voltage Electric
Ranges, Grillers and Rotating
Spits.
Cooking by Radiant Heat em-
bodies all the advantages of
existing gas and electric stoves
with none of their disadvantages.
SPEED. SAFETY. ECONOMY.
Get the particulars of this
entirely new principle of cooking
from
Don Electrical Coy.
Manufacturing Engineers,
’Phone L 2839. Camperdown, N.S.W.
DON B. KNOCK'S
IRON-CORE R.F. COILS FOR AUSTRALIA—
WHEN?
As a rule the Australian radio manu-
facturer of repute is not slow to take the
plums of overseas development and to
apply them more than successfully to his
own and his customers’ advantage. In
nine cases out of ten he can duplicate
and, moreover, improve upon funda-
mental applications, such as dials, vari-
able condensers and most components.
There are certain developments over-
seas which are not so readily dealt with,
chief among which are iron-core R.F.
coils and permeability-type tuning sys-
tems. To produce these things, after
all the preliminary business associated
with manufacture under license has been
settled, means comprehensive laboratory
tests and the establishment of special
factory plant. It means a good deal of
expense, but something will have to be
done in this direction sooner or later if
Australia is not to be a back number in
radio.
That iron-core R.F. coils possess
material advantages is indisputable in
the light of recent investigation in U.S.A.
All the good ideas in radio do not origi-
nate in the laboratories of Uncle Sam,
but give him a sniff of a new idea and
he knows how to put it on a thoroughly
commercial footing. Leading Australian
manufacturers or agents, when approached
regarding some English or Continental
development, say they will wait and see
what American radio engineers will do
about it.
It must be admitted that in many in-
stances where Europe started something
the U.S.A. enlarged or improved upon
it The first screen-grid valve was Eng-
lish —the old Marconi 5625 —and so was
the pentode. A German, Vogt, developed
the modern iron-dust-core R.F. coil, and
England speedily put it into action. The
English radio publications extolled the
virtues of such coils, and now most
commercial or constructor radio re-
ceivers are fitted with iron-core coils.
Recently, American laboratories have
gone thoroughly info the possibilities of
these coils, and papers before the Insti-
tute of Radio Engineers (U.S.A.) show
that there is everything for them and
nothing against them.
An advertisement in “Electronics”
(U.S.A.) by a recently-formed concern
bears the following features:
Iron core for R.F. and I.F. transformers,
extensively studied by America’s outstand-
ing high-frequency laboratories, now recom-
mended for immediate adoption because of
superior performance obtained by their
use. Improved qualities: Selectivity, gain,
signal-noise ratio. Characteristics: . Im-
munity from defects due to temperature,
humidity and age; uniformity guaranteed.
If such coils cannot be made under
license here they should at least attract
the attention of some enterprising im-
porter! Australian-made radio receivers
to-day rank with the best produced over-
seas, but where improvements can be
effected there should be no undue delay
in installing them. R.F. coils are not
all they should be, and the iron-core type
is obviously well worth a trial. The out-
back listener particularly would benefit
considerably, apart from the all-round
improvement offered generally by the
use of such coils.
D. B. K.
PERMEABILITY TUNING.
Iron-core Coils Dispense with Variable Condensers.
The method of tuning a circuit to a
desired frequency by means of a coil
and a variable condenser is so familiar
that it is accepted by many as final. In
radio nothing is final. The science is
still quite an infant. Engineers have
been well aware of the inherent defects
of the coil-condenser combination for
many years, and have sought various
ways out. One was the variometer,
which, being all inductance and little or
no self-capacity, was discarded for its
lack of selectivity. The variometer, how-
An English example of a condenserless
tuner, the Varley Permeability Unit.
ever, in view of recent iron-core develop-
ments, may reappear some day in a dif-
ferent dress designed to overcome its
deficiencies. Even with the latest type of
iron-core R.F. coil, as developed over-
seas, there is still the tendency toward
flattened tuning at the higher-frequency
end of the range when the coil is tuned
by a variable condenser, although the
degree of flattening is much less than
with air-core coils. To counteract this
the permeability tuner has been de-
veloped. It consists of an arrangement
whereby the tuning of the circuit is
varied by sliding an iron core into and
around the coil, thereby varying the in-
ductance. The net result is to make the
variable condenser a fifth wheel of fhe
coach. In a receiver with a tuner so
designed the coils do the whole job,
and the tuning dial moves the cores in-
stead of variable condensers as formerly.
Engineers responsible for the develop-
ment claim that with ganged circuits the
stage coupled to the aerial is easily
kept in step with the other stages and
unaffected by the variation of aerial load
with changing wave-length. Audio qual-
ity is better because there is no loss of
high-note response at the higher radio
frequencies owing to the improved selec-
tivity. The tuner maintains constant
selectivity, coupling and quality over the
whole range of wave-lengths. This
method of tuning, a natural sequence to
the iron-core coil (yet unknown in Aus-
tralia) appears to be one of the most
outstanding and beneficial developments
in the short history of radio. Perme-
ability tuning and iron-cored R.F. coils
generally should be on the slate for the
next technical programme in all Austra-
lian radio laboratories worthy of the
name. These developments are so vastly
important that they cannot be ignored
indefinitely.
The effective iron-core R.F. coil does
not, however, lend itself to haphazard
methods of design or manufacture.
The core must be of a special type which
does not cause excessive loss at high
frequencies. The increase in R.F. re-
sistance, due to the presence of the iron,
must vary with frequency in a suitable
manner to compensate for the changes
due to actual coil winding and stray
capacities, and the inductance variation
must be enough to give the required
wave-length coverage. It means a great
deal of experimental work on core
material, shape, speed of movement for
permeability tuning, the shape of the
winding and many other factors. In
other words, the iron-core job has got to
be done properly from start to finish, or
the results will be disappointing. But
there is no justification for any further
hesitation. Iron corns have proved their
merits in Europe ar.d U.S.A., and their
introduction to Australia is already over-
due.
D. B. K.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been again excellent
in the 25-metre band, except in the early
part of the evening, when it is quiet until
after 11 p.m.
There is another station to add to the
list of those just below 33 metres (that
; s, above GSB), and after 10 p.m. is at
good strength here. This is the short-
wave transmission of the broadcast
station in Hong Kong, XBW.
By far the best transmission now is
the 8.8. C. No. 1 on GSB, while GSD
is very good. The writer has not many
chances of testing at the earlier hours,
but from 5.30 p.m. on strength is maxi-
mum from both stations.
FYA was very weak on 7/4/’35, but
considerably better than the previous
week, and WBXK could be copied in
parts using ’phones.
The higher bands have been good for
the various D.E.I. and Japanese stations
(which seem to change wave-length very
A.W.A.'s high-fidelity transmitter for 2SM, shown at the 1935 Radio Exhibition.
frequently), also the Russian on 70
metres.
The SO-metre amateur band was full
of life, and the Blackwood Radio Club
in South Australia was heard well with
excellent quality.
Rome has continued in the 31-metre
band in the morning, and is fine strength
round 6 a.m. to 7 a.m.
An improvement is also noted in the
morning in the 25-metre band, both FYA
and GSD being at good strength, with
DJD fair.
PHI put on a variety programme on
the night of 6/4/’35. This was at excellent
strength from opening at 11.30, and in-
cluded all kinds of music, but the 19-
metre transmission from PCJ was weak.
PHI disappeared early in April last year,
but with the two transmitters going now
possibly only PCJ will move to 19m.
It is some years since any transmissions
below the 19-metre band have been re-
ceived in Australia at any useful
strength, but those conditions will prob-
ably recur in the near future. The writer
heard dozens of ’phone and broadcast
stations during the summers of 1929 and
’3O, many at maximum strength on wave-
lengths from 14 to 17 metres.
Preparation for the Jubilee broadcast
is under way, but upon the hour of com-
mencement depends our reception of the
actual ceremony or an electrical record-
ing.
NIGHTOWL.
What’s What in Radio.
Thirty-eight A.W.A. Broadcasters in
Australasia.
The latest addition to the broadcast-
ing stations of Australia is 4CA Cairns,
a license for that town having been
granted to Amalgamated Wireless. The
Cairns station is the thirty-eighth broad-
caster placed on the air by A.W.A. First
was 2FC, the first 5000-watt station in
the Southern Hemisphere, which com-
menced operations December 5, 1923. It
Was located at Willoughby, but after
three years was superseded by a plant
at Pennant Hills. A.W.A. also designed
the original 6WF Perth, which went on
the air "June 4, 1924. Melbourne station
3LO, Adelaide SCL and Brisbane 4QG
followed shortly after. All these stations
were A.W.A. products.
The B-class privately-owned commer-
cial stations then began to come on the
scene, and A.W.A. became the principal
factor in production. Two notable B-
class stations in Australia are 2UW and
2SM Sydney, for which A.W.A. recently
constructed complete new “high-fidelity
equipment. 2AY Albury, 2WG Wagga,
2GN Goulburn and 2GF Grafton were
also designed by A.W.A., together with
3DB Melbourne, 380 Bendigo and 3HA
Hamilton.
The largest of the A.W.A. B stations
in Queensland is 4BC, the first of its
class in the Northern State. 4TO Towns-
ville is another A.W.A. station, and the
co.’s engineers are now designing a sta-
tion for Warwick, which will be on the
air within the next few weeks.
The most powerful B station in West-
ralia is 6PR Perth, which started with
200 watts in the aerial, and increased to
500 watts within the first few months.
In Tasmania A.W.A. established the
highest-powered broadcaster, 7LA Laun-
ceston, which not only serves the island
State, but is frequently enjoyed by lis-
teners on the mainland.
M.L. Broadcasting Board several
years ago purchased an A.W.A. portable
station, and last year ordered a 3000-
watt equipment, which was installed at
Christchurch. Recently an A.W.A.
10,000-watt station was opened in Auck-
land —the most powerful plant in opera-
tion in Australasia. Stations of similar
capacity are in course of construction
by A.W.A. for both Christchurch and
Dunedin.
The first mobile station in Australia
was manufactured by A.W.A. and
mounted on the “Great White Train”
which in 1925-26 toured N. S. Wales
with an exhibition of Australian-made
articles. The train visited more than 100
towns in 12 months. Whenever it
stopped A.W.A. engineers erected masts
and wireless aerials, and 2XT radiated a
programme of music. Reports of recep-
tion came from many parts of Australia
and M.L., and even from Papua. In
1930 when the big All-Australian Exhibi-
tion was held in Melbourne a special
A.W.A. broadcasting station was installed.
This station, known as 3EX, put over an
excellent programme, together with lec-
turettes and talks, which went far to-
wards popularising the exhibition.
Also, A.W.A. built the two Australian
world-wide broadcasters—VK2ME Syd-
ney and VK3ME Melbourne. On Sep-
tember 5, 1927, VK2ME radiated the


SAFEST
Not merely SAFE.. . but
because of GREATER CHASSIS WEIGHT, LARGER BRAKING AREA,
and KNEE ACTION ....
mm
mm
m
■a*.
mm
mm
k
m
mM
19A
m
Si
Greater Chassis Weight.
The Master Chevrolet frame is
over 5 inches deep and weighs
257 lbs. It provides exceptional
chassis stability and a sound
foundation for the body, and is 20
times stronger than any previous
Chevrolet.
Larger Braking Area.
Master Chevrolet’s Brake lining
area has been increased 32% —
from 128 to 172 square inches.
Brake drums are 12 ins. in
diameter. The grip is surer.
There is less likelihood of heating
and less risk of wear.
Knee Action.
Master Chevrolet’s “Knee Action ”
wheels ‘ step over ’ any obstruct-
ion individually. Steering control
is completely isolated from up-
and-down wheel movement, re-
sulting in shockproof steering
and increased safety and comfort.
RASTER Chevrolet’s “Knee Action” springing permits
higher average speeds with safety over rough roads
and positively shockless steering over ALL roads. Its
larger braking area enables you to stop smoothly,
surely —in an instant! The increased weight of frame
and chassis promotes a far firmer hold on the road.
Allied to these important improvements is a degree of
luxury never before attained in a low-priced car. See
for yourself! Your local dealer will gladly place a
Master Chevrolet at your disposal for a trial run!
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD
MASTER
O# i
Consult your local authorised
Chevrolet Dealer.
C 35-4 A
first Empire programme, which was re-
layed throughout the British Isles.
VK3ME came on the air in November
of that year, and for the last four years
both stations have broadcast regular pro-
grammes which are received in nearly
every country except Afghanistan, where
the authorities have no time for wireless.
Casual Comment.
“Enno”: The newly-appointed Chief
Commissioner of N.S.W. Police, W. J.
Mackay, is a firm believer in radio as a
means of extending the Law’s long arm.
He has an able lieutenant in Sergeant
W. Salmon, who runs the police wireless
dept, in Sydney. With car radio patrols
augmented by radio-equipped motor-
cycles in the offing, car thieves, smash-
and-grab burglars and their ilk will find
the path of transgression considerably
harder.
* * * *
“Spotlight”: Where the modern iron-
cored coil leaves off, the permeability
tuner starts. “Popular Wireless” (Eng.)
launched a technical article describing a
simple three-valve regenerative type re-
ceiver, using the Varley permeability
tuner, and named the creation “Nu-
Tune.” The main features claimed are
high efficiency, great sensitivity and un-
usual selectivity, and yet it has no tuning
condensers. Of the results obtained, the
scribe says: “You will be surprised
at the power and selectivity that are to
be obtained. In fact, the Nu-Tune has
the qualities of a super, and is yet as
simple to build and operate as the
straightest of ‘straights.’ ” Mr. Varley is
urgently wanted in Australia!
**.*''*
“Spotlight”: A Sydney daily published
a news par. from Canberra touching on
week-end radio tests on a wave-length of
10 metres, and the successful telegraphic
and telephonic communication with
many parts of North America and Japan.
It is interesting news, but the work is an-
other instance of amateur and not com-
mercial investigation of unusual aspects
of short-wave communication. The sta-
tion to which reference should have been
made is experimental station VK2EP,
Canberra. Ten-metre work really comes
under the heading of ultra-short waves,
and, despite the fact that the com-
munication with America is abnormal,
and in all probability linked with the
11-year sun-spot cycle theory, such
communication is definitely a historical
record. During the same period, Mr.
Con Bischoff, of experimental radio
station VK2LZ, communicated with
stations in the New York and Chicago
districts. There is in these days far
too much tendency to sink the efforts
of the experimenter in the maelstrom of
commercialism, and the excitable press
gives him little or no credit for his
modest achievements.
:|: * * *
“Querex”: An American radio monthly
says: “In Australia they apply to dry
electrolytic condensers the reversed Eng-
lish term, ‘wetless.’ ” Joe Wetless,
pioneer Australian condenser manufac-
turer, whose surname is his trade-mark,
will no doubt be amused.
Latest in the Trade.
Philips Radio made history, both in
the radio trade and aviation, when over
3000 AKI octode valves were landed
safely at Mascot (Sydney) Aerodrome on
5/4/ 35 from Europe. The consignment,
the first air freight of its kind to cover
the air route to Australia, was handled
successfully by Imperial Airways, the
Royal Dutch All' Line, Q. A.N .1 .A.o.
and New England Airways, and arrived
at the Sydney end on scheduled time.
During a luncheon given at the aero-
drome to executives of the radio trade,
Mr. J. A. Overdiep, Philips’s chairman,
stressed the point that the freighting of the
valves by air was no publicity stunt, but
was done to meet the great demand for
the particular types. Mr. Wyles, chief
engineer, said that the arrival of the
consignment was a great relief, the de-
mands of the trade for the octode
having completely cleaned out stocks.
Philips Radio is to be congratulated on
its enterprise. Owing to air-mail space
considerations, the balance of the original
order, comprising a further 500 valves,
will arrive by the next mail.
The Q. and A. Column.
.My five-valve superheterodyne, after having
been in use for about an hour, becomes dis-
torted, with an accompanying raspy sound.
After switching off for half an hour the set is
again normal, and the trouble develops again
gradually. —2s4.
The cause is undoubtedly overheating some-
where—most likely a resistor which has become
faulty. Get a reliable serviceman to go over
the set under working conditions. Overheating
of a dry electrolytic by-pass condenser could
also be responsible.
* * * *
(1) What is the equivalent to the PM2B in
the Philips range of 4-volt D.C. valves ?
(2) Can a magnetic speaker be used with this
type of valve in the manner illustrated
{sketched) ? (3) What results can be expected ?
—255.
(1) There is no 4-volt equivalent. The same
2-volt type in the Philips range is the 8240.
(2) No. A centre-tapped choke is necessary,
with the speaker connected across the two
ends through a 2mfd. condenser. (3) Unsatis-
factory unless the choke method referred to
is used.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
in
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL ?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—
the journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
K.P.M.
C/recit
mite
tycLC/ltS
NIEUVy
HOLLAND
"NIEUW
ZEELAND"
§KRj®
Agents:
John Sanderson & Co ,
/II William Street, Mel-
bourne; Dalgety & Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane; Elder,
Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide and Perih.
ii
Hi
rii
mm
s'.
44
m
m
Ipt
y
m
''"'■s'.
SS,:
lllliit»
wsmmsmsmmmssmm
Kjtjep from
INTO SUMMER WITH
K. P. M
JAVA.’ BALI * SINGAPORE
R oijal Vackel" \gviqatm C o
PAKEIVAART HOUSE'” 255 N GEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Jam Jtecmep
FIRST CLASS RETURN FARES
• 9uava
■ I Mom
JYOMSY-^t^
• BRISBANE K 4
« MELBOURNE *72
* ADELAIDE 1 76 f i0
-ifejn SYDNEY w )£_
: - BRISBANE I/ 5
• MEieOU#NEK79'«
ADELAIDE VQ4-
fmOffUHANttMCIUPtI Stol
mpmmußYL ocalk pm
stfamfr
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.C.W.: Didn’t know your “late Governor
was very verbose.” But you should be the
last to condemn him on that account....
R.A.S.: Beautifully typed, indifferently punc-
tuated, licentiously rhymed and badly expressed.
D.L.: What with the “ticker that missed
a beat” and the “brow that oozed sweat”
and the “dome that began to ache,” it got
on our nerves... .8.W.: The serious propa-
ganda you aim at won’t be helped by dis-
orderly verse where “kindred” is regarded as
a good rhyme to “hindered.”... .M.S.: Seems
a cry from the heart, but, from our own experi-
ence, it is unjust... .F.S.: It is impossible to
give “explicit criticisms” in three or four lines.
But you rhyme well, which at least is some-
thing H.W.: No use “soliciting space” in
this esteemed journal for 100 lines or so of
rambling soliloquy... .M.W.: The adventures
of Bert of Who-Knows-Where and his faithful
hound Whisky read too much like a night-
mare... .T.E.S.: Can’t discern a spark of
promise in that bit of feeble sentimentality....
P.J.1.: Your jingle needs a lot of tinkering....
0.C.D.: Some rhyming facility, but you carry
extravaganza too far... .F.G.F.: But was King
O’Malley responsible for the naming of Can-
berra?... .M-.H.: Fair example, of how not
to use alliteration... .Atalaya: Let it go at
that, then; with no notion of rhythm, we have
hopelessly wrong ideas on what constitutes
stodginess in verse... .W.E.P.: It doesn’t get
through H.C.: Your claim to have “em-
braced the commonplace” is readily conceded.
.....LIB.: About as stimulating as a cold
doughboy E.F.: Quite out of our line....
L.M.: There are humor and observation in it,
but the craftsmanship is untidy. A little polish
would make all the difference.... A.D.: Jane’s
endeavor to start a small farm stocked with
a sheep-dog and a canary deserves commenda-
tion... .C.W.: The market price for yarns
about smart racing coups is a shade over a
shilling a dozen R.J.0.: There’s an idea,
but you haven’t made the most of it....
0.M.K.: Too much circumlocution... .G.D.S.:
All right in its way, but there have been scores ’
of similar things... .J.R.P.: Doesn’t bring
home the bacon... .N.P.: Not up to standard.
... .D.D.: Passed it on to a Baby Welfare ex-
pert, who considered it might prove harmful
to young mothers 1.Y.: No body in it....
K.H.H.: No ghosts, Maori or otherwise,
admitted 80P.: Still short of a place
H.R.McD.: Not funny enough Xamilc: Old
Bill’s ruse was a good one, but it doesn’t quite
make a story N.R.: To be candid—weak.
. ...C.H.F.: Rewrite it as a scenario for a
gangster film W.A. von K.: Plot melo-
dramatic 8.C.: Not suitable S.H.: Off
our beat E.G.H.: If you have really been
seasick, how can you bear to write about it?
... .E.L.McD.: No use for the ordinary type
of detective story The Admiral: Beg to
report, sir—nothing doing ..R.T.: Put it
aside and read it in 12 months’ time... .G.H.S.:
Doesn't ring the be 11... .T.H.M.: A par., per-
haps; a yarn, n0....1.W.: The leopard-woman
is as old as Africa... .F.M.: The only unusual
thing about it was the flame that threw the
surrounding bush “into dancing shiliottes”....
M. 8.: Article on voice production out of our
line... .D.A.J.: Overdone. Drop half your
adjectives and half your horrors... .L.H.R.:
Worth a second chance. Try elsewhere....
H.0.L.: Not the kind we want... .R.H.G.:
War yarns have to be something out of the
ordinary to get through....G.T.: No. mar-
ket here for that sort.. . .Leal: A well-
trained typewriter should write verse like that on
its own... .0.A.: Too late for the purpose
D. : Cutting it up into varied lengths doesn’t
make verse of it... .M.McM.: Sounds very
young.... W.M.D.: Have heard worse words in
songs, but printed as verse they would be
pretty p00r... .E.A.W.: Yours, too, might
pass as a song. Otherwise thin... .L.C.: Can’t
recall “Vision,” but suspect it suffered the fate
now executed .on “Grey Day”... .N.C.: No
worse, but no better than thousands that come
along C.R.A.: Too much wood in “April.”
A.C.M.: You have a better sense of color
than of melody... .A.L.McI: Quite competent
without anything to stir a pulse... .8.G.: No-
where near this target.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.W.: Have you ever seen a ’roo? ... .8.L.:
“The Flying Premier” crashed into the basket.
C.C.: A stiff drawing, and the week’s
Itamest joke... .D.8.W.: There are so
many blots, smudges and erasures that we
can’t tell what it is all about J.R.: You
might make a good ticket-writer... .A.E.F.:
We had to call for a magnifying-glass to see
them... .V.P.: >Do you draw with boxing
gloves on your hands? 1.L.J.: The old chap
with the meerschaum needs overhauling from
head to toes... .K.M.: The compliments in the
covering letter don’t make the drawings less
dreadful... .C.D.: It isn’t a nice gag—even if
it occurs in a current Sydney show.... .L.H.C.:
The showman’s offer to Dad does the rounds
every Easter.... G.J.T.: Many miles below
our standard... .H.F.: Didn’t fancy the outsize
charlady with broomsticks for arms and a
child’s head... .S.V.: Keep to something
simple—you haven’t got above drawing butter-
boxes yet... .A.R.G.: Well, you won’t be one
of our artistic finds for 1935 E.M.S.: De-
spite all your passion for jokes about pigs,
you cannot draw the animal W.R.:
Neat and tidy, but only fashion-plates
G.P.: A soiled batch of ancients... .J.C.F.:
Quite promising; study hard and try again
E. Overcrowded with labels, and rather
pointless A.P.T.: In four or five years,
provided you take lessons, you might make
g00d....W.M.: A special section in our
morgue is reserved for that drunk joke.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“M. de Paris”: In view of the unrea-
sonable prejudice against executioners, ; it
is pleasing to note that . Germany has
given one of the fraternity a fair spin.
r ,u .■/ f .
Tm ’ h f",l
of Michel Kran z executioner to the city
of Mainz, bungled his work badly. The
artist in Krantz arose, and he smote his
collaborator so sorely that he died. Tried
for murder, Krantz was acquitted by the
jury on the ground that, as a professional
executioner, it was not reasonable to
expect him to have the same tender care
for human life as a mere civilian.
s** • * •
“Cherrywood”: Do you ever wonder
where Japanese competition in imported
... . . ..... .
goods IS going to stop, or what is going
to stop it? I tried to buy a cherry-
wood walking-stick, old style, common
enough a few years ago. Not a single
retailer could oblige me, but everyone
pressed on me Japanese cherrywood
(equally suitable for sticks and um-
brellas) at about half the price of the
European cherry. They said they no
longer stocked the other; the Japanese
product had entirely cut it out. It is
good wood, too, beyond question, lack-
ing only the pleasant aroma of the
Fmdish stuff
; ,
'. * *
Ex-Sahib : There is no need for old-
timers to come to a full stop after writ-
ing “five pounds” on a cheque (B.
27/3/’35), and the bishop who wrote “pay
cash the sum of five pounds exactly” was
merely following a habit which has been
known amongst the white official popu-
lation of-India for years. On Indian
cheques drawn by white depositors the
word “only” always took the. place of
sterling.” And that word “only” is
really more precise in the circumstances
than “exactly.”
* # * *
“Coif”: The Bar Council and Law
Society in England, backed by High and
Countv Court lodges are considering
County Court Judges, are considering
methods of stamping out the practice of
“corpse-hunting,” which has become
rampant among low-class legal firms,
These have their agents everywhere ; the
moment a road casualty occurs the tout
chases it to the hospital, tells the suf-
ferer what a splendid case for damages
he has, and gets him to sign a document
agreeing to pay the firm commission and
costs out of damages or compensation
received. The tremendous increase in
p°t°r accidents during the past few years
,? rov,ded .f 7°™ Tiddler’s ground
t°i these spiritual descendants of Dod-
son “d Fogg, not to mention Quirk,
Gammon and Snap. There is, of course,
a way to tack i e these uy alreadyj
since “speculative cases” are supposed to
be against the ethics of the profession ;
the difficulty is to pick them out.
* * * *
' . , ,
. controvers y has een
raging in Queensland around a four-bar-
relied breech-loading pistol recently dis-
COv,eie( i in an old western police station.
Ali f rts ° f theor J es “jo its ancient ori-
§ln have been advanced, each one more
chuck i eheaded thanHhe other: The fact
that it is a breech | oader using percus-
sion-capped brass cartridges definitely
marks it as modern. Before the war
the Lancasters of Birmingham marketed
a big-bore pistol of this type designed
chiefly for Indian frontier use. It
had been ■ found that the service re-
volve[’ with its comparatively weak
muz , ze .velocity, often failed to stop
a charging Pathan swathed m heavy
c i° thl "S topped off, perhaps, with a thick
sheepskin poshteen. The Lancaster pistol,
having no gas escape like the revolvers,
was a tremendously hard hitter and
gave most satisfactory results. The last
one j saw h ad been brought from India
by a member of Plumer’s staff in South
Africa.
* * * *
“Scoff” : Preparations for the Berlin
Olympiad are going on apace. The
N.D.L., which' is to manage the Olympic
village and cater for visitors, will charge
12s. 6d. a day for living and transport
between Berlin and the Olympic settle-
ment, nine miles away. Every effort is to
be made, to’suit the gastronomic fancies
0 f competitors from «so many lands.
One notices that meat is referred to by
that name only on the provisional menus.
Former Australian teams have aveired
that the onl y meat available in Europe—
and m other folk win endorse the
conte ntion—is veal, loathsome to many,
However, the N.D.L., with its catering
experience, should know what real mut-
ton and beef are. There seems a fine
chance here to get rid of some of Aus-
tralia’s chilled-beef and-mutton supplies,
Send every member of our team away
accompanied by a hindquarter of baby
beef and a lamb.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip _
It thundered and lightened and rained
in Sydney on Saturday morning, and
many changed their minds about going
to the races. As things turned out it
was fine at Warwick Farm, and the
absentees missed some brilliant racing,
On the other hand, they probably avoided
damage to their bank balances, for most
of the public fancies failed.
• • • • •
Silver King was one of N the exceptions.
Backed from 5 to 2 to 7 to 4 for the
Liverpool Handicap, he had the race
won at the home turn, where Darby
Munro gave the colt his head. Care
Free and Canegrass chased him home,
Care Free’s was probably a better Don-
caster trial; she was a bad last at the
two-furlongs post, and her tote supporters
were surprised to see her in a place,
Silver King ran the “six” in lmin. 13sec.
Rogilla (7 to 2) rehabilitated himself
in the Chipping Norton Plate. Dark
Sky essayed to win all the way, and he
swung into the straight ahead of Topical,
Sarcherie, Rogilla and Hall Mark. At
the Leger Dark Sky was beaten, and
Voitre pushed Hall Mark (3 to 1) through
on the rails. Pratt had kept Rogilla on
the outside, and gave him plenty of
room to stretch out. Right on the
post Rogilla passed Hall Mark, and
Bert ; I didnt know vou were.
lw TV4E SHOW, GERT ''
Gert 0 Ive Just been taking, dart
iKJ TVie MIGiH JUMP
Bert : u How did you come od 2sv
GIERT' DIDUT, C4>ME Ot=F )'
got the verdict by a head, with
Sarcherie (7 to 1) a length and a
half away, followed by Dark Sky, La
Trobe and Journal (3 to 1). Hall Mark
and Sarcherie had been last most of the
way.
Backers of Kellow’s chestnut were
not pleased with Voitre’s riding, but the
Warwick Farm track takes some under-
standing by a newcomer. It astonished
some people to see Sarcherie backed at
weight-for-age against the best horses in
the country, bar Peter Pan, but she ran
a splendid race, and is obviously a
rattling good mare. The pace was on
all the way ; time, 2min. s|sec.
The ringmen were very cautious about
Dromos in the Cabramatta Handicap.
Had they stretched the price a bit they
could have won a heap of money on the
race, but after a trifle of 5 to 2 had been
laid the price went to twos and then
6 to 4—this in a field of 18. Dromos
moved off slowly, was lo'st in the rush
for positions in the first furlong, and
was still badly placed five furlongs from
home. Taken to the outside he was right
off the course at the top of the straight;
even then he finished second, a length
behind Tatyoon (20 to 1), with Multigris
third. In the circumstances, it was a
good performance, but not so good as
Sarcherie’s.
Tatyoon is becoming a real bookies’
horse. At Rosehill he was allowed to
go out unsupported. Twenties tempted
few backers at the Farm. The mile was
traversed in lmin. 40sec.
The Warwick Farm Cup has more than
once been a guide to the Sydney Cup.
Winalot won both; so did Gwillian
G., and Piastoon just missed bringing off
the double. So the success of Milan-
theon (8 to 1) in Saturday’s race deserves
to be borne in mind. Dark Chief (4 to 1)
was clear a furlong from home, but
Milantheon, strongly ridden by Light-
l'oot, finished a bit better, and beat
Hugh Denison’s horse by a neck. Master
Brierly (4 to 1) also came home well,
half a length behind Dark Chief. Oro,
favorite at threes, ran his race in patches,
and wound up fourth. The Queenslander
Rivalli failed to see out the fast mile and
a half (run in 2min. 315e0.), but did
enough to suggest a victory in a minor
race at Randwick.
Young Idea, winner of the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, looked the pick of
the bunch in the first division of the
Fairfield Handicap; but he was cut on
the legs shortly after the start and was
never travelling like a winner. The race
went to a 25-to-l chance, Parquet, from
M.L. Coming with a great run on the
outside, she cut down Wykeham and
Rembrandt. Beamish Boy, a nice son
of Windbag from Adelaide, ran very
promisingly. Gibson knocked up after
showing pace. This big colt may do
better if ridden in behind his field.
Cereza, an even-money favorite in
the second division, could only run third
to Medallist and Gymkhana. Medallist,
who went out at 9 to 2, carries the colors
of Billy Kerr. He seemed hopelessly
placed at the turn, but Jim Munro can
still ride, and he fairly lifted the colt in
the last couple of strides.
Heritor (9 to 2) gave nothing else a
chance in the first division of the Farm
Novice. Downham, a big bay gelding
by Amberdown, just beat Constantine
and Cockpen in the second division. He
was supported from fifteens to eights.
Some of the best horses in Australia
and one of the best Australia has had
will be seen at Randwick during the
round of meetings beginning on Satur-
day. All fears that Peter Pan had been
knocked out by his supreme effort on a
heavy track in his second Melbourne
Cup race have been dispelled by his form
this season. A legendary glamor now
envelops the deeds of Phar Lap, but
Peter Pan cannot fairly be pronounced
his inferior over a distance, though prob-
ably not as fast up to a mile and a
quarter. R. R. Dangar’s chestnut is en-
gaged in the Autumn, All-Aged, Cumber-
land and A.J.C. Plates. Success in any
race for which he is saddled up seems
only a matter of his keeping fit and
avoiding accidents.
The opposition to Sylvandale in the
St. Leger does not look strong. However,
it is a race in which many, favorites have
gone down —among them Spearfelt in
1925, Trivalve in 1928 and Ammon Ra
in 1932 —and Contact’s showing at Rose-
hill was encouraging to his owner. For
all that, Sylvandale seems a good thing.
The Doncaster looked so* open a week
or two ago that the bookmakers could
not find'an absolute favorite. Warwick
Farm running has made a difference;
still, a remunerative price should be
available about the winner, whoever it
may be.
Winooka (9st. 131 b.) and Silver Ring
(9st. 81b.) are first-class milers; Silver
King (Bst. 91b.), Arachne (Bst. 71b.),
Dark Sky (Bst. 61b.) and Sir John
(7st. 131 b.) are a strong lot of three-
year-olds, and there is an even more
impressive four-year-old division: Hall
Mark (9st. 81b.), Journal (Bst. 71b.),
Sarcherie (7st. 101 b.), High (7st. 61b.) and
Dromos (7st. 51b.). Dromos’s summer
form was so good that he must be ac-
counted well treated, especially as he won
the Moorefield Gold Cup with 7st. 101 b.
But his autumn performances have not
been so striking as those of Sarcherie,
who can go fast and stay. On Rose-
bery running, Turbine has a chance
with Bst. 31b,
Hall Mark is a good little horse,
but 9st. 71b., his Sydney Cup weight,
seems a little too much for him.
The same applies to Topical (9st.), and
Sylvandale (Bst. 121 b.) also seems to have
more than he can carry victoriously,
though he could scarcely have been let
in lighter. It is not a race in which
three-year-olds have shone, although
Carbine won at that age with 9st., his
son Wallace with Bst. 121 b., Lord Car-
digan with Bst. 71b. and Johnnie Jason
(lately retired from the turf) with Bst.
41b. Journal (Bst. 71b.) and Broad Arrow
(Bst. 61b.) are a warm pair ; Broad Arrow
is perhaps superior in stamina. La Trobe
(Bst. 41b.), Sarcherie (7st. 111 b.) and Con-
tact (7st. 61b.) are others with heaps of
friends, while Dark Chief (7st. 101 b.) is
a one-pace stayer of whom the best is
perhaps yet to be seen. And there is
Milantheon, a seasoned horse with a light
weight (7st. 51b.). Oro (Bst. 131 b.) has
grown into a very fine-1 ooking horse, is at
home on the track and is a proved stayer.
There is a theory that he is better in the
spring than in the autumn, but he ran a
couple of capital races against Peter Pan
(who admittedly might have been going
off) this time last year.
The other races should be full of inter-
est. The two-year-olds nominated are
the best of the year in the two leading
racing States. Bimilla is not in the Sires’
Produce Stakes on Saturday, but Solfast
and Cereza will test her in the Easter
Plate on Monday. There are those who
still think Homer will prove the best of
the colts; but he will need to improve
a lot.
For minor handicaps Cercello (Rous),
Leila Vale (Vaucluse and La Pero'use),
Celebrate (Tocal and Coogee), Nord and
Stonebrook (City and Dangar) might
be remembered.
* * * *
“The Whisperer”: Why all this fuss
about owners, trainers, and jockeys using
batteries to make their prads gallop
faster? The battery is simply a device
to bring up to date an artificial means of
making a horse go, a modern substitute
for the obsolete whip and the mediaeval
spur. The pricks from a battery are no
more cruel than those from the rowels,
yet, out of sheer conservatism, racing
clubs prohibit its use. If they were in
touch with modern civilisation a battery
would be part of the equipment of every
jockey.
* % * *
Lou Robertson, of Mordialloc, has
more ind : vidual patrons than any other
Melbourne trainer. Before leaving for
Sydney to complete the preparation of
Garrio and Don Miguel for their
Randwick engagements, Alaric, whom
he trains for Sol Green, won the
V.A.T.C. Glenferrie Handicap. A week
before Alaric, ridden by Voitre, had,
when started favorite for the Epsom
Handicap, been beaten out of a place.
This prompted Caulfield punters to with-
hold support from the Gothic four-year-
old until towards the close of the betting ;
then the price shortened from 6 to 1 to
4 to I—Spartan had been favorite from
the opening of the wagering. Piloted by
England, a rising apprentice, Alaric came
at the right end of the race, and scored
by half a neck from Man-at-Arms, with
Spartan a head away.
There were groans from the flat as
Alaric returned to scale. He is a horse of
moods ; when luck runs against him, as
at Epsom, he is apt to drop the bit. He
is a half-brother to Verberry, now racing
without much distinction in Sydney,
though F. H. Robinson still regards the
son of Verbius as a potential turf star.
Spartan jumped away awkwardly, and
had to be shoved along to gain a forward
position when the field settled down.
Man-at-Arms, who was at any price, ori-
ginally raced in Westralia. In Melbourne
he developed a “leg,” and was sold cheap.
Stent has patched him up wonderfully.
The Glenhuntly Handicap was cap-
tured by Kitty O’Shea. This was the
greatest turn-up of the afternoon for the
ring; 14 to 1 went begging about the
Wolaroi mare, who, obtaining the last
run, went past Royal Armour and
Nellie’s Tip in a few strides. Royal
Armour (Spearhead—Lady Victoria) be-
longs to “G. Ornong,” a Melbourne bar-
rister, who was interested in the late
Streperus.
Nyerimilang, the Khartoum Hurdle
winner, seems thoroughly rejuvenated;
he made short work of Akanree in the
run home. When raced by an English
sportsman who lives in the Mornington
district, Akanree was considered to be
of Cup class. A five-year-old stallion,
he must be one of the very last of the
progeny of Comedy King. With more
racing Akanree may be developed by
P. K. Padfield into a topnotch hurdler.
Mount Dangar, an A.J.C. Hurdle hero,
registered his second win over fences in
the Neerim Steeple, and shaped like a
Grand National possibility.
{Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
“Gate”: Sydney Rugby League is
bolding May 6 as a special day for the
retention fund used to keep out-of-work
players in Sydney instead of letting them
wander to country jobs. The programme
will be a series of the seven-a-side
matches which were so popular years
ago on holiday occasions, the games last-
ing 10 minutes each way. There will also
be a goal-kicking competition, another
old-time institution and one that might
well be kept going.
-k '•* *'■
“Rus”: Cootamundra, once the Mecca
of N.S.W. country League football, has
fallen on evil days. No longer are Sun-
days livened up by hordes of invading
barrackers from neighboring dorps eager
to see their teams win at any cost. How-
ever, it is pulling itself together, and for
a start has formed its club into a limited
liability company on the lines of the
English Soccer and Northern Union
clubs. This is probably the first move
of the kind in this country, and it is
likely to be followed by others.
* * * *
Sydney Sports Ground trustees are imi-
tating their brethren of the Cricket
Ground next door; they have leased
their ground for a long term to the
Rugby League, and are starting to im-
prove the accommodation, which has
been for years, a disgrace to any metro-
politan sports arena. They have made
an offer to the S.C.G. for the latter’s
northern stand, which is to be pulled
down to make room for new buildings.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK.
First Hurdle: Le Legion; next,
Greensea.
Autumn Plate: Peter Pan; next,
Hall Mark.
Doncaster Handicap: Sarcherie,
1 ; High, 2; Dromos, 3.
St. Leger: Sylvandale ; next, Con-
tact.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Solfast;
next, Young Idea.
Vaucluse Handicap: Leila Vale;
next, The Raider.
Sydney Cup: Sarcherie, 1 ; Milan-
theon, 2 ; Journal, 3.


WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
Model 67, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel and improved Safety
Catch. Elevating Rear Sight.
Approx. Freight in N.S.W. 2/3
45/-
“MODEL <52”
£5/10/-
ê
.22 Cal. Repeating Rifle for Short, Long,
Long Rifle.. Carriage Paid.
e
£9/5/-
“MODEL 63.” .22 Cal. Automatic Rifle, 10 shot,
chambered for .22 Long Rifle Super Speed.
Carriage Paid.
THE NEW
SPRED —r—
Above Rifles are all adapted to
WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
POWER LONGER RANGE
Short, 2/8 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100,
fsß^
jLongr, 3/6 100.
T.oiiff H.P., 3/9 100.
L,onar Rifle, 4/- 100.
liong Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
#■
f.y.
r
r
P-FUtE
r
w
"TOP-FLITE"
Spalding’s greatest contribirtion to
Championship golf. Identically the
same ball as used by Jimmy Thom-
son, winner of the Centenary Open.
The longest ball ever made. Multi-
dot, in Mesh and Dimple
markings ..... each “
ë
SPALDING "PAR”
Greater distance than
ever before
This is the most durable Champion-
ship ball yet made. Winner of many
Australian National Championships.
Multi-dot, in Mesh and *3/
Dimple Markings .. each VJ' "dj
r~
r
or
0^
r
m
n
Q
c
PALD(MC-PAR
P 1
t*
cnn
on
0
0
Under the Whip
Soft Step is not to keep his Randwick
engagements at Easter. Bad luck for his
party that he went wrong. An approved
two-miler with 131 b. less than weight for
age in a field not remarkable for quality
might well have carried another Sydney
Cup to Queensland.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: That reference to the rotten
prizes given by Sydney proprietary clubs
(B. 10/4/’35) sets me wondering how Jong
owners and trainers are going to stand
them. Leaving out the V.R.C. and the
V.A.T.C., it is nothing out of the ordi-
nary for a Melbourne club to hang up
£2OOO for a Saturday meeting. Moonee
Valley, for example, offers £2OOO for six
races on May 11 and £2500 for six races
on May 25, plus a £25 trophy on each
occasion. By contrast, owners divided
£IBSO for eight races at Rosehill on
April 6; and it was Rosehill’s jubilee
and Peter Pan was among the starters.
Ascot (Melbourne), a former pony con-
cern, paid out £9OO for six races on
Wednesday ; for ten races at Rosebery,
same day, owners of winners and place-
getters received £736 13s. 4d. The prin-
cipal event was worth £llo—£4o less
than Ascot put into its Glenroy Purse.
Fancy people with horses like The
Marne, and Turbine having to take £53
6s. Bd. for first in a Flying Handicap!
A campaign for the abolition of pro-
prietary racing is overdue.
“Edwy”: Somehow you can never get
a long price about a nag on one of the
former “pony” courses that adorn Syd
ney. At Rosebery on Wednesday I
heard only one bookmaker call odds of
over 20 to 1, and that was about Under-
wood, the hurdler, in the Rosebery
Handicap. It is possible to put a lot
of money on a horse at a short price, but
fielders won’t take a risk with outsiders.
The tote is never scared.
“Hotham”: Now that the centenary
fever has died down, the V.R.C. and the
V.A.T.C. are cutting out the extra prize-
money piled on some of the races for
the great occasion. Melbourne and Caul-
field Cup stakes have been reduced to
£BOOO and £6OOO respectively, and purses
for the Maribyrnong and the Ascot Vale
Stakes will also shrink. A day has oeen
docked off the Grand National meeting
to make room for the King’s jubilee races
at Flemington, so the jumpers will have
only two days this year instead of three.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There is still money in boxing for the
right man. At Sydney this last month
or two Carroll has collected £IOOO or
£llOO, and Palmer a shade over £SOO,
for meeting second-raters. Carroll was
actually engaged for 2-j- hours, Palmer
for 90 minutes.
* * * *
“Uriah the Hittite”: An old-time pug,
charged with drunkenness, denied it, and
pleaded that the punishment he had taken
in the ring left him liable to lapses
of memory. To my mind this is the
most serious charge which can be
laid against boxing, and one which its
opponents never trot out. I knew many
pugs in my youth, and some were bright,
alert-minded young fellows. The same
men in middle age are stupid as owls. It
is not so much the punishment they re-
ceive in jactual fights which dulls their
brains, but the solid battering from spar-
ring partners for hours daily.
Footbrawl
Hitherto Melbourne League football
has had only one abo. player, Doug
Nicholls, of Fitzroy. St. Kilda has
secured another, Sid Murray, who hails
from East Gippsland. Murray is as tall
as Nicholls is short; he stands 6ft. lin.
and has a reach which surpasses that
distance. He is a wonderful mark and
a good kick, and the seaside team
reckons that it has made an important
discovery in its dusky player.
* * *
“Scout”: The shanghai-ing of country
footballers (B. 10/4/’35) is a fine art in
Melbourne. A Melbourne club wrote
to a star countryman to come to the
city on a Saturday and play in one of its
practice matches. It was mug enough to
print his name in the list of players for
the club, and two other clubs got busy.
One met the train at North Melbourne
station; there the player was nabbed,
hustled into a car and carried off to h.q.
The others were waiting at Spencer-
street station, but found their bird flown.
On Monday they read that he had been
signed up by the bad lads who went to
North Melbourne.
“Koepanger”: The cloistered peace of
Darwin was interrupted when the white
garrison footballers played the parti-
colored Buffalo team under Australian
Rules. From the whistle it was a furious
box-on, in which spectators joined when
“ Where's it gone, caddie?”
“Y’r ball, y'r club or yr ’ at , sir?”
things got specially exciting. Buffaloes
won, but no one seems to have remem-
bered the score. It would have been a
field day for a Carlton or Collingwood
crowd.
* * * *
“Wing”: N.S.W.R.U. opens its official
competition on April 20, University hav-
ing the bye. City clubs sending teams
to Newcastle on bye days will receive
£5; to Bathurst or Orange, £10; to
Dubbo, Wellington or other far-western
centres, £l5. The Union is giving them
£35 apiece, and has handed the baby Tas-
manian Union £5O to go on with. Mos-
man, which wants admission to first-
grade ranks next season, has been told
to be good and see what happens. Ad-
mission of Mosman or Roseville would
bring the number of first-grade clubs up
to 10 and cut out the bye.
“Stand Off”: After a lot of fiddling
the N.S.W. Rugby Unionists have re-
solved on th£ Maori visit, provided M.L.
agrees to Queensland and Victoria get-
ting a cut of the profits, if any. If M.L.
is willing the visitors will play on Sydney
C.G. on July 27 and August 3 and 5.
Queensland will then have to play here
on May 4 and 6 and the Victorians on
June 1 and 3. Ma will have a team play-
ing Queensland in Brisbane, but the
State is strong enough to field a couple
of first-quality teams.
“C.P.”: Sydney Rugby League’s head
has been in a whirl since it secured its
10 years’ lease of the Cricket Ground. It
has hurriedly cancelled the abbreviated
club programme recently adopted and,
moved by the bellows of the clubs, has
reverted to the old style of two rounds
of club play, semi-finals and a final. Also
it has abandoned its intention of moving
to Chatswood, and is applying for a lease
of the North Sydney Oval for nine Satur-
days. When it showed signs of cultivat-
ing M.L. relations at the expense of
Queensland, the Bananalanders were
alarmed, and sent an ambassador to
Sydney to negotiate. It is now announced
that Queensland will be given three
matches in Sydney this year in June and
two in Brisbane.
“Stiff Arm’': “Chimpy” Busch, one of
the best League halves N.S.W. has pro-
duced, is back in Sydney after what
seems to have been a gruelling four
years’ absence in Yorkshire with Leeds,
which has always shown a strong partial-
ity for Australians. He will play with
Balmain for £6 a week, a pound for each
win and a bonus at the end of the season.
Unless Balmain improves under his
tuition, “Chimpy” isn’t likely to collect
many extra quids.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. Golf
Council has given its approval to the
sending of a team of Australian profes-
sional golfers to America, and has
authorised the Ma State P.G.A. to ask
the clubs to open subscription lists. Two
thousand pounds will be needed to
finance four tourists, and it is proposed
that the team leave in November. This
will enable it to play through the U.S.A.
winter circuit, which begins in California
and is continued round the southern
States to Florida, ending with the
Augusta tourney, just won by Sarazen.
There is £3OO in hand already, including
£5O from Sarazen, and a small levy on
club members should easily raise the rest.
“Carnoustie”: Orange (N.S.W.) golf
club has acquired a much-travelled pro-
fessional in John Irving. A Scot, of
course, he played in the U.S.A. and
Canada before coming to Australia, and
figured in the Yankee open as long ago
as 1895. Irving served with the A.1.F.,
and has been professional to the Brisbane,
Launceston and Canberra clubs. A noted
golf architect, he designed the Yeerong-
pilly and Royal Queensland links.
Irving is by way of being a “character,”
a survival of the old school of Scottish
professionals which has vanished like the
rain on the river.
“H.H.H.”: Riverina Golf Association
is torn with dissension over playing com-
petitions on the Sabbath. At ,the annual
meeting Junee and Hay both asked per-
mission to hold tournaments on the day
of rest; but under the rules this is
illegal. Meantime all and sundry con-
tinue to fracture the Sabbath from dawn
till dewy eve, and gamble for anything
from a box of balls to drinks for the
mob.
“Prestwick”: A match between British
amateurs and professionals at Fulwell
was drawn; each won 11 games, five
being squared. Abe Mitchell and the
Whitcombe brothers were in the profes-
sional team ; the amateurs included Mc-
Lean, Garnett and Bourn, recently in
Australia. McLean won his match with
Busson, 2 and 1, and took the foursomes
with Thomson as a partner, downing
Mitchell and C. A. Whitcombe. R. A.
Whitcombe and Davies won from Gar-
nett and Bourn, both of whom were
beaten in the singles. The results flatter
Australian form.
Racquet and Bawl
“Galle”: Crawford and co. had an
exercise gallop at Colombo. All
showed good form, and had no trouble
with the opposition. A good deal of in-
terest was taken in the Australian pairing
for the doubles. In this instance, it was
Crawford and McGrath, Quist and Turn-
bull.
“Top Spin”: To the surprise of many,
Wallis Myers has come out as an anti
in the controversy over giving amateurs
a better chance to make a bit out of
lawn tennis. Wallis says a man who


DAWOMI
Peter
Dawson
"SPECIAL
Scotch Whi
T*
yy
"WITH-
FREE
DRINKING
CUP
I SAME STRENGTH
• SAME P M C E
« SAME MELLOW
SMOOTHNESS
Should you experience any diffi-
culty in securing your require-
ments of Messrs. Peter Dawson's
Whisky from your usual suppliers,
kindly communicate with the
Sole Agents,
COOPER NATHAN & CO.,
184—186 Kent! Street, Sydney.
‘Phone: P.575:5,
A WHISKY which lives up to its tradi.
tion of excellence, Peter Dawson’s
now conies to you in a new container,
streamlined in the modern manner.
Easier to hold and to pour; with
attrsct've coloured drinking cup and
needing no corkscrew, the new bottle
has a decorative grace that is a fitting
accompaniment to this whisky of
good taste.
PETER DAWSON
SPECIAL
SCOTCH WHISKY
OJTICUHA
v SOAP
(uticur
MEDICINAL
AND
for
sensitive
shins
m m
Is your skin pimply, rashy or
easily irritated? Then start
using Cut it;lira Soap now.
Containing medicated, emol-
lient and healing properties, it
soothes and comforts tender,
sensitive skins and does much
to keep them clear, healthy and
in a vigorous condition.
Cuticura Soap is recog-
nized in millions of homes
throughout the world as the best
protection against skin troubles.
Personal and Missing Friends.
IF RALPH EDWARD FOWLER, one time |
of Bridport, England, and formerly of Kojonup,
Western Australia, will communicate with ihe
undersigned he may hear something to his
advantage.
DARBYSHIRE & GILLETT,
Solicitors,
Commercial Bank Chambers,
42 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
" Western Australia.
Public Notice.
HOW FAR CAN YOU TRAVEL AND
YET STAY AT HOME?
The answer is easy. To the ends of the earth if
you belong to THE PEREGRINE CLUB. Would you
like to receive letters from foreign language students,
stamp collectors and interesting people throughout
the world? This is your opportunity to engage in
a fascinating and educational pastime. One of the
founders of the club is an Australian who will give her
personal attention to your communications. Address:
THE PEREGRINE CLUB,
P.O. Box 249, Monterey, California. U.S.A.
Patents. I
PITTING AND CORING MACHINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
14880/28 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from j
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent |
Attorneys, Sydney.
N.S.W.
TAS.
Season Opens Hay-1
Sth.
Q'land
V
VV
A
O'
1 V\
m
* ,J
u..v M
mm
m
a\
/3»SJ
For Quail Shooters
The New Eley Special “Quail” Cartridge
promises to be as great a success this season
with Quail-shooters as the Neoflak Loaded
“Duxbac” —introduced last year—is with
duck-shooters.
LOADED WITH SMOKELESS D AMOND
POWDER AND loz. SHOT.
12 Gauge x 2£ /y
In 8, 10 and 12 Shot Only.
The most exacting sportsman, out after
Quail, will find this new Eley Cartridge
gives absolute satisfaction; its light,
effective loading assures clean kills
without shattering the birds.
Obtainable All Gunsmiths and
Ammunition Dealers throughout
Australia At Popular Prices
A Product of I.C.LA.N.Z, Ltd.
(Ammunition Section),
380 Collins Street. Melbourne—277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Q. 35511
ELEY
SPECIAL
Quail
Cartridges^
wants to top the first 10 can do so with-
out giving his. whole life to the game or
pursuing it so continuously that “he casts
a covetous eye on the gate.” He scouts
Perry’s opinion that championship meet-
ings no longer show the world’s best
players, and points out that attendances
are larger than ever. Finally, he warns
the governing bodies that they will be
false to their professions if they put ama-
teur and paid players on a level footing.
Which is good horse sense, even if it
dodges the question of the amateur who
is paid under the lap.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: An interesting recruit to
Australian tennis is Olive Stebbing, one
of India’s leading tennisettes, who is
settling with her family in Sydney. The
lady, who has been twice runner-up for
the Indian singles championship, has only
had hard-courts experience, but is going
to engage a coach and try grass with a
view to competing later in champion-
ships. She is a left-hander, and taught
herself all her tennis.
* * * *
“Grasspan”: After a month’s trial, Vic.
Tennis Council is likely to rescind its em-
bargo on women players entering club
bars. They used to ( sit in the bars and
use them as clubrooms, and, as one dele-
gate put it, they cramped the style of
men who were anxious to tell “witty”
stories. Possibly the women want to
hear the stories themselves. However,
excluding them has proved a pest to the
men, who have had to spend half their
time carrying drinks and cigarettes to
girls outside the sacred area.
Miscellaneous
“Shrewsbury”: Something will have
to be done about the Oxford-Cambridge
boatrace. Here we have the Light Blues
winning for the twelfth time in succes-
sion, though Oxford had pinched Haig-
Brown, the Cambridge coach. Oxford
seems to have relied greatly on weight,
but —as we may realise when the huge
N.S.W. crew starts in the King’s Cup
race —that can be overdone Putting
the blame of defeat on Rhodes scholars
will not work this time —there were none
in the boat.
* $ ❖ *
“Blade”: That attempt to belittle the
Fairbairn style of rowing (B. 10/4/’35)
is just shutting eyes to facts. The style
has proved a success wherever it has been
tried, and is rapidly superseding the
orthodox style in England itself. The
best criterion of the allegedly slipshod
method is the success of the London
R.C., not only in Melbourne, but for
three successive years at Henley. The
assertion that “orthodox rowing is not
based on conservatism” is laughable. It
has been, and until lately was, the most
hidebound of all forms of athletics. To
describe the Fairbairn style in detail
would take a couple of columns of The
Bulletin. It is enough to say that it
eliminates the check which follows dur-
ing the reach forward for the catch in
the old style. The L.C.C. boat ran on
smoothly as the slides went back, and
this gave the boat yards of advantage
over the old-stylers. However, Turner,
who stroked the London crew, is now
in Sydney coaching University, so future
protests had better be directed to him.
H: $ * *
“Huon”: Not only are South Aus.
oarsmen feeling the financial blizzard (B.
3/4/’35), but Tassie couldn’t raise the
brass to send a coxswain with its crew.
Just as it was thinking of co-opting some
steersman in Sydney, Major Conder, of
the A.8.C., himself an old Tassie oar,
hopped in with the cox’s expenses. Just
as well, for there is no precedent in Aus-
tralian rowing for picking up an out-
sider to complete a crew.
* * ❖ *
“Susie Swattit”: The English women
cricketers have issued the expected invita-
tion to a team of Australian girls to
journey to England in 1937. Three Tests
of three days each will be played, the
other games being two-day goes against
divisional and county sides. The English
girls seem to have enjoyed their tour. At
least they have had nothing but good to
say about their Antipodean cobbers,
which is more than can be said of some
of the he-men players who have been
here.
“Newlands”: In spite of wirepulling
by State executives and legpulling by the
press, the Board of Control has decided
by postal vote that only 14 players shall
make the South African tour. Common
courtesy demanded that the proposed in-
crease should be refused, since the Afri-
kanders specified 14 only. As they are
paying all the costs, they have a right to
decide the matter.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 613 of 1935.
BETWEEN MYRTLE EDITH NEOLAN
Petitioner
And STANLEY NEOLAN Respondent.
TO STANLEY NEOLAN late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Myrtle Edith
Neolan has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fourth day
of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of April, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. M. EWING & BADHAM, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 540 of 1935.
BETWEEN CHRISTINA BRADLEY Petitioner
And WILLIAM HORACE BRADLEY
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM HORACE BRADLEY late of
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Christina
Bradley has commenced a. suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-eighth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of March
One thousand nine.hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. DALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Best Truck FORD
has ever built!
Entirely New Design Truck-type Clutch (action supplemented by centrifugal force)
... New Front-end with longer, heavier front spring . .. New Crankcase Ventilation
... New Oil Bathtype Air Cleaner... New Improved Cooling ... Redesigned Brakes
... New Load Distribution . . . New Smart Appearance with New Cab ...
Heavy-Duty Transmission . .. Full Floating Rear Axle ... Truck-type V-8 Engine.
Designed and built for the punishing work demanded by modern commercial conditions —the 1935
Ford V-8 Double-Duty Trucks. “ Double - Duty ” because they combine power for heaviest
haulage with speed and flexibility for agile performance and more trips per day. Only a V-8
engined truck can give this wide range of service with economy.
Typical Double * Duty features are the Truck * type Clutch and the Redesigned Front-end Spring
assembly. The new clutch which utilises centrifugal force added to a fixed spring pressure
makes disengagement easier at idling speeds and provides increase in pressure as the engine
speed increases. The front-end is of new design and construction with improved spring mounting.
A longer, wider, heavier front spring gives reserve strength for the most punishing road or
load conditions with greatly improved riding and steering qualities. Your Ford dealer is now
showing the new Double - Duty Trucks and will gladly demonstrate. Ask him for illustrated
folder, and let him explain too, the easy and convenient Ford purchase plan.
1935 FORD V-8
ē
TRUCES
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
T 1.48
RD MOTOR COMFANX OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VIOTO R 1 A )
PRODUCTOFT H E B R IT I S H
EM PI BE
Getting in First.
“S. Esq.”: “I want a haircut, but
not a shampoo, singe, face massage,
permanent wave or pedicure. It’s a
very fine day and I think it will
stay the same unless there’s a change
in the weather; it would be a pity
if it rained in the week-end, though
it always does. I fancy Auntie’s Night-
mare for the third division of the
Maiden, but Dingbats, Dogsmeat,
Custard Pie and six or seven others must
have good chances. I always shave my-
self, but I never cut my own hair; and
I’ve noticed there’s a big crowd in town
to-day ; and I think that Stevens will win
the elections unless Lang gets in again ;
yes, there does seem to be a difference in
their policies; but none of the present
day horses is as good as Carbine;
though Don Bradman and Walter Lind-
rum are little beauties in their own
spheres; but what would happen to
Bradman if Larwood came back? Now,
if you don’t mind, I’ll have a quiet think
while you cut my hair.”
Along the Milky Way.
“D.Mc.”: Before he fell a victim to the
milk-bar hells of Sydney Podmore Stiggins
was the meekest and shyest of men. He
is now known as “Poddy” Stiggins. When
properly started on a milk bender he
bellows insults at everybody, horns in
where he is not wanted, and, worst of all,
has developed a mania for chasing grass-
widows.
When his wife discovered him on all-
fours nibbling at the lawn she thought
it strange. When she found him raven-
ously devouring her straw broom she be-
came alarmed. Since he started sleeping
on hay in the wash-house she has aban-
doned all hope.
The last we heard of “Poddy” Stiggins
was that he had been put in a pound
somewhere by an infuriated Chinese
gardener with the caustic remark: “Allee
same cow! Eatem cabbagee, lettucee like
hell, by cli!”


ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
(A good Single Bed-
room, with Hot and
Cold Water, ’Phone
and Reading Lamp,
from 7/- per day;
Double Room at
Double R^tes)
i
I
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
Found l our W§&mSlejs
f NOW I
"C* STABLISH that safest, surest kind of fortune, and one that
never stint 9. Found it on the solid rock of life assurance.
There is no substitute for life assurance. Only through life
assurance can you get immediate and complete protection to the
full amount of your policy. And because the P. & C., through
its co-operative principles, provides the utmost in return and
benefits, increasing thousands of thinking people are taking
advantage of the remarkable P. & C. opportunity. The wide range
of P. & C. policies is designed to take care of your every need.
Let us advise YOU; no obligation whatever would be incurred.
Write noiv while you are thinking about it.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: Chairman of Directors:
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
5% First Mortgage Deben-
tures of £25 Each.
Currency 20-25 years. Interest at 5 p.c. p.a.,
payable yearly for full period of currency of
Debentures, by coupon attached to the Deben-
tures. Redemption by ballot, in cash of I—sth
of total -in each year between 20tb and 25th
years, -plus an accrued and annually added bonus
of 5 p.c. p.a. (apart from the interest) for 20
years, making redemption double the original
value at maturity. Adequate security and interest
payable by lodging coupons at any Bank.
£lOO Debentures worth £125 in 5 years
Plus 5 p.c. annual Interest.
Debentures procurable for cash, or on easy terms
alternatively, £5 deposit and £5 per quarter,
or £5 deposit and £2 per month, or £2/10/-
deposit, £2/10/- first instalment and £1 per
month. Interest starts first of month following
payment of each £25. Individual subscription
limited to £lOOO. Allotment in order of receipt
of applications. Redemption in cash plus Interest
and Bonus in the event of death of Debenture
holders after 5 years.
Inquire for prospectus and further particulars
from
EMPIRE TUNG OIL PRODUCTS LTD
12-14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W1165.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Hire of Money
Interest is the cost of renting money.
For some time there has been so
much idle capital with banks, on current
account or on fixed deposit at nominal
interest, that reliable borrowers have been
able to get accommodation at very cheap
rates.
In July last the yield, including re-
1938 Consols was £2 15s.
!od. per cent. In November 1950-6 l’s
returned an average of £3 ss. 9d. p.c.
Since then the yields have widened to
about £3 and £3 11s. p.c. respectively.
The reduction in fixed-deposit rates by
banks is considered to have been car-
ried too far—even some banking authori-
ties acknowledge this. On three months’
contracts the rate is \\ p.c., rising to 2}
p.c. for two years’.
The demand by industry for additional
capital for some years has been scarcely
noticeable. Many large companies re-
turned big wads of cash to their share-
holders, there being little or no use for
it in their businesses. New issues have
been few amongst industrial concerns ;
gold-seeking companies and Govern-
ments have had the new-
capital market practically
to themselves.
Over the six months to
December last there was a
shrinkage of nearly seven
millions in the interest-
bearing deposits of banks,
and the growth of money
on current account slowed
down.
Not much of the money
withdrawn from deposit
went into new invest-
ments. But a lot of it did
go towards supporting secu-
rity and gold-share prices
of the Stock Exchanges.
Another outlet for these
savings was the real-estate
market. In. N. S. Wales,
probably the most back-
ward of all the States as far as building
recovery was concerned, the turnover in
property during 1934 was almost double
that of 1932. The volume of mortgage
transactions was proportionally greater.
In the same State the rate of interest
on first mortgages is still downward. In
1933 the prevailing charge for this type
of finance was between 5 and 6 p.c. Not
until the middle of 1934 did the trend
swing definitely to 4i to 5 p.c. rates. In
February last 56 p.c. of the mortgage
business done in N. S. Wales bore 4\ p.c.
or less. It is doubtful, however, whether
anything more favorable to the home-
purchaser can now be looked for.
In Victoria mortgage loans with
adequate first-class security carry 4\ p.c.,
with 4\ to 4 p.c. on exceptionally attrac-
tive propositions. Lenders, however, are
not rushing these rates. Public-utility
companies are borrowing privately rather
than from banks ; this generally means
better terms both for borrower and
lender.
Recently the Melbourne Board of
Works offered a £160,000 conversion
loan at £3 2s. 6d. p.c. Only a small
amount was converted. It would not be
possible for Governments to float a 3
p.c. public loan at par just now. Rates
for municipal loans are about ss. p.c.
higher (at 34- to 3| p.c.) than six months
ago.
The trend of interest rates is very im-
portant to the investor. Low returns
from the usual channels of investment
had a good deal to do with the specula-
tive wave in gold shares. Here, for a
time, attractive returns were derived from
buying and selling scrip, even though the
mines represented by the scrip may have
not yet paid—and may never pay—
dividends.
Once unproved mines reached a point
in the share market where it was
plainly absurd to expect further capi-
tal increment without definite proof
of profit-earning capacity there was
a slackening-off in opportunities for
making profits by passing scrip round.
The game ceased to be interesting, as
very few people want to wait for divi-
dends from their gold scrip.
Higher interest rates mean lower prices
for preference shares and other fixed-
interest-bearing securities. Though some
support may now be diverted from gold
to industrial investments, producing a
steadying effect, it is not wise to look
for lower immediate yields or higher in-
vestment prices without some indication
of larger dividends. The most pronounced
point in the cheap-money era seems to
have passed.
Though wool prices are firming around
an average of lid. a pound, the mean
"Once and for all, Hector, I like a bull to be a BULL —not a
mannequin .”
price for the season to Mar. 31 has been
9|d. Receipts this year by brokers are
up 140,000 bales on 1933-34, but sales
are down 284,716 bales. Wool in store
on Mar. 31 totalled 516,537 bales, as
against 86,637 bales a year earlier.
Prices at present are on a par with
last November.
* * * *
Figures put before the Tariff Board
in Melbourne last week showed that
motor tyres of Australian manufacture
are lower in price than in any part of the
world, except the U.S.A. Australian
inner-tubes are the world’s cheapest.
Together with the establishment of
B.H.P.’s export trade in pig-iron,
Holden’s shipments of motor-bodies to
Asia, and the great progress made in our
textile industry, it shows what Protec-
tion, rightly used, can do.
sk sk ❖ «k
Canberra opinion upon the merits and
practical possibilities of a national in-
surance scheme differs. Dr. Page is in
favor of it. If the amount at present
being paid in unemployment-relief taxa-
tion by the average person were paid into
sound mutual life assurance offices a sub-
stantial endowment policy could be
obtained. For 4s. a week a man of about
25, with a first-class life, can get cover,
payable at 60 or previous death, for about
£4OO, with bonuses added on maturity.
Any Government interested in national
insurance should find it worth while in-
vestigating the “group” schemes operat-
ing in many Australian offices and
factories.
* * =!: *
The Federal Deposit Bank, which sus-
pended payment on September 4, 1931,
and later disposed of most of its assets
to the Brisbane Permanent Building and
Banking Co., has received a cash offer
of £145,000 for the remainder of its un-
realised assets, book value £179,956. If
the deal goes through the liquidators will
be in a position to discharge all indebted-
ness and repay the share capital in full,
with a few pence per share over for good
measure. The case of this concern —it
should never have been allowed to close
its doors —shows the striking difference
between this depression and that of the
’nineties. The inability of the bank to
realise on its Government bonds except
at a loss was the main cause of its 1931
failure. After the crash of ’93 the co.
wrote off 7s. 6d. per share, and share-
holders went hungry for 18 years.
Gold-standard countries are finding
that high exchange cost of their curren-
cies is making their goods too dear for
foreigners to buy. Holland and Switzer-
land are the two most important Euro-
pean countries outside France and Ger-
many on gold ; they were neutrals during
the war, and their currencies didn’t de-
preciate. The French franc was at a fifth
of its pre-war value when stabilised ; the
old German mark was wiped out. On
a gold basis the pound sterling is worth
about 59 p.c. of its pre-war parity, the
same as the devalued dollar. British and,
to lesser extent, American industry is re-
covering from the lowest levels of the
slump and actually expanding. The great
advantages accruing to an industry
capable of expanding now are twofold.
First of all, capital assets may be acquired
at a much lower cost than usual, and,
second, finance can be obtained at the
lowest interest rates offering for a gen-
eration or more. But a great burden
would be thrown upon British trade if
pound notes) were made freely con-
vertible into sovereigns again. There
was a great inflation during and after the
war, and it is being acknowledged in
the pound sterling now. That, more than
anything else, is why gold is a high price
at the moment and why it should con-
tinue to be high
* * *
Stabilisation of currencies is not the
simple problem it would seem. Without
a managed currency the country whose
internal price-levels, in terms of goods
and services or gold, are high is at a
disadvantage when competing in the
world’s markets. U.S.A. is attempting
to force internal prices up; hence the
necessity for currency management.
Britain is trying to keep a stable price
level, and has succeeded remarkably well
over the last year or two. The fear of
most countries chary of stabilisation is
that the other fellow may get an unfair
advantage if a too-low (comparatively)
price were put upon gold.
* * : *
For eight months to February 28 Aus-
tralian exports of iron, and steel wholly
and partly manufactured rose to £371,574
(Aust.), compared with £224,827 in the
same period of the preceding term.
Copper shipments fell heavily, while
lead, tin, zinc and silver were all down.
Including gold, the value of our metal
exports was £9,666,000 (Aust.) compared
with £9,916,000.
* * * *
Of 16 million pounds of condensed
milk exported from Australia in 1934,
British Malaya took slightly more than
half, at a cost of £296,342. That’s one
good mark for the Ottawa agreement,
which has practically closed this market
to foreign milk suppliers.
A private bore sunk by one McCulloch
at Lakes Entrance (Vic.) is now return-
ing five barrels a day. The oil is com-
mercially saleable at sixpence a gallon,
but, as it would show a much bigger
profit refined, McCulloch is installing a
plant.
An article published in The Bulletin
of 31/5/’33, and reprinted by the N.S.W.
Banana Growers’ Co-operative Co.,
figured in an action for damages in
Sydney the other day. Sunkissed Bananas
(Tweed), Ltd., whose original prospec-
tus was here criticised, brought the
action against the Co-operative Co.:
it was put forward, amongst other
things, that the prospectus was amended
shortly after The Bulletin’s criticism.
The plaintiff co. sued on three counts —
an alleged slander, the reprinting of The
Bulletin article, and republication of
matter which appeared in another weekly.
On the first and third counts it was
awarded a farthing damages ; on the
second the verdict was for the defendant.
-i" $
“J.C.” (London): There is no question
about the shortage of quinine. India
produces only a fraction of what she
needs for her own purposes, and the
world demand is not nearly met by the
Dutch East Indies. The curious thing
is that those South American countries
where the cinchona bark was indigenous
have ceased to cultivate it. But “Jesuit’s
Bark” (B. 16/1 /’35) ought to look into
the matter closely before deciding where
it can be grown. The cinchona-tree needs
warmth and elevation. An effort was
being made when I left Peru last Septem-
ber, not to cultivate, but to encoufage the
growth of natural cinchona by weeding
out extraneous vegetation. But that was
being done in the Oriente at an elevation
of about 5000 ft.
* * ‘ *
“K.D.”: Labor-saving machinery is
not of itself to blame for putting men
out of work. The reduction of selling
costs which should follow its introduc-
tion would eventually create new
purchasing power, new wants and
new avenues of employment. That
should mean a better standard of
living and shorter working hours,
if the benefits of machines were har-
moniously distributed between employer
and employee. But if one interest derives
all the benefit the harmony is broken.
Also, the overhead costs and idle capital
represented by obsolete plant displaced
may be a considerable source of eco-
nomic derangement.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Heritage”
A Bulletin Showman reviewed
Charles Chauvel’s ambitious film after
a preview some months ago. Another
critic saw it at the Lyceum last Saturday,
and he liked it, too. Nothing has been
seen in local films to rival the outdoor
shots, and the period settings and cos-
tumes are absolutely right. The acting
isn’t so good. However, Franklyn Ben-
nett as the hero is
handsome and manly,
and Margot Rhys and
Peggy Maguire are
worthy of him as re-
gards looks. Joe Valli
and Frank Harvey are
admirable in minor
parts. The story —the
saga of a pioneering
family—is interesting,
and it runs on, but
there are too many of
those pompous utter-
ances which may be
heard on any Empire
Day from any subur-
ban alderman. They
will have to be cut out
if the picture is not to
arouse derision in Lon-
don and New York.
An elder of the kirk in “The
Little Minister,” at Sydney
State.
“When a Man’s a Man”
In this Western at Sydney Capitol
George O’Brien, a bankrupt New
Yorker, makes up his mind to ride an
outlaw on'Dorothy Wilson’s ranch. The
villain hopes to get the ranch cheap by
depriving it of water. The big moment
comes when Dorothy, for no apparent
reason, gets into the tunnel which George
has dug (his idea being to cause an ex-
plosion under the villain’s lake and
thereby bring water to Dorothy’s pro-
perty) and the villain (heaven knows
why!) drops a stick of dynamite and
lighted time-fuse down, having previously
shot George’s horse. George subdues the
outlaw mentioned above and arrives in
the nick of time, and Dorothy’s senti-
mental foreman rides off with an aching
Franklyn Bennett and Joe Valli in
“Heritage,” at Sydney Lyceum.
heart, leaving her to be soundly kissed by
George.
If this were a Lubitsch or Korda film,
and the writer had an arty complex, he
might applaud its voluptuous blacks and
whites and its delicate greys ; also the
mysterious ease with which one lovely
spectacle fades into the next. Enough,
in the circumstances, to say that the
shots of Arizona are as pretty as repre-
sentational landscapes.
“The Secret Bride”
A melodrama which is as thrilling in
it way as the other Capitol film. Bar-
bara Stanwyck, daughter of Arthur
Byron (a rugged old State Governor),
secretly marries Warren William (Attor-
ney-General) just as the villain tries to
frame the Governor on
a charge of bribe-tak-
ing. Glenda Farrell is
accused of one of the
resultant bumpings-off,
but is saved by a hys-
terical confession on
the part of Grant
Mitchell.
Grant Mitchell regis-
ters abject terror with
considerable power;
Miss Stanwyck looks
exquisite in a some-
what colorless part,
and Warren William is
adequate as the hero.
Capitol audiences are
different from* those
further north. On
Friday night a full
house cheered the tri-
umphs of virtue in both
films as Sydney audiences used to when
Bland Holt was in flower.
“Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch”
At Sydney Prince Edward. Pauline
Lord is sentimental Mrs. Wiggs. Mrs.
Wiggs and her fatherless brood get turkey
for Thanksgiving Day, save their old
nag’s life, go to the theatre, marry off
fluttering Miss Pitts to W. C. Fields (who
repeats his well-known impersonation of
a Thespian), foil the scowling, threatening
moneylender who is out to grab their
land because he knows a new railway will
cut through it, and hail the indigent Mr.
Wiggs’s return. The characters are
mostly caricatures, but it’s great holiday
fare for youngsters.
“Behold My Wife”
Gene Raymond’s haughty family
(headed by H. B. Warner) object to his
marriage with a stenog., and the poor
girl suicides. So Gene goes West, and is
nursed by an Indian maid (Sylvia Sid-
ney). Still resentful about the stenog.,
Gene marries the Redskin and springs
her on his people. Wonder of wonders!
The lady is a complete social success!
Gene’s next imbecility is to tell his
charming wife why he married her.
What more natural than that she should
clear out with the city’s worst rake ; that
the rake should be murdered by Gene’s
sister; that Sylvia should shoulder the
crime? They all live happily ever after.
It is treated much more cheerily than
the theme would suggest. Gene is like-
able on familiar lines, and Sylvia Sidney
is unimpeachable as the intensely genteel
squaw. Also at the Prince Edward.
“The Gay Bride”
In this film, which was first released at
the Civic and is now doing the “smalls,”
Nat Pendleton is Shoots Magiz, a
wooden-headed boss-racketeer; Carole
Lombard is a hard-as-nails chorus-girl
who marries him in the pious hope that
he’ll soon be bumped off. Pendleton
expands his usual genial half-wit into a
full-length caricature, and the Lombard
is equally good in her way. Chester
Morris is a member of Shoots’s brigade of
guards, Leo Carrillo is another variety
of thug and Zasu Pitts is her fluttering
self as a maid.
“The Man Outside”
An English mystery film. Some of
the effects are capital, and the photo-
graphy is f.a.q. But there’s a lot that
needs explaining: how a London “fence”
could become a country inspector of
police, for instance. Henry Kendall is
amusing in spots.
“Romance in Manhattan”
Originally a State feature, and now
on its travels in the suburbs.
It begins slowly, and contains
many familiar ingredients—a brave girl
(Ginger Rogers) struggling with poverty
in expensive clothes ; a foreigner (Francis
Lederer) whom she tears from the clutch
of Circumstance and supports; her little
brother, in danger from welfare workers ;
a benevolent Irish cop.. The boyish
antics of Mr. Lederer, who is no longer
young, are beginning to get very trying,
when the film suddenly wakes up.
Lederer is another Kisch. Those who
want him excluded as an undesirable im-
migrant are the villains; aiding and
abetting him to defeat the immigration
laws are Officer Murphy (J. Farrell Mac-
donald) and other guardians of law and
order. The police devices by which
Attorney Pander (Arthur Hohl) is
tricked and the hero is enabled to marry
Miss Rogers and remain in the U.S.A.
constitute knockabout farce of a high
order. Donald Meek does good work
as a parson.
“The Richest Girl in the World”
Another film which was crowded out
of The Bulletin when first reviewed.
The Plaza released it first.
The acting is so good that the hack-
neyed story doesn’t matter. Miriam
Hopkins is the girl who finds that wealth
doesn’t mean happiness. Fortune-hunters
live on her doorstep. She gets her private
secretary (Fay Wray) to exchange roles
with her. It works till Miss Hopkins
falls in love with penniless Joel McCrea.
Anxious to 4est Joel
she urges him to pro-
pose to Miss Wray.
The honest fellow is
bemused by the charm
of Miss Hopkins and
the glamor of Miss
Wray, as depicted by
Miss Hopkins’s elo-
quence, and the issue is
further complicated by
the private secretary’s
husband (Reginald
Denny). The climax
arrives at one of the
most amusing break-
fasts seen on the screen
—-one of those func-_
tions at which all the
parties get everything
completely off their
minds.
Andy Clyde in “The Little
Minister.”
Some First Nights
“Laburnam Grove,” with which an
English comedy company started a
season at Sydney Cri. on Saturday night,
is one of J. B. Priestley’s less important
plays. The action takes place in
the living-room of the Radferns’ house
in Laburnum-grove, North London.
George Radfern (Vernon Kelso) is
in the wholesale paper trade, and
devotes his spare time to growing
tomatoes and listening to the radio.
His family and neighbors regard him
as a model of respectability. His
wife Dorothy (Betty Bowden) is sym-
pathetic and loyal. Elsie (Sybil David-
son), his daughter, is tired of her hum-
drum life, and wants to marry Harold
Russ (James Raglan), a youth engaged in
selling second-hand cars, who hopes to
raise a large loan from Elsie’s father.
Living on George are his sister-in-law
Lucy (Ella Daincourt) and her husband
Bernard (Gabriel Toyne), a sponger who
has spent some years in Singapore, and
allows no one to forget it. Bernard also
has visions of getting money out of
George.
One evening the fed-up Radfern tells
the assembled company that he belongs
to a gang of counterfeiters. Is George
John Beale and Katharine Hepburn in
“The Little Minister.”
a criminal or not? Radfern’s shocked
dependants can’t make up their minds.
The question is settled in the third act,
which is cleverly constructed and excit-
ing.
Gabriel Toyne clowned a shade too in-
dustriously in the first two acts. Vernon
Kelso gave a polished performance, and
Betty Bowden’s restrained study of a
suburban matron was a gem.
* * *
“Hedda Gabler” at the Kursaal, Syd-
ney, on Saturday night was a gallant
effort. Shirley Geddes played the neu-
rotic Hedda ; she was impressive despite
a tendency to talk out of the corner of
her mouth. Bessie Swan was a charming
it slightly negative Mrs.
Elvsted. Eddie Finn as
Eilert Lovborg was dis-
appointing to those who
saw his finely original
Trigorin in “The Sea-
gull.”
* * *
Some time ago
Somerset Maugham an-
nounced that he had
made all the money he
needed, and would
write in future to
please himself. Hence
“For .Services Ren-
dered,” produced by
the Gregan McMahon
Players at Melbourne
Comedy.
The story turns on a
family. The son blinded;
one daughter married to a drunkard
she loves; another war-robbed of
her lover and in love with ex-
officer who refuses to reciprocate, makes
a mess of his finances and suicides to
avoid gaol. The third and youngest sister
is left about to elope with an elderly
admirer whose wife has been her friend.
In the middle of this turmoil sits the
mother, the pivot around which it re-
volves. She has been told she can live
only three months, and accepts the
decision with smiling philosophy. Drawn
as a kindly, sympathetic woman she is
quite content to cry “Hail, Caesar!” leav-
ing everything and everybody who counts
with her in a hopeless tangle. Catherine
Neill interpreted this difficult part with
convincing ease and naturalism. Lee
Murray was a clean-cut, pathetic figure as
the blinded ex-soldier. His pacifist speech
is great propaganda. Kathleen Howell,
Thelma Besant and Nancy Ford gave
satisfactory interpretations of the differ-
ing temperaments of the three daughters.


7L%
•m
“The Arrow ”
KLEANBOREI2 Ga.
The Cartridge that is proving itseli
outstanding on account ol its greater
accuracy, harder-hitting power, excellent
pattern and penetration. Definitely protects the inside
of the barrel from rust, corrosion, pitting, and leading.
Don’t experiment. Use “Arrow” Kleanbore, protect your
gun, and get better results.
Ask your deuter J'or them.
i Wholesale Distributing Agents for New South Wales
PAUL & GRAY LIMITED, 82-84 Sussex Street, Sydney
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 686 E, G.P.0., Melbourne
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. _ By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 13/6/’34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. j. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: AVarwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J Smitli,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices end Agencies Throughout the States.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Film
Female
The question,
How do people
(that is, men as
well as women)
react to a domi-
nant male per-
sonality? is easily answered. On the
battlefield, on the playing-field, in the
political field and particularly in the pas-
tures of Venus (where most films frolic)
it has inevitably proved attractive. But
when the complementary question, How
do people react to a dominant female
personality? is posed, no one needs to be
told that the answer is infinitely more
subtle, as well as dangerous.
The films so far have not tried to
answer it. The attractively weak, unre-
sisting, feline female personality still
holds her own, unchallenged ; only the
experimental recklessness of a dramati-
cally, popularly, financially assured
Shakspeare, prompted by the image of
England’s most dominating queen in his
mind, would dare to present to the public
a female “lead” so dangerously unsympa-
thetic as Lady Macbeth.
For the issue is certainly dangerous,
and considerably involved. The feeling
of masculine inferiority, increasing even
more in our times, is probably flattered
by the film illusion of the ideal woman.
It promotes a delicious swelling of the
chest—it is something even better than
half a dozen of beer to take home,
though it may not last as long. To the
hordes of helpless Babbitts its appeal is
almost shockingly personal and intimate ;
like one of Browning’s ladies, it pleads:
“Be a god and fold me With your
charms; Be a man and hold me lit your
arms !” Even the hardest of hard-boiled
cynics and mysogynists have been known
to succumb to such an appeal. With
women, the reaction is different: the
appeal is subjective, not objective. As
with their men, the type is one foreign
to them, but something more than a
strong impulse of curiosity makes them
palpitate with covetous admiration.
With that shrewd female sensitiveness
for what is really going on (which is
their substitute for clear, conclusive
thought), women seem to know that the
screen image of woman is exceptionally
desirable to men —even a little more de-
sirable, perhaps, than the best of fleshly
images, since it is definitely unattainable.
Therefore, for a few ecstatic hours they
enjoy the curious experience of replacing
their own personalities (and God knows
men find those dear enough, in more
than one way) with that of the actress.
Women coming away from attending a
talking-picture inevitably display (with
a pathetic lack of hesitation) very defi-
nite differences in personality, which can
only be due to the aforementioned
transposition.
So do men. But, instead of a trans-
position, it is the emphasis laid upon
their own latent personalities which lends
to the male eye that powerful, dominat-
ing glint with all the mirrors in the
loggia reflect with such a satisfying accu-
racy. No Lady Macbeth put that there.
It is an unconscious acknowledgment of
the milky appeal of the soft, plastic,
ultra-feminine screen type —the woman
we always have seen, always do see and
“The Murrumbidgee River,” a James R. Jackson landscape in the current
exhibition of Australian art at the Macleod Gallery.
no doubt always will see. The purpose
of the talking film is to amuse, not to
abuse.
KIM.
Peace.
All this is vanity.
How may I find cool peace
And sovereign sanity
In din's unfettered lease ?
Nay, I will cool my eyes
With flowers; who can say,
Beneath familiar skies,
There is a better way ?
Last night's midsummer rain
Has scattered sequins bright
On leaf and grass.; no stain
Is there in this sharp light.
I have not tasted life so sweet
Since youth forsook me; yea,
I must go out with naked feet,
And cool the years away.
There is such sanity in grass;
It leaves me wondering
How I, unseeing, ever pass
Its lyric thundering.
QUEENSLAND.
B. VREPONT.
The Stage
Can Help
Australia
To-day Austra-
lian plays are put
forward with an
inferential admis-
sion that they
cannot possibly
be up to the
standard of imported plays, but deserve
encouragement.
There were no apologies 30-odd years
ago. Bland Holt and Anderson were
glad to stage any Australian productions
that were forthcoming ; so were Dam-
pier and others ; George Darrell ran his
own company with his own locally-made
dramas, and that there was at the time
a lively encouragement for dramatic
authorship, and that it was readily
grasped by local authors, anyone can see
for himself by turning up the newspaper
files of the ’nineties.
It was not merely an accident that this
bright period coincided with the rapid
growth of Australian sentiment —the
achievement of Federation, determination
for a White Australia, abolition of sweat-
ing, arbitration and pension Acts, factory
and pure-food laws, self-dependence in
defence and so forth. The growing tide
of a national spirit no doubt provided
the welcome for the plays ; but the plays
helped the tide. There is no more effec-
tive rostrum than the stage, and, crude
as a great deal of these productions may
have been, their impulse was vitally
patriotic. Australia was a white man’s
country ; all Australians were brothers ;
the land was a free land in which the
meannesses, the sweating and the tyran-
nies of older lands would not be tolerated
—these were the sentiments that out-
burst of local plays gave to the public.
Commercial interests destroyed that
really Australian stage; and it is my
sincere belief that the currents of patriot-
ism run less clearly, more vapidly, to-
day because they lack the assistance of
a stage that can express and develop
national sentiment. That is the plea,
based on the usefulness proved in the
past, for a national theatre.
It must be a stage. Pictures may be
able to give better entertainment as pure
entertainment ; they can never be as con-
vincing as the dramatic argument offered
by people who stand before us in real
flesh and blood. It must be divorced
from the mixture of financial opportun-
ism and amateur futility of so many of
our play societies ; and, within limits, it
would be desirable for it to be as com-
mercial as possible, since commercial
success is in a measure a criterion of
public usefulness. Because of the ground
ihat has to be made up, a subsidy
would be essential; but a national
theatre in each Australian capital,
giving an opportunity to Australian
dramatists, with theatrical craftsmen in
the leading roles and support recruited
from amateurs (but subjected to strictly
professional rules), should, with a little
start, be made self-maintaining.
HAROLD MERCER.
A Fine
One-man
Show
At the Gros-
venor Galleries a
collection of ex-
cellent outdoor
pieces in oil color
by Victorian land-
scapist John
Row'ell makes the best one-man show—
apart from Heysen’s loan exhibition—
that Sydney has seen for some time.
Rowell presents the Australian atmo-
sphere admirably. The big canvas
“Golden Light” is a magnificent example
of his ability to paint light; this and
other gum-tree studies are in his usual
manner, but a group of smaller exhibits
show an experimental departure. He
is not one of those painters who, having
developed a successful manner, are con-
tent to sit down and let it go at that,
turning out scores of pictures which,
while they may be honest, inevitably be-
come self-plagiarisms.
Rowell’s new works are interestingly
different. Some beach compositions are
entirely new in color to this artist, and
a few sea-pieces done in subdued tone
have splendid movement.
Rowell is a first-rate draughtsman, his
tone impeccable, and by his careful
placements of the incidentals of nature,
cattle, sheep, composed harmoniously
with their setting, he gives us the Aus-
tralian bush-scene with the most truth-
ful accuracy. Also shown, a well-
handled self-portrait recently seen on the
Archibald Prize line illustrates very
definitely that the artist is not land-
bound.
ARIA.
Current
Arthursts
Lionel Lindsay
signalised his ad-
vent to Mel-
bourne by assert-
ing that there are
too many art
exhibitions. The present show of the
Women Artists at the Athenaeum is
standing proof of his accurate judgment.
The average of efficiency revealed by this
collection of water-colors is low—so low
that in some instances it recalls the pic-
tures which the proud mother exhibits
in her suburban drawing-room to
prove “how well Mary is getting
on.” Those exhibits which stand
out are nearly all done by women
artists who exhibit in male com-
pany and carry the challenge of
their sex into the open arena. As
tor the rest, silence is the most
chivalrous attitude. The exhibition
is a big one —no fewer than 142
pictures are on the walls ; but mass
production without quality is un-
satisfactory business—even in turn-
ing out boot-protectors.
The striking etching “Fete,” re-
produced in Sundry Shows for
April 3, is the work of Sydney
artist H. Neville Barker. It is exhi-
bited, with other examples of his
work, in the current show of
Australian art at the Macleod
Gallery.
This year’s exhibition of the Aus-
tralian Water-color Institute at
Sydney Education Gallery includes
all the well-known names and a
crop of newcomers. Outstanding
ji. • i n _ i a
among the younger men is Ronald
H. Steuart. The progress of this
artist has been remarkable. Within
a very short time he has achieved
a quality seldom reached in many
years. JEach of his five exhibits
is vibrant with honest purpose, the
manner remindful of no one. Here, in
its crisp, clean application, its truthful-
ness to the principles, is first-rate water-
color. Similarly rapid in its advance is
the work of G. K. Townshend. With
each year’s showing Townshend moves to
a higher level. Of six excellent pieces
“Mountain Mist” is a gem. Maud Sher-
wood shows several arresting composi-
tions: most robust color work, this.
Fred Leist is present with a couple of
freshly-handled jobs ; “Summer Morning”
is an example of his composing ability.
“Landscape in Sunlight” is J. R. Elder-
shaw at his best-—a very competent land-
scape. Other outstanding exhibitors in-
clude Beryl Mallinson, whose bird studies
are well drawn and have a fine direct-
ness of wash, Lincoln Hamilton, Mar-
garet Coen and Oswald Pauli; and there
is a neat drawing, “At Jamberoo,” by
John Baird.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
HE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of
treatment and privacy. Get a bottle
of ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Bro\yn and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
ROMANOFF. CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from tlie
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/0 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manaqer for full particulars.
The liichardson Chain Hotel
M
* Iff
K'llijif
N.
**
H i?
ifjJ
n
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Bailtvay Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
e
WILUUX, cuVill H & UU.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
bankers: The Union
BRANDALER£
è
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
C. BRANDACER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
A WOMA N 'S
LETTER
Fifty thousand Diggers will march in
the Anzac procession. Thirty-eight thou-
sand are coming from the country in
special trains, commencing from Satur-
day. The colors of 18 regiments will be
lifted to the breeze as the men step down
Macquarie-street to the Martin-place
extension. Thirty-two bands (last year
there were nine) will play them, 12
abreast, through the city to the Domain.
At the Cenotaph they will divide, and,
six abreast, step quietly past, hats placed
over the heart.
Roll up, roll up! The greatest show
on earth has opened its gates. Out at
the R.A.S. grounds Nature, valeted by
man, comes into her own. Here are
prize vegetables, luscious fruits and
golden grain. Horse and cow and pig
glance casually at their admirers. They
are all prize specimens, and how many
of their onlookers have even gained a
mention in a baby show?
Victoria League receptions are always
dignified. Last week, the Leaguers
assembled in honor of the King’s jubilee,
as well as to greet the Governor and his
lady, so the occasion was almost sacro-
sanct. The ballroom of the Australia
shrined the party, and long before the
vice-res. arrived the chairs around the
walls were draped with ladies effulgent
in satins and velvets, brocades and laces.
Diamonds were more prevalent at this
party than youth, and in the rarefied
atmosphere the strains of “The Merry
Widow” sounded almost as irreverent as
would a crooner in a cathedral choir.
Still the frocking was beautiful.
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s parchment satin
frock had its yoke lit with a deep band
of diamente and its shoulder drapes of
black velvet. Miss Macarthur-Onslow’s
cobalt-blue laces were made with a waist-
length cape ; the black-and-gold brocades
of the Hughes lady struck a ’cello note
in richness, and, as usual, Mrs. Walter
Swinson was among the gracefully-
frocked —black lace her fabric. Black
lace was worn by Mrs. Violet Bennett,
and black velvet lit with diamente by
Miss Fairfax. Sweeping frocks of black
satin sustained Melbourne’s Miss Veitch
and sister Mrs. Searight. Mrs. Norman
Lowe swung earrings of Oriental design.
Philip Street’s lady, sheathed in black
velvet and gold lame, presented, among
others, tall Joan Tyler, graceful in mist-
blue moires. She and her father, Captain
Tyler, were in a group with the F. J.
Davys, Mrs. Davy’s chiffons being of
palest lilac.
Something the army of Diggers march-
ing on Sydney will not miss is the Anzac
Night tattoo at the Showground. Massed
bands 550 men strong will open the
programme, the star turn of which
will be Pages from the Past, show-
ing the A.I.F. in action in 1918 in an
incident’ experienced by the 45th Bat-
talion on the Western Front. A pageant
of the evolution of the military forces in
N.S.W. will follow. Navy, Army and
Air Force are co-operating.
Mollie Wolfcarius hadn’t even to go
round the corner for a church to be mar-
ried in. She just went up the street from
mother’s flat in the Astor and met her
Bedford Osborne at St. Stephen’s kirk
in Macquarie-street. Of a melting blue
and very soft woolly weave was her tWo-
piece suit, the open coat showing a jabot
of old lace. A blue felt hat and a spray
of orchids finished off the outfit. Lady
Hore-Ruthven, who is a great friend of the
’groom’s mother, Mrs. Jim Osborne, of
Goulburn, went to the wedding, her hat,
frock and coat repeating tones of brown.
Mrs. Osborne’s navy silk suit was bright-
ened by a pale-pink blouse and a spray
of lily-of-the-valley. There was lunch
for the few at the Wolfcarius flat, the
hostess impressive in blue and black,
and an afternoon reception for the many
at No. 11 Onslow-avenue.
A slip of a girl looking younger than
her young years, Rayner Hoff’s pupil
Barbara Tribe gets a scholarship in
sculpture that brings her £250 a year for
two years and the chance of study
abroad. She’s been a student at the East
Sydney Tech. College for seven years,
and amazed critics at the recent students’
exhibition in the Blaxland Galleries by
the technique and maturity of her work.
Fame first came her way when her master
told the press that some of his work in
the Anzac Memorial was “assisted” by
Barbara Tribe.
At the afternoon party given by
Madame Wolfcarius at No. 11 Onslow-
averiue every Osborne in Sydney could
be seen; the ’groom’s uncles Harry,
Steenie and Pat; the Henry Charleses
and Olivers, and innumerable youthful
members of the vast squatting clan.
Most of the others were city people with
country tastes —Ashtons, Horderns and
so on —and old friends of Mrs. Jim
Osborne and her late husband such as
the Jim Gordons and Mrs. Bayly Mac-
arthur.
The N.S.W. travelling scholarship
which will send the Bondi girl abroad
has evolved from the old Society of
Arts scholarship—now the Government
is the benefactor. This is the first year
it has been awarded to sculpture—paint-
ing always previously attracting the
judge’s eye; and that’s a finer feather in
Barbara’s cap because artist John Long-
staff was the sole judge. And it’s the first
time the award has gone to the Technical
College. A Monteith picture.
The dances at the United Service Insti-
tute are run on cosy rather than spec-
tacular lines. There’s a funny little pen
just within the door of the reception-
room (which ordinarily, judging by the
book-lined walls, is the library), and here
the coats and (when there are vice-regal
guests) the bugler are parked. Last
Wednesday the institute welcomed Sir
Alexander Hore-Ruthven and his lady, so
the bugler blew bravely and trium-
phantly. The doorway was draped with
flags, a red carpet flowed over the front
steps, and the signs and portents of war
which deck the rooms stood at ease.
Every man wore uniform, every
woman bright frocking. Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s tissue frock gleamed silver and
periwinkle blue, and was in harmony
with accompanying pearls and diamonds
—as all properly brought-up frocks would
be. Mrs. Mills, who with her brigadier
did the honors, wore ivory beads with
her black laces; steel-embossed black
georgettes glittered on Mrs. Spain;
across Mrs. Pope’s shoulders gleamed a
gold cape. Tall Colonel McFarlane was
sighted. The Brigadier-General Herrings,
she waving a lilac feather fan, were there;
so were the Colonel Ridleys, the Captain
David Lindsay couple, the Major Boyles
and dozens of other warriors of sea and
land with their feminine belongings.
Seven hundred writers and their
readers went to the Authors’ Ball, and
the Blaxland Galleries vibrated with talk
and overflowing spirits whenever the band
paused. But if you think the party was
100 per cent. Bohemian you are wrong.
The women authors wore modish frocks,
and not one poet came with a rose be-
hind his ear. The Mayoral Parkers, the
guests of the evening, were met with
salaams and bouquets and provided with
easy-chairs and a strip of carpet for the
feet. Tom Bavin’s lady, herself a writer,
brought a flutter of young things, among
them Ryder Swinson, whose mother as a
girl knew all literary London and Phil
May. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, in black velvet
and diamonds, helped to judge the cos-
tumes. Characters from Australian
novels stepped into the spotlight and
walked around the ballroom. Among
them Jonah (Bill Moore) and Mrs. Jen-
kins (Dora Wilcox Moore), from Mary
Gilmore’s Old Days: Old Ways, were
winners.
Seven Little Australians came to the
party, and their creator, Ethel Turner,
beamed on them. Near by sat son Adrian
and his wife. The Norman Lowes
and Oswald Cheeke were among the in-
terested, Mrs. Norman being the Elegant
Lady from the Ethel Turner evergreen.
Shipping man T. S. Gordon (a sturdy bar-
racker for the Australian novel) squired
his wife. President Mrs. Hubert Fairfax,
complete with posy, engaged in dialogue
with Dr. Charlie Bean, who, with his
wife, was among the Frank Clunes’ out-
size party. Jeanie Ranken was in this
group, her black frock fluttering wing-
sleeves. Percy Lindsay (one of the
judges) was with the Arthur Crockers ;
son Peter was in a group that included
Ellis and Denise Dettmann and Wendy
Woolfrey. Marjorie Quinn, gleaming
with tiny silver stars, sat at the official
table with the Tom Moores, Mary Gil-
more, Hugh McCrae, Dorothea Mac-
kellar and notables already mentioned.
Frank Fox, who before his flight into
Fleet-street was a Bulletin man,
escorted a pretty niece.
In Phillip Lewis’s Easter presentation
of “The Green Bay Tree” at the Savoy,
Bonita Appleton will have the sort of part
that is the ambition of every actress —she
will be the only woman in the cast. The
play will open the season of the profes-
sional repertory company, which Lewis
hopes will meet with such success that
he will have to lease a theatre and give
nightly performances. George Parker is
producing “The Green Bay Tree.” A
Rene Pardon picture.
Six hundred National Councillors and
their affiliated sisters foregathered in the
Blaxland Galleries to welcome Lady
Hore-Ruthven last Thursday night.
Earnest dignity was the keynote of this
party, though president Mrs. Muscio’s
speech was more serious than her frock
—a shimmery affair of magnolia satin
sashed in moonlight blue. Lady Hore-
Ruthven wore a graceful black lace dress,
its neckline soft with frilled black tulle
Pearls were a glamorous extra. Dr. Con-
stance D’Arcy brought mulberry laces,
and Lorna Byrne and Aileen Fitz Patrick
a genius for marshalling the women's
causes to their places.
The Red Cross has just been having
its coming-of-age conference. Twenty-
one years ago not only the women
of the city but the women of the
little blue-and-gold coastal towns, the
women of the sunburnt outback towns,
rallied to the symbol of mercy. More
than two decades, and the women are
still faithful to their trust! You had
only to whizz up to the State Assembly
and see the earnest rows of women fill-
ing that big room to be sure the Digger
will never lack friends while breath is left
to those steady-eyed workers. There are
always daughters and granddaughters to
fill up the breaches time may make in
the original ranks.
Through the windows could be
glimpsed the domes and spires and sky-
scrapers of the city. The air was cool
and clean, the sky was blue, and a ’plane
droned busily, glinting as it swooped
among the sunbeams. And in the room
Mrs. R. R. S. MacKinnon, Miss Kate
Egan, Miss Rosa Piper and Miss Con-
sett Stephen told of the war victims’ need
—greater now than 15 years ago, for
what returned wounded 15 years ago
believed that for him there was no hope
of recovery? The women of the after-
care department talked of their charges
—so many pages of a human document.
Even when flecked with Miss Consett
Stephen’s saving humor the listener felt
her throat tighten.
Dinah, the second of Tony Hordern’s
fresh young daughters, has just become
engaged. Her ring-provider is Henry
John Meeks, only son of the J. O. Meekses,
of Edgecliff. Like all the Hordern
women, the bride-to-be is fond of coun-
try life ; she is an excellent rider, and is
booked to compete at the R.A.S. Show.
Mrs. A. V. Roberts, a splendid worker
in the cause of the blind, will crack her
Easter egg in Clive Hospital, North Syd-
ney. An injured arm muscle is the cause,
some weeks of rest and treatment the
prescription.
The Anzac Festival Committee, which
was established under the auspices of the
Anzac Fellowship of Women in the Town
Hall in 1931, is still pursuing its object.
This is the encouragement of a greater
use of the arts in the celebrations of the
Anzac season. Anzac Eve is the date,
and .Sydney Con. the place of the perfor-
mance.
During the past week Sydney became
quite used to the sight of Lady Louis
Mountbatten, both in the flesh and in
press photographs. She is fair, pretty
and slender, and her legs emerged with
distinction from a skirt of the returning
shortness. The Australia has been her
headquarters, and a ’plane to fly her back
to Malta, where her husband is stationed,
is her objective. She has toured Maori-
land by car, and met a cyclone in full
blast while cruising among the islands
in a copra schooner. Her husband, two
years before their marriage, visited Aus-
tralia on the staff of the Prince of Wales.
Elsie Hall, who thrilled her native
Sydney by her playing of Beethoven
when she was a child of seven, is revisit-
ing her own land. Most of her life, since
her student days in Germany, has been
spent in South Africa. There she is a
leader in the musical world, and plays
with the municipal orchestras of both
Cape Town and Durban. As a young-
ster in Sydney she was a pupil of Ann-
ette Kellerman’s mother and of the
veteran Josef Kretschmann.


• Golfers ! If your feet slip, your shot
is spoiled. These shoes are specially de-
signed for extra GROUND' GRIF....
note the placing of the Boonerangs on the
soles and heels. It is almost impossible to
slip. All leading stores sell ‘NIBLICK”
Golf Shoes.
K
Carubo
Goff Shoe
Q)
n°i
in on bitHnete
. . . want&■ convenience . . .
an
d convlott too . . . natntalL
looL£ at
SYDNEY
f
'eft
f
Tariff: Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-. .
R. J. Langley, Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 611 of 1935.
BETWEEN REGINALD BEDE McEVOY
Petitioner
And JESSIE McEVOY (formerly Jessie
Moffat) Respondent.
TO JESSIE McEVOY late of West Wyalong.
TAKE NOTICE thaj the said REGINALD
BEDE McEVOY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
lor a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the fourth day
of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of April, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ALAN T. STEWART, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
I '4
c
4?
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
'Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Melbourne
Chatter
Golf at Warrnambool, picnic races at
Deniliquin and a big race-meeting in the
Western District took numbers of bright
young people away from Melbourne last
week. Homesteads were filled to over-
flowing with town visitors. Mrs. Otway
Falkiner, of Boonoke, Mrs. Neville
Armytage (Quiamong), Mrs. Robert Lan-
dale (Mundiwa), Mrs. Les Falkiner (Wan-
ganella Estate), Mrs. Lindsay Field (War-
breccan) and Mrs. Percy Landale (Chip-
penlan Park) all had their homes taxed
to full capacity for the Riverina’s annual
week of gaiety. Deniliquin and its social
events gave Alison Fitchett, Beverley
Lansell, Margaret Cochran, Sue Parker
and the O’Brien sisters (Paula and Joan),
of Tasmania, the time of their young
lives.
Perfectly groomed and favoring very
plain clothes in exclusive style, Mrs. J.
Russell Sheppard, of London, a grand-
daughter of the late J. B. Watson, one
of Bendigo’s mining magnates in the
early days, is here on a flying visit. She
and Mrs. W. Bailey, formerly Verna
Johnson, another of Australia’s rich
young women, made the trip together to
spend a little time with their mothers.
Family ties have not absorbed all their
interest; a few bright parties have been
squeezed in. Mrs. Sheppard, better
known here as Marie Hall, has a big
house in Sloane-street, London, where
she entertains a circle of bright and inter-
esting people. Mrs. Bailey, who was
reared among the Australian gums,
prefers a country life in Wales, where
there is lots of good sport during the
hunting season. The latest thing in
sports watches is being worn by Mrs.
Sheppard; it is fashioned of scarlet
enamel set in platinum, and the timepiece
ticks out of sight beneath a diamond
monogram.
These overseas visitors and Elaine
Gibson were guests of honor at a
party given by Mrs. lan McDonald
before she left for California. Mrs.
McDonald, as Gertrude Courtney Dix,
was the favorite dancing partner of
the Prince of Wales during his visit to
Melbourne.
Leila Pirani is to visit China, a dream of
her life. Most of the jilnk shops here have
been combed in her quest for Chinese
curios, and the searching for more to add
to an already weird collection will be
continued with great zest in Singapore,
Hong Kong and Pekin. A blue leather
dressing-case, silver-fitted, an au revoir
gift, may help to keep her conventionally
minded if her eye lights on a Chinese
dragon.
Colonel and Mrs. Harold Cohen
—the latter is Leila’s sister —lent their
luxurious flat attached to Fairlie House
for an informal farewell party. Despite
the glamor of this cream-walled, green-
curtained residence, the Cohens intend
deserting it to make their home in Caul-
field. At the recent election Colonel
Cohen promised that, if he were returned
for Caulfield, he would live in the con-
stituency. Soon the whole family will be
shaking the dust of Anderson-street,
Toorak, off their feet.
Up till now modern drama and
comedy have appeased the appetite of
the theatre-mad crowd who strut the
amateur stage. Some of them are getting
ready to digest more solid fare. Louie
Dunne and her students have gone all
Elizabethan, devoting hours to capturing
the rhythm of blank verse and mastering
the art of wearing doublet and hose,
farthingales, great ruffs and Medici col-
lars as to the manner born. Exercise
with the rapier has made some of them
more slick on their feet already. William
Shakspeare can take the credit. The thrill
of appearing in one of his pieces has
sent these young people delving into the
days qf good Queen Bess to get the hang
of the speech, habits and clothes of the
time. Louie is bringing up big guns—four
aggregate champions of South-street —to
strengthen her position in putting on
“Romeo and Juliet” with all women and
girl players. She has entrusted the part
of Romeo to Renie Mitchell, a handsome
wench. Rehearsals are in full swing, with
Sylvia Archer as Juliet, Rea Lawson the
Nurse, Jean Barklam Mercutio, Elvie
Allen Benvolio and the teacher herself
as Tybalt. The show will go up at the
Garrick in June.
Officers of the Vic. Scottish on their
way to camp at Easter will waggle their
kilts more proudly than ever. For the
first time in history they will be wearing
Australian-made sporrans. A Melbourne
hairdresser undertook the task of deliver-
ing the goods. He had to enlist the help
of saddlers, metal-workers and, of course,
fellmongers to complete the order, so the
new sporrans put a lot of extra money
into circulation. Black and brown horse-
hair had to be bleached almost white
before it was ready to be attached to a
patent-leather plaque mounted with silver
metal bearing a lion rampant and the
regimental motto.
Everybody who is anybody in the social
swim was at St. John’s, Toorak, on
Thursday afternoon to see Mary Winter-
lrving married to Douglas Johnson,
whose family migrated from Point Piper
to Toorak. The bride was all silver lame
and Molyneux simplicity; behind her
floated sister June, with masses of orchid
mauve-spangled tulle swirling and Cas-
cading about her tall, slender figure.
Toddling down the long aisle wee
Camilla de Little, of Caramut, proved a
trifle nervous with the bride’s train.
Young Peter Dodd, in his mauve
page suit, did not look too happy,
either, and gladly sought the shelter
of his. grandmother’s arms at the
first opportunity. The wreath of
orange-blossom buds that kept the
filmy veil from being whisked off the
bride’s head by the autumn breezes was
made of mother-of-pearl, and the flowers
in the bridesmaid’s bouquet, looking like
mauve orchids, were gladioli heads. Mrs.
Bill Winter-lrving, whom a cat burglar
had relieved of all her jewellery a few
nights before, appeared to be bearing up
wonderfully. At the wedding reception
the bride’s mother, Mrs. William Irving
Winter-lrving, had a gilded ivy leaf
in lifesize shining at the waistline of her
black frock and ospreys jutting out of her
hat. Here is a picture of Mrs. Douglas
Johnson, taken by Athol Shmith prior to
her marriage.
Lieutenant Roblin Hearder had to
travel a long way to claim Miss “Billy”
Wischer, with whom he is now honey-
mooning in Sydney or thereabouts. He
came from the North-West Frontier of
India, where he is an officer in the
Royal Tank Corps. Flying-Officer Ander-
son, R.A.F., who is stationed at Pesha-
war, planned his furlough so as to accom-
pany his friend and act as best man.
Eileen Meeson (otherwise “Billy”) Wischer
murmured her marriage vows in a cling-
ing velvet robe, the color matching her
bright blue eyes. Below is a picture of
her as seen through the Jack Cato lens.
As a member of the Lyceum Club,
Mrs. Wischer was able to make use
of a dignified setting for the social after-
math that falls to the lot of parents on
these occasions. Most of the guests nibbled
the sandwiches on the wing, as it were.
The wedding-cake, topped with a minia-
ture armored tank, complete with guns
and revolving turret, had a table all to
itself, with exquisite tiger-lilies opening
out like a white fan behind it.
• Play-acting was one of “Billy” Wischer’s
hobbies. If the Gregan McMahon season
of “Many Waters” had not clashed with
the wedding-day date, she would have
appeared in the leading role. Nor is her
stage experience limited to amateur pro-
ductions ; she has sampled theatrical life
in the English provinces.
Frances Woolcott, solicitor Woolcott’s
only daughter, was as well mixed up as
plums in a Christmas cake with the
romance of her best girl friend “Billy”
Wischer and the young English soldier.
She introduced them to each other seven
years ago when Lieutenant Hearder was
on military duty at Duntroon. Who was
better entitled to dance attendance on
the bride? Frances floated down the
aisle in a billowy old-world frock of Otto-
man silk in a shade that hovered between
shrimp pink and the color of a La France
rose. She had to keep her pretty
head at the wedding reception, for many
people mistook the best man for her
fiance, Paymaster-Lieutenant-Commander
Joseph O’Reilly, and kept congratulating
them as an engaged pair. So embarrass-
ing! A few days after the wedding
Frances went off to Sydney to be the
guest of Commander and Mrs. John
Hehir for the Easter festivities. Prob-
ably she will be looking for a brides-
maid to follow her down the aisle before
July.
The unmarried mother has a good
friend in Mrs. T. E. A. Castles, sister of
the wealthy Nicholas brothers, whose
business career is one of the romances in
Australian industrial life. Since she has
been president of a home in Keppell-
street, Carlton, that for nearly eighty
years has provided a haven for young
women in trouble, new life has been put
into it's old body. There is a more home-
like look about the place now. When
Madam President gave a tea-party
recently in the girls’ sitting-room, her
visitors imagined that, like the auctioneer
in charge of a private sale, she had filled
the place with attractive bits and pieces
to make a better showing. But all the
furniture “belonged,” even to the carpet
squares and a round mahogany table
that an antique collector would have been
thrilled to discover. Long before the last
asparagus roll had been munched the tea-
party had cleared its own expenses with
the promises received of personal and
practical support. Among them was Mrs.
Donald Dow’s happy suggestion of run-
ning one of those charity moneymakers
“An Opportunity Shop.” Mrs. Castles is
the widow of a Kyneton man who made
a name for himself in the hardware
trade. Before settling down to domesticity
she had gained a wonderful insight into
the lives of erring humans, for she spent
10 years carrying out the duties of lady
governor for the female division at
Pentridge.
Most weddings celebrated in Lent are
shorn of some of their glamor by the
unadorned chancel and pews. A pros-
pective bride, who after much argument
with her parents had reconciled herself
to the aspect of a bare-looking church on
her wedding morn, returned to the family
debate with fresh vigor after she had
attended a fashionable wedding at a still
more fashionable church. Her eyes
nearly popped out of her head when
she caught sight of masses of white and
pink flowers. Guests sitting in the pew
behind knew that she was saying to her-
self, ”If she has flowers for her wedding
why can’t I have some for mine?”
Mother, however, hit the nail on the
head without a hammer: “But, my dear,
you forget this is a social church.”
In one of Surrey Hills’s open spaces
there is a vacant allotment dotted with
beautiful old gum-trees which the “Grey
Sisters,” living opposite, hope will long
be spared from the woodman’s axe, for
their new mothercraft training home
will overlook this pleasant site. These
women, coated and hatted in clerical
grey, are familiar figures in congested
areas; they have dedicated themselves to
a life of personal service in destitute
homes, giving a practical helping hand
in time of sickness and affliction. They
receive no money. For five years they
have scrubbed, washed and cooked in
poverty-stricken homes, utilising a work-
man’s cottage in one of Prahran’s mean
little streets as their headquarters. Sister
O’Connor set up housekeeping with a
pound in her purse. Now help is coming
from many quarters.
The mothercraft training centre will
have as its foundation a free rest home
for poor mothers and their babes. The
first bed has been allotted. No mother-
craft lessons should be needed by this
patient, for she is the mother of 14
children. The grey furnishing of the
home will be in harmony with the sisters’
uniform.


AG#/
50 c '£/>
>v
C*
Don't Miss!
This Year’s
ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
A Pageant of Progress.
AN EVENT OF NATIONAL IMPORTANCE
TO EVERYONE. INSPIRATIONAL AND
EDUCATIONAL EXHIBITS TO INTEREST,
INTRIGUE AND AMUSE BOTH YOUNG
AND OLD.
Thrilling Ring Events.
NINE DAYS—SIX NIGHTS
APRIL 15th to 24th.
L H 8-1
J3uPre
AaAnloTi
' /rurtlA
ylkib /YiU^cn^
N 0.1426 at 7Vm
HAul u RilrlmL
aiudit y am<L moitel
useaite. 7Aj?/jttftkp-
&ruL cdoWU £MAu/l&
thz didwctiaiL jirt;
which Jjub&faje, i&
jiMLOUA
<_j! N addition to this lovely Nightie
the Lustre range also includes
such dainty styles as Vests. Slips.
Brassiere Slips. Knickers and many'
other equally attractive garments.
'Jrom your favourite Store
e
divouAuruA
LINGERIE
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office:
343 George Street, Sydney.
C. DARVALL,
General Manager.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 638 of 1935.
BETWEEN WINIFRED ELLEN BESS Peti-
tioner
And JAMES FELIX BESS Respondent.
TO JAMES FELIX BESS late of Belmore in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WINIFRED
ELLEN BESS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day
of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of April One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES E. HARRIS, Solicitor Cor the Peti-
tioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Noticei
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 592 of 1935.
BETWEEN ALBERT SIDNEY NICOLLE
Petitioner
And BESSIE ALMA NICOLLE Respon-
dent.
TO BESSIE ALMA NICOLLE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALBERT
SIDNEY NICOLLE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Third day
of July One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Third day of April, a.d. 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ARCHIBALD ALISTER JOHNSON, Solici-
tor for the Petitioner, Newcastle ; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS AND COR-
CORAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
A crowded City Hall hung on Evan-
geline Booth’s remarks at her civic re-
ception. In trim uniform, she looked as
though she had just stepped from the
pages of “VogUe,” for Patou and other
designers are featuring the bonnet hat,
and muffled necklines are all in favor.
General Booth, unlike many other
female leaders, does not “knock” the
modern girl. She is staying with Mrs.
D. D. Carrick at Clayfield.
Mrs. Warner, a delicate Dresden-china
figure, celebrated her eightieth birthday
last week. With her husband, the Canon,
she lives at Sandgate. She was born in Tas-
mania, and was only 19 when she came
to Queensland as a bride. Roma (Q.),
Maitland (N.S.W.), Toowoomba (where
their daughter married A. E. Moore)
and Shephall (Eng.) have been temporary
homes since.
Mr. and Mrs. F. Z. Eager, off to
America in the Mariposa on May 1, are
having a round of farewell parties. Sheila
j Logan hostessed a bridge party in the
i lady’s honor.
| Mr. and Mrs. Jim Lamb, of Too-
; woomba, will leave for England by the
Strathnaver. The lady was Madame
Ada Roberts, once champion soprano of
j tuneful Wales; she treasures no fewer
! than 12 silver cups, over 100 gold medals
and a gold wristlet watch presented by
Lloyd George to prove it.
Although it still is too hot for winter
garments, many balls are in the offing.
That of the Brisbane and South Coast
Hospitals Board is due on May B—it8 —it is to
raise funds for a home for aged and
incapacitated nurses. A dance for the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association is to take
place on the Manoora, and there are to
be the usual naval and military annual
affair and the Mater Ball.
A certificate of merit and a gold badge
have been presented by the R.S.S.LL.A.
to Mrs. M. C. Gore, of Kangaroo Point.
She is the first woman thus honored.
Rain, hail or shine, her weekly visits to
the soldier hospitals never have failed.
Madeleine Clarke has arrived in Bris-
bane to make arrangements for Muriel
Brunskill’s tour, which starts in the city
ion April 30. Madeleine is a Brisbane girl,
| for some years editress of the old “Daily
Mail.”
Dr. Kenneth George Lawrance, elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. B. G. Lawrance, of
the Southport School, was married in the
school chapel to Maud Sinclair, daughter
of Mrs. A. and the late Mr. Sinclair, of
Brisbane and Eidsvold. Rev. W. A.
Hardie officiated, and Colin Sinclair gave
his sister away.
Malcolm Outridge was married at the
Cooroy Presbyterian Church to Ena Mac-
donald, daughter of the R. A. Mac-
donalds, of Cooroy. Merle Macdonald,
sister, and Rachel Ross, cousin of the
bride, ’maided. G. H. Foote, a cousin
of the ’groom, and E. Park were his off-
siders.
The heavens opened while the fete at
Government House in aid of the Boy
Scouts and Girl Guides was in full
swing. The takings were a mere nothing
beside last year’s fete, and a lot of hard
work by stallholders has gone for very
little.
Mrs. Molle-Raff, who was born at
Kangaroo Point in the convict-built stone
house of her father, Edward Lord, has
celebrated her 91st birthday. She mar-
ried George Blaxland Molle, grandson of
George Molle, wbo arrived in Sydney as
colonel with the 49th Regiment in 1814.
Her second husband was George Raff,
M.L.C.
Alison Nelson, granddaughter of the
late Hugh, has a new diamond ring.
Cameron Cran, son of Bob Cran, a
mighty footballer in days of yore, is the
lucky man.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
There is a big demand for tickets for
the dance on the Manoora on May 2
in aid of Toe H. Adelaide Steam Co. is
giving everything.
Many smart frocks were worn at the
seventh meeting of the Adelaide Music
Salon, held at Birk’s Piccadilly. The
rooms were tastefully decorated, and the
executive committee acted as hostesses.
Special guests included the latest addition
to the staff at the Elder Conservatorium,
Professor Arved Krutz, and his wife,
a modish figure in clinging black ninon
with a spray of pink roses on the cor-
sage.
Adelaide will be well represented at the
jubilee celebrations in England. Mr. and
Mrs. A. W. Jolly left by the Mooltan;
other passengers who caught the liner at
the very last moment were Dr. and Mrs.
P. Shirreffs, returning to London after
attending the marriage of Mrs. Shirreffs’s
brother. Less than an hour before the
boat sailed from the Outer Harbor, the
doctor, who was best man at the wedding,
was returning thanks on behalf of the
bridesmaids at Eringa.
•The celebration of the Sidney Kid-
mans’ golden wedding and the marriage
of their first grandchild combined to
make the family gathering at Eringa
a notable one. The ceremony took place
at the picturesque old church of St.
Michael’s, at Mitcham, Archdeacon
Clampet officiating. Patricia Clover, tall
and fair, looked charming in an ex-
quisitely-cut gown of oyster satin; she
carried a bouquet of palest-pink rose-
buds. Her ’maids were Joan and Esme
Reid (cousins) and her sister Pamela
Clover ; Robin Clover, her brother, and
John Ayers (a cousin) were Desmond
Bibby’s groomsmen. The three girls
were frocked alike in deep cream
chiffon fitting to the figure, with cowl
neck and long sleeves; sashes of gold
lame lined with flame were worn. They
had sheaves of apricot gladioli.
WESIRALIA.
A trio of attendants followed Phyllis
Thiel as she trod the aisle of St. George’s
Cathedral to keep her tryst with Frank
Downing. Her ivory bridal chiffons were
wrought with a riot of deep cream roses
which spilled their petals on the undula-
tions of her long train and nestled
snugly into the folds of her voluminous
bishop sleeves; the Brussels net veil was
edged with cobweb lace and caught on
the head with a minaret of orange-blos-
som. Mrs. Thiel’s fur-edged black
velvet cape covered floral black georg-
ettes as she murmured welcomes at the
Palace Hotel.
At long last Titania’s Palace has
reached Perth. Rotarian president H. S.
Bickford, with daughter Mavis’s blue-
and-white checks alongside, introduced
the Lieut.-Gov., who officially opened
the show.
Max Montesole and Elsie Mackay
opened their recital-tour with a season
at Anzac House. Montesole’s Dickensian
characterisations proved particularly
palatable. Elsie Mackay’s “parsley round
the dish” included a rich plum-colored
silk as Lady Macbeth in the sleep-walk-


CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
M
■iriV,
m
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney
OLDSMDBILE
aitei uou. EVERYTHING
é
ê
ë
KNEE ACTION WITH
RIDE STABILISER
gives the “gliding ride”
made famous by Oldsmobile
last year over every kind
of road. . . •
CENTRE CONTROL
STEERING
makes steering control
more positive, divorces the
steering wheel from road
shocks, and prevents steer-
ing wheel "fight.”
BIGGER SUPER-
HYDRAULIC BRAKES
transform slight pressure
on the pedal into tremen-
dous stopping poiver. Also
poiverful MECHANICAL
emergency brake.
SYNCHRO-MESH ALL-
SILENT GEARS.
The world's finest trans-
mission, silent in all gears,
ensures clashless changing,
up or down, at any speed.
UNUSUALLY LARGE
LUGGAGE SPACE.
Locked, built-in trunk on
Sedans and Tourer. Ex-
ceptional luggage space on
all models. Separate spare
wheel compartment.
COUPE L UGGA GE SPA CE.
When not required for
emergency passengers, the
coupe hack seat and squab
move out of the way, leav-
ing a luggage compartment
of exceptional size.
ē
M-
-1
MMwitawaam'ifitii
SB®
a
OLDSMOBILE BODY STYLES:
SIXES:
All-Enclosed Coupe, Tourer, Roadster, Sedan.
EIGHTS:
All-Enclosed Coupe, Roadster, Sedan.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S, LTD.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL OLDSMOBILE DEALER
The above are only the bare preliminaries of the "everything" that Oldsmobile gives. The speed
range is up to 85 miles an hour in the Six, 90 in the Eight. The engines, despite their power,
are most economical owing to remarkable engineering refinements.—The bodies express the
prevailing streamlined trends so perfectly that investment value is very qreat. Resale values will
be much higher than usual . . .
NEW ALL-ENCLOSED COUPE
,
The new Coupe, shown at the left (upper illustration), created
by Holden's, is the most practical and the best-streamlined
coupe ever built, giving greater luggage space, yet enabling
emergency passengers to be brought under cover. It saves
the driver from the distraction and danger of attempting
communication through the back light. Coupe owners are
urged to see the ease with which the emergency passenger
accommodation becomes fully available for luggage.
90-H.P. SIXES 100-H.P. EIGHTS
For the first time in Australia, Oldsmobile range includes an
Eight as well as a Six. The Six wheelbase is 1 15 inches. The
Eight wheelbase is 121 inches. The Eight
includes, among its refinements, Fully
Automatic Choke.
Here are the Six Coupe (top)
and Eight Sedan. All models have
exceptional luggage space, con-
cealed storage of the spare wheel
where it cannot touch the lug-
gage, and dual all-electric wind-
shield wipers. All closed models
have V-windshield, No-Draught
Ventilation, and locks on all doors.
Sedans and Tourer have locked
built-in luggage trunk. An attrac-
tive range of accessories is avail-
able, including GM-H Radio and
Nesting Suitcases.
Qenuine Spare Parts are available
from all Q.M.-H. dealers and
reputable garages at standard
prices throughout Australia.
T 724-
0 id s mob i i e ”
ing scene, a generously slit brown velvet
in the “Domestic Interior, 1935” playlet, v
a gold lame and lace confection worn
during her recitations and a gold-spat-
tered black taffeta for the broadcasting
skit.
To bid bon voyage to Mrs. John For-
rest, who is going a-holidaying to the
Cold Country, Mrs. Fred Dempster, girt
with navy-blue silk jersey crepe, rallied a
host of well-wishers at the Karrakatta
Club. The guest of honor wore a navy
tailored suit.
St. Andrew’s Church was fragrant with
Easter lilies and Michaelmas daisies for
the Bagshaw-Malloch wedding. Mr. A.
J. Leckie pulled the organ stops as
Trixie’s cloth of silver swept down the
aisle, the long train shimmering under
still lengthier Brussels lace, which fell
from a circlet of orange-blossom and
silver leaves , a deep cream silk fiinge
hu ,"S to the waist from an upstanding
collar of diamente Lesley Everett and
Joy and Phyl Mai och turned bac
hands of time with their black velvet
sashes, black poke bonnets and black
shoes accessories to their billowing white
organdies, puft-sleeved and frill-hemmed.
TASMANIA.
All roads led to Launceston for the
Pioneer celebrations, and the ball in the
Albert Hall was an impressive function,
Brocades and satins were so becoming
to the wearers (as long as they didn’t
W alk with a golf-course stride in
them) that plain girls looked pretty and
pretty ones became beauties. The men,
too? their finery bravely, even if
some were a bit stockier and stouter than
ances t ors to whom it belonged. Lady
was . satin . Lovel |ace and
snpc j a llv beautiful iewellerv were
some specially beautiful jewellery were
noticed on many wearers.
The grand march was led by Dorothy
Sorell and her brother, direct descen-
dants of one of our early Governors.
Dr. W. K. Mclntyre, in the naval uni-
form of his grandfather, and Mrs. Mc-
Intyre received the guests. Hundreds of
pioneers’ descendants signed their names
in a book provided at the Town Hall,
celebrations lasted for two or three
d luckily the weather held up for
» s f low in J he city Parkj where h f s Ex
unveiled a memorial tablet of rough-
The k bad b trans-
£ d ; somet £ ing like Launceston
have !ooked in b 1835; though it is
doubtfu , jf there were shop ’ signs bearing
such inscriptions as “Ye Olde Coffee
Shoppe” a hundred years ago. However,
nobody was critical, and everybody was
satisfied.
The Lud Mayor performed the open-
ing stunt at Clemes College Tudor Fair,
held in the schoolgrounds. Henry VIII.
seemed to be popping up, with wives
and others of the Court and period, all
through the proceedings. London Bridge
as it looked in Tudor times took up a
big space in the centre of the school hall,
In the evening there was a concert, with
most of the music bearing the Tudor
date and stamp.
The Douglas Caddy Players success-
fully staged a farcical comedy, “For the
Love of Mike,” at the National Theatre,
Launceston. Dressing was very good,
and the topical songs and dances went
with a swing. Mrs. Robert Wall, Win-
some Warren, Frank Dean, Cherry
Gregory, Fred Lamprill and Douglas
Caddy himself did the bulk of the work,
The 86 Club, chiefly composed of
bright young things interested in drama,
art and literature, ran a show which be-
gan in the Astor ballroom and finished
up with supper at the club’s rooms. The
color scheme in black and white was
relieved by masses of magnolias and blue
delphiniums, with tall sprays of M.L.
lace-plant,
The Hobart Repertory Society made a
splash at the Theatre Royal with Clifford
Bax’s period play “The Immortal Lady,”
and kept it up three nights. Many new
faces were seen in the cast.


mm
The “Miss Australia,” £25./
White gold, diamonds and pure
platinum are combined most
beautifully in this fine ring. The
■cut-corner, settings are the last
word. • The filigree under-rail is
dainty in. the extreme.
The "Killura,”
A rich three-stone ring of
18ct. white gold. The dia-
monds are set in platinum
and the shoulders are
diamond—studded.
■<?* %
fA I »-■■
m
/
The “Eugenie.” £17/10/-.
Exquisitely beautiful white gold
ring with three sparkling
diamonds in platinum settings.
Charming carving and filigree.
The SPARKLING LOVELINESS of DIAMONDS
IN EVERY TYPE OF MODERN HANDMADE SETTING
AH guaranteed by Angus & Coote,
and 20 p-sr cent, better value than elsewhere
The “Bernice,” £12/10/
Very popular three-stone
diamond ring. The new
square setting is platinum.
Mount is ISot. white gold.
Tiie “Zara,” £7/10/-.
A neat and good little ring
of lSet. gold. Three bright
diamonds in latest platinum
setting.
The “JLola,” 00/-.
A dear little ring and mar—
\ ellous value'! Three bright
diamonds in centre, and
diamond-set shoulders.
The “Belle,” £27/10/-.
Magnificent t \v o-diamond
ring with rich, diamond-
studded shoulders. 18et.
gold with platinum settings.
The “Countess,” £17/10/-.
Two well-matched diamonds
in platinum hexagonal set-
ting's. Diamond-set shoulders.
Solid 18ot. gold.
fmii
The “Kowena,” £5/5/-.
Wonderful value! Two-
diainond ring of 18et. gold
with di amend—studded
shoulders.
The ".Jill,” £10/10/-,
Popular ring of 18ct. gold
with three diamonds skil-
fully set in platinum.
tP,
The “Clarice,” £6/10/-.
Secure hexagonal settings of
platinum are employed in
this ring. The mount is
solid ISct. gold.
The “Dawn,” £15.
A lovely ring with glittering'
diamonds in very secure
settings of latest style.'
Platinum and 18et. gold.
The “Judy,” £9/10/-.
Particularly pretty ring of
18ct. gold, with three dia-
monds in high modern
settings of platinum.
The “Edna,” £10.
.Newest square settings are
featured in this delightful
18ct. white gold ring. Dia-
monds set in platinum.
The “Sally,” £20.
A real favorite, and extra
good value, too! Two beau-
tiful diamonds in 18ct.
white gold and platinum.
Tile .Fair, £lO.
They match —this modem three-
stone diamond ring and the
richly-engraved wedding ring.
They are w'hite gold of 18ct.
quality, and the two together
are wonderful value for £lO.
The “Baroness/’ £30.
Superior white gold ring of
18ct. quality, with three
platinum-set flashing dia-
monds of special brilliance
and beauty.
&
PPnp
70/-
The “Kutli,” 70/-.
Sydney’s greatest value! Two
genuine diamonds in hexagonal
stones, and one in each pretty
shoulder. Handsomely carved
18ct. gold.
Ciill and Enquire about Angus & Coote’s
tree Diamond Wedding King Offer.
Mention “The Bulletin” if you Jive out of town,
and a Book of Kings will be posted to you.
ANGUS & COOTE, 500 George St., SYDNEY
Unclaimed Money, Missing Heirs,
Next-of-kin.
BROWN, Louisa Alice Brown (Edna), of
Toowoomba, 1916.
ESGAR, Alfred, son of Solomon Esgar, of
Bristol.
GWILLAM, Mrs. Hilda Rose Gwillam {nee
Newton).
HARRISON, Frederick Harrison, late of 301
Brunswick Street, East Melbourne; and
James Harrison, born 1888, son of Thomas
Harrison.
HANNON, Michael Hannon, formerly of Co.
Clare, Ireland.
HUM PAGE, Alfred Loveridge Humpage, in
N.S.W. 1910-11.
HAZELL, Charles, son of John and Phoebe
Anne Hazel 1.
JACK, John, son of John Jack, grocer, of
Edinburgh.
JONES, Charles and John, went to Bendigo
about 1860, sons of John and Henrietta
Jones.
MEADWAY, Robert Meadway, in Brisbane
1884.
MACINTOSH, Oscar Macintosh, who served
in A.E.F.
MORRISON, James Ferguson Morrison, born
about 1844.
NEWTON, Cecil, son of George Newton, of
Ramsey.
POWER, Charles Power, born about 1850, in
N.S.W. 1883, son of Thomas Mailer Power.
ROOTES, Vera Johanna, daughter of Thomas
Rootes.
RICHARDS, Benjamin, brother of Dr. William
H. Richards.
ROBINSON, Elizabeth Edith, Bertha May and
Anne Madeline Robinson (three sisters')
SATTERTHWAITE. Edward Satterthwaite,
born about 1820.
SCHUMACHER, Walter Schumacher (Fennell)
late of Kuipto, S.A.
SIDDLE-PROCTER, John William and Mar-
garet Siddle (nee Procter).
TINDALL, Alfred Edward and Percy Frederick
Tindall, sons of George Henry Tindall
VAUGHAN, Edward Charles, son of Stephen
Vaughan.
The abovenamed persons or their descendants
write Mr. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide
immediately.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP'
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/or posted direct from
“The Bulletin/' Id. extra.
In Which Commander Felspar Tells of a Unique Naval Engagement:
BLOWNTO BLAZES
By. J B BLAIR
“Yes,” added Mr. Partridge; “let’s have it, Captain.” (What was rank to
Mr. Partridge ? Hadn’t he just got the contract for building the new
dance-hall ?) “ Your yarns are always worth listening to. Shut off the
wireless, Joe.”
UT\ ON’T talk to me about long-range
I I guns,” said Commander Felspar.
“Don’t mention television to me.
1 know too much about it.”
Actually, no one had attempted to-
engage him in conversation on either
subject. Mr. Pushpont had merely read
out to the assembled company a news
item regarding a new piece of artillery,
and Mr. Joseph Whiffle had let slip a
casual remark about television. Both
pieces of intelligence had been intended .
for the company at large, but Com-
mander Felspar apparently chose to
appropriate them to himself.
Mr. Whiffle took him up. “But,” he
inquired doubtfully, “what do you know
about television? It’s a new thing.
There ain’t a set in Australia.”
“I didn’t say I’d seen it in Australia,”
retorted the Commander.
“Well, you’ve been here ever since the
war,” broke in Mr. Pushppnt, “and I
didn’t think they knew anything about
television in those days.”
“This was during the war.”
The company was beginning to be-
come interested, although the interest
was mainly of a sceptical nature.
“Funny thing no one else heard of
it,” said Mr. Whiffle.
“We naval men don’t talk,” replied
the Commander stiffly. “As a matter o’
fact, I’m sorry T mentioned it. Please
forget that I made any allusion to the
subject at all. Of course television is a
new discovery. We’ll say no more about
it.”
“Steady on,” said Mr. Pushpont.
“Now you’ve started the subject you
can’t back out like that. Let’s have
the story. I’m sure there is a story.”
“Yes,” added Mr. Partridge; “let’shave
it, Captain.” (What was rank to Mr.
Partridge? Hadn’t he just got the con-
tract for building the new dance-ball?)
“Your yarns are always worth listening
to. Shut off the wireless, Joe.”
THE proprietor of the Hotel Ozone,
* Whorple’s leading (and only) hos-
telry, did as requested.
Commander Felspar, in response to
the compliment and the sudden silence,
blushed vividly.
“Well, f shouldn’t really tell you,” he
protested ; “but as most of those con-
cerned have passed away by now, poor
chaps, I suppose there’s no harm.”
“Ever heard of the Siggsby-Polson
gun?” he asked abruptly.
Nobody had.
“I thought not. Well, Siggsby was
gunnery-lieutenant on the light cruiser
Shuttlecock, which it was my proud
honor to command. A smart fellow,
a brilliant mathematician and a clever
engineer. Invented all sorts of gadgets,
but the war . gave him his real
chance. Every spare moment he got he’d
be tinkering about with diagrams and
plans. Shortly after the outbreak of war
he came to me and asked permission to
apply for three months’ leave. Claimed
to have invented a gun which could fire
almost unlimited distances. I told him
he was mad. He produced diagrams and
a small model. Spoke of stratospheres
and other things we’d never heard of
in those days. He was boiling over
with enthusiasm and full of plans for
shelling Berlin from the North Sea.
“ ‘ln fact,’ he said, ‘there’s no reason
why we shouldn’t concentrate our fleet
in the North Pacific and shell both East
and West at once. Imagine it! Our
battleships lying somewhere near Hono-
lulu and firing from their port and star-
board guns simultaneously, and both lots
of shells falling on Berlin. Imagine it!’
“I found it rather difficult to imagine,
but I fully realised the necessity of get-
ting him three months’ leave. The ship
wouldn’t be safe with such a lunatic on
board. So I agreed that the scheme was
an excellent one.
“He was very grateful. ‘But,’ he said,
‘there’s still one difficulty. I know my
gun can shoot that far, but I haven’t
devised a means of getting the range.
That’s what I want to go ashore for. I
know a chap who’s been experimenting
with wireless telegraphy, and he claims
to be able to see by wireless. Pooling
our inventions will give us a weapon
that will win the war.'
«IS7ELL, he got his leave, and 1 thought
we’d seen the last of him. But.
two months later, I’m damned if he
didn’t turn up at Portsmouth. He looked
pretty well washed out, and appar-
ently he’d had a hell of a time.
His yarn was disjointed, but, as far as
I could make out, he’d found Poison,
the wireless fellow. Poison was a Yank,
and the blighter was just on the point of
selling his invention to Germany.
Siggsby went at him hot and strong, and
at last persuaded him to change his
mind.
“The deciding factor, he told me, was
that he had the gun. The other chap
realised that his invention had little value
on its own, and also that there was no
chance of Siggsby selling out.
“As soon as this was fixed, Siggsby
got to work, dug up a bit of influence
somewhere, got strings pulled at the
War Office, and two guns were made
and sent to the Shuttlecock for a try-
out.
“He’d tried to get command of a ship
himself, but they wouldn’t come at that.
Anyhow, they’d given him sealed orders
for me, which I was to open two days
after leaving Portsmouth, steering a
course towards Rio.
“The guns were six-inch weapons, and
were fitted in place of our forward port
and starboard guns of the same calibre.
“Then off we set.”
<<ll7 HERE to?” asked Mr. Whiffle,
feeling that it was time someone
showed a little intelligent interest in the
story.
“Don’t interrupt, Joe,” rebuked Mr.
Pushpont. “Didn’t Commander Felspar
say he was under sealed orders? That
means he can’t tell us where he went.”
“Why? Didn’t he open ’em?”
“Of course. But ‘sealed orders’ means
that his destination was to be kept secret
and not divulged.”
“Not at all,” protested the proprietor
of the Hotel Ozone. “Sealed orders are
only sealed as long as they are sealed.
Am I right, Commander?”
‘‘Well, practically so, Mr. Whiffle. At
any rate, my orders were to proceed to
Falkland Islands, coal there, and make
for the Pacific in search of Von Spee’s
squadron. Once an enemy ship was
sighted, Siggsby was to be in complete
command of the guns.
“Siggsby had pleaded that it was un-
necessary to go thousands of miles before
firing on Von Spee. He wanted to lie
off the Isle of Wight and shoot from
there, but the War Office had stood firm.
It argued that one couldn’t be sure
where the shells would fall, and it didn’t
want to bring Guatemala or Costa
Rica into the war. I was to see that we
didn’t fire across neutral territory.
“So we shaped our course for the
Falklands. On the way Siggsby was
seldom far from his guns. There was
no doubt about the television part of it.
From the middle of the Atlantic he
showed me South Sea islands with coral
reefs, cocoanut-palms and blue lagoons,
though, for all I knew, they might have
been mirages in the Sahara. Anyhow, I
knew from my charts they must be
thousands of miles away.”
“Did you get him to show you your
wife?” inquired Mr. Whiffle.
“No. He offered to find her, but I
wouldn’t let him. I don’t believe in spy-
ing on people when they can’t spy back.
“Well, the Falklands were reached, and
left behind, and our serious business
commenced. By this time the whole
crew had been informed of our mis-
sion, and every man was keen. Siggsby
couldn’t be torn away from his gun.
UTHEN. at last, one morning he rushed
* into my cabin.
“ ‘We’ve got ’em !’ he shouted. ‘Ger-
man warship about six thousand miles
due west.’
“I hurried to the gun and gazed into
the television mirror. Sure enough, there
she was. Steaming along in blissful
ignorance of her impending doom. For
by this time I’d almost come to believe
in the gun.
“I gazed at the range-finding appara-
tus —yes, just a shade over six thousand
miles. Not that the distance mattered a
scrap, for the whole thing was like a
pocket Kodak —as long as you had your
target dead-centre in the mirror, you
couldn’t miss, or so Siggsby said.
“Of course, I had a pretty minute
description of all Von Spee’s squadron,
and I soon placed the enemy ship as the
Pretzel, a vessel of practically our own
size and armament. I had a momentary
pang of shame. In fair combat we were
well matched and would make a good
fight of it, but at this distance, and with
the Siggsby-Polson gun on our side, it
would be sheer murder.
“Still, war is war, and it was no time
for tender feelings.”


53-
OME
&
!W
ibileu
• CEYLON
© EGYPT
GIBRALTAR
Greater Comfort
To enhance still further the comfort and popularity
of the P & O Branch Line, extensive improvements
have been made to the "Baradine," 'Balranald,
"Bendigo" and "Barrabool." All cabins on "A" Deck
and a number on "B" Deck have been re-arranged
and re-furnished in an up-to-date manner. In addition,
the Public Rooms have been enlarged and re-furnished.
Unrestricted deck space and all public rooms are at
the service of every passenger.
Two-Berth Rooms
from £44
Fares from
£3B
Single Rooms
from £5O
Subject to Exchange
Principal Agents:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 Bent St., Sydney.
Tel.: B 6701.
Joint Passenger Agents :
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co,
247 George St., Sydney.
Tel.: B 7511.
PaO
BRANCH SERVICE
HIS listeners nodded. They quite under-
stood.
“ ‘Carry on,’ I said to Siggsby.
“He hardly heard me. He was already
at the gun.
“ ‘Swing her round,’ he said, ‘so we
can shoot both ways.’
“‘What about Patagonia?’ I asked.
“ ‘Patagonia be damned! ’ he replied
rudely, presuming a little on his tem-
porary authority. ‘Look at your charts.’
“I then realised that, being somewhere
about latitude sixty south, we had no
land to either east or west of us, but
an unbroken stretch of water right
round the globe. Look for yourself!”
He pointed to an insurance company’s
map hanging on the parlor wall.
Mr. Whiffle brought the map to the
table, and Commander Felspar’s state-
ment was authenticated.
THE narrative was resumed.
“Well, we swung the ship round
and cleared the two guns for action.
“Siggsby was at the port gun. I stood
near by. He laid the gun himself and
gave the signal to fire. We stood with
our eyes glued to the televisor apparatus
—the Pretzel appearing as a very small
figure in the mirror.
“Seconds passed; then we gave a
simultaneous shout.
“ ‘Hit!’
“Small though the image was, we could
see that our first shot had gone home.
The gun was a success.
“But our exulting cries were d-rowned
by a deafening explosion near at hand.
1 turned round, and it didn’t need the
words of the petty officer who came run-
ning up to tell me that we’d been hit
amidships on the starboard side.
“I was amazed. As far as we knew
there was no enemy ship within hundreds
of miles, and now it looked as though
our simple task of sinking the Pretzel
at a range of six thousand miles was to
be interrupted by a ship just over the
horizon.
“Siggsby was rushing about like a mad
thing. I realised that it was up to me
to take command again. This crazy
young inventor might be right enough
for all-round-the-world fights, but when
it came to a hand-to-hand combat it was
time for me to act.
“ ‘ ’Bout ship! ’ I ordered. It was no
good offering a broadside target to the
enemy.
“Siggsby came up like a madman.
“ ‘ ’Bout ship be damned! ’ he roared.
‘Leave her as she is. Can’t you see what’s
happened? It’s that blasted double-
crossing swine, Poison. He’s sold the
plans to Germany. That ship we’re
firing at has got my guns, too.’
“ ‘But where would’——
“ ‘Never mind where ! She’s got ’em!
Look at that hole. Keep the port gun
firing, and I’ll get the other one into
action.’
“He soon had both gun-crews going
their hardest. I ran from one televisor
set to the other. Sure enough, we were
hitting her both ways. But she was hit-
ting us, too.
“I relished the fight. This was better
than sinking a defenceless ship. This
was a duel to the death such as a British
naval man has always delighted in.
Evenly matched, and a true test of
marksmanship.
“I said as much to Siggsby.
“‘Marksmanship nothing!’ he snorted.
‘1 tell you my guns can’t miss! The
ships are evenly matched, and it’s just
a matter of luck which one survives.
That swine has spoilt all my plans. A
lucky hit may put one of our guns out
of action, and then it’s all over.’
«W ELL, the fight continued —surely
*» the strangest duel in all the long
history of naval warfare.
“There we were in the South Pacific,
firing both ways around the world at a
target in the Indian Ocean. Frankie
Drake, with his grappling-irons and
chain-shot, would have hung his head
with shame to think of it. Even
amid the din of our own firing and of
the enemy’s shells striking all round me,
I couldn’t help smiling at the thought of
it. I even pondered on the possibility of
a projectile from one of our guns strik-
ing one of our opponent’s shells in mid-
air.
“But I didn’t have much time to
ponder, for I soon realised we were in
desperate straits. I could see that the
Pretzel’s plight was every bit as bad as
ours, so 1 urged Siggsby to keep it up.
Not that he needed any urging.
“Then disaster came.
“Successive shells holed us badly
for’ard, and wrecked our port gun.
Siggsby was working like a maniac at
the starboard gun.
“Realising that we must sink, I ordered
all save the gun-crew to abandon ship.
A peep at the Pretzel showed that she,
too, was very low in the water. It was
a toss-up which would sink first.
“Still the fight went on. By this time
the gun-crew, Siggsby and myself were
the only ones left on board. Most of
the boats had rowed out of harm’s way,
but one was standing by to pick us up.
“The magazine was under water and
we had only a few shells left on deck.
Some of the Pretzel’s shots were missing
us now. We presented such a small tar-
get. A matter of minutes and the
Shuttlecock would be gone. A direct
hit would finish us.
“Our last shell was placed in the gun.
All eyes were on the televisor as Siggsby
let her go. There was a terrific crash.
Day and night changed places several
times in rapid succession, and we were
struggling in the water. The boat’s crew
dragged us to safety—all miraculously
uninjured.
“The strangest fight in history was
over.
«WE compared notes. One of the gun-
** ners swore that at the time we
were hit the Pretzel was still afloat —
only just, but nevertheless afloat. For
my part, I felt sure I had seen her blow
up a fraction of a second before us.
Siggsby considered it was a dead-heat.
“You may think it foolish that we
should argue over such a point, but, hav-
ing lost my command, it was of vital
(importance to me to know whether we
had won or lost the fight.
“There was, of course, a sextant and
a chronometer in the boat, and I made
a careful note of our position and of
the exact time at which the Shuttlecock
went down.
“ ‘I hope there are some survivors
from the Pretzel,’ I said, ‘so that we may
compare notes later and see who won.’
“Siggsby said he didn’t care how many
survived as long as ‘that swine Poison’
wasn’t among them.”
AT this stage the Commander felt (quite
unjustifiably, as it happened) that the
attention of his audience was wavering,
so he hastened on.
“I won’t bore you with details of our
days adrift. Ultimately we were picked
up by a windjammer bound from Aus-
tralia to Buenos Ayres.
“I couldn’t think of anything but the
fight. To be quite candid, I derived a
considerable amount of pleasure from
the thought of having been a participant
in such a remarkable combat. I was
always thinking of new sidelights on it.
One night I said to Siggsby,
“ ‘Remarkable thing, Siggsby, that the
Pretzel should be exactly half-way round
the globe from us, when she could have
been in any of a thousand different
positions.
“ ‘What do you mean, exactly?’ he
as j cec j
“ ‘Well, the range of our port and star-
board guns was the same—six thousand
two hundred miles, and both lots of
shells were hitting her.’
“Siggsby went pale as death. He
clutched his head and leaned against the
ra jj
“ ‘That was no coincidence,’ he mut-
tered. ‘I see it all now.’
“‘No coincidence!’ I replied. ‘You
don’t mean to tell me you waited until
you got her in that exact position?’
‘“She wasn’t there!’ he said tensely.
“ ‘Wasn’t there? What do you mean?
Didn’t we see her? Didn’t we sink her?
Didn’t she sink us?’
“ ‘No, no, no!’ he shrieked back. We
didn’t sink her. She didn’t sink us. We
sank ourselves.’
“‘You mad fool!’ I shouted angrily.
‘What do you mean?’
“He calmed down and spoke levelly.
“‘I mean this. The original plans for
the rangefinder provided for a scale of
one centimetre to five hundred miles.
Some interfering fool in the designing-
shop altered it to one centimetre to one
thousand miles. I forgot that. So the
range we fired at wasn’t six thousand
two hundred at all, but twelve thousand
four hundred miles, which is the circum-
ference of the earth in that latitude. We
sighted ourselves both ways round the
globe. We fired at ourselves both ways
round the globe. We sunk ourselves.”
66 7QTREWTH!” said Mr. Whiffle.
“Suicide?”
“Practically. Now you know why I’ve
no faith in television or long-range guns.
My report was received by the Admiralty
without comment, and 1 was placed on
transport duty for the rest of the war.”
“What happened to Siggsby?” asked
Mr. Pushpont.
“A sad end, and most unfortunate.
He went ashore at Buenos Ayres and
was shot at point-blank range with a
sawn-off shotgun. Yes, a beer, thanks,
Joe.”


■
.
X
1
tf'/zute
\
7j<ru Jle^iuu
-{kieci a isute. (^7i£m~
IF you really want whiter, more attractive-
looking teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth. It
catches bits of food. Harbors stains from smok-
ing. Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. And worse still, film is
laden with millions of tiny germs that are
often the forerunner of tooth decay. Film
unremoved invites dental disorders. Thus film
must be removed—kept off teeth.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satisfac-
torily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders may
be ineffective in removing film. There is now
a dentifrice you can depend on regularly—a
dentifrice thousands of dentists use in their
own homes and millions of people have used
successfully. This dentifrice is Pepsodcnt—the
special film-removing tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
No other equally safe way removes film as
thoroughly as Pepsodent. Pepsodent is different
in formula, hence different in the way it
works. It contains no grit, pumice, or soap.
The basis of this definitely modern tooth paste
is a new and revolutionary cleansing and
polishing material—recently developed. This
cleansing agent is far softer than the polishing
material used in other leading tooth pastes or
tooth powders. Yet it removes film and polishes
teeth to new gleaming lustre as more abrasive
kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain” denti-
frices or questionable ways? Remember that
this unique film-removing agent is contained
in Pepsodent exclusively. Thus no other tooth
paste can assure you of true Pepsodent results.
Use Pepsodent twice a day—see your dentist
at least twice a year.
FREE—IO-Day Tube
To the Pcpsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
(Dept. 5.8.),
Box 488 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodent.
Name
Address
k2053m/a Only one tube to a family.
I
'
111. 1
ARD
UNION
“The scenic route"
Fortnightly Sailings •
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourm
ROYAL MAIL LINES
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Com—it will stick readily. Follow your usua.
occupation, the com won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALI.
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
5
E
5
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOUP EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & Co, Ltd. Kina St. Sydney
Skilfully-presented Light Drama:-
By VANCE PALMER
Some devil had come into her
lately . . . something that made her
impenetrable, withdrawn. . . . She
knew he doted on tier, knew he was
afraid of saying a word too much
about Hyde. She played upon his
fears.
SUCH a brilliant morning it was!
After the night’s wind a calm had
fallen on the bay, and the tents of
campers along the foreshore, the tiny
sails in the middle distance, made specks
of snow on a background of shimmering
blue and green.
Gillespie stood on the balcony in his
bathrobe looking down at the ragged
strip of lawn, the four plumy pines at
the bottom of the slope, wondering if
Jill was up yet, if she had already slipped
out along the front to see whether Hyde
was at the hotel.
His hand was shaky, spilling cigarette-
ash on his bathrobe, and there was a
taste of sleep in his mouth. Yet he hadn’t
slept well. The wind had kept turning
into the roar of a big aluminium car,
pursuing him through his dreams ; and
behind the windshield he could see
Hyde’s face, the pugnacious “ nose, the
mouth that was a mere wrinkle when it
' was shut. tight, the agate eyes shining
beneath the brim of a rakish Fedora.
Amazing what a girl could see in such
a fellow! Especially when the very
dogs along the street knew how he treated
his own wife.
“He must have told her he’d be here,”
Gillespie was ruminating. “Why else
was she so full of life on the run up
from town? He’ll be down at the hotel
now.”
But what could you do with a girl
when she took the bit between her teeth?
She didn’t care how people talked: it
only whipped up her blood with a sur-
reptitious excitement. And anything a
father could say was of no more account
than the croaking of frogs in some way-
side swamp as the car whizzed past.
THROUGH a gap in the palings came
the ruddy chow with Jill on its heels,
her purple kimono streaming behind her,
her biscuit-colored thighs bare. There
was a boyishness about her taut figure
and cropped, saltily-damp curls, a per-
versity in the long-lashed eyes and
painted mouth. She whistled to the dog
and flung a soiled tennis ball with a
quick underarm jerk along the lawn.
“Hullo, Jill! ” Gillespie called down to
her. “Have a good swim?”
Her cool glance swept up to the bal-
cony, carrying an obscure resentment.
“Rotten, thanks.”
“Why? What was the trouble?”
“Nothing new. Low tide and the water
full of floating weed.”
Gillespie’s heart gave a bound. Then
Hyde hadn’t come! He read it in her
voice, in the slack irresolution of her
young body as she stood dangling the
retrieved ball over the chow’s back. Re-
lieved, he called down to her:
“What about getting the motor-boat
out after breakfast and running over to
that dead reef? Not much of a swell on
now. And we ought to pick up a few
snapper and cod.”
She didn’t reply: she was bending
down rubbing her forehead against the
chow’s head. Yet he felt she would
assent.
Some devil had come into her lately,
he told himself as he dressed ; something
that made her impenetrable, withdrawn.
There was her way of laughing, the little
sparks of cruelty that glittered in her
eyes. She knew he doted on her, knew'
he was afraid of saying a word too much
about Hyde. She played upon his fears.
Yet as soop as she broke with the fellow
it would all come right again. He was
sure of that.
She was at the telephone when he
came down, one unemphatic hip pressed
against the arm of a chair, her free hand
fiddling with the pencil on the string. He
! heard her laconic voice making abrupt
replies as he sat down at the table near
the window and lifted the cover from
! his eggs and bacon.
(But if it really were Hyde on the
’phone she wouldn’t be answering like
that.)
When she came in, looking cool and
poised in her saffron jumper, she had a
I message for him.
«|T was the postmaster ringing up.
1 There’s been some sort of accident
out at Dwight’s Crossing, and he wanted
you to go out. I knocked him back.
. Told him you hadn’t come down here
for a busman’s holiday.”
Gillespie winced.
“You did? Bit rough on him, isn’t it,
Jill? What was the accident?”
“Don’t know. I didn’t pretend to be
interested.”
She slid into her chair with deliberate
languor and began to peel an orange.
If he hasn’t come down now he won’t
come at all, her whole body was saying.
And a hardness stole through her: her
dark eyes glittered with a gemmy bright-
ness. I don’t care. 1 didn’t ask him to
come.
Gillespie grunted impatiently deep in
his throat: “Damn it all. I never come
down here but something turns up. Last
year it was old Paul’s wife with pneu-
monia—another time a youngster with
a ' poisoned leg. Dwight’s Crossing.
That’s nearly fifteen miles out . . . I’ll
have to go.”
“Why?”
“Matter of honor. It might be a case
of life and death.”
The glance she gave him across the
table told him she thought him a senti-
mental old fool. But she didn’t protest.
It was a matter of indifference to her
whether he went or not, for she didn’t
want the car that day. Love for her was
a load oh Gillespie’s heart as he secretly
watched her dark, curly head, her marble
face, across the table. How could one
ever hope to penetrate the steely defences
of youth?
“Won’t find it too hard to put in the
day, will you, girlie?” he said with a
twinkle as he went to get the car ready.
She raised her plucked brows.
“Oh, no! I wouldn’t have come if I
hadn’t intended to get some fun out
of it.”
“No one you know down?”
“A couple of boys. 1 met them in the
surf this morning. They’ve got a speed-
boat, so if the worst comes to the
worst”
The worst, Gillespie knew, was a wire
from Hyde saying he couldn’t come.
There was irony in the thought that he
had inveigled her down here just to get
her away from him.
THERE had been a time (he was driv-
ing out over the sandy flat now away
from the sea’s blue) when he had taken
the affair with a tragic intensity, swear-
ing to break Hyde and hound him out
of the town. The fellow’s agency busi-
ness was already rocking, yet he flashed
about in a sports car, spending money
right and left. A little concerted pressure
in the proper quarters ... Or there
was the more open way. A blow with
a horsewhip across the face as he came
striding out of Tattersall’s with his hat
over his eyes and that larrikin grin twist-
ing one corner of his mouth. Between
sleeping and waking Gillespie had lived
the lurid scene over a hundred times.
But when it came to action he shrank
from anything that was highly-colored.
“Don’t make a fool of yourself. There
may be nothing much in it. You’ll only
bring the whole affair into the limelight.”
And so he had gone on his way, affect-
ing to notice nothing, pretending not to
recognise the roar of Hyde’s Alvis when
it dropped Jill after midnight at the lower
gate. But the men he played bowls with
knew —Foster, Mclnroe and Harding, the
fat barrister, who lived just across the
street. He read it in their eyes when
they met him in the clubhouse, felt it
in his unprotected back when he knelt
in front of them on the mat.
“Poor old doc.! Having a nice peck
of trouble with that girl of his. One of
the modern, sophisticated kind—doesn’t
care whether the man she wants is tied
up or not. Hyde’s wife’ll be shooting
in a divorce petition soon.”
And he had come to avoiding them —
slipping off on Saturday afternoons to
watch the cricket or stroll along the
river. It seemed that the humiliation he


Electrically tempered blades
2
ffi
I
am
BEEP
take a finer cutting edge
because it is now possible as a result of Gillette’s special
electrical-tempering process, to get two tempers into one blade.
Soft at the ends where it must bend to the razor—harder than
ever down the sides to give the edging machines a real chance.
This means that not only do you get a keener cutting edge than
ever before, but the harder tempered edge gives longer life to every
blade % Try these new Blue Gillette Slotted Blades — they're worth it.
2/- PER PACKET OF 5
BLUE
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
MADE IN ENGLAND
THE Rural Bank, established in
1899, is a national institution,,
self-dependent, controlled by a per-
manent board of three Commis-
sioners.
-> o o
Its aim is to enable farms and homes
to be acquired on easy terms. It has
played an important part in consoli-
dating the position of our State and
Commonwealth. Although operat-
ing under a Government guarantee
it has at no time been a charge on
the State. On the contrary, it has
built up reserves (invested outside
the business) exceeding £1,250,000.
o- -o o-
Branches are established at repre-
sentative centres, where Fixed De-
posits are received and cheque
accounts opened for all sections of
the community.
The
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ĕ
Head Office • 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - 350 George Street
(Opp. Wynyard Street)
had suffered over Colin was nothing to
ihis. Colin’s trouble was merely that he
had no sense of money. Now that he
was away on a station in the back coun-
try he had no temptation to get into
difficulties with bookmakers and put his
name to other people’s cheques.
Dwight’s Crossing was merely a couple
of white gates and a handful of railway-
men’s houses on the road to town. Im-
mersed in his own thoughts, Gillespie
had almost forgotten his mission till a
glimpse of the car’s wreckage brought
him to the surface with a jerk. That
tangled mass of leather and aluminium
lying among the lantana set his brain
spinning, made a red mist quiver before
his eyes. Transfixed, he sat at the wheel
with fierce exultation.
My God, it isn t . . . Yes, it must be.
THE lengthsman’s wife, leaning over her
‘ «f n ,e m I b H SU 8 ! s j ared f at
whit? £ speculate for
a while before she came running out.
“It’s a bad case, doctor. Lor’, I nearly
went off in a faint when L saw them
carrying him in. Body all twisted and
cut about the head. Ive done some
nursing in me time, but I cant stand
blood, it gets me light in the middle.
He musta been drunk to try and shoot
in front of the train like that. I been
ringing up all morning trying to get the
ambulance from Bethania, but they’re
away on a case. Can’t come out till some
time this afternoon.”
Gillespie’s face was expressionless as
stone.
“Let me have a look at him.”
In the front room of the lengthsman’s
cottage Hyde was lying back among the
pillows, one side of his face bandaged,
the other like yellow wax. He looked
lifeless, but at the sound in the room his
uncovered eye opened, glittering darkly
with pain or the memory of pain. It
fixed on Gillespie, and consciousness
slowly came back to it, filling it with
light, narrowing it to a point of cantan-
kerous hostility:
“You?” it said. “What brought you
here, you queer old slob? Think you’ve
got me where you want me now.”
Inner voices were repeating things in
Gillespie’s mind as he made his examina
tion. Shut out all personal feeling. Treat
it as you would any other case. It’s
merely an ordinary casualty, as far as
you’re concerned. A smashed body there
may be a chance of mending,
But deep down in him, surging up
against the cover of his professional calm,
was a tumult of dark passion, disturbing
to ponder on, all the stronger for the
checks he had placed upon it in the past,
This waster’s life’s in your hands now.
A little pressure the wrong way and it
would flicker out. What point is there
in destroying your own peace and happi-
ness by fighting to bring him back?
j n the hot front bedroom that looked
o ut on the dusty road he moved about
silently with his coat off, making his in-
jections, staunching the fresh flows of
blood. The white beads of perspiration
stood out on his forehead and his eyes
had the glazed look of a man walking in
his sleep
„ H h ambulance now » said the
lengthsman’s wife early in the afternoon.
~T f tn k th be ab f e t 0 get him ;
doctor?”
Gillespie grunted,
“H’mph, they’ve handled worse cases.”
“You give him a chance of pulling
trough then?”
“Why not? Fellows with a physique
]that don’t pass out so easily. I’ll go
j n to Bethania with them in case the
hospital doctor isn’t there.”
pOMING back to the bay late that
v* night, his body a mass of aching
muscles, his eyes almost too sleepy to see
the road, he speculated muzzily on the
significance of what he had done. In a
couple of months Hyde would be flash-
ing about in a new sports car, the sight
gone from one eye, perhaps, and a couple
of ugly scars on his face, but his swag-
ger only increased by those wounds of
the road. And Jill! Wouldn’t this in-
crease the intensity of her feeling for
him, strengthen his hold over her? He
had been smashed up while speeding out
to see her: what girl could resist that?
But when he got home it was to enter
a' world of summer magic. Lights on the
water, purple bloom along the sea-front,
a scent of watered shrubs from the lawn,
and Jill’s light laugh from the verandah
where she was saying good-bye to one of
the speedboat boys!
Gillespie saw that something had been
recaptured as she came dancins in to
pour out his nightcap for him. There
was a glow about her, almost a softness ;
the hard sheath that held her spirit
seemed to be unfolding in flower.
G e b led you after all, did they?” she
asked hrm hnghtly
He fumbled over his whisky-glass. He
couldn’t tell her just then about Hyde.
“It was an accident,” he muttered.
“Car smash. Not absolutely serious, but
bad enough.”
Her eyes hovered round him, self-
centred, opaque.
“What foul luck! You should have
been out on the water. It was a ripping
day.”
She strummed her- fingeis along tie
“ Mt a d£dn“ss
spread around his heart. He was in-
hardly troubled. Why wasn’t he more
stirred by the knowledge that things had
come right again? The cloud had passed.
Life was gay, airy, free, light as thistle-
down: yet, somehow (was he growing
old?), more trivial than he had once
thought it.
Political
Life
By W. A.HOLMAN
VERBRUGGHEN
ARRIVES
The same month
was made note-
worthy in an
artistic way by
the arrival of M. Verbrugghen. A Bel-
gian, he arrived amongst us at a moment
when Belgians were extremely popular,
but he owed his success to no favoring
chance of that kind. Verbrugghen was
not only a scholarly musician and a con-
ductor of great power, but a man with
an extraordinarily businesslike head. He
took the organisation of the Conserva-
torium in hand, put it upon a solid finan-
cial basis, started choral classes, brought
out his own magnificent quartette, took
over the conductorship of the Sym-
phony Orchestra —a voluntary associa-
tion which was the closest approach Syd-
ney previously had to a permanent
orchestra —gave a series of concerts which
were a revelation to our musical world,
and never ceased his activities until he
had got a State Orchestra established.
We thus boasted the only Conserva-
torium in Australia, and the only State
Orchestra in the British Empire.
Griffith, who was Minister for Edu-
cation when Verbrugghen arrived, knew
nothing about music. Like most politi-
cians, he was tone deaf, and on many
points Verbrugghen found that his only
friends in the Cabinet were myself and
Fitzgerald.
THE LIVERPOOL
RIOT
In November
an incident ridi-
culously remote
from hotel clos-
ing contributed to bring that question to
a head. This was a riot ampng the young
recruits in the training camp at Liver-
pool.
To these lads, all civilians who had
just become soldiers, subordination had
been unknown. There had been no tradi-
tions of discipline in Australia, and such
militarism as there was had been almost
a joke. The uninstructed Australian lad
(Continued on next page.)


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the Bank) 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 4,500,000
£13,475,000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 15th* OCTOBER, 1934,
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
HELD ON THURSDAY, 28th MARCH, 1935.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the' Balance Sheet as at I sth Octobe.
last, with the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing
for rebate on bills current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes,
and making a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account
provision for all bad and doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for the year
amounted to £265,087/0/7.
To this has to be added £175,165/16/4 brought forward from the previous
year’s account, making a total of £440,252/16/11. From this, £122,062/10/- was
paid as an Interim Dividend on 28th September last, and the Directors have now
appropriated a further sum of £139,500 to pay a final Dividend of 4/- per Share,
less Income Tax at 4/6 in the £l, making, in all, £261,562/10/-, equal to 7/6 per
Share less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution at the rate of per cent.,
less Tax. There will remain £178,690/6/11 to be carried forward to the next
account.-
Further, to mark the occasion of the Centenary of the Incorporation of the Bank,
the Directors, from a special fund which has been gradually accumulated for several
years, have declared a bonus to Proprietors of 2 per cent., less tax, and granted a
bonus to the staff of 7J per cent.
The Dividend and Centenary Bonus, amounting together to 6/- per share, less
Income Tax, will*be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on 29th March.
The Directors have to record with much regret the death, on Bth January last,
of their valued colleague, Mr. T. R. Johnson.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: C. G. Hamilton, Esq.; A. Whitworth, Esq.;
and J. F. G. Gilliat, Esq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. -
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for
re-election.
Since the date of the last Report, a Branch has been opened at 123 High Street,
f remantle, Western Australia.
C. G. HAMILTON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street. London. 18th March. 1935.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT from OCTOBER 17, 1933, to OCTOBER 15, 1934.
Balance brought forward from Ootober, 1933 .. .. .. .. .. .. ! . £175,165'Hi I
I’rofit for the year to October 15, 1931, after deducting Rebate ( £8118)
on Bills current at Balance date, and after making a transfer to
the credit of Contingencies Account, out. of which account provision
for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made .. .. ..£1,075,070 12 6
Ltxs ;
I. Charges of Management—Australasia—Salaries
and allowances at 227 Branches and Agencies.. £476,824 6 1
General Expenses 115,860 12 3
London—Salaries and allowances .. . . . . 22,504 15 0
General Expenses, including Directors’ remunera-
tion 21,480 9 0
£636,670 2 4
11. Rates and Taxes- Australasia and London . . 173,319 9 7
809,989 11 11
265,087 0 7
£440,252 16 11
id:
Transfer front Contingency Account—Account Centenary Bonus 106,000 0 0
From which deduct—
Dividend paid September- 28, 1934 . . . . .. . . .. £122,062 10
Dividend payable March 29, 1935 .. .. 139,500 0
Centenary Bonus 2 . per cent., less Income Tax at 4/6 in the £1 69,750 0
Provision for Ceiitenary Bonus to Staff .. .. .. .. 36,250 0
£546,252 16 11
0
0
0
0
367*562 TO .0
Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet
.. £178,690 6 1.1
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 15, 1934.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation £ 3,19,383 10 0
Deposits at Interest . . . . 26,748,139 18 .1
Current Accounts .. .. .. 12,853,667 4 7
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit
and other Liabilities, including
provision for contingencies . . 4,542,476 19 2
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra 230,940 18 2
£44,494,608 10 4
Capital:—
900,00 b Shares
of £5 each,
fully paid .. £4,500,000 0 0
(There is under
the Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund. .
(Used in the
business of
tiie Bank.)
Currency Re-
serve
(Used in the
business of
the Bank.)
Dividend pay-
able March
29, 1935 . .
Centenary Bonus
2 per cent.,
payable March
29, 1935 . .
Provision for
Centenary
Bonus to
Staff
Profit and Loss
Account Balance 178,690 G 11
• ——— 9,399,190 6 11
<■£03,89.3,798 17 3
A. 11. BULLOCK, Accountant. ,
2,475,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
139,500 0 0
69,750 0 0
36,250 0 0
ASSET'S.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances
Loans at call and at short notice
British Government Securities..
Government Securities of Austral-
asia and other Investments ..
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in. transit
Advances cm Securities and other
Assets
Liability • of Customers , for
Acceptances as per contra ..
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and
London, at Cost, loss amounts
written off
Note. —The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates
of exchange, and the net
difference which would have
arisen had they been converted
at the rates ruling at the date
of the Balance Sheet is covered
by Currency Reserves.
£9,35(1,501 2 2
25,000 0 0
2,113,057 1 4
8,193,068 7 10
2,426,692 5 4
31,045,284 2 5
230,940 18 2
503,252 0 0
£53,893,798 17 3
E. GOB WARD, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books of the Bank in
London and with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia
and New Zealand. We have verified the Cash Balances. Loans at Call and Short
Notice. Bills of Exchange, Investments and Securities held in London. We have
obtained all the information and explanations we have required, and, in our opinion,
the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best of our information
and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books in London and the
Returns from the Branches.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS and CO., Auditors.
London, 13th March, 1935.
who found himself in camp for the first
time was very ready with criticism and
very apt to disregard constituted autho-
rity. Regulations were made to be
broken, and superiors to be cheeked.
One commandant had allowed slacken-
ing in some directions, and then a new
general, direct - from the front, had
taken charge, and imposed salutary
measures of discipline with an abrupt-
ness which was a little too much for the
nervous systems of the neophytes.
A mutiny broke forth one Monday
morning. In view of the nonsense after-
wards uttered, the hour is worth speci-
ally noting. Sunday is in N. S. Wales a
day of strict closing ; the men who muti-
nied, therefore, had not got drunk over-
night. Their first action, however, was
to seize certain public-houses at Liver-
pool and forthwith get drunk. They then
swarmed down to the Central railway
station by trains which they seized. At
the Sydney station they were over-
powered and reduced to reason. Their
rioting was all good-humored and com-
paratively harmless.
But the people of Sydney did see a
lot of drunken soldiers in the city be-
having wildly, and attributed the disorder
to the drunkenness instead of realising
that the drunkenness was only one symp-
tom'of the disorder. The occurrence was
seized on by our enemies. We were
responsible. This was the level to which
we had brought our gallant-recruits!
Senator Pearce, the Minister for De-
fence, with characteristically lucid grasp
of cause and effect, issued a ukase under
the War Precautions Act closing hotels
all over Sydney at 6 p.m. (the outbreak
had begun at Liverpool, 30 miles away,
at 11 in the morning),, and with this
change in people.’s habits the way was
eased for the permanent adoption of this
closing hour.
THE LIQUOR
QUESTION
AGAIN
The death of
the Opposition
Whip, Moxham,
brought a singu-
larly inopportune
test of strength
on the liquor question. The Opposition
selected as candidate Albert Bruntnell,
who had been a temperance worker for
years. At the general election our candi-
date, Frank Walford, had done well, and
was nominated again, but he was badly
beaten by Bruntnell.
This setback was a further stroke at
our prestige, and one for which my
original error of judgment was wholly
responsible. I stand to my guns, how-
ever, over my action in this connection.
It was only partly an error of the intelli-
gence : I was not blind to the public feel-
ing banking up behind the early-closing
cry, but I felt it a duty to resist it. The
whole business, regarded as a war meas-
ure, was quackery; it was taking the
minds of our people off the things that
mattered.
LIBELS ON
MINISTERS
Probably at no
period in the his- •
tory of the State
did it become
more the fashion to attack the personal
integrity of Ministers than just then In
many a drawing-room people, otherwise
sensible, told the story of my wife having
left for America with a box of gold
belonging to one of the patriotic funds.
Many, too, actually knew the lady who
had bought a ranch next to the one I
was supposed to have bought in Los
Angeles with my ill-gotten gains. So the
stories ran.
Griffith was also picked out for fero-
cious attack. Hall, the Attorney-General,
while travelling in the train to Mel-
bourne, was assured by a solicitor that
Griffith was corrupt. “I have the evi-
dence with me,” he said. “It is burning
a hole in my pocket.” “Let me see it,”
said Hall. Letters were produced, and
Hall, on his return to Sydney, brought
them to me. In company with Cann, I
saw Griffith, who behaved just as I
should have expected. He agreed imme-
diately to the fullest inquiry, and made
no conditions of any kind. We appointed
Mr. Justice Pring, and a searching in-
quiry was held, which completely exon-
erated my colleague.
These experiences, however, did . us
harm.
PUBLIC SERVANTS
IN THE A.I.F.
A few days
after war com-
menced we had
announced that
public servants volunteering would re-
ceive their civil salary while with the
colors, the State making up any difference
in the rates of pay.
We were the only State in Australia to
take this course. Much later one or
two of the other States followed our
example to a limited extent, but New
South Wales asserted the principle
throughout. As a matter of fact, the
other States opposed us, and a confer-
ence condemned such action by State
Government with only one dissentient
—myself. The other Governments took
the shortsighted view of the probable
length of the war ; they could see enor-
mous administrative embarrassment it
hundreds of their officers were drawn into
the training camps and the public service
was left without them for a year or so,
which was the estimate at that time.
Our policy logically demanded further
steps. We had to guarantee to our em-
ployees not only that they should not
lose while at the front, but that they
should not lose after they returned. We
therefore undertook an absolute rein-
statement to enlisted public servants,
not merely to the positions which
they had occupied before enlisting, but
in the positions they would have occupied
—so far as these could be ascertained —
if they had stayed in their niches and
shared in promotions. It struck us as
unfair that the stay-at-home, merely be-
cause he was on the spot, should take
his share of advancement while his more
courageous and self-sacrificing comrade
was excluded r from it. The principle was
therefore; laid "down that military service
should be a means of acquiring merit
exactly - equivalent. to civil service, and
that no public; servant should find that
those who were his juniors when he
started for the front had become his
seniors while he was there.
A LUDICROUS
PENSIONS SCHEME
We were soon
called upon to
: make A vital deci-
sions concerning
the incapacitated. The intellect J of
the Defence Department, always a
somewhat dubious quantity, was set
to work upon devising a .pension
scheme which would secure some
financial independence for these men.
The biggest brains in Australia, we were
assured, were at work upon the scheme,
and it took these powerful organs a con-
siderable time to function. Ultimately
a pronouncement was made, and Austra-
lia learned that a totally-disabled man,
blinded or deprived of the use of his
limbs, was to receive £1 a week for life.
Bitter disappointment was expressed on
every side; strong protests went up; but
the Commonwealth was adamant. The
Fisher Government’s one great virtue was
the mulish obstinacy with which it stuck
to every announcement once uttered,
although Senator Pearce, to do him jus-
tice, had never been credited with any
share in this general pigheadedness.
The State Governments joined in this
protest, and, as usual, joined in vain.
Having made their protest, the other
States dropped further interest. Prompted
by me, however, our Cabinet decided to
deal with the problem. I drafted a
scheme under which we took the respon-
sibility of doubling the pension provided
by the Federal Government. Every in-
capacitated New South Wales man would
receive a pension of at least £2 a week
and free residence at the expense of the
State, if he required it. For many, of
course, who had their homes waiting, for
them, this latter boon was of small value,
but for. others it was a godsend. We
began establishing institutions and build-
ing cottages for returned injured men.
A BITTER
REBUKE
This display of
zeal on our part
was received with
great hostility by
the Federal authorities. Ido not com-
plain of this. It was entered on by us
in a spirit of hostility; we strongly con-
demned the attitude of the Federal Gov-
ernment ; our scheme was a bitter rebuke
to Federal Ministers, and was intended
to be so. •
Some, animated by strong “Austra-
lian” sentiment, asked if one wounded
soldier was to be allowed to draw twice
the pension of another simply because he
hailed from New South Wales. To these
our answer was simple. When the
wounded soldier was discharged from the
army because he was, no longer fit for
military service he ceased to be a soldier,
and became again a citizen of New South
Wales, a broken, incapacitated and, from
the point of view of mere industrialism,
a useless citizen. “We cannot afford in
New South Wales,” I said, “to have any
citizen living’ upon £1 a week. It is a
matter, of highest public interest to
have* a reasonable standard of comfort
among all .our citizens, and, even if those
who have, gone to the front are to be re-
garded as having committed an offence
of a. character justifying condemnation
to hopeless during the remainder
of their lives*,—if -the Federal Govern-
ment .cannot relieve them from this
poverty because they have been soldiers,
the State Government will relieve them
because they are. still its citizens.”
With this rejoinder the spitfire Aus-
tralianism of the few was silenced.
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given in next week’s Bulletin.]


m
m
MMi
Your Kidneys!
Have you ever stopped to think
tjiat they may be the cause of_
your poor Health ?
MOST people do not realise how much work the kidneys
are required to do every day.
Every drop of blood in the body must pass through and
be filtered by the kidneys hundreds of times a day.
How can they do their work well if they are sick?
If your kidneys need treatment, Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
the reliable Kidney Remedy, will prove to be just the medicine
you need.
Joint Pains and Rheumatism
are caused by WEAK KIDNEYS
When the kidneys cease to filter all impurities from the
bloodstreams, Uric Acid accumulates and causes Joint Pains
and Rheumatism. Vitality will be lowered and your general
health will suffer.
One Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pill taken after every meal
will quickly remove any inflammation or soreness, leaving the
kidneys in a strong, healthy state.
Excess Uric Acid will be banished from the system, and,
with healthy kidneys keeping your bloodstreams pure, Joint
Pains, Rheumatism and Backache will disappear, good health
will return, and you will face each day with renewed life
and vigor.
Have the health that can he yours—begin
taking Dr. Sheldon*s Gin Pills to-day.
3k
27 PILLS, 1/9.
60 PILLS, 2/9.
GIN PILLS
MAKE WEAK KIDNEYS STRONG.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ė
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/* (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full pay menu
NAME ,
ADDRESS
living outside Australia and Sew
Zealand shouta send 30/-).
Needed every Day
in every Home
DoubleD
Sucaliffitud fixPuict
fc.-u V. "V
Unsurpassed for Purity
and Strength
For Colds, Coughs and Catarrh
Take 3 drops of Double “D” on a lump of sugar
—Have chest and back thoroughly rubbed with
Double “D” —Also sprinkle a few drops of
Double “D” on your handkerchief, and on your
pillow before retiring. Double “D” is double
distilled, free from Phellandrene, and therefore
safe to take internally.
For Sore Throat, Stiff Neck,
Rheumatism and Neuralgia
Apply Double “D” generously, rubbing until it
has all penetrated through the skin.
In severe cases, soak a strip of flannel in Double
“D” and place round neck. On account of con-
taining over 70 per cent. Cineol, Double “D” is
strong, and will bring instant relief.
For Influenza, Bronchitis and
Asthma
Take 3 drops of Double “D” on a lump of
sugar —Have chest and back thoroughly rubbed
with Double “D,” and inhale 16 drops of Double
“D” in a jug of hot water. This inhalation is par-
ticularly beneficial, and should be repeated every
three hours. It is imperative that the patient should
remain in bed after an inhalation. Double “D”
is ideal for an inhalation, as all irritants and
aldehydes usually found in Eucalyptus have been
removed.
Enter the Double “D” Screen Star Competition
£l5/151- in Prizes
Who are your Ten Favorite Screen Stars ?
Here is an interesting Competition, that all may enter. Make out a list of your ten
favorite Screen Stars in the order of preference, and you may win the First Prize of
£7/7/-. Second Prize of £2/2/-, Third Prize of £l/1/-, or one of the 20 additional Cash
Prizes, totalling £5/5/-, which will be awarded to the 20 next best entries.
in judging this Competition, the 10 Screen Stars whose names appear in the greatest
number of entries will be looked upon as the 1 0 most popular Screen Stars, and will be
placed in position according to the number of entries that contain their names.
The entry which contains the greatest number of these names, in the closest order of
preference, will be awarded First Prize, and the other prizes will be awarded accordingly.
Conditions: Each entry must be accompanied by the green wrapper from a bottle of
Double “D” Eucalyptus. Any number of entries can be sent in, provided the above-
mentioned wrapper is attached to each entry. In the event of a tie, prize-money will be
divided. All entries must be posted prior to 31st May, 1935, and will be judged by a
Director of The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., whose decision shall be final.
Address entries to Dept. B, Double “D” Screen Star Competition, G.P.O. Box 201 D,
Sydney, N.S.W.
X
V o
O ov
* v ' *r*J^
iwß&Siy
V° **'Vc
o.* v <WV
s®V s ‘
A


ę
■>'» x
1
If
'*■
i
f|J
W
% tffiX'/'wfyMy/, Z'/yZ- z'y/m ■
If#/:
JH
Wm.
J
x~-.
mz.
m
n
%•:
H
Mmki
m
AM
'SSs.
m
Sgt
SS«SS
5%
£x
;Z-y/
»i
: x
E
(ss,'./s/j
m
K",
m
m
■ ■
mi
SJKS
W4J
Ila
'//A
t
o*o,
I
IP
WBRAND
§>>l
1
ii
ii«
kHI
mmm
in
lp3
iili
i
a
iil
rf
M
«•
I«
£4^"
IWR®
ill
w
WM /»//lllf
‘WARATAH” FENCING WIRE ~ .
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS will . not burn
“WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc .
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING .. .
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind ail
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this-—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market.. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LLADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS,
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World’s Best
MADE BY,■
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD.*
NEWCASTLE, N-S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers’
Handbook
V 'mm
rr.ii
