

K\\Vv\VV
» \
///m
w
\ \
feKra
S\X
i
'•\
m
w//.
%
V.
rT
//«Q
\
%
mm
°-
-^§h_ r
S'
=5»
, —-^3S?Sa
LOCH GOIL
(ARGYLLSHIRE)
In response to many requests, Dewar's have
ordered for their patrons a supply of etching
reproductions of this picture on heavy Esparto,
in a size suitable for framing, and free of all
advertising matter whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name and
address to John Dewar 5 Sons Ltd., Melbourne
or Sydney, Please mention this paper, date,
and title of illustration required.
Like a dark jewel in its rugged mountain setting. Loch Goil
lies in the shadow of Ardgoil—“Argyll’s Bowling Green”
with its huge granite boulders scattered about its crest.
On the western shore of the loch at Garrick Castle stands
a ruined stronghold of the Campbells, burned by the
Murrays of Athol in 1685, a grim reminder of the old clan
feuds and battles long ago. The past glories and
triumphs of the clansmen of old are remembered today
and toasted in a spirit loyal to Scottish tradition ... Dewar's.
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
THE SPIRIT OF OLD SCOTLAND
The Bulletin
A Holiday Number
Vol. 56. —No. 2915.
Wednesday, December 25, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s New Illustrated 64-page
Christmas Catalogue for 1935 is now
ready, and will be sent Free and Post
Free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Among Stott's 300 Courses
ARE THE FOLLOWING "
All Australian Exams.
Accountancy Exams.
Architectural Courses.
Advertisement Writing
Agricultural Courses
Bookkeeping
Bankers’ Institute
Builders’ Courses
Commercial Art
Chemistry
Draughtsmanship
Engineering
General Education
Government Exams.
Handwriting
Literary Courses
Languages
Motor Engineering
Professional Exams.
Secretaries’ Exams.
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Showcard, Ticket Wtg.
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Stammerers
Surveying
Teachers’ Exams.
Touch Typewriting
University Exams.
Verse Writing
Window Dressing
Wireless Engineering
Encircle Course desired, and mail to
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, MELBOURNE.
My Name
Address
S.B. 1635
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
, T} 16 , trustee , s decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AMERICAN
DICTATOR
The “It” of
Sinclair Lewis’s
It Can’t Happen
Here (Cape,
D y m o c k’s ; 7s.
6d.) is a dictator-
ship, the place
America, the depicting of both a slash-
ing criticism of present American life
and tendencies. And the novel is much
more than that.
For its scenes of cynical rule by
violence it borrows freely from the actual
recent history of Germany, Italy and
Russia, and thus it slashes at the vicious
abuses which have characterised all such
post-war dictatorships. Further, it con-
tends that the world struggle to-day is
not Communism against Fascism, but
simply of tolerance against bigotry. Its
reply to its own title is “The hell it
can’t”; it asserts that never in all his-
tory has there been a people so ripe for
a dictatorship as the American.
The publishers had intended giving this
British edition the title It Can’t Happen
in America, “but a reading of the manu-
script showed that in essentials its
story lessons were not solely applic-
able to America... the forces here
shown at work in the United States
might prevail in England or in other
parts of the British Empire.” Deliberate
aim at a dictatorship is not necessary
for it thus to apply. In the American
instance the dictatorship astonishes even
those who unwittingly worked hardest to
produce the conditions and the general
state of mind making It possible. Bureau-
cratic impositions like the New Deal are
symptoms of the tendency, Peculiarly
American in the character of the dic-
tator and in his dictatorship’s emergence
through “revolution by Rotary,” with
the powerful assistance of broadcasting
churchmen and other emotion-mongers,
it has universal application.-
Shrewdly, the author projects his scene
barely a year into the future, avoiding
the damaging artificiality of purely imag-
ined conditions that prevents nearly all
fiction of the kind from having any rela-
tion to actuality. The conditions in
which the account opens are the actual
dhes of to-day, with recent events like
the death of Huey Long giving more
color of reality. Beginning in a typical
American small town in these condi-
tions, it follows the rise of the great
Berzelius Windrip, composite of all the
worst elements of American character,
none of them, oddly enough, really
vicious, but with viciousness enough sup-
plied by his cynically sinister secretary.
The secretary, when rule by dictatorship
intensifies, becomes powerful enough to
depose Berzelius, to be in turn him-
self deposed and murdered by the mili-
tary despot in charge of the Minute
Men, American counterpart of the Brown
Shirts, the Black Shirts and the Soviet
Army.
The rise and reign of this tyranny are
seen as through the eyes of Doremus
Jessup, owner and editor of the small-
town newspaper ; champion and believer
in that tolerance which is the essential
spirit of the democratic system. About
him, for foils, a muddle-headed wife, a
mistress of eager though disruptively
inclined intelligence, a daughter who is
a feminine reproduction of himself, a
son who is an arrogant lump of brawn,
friends who share Jessup’s own normally
tolerant state of mind, acquaintances who
don’t, and a boneheaded handyman
whom he is lightly trying to civilise, and
who, when the tyranny comes, rises to
brief eminence as a brutish captain of
the Minute Men, until, in this return to
the jungle law of the survival of the
fittest not in peaceful but in open and
violent physical struggle, he also is thrust
from the scene.
From the small-town beginning the
narrative rapidly broadens, until the illu-
sion is created of the entire American
people depicted ; not isolated, either, but
in relationship with the peoples of the
world. These matters are managed with
consummate craftsmanship ; detailed de-
scriptions of happenings under the
tyranny, fold, as it were, by an eye-
witness, making it all as good as visibly
convincing. Every character is, in an
uncommonly thorough sense of the
word, alive; at once individual and
representative types all of theni. Thus
Berzelius (or Buzz) Windrip, a charac-
ter with his own personality and his own
sort of individuality, and even his own
values, such as they are, is at the same
time representative of the worst Ameri-
can traits and of the Professional
Common Man the world over. Even
his peculiarly American traits are
not so peculiar that their counterparts
cannot be observed in vulgarians any-
where ;
Windrip danced a hornpipe before an
alarmed academic audience when he got
his first honorary degree; he kissed Miss
Flandreau at the South Dakota beauty
contest; he entertained the Senate, or at
least the Senate galleries, with detailed
accounts of how to catch catfish —from the
bait-digging to the ultimate effects of the
jug of corn whisky; he challenged the
venerable Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court to a duel with sling-shots.
The place being America, naturally he
is not, as dictator, called the Leader or
the Duce: he is the Chief. The thing
perplexing to the critical onlooker
Doremus Jessup is that there could be
a dictator seemingly so different from the
fervent Hitlers and gesticulating Fascists
and the Cassars with laurels round bald
domes; a dictator with something of the
earthy American sense of humor of a, Mark
Twain, a George Ade, a Will Rogers, an
Artemus Ward. Windrip could be ever
so funny about solemn jaw-dropping
opponents, and about the best method of
training what he called “a Siamese flea-
hound. Did that, puzzled Doremus,
make him less or more dangerous?
Then he remembered the most cruel-
mad of all pirates, Sir Henry Morgan, who
had thought it ever so funny to sew a
victim up with wet rawhide and watch it
shrink in the sun.
But Doremus is wrong. Windrip is
not viciously cruel; only an enormously
mistaken man, with enough complacent
confidence in his blaze of glory to make
such of the cruelty and violence of in-
tolerance as comes to his knowledge-
less and less as his secretary plans to
usurp him —seem a necessary part of
what he sincerely believes is a beneficial
system of government. Actually, few
of the happenings which make his dic-
tatorship a reign of terror come to his
knowledge at all: they result, as always
in such things, not from deliberate de-
w
C.M.
Putting
Australia
in Fiction
To those of us
who have not
seen other lands
it is only when an
Australian author
writes of Aus-
tralians in their
native setting that any clear notion can
be formed of the way in which the writ-
ten word can reproduce or distort
national characteristics, local atmosphere
or conditions of living.
A school of young writers in America,
for example, has given a very clear pic-
ture of the middle-west communities of
the United States. The picture, to those
who haven’t been there, may be true or
false ; we have to accept it. But when
an Australian writes of an Australian
town, as Godfrey Blunden does in No
More Reality (Cape ; 7s. 6d.), we can
judge the truth of the picture by stan-
dards we know, and realise to the full the
gulf that can separate the novelist’s
creation from reality.
The gulf, in Blunden’s case, may or
may not be intentional. He may have
had no wish to re-create, as Hobbleton,
a true Australian country township.
The choice of Victoria as the locale of
his story may, intentionally as well as
actually, have as much connection with
his characters and their reactions as if
the setting were in Lapland. The fact
remains that those who expect to find a
recognisable Australian community in
this book will not find it.
The reason for this is that Blunden, in
collecting the material for his novel, has
observed chiefly the pettiness, dirtiness
and frustrated longings of small-town
life. It is the method of propaganda,
which selects only matter that bolsters
up an argument,' rather than that of
art, which, alive to all aspects of life,
chooses from them in such a way that
the. resultant work is a balanced, undis-
torted reflection of living quickened by
whatever of himself the author has to
give.
No More Reality is peopled by abnor-
mal characters. They are abnormal not
by reason of the fact that they have cer-
tain thoughts and commit certain actions,
but because their creator has drawn them
in such a way that they appear to devote
very little time to anything else. Worse
still, and this purely from an artistic
point of view, they all suffer from the
same bug: sex.
Virtually nobody in the novel is
exempt from this preoccupation. Flint
McKissop is obsessed by the images of
girls ; the Gleaming damsels are interested
only in the local louts until something
better arrives from the city; Vernon
Ablet, the neighborhood squire, plays
persistently with the idea of taking an-
other woman ; a clergyman seduces ser-
vant-girls and steals undies from his
boarder; a doctor casts lewd glances at
his slavey, and is disappointed when his
leering advances are repulsed. And
so on.
One of the major faults with most of
the books dealing with Australian life
outside the cities has been the manner in
which the characters have been senti-
mentalised beyond all recognition. A
burning impatience with this type of
nonsense may have influenced Godfrey
Blunden when he was writing No More
Reality, but, if this be so, he has allowed
his revulsion to carry him toward the
other extreme. Distortion, in either
direction, is equally bad art.
Louis Stone’s Jonah would be an ideal
Australian novel to set against No More
Reality as an example of the difference
that can be made by the judicious use
and rejection of material available for a
book. Setting his story in a quarter of
Sydney which, at the time he wrote,
abounded in ugliness, Stone used that
ugliness, used the brutality of the
“pushes,” and yet succeeded, without
sentimentalising, in endowing his charac-
ters with human, admirable traits. He
described not only the reverse of the
medal but its face ; Blunden has con-
tented himself with the reverse.
Yet, despite its lack of proportion, No
More Reality is a definite promise,
both in style and construction, that when
Blunden sees more clearly the variety of
the life that surrounds him he will pro-
duce a novel that will be worth while.
JOHN KENTWELL.
South
Africa
Idealised
The S. African
historical novelist
is luckier than
the Australian,
Australia was a
c o m p a ratively
safe country to
colonise. So, much of its dawn-history
was made by the map-makers and
those whom Wellington had thought too
delicate or too old-womanly for fight-
ing—Mitchell and Macquarie, for in-
stance. The Cape, on the other hand,
was full of sullen Dutch, none too
pleased by the manner in which Eng-
land had decided to “protect” them by
eternal possession after French democ-
racy had ousted the Stadtholder; these,
and yelling impis of highly-intelligent
savages who thought nothing of entering
a »fairly large town and wiping it out,
and who took their cattle-stealing as a
magnate takes his golf.
There was the added difficulty of the
missions. Marsden and his preaching
caused little or no complication of
native policy in Australia. But Phillip,
of the London Missionary Society,
preaching the wickedness of the secular
white and the material benefits of sal-
vation to tutored naked chiefs to whom
war was life, was a cat —almost a
leopard—of another color. Hence, S.
Africa, in place of the Macquaries, got
the cream of the Peninsula veterans —
(Continued on page 4.)


DONEGAL SPORTS
COAT
45 -
Be comfortably and suitably clad
during the holidays in one of these
smart sports coats. Expertly tailored
from real Irish Donegal Tweeds, with
plain backs, patch pockets and
finished leather buttons ...... 45/-.
WORSTED SPORTS
TROUSERS
Comfortable, well-fitting sports
trousers made from serviceable light-
grey summer-weight Worsteds. There
is a comprehensive range of sizes and
tonings to suit all tastes 18/6.
\
SHIRTS
76
Made in our own workrooms . . .
thus satisfaction is assured in fit,
finish and wear of these sports shirts.
In white British Poplin, with roll-
back sports collar. Sizes, Min. to
184 in. neck. Price, each .. 5/6, 7/6.
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
HOLIDAY WEAR FROM
(Üb*,JW iWV
AJ
V
■ ;
i-*" '
0 I o
~l
~lj
ALL-WOOL FLANNEL
10 (i
Give a Blazer, tailored by Anthony
Horderns’, to win his instant approval.
Made from dependable All-wool
Flannels in Navy, Royal, Nigger,
Myrtle, Marone or Black with plain or
fancy braids. At Anthony Horderns’,
18/6, 22/6, 30/-.
!•%
-sr
r.
»
D.B. WORSTED
suits
55 -
An undoubted asset to the young man’s
holiday wardrobe. These Double-
breasted Worsted Suits are extremely
well-tailored in the latest advance
styles. Smart Light Greys in summer
weight. At 55/-, 59/6, 69/6 and 79/6.
For tennis! A White Sleeveless Slip-
on, knitted from all wool in a smart
fancy stitch. V-neck, ribbed welt and
armholes. Sizes 36- to 40-inch chest.
At 10/-, 12/6 and 18/6.
# Men’s Mercery and Clothing—Ground
Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
“MERITAS”
COSTUME
7e
A shapely Pure Wool Swimming
Costume that will give seasons of
wear. Strong elastic knit in popular
Y-back style. Royal, Marone, Grey
or Black in sizes 36- to 40-inch
chest. At Anthony Horderns’, 7/6.
Sizes 42-, 44-inch chest, 9/6.
Also “Meritas” Costumes in same
style as above, but of a better
quality and finer knit. Royal,
Marone, Grey and Black. Sizes 36-
to 40-inch chest. At Anthonv
Horderns’, 12/6. Sizes 42-, 44-
inch chest, 13/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Special Surfing Costumes
are inexpensive, smart and will stand plenty
of hard wear. Made from Pure Wool,
elastic knit in comfortable Y-back style.
Saxe, Marone, Royal or Black. Sizes 36- to
40-inch chest. At Anthony Horderns’,
5/11. 42- to 44-inch chest, 6/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. SYDNEY Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
AEUTEX
Cool Acrtcx cellular sports
shirts (as illustrated) with
button front and short sleeves.
All white, smart collar
attached. Sizes, to 17in.
neck 6/9.
Also in checks of brown, blue
or grey. Price, each .. 12/6
J
a
CREAM
BELTS
lin. wide, Tokio leather, with
patent fastener. Price .. 3/6.
lin. wide, Chrome leather, with
patent fastener. Pride .. 2/6.
lin. wide, Webbing, with
tongue buckle. Price .. 1/6.
SPOUTS
SHIRTS
An ideal tennis shirt made
of strong, white British
Poplin, with a smart-fitting
tennis collar. These are our
own make, so you can depend
upon them for fit and -.car.
Price, each 5/6, t/6.
HALF - HOSE
Cream Cashmere Half-hose in
neat ribbed finish. Price
pair, 2/6. In wool and lisle
mixture, pair. 2/6, 2/11.
Plain “Viyella,’’ English make,
pair. 4/6. Cream tennis
cockettes. pair 2/6.
A
BWSgji
PULLOVERS
Cream all-wool Pullovers,
honeycomb knit. Club stripes
on V neck and pockets.
Also all cream, 36in. to 42in.


Wl.
. ■
■**
v>
Here is the Book thousands have been waiting for!
TIBURON
Kylie Tennant’s Brilliant Story of Life in an Australian Country Town.
Winner of the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1935, and acknowledged
as the best serial published in The BULLETIN for many years, Tiburon ,
in book form, will be a worthy addition to your bookshelves, for it is a
book to be read by the whole family,
JUST PUBLISHED AND PHENOMENAL VALUE
416 PAGES. PRICE (POSTAGE 4d.).
All Booksellers and Newsagents, or from
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
252 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
D’Urban and, above all, Harry Smith
and his colorful Juanita, who had gone
through the Spanish wars on muleback
with him, and who lived to give her
name to a town which many Austra-
Hans were later to know—Ladysmith.
..... „
Working on some ot this handy
material Norman Giles, in such novels
as Dark Border, left the reader with a
sense ot having read carefully-depicted
history. His latest, Rebels in the Sun,
is not so good. Beside his earlier works,
it is a thinnish, unconvincing narrative
of the Namaqualand end of the Boer
rebellion in the early days of the 1914-18
war. There is a strained attempt to link
that futile and half-hearted outburst of
national feeling with the passionate urge
of the Irish freedom movement. But
the chain used to tie the two together—
a Dutchman’s Irish wife, who in speech
and temperament is about as Erse as a
Wahabi, and an equally preposterous
Hibernian—is scarcely a convincing con-
nection.
In the slightly earlier Dark Border,
however, Mr. Giles’s canvas is large, and
envisions the years 1833-1842—the period
of the freeing of Ihc slaves, of the Great
Fish River rebellion of 1835, the Ride
to Grahamstown, the Transkei trek and
Dingaan’s day. It assembles the view-
points of everyone concerned with an
apparently convincing fairness. Its prose
is in the best of good taste, and the
manners of nearly everybody, from the
untutored Rarabe to the bluffest of the
Peer’s veterans, are nearly impeccable,
The missionaries and their pawns are
about the only villains. The naked
K° sas converse as if they had been
brought up on Comte. Harry Smith’s
i uan , ita s * e ™ s }° a cr ° SS between a
and Lady Hester Stanhope ; and
th 9 r ° u § h Boers ’. scarcel Y possessed of a
Pf ir of m L man y cases and llv,n S
al °ng the Fish, where every man went
ab f?? d g u . n , on . an P’ Philosophise about
politics with the insight of a Palmer-
ston aiK j sometimes with the patience of
Job. All the story centres in the
] ove affairs of a young man who is too
good to be true, since, having been born
G f an eloping mother, he has succeeded,
after 15 years naked in the kraals beyond
Graaf Reinet, in magically acquiring in
a mission school a statesmanlike out-
look, a wisdom which would have done
credit to Solomon and an engaging per-
sonality which instantly hypnotises every-
body. Round him the threads of rebel-
lion and the interplay of Boer, British
and Kaffir feeling are woven,
The writing flows like a smooth river,
It is dignified and simple, and there is no
striving for wordy effect. With all its
historical falsity, it is no more untrue
than some of the State papers which
B race °f that time when Charles
G ra nt, the last °t the Cannmgites, was
at tha C° lo " lal buS ‘ X be 'i'T g
everybody whose words would make his
path.easy w.th the Br.ttsh human, artaru
D “f* Border like another of the author s
“ rller ? b ' , T *' R "i t f
will probably live to find a place
J? 11 lba shelves of the future beside Oh e
Schreiners Story an Aft lean Farm.
A remarkable performance for one
who is not a South African af all, but
hails from that land of despised authors,
Australia.
J. W.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
It Can’t Happen Here Sinclair Lewis.
Lincoln Frees the Slaves .. Stephen Leacock.
China Changes G. J. Yorke.
Salar the Salmon Henry Williamson.
SINCLAIR LEWIS’S It Can’t Happen
Here (reviewed on page 2) is one of
the most notable novels of the year,
It should not be missed by anybody who
uses his brains to think with.
Earlier American scenes are depicted
in Stephen Leacock’s admirable potted
brief critical biography of Lincoln, called
Lincoln Frees the Slaves (Peter Davies ;
Angus and Robertson ; 65.). Leacock
suggests that, if the time ever comes
when poverty is eliminated, how we
could have tolerated it will seem as great
a mystery as any toleration of slavery
seems now. And just as hasty historians
now hold tolerance 1 of slavery to be proof
of the vast wickedness of past genera-
tions, so will they record the peculiar
callousness of our generation towards the
suffering of the poor, and misinterpret it
in our disfavor. A great deal of send-
mental nonsense has been written about
slavery by those who single it out as
deserving of special opprobrium, while
the foul dungeon, the flaming stake and
the unspeakable torture-room which
existed at the same time are overlooked,
“In most cases it was probably not cruel,
lt was at least free from the brutal grasp
of machinery, speeding up the working
power of man beyond man’s own en-
durance.” Obviously, sentimentalists will
not like this part of it, and equally they
will not like the dispassionate attempt
Leacock makes to detach Lincoln the
reality from Lincoln the myth. “Who
dares suggest that when he assumed the
office he was lost, ignorant and incom-
petent, without a policy, without a plan,
a man adrift upon a sea of trouble?
Yet that is true.” Leacock is not, how-
ever, bent upon any mission of knock-
tbe ™? se , a L> re ek sbitueent . er ‘
tail l tbe Uoths, as the fashion for trying
*° debunk great men has been described.
Bathe , r he ]s bent upon showing the true
Lincoln as distinct from the mythical,
a P d u P9 n demonstrating that the truth
about . bl . m 18 bet . ter tban tbe myth. Into
aß tonishingly brief space he packs the
Bab ent outline and significant matters in
Lincoln s career, and manages to throw
m a g° od P ic . ture of slave . r . y m America
and the secession war as well. A finished,
b S bt , excellent little book,
G. J. Yorke’s China Changes (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson ; 165.) is miles
above the ordinary run of travel writing:
what it depicts is always both interesting
and of significance in the general object,
which is not merely to describe surface
appearances but to get underneath to an
understanding of the people and of
events since 1930. Yorke admits to be-
ing a journalist—or, at least, to having
done journalistic work in China—on
which account the quiet dignity and
beauty of his thoughtful prose is really
astonishing. He is a student of the
traditional philosophic nature of the
Chinese, and a large amount of it seems
to have got into his blood, setting his
outlook in this viewing of a large area
of the Chinese scene, and giving strength
to the style in which he writes of it.
His narrative includes accounts of the
Japanese invasion, for which he was on
the scene as a correspondent; the spread
and methods of Communism ; and what
is being done towards the reconstruction
of China, not following Japan in a swal-
lowing of the Western civilisation model,
but more tortuously reaching out after
change in accord with the inner spirit of
the land. An exceptionally fine book
either for those interested specially in
China or in world affairs generally, or
those who merely seek entertainment
with some quality in it.
Extra-choice fare for those who like
nature life in story form is Henry
Williamson’s Salar the Salmon (Faber
and Faber; Angus and Robertson;
J Is. 3d.). Williamson does this sort of
thing uncommonly well, and sensibly,
too. He does not see any need to reduce
his fish to a human level: they remain
nobly and freely fish, in their own ele-
ment, alive and enjoyable. It may not
move with quite the spontaneous case of
Tarka the Otter, but it is capital work,
with memorable passages of great beauty.
*
All Quiet in Germany, by Karl Bil-
linger (Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). A Commu-
nist describes experiences in concentra-
tion camps. Purely an anti-Hitler tract,
doing the cause against intolerance little
good, since the impression is given that
those persecuted would, with opportu-
nity, have been eminent persecutors.
Kempson on Contract (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). Bright
spot in the endless library of instruction
in contract play. Writer, Captain Ewart
Kempson, is a British expert who com-
bines a sound practical knowledge of
bridge with a sense of humor, and in-
structs accordingly. Novel addition is the
racy word-sketches of notable adepts of
the game.
The Winter House, by Norman Cam-
eron (Dent; 2s. 6d. net). Not much in
this addition to Dent’s admirable series
of mostly traditionalist younger living
poets. Cameron is a competent verse-
writer, with some cleverness in pointed
comment, but there seems to be little
poetry in him.
Fowl and Fish Rhymes, by K. A.
Stanley, illustrated by D. Freeman
(Dent; ss. net). Bright nursery verses,
capped with excellent large black-and-
white illustrations in woodcut style.
Several plates are gems. Total appeal is
to the very young.
Tail-Waggers, by A. Croxton Smith
(Country Life ; 7s. 6d. net). Twenty-six
large-page etchings by Malcolm Nichol-
son illustrate this art edition of a dog-
fanciers’ book which has been through
several cheap editions. Describes all
breeds on the register of the English
Kennel Club, with chapters of expert
advice on general dog care. A good one.
More Simple Science : Earth and Man,
by E. N. Da C. Andrade and Julian
Huxley (Blackwell; 6s. net). The parent
who presents this sequel of Simple
Science to his young will ensure having
the most fascinating of general science
books for his own personal reading no
less than theirs.
Nature in the Wild (Country Life ; ss.
net). Choice of 100-odd superb pictures
from the Nature Photography Exhibi-
tion, representative of bird and animal
life in all parts of the world. Two illus-
trations to Lore of the Lyre Bird are
among the Australian examples. Good
reproduction helps to make it an extra-
fine thing.
Regency Buck, by Georgette Heyer
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), represents a re-
turn to the writer’s earlier love after
flirtation with mystery novels. For that
she will have the blessings of a
thousand maids whose dream-hero
wears tight breeches and velvet coat,
flowered waistcoat and silken cravat,
flicks a snuffbox and swings a cane.
Homicide Haven, by J. V. Turner
(Crime Club ; 7s. 6d.), contains two or
three murders, red-herrings across the
track of the main story in the shape of
a philandering greengrocer, a black-
mailed divorcee and a crooked pawn-
broker, and a mystery which had its
beginning fourteen years earlier in one
of the biggest bank robberies Scotland
Yard had ever known. Readable.
The Queen of Scots, by Stefan Zweig
(Cassell ; Angus and Robertson ; 21s.\
Professedly disinterested, but belonging
clearly to the school to which Elizabeth
of England is a villlainess. Spoilt by
overwriting and a fondness for purvey-
ing such platitudinous information as
that “Trustfulness is a distinctive quality
of childhood,” “Poets are prone to let
their feelings run away with them” and
“Politics is impervious to the feelings of
mankind.”
Experimental Electricity, by M. M.
Das (English Universities Press;
Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). Up-to-the-minute
compendium of the fundamental facts
(and their mathematical expressions) of
electricity and magnetism, indicating
practical applications of each principle
or formula enunciated, and suggesting
means of demonstrating by simple ex-
periment. The book is copiously illus-
trated, and the author’s style is clear
and concise.
The Eye at the Keyhole, by Stephen
Maddock (Collins ; 7s. 6d.). Secret Ser-
vice, with Timothy Terrel, hero on previ-
ous occasions. If a representative of a
foreign Power hadn’t thrust plans on
an innocent English girl because her
initials, her coloring and her figure were
the same as those of the lady who should
have received them, the yarn could never
have been written.
The Soul of Tak-ming, by Charles
Cooper (Sherring ; 65.). All the women,
all Chinese, an Australian and the
few Japanese are straightforward and
honorable; the Russians are either
extremely villainous or given over to
dissipation ; and the Englishman may be
either very good or very, very bad.
Author can chronicle a woman’s virtues
thus:
Miu-ling’s name meant wonderful Soul.
Miu-ling possessed a wonderful soul.
Miu-ling was Chinese.
Spies, war-lords, the Kuomintang and
the Russian Revolution add color.
On’y Tony, by Brenda E. Spender, with
sketches by B. Turner (Country Life;
3s. 6d. net). The collaborator of J. H.
Dowd in People of Importance here
writes for those same small people,
especially the ones who may get a live
pony in the stocking.
♦
Folke Villner: Nettie Palmer (R.P.
4/12/’35) speaks of “Scandinavia since
it split into separate languages 30 years
ago.” The split is older than that. *t
has always been there. The two lan-
guages are certainly closely related. A
Swede understands a Norwegian without
difficulty, and vice versa. But when it
comes to writing it is a different busi-
ness altogether. Writing has to be learnt.
Strindberg wrote in Swedish and Ibsen
in Norwegian long before the split of
1905. That split was purely political and
had nothing whatever to do with culture.


if ' r ■
-
sm
'• 7;-. .;;;
•■ :v.
t:
aaa
*•■
.
r.-»
BREWED & BOTTLED IN HOB ART , TASMAN Vfit
i
sSfe
&
, 1
-as?
: *
i
i /
-V
WM
PALE
ALE
FOR THIRST ENJOYMENT
THERE’S NOTHING LIKE IT
Enjoy its sparkling mellowness ... its crisp, keen,
unsurpassed good flavour! Cascade Ale, brewed and
bottled in Tasmania, right at the source of supply, is
absolutely pure. Only the finest malt and richest
Tasmanian hops are used in its making. There’s not a
grain of preservative in Cascade Ale . . . recommended
by doctors for its sustaining, invigorating qualities.
Cascade Ale is the perfect thirst quencher . . . the ideal
table beverage!
WRITE OR ’PHONE FOR
PROMPT HOME DELIVERY
Take advantage of this convenient delivery service . . .
free in city and suburbs . . . free on rail or boat for
country orders. It’s the easiest and most economical
way to buy quality ale . . . direct from the wholesaler!
FOR ALL FUNCTIONS...CASCADE!
Whenever you are entertaining . . . for weddings,
dinners, parties and reunions . . . Cascade Ale is the
correct drink. It wins instant approval for its
deliciously different flavour and richness. Cascade
is “the beer without peer’’ . . . made so by the ideal
climatic conditions under which it is produced and
by the exceptional quality of the ingredients used.
Write or phone at once for your supplies!
16'-
PER DOZEN
C.O.D. in city and suburbs, with no charge for
* * * delivery. 1/- per dozen is refunded on
empties, which we collect on request
COUNTRY ORDERS
Lots of 1 doz. sent to any address. Forward reference
and open credit account, or send cash with order,
adding 1/- per dozen for packing
Freight on 1 doz. is 2/5 up to 100 miles; 2/11, 150
miles; 3/6, 200 miles; 3/9, 250 miles; 4/-, 300 miles;
4/3, 350 miles.
WALTER CAVILL & CO., LTD.,
’Phone: M 2214 (6 lines),
379 Sussex Street, Sydney.
POST THIS FORM FOR PROMPT DESPATCH
Walter Cavill & Co., Ltd., 379 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Kindly for ward dozen of Cascade Ale. (Enclose
cheque, money order or p.n. with country orders.)
NAME ‘ ;
ADDRESS
“Bulletin,” 25/12/*35.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
app*, vi i
*. .■ k .-
si
H I
, w«i;
;■“■■■■ y.
'
m
: J
•: : : ;•;?
I
H
it -
I "
: ; .-v
■
i
;
:
A
* ' ~
v 7 . ipinM © wwMWM&i
...
n
> : {
■k
■
■
»; •• ■
• - -
• ■ fe.:
Interior of One of the Storage Cellars —Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over Million Gallons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —No. 2915.
December 25, 1935.
ANTI-INFLATION REMEDIES.
“That mighty talker Haile Silassie declares that acceptance, ‘even in principle,’ of the Anglo-French peace proposals would be ‘a cowardly act towards Abyssinia and a
betrayal of the League.’”
“Dog of a servitor, have you obeyed my command to bring me what Father Christmas deposited in my imperial stocking?”
“Lion of Judah, King of Kings, Scourge of the ltalianos, even have I done so. Behold the gifts—a lemon and a gag.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
t Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B Browne. Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d •
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inler-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months. £1 10s.;
6 months , 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand. Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route.” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. lo all other places, 4d.
WITHOUT THE LEAGUE.
One possible cpnsequence of the wrangling over
attempts to make peace between Italy and Abyssinia
hardly bears thinking on, especially at this season of
Peace and Goodwill. This is that the existence of
the League of Nations has been imperilled.
Beside that, the jollity provided by the wrangle
itself is a temporary consolation at the best Ad-
mittedly the spectacle of pacifists raging at the thought
°l bein S deprived of a larger and bloodier war is of
(he very pasture upon which Humor browses, but no
such momentary joy should obscure the fearful
seriousness of the threat to the League.
Without the League the world would be a sadder
place. This reflection of all sincere supporters of the
League is not only trite, it is true. The world would
be incomparably sadder denied the League splutter-
ing lire and brimstone on notoriously droll occasions
such as that of trainloads of Japanese troops emptying
themselves into China. The League’s shuffling and
evasion subsequent to that occasion ; its reading of
the Lytton report, while the question was decided for
it by force on the spot; its admission that here was
a whale too big for it to tackle ; its acceptance of
this precedent for any nation to flout it; its ultimate
retreat into dishonorable silence, “making Japan a
present of Manchuria and signing its own death war-
rant all this stands as the best joke of the century
Any century.
Clearly the world would be sadder without such
u?’ • that provided by the League’s
oblivion to the war that dragged out for three years
between Paraguay and Bolivia, while armament firms
m League countries grew fat on the proceeds of sell-
ing up-to-date weapons to those pleasant lands. Or
Germany’s rearming in defiance of the League and all
else: Germany, too, taking up the position of domina-
tion m Central Europe—a cheering state of affairs
which men lately mangled each other for four years
to prevent.
Performance by the League, also, of the most
astonishing gastronomical act known since the attempt
on Jonah: the complete swallowing into its over-
whelmingly Christian self of the unashamedly anti-
Chnstian U.S.S.R., with a history of defilement of
churches, persecution of Christians, obliteration of
Christianity that has no parallel. With, too, the
openly-acknowledged intention of spreading this per-
secution, with Communism and civil war, in the very
lands which welcome it in, that the League may main-
tain the pretence of being “representative”—or, as
some pronounce the word, “polyglot,”
Thus—regarding Italy as half-out-of-it for the
moment—we see the League as a happy, and not
unfamiliar, concert of Britain, France, Russia. It
seems almost like old times:- our old platform
favorite the Triple Entente back on the boards, with
its deserter and repudiator returned to the fold. And
outside the hall Japan—playing duo to Britain no
longer—Germany and the U.S.A.: not one of them
considered to be imperilling its soul by staying out-
side, nor thought to be in any great danger either.
Cause for merriment also in the firmness with
which the League, to whose support we are sum-
moned on Christian principles, declined to act upon
the Anti-Slavery Society’s report. This report has for
years been in the hands of the League, which should
now know by heart its descriptions of the hellish
existence of slaves in Abyssinia.
“Slavery,” according to this cheerful document,
“constitutes the basis of the entire economic system
in Ethiopia: the continuation of those atrocious
activities, which are carried out with the least pos-
sible hindrance, cries out for intervention.”
But against that the Abyssinian representative
reported that, “generally speaking, the slaves are not
unhappy, and are even very well treated,” an assur-
ance which doubtless filled the League with great
gladness. It helped to swell the rich joke of its con-
tinuing to sit inactive with a whole swag of juicy
knowledge: that the slave traffic across the Red Sea
is a thriving trade; that a British warboat lately
arrested there a vessel carrying a cargo of castrated
men; that the consuls along the Arabian coast know
the names of all the slave-traders; that entire parts
of Northern Abyssinia live by this trade; that the
present Emperor of this Christian country graciously
accepted 140 mixed slaves as a gift; that there is good
money in the business, boys and girls of from 12 to
14 fetching as much as £l2O a head.
Taken in conjunction with the pretensions of the
League—or its fervid supporters, at least —those make
fair reasons for universal hilarity ; proof enough that
without the League the world would be sadder.
Of course it would. It could no longer tingle with
delight when the League is lauded as a diplomatic
instrument, though the handling of the paltry Abys-
sinian dispute alone brands it as unquestionably the
clumsiest instrument of diplomacy ever known.
Those, and many more things of the kind, are
jests which Australia and Maoriland share with the
world. Ranging nearer home there are morsels of
fun which we can enjoy on our own.
Without the League we might be denied several
inestimable privileges. Such as the right—signed,
sealed and attested —of sending men to fight in every
backyard scrap in Europe. At this moment —though
with joyous evasion we gloss the fact over —the pick
of the Australian fighting force is at the scene of war.
That is not saying much, seeing what that fighting
force is; but, such as it is, it is there, ready to wade in.
Through this presence of our warboats in the Medi-
terranean we can, any day now, be involved in war
with no reference whatever to what we may think of
the happy idea ; and the “Times” is positive that “the
Empire” would “give a good account of itself.”
Another thing it would be a pity to see lost is
that famous source of delight the war-news columns
of the daily press. Without the League, and the color
that needs to be given to our thoughts on its account,
this riotous stuff would probably degenerate into
inglorious truth.
Again, without the League we might not hear
wafted from country pulpits references to church
services “instigated at the command of the mentally-
unbalanced dictator of Italy, another would-be Cassar.”
It would be cruelly sad if in seasons of Peace and
Goodwill we were denied opportunity of listening
with happy, smiling faces to uproariously inflammable
stuff of that kind.
Worst loss of all, without the League we would
be unable now to sit about on the stacks of our
possible exports to Mussoliniland, laughing our heads
off at the spectacle of this paltry produce denied,
while the one essential commodity for prolonging the
war—oil —is still being supplied by all League
members who have it to supply.
Without the League we might have any one of
the foregoing things, but we would not have the mass
of pretension which renders them jocular. This makes
the League well worth fighting for. The world would
be sadder without its Fun Factory.
PUNK AND PUBLIC HEALTH.
Some 15 months ago Mr. Hanlon, the Home Secre-
tary, discovered that the public health of Queensland
was in dire danger. It began with endemic typhus in
the northern sugar areas, about which certain unions
had been making themselves troublesome, but as the
agitated statesman pursued his investigations worse
and worse conditions revealed themselves.
Most of the medical activities of the Stale are
under Mr. Hanlon’s administrative control, but only
after some two and a half years of office did he dis-
cover that they were unco-ordinated and quite unfit to
meet any real epidemic emergency. For example, the
State Health Department had, in some mysterious
way, lost all power of control over the Brisbane metro-
politan area. Even if the worst and spottiest and most
fatal of epidemic diseases were to break out in
Mr, Hanlon’s own office, his own Health Depart-
ment couldn’t legally do a thing about it until
permission was obtained from the City Health Depart-
ment. The discovery naturally alarmed Caucus,
which mostly, and naturally, lives in Brisbane, and
orders were given to feature it.
Public health is a good “Hansard” subject-
full of human sympathy and good intention, relatively
free of any pitfalls in the way of offending unions
and excellently adapted for the display of a large
loving-kindliness towards the unlucky toiler ground
beneath the iron-heeled capitalistic octopus, so to
speak. So is co-ordination of medical services—free
hospitals for the toiler, his wife and his family, free
lunches for school-children, better walls for lunatic
asylums to mitigate the risk of being chased round
one’s garden by a naked maniac with an axe. Occupa-
tional diseases, too, are a particularly fine “Hansard”
subject. With elections looming ahead in the new
year, it went well.
Not only did the Government talk —it really
acted. It created the office of Director-General of
Health and Medical Services, and appointed to it
Australia’s leading expert in tropical medicine. The
new man arrived in a storm of Ministerial oratory.
He was to plan the finest Public Health Act in the
world. He was to put Queensland so prominently on
the world’s health map that the Panama Canal zone
in the most active days of Colonel Gorgas would look
like a slum area in Calcutta. With Mr. Hanlon’s
blessing and his own skill Queensland was to become
the sanatorium of Australia.
The new Director-General promptly gave a taste
of his quality by introducing measures which
put endemic typhus out of action in the north. It
needed money and certain measures of civic discipline
to do it. Local authorities objected to paying their
share of the money. Toilers didn’t like the discipline.
Labor agitators found themselves deprived of a handy
excuse for raising trouble, and resented it. “Complete
reorganisation” began to look a little difficult, politi-
cally. But the machine was close to election-time, and
the flood of oratory went on.
In April last came the general election. Public
health was not merely a plank, but an entire dancing
platform, and on it a number of candidates danced
their way intq Parliament. Prominent among them
was Mr. Hanlon ; having settled back into office,
however, a less enthusiastic, less urgent Mr. Hanlon.
A Mr. Hanlon made aware (perhaps by some of the
swarming civil-service unionists who have the right
to Mr. Hanlon “comrade”) of political and
administrative difficulties which would arise if a
“doctor-faddist” were allowed to interfere with local
government and to tread on the toes of powerful
unions.
Put this way, public health did not look quite so
attractive a platform for political step-dancing. Before
long it was given out that the promised Department
of Health and Medical Services was to be cut in two,
and that all matters relating to local government were
to be relegated to clerical control. The Director, etc.,
subsided into an office, with occasional outings with
Mr. Hanlon to open new hospitals or look at
aboriginal settlements.
Occasionally someone inquired about the new
Health Bill—it was not yet completed. Influenza,
scarlet fever and other trifles led to more inquiries—
the Government had the bill in hand. Parliament
went on sitting. Parliament rose. Then, with a burst
of enthusiasm, it was decided to alter by Executive
minute the Home Secretary’s official title to that of
Minister for Health and Home Affairs.
And that is the extent to which the Forgan
Smiths have been able to fulfil their promise of
protection for Queensland against the dire health
risks which they discovered some fifteen months ago.
A GREATER MELBOURNE.
The Victorian Cabinet is considering the introduction
ol a bill to create a Greater Melbourne, and a sub-
committee has been appointed to report. But it is
seriously open to question whether the Greater Mel-
bourne acceptable to vested interests—and that is the
only sort of Greater Melbourne that a Premier with
a tremulous position is likely to propose—will prove
either efficient or economical.
The “Greater” city system is seen at its best in
the United States, where the suburban municipality
does not exist. The central body has control of every-
thing that can be remotely regarded as municipal;
it runs the water supply, the fire brigade, the
schools and, in some cases, the tramways. The
police also come under municipal government; and
that is the one weak feature. The magnitude of muni-
cipalities in the United States may be gauged by the
fact that Los Angeles is sixty miles across at its
widest point, and that New York has a revenue exceed-
ing that of Belgium.
American municipal life may be rotten with
graft; but that is no fault of the system.
Though municipal control of the police has been a
failure, much of the other work done is a model to
the world.
But so strong are Melbourne’s opposing vested
interests that it is improbable that the American sys-
tem, or anything resembling it, will be embodied in
the Victorian bill. Every councillor in the frowsiest
suburb knows that he carries a mayoral robe in his
knapsack, and that he may aspire to become a
power in the local football club (Melbourne is mad
about football) or to receive an official visit from the
Governor. A genuine Greater Melbourne would mean
that possibilities of such distinction would be swept
away. In place of 40-odd municipalities, each with a
mayor and a dozen councillors, there would be prob-
ably not more than 20 altogether. Some hundreds of
ambitious persons who to-day bask in the- fierce light
that beats upon a public man would be relegated to
the position of mere citizens.
In three-party and minority-government times
this simply isn’t done ; so if anything comes of the
deliberations of the Dunstans they will almost certainly
suggest the imposition of a new body on top of those
already in existence, with a sufficiency of highly-paid
officials and a new batch of aspirants for public
homage. The suburban councils will remain
untouched. Something may be done to the Metro-
politan Board and the Tramways Board, for these
bodies exist for the purpose of work, not dignity, and,
being out of the spotlight, have little appeal to the
ambitious.
A Greater Melbourne plan that would effect
economies and at the same time raise the efficiency
of the metropolis would wipe out of existence the
City Council, every suburban municipality, the
Board of Works, the Tramways Board, the Fire
Brigades Board and half a dozen other minor bodies
whose functions are purely municipal. In the matter
of public health alone, it would be possible—which
it is not now—to have uniformity of decisions and
continuity of policy. In other avenues which impinge
on social service, centralised control with local
administration would do away with undesirable
features and tend to improve conditions of child and
adult life.
Parks and gardens and beaches cry to the heavens
for some body capable of looking after them
adequately. To-day one suburb reveals a park which
is a thing of beauty ; across the road is another which
is little more than a rubbish-tip. Internecine jealousies
stand in the way of border streets being properly
surfaced, of necessary bridges being built. Some
of the adjoining suburbs are ready to co-operate for
the benefit of citizens of both, but others regard the
people over the way as deadly enemies.
A real Greater Melbourne would make for
improvement in every activity, at the same time caus-
ing no increase in costs, even if it did not reduce
them. Governed by men worthy of the powers
entrusted to them, Melbourne would indeed become
a “place where a great city stands.” A Greater Mel-
bourne which would be nothing but a name —
and a costly name at that —has no attractions for
Melburnians with a vestige of civic pride.
GRASSPAN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Crucifixion of Hoare.
Authorised by the Co-ordination Committee at
Geneva to draw up a peace plan for submission to
the three parties concerned in the African war, Italy,
Abyssinia and the League, Foreign Secretary Hoare
and Prime Minister Laval drafted proposals which
would have given the Abyssinians a great deal more
than they will get if defeated (including an outlet
to the sea) and the Italians a great deal less than
their Government demanded before hostilities began.
The negotiations were, of course, conducted
according to the best traditions of the New Diplomacy,
with reporters all round. “I was obsessed with
anxiety,” said Sir Samuel Hoare, “to avoid a European
conflagration, and equally obsessed with the urgent
duty of preventing an isolated Anglo-Italian war.”
M. Laval, for his part, feared civil war if France
should become involved in military sanctions, to which
the majority of his distracted countrymen are opposed,
and also a German thrust against Austria, which a
great many German-Austrians would welcome.
Before being given to the world, the proposals
were communicated in proper form to Geneva, Rome
and Addis Ababa. Meanwhile, some journalist got
hold of a garbled account; and immediately the whole
pack of British pacifists and disarmament cranks
began roaring. Discredited newspapers with small
circulations, representatives of defeated and moribund
parties, Friends of Russia and half-forgotten states-
men who backed the wrong horse in 1922 and almost
contrived to drag the Empire into a second war with
Turkey shouted that “Hoare and Laval” were
“betraying the League.” The “Times” swelled the
chorus, and here and there editors of Australian
papers that publish furphies from Abyssinia added
their feeble voices to it; and, although not one
Dominion Government said one word on the subject,
it was forthwith declared in Britain that the
Dominions were “unanimous” in opposition to a plan
which they hadn’t seen. By the lime the proposals
were common property “National” Liberal and
“National” Labor Ministers who would have lost their
deposits last month without Conservative support
were talking resignation.
The clamor appalled the Prime Minister, who
decided that it could be stilled only by vicarious sacri-
fice. Sir Samuel Hoare offered his resignation ; it was
accepted, and the proposals were publicly repudiated
by Mr. Baldwin, who had at first “decided” that he
“must support” his “absent Minister.” In his yielding
mood he said “much harm had been done,” and he
was “determined that such a position should not be
possible again.” The fall of M. Laval is expected to
follow that of Sir Samuel Hoare.
So the pacifists and the disarmament cranks and
the pro-niggers and the Communists and the stunt-
press editors, all the blind supporters of the new
Holy Alliance, are now rejoicing. Apart from a few
of their kidney in these parts, the rejoicings are not
echoed in Australia or Maoriland. General rejoicings
in these countries will be suspended until the Empire
is extricated from the dangerous mess in which it has
been landed by British politicians whose infallibility
so overwhelms our Mr. Lyons. Sir Samuel Hoare at
least realised the danger, and tried to accelerate the
extrication process.
*
The Suicide Strike Goes On.
Callous to the public interest, damaging to trade
and ruinous to the men who preferred the advice of
a Sydney clique—headed by “a fairly active Com-
munist,” as he admits —to that of the officials of their
union, the shipping strike has the dubious honor of
being the one cruelly dull jest of the holiday season.
The strike-leaders have been rebuffed at every
turn. At the week-end they had still failed to interest
(he general body of Australian unionists in their
selfish stoppage; and a surprisingly firm stand by
the Commonwealth Government had forced them
into a shifty attempt to change the ground of the
strike from being one against the award which they
themselves sought to being one against the means
employed to uphold the law—the licensing system.
That, tried on Attorney-General Menzies, failed
miserably. He exposed it for the stupid sham it was,
and told the strikers that the law would be upheld
whether people who sought notoriety liked it or not.
On the men’s side the ugly nut was cracked and
its rotten kernel exposed by their general secretary.
As he bluntly put it, all the strike means to the
unionists is members on the beach and volunteers in
the ships. He described a strike-leader’s estimate of
a loss of £BOOO a month in wages under the new
award as the wildest nonsense. On the contrary, he
asserted that the old award was much cheaper to
the owners.
The strike-making soviet, of course, does not
want the old one, either. It wants to write its own
ticket. And because this happy privilege is denied
the most foolish strike in the history of Australian
unionism goes on.
*
“Disabilities.”
Baiting the Commonwealth has long been a favorite
pastime of Premiers of so-called “small” States. The
practice is beginning to have its dangers, as witness
a statement tabled in the Commonwealth Parliament
during the late session, showing that the three “small”
States contributed only £5,231,000 towards six internal
loans aggregating £66,513,000. In effect, the Govern-
ments of the “small” States rely upon the “octopus”
States (as they call them) for supplies of spending
money.
Actually the special grants made by the Com-
monwealth to the “small” States for three years to
June 30, 1936, exceed the contributions of those
States to the six Commonwealth loans —in two cases,
greatly—as the following table shows:
Special Grants by
Commonwealth for
Contributions to Three Years to
Six Infernal Loans. June 30, ’36.
N. S. Wales .. .. £33,016,000
Victoria .. .. .. 23,248,000
Queensland .. .. 5,018,000
South Australia .. .. 3,844,000 £4,050,000
Westralia 873,000 2,000,000
Tasmania .. .. .. 514,000 1,230,000
In other words, investors and taxpayers in N. S. Wales
and Victoria, and, to a lesser extent, in Queensland,
provide stacks of loan- and tax-money for disbursement
in the “small” States, and have no control whatever
over the manner in which it is spent. This is one
of the real “disabilities of Federation”; the “dis-
abilities” of which the beneficiary Governments are
always complaining are mostly bogus.
*
Transport Commissars’ Christmas Gift.
Queensland’s Transport Strangulation Board made
its Christmas present to the public in the shape of a
summary wrecking of commercial road-transport in
the southern part of the State at the very season
when it is most required. The process has been
simple.
The board, of which the Commissioner for Rail-
ways is chairman and sole mouthpiece, has power to
declare as a “heavy vehicle” any vehicle competing
in any way with any railway. A motor-cycle and side-
car, for example, has been required to register as a
heavy vehicle. The board has power to refuse, or
cancel summarily, any license for a “heavy vehicle.”
Owners of the few it consents to license are charged
fantastic “fees.” A 30cwt. truck is taxed at £319 7s. 6d.
p.a., whether it runs full or empty. If any lunatic
wanted to get a license for a five-ton lorry with solid
tyres he would have to pay £1149 p.a. But it is
simpler merely to refuse a license. No reason has to
be given, and there is no appeal.
The board holds £14,000 mulcted in license “fees”
from commercial transport men whose licenses were
subsequently cancelled. The bitter injustice of the
whole matter and the strong public demand for service
led to the natural reaction against thoroughly bad
laws —disobedience. “Examples” were made —the
first 37 victims paid £lO7l in penalties alone, with
substantial costs as well. That was in Brisbane. A
few days later some of these very men, using the
same vehicles and convicted of the same offence for
which they had been fined £35 to £5O, or six months’
gaol, were fined only £1 each by a stipendiary magis-
trate at Nambour, 65 miles away.
A passenger service running between Brisbane
and Caloundra, paralleling the railway for 51 miles,
has been allowed to continue. Another service,
supplying Buderim and adjacent seaside towns, run-
ning over the same route until eight miles from the
nearest railway station (after that it is nowhere within
eight miles of a railway), has been summarily termi-
nated. Three carriers running between Brisbane and
a town 133 miles distant by road and over 200 miles
by rail, all making a good living, have been sup-
pressed and fined. A Brisbane carrying firm is allowed
to operate over the same route.
A returned soldier with a wife and five children
was refused a permit to run a truck from Jandowae,
on the Darling Downs, to Brisbane. Seeing others
doing it, he broke the “law,” was caught, and fined
£35, with the alternative of six months. His truck
was taken away, and he was given a fortnight to
pay. He cannot, so he will have to go to gaol. There
is no appeal in any of these cases.
Public meetings have been held, and the strongest
protests made against this tyranny of bureaucracy
over public demands and private enterprise. The
board’s sole reaction has been a vague promise to
arrange “co-ordinated services” from selected railway
stations some time in the new year. Mr. Forgan
Smith attempted to reply to the storm of protest
by making some half-hearted insinuations that it is
all being engineered by American car and oil interests,
and proceeding to abuse the Aunt Sally thus erected.
The oddly-named Minister for Transport—it should
read against Transport—has dazedly informed the
Chambers of Commerce that he considers that an
inquiry into the persecution of motor carriers and the
thwarting of public demands would be incurring
“unwarranted expenditure.”
*
Substitutes for “Stabilisation.”
Before Ministers departed from Canberra for the
Christmas holidays they arranged to let State Gov-
ernments have another £1,880,000 for distribution
among growers (and non-growers) of 1935-36 wheat.
The £1,880,000 will “represent Is. a bushel on wheat
used for human consumption within the Common-
wealth,” plus £268,800 for special drought relief; of
this N.S.W. farmers are to receive £31,700, Westralian
£162,000 and South Australian about £70,000.
For the five years to June 30, 1936, direct Com-
monwealth assistance to wheatgrowers will exceed
£14,000,000 Australian. The figures are interesting:
Season 1931-32 £3,414,000
„ 1932-33 2,000,000
„ 1933-34 3,000,000
„ 1934-35 4,000,000
„ 1935-36 1,880,000
Total £14,294,000
All but about £2,900,000, the estimate of the flour-
tax yield, will have come from the pockets of the
general taxpayers. And the £14,294,000 is, of course,
exclusive of the £12,000,000 to be provided for relief
of farmers’ (chiefly wheatgrowers’) debts and the huge
operations in the same field by State Agricultural
Banks, Rural Industries Boards and the like. They
are being charged up to loans, but the general tax-
payers will have to find the interest.
Wheat has taken up an inordinate share of the
time of the Federal Parliament and Cabinet during
successive spring sessions. The result in each case
has been the imposition of enormous post-Budget
charges. The Government would prefer to drop the
flour tax, but when the home-consumption-price plan
collapsed, owing to lack of co-operation from Gov-
ernments in wheat-growing States, it was realised that
to give wheatgrowers another million and a half or
two millions from ordinary tax-revenue would involve
unpleasant arguments with business and motor
interests, already up in arms at the continued imposi-
tion of “temporary” depresh taxation. So continuance
of the flour tax was decided upon.
Meanwhile, “stabilisation of the wheat industry”
is still talked of, though nothing is ever done about
it. With the price now beyond 3s. a bushel at sidings
(it was round 3s. 4d. last week in the not inconsider-
able number of places where freight-rate to port is
4d.), “stabilisation” would come about naturally if
poor devils were removed, in a firm yet helpful spirit,
from submarginal land on which it is no kindness to
them or to their families to maintain them. There
are hundreds of these hopeless cases in every wheat-
growing State, and every politician knows it. But
because politicians hate to seem ungenerous, where
votes are involved, when they can go on being
generous with other people’s money, the only sort
of “stabilisation” worth a row of pins is shelved
indefinitely.
The Swing to Piecework.
After fighting against piecework for quarter of a
century, trade-unions that were hostile are giving up
the hopeless struggle. The principle has been adopted
by Commonwealth Arbitration Judge Bceby in the
award governing the motor-body and coach-building
trades. A minimum wage is fixed, but, above that,
workers possessed of more than average skill or energy
may add to their receipts by piecework.
Prejudice against piecework was excited because
in the dim past bad employers did not play the game.
Instances are on record where workpeople temporarily
needing funds worked with frenzied zeal to finish the
week with an extra pound, only to find that the boss
had reduced the piecework rate. When Industrial
Courts were appointed, the opposition became foolish,
for the Courts would never have permitted such
exploitation. But the prejudice lingered, for in some
things Labor-unionism is more conservative than the
Conservatives.
When the Bolsheviks started to industrialise
Russia they were filled with the noble belief that
everybody would work according to his ability. That
was the Marxian idea, and they followed it until they
discovered that Marxism had wrought no magic in the
case of bad workers ; the loafer was just the same
loafer and the incompetent just the same incompetent
as under “capitalism.” But that was not the most
serious part of it. Ivan, the good worker, found that,
with all his energy and devotion to the Cause, he
received no more than Dmitri, who was drunk half
his time and smashing machinery the other half, or
than Gregori, who was addicted to arguing hour after
hour whether certain acts were ethical. Ivan realised
that comrades devoted to dialectical materialism were
during working hours far more dialectical than
materialistic.
So Ivan became restless, so restless that he
approached the borderline of counter-revolution.
The Commissars became restless, too, when they
found that the output of their factories was so hope-
lessly behind output in “capitalistic” countries that,
instead of pushing forward, Russia was practically
at a standstill.
So it was that Marx was quietly forgotten
and the Commissars introduced piecework. Had it
not been introduced, the Five Years’ Plan would have
become a Five Hundred Years’ Plan.
Of course, piecework has been established for
many years in Australian mines, shearing-sheds and
printeries ; but its extension was stubbornly resisted,
particularly in Victoria. Now that opposition is
breaking down, it seems likely that in all trades where
it can possibly be applied piecework will rule, to the
benefit of wagepayer, worker and consumer.
♦ r
The Right to Die.
“E.H.M.”: To advocate such a heresy in the days before
George IV., when suicides were buried without ser-
vice at crossroads with a stake through their bodies,
might, in itself, have been tantamount to felo cle se,
which included even falling on an enemy’s sword.
But modern man, becoming more civilised, is revert-
ing to the primitive. No savage worries about dying.
If he did, life would not be worth living, for death
is always imminent with him. The Australian black-
fellow who breaks an arm is as like as not to retire into
the shade and expire. The epidemics which carry off
thousands of natives in the Pacific sometimes —
measles and the like —are not necessarily mortal, but
the native mind, faced with extreme and unaccus-
tomed discomfort, seeks refuge in death.
The modern Japanese has no more qualms about
hara-kiri than the ancient Roman had in falling on
his sword to prevent disgrace. Even the English, in
Indian border wars, have not been beyond destroying
wives and children to save them from capture. And
if the moral fear of the end were innate instead of
artificially induced, man would not allow himself to
be driven to war, and none would dare to drive him
to it.
There is no warrant in the New Testament for
accounting suicide as a crime technically level with
murder, as old English and European law generally
rated it. For the material hell there is likewise no real
Scriptural authority—the words translated “hell” are
generally acknowledged to mean the grave to-day.
Fire and brimstone gave death new terrors, and
economic necessity, in an age when life offered little
to the serf, sealed the moral doom of the self-killer.
Those who have been near death have little
respect for it, apart from its pains, and there is surely
sanity in the new outlook which believes that incur-
ables should have the right to hasten the inevitable.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ike Hollar”: A craze for being photo-
graphed naked and unashamed having
been reported from London, a Sydney
journal interviewed local photographers,
and found that several of
them were “shocked” at the
“bare” suggestion. As a
matter of fact, many a
woman likes to preserve, in
picture, a memory of the per-
fect figure she has, or thinks
she has ; and many camera-
men of my acquaintance
have been approached to
assist them. The vanity isn’t
entirely feminine, either.
There are male clients. I
have been told of one of the
latter who suggested that a
copy of what he obviously
regarded as an Apollo-like
frame should be sent to one
of the papers with the cap-
tion “Perfect Manhood.”
“Same Again”: Glad to shee the
“Lanchet” recommending sherry parties
becosh of their “quick and full effect.”
Prinshiple’s shound, but hicscuse me sug-
gestin’ that berrer an’ quicker effecksh
from rum. Goo’ for the ’flu, too.
“Lanchet” oughter know that —doctors’
paper. Goorold “Lanchet” —says, too,
lil’ drop o’ sherry makesh people sheem
more ’tractive. Don’ know ’bout sherry,
but when I get ’naff beer that shquint-
eyed barmaid looks like Greta Garbo.
“Lanchet” says sherry shtarts conversa-
shun, an’ gives you that cheerful feelin’.
Sho does rum — an’ beer. Lotsh of diff-
hicrunt kindsh of booze does that to me.
Oughter be made compulshory f’r* every-
one. Warrer people wanter go roun’
lookin’ mis’able for when “Lanchet” tells
’em take sherry for it? Doctors’ paper
tells ’em. Tells ’em free o’ charge, too.
Doctors oughter know. Shee ’ow they
lap up the booze w’en they’re shtudents.
Drop o’ sherry for me, Fairy. Drink
goorold “Lanchet’s” ’ealth.
* ~ * *
“Pompey”: I am glad to note that
justice has been done to a much-maligned
section of the military community to
which I once had the honor to belong—
the sergeant-majors. One of them in the
Austrian service, smarting under the loss
of his best pair of breeches, evidently
stolen by someone in barracks, asked the
culprit on parade to confess. No reply
being forthcoming, the harassed W.O.
expressed his opinion of the appearance,
manners and morals of his hearers in
the traditional style. A couple of these,
transferred to an 0.T.C., where they
were safe even from an s.-m., laid a
complaint, and the W.O. was charged
with using language which cast reflec-
tions on the honor of his men. The com-
plaint was dismissed on the ground that
the s.-m. was actuated by “righteous
indignation,” and used the words “in a
parade-ground sense only.”
* * * *
“P.M.”: I recall one occasion where
sound was surer than smell in bringing
back memories of home (B. 4/12/’35).
Horseferry-road, 1919. Amid the clatter
and din of the traffic, I suddenly heard
the clang of a bell—so familiar that 1
jumped at the sound. Then I looked
guiltily round the room, and noticed
that the only other chap who had looked
up was, like myself, a Victorian. “The
dead ring of a cable-tram bell,” he
exclaimed.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The disease of
acute travelitis has me in its compelling
grip once more. Cause —recent proximity
to tarred manila rope. The smell of
tarred manila is my particular activating
agency for the complaint, distinctly
traceable to “wagged” days from school,
spent amongst the big, friendly square-
riggers of boyhood’s days, and sea-ser-
“ Cynthia , darling. I've got an idea."
“In that case I’d better be getting home."
vice in sail as the later and inevitable
result. A vagabond-minded friend con-
fesses to the scent of tropic fruits as
his particular starter. A third outwardly
respectable citizen and housefather never
smells wet paint without being instantly
impelled to desert his wife and family
and go once more a-roving on deep blue
water.
* * * *
“Morita”: That dodge of having an
underling as adviser (B. 11/12/’35) was
not unknown in the army. I knew a
captain whose batman was a pre-war
cobber. He was servant in name only,
to get out of parades and route marches ;
in the line he dropped the pretence alto-
gether, and did his stuff with the mob.
Thus the captain was likely to know the
full facts of every complaint that came
to him. Unofficially, the pair remained
social equals. Once we paid a visit to
their quarters when the officer was on
parade. The batman entertained us, and
when the whisky was finished obtained
reinforcements from the mess ; when the
captain returned he was rebuked by his
subordinate for not making better pro-
vision for guests. Such associations
couldn’t have existed in the British Army.
I recall an A.I.F. two-pipper who fre-
quently visited his brother, a Tommy
motor-driver. Eventually he was invited
into the R.A.S.C. mess and told that such
fraternising between officers and other
ranks wasn’t done. I gathered from him
that his reply to the rebuke contained
some things that weren’t said.
* * ♦ ♦
“G.M.”; Last month a Brunswick girl
tried to drown herself. Rescued and
taken home to bed, she made a second
attempt to end her life by opening a
vein. Frustrated in this, she lay low
until last week, when she clambered into
the home of a friend secretly and put her
head into the gas-oven, her body being
found later. It is seldom that such de-
termination in suicide is shown. Usually,
the person snatched from self-destruction
gives up the idea, and a year later laughs
over his brainstorm.
* ♦ * *
“Bray Rock”: Gales and rocks, fire,
derelicts and ice are not the only risks
which the sailor has to face at times. A
ship’s electrician was poisoned not long
ago by the fumes from a cargo of fruit
—oranges, it was. The mate of a
steamer laden with apples fell into a
hold, and was suffocated by their fumes
before he could be got out. A steward,
dipping flour out of a tank, was pitched
head foremost into it by the ship’s move-
ment and suffocated. A cargo of salt
fish got wet from a leak and expanded
so much as to buckle the plates and
nearly cause total loss. Two seamen
were badly mauled by a tiger on a
ship’s deck in Singapore—it had escaped
from the cage in which it was being sent
to America. A skipper friend of mine
nearly died from the bite of a scorpion
which had come aboard with a timber
cargo in a Central American port a week
before. And I just missed death from
cobra-bite on a vessel lying in the
Hooghly—the snake had come up the
anchor chain.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: There was an opulent
Westralian citizen who served a term in
the colony’s first Leg. Assembly (1891-
1894) and spent nearly 40 years in
desperate but unsuccessful attempts to
get back there. How many elections he
fought and what his ruling passion cost
him is hard to say. He ran several busi-
nesses, including hotels; at one of the
latter he paid an offsider £1 a week to
have his name over the door, the boss
himself being without the necessary resi-
dential qualification. The underling was
never suspected of harboring any poli-
tical ambitions ; and then all of a sudden
a seat in Parliament dropped into his
lap. His father, a member of the Vic-
torian Cabinet, died, and the son, over
from the West on a holiday, was selected
by a sentimental constituency as the
right person to succeed the old man. I
forget how long he enjoyed the honor,
but it is a curious instance of how the
fickle fates will thrust on a humble em-
ployee an almost unsolicited greatness
which his employer has struggled vainly
for more than half a lifetime to achieve.
* * * *
“Dinkumeer”: Melbourne booksellers
announce a return to the mid-Victorian
craze for keeping diaries. The modern
flapper has reverted to her grandmother’s
ideals, and is rushing to buy books in
which she can, more or less truthfully,
chronicle her adventures during 1936. It
will be interesting for the historian of
the future to contrast the diaries of 1840
with those of 1940, though those of
some of the past young ladies of fashion
which have reached the publishing stage
indicate that the high-speed flapper of
to-day could show no points to dear old
grandma when gran, was in top gear.
♦ * * *
“Old Roundsman”: Victorian detec-
tives are mystified as to the reason which
animated a miscreant who endeavored to
break into Geelong gaol, filing away
heavy metal protection to an outer door
before he gave if up. He isn’t original ;
an old schoolfellow of my own, who rose
to safebreaking in after life, was once
pinched inside Pentridge, which he knew
well from earlier visits, with as much
tobacco as he could carry. The “snout”
was confiscated, and the authorities held
out a warm welcome to the trespasser
who had shown such a liking for the
place. It was 18 months before they sped
the parting guest.
* * * •
“Tidapa”; That Girl Guide who wanted
to show the lifesaver the correct method
(B. 4/12/’35) might have known some-
thing. A new method of resuscitating
the apparently drowned is superseding
the Schaeffer method in America. The
operator kneels at the head of the sub-
ject and puts the pressure on the
shoulder-blades instead of lower down
on the rib structure ; at the conclusion
of each pressure he permits the hands
to slide to the patient’s arms, raising
them very slightly. It is claimed that
this admits of the chest expanding
sufficiently to cause the lungs to accept
almost double the quantity of air
that could be taken in the old way. The
new method has been examined and ap-
proved by a board of experts.
“Rouge Dragon”: Lord
Hailsham’s insistence on
peers turning up in three-
cornered hats to try Lord de
Clifford for manslaughter
should have the effect of
bringing the whole foolish
business of trial by peers into
ridicule. This latest parade
of the idiotic anachronism
cost the taxpayers £7OO. A
point which occurs to me is
that, a duke being higher in
the heraldic scale than a
mere earl, it is strange that
no duke who has been caught
in the act of burglary hasn’t
protested against mere earls
and barons sitting on him in
justice and demanded that a
jury of dukes should be em-
panelled. I don’t know
whether there is any leading
case to decide this point;
if not, I make it a present to
the legal advisers of the next duke who
is caught getting away with the swag.
* * * *
“Splash”: During the ’O6 floods in
W.Q. a publican at Windorah got a
supply of rations from the railhead at
Longreach. With his son in a rowing
boat he was taking his stuff to the
isolated stations where it was most
wanted. Three miles above the town-
ship the boat sprang a leak and sank.
The publican couldn’t swim. The son
set the old man afloat on a bag of flour,
managed to get his clothes off him for
greater safety, and then dog-paddled to
Windorah for help. Dad with his flour
lifebuoy floated down until he fouled a
temporary island, and struggled ashore.
The sandflies that year had killed thou-
sands of lambs, ’roos, foals and calves on
the lower Thompson, and they fell on
the naked publican with fierce avidity.
At night the skeeters took up the job.
At Windorah there was no spare
boat, nor anyone who knew how to
make one. Three days passed before
they rescued that mud-plastered thing
which had been a publican at Windorah,
and which was now a spitting mass of
profanity.
STAYERS.
‘The Victorian W.C.T.U. has appealed to the
Government to make a rigid inquiry into the
barmaid question, with a view to discovering how
many Hebes are working on certificates which ceased
to be issued in 1916.”
They argued, with a certain show of reason,
Barmaids would grow, beneath the law’s
duress,
Less beautiful with each successive season
And, just as surely, beautifully less.
The tribe would be extinct in Batman’s city,
They deemed, before centenary odes were
sung,
As far as it was definitely pretty
And moderately young.
They’re wiser, sadder now, the wowser forces;
Too late they’re realising—and it riles —
They underrated publicans’ resources,
And took too scant account of women’s
wiles.
Wherever there are gleaming footrails handy
For idle hoofs, and polished bars to arm,
Beauty is not dissevered yet from brandy
Or beer divorced from charm.
These trim distributors of fiery waters
Or any other stimulants you please,
Surely they can’t be all the wives or daughters,
Sisters or aunts of lucky licensees?
Ah! if they were—apart from the notorious
Financial profits to the calling strung—
How grand to be a Boniface, how glorious
To be entitled Bung!
Most Hebes must have been, I take it, twenty
Before the seal upon their craft was set
A score of years ago, but still there’s plenty,
It seems, who’re far from fat and forty yet.
they ve found some subtle way to dodge the
onus
Of years, the march of ruthless time to stem,
And the “gray hours” that walloped out
Tithonus
Are impotent to them.
Whence did they glean the secret? Well,
between us,
I don’t suppose that we shall ever know.
Mayhap the recipe was owned by Venus
And handed down through Ninon de
Lenclos.
Don’t speculate, when next in alcove shady
Yqure sipping oldest port or best three-star,
11 either mayn’t be younger than the lady,
Alluring Alice or seductive Sadie,
Who smiles behind the bar.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Exdig”: Christmas, 1917, was made
an event to compensate us for the awful
1916 experience; at Kemmel the Ist
Division kept it well and truly. There
were lashings of beer, and the camp fell
to sleep over spasmodic bursts of
Christmas song. Just at the moment
when we had forgotten that there was a
war, a bellicose sergeant-major woke it
up. He staggered from hut to hut bang-
ing open doors and declaiming: “All men
to put their equipment into battle order
and sleep with their rifles by their side,
ready to move up the line at a moment’s
notice. It is suspected that Fritz will
hop over, and we may be needed in the
line! ” He woke some of us with a start *
but a drowsy voice in my corner ob-
served: “You silly ass, don’t you think
that Fritz has a Christmas as well as we
do?” We went to sleep again after that
“Hop behind them rocks , Pam. Here comes that nark the beach
inspector .”
without worrying. I suppose we would
have got through somehow if Fritz had
hopped over.
* * - * *
“Findy”: Scorfield’s “Christmas Tur-
key” page (B. 18/12/’35) takes me back
a few years to Christmas Eve at “Bruce’s
Cheapjack” at the Central Market, Adel-
aide, where most desired among the prizes
for the sixpenny “pulls” were fat, live,
healthy-looking geese. I could manage
only bootlaces and sticks of licorice, but
a well-lubricated citizen of my suburb
collected a struggling goose and clam-
bered unsteadily aboard a homeward
tram. “You can’t bring that bird on the
tram,” the conductor told him. “Why
notsh?” asked Fortune’s favorite. “I
won it. It’sh mine.” “Can’t help that.
It’s against regulations.” “Not ’lowed,
eh?” hiccupped the goose-winner.
“Well, how’m I goin’ to get gooshie home?
Tell me that.” The conductor suggested
that the difficulty might be solved by
getting out and walking, but this course
didn’t appeal to the regulation-breaker.
“Walksh home?” he echoed. “Not me.
I’m not gonna walk homesh. . Gooshie
walk. Go on, gooshie.” And he threw
the bird from the tram. A score
of necks craned out to witness a
startled goose making a strong bid for
liberty, pursued by a fast-growing mob
of small boys convinced that, after all,
there was a Father Christmas.
“Mako”; A Maorilander won a
Christmas goose at a church fair. He
collected it and began his home-
ward journey. The goose proved a
tough proposition, and to lessen its
struggles the winner decided to carry it
head-downwards—an unlawful method
in M.L. The street was empty as he hur-
ried along, but he was suddenly horrified
to see a p.c. swing himself off a tram
and advance purposefully towards him.
In a panic he gathered up the goose
and bolted, followed by the Law. It
was an uneven contest, and a few
minutes later he was explaining about
the bazaar and the difficulty of handling
reluctant geese. Suddenly he had a brain-
wave. “Here, take the darn thing,” he
gasped, and bolted again, deciding not
to mention at home that he had won
the goose. But a kind friend had
’phoned the good tidings to his wife, and
she was wailing on the doorstep. The
rest, he declares, was a foggy interlude ;
but the lady, one of the resolute type,
went down to the police station and col-
lected her Christmas dinner without let
or hindrance.
* * * * ijt
“J.8.C.”: Paul Stanizalos is the Hel-
lene proprietor of our local conglomer-
ate of soft drinks and sweets. He is
tactful to the point of servility, so
when Fred returned from the city with
leaving honors in Greek and tried his
new attainment on Paul the latter merely
smiled apologetically. “Excuse me,” fie
said, “1 am not very well educate. I
don’ understan’ this high-class Greek.
Excuse me. Pineapple spider? Cer-
tainly.” And thus were we all rendered
happy, Paul because he winked slyly at
me, I because I caught his wink, and
Fred because he didn’t. 1 fancy Fred
was the most pleased of all. “I speak
such damned good Greek,” he was heard
to say Complacently later, “that even
Paul can’t understand it.”
* * * *
“Lad”: Inhabitants of Tiburon, on
the island of Tiburon in the Gulf of Cali-
fornia, Mexico, are unlikely to be
offended (if they ever hear of it) by
Kylie Tennant using the name of their
village for her novel. Warning Hill even
is a bustling metropolis by comparison.
When I was there in 1924 a cluster of
brush shacks, many of them roofless,
comprised the settlement. The popula-
tion is about 200, all descendants of Seri
Indians who were chased away from the
mainland by Yaquis. The neighboring
country is mostly desert, and, apart from
a bit of fishing, the chief occupation of
the male portion of the community
seemed to be that of following the shade
around their shacks. Tiburon is a little
world on its own. The closest large town
is Guaymas, a couple of hundred miles
to the south.
* * * *
“Kerys”; There was to be a cock-
tail party out Darling Point (Sydney)
way, and a barrister, negotiating the
street on his homeward way, found his
car halted by a limousine. He honked im-
patiently, but the obstruction remained
stationary. Half a dozen other cars
headed for the party lined up behind in
single file, the drivers all deeply inter-
ested in the car parked in the fairway.
A chorus of horns arose, and the bar-
“If my husband could see me novo
he'd shoot me!”
”Don'sh you Worry —gettin' sholsh's
Wonderful senshashun."
rister, joined by a couple of other drivers,
got out to investigate. They discovered
that the only occupant of the car was a
flapper, carefully making up her face.
Staggered, they gazed while she lip-
sticked and powdered, after which, re-
marking audibly that she wasn’t going
round looking a fright for anybody, she
stepped on it.
* * * *
“Bondi-ite”: Reference to the ingrati-
tude of near-victims of drowning (B.
11/12/’35) recalls stories told in his book
by one Stillwell, who ran the Williams-
town (Vic.) baths a generation ago. Of
three men whom he had saved, one gave
him half a crown; another, sixpence.
The third, on whom he had worked
for two hours before restoration, stag-
gered out in borrowed clothing and said
sternly: “I’ll never come into your damn’
baths again.”
* * * *
“Old Roundsman”: From Vic. J.P.
Tommy O’Callaghan, who was formerly
Police Chief, comes a point which seems
to have been overlooked by lawyers and
1 a w-b ook s. A
witness being
asked when he
was born, O’Cal-
laghan said no-
body could say
when he was
born; all he could
swear to was the
age he believed
himself to be. The difficulty
was overcome in this case by
the mother of the witness testi-
fying to the date of his birth.
Yet all through the history of
law people have been permitted to give
evidence regarding their age—which is
really not legal evidence at all. Prosecu-
tions for perjury have been instituted
against damsels who have given their age
as 21 when presenting themselves for
marriage.
* * * *
“Sawyer”: “Snoring is fatal to
romance,” I read the other day in
an advertisement offering a specific for
what Calverley referred to as “vocal
noses.” However this may be, few would
conceive the possibility of snoring ever
being found useful. Yet it proved dis-
tinctly so at the trial of J. P. Strong,
charged with the murder at Sydney of
R. W. L. Holmes, which seems fated to
remain a mystery, like the associated
case of the Tattooed Arm disgorged
by a shark. The defence was an alibi.
Evidence was brought to show that
the accused man was at home in bed,
sleeping soundly, when the crime was
committed. There were other per-
sons in the house: some swore
that they had seen him; others, who
hadn’t, were equally positive about his
presence because they were accustomed
to his nasal performances and had heard
them on the night in question. Influ-
enced, doubtless, by the aural testi-
mony on top of ocular, the second jury
brought in a verdict of acquittal—the
first had been unable to reach an agree-
ment. It just shows that even snoring,
however irksome to the listeners, may
be really valuable to the snorer in a
court of law.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Quarries which have
been turned into swimming holes (B.
4/12/’35)? Alongside the township of
Tintinara (S.A.) thousands of tons of
limestone were taken out of the ground
to ballast the Adelaide-Melbourne rail-
way line. This left an excavation several
hundred yards in diameter and some
twenty feet deep, which soon half-filled
with very salt but perfectly clean and
clear spring water. The water-level falls
very little, even in the driest seasons,
and Tintinara has since had a swimming-
hole which is the envy of every town-
ship for 50 miles around, where creeks
are not and porous soil renders dam-
making impossible.
* V * *
“Lower Tops’il”: Hay fever (B.
27/ J 1 /’35)? No need to bother about a
refrigerator for a cure if the ocean is
handy. Keep drawing sea water up the
nostrils till it reaches the throat. The
ordeal—a shellback’s remedy—is well
worth the instant relief that follows,
for the salt in the ocean is just the right
density to cleanse the tissues at the back
of the nose.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: “Liseuse” (B. 11/12/’35)
reminds me of an old Scots skipper
under whom I served. “Yon buiksellers
are awfu’ misleaders o’ the puir public,”
he once observed at breakfast. “I mind
readin’ a great clamasherie aboot a buik
called Ships That Pass f the Nicht, and
wrote awa’ to one o’ they buiksellers,
thinkin’ it had to do wi’ nicht signallin’.
It cost eight shullins wi’ postage. An’
then I found it was naethin’ but a lot o’
silly lovemakin’, wi’oot a word aboot a
ship in it.”
* * * :jc
“G. Trotter”: The president of the
Swedish Auto Club, who is visiting
Melbourne, criticises the suggestion that
traffic should stop before entering a
major street as “likely to slow down
traffic unnecessarily,” adding that he
knows of no city in the world with such
a drastic rule. He has evidently
not visited the United States. The
traffic there cannot be regarded as slow,
but in all the big western cities and most
of the eastern ones the “Boulevard Stop”
is the acknowledged rule. And it is not
a mere slow-down in America ; cars have
to pull up to stationary and get into first
again.
PEDIGREE.
Some people boast an awful lot about their
pedigree,
But ’tis but little I’m concerned about my
family tree.
They must have been a varied lot, the sires
from whom I sprung;
I wouldn’t be a bit surprised if some of them
were hung.
They stretch as far back, I suppose, as other
families do.
But how they lived or what they did I’ve not
the slightest clue.
And even if 1 knew them all, right back to
Noah’s Ark,
I’ll bet I’d keep a goodly part of all my know-
ledge dark.
There might have been a king or two upon
my father’s side,
A Coeur de Lion or Robert Bruce to raise
the family pride,
A man of courage and resource who pressed
towards his goal,
Nor ever worried overmuch for his immortal
soul:
Who grabbed whatever he could grab and ate
and drank his fill.
And brushed his enemies aside or bent them
to his will.
If such a one to me were kin —a Tudor or a
Guelph—
-1 fear his blood is running thin in my
degenerate self.
There might have been a pirate, too, a Morgan
or a Kidd,
Who made his victims walk the plank, as pirates
mostly did;
A fierce, freebooting, reckless knave, who ’cross
the deck would pelt,
A crimson cutlass in his hand, a pistol in his
belt;
Who lorded it in tavern bars and quaffed the
fiery rum.
And sent all foes who crossed his path non-
stop to Kingdom Come.
1 hope that there was such a one, for, though
I hate the sea,
I’d like to think I had a dash of buccaneer
in me.
There might have been —but what’s the use?—
for when you come to think,
It’s clear enough wc all evolved from Darwin’s
missing link.
And, though we’ve long since lost our tails and
changed a bit in shape.
We’re little more than monkeys still, a sort of
super-ape—
A thing that should be kept in mind, I think,
by any gent.
Inclined to boast of noble birth or brag of
long descent.
For, when you sum the matter up, it’s clear as
clear can be
We can’t afford to swank too much about our
pedigree.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


20/0/16
10 for 9 d .
J.BSA
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
»
RK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GEW ERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
In his first High Court judgment,
Latham, C.J., shattered the contention,
raised in an appeal from a Sydney police-
court case against the owner of an un-
licensed receiving set, that the Common-
wealth has no power to control wireless
broadcasting. With his brother Justices
(Dixon, L, dissenting, though not on the
constitutional issue) he not only pro-
nounced the Wireless Telegraphy Act
valid but affirmed that broadcasting is
comprehended in the words “postal, tele-
firaphic, telephonic and other like ser-
vices" in the section covering the legis-
lative powers of the Commonwealth (51).
Well, it’s a comfort to learn that the
national authority has authority over
something.
Westralia is to get the lion’s share of
the money to be distributed by the
accursed Commonwealth among wheat-
growers who have had poor crops—
£l62,ooo out of £268,800. The money
has yet to be voted by Parliament, as
has also £1,612,000 for wheat bounties;
but in these matters Parliament’s consent
is taken for granted.
While Canberra was arranging for the
scattering of more currency among
wheatgrowers, the Westralian Leg.
Council was appointing a select com-
mittee to investigate allegations regard-
ing the distribution of other presents
handed over unconditionally. It is
asserted that an undue share went to
clients of the State Agricultural Bank.
Butler, the S.A. Premier, is a great
pre-selection man. He thinks “the Par-
liamentary system of government won’t
last if you divide public opinion into a
number of tiny rivulets which lead no-
where.”
If you are to have a strong party, you
must have a strong organisation, and you
cannot have a strong organisation without
pre-selection.
No mention of strong men, which pre-
selection somehow fails to produce. But
perhaps strong men don’t matter.
During an Australian’s five years as
Governor-General, no politician ever
thought it necessary to provide him with
residences in Melbourne and Sydney.
Now that British appointments have been
resumed the country is to be stung for
many thousands to put into order vice-
regal premises in the two cities. Why
an Australian has to be satisfied with
one house and a gentleman from over-
seas, however estimable, should need
three is one of those problems which only
politicians can answer —and won’t.
Introducing Queensland’s new Liquor
Act, the Home Secretary postulated that
the chairman of the commission “must be
a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the
Industrial Court.” The commission, as
appointed, consists of three civil ser-
vants. There is no appeal from its deci-
sions—indeed, no appeal from the deci-
sion of the chairman alone. However,
decisions must have the approval of the
Minister, who must have the approval
of the Caucus.
Page is now to accompany Forgan
Smith to the London sugar conference.
Sugar, seems to need a devil of a lot of
attention from touring politicians; but
perhaps the notion at Canberra is that,
Parkhill, Lyons, Menzies, Gullett and
Thorby having been away for long
periods, it is now the doctor’s turn. Since
so many Ministers, Commonwealth and
State, spend so much time abroad
(Stevens is to join next year’s exodus,
and Manning has preceded him), the
taxpayer may wonder whether he ought
to be paying for 74 Ministers and the
same number of personal staffs.
In James v. the Commonwealth, which
is to go to the Privy Council, the West-
ralran and Tas. Governments are inter-
vening against the Commonwealth. Now
the Queensland Government threatens
action against the Vic. Government be-
cause Victorian regulations insist on
hams and sides of bacon from Queens-
land being labelled “imported.” An un-
neighborly proceeding certainly, but
then Queensland runs lotteries and calls
other State lotteries “foreign,” even as
Queensland lotteries are “foreign” in
N. S. Wales. The new provincialism has
features even shabbier than the old pro-
vincialism, which Australians thought
they had got rid of when they voted for
nationhood in 1900.
In a House of Commons discussion
on “migration,” Lord Apsley, who is
reckoned no end of an authority on Aus-
tralian affairs, quoted ex-Governor Cam-
pion, who is interested in the De Ber-
nales flotations, as saying- that “there will
be room on his group of goldfields for
10,000 to 12,000 men and their families.”
After 40 years there are not that many
“A storm of criticism has burst on Defence Minister Parkhill. Newspapers, broad-
casting cos., aeroplane cos. and fellow-members of the U.A.P. are all at him.”
“It makes a fellow feel like King Lear on the blasted heath!”
on the Golden Mile (the 1933 census-
takers found 21,634 persons in the Kal-
goorlie and Boulder municipal and road-
board districts), and in the Roaring
Days there were rarely more. Still,
there is nothing like being optimistic.
Another bright suggestion from Lord
Apsley:
It might be possible, with the consent of
the people of Australia, for Tasmania to
become united with the U.K. The prob-
lem of keeping up an inflow of British
people to Australia would thus be solved.
It might be equally possible for Tas-
mania to become united with the Irish
Republic, and some big pots in the Tas.
Labor party would prefer that alterna-
tive. His Lordship did not see deeply
into the hearts of the Australian people
when he was getting his bit of colonial
experience.
Thus far “sanctions” have been a dead
failure. The economic consequences
have been negligible, and instead of arous-
ing Italian opposition to the Fascist Gov-
ernment (whose overthrow is the prime
motive actuating the noisiest body of
British sanctionists) the boycott has ral-
lied the whole nation behind its leader.
This might have been anticipated ; pre-
cisely the same effects would have been
produced in Britain or Australia had
Britons or Australians been placed in
the same position.
W. K. Hancock, now Professor of His-
tory at Birmingham, has joined the cock-
sure army of those who claim to speak
for the Dominions about “sanctions” and
the sequel. Says the Melbourne-born
scholar who was a prof, at Adelaide:
If, owing to lack of courage and to
shortsightedness, Britain abandons prin-
ciples for diplomatic bartering, it will be
difficult for the Dominions to understand
and follow the manoeuvres.
In one of his books, Hancock wrote that
“oratory is dead.” This in an age which
has witnessed the rise to complete ascen-
dancy of Lenin, Mussolini and Hitler,
all orators —mob-orators, in fact. It
shows how wildly wrong a clever man
can be.
One entirely expected and very un-
pleasant consequence of “sanctions” has
been witnessed in Egypt. There the mili-
tary measures rendered necessary by
Italian resistance to the application of the
clumsy League weapon have united all
the Egyptian factions against the British,
resulting in fierce riots and—on the
British side —inconvenient concessions to
the Gyppos. In these military measures
Britain has received no help from its
“allies” ; in Hoare’s words, not a single
“ally” has “moved a ship, an aero-
plane or a soldier to meet a possible
emergency.”
Before the Maoriland election Savage,
the Labor leader, undertook to reform
“the monetary system.” He has been
hedging since he became Prime Minister,
but this is not to the taste of some of his
lieutenants, and these ominous rumbles
came from Semple, the Works Minister,
at Napier, scene of the last big earth-
quake:—
The people will have to receive the
benefit of the credit of the nation. That
is a big job, making for a revolutionary
change in the existing monetary system.
There is now one Parliamentary Labor
party, with 53 members in a House of
80. Maoriland is already wagering that
before long there will be at least two.
Australian Labor had a majority rela-
tively as great at the end of 1929.
Within 18 months it had split hope-
lessly on “reform of the monetary
system.”
Significant items creep into the “sanc-
tionist” cable service, by accident, as it
were. Thus it was mentioned last week
that Denmark, which prides itself on
having disarmed, was pressing for the
severest measures against Italy ; that the
Swedes were gloomily observing that, if
“sanctions” failed, they would have to
attend to their own defence (instead, of
course, of letting John do it), and that
British exports to Italy fell heavily in
November, a month’s reduction in coal
shipped to Italian ports being 11-12ths.
At the same time French exports to
Italy soared, petrol exceeding by 500,000
gallons exports for the previous ten
months.
The Empire will have to get out of the
League for its- own safety. Nearly all
the other members are in it only because
they expect the Empire to be the mug.
Back in Westralia, Curtin has been
telling his followers that “Labor unity,”
to secure which about 14 expensive con-
ferences have been held, is sure to be
arrived at in a month or two. Very
probably there will be “Labor unity” in
the letter, but the spirit seems singularly
lacking—on one side, at least. Lang’s
newspaper goes into ecstasies over the
work of “the Labor members” during the
late session. Every member of the
Beasley faction is singled out for lavish
praise, and Lyons is quoted as saying
that “the party led by Mr. Beasley” was
“the real fighting force in Parliament.”
The party led by Mr. Curtin is not once
mentioned.
The Botanic Gardens are among the
public possessions in Melbourne which
are falling to pieces for lack of repair.
The footpaths, scarcely touched since the
depression, have fallen into a sad state,
and plant exhibits have been the subject
of much hostile criticism. Cabinet has
approved of a grant of £12,000 to make
the place presentable, but it will take
far more than £12,000 spent on sus-
tenance-workers to restore it to the
proud position it held a dozen years ago.
Vic. Country Roads Board has taken
the sensible action of warning all stock-
owners that in future they must not leave
animals unattended on public highways.
Cows are difficult enough to dodge dur-
ing daylight—for they always do the un-
expected thing—but at night they are a
positive menace to human life, now that
motor traffic is the rule. Straying cattle
may be impounded and the owner fined
up to £lO under existing law, but it is
seldom enforced. The board no longer
intends to be forgiving.
From a bitter cynic:
Dr. Maloney, is one of the few old
men who preserve all their illusions. Just on
82, he is as enthusiastic as ever for the
initiative, referendum and recall and other
reforms which merely move colleagues not half
his age to amused contempt. The little doctor
also retains his passionate devotion to free
education and the marvels to be wrought by
it —as the session was closing he asked a
question on the subject. I suppose free edu-
cation is a necessary evil, but in a multitude of
cases all it seems to have done is to enable the
beneficiaries to read illiterate gutter-rags and
inane flapper-papers which run “strips” that
savages would despise, and convert born mugs
into fly-flats. Witness the success of a
Michigan candidate for the House of Reps, on
a programme of an old noodle named Town-
send, who proposes to give $2OO a month at
60 to every American, regardless of sex, color,
character or state of mind, conditionally on
the recipient getting rid of the $2OO within
the month. Townsend is a doctor, like Maloney,
but Maloney never had any illusion like that.


* , *
Merry Christmas, Pc ;
H BOMGi VOVA.G.E ,
COBBERS 1 *
U, t •
Weuu, see»kJgi its Christmas , . ,
i/ * v
t v « Viva. Mussolini
ViVjtk, Waju SjlakSs\e ’ "
n/ , f
\w\ a Listener, We covae to congratulate
you ON the Excellence ofthe vsars
PROGRAMMES, "
" Well. ShllV, perhaps '■me cam >t>u
A SEAT AT THE PARTY AFTER ALL.
THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT.


GOING AWAY ? ,
remember
you save up to a jugful of
petrol on every hour’s steady
running - if you’re using
SHEL
S5+C
ITS ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU
MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dubois has limned Norman S. H.
Catts to the life. This tall, spare, quiet
Australian is a bundle of energy, which
the management of one of the larg-
est advertising agencies in the Empire can-
not quench, and he devotes his surplus
business vigor to an ever-widening range
of financial and industrial activities. His
NORMAN S. H. CATTS.
hobbies range from a little quiet angling
to the repertory movement, and he is a
leading light in bodies which specialise
in the care of crippled children.
It must have been a relief to Rich, J.,
when Latham, C.J., took his seat for
the first time in the Full High Court; as
Acting C.J., Justice Rich had a power
of work to do when Duffy, C.J., was
on leave. It has been asserted in Mel-
bourne papers that Justice Rich will
retire before long. This is nonsense, for,
though he has been 22 years on the
Bench, he is years younger than his late
chief, and would pass for a man in the
fifties. But he may be planning a trip
abroad, which is another pair of sleeves.
From over near the sunset:
There is a lot of sympathy in Westralia
for Hurtle Fisher, sometime resident magistrate
at Carnarvon, found guilty last week of
mixing £532 of the Crown’s money with bis
own. The outback Westralian R.M. has to
be a Jack-of-all-trades. With no office ex-
perience (he had been a Judge’s associate),
Fisher had to receive income from nine de-
partments, keep 18 sets of books and accounts,
take Courts in three townships distant hun-
dreds of miles from one another, do warden’s
work and act as his own clerk. He had a good
war record, and returned short of an arm.
Sir Samuel Hoare, who resigned as
Foreign Secretary before the no-confi-
dence debate on his peace plan, is
probably the only politician involved at
Geneva who could disguise himself as
a professional diplomatist and get away
with it. His lean figure, detachment,
polished accent and eyeglass all belong
to William le Queux rather than to
real life. And behind the externals there
are a subtle brain and a daring spirit.
He inherited his baronetcy—his forebears
were partners in the old banking firm of
Barnetts Hoares. His maternal grand-
father was a Commissioner cf Audit. He
entered the Commons in 1910 at 30 —
a good, safe seat, Chelsea. His first
really big job was as League Russian
Relief Commissioner in 1921. He be-
came Air Secretary in 1922, and made
the first civil flight to India, for which
he got a G.B.E. in 1927 ; and he has sat
on a dozen royal commissions and been
treasurer of the Conservative party. He
is a brother-in-law of Earl Beauchamp,
now in Australia.
Maoriland’s triumphant Parliamentary
Labor party is made up of 10 trade-
union secretaries, eight farmers, three
lawyers, two ministers of religion, two
storekeepers, two booksellers, two bakers,
a doctor, a school-teacher, a teacher of
engineering, a railway engineer, a mining
engineer, a manufacturer, a farm-imple-
ment trader, a journalist, an auctioneer,
a commission agent, a plain agent, a
relief organiser, a herbalist, a miner, a
painter, a coal merchant, a contractor, a
builder, a bootmaker, a grocer and the
owner of a fishshop.
J. T. Heathershaw leaves his job at
Canberra after 47 years in the Victorian
State and Commonwealth services. He
was Secretary to the Treasury during a
historic period—when the Loan Council
came into being and while the Premiers’
plan was being formulated. Always un-
obtrusive, he could nevertheless prove
very determined on occasion, as more
than one Minister learnt. The depres-
sion years, when he worked the clock
round week after week, were too much
for him. His health broke down in 1932,
and he gave up what was then the most
onerous job in the service to become
Pensions Commissioner.
J. E. Duggan, of Toowomba, will have
good cause to remember December, 1935.
During it he has been elected an M.L.A.,
on Boxing Day he is to be married, and
on the second-last day of the year he
will celebrate his 25th birthday. He
started his political career the right way
—he was elected on Saturday, and on
Monday he put on his apron and went
quietly back to his job behind the counter
of a co-operative store.
This isn’t a picture of Charles Fenner,
S.A. Director of Technical Education,
but an assay. The divided chin which
goes with imagina-
tion is shown
clearly; the con-
templative, slightly-
ironic mouth has
been separated
from the heartlike
nose with which
Coventry has
sought to empha-
sise that his sub-
ject’s good nature
is written on his
face. And nobody
gazing on that
thatch could doubt
that its owner had
earned the right to
wear bay leaves.
The only falsity
suggested is that
there is a classic
mind under that
ample cover, in-
stead of a brilliant
scientific one which
Assay of a D.Sc.
made its owner Kernot scholar, a
first-class honorman in biology and
geology and a D.Sc. of Melbourne
University. Dr. Fenner was an Aus-
tralian delegate to the Centenary Science
Congress in London in 1931. He has
written widely in the press, apart from
his purely technical efforts.
The Moslems of Britain have a new
head—a Scots baronet who has added
Stewart to his family name of Rankin
and changed to Omar the Hubert he
acquired at a church font. He is
a wandering soul who follows the
restless tradition of his family—his
grandfather, the first baronet, was a
pioneer of the idea of State emigra-
tion ; his father was a great traveller
who commanded a battalion of the Here-
fordshires and acted as a “Times” cor-
respondent in North African wars, and
he himself ran away from home to join
the Ist Royal Dragoon Guards as a
private, and fight with them against Sinn
Feiners. Just now he is on his way to
Mecca. A few Australians know him —
he is a dark, eager man in his middle
thirties who lives at Barcaldine (Argyll-
shire) —but not through his Moslem ac-
tivities. He is an authority on certain
breeds of sheep, represents the Clun
Forest Sheep Association on the National
Breeders’ Association and is something
of an archaeologist.
H. R. Dew, the new Dean of the
Faculty of Medicine at Sydney Univer-
sity, is Melbourne-born and -educated
and a Jacksonian prizeman of the Eng-
lish Royal College of Surgeons, of which
for a time he was Hunterian Professor.
He has been Professor of Surgery at
Sydney Uni. since 1930.
More than a theoretical acquaintance
with Public Works can be claimed by
Robert Semple, Maoriland’s new Min-
ister for that department. Semple was
born in N. S. Wales, and was trucker in
a mine at 14. He had mining experience
in Vic. and Westralia before he migrated
to M.L., and he hadn’t been there long
before he formed a Miners’ Federation.
From 1910 to 1913 he was organiser of
the “Red Federation,” and for his acti-
vities in the waterside workers’ strike of
1913 was sent to gaol. For resisting con-
scription in 1917 he got three years, but
served only 12 months. The achievement
he has most reason to be proud of is
the boring of the Orongorongo tunnel,
constructed under co-operative contract.
Semple picked the men and bossed them.
He barred booze and gambling, and
drove the long tunnel through in three
years, beating all Australasian records
for the class of work involved. Bob had
a year in Parliament in 1918 as member
for Wellington East, and the same con-
stituency returned him in 1928 and 1931.
Torleiv Hytten, formerly Professor of
Economics at Tasmania University, who
goes to the “ ’Wales’s” Sydney head-
quarters as econo-
mic adviser to the
bank, is often taken
to be a Scotsman
by those who
notice the peculi-
arity of his accent
and the general
type of him. Actu-
ally, he is a Nor-
wegian, which is
the nearest foreign
thing to a Scot.
Each nation avers
that the other is
native to itself, but
“blown away.”
Hytten came to
Australia in 1910
(he was 30 then),
served for several
years on the staffs
of the Hobart
“World” and Adel-
aide “News,” writ-
ing mainly on
foreign affairs, then graduated to his
professorship. During the depression
he was economist to the Tasmanian
Government. He has just returned from
a long European tour —he visited Russia
with Ogilvie, the Tasmanian Premier.
Czecho-Slovakia’s new Consul-Gen-
eral, Frantisek Kveton, is used to
British countries. He served two years
at Liverpool and five years in Canada.
The only fear is that he will find Aus-
tralia dull —he comes straight from
Mexico City, where he has been Consul.
James Schlater, traffic manager for the
Canadian Pacific Railway in Australia
and Maoriland, is one of the most genial
and popular figures in the transport
world of Sydney. An Orkney Islander—
he was born at Kirkwall 69 years ago-
The C.P.R.’s Envoy.
he practised law as a young man, and
was Deputy Clerk of Courts in his home
town. Crossing to Vancouver, he joined
the C.P.R. and became chief passenger
agent in 1892. Sent to Australia in
1921 he has been instrumental in
sending thousands of Australian tourists
through Canada on his company’s lines.
Captain and adjutant in the Duke of
Connaught’s Regiment, he passed the staff
course, and served with the 29th Canadian
Battalion as major, rising to lieut.-col. in
France; he afterwards saw action on
the Italian front. He is a pillar of several
Scottish societies in Sydney, plays a good
game of golf, and is interested in the wel-
fare of limbless soldiers.
Like a lot of other successful Aus-
tralians, J. G. Crawford, who becomes
economist to the N.S.W. Rural Bank,
owes his more advanced education to
the Walter and Eliza Hall Trust, whose
research fellowship in economics he held
after he had graduated with first-class
honors at Sydney. He is an authority
on agricultural finance.
“D.M.”:
The appointment of Louis McCubbin as
Director of Adelaide Art Gallery brings back
a lot of old memories. He is in the second
generation of Australian art; son of Fred Mc-
Cubbin, and himself an ex-official war artist
—he enlisted in the 10th ambulance —who is
represented in Melbourne and Sydney galleries.
When I was a callow youth, his father’s home
was one of my havens in Melbourne. On
Sunday evenings, it was turned into a sort of
salon with an atmosphere that lingers in the
memory—the long table, the big bowls of
salad, the master with his fine old face and
his skull-cap, the complete informality and un-
expectedness of the guests. One night in par-
ticular I remember when, homing thence, an-
other youngster and I undertook to deliver an
old lady into her quarters. We walked part
of the way into the city, she arm in arm with
us. She was an upright old lady, full of
spirits, and we whiled away the time throwing
lumps of Shakspeare at her and making her
recite them. A.nd quite late in a lovely moon-
light we sat on a seat in the corner of the
Gardens, near Prince’s Bridge, and very softly
she sang “Where the Bee Sucks.” A police-
man strolled by and looked us over carefully
as if he thought that there must be something
wrong with a lady of her age who was tuneful
on a Melbourne Sunday evening. But there
wasn’t—she was just Ellen Terry.


m
e
/./ •
/ iW "X
y $ ■■■ ■-J
fMm
y'4Mlm
P mmmi
■ m
m
>■ u
J
I
1
Iks
; : ; : V
i
lytoiuww^i
'^ sW of' i
(DTolUin*
Scots (Dhtsky
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adela^e.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
“Sustenance” Preferred
A young farmer in our north-west
Vic. district, short-handed owing to a
brother’s illness, went into the nearest
town to engage a man for harvest work.
He offered the best wage hxs encumbered
farm would warrant —£2 ss. a week and
keep ; but men on “sustenance” simply
laughed at him. What fools they d be
(they argued) to work hard six days toi
£2 ss. when they could draw 345. for
two days’ easy work and have the lest
of their week free!
A Country-party Government increased
“sustenance.” — Wondering (Vic.).
Destroyers and Plans
1 strongly disagree with a passage in
“Aerial Defence” (B. 27/11 /’35): “As the
R.A.N. should have (as it did have) at
least one battle-cruiser capable of stand-
ing up to any ship in the Pacific.”
One would make an excellent battle-
practice target for a raiding squadron,
and we can’t afford any more. We have
no facilities for docking and repair work
after an action, if she ever got home
to tell the tale, and it would be
murder to ask her complement to take
her to sea. Don’t forget the lessons of
Coronel and the Falkland Islands.
Spend the money which we haven't
got on destroyers and torpedo and bomb-
ing ’planes, give the boys in both ser-
vices a rough fighting chance, and the
civvies will all enjoy their beds a damn
sight more. —Ex-R.N. (Vic.).
Hitler’s Marriage Laws
If “Quayeau” (B. 27/11/ ’35) had
known a little more about Nazi politics
he would probably have hesitated before
crediting the Nazis with the “courageous
step that definitely puts Germany in the very
forefront of advanced eugenic thought.”
The plain, unvarnished truth about the
new marriage laws in Germany is that
they are part and parcel of Hitler’s ven-
detta against the Jews. They were
framed with the sole object of eliminating
the Jewish race by compelling those who
cannot escape from Germany to die off or
be starved off without begetting children.
The major portion of the new mar-
riage laws deals not with the eugenic
aspect but with the prevention of Jews
marrying Aryans and the empowering
of Courts to annul such marriages. That
part which deals with disease, defective
mentality, etc., is a cunning afterthought.
Realising that he could hardly prevent
Jews from marrying in their own race,
Hitler has decreed that the parties to a
marriage must first obtain a certificate
of fitness. As the mere fact of having
Jewish blood in one’s veins is regarded
in Germany as a disease, what could be
more simple. —B. C. (N.S.W.).
“Sanctions”
Thousands of reasonably intelligent
Australians persist in mouthing that
blessed word “sanctions” as if it signi-
fied nothing beyond some pious expres-
sion of disapproval, conveyed in a
gentlemanly way. English is rich in
good sinewy words that leave no doubt
as to their meaning, but the diplomats
and the politicians seem to be con-
stantly op the look-out for expressions
that will hide ugly meanings and uglier
implications under soft-sounding terms
whose real significance they reveal when
the occasion arises. Let us get back to
plain blunt English, and have done with
our “sanctions.”
In the court the other day the defen-
dant’s counsel was examining the plain-
tiff in an assault case. “Was there not
a good deal of mutual preliminary
recrimination?” he asked. “No,” re-
plied the plaintiff indignantly. “He said
i was a fool, and I said he was a liar,
and he dotted me one in the eye.”
There is a tough resilience about that
variety of English that cannot be over-
tested, and if our treaty-makers would
learn from it the world would be a safer
place. — Ike (N.S.W.).
The Maligned Medico
A Melbourne man is indignant be-
cause his medical adviser charges £2 2s.
for a visit to his Collins-street rooms and
10s. 6d. at a suburban surgery. The
patient wants to know why. The
nation could probably be provided by
the landlord of the Collins-street building.
The kick against medical charges is
frequent; but, on the whole, unjustified.
Medical men as a body are the most
generous and tolerant of mortals. It is
estimated that the profession, as a whole,
does 87 p.c. of its work for nothing, and
included in the 13 p.c. left are more bad
debts than any other calling, longer waits
for the good marks to come across, and
a fair amount of writing-off out of sheer
good nature towards those who are m
difficulties. Added to which, the aver-
age doctor is probably the worst busi-
nessman in the world. What is more,
his death-rate reaches such altitudes that
medicine must be reckoned among the
most fatal of the occupational diseases.
I am not a medical man, nor are any
of my relatives or connections. 1 am a
simple, observant patient who has a lot
to thank the profession for, both m
treatment and in financial toleration. •
G. M. (Vic.).


The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., Income. Claims, penses.* ten Off. Funds.
1925.. 4,278,979 1,704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779.
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882.250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930. . 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1031.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 1,052,445
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4.602,815 3,043,709 404,214 1,214,892
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,101.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
•Excluding income tax.
Notwithstanding that the actuary makes
an annual overhaul of the business and
that bonuses are declared each year, this
big 66-year-old Australian mutual life
office still sends out it's valuation figures
triennially. Those for the three difficult
years to Sept. 30, 1934, disclose a thor-
oughly sound position, combined with
continued expansion of the business and
the effects of lighter incomes, stinging
increases in taxation and the drop in
interest rates. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., £3,875,170 (£1,535,934
less than for the preceding triennium) re-
mained in the business. The amount
added to the Assurance fund was
£3,292,573 ; the other £582,597 was sent
to the investment-fluctuation reserve
(now £1,115,161), which also belongs to
policy-holders—there are no shareholders.
Here are results of the last five
actuarial valuations in tabloid form;
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922. £16,557,695 £14,882,160 £1,705,499 £1,455.499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118,974
1928.. 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
1931.. 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,430 3,577,833
1934.. 37,851,007 36,469,354 3,423,419 3,053,074
The contraction of £737,011 in the sur-
plus available for distribution, and of
£524,759 in the amount of bonuses de-
clared, was due mainly to additions to
the fluctuation reserve, extra taxation
and the drop in interest rates. The net
return from investments (£4,378,491)
was down £599,360, of which £221,049
was on account of extra Government
bleeding. On whole-of-life policies,
bonuses allotted for the year to Sept.
30, 1934, ranged from 40s. p.c. on . con-
tracts one year in force to 68s. p.c. on
those 35 years old or more. They are
handsome rates, although 2s. p.c. less
than those declared three years pre-
viously.
Policy-holders’ prospects are dis-
tinctly encouraging. The mortality ex-
perience, although heavier, was only 57
p.c. of expectation as against 55 p.c. and
58 p.c. for the two preceding trienniums.
Assuming that consideration for annuities
cost 3 p.c., the balance of exes, took 13
p.c. of the net premiums, whereas 15.2
p.c. was allowed for in the valuation.
Excepting a small amount of endow-
ment and reassurance contracts, valued
on a 3j p.c. basis, the office assumes
that its Life fund will turn in 3 p.c. net.
Actually the net return, which dropped
from £5 6s. p.c. in 1929 to £3 18s. p.c.
in 1932, was £4 4s. p.c. (down 2s. sd.
p.c.) for 1935. The improvement was due
mainly to relief from taxation. With
the strengthening of interest rates, the
margin may be expected to widen a little.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the co. put an extra
£1,017,718 of new business on the books:
1929. 1934. 1935.
Policies . . .. 20,078 23,056 26,941
Amount .. .. £9,868,350 £9,119,607£10,137,325
Av. per policy .. 479 395 376
First premiums .. 356,253 303,378 344,145
Renewals . . . . 2,660,690 2,915,488 3,008,986
Single premiums. . 338,637 63,274 33,835
Annuities .. . . 54,014 83,049 93,112
Interest, etc. .. 1,608,616 1,601,631 1,611,426
The drop of £29,439 in single premiums
and of £81,020 in surrenders (£522,716,
down £172,959 over the last two years)
also signals better times. Assuming
that single premiums cost 5 p.c. and
consideration for annuities 3 p.c., the
balance of the year’s exes, took 14 p.c.
of the net premiums income as against
13.4, 12.7, 12.5, 12.7 and 14 p.c. back
to 1930.
After an unexplained £15,161 had been
dropped into the investment reserve,
£1,619,258 (up £11,425) was added to the
Assurance fund, raising it to £39,161,123.
The balance-sheet total of £40,780,453
is made up in this way:
, 1934 N t 1935 ,
p.c. p.e.
Freeholds .. ..£1,691,285 4.3 £1,726,462 4.2
Public securities .. 17,353,527 44.3 18,745,953 45.9
Mortgages .. ' . . 8.760,318 22.4 8,880,307 21.9
Foreclosures .. 336,768 0.9 374,628 0.9
Loans on policies.. 5,820,250 14.9 5,725,574 14.0
Other assets .. 5,156,122 13.2 5,327,529 13.1
Most of the money that became avail-
able was invested in public securities, up
£1,392,426. Foreclosures increased by
£37,860.
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off Re-
June, Profit. Dividends.* Premises, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 336,313 17 p.c. = 170,000 75,000 1,236,364
1926.. 220.048 17 „ „ 170,000 50,000 1,211,412
Premium on shares, £128,916 .. 1,340,328
1927.. 232,053 17 p.c. = 170,000 25,000 1,352,381
Premium on shares, £371,084 .. 1,723,465
1928.. 276,887 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,695,352
1929.. 337,590 17 „ ~ 255,000 25.000 1,727,942
1930.. 210,946 10 „ ~150,000 25,000 1,738,888
Inner reserves disclosed, £67,729 .. 1,806,617
1931.. 35,741 7 p.c. = 105,000 1,712,358
Inner reserves disclosed, £175,177 .. 1,887,535
Loss.
1932.. 131,070 5 p.e. = 75,000 1,656,465
Inner reserves disclosed, £61,908 .. 1,718,373
Profit.
1933.. 13,530 6 p.c. = 75,000 1,631,903
1934.. 97,575 5 „ „ 75,000 1,629,478
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,000 .. 1,669,478
1935.. 40,789 5 p.c, = 75,000 1,610,267
•The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
The co. is the world’s largest woolseller,
and it does an extensive merchandising,
shipping and general-agency business as
well. Headquarters are in London, and
there is a branch at Kenya, East Africa,
but most of the business, which is
financed largely on debenture money, is
done in Australia and Maoriland.
Chief cause of the contraction in last
year’s earnings was the drop in wool
prices. The number of bales the co. put
under the hammer in Australia (up
86,627) and in Maoriland (down 34,089)
and the average auction price for the
whole clip of. the two countries com-
bined (down £7 3s. 3d. per bale) com-
pare as follows:
Aus- Maori- Average per
tralia. land. Total. Bale.*
Bales sold—
-1928.. 866,056 105,785 471,841 £24 19 11
1930.. 400,761 84,202 485,023 13 2 2
1932.. 433,719 94,439 528,158 10 8 4
1938.. 480,919 115,401 596,320 10 16 7
1934.. 402,486 127,035 529,521 19 7 8
1055.. 1 489,113 92,946 582,059 12 4 5
•Australasia.
The Australian wheat yield (133.6 million
bushels) was 43.6 million bushels lighter ;
still, an extra 8.6 million bushels was ex-
ported (104.2 million bushels), and the
average price (35.) was about 3d. a bushel
better. Business generally continued to
improve.
After stowing away something for con-
tingencies and converting overseas figures
into sterling, gross earnings were down
£49,636:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Gross profits.. £927,222 £676,376 £837,049 £787,413
Outgoings—•
Salaries, etc... 440,128 574,781 499,206 482,405
Interest .. 139,209 161,494 179,660 187,082
Taxes .. 111,939 61,171 50,608 61,137
Total outgo £691,276 £797,446 £729,474 £730,024
The saving of £16,801 in salaries, etc.,
was more than offset by a growth of
£10,529 in taxation and of £7422 in the
interest bill. After passing £lO,OOO (the
same as in the previous term) to the
staff fund, enough remained to pay the
pref. div. (£25,000) and show 1.4 p.c. on
£1,500,000 of ord. capital as against 4.8
p.c., two losses and then profits of 0.7,
12.3 and 24.1 p.c. back to 1929, when
the figures benefited by a windfall from
Bawra. The div. was kept at 5 p.c., and
£40,000 was transferred from the reserve
for contingencies, leaving the lay-by
'visibly only £13,211 less than at the pre-
vious balance.
At June 30 the preference share and
debenture capital combined (£4,778,176)
was costing the co. on the average over
4} p.c. This was cheap money during
the boom, and was very helpful to the
ords. —they received a regular 17 p.c. for
the half-dozen years to 1929; now it
stands in their way. Including deben-
ture interest (£187,082) and the contri-
bution to the staff fund, the year’s net
earnings (£243,871) were 3 p.c. on de-
benture and share capital and reserves
combined (£7,894,443). Another lion in
the path, especially for English share-
holders, is the depreciation of Australian
and Maoriland currencies. Over the last
five years exchange has cost the co.
£494,465, of which £304,814 has been
met by transfers from the reserve for
contingencies.
The financial structure is solid, and
the business keeps on expanding;
Liabilities.
1932. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. . . £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Perpetual 4ip.c... 749,910 749,910 749,910
„ 4 „ .. 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Redeemable p.c. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Terminable* .. 678,900 1,376,647 1,302,72?
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,327,590 2,284,011 2,452,730
•Ratos not stated.
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. .. £6,784,231 £5,286,410 £5,863,902
Premises, etc. .. 329,621 359,686 367,908
Stock .. .. 462,241 489,122 519,088
Sundry debtors .. 1,020,913 1,058,653 1,183,754
Cash & investments 1,447,402 3,505,219 2,856,021
During the year £577,492 net was added
to advances, £125,101 to other debtors’
balances, £29,966 to stocks, £8222 to
premises and £73,925 was clipped off the
terminable debenture debt. To do all
this, cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£649,198 and £167,819 net was added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., now more than covered by cash,
etc., alone.
Better seasonal conditions, the rise in
prices, expansion of the business and
prospects of a drop in Maoriland’s ex-
change rate on London favor a much
better showing at next balance.
Sydney prices the £2O ords. paid to £5
at £8 10s. Allowing for exchange, the
return at £8 10s. is 3.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. seldom come on
to the market.
Smith's Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
z Dividends N Reduce
Pref. De-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. ficit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 18,357 13,497 5 p.c.= 7,500 177,947
1920.. 35,199 13,497 7* „ ~ 11,250 10,452 107,495
1927.. 48,747 t 13,499 12* „ ~ 18,750 16,498 150,997
Portion of goodwill apparently sold to
Victorian co., £40,000 .. .. 110,997
1928.. 33,130 13,499 10 p.c.=15,000 4,631 106,360
1929.. 37,332 13,600 12*,, ~ 18,750 5,082 101,284
“Guardian” sold; “Referee” and
“Arrow” bought.
Net reduction in goodwill, £41,500.. 59,784
Added reserves, £39,807 .. .. 19,977
1930.. 14,874 13,500 { 1,374 18,603
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£14,100 82,703
Loss.
1931.. 11,476 13,500 Nil 57,679
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£41,563 16,126
Payments to Vic. co., £33,194 .. 49,320
1932.. 17,186 3,375 g Nil 69,881
Reductions in reserves, £17,167 .. 87,048
Payments to Vic. co., £2550 .. 89,598
1933.. 35,479 Nil Nil 125,077
Payments to Vic. co., £2200 .. 127,277
Profit.
1934.. 4,027 Nil Nil 4,027 123,250
Payments <o Vic. co., £lOB5 .. 3 24,335
1935.. 7,635 Nil Nil . 7,635 116,700
fincludes £0406 unexplained additions to reserves.
{Undisclosed special distribution made to ords. out
of profit on sale of “Daily Guardian.”
BPor quarter ended June 30, 1981.
Now that the board can see more defi-
nitely where the business stands, it has
decided to reorganise the capital ac-
counts. Details will be submitted to
shareholders as soon as they are final-
ised. The £300,000 of capital is in
150,000 9 p.c. cum. prefs. (subject to
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act),
which have priority as to capital, and ,i
like number of ords. The public put up
the pref. money to help start the
“Guardian,” afterwards sold to Asso-
ciated Newspapers for £575,000
£400,000 in 7 p.c. prefs. and the balance
cash. After rubbing out the £lOO,OOO at
which the goodwill of the “Guardian”
had been capitalised, the share part of
the consideration was whacked up
among Smith’s ords. Later Joynton
Smith handed back 80,000 of the 200,000
Associated prefs. he received. Mean-
while, the goodwill of the “Referee” and
“Arrow,” two sporting journals, was
bought at a “satisfactory figure,” re-
puted to be £40,000. Publication of the
“Arrow” has ceased.
Last year’s trading resulted in a profit
of £7635 (up £3608), which the board
regards as “reasonably satisfactory.”
But the pref. div. guarantee to the Vic.
co. called for £lOB5, leaving the parent
with £6550 net, equal to 4.3. p.c. on its
pref. capital. No divs. were paid ; there
was £42,609 coming to the prefs. in
arrears. The amount of capital un-
represented by tangibles was £116,700,
or 15s. 6d. per ord. share —goodwill,-
£118,500, and p. and 1. debit, £25,591,
less £27,391 of tax-free reserves. Assum-
ing that the co. still holds the 80,000
Associated prefs. already referred to, its
two journals—“ Smith’s Weekly” and the
“Referee”—don’t appear to be turning
in much. About 10 years ago “Smith’s
Weekly” alone was earning a net profit
of over £30,000 p.a.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1924. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £299,966 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 55,277 204,621 107,160 89,609
Freeholds .. 43,155 161,857 111,483 111,483
Plant, etc. .. 67,427 56,685 46,645 42,407
Stock. . .. 17,735 17,121 9,551 9,306
Book debts, cash,
etc 51,536 111,991 58,413 51,896
Shares in other
cos 84 87,085 57,817 57,817
The year’s net earnings, together with a
reduction of £6517 in debtors’ balances,
cash, etc., and of £4238 in the book
value of fixed assets, enabled the over-
draft (£17,528 at the previous balance)
to be wiped out. When the books closed,
liabilities (mortgage, £60,741 ; sundry
creditors, £28,868) exceeded stocks, book
debts, cash, etc., by £28,407, an improve-
ment of £10,789 over the twelvemonth.
Whether shares in other cos, are worth
more or less than their book value de-
pends partly upon the number, if any,
of Associated prefs. included.
Over the twelvemonth the pound
prefs. have risen from ss. to 14s. in the
market. At the higher figure the return
would be 7.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 245. sd. (book
value).
National T., E. and A. Co. (Melb.)
To
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 4117 lOp.e. = 3375 742 33,582
1924.. 4109 10 ~ „ 3375 734 34,316
Transferred to capital, £3750 .. 30,566
1925.. 5503 12 p.c. = 4500 1003 31,569
1926.. 5502 12 „ „ 4500 1 9 31571
To superannuation, £lOOO ) “ ’
1927.. 5653 12 p.c. = 4500 ) 31,724
To superannuation, £lOOO f
1928.. 5553 12 p.c. = 4500 \ .3 31777
To superannuation, £lOOO ( ’
1929.. 5578 12 p.c. = 4500 1 7g 31355
To superannuation, £lOOO i ’
1930.. 4618 12 p.c. = 4500 118 31,973
1931.. 3874 10 „ „ 3750 124 32,097
1932.. 4254 10 .. 3750 7 4 32j i 0 i
To superannuation, £5OO )
1933.. 2425 6 p.c. = 2250 175 32,276
1934.. 2460 6., ~ 2250 ) _ 81 9g6
To superannuation, £5OO )
1935.. 2931 6 p.c. = 2250 1 „
To superannuation, £604 ) * ’
This Melbourne trustee co. does not
publish the volume of trusts in hand, but
the board says that the number and value
of estates entrusted to its care during the
year were above the average. For the
22 years to the close of accounts in 1932,
shareholders averaged 10.5 p.c., sweet-
ened with £7500 of bonus scrip. Then
the rate dropped to 6 p.c., and has re-
mained steady since ; prospects are en-
couraging.
Gross earnings last year (£24,353) were
slightly better, exes. (£21,422, including
£l9O written off office furniture) were
about the same, and the net result (up
£471) was 7.8 p.c. on capital.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £87,500 £87,500 £87,500 £87,500
Liabilities .. 50,947 49,109 49,430 49,074
Public securities,
cash, etc... 10,400 10,000 10,000 10,000
Freeholds .. 108,474 108,424 108,424 108.424
other assets.. 3,999 2,887 2,833 2,732
Freeholds arc in at £109,102, less depre-
ciation (£678). Other assets consist of
debtors (£841) and furniture and fix-
tures (£1891). The overdraft (£33,200) was
up £5457, and other creditors (£16,474)
were reduced by £5219. The £lO,OOO
represents deposit with the Treasurer of
Victoria.
The fall in values and interest rates
restricted the co.’s commission and other
earnings, but the recovery in real-estate
and the general upward trend in busi-
ness have brightened the outlook.
Capital is £37,500 in 75,000 £2 shares
paid to 10s. each. Of the uncalled
liability 20s. can be asked for only in the
event of liquidation. On the market
sellers ask 19s. for the shares. The
return at this price on a 6 p.c. div. basis
is 3.1 p.c. Capital and reserves com-
bined need turn in only 3.2 p.c. to pay
a 6 p.c div.
R. Fowler, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Divi (lends x
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1927 .. 18,437 4000 8 p.c. = 16,631 16,136
Establishment exes, new factory, £1793.. 14 343
1928.. 3,258 4000 Nil _ 13,601
1929.. 8,779 4000 Nil 4779 18,380
Exes, capitalised, £457 .. .. .. 17,923
Loss. (5 p.c.)
1930.. 6,760 2000 Nil 9,163
Profit on sale of property, £923.. .. 10,086
Deficit.
1931.. 22,339 Nil Nil 12,253
1932.. 12,031 Nil Nil 24 284
Profit.
1933.. 4,152 Nil Nil 4152 '20,132
Assets written down, £79,868 ~ ~ 100,000
Capital written off, £lOO,OOO .. ...
(7 p.c.) Reserves.
1934.. 12,098 2800 2 p.c. = 3,125 6173 6,173
Capital reserve, £703 .. .. .. 6,876
1935.. 17,771 2800 5.2 p.c. = 7,812 7159 14,035
This co. makes bricks, tiles and pottery
at Marrickville and Hornsby (N.S.W.)
and Thomastown (Vic.); earnings, there-
fore, depend mainly upon activity in the
building trade. For the three years to
the close of accounts in 1932, trading re-
sulted in losses aggregating £41,130, and
payments to the prefs. fell behind ; the
ords. had been out of the picture since
1927, partly because the co. was carrying
the burden of overvalued plant and sub-
sidiary interests. The change in condi-
tions made it impossible to correct the
position out of earnings, unless share-
holders were prepared for a very long
wait. So, when the business became
profitable again, the slack in book
values was taken up by slashing Bs. per
share (£100,000) off the ord. capital, re-
ducing the figure to £150,000 in 250,000
shares of 12s. each. At the same time
arrears of pref. divs. (£12,200) were can-
celled, the rate was reduced from 10 p.c.
to 7 p.c. cumulative, with the right to
advance with the ords. from the lower
to the higher figure. The pref. capital
(£40,000) was untouched.
The co. turned the corner in ’33, divs.
began to flow again in the following
term, and earnings have stepped along
briskly, keeping pace with the increased
activity in building. During the last
term, net earnings sprang £5673, reach-
ing £17,771, or 9.3 p.c. on the £190,000
of capital. But the outside debt called
for reduction and capital for more sup-
port, so the prefs. got their minimum
requirements and the ords. 5.2 p.c. (2 p.c.


NOBEC
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEO
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS!
PERTH. AV.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Daigety & Company Limited.
SIDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.AV.: Daigety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: AY. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. 8. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.; Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited.
INA’ERCARGILL, N.Z.: Daigety & Company Limited. /
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).
Attorneys, 453
of L. B. Davies,
—Advt.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE,
LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road; Cam per down,
Sydney, N.S.W.
A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
Mi
\\
Don't forget to
the A.M.P.'
OH, what a lot of happiness could be
secured and cemented if every young
wife were to say to her husband occa-
sionally: “Don’t forget to see the A.M.P.!
Don’t put it off any longer. Do go to the
A.M.P. office and fix up that policy we have
been talking about.’’
A certain young wife recently took this wise step. She
and her husband had a mortgage on their home, so she
persuaded him to take out an A.M.P. policy that will
wipe that mortgage off should he die at any time before
he is 30—even if he were to die to-morrow —and that
will wipe it off at 30, with a good bonus to apply to
other purposes, if he live to that age. That little move
has brought her peace of mind.
In addition, her husband has arranged with the A.M.P. that
she shall have a regular income as long as she lives, should he
die before her. Not a large income, but one that will keep
her from want in fair times and foul.
If you, who read this, lack peace of mind about your financial
future, ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send you an expert
adviser to talk things over with you. Don’t delay; even
to-morrow may be too late.
You can share in the Society’s 1935 Bonus if you act before
3 1 st December.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A.
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON. F.I.A.
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
in the previous term), and £7159 was
visibly put on the shelf, making the lay-
by £14,035.
The financial position improved:
1931. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £290,000 £290,000 £190,000 £190,0(10
Liabilities ~ 90,397 87,140 68,379 53,93 j
Freehold and
plant . . 246,644 234,645 195,373 187,304
Stocks . . 59,422 55,380 53,224 54,705
Sundry debtors 27,365 33,298 20,556 21,925
Shares in other
cos. . . 34,652 33,610 1,250
Cash, etc. .. 60 75 75 75
Including stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£22,818) was £17,342 stronger
than at the previous balance. The
amount coming to outsiders was reduced
by £14,442, while £8069 more was
written off than was spent on fixed
assets.
Prospects for the current term are
bright enough. The pound prefs. are
offered at 245. 6d., at which figure the
return is 5.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis ;
it is difficult to say when the participating
rights are likely to amount to anything.
At 12s. Bd. the fully-paid 12s. ords.
return 4.9 p.c. on a 5.2 p.c. distribution,
or 6.6 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. The net tan-
gible cover is £5 2s. prefs. and 13s. lOd.
ords., mainly in plant, worth what it
can earn.
Silver-lead Producers
The outlook for the big silver-lead-
zinc producers at the Barrier is brighter
than at any time since the big break in
the markets about half a dozen years
ago. Earnings, and therefore the price of
the scrip, are governed mainly by the
course of metal prices and costs, which
also affect the life of the mines.
The following table shows the sharp
rise in the London spot price of lead
and zinc which took place between Feb.
and Oct., and the extent of the reaction
since:
Lead, Zinc, Silver,
per ton. per ton. per oz.
12 mths., June 30,’33 £ll 6 I£ls 14 11 1/7.6
’34 11 1 0 13 15 6 1/10.9
February, ’35 .. 10 6 3 11 18 2 2/2.8
April, ’35 .. .. 12 6 11 13 0 2 2/9.4
July, ’B5 .. .. 14 9 7 14 2 6 2/8.9
October, ’35 .. 18 4 2 16 11 1 2/7.7
November, ’35 .. 17 18 9 16 5 8 2/7.6
December 19, ’35 .. 16 11 3 14 15 0 1/11.9
Yo Australian producers, those prices are
worth 25 p.c. more in terms of local
currency. The improvement in the
figures was due to many factors, most
important of which were improvement in
the statistical position of lead and
zinc, better marketing conditions in the
U.K., growth of industrial demand, re-
armament and the war between Italy and
Abyssinia. Some reaction was to be ex-
pected, of course, and this has been
accentuated by the usual end-year slack-
ening of demand. Still, recent inter-
national developments and other factors
favor a strengthening of metal prices in
the new year.
The rise and fall in the price of silver
are due to the U.S.A.’s buying pro-
gramme, which has failed to produce the
results its authors expected of it. Still,
silver is so mixed up with American poli-
tics that guesses as to what the Treasury
at Washington will pay for the metal in
the future aren’t worth much. Internal
developments in Mexico and China have
recently had a steadying effect upon the
U.S.A.’s silver-buying policy.
The market for the stocks of the three
principal Barrier cos. and Electrolytic
Zinc has responded to price and other
developments in this way:
, Average Price
Feb. June. Oct. Nov. Dec.2o.
Northf .. .. 100/- 130/- 152/- 167/- 149/-
South) . . .. 76/6 89/- 98/- 106/6 103/9
Zinc Corp.* . . 30/6 37/6 58/9 67/- 74/6
Electrolytic Zinc).. 21/6 26/6 31/- 35/- 35/9
fOrds., face value £l. * Ords., face value 10s.
The difference in price between the three
Barrier stocks is due partly to variations
in the assay value of the ore. The price
of Souths has held comparatively well,
because the co. is paying a special bonus of
2s. per share to commemorate the mine’s
fiftieth anniversary. Zinc Corps, have
continued to rise, because of favorable
underground and other developments.
Owing to the better outlook, North has
decided to draw ore from the British
section again (here extraction ceased
when lead dropped below £l7 a ton in
1930), and B.H. Prop, is preparing to
reopen its old mine ; also, Electrolytic
Zinc’s new mill at Rosebery (Tas.) will
be placed in commission early in the
new year, and Mt. Isa (Q.) has decided
to treat its sulphides, which means pro-
duction of lead concentrates.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) has decided to split
the face value of its ss. shares in halves,
making them 2s. 6d. each. Shareholders
will thus receive two new shares for
every one (worth 395. in the market) now
held. The idea of making the shares 2s.
each was abandoned because of the
number of fractions involved. The new
issue, date of which has yet to be an-
nounced, will be in shares with a face
value of 2s. 6d. at a premium of 7s. 6d.
each, a total of 10s. per share, in the
proportion of two new shares for every
five shares of ss. each now held.
* * * *
The strike early in 1935 and the in-
creased wages award cost Lake View
and Star £57,000; hence the divs. for
the last term aggregated 50 p.c., as
against 57| p.c, for the preceding one.
Still, ore reserves are larger and profits
are greater now than ever before. Chair-
man John Agnew said that a large pro-
portion of the money invested in West-
ralian goldmining had come from
London, and that, given freedom from
industrial upheavals in the future, a lot
more would be available for financing
new ventures. He urged the unions not
to take matters entirely into their own
hands, but to settle disputes by using
legal machinery provided for the pur-
pose, or by direct negotiations with the
owners.
* * * *
From the chair at Wiluna’s annual
meeting, John Agnew said experiments
showed that smelting had substantial ad-
vantages over the roasting and cyanide
methods of extracting gold from con-
centrates, and its adoption had been
authorised by the board. Estimates
are that with gold at £7 (stg.) per ounce,
and on the treatment of 50,000 tons of
ore monthly, yielding 5000 tons of con-
centrates, smelting will produce a
profit of £42,000 (Aust.) per annum more
than could be derived from roasting and
cyaniding. Further, smelting of accu-
mulated cyanide residues at the. rate of
3000 tons per month (on this basis there
is four years’ feed ready) will result
in a further profit of £41,000 (Aust.)
per annum.
* * * *
For the first half of its current finan-
cial year, Wiluna’s output was at the
rate of 540,000 tons per annum. Ore
reserves increased, and they are being
further expanded. The latest estimate
of average value is 265. 3d. per ton,
down 2s. 3d., owing to the policy of
treating lower-grade ore made possible by
the high paper price of gold. One result
will be to lengthen the life of the mine.
♦ * * *
Debenture-holders in W.A. Manga-
nese, Ltd., got a div. of 9yd. in the £
the other day. The co. was formed some
years ago by the late Bill Hedges and
others to work a large manganese deposit
near Peak Hill (W.A.). A railway (since
pulled up) was built at a cost of £BO,OOO
to transport the ore via Meekatharra to
Geraldton for shipment overseas. But
the market slumped, and the undertaker
got a job. Shareholders got experience.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* $ * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Garda”: In parts of New Guinea
the sausage is quite a rare fruit, A|
friend of mine managing a plantation took
some to the cook-boy and told him to
fry them —“cookum allasame fish.” The
dinner-gong sounded ; he sat down in ex-
pectation. The boy came in and put
down a row of fried sausage skins.
“What did you do with the sausages?”
asked the boss. “Me cookum allasame
fish. Takum bellies all out.”
* * * *
“J.A.H.”: At an outstation on a
large Speck property, the one and only
milk supply of a shepherd with an 11-
months-old child gave out. For the fol-
lowing six months, the infant was
brought up on the restricted diet of
chop-bones and cold tea. To-day, at 24
months, he is as sturdy a specimen ot
childhood as one could wish to see.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: If “Groper” (B.
4 1 12/’35) will pay us a visit in S. Queens-
land I’ll show him anything up to a
dozen snapper on one line—maybe more.
Some of our chaps, working “The Wide”
grounds and the edge of the continental
shelf, use 20 hooks, set a yard apart,
with a sashweight as a sinker, The hook-
snoods loop on to buckle swivels for
quick shifting or replacement. As each
fish comes in it is tapped with a “nutter”
to stun it and taken off, with or with-
out the hook. One man attends to this,
while one or two others haul in the line
and keep it taut. Hook accidents are
very rare. The main difficulty about
multiple-hook rigs arises from sharks.
If a big fellow grabs one of the fish and
gets the hook, there is a genuine hurrah-
party until he can be got to the surface
for shooting or spearing.
* * * ♦
“0.P.”; A party of us camped at Yar-
ramolong (N.S.W.) for a week last year.
We had with us a beaglehound with a
peculiar yodelling quality in his cry. This
year we returned to the same spot and
were greeted with a perfect imitation of
our dog’s efforts, given by a bower-bird
with a nest near our old camping ground.
* * * *
“Renner’s Rock”: One day a bush
abo. from Renner’s Rock (N.T.) came
in and handed me a lidless malt-extract
tin containing a closely-curled snake.
Old Allan, my cobber, who wears glasses
as thick as one of Anthony Horderns'
windows, wanted to know what 1 was
examining. Absentmindedly I handed
him the tin. Next moment I was stag-
gered to see the specs within an inch of
the top of the tin, which the old man
was waving to and fro trying to get
enough light inside for a sight. Thinking
it safer for him if 1 explained, I grabbed
the tin. The snake was a death adder.
* * * *
“Gray”: Tasmania isn’t the only
corner of Australia where the giant fresh-
water crayfish can be found (B.
11/12/’35). As the “Murrumbidgee
lobster,” it used to be sold in many
Sydney fishshops before the war.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Reading Idriess’s story of
sithe great cat-rat armies of n.-w. Queens-
land to-day revived a memory of Edward
Palmer, one of Queensland's leading pas-
toralist explorers in the early days—the
Palmer goldfield was named after him.
After his return from a trip to the
Never-Never Palmer, entertained in a
Barcoo homestead, told stories of a
similar invasion in the ’seventies.
The hordes in this case invaded the huts
and ate everything not protected from
them. Palmer said that the greatest
nuisance was their habit of eating the
greenhide hobbles off the horses’ feet at
night—with the result that many weary
hours had to be spent in finding and
catching the wandering neddies.
* * * *
“Grunter”: It was a dead calm day in
Whitsunday Passage (N.Q.). The talk
turned to porpoises. One fellow stated,
and the rest agreed with him, that the
scarcity of porpoises there was a remark-
able thing. Even as he spoke one fish
made a liar of him. Before that bit of
repartee had ended another and another
porpoise headed south. Then they came
in droves, in threes, in sixes, a dozen at
a time and mere dots in the distance.
They were all heading south, going about
the job with all the earnestness of a man
with a girl to meet. I’d like to know
what was calling those cusses. They
didn’t stop to fish; they wasted no time
on other jobs; and it was too early for
the Melbourne Cup.
"I'll give 'ee trial, laad; but, mind, you must pull your weight."
“Kawhia”: Maoriland is looking
doubtfully on another of its importa-
tions, this time the Australian opossum,
introduced to the Dominion as a com-
mercial proposition. In the dense bush
surrounding Mt. Egmont possums have
multiplied exceedingly, and trapping has
become a local industry. But the moun-
tain reserve committee, which controls
the hundred-mile base of the famous
peak’s scenic park, is perturbed to find
that the kiwi is also a victim of the trap.
“Shall I pul a couple of threepences
in your Christmas pudding,
George?”
“ Traybits? Shove in a coupla files
and a ’ acksa w!”
As the wingless fowl’s interests are en-
tirely confined to the ground it is an
easy victim, and only the abnormal
strength of its legs makes the toll of its
kind as light as it is. But so rare is the
kiwi that even a few fatalities are enough
to concern the authorities, and it is sug-
gested the revenue from trappers’ fees is
not worth the risk of the extermination
of the bird. The alternative is a new
variety of trap, set well above the kiwi’s
head, and inventors are requested to get
busy.
* * * *
“Werribee”: Victoria continues to
supply something new in the way of
animal yarns. This time it’s about a
black swan family which had to shift
its quarters in a reservoir because some-
one had begun to cut the reeds. It was
noticed that the parent birds had made
several flights to a lagoon two miles
away, leaving the six cygnets behind.
Finally the old birds returned, fell in
the cygnets on the reservoir bank and
marched them off through the town in
single file, papa leading and mamma whip-
ping-in. The township—it shall be name-
less —was too much for two of the cyg-
nets, which threw the seven. Some
humans came belatedly to the rescue,
however, and motored the other four to
their new home, where they are now
flourishing.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: When the Murray cod’s
biting it will come at almost anything.
Have caught ’em with a bit of red wool
wound round the hook, hunks of corned
beef and red gum-blossoms tied in a
cluster. One old-timer of the river
assured me that even in the off-season cod
would bite at the little grey-and-black
frogs, but after one attempt to use them
1 gave up because of the writhings of the
frog and the look in its eye. River
mussels, baked hard so they will stay
on the hook, are good ; so are rabbit
meat, shrimps and boiled centipede ; and
wood-grubs (bardees) are out on their
own. There’s no telling where you’ll
catch fish in that river; maybe a deep
hole, on a mudbank right out in the cur-
rent or the shallows of a sandspit. If you
don’t get a bite in a few minutes, move
along and try somewhere else. But don’t
be persuaded that there are cod about
by the tuggings of lobsters or tortoises.
The cod doesn’t tug; it opens its wide
mouth and takes the lot at once.
“5.W.5”: Elderslie station (W.Q.),
when the Brabazons ran it, was a close
sanctuary for topknot pigeons. It was
the sack on the spot for anyone who
even so much as clicked an empty gun
in their direction. And how those fowls
knew the game was good, too! They
swarmed there, and bred in countless
generations ; the Parkinsonia trees were
simply littered with their nests, while a
man couldn’t walk ten yards anywhere
without hearing a whir-r-r as pigeons rose
almost from beneath his feet and flapped
away. The time to see those birds in
all their bronzed glory was feeding-
time in the poultry-yard. The pigeons
used to come in long lines through the
air, their wings whistling, and any chook
which got a full feed had to be quick off
the mark.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Bonne Bouche”: I resent the refer-
ence of “Pisces” (B. 4/12/’35) to the
sea-urchin as “a disgusting delicacy,”
since he admits he has never tried it.
Probably the first man who considered
devouring an oyster felt much like “P.”
before the experiment. The urchin,
eaten with oil, pepper and vinegar as I
have described, is in a class by itself, as
all who have tasted it
admit. On the other
hand, the “inkfish” men-
tioned by “P.” seems to be
just one of the many
cuttles so popular as a
food among Levantine
peoples. One variety I
never could manage,
though Greek fishermen
preferred them to oysters.
It was a liny cuttle which
.at certain seasons hops
along the top of the water
in clouds and boards any
boat in its way. You
squeeze out the ink and
swallow the little chap tail-first. The
flavor is oysterlike, but the tiny ten-
tacles cling to one’s throat on the down-
ward passage and produce a disturbing
effect on the neophyte.
« * * *
“Walkabout”: I suppose that cuckoo
of “H.H.’s” (B. 4/12/*35) which had its
egg hatched in a crow’s nest is what
so many outback weather prophets call
a storm-bird. Hardly ever seen during
the cooler months, the storm-bird makes
its weird voice heard during the wet
season, and it always lays its solitary
egg in some crow hatchery. The crow
couple do the rest.
* * * *
“Noondoo”; 1 note that the inhabi-
tants of Mungindi-in-Q., having run out
of beer during the hot weather, trooped
across to M.-in-N.S.W. and filled up on
the ample supplies there. All right now,
I suppose, but in the days of the old
State-border Customs such a situation
could be full of complications. I have
been pulled up with a crowd of friends
while crossing the bridge from Queens-
land on a visit to the N.S.W. side. All
were obviously full of beer, and the Cer-
berus did his level best to get us to pay
duty on our liquid content. Queensland
officials tried the same lurk when we
returned some hours later, but 1 never
heard of their devotion to duty scoring
a bull.
* * * *
“Bow Wow”: The “Prussian boar-
hound” (B. 11 /12/’35) has long been
familiar in Australia. Danish really, he
is noted for his gentle disposition, this
being due to the fact that he has been
bred for the show benches for many
years. Bismarck’s hound was as gentle
as a sucking dove. Germany’s sense of
organisation must have gone phut if we
are to credit “Colonel Bungstarter’s”
story of the whole dog show joining in
a magnificent free fight. Every precau-
tion is taken at these affairs to keep the
dogs closely confined except the class
which is being judged, and that is held
in leash by owners or attendants.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Crows and ravens (B.
4/12/’35) are easily distinguishable. The
raven has white eyes, is a bulkier, stur-
dier rascal, is much more impudent and
aggressive, and will attack live lambs
or sick or disabled sheep. He has a
deep, loud voice, with shrill interludes,
not unlike the breaking voice of a boy.
There are two kinds of crow. The com-
moner one is nearly as large as a raven,
but has hazel eyes and is more slightly
built. He lives mainly on insects and
fruit, but will eat dead meat on occa-
sion ; he never tackles lambs or sick
animals while alive. The other, the small-
billed crow, has white eyes like the raven,
but is much smaller and lighter built.
His only call is a vibrant “carr-carr,”
often repeated, but with none of the bass
note of the raven. Females of all three
resemble their husbands, but are smaller.
Some authorities class the raven as the
most highly developed and intelligent of
all birds. It can certainly be taught to
talk in the most uncanny fashion.
IT’S JUST AS WELL.
“You think when you are young,” said Joe,
“you won’t be here for keeps,”
And gazed disconsolately round the waste of
mullock-heaps;
“You’ll hop right in and make a punch, and
then you’ll break away.
It takes a man a while to learn that he is here
to stay.
“It looks so easy when you’re young; it’s all
so bright and clear;
You see yourself as sitting tight ‘behind a bit’
next year.
It won’t be long, you tell yourself, before
you’re on the gold.
And then one day you realise that you are
getting old.
“And all the finds you were to make are still
somewhere ahead,
And all your plans have gone astray and all
your dreams are dead.
Far from the promise of the years you tread
your weary way,
And at long last you realise that you are here
to stay.
“But it’s as well it takes a man a tidy while
to know
That there is little that works out the way
we plan.” said Joe.
“For life would be an empty thing—as empty
as our schemes—
If we found out when we were young that
dreams were only dreams.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“M 8”: The wide gutter across the
road was full of water from an over-
night rainstorm, and looked treacherous.
“Can we get through this?” the driver
asked of a cove stocking inside the
fence. “Aw, well,” he answered slowly,
“the bottom’ll carry y’ all right” We
were in a hurry, so the driver went at it,
and the car bogged and stuck fast. “Y’
should’ve waited,” said the cove inside
the fence ;“I was goin’t’ say it’d carry y’
all right if y’ get clown to it!”
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: I have often seen a ring
around the moon, but had never, until
recently, seen the sun encircled. With
a crowd of other surfers I observed the
phenomenon at Caves beach, Swansea
(N.S.W.), about two o’clock on a cloudy
day. It was a perfect ring of rainbow
colors, visible for a couple of hours.
* * * *
“Jerrick”: “A.N.S.’s” Kaputar snail
(B. 11/12/’35) is a giant slug, and, un-
like the hungry hordes of the garden, a
dinkum Australian. The big fellow is
one of the Bitentaculate slugs—the two-
horned (and -eyed) variety. “A.N.S.” is
too late to fasten a moniker on the
beautiful beastie. I “discovered” a more
drab specimen years ago, and found that
nosy scientists had been in years ahead
of me. Anyway, they knew all about my
specimen at the Australian Museum,
Sydney. The Mount Kaputar sort is, I
believe, a more recent find, but they now
know all about him, too.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: “Why’s frogs
cold-blooded?” asked the boy
with the broken leg. He’d al-
ready stumped the matron and
two nurses with it. It depends
on an incomplete system of
blood circulation. Frogs have
a three - chambered heart,
warm-blooded creatures a four-
chambered one. Their blood is
aerated in the lungs, then
pumped by the left auricle into
the single ventricle. At the
same time, the blood whicn
has passed round the body
tissues is pumped by the right
auricle into the ventricle. The
ventricle, contracting, forces
the mixed blood partly
through the body tissues and
partly through the lungs. In
warm-blooded animals all the
blood returning from the
tissues is passed through the
lungs for aeration before it is
sent round the tissues again—
this is done by the second
(right) ventricle, which the
frog does not possess. The
increased oxygen content
creates quicker and more
active tissue changes and, with
them, warmth of tissues and blood.
* * * *
“Erua”: Another bulb that can, if
allowed to run riot, make itself a pest
(B. 11/12/’35) is the daffodil. A settler
discovered this when he bought a Waikato
farm that had been vacant for some years.
An Englishman and his wife had sunk
their fortunes there and left without re-
trieving them. The M.L. man took over
in midwinter, and in early spring de-
cided he would do a bit of ploughing in
the old orchard. His plough refused to
operate between the ancient trees, and
investigation revealed a growth of daffo-
dil bulbs of tremendous density, the in-
crease of those the English couple had
planted for sentiment. The new owner
decided to leave them intact, and was re-
warded with a glorious display later on
and an unexpected cheque from a city
florist who absorbed the output.
* * * ♦
‘R.W.”; When Bill and I were falling
buloke trees at Corowa (N.S.W.) for
making fence-droppers, we came to one
with a slight crack
running to the
heart. When we
were cutting it
down we noticed a
bad smell ; an ex-
amination with the
saw on the first
length showed us
that the tree was
fly - blown! Evi-
dently the water
“ Cripes, Dave, wot WAS in that
last drink you give me?"
had been running down the tree into
this crack and rotted the wood enough
to give the flies a start. Anybody ever
heard of such a thing before?
* * * *
“Light Ning”: We were watching the
lightning, secure in the knowledge that
it was “going round.” I climbed
out of the sulky and touched an
iron gate. I didn’t see the flash ; the
girl friend swears there was none nearer
than the storm, six miles away. It must
have struck the fence and travelled along
the wire. After that I felt as lively as a
cricket and couldn’t resist an urge to
sing.
* * * *
“Crescent”: “Burwurli” (B. 6/11/’35)
describes the N.T. blacks’ habit of catch-
ing sleeping turtles by jumping on their
backs and grasping and holding up their
necks to prevent diving. I’ve seen the
coastal blacks slip into the water above
rock bars where the turtles doze in the
warm sun, swiftly dive and encircle the
spot where the turtles lay; as a turtle
jumped into the water an abo. deftly
caught it by the leg, each vying with
the other in catching the most. No
“This IS the beauty parlor, isn't it?"
turtle can escape the young abo. once
he gets near enough to see it; they
will, when pressed, stir the mud at the
bottom to help blind the pursuer. Catch
several turtles out of a hole, and ten to
one all the others will clear out.
* * * ♦
“Bungarrer”; The mistletoe (B.
27/11 / ’35) tries to make itself as much
like its host as possible, and the koala
could easily be taken in by the shape and
color of a gum-mistletoe leaf. And by
the taste, too, for, though it isn’t a total
parasite—having leaves of its own —it
taps the sap-stream of the host, some-
times drawing so freely that it kills the
tree —and itself.
* * * *
“Kuaka”; I can go 1100 miles better
than “Speewaa” (B. 4/12/ ’35) in the
matter of long-distance perception of the
smell of burnt gum-leaves. When some
years ago N.S.W. suffered destructive
bushfires, a camping party on the west
coast of M.L., near New Plymouth,
noticed a huge dark cloud approaching
from the ocean. It passed over the
camp, and, as there had been no bush-
fires in M.L., was recognised as having
travelled the 1200 miles from N.S.W.
Removing any possible doubt of the
smoke’s origin was the strong odor of
eucalyptus.
* ♦ * H*
“O. W. Waireki”; I could smell a pud-
ding boiling at Henare’s whare, and the
native smilingly informed me that his
wahine was cooking the Christmas duff.
“But it not a one-piece pudding t’is
time,” he added. “Last year I save ten
shirrings to shake in at te mix up, but te
missus put it in in one piece.” “Not a
ten-bob note, surely?” I queried. “Ho,
no,” he sighed. “It ko in in Moko’s
money-pox ; an’ t’en te proomin’ mot’er-
in-law must strike it, like a goldmine,
in her part of t'e dinner duff.”
* * # *
“Barangkali”: Shark-meat on the
menu of the Javanese guests of her
Majesty (B. 16/10/’35) will make them
reckon that every day is Christmas Day.
Salted and dried shark-meat has always
commanded a ready sale in the markets
of Java and Malay, but hitherto it has
been too expensive to figure on the
gaol menu. When I was in Java —not
many years ago—prisoners existed almost
solely on rice, varied on special days
with a few pieces of fish or meat.
* * * *
“Sailor”: Coming back to the shark-
and-nigger controversy (B. 27/11 / ’35),
a shark has no preference for white
over black, but fish-food is more to his
liking than any shade or breed of human
anatomy. In the tropical waters where
fish abound shark tragedies are practically
unknown. While earning a living as a New
Guinea dynamite-fisherman, I’ve gone
overboard with my diving boys while the
sharks scooped up our catch. Some of
these weren’t babies, either; but after
a scare or two I forgot that sharks were
reputed man-eaters. A hungry shark will
bite at anything, even his own kind ; but
if the fish are schooling the big fellows
scorn bony humans.
“Bray Rock”: Just now
North Queensland beaches
crackle underfoot with the
little gas-filled floats of
young seaweeds, wastage
from the great submarine
seeding of early summer.
The plants of the sea out-
number and outweigh
many times all the plant
life of the land. It is not,
perhaps, surprising, for
nearly three-quarters of
the earth’s surface is
covered by sea. Man
already derives many use-
ful products from sea-
growths, and in years to
come his own implacable
destruction of natural
land plants will force him
to seek for more. Most of
the world’s supply of
iodine comes from kelp ;
other sea plants yield a
first-rate glue. By extract-
ing the cellulose from
others, a valuable fibre is
obtained for upholstering
work or insulation against
heat or sound. A seaweed
gelatine yields nutriment
to germ cultures in every
bacteriological laboratory
in the world. Australia
has fortunes at hand in its
southern kelpbeds and the fibre seaweeds
of the south coasts.
* * * *
“Emel”; A bush specific for dysentery
is the hard red gum that exudes from
the box-tree. The usual dose is a piece
the size of a pea, taken daily until the
attack abates ; but this may be varied to
suit individual requirements.
*'* * *
“Swansea”: In writing of Italian bees
(B. 27/11 / ’35), “Yo Ho” makes a com-
mon mistake—credits them with being
a wild lot. They are among the
gentler kinds. No need to confine them
in cold storage for safety. Suppliers of
apiarists’ requirements advertise special
boxes for travelling hives; they are
equipped with the necessary food for a
journey, and don’t leave the nest. A
queen and several workers, together with
the required food, may be, and frequently
are, sent by packet post. The original
queens from which Australian Italians
were bred arrived here in that manner.
“Tidapa”: The approach of warm
weather has brought swarming bees into
the Sydney news. When the time arrives
the queen sets out heavily laden with
eggs, as she doesn’t lay for two days
previous to swarming. She tires quickly
with the unwonted exercise, and very
frequently picks the most unsuitable
place on which to land. The other day
traffic in Phillip-street was disorganised
when a swarm descended on a taxi and
put the driver to flight. A month ago a
postal official got a shock when he
opened a pillar-box and found it occu-
pied by a swarm of the busy insects.
Police and reinforcements of post-office
men all got stung ; if wasn’t until some
bright youth suggested smoking them out
that they left.
* * * *
“J.E.L.”: Deep water? When
H.M.A.S. Australia was moving to an
anchorage at Marie Island a few years
ago, preparations were in full swing for
a good day’s fishing. The leadsman, how-
ever, couldn’t get bottom. The sounding
machine also failed to hit it when 300
fathoms were out. Mow’d we enjoy our
fishing? The number of times we circled
that island during the night made all
hands giddy.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: The suggestion of “Speewaa”
that cabbage-tree-hat-making be revived
(B. 11 /12/’35) moves me to ask what
has become of that once-common Aus-
tralian expletive “My colonial blanky
cabbage-tree.” Gone into the limbo of
the forgotten, no doubt, with the hats
themselves. It was used for clinching a
statement beyond all possibility of refu-
tation. For instance, “Do you mean to
tell me you don’t know how those clean-
skins vanished from the home paddock
at Enniskillen?” “My colonial blanky
cabbage-tree!” That was a dinkum ex-
change between counsel and a “hostile”
witness before Judge Blake at Blackall
Assizes when George Bowen was Consul
in Queensland.
SANDFLIES.
“Sandflies are becoming 1 increasingly troublesome
in s.-w. Queensland.”
“I see,” said Andy, “the flies are bad
In the sou’-west parts o’ the northern State,
An’ I don’t mind sayin’ I’m blanky glad
We’re a good bit south of twenty-eight.
I’ve fought bushfires, too parched to curse;
I’ve been in floods where a duck just
drowns;
But, strike me lucky! there’s nothin’ worse
Than a sandfly plague on the Western
Downs.
“I mind the summer o’ ninety-three—
Twas a ’undred an’ twenty in the bag!
An’, stiffen the sparrers! y’ couldn’t see,
F’r the blinkin’ flies, the ’ead of y’r nag.
We tried gloves an’ veils and the Lord knows
wot,
Till we must’ve looked like blasted clowns;
But devil a bit o’ relief we got
From the plague o’ flies on the Western
Downs.
“Then we found that the on’y way a bloke
Could save himself gettin’ stung to death
Was to build a fire an’ stand in the smoke —
So dense y’ could ’ardly get y’r breath.
Well, blime, after a week or two
Of that I just shrivels up an’ browns;
Like one o’ them haddocks, I’m smoked clean
through—
But it beat them flies on the Western
Downs!
“An’ ever since I’ve been dry as a grate;
If I talk a bit I just seem to shrink.
1 suppose it’s because of that Thank y’,
mate,
To tell the truth, I could go a drink.
But the one thing certain, as I’ve jest said,
To draw the curses an’ bring the frowns,
The terrer all of us bushmen dread,
Is a sandfly plague on the Western Downs.”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


|p^o\Wj
i»
o‘<s
Ran
‘‘The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE : Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z,: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from, the Manufacturers.
MADE ».V AAiO B'*'
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
VALLE V bHI i'jA/JE ■ , ifJ
m
Heat tb- ynub&&-
$Me B.V.D r&t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
THE
fOR
mm
ẁ
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC. NEW YORK.
UNDERWEAR
ẃ
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
ẅ
JohnHcinc
e- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTV. LTD.. Melbourne, Adelaide,. Pertlw
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Clean-wool Breeders.
“Corriedale”; There is nothing wrong
with using Dorsets, Southdowns, etc., to
get early-maturing lambs. Trouble comes
only when some of the hairy-woolled
ewe lambs are kept for breeders. Their
lamb drop then has a double short-wool
cross, and, in spite of “Upilio” (B.
4/12/’35), I believe this lamb does not
pay as well as a good type from a
Downs ram and merino cross long-
wool ewe.
The extra wool improves the shape,
and exporters like a strong dash of
merino blood with size and early
maturity.
My chief point, however, is the loss
in small wool clips through a widespread
habit of accumulating short-wool ewe
breeders.
The quality of their fleece is low, and
their type does poorly over the seasons
common to most of our fat-lamb dis-
tricts—six months of green feed and cool
weather, with six months of dry, hard
times. Under these conditions, the long-
wool-merino pure cross shines.
Lastly, I have yet to see lambs that
mature any quicker than those bred from
a chunky Corriedale ram on longwool-
merino pure-cross ewes.
Longwool Rams—then Merinos.
“Winfield”: None of the several
arguments against my joining merino
rams to the flock after the longwools
has been strong. “Granova” (B.
4/11 /’35) says that the best ewes mate
first. Even if they did, it would be
found more profitable, provided the
flock is fairly even, to have good lambs
(even if they are not the best ) than to
have no lambs at all.
The same writer argues that, provided
the right type of ewes is used, those
that do not breed will fatten, and can be
sold with the lambs. That is true. But
he says, further, that this is as good as
100 p.c. lambing. Not always. In March,
I joined 200 and in June 700 ewes to
longwool rams.
A hundred of the ewes were lost; but
from the remainder 1 got 400 lambs.
I have been offered 12s. for the three-
months-old lambs. For 400 fat ewes the
same buyer offered 6s. I paid more than
that for them, and have had to grass
them for six months.
I would like autumn crossbred lambs,
“Upilio” (B. 4/11 /’35) ; but my Dorset
Horn rams were on strike last month,
and still are.
Using British Breeds.
“Rom Ney”: Most fat-lamb producers
like to have their drop ready for an
early, high-price market; but British-
bred rams, as a rule, do not take kindly
to early mating. Frequently they will
not work until January, February, or
even March, which means lambs for
sale about August at the earliest, when
the market is plentifully supplied.
It isn’t natural for the British breeds
to work in hot months, but if rams
and ewes are fit advantage often can be
taken of a cool change to get an early
mating.
Sheep must neither be too fat nor
poor. If the season is unfavorable and
rams lose condition, spell them, and add
a grain ration of up to 4oz. a day to
their feed.
In many districts it is possible to have
a green-fodder crop in midsummer.
This will considerably help an early mat-
ing, as the sheep, if grazed on such a
crop just prior to and during mating,
will work earlier than if on dry feed.
Such a crop means an earlier drop, better
percentage, obviation of grass-seed dam-
age, and retention of bloom and sappi-
ness until marketing. Remember always
that ewes in lamb must be made to walk
in search of feed so as to obtain neces-
sary exercise.
Cattle Age«.
“Albarmount”: Now that hornless and
dehorned cattle are popular, age-telling
by rings on the horns is not always pos-
sible. Anyway, the teeth are more
reliable.
At birth, or shortly afterwards, the
calf has two milk-teeth. Three more
lots of twos appear at less than 10-day
intervals, so that within a month the
calf has a full set of eight milk-teeth.
Between 18 months and two years the
two centre milk-teeth disappear, and at
two years two permanent incisors are
in place. Then each year two milk-teeth
are replaced by two incisors until five
years, when the animal should have a
full set of eight incisors.
During the next year the incisors level
off, and from then on show signs of
wear. But after six years it is difficult
to tell the age, as much depends on the
class of country, the growth and type of
feed. On short-grassed, sandy country
teeth wear much more quickly than on
soft loams.
Navel Diseases.
“Ghanam”: The navel has a large
vein which carries the pure blood, two
arteries which are channels for impure
blood, and a duct —all floating in a gela-
tine tissue which is particularly suscep-
tible to infection.
At a birth, if it takes place in unfavor-
able circumstances, germs gain an easy
access to an animal’s system through
the umbilicus, and a primary abscess may
form at once. Then, infection being car-
ried into the bloodstream, there may
soon be secondary abscesses.
Presently a joint swells somewhere. It
grows tender, and in the end a rotten
spot may appear in the skin. In calves
infected this way lameness is sometimes
permanent. Also, infection in this way
may cause dysentery or pneumo-enteritis
or scours or half a dozen other diseases.
On every dairy farm especially, where
milkers and breeders should individually
mean a lot to the owner, there should
be special calving stalls.
Before a cow is allowed in to undergo
her ordeal clean bedding should be pre-
pared. The floors, ceiling and walls
should be cleansed —a ‘cheap mixture is
permanganate and water, put on with a
spray. Afterwards limewash the walls
and floor, which does not take long.
Use clean straw or shavings for bedding.
The stump of the umbilicus on the calf
should be severed the moment the birth
is complete. It should be first saturated
with iodine, then dusted with fine starch
or sifted slaked lime. This treatment
should be made a daily ritual until the
cord is dried up finally and there is no
sign or danger of raw spots.
The underside of the calf should,
directly after birth, be disinfected with
a 2 p.c. carbolic solution, used with a
good handful of rag, and gently but
thoroughly applied.
Also, give the cow a good clean-up.
She will enjoy it as much as a racing
driver after a speed race, and it prevents
the risk of losing her if it is done
thoroughly.
Size in Cattle.
“Bokhara”: It seems simple enough
to define till you get down to instances.
A is a compact, heavy animal, wide
and deep and short on the leg. B is
large - framed, coarse, strong - boned
against the fine bone of A, and lighter
than its apparently smaller rival. Which
has the belt for “size”?
There is no clear definition, as far as
I know, but one is needed. And, as
“size” is supposed to point a merit, I
know the direction to which it should
lean.
The square, stocky, early-matured,
short-legged beast is the one we want as
a meat-producer. It will kill invariably
with the heavier block test and give fine-
grained and economical beef. The lanky
animal of which old-fashioned drovers
used to shout “Great Jimmy Tyson!
What a blanky walker!” is nearly always
coarse, badly balanced as a joint-cutter
and, being a late-maturer, inevitably un-
profitable, since it takes twice as long
to market as the chunky purebred, and
then cuts into a type of meat which the
export market does not like.
1 suggest that the purebred-beef
societies take up the matter of size, and
make it a word in the technical vocabu-
lary of beef-production, something along
these lines:
Size: A beast is said to be of “average
size” when, being of standard choice
quality, as approved for export, it weighs
lb. at a block test of p.c.
If some figure like that were set up
anybody who knows Smithfield will
realise that, with chiller steer and heifer
types, if not with breeders, it would be
easy to define “small” and “large” and
make comparisons.
With stud and herd bulls, also, the
establishment of a weight scale might
help, but, in view of the varying require-
ments of “show condition” and the off
season, it might not be so easy to
generalise.
Treatment of Horse Wounds.
“Horsey”; In all types of wounds
bleeding must be stopped, dirt and
foreign bodies removed and antiseptics
applied.
Deep wounds need most attention.
They should be carefully syringed out
with permanganate, weak lysol or a
saturated solution of boracic acid. When
certain that the wound is clean, apply a
dressing of zinc chloride, 40 grains to
1 fluid ounce of water.
This dressing irritates the outside skin
a little, and must be watched, but will
keep a wound clean for three or four
days.
It is non-volatile. Use it when unable
to attend to the horse regularly.
If the original cleansing has been care-
fully done, no pus will form, as a rule.
Whilst pus is present, continue antiseptic
syringes, and keep the wound open. The
horse must not be worked. Bicarbonate
of soda may replace boracic acid as an
antiseptic, and should be used at the
same strength.
In severe cases of bleeding, ligatures
must be applied, on the side nearest the
heart, to the cut vein or artery.
Clean open cuts and tears are best
left unstitched. Clean thoroughly. As
long as the wound is kept clean Nature
will heal it.
If the wound is bruised swelling takes
place, and the stitches tear out. Strips
of adhesive plaster are useful for keep-
ing the edges together, thus hastening the
action of healing and also allowing drain-
ing and syringing if necessary.
Barbed-wire tears are most trouble-
some. The sloughed flesh (“proud”)
always causes slow healing, and should
be removed. Rubbing gently with moist-
ened bluestone will check it. Sometimes
it has to be cut away. Often a lump is
noticed under an open cut. This should
be opened at the bottom and kept
drained. Never apply a blister to remove
swelling near open wounds.
Hoof wounds should be well opened
up, treated as in deep wounds and kept
continually plugged with a mixture of
formalin 1 teaspoon, glycerin 4 table-
spoons, meth. spirits 8 tablespoons. Pour
into the wound ; also soak cotton-wool
and ram into it fairly tight.
If the horse is in great pain, admin-
ister a doze of chloral hydrate, giving
ioz. to loz. dissolved in 1 pint water.
If there is no effect after half an hour,
repeat the dose, giving c.h. in same
amount water. This, incidentally, is a
good thing to give a nervous horse before
castration or a painful operation.
N.S.W. Wheat Crops.
“The 0.D.”; The revised official esti-
mate (very approximate owing to un-
certainty of data) is for a N.S.W. har-
vest of about 46,000,000 bushels, and
after live weeks in the wheat belt I be-
lieve every grain of it is there. I ex-
plored within a line from Walliston, in
the far south-west, north to Hillston,
thence n.-e. through Condobolin, Tulla-
more, Trangie and Baradine to Moree,
thence east to Inverell, generally south
through Tamworth, Dunedoo, Welling-
ton, Molong, Cowra, Harden to Hol-
brook, and so west to Walliston.
In all districts except the mallee belt
between Cargellico and Griffith, good
crops are the rule, and the grain, bene-
fiting by filling spring rains and the
absence of the usual hot, dry winds, is
plump and heavy. Bushel weights of
631 b. to 671 b. are common, and the
sample will be one of the best ever har-
vested in N.S.W.
Crop failures were plentiful in the
mallee belt, and unless there is a change
the future for the men out there is
hopeless. If they are to remain they
must receive larger areas so as to com-
bine sheep, wheat and pigs, have their
rents reduced and arrears postponed or
waived altogether. The climate over
that light soil is too uncertain for wheat-
growing.
Except in the nor’-west, where the
phosphoric-acid content of the soil and
the summer rains make it possible to
crop the same paddock year after year
without even the use of super., early-
sown-crops on well-worked long fallow
did best. This was particularly notice-
able in the central west about Parkes
and on the harsh country around Binn-
away, Birrawa and Mendooran, where
late-sown wheat, or that sown on indif-
ferent fallow, was either very light or
a total failure.
Lower Riverina has had a remarkable
year of late rains, heavy crops and rich
pastures. Even the claypan country has
yields of 11 bags an acre, the Indian
varieties —Ranee, Rajah and Ghurka—
being outstanding. Records are being
put up from Corowa through Berrigan,
Henty and Culcairn districts, where 15-
baggers are common.
About Ganmain, Marrar and Coola-
mon, growers have recovered from last
year’s skeleton-weed panic and are now
fighting the pest. Although its spread
cannot be said to be checked, it can


ffuTfy'a.’Heivrt.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FRASER’S CLAW HAMMER
The CLEVHAM Trade Mark, a clever, useful all-
round tool lately invented; all steel. Send for
free leaflet showing some of the many things this
combination Clevham will do, for it is a clever
hammer. It should be found on every farm and in
every home and in every tradesman’s kit, and it soon
pays for itself. When ordering one CLEVHAM
send postal note for 6/6; for four or more send
4/6 each (wholesale price) to:—
JOHN FRASER,
CEEVEREIE, GLENTHOMPSON. VICTORIA,
and they will be sent post free to any address in
Australia or New Zealand. When paying by cheque
please add 6d. exchange.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
H
W
L- uj\l
w
Tin
A
■■■
'vr
PLIANT AND BRACING
This supple, easy-fitting Abbey
Boot is a delight to wear. It’s
light and strong . . . made of
tough leather that gives excep-
tional service. It’s smart, as
well . , . built on an exclusive
Abbey last. And it comfort-
ably braces the ankle.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half
sizes. Specify width when ordering
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (fid. per tin).
BLACK CALF . . . . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . . 52/6
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 469.
Why do I often
feel like this?
The Answer to a Question
Many Women are Asking
Thousands of women, and men too, live
in a perpetual state of ill-health and are
at a loss to know the reason why. In
ninety-nine cases out of every hundred
the cause is acid dyspepsia. With the
stomach in a constant state of sourness
you are bound to get the following symp-
toms—Always tired and low-spirited,
frequent headaches, disturbed sleep, over-
strung nerves, loss of appetite, nausea,
flatulence and indigestion. To restore
normal health it is necessary to overcome
the habitual sourness of the stomach and
this can be most effectually accomplished
with * Bisurated ’ Magnesia, the supreme
stomach remedy with over 20 years’
reputation for unfailing efficacy. A tea-
spoonful of powder, or 2 to 4 tablets,
three times daily after meals, never fails
to work wonders. If you have the symp-
toms described above, why not try putting
your stomach right ? Get a bottle of
‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia, powder or tablets,
from your chemist and start your
recovery to-day by taking the first dose
after your next meal—its restorative
effect will be a revelation to you.
BISURATED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the * Bismag ’ Trade Mark
mUm
be stated that by early stubble bums, fol-
lowed by a fodder crop, long rotations
of sub.-clover and lucerne, and inten-
sive grazing, the weed is actually being
made to pay for its own eradication.
Wagga district is experiencing unpre-
cedented sheep sales, and a record turn-
off of fat lambs at high prices is the
result.
Ford continues to be the most univer-
sally successful variety; Geeralying
proved its worth for late sowing in the
nor’-west; Dundee is good, but very-
few crops are pure; Baringa did well
where it did not go down owing to late
rains and frost damage to the straw;
Nabawa and Waratah continue to be the
good bag-fillers they always were;
Turvey recorded a signal triumph for
yield and purity in the south ; old favor-
ites in Yandilla King and Marshall’s
No. 3 did well in district crop com-
petitions ; and where Bencubbin has
been tried it has gained friends.
Champion wheatgrowers for the year,
according to R.A.S. and departmental
standards, are: North-west, J. B. White
and Sons, Boggabri (Geeralying); west,
T. E. Porter, Trundle (Bobin); central
west, M. W. Clemens, Eugowra (Ford);
Riverina, Cruickshank Bros., Berrigan
(Dundee); south, T. E. Gorman, Henty
(Turvey); each wins a trophy worth £2O.
Ragwort in Victoria.
“Wundi”: Ragwort’ two years ago
looked as if it would be as baffling a
pest problem in the higher-rainfall dis-
tricts of Victoria as skeleton weed at
present is in parts of N. S. Wales.
Lands Department experiments, how-
ever, on 24 plots near Colac have shown
what can be done by thorough methods.
The work began in November, 1934,
when the plots heavily infested were
sprayed with various mixtures based on
arsenic, or with salt or sodium or cal-
cium chlorate, all of which gave effec-
tive results. A variety of pastures—
sub.-clover, and mixed grasses—were
laid down with top-dressing.
Now, where there was a forest of
weed a year ago, there are luxuriant
pastures. On one plot, where Kentucky
blue grass had been established for 15
years and had been seemingly beaten by
the weed, the grass came back with the
new mixtures, and grew knee-deep with
the help of moderate dressings of super.
Commercially, all treatments were
satisfactory except salt, which, in more
remote parts of the area, proved too dear
to be profitable. Generally speaking, on
badly-infested blocks the cost was from
255. to 355. per acre.
This is fairly costly, but payable and
highly satisfactory when it is reckoned
that a single ragwort plant is estimated
to produce over 50,000 seeds.
Clean Water Always.
“Ghanam”: Some sort of a delusion
seems to exist among old-fashioned
m. 0.1. that any water will do for an
animal. But clean water is important.
On a dairy farm, stagnant-weed-con-
taminated stuff may affect the flavor of
milk.
Mainly, however, the damage is done
outside, not in. How can clean milk be
expected from any cow which has been
wading in a morass and comes to the
bail with legs, tail and perhaps udder
splashed with mire? Some of it is bound
to find its way into the bucket, and the
result is inferior cream.
Troughs are not difficult to make or
drinking places hard to keep clean on a
well-ordered farm, and the little expen-
diture of time and money lavished on
them pays well.
When to Cut for Hay.
“Hortus”; The best time to cut wheat
for hay is a few days after it is in flower.
At this stage the plant is at maximum
nutritive point. And the nutriment is
evenly distributed.
Some farmers want to obtain the
greatest weight of hay possible from a
crop. They let the plant mature too
much, and the dry matter increases.
What happens? They gain the extra
weight at the expense of feeding value
and color. All the weight goes to the
head, and a tremendous amount of the
balance is just fibrous matter with little
real good in it.
Early-cut hay has increased digesti-
bility, more laxative action, and is, there-
fore, of greater food value.
Much of the grain in chaff passes
through the digestive tract of a cow un-
changed. Hence chaff cut from hay
made from ripened corn has a greatly-
reduced nutritive value.
However, bad weather or prospect of
an unprofitable grain yield may force
a farmer to cut his crop for hay rather
than have a loss. In this case, there
must be a larger percentage of grain in
the chaff than is really desirable.
The difficulty can be solved. There is
now a chaff-cutting which separates
the grain from the chaff, and passes it
through a crushing mill before returning
it to the chaff. This enables more econo-
mical use to be made from chaff contain-
ing well-developed grain.
The best stage for cutting oats is when
the upper lips of the heads turn white.
The grain is fully formed, but in the
dough stage. The presence of grain in
oaten chaff is absolutely essential for
most markets, and the color should be
a nice purplish-green.
Some varieties, if cut too early, make a
hay that is bitter to the taste. Its acidity
must mean indigestibility—hence trouble.
Lucerne should be cut just after the
first flowers have appeared. Many
growers, however, prefer to watch the
crowns for the young shoots of the next
cut. Much more care must be given to
lucerne than to other hay crops. In the
latter cases, loss is chiefly due to de-
terioration in digestibility. With lucerne,
leaving it too long before cutting means
actual loss of weight in hay; also,
poorer growth in succeeding crop.
“G. Trotter”: Before anybody is
tempted to start date - growing, in
response to the urgings of enthusiasts,
it might be as well to study the history
of the industry in California and other
south-western States of U.S.A. Possibly
the industry has learned by experience
and is now payable ; but when I visited
the place some years ago I found more
people had been ruined by trying to
grow dates than by trying to grow
chickens —and that’s saying a lot. Dates
already growing in parts of Australia are
said to be as good eating as any that
Irak ever produced. But it is a different
thing to grow a date-palm in a garden
and consume the fruit than to grow
some hundreds as a commercial pro-
position.
“Kirk”; My experience is that cows
will eat sow-thistles if feed is short, but
not if there are grass and clover about.
Horses are particularly fond of them,
and owners of stallions are always on
the lookout for them when getting
the animals up for stud. In my
district in Tasmania, sow-thistles arc
now regarded as a valuable vege-
table, cooked as spinach,
“S.T.S.”: An official inspection of the
mallee country, once ungratefully known
as “the 90-mile desert,” in S.A., west
from the Vic. border along the Mel-
bourne-to-Adelaide railway line, brings a
“surprised and delighted” verdict from
Dr. Callaghan, head of Roseworthy Agri-
cultural College. “Possibilities of de-
velopment remarkable. Tens of thou-
sands of acres capable of pasture pro-
duction.” But “to attempt it without
liberal use of superphosphates is only
courting failure.” -
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.L.G.: There’s not a thought in the
whole batch that hasn’t been expressed better
scores of times Bullocky:
Too many Parliaments I think
They are always in a muddle
And when they have all had their say
It’s nothing but a Chinese Puzzle.
It may not be poetry, but it gets pretty close
to facts... .P.Q.: None suitable... .F.H.H.:
It fades away towards the end... .E.G.: Nicely
done for one so young, and shows promise;
keep writing—it won’t do you any harm —and
read avidly. The short stories appearing in
The Bulletin will give you a line on what we
want... .A.S.: Hindu-hawker incident too
slight G.W.S.: That bookie is using your
MS. as a spill to light his two cigars A.G.:
That unreal type of melodrama died an un-
honored death in the grey ’nineties... .G.M.:
About as satisfying as ginger-pop at a pub-
keepers’ picnic... .L.M.8.: Not badly done,
but that Nat Gouldish stuff is as dead as
minnie g01f.,. .H.J.F.: Interesting, but not
suitable for us; you should have no difficulty
in unloading it on a Sunday paper... .V.J.:
Quite unconvincing J.D.H.: Description
of crossing the Line might cause a
little mild amusement if retailed snappily
by the curate DJ.: Penny-dreadful stuff'.
. ...V.M.: It is facetious without being funny.
C.L.; Missed by a small margin....
R. McC.: Too slight... .N.K.: Both pieces
warranted a second reading, but neither sur-
vived it D.H.: Your measures trip pleas-
antly along old tracks S.W.G.E.; “Home”
is an echo of one of Pope’s boyhood pieces;
“Exile” unsuited for Australian paper
P.S.: Most great poets could write as well as
that at 15, but all who wrote like that at 15
didn’t become great poets. Only advice we
can offer is to keep at it and submit more in
a couple of years’ time... .5.A.C.8.: The
verses march along with a swinging gait, but
the sentiments expressed are very trite....
A.P.C.:' When we got to the part where the
poisoned dog said to himself, “I must get to
my master and awaken him; he will drive
away these terrible pains with those strong,
tender hands! ” we burst into tears and were
unable to continue... .Firham: It seems rather
personal... .G.McF.: No grub-money for
“Kindhearted J0e”.... J.0.R.: Where on
earth do you live? We were under the impres-
sion that “musical evenings” as a form ’of
entertainment went out with harem skirts....
P.C.: That radio stunt has been worked to
death... .P.K.: Flat as last night’s beer....
M.J.K.: “Homeward Bound” was a really
apposite title F.L.S.:
Imagine how the soul with anguish writhes
At seeing someone eating peas off knives.
The rhyme is equally excruciating J.E.M.:
Cannot undertake to reply to would-be con-
tributors by post. Your verses have no merit
except that which attaches to unconscious ludi-
crousness... .S.C.; Pen-picture of bushmen
who
Spend their leisure squashing
Their physiques with warm beer
flatly rejected... .E.V.: Vivid enough, but
what an unsatisfying ending to a balcony
idyll!... .C.W.C.: You rhyme ill and express
yourself in sadly-involved terms... .M.L.: You
handle both rhyme and metre so capably that
vou ought to do very much better. The
“Ginger Mick” stuff is not a good choice;
it is liable to seem too much like an echo
of the original... .D.O’D.: Far from being “of
a suitable nature” R.W.S.: It is a nice
point whether your ignorance of rhyme or
metre is the more profound... .R.Z.: You
rhyme creditably enough, but your lady is
such a shadowy figure that we don’t know what
to make of her, and we can only speculate
as to what happened to her.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) '
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.T.: Bad as well as late W.M.S.:
Learn a little about art before you begin
bombarding editors... .N.R.H.: You sent us
six drawings and six drawings went back. Had
it been 60, the result would have been the
same....A.F.: The same old complaint—
wooden drawing and mirthless jest .E.S.:
Go to Taronga Park and have a good look at
a kangaroo... .M.R.W.: Cartoon on the back-
less-bathing-costume controversy rejected....
G.H.: If you must draw, use suitable draw-
ing paper and a pen that doesn’t splutter....
W.C.8.; You don’t seem to know the differ-
ence between the shape of a man and that of
a gatepost.... P.T.: A tame jest tagged on to
a fearful array of scratches... .M.K.; Crayon
sketches on 4in. by 2in. slips of paper are
not required J.L.L.: Topic (and drawing)
dead... .C.M.: Art is original in a slapdash
fashion, but the jests are millstones... .A.D.:
Don’t offer us any more until you have spent
a few years in serious study... .H.D.S.: It isn’t
a drawing—it is just the scaffolding for one.
. ...K.L.: Four paralysed grown-ups gazing
vacantly at a small boy with a bloated head.
CJ.P.: Not utterly hopeless, but not
nearly good enough J.J.: Forced humor
and a drawing that appears to be a left-over
from the Stone Age R.D.: Sketches with
labels and signposts stand a poor chance....
F.T.W.: Person caricatured not sufficiently
well known outside his own city... .5.8.:
This paper would soon cease to be “valuable”
if it published drawings like yours... .G.H.8.:
Don’t remember previous efforts... .J.A.F.:
Unprintable as most smoking-room stories
R. 8.: If it was taken from life you’ve con-
cealed the fact smartly L.S.: No helping
hand available; we can only extend the yawn-
ing w.p.b W.A.C.: Have never seen an
Australian swaggie dressed like that N.W.:
Sorry, but the sketch didn’t earn you “a bit
of extra spending money for Christmas.”


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 .GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and. Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families;'
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m, (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DiRECTons —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ' ’
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading- Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bang offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young lady (24), Sydney, wants position as
senior typist and telephonist in city office
9676.
Refined young lady (N.S.W.) desires posi-
tion as governess, tutor correspondence system,
no music, lend helping hand in home, Inverell
or north N. S. Wales preferred.—9723.
Lady, Sydney, typist, own machine, wants
typing work. Used to handling manuscripts,
neat and accurate. —9736.
Clerk and salesman, Sydney, married, exp.
men’s wear, wants position.—973B.
North Queensland domestic machinery sup-
plier wants to get in touch with manufacturers
and importers of electric refrigerators, washing-
machines, electric fans and vacuum-cleaners.—
9698.
1 o buy, cheap, “Sydney Morning Herald”
Indexes, Nos. 1 to 16, or will exchange books
for same.—974o.
To buy, second-hand, Sailor Town, by Paul
F0x.—9737.
To buy Einstein’s The World as I See It.
—9666.
lo buy tenor banjo solos by Harry Reser.
—9650.
Will exchange 2jm. prismatic compass or
engineering books for stamp album and collec-
tion. —9688.
Hut, New England district (N.S.W.), partly
Jurnished, with books, offered rent free to
healthy and trustworthy pensioner fond of
bush life and gardening; a little gold-fossicking
is obtainable, —9724.
Information Sought.
(1) Prospects of a wireless career for a boy?
(2) Educational qualifications ? (3) Where can
instruction be obtained? (4) Cost of tuition
and duration of course ? (5) Suitable age to
start ? —9649.
(1) Depends upon the branch of wireless
lie takes up, whether operator, technician,
serviceman or radio-engineer. Prospects of
employment are very fair for the right type
of lad. (2) Intermediate certificate or its
equivalent is helpful, but not essential. (3)
Marconi School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-
street, Sydney. (4) From £lO to 150 guineas;
Irom five months to five years, depending
upon the course of instruction taken. (5)
About 16 years.
* * * *
Number of broadcast listeners’ licenses in
Australia at the end of each year since 1928?
—9680.
1928, 288,125; 1929, 309,440; 1930, 328,749;
1931, 336,888; 1932, 418,245; 1933, 517,492;
1934, 678,856; 1935 (Sept. 30), 743,137.
* * * *
What are (1) the largest and (2) the wealthiest
■ trade-unions in N. S. Wales ? —9696.
(1) The largest individual union is the N.S.W.
branch Australian Railways Union, which had
a membership of 16,653 at December 31, 1933.
Next in order are the Federated Ironworkers’
Association of Australia, N.S.W. division,
12,525; Amalgamated Clothing Trades Union,
N.S.W. branch, 9353 ; Colliery Employees’ Fed-
eration, northern districts, N.S.W., 9147;
Amalgamated Timber Workers’ Union, N.S.W.
branch, 7525; Amalgamated Engineering
Union, 7404; Municipal and Shire Employees,
7255; and Public Service Association of
N.S.W., 6978. (2) The wealthiest unions in
respect to total funds are the Colliery Em-
ployees’ (Northern) Union, £38,903 ; the Print-
ing Industry Employees, £26,184; Public School
Teachers, £24,847; and the Institute of Marine
and Power Engineers, £20,572.
* * * *
For what term were members of the recon-
stituted N.S.W. Leg. Council elected at the first
election? What terms will future members
elected serve ? —9686.
On April 23, 1934, four separate ballots were
taken, and in each 15 members were elected.
The term of service is 12 years in the case of
the 15 first elected, and nine, six and three
years respectively for each successive group.
Thereafter one-fourth of the members are to
be elected every three years at an election to
take place in the six months immediately pre-
ceding. the retirement of the 15 members whose
term is ending. Members returned at these
elections will serve for 12 years. Members
elected to fill casual vacancies will serve only
for the remainder of the term of the vacant
seat.
* * * *
What is the official name of the co. that
controls the Suez Canal ? (2) What is its capi-
tal, and to what extent is Great Britain inter-
ested in its control ? (3) Is the canal ex-
empted from blockade ? (4) What dividends
are paid per share? —9slB.
(1) Compagnie Universelle du Canal Mari-
time de Suez. (2) Capital is 200,000,000 francs
in 800,000 shares of 250 francs each. The
British Government acquired from the Khedive
in 1875 a total of 176,602 shares (cost,
£4,000,000; value, Mar. 31, 1934, £88,570.241),
Ten of the 32 members of the Council of
Administration are British. (3) By a conven-
tion signed on October 29, 1888, the canal was
exempted from blockade, and vessels of all
nations, whether armed or not, were given the
right to pass through it in peace or war. (4)
Net dividends for 1933 amounted on the ordi-
nary shares to 387 fr. 70c. (437 fr. 20c. au nomi-
natif), and on the Actions de Jouissance to
34fr. 91c. (38fr. 80c. au nominatif).
* * * *
What Australians were knighted last New
Year’s Day and last King’s Birthday ?—' 9597.
At the New Year a K.C.M.G. was awarded
to Prof. A. C. D. Rivett, Melbourne, and
Ernest Riddle, Colin Frazer, Raphael Cilento,
Harry Budge and Colin Stephen became knights
bachelor. Birthday honors included a G.C.M.G.
to John Latham, a K.C.M.G. to George
Ritchie, and a K.C.B. to Maj.-General Julius
Bruche, while Lavington Bonython, Thomas
Buckland, Alfred Parker, John McLaren, Harry
Moxham, Frederick Stewart, Frederick Tout,
Ernest Wreford and William McArthur became
knights bachelor.
* * * *
Are courses in foreign languages taught by
means of gramophone records obtainable in
Australia ? If so, where are records obtain-
able ? —9560.
A complete course for the learning of collo-
quial French, compiled by M. Stephan, senior
lecturer in French, University College, London,
is included in the H.M.V. catalogue, and is
obtainable from Nicholson’s or Paling’s, Sydney;
the course comprises 15 double-sided records,
priced at 6s. per record, and is accompanied
by a textbook and key-book. Various other
records of conversational French are obtain-
able singly. Courses in French, German or
Italian, priced at 225., consisting of three
records and two booklets, may be obtained
from Paling’s.
* * * ♦
During the Russo-Japanese War, the Russian
Fleet fired on some British fishing-boats in the
North Sea. (1) Were any British warships
present on the occasion ? (2) Were there any
Japanese warships, or any ship flying the
Japanese flag, in the vicinity? (3) What time
of day did it occur? (4) Did the British Gov-
ernment detain the Russian Fleet as a result,
and, if so, for how long ? (5) How long after
this, incident was the Russian Fleet sunk by the
Japanese ? —9447.
(1), (2), (3) and (4) The Dogger Bank inci-
dent (the skipper and third hand of one
boat were killed, several others seriously
wounded and a boat sunk) occurred about mid-
night, Oct. 21-22, 1904; a daylight attack was
also made on a trawler at about 7 o’clock on
the following morning. There were no British
or Japanese warships, or indeed any other craft
whatever near the scene on the occasion; it
was necessary to establish this beyond all doubt,
as the Russian admiral ’ swore: he had fired at
torpedo-boats that had attempted to attack him.
The Russian Fleet continued on its way, mak-
ing no attempt to render assistance to the vic-
tims; but, as the result of strong representa-
tions by the British Government, it was de-
tained by the Russian Government at Vigo,
in Spain, for some days, while inquiries were
made. An International Commission ordered
the Russian Government to pay £65,000 com-
pensation to the victims. (5) The Battle of
Tshushima, in which Admiral Rozhdestvensky
was defeated by the Japanese Fleet under
Admiral Togo, took place on May 27 and 28,
1905.
* * * *
What attempts were made to regulate cur-
rency in Tasmania when it became a separate
colony ? —9747.
In 1825, when Tasmania became a separate
colony, it encountered the same trouble with
paper currency and the fluctuating values of
the Spanish dollar as did N. S. Wales. On
Sept. 2, 1835, a local Act made the sicca rupee
legal tender at 25., but this Act was disallowed
by the Imperial Government. The South
American dollar (which took the place of the
Spanish dollar after the revolt of the Spanish
colonies in America) was legalised in 1834 at
4s. 4d.; the banks refused to regard the new
coins as legal tender, and an Act of Nov. 28,
1838, legalised them. In 1842 another Act
demonetised them again, and they gradually
disappeared from the currency. Gold coins of
the Sydney Mint were declared legal tender on
Oct. 18, 1854, and those of the Melbourne
Mint on August 7, 1869. The only other
official decree affecting the currency of Tas-
mania was a proclamation on Oct. 11, 1875,
whereby the old British copper coins were de-
monetised and British bronze coins were de-
clared legal tender.
* * * *
What happened to William Lane, founder
of the New Australia colony, after he left
Paraguay ? —9750.
He went to Maoriland, where he joined the
staff of the “New Zealand Herald” as a leader-
writer. In a few months he resigned this posi-
tion in order to re-establish the Sydney
“Worker,” but his Imperialist views, especially
on the issue of the South African War, proved
unacceptable to his associates. He therefore,
in 1900, returned to the staff of the “Herald,”
and became editor of the paper in October,
1913, retaining that position till his death.
During his connection with the “Herald” he
wrote, under the pen-name “Tohunga,” weekly
articles, many of which have been collected
and published in book form. He also inter-
ested himself in defence policies, and was
chiefly responsible for the organisation of the
National Defence League in 1906. On the
outbreak of the war he associated himself with
the Auckland Soldiers’ Club. He died on
August 26, 1917, aged 56.
Some particulars of the life of Andrew Car-
negie and how he amassed his great fortune ?
—9573.
He was bora on November 25, 1835, in
Dumfermline, Scotland, and in, 1848 emigrated
with his parents to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
He entered the service of the Ohio Telegraph
Co., where he learned telegraphy; became an
operator on the Pennsylvania Railway, was
promoted to be secretary to the superintendent,
and in 1860 became superintendent of the
Pittsburg division of the railroad, a position
he held until shortly after the Civil War.
In 1854 he first began cautious investing,
acquiring among other purchases stock in the
Woodruff Sleeping Car Co., whose products
he induced the Pennsylvania Co. to adopt. On
the discovery of oil in Pennsylvania he in-
vested all his savings in oil lands, which re-
turned him a large profit. Later he founded
the Union Mills, Pittsburg, for the manufac-
ture of steel rails, a venture which later grew
into the largest steel and iron works in the
world. In 1901 the entire Carnegie enterprise
was taken over by the U.S. Steel Corporation,
the founder retiring but retaining a large inter-
est. He died August 11, 1919. During his
lifetime his benefactions amounted to
£70,000,000, including approximately £300,000
for the building of the Peace Palace at The
Hague, and endowments for the furtherance of
international peace, the advancement of educa-
tion and of science and a fund for the re-
warding of heroism.
* * * *
0) When was the Diesel engine invented?
(2) Inventor’s name ? (3) Principle of opera-
tion ?— 9726.
(1) About 1895. (2) Rudolph Diesel. (3)
Air is introduced into the cylinder during the
compression stroke, the pressure being raised
to about 5001 b. per sq. in. Oil is now injected
into the cylinder in a fine state of subdivision
by means of an external air supply at a pres-
sure of, roughly, 6501 b. per sq. in. The oil
burns as quickly as it enters without the need
of any ignition device, as the air inside the
cylinder is already at about lOOOdeg. Fahr. owing
to its high compression. As the combustion
ol the oil takes place gradually during the
early portion of the working stroke, the pres-
sure never exceeds that attained at the end of
the compression but remains almost constant
until the supply of oil is cut off, after which
expansion proceeds in the usual way. During
the remaining two strokes the burnt products
are expelled and a fresh charge drawn in, ready
lor the compression stroke which follows.
**♦ * -
What is meant by (a) absolute pressure; (b)
absolute zero of temperature ? —9739.
(a) It is the pressure reckoned from a com-
plete vacuum. Pressure gauges in common use
indicate the pressure, in pounds per sq. in.
above atmospheric, which is 14.71 b. at sea-
level. To convert gauge pressure to absolute
pressure, add 14.7 to the gauge reading, (6) It
is the point at which molecules lose all motion,
or the temperature at which there is an entire
absence of all heat. This temperature has not
been reached, but is assumed to be 459.6 deg.
below the Fahrenheit zero, or 273.15 deg.
below the Centigrade zero. The lowest tempera-
ture ever attained by laboratory experiment
was o.B2deg. Centigrade above absolute zero,
reached in 1921 at Leiden Uni. by Kamerling
Onnes.
* * * *
What is Ohm’s law, in simple, non-technical
language ? —9735.
Ohm’s law states that the current flowing
in an electrical circuit increases proportionally
as the voltage applied to that circuit, and de-
creases as the resistance of the circuit is in-
creased. For example, an E.M.F. of 12 volts is
applied to a circuit having a resistance of three
ohms. The current flowing through the cir-
cuit will be equal to 12 over 3, or four amperes.
If the resistance be doubled the current will be
halved, i.e., two amperes, but if the voltage be
doubled the current will rise to eight amperes.
* * * *
Did Beethoven write more than 32 sonatas
for pianoforte ? If so, what has become of
the others ? —9691.
In all, Beethoven wrote 54 sonatas for piano-
forte. Of these the 32 included in all modern
“complete” editions are for pianoforte solo.
Also for pianoforte solo are a group of three
sonatas (inscribed by Beethoven “My first
work”) now known as No. 161, and another,
No. 162, which was left incomplete, and to
which F. Ries added a third movement. For
pianoforte duet there is Op. 6. These five,
though all were published, are now out of
print. In addition, there are six sonatas for
pianoforte and ’cello and 11 for pianoforte
and violin, all still listed by leading publishers
of the classics. The sonatas Op. 49, Nos. 1
and 2, included in the “complete” edition are
really sonatinas, and were included with the
sonatas by Beethoven’s brother Kaspar against
the composer’s wishes.
* * * *
Simple method of smoothing and polishing
Australian hardwoods? —9581.
Smooth with plane, scraper or rasp and
sandpaper, depending on nature of surface.
Finish by giving a light coat of raw linseed
oil followed by French polish. If a lighter
finish is desired, use bleached shellac in place
of button shellac.
* * * *
(1) Where was Robert Burns born ? (2) The
name of his nearest living relation; also age
and address ? (3) What was the name of the
last poem Burns wrote? —9017.
At Alloway, about two miles from the village
of Ayr, Ayrshire, on Jan. 25, 1759. (2) Mrs.
Annie Vincent Burns-Scott, of Largs Bay
(S.A.); she is over 80. (3) The song “Fairest
Maid on Devon Banks,” which was included
in a letter from Brow written to Burns’s friend
George Thomson on July 12, 1796. In the
letter Burns mentions his ill-health. He
died nine days later.
* * * ♦
Average rise and fall of ordinary and spring
tides, and highest tide registered at Port Hunter
C N.S.W .) ? —9722.
The average rise and fall of ordinary tides
is 3ft. 3in., and of spring tides sft. 4|in., the
greatest range being 6ft. Sin. The highest tide
registered was 7ft. 4in. in May, 1898.
Brief Answers.
M.C.A- telescope is a higher power than a
field-glass, but has a smaller field of view.
The- average relative powers are 35 diameters
telescope against eight diameters of prismatic
fieid-giass. A telescope is better adapted for
viewing objects at long distances and where a
small object is to be viewed, such as reading
names of steamers, signal-flags, or rifle-range
spotting....E.A.G.: (1) Yes. (2) It would be
dutiable. (3) Either could withdraw the whole
in anticipation of death of the other. (4)
Estates of deceased persons where the property
passes to persons other than a widow, children
and grandchildren are not dutiable in N.S.W.
up to £2OO. Where estate passes to a widow and
children no duty is payable up to £5OO. From
over £2OO the rates range from li p.c. to 10
pc. as the estate increases in value. An
“additional duty” of 21 p.c. applies to these
rates. (5) Not aware of any handbook for
laymen.... R.C.; He may cut off the tres-
passing limbs or branches and throw them
over the fence on to the owners propeity....
A. : Write Australian Fertilisers, Port
Kembia, and Sulphide Corporation, Cockle
Creek—both N.S.W G.C.C.: The sample
of material has been identified as paraffin wax,
which bears no resemblance to ambergris. The
price of ambergris varies from a few shillings
to £2 per ounce, according to quality....
F.A.M.: Form of application can be obtained
from the Deputy-Director, Navigation and
Lighthouse Services, Customs House, Sydney.
In all cases preference is given to returned
soldiers and sailors with the necessary signal-
ling qualifications and boating experience....
W.T.S.: The name of the co. is Imperial
Chemical Industries of Australia and N.Z.,
Ltd., and its address is 380 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Adelaide agents are Elder, Smith and
Co., Currie-street... .M.T.: Cannot say
how many times a racquet is used by top-
notch players S.J.W.: Candidates for entry
to the R.A. Naval College must attain 13 in
the calendar year during which the entrance
examination which they apply to take is held.
Particulars are obtainable from the Secretary,
Naval Board, Victoria Barracks, St. Kilda-road,
Melbourne.. . .J.G.F.: Sales of milk, butter,
wool (not scoured), cattle or other livestock
produced in Australia are not subject to sales
tax....H.W.: Beverley Nichols was born in
1898. Address —14 Ovington-street, London,
5.W.3 W.J.A.; “lolanthe” was first pro-
duced at the Savoy Theatre, London, on
November 25, 1882... .A.P.S.: “Burrogooroo”
is a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning sea beach.
. ...V.L.K.: Where it is proposed to change
a name the usual course is to have a deed
poll drawn up by a solicitor and registered
with the Registrar-General of the State in
which the proponent resides. Cost is not
great... .A.L.8.: It is generally accepted that
height can be increased by exercise; you should
join a physical-culture class. Junctions of the
long bones are involved in growth changes up
to 20 or so; their subsequent fusion renders
further growth impossible. To some extent
growth is influenced by the presence of requisite
vitamins in the food; a varied diet, with green-
leaf vegetables and fruit, is indicated. Mean-
while, any disturbance of the ductless glands
(thyroid and pituitary) demands attention....
B. (1) and (2) Yes. (3) Curtis Brown
and Co., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden,
London... .S.W.S.; Get in touch with Angus
and Robertson or Dymock’s—both Sydney
S.F.M.: Write Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Department, Macquarie-street,
Sydney... .0.H.0.: Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Department, Sydney, will send you
a pamphlet on the subject E.J.P.: If the
device is all that you claim it is, you should
patent it. Consult a patent attorney... .A.C.:
Write J. K. Mills and Sons, 222 Clarence-
street, Sydney... J.C.8.; Brewarrina, “Times
and Barwon River Gazette”; Walgett,
“Spectator”; Charleville, “Charleville Times”;
Cunnamulla, “Cunnamulla Times”; Longreach,
“Longreach Leader”; Roma, “Western Star
and Roma Advocate” A. 8.; The proceeds
of the sale of property outside Australia would
not be subject to either Federal or State taxa-
tion unless the taxpayer carried on the busi-
ness of buying and selling properties, when
profit would be subject to Federal tax....
E.A.8.: Cannot obtain any information in
Sydney. Best plan would be to make inquiries
m Switzerland and Germany H.R.: Paul
Muni was born at Lemberg, Austria, on
October 14, 1895, and went to America at an
early age. He made his first appearance on
the stage in the Yiddish Theatre stock co. in
I')?."',. York in 1908, and remained on the
Yiddish stage until 1926. He made his first
appearance in an English-speaking part at the
Eltmee Theatre, October 12, 1926, as Morris
Levine in “We Americans” C.L.J.: All
such jobs on overseas steamers are filled in
England, and applicants must apply personally
there. Can trace no coastal vessel that
employs a nursery hostess... ;8.R.: (1) Write
Copyright Office, Brisbane. (2) Get in touch
with W. H. Paling and Co., 338 George-street,
Sydney....F.B.: High Cross was scratched
from the 1935 Melbourne Cup at 12.20 p.m.
on November 5 W.J.8.: The lease (Con-
veyancing Act, 1919) need not necessarily be
drawn up by a solicitor, but it would be wise
to have the document in the usual form, in-
cluding the customary covenants. A loose
agreement such as you refer to exposes you
to risks... .M.J.D.: Not quite clear. If both
gates are on a surveyed road and the public
is entitled to use it you cannot exclude people
irom so doing by anything in the nature of
a permanent obstruction. A letter to the local
Land Board might help... .C.A.C.: Cannot
recommend any particular firm or solicitor.
You should, in the first instance, write to
u j or calling attention to his overdue
indebtedness and saying that, if a satisfactory
adjustment is not come to within a time fixed
by you, you will place the matter in the hands
of a solicitor. At the same time write to a
solicitor in the township most convenient ask-
ing him for his terms and conditions for the
collection of outstanding debts. There is no
fixed charge; it is a matter of arrangement
(Many others mailed.)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
if
.ipHliii
HpS 111
|8
!!1
llfifii
Hill
M
ml
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
ẁ
ẃ
Some Little-known Facts About
Abyssinia.
Abyssinia is the only country in the
world which has beardless goats. Origi-
nally they were bearded, as elsewhere,
but considerable confusion existed in dis-
tinguishing the goats from the hirsute
inhabitants, especially in the rainy
season, when the heavy mists rendered
the visibility poor. Men were constantly
being speared in mistake for goats, and
the high mortality was interfering with
the slave industry, so the problem was
taken to Solomon by the Queen of
Sheba. That wizard of wisdom ordered
the breeders to cross the goatus ordinaire
with the badger, which is beardless. Thus
was evolved the present bare-chinned
type.
The country’s chief drink is bousa, a
beer made from fermented cakes. This
is indicative of the superior mentality of
the Abyssinian as compared with whites.
Whereas the latter toss the results of
their wives’ inferior cooking to the fowls,
thus causing roup, etc., the more en-
lightened • Ethiopian makes beer of it.
The drink is “hard,” and the pronuncia-
tion of the letter “s” in the word is
therefore similar. An addict is termed
“Any additional orders for next year ?”
ẅ
Indoor Sports.
“Practically any sport can now be played
indoors.” —“ Telegraph.”
Bowls is one of the most popular.
Most wives bowl their husbands out
several times a day. This is not cricket.
Then there are draughts in almost every
house, especially rented ones. Although
golf is really not an indoor sport, the
language is often heard in the home, and,
after all, that is the main thing."
Ced.
“After the Scotchman had been lunched by
his friend, he determined to return the hospi-
tality.”—“Sun.”
With a counter-lunch?
+ 4*
“Monkey glands can make an old man feel
young and virile again.” —News Hem.
The glands of hope and glory.
Quits.
So you have gone. Well, there’s no sense
In feigning care or shamming grief.
Your love for me was mere pretence,
And mine for you just make-belief.
We wrangled, dear, incessantly;
We argued morning, noon and night;
Those things which looked jet-black to
me
In your regard were virgin-white.
Don’t think your going makes me blue —
Reject that notion as absurd —
I simply pen these lines to you
To gain, for once, the final word I
P. O. M. C.
Santa Comes to Sydney.
w
D. MCM.
Strange Music.
“A scientist is developing an instrument for
magnifying sound by which, he believes, he
can record the ‘song’ of the growing grass.”
— “Sun.”
I have anticipated this scientist. The
other morning I heard a pumpkin sing.
I had just arrived home with the dawn,
and was about to face Maria when it
happened.
Yes, undoubtedly it was singing “La
Donna e Mobile.” And then suddenly
a stately cabbage took up the harmony
and burst into song. She was joined by
a vegetable marrow. Shortly I became
aware that she was singing the part of
Mimi in “II Trovatore” —or-something
like that. . I’m not very good on this
operatic stuff. Soon the whole garden
was singing. The peas and beans seemed
to favor the heavy Wagnerian stuff: the
pumpkin definitely liked the music of
Puccini.
I listened amazed. Then I got up from
the doorstep where I’d been sitting. Here
was a wonder to stay Maria’s tongue.
I told her all about it, inviting her to
get up and listen-in.
“You’re drunk, Aitchem!” she said.
“Get to bed.”
Women are unimaginative creatures.
She refused me the chance of pfoving
my statements; anyway, the music I
had to face would have drowned any
sounds the vegetables were making.
Instead of being honored as a man
who was witness to an unusual pheno-
menon, I have to listen to scornful re-
marks such as “Drunk! I should say
he was drunk! Why, he said he heard
a pumpkin sing!”
That shows what sort of a world it is.
H. M.
Lost Opportunity.
She stared thoughtfully into the fire,
a bitter smile twisting her lips.
Only for two weeks had she been a
wife, but already she was convinced that
she had married the wrong man!
Her fancy wandered back to her girl-
hood, and she remembered, with a stab
of regret, how her mother had always
advised her against marrying for wealth.
She thought of the time when she had
vacillated between her two suitors, Joe
and Godfrey. She had been passionately
in love with Joe, the poor freelance jour-
ẁ
NAT.
Christmas Dream.
Last night I had a dream. I dreamt
it was Christmas morning and I was
examining my presents. Instead of get-
ting back the ties I gave away last year,
I received several things that were just
what I had been wanting.
A reading-lamp that fitted in just the
right position over my bed and adjusted
itself automatically as I turned from
side to side on the pillow. A
razor that was always sharp, a shaving-
brush that did not shed its bristles, a
corn-cure that really cured and a dress-tie
that tied itself, and, what is more im-
portant, untied itself in a fraction of a
second, no matter what hour its wearer
arrived home.
An alarm-clock that woke one gently, a
pair of slippers that would go on either
foot without losing shape, and collar-
studs and sleeve-links that slipped into
place so simply and easily they were a
pleasure to manipulate.
In burst my Uncle Timothy.
“Thank you, my boy. Just what I
wanted,” he greeted me. He was puffing
an expensive new briar with obvious
relish. “Splendid,” he continued ; “much
better than those blasted socks you
usually give me.”
Uncle Peter was the next. He was
well-nigh hysterical with excitement. In
his hand was a small specimen-case con-
taining a purple, green and orange butter-
fly. The case was labelled “Best Wishes
from Jasby.”
“Where did you get it? Where did
you get it?” he was shouting. “The speci-
men I’ve been after for years!”
Aunt Agatha pushed him aside.
“Never mind your silly old moth,” she
said. “Let me thank the dear boy for
this gorgeous dress.”
Aunt Agatha is 60, and the frock
would have looked slightly daring on a
girl of 21. Bewildered, I accepted the
thanks.
Everyone else in the house was in simi-
lar stale. My sister had received (ap-
parently from me) a baby grand and a
set of new curtains, and my two little
nephews were out in the garden gazing
in awe and bewilderment at a' Rolls-
Royce motor-car, two Imperial Airways
’planes, a steam-roller, a fire-engine and
two live elephants.
“Let’s see what granny got,” said
someone. We went into her room. Gran
is 87, and was born in County Tipperary.
She was sitting up in bed puffing at a
clay pipe.
“Thank ye, Jasby darlint,” she said.
“Shure, an’ it’s phwat I’ve not tasted in
forty years.”
“Oh, throw that old thing away, gran,”
said my sister. “Have some of these
nice chocolates.”
“Shure an’ I won’t,” replied granny.
“The dear ould clay. It takes me back
across the years. Just loike a drame”
And a dream it was!
I woke up. It was Christmas morn-
ing. I looked at the table beside my bed.
Last year’s ties had come back as usual.
Uncle Timothy entered.
“Merry Christmas,” he grunted,
“S’pose I’d better thank you for the
socks.”
JASBY.
To Arms!
Diana was a lonely fair
And Joe a lonely boy.
Diana thought, “If we could pair,
The net result were joy.”
So once, when by her door he came,
She rolled her eyes at Joe.
Now, faithful to her classic name,
Diana has a beau.
T. W. N.


LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORT WORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small high-
pressure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
ŵ
a
\
60'-
less Gauge
sj m extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ u/ith a
REWRITE
aUADFUJ PL€
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative :
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
England.
“SILVER
EDGE”
RfuAaitbi,
TRADE v MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS!
SAVE MONEY!
'T'HERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
A does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Y° ur safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS ”
RAYBES TOS-B BLACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
FRONT-END GEOMETRY.
ERRORS IN ADJUSTMENT COSTLY.
BY FRED BERRY.
PNRIVERS of modern cars who find* their steering erratic or
■ L-/ tyre wear excessive can, with certainty, attribute the blame
to errors in front-end alignment, for the slightest deviation from
makers’ specification will result in squealing noises when corner-
ing, and, what are equally important, a loss of efficiency and an
increase in operating costs.
Motorists using the old-type high-
pressure tyres had few complications to
contend with, but the position has been
entirely altered by the introduction of
four-wheel braking systems, with the
attendant gear, heavier wheels, larger-
section tyres and wide rims. Where it
would be possible for drivers of old-type
cars to carry on without concern, even
though front-end running-gear might
be hopelessly astray, owing to a bent axle
or the like, the position to-day is such
that, unless the setting of the axle, to-
gether with toe-in and camber of front
wheels and king-pin inclination, is exact,
the car will wander. Immediately there
is such a deviation from a straight course
the tyres will squeal as the car is
turned on either lock.
When low-pressure tyres were first
fitted as standard equipment motorists
were immediately impressed with their
improved riding qualities and generally
longer life, but coincident with these
advantages came troubles, wheel-shimmy,
steering-patter, feather-edge wear and
squealing on corners being most trouble-
some.
Mechanics, garages, service stations
and factory representatives did what they
could, but rectification of defects was
rare, and could seldom be repeated in
another car of similar make. It was
General Motors that established a
research department with the specific
object of eliminating all errors in front-
end geometry by precision methods.
Prior to the use of the low-pressure
tyre there was no serious difficulty in
maintaining front-end alignment. When
excessive tyre wear was caused by in-
correctly aligned wheels the wear was
usually spread evenly over the face of
the tyre, and, unless a distinct “feather-
edge” or other extraordinary symptom
developed, the abrasion was either taken
as a matter of course or blamed on
inferior rubber. If mechanical adjust-
ment seemed desirable, it was usually
confined to the tie-rod, with the object
of altering toe-in.
When low-pressure tyres were adopted
as standard equipment numerous un-
known troubles developed, including
cupping, gouging, spotting and shearing
of front tyres, usually accompanied by
wheel-shimmy and squealing on corners.
It is now recognised that the remedy
for these ills lies in the correct mechani-
cal adjustment of front-axle assembly,
for the low-pressure tyre, when placed on
wheels having the same camber, toe-in
and caster as that used with high-
pressure tyres, did not give satisfactory
results. Possessors of old-model cars
should recognise these limitations when
considering changing over to modern
equipment.
The modern front-axle assembly, as
a result of years of experiment, is so
aligned as to ensure wheels rolling
smoothly and safely over the roadway
at all speeds, and on curves as well
A simple plan of the four important factors in front-end geometry. (Prepared
by General Motors-Holden’s.)
as on straight stretches. “Front-end
geometry” is the trade nomenclature for
the whole of the series of alignments
concerned, and for the benefit of new
car-owners it may be explained that the
principal factors concerned are (1)
caster (the backward tilt, in degrees, of
axle and king pins); (2) camber (degrees
or inches of outward tilt at top of front
wheels); (3) king-pin inclination (measure-
ment in degrees of distance the king
pins are inclined towards centre of car);
(4) toe-out (the relative alignment of
front wheels when turning right or
left).
A car without caster (with king pins
vertical) would not be stable on the
road ; it would wander and veer from
the desired course at the slightest pro-
vocation. Simplest explanation of the
use of caster in wheels is to study the
behavior of a piece of household furni-
ture equipped with casters, and note its
behavior when moved. Provided the
centre line of the caster pivot pin and
the centre of tread of the roller are in
line with direction of travel, no effort is
required ; but the slightest deviation from
this setting will result in an erratic
course —and so it is with the car. King
pins are inclined backwards at the top
so that a line drawn through them would
strike the ground ahead of the centre of
contact of tyre tread. An analogy that
will be familiar to cyclists is the rake
on the front forks of a bicycle.
Unequal caster can be caused by un-
even spring setting or through twisting
of the front axle, the result being that
the car tends to pull either left or right,
the direction of “drag” being away from
the wheel with greater caster. In in-
stances where negative caster is found,
owing either to incorrect assembly or
mechanical damage, the car will turn
corners easily but will be difficult to
straighten up again, while on a straight
course it will “dive” left or right with-
out apparent reason.
Tilting the front wheels outward at the
top to give them “camber” is done for
the purpose of running the wheels in a
balanced condition on a short shaft (the
stub axle), with centre of weight coincid-
ing with, and supported only at, the
inner end—the outer bearings being used
only to take sideways thrust.
Although this setting proved success-
ful with high-pressure tyres, air wheels
have introduced certain complications,
resulting in modification of conventional
design. Excessive camber when using
larger-section tyres causes continuous
slipping of the tread on the road, owing
to the fact that each wheel attempts to
follow a path away from the line of
travel of the car. A steeply cambered
front wheel of very large tyre diameter
can be likened to part of a cone, and
logically any effort to roll it in a
straight path results in its attempting to
turn in a circle about the small end ;
hence the greater tyre wear in cases of
conversion from high- to low-pressure
tyres without at the same time adjusting
camber.
Modern design provides for only a
small camber—from one-half to one
degree—and indications are that this will
in the future be reduced to zero, the
cushioning action of larger-section tyres
being ample to absorb stresses provided
for by mechanical adjustment when high-
pressure equipment was in use.
Intimately connected with the setting
of caster and camber is king-pin inclina-
tion. For, whilst the fitting of vertical
king pins necessitates both caster and
camber when low-pressure tyres are
fitted, experiments have shown that by
inclining king pins from the vertical
both camber and caster can be reduced
without impairing steering qualities,
while the reduction means bigger tyre
mileages.
Just as the purpose of camber is to
give the front wheels such a setting that
they will be balanced and in a free-run-
ning position, so toe-in is used to reduce
road friction and provide light and
positive steering qualities. When first
examined it would seem that, since
wheels are pointed inwards when the car
is travelling on a straight course, there
must be a constant grinding of the tread
on the road. In effect, the outer side
of the tyre (due to camber) is of smaller
diameter than the inner, so a toe-in set-
ting is used to prevent one side creeping
ahead and constantly slipping back, and
the other side lagging behind and con-
stantly slipping forward. Consequently,
in adjusting defects in front-end
geometry it is essential to remember that
the greater the camber the greater the
toe-in necessary, and vice versa.
Assuming caster, camber, king-pin
inclination and toe-in are correctly ad-
justed, there is one further important
factor that requires attention—the toe-
out setting when turning. This is neces-
sary to conform to the Ackerman prin-
ciple of steering, adopted in all auto-
mobiles, wherein the inside wheel is


Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
5!
tarn
M
i
-.i-r,
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
P&per in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
iio matter where you travel, or what countries you
may go to, unquestionably the most convenient and
safest way to secure funds is by a Letter of Credit.
Letters of Credit issued by the National Bank of
Australasia Ltd. are honoured in every corner of the
world. We suggest that you visit our Travel Service
Department and let it arrange a Letter of Credit for you
before you start on your trip : also explain various other
details to you. You will find this assistance invaluable.
% NATIONAL BANK
of
m
Branches throughout Australia
1-12-36
Artistic Ornamental
CLOCKS
from
PIKE BROTHERS
w
Illustrated is an attractive round
design, made from Australian
fancy limber with original bark
retained on the outside and the
edging of the clock cavity highly
polished.
Clock has reliable movement and
makes an excellent gift.
Price: 17/6 and 25/-.
Other styles also available.
One Thousand Bright Ideas for
Christmas Gifts. Write for
special illustrated brochure.
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
“The House for Exclusive Christmas
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . > . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George St, Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World’s
Tales of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d.
toed-out further than the outside wheel
when cornering, for in describing a
circle the front wheels are, of course,
not on the same radius line.
Increased cone effect
in using smaller-
diameter tyres with
steeply - cambered
wheels.
The importance
of wheels being
in proper align-
ment can be
better realised
when it is known
that appr o x i-
mately 70 per
cent, of the car’s
travel is done
with wheels
turned more or
less from a
straight - ahead
position.
Adjustment is
made by altera-
tion of spindle
arms, and, pro-
vided it is exact
and front and
rear tracks are
parallel, front tyres may run to 30,000
miles.
Suppose this same car, with new front
tyres, was set to run in a right-hand
circle with improperly aligned spindle
arms ; in extreme cases the inside tyre
may be worn to
the fabric in a few
hundred miles, the
reason being that
in rounding a curve
the centrifugal force
throws the weight
of the car on the
outside wheel. The
car travels in a
curve governed
by the outside
wheel, and if the
inside wheel has
been turned be-
yond or short of
its proper position
it is forced into a
side-drag, so caus-
ing extremely rapid
wear. This condi-
tion is sometimes
so acute as to cause
Specially constructed machine for testing front-end geometry
and wheel alignment speedily and accurately.
a distinct squealing when rounding curves
at speed.
If now we decide to run this car on a
left-hand circle, the tyres may last thou-
sands of miles without showing abnor-
mal wear, and such circumstances ac-
count for cars wearing out one front
tyre twice as fast as the other, although
when tested in the usual way it is per-
fectly set for straight-ahead driving.
it follows, therefore, that when front-
tyre wear beyond normal is observed it
is useless to experiment to find a cure.
The only certain remedy is to visit a ser-
vice station equipped with specialised
gear, and have the job done positively
and thoroughly.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
R.O’B. (Windsor, N.S.W.). —The globe in the
tail-light of my car blew out recently, and I
was “booked” and fined. Is there any method
whereby one can tell whether the light is burn-
ing, short of looking into windows or getting
out of the car ?
A tell-tale light, located on the instrument
panel, can be placed in the wiring circuit. If
12-volt system, first trace out wire connecting
the tail-light globe to the lighting switch, taking
care not to confuse it with the stop-light globe.
Disconnect this wire from the switch and con-
nect to one lead of a length of twin flex, the
other lead going to the switch in place of the
one removed. If double-pole wiring is used, the
lead connecting the tail-light with the battery
can be broken instead of the switch lead, but
single-pole wiring with a permanent earth and
an extra holder must be fitted. With these
alterations made, a six-volt globe is placed in
tail-light and one of similar voltage in the
tell-tale holder. In six-volt circuit two four-
volt globes can be used, or, better still, four-
volt for tail-light and two-volt for tell-tale
light. Always carry a spare, as series wiring
will cause both globes to go out if one fails,
* , * * *
A.G. (Springhurst, Vic.). —My ’3O model
8-h.p. car is now too small for my require-
ments, and 1 propose lengthening the chassis
and fitting a roomier body. Is there any danger
in such a conversion ?
Lengthening the wheelbase will impose
stresses on the chassis for which it was not
designed, and additional cross-bracing may be
necessary. Furthermore, the propeller shaft
and brake rods will require lengthening. Great
care will be necessary with the propeller shaft,
as any alteration in length may introduce a
periodic vibration, leading eventually to serious
transmission trouble.
* * * *
N.J. (Nowra, N.S.W .). —My '34 model eight-
cylinder car, 16,000 miles, has been going well
until the last few days, when the synchromesh
change between top and second has ceased to
function, and I have to double-shuffle for a
quiet change. Cause and cure ?
A job for the nearest service station handling
your make of car. Apparently the synchronis-
ing cone has been damaged or seized up, pre-
venting the gears from spinning at correct
speeds when change-speed lever is used.
* * * *
S.E.J. (Rockhampton, Q.). —For some lime
there has been a noticeable whine in the back
axle of my six-cylinder car in the overrun.
Dismantled diff. and adjusted crown wheel and
pinion, and now there is more noise on the
drive, but none on the overrun. Any remedy ?
Trouble is due to wear in teeth of crown
wheel and pinion, plus, perhaps, slack bearings.
In such a case adjustment of the mesh results
in a new pitch-line of teeth, which invariably
increases noise. Only remedy is to instal new
crown wheel and piqion, but you should be
able to drive for some time yet without fear
of breakdown.
N.D.A. (Yass, N.S.W.).— My ’2B model four-
cylinder sports car is equipped with two car-
burettors. Petrol consumption is excessive for
an engine of this size. Could matters be im-
proved by cutting out one carburettor ? If so,
which one should be blocked off ?
The induction system of your car is designed
to use two carburettors, I and 2 cylinders
being fed by the front and 3 and 4 by the
rear, both throttles being connected and adjust-
ment synchronised to give an even charge to
all cylinders. Removing either carburettor
would cut out (wo cylinders and the car would
not run. Only way to use one carburettor
would be to redesign the induction manifold.
* * * *
E.A. (Marysville, Vic.). —Do the inside, out-
side or both wheels propel the car when driving
round a corner?
Both wheels, as the differential gear in rear-
axle housing allows the outside wheel to travel
faster than the other to compensate for greater
distance covered in negotiating a bend.
* * * *
D.O'N. (Henley, S.A.). —Recently I purchased
a used six-cylinder car, 15,000 miles, which
passed a rigid mechanical inspection. Com-
pression is good, plugs and coil new, and the
motor starts at first kick when cold. After
running half an hour, so that the engine is
thoroughly warm, great difficulty is experienced
in starting. Cause and cure ?
Symptoms indicate either overrich mixture
or riding valves, both defects that could be
■introduced as a result of recent overhaul. Try
a leaner mixture, either by altering the dash-
board control or adjusting the jet by means of
the hexagonal nut at base of carburettor. If
this fails, warm the engine thoroughly and
carefully adjust valve tappets when motor is
hot.
♦ * * *
C.T. (Sandgate, Q.). —My car is a ’33 mode!
six-cylinder, recently decarbonised after 21,000
miles. Pulling is heller, and the engine appears
to he equal to new, except that when the
car is running slowly and the accelerator is
opened fully in order to speed up quickly there
is a peculiar metallic knock somewhere in the
engine which disappears in a few seponds or
when the throttle is closed. Seems more pro-
nounced when engine is hot. Any solution ?
Everything points to a blown gasket either
in the cylinder head or exhaust manifold, the
noise being due to gas being forced at high
pressure through the faulty packing. Inspect
join between cylinder head and block with
motor hot ; open throttle rapidly and look for
bubbles of oil being forced from between the
metal surfaces. To check exhaust gaskets,
‘•mear with engine oil. run motor and watch
for breaking of oil film. Remedy in either
case is to fit new gaskets. Don’t attempt to
repair the old ones after they have broken
down.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
'Tick”: On tour our motor behaved
with intermittent jerkiness. After pull-
ing satisfactorily for miles, or perhaps
for only a few hundred yards, the engine
suddenly would splutter or fail com-
pletely. It always started readily enough,
but the stoppage occurred time after
time without any reason we could dis-
cover. Later, whilst refilling the tank,
someone noticed a long collar-stud lying
at the bottom, and the mystery was
solved. Washing about it had at irregu-
lar intervals been drawn over the feed-
pipe outlet. The suction was released
and the pipe freed when the car stopped.
♦ * * *
“Mallusk”; The only unlicensed and
unnumbered car I know in Australian
territory is a 1916 model Ford used by
missionaries on an island in the Gulf of
Carpentaria for hauling logs to the saw-
mill. When the missionaries first settled
on the island the logs had to be carried
in on the shoulders of blacks and whiles.
At a later stage in the pioneering pro-
cess the timber was put on a little
waggon with iron wheels and hauled and
pushed by the same perspiring natives
and missionaries. With the arrival of
the car the waggon was used as a trailer,
and, as the trailer’s wheels had tyres 4in.
wide, it meant only a couple of trips
over a newly-cleared track and there
would be a pair of comparatively hard
whceltracks through the sandy bush
country where the Cyprus pine logs were
obtained.


ISLAND HERITAGE
• By A lison Smith •
The opening instalments of
this fine new serial story of
life in Fiji and Sydney will
appear next week.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT .
ŵ
Chapter XXVI.
THE number of people who applied for assistance
from the Christmas Hamper Fund was rather
disappointing.
“You would think,” said Mrs. Darch, “that,
even if they were too proud to ask for themselves,
they would at least have considered their children.”
In fact, there was so much left over from the
hamper fund that it was decided to donate the residue
to the hospital; and, as it was too late to provide the
patients with Christmas delicacies, the authorities voted
the money for new sheets, which they would have had
to buy, anyway.
The fact was that the committee was a little too
stringent in its inquiries into the means of the appli-
cants for hampers. The Forbes family, for instance,
was turned down when Mrs. Darch reported at a
committee meeting that Andy Forbes had applied for
the hamper and then walked straight into Mr. Darch’s
shop and bought the children over a pound’s worth
of toys. It was to be feared that the Forbes family
rather exaggerated the matter of their rejection, so
that a number of their acquaintances failed to make
any application, on the ground that they weren’t
“going to give old Ma Claufield the satisfaction of
knocking them back.”
Then it was also dispiriting to witness the base
ingratitude of those who had actually received
hampers. Instead of staying quietly at home, they
went out to Mrs. Malloy’s place and held a sports
meeting, with races for the children and races for the
travellers’ horses and free lemonade and ice-cream
under the pepper-trees. Mrs, Malloy had sniffed
violently when she heard about the hamper fund.
“They won’t get nothing out of me,” she told Mrs.
Darch. “I ’ate deservin’ cases.” And the abominable
old woman, out of sheer spite, had proceeded to
double-cross the Charity Committee and give what
she called a “spread” of her own, in a way that paled
the hamper fund into insignificance.
Mrs, Claufield, although by no means pleased,
pointed out that the fund had not been her idea. She
had merely acquiesced in the wishes of the majority.
The fact was that she had moved that the Charity
Committee should go into recess over the Christmas
holidays.
In any case, she felt a shudder of revulsion to
find a report of the work of the Charity Committee
in a column of the “Tiburon Advertiser” next to a
report of the White trial. She never read anything
so brutalising or degrading as accounts of murders
or assaults ; but her eye had been caught, and before
she knew it she had read right through the evidence
of the Mulvers and the Staineses on the way Wil-
loughby treated his wife, and the provocation they felt
he had given Jim White. She read right through the
doctor’s report and the Judge’s summing up to the
sentence of four years.
She put down the paper with a little grimace of
distaste. How could people be so impossibly animal?
One could hardly think they were human beings.
And there was Mrs. Willoughby still living in the
hut on Warning Hill, waiting for her husband to come
out of hospital. And probably, if he applied for an
invalid pension, she would live with him on it. After
all, the woman had no money to go away. What an
appalling situation!
Mrs. Claufield managed to dismiss Mrs. Wil-
loughby from her mind ; but her next train of thought
was even more disturbing. During all this time, she
reflected, the rector had followed his policy of hob-
nobbing with Paul White, the brother of the man in
gaol, and discrediting his cloth by mixing himself in
the sordid affair. It would do the rector a lot of good
if only he could manage to break his connection with
the Whites.
Mrs. Claufield discarded the “Tiburon Advertiser”
and thoughtfully picked up the woman’s supplement
of the Sunday paper which she had preserved to show
Jane Darch. Jane Darch, however, had brought along
her own copy to show Mrs. Claufield. Trust Mrs.
Darch not to miss anything like the heading “January
Brides” and the announcement that Jessica Daunt,
youngest daughter of Wentworth Daunt, was to be
married the following Monday to Mr. Jeffery
Hardwick, third son of Mr. and Mrs. Neil Hardwick,
of Renton, Queensland.
“A little sudden?” Mrs. Claufield had remarked
to Mrs. Darch, raising her delicate eyebrows.
“I bet she was willing to marry anything,”
responded Mrs. Darch, who had married her own
daughter to Ben Harper because he was the best
catch in the town. “And I bet she didn’t go round
Sydney broadcasting her love-affair with Paul White.”
On the Friday following the trial Mrs. Claufield
called in to afternoon-tea with Polly Sorrell, and was
fittingly received. The rector, couched in his study, was
forced to emerge when tea was made. Not even Mrs.
Claufield could keep him from that. Besides, the busi-
ness he had pleaded had kept him exactly ten minutes,
and merely consisted of handing to Mrs. Willoughby
a ten-pound note which he had secretly raised between
Blakely, Sergeant Moore, Mrs. Malloy and himself.
This, he explained, was for train fares and expenses,
and for further help she should apply at the address
he had given her. There his friend, the clergyman
who conducted the hostel, would see what he could
do towards finding her work. “Although I’m certain
she will never apply to that hostel,” he murmured to
himself. However, anything was better than the
thought of her continuing to live with Willoughby.
He had bustled Mrs. Willoughby and Wilfrid
out the front door with a smile on his face. “That’s
a good soul,” he said gently; “don’t talk about it
any more,” and waved them to the gate.
“Good afternoon, Mrs. Claufield,” he said affably
at afternoon-tea. “A delightful day, isn’t it?”
“Too warm,” Mrs. Claufield murmured. “I won-
der, now your holidays are due, Mr. Sorrell, that you
don’t take this dear girl”—she patted Polly’s hand —
“and go off to the seaside.”
The remark would have been merely ordinary
from anyone but Mrs. Claufield,
“I was telling Mrs. Sorrell that I am leaving
Tiburon next week for a few months. The place is
becoming unbearabjy cosmopolitan, with murders and
strikes and robberies and”—she waved her hand—
“such things.”
The rector sipped his tea and said nothing.
“By the way, that brings me to the Whites,” said
Mrs. Claufield. “Did you know, dear, that that young
school-teacher at Warning Hill is married? I thought
you’d be interested, so I preserved the notice.”
She fumbled in her handbag and produced the
slip,
“Good on her,” said Polly cheerfully. “May be
the best thing she’s ever done.”
“Yes.” Mrs. Claufield sighed. “She probably
realised that it was the best thing she could do.”
She glanced at the rector. “Don’t you think so, Mr.
Sorrell?”
“I don’t really consider it my affair what the
young lady does,” Mr. Sorrell said stiffly.
Mrs. Claufield looked surprised.
“But I thought her intended husband was rather
a friend of yours?”
“I have not the pleasure of knowing Mr.
Hardwick.”
“Oh, I didn’t mean Mr. Hardwick.” Mrs.
Claufield gave a little amused laugh. “/ meant Paul
White. Surely you must know, rector, that it was
the case of that Morgan girl over again.”
The rector put down his teacup. He was really
angry. He sat for a while in silence.
“Mrs. Claufield,” he said at last, “that’s a mali-
cious lie. I don’t know where you got it from, but
it’s a lie.”
Mrs. Claufield shrugged her shoulders and smiled
at him.
“But, my dear rector —thank you, I’ll have
another piece of your cake, dear —one realises how
sincere it is of you to stand up for such a man,
but”
“Miss Daunt and Paul White were friends, and
it is a shame to talk of the girl so, now she is gone.”
“You sound as though she’s dead, Mr. Sorrell.”
Mrs. Claufield gave her cool, amused little laugh.
“After all, why take it so seriously? Youth is youth,
and when the youth is Paul White the deduction is
inevitable. Of course, I didn’t mean to insinuate that
she had to marry Whoever-it-is. But it’s obvious she
wanted to wipe out the memory of the way the White
boy had treated her.”
The rector gathered up some biscuits and his
second cup of tea. He was not going to stay there
for Mrs. Claufield to jab him.
“You ladies must excuse me,” he said, and smiled
at Mrs. Claufield. “I have urgent work to attend to,
and I know you will feel more comfortable to discuss
such feminine matters alone.”
He went out feeling rather satisfied at having
returned Mrs. Claufield’s fire. He realised she had
only been waiting for a chance to watch him writhe.
But back in his study he could not settle down.
“Mrs. Claufield’s poison,” as he called it, was work-
ing in him. And the worst of it was there was no way
of refuting the woman’s insinuations.
“Do you think that woman was speaking the
truth?” he asked Polly the minute Mrs. Claufield
was outside the door.
“Very probably,” said Polly sensibly; “but what
of it?”
“Only this,” the rector said grimly: “I’ll never
be able to look Paul White in the eyes again while I
have a suspicion that he might be capable of a mean
thing like that.”
He walked up and down restlessly.
“Don’t let it worry you,” Polly said, clearing
away the remains of the afternoon-tea.
“I can’t help it,” the rector said in a distressed
tone. “Hang it all, she comes here eating, if not my
salt, at least your cake, and tells me that one of the
best friends I’ve made in Tiburon is a mean animal.
And the worst of it is that I can’t convince myself
she is lying about him.”
Chapter XXVII.
I.
H X H knew this would be ma loocky day.” Mrs.
Mulver reined the sulky in triumphantly out-
side the peasey hut, “An’ jus’ time
Ah hed some loock, hinny, as y’ know yaself.” She
beamed on Mary. “We’ll be movin’ into a hoose,
hinny ; think of thet! ”
“Y’re lucky, all right,” Mary said bitterly. “We’re
moving out —right out of the town.”
“Well, well,” Mrs. Mulver commiserated. “Ain’t
thet too bad! And ’ere was Ah thinkin’ Ah could
let y’ ’arve ’arf the hoose Ah’ve found.” She bubbled
over with the great news. “Et’s far too big f’r us.
Thirteen shillin’s a week we’ll ’arve ta pey, an’ God
knows ’ow we’ll pey et.”
“Where is it?” Mary asked. She felt the least she
could do was to show interest rather than envy.
“Far out?”
“ ’Bout ’arf a mile. Y’ turn doon Chinaman’s-lane
inta Cley-street, an’ et’s the pleece third fr’m the end,
wi’ the two broken windows in front. Ah says ta
Mr. Smith ‘Tha pleece is in bad repair.’ An’ ’e says
the last tha was in et used ta tek the floorboards oop
an’ use them f’r firewood. Still, it’s a hoose.”
Mary nodded unhappily.
“You know Ella’s cleared out?”
“Y’ don’t sey! Left ’er jab?”
Mary nodded again, and pushed back her tangle
of hair.
“Said she couldn’t stop at the hotel with the other
girls always talkin’ behind ’er back an’ laughin’ at 'er.
She went with Sam. Not that she’ll stay with ’im
long, 1 bet.”
Mrs. Mulver clicked her tongue against her lower
front teeth and remarked censoriously, “Thet gel’d
want port’oles in ’er coffin an’ pintucks in ’er shroud.
She ’ad a gude jab. Why couldn’ she ’arve stook
ta et?”
Mary shook her head miserably. “An’ Mrs.
O’Brien’s that mad she wouldn’t even give me a try
if I asked ’er. I wouldn’t ’ave cleared out.”
“Et’s always thet wey, hinny,” Mrs. Mulver
consoled. “Them as deserves doesn’t get.”
“I don’t mind not gettin’ good things like a job
at the ’otel,” Mary said sullenly. “But it seems t’ me
we get too much of the bad. First, there’s Emma gets
married —though I s’pose that’s not so bad —an’ then
the p’lice tryin’t’ ’unt us off, an’ Larry an’ the strike ;
an’ now Jim. Why, there ain’t anythin’ left.”
“Et’s like Joob says in the Bible.” Mrs. Mulver
produced another one of her private store of uncom-
fortable sayings. “Them that gets ’as, an’ from them
that’s got nothin’ it’s taken away.”
“Dad says we’ve got a curse on us,” Mary
responded sullenly; “an’ I’m not sure ’e ain’t right.
Just you think of it. We live ’ere peaceful as can be
f’r years an’ years, an’ then all of a sudden —why, it’s
less than six months! —everything’s altered. Y’
wouldn’t know dad. ’E ain’t been so broke up since
mum died. An’ what’s to become of Evie an’ Bobby
an’ Willie an’ Jackie?” She broke off with a sniffle.
“Don’ you put ’em in any of these ’ere ’oomes,”
Mrs. Mulver warned. “Terrible, they are. An’ even
when they’re good they ain’t like ya own family.”
“Will y’ come in an’ ’ave a cup of tea?” Mary
asked, conscious that she very badly wanted to have
someone to listen to her troubles.
“Not just na, Mary. I only stopped f’r a minute
ta tell y’ the news. An’ so y’re goin’ on tha track?
When d’ ya think ya well be startin’?”
“Dunno. We have to wait first of all for—Jim.”
Mrs. Mulver nodded “Then Bill an’
Paul were goin’ to try t’ stay on ’ere an’ keep the
place together, but Jim told ’em not to. Said they
wasn’t to spoil their chances. Now they’re tryin’ t’
sell the wood business an’ the saws. Dad don’t want
to leave, but I don’t care. I don’t care where I go.
I’m that fed up with everything.”
“Ah, well”—Mrs. Mulver clicked to the horse,
hardly able to disguise her joy at her own good
Jacky mauled her lovingly.
fortune, but
feeling she
should com-
miserate with
Mary “as _ I
say, I was goin’
ta ask if y’
cared ta rent
that back of tha
hoose, but,
seein’ things as
they are
Anyway, I
won’t hev far
t a look fr
boarders.
Hooses is scarce.
Ah’ll send Okkie over wi’ tha saucepan I borrowed."
Mary stood looking after her a minute* and then
betook herself inside. Jacky, sitting on the floor with
his skirt up round his waist, was cooing gently as he
smeared a handful of ashes over himself. Turning
from this pursuit, he half-crawled, half-staggered to-
wards the cat, which lay purring with its paws tucked
in and its eyes shut in slits of contentment. The cat
woke quickly and hit out at him with an experienced
paw ; but Jacky seized her by the fur and mauled her
lovingly. She stood it for a minute, and then made a
struggle for freedom that would not have disgraced
a New Guinea chief. Jacky burst into howls of baffled
affection as the cat sped out the door. Mary smacked
him, more to relieve her own feelings than to make
him cease his crying.
“Stop it now,” she scolded, “or I’ll give you
somethin’ to cry about.”
She put him outside and called, “Evie! Bobby!
Come here. I want you.”


After an interval Bobby put his face round the
door.
“What’s up?”
“Tell Evie t’ take Jacky an’ then go down to
Granny Staines an’ ask does she want the chooks as
well when they move in.”
For old Mrs. Staines and her son were to take
. over the peasey hut as soon as convenient.
“No John ain’t goin’ to the bother of shiftin’ us,”
Staines had declared ; “an’ if they do we’ll jus’ move
back where we are now an’ let the hut to someone
else.”
So the Whites felt that, even if they did move, it
wasn’t as if the police had really gained much.
Bobby looked alarmed at Mary’s injunction. “Y’
ain’t goin’ to sell the chooks, are y’?”
“Of course, I am —if she’ll buy ’em.”
Bobby turned sullen. “They’s Evie’s an’ my
chooks. We collects their eggs.”
“Now, you shut up,” Mary said sternly, “ ’Ow
d’ y’ think we’re goin’ I’ take a dozen or so chooks
on the track?”
“Squeaky Joe does ; an’ he’s got two wives as
well, ’cause ’e says so.”
“Well, we ain’t Squeaky. You go an’ do as y’
told, an’ stop answerin’ back.”
Bobby stood outside the door in the attitude of a
one-man strike. “They’s Evie’s an’ my chooks,” he
repeated. “Y’ ain’t goin’ t’ sell ol’ Speckly to Clarrie
Staines’s grannie. She’s my Speckly.”
Mary took no notice. She was making a mourn-
ful inventory of the furniture. It would all have to
be sold somehow. Perhaps Mr. Smith, seeing he was
an auctioneer, would auction it; but it was such a
poor, miserable lot of stuff he might laugh at the
idea.
“1 stove,” Mary wrote with a stub of pencil,
“1 cane chair, 1 wood chair, 1 table, a Jot of shelvs,”
She paused. There did not seem to be much more in
the kitchen. “Bench,” she wrote, “washup basin (tin),
2 kcrosin (ins, sum cups and plates.” Mary crossed this
“It’s a good riddance.”
entry out, because the cups and plates must go with
them on the track.
The place seemed as empty and big as a church
without Ella and Lizzie and Emma quarrelling round
it all day. Evie and Bobby and Willie had a bed each
now, instead of sharing one ; and the old man had
the double bed all to himself. A torn bit of sacking hung
between the girls’ half of the inner room and the
men’s, and Mary arid Jacky slept there by themselves.
Jim and Paul used to camp in the old woodshed where
all the family once lived, complaining that there wasn’t
any room or air inside the peasey hut.
At the thought of Jim, Mary started to sniff again.
She realised now how right dad had been. There was
nothing like keeping the family together. What had
Emma and Ella and Lizzie done to better themselves
by getting married? With the possible exception of
Lizzie, they were just as badly off as before. No,
none of this marriage for her —she had seen too much
of it. The inventory continued: “1 piece of sacking,
3 boxes (soap), 1 cubboard.”
It was the cupboard Jim had bought at an auction
sale four years before. They had been so proud of
it; but when they got it home they found it looked
best laid over on its side as a seat; and in that posi-
tion it could still be used to hold clothes. The double
responsibility, with the constant strain of heavy
burdens, had not improved it.
Back Mary went to the living-room, and glanced
around forlornly to see what she had missed. Lizzie’s
old washtub, the frying-pan and the pots. They
wouldn’t be sold, nor would the bedclothes. She began
to feel so muddled that she didn’t know what to do.
It was as though the walls of the peasey hut had dis-
solved around her. Next week or the week after
the comfortable security of the peasey hut would be
exchanged for a tent in the open —luckily in the hottest
season of the year. But there would be the heat and
millions of flies, and cooking over an open fire with
a frying-pan of hot, sizzling fat, while the ants crawled
into everything. And you never knew when the water
was fit to drink. Perhaps it wouldn’t agree with
Jacky.
The twins were delighted at the thought of
moving, and even Willie seemed to understand that
some change had come about. They were hardy little
devils. But what of poor little Jacky? Oh, she didn’t
know what to do! And the sergeant so hard about
telling them to get on somewhere else. Where were
they to go? The boys were so determined to go.
And the old man grumbling and getting in the way.
And she could do nothing.
Paul tramped in at the door. “Got that list done?”
he asked.
“Are we goin’ t’ take the chooks?” Mary
demanded.
“Of course not.”
“Bobby an’ Evie are set on it. They’ll break their
’earts if Speckly doesn’t come.”
Paul’s mouth tightened. His face seemed much
older these days.
“They can bring the dogs an’ cats,” he conceded.
“But, damn it all, it’s bad enough havin’ the whole
family, without the livestock as well.”
Mary said nothing, and Paul stamped out to shout
to Bill in the yard:
“Has Hinton been yet?”
“No. ’Aven’t seen ’im,” Bill shouted back.
“When’s he coming? Does he expect us to wait
a year for him?” He stamped inside again. “It
mightn't be a bad idea t’ sweep the place out a bit,”
he suggested ironically. Paul was not in the habit of
speaking pleasantly to anyone these days. “Looks like
a damn’ pigsty. An’ the kids could do with a wash.”
He clumped out again.
Mary walked over to the stove and took the
kettle of hot water off the fire to do the washing-up
from lunch. The plates were greasy with the memories
of sausages, for Mary preferred frying to any other
form of cooking. She glanced out the door.
“Evie!” she shrieked. “Come an’take Jacky. ’E’s
playin’ with them ants.”
Behind the shed she could see Evie and Bobby
with their heads together, conferring. Bobby had in
his arms a dilapidated broody fowl with a cynical eye
and a rakish, flopping red comb. Occasionally it
gave a peck at Bobby’s arm, though not really expect-
ing any good would come out of it.
“Eee-vie!” Mary screamed again. “I told Bobby
to tell you hours ago. Come an’ gel Jacky !”
“I’m cornin’.” Evie continued to whisper to
Bobby, who finally put Speckly on her feet, where
she stood for a moment and shook herself indignantly
before strolling off towards the other fowls.
“Eee-vie! I’ll give it to you.”
“I’m cornin’. Don’t 1 keep on tollin’ y’ I’m
cornin’?”
An insane rage seized (he usually quiet Mary.
She grabbed the broom she had forgotten to put in
her list, and rushed out on Bobby and Evie, who fled
with startled howls. “That’ll teach y’,” she panted,
aiming a blow at Bobby’s flying figure, as though it
represented all the hopes that had ever eluded her.
That’ll teach y’ not to come when 1 call.”
11.
Late in the afternoon Mary, with Jacky in
her lap, drove in with Mrs. Mulver to inspect
the house. It was a dejected but certainly roomy
old hovel which had fallen into disrepair and
disrepute from a succession of non-paying and
intoxicated tenants. Mrs. Mulver was certainly
lucky to get it, even if the floor had gone in
places and the paper was peeling leprously off
the wallboards so that the draughts whistled
through.
“What’s draughts at this time o’ the year?” Mrs.
Mulver said proudly. “They’re a pleasure,” She led
Mary out into the backyard. “You can see where
there’s been a bath,” she pointed out, “an’ Ah'll get
Daddy”—for thus she termed the silent Mr. Mulver—
“to fix et oop nice. An’ see ’ere”—she pointed
proudly—“a copper!”
There in the middle of the yard was an authentic
copper, complete even to the copperstick lying beside
it.
“An’ will y’ look at this”—Mrs. Mulver over-
flowed with happiness—“the fool-run?” She indicated
a sagging, rusted wire enclosure. “They coulda mede
good money sellin’ tha wire. It won’t be ’ere if ever
Ah leave.”
Mary listened to her plans.
“Yeah, the place’s too big f’r you, orright,” she
agreed. “Y’ll only need the three front rooms. Any-
one'd be glad t’ pay ’arf the rent f’r the back, with
that big verandah an’ all. It’s a sleep-out, even in
the wet.”
If only they didn’t have to move from Tiburon,
she thought, and Paul hadn’t given up his job. Mrs.
Mulver smiled mysteriously.
“An’ Ah ’arven’t shown ya tha best yet,” she con-
fided. “Coom on roun’ tha side av tha hoose.” Mary
followed her round enviously. “Ah wes keepin’ et a
secret fer fear Mr. Smith pool tha rent oop.”
Mary imitated Mrs. Mulver and stooped down
to peer under the house. She gasped.
“Tha bathtoob,” Mrs. Mulver said exultantly.
“Big as Ah am. Ah been oonder ta ’arve a look, an’
et’s as good as new. Bit roosty-like, an’ needs fixiii
but Daddy’ll soon put ’er streit.” She drew a long
breath. “Eh, but’s great ta ’arve a hoose again.”
Mary could stand no more. “I guess I better get
back t’ the ’otel,” she said. “If I don’t go an’ collect
’im, dad’ll ’ave given away the axes an’ saws in
exchange f’r a drink. ’E gave Tnton a bran’-new
’urricane-lamp when ’e was drunk yesterday. Says it
was f’r a keepsake. Trouble is we can’t get it back.”
“Ah’ll drive ya oop ta the ’otel,” Mrs. Mulver
said reluctantly. She wanted to stay and gloat over
The House. “Then Ah’m goin’ ta bey meself a noo
scroobin’-brosh an’ coom streit back. The mess there
is, ya can see f’r yaself. Et'll take me a week before
et’s clean enough ta hang oop tha curtains. Ah kept
’em by me,” she said gladly. “Ah says ta Daddy;
‘We’ll ’arve a hoose again soom dey, sure as Ah’m
standin’ ’ere, ef Ah ’arve ta build et maself oot o’
cherry-stones.’ ” You wouldn’t have known Mrs,
Mulver in her radiant mood. “Ah got a pair o’ floory
curtains, pink they are, weth yeller an’ brown rooses.
Mary swallowed hard. “Yes,” she said, trying to
be cheerful, “it ought t’ be nice t’ ’ave them curtains
up.”
111.
“Of all the damned impudence I ever heard of,”
Mrs. O’Brien concluded, in a blaze of rage and elo-
quence, “it’s you with a daughter that not only tipped
all the ashtrays on the top of the wardrobe, mind you,
but swept the pieces of my best china vase under the
sideboard. And then she has the ingratitude to go off
without giving notice. And it’s a good riddance, 1
say—a good riddance.”
Mrs. O’Brien swept wrathfully up to the other
end of the bar, and Dave began cautiously to
straighten up when the tornado surged back again.
“And to think of you coming here and asking me
to take Mary in her place!” Mrs. O’Brien shook a
minatory finger at Dave until her black silk rustled.
“I wouldn’t have one of your children here again, not
if they were the Emperor of China.” She darted away
to serve a drink, and then returned to him. “And you
coming here running up bills and crawling to me
about hard times and having a large family. What
am I to do about the money you owe me now? If
you had had a spine instead of a lump of jelly you’d
have given your children a decent chance in the world
instead of living on them like a damned old shark.”
She surged to and fro in a formidable temper.
Orry Smith had come into the bar, glancing appre-
hensively behind him. He ranged himself next to
Hinton.
“That Mulver woman,” he said. “I thought I’d
seen the last of her. She’s outside my office.”
He nodded cautiously to Dave, where that former
good companion leant despondently on the counter
in the far corner of the bar. Orry debated within
himself whether he should offer his old pal a last
shout, but decided that Dave might not know it was
a last shout and expect another, so he wisely stayed
where he was. An added reason for keeping away
from Dave was that he had apparently aroused the
wrath of Mrs. O'Brien, and anyone sharing his com-
pany was certain to share “the piece of her mind”
that she was giving him.
“You must think I’m soft,” Mrs. O’Brien raged
back towards the silent Dave. “You must think I’m
a condensed tin of the milk of human kindness.”
I his, she realised, was not what she meant, but it was
near enough. “It’s no good standing there with a lip
a duck could trip over. I’m finished with you. I hope
you realise that. Utterly through and finished and
done! Don’t you ever come into my bar again, Dave
White. You’ve had your last drink out of me.”
Dave realised that she meant it, and turned and
slouched out of the bar. He might have received
greater consideration, seeing that it was almost his last
day in Fiburon, if conditions had not been so bad
with Mrs. O’Brien. Not only was she mourning over
the dead loss due to Dave’s inability to pay his bill,
but the sewage plant, as usual, was weighing heavily
on her mind.
“1 know Paul White is a friend of yours,” she
snapped at Roman, “but that doesn’t prevent me from
telling his father what I think of him.”
Now that the object of her wrath had removed
himself, she was cooling down. Roman merely nodded
casually. It was seldom that you could get much out
of Roman.
I m not a hard woman, Roman. I think even
you will agree that I’m very far from being a hard
woman, and when I think of the ingratitude of
that” Mrs. O’Brien snorted. “And then when
1 remember the money that man owes me, it makes
me almost cry to think of it. You see, I was going
to take it out in firewood next winter, and now that
Jim’s not here , . , Dear, dear, that was a horrible
business, if you like!”
Roman served a beer and brought back the
change. The last rush had not yet set in,
“Of course” —Mrs. O’Brien rustled busily round
the cash-register, keeping her weather-eye on the
man who still had not paid for his stout—“of
A first-class dogfight.
course, I’m sorry when I think of those small chil-
dren. I don’t really like the idea of them going off
with the boys all in a sulky, especially that poor
youngest child. But, really, I’m sorrier for the bill
that old wretch has run up in drink. If I could think
of some way of getting my good money back, I’d die
happy.” She banged the cash-register viciously and
called “Don’t forget the stout you had besides those
two beers.”
“It isn’t”—she reverted to her original topic—
“that I’m a mean woman or that it’s merely the
money. It’s my self-respect. I hate to see our profits
going down anyone’s gullet. And the worst of it is
that it’s gone for good.”
o Continued on page 42.)


te "^
%
*
Stromberg
-Carlson 3
Chroitio-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Cl
s
cn
vy
BUY IT WITH YOUR
SAVINGS ON
BATTERIES.
Mullard Battery Valves are worm
famous for efficiency and economy—
their use in the MULLARD MASTER
Units makes frequent battery re-
placements unnecessary. A new visual
type dial dispenses with the
battery-draining dial light,
and a “battery reserve switch’'
makes every battery
useful long after it
would normally have
refused to function
ŵ
♦ O I • « u ,$ I k h I I A• I • C O
IIY'K O U I }
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
RADIO NEWS
WE VISIT A MIXED FARM.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
.... is now concluded, and all stations
will resume their own programmes.
Station EOE —the time is eight o’clock,
and to-night’s feature will be a glimpse
of life on a typical back-country mixed
farm, with a running commentary on the
various activities connected therewith.
Just stand by for a moment while we
cross over.
Well, here we are at Golykell, the
property of Mr. Lester Hoosthis, a mile
or two out from Wentworthville. The
surroundings are typically bucolic, with
country air and—er—gum-trees and
wattles. From a near-by tree a mopoke
is giving its mournful “tweet-tweet” call
to its mate in the surrounding mulga.
There are several ploughed fields, and
some under cultivation. Looks to me
like corn and sweet potatoes. What’s
that, Mr. Hoosthis? Pumpkins and
mangel-wurzels! Oh! Yes, Rather
Displays a scarcely-
justified pessimism.
similar in growth,
aren’t they?
There are several
sheds and cow-
bails about, and
a feed-store and
pigsty near them
—in fact, it seems
a very mixed
farm.
It is raining
heavily here at
present, and
na t u rally Mr.
Hoosthis is elated
or, rather, was
until I told him
that I thought we
were in for flood falls. As the farm
is situated in very low-lying country he
seems a bit anxious. It is noticeable that
Over the muddy ground.
the outback farmer reacts quickly to the
vagaries of the weather; at the slightest
mention of possible droughts or floods
he displays a —to the disinterested urban
observer —scarcely-justified pessimism.
Doubtless the development of this
peculiar psychology is in part due to
his constant communing with Nature
in the profound silences of the great
outback.
Well, listeners, Mr. Hoosthis has just
got his milk-buckets, and he will con-
duct us to the cow-bails for the milking.
Mr. Hoosthis has very kindly kept the
cows back for the day’s final milking so
that this important phase of farm life
could be given our listeners. No doubt
Assures me it isn’t asthma.
for being kept up the cows will receive
extra fodder, though they’ll probably
wonder whether it’s a late supper or
early breakfast. Now I’ll have to put
my umbrella over the microphone while
we make our way over the muddy ground
to the milking-shed. It is rather difficult
to manage, as a strong wind is blowing.
Hullo! my umbrella seems to be leaking
slightly. Well, here we are at last, and
the lowing kine —you’ll hear them low
in a minute, though they’re pretty high
at the moment, phew!—are all queued
up awaiting their call. They seem heavily
laden, with their udders almost trailing
on the shed floor. No doubt they thank
whatever gods may be that there’s not a
late broadcast every day.
A peculiar feature is that the cows all
seem to be chewing, though I hadn’t
seen them fed recently. No doubt some
of the corn or bran or whatever they’re
fed on has got between their teeth, and
they’re endeavoring to get it out.
Listeners know how irritating that is.
After all, cows can’t use toothpicks.
Anyway, they all have a worried look.
Mr. Hoosthis has a splendid idea to
keep the cow still during milking. The
cow, which he tells me is currycombed
and massaged beforehand so that it
won’t suffer cramp while being milked,
is led into a sort of narrow gate. When,
with typical bovine curiosity, it puts its
head in between the slats, a gadget like a
crossbar is shot into place and the cow
is imprisoned in the bail. Quite ingeni-
ous!
Well, listeners, Mr. Hoosthis is now
operating on the first cow, and he appears
to be stroking fluently. If you listen
carefully you will hear the gentle “ss—ss”
of the lacteal fluid as it hits the rapidly
mounting foam in the bucket. Hear that
“Striped cows.”
“moo,” listeners ; wasn’t it plain? We
have now made radio history by trans-
mitting the “moo” of the cow that is
being milked! The thought strikes one,
on seeing milk in the raw, so to speak,
that this is actually the source of those
“chocolate malteds” that we in the city
enjoy at the milk bars.
Now I will take the microphone a bit
closer and let you hear the cow’s stertor-
ous breathing, which Mr. Hoosthis
assures me isn’t asthma....
Crash! Plonk! br-r-r-r-r-r —where
th’ blazes are y’ gittin’ t 0....
.... ahem! A most regrettable con-
tretemps has just occurred for which I
ask Mr. Hoosthis’s pardon. Just as I
moved the microphone towards the cow
I tripped over the trailing cord and put
my hoof—my foot, I mean (I seem to be
absorbing this rustic phraseology, ha!
ha!) —into the bucket of milk and fell
against the cow, nearly knocking it over.
I have just picked Mr. Hoosthis up;
fortunately the “mike” is not damaged,
so we can resume....
Now I’m sure Mr. Hoosthis will not
mind my asking a few questions so that
listeners can get the benefit of his expert
knowledge. “Would you mind telling us
what breed of cow you favor?”
“Guernseys and Jerseys.”
“H’m. Well, you certainly have the
pullover me there, ha! ha! No doubt
those islands got their name from the
striped cows that inhabit them. You
don’t keep Ayrshires or Berkshires?
“Berkshires are pigs—I’ve got some
o’ them.”
“Oh! how interesting. Berkshires, yes,
oh! yes, of course, how silly of me. I
suppose you fatten them up and send
them away to one of the big bacon
factories?”
“I do me own curin’.”
“Oh, yes, 1 suppose even pigs get off-
color at times. It’s certainly handy to be
one’s own vet. Now, apart from cows
and pigs, what are your other activities
on a farm of this description, Mr,
Hoosthis?”
“Well, I got several crops in at present.
I expect to sell them ironbarks in that
high paddock next week.”
“Oh! and what method do you adopt
—fell them yourself or sell them on the
stump?”
“Eh? I’m talkin’ of that field o’
pumpkins.”
“Oh! I see, ha! ha! I misunder-
stood . . . er —well, Mr. Hoosthis, we
know that you will want to retire early.
“I do me own curin’.”
so we will not trouble you further to-
night. On behalf of our listeners I
would like to thank you for your very
interesting comments, and also for allow-
ing us to broadcast from your farm.
Most interesting.”
Station EOE, and this feature broad-
cast is now concluded. We will cross
back to the studio....
S. W. K.
Increasing Battery-receiver Range.
The modern commercial battery re-
ceiver, invariably a superhet, represents
the finest possible product of the labora-
tory ; but it has not by any means com-
pletely ousted the humble experimental
T.R.F. receiver. Replacement by the
modern product comes sooner or later in
many cases. Yet it would be interest-
ing to take a census to see how many
comparatively ancient receivers are still
in use. Many of these old sets, mostly
still permitted to be in action for senti-
mental reasons, appear to satisfy their
particular users. In many country places,
if one or two stations, plus the news bul-
letins, can be heard when wanted all is
satisfactory, and the satisfied user does
not see why he should trade in the old
set for a modern one — if he is quite
satisfied. That being so, it is well to
consider those who are not altogether
satisfied, but for whom the old set must
remain a fixture for financial reasons.
If the range can be improved without
heavy expense, the idea is entertainable.
A simple “add-on” valve and R.F. stage
can make a big difference to many old-
design battery sets, and, with the indul-
gence of an understanding dealer, the
cost involves only the price of an extra
valve, condenser and coil unit.
The circuit diagram shows the essen-
tials, and the valve must be of the same
filament voltage as the valves already in
use in the set. It is a simple R.F. stage
using a screen-grid valve, and it is so
arranged that the output of the unit
links up with the aerial terminal of the
set and no wiring modification of the
existing receiver is necessary.
Nothing could be easier to work than
this unit, for it has one-knob control.
This knob is adjusted step by step with
the main tuning control of the set, and
not only is the range greatly increased,
but the selectivity is vastly improved be-
cause of the addition of the R.F. valve
preceding the detector.
A centre-tapped or plug-in coil is used
in conjunction with an ordinary panel-
mounted condenser. There is a 23-plate
midget condenser in the tuning circuit to
take the greatest advantage of selectivity.
Connections are simply arranged.
There are two small terminal strips on
the unit, one carrying only one terminal
and a group of flex leads, and the other
carrying aerial and earth terminals. The
aerial and earth leads are moved from
the receiver to these terminals on the unit,
and the other aerial terminal on the unit
is connected to the aerial terminal of
the set.
The flex leads from the unit are con-
nected up to the batteries, there being
two spade tags to connect with the
accumulator (in addition to the existing
connections for the set) and three “B”
connections.
These three connections must not be
confused with the existing B-battery
connections for the set. The negative
lead, for example, must be connected up
to the negative socket of the battery, in
connection with the negative lead which
already goes to the set. B + 1 should
be taken to approximately 90 volts and
B + 2 to 135 volts. The valve is
a 6-, 4- or 2-volt screen grid or R.F.
pentode, according to the requirements
of the set, and necessary components are
indicated in the diagram. If the unit
is built up and screened in a metal box
so much the better.
ENNO.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions of late have been excellent
for a wide range of stations and pro-
grammes. Between 10 p.m. and mid-
night or later there were so many
really strong stations that it was difficult
to nominate the best. No. 1 transmission
from the 8.8. C. did not share in the
improvement, being weak after 7 p.m.
A new feature has been the seventh
harmonic of SMU, S.A. This has been
often quite strong, and probably misled
many listeners. 2RO announced that
from January 1 there would be a special
session in English from 3 to 4.20 p.m.
(12 to 1.20 a.m. our time) for Asia and
the U.S.A. The hour is rather awkward
for Australian listeners.
RNE has reappeared on the usual
9 p.m. to 10 p.m. sessions on Sundays
and Wednesdays at good strength, and
some comment on “sanctions” was
heard. It was unusual to near English
policy praised by Soviet Russia. The
station is holding a competition for lis-
teners for programme suggestions.
The indefinite station on about 31.56
metres has been improving in strength,
and has been clearly audible at times.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (e-neb sing 3d. in stamps) for the 30 x 20'
inch ].avishly illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
Apparently this is OXY, but no English
announcement has been heard yet.
Another unusual feature has been
WEN, on 29 metres, testing with DJB for
some special broadcast. The time was
6.45 a.m., and strength and quality were
excellent.
On December 8 three Dutch stations
were going strongly on 31, 29 and 27
metres, the first-mentioned being regular
every night and heard very well. A Jap-
anese station has also been using a wave-
length at the top of the 31-metre band,
but was not so good as the one on 27
metres.
WIXK, 31.35 metres, has been very
fair about 10 p.m., showing increasing
strength, but with high background com-
pared with the others.
2RO is becoming up to date. Its an-
nouncer concluded a recent special pro-
gramme with “Now, listeners, it’s up to
you.”
Beyond WBXK, in the 19-metre band,
there has been nothing after 7 in the
morning worth while. On odd mornings
W2XAD has come in well, but has been
very erratic.
W3XAL, in the 16-metre band, has
been at fair strength at 6.30 a.m., but
surges considerably. The very short
waves have not been so good as the pre-
vious week.
PHI has given some programmes
suited to all types of listeners.
NIGHTOWL.
PHI Short-wave Programmes.
The Philips station in Holland opens
at 11 p.m. (S.M.T.),
December 25: 11.5 p.m., Christmas bells;
11.10 p.m., station orchestra; 11.30 p.m.,
Dutch news; 11.45 p.m., station orchestra;
12.10 a.m., music; 12.20 a.m., fragments from
Dickens’s “Christmas Carol”; 1.20 a.m.,
Christmas bells.
December 26: 11.5 p.m., carillon; 11.15
p.m., Lyra Trio; 11.30 p.m., Dutch news:
11.40 p.m., music; 11.45 p.m., declamation by
Paul Huf; midnight, music; 12.10 a.m., talk
by “Old Colonial”; 12.20 a.m., music; 12.25
a.m., talk; 12.35 a.m., music; 12.40 a.m.,
declamation by Paul Huf; 12.45 a.m., Lyra
Trio; 1.15 a.m., music; 1.20 a.m., carillon.
December 27: 11.10 p.m., music; 11.30
p.m., Dutch news; 11.45 p.m., music; 11.55
p.m., Haydn Quartet; 12.45 a.m., talk on be-
half of the Dutch Y.M.C.A. by Joh V. Hulzen.
December 28: 11.5 p.m., violin recital by
Layos Szikra; 11.30 p.m., Dutch news; 11.45
p.m., the Troubadours; 12.10 a.m., news talk
by L. Aletrino; 12.30 a.m., the Troubadours;
12.40 a.m., microphone debs.; 1 a.m., the
Troubadours; 1.15 a.m., talk; 1.35 a.m., the
Troubadours.
Amateur Chatter.
Little by little some of those high-
grade overseas short-wave components
seen only before in the ad. pages of Eng-
lish magazines are finding their way to
Australia. During a visit to the radio
department of Murdoch’s, Ltd.; Sydney,
samples of the latest Eddystone and
Polar variable condensers were exam-
ined. The Eddystone midgets are a
beautiful example of good engineering,
the 35mfd. model, especially for ultra-
short-wave work, being made to preci-
sion and with Mycalex insulation. For
Not memories of 1918, but a group of Signals officers and n.c.os. at the
recent war exercises at Cecil Hills, W. The figure on the extreme
left is that of VK2NO.
short-wave tuning, the Polar ball-bearing
.00015mfd. condenser is reminiscent of
the old Gecophone condenser, except
that the slow-motion drive is incorpor-
ated in the dial itself. Amateurs seeking
polished carbon granules for Reisz
microphones will find joz. bottles, at 6s.
3d., stocked by this radio department.
Twenty-metre DX ’phone is attracting
many, and nightly one finds several
VK2’s, 3’s and s’s indulging in lengthy
chats with K4SA Porto Rico and
KAIAN Manila. Conditions are excel-
lent for Europe, and a “CQ Europe” call
around 7 p.m. S.M.T. invariably brings
Finlanders, Frenchmen or Englishmen in
response. The writer had the oppor-
tunity of making a comparative test with
Finnish OH3NP of the link-coupled
Zepp antenna against the twisted-pair
half-wave doublet. With the latter he
reported an increase of two R points.
This doublet is only 20ft. high and hori-
zontal, but the efficiency may be attri-
Micro-ray beam antenna used by
Marconi for tests between Rome and
Mediterranean locations.
buted to the feeder line. It is a special
72-ohm twisted pair imported from
U.S.A., but, owing to the steep duty,
VKs are advised to make the best of
“home-twisted 16 V.1.R.,” which is un-
doubtedly very good.
Two Aladdin iron-core I.F.Ts. have
abso been received from overseas, with
the object of making a special amateur
superhet. The result of investigation will
be described, and it is anticipated that
by then Australian-made iron-core I.F.Ts.
will be on the market.
Five metres in Sydney is quite dor-
mant, but is by no means forgotten. The
writer plans to recommence activity on
ultra-shorts in the near future with
advanced apparatus and antenna, and
hopes, if the means of locomotion is
available, to resume the popular mobile
tests of a few months ago. An interest-
ing field for experimentation where
stations are within actual visual range
would be the development of “talking
light beams.” Several U.S.A. magazines
have dealt recently with simple appa-
ratus using photocells, and such equip-
ment is easy to make. It would provide
a definitely secret telephony communica-
tion channel, and has great possibilities
for development in connection with mili-
tary signalling. The only requirement,
of course, is that two stations must be
within sight of each other and un-
obstructed.
VK2NO.
Experimental Licenses.
A Reminder.
The Chief Inspector (Wireless) for the
Commonwealth has issued a communi-
cation to all licensed Australian experi-
menters. It should be obvious that if
no transgression of regulations existed
the communication would not be neces-
sary. It is in the interests of the self-
governing body responsible for experi-
mental activity to assist the department
wherever possible in correcting breaches
of regulations within the ranks. This can
be done tactfully but firmly. Clauses
( b ), (d) and ( e ) require particular atten-
tion. The elimination of faults in these
instances lies mainly with the com-
paratively inexperienced experimenter.
Clause ( a ) is a matter for individual
consideration where justifiable. This
request by the department is for the co-
operation of licensed experimenters as a
whole, and it is confidently hoped that
it will have the desired effect, thus fore-
stalling any undesirable disciplinary
action. Text of the Chief Inspector’s
memorandum follows:
Although, in general, the department is
pleased to note the prompt and cordial co-
operation which it receives from the large
majority of experimenters, there are occasions
where contravention has occurred. The
department receives many complaints regard-
ing transmissions from experimental stations,
and, although the contraventions are few and
in most cases doubtless committed unwittingly,
it is thought desirable to remind all amateurs
of the conditions of the regulations governing
experimental station transmissions. The
principal points which it is desired to emphasise
are:
(a) The power to be used in experimental
transmitting stations shall be taken as
the D.C. power measured at the input to
the anode of the oscillator, or of the
. last stage where an amplifier is employed.
It shall not exceed 25 watts, except in
such special cases as are approved by
the Postmaster-General’s Department.
(,b) The transmission and receipt of messages
for third parties are expressly forbidden.
Only messages consisting of remarks
relating to experiments are permitted.
(c) The frequency bands which may be used
by experimenters are:
Kilocycles. Metres.
60.000 .. 5 5.35
30.000 .. 10 10.7
14,400—14,000 .. 20.8—21.4
7,300 7,000 .. 41 42.8
4,000 3,500 .. 75 —B5
1,990 1,715 .. 150.8—175
Steps must be taken to ensure main-
tenance of transmissions within such
frequency bands.
(d) Experimental station licensees are
obliged to take such precautions as
may be necessary to prevent interference
to broadcast listeners being caused by
transmissions from their stations.
O) The use of “CQ” and “test” calls
should be limited as far as possible, and
must in every case be followed by the
callsign of the station. No portion
of any call should be made more than
three times, and the duration between
calls must be at least two minutes.
The use of prolonged calls causes con-
siderable interference to other experi-
menters working on the same frequency
band, and should not be resorted to.
“Radio” Merges with “R9.”
Australian experimenters are fortu-
nate in having available each month the
pick of American magazines dealing with
all the problems and developments of
short-wave and ultra-short-wave trans-
mission and reception. Most popular of
such publications is the monthly under
the name of “Radio” ; a modest title, but
one which embraces a great deal.
“Radio” is published in San Francisco,
and, although many Australians of re-
cent experimental years may not be
aware of the fact, is many years old. It
was a magazine catering for the needs
of the amateur in the early days, and
always had a distinctive style.
For a few years the old “Radio” be-
came a purely trade publication, but in
1933 returned to the more interesting
experimental side of radio with a big
flourish. It was introduced to the
Southern Hemisphere in this new form
by “Australian Radio News,” published
until June, 1934, by The Bulletin. Since
then it is eagerly awaited every month
by the majority of Australian experi-
menters. It is the kind of magazine
which brings to light unusual and far-
advanced developments, and the editorial
policy is such that no manufacturers are
permitted to dictate what shall and what
shall not appear in print.
A recent move has been the merging
of that other popular West Coast maga-
zine “R 9” with “Radio,” and the result
of such a combination may well be
realised. The reader will benefit materi-
ally, with the ideas and writings of a
large staff of brilliant radio engineers at
his disposal. Besides the needs of the
amateur transmitter, broadcast engineers
will find a wealth of progressive infor-
mation, and “Radio” is to-day an indis-
pensable monthly budget for all techni-
cally interested in radio communication.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
A Tasmanian reader desires to obtain an
Edison gramophone recorder. Details, with
price, etc., to “J.T.,” c/o Mrs. Burrows, Cooee
P. 0., Tasmania.
* * * *
A portable signal generator was described
in B. 12/9/’35. (1) The coil LI is wound with
270 turns on 1-inch former, and is shown as
being tapped at the centre at 135 turns, but
this in the article is referred to as the 185 th
turn. Which is correct, 270 or 370 turns ? (2)
Could this signal generator be converted for
A.C. use with 227 and 247 valves ? (3) What
is the capacity of the tuning condenser ? —360.
(1) 370 turns is correct. (2) Yes, but in this
case the power-unit should be well screened.
(3) ,0005mfd.
* * * *
Interference is bad in this locality, and I
wish to instal a screened lead-in with two trans-
formers, one at the aerial and one at the
receiver. 1 have some 2-inch formers and
24 D.S.C. copper wire. (I) Details of trans-
former construction ? (2) Where could I
obtain and how could I make a screened lead-
in ? (3) The set is a five-valve type, and has a
line filler installed by the makers. Fillers and
set have a common earth connection. Is this
correct ? —361.
(1) Two transformers can be made in screen-
ing cans of similar construction. The primary
can have 70 turns and secondary, wound on an
insulating layer at the centre of the primary,
20 (urns. The transformer at the aerial end
has one side of the primary connected to aerial
and the other to earth. The secondary connects
to a twin-screened cable of any length, con-
nected to the secondary of the other trans-
former at the receiver. The primary of this
transformer has one side connected to the
receiver aerial terminal and the other to earth.
This method of screened lead-in construction
permits the mounting of the first transformer
near the base of a pole, and is thus more con-
venient. Screening must, however, be complete
from aerial to receiver. (2) Fox and McGilii-
cuddy, York-street, Sydney, stock screened
lead-in cable. Lead-covered twin-telephone
wire is quite suitable, but heavy; the covering
is liable to break unless carefully handled.
(3) Yes, but possibly a separate and direct
earth for the filter will be more effective.
* * * *
I am an enthusiastic user of the Minimil five-
valve superhet, described in “Australian Radio
News” 6/4/’34. Performance and economy
are all claimed for it, but there are some details
on which I require assistance. (1) On tuning
up the volume control I cannot use maximum
position without some distortion. How can
this be overcome ? (2) Would it be detrimental
to omit the five-plate midget condenser to
reduce the number of controls ? (3) Could
any of the latest types of valves be used to
bring the set more up to date ? (4) How could
headphones he fitted as an alternative ? —362.
(1) Volume control in this receiver is simply
a filament rheostat on R.F. and I.F. amplifiers.
Apparently these stages are not quite stable at
full filament voltage. Enclosing the grid leads
in copper braid, earthed to the chassis, should
overcome the trouble, but careful readjustment
of I.F. trimmers will be necessary afterward.
(2) Try it. If the coil-condenser tracking in
the R.F. stage is good, it should be possible
to dispense with the midget. (3) The new
Radiotron IC4 would give better economy in
R.F. and I.F. stages; also the . ID4 in the
pentode output stage. (4) Simply by connect-
ing "phones in place of the speaker through a
1 -to-1 ratio output transformer, with a 0-to-
-250,000-ohm potentiometer for volume regula-
tion across the secondary and ’phones.
sH ■ 5k
I have sufficient laminations to build up a
core for a power transformer 2\in. by 2in.
when lightly clamped. They are of the
shell type, the width of the core being 2\in.
(1) What depth would the core need to be
for a transformer of 90 v.-a. capacity (500 v. at
Iso;nn. and sv. at lamp.)? (2) How many
turns per volt? Supply is 240 v. 50 cycles A.C.
(3) If particulars for q certain transformer
specify a core 2in. by 2in., would it be in order
to use a core 4 in. by 1 in. ? (4) Are the specifi-
cations for power transformers given in the
/ i.R.R.L. handbook for 110 -volt circuits suit-
able for 240 -volt circuits provided the turns-
per-volt ratio is amended, and would this
alteration he proportional to the two voltages
(110 and 240)? (5) If the core area is bigger
than that specified for any particular job, is it
imperative to reduce the turns per volt on the
primary winding ? —363.
(1) The central bar is the most important
part of transformer core assembly, as it is
principally upon the cross-sectional area of
this that the number of turns of wire depends.
Two inches depth will be needed. (2) Five
turns per volt. (3) Yes, with the necessary
amount of core made up so that the cross-
sectional area is approximately the same. (4)
and (5) Yes.
Thomas M. B. Elliott writes: “4X”
(B. 4/9/’35 and 27/11 /’35) seems to de-
light in condemning low-definition tele-
vision, with its accompanying disc system,
quoting various authorities in support of
his contentions. As a research worker
in the field of television for many years,
I have seen much of the pictures result-
ing from whirling discs, mirrors and
drums, and over the last 12 months 1
have had much to do with cathode-ray
equipment functioning on both high and
low definition and on short and ultra-
short waves. All 1 can say is that 1
cannot yet form an opinion, as the
mechanical and electronic applications
to television have their compensat-
ing factors. “4X” shows what seems
to be the characteristic Australian
outlook on things pertaining to radio,
placing himself entirely in the hands of
overseas technical writers. Here in Aus-
tralia we have all the requirements
around us for the forming of our own
opinions, so instead of waiting let us be
up and doing. There is no excuse for
delay.


FOR RANDWICK ON THURSDAY.
Chisholm Handicap: Cereza;
next, Dual Ratio.
December Stakes: Spirits ; next,
Gold Rod.
Summer Cup: Spear Prince, 1 ;
Broad Arrow, 2 ; Topical, 3.
A.J.C. Handicap: Cherry King ;
next, Bachian.
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Novice Handicap: Rogerio ; next,
Whimsey.
Carrington Stakes: Cereza, 1 ;
Dual Ratio, 2 ; Silver Jubilee, 3.
Pace Welter; Bulletin; next,
Wykeham.
Denman Handicap: Mr. Kerry;
next, Curator,
FOR CAULFIELD.
Hopetoun Handicap: Nalda;
next, Hot Shot.
Malvern Handicap: Marion
Melton ; next, Great Don.
Christmas Handicap: Titanium ;
next, Closing Time.
FOR MENTONE.
Talgarno Welter: Takata ; next.
Radiant Star.
Summer Handicap: Sarokos;
next, Dick Devon.
Plate: Belle Silhouette.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Spear Prince has made a good impres-
sion on Randwick trainers. He is a con-
tented type, and gallops like a genuine
stayer. Offered as a yearling (he is a
four-year-old now), he could have been
bought cheap, but nobody would go be-
yond 70gns., and Jennings, his owner,
decided to keep him. Jennings has no
regrets. Spear Prince is bred the right
way. His sire, Spearfelt, won the Mel-
bourne Cup in 1926 and the Australian
Cup (with 9st. 131 b.) in 1927 ; the dam,
Pale Lavender, is by Syce from Laverna,
by Ladurlad from Xera, by Waterloo.
She traces back to Nightlight, dam of
the Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup
winner Lantern.
* ■ * & IK
Gold Rod has been working excellently
at Randwick, and promises to strip a fit
candidate for the December Stakes on
Thursday, The Maoriland-bred young-
ster is one of the biggest two-year-olds
in training. He will be ridden by
McCarten, who was astride him when he
led throughout in the Breeders’ Plate.
Gold Rod cost 800gns. as a yearling.
* * * ♦
Barak, who cost S. E. Chatterton
ISOOgns. at the dispersal sale of the late
L. K, S. Mackinnon’s racing stock, is
among the regular workers at Rand-
wick under Poison’s care. Barak did
well on his short holiday. He dis-
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
appointed in the spring, but may make
amends in the autumn. The Ronsard
horse occupies the box that sheltered
Winooka.
* * * *
Broad Arrow’s failure to win the Vic-
toria Park Handicap (with 9st.) has lost
him no friends for the Summer Cup.
He was set a severe task by Shean, who
took him to the front turning for home
and then had to face a strong head wind.
The vSydney Cup winner struggled on
gamely, but the lightly weighted Tre-
mayne beat him by half a neck, with
the jumper Fashion Star two lengths
away. Both Broad Arrow and Tremayne
are genuine stayers, and should be very
fit for the long race on Boxing Day.
* * * *
Although Short Wave is bred to stay,
being by Marabou’s sire, Marconigram,
he is a typical sprinter. He made hacks
of the opposition in the first division of
the Flying Handicap at Victoria Park,
finishing strongly after being second into
the straight. Palm and Porcia were in
the places; among the also-rans were
Golden Gate and Prittle Prattle. Short
Wave has 7st. 101 b. in the Carrington.
Too close to Cereza (Bst. 21b.), perhaps.
* * * *
Colin Stephen, chairman of the A.J.C.
and in other days a fine amateur rider,
takes a keen interest in the club’s school
for young apprentices. McEvoy, who is
articled to W. McGee, was adjudged the
outstanding apprentice of the year, and
was presented with a saddle, the gift of
the committee. Harper, one of Abbs’s
boys, won a whip, the next most im-
portant prize. McEvoy will complete
his apprenticeship in 1937, and it is safe
to predict a fine future for this lad, who
can go to scale at 7st. 41b.
* * * ♦
Testifying in Melbourne last week, a
woman witness stated that self and part-
ner had been engaged in a racing system
which they had worked out together. It
was “almost infallible,” and had proved
so over the past five years. Partner in the
“almost infallible” system —another lady
—is going through the Bankruptcy Court.
In the last phase, Gordon’s Leap
singularly failed to justify the person
who gave him the name. He changed
hands recently, and, tried over hurdles
at Caulfield, dropped dead after jump-
ing three flights in a slovenly fashion.
By Heroic —Absurla, Gordon’s Leap won
in three States for Kellow ; the last race
in which he was successful was the A.J.C.
Final Handicap at Easter, He was a
pretty good horse when in the mood,
but the trouble was to catch him that
way.
* * * *
For a second and a first in races of
secondary importance, Barracker was
placed among the nine-stoners in Mel-
bourne. In the expectation that he
would be more leniently treated in Syd-
ney he was sent across the border, where,
in fact, still greater burdens were fixed
in his case —for example, 9st. 41b. in the
Villiers and 9st. 71b. in the Carrington.
So after an unsuccessful appearance at
Rosehill, which convinced Sydney people
that he is by no means a great sprinter,
Barracker has been sent back to Mel-
bourne. He may run in the Standish,
in which he has 9st. 21b.
* sfc * *
“Wodgil”: Dr. Stewart Mackay re-
cently wrote disparagingly of Queensland
as a place for the breeding of blood-
stock, and suggested that Spearfelt is
being wasted there. Results do not sup-
port his contentions. In number and
reputation Queensland brood mares are
certainly inferior to those in much more
heavily-capitalised N. S. Wales studs, but
it is questionable whether there is any
inferiority to N. S. Wales in the general
quality of neddies that have been rac-
ing this year.
For example, Rivalli won three good
races at Randwick. Buzzard King was a
good third in the A.J.C. Derby ; and Auto
Buz had beaten him in the Q.T.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes. Lough Neagh won the
A.J.C. Tramway Handicap in a canter
(donkey-licking, among others, the first
and second horses in the Epsom), and
downed Sylvandale at weight-for-age in
the Randwick Plate. Soft Step has not
raced in Sydney, but in the Queensland
Cup he established an Australasian
record for two miles, 3min. 21isec.; and
Spear Prince was the closest of seconds.
Then there are Brown Force, Thalwyn
(conqueror in the Grafton Cup of Nar-
bethong, Regal Star and Mr. Kerry, ail
good winners since), Serlodi, Glen’s
Spear, Regular Bachelor, Will Yet, War-
wickeye. Strange Idea and, above all,
Pamelus. Many Queenslanders would
back Pamelus to beat any horse in Aus-
tralia, bar Peter Pan, over any distance
up to 10 furlongs, at level weights. He
was rubbed out for not beating Lough
Neagh at a difference of 41b.
* * ♦ *
Horses that distinguish themselves in
Perth nearly always do well on Eastern
States racecourses: Tarquin, Paul Pry,
May King, Mistico, New Tipperary,
Macadam, Lilyveil, lan Or, Eurythmic,
Easingwold, Lilypond, Maple and Second
Wind have been cases in point. Cuee-
sun is one of the rare exceptions. Sent
to Melbourne early this year after carry-
ing off the Perth Cup for two years in
succession, he failed to strike form,
though given opportunities enough. Per-
haps 1935 has been unfavorable climati-
cally for horses visiting Melbourne from
the West; the W.A. Derby winners Panto
and Hyperion were far from fulfilling
anticipations in the spring, though each
was successful once.
Back in Perth, Cueesun is to try to win
a third Perth Cup for his owner, a local
tailor, and has been favorite almost since
the appearance of the weights. He car-
ried 7st. in 1934 and Bst. 21b. in 1935,
and has Bst. 111 b. now. Another fancied
horse is Mollison’s brother, Calmond,
who, bred in Queensland, has paid his
way in the West, though there have been
pretty long intervals between his vic-
tories.
* * * *
“Horseshoe”: Fred Shean, who rode
Sarcherie into second place in the Mel-
bourne Cup, and has distinctly made
good as a jockey in Sydney, is one of
several sons of a Dawson Valley (C.Q.)
hotelkeeper who all dabbled in the sport
of kings. Only a little over five years ago
I saw Fred win a £4 hack race on a crock
called Dundee. After a short period in
Rockhampton, where he was anything
but successful, he accompanied an elder
brother to Brisbane with a couple of
horses, and gradually worked his way to
the top. His big chance came when
Brosnan took him to Sydney to ride
Lough Neagh. Old Jim Shean confi-
dently predicted celebrity for the lad,
but did not live to see him achieve it.
* * ♦ *
“Reformed Urger”; “Take it from
me,” said Highbrow Charley, “some of
the lowest-down crawlers that infests the
earth is them what go round outback
race-meetings with some dollops of ani-
mated cat’s-meat and call themselves rac-
ing men. A gang of them took me down
—and I thought I was pretty fly—in a
way I’d scorn to imitate. I was running
my cultured tent-show round the shows
and races. We had a tattooed soprano
and her husband, a dwarf contortionist.
Also there was a big black billy we’d
nicked at Blackall; we called him the
Abyssinian Antelope. We taught the
Antelope to pick out cards on the floor
and point his nose and blurt at some
bloke in the aujence when he was asked
who spent more time and money with
the barmaids at the pub than he did
chopping wood for his wife. This
racing gang was always on to me about
the Antelope. One night at the pub
when I was pretty full I remembers I
had a big roll of stumer £1 notes which
I’d been trying to get rid of for a long
time. I bangs these down on the bar
and offers to back the Antelope to beat
every one of their crowbaits next day
at the racecourse if they gave him a fur-
long start in four —catch weights, of
course. The hundred quid was covered
in no time, and Bung stuffed it in his
safe. Next morning 1 had the Antelope
on the course good and early, and at
the five-furlong post before the racing
guns had their prads at the half-mile.
Jim the Rat, our contortionist, was rid-
ing the Antelope, and had his face all
tied up in handkerchiefs. The heads
all crowded round me and went into fits
as soon as they started. ‘Blime,’ yells
one, ‘th’ ’orses is catching your stinker
already.’ So it was, but as the leading
nag comes up alongside the Antelope he
throws his head in the air, sticks out
his forefeet and slips 20 yards before
turning over on his back with his legs
in the air, while his boy is rubbing his
face in the dirt and yelling blue murder.
Two others bolts into the scrub on the
unfenced side, and the others just sits
down. Jim the Rat rides up to the judge
to get the O.K. The judge falls out of
the back of the box and goes hell for
leather for the bar on his hands and
knees. We was left to ourselves after
that, and led the winner home. You
see, early in the morning we takes the
Antelope down to the Chow gardeners’
and gives him half a dozen dips in their
manure tank, drying him between each
one. After that we poured over him a
bottle of valerian we got from the
chemist, the doggers using a lot of this
for their traps. Be the time the horses
had caught the Antelope he was well
warmed up, and what with his natural
8.0. and the rest there was no getting
past him.” “But,” I said, “seems to me
you took them down instead of the other
way about, getting all that money from
them.” “Forget it,” said Highbrow
simply. “When we woke in the morn-
ing the gang had gone, leaving me to pay
the pub bills,, and every one of their
notes was blanky stumers like mine.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tuart”: Strickland, the Maoriland
heavyweight, has been outpointed by
Jimmy Wilde in a British match. Wilde
is a son of the flyweight of that name
who used to whip featherweights, and
if he is half as clever as his father was
he should be British heavyweight cham-
pion in no time.
* * * *
Conforming to the inter-
national rule, Vic. Amateur Boxing Asso-
ciation will in future use eight-ounce
gloves in all divisions heavier than fly-
weight. The value of gloves in preventing
undue punishment is open to argument.
Bernard Shaw, in his preface to Cashel
Byron’s Profession, held that glove
fights were really cestus fights, as the
gloves protected the men’s hands and
enabled them to inflict continuous heavy
blows. Under London P.R. rules, men
used to fight for hours without being
knocked out —the principal reason being
that early knocks on elbows and skulls
reduced the hitting power of the fists.
The countenancing of wrestling, which
naturally tired the contestants tremen-
dously, counted in the extension of the
scraps, as also did the rule terminating
a round with the fall of either fighter.
But probably the damage to the hands
was the greatest factor in long-distance
pugilism.


Machinery for Sale.
GENERATING PLANT FuR SALE.
VICKERS-PETTER Semi-Diesel Oil
Engine, 112/120 b.h.p., 333 r.p.m.,
coupled to
ALTERNATOR, 90 k.v.a.. Power Factor
decimal point eight (.8), 3-phase, 50
cycles, 400 volts, 333 revs, per min.,
130 amps, per term.
This plant is in almost new condition,
having been installed for stand-by pur-
poses only.
COST over £2400. PRICE, £950.
Address inquiries to:
The Liquidator,
THE SUN NEWSPAPERS, LTD.,
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
a
f£
• The Hotel Mansions
Situated in the highest and most convenient posi-
tion in Sydney, this well-established hjotel gives
you every luxury and service.
We are noted for our splendid cuisine and
competent staff.
Reservations day and night ever at your service!
SYDNEY’S SOCIAL QENTRE
King’s Cross, Sydney. ’P hones: F 2191 {l4 lines).
Patents.
TIES FOR METAL STRAPS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
5932/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
SEMI-AUTOMATIC FLAT WIRE TYING
MACHINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
5959/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Ins and Outs
Richardson’s men had a nine-wicket
win in the first Test match at Durban,
though at one stage it looked as if the
Springboks might make a draw of it.
Fast-bowler Crisp, bowling with a
65-m.p.h. gale, got Fingleton for 2 and
troubled most of the others ; but, thanks
to McCabe (149), Brown (66), Darling
(60) and Chipperfield (109), the total was
429 —189 ahead (Crisp 3 for 87, Lang-
ton 4 for 113 and Robertson 3 for 143).
South Africa wiped off the deficit with
only three wickets down, and Rowan
and Nourse, who relishes the slow stuff,
didn’t look like going. Then Grimmett
got Rowan (49) and O’Reilly trapped
Nourse (91), and a little later the latter
secured Wade and Nicholson in one over.
They all fell for 282. O’Reilly finished
with 5 for 49 ; Grimmett had 3 for 83,
and F.-Smith 1 for 101. The openers
were never dangerous. Brown made 55
of the 102 required.
* * . * *
“Tenth Slip”: Chipperfield’s century
in his first Test against South Africa will
probably make him regret the more bit-
terly that he missed the same feat against
England by one run only. Still, this
particular performance against odds, and
with only old Grimmett to hold the fort
at the other end, was a splendid shot, and
says much for “Chip’s” pluck. Count-
ing Australian matches, four other bats-
men have notched three figures in their
first Test against the Afrikanders. Hill
scored 142 at Jo’burg 33 years ago, and
Bardsley started the series in Australia
with 132 at Sydney in 1910-11. Brad-
man, of course, also had to do it; his
contribution was 226 at Brisbane three
years ago. The same season Rigg came
along with 127 in Sydney.
* * * *
Add Oxenham to those in Africa and
you have the pick of our bowlers. The
quality of the rest (Ebeling excepted)
was evidenced by the scoring in the
Sheffield Shield
matches: S.A. 575 v.
N.S.W. in Adelaide;
Victoria 522 (innings
closed) against Queens-
land at Melbourne.
Badcock made 150,
Bradman 117 in 158
minutes, Moyle 98 and
Parker 74. Gilbert got
Lee for a duck in Mel-
bourne, but Rigg (128),
Scaife (100), Smith (80
n. 0.) and Gregory (60)
weren’t worried. Tallon
accounted for four of
the nine wickets taken:
he stumped three and
caught one.
* * *
“Hyder Ali”: Weak-
ened by sickness, Tar-
rant’s men had to call
in two outsiders for the match against
Indore —Tommy Warne, son of a notable
Victorian Shield player (also Tommy) in
other days, and an unknown named
Davies, Indore, practically an All-India
team, batted in great style, scoring 380,
Bhaya topping with 106. Mair (4-117)
did best with the ball, Oxenham having
another bad match. The Tarrantulas
made 223 (Love 46, Oxenham 40 n. 0.)
and added 272 (Morrisby 51, Hendry
77). Indore had no time to get the 116
for a win.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: There has been a
slump in cricket attendances, and the
N.S.W.C.A. acknowledges that it will
have to economise. A start has been
made by taking something more off the
poor old umpires’ fees, but this will not
go far to reduce the £4OOO overdraft.
If the crowds don’t come back and the
ridiculously high allowances paid to
“amateur” cricketers are maintained, the
spectacle of secretary Harold Heydon
sneaking into Uncle’s with the Sheffield
Shield under his coat is not one beyond
imagining.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne is out to wipe
Sydney’s eye properly in the matter of
cricket grounds. When the new £lOO,OOO
programme has been completed in time
for next year’s Tests the Melbourne C.G.
will seat 100,000, mostly under cover.
At the present rate it will be years before
the Sydney arena is in the same case.
* ♦ * «
In one way and another Bob Crockett,
most famous of Australian cricket
umpires, was with Melbourne C.C. for
over 40 years, and at the time of his
death held a position as a sort of official
“bat-doctor.” Crockett umpired in many
Tests, and impressed one Marylebone
C.C. team so much that Warner had him
invited to England, where he umpired in
a special match at Lord’s. The expenses
of his visit were met by a fund collected
from all over Australia. A great be-
liever in the possibilities of an Australian
bat-making industry, Crockett imported
and planted numbers of bat-willows in
Victoria, and for a time tried to estab-
lish a factory, turning out many excel-
lent bats with his own hands.
* * * *
“Huzoor”: A feature of the cricket in
India has been the recurrence of the
same names in the Indian teams matched
against the Tarrantulas. This suggests
that the lads follow the tourists round
and pop up in the local elevens —which
is just what they do. Jardine objected to
this practice, which appears to be dusturi
“Nothing to worry about. Merely a slight jar."
"Say, sport, ’oo got that sock on the chin — YOU or ME?”
(custom) in Hind, but no one took any
notice.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Tweed”; The first Christmas golf
tale comes from Coolangatta, on the
Queensland border, where anything may
happen. A golfer played a high drive
which lodged in the fork of a tree some
distance from the ground. Sooner than
be penalised, Mac —I didn’t catch the
rest of his name —laboriously climbed
the tree and successfully played the shot.
3§s sjt s|c sje
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. golf pan-
jandrums have decided that if a player
holes out with a ball other than his own
he will be penalised two strokes under
Rule B—in8 —in other words, as if he had
played the wrong ball and not holed out.
It recalls two of my mates who found
difficulty one Christmas week in picking
their own pills. One afternoon they filled
their fountain-pens at the secretary’s ink-
pots with red and blue ink, and so made
sure of playing only the ball marked with
a cross of their own color. Exactly what
happened is a mystery, but when the
pair were roused from a snooze behind
a bunker about sunset it was found that
the ball of each was covered with multi-
tudes of red and blue crosses —did I say
that the arrangement was that the ball
should be marked after every hole to
avoid confusion at the next? How it all
ended I forget, and I fancy the players
themselves never knew.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Golfers, Victorian
and otherwise, will congratulate A. R.
Wood on his new job as manager at
Victoria club. For some time he has
held the same position at Eastern, and
his driving power and organising capa-
city have brought about a big change
in that club’s affairs, both during his
association with the club as captain and
later as manager. He has a great idea of
inter-club conferences, and the quarterly
meeting of Melbourne managers and
secretaries, first organised by him, has
proved a big success.
* * * *
“Tightwad”: Kirkwood has contri-
buted £lOO to the fund for the Australian
golfers touring America. Sarazen started
it with £5O. On the other hand, the list
of Australian subscriptions as published
does not show the names as subscribers
of some of Sydney’s wealthiest clubs.
* * * *
“Robin Hood”: Archery-golf com-
petitions are common in England, and
might be worth trying here as an agree-
able variation on the eternal week-end
four-ball. The latest was at Temple New-
sam in Yorkshire, where a member of
the municipal links club took on the
professional over five holes. Usually the
golfer comes out on top in these matches,
but this time the archer won, two up.
Archery is not much practised in Aus-
tralia, and the sight of such a match here,
with a couple of heavyweight members
trying to draw a 301 b. bow round the
average golf course —a pretty stiff job
to the unaccustomed—would drag a
record gallery.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”; Moon and McGrath have
left for a brief tour of Maoriland. Both
will be in Adelaide for the Australian
championships next month, so the All-
Blacks will get only a sort of accelerated
film view of the Australians as they whizz
through.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: English papers lament
the Australian decision to play in the
American zone, since defeat may pre-
clude an Australian visit to Wimbledon.
A special hope is that a strong side may
visit Wimbledon whate’er betide, and
that Crawford and Quist will defend
their doubles title.
* * * *
“Kooyong”; Having banked £2500 as
the result of the last Davis Cup tour, the
A.L.T.A. is pleased with itself. Finance
manager Turnbull was voted 50 guineas
and a presentation, while something is
also to be done for honorary manager
Youdale, who gave the team the benefit
of his experience of European tennis.
Miscellaneous
“Everton”: Money doesn’t always
talk, even in Soccer football. The other
day Aston Villa, the old Birmingham
team, took the side against Arsenal on
it's own ground after spending £24,000
in a week acquiring new players to
avoid the threatening drop to the second
League. As might have been expected
against the hastily slung-together
“Throstles,” Arsenal won, and by the
staggerer of 7 goals to nil —a tremen-
dous score in the round-ball game.
Drake, Arsenal’s new centre forward,
bagged the whole 7 goals, equalling a 47-
year-old record. The two teams to-
gether were valued on the hoof at
£llO,OOO.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The Maorilanders
polished off a couple of Welsh teams
before their meeting with Wales, and in
the last, against Neath and Aberavon,
indulged in a little boxing practice for
the international. The Taffies were as
willing as the All-Blacks, and the referee
had to stop the milling on several occa-
sions before things got too willing.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Someone told The Bul-
letin recently how a tin-hare hound
was bumped back-end first over the fin-
ishing line and adjudged winner by “a
tail.” A Casino (N.S.W.) cyclist has
profited by the tip. In a close finish one
rider’s bike hit the usual dog. He
hurdled 20ft. through the air, like the
young gentleman in the ballad, and
landed a foot over the line to get the
judge’s verdict.
* * * *
“Spike”: Metcalfe may have to gallop
to get a place in the Olympic team for
the jumping events. Dickenson, of the
St. George (N.S.W.) club, is threatening
his supremacy, and has already beaten
Metcalfe’s long-jump figures; in Sydney
both he and Metcalfe broke the world’s
record for the hop, step and jump.
Dickenson is only 20 and on the slim
side. Metcalfe shows signs of becoming
a heavyweight,
* * * *
Mark Williams, who broke the tape
for the last time in Melbourne at 79,
was a mighty man among the peds in
other days. He helped to found the
Stawell Athletic Club 58 years ago, and
was himself a runner of some distinc-
tion. Later he became handicapper to
the Stawell club, which meant he had
to attend most of the big ped meetings
in Australia, from the Towers to Kal-
goorlie, in order to get a line on running
form. He was the first handicapper of
the Vic. Athletic League, and he resigned
in 1931. As guard of No. 1 Sydney
express, the old man was known to thou-
sands who couldn’t have told a spiked
shoe from a moccasin but knew a cap-
able and obliging official when they came
in contact with one.
* * * sje
“Mari-ja”: Though Leagues and In-
ternational Federations may call for the
enforcement of sanctions against the lily-
white with the slightest taint of profes-
sionalism, there is yet a light beyond the
curtain —in Maoriland at least. There
it has been laid down by the A.A.A. that
“an amateur who attends a professional
sports meeting as a spectator does not
forfeit his status.”
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: Having allotted some
money for general defence purposes and
having found the electorate far from
infuriated, Commonwealth politicians are
venturing on another advance —one of
£750 to bring a British rifle team to Aus-
tralia next year. Supporters of target-
shooting will have a considerable bal-
ance to make up, as the cost of an Aus-
tralian tour will be £2OOO at least. We
have not had a team of British riflemen
here since 1920.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SHOHS
“The Guv’nor”
Versatility, while it may increase a film
actor’s opportunities of employment, is
not valued by cinema audiences. They
pay money to see Greta Garbo or Gary
Cooper, and unless the goods are recog-
nisable they feel cheated. From this
aspect “The Guv’nor,” Arliss’s latest set-
ting, keeps faith with the public. Though
he makes his first appearance as an
elderly tramp who wanders round the
countryside of France sucking an old
black pipe and mending crockery, Mr.
Arliss retains the courtly manners of
Disraeli and Richelieu.
His name is Francois Rothschild.
When he gets into trouble with the police
for poaching the matter is referred to
the great banking family whose name he
bears, the charge is withdrawn and the
Bing Crosby in “The Big Broadcast of
1936,” at Sydney Prince Edward.
old tramp receives a cheque for 2000
francs, on the strength of which he and
his companion (Gene Gerrard) array
themselves in the height of pre-war
fashion and engage rooms at a grand
hotel. It has been explicitly explained a
little earlier that Francois is a tramp
because he loves to wear old clothes,
sleep in haystacks and watch the bunnies
and the birdies. Comes villainous finan-
cier Barsac (Frank Cellier), and, for the
sake of the name, makes the old derelict
president of his bankrupt bank.
Thereafter the allegedly unsophisti-
cated old ne’er-do-well swims in more
congenial waters. At a shareholders’
meeting he faces a bullying chairman as
resolutely as another Rothschild in
another film encountered Metternich.
Defeated in one phase of finance, he
evolves new plots; uses the credit of the
bank for extensive operations on
’Change, dishes the villain, and hands
back to the beautiful girl (Viola Keats)
who once spoke kindly to him her vast
estate. Then he trudges off down the
road in his scarecrow clothes.
There is an air of unreality throughout
the proceedings. Arliss is a very ama-
teurish tramp and an impossibly English
Frenchman. Miss Keats is incredibly
saccharine ; Cellier is stagy. The dia-
logue is dull, and fails to cloak a series
of wildly improbable events with plausi-
bility, At Sydney Embassy.
“Car of Dreams”
A British musical comedy at Sydney
Embassy. Mark Lester and John Mills,
father and son, run Miller’s saxophone
(or something similar) factory. John is
fed up with match-making mothers and
daughters ; he meets Vera Hart (Grete
Mosheim) in a motor showroom, pursu-
ing her principal recreation —inspecting
luxurious articles that she is unable to
buy (unknown to John she has that day
got a job in his factory at 30s. a
week). Crete’s father (Paul Graetz) runs
an antique-shop; he is always afraid
someone will want to buy one of his
treasures. John arranges to have the
car presented to Grete on the pretence
that she was the showroom’s 10.000 th
customer, meanwhile posing as an out-
of-work motor-salesman. The usual
complications about identity follow, one
of John’s friends-about-town crashes in,
scandal and tears follow the raising of
Crete's salary to £5 a week, and the
whole episode culminates in a motoring
party to a country pleasure-resort.
Robertson Hare, as Crete’s immediate
boss at the factory, in love with Anne
Fisher (John’s infatuated secretary), does
all that is expected of him as a meddling
busybody-urged on by Anne. After
some excellent comedy everything seems
to come out all right. Shots of Eng-
land’s country lanes and lakes are pretty,
and (here is an interesting indoor ice-
skating scene. The acting of Grete
Mosheim in parts is very good.
“Love Me Forever”
The plot of Grace Moore's latest film
is rather slenderer than that of “One
Night of Love,” but it ceases to matter
before it opens, for at the outset Miss
Moore carols Arditi’s “Waltz Song.”
She may not possess the most glorious
soprano of the day, but it is indisput-
able that she records belter than any
other singer. With such a voice as main
reason, backed up by Miss Moore's good
looks and pretty manners, the infatua-
tion of Steve Corelli (Leo Carrillo) is per-
fectly understandable. Steve, as he ad-
mitted, came from the gutter, spoke
English with Italian disabilities, and was
a gambler with a spotty past, but he
loved music. With Carrillo's fine acting,
splendid settings and a pearl of great
vocal price from Miss Moore every few
minutes, the audience at Sydney State
gets all it bargains for.
“Super Speed ’
This is the old one about the young
inventor who produced a revolutionary
motor gadget, was temporarily robbed
of his reward by villains who put emery
in his oil, and finally sailed to victory by
winning a great race. In this case the
hero (Norman Foster), with the goil
Henry Gordon in “Broadcast of 1936.”
(Mary Carlisle) nestling close by his side,
steers an outboard-motor craft. Racing
scenes are full of spectacular upsets.
Also at the State.
“Special
Chief offering at Sydney Capitol bears
out the Hollywood theory that racketeer-
ing czars wear faultless evening dress
day and night, speak in low, mocking
tones, and are on cigar-exchanging terms
with district attorneys. Also that it is
natural for reporters to have the entree
to a super-criminal’s classic flat, and to
discuss his nefarious doings with easy
familiarity. In the case under review
the scenario writers have borrowed ex-
tensively from the record of A 1 Capone,
right up to his final incarceration for
evasion of Federal taxes. Romance has
been engrafted, but it blooms weirdly
amid the staccato bursts of machine-gun
salvos,
Ricardo Cortez makes a convincingly
sinister Public Enemy No. 1, George
George Artiss in “The Guv’nor,” at
Sydney Embassy.
Brent brings the requisite slickness to
Bill Bradford as a reporter-cwm-special
agent, and Bette Davis is entirely sophis-
ticated as confidential book-keeper to
the arch-villain, whose final “fitting” she
and Brent accomplish after a few heart-
beats are missed by both. A lot above
the average gangster film, and full of
speedy action.
“Our Daily Bread”
Also at Sydney Capitol. John Sims
(Tom Keene) and his wife Mary (Karen
Morley) take over John’s uncle’s farm.
Knowing nothing of farming, they make
it a co-operative community affair, har-
boring various down-and-outs who
happen along. One of them, by good
fortune, is a Swedish farmer. All goes
well until drought threatens the crops
and a hard-boiled blonde stirs the
domestic tranquillity of John and Mary.
John is just about to elope with the
home-wrecker when he gets a brain-
wave to do a spot of irrigation and save
the situation. Running back to his home,
he gets his community on to the job,
saves the farm and is reconciled to his
.faithful spouse at the final fadeout. The
plot has as many holes as a sieve, but the
acting of Karen Morley is a redeeming
feature.
“Page Miss Glory”
Hans Andersen did a big stroke for
the movie business when he wrote “The
Ugly Duckling.” The theme has been
used at least a hundred times. Recipe
is easy. Dress a famous female film
star in a shapeless long-skirted dress and
a comic hat, screw her hair up out of
sight, pretend that she’s imbecile or at
least very simple-minded, and then sud-
denly flash her before the audience in
all her accustomed sophisticated radiance.
It takes about an hour to work up to
the revelation in “Page Miss Glory,” at
Sydney Plaza. Marion Davies, in
chrysalis, is a slushy at a grand hotel.
George O’Brien, a trick photographer,
has won a beauty competition by sending
in a composite print that embodies all
the best features of all the prettiest Holly-
wood ladies. When asked to produce the
lady he can’t. But Miss Davies, after
undergoing the usual beauty-parlor treat-
ment, dresses up in magnificent attire for
a lark, and is discovered like that just in
time to save the situation,
“Pay-Off”
Admirers of James Dunn will like
this demonstration of his talents. He’s
a sporting reporter with a wife who
doesn’t understand him; who fails to
appreciate his honesty, and who does
her best to make him a crook. Finally
she succeeds. He is sacked, and goes on
a jag, but is brought back to sanity and
self-respect by the beauteous young
stenog. who has been his constant pro-
fessional associate. Wicked wife clears
out with a racketeer, and the way is
clear for a second chime of wedding
bells. Claire Dodd and Patricia Ellis are
the ladies in the case, and Alan Dine-
hart does most of the villainising. The
yarn has been told many times before,
but efficient acting makes this version
palatable.
“Jalna” ’
Those who enjoyed Mazo de la
Roche’s Jalna should not miss the excel-
lent film version of the novel which was
screened at Sydney State and is now
going the suburban rounds. The story
has been followed with unusual fidelity,
the 12 sharply differentiated characters
and the tangle of conflicts which make
up the plot being cleverly handled. The
cameraman has captured the pictorial
charm of Canadian rural landscape, and
the indoor shots are something new.
Jalna is the name of a Southern Ontario
farm, and is the seat of the Whiteoaks,
a family of strong personalities who live
a complicated existence of small hatreds,
impulsive romances, unfortunate mar-
riages and follies. But, since the
majority of them are by nature genial
people, the film, for all the sad happen-
ings which occur, is not oppressively
tragic. There are many scenes of domes-
tic happiness and a fair share of quiet
humor. The acting is almost uniformly
good. Jessie Ralph as the centenarian
grandmother, lan Hunter as the master-
ful Renny, Nigel Bruce as the reprobate
of the village, David Manners as the
egotistical, philandering poet, Kay John-
son as the understanding Alayne, Molly
Lamonf as a shy, frightened bride and
Peggy Woods as love-starved Meg stick
hardest in the memory.
Some First Nights
“The Gondoliers” for the best lyrics,
“The Yeoman of the Guard” for the
best plot, “lolanthe” for the prettiest
Gene Gerrard in “The Guv’nor.”
music and “The Mikado” for the most
piquant wit —that’s the way many ad-
mirers of the Gilsullivan galaxy of
operettas place their preferences, but it’s
a bit like trying to reduce pineapples,
strawberries and peaches to a common
demoninator to attempt any comparative
appraisement. It may, however, be said
of “The Mikado” (revived at Sydney’s
only surviving big theatre on Saturday)
that it is the only one of the Savoy ex-
travaganzas that has firmly implanted a


u<utLt
Neat, convenient and inexpensive,
Jne lightweight Globite Attache
Case is most practical for school
books. It's extra strong and rigid,
with a reinforcing lid stay. Ask
for a Globite Attache Case.
?ME €
SCHOOL BOOKS
- as*.
I- 1
I ®
Hate at ike Helm
sieeringa sensational
course on a thrill '
surging sea of
BELA LUGOSI
(DDACULA)
SHIRLEY GREY %
ARJHUR MARGEJSOj^i
Heart-warming romance born on 'j/
an ill-fated ship at the mercy of J
a relentless, unknown power. //.
AMAZINGLY ADAPTED FROM
THE WORLD'S GREATEST
UNSOLVED MYSTERY
OF THE SEAS.
Gorrunrf to Sniertola
All Australia/
Crfsk yourJoealpieatnMmacferakutit.
WORLD STODDARD PRODUCTIONS
new and most expressive term in the
English language. Pooh-Bah (you’ll find
him in the latest' Webster) has his recog-
nisable parallel in so many small towns
that it’s a wonder how the world was
able to wait till 1885 for his label.
It was on the Ko-Ko of Ivan Menzies
that most attention was concentrated on
Saturday. The little Englishman’s agile
legs and yet more agile tongue seem to
have been joined in one person purely
in the interests of Sullivan’s music and
Gilbert’s ditties. Godfrey Stirling found
a congenial role as the romantic Nanki-
Poo, Richard Watson and Gregory
Stroud shared honors as Pooh-Bah and
Pish-Tush, Winifred Lawson’s Yum Yum
was as pretty as her singing, and Ber-
nard Manning exuded magnificence as
Nippon’s Emperor.
Sullivan’s idea of Japanese music
wouldn’t appeal to Lafcadio Hearn or
even to Puccini, who made an effort
to master its idiom before scoring
“Madame Butterfly,” but it suits its
pseudo-Japanese setting admirably, and
it has in many of the numbers an exotic
flavor not to be found in Sullivan’s
“Aussie,” by Miles Evergood, at Melbourne Athenwum.
other works. The piece wears well.
Applause was as hearty and encores were
as frequent as ever.
•f*
“Young and Beautiful,” at Sydney
Tivoli, is a lively programme of vaude-
ville. The most spectacular turns are
those in which Charlotte Ayres is whirled
round, thrown about and miraculously
caught by Rene, Larue and Maurice.
Into one such scene, “The Pirate Ship,”
are crowded enough action and noise to
fill half a dozen Spanish Main yarns ;
the other, “A Night in Vienna,” is really
beautiful. Marconi is still playing his
piano-accordion, and the Lassiter
Brothers’ tumbling act doesn’t pall, even
if Big Brother’s wisecracks do.
Humor is mostly in the hands of
Angus Watson. He works hard, and
although his gags are often of uncertain
age he gets laughs with them, and can
always be relied on to do something un-
expected, whether it be “duck-shooting”
among the orchestra or appearing in the
centre of a wedding cake. He is well
supported by Phyllis Dixey and Robert
Nicholson.
The ballet is in good form, and at one
stage tucks away half its shapely legs
in the Dance of the One-legged Pirates.
The brightest thing in Adelaide shows
lately has been the University revue,
sixth of its line. This year it filled
u . Tivoli our h mes - It is fortunate in
having two born comedians, John
Duncan and Rex Dawe, and two good
straight” players, Keith Macdonald (of
the Repertory) and Yvonne Richardson.
Dean Hay conducted a large orchestra,
and the ballet (under Jean Bedford’s
direction) was the backbone of the shoW-.
•ir •h •h 4*
There seems to be something in the
atmosphere of the N.S. Wales civil ser-
vice conducive to musical appreciation.
The railway people run their own eistedd-
fod, the police force has mobilised its
choral and instrumental talent, and on
Friday night a wider organisation, the
Police Service Choir, made its debut at
the Con. Hall. This choir was formed
only a few months ago, but it already
has a membership of about 100; and its
singing, under Dr. C. A. Jarman’s baton,
gave evidence of good training. More
attention than usual seems to have been
paid to enunciation —a very welcome
feature.
Current Artbursts
A collection of ceramics of good design
and craftsmanship, interspersed with
others not at all
suited to their
medium, is sTiown
at Margaret Mc-
Lean’s gallery,
Me 1 bourne, by
M. E. Tompkins
and E. M. Bur-
rows. The two
ladies obviously
work together, for
it is impossible to
distinguish their
respective ex-
hibits. The same
praise and the
same blame apply
to both. Possibly
the most charm-
ing work is turned
out according to
the Satsuma for-
mula. The de-
signs reveal no
Japanese influ-
ence, but cover a
wide field of
decorative ideas.
The firing has
been accom-
plished without
affecting the
colors seriously,
and many of the
pieces possess
both beauty of
form and deli-
cacy of tin t.
Some of the work
is adorned with
oil - p a i n ti n g s
which sit awkwardly upon it, but there is
a mass of good work to counter that
error of judgment.
* * * *
A year’s work is represented by the
collection of pottery shown by Mar-
guerite Mahood at Sedon’s, Melbourne.
This is easily understood when it is ex-
plained that the hundreds of works are
modelled, colored, glazed and fired by
the lady herself. Mrs. Mahood’s pottery
designs bear the imprint of her person-
ality as plainly as does the work of a
distinguished painter. She depicts humor
as well as beauty, and in several of her
grotesques it is plain that she has been
inspired by caricatures of a well-known
politician. There are pots, book-ends,
ornaments, cigarette-trays and filigree
lamps of beauty and grace. Figures
representing dancers are full of move-
ment and vigor. Colors harmonise
nicely, and have been so dexterously
chosen that the firing has not dimmed
their brilliance.
*l* *2*
Kathleen and Florence Martin held
a joint exhibition of water-colors at
Margaret McLean’s Gallery, Melbourne
—illustrations of fairy lore in which
fantastic imagination is a leading
feature and a delicate color sense atones
for some of the shortcomings in draughts-
manship. There is a tinge of humor
about some of the drawings, and much
to amuse the kiddies in nearly all. Flor-
ence Martin shows some black-and-white
sketches of similar character.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; 267 COLLINS S7TREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
%.VS a
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
December Issue, now on Sale, discusses—
THE SEARCH FOR GOOD YIELDS.
TRADE BALANCE AND SHARE PRICES.
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITIES.
BASE METALS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
|pg A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Kpt Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
*£% with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
“Temporary,” but Still Here
Every big crisis in national affairs
leaves more or less permanent reminders
behind when it passes. In Britain
D.O.R.A. is still a source of petty irri-
tation. The Defence of the Realm Act
was introduced during the Great War,
which finished 17 years ago.
Australia has less obvious but more
important memory-prompters. The high
capitalisation of Queensland sugar lands
dates back to the war-time sugar agree-
ment of 1915. It was all right for those
in the industry then.
The war also left lasting scars on our
coal trade. Labor was scarce and dear.
When things became more settled the
miners didn’t fancy giving up the advan-
tages taken during the crisis; strike fol-
lowed strike when we should have been
trying our utmost to meet oil competition
on more equal terms. Our coal trade
to-day is a shadow of what it used to be.
Federal income tax was a war-time
measure that has been with us ever
since.
The 1930 depression seems to be leav-
ing us gradually. Employment is im-
proving, business is recovering, and our
external trade position is better than
during the overseas borrowing years.
There has been little or no move yet to
revise the programme of financial-emer-
gency legislation brought in
during the worst of the slump,
but, if the spirit in which such
laws were first introduced is to
be fulfilled, revised they will
have to be very shortly.
The Moratorium Acts in the
various States are still operative
in a greater or lesser degree.
In some cases the term of enact-
ment will expire next year.
However humanitarian our gen-
eral outlook, the rights of each
party to a contract must be re-
cognised, and if it looks as
though moratoriums are now
doing little more than enabling
otherwise hopeless cases to hold
out against vendors or mort-
gagees, or encouraging abuse of
the measure, then discontinu-
ance or drastic amendment of
the law should be considered.
Unemployment-relief tax, now
camouflaged under the title of
“special income tax” in some
cases, introduced in the first in-
stance to provide food-relief,
looks like continuing. What doesn’t go
in doles goes into sewerage schemes and
consolidated revenue; even in some
N.S.W. country shires road maintenance
is being paid for out of this taxation
fund, and farmers sometimes find it dif-
ficult to get labor. On the other hand,
there have been cases where farmers
themselves have taken relief-work, while
employing relief-workers on their farms
(filling in broken time) at a lower rate
of pay.
Transport-strangulation policy, an
emergency measure to save the bankrupt
railways, spreads its tentacles in every
State. It is a question whether N.S.W.
or Queensland is the worst example.
This has been one of the most tyrannous
pieces of legislation wished on the people
in the name of financial-emergency
legislation.
Legislation that vexes, irritates or
hampers trade and employment should
be repealed wherever it can be done in
the general interests of the public. Mora-
toriums affect only old contracts, but still
have an influence on land values. So
far as unemployment taxation and trans-
port strangulation are concerned, new
regulations and ramifications may be in-
troduced any day. It leads to the belief
that, unless firm measures are taken
now, public finance and public under-
takings will emerge from the depression
more parasitical in character than ever
before.
Arnheim Land Gold Development, the
subject of articles in respect of which
The Bulletin received a writ (with-
drawn, the co. paying all costs),
has gone into voluntary liquidation.
At one stage the 2s. ords. (then paid
to Is. 9d.) sold as high as 18s. 3d.,
giving the show a market valuation of
over £270,000. No dividends were ever
paid, though the prospectus said that the
reef had been “tested, and its extent and
the assays from the lode area are of a
character which would strain the credu-
lity of those who have not had the
opportunity to verify Mr. Birtles’s state-
ment.” Mr. Birtles was featured as the
discoverer of the “lode.”
“While I'm away I should like you to reorganise things a bit.”
“ Certainly , sir. ’D y' rather have blondes or brunettes ?”
The sharemarkets closed down for the
Christmas holidays on a cheerful note-
very different from last year, when there
was a nervous feeling that gold-share
bubbles were about to be pricked. A
good demand for popular industrials saw
Newbold Firebrick, Broken Hill Pty.,
Meggitt, Anthony Horderns’, Castle-
maine-Perkins, Australian Cement, G. J.
Coles and Yarra Falls all sought after at
higher prices ; bank scrip generally was
bought with more confidence. Among
gold issues Fiji stocks spurted a bit,
especially Emperor, Koroere and
Loloma ; but there was a decided fad-
ing in interest, in the last-named par-
ticularly, towards the end of the week.
New Occidental (N.S.W.) went to over
16s. for the first time in several months ;
Triton and Lancefield (W.A.) sold
at higher levels, as did Lake View
and Star, North Kal. and Boulder Per-
severance. Mount Morgan and Golden
Plateau were also better. Bulolo Gold
Dredging was sought after; Placer De-
velopment was a good deal stronger.
* * * *
Lead, spelter and silver were still weaker
in London last week, but after the first
break in the market there was a good
rally in all Barrier issues except Norths.
Souths, Zinc Corps, and Sulphide Corps,
were traded in fairly freely at prices
better than a month ago.
* * * *
Imports of Australian lead into Great
Britain during November amounted to
two-thirds of the Old Country’s total pur-
chases ; 20,381 tons came from the
Barrier and Mt. Isa during the month,
as against 13,324 tons during October.
The November figure was the highest for
some time.
* * * *
At the beginning of 1935 N. S. Wales
investors had hopes of a new Com-
panies Act, a reduction in Stock Ex-
change brokerage fees on mining shares,
and a general revival in the popularity
of goldmining scrip. Some are still
hoping. The Companies Bill had to
stand aside while the Government legis-
lated against petty forms of gambling,
enforced bathing-costume regulations,
prosecuted motor-carriers and wasted a
month on an abortive Wheat Bill. In
regard to Stock Exchange charges —well,
at £5OOO a seat, both-ways commission
on mining scrip is perhaps necessary. As
for a revival in mining shares, the sepa-
ration of the quick from the dead is still
going on, and the dead aren’t likely to
rise again during this gold boom. But
they might well be preserved for a future
generation.
* * * *
Markets for both wool and wheat
closed for the holidays on a firm note.
Australian grain in London brought be-
tween 28s. 9d. and 30s. 6d. (stg.) a
quarter. The Sydney market is around
3s, 7d. a bushel. A more general demand
for wool has been noticeable at the sales
despite sanctions against Italy ; the Con-
tinent has bought more freely, and even
U.S.A. has been coming into the market.
Mt. Lyell produced 506 tons of cath-
ode copper during the fortnight ended
December 11, making 2603 tons for the
10 weeks since Sept, 30. Output of the
red metal is now at the rate of 14,000
tons p.a., slightly above last year’s actual
outturn (a record). The market for elec-
trolytic in London is around £39, equal
to about £49 (Aust.); there is a profit in
it of £4 or £5 for Lyell at that figure, and
the shares have possibilities at 20s. 9d.
* * * *
Australian Knitting Mills, the largest
textile concern of its type in the Com-
monwealth, is talking of distributing
among its own shareholders its holding
in Yarra Falls, Ltd., and Austral Silk
and Cotton Mills. A.K.M.’s holding in
Yarra is 310,000 £1 shares (worth 41s.
each on the market), and 25,802 in Aus-
tral. A.K.M.’s paid capital is £550,000
in 540,000 ords. and 10,000 prefs. ; the
ords. are at 30s. on the market (they
rose 2s. following the announcement).
If the proposals are carried out the
holder of 100 A.K.M. shares would get
56 Yarra Falls and four Austral shares.
A.K.M. was the principal founder of
Yarra Falls in 1918. The pup has since
outgrown the parent; it has a paid capi-
tal of £900,000 profitably employed in
the manufacture of yarns, worsteds and
other textiles.
* * * *
Edjudina G.M. Co., N.L., operating
at Yarri (W.A.), paid capital £89,500 in 4s.
shares (at 2s. Bd. each on the market), was
to have started continuous crushing on
December 16. Shaft-sinking has proved
150,000 tons of sdwt, values (435. Aust.),
capable of being mined by opcncut.
Mining and treatment costs are put by
the directors at 15s. to 16s. a ton. A
contract has been let for breaking and
delivering the ore to the crusher bin at
ss. 7d, a ton. Plant capacity is 30,000
tons a year; it can be doubled by instal-
ling another ball-mill and three more
concentrators. On the face of things the
show looks to have possibilities, subject
always to extraction problems.
The ore-body is said to consist
of mineralised porphyry, 24ft.
(hick and outcropping over a
large area. During the period
Aug. 10, 1934, to June 30, 1935,
£22,090 net was spent on de-
velopment. There isn’t much
cash in the till.
* * *
First Hit, next door to the
Lady Shenton at Menzies
(W.A.), won £17,616 worth of
gold during the period Nov. 18,
1934, to Oct. 31 last, and after
paying all exes, showed a loss
of £4lll. Development con-
tinues to disclose good values,
but so far positive ore reserves
have not been proved on a large
scale. The market was more pleased
than otherwise with the year’s result;
the 45.-paids sold last week at 4s. 7d., as
against 2s. a month ago. Market’s valua-
tion of the show at present is £85,000.
* * * *
The factor which troubled shareholders
in Natural Gas (Balmain, N.S.W.) was
that when the water was pumped out of
the borehole after the casing had been
cemented in the gas pressure was lower
than before. The conclusion arrived at
was that the gas-bearing strata had been
cemented-off —the Mines Department is
reported to concur in the opinion. It
would be a costly job to remedy this, so
for the present drilling is to be pushed
ahead in hopes of tapping deeper reser-
voirs of gas. The well has since
been reported to be making a greater
pressure. As pointed out on this
page before, the enterprise is a highly-
interesting gamble, and should be
looked on as such. Some geological
conditions are favorable; others aren’t
so promising. But the geological forma-
tions underneath Sydney should have
been tested long ago it has been left to
private enterprise to do the job.


ASTOUNDING VALUE.
GRANDMA’S SONGS
GRANDMA’S SONGS
GRANDMA’S SONGS
Words and Music of 110 Songs, many not
procurable before in albums,
Including—
Aloha Oe, Australia Will Be There, Beautiful
Isle of Somewhere, By the Watermelon Vine,
Lindy Lou, Day by Day, My Task, Home on
the Range, I Love You Truly, In Old Madrid,
In the Gloaming, Just a-Wearyin’ for Yon,
Keys of Heaven, Peggy O’Neil, One of These
Days, Waltzing Matilda, When It’s Moonlight
on the Silvery Rio Grande, I Don’t Want to
Play in Your Y T ard.
PRICE 2/6 (posted 2/9).
From all Music Sellers or direct from the
Publishers,
ALLAN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Bendigo.
Personal and Missing Friends.
LARCOMBE.—If RICHARD CARNALD
WESLEY LARCOMBE, son of Richard
Larcombe, late of Echuca, will communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY,
472 Bourke Street, Melbourne, he will hear
something to his distinct advantage. He was
last heard of in 1931 in the district of Gil-
gandra, New South Wales.
Position Wanted.
MAN, 40, suction-gas installations and main-
tenance overhauls, seeks job anywhere. Replies
No. 273, c/o Bulletin, Sydney.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
fti
m
K'sSßfc
ii 4
5; *i 15 1
! 85 3,’S lfl
P,J t•• j’l
telliLi!
Hi I
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station),
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfas*- from.. 12/6
’Phone; F 4141 (10 lines).
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Joseph, the grey, and Conrad, the tor-
toiseshell cat couldn’t get their usual
number of catnaps the day before Cap-
tain Alan Villiers took his ship with
flowing sails through the Heads and out
t<? the open sea. The graceful little
sailer that has added a touch of romance
to the waters off Double Bay had a suc-
cession of callers that final day, Mrs.
J. Moreing and Oswald Cheeke among
the early ones, Lord Beauchamp, with
one or two friends, later in the after-
noon, while still later came the Governor,
Lord Gowrie of Canberra. But, alas
for romance! This ship, which is such a
pet that you want to put it in a bottle
and gaze on it for ever, has no up-to-date
gadgets like taps that spurt fresh water,
and, truth to tell, the cabins are the
tiniest slits. Still, the ship’s company
loves every plank in her. It must be
the youngest crew afloat —the only man
over 30 is the cook. Alan Villiers lec-
tured before the Geographical Society
the night before his ship sailed. A film
of the voyage of the Parma in 1933,
when it won the grain race from Adel-
aide to Falmouth, brought the salt
breezes and the sting of spray to the
listeners’ cheeks.
The wife of Governor Lachlan
Macquarie was the belle of the Christ-
mas party at the Women Pioneers’ Club.
She smiled in miniature from the
mantelshelf, very pleased at the junket-
ing. The only color picture of Mrs.
Macquarie hitherto in Australia had
languished in a Hobart gallery; and
you know what museums and galleries
are! It’s “Time, gentlemen!” at five
o’clock with them, and after that
dignified seclusion for the inmates till
next day. When Lady Hore-Ruthven
first visited the club she looked around
in vain for the Governor’s wife who
pioneered the job in Australia. This set
secretary Carlotta Doyle on her mettle,
and she and president Mrs. Lingham
didn’t rest till they secured a copy of
the Hobart picture.
There were berry and holly, Christmas
bell and Christmas bush turning the one-
time sedate old Warrigal Club into a
setting for a Christmas party that would
have assured Mr. Charles Dickens that
Sydney’s heart was in the right place.
Descendants of long-dead men and
women who had built up the colony of
Botany Bay, who had opened up the
Hawkesbury, the Mountains and the
plains beyond, ruffled in laces and chif-
fons, smiled over irreproachable white
ties. The confetti of laughter and word
blew gaily about the Pioneers’ rooms.
There were dancing, cards, wine, good
ale and mince-pies.
Mrs. Lingham received the guests, and
her flowered chiffons were girdled in
cobalt-blue velvets. Carlotta Doyle car-
ried an emerald feather fan with her gold
dress. Desiree Rodd, in blue-and-white-
checked organdie, was a good-looker;
Mrs. E. MacLaurin brought her fair-
haired Colin. He goes off to Cambridge
to round off his studies for the ministry.
Mrs. John Waugh’s greys and silvers
were effective in the group which, led
by Vinia de Loitte, sang Christmas
hymns and carols till Macquarie-street
rang again. Miss Elizabeth Betts
wore a scarf of real ivory lace about
the shoulders of her silvery moires.
K. R. Cramp and Aubrey Halloran were
among the festive-minded ; so were John
Rouse, Clive Sullivan, the Carty Salmons
and Major John Doyle—he came on
late from the party given by the mem-
bers of the Imperial Service Club to the
war nurses. That is claimed to have been
the brightest affair in the city. The 50 or
so nurses were thrilled to the tonsils
about it. It was the first dinner in their
honor given by the I.S.C.
Mrs. Nellie Toohey, of Point Piper,
is due to reach Sydney on January 4.
Then she goes to Bowral to stay with
son Irvine till his wife gets back from
her travels. Mrs. Irvine was one of the
shipping Pargiters, of S’Africa, and is
now on a visit home with her two child-
ren. On the Dutch liner that carried
Mrs. Toohey to Java and Singapore were
Mrs. Mylius, Mrs. Box (Melba’s sister)
and the Cherry Keartons. He’s the big-
game man.
The wonder spot of the A.B.C.’s fare-
well party to the Budapest String Quartet
was Mrs. Josef Roismann. Until four
months ago, when she arrived in Sydney,
this bright-faced Hungarian could not
speak one word of English, but now she
is not afraid to chatter in what she
naively calls “Australian” with anybody
from Commissioner Cleary to Henry
Braddon. The latter, with his la’dy, came
fo the party, although he admitted that
he was no lover of the moderns of music
literature. Incidentally, if you ever want
to serenade him, Schubert is his favorite.
Mrs. Arved Kurtz held every gaze
with her hibiscus-pink frocking. Stand-
ing near by her violinist husband and
herself was pianist Raymond Lambert.
His wife (she was Jill Ryan, of Brisbane)
is not with him this time. She’s home in
Melbourne with mother and a few-weeks-
old baby. All the A.B.C. chiefs drank
deep (the brew was tea), and this Letter
noticed again what a nice smile Mrs.
Cleary flashes on the world. Half of
Sydney’s music world seemed crowded
into the blue room at Usher’s, including
the Con.’s Dr. Bainton, his wife and
daughter Helen. Altogether the quartet
gave 85 concerts in Australia.
Alice Prowse will be heard as the
Mother in the fairy opera, “Hansel and
Gretel,” which is the A.B.C.’s Christmas-
night attraction for the young. Jt will
replace the usual children’s hour. Alice
was one of the Valkyries and one of the
Rhine maidens in the last grand-opera
season. Her husband is a composer of
note, and has carried off several prizes
for his works in the broadcasting com-
mission’s competitions. Photograph by
Lupton.
Italy’s new Consul-General Vita-Finzi
and his wife were greeted with a loud
burst of handclaps and smiles by the
members of the Dante Alighieri Society
one day last week. A hundred or more
crowded Romano’s for the festive lunch,
and president Bertie Kelly made a speech
into which he wove TEsop’s fables with
good effect. Mrs- Bertie Kelly wore the
latest thing in pill-box hats ; so did Mrs.
Vita-Finzi, above the long oval of her
face.
An interesting visitor to Sydney is Mrs.
Gertrude Parsons. She is staying at the
Australia, but she spent last week-end
with her kinsfolk the Macarthur Onslows.
The lady is very interested in flying,
and next week will wing her way
to Canberra. She is a direct descendant
of Robert Bruce, and lives in an old
home which dates back to Bannockburn.
Red Cross heads made themselves very
smart for the Younger Set’s Christmas
party last week. Mrs. John Moore,
patroness and guest of honor, was all
Madonna-blue laces and gardenias. Miss
Kate Egan, who cut the cake that gar-
nished this sixth birthday of the Y.S.,
wore a feather wrap in the most melting
of blues with black frocking. Burgundy
laces flowed about Miss Consett Stephen.
It was all very nice, and beneath the
ice-cream souffle of jest and laughter
were the bedrock of £l5O and an extra
£l5 for the X-ray plant at Bodington,
the Red Cross sanatorium at Wentworth
Falls. This was handed over by Mrs.
Moore after president Jean Bell had read
a report that seemed all credits and no
debits.
Many of the girls brought their
mothers as their guests, and vice-presi-
dent Gwen Walker-Smith stood up, very
straight in her lilac lace frock, sashed in
green, and gave the toast “Our Mothers.”
Gwen has a nice wit. She deftly re-
minded Santa Claus, the hero of the
hour, that he would have faded into
oblivion long ago if it had not been for
mothers. After dinner a film of the
recent Continental Fair held at the home
of the Fairfax lady was shown. This
bazaar figured as a credit of over £242
in the presidential report. Joyce Alex-
ander, of the Collaroy-Narrabeen circle,
brought shell-pink chiffons and a sparkle
in the eye. Dot Wormal was among
the noted; so were the R. J. Hawkes
couple, Louise Hesketh and Mrs. Ray-
mond Beatty.
This is Mrs. George Crawford, now on
her way to Java and neighboring parts.
Mrs. Crawford is one of the youngest and
one of the most consistent workers for
the Blind Institution. There is no task
too great or too small for her ; but her
specialty is running old-clo’ shops for
the benefit of the institution. A Freeman
camera caught this glimpse.
Earl Beauchamp’s chef is growing
quite enthusiastic about Australia. He
has found edible snails in the Bellevue
Hill garden. The garden, at the moment,
also holds two kangaroos, one just a
baby fellow. His destination, if he grows
hardy enough, is the French Riviera. An
Alsatian hound of great size and fidelity
is a handsome bit of livestock about the
household.
Everything necessary for Christmas,
including Santa Claus, was at the Legacy
fete in the Town Hall. There were
fairies, too, and one of them danced
forward and kissed Lady Isaacs’s hand
when she opened the fair, which had in
reality been trafficking in cosmetics and
cakes, dolls and brassware since the
morning hours. Girl Guides and Boy
Scouts formed a guard of honor on the
steps, and the G.-G.’s lady was enriched
with a basket of gladioli and Christmas
bells. Sylvia Purves looked after these
while the vice-regal visitor did the round
of the stalls. Lesley Pope and Wendy
and Barbara Brunton Gibb were small
but important people. Just as important,
though larger, were Admiral and Mrs.
Randle Ford, Captain and Mrs. C. J.
Pope, Olive Kelso King, the David lady
and Colonel Maughan. Mrs. G.
Carpenter and Mrs. Hamilton Lewis
were the secretaries.
If a young man invites you to bever
to-day, don’t look unintelligent. He’s
asking you to go and have , a bite with
him in the new buffet of the Australia.
This is called the bevery, and, according
to Noah Webster, a bever is a light re-
past between meals ; a lunch. To bever
you pop down a stairway the sides of
which are giddy with crystal stars on a
black background. The hotel’s new
wintergarden and ballroom overlooking
Martin-place are decked with Swedish
birch, black marble, stainless steel and the
last word in curtain and carpet. A fare-
well cocktail-party to Betty Weihen was
the ballroom’s christening.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s ship Pinafore
wasn’t in it for romance with the Nieuw
Holland the other night. Outlined in red,
white and blue lights, the Dutch liner
seemingly lay alongside the Quay, but
who can tell what waters a ship has
floated to when her bridge is canopied
with balloons? The ball was for the Dal-
wood Homes, and nearly 500 people
climbed aboard. Nearly 500, after they
had a few dances, went down the side
again and into speedboats that rushed
across the starlit waters, a lacy foam in
their trail. To add to the fun, two slender
masked ladies, one in blue, the other in
white, their period frocks set off with
curled and ringleted coiffures, were at
the top of the gangway to greet the
guests. At midnight the two turned into
Jean Black and Zara Basser.
Dame Mary Hughes, president of the
committee, came with fuchsias from her
own garden warming the grey tones of
her flowered silks. Mrs. Anton Bakker’s
mossy velvets and the powder-blue taf-
fetas of Mrs. D. Lammers, spreading
and Watteau-like, were ornaments of the
official party. In it were Consul-General
for the Netherlands Elink Schuurman,
the T. H. Smiths, good-looking Mrs.
Myerson, in turquoise blues, the Arthur
McNivens, the George FitzPatricks and
the ship’s commander, Captain Schilling.
Laure Faulkiner was one of the attrac-
tive ; others were June Lloyd, daughter
of the Bertie Lloyds, May Sheehan, in a
graceful frock in which blue and black
were cunningly mingled, and Pat Nall,
who wore with good effect pink hydran-
gea blooms in her hair and in her frock.
Jean Fitzpatrick’s red hair was missed.
Owner was in the throes of bronchitis.
Ivan Menzies, Evelyn Gardiner, Wini-
fred Lawson and Gregory Stroud came
on after they had put lolanthe to bed.
Singer Marie Brown (Mrs. Harold
Bott) couldn’t stand up to the lack of
sunshine in England, where she went early
this year to study with Dorothy Helmrich
and Elena Gerhardt. Colds, followed
by neuritis, decided the London doctor,
who prescribed “Australia.” Marie came
back in the Orama, and her husband met
her in Melbourne. In London she met
all Sydney’s aspiring songbirds, including
Elsa Corry, Hazel King and Victor
Evans. Another good friend was Isabel
Crowdy.
The first time Marie Brown went into
Chappell’s in London, she was seeking a
song. The assistant said: “Edgar Bain-
ton’s composition, I suppose. That’s the
one we’re generally asked for.” The
Sydney girl explained that Dr. Bainton
now governed the Con. in her home
town, and was then told that he was a
recognised master of Bach. Another un-
expected link with Australia was found
in a small newsreel cinema in Shaftes-
bury-avenue. One night, Miss Brown
and a group of this continent’s students
of medicine and music were thrilled to
hear the voice of Charles Lawrence
accompanying a koala-bear film. A few
nights later some of them returned for
another helping, and found a pukka
English voice saying the book of words.
One of the lads was so disappointed that
he wrote to Gaumont-British, and got
back a very charming note saying, now
that the firm knew it meant so much to
Australians from home, they’d run the
voice as well as the picture from “down
under.”
The perfection of choral and orchestral
music in England made a deep impres-
sion on the Australian singer. From
the 8.8. C. and in the Queen’s Hall, the
listener expected it; but was rather stag-
gered to find it in a small Welsh village.
Accompanying a woman friend whose
husband was to sing the tenor lead in
one of the less known oratorios, Miss
Brown went to Wales. When her friend
reported for rehearsal, the conductor
said; “We can’t start for an hour ; the
men won’t be off their shift.” At the
end of the hour, a lot of them came
running, not even waiting to wash the
mine dust off. But they sang like angels
with an accuracy of time and rhythm
that left the London listeners somewhat
abashed. Summing up, Australia has
more beautiful voices, but the overseas
artists score with polish and poise.


a
o
n
in c Sydney an ituin&s
want*
canvemencc
and taa ... natntalLj
laaL* at js\ j j
r-ratel
SYDNEY
Tariff i Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/*.
R. J. Langley, Manager.
Legal Notice.
TO AARON ROBERT BELL McCORMICK,
SON OF JOHN McCORMICK, WHO
DIED INTESTATE IN NEW ZEALAND
ON THE 2nd MAY, 1918, TO HIS
CHILDREN AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY, THROUGH OR UNDER
HIM OR THEM:
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby authorised to send to me on or before
the Ist day of March, 1936, your claims to
share in the estate of the abovenamed John
McCormick, failing which such estate will be
distributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 15th day of
November, 1935.
CHAS E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
In Equity.
No. 376 of 1935.
BETWEEN THOMAS ASKEW HUTCHIN-
And ROBERT BARBOUR, CATHERINE
pray B^ B e OU Sum C e H r A a R v LES aRt H hTr
ESSENDON HUMFRAY, OSCAR
PHILIP NORFOLK, ERNEST JAMES
TAYLOR, MARY IMELDA TAYLOR
and JOSEPH MARTIN HILL Defendants.
TO the abovenamed JOSEPH MARTIN HILL
of Cremorne Machinery Merchant.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Plain-
tiff has commenced a suit against you and the
other Defendants named above by Statement
of Claim tiled in this Honorable Court on the
First day of May 1935 claiming that it may
be declared that a certain agreement in writing
entered into between the abovenamed Plaintitt
and the abovenamed Defendants whereby the
Plaintiff agreed to sell to the Defendants
and the Defendants agreed to purchase from
the Plaintiff sixty-one hundredths of the in-
terest of the Plaintiff in _ the lease ot a
property numbered 3930 situated at Sunny
Corner together with two prospecting areas
adjoining the said lease and together with a
lease from the Crown over a machinery area
in the town of Sunny Corner and together with
certain plant machinery and stores in the said
agreement set forth should be specifically per-
formed and carried into execution and that the
same may be decreed and ordered accordingly
AND THAT the Defendants may be ordered
to pay to the Plaintiff the damages he has sus-
tained by reason of the refusal and neglect of
the Defendants to perform the said agreement
AND that it be referred to the Master in
Equity to inquire what is the amount of such
damages AND that for the purposes aforesaid
all necessary and proper orders be made in-
quiries and directions given and accounts taken
AND that the Defendants be ordered to pay
(he costs of the Plaintiff AND ALSO claim-
ing such further or other relief as the nature
of the case may require AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that by an order made in
the said suit on the Thirteenth day of Decem-
ber 1935 by the Honorable Harold Sprent
Nicholas a Judge of the Supreme Court of
New South Wales sitting in Equity the Plain-
tiff was given liberty to effect service of (he
said Statement of Claim on you by the publi-
cation of an advertisement stating that a State-
ment of Claim has been filed herein and that
the time for appearance thereto by you has
been limited as hereinafter mentioned in the
“Sydney Morning Herald” and The Bulletin
newspapers on one occasion in each before
the First day of January 1936 AND by post-
ing copies of the said order together with copies
of the said Statement of Claim in the General
Post OlTicc at Sydney on the day upon which
the said advertisements arc published in regis-
tered envelopes postage prepaid addressed re-
spectively to you in care of the Oakey Park
Colliery Oakey Park Lithgow AND to 56
Milson Road Cremorne AND to the General
Post Office Sydney AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that you are by the said order
allowed twelve days after the publication of
the said notices to file your appearance to the
said Statement of Claim. A copy of the said
Statement of Claim may be had by you free of
charge on application to the undersigned.
WALKER & GIBBS,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
17 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1296 of 1935.
BETWEEN CONSTANCE ETHEL NEWTON
Petitioner
And JOHN ALEXANDER MUNRO
NEWTON Respondent.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER MUNRO
NEWTON late of 29 Mackenzie Street
Melbourne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CONSTANCE
ETHEL NEWTON has commenced a suit
against you in this Llonorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or befepre
the Third day of March One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this. Twelfth day of December,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. O. S. HARMES,
Clerk in Divorce.
ERNEST A. CLEARY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner. 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1920 of 1935.
BETWEEN ARTHUR FURNISS Petitioner
And FLORENCE MAUD FURNISS Re-
spondent.
TO FLORENCE MAUD FURNISS late of
Mudgee in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ARTHUR
Furniss has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable. Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of March One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein (hay be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of December,
1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
•Chief Clerk in Divorce.
BORTHWICK & BUTLER, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Inverell. By their Agents,
RAND & DREW, Solicitors, 2 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Strong-minded people with heaps of
sentiment about the Christmas spirit are
leaving their presents unopened until the
25th. The others couldn’t undo quickly
enough the wrappings of cellophane
paper, the tinsel bows and colored string
which are the correct fancy-dress for
good wishes in concrete form. Cello-
phane paper rolled into a ball makes
quite a good present for the family cat,
if of kittenish instincts. The dog, if
he’s the kind which tries to eat every-
thing, will be kept out of mischief with
a ball of cellophane—it sticks to his
teeth and takes his mind off digging up
the garden.
Some of the loveliest gifts which are
•being unpacked to-day are of china and
glass. Every year more and more colors
appear; shapes are no longer conven-
tional, and people with ultra-modern
tastes can satisfy their whims even on a
small purse. Witch-bowls of colored
glass with small openings at the top are
used for floating water-lilies; smaller
bowls of the same shape hold single
flowers, and there are tiny posy-holders
just large enough to carry the perforated
weight which secures the stems of the
flowers. Mirrors tinted dark blue, green
or amber arc used effectively as stands
for glassware of the same color. Fish
are popular—some as lamps have swum
into our ken with a diffused glow under
their fins ; others are purely ornamental.
Flowers and fruit made of a composi-
tion (which, on the salesgirl’s authority,
are fishscales mixed with fish-glue) arc
decorative in a light and fragile manner,
for they arc thinner than eggshell. They
should be particularly welcome in places
where flowers arc scarce. The cocktail
pig is a great success, because he’s an
amusing little creature. He’s perforated
all over, and carries the toothpicks which
spear prunes, sausages and other odd-
ments served with cocktails.
The young men and women who
manage to keep up appearances on little
more than the basic wage have been ex-
changing Christmas presents in china and
glass which cost only a shilling or two.
There are cute “salts and peppers,” gaily
colored and shaped like mushrooms or
cacti, napkin rings in the form of little
men playing leapfrog, and navy-blue
cups that accompany orange saucers
and may be procured separately or with
an orange teapot with a blue lid. The
lass with digs Bft. by Bft. who insists, on
giving parties is very pleased at all her
Christmas beer-mugs. Of pale-green
roughcast, they are complete with
handle, and they cost only sd. per half-
pint at the big stores.
The wind was the only discordant
element at the marriage of Mary Drake-
Brockman and Peter Gebhardt. There
was no rain to ruin the bridal walk from
Judge Drake-Brockman’s house in Clen-
don-road to St. John’s vicarage grounds
on the other side of the fence, but the
wind pulled at tresses, flowers, trains and
capes so carefully arranged by hair-
dressers, florists and dressmakers, who
had been on duty several hours before
the ceremony. The wedding garment
was a very tight sheath of ivory satin,
made tighter by the backward urge of
the heavy train, cut all in one with the
gown. Stockings were not worn.by the
bride or her ’maids, and another very
up-to-date notion was the sprays of berries
and feather flowers which the attendants
wore over their foreheads, stretching in
half-moons parallel to the partings in
their hair. .Althaea Drake-Brockman,
D’Arcy Lawry, Vi Dethridge and Pat
Carnegie were the quartet, in mist-blue
ninon, their gowns stiffened at the hem
of the underskirts with ruchings of
taffeta. In their arms were sheaves of
long-stemmed delphiniums. Afterwards
Judge and Mrs. Drake-Brockman held a
reception in their garden.
William Joseph Hutchinson, M.H.R.
for Indi, played a matrimonial instead
of a political role last week in Scotch
College chapel. His leading lady, Beryl
Ross, of Brighton Beach, wore parch-
ment satin and a tulle veil caught to her
hair with a twist of satin and pearls.
Dr. J. A. Troup gave the bride away,
and Mrs. Troup was matron of honor in
the plumbago-blue-and-silver group of
attendants.
Preparing for their late-afternoon party
Mr. and Mrs. William Bates risked the
weather and placed small tables, garden
chairs and beach umbrellas out of doors.
There was a slightly chilly wind, but
otherwise host and hostess were fortu-
nate in their choice of time and place,
for though cocktails and their accom-
paniments were served in the lounge and
dining-room many people snatched at
the opportunity of a stroll over green
lawns. Mrs. Bates chose an unusual
gown of white chiffon, upon the hem,
sleeves and corsage of which black velvet
leaves were boldly appliqued. Ospreys
waved round the crown of her large
black hat. Her daughter, Mrs. P. T.
Kelynack, wore navy-blue with spotty
lapels; daughter-in-law Mrs. W. R.
Bates was in turquoise, with navy bands
upon her short sleeves to match the
lining of her cape.
Here is a Broothorn portrait of Mrs.
F. J. Corder, wife of the Melbourne
solicitor who is Commissioner for Malta.
Mr. and Mrs. Corder live at Brighton,
so that their five children, who are all
under 12, will spend most of the festive
season, if the weather is good, on the
beach. Mrs. Corder combines the run-
ning of her home with general interest
in current events and the reading of
good books.
Programmes and boxes of chocolates
were the reserve notices on the first four
rows of seats at His Majesty’s for the
theatre party given by Melbourne’s
Mayor and Mayoress. Mrs. Wales wore
black matelass£, and carried a fan of
peacock-green feathers. Her daughter,
Mrs. Lem Callaway, had her hair pushed
back behind her ears in a manner very
becoming to the style of her moss-green
Grecian draperies.
After “The Desert Song” the 150
guests proceeded to the Town Hall for
a supper. The Lower Hall must have
been the coolest spot in Melbourne —like
an ice-chekt after the hot street. Sitting
with the host and hostess were knight
William Brunton, whose lady wore black
with long full sleeves of tulle, Alderman
and Mrs. Stapley, she in purple-grape
chiffon, and Alderman Elliott and his
wife, whose gown was of sapphire-blue
velvet. Gladys Ferguson, who wore a
blue tunic with a shrimp-pink skirt, and
her partner were the first couple to start
dancing after the cigars and cigarettes
were handed round. Jean Nilsen, whose
father was among her partners, wore a
flowered frock and twin knobs of hair
on the nape of her neck. Joy Hardy
chose blue, and her fourth finger was
unadorned for the last time; the next
day it sparkled with Cyril Denny’s soli-
taire diamond. Mrs. E. J. Hamilton was
in a floral medley on a black back-
ground, Mrs. A. W. Coles looked slim
in mushroom lace and Mrs. Raynes
Dickson, jun., was something beauteous
to remember with camellias placed high
on her head and a cunning little bustle
to her tangee dress.
Glimpsed here through a Broothorn
lens is the Rev. and Mrs. C. W. Wood s
youngest daughter Cynthia, who took
the part of Mary in “In Dulci Jubilo.’
With the wind whispering in the tree-
tops and by light of stars and flickering
torches this Christmas play was pro-
duced for two nights in the bushy garden
of Merton, Mr. F. W. Eggleston's home
in Orrong-road.
In their interpretation the young
players' caught the feeling of simplicity
and mysticism which was the spirit of
Christmas revelry throughout the Middle
Ages. The carol-singers and morris
dancers could be seen in the distance
treading the zigzag pathway through the
woods before they emerged on to the
“village green,” a stage built up in front
of the porch. Up on the balcony an
clfect of blue sky lighting was obtained
for the angels in their flowing robes and
golden haloes. Joseph, Gabriel, the
Shepherds, the Three Kings, Herod
(Colin McAlpin) and his herald (Lai
Wheelwright) all had parts to play, and
a group of village children were parti-
cularly charming. Egan Eggleston (who
is still receiving felicitations on his en-
gagement to Ruth McKie) produced and
arranged the play, David Churton was
stage manager and L. J. Robertson
looked after the lighting. Afterwards
wassail, in the guise of barley water and
cakes, was served to the audience by
the characters from Bethlehem and rustic
Elizabethans.
Mr. and Mrs. Theo Handheld believe
in seeing Australia properly, if they
do see it last. They have been round
the world, and now that Mr. Hand-
held has retired they have taken to travel-
ling by car for indefinite periods. They
have neither family nor business ties, and
the gear for the jaunt, lasting many
months, hts into suitcases in the back
of the car. So far the pair have not
slept under canvas; they prefer a hotel,
but they are thinking about buying a
tent when they get to Sydney. After a
trip through the Western District they
will travel through Gippsland to N.S.W.,
and so on to Queensland for the winter.
Mrs. Handheld’s brother is Tommy
Cochran, known as the “hostess’s de-
light,” because he has brought to a fine
art the accomplishment of being a guest.
He always says and does the very best
thing to make a party “go.” Tommy
now lives in London. He will pay a
fleeting visit to Australia in January.
Lady Clark Hutchison is having her
first glimpse of Victoria under the guid-
ance of her son and daughter-in-law.
Lieut, Clark Hutchison is stationed at
Flinders on two years’ exchange from
the R.N. While her husband was alive
Lady Hutchison lived in Scotland ; since
his death seven years ago her home has
been in Sussex. Travelling with her is
Mrs. W. A. Ralston, of Edinburgh, who
has two sisters in Melbourne, Mrs. E.
P. Arnold and Mrs. John Gray.


OJR
©IN
w I ..LB
►
c s
% n®
A
Ht
F RE D U E
ORONTES
Tourist & First Classes
ORFORD
Tourist & First Classes
ORMONDE
Tourist One Class
ORSOVA
For people who want to see the world ini
substantial comfort but who prefer not to
sustain the cost of luxuries ....
The new “ORION” was the first of the large
modern Royal Mail Steamers of the Orient Line
to carry passengers in First and Tourist Classes
instead of in First and Improved Third Classes.
“ORONTES” and “ORFORD”, the two latest
Orient 20,000 - tonners, have been converted to
do the same, and these three ships, with
“ORMONDE” and “ORSOVA’’-Tourist-One Class
only —now provide a frequent Tourist service.
ŵ
liffllMF you
TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
Orient Steam Navigation Company Limited, Incorporated in England
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALLA.
Four hundred children with hordes of
foster-mothers in tow surged info Gov-
ernment House grounds for the Child
Welfare Department’s Christmas party.
The v.-r. grandchild, young Richard
Anketell, was there with James Mitchell
and his lady. Father Christmas lent his
welcome presence. Punch and Judy put
in an appearance with a tumbling clown,
and Mickey Mouse fraternised with a
Big Bad Wolf. High-tea in the supper-
room was a colorful affair, with caps,
flags, roses and gladioli.
Artillery Barracks, Fremantle, housed
fifty guests of Mrs. G. T. Meredith at a
farewell party for Mrs. A. M. Martyn,
whose presentation roses nestled ’gainst
floral blue georgettes. The hostess
nodded a wide pancake-hat over smart
black matelasse as she shook cocktails
and then led the gathering to a larkspur-
decked marquee for tea. The honored
guest’s brigadier-general husband has
been transferred to S.A.
Headed by Molly Kingston’s flecked
linen-tweed suit, University women
gathered for luncheon at the Pleiades
Club to welcome a duo of guests. Mrs.
McKellar, secretary of the Victorian
branch of the association, parked her
brown-and-red-spotted beige linen in a
box seat. Grace Patullo’s olive-green
crepes were in another.
Repertorians chose “Ten Minute Alibi”
for their final production of the year.
Architect Margaret Pitt Morrison de-
signed the silver streamline set, and Cyril
Riley directed. The pseudo-chromium
clock attracted attention ; newcomer Jack
Gibbings scored a hit as Colin, and Mrs.
Harold Krantz, in the lone feminine
role, won hearts from her first appear-
ance in an all-cream outfit.
Mrs. Frank Davies topped a trim
black crepe-suede suit with an upturned
black-and-white hat for the Victoria
League’s welcome-home luncheon in her
honor. Tables in the Karrakatta Club
Hall were fragrant with red and pink
roses, and special seats were reserved for
Mrs. John Forrest and Mrs. R. Running,
fellow-passengers with Mrs. Davis on
the return-from-abroad trip. Acting-
chairman Mrs. A. E. Joyner stood at the
portals in dusty-pink pebble crepe.
Mrs. A. Mair celebrated daughter
Lorraine’s coming-of-age with a luncheon
at the Embassy. Guests were presented
with posies of roses and orchids, which
harmonised with the floral silks worn
by the hostess. Lorraine was in eau-de-
nil and white.
Mrs. Hubert Momber presided over
the splendid rally of members and
friends at the Myola Club’s Christmas
party, where foundress Mrs. H. G.
Flower and early president Mrs. F. B.
Creeth had box seats. The programme
was a potpourri of choral numbers
under Mrs. A. J. Baird’s baton, com-
petitions, tea and a brace of humorous
sketches, “Burglars” and “Catharine
Parr.”
Athole Clifton and Gerry Meldon
paddled their matrimonial canoe from
St. Mary’s, West Perth, without a wake
of ’maid and man. The bridal aqua-
marine crepes were neatly tailored and
wrought with paddings looped through
chromium rings. Accoutrements were
beige, with wide hat and deeper-toned
roses. Intimates gathered afterwards at
the Karrakatta Club.
ADELAIDE.
Jean Gilmore, who has been admitted
to the Bar, gave a morning-tea at the
Arcadia after the ceremony—she enter-
tained women practitioners and law-
students, among other friends.
Commander James B. B. Barwood,
R.A.N., and Mrs. Barwood are in Adel-
aide on their honeymoon. Mrs. Bar-
wood (Ainslie Williams that was) has
r many friends in Adelaide.
Sister Eddy, of Keswick Military Hos-
pital, has been promoted to matron of
the Repat. Sanatorium, W.A.
Mrs. A. M. Rutherford, of Victoria-
avenue, Unley Park, has issued invita-
tions to the marriage of her daughter
Airini to James Murray Morish Nicholls
on December 28 at St. Peter’s College
chapel.
Lady Twyford (who was Ethel Honey)
has returned to Adelaide on a brief visit
after an absence of 34 years.; she is
accompanied by her 18-year-old daughter
Ennis, who was presented at Court this
year. Sir Harry Twyford is now Senior
Sheriff of the City of London. He has
been an alderman for six years, and is in
training to become Lord Mayor.
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Ayers, after 23
years at Warenda, Clare, have sold their
lovely home to Mr. Rollo Hawkes, and
are coming to town to live. After spend-
ing Christmas at Eringa, Millswood, with
her mother, the Kidman lady, Mrs.
Ayers will take a trip to Java and Singa-
pore, accompanied by her niece, Joan
Reid.
The Bonyihon lady has been entertain-
ing in real Bonython style at St. Coran-
tyn, East-terrace. First of all she was
hostess at a very cheery afternoon party
at which her guests were 80 members of
the Keith Sheridan Free Kindergarten
Mothers’ Club. She received gowned
in black Miss Katherine
Bonython wore white georgette spotted
in pale blue. The following evening
120 young people were entertained at a
dance at St. Corantyn—friends of son
Warren.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark was a guest at Mrs. W. B.
Propsting’s garden party, Augusta-road.
The pretty home and garden looked their
best in summery weather. Fuchsias
made the chief decoration in the drawing-
room, and tea was served in two rooms,
the tables a mass of sweet-peas. Lady
Clark’s frock was of blue georgette and
lace ; the hostess chose black and white,
with a short black velvet cape and black
hat.
The J. E. Thorps gave a very jolly
little party at Jutland. There was danc-
ing in the drawing-room, decked with
roses and delphiniums. The hostess was
in pink taffeta. Most of the guests were
young married folk.
Peggy Dick, Margaret and Betty Hood
and the Courthope girls were among
hostesses of parties to say au revoir to
Pat Thompson, bound for S. America,
and to welcome Brenda Walch, who has
been to England.
The Wattle League, which is preparing
for a carnival to raise funds for the
sanatorium, crowned its little “Queen of
Queens,” Myra Edgar, at the Wattleland
Ball in the Masonic Hall. The young-
ster’s candidature brought in £lB9. Three
other small competitors also helped to
rake in shekels.
The Hobart Rep. Soc. staged L*als-
worthy’s “The Roof at the Royal, and
got good houses. The performances
were on a high level all through. Settings
were designed by Robert Montgomery,
Amy Kingston and Phyllis Pitman, who
achieved some telling effects,
Mary Sharland’s “speech night,” at
which her elocution students held forth,
was an enjoyable little show. Miss Shar-
land is the pioneer in Hobart of choral
verse-speaking, and some of the items
under this heading were beautifully
delivered. , .
R. W. C. Gandy, Derby, has been
appointed Tas. Rhodes scholar tor 1936,
and will take the course for Bachelor
of Arts at Oxford. Besides his academic
and athletic qualifications, the young man
has musical and dramatic ability,
Authoress Marie Bjelke-Petersen is
back at Lindisfarne, writing another novel
from material collected in North Queens-
land.


For InE lame d Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A. ROSE &. Co. Ltd. King St Sydney
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample bos
C. BKANDA.UEE <fe CO.. Ltd., BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
MADE BY ' . ;
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
I
%/' / 'W'
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
MAKE MORE MONEY!
Men- or women earn good incomes selling
v Gilmour Products.
Highest - Quality Essences, Spices, Medicines,
Soap Insecticides, Foods, Ointments, Toilet
-Preparations, etc. NECESSITIES ALWAYS
IN DEMAND —sell to friends and neighbours
—NO RISK—no capital needed —we can finance
you to, buy at manufacturer’s low prices—ad-
vertising, sales training, everything supplied—
PROVED SUCCES-S—full time pays £5 TO
£lO WEEKLY.
Own Your Own Business—
NOTHING. MORE PERMANENT—state whether
interested full or part time —send your name
and address —Receive illustrated booklet and full
information. ' Address: The John Gilmour
Coy., Idd., Dept. 113, Corner Parramatta
and Pynnont Bridge Koads, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W. :
SEASICK REMEDY
RELIEVES STOMACH
DISTRESS WHEN
TRAVELING _
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
“X.T.”; The declining tropics, is it?
To settle an argument the Queensland
Registrar-General has just announced
that the biggest place in the State, Bris-
bane excepted, is Rockhampton (30,000
population), with Townsville (27,249),
Toowoomba (27,000), Ipswich (23,289)
and Cairns (12,400) following. All the
towns have just about doubled in size
since the 1901 census, except Cairns, the
most northerly, which lies roughly 16deg.
below the Equator. Cairns people, when
the Commonwealth was founded, num-
bered only 3557.
* * ♦ *
“Erroll”; Just 35 years ago I was sub-
looting on H.M.A.S. Gayundah off L
Island, Mackay (Q.). We were giving
the sugar town’s naval brigade its 14
days’ annual sea-training when our
skipper suddenly appeared on deck all
spruced up, his’ ginger beard trimmed
to a nicety in true nautical fashion. This
was quite an event, as (he “old man”
wasn’t noted for his dress—or address--
especially while the ship was at
sea. That evening, however, we
sailed for Flat Top, where our
skipper caught an A.U.S.N.
steamer for Melbourne. He be-
came Vice-Admira| W. R. Cres-
wcll; his journey south was the
outcome of an instruction to
come to Melbourne to lay the
foundation of our present Aus-
tralian Navy.
“Laetitia”: Old workings on the
Batavia field and the new Portland-road
goldfields (Cape York) are yielding fair
returns, and as a result the south-bound
steamer Wandana, with its passenger
complement of miners, gives the traveller
a whiff of the old Bendigo and Turon
days. Giant shouts are the order of the
day, and though the little craft battles
manfully to stem the collective thirst her
efforts are pitifully inadequate. One of
the main factors in reopening the fields
has been the improvement in malaria
technique,
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: The seaside village of
Caloundra, some 60 miles north of Bris-
bane, at the northern end of Bribie Pas-
sage, recently saw a curious happening
in aviation. A ’plane making for Rock-
hampton with a cargo of Sunday papers
was caught in a heavy rain squall. The
engine conked out, and the pilot man-
aged to land in the sea, almost on the
heavily-breaking bar. Someone called
out the lifesavers —luckily for the pilot
it was a Sunday ; the beltman swam out
to the still-floating ’plane and attached
the belt line. It was towed ashore, the
uninjured pilot roosting on top.. An un-
usually high tide and heavy sea drove
the ’plane high up on the beach and
wrecked it, leaving the engine intact.
The pilot’s clothes were found floating
out to sea, • and the wings were
driven over the bar and well up the Pas-
sage. It is probably the world’s first air
rescue by a surfing team, and should be
a good advertisement for the forthcom-
ing surfers’ tour abroad.
* * * *
“Ted Knob”: When I was opalling
in the Wetlands country (W.Q.),
camped at Daylight Tank, I had
fish whenever I wanted fish. My dog
used to catch them. He would gel
on the job while I was gouging. Towser
first used to raise a mob of grasshoppers.
He’d work them down towards the water
in the dam, and hold the mob there
while the fish came out to feed on ’em.
He’d never move while the fish were on
the frontage. As soon as they worked
back through the ’hoppers, he would
whip in between fish and water and drive
’em back to camp for me when I came
home from my job. I’m sorry to say
Towser is no more, and I have none of
his breed. He got a mob of crayfish one
day by mistake. Watching those insects
running backwards made him cross-eyed.
The result was that he never knew
whether he was coming or going. He
took to going round in circles, and wore
his legs off up to the shoulders.
• * • •
“Dungeness”: Here, in Sydney, I’m
fed up with ex-travelled Australians who
“Want any performin' fleas in y'r show, mister?"
"Waal, let's see what y' kin do!"
moan about there being nowhere to go
and nothing to see in this flat, depressing
land of ours which one can fit into*a
three-week trip. From my awful-
climate lair, we get the best travel value
for our hard-earned pennies by cutting
out our Government railways. - Once we
get to Townsville Sydney is only a couple
of days distant by air. Cost, all in, sub-
stantially less than first-class rail. Com-
fort and convenience’ incomparable. If
any Sydney lad or lass yearns for some-
thing new to see, let ’em run up to
Townsville by ’plane—two days—and
take an N.E.A. taxi flight out over the
real Barrier, and home again over
Hinchinbrook and the Mount Spec coun-
try. /Then an,air-flip up to Cairns to see
the gigantic mass of the Palmerston
scrubs tumbling- down from the scarp, of
the Atherton Plateau. There is nothing
like it in the world.
----- * . ’ ■ • t - ■ - -■ -- ■
“Kwakprak”: A Sandgate (Q.) girl has
no belief whatever in the old adage that
lightning never strikes twice in the same
place. Within the last 12 years she has
had the remarkable experience of haying
been struck four times, without serious
injury. On the latest occasion, she was
burned on the cheek, and suffered from
severe headache afterwards. Two years
ago she had her face badly scorched
and her hair and eyebrows singed. Three
years before that she had a similar ex-
perience, and was rendered unconscious.
Five years previously she and her
brother, standing near a telephone dur-
ing a thunderstorm, were knocked down
and stunned by a flash which struck the
and also damaged a neighboring
house. All .these incidents occurred in
the presence of witnesses, and are re-
liably attested. Similar, instances have
been reported of persons who appear to
be in some way attractive to lightning- -
one was a French doctor who was struck
26 times, and finally kiiled,
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Santa, poor old chap, worked over-
time in the heat for the kiddies. The
City Mission —Taringa Baptist Church
helping—staged one of the biggest,
parties, and 300 children each collected
something from the huge tree. The Ex-
Impcrial Sub-branch of the R.S.S.I.L.A.
did the Father Christmas act for another
100, and 350 excited small people gath-
ered at the annual party staged by the
members of the Postal Institute. Bris-
bane branch of Toe H, with its League
of Women Helpers, gave still another
200 a day out at Kalinga Park. Not only
Santa but the Governor was there. The
Ashgrove Diggers saw to it that another
150 kids weren’t done out of their Christ-
mas, and staged a grand show indeed,
with the whiskered dispenser of gifts in
a snow-covered sleigh a-jingle with gold
bells.
Carlie Yaldwyn, granddaughter of the
tall, old-time P.M. and an ardent student
of Shakspeare, is one of the more recent
recruits to the ranks of the engaged.
Keith Stanton, of Sydney, is the young
man.
Premier Forgan Smith’s colleagues gave
him a fare well, dinner before he left for
London' and the world sugar conference.
Mr. Percy Pease presided, and Lord
Mayor Jones rumbled out the good
wishes of the Municipal Labor party.
Ex-Premier McCormack, not long back
from Russia, also was among the speech-
makers.
Mr and Mrs. R. E. Nixon Smith en-
tertained the officers of the French sloop
Savorgnan de Brazza at their home, Evle,
Greenslopes. The officers returned Bris-
bane hospitality at a 5-to-7 party aboard
the upper deck of the lugger. Although
the officers consumed tea and cake with
an air of polite detachment at the
Mayoral party, in their honor, they evi-
dently don’t care much for tea, judging
by the lashin’s of champagne and French
wines that they provided for the party.
The Queensland Women’s Club Christ-
inas party was a pudding parade, with
the members dressed up as the puddings.
Mrs. H. W. Hartley, the president,
received the guests, to the number of
about 50, and a large Christmas pudding
nestled in the middle of the flower-decked
table.
Stan, eldest son of the A. M. Tynans,
of Brisbane, was married in Melbourne
at Our Lady of Victories’ Church, Cam-
berwell, to Joan Harper Bell, daughter
of the W. Harper Bells. Jean Tynan
went down to act as bridesmaid, and
Father A. Tynan,' a brother of the
’groom, assisted the rector of Newman
College, Rev. Father J. Murphy, in the
knot-tying.
The William Glasgows are about to
move into their new home at Indooroo-
pilly, and all the married daughters are
steadily advancing on Brisbane in order
to be in time for the housewarming.
There was a strong Renaissance in-
fluence about the amethyst chiffon gowns
worn by bridesmaids Phyllis
Danaher, Joyce Roper and
Marie Magee when they fol-
lowed in the train of Marjorie
Joy Sapsford’s slim silver-clad
figure when she kept her altar
date at St. John’s Cathedral
with Tom Danaher. George
Sapsford gave his daughter
away.
Dixie Newton, who has been globe-
trotting for quite a while, called in here
to look up sister Mrs. Peter Macgregor,
and now has gone on to Stanthorpe to
stay with brother Colonel Dick New-
ton. After that she will call in at Holly-
wood to see how niece Mary Macgregor
is getting on in the film world.
Gwen Lawson, when she said her “I
wills” in ,St; Paul’s Church of England,
Stanthorpe, to Frank Burcher, had set
out in her bridal array from the Scott
McLeod home, Terrica, where the Duke
of: Gloucester stayed. The Lawsons and
the Scott McLeods are firm friends.
Gwen was-associated with the kinder-
garten at St. Aidan’s school, Corinda,
and her mother lives in Stanthorpe. No
wedding veil for her. She wore an after-
noon frock of hydrangea-blue mariette
and a -wide-brimmed hat, and carried
pink and blue hydrangeas.
Thomas Garcia Anderson, who passed
over at the age of 8L was part of the
history of Queensland. He was the
first white child born at Cape Moreton,
where his father, killed by blacks six
weeks later, was a pilot. Since 1854 he
had lived at Kangaroo Point, which
easily made him Brisbane’s oldest resi-
dent. He was the first Brisbane boy to
put to sea, and when he returned after
his maiden voyage in the sailing-ship
Corinth the residents of the Point lit a
bonfire to celebrate. Four years ago
he and Mrs. Anderson celebrated their
golden wedding. His name is being kept
green in Anderson-street, Kangaroo
Point.
Mrs. J. J. Buchanan celebrated her
86th birthday by giving a luncheon party.
Pink roses decked the table, and the
hostess, in black lace, wore a smart hat
with a blue feather. Premier and Mrs.
Forgan Smith were among the guests.


DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
43 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: 83100.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
*tKir\C€>ol**s Call
IIIICVRMTS
'HU
7
r* mMM
m?
m
Famous visitors from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Lou) Combined Rail
and Motor Fares .
The Burglary Profession from Within:-
Why
Spartacus
Retired
BY
"NO13"
'INHERE was an atmosphere of gen-
tility about the little man who sat
beside me fishing from the pier. He
looked like a mortal who’d quaffed
deeply the bitter dregs of disillusion. His
hands were shapely, his mien patrician ;
I found myself speculating on what or
whom he did for a living.
When his lubberly-thrown hook pierced
the lobe of my ear he retrieved it with
commendable gentleness. He told me —■
redundantly, I thought—that he was not
an expert fisherman; that he fished
merely to dispose economically of (he
worms found in his garden.
I suggested that to use for bait the ear
of a complete stranger was surely carry-
ing economic principles too far, at which
we both laughed merrily.
He told me his name was Spar-
tacus Cobb. 1 sympathised with him,
and opened a bottle of lager.
Then the stranger rather confounded
me by divulging that he was,
of all things, an ex-
burglar !
I didn’t believe him.
You couldn’t look at his
big brown eyes and
pathetic little moustache
and imagine him to be a
burglar ; you couldn’t listen
to the lazy “flip-flop” of the
great, free ocean and at the
same time harbor darK
thoughts of jemmies,
prisons and lawbreakers.
So I laughed a dental-
parlor sort of laugh and
carelessly placed a hand on
my breast pocket.
Young Wimple.
Said Spartacus mournfully: “I can
assure you, sir, that I’d no evil intention
regarding the wallet projecting from your
pocket.”
“Oh, not at all, old man,” I answered,
feeling confused. “Er —have a gargle
of ale or something?”
Ignoring my invitation, he handed me
a penn’orth of hauteur and prepared to
leave.
Well, what could a fellow do? I
wouldn’t wittingly hurt a fly, yet seem-
ingly I’d walloped this poor old Cobb
person a nasty one under the belt. 1
hated to see him go. After all, an ocean’s
an ocean, and a man’s a bit of a hog if
he wants one all to himself.
So I apologised, saying I really knew
little about the etiquette of his late busi-
ness.
“Profession,” he corrected.
Then, with quiet dignity, he placed
a worm on his hook. His eyes scanned
the restless sea, and in them was the
questing gaze of a man who has lost the
love of his life.
I thought; “Burglar or no burglar,
this man needs sympathy.” So aloud
I said: “Mr. Cobb, if you’d care to un-
burden your soul, the remaining portion
of my ear is at your service.”
He thanked me ; then Spartacus Cobb
spilt this poignant story of the diabolical
workings of Fate.
«TO understand the events leading to
* my retirement from the grandest of
all professions,” said Mr. Cobb, “you
must first know something of my late
assistant, Wimple.
“His father had once occupied a room
adjoining mine in a certain Government
establishment at Goulburn. Unfortu-
nately, he died, owing to the collapse of
the flooring on which he happened to
be standing at eight o’clock
one balmy morning.
“On the night before he
died, Wimple, senior, tapped
against the wall of my
room. ‘Spartacus,’ he whis-
pered, T want you to do me
a favor.’
“I remembered how Mr.
Wimple had once kindly
bottled a policeman for
me. I remembered his ap-
pointment for the morrow,
and I told him I’d promise
him anything.
“ ‘Spart.,’ he said, T want
you to look after the lad.’
“ ‘Noblesse oblige,’ I responded ; ‘he’ll
be treated as one of my own.’
“ ‘What a pal! ’ sighed Wimple. Then
I wished him good night and pleasant
dreams.
“Thus, some months later, when I re-
turned to town, young Wimple became
my apprentice.
“In many ways Wimple was a splen-
did fellow. Silver-voiced and well-man-
nered, he had tawny hair, a ready smile
and the bronzed physique of a lifesaver.
“During his early training, he revealed
a pleasing aptitude for the work ; yet
even at that time his deplorable weak-
ness for women presaged most serious
consequences.
“You see, though I could always find
ecstasy in the cool green of a strong-
room safe, Wimple could find joy only
in the mute appeal of a woman’s eyes.
“Of course, it led to trouble. After
one of our operations I remember read-
ing a news headline: ‘Burglar Kisses
Housemaid!’ I was annoyed about that.
I threatened to cancel Wimple’s inden-
tures. He merely laughed, and argued
that kisses cost nothing, yet thrilled the
recipient and led to a nicer feeling to-
wards members of the profession.
“However, our association prospered
over a number of years—up to the night,
in fact, when we operated on Clarksons’.
“Wimple was then in his third year.
He had mastered common safes, and was
now studying the more complicated de-
signs. He had passed his theory with
honors, and that night he was due to sit
for his practical.
“I should mention that just prior to
this Wimple had submitted an excel-
lent paper on ‘The Use of Cats as an
Adjunct to Plastering,’ the plastering re-
ferred to being the trade practice of
sticking a plaster of treacle and brown
paper on skylights in order to obviate
the crash of falling glass. Yet the effi-
cacy of this device was often nullified by
the noise of the mallet breaking the
glass.
“Now, Wimple maintained that the
yowls of a competent cat would not only
smother the sound of the mallet but
also allay the suspicions of police officers
and other stickybeaks, as Wimple crudely
termed them.
“So, on the night when Wimple sat
for his practical, we included a cat in
the kit.
“Picture us crouching on Clarksons’
roof in the small hours of the morning:
a myriad stars above, the slumbering city
below and the plaster neatly stuck on
the skylight.
“Wimple produced the cat and began
to tease her with lumps of meat. She
emitted a howl, a wonderful earsplitting
howl that chased around the chimney-
stacks like the voice of a poor lost soul.
She was a veritable Caruso: she could
hold her top note like a Scotchman hold-
ing a fiver at a charity bazaar.
“We broke and entered according to
plan; then, descending to the office
below, I rested my feet on the desk and
sat watching Wimple work.
“And he was a pleasure to watch.
Such coolness! Such precision of move-
ment! He lost in all only seven marks:
two on account of carelessly handling the
nitro-glycerine and five for lack of de-
portment on the roof —he had insisted
on flinging lumps of cat’s-meat at a
belated gentleman who was staggering
along the street below.
“We made our getaway, and arrived
safely at Wimple’s apartment. I should
mention that my wife invariably insisted
on my never taking business associates
“Burglar Kisses Housemaid.”
to the Cobb home. She preferred not to
know them.
“However, Wimple was a splendid
host. He produced ale and pickled
onions, to both of which I’m inordinately
partial.
“We were seated at the table enjoy-
ing supper. Before us lay the proceeds
of our operations. I drank success to
our future. Then outside the door we
heard the miaowing of our friend the cat.
She had followed us home.
“‘You dear ol’ thing!’ said Wimple,
opening the door.
“‘Thanks!’ answered a gruff voice,
and in marched Detective Coglan. He
had followed the cat home.
“You don’t know Coglan? A pity.
He’s a fine fellow, and a real humani-
tarian. He invariably batons his man
from behind to spare him the pains of
anticipation.
“Apologising for his intrusion, he
handcuffed Wimple and me together;
“An earsplitting howl."
(hen, after helping himself to a glass or
two of supper, he lumbered us along.
subsequent reception was not
” inauspicious. The governor him-
self received us. He inquired after Mrs.
Cobb ; and I was able to assure him that,
business having been fairly good, she
would be well provided for during the
term of his hospitality,
“When we were escorted to our rooms
I was fortunate in getting Number 44.
This is a very old favorite of mine on
account of the delightful outlook, which
embraces the woodshed, the cookhouse
and the condemned cell.
“There were many who welcomed us
back, among whom was Baldy Scrog-
gins. A Prince of Thugdom with an
insatiable lust for crossword puzzles,
Baldy for eight months had been
stumped over a word of four letters
meaning ‘A unit mass of living matter.’
Wimple told him the word in ten seconds.
It was ‘cell.’
“I must briefly mention the excellent
Christmas party we had that year. I
remember we all danced around the may-
pole ; then Wimple, with fine feeling, re-
cited ‘Not Understood’; and finally Baldy
provoked intense merriment by breaking
a warder’s arm while demonstrating a
few simple jiu-jitsu holds.
“However, you will appreciate that life
in a competently-run prison varies but
little from day to day ; so, rather than
bore you with commonplace details, 1
will pass to the time of our imminent
release.
“A few days before the barrier went
up my wife Rebecca visited me; she
was looking quite charming in a summer
costume cleverly lifted from one of the
leading stores.
o Continued on next page.)


w
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to vour
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the com won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. ' A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
a
rt
KSSsSmSBi
UNION
“The scenic route 0
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St.. Sydney ; 59 William St.. Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
If any illustration in '‘THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
PtUM J’.AIQRr’CHARD
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/- ; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZO It GUARD, for Jin.. Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post' free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/•
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, Jin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
nee, guaranteed, and
kent in order lor two
rears free of charge.
Queensland's
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 71 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
Rondon Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
“I invited her into my little grey home
in the west, and asked if she realised
that I should be out on Monday.
“ ‘My dear,’ she replied, ‘I don’t want
you to come home until Wednesday.
“ ‘You see. I’ve taken another bunga-
low,’ she explained, ‘and my new neigh-
bor thinks you're the master of a ship
that berths in Melbourne on Tuesday ; so
I want you to buy one of those ducky
little peaked hats and a few “presents
from overseas,” then travel out to Strath-
neld and return on the express. I’ll be
waiting with Mrs. Flipp on the platform.
3e a darling and say you’ll do it.’
“The idea seemed
good ; so 1 pro-
mised.
“We were re-
leased on Monday.
In the afternoon,
feeling rather
homesick, we
visited a cinema to
see a remarkably
fine picture that
featured life in an
American chain-
gang. That even-
ing we dined at
our hotel. And it
was then that
Wimple discovered
we were almost
My favorite cell.
devoid of loose change.
“Now there was shopping to be done
in the morning, and the hotel bill needed
paying, so immediate action was impera-
s tive.
“We adjourned to our room, where
Wimple consulted our Book of Possibili-
ties. Such volumes, compiled from in-
formation received whilst in gaol, form
an essential part of the equipment of all
systematic burglars.
“1 explained to Wimple that what we
wanted was a prospect which would yield
about twenty pounds with a minimum
of risk.
“ ‘There’s this one,’ said Wimple, por-
ing over the book: ‘Jewellery shop ; easy
entry ; old safe ; no watchman.’
“ ‘We’d need a full kit of tools for
that,’ I objected.
“ ‘Well, here’s a fruit-store; takings
about twelve pounds ; kept in a ginger-
jar hidden in fruitcase.’
“ ‘Sounds like a Chinese,’ I said ; ‘and
those chaps are reputed lucky. Try again.’
“‘What about this: New row of
houses on outskirts; cheap wall-safes
fitted over mantelpiece in dining-room ;
average yield unknown,’
“ ‘Seems promising,’ I pondered.
‘What’s the address?’
“ ‘Elm-terrace,’ read Wimple ; ‘buses
pass end of road.’
“ ‘Then we shall board the last bus
to-night,’ I said.
“And we did. We chose the end house
of the row, that being the quietest.
<<THE job itself was kindergarten stuff.
* Behind the picture of a guardian
angel we found a safe which wasn’t- -
because Wimple opened it within three
minutes. It hid eighteen pounds, ample
for our pressing needs.
“We were creeping along the passage,
in order to leave by the front door,
when Wimple sighed. He pointed
through the open door of a front bed-
room where, dimly revealed by the moon-
light, lay a woman.
“The old ecstatic light shone in
Wimple’s eyes, but 1 made him go with
me. I was heading for the pantry, where
1 harpooned a couple of pickles; and
they were delicious. While I was en-
gaged on them Wimple sneaked out. A
few minutes later, having finished the
onions, I walked out into the passage.
Wimple was coming to meet me, treading
as if on air.
“ ‘She’s a corker,’ he told me. ‘A bit
moth-eaten, but a real old sport.’
“I led him outside, where we found a
stray taxi, which carried us citywards.
“We come now to Wednesday morn-
ing. I had travelled down to Strathfield
to board the express back to the city.
“As the train was drawing in, I pulled
a gold-braided cap over one eye, stuck
a pipe in the corner of my mouth and
stepped on to the platform. .
“Then I caught sight of Beccy with a
thin, soulful-looking woman, and, simu-
lating a nautical roll, I advanced to meet
them.
“ ‘Oo-ey-00-ey,’ said Beccy.
“ ‘Yo-ho,’ I answered politely.
“On the homeward ferry Beccy was
content to dream, but neighborly Mrs.
Flipp chattered incessantly.
“ ‘lt must be gorgeous to travel, cap-
tain,’ she twittered. ‘You know, I some-
times feel walled in by this big city of
ours ; feel as if I wanted to escape.’
“ ‘I know just how you feel,’ I told
her.
“ ‘But Beccy tells me all about your
travels. That pontoon you had in the
China Sea must have been dreadful —the
one that carried away your capstan; it
was a capstan, wasn t it?
“I said ten to one it was.
«‘But ’ she chirruped, ‘dear Beccy has
adventures, too. Don’t you Beccy?’
“Said Beccy shortly: T didn t intend to
worry him about that.
“ ‘About what?’ 1 asked.
“ ‘There should be no secrets between
man and wife,’ prompted Mrs-
“ ‘We had a burglar, said Beccy stiffly.
'“I felt seasick. ‘You had a what?’ 1
a sked
“ ‘A burglar,’ purred Mrs. Flipp. ‘Last
night.’ . • , .
I tried to speaK
calmly, but my
voice shivered like
a jelly. ‘Where do
we live now?’ I
asked.
“ ‘l’d for gotten
you didn’t know,’
smiled Beccy. ‘lt’s
a ducky little bun-
galow at the end of
Elm-terrace.’
“The ferry siren
hooted. I groaned.
“You realise
what I’d done? I’d
burgled my own
house! And I was
in honor bound to
pay Wimple his share of the loot—
forced to pay him for kissing my own
wife. And, bitter irony, 1 couldn’t say
a word to either of them without becom-
ing the joke of the underworld.
“Worse still, Beccy insisted on my re-
tirement, saying she’d an idea that
burglars nowadays did not spend the
whole of the night working.” Mr. Cobb
sounded like a frog with laryngitis as he
added: “And I couldn’t even ask her
how she knew.”
Spartacus Cobb was silent. He seemed
weighted down with memories. A worm
raised its head over the rim of the bait-
tin, then gently drew back, as if reluc-
tant to witness the anguish of a broken
heart.
I approached the little man, and
grasped his hand in sympathy. For a
moment his head was bowed on my
chest. Then I left him there on the
pier ; that poor, simple soul, condemned
by the cruel workings of Fate to live an
honest life.
It’s a pity editors are so absurdly pre-
judiced against the use of unbridled in-
vective, because I’d like to tell you what
I thought of that lousy Cobb person
when I got home and found he’d stolen
my wallet.
Christmas Bush.
Lowly sighs the breeze to a lone late
cuckoo’s crying,
Fragrant warm the earth scents in
evening’s waning hush.
The seed is on the wattle and the last
blue flax-flowers dying,
But all the gully glimmers with the
dusty Christmas bush,
The creamy Christmas bush.
Leaning where the cool rocks strive
against the current,
Shedding withered petals where the
waters purl and churn ;
Where summer tames the silver of the
eager mountain torrent
To a murmur and a whisper and a
trickle through the fern,
The fringing lady-fern.
Oh, the silver cloud-shapes sweeping
down the valley,
The purple and the rosy hues, on
range and ridge and tree,
In sunset’s dying splendor where the last
lights rally
Beyond the distant city and the silver
of the sea.
The skyline and the sea.
The crickets hold their concerts in the
brown creek brambles.
Cicadas shrill together their keen-edged
summer songs,
A magpie warbles softly where the hill-
track slides and scrambles,
And it’s summer, high blue summer, in
the hazy Dandenongs,
The smoky Dandenongs . . .
There’s an orchard in the clearing and a
home half-hidden
By the orange-trees and roses; and a
speckly mountain thrush
Calls me back across the seasons with
the thoughts that come unbidden
To a tired city exile with a spray of
Christmas bush.
Of dying Christmas bush.
VICTORIA.
L. K. N. ALFLATT.


APPOINTMENT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES
UiliTi
""«>««» uwt»»
Jit to KJlj,
-mt
W/T fi
2> **
fesie
m
iiiKii
Ji
saatti
1
tw »Turs
©
;
=Nc
SrA.NO
IiNQUe
Rav
cordon
«C«
The aristocrat of gins « • • delicately flavoured, translucent!/
clear ... distilled in London by the most famous gin
distillers in the world, Tanqueray, Gordon & Co. Ltd.
111
Power of a Song:-
THIRSTY'S CHRISTMAS BOX
BY CON DREW.
IT was close on midnight on Christmas
Eve, and Thirsty was broke. There
was nothing remarkable in that, for
twice that day he had passed a cock-
eyed Lascar.
Far down the street he caught a
glimpse of a policeman, and shrugged
his narrow shoulders resignedly. “I’d
better make a move,” he muttered. “1
think I’ll take a trot up to the hazard
school. Some of the boys are sure to
be winnin’, and a man might crack it
for a couple of bob.”
Turning into a side street he followed
it eastwards. It was a street of public
houses and old-clothes shops, outside
which dustbins and an occasional cat
stood sentry, but sign of human life
there was none. Yet Thirsty knew that
behind drawn blinds there were light and
life in plenty. Adventure walks by
lamplight in Surry Hills.
At the end of a narrow lane, he halted
at a tenement house and knocked with
a peculiar sequence of taps.
There was no sign from within, and
he knocked again. Presently he glimpsed
an eye peering at him through a crack
in the door.
“It’s all right, Joe,” he said in an
undertone. “It’s me, Thirsty.”
The door swung inwards, and Thirsty
crossed the threshold. Mounting the
dilapidated stairway which stood almost
directly in front of him he found him-
self in a narrow passage. From a door
on his right came the sound of low
voices. Pushing it open he walked inside.
Instantly he was the focus of two
dozen pairs of eyes.
“It’s all right,” said the gamekeeper. “It’s
only Thirsty. Get on with the business.”
Thirsty crossed over to the long deal
table and stood behind the players watch-
ing the game. The sky was the limit
to-night, and the boys were whooping
her up. Heaps of notes were scattered
along the faded tablecloth, and the com-
parative absence of silver denoted the
size of the game.
“Big Joe’s winnin’ the world,” said
a voice at Thirsty’s elbow. “Look at
him. He ain’t lost a bet all night.”
THIRSTY glanced across the table to
where a huge, dark-featured man with
vi heap of notes in front of him was box-
ing the dice. He was heavy-muscled
and hairy, and his eyes were small and
unpleasant. On the back of the big
hand which held the box was the figure
of a colored lady tattooed in shameless
nudity. Things generally ceased their
progress when Big Joe Flannagan got
peeved, for he was a dangerous man to
cross. To-night, however, the fairy
goddess of Luck was slipping Big Joe a
smile, and he was in a fairly decent mood.
“Come on,” he said, fingering the dice-
box lovingly; “it’s Christmastime and
I’m little old Santa Claus. It’s all about
a little five. I’ll take six pounds to four.”
Someone set him a fiver’s worth, and
the big man quickly covered the money.
“Any more?” he cried, looking round
the table inquiringly. “I’ll take another
six to four I throw a five before a seven.’
Another fiver came in from a player
sitting opposite him, and Big Joe picked
up the box. “How would you like them
done?” he said facetiously. “Would
you like me to throw them a three and a
two or will I land them a four and a one?”
“Go on, Joe,” said the gamekeeper.
“Don’t hold up the business. Spill them
out.”
“Right!” said Big Joe. “It’s a five
I’m after,” and he threw the dice out
on the table. They rolled for a second
and stopped with a four and a one on top.
“Five , . . in,” called the gamekeeper.
Big Joe dragged in his money and set
another main. It was a five.
“What, another five!” he exclaimed.
“Well, wouldn’t that make you believe in
miracles? Upon me flamin’ life it’s mar-
vellous. I’ll take the odds to a tenner
just to show that the last five I threw
was no fluke.”
The out-backers set him, and, picking
up the box, he scooped the dice into it.
“I’ll do this five another way,” he
chuckled. “Instead of throwin’ them a
four and a one I’ll land them a three and
a two.” He paused with the box sus-
pended and shot a glance at the out-
backers. “Does anyone want to bet me
the odds to another tenner before I
kick off?” he queried.
No one offered to set him, and, put-
ting the box in motion again, he threw
the dice out.
“Five . . . in”
called the game-
keeper.
Big Joe set an-
other main, and
again he threw
in. Then he got
really busy, and threw chances in a
manner that was reminiscent of Stepper
Davis and other dice-box artists of the
boom days.
Thirsty swore under his breath, for he
was riding Big Joe to lose. “I wish the
big loafer wasn’t so lucky,” he mut-
tered. “A man’ll have a nice chance of
feelin’ the weight of a two-bob piece if
he breaks the flamin’ school.”
D UT Big Joe was oblivious to Thirsty’s
•7 desires or wishes. He set a ten in
silence. It was the fourth he had set
that night.
“Well, what about it?” he said, address-
ing the out-backers. “Who’ll be the first
man in?”
Presently a dark-haired man who had
been losing heavily turned to Big Joe.
“We’ll bet you six to four,” he an-
nounced.
“What!” exclaimed Big Joe. “Six to
four about a ten? A two-to-one chance.
You must think that a man’s a rat be-
cause he eats cheese. Have another guess.”
“Well, you’ve thrown in over a dozen
times, you know,” returned the dark
man. “We ain’t got the Commonwealth
Bank behind us.”
“I don’t care what you’ve got behind
you,” snorted Joe. “I ain’t here f’r the
good of me health.”
“Neither are we,” returned the dark
man quietly. “You’ve nearly broken the
school.”
“Well, I ain’t goin’ to take no six to
four about a ten,” said Joe, “and you
can take that as final.”
“All right,” said the dark man ; “we’ve
got to chase our money, I suppose. What
odds will you take?”
“I’ll take the right odds or nothin’,”
returned Joe. “Some of you out-backers
wouldn’t bet that to-morrer’s Christmas
Day. If a man throws in a couple of
times you get the stitch.”
Seeing that the game had come to a
standstill, the gamekeeper stepped into
the breach.
“Will you take seven to four?” he said
to Joe “It’s only fair”
*„ . , T ' „ Ua
No, snorted Joe I wont. He
made as if to pass the box; then sud-
denly paused and banged his fist on the
table. “Come on,” he roared. “I’ll take
seven to four just to see if you want
to bet.” His hand went to the heap of
money in front of him, and he counted
out forty pounds. “Cover that,” he snarled.
t-.
• , rfr L . P . , y
with difficulty. It had been a pretty
tough night tor them.
‘Any more?” roared Joe. “I’ll show
you dingoes how to bet.”
A man who had won money on Big
Joe’s previous throws threw in the odds
to a tenner, and Big Joe sneered. “Tryin’
to catch the ‘grouter,’ eh?” he jeered,
“Well, you’ll be sorrier than a beef bone
at a dog show in a minute.” He held
out a fistful of notes invitingly, “I’ll
take the odds to another twenty quid.
Are there any layers?”
There was no response, and Big Joe
swore savagely. “Well, you’re a game
lot of bettors*” he sneered. “You ought
to be playin’ ping-pong. It’s me last
throw to-night, win or lose. Are you
all finished?”
“You’ve pretty well got the lot,” broke
in the gamekeeper. “Fair go.”
There was an intense silence in the
room as Big Joe placed the dice in the
box and picked it up. “This is the one
I want,” he said, shaking it vigorously,
“If I throw in this time I’ll hire two
taxis to-morrer and run between them
A ten Im after, and let it be quick and
sudden. With a sweep of his arm he
threw the dice along the table and
watched them roll. They steeplechased
f ° r a while, spun for the tick of a watch,
then stopped ten upwards,
“In,” roared Big Joe, pounding his fist
on the table. Oh, you little beauties!
You dandy little hummers! It was a
long time cornin’, by cripes it was. But old
j » di „ has rubbed Hi slam p once more.”
, . ~
Scooping in his money he threw the
g a mekeeper his share and packed the
rj°tes into a wad. Then he rose from
the table and strode towards the door.
, , , , , . , ,
l-l E h a d almost reached it when sud-
-11 denly he halted in his tracks. From
somewhere outside there drifted up to
the room the sound of solemn m P usic .
it was tbe band c f the Christmas w’aits.
They were p i a yi ng “Abide with Me.”
Christmas, for which millions had been
preparing for weeks, was climbing over
the rim of the world,
Memories stirred in Big Joe’s mind,
and his whole aspect suddenly softened.
“Well, what do you think of that?”
he said. “I ain’t heard that tune since
I was a bit of a youngster.”
For a time he stood with head bent,
listening; then, glancing up, he caught
the hungry look in Thirsty’s eyes. The
soft mood was on Big Joe, and he could
be generous at times. Abruptly he pulled
a note off the wad and, rolling it into a
ball, threw it to Thirsty. “Here. Catch!”
he cried. “It was worth a quid to hear
that tune. ‘ln the Shade of the Old
Apple-tree,’ eh? Well, well, well. It
reminds me of my old woman.”
Then, turning, he strode out the door.


THE AGE’’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and . by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
M The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
HIGH PRAISE
IS GIVEN
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
All the news from everywhere
. . . All Saturday’s sport . . . First
in the State for pictorial interest
. . . Packed with entertainment in
its magazine sections . Features
and advertising in four colors.
A.B.C. Certificate, 61,361.
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor.
Newsnaner House. Collins street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F A Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4
Where
Could
AdvertL^
Representation :
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising a«?encv.
National
Advertisers!
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hilt
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd,, Adelaide.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
“The Examiner," established 1842, is the
oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and
yet is still the most modern paper in the
state. It circulates everywhere in the
North—the home of two-thirds of the
population of Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates
of “The Examiner" and “Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from:
(Exmnmet
LAUNCESTON
EST. 1842
J^cu/y
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne Cl
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
SAM's new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Roman broke in on her vocal reflections. He
!° w * nc * ow ar >d with a significant jerk of
is head indicated the sewage-cart, which was stand-
ing forsaken in the yard, its shafts tilted to earth and
the cattle-pup belonging to the last carter lying in its
shade.
Well, now, that is an idea.” Mrs. O’Brien looked
at Roman almost with respect. “You know, Roman,
I sometimes think you are . . . well” She patted
his sleeve. "You are a very remarkable man.”
Ihe lull fpree ol the idea began to dawn on her.
“For one thing, if he accepts, he’ll never be able to
leave. Scorby’ll see he won’t ever get the relief. And,
apart from paying off from his wages what he owes
me, he can always tick up against them what he
drinks. I said it before Roman, and I say it again:
you are a very remarkable man. Now, why didn’t
I think of that for myself?”
Dave was sitting in the shade of the fence, too
morose to take any interest in the fight between
Souter’s brown-and-white terrier and the Alsatian that
had once belonged to Mad Peter but was now
nominally the possession of Dr. Westly, though most
of its time it spent in the streets looking for trouble.
The fight was centred about these two, other dogs
having joined in with private grievances of their own,
so that it was really a first-class dogfight.
But Dave had his back turned to it. After all,
what could a dogfight do to interest him when he was
being torn from his moorings, all he held near and
dear? That particularly dreary view of the sun-
baked hotel backyard, with the perspective of fowlrun
beyond, was just as familiar to him as the native wild-
woods to any dispossessed chieftain. He knew his way
out of every hole in the back fence, every window at
the back of the hotel.
It was not the peasey hut that was his home, but
rather more the environs of O’Brien’s Hotel. The
peasey hut was only the place where he slept and
unwillingly filled in those enforced periods of poverty
and sobriety. O’Brien’s Hotel enshrined all his richest
memories as the mug enshrines the beer. He might
not have minded being parted from the peasey hut,
which had really been built only by the struggles
and nagging of Jim out of the deprivation of Dave’s
beer-money.
When he thought of leaving Tiburon Dave had
a sinking in his stomach as though his food was dis-
agreeing. He had spent his life in Tiburon. What
could he do elsewhere? A few more years and he
would be getting the old-age pension, and that thought
comforted him. Children were no good. You
depended on them to keep you in your old age, and
they went off and got married or cleared out and
left you. He had fought to keep the girls at least at
home, but it had been no use. No use whatever.
They broke away from the shadow of Warning
Hill and drifted off. One minute it seemed he
had his family around him, lively and noisy and
quarrelsome, and the next they were all gone, or
wanting to go.
That was the worst of this younger generation.
Restless.
Dave reflected ruefully that there was never a
strike committee when it was wanted —for instance,
when he had applied for the dole and was turned
down because the police said he drank excessively.
Dave did not drink excessively. You couldn’t
call the ordinary everyday necessity of life excessive
drinking.
Paul, he thought on, had never been the same
since he went skylarking with that school-teacher. He
was so savage nowadays that he was Jim all over
again. And Bill had never been any good for any-
thing but fighting. As for Lizzie! A girl who could
turn on her own father and talk about paying grocers’
bills didn’t deserve the name of daughter. Pay out
good money to his own girl or her man! What an
idea! Ella was no good. Ella never had been any
good.
Mary was a sullen-tempered girl, and she would
be a bad-tempered woman. It would be a hard thing
if in his old age he had to depend on Willie and
Jacky and Evie and Bobby. And perhaps even they
wouldn’t support their old dad.
It was at this point that Mary and Mrs. Mulver
drove into the yard, but Dave pretended not to see
them. He didn’t like Mrs. Mulver. She’d got that
man of hers right under her thumb. Dave had a
theory that the master of the house should rule, and
he didn’t like to see Mary so thick with Mrs. Mulver.
Mary was rebellious enough, without getting any funny
ideas into her head.
Dave decided to go round the front of the hotel
and look through the bar-room door at Orry Smith.
He began to practise a look of terrible reproach and
anguish guaranteed to move the hardest heart. Dave
knew that Orry would not come out while Mrs.
Mulver was about, for fear she would tell him her
grievances again. Mary and Mrs. Mulver were giving
the horse a drink —a strange weakness they sometimes
exhibited. Personally Dave had trained Blasted until
he could give a passable imitation of the ship of the
desert.
He ventured round the front of the hotel, his
old yellow grey felt hat drooping round the brim, his
moustache drooping, his soul drooping from the very
thirst; and behold, who but Mrs. O’Brien should
beckon him in, yea, even call unto him from the
holy of holies!
“Dave White!” she called. “I want to see you.”
Her tone was almost gracious.
And the returned prodigal set his foot once more
on the sill of heaven.
Chapter XXVIII.
//t TOW did the service go?” Polly called out a
H little apprehensively as she heard the rector’s
* A latchkey click in the door on his return from
evensong. .
“Quite well,” he answered as he switched on the
hall light and came along the passage. “Mrs. Ful-
combe came up to me after the service and asked
after you. You’re invited to afternoon-tea on
Wednesday.”
“As long as it isn’t bridge.”
The Reverend William Sorrell walked over to
the radio and switched on his favorite Evensong
Hour. He smoothed his cassock over his knees and
settled down in an armchair.
“None of your bright young men coming
to-night?”
“Not to-night, sweetheart.”
“Then 1 s’pose if I sat on your knee?” She
proceeded to do so.
“How did the service go really, Bill? Did you
pitch into them?”
“I’m afraid I did,” the rector said gravely. He
hugged her. “Let's forget about it, bless you.”
Bill was pleasantly filling his pipe when the door-
bell rang.
“Now, who the dickens can that be?” he
murmured.
“Let’s pretend we’re not here,” Polly suggested.
“Hide Under the sofa or something?”
“Don’t wait up, old girl,” he said resignedly. “I’ll
take them into the study.”
“It's, not fair,” Polly said resentfully. “The only
evening I have. All the blessed week it’s one thing or
another, and now All right, Bill, 1 suppose I’m
selfish.”
The rector turned off the wireless with a faint
sigh, squeezed Polly’s shoulder companionably and
straightened his hair on his way out.
Scorby, standing on the verandah, could see
through the panel of glass in the front door how
the rector paused outside the sitting-room and then
came down the hall with the stately walk he had learnt
as a crucifer.
“Why, good night, Mr. Scorby,” he said. “Come
in.”
Scorby stepped hesitantly into the hall. He was
not in uniform, but in his best suit.
“You said,” he tried to explain, “that I should
come up some night—and I thought Sunday you were
sure to be home.”
“Why, of course,” the rector said cordially, decid-
ing in his own mind that Scorby would prefer the
study, and if they went into the drawing-room the
man would probably feel that he ought to be polite to
Polly. “Let’s go into my lair. Do you mind?”
Scorby was rather relieved. The study, as the
rector switched on the reading-lamp, was a place of
books and pleasant shadows.
{To be continued next week.)


Vp HAT BAD NEWS
CAN BRING MORE ANGUISH
n
or uour
naturax P
\Y hat is the mystery of teeth?
Why don’t your teeth last for a lifetime,
like the fingernails, the eyelashes or the very
bones themselves? Why has Nature picked
out our teeth as the weak spot among
civilised people?
Nobody seems to know why. But the fact
remains that very few people escape dental
trouble, and a good proportion of it is serious .
Starting with bleeding gums or other minor
signals, things go from bad to worse until we
face the startling fact that four out of five
adults beyond forty actually have contracted
the dread gum disease known as Pyorrhea.
People are often inclined to regard Pyorrhea
as a distant danger—something that may happen
to others, but not likely to touch them. It
works underground. By the time the victim
is aware she has Pyorrhea, it may have been
definitely under way for several years.
Get ahead of Pyorrhea trouble! Brush your
teeth morning and night with Forhan’s for the
.
Mfthrlfi
IwKoSKaLk
! s
mMSM
gmra
«r, i»a
w»?
'• •.,
m&md
mmm
Biff®
"*E|r t
V/M
! v!
■
i:.&s
WSlvi M
mmm iJiMw , . 'i
u%y
■m
i|||;
■
■ i: 'hi
J’S'\
■
I: "
'
False teeth often follow
Pyorrhea, which comes to
four people out of five
past the age of forty.
Gums. This dentifrice contains an ethical
preparation which has long been used for the
treatment of Pyorrhea.
For ban’s will keep your gums firm and
healthy, your teeth clean and white. You will
never regret this safeguarding of your teeth
and health.
Australasian Agents—The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
F orhan s
Price, 2/-; extra large tubes, 3/'
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
X
ei’
\s e c e v ’
? <^ e
> ..••-•■ ..-••■ .
V° t 55 ••• ■•••■ •-
tr o’,iV&' •••■ ••• .••■ ~0
,*>«'
O t
vS s
#•
, ■ •' , • jO^
. .•••■■’ .•••■■>
a$


/
For t
Holiday
A i
'Si ;
1£
■-/■'.rv
The popular
,opularpnS® •
1
PLUS
POWER
MINUS
knock
m
/
J
cm?
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited (Commonweiilth Government & Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.) - Melbourne - Sydney - Adelaide
Brisbane
C19.8>.
