

NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
AUSTRALIA
. ill
pslfica ■■
i
v :
$
■>. <
Jhs
mmm
:-4\
■
SS *
i
H
Imbhl
Iliilii
m
m
mk
I ' I
'.‘l
, m
mmiMm
, .
■
IS
s
< A -t- - v-dk-s
14^
*
• . ; . - l> * *9 .fS ;
W
|
:..■■■
il
.<•
:
mmmmmmmm
1
List of Manufactures
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANCLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIC IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
"quality products"
all made in Australia
1— Loading Iron Ore by Electric
Shovel, Iron Knob, S.A
2 Wilputte Coke Ovens Plant-
-3— -Blast Furnace Plant capa-
city 12,740 tons per week.
4 Plate Mill.
5 Merchant Bars and Sections
in Stock Yard.
Ihe BROKEN HILL Pn C? |ro
MINE OWNERS, SHIP OWNERS, IRON AND StEEL
MANUFACTURERS AND COLLIERY PROPRIETORS
Offices
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London
Works; Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Dcvonport (Tasmania), Broken Hill (N.S.W#)
AN INVITATION
IS EXTENDED TO
CUSTOMERS TO VISIT
OUR WORKS
AT NEWCASTLE
The Bulletin
Courts and Constitutions
Vol. 56.—N0. 2886.
Wednesday, June 5, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


FACTS I
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant am!
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but hy real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times ol
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding'!
Read Office:
“The Dominion” lildg., Wellington, N.SB.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHUUST.
17 Castkreagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“Tbe Block,’' 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Learn
Storg writmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE and mail
Please send, without obligation, your Neiv Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Un Name
My Address
S.B. 135
flp
The Centre of
Progress and
Tasmania’s
Prosperity.
Full injormation, copies.
THE EXAMINER is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping. Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
THE EXAMINER ’ is in its 93rd year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
advertising rales “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier ” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable jrom J
W. R. Rolph $ Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. \V. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
DEBUNKING
A
WAR-LORD
Your war-lord
bulks so big in
the general esti-
mation, including
Ms own, that, like
a toy balloon, a
pretty thing, but
palpably blown up, he is a perpetual
temptation to be up and doing with a pin.
So Emil Ludwig finds Hindenburg and
so does by him in a biography which
robs the illustrious general of every
attribute of decency and honor, smites at
him in a withering rage of invective and
abuse, and to this adds the insult of
calling itself after him.
That is about the measure of Ludwig’s
achievement. His attempt is something
much more ambitious: to destroy a
legend—a toughish job, as anyone may
discover by trying his hand on such
simple legends as we hold precious
here: that the aboriginals are, or
were, supermen; that the convicts
were all decent, respectable fellows,
sent out for poaching rabbits; that
Adam Lindsay Gordon was a great
Australian poet. The legend will remain,
though a lot of people may get hot under
the collar, including, possibly, yourself.
The legend Ludwig attacks is that of
Hindenburg as anchor-rock of the Ger-
man nation. That is the real Hinden-
burg legend, and it is impregnable as
Everest. All Ludwig can do he does.
He makes clear that, in his opinion,
Hindenburg was unworthy of it. With
an enthusiasm and industry that mere
love could neither inspire nor sustain
and a skill eloquent of long practice at
the keyhole of Clio, he spies out the
structure of the legend and throws him-
self at its props. From the day the boy
Hindenburg is sent from his Junker home
to the Military Academy, through his un-
distinguished career, military and private,
until, at over 70, he is called out of ob-
scurity to a command on the German
eastern front in the war, when the genius
of Ludendorff won for him the battle of
Tannenburg, which was the genesis of the
legend, on to his career as figurehead
for that same genius throughout the war,
figurehead for others in the brief Repub-
lic and, finally, rubber-stamp for Hitler,
Ludwig mercilessly follows him, and
stamps and spits at the thought of him.
There is no evidence too slight or too
suspect to be left out of the indictment.
If the Crown Prince is said to have said
to another; “He betrayed my father,
betrayed Ludendorff, and will, if anything
goes awry, betray you it is
sufficiently good rnud for Ludwig.
That Hindenburg was old and senile and
within four weeks of his death when he
signed his name to the monstrous false-
hood of the telegram to Hitler, drafted
by Hitler, congratulating Hitler for
murdering his, Hindenburg’s, friends—
age and senility and impending death
must not let in doubt or mercy. In realis-
ing the character of this ogre and
judging upon it we must get above such
weaknesses.
No other war-lord has had such a fierce
debunking as this. "Everyone,” says
Ludwig, “who during those seven years
occupied a subordinate position towards
Hindenburg tells unpleasant things of
him to-day.” Thirty-five pages further
on he says it again: “Not one of those
who served him at close quarters in the
nine years of his Presidency had any-
thing good to say of him when he was
gone.” So, and thus, are the props taken
away.
Yet the legend remains ; and that is the
book’s most interesting outcome, that it
demonstrates in a material time how
strong is legend over mere reality.
It is a savage and angry book, but it
has feeling, if it is only that of malice.
As a literary performance it is excellent.
Its construction is good, its narrative
strong and direct, and its dramatic peaks
are powerfully approached. Its charac-
ters have histrionic as well as historic
reality, and it makes real, too, the Ger-
man people, whose story it is: the all
of a whole people concrete in one indi-
vidual man. That he may have been
unworthy of the trust seems quite im-
material.
A Writer
Debunks
Himself
To Hindenburg
the human oppo-
site complete ex-
poses himself as
leading character
in John Middle-
ton Murry’s atilo-
biography Between Two Worlds.'
Hindenburg presented the world with
an autobiography, too ; but, characteris-
tically, he had another man write it, and,
like all such performances, it is a husk.
That is how he would have liked to be
judged, by appearances. He employed
his ovyn private portrait-painter through-
out the war just to go on painting him
as he wanted to appear to posterity,
big and imposing ; and he wondered how
posterity would judge him.
Middleton Murry wonders, too. This
wonderment is the staple of his story.
“Am I human or inhuman?” is the theme
of it. Supersensitive, self-pitying, but re-
vealing everything out of his life remotely
likely to have any bearing on the answer.
Yet it is a simple enough matter. Simple
as saying a neurasthenic, which, what-
ever it is, is hardly discreditable, and an
exhibitionist, as are all autobiographers.
Murry presents' that which we lately
had from Wells, the spectacle of a middle-
aged writer contemplating the environ-
ment out df which he grew, in both in-
stances near-plebeian, Murry’s stepping-
stones from illiterate London tenement
home life having the shape of scholar-
ships to Christ’s Hospital and Oxford,
leading on to common fraternity among
the highest literary figures of the day and
establishment as an outstanding literary
critic, though it is in the nature of his
self-pity to insist that he is no more
than a journalist.
A good story, whoever lived it, and
for those, probably the majority, who
read autobiography for its scandal, spiced
with the same sort of things, recorded
without reticence, that Wells gave us
about what he did at school, and
such personalia as the finding out of
Frank Harris in a barefaced short-story
plagiarism and the inglorious spectacle
of D. H. Lawrence chasing a screaming
Frieda round and round a table as a fowl
might be chased round a yard, and with
the same popular intention —murder.
Also, the significant implication, if true,
that Lawrence was a snob ; that the fact
of Frieda’s being a Baronin von Rich-
thofen was of tremendous significance to
him in the days when he first met her.
Nearly all these matters have import-
ance in Middleton Murry’s unsparing
self-analysis, except, perhaps, what he did
at school, in describing which he is even
more thorough than Wells. Apart from
the suggestion of middle-age pimping on
a wretched little boy, which is to pass
criticism on behavior, this insistent' un-
restraint seems condernnable on purely
literary grounds for distorting the pat-
tern of the book, throwing emphasis on
vyhat the exhibitionists themselves in-
sist has no significance whatever in their
subsequent behavior.
Emerging from all that, ah engaging
story of a literary life and a literary
period, adding much, besides scandal, to
the Lawrencian picture, giving such smil-
ing glimpses as that of W. L. George’s
“oddly gentle and perceptive wife, who
puffed demurely and astonishingly at a
big briar pipe,” and telling with
emotional emphasis of Katherine Mans-
field and his and her love life together.
In Love with
a Disease
As odd in title
as it is in fact.
Hats, Lice and
History comes
most appropri-
ately after both
Murry and Ludwig. From the de-
bunker of self and the war-lord
debunker we turn, it might be with
relish, to one who exalts to the position
of hero in biography a disease, typhus,
which has killed an incalculable number
of people, doubtless including a few
biographers. The author, an Ameri-
can, with the peculiarly American
name of Hans Zinsser, gives the full
flavor of it in a sentence; “We
have chosen to write the biography
of our disease because we love it platoni-
cally—-as Amy Lowell loved Reals—and
have sought its acquaintance wherever we
could find it.”
The search takes him to the nether-
most ends of history, though he has to
admit at last that the birth of his hero
is obscure. There is no heroine, but
there is an abundance of relatives, and
he brings them all in as spectators to his
hero’s notable performances—in decimat-
ing armies, spoiling sieges, turning back
Crusaders, and in a hundred such designs
playing the merry devil in and with
history. That, briefly, is the theme of
it —the important part played in history
by epidemic diseases. Interesting enough
merely on that face of it, but in the
ribald gusts of this writer’s treatment a
lascinating and uproarious record —a
book that has a singular quality of great-
ness, that it is different from any other
book.
It adds, however, one lump of fue(
to feed our sad inferiority complex.
Australia’s part in the advancement of
(he hero or any of his relatives is deplor-
ably minor. Still, we have given the
world the Australian X disease, which,
it may be gratifying to know, is gradu-
ally spreading in America.
CECIL MANN.
[Hindenburg, by Emil Ludwig XHeiaemann,
14s. 6d.); Between Two Worlds, by Middleton
Murry (Cape; Moore's Bookshop; lbs.).
Rats, Lice and History (Routleclge; Angus ana
Robertson; 16s.).]
The Tabloid
Mind
It was almost
inevitable that
Cornelius Van-
derb i 1 I, jun..
author of Fare-
well to. Fifth
Avenue (Gollancz; Angus and Robert-
son ; 125.), should have become a jour-
nalist with a mission to scarify the rich.
Not that this revolt of a millionaire
against the class he was brought up in
means much in itself ; it occurs in every
country that is hit hard by a slump.
Nor is there anything new in his main
theme—“ln another 10 years there won’t
be a single great fortune in America.”
Millionaires like Crassus and Lucullus
said something like it in Rome when the
business of making money out of war
seemed to be played out. The rich said
it in France at the end of the eighteenth
century ; in England when the practice
Of employing children in mines was
stopped, when the Harcourt death duties
were introduced, and at short intervals
afterwards. The old economic order is
always giving place to the new, and the
new always turns out to be much the
same as the old. Russia is the latest
case in point.
Mr. Vanderbilt has nothing to say
about American society that doesn’t
apply to all English-speaking societies.
Sets, sets and sets. Even Los Angeles—
a God-forsaken settlement as recently as
the late 1890 V-talks in awe-stricken tones
of the aristocratic West Adams-streei set
that would never, never mix with the oil
tycoons or the go-getting realtors.
He shows a Fifth-avenue hostess going
through her morning mail. Her secre-
tary recalls a friend. “Poor old Sir
Cecil,” muses the hostess. “It was a
fortunate thing for him that he died when
Society was still Society, and not a
hodge-podge of tradesmen and stock-
brokers.” Not a day passes without the
same asinine complaint being made by
the Plantagenets of Australian suburbs
and townships.
Though Mr. Vanderbilt is a born de-
bunker, he takes American society very
seriously at heart, and he reveres his
family. “Commodore” Vanderbilt (ex-
commodore of a yacht club) and
“Colonel and “General” Vanderbilt
(retired militia officers) are solemnly
given their bogus titles, and he supplies
a list (“The Backbone of American
Society”) containing 75 names, of which
14 belong to Vanderbilts. He also sup-
plies a much bigger list headed “The
Outer Fringe.” Who but a congenital
gossip-hound would have put his name
to this?
Contrary to popular belief, no attention
whatsoever is paid by the leaders of society
to the names—the thousands of names—
decorating the pages of the numerous
social registers. When a social leader pre-
pares to give an elaborate party she (or he)
recognises the existence of just two lists.
He is a typical tabloidist, also, in his
scorn of accuracy. He must know Rome
well, yet he consistently spells the Chigi
Palace with two “g’s,” and he remarks
that “some 15 generations of the Marl-
boroughs were anxious to hold political
office,” though the dukedom has only
been in existence for a little over seven
C Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the morality of commercialism.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712C, G.P.O.
HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY WEEK
/
Morning Set
A convenient set for morning tea. The set
is complete with coloured Wicker Tray with
Glass centre. Made of Aynsley China
neatly decorated. Household Economy
Price. 42/-. Others, 45/-, 47/6, 92/6.
V
u
t
i
rA.
/
✓
£
Aynsley China Coffee Sets
The charming designs of this Coffee Set will delight the discriminating hostess. 1 hese
delightful Coffee Sets are featured in Aynsley China and decorated assorted floral designs,
ffousehold Economy Price, £6/10/-. Others: 50/-, 57/6, 59/6, 75/-.
/
/
/
CJ
63
A's
m
Dinner Set
You will treasure one of these
Dinner Sets as a beautiful posses-
sion. Effectively decorated Minton
Sprays. The set comprises 33
pieces, and is of best English
make. Price, set 87/6
Household Economy Price,
set 82/6
W
/
MR
Dinner Set
If you have been awaiting a favourable
opportunity to buy a Dinner Set . . .
here it is. Set illustrated is of 33 pieces,
has a Cream border with neat' floral
sprays. Price, £5.
Household Economy Price, set, £4/5/-.
China Values!
Every department which supplies house-
hold goods is participating in this
extraordinary event of economy .
where the value you receive is the highest
possible quality at the lowest possible
price , . . wherein the householder can
rejoice in the knowledge that Anthony
Horderns’ values stand supreme.
N
42-
/
China Teasets
This pretty set is made of clear White English
China, and is effectively decorated in assorted
patterns. A 21-piece set in Aynsley China.
Household Economy Price 42/-
Others at ’ 45 /.
-
/
7-pce. Salad Sets
This Salad Set is decorated with beautiful
floral designs, and comprises 7 pieces. Of
high-grade English manufacture, it will be a
very useful set in any household.
Household Economy
Prices 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/-, 17/6
/
Jam & Butter Dish
No housewife can have too many Jam and
Butter Dishes. They are a neat shape, and
are Chintz decorated. Individual size.
Household Economy Price 1/3
69
DOZ
Cups and Saucers
These Three Gold Line Cups and Saucers
are of a foreign make . . . although they are
very durable. A suitable size for Breakfast
use. Price, dozen 8/6
Household Economy Price 6/9
® China and Glassware —Third Floor. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN
and SONS, LTD., SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401 Postal Address:
Day or Nign.. dox 2712 C, G.P.O.


Every Sufferer from
INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
RT Secondly, he knows that, unless h'.a
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
& Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witt s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
ITT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and.
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
§
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
DE WITT'S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-hlue Canister
generations. He makes the late Lord
Balfour, one of the most completely arti-
culate men of his time, talk like a Ralph
Lynn character (“A war’s a war, and a
fool’s a fool, and all that sort of rot”),
and he tells a story of Mussolini running
over a child in a car and driving on with
a cheery epigram which is very hard to
swallow.
Mr. Vanderbilt went to the war late
in T 7, and almost immediately became
Haig’s chauffeur. Haig never asked
his name, and only spoke to him twice,
the first occasion being when they were
“driving along the British front.” Haig
suddenly touched his shoulder and asked
in a monotone, “I say, American, how
long do you think this bally war will
last?” When not driving Haig in a Rolls-
Royce he took dispatches between
G.H.Q. and Divisions in a Sunbeam.
A sufficiently uneventful job, the
average Digger would say ; yet his col-
league, a hard-bitten Brooklyn fire-
man, went to pieces under the strain,
and during one and the same drive
he encountered a distraught peasant
w'oman kneeling before a wooden cross
in the middle of a rain-soaked field, and
saluted a stationary car containing a
general and staff, only to find they were
all dead! So he was invalided home
suffering from gas and shell-shock.
One of the secrets of his success is a
capacity to dramatise everything. When
he meets a celebrity, whether it is the
Pope, or the ex-Crown Prince of Ger-
many, or ex-President Hoover, some-
thing startling is bound to happen, and
he is ruthlessly indifferent to his victims’
feelings. The world must be littered with
famous folk who rue the day they let
him get near them.
He has the qualities of his defects,
chief among them being an astonishing
gift for making the reader see somebody
he has seen. Hitler, whom he met in
the presence of a worshipping Berlin
crowd, “squinting his impish eyes against
the glaring Klieg lights and raising his
small feminine hands in answer to the
yells of ‘Heil, Hitler! ’ ” ; parting his
“red, very red, almost rouged lips in a
sarcastic smile” ; running his hand with
its “surprisingly large knuckles through
his glossy, brilliantined hair.” Stalin,
“a swarthy man in a dark-grey coat but-
toned to the neck, with eyes cold, fixed,
totally deprived of ‘divinity,’ ‘sparkle’
or anything else suggestive of a sense of
humor. The eyes of a perfect dictator.”
The Kaiser before the war, “dressed in
the uniform of commodore.of the Ger-
man Imperial Yacht Club” and talking
“in rapid-fire Oxonian, with Prussian
intonations, staccato, drum-like, challeng-
ing” of his uncle’s friend Lipton, “that
ridiculous Irish grocer.” You are made
to see their very natures.
He describes things as well as he does
people. In “The Tale of the North Sea,”
a history of the decline and fall of his
father’s yacht, the old steamer becomes
a genuine figure of tragedy. But it is
when his political sympathies are en-
gaged that he is at his best. He is lacer-
ating about his friends’ behavior when
England began token payments in 1931
—the rush to send money to the gold-
bloc countries, the measures taken to pro-
tect hoarded foodstuffs which turned
many a country house into “a combina-
tion of warehouse and fortress.”
His sympathy for the unfortunate
seems to be completely genuine, and so
does his admiration for Roosevelt. He
claims that his contacts with the poor,
with “the highway of the truck-drivers,
the hitch-hikers and the hoboes” told
him six years ago that Roosevelt would
be President. The same highway is sing-
ing to him now
of the brave, grim men who are about to
rise again. Of a country rescued in the
nick of time. Of a future less sinful, if
less glamorous, than the past.
Mr. Vanderbilt is perhaps uneducated
in an academic sense, and he is a super-
ficial thinker, but he is a great jour-
nalist of his slapdash, emotional type ;
and his restless, inquisitive mind, com-
bined with his money and position, has
given him unique chances to observe
the world. With all its faults Farewell
to Fifth Avenue is likely to be invalu-
able to future historians of the greatest
of depressions.
JOHN DALLEY.
Notes on
Modern
Poetry—II
There are few
moderns who are
not influenced by
T, S. Eliot and
D. H. Lawrence.
With rare excep-
tions, the very
young poets in England seem bent on
out-Elioting Eliot and enlarging upon
Lawrence.
Depending upon a hidden emotional
pattern, Lawrence’s work is fatally
imitable, and, though few can plumb the
depths of personal emotion as he has
done in his best poems, there are many
who are only too glad to take the easy
way and fling away all accepted forms
of rhythm. The result is chaos, for the
imitators, lacking the profundity, the
urgency, the passion of Lawrence, have
created a succession of formless nothings
that they proudly pass off as post-Law-
rencian poetry. Sparrows hiccupping
unevenly in a cage is apt for these twitter -
ings. Lawrence’s desire to create a sys-
tem of perception through the medium
of the senses is amply justified by his
own poetry at its best. There never was
anybody who so identified himself with
the sensual experiences of life. He be-
came the thing he described —a red
geranium, a fig-tree, a serpent. And he
was able to do this because of his capa-
cious, one might even say rapacious,
senses.
In no less degree are the younger
men influenced by Eliot’s sense of
futility, his despair, his bitter dogma-
tism. For a vast majority of readers, as
well as for the poets, his “Hollow Men”
is not merely a cri de coeur, but a state-
ment of faith —if such unfaith can be so
described:
We are the hollow men,
We are the stuffed men
Leaning together
Headpiece filled with straw. Alas!
Our dried voices, when
We whisper together
Are quiet and meaningless
As wind in dry grass
Or rat’s feet over broken glass
In our dry cellar . . .
This is the dead land
This is cactus land
Here the stone images
Are raised, here they receive
The supplication of a dead man’s hand
Under the twinkle of a, fading star. *
And so on. It is a moving, terrible, de-
spairing cry, an affirmation of all nega-
tion, and it is the rosary of the younger
poets.
W. H. Auden owes much to him, though
he lacks Eliot’s poetic gift and powers of
criticism. Auden, in fact, shows himself
more of the rhyming journalist than
the poet. Not long ago I went to see
a performance of his drama in verse,
“The Dance of Death.” The satire was
labored and the wit faint from lack of
lifeblood, but the production was in-
teresting, inasmuch as it showed how
necessary it is that verse should be
spoken as well as read. Now, in Ireland
a poet is expected to be able to speak
his verse as well as write it, and to 1 most
Irish poets the last test of their own
poems lies in their sound.
Of those who, among to-day’s toppling
palaces, have found a way of escape, the
most important are, I think, the three
Sitwells, who have developed into valu-
able artists. Their great merit is that
they retain, in their persons and in their
work something ornate and grandiose,
something if one may use the odd term
—stylish. Among machme-ma e
and poems one comes upon the Sitwells
with delight. Theirs is an escape world,
a baroque world, a world of hanging
globes and colored baubles, a world of
museum pieces—but a gorgeous world
to inhabit for a little while, one’s eye
enchanted by the waxen fruit, one’s ear
tty the exotic sounds. A world free of
cloudy emotion and tinkling airily like
the bells on a jester’s cap.
London.
PAMELA TRAVERS.
Among
the “Old
Originals”
Rand wick to
Hargicourt, by
Eric Wren (Mc-
Donald; 10s.),
is a history of the
Third, a battalion
which lost more
men in action, than any other Australian
regiment. , The battalion was raised in
N. S. Wales by Major, afterwards
Lieut.-Colonel, Bennett, C.M.G., D.S.O.,
in August, T4. Lieut.-Colonel Owen,
C.M.G., who had left with the Sudan
Contingent nearly 30 years before, sub-
sequently took over from Bennett. The
much-loved Owen (“Dad” to the men)
carried on till he was wounded on Galli-
poli* when the command passed to Major
McConaghy, who, as Lieut.-Colonel Mc-
Conaghy, C.M.G., D.S.O., fell in France.
Another officer of the Third, the heroic
Howell-Price, D.S.O., M.C., also rose to
be Lieut.-Colonel before he was killed at
Flers.
As in the case of all the early forma-
tions, the Third began: with a large pro-
portion of veterans, and an even larger
proportion of British-born recruits. The
brigadier was little MacLaurin, younger
son of Sydney’s famous Scottish M.L.C.,
doctor and University Chancellor, and
brother of the author of Post Mortem.
A rising barrister, MacLaurin was one
of the first to join up in Australia, and
he was one of the first Australians to be
killed. The battalion got its only V.C.
at Lone Pine, when young Hamilton,
then a private, put up an epic defence
against a Turkish bombing attack from
a parados.
This fine battalion, which was in 23
battles, closed its fighting career at Hargi-
court in September, T8, with all ob-
jectives taken and a casualty list of 13
killed and 82 wounded. The book deal-
ing with its exploits is admirably written
and got up. There are many photo-
graphs, a full nominal roll and an in-
teresting foreword by Sir Nevill Smyth,
V.C., in which the Third is linked up
with its allied British regiment, the
Buffs.
D. J.
A Satchel of Books
Brighton, by Osbert Sitwell and Mar-
garet Barton (Faber and Faber ; Angus
and Robertson ; 225. 6d.). Biography of
a place, as delightfully done as the book
is beautifully turned out. Starts with
Brighton the fishing village, with houses
of diminutive height “in order that they
might escape the notice of the French
when they sailed by on their perpetual
look-out for targets” ; then Brighton of
the fleeing Stuart, Brighton of Dr. John-
son, Brighton the health resort and this
chiefly—gay Brighton of the Regency,
with the Regent replacing even the place
itself in the position of the book’s real
hero. A gay book in an unusually full
sense of the word.
The Centre of the World, by Aylmer
Vallance (Hodder and Stoughton ;
Dymock’s ; 55.). Explains what London
refers to when it says “the City”—the
great commercial centre in which the
main business of the nation and much
of the business of the world is transacted.
Writing in the conducted-tour manner,
the author takes the reader into each of
the parts of that system, the exchanges,
the banks, the capital and money
markets, and shows them at their work.
So admirably done that it could be re-
commended as ordinary general reading.
' The Acting Second Mate, by Sydney
Parkman (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d,). Takes the conven-
tional piracy-in-the-China-Seas fiction
adventure props and turns them into a
good yarn of the kind. First-person-
narrator hero is a healthy ex-remittance
man who gets aboard a doubtful-looking
craft as second mate, finds thereon a girl
and discovers she is part owner and that
the craft’s business is a mixed line of
piracy and smuggling. Fair spicing of
jealousy, fight, revolver shots and other
excitements.
Main Currents in Modern Literature,
by A. R. Reade (Nicholson and Watson ;
4s. 6d. net). Addition to the University
Extension Library. Solid, verging on
stolid, schoolmasterly survey from “Im-
perialism and Rudyard Kipling” on to
“The Post-war Mind and James Joyce,”
andl most amusing in the classroom
grappling with the last-named. Em-
bodies most of the conventional thought
on living and recent writers.
Public School Poets . Yet another ven-
ture in verse anthologies—the poets
gathered together in company with their
schoolfellows over the centuries, so that
John Leycester Adolphus rubs shoulders
with Edmund Spenser in the volume en-
titled The Poets of Merchant Taylors’
School, though, since Spenser fills half the
book, that is not important. The Poets
of Harrow School is largely Byron,
though Calverley gets a thin representa-
tion. The Poets of Eton make easily the
bravest showing—Waller, Gray, Shelley,
Praed, Bridges, Dunsany, Julian Grenfell,
Osbert Sitwell, Aldous Huxley. Good
enough performance for any school.
Published by Rich and Cowan under
John Gawsworthy’s editorship. Copies
from Robertson and Mullens (Mel-
bourne) ; 6s. each.
Out-of-doors with Richard Jefferies
(Dent; 3s. 6d. net). Anthology of finely-
chosen examples of the work of one ol
the truest of nature writers. Jefferies
wrote, of course, of the English southern
country, possibly imperishably, and some
of his most charming work is gathered
into this little book. Edited by artist
Eric Fitch Daglish and decorated with
his wood engravings, it is an addition
to Dent’s admirable Open-air Library ol
representative work by outstanding
nature writers.
Here Are Great Cities, by C. E. Car-
roll (Heath Cranton ; 7s. 6d. net). Breezy,
historical and other gossipry about the
Mediterranean places, intended chiefly
as a general knowledge book for holiday-
cruise trippers. Light, easy travel reading
of some entertaining merit.


yHERE is poise in
each new radio-
player . . . efficiency
combines with beauty,
and perfect radio
entertainment is the
achievement of both.
New cabinet designs
take the eye, new
performance captures
the ear . . . and you’re
in love with radio at
it best ... a radio-
player !
■■■'■• •••• •••;•,.
.
\ m
m
Model 5604.
Model 5603
s /sv
•w*
♦ ♦
Model 5511.
* *
Model 5502.
■%
*
Model 5501.
Model 5814.
I m !♦ * A I
Model A.
Model 5813.
m
Model
5625.
I
<b
*
ST RADIO
MANY features go to make
1935 radioplayers ultra-
modern ... let your dealer
demonstrate.
The full vision micro-index
dial is exclusive. . .convenient
. . . and cannot go out of
date. Selective muting means
noise-free tuning . . . only the
station you want is audible
when you are tuning around
the dial. Valve equipment
. . . the secret of radioplayer
brilliance . . . includes Philips
Super Series and the remark-
able Philips Octode, which
banishes background hiss and
brings pure, sweet music to
your ears.
There are A.C., A.C./D.C.
and Battery models in this
complete range of modern
radioplayers . . . dual-wave
and broadcast models are
featured for your inspection.
And when you buy a Philips
. , . you know that you are
buying radio at its best.
Model 5604: 6-valve A.C. Dual-
wave, £39/19/6.
Model 5502: 5-valve A.C. Broad-
cast, £29/19/6.
Model 5501 : 5-valve A.C. Broad-
est, £27/10/-.
Model A: 5-valve A.C. Broadcast,
£25/10/-.
Model 5625: 5-valve and Barretter
A.C./D.C. Broadcast, £l9/19/-.
MICRO-INDEX TUNING.
Thi s new system of tuning can
never become obsolete when station
wave-length changes are made.
The station name-card is remov-
able, and a new card can be
Inserted in an Instant. New cards
are provided free by Philips to all
owners of 1935 radioplayers on
September Ist.
Model 5813: 8-valve Battery Dual-
wave, £47/17/6.
Model 3814: 8-valve Battery Dual-
wave, £47/17/6.
Model 5511: 5-valve Battery
Broadcast, £33/19/6.
Model 5603: 6-valve A.C. Dual-
wave, £39/19/6.
PHILIPS
WORLD’S LARGEST RADIO MANUFACTURERS
[Advertisement of Philips Lamps ( Australasia ), Ltd. (Radio Dept.), Head Office and Showrooms, Philips House, 69 Clarence Street, Sydney.]


m
m
■
m
«
>1
P
mm
8
i
■
IB
,' ;- /• CM
; *i
I
■
m
M
.
r
&-v
■
:v?
■
■
■
mm.
■
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2886.
June 5, 1935.
DEMOS WAS KING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
. and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £I 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
COURTS AND CONSTITUTIONS.
There are features of the New Deal for which
Australians never cared. They have found Nature
too stern a mistress to risk taking such liberties
with her as destroying crops and stock and paying
the destroyers out of the taxes; and they have dis-
covered by painful experience that paternalist regu-
lation of industry and loan works “to absorb the
unemployed” are no short cuts to general happiness.
But it now seems clear that in the situation to which
the great Republic had drifted at the beginning of
1933 a Roosevelt was necessary, and the difficulties
with which he had to contend, and is still contending,
were greater than was here imagined.
No previous President had such problems heaped
on him. Mr. Roosevelt had not only to provide
remedies or palliatives for a banking crisis and for
industrial and agricultural catastrophes, and improvise
the necessary staffs, but he has had to reckon with
the pretensions of all manner of cranks with plans
for the redistribution of wealth, and with the out-
rageous claims of minorities. Cranks and minorities
alike have found formidable support in Congress as
well as among the electors, and circumstances have
driven the President to make concessions here and
there, notably to the free-silver section, which has
started up again. But he addressed a personal appeal
to Congress—successful in the Senate after the House
had rebuffed him —not to override his veto on the
Patman Bonus Bill, providing for inflation of the
currency so that $2,250,000,000 in greenbacks might
be given to Great War veterans, who have already
received $7,800,000,000 and are to get another
$13,000,000,000 by 1945. (Not one company of these
“veterans” was in the line till April, 1918, and most
of them were never under fire.) Above all, the
President has had to try to adapt his emergency
measures to an outworn Constitution. On this his
National Industrial Recovery Act (N.1.R.A.) has
crashed.
In Britain the legislative power is supreme, and
when the crisis of 1931 arrived the measures deemed
necessary were enacted and put into operation without
reference to or apprehension about the judicial power.
Parliament sanctioned them, and that was enough.
But things don’t happen in that simple and swift way
in countries with Federal systems and Courts set
up to determine what may and may not be done
within the limits of the Constitution or Constitutions.
So we find the U.S. Supreme Court, headed by a
former Republican candidate for the Presidency,
“denying” that “the Government has the right to
transcend Constitutional restrictions simply because
of- unusual economic conditions,” and pronouncing
N.I.R.A. invalid. The immediate result has been the
dissolution of “757 industrial codes,” under which
“3,000,000 business establishments, employing
22,000,000 workers,” had been operating, certain of
them for two years.
Some of these industrial codes prohibited such
national evils as bootlegging and child labor. They
nearly all provided safeguards against strikes at a
time when strikes may flame into revolts and
possibly revolution. But because of words written
into the Federal Constitution by men long dead, as
construed by Justices whose construction may be
wrong, the Government of the United States, though
it can claim the greatest majorities ever given to
a party at the Presidential and the next Congressional
elections, cannot go on with the measures it considers
necessary—and they may be necessary—to save the
country.
The judgment is not only a blow to Roosevelt-
ism; it raises the question whether Federal systems,
as Americans and Australians know them, can stand.
They work endurably in quiet times, but they are
apt to fail miserably in emergencies. Incidentally,
they spawn taxes and taxgatherers.
In respect of the powers conferred upon the High
Court, the framers of our Commonwealth Constitution
followed the Americans, with the difference that the
High Court has greater powers than those possessed
by the Supreme Court of the U.S.A. As well as being
“the guardian of the Federal Constitution,” it is,
as Quick and Garran wrote, “the guardian of the
Constitutions of the several States.”
Some of the States felt that they would be better
off without this guardianship when the Court (its inter-
pretations changing with its composition) ruled that
Federal arbitration Judges might fix wages and work-
ing conditions on the State Government railways (in
effect causing taxes to be levied without being
responsible to the taxpayers), and that their awards
as to working hours overrode Acts of State
Parliaments. For the Commonwealth itself a
moment of great peril arrived when the Govern-
ment of the largest State defaulted in payment of
interest on debts taken over by the nation, as the
result of a Constitutional referendum, and a Federal
Act enforcing the payment of interest was contested
in the High Court. Two Justices declared it invalid.
Had they been joined by another before the judgment
of the Court was arrived at, the financial structure of
Australia would have collapsed, and the Federation
with it. As it was, the enforcement of the Act was
resisted, and a condition approaching civil war had
been reached when the defaulting" Government was
fortunately dismissed by the State Governor.
Said Acting-Chief Justice Rich in a contempt
case decided last week:
It is the constantly recurring task of this Court to
decide upon the validity of the enactments of one or
other of the seven Governments of Australia.
Their Honors discharge very ably the functions
reserved for Justices of their standing in England,
but this “constantly recurring task” is excessive. Aus-
tralians, like Americans, will have to move towards
a system which is not “legalistic,” and which makes
for certainty, not confusion, and for real government
by the people. In Britain, Maoriland and South
Africa there is no conflict of powers between national
and provincial authorities, nor can judicial vetoes be
applied to the proceedings of Governments, authorised
by Parliament and endorsed by the electors, in
national emergencies. And their Constitutions don’t
breed Langs or Huey Longs, secessionists or civil
wars.
THE NEW BALBUS.
The original Balbus secured undying fame by building
a wall. Thousands have since imitated him, but walls
have now gone out of fashion. The ambition of
every modern Balbus is to have his name on a
Government building or, better still, on a bridge.
Mr. Lang put his on the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank building, which became a grandiose mausoleum
when the bank went bung. His name, along with
others, is also on the Sydney Harbor Bridge, which cost
£10,000,000 and serves a few suburbs at the price of
increased rates and transport charges, though the
revenue from these and other sources is £200,000 short
of the annual bill for interest and exchange. And one
raiding bomber could wreck it.
Mr. Stevens has his monuments, too. Acres of
cement, miles of sewers and guttering, and £20,000
or £30,000 swimming pools in a parcel of seedy suburbs.
He is now engaged on a vast city building programme
—£lBo,ooo for Rural Bank headquarters, quarter of a
million on a palace for railway staffs, and a million
or so for Macquarie-street and thereabouts: courts,
Department of Justice, Parliament House, library and
so on. If more millions can be got, three may be
shot into underground railways to carry people
to Bondi and thereabouts, though they would prefer
to be carried in privately-owned motor-buses. The
money will be borrowed in-the sacred name of unem-
ployment relief —walls against penury such as Balbus
never built.
Better accommodation for the courts is needed.
But when national activities like education are trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth, and when unwieldy
States are subdivided, some of the projected edifices
and other undertakings will become white elephants, as
the Government Savings Bank building always has
been. Mr. Stevens and his lieutenants will, however,
have moved on.
Another ambitious builder is Mr. Forgan Smith.
Residing in what he terms the “most prosperous
State with the lowest unemployment and cost-
of-living rates and the highest basic wage,” he is
putting up a city bridge on his own account. Nature
did not endow Brisbane with a wide harbor, and it
already has a couple of bridges, so he cannot spend
£10,000,000 ; but he is doing his best.
The Forgan Smith bridge—money to be bor-
rowed, of course —will cost about £2,000,000 with
resumptions, provided there are no strikes, lockouts,
floods or additions to “the highest basic wage in Aus-
tralia.” This is about £6 10s. per head of the popula-
tion of Brisbane, but part of the burden will fall on
the shoulders of the 600,000 Queenslanders who haven’t
the luck to live next door to Parliament House. They
will have the consolation of knowing that they are
building for posterity, since Mr. Smith expects to
have 540,000 people in Brisbane by 1960. They will
also be providing “work for 600 men for four years,”
and helping in the production of a million bags of
cement, 5,000,000 units of electricity, 75,000 tons of
limestone, 24,000 tons of shale and 22,000 tons of
coke. As all these are likely to be produced in safe
Labor electorates, they will also be helping to ensure
stability of government.
On the day when the Brisbane papers published
a couple of columns of oratory about the new bridge,
sojme unobstrusive paragraphs were printed about
parts of Queensland where they have no bridges. In
the Blackall region, for instance, 100,000 sheep had
been railed away since January in the hope of saving
their lives. Isis Downs, hitherto one of the show
stations of Queensland, is spending £2OOO a month in
hand-feeding. Sticking to the land so that it may
help to pay for Brisbane’s bridge is costing its owners
6s. Bd. per sheep per annum. On Lansdowne, another
big station, the hand-feeding bill for six months
amounted to £12,000, and carrying capacity has fallen
from 76,000 to 44,000. All lambs bred on Lansdowne
were killed this year—living, they only meant more
feed bills and more taxes. Terrick Terrick, another
vast property, has only 20,000 out of 60,000 sheep left.
And 10,000 of them cost 7d. per day each to teed.
Some waterholes in the district have been dry tor the
first time in 75 years. Bores are ceasing to flow.
Further out, by Birdsville and Windorah, the
stock are all dead and the only drinking water has
to be cleared with ashes. Red sand from the
interior is being piled in mile-long ridges, ruining what
were once productive pastures. There would be joyfu
celebrations out that way if enough clear water flowed
through the land to justify the building of a few £5
culverts over it.
The drought moves south. From north-west
N. S. Wales hundreds of thousands of sheep are
already refugees bound for the Riverina and Victoria.
The Railway Department has a contract to shift
350,000 head from the district between Pokataroo
and Mungindi, and still more when that job has been
done. Meanwhile Mr. Stevens and Mr. Forgan Smith
have been visiting Canberra to arrange for loans for
their city bridges and railways and palaces.
CURRENCIES IN POLITICS.
There is only £192,000,000 worth of gold in the Bank
of England; not a grain is available to the public,
and not a sovereign is in circulation. Since
1931 British currency has been inconvertible, like ours.
Yet last month gold began to pour into London from
the gold -bloc countries “for safe keeping.” A great
deal of it came from France, which has over
£1,000,000,000 worth of gold—from France, which is
“on” gold to the extent that, at the time of writing,
the Bank of France is exchanging ingots for francs,
and which has actually been talking of reviving the
gold louis.
Sir Josiah Stamp, a director of the Bank of
England, said at Leland-Stanford University (U.S.A.)
last month that England “would consider stabilisation
when currencies went out of politics.” He was refer-
ring specifically to American inflationary movements
like the Veterans’ Bonus Bill, which aimed at creating
a new currency of £440,000,000; but generally he
probably meant what some British Protectionists mean
when they say they will consider revenue tariffs when
the rest of the world shows signs of doing so. Cur-
rency devaluation, as a form of economic warfare, is
threatening to supersede tariff warfare, and stabilisa-
tion —an international agreement to give each
country’s currency a fixed gold value —seems almost
as remote as disarmament.
Debtors benefit when their country’s currency is
inflated. The tourist trade booms. Everybody with
something to sell abroad, or to visiting foreigners with
good money, scores. In France in the summer of 1926
£1 bought a gold sovereign’s worth of French goods
and left nearly £1 in francs over, so the hotels,
restaurants and shops of Paris and the provinces were
packed with free-spending Britons and other moneyed
foreigners. But the millions of French citizens who
live on modest investments, the pensioners, civil ser-
vants and wage-earners suffered severely as prices
rose.
Now, with the franc at 75.50, instead of 240, to
the £l, it takes nearly 355. to buy a sovereign’s worth
of French goods; French exporters have been hard
hit, and the tourist trade is virtually dead. Inevitably
there is a big inflationary vote in France.
French Governments live more than most by
pandering to voting sections. Until Poincare’s save-
the-franc campaign, there was even a non-income-
tax-paying section, and it got its head up again to
an extent after Poincare went out of office. Because
one French Government after another has shirked
politically dangerous jobs,
The Budget deficit is estimated at £280,000,000, to
which must be added the deficit on the State railways
of £53,000,000.
Sterling is soaring, French Government bonds are
falling, and the raising of the bank rate to 6 p.c.
and the rate of advance on gold bars to 5i p.c. has
done little to stem the export of gold, the rush
for gold by hoarders and the fall of the franc. Two
alternatives face Frante, the nation with five times
as much gold as England—inflation, with the calami-
ties it brings on the poor and the thrifty middle
classes, or a Budget-balancing dictatorship, which must
lead to big cuts in pensions and civil-service pay and
to increased taxation.
The situation is as grave as that faced by Poincare
in 1926, owing to the Treasury being empty.
The British Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Budget
speech announced a surplus of £7,562,000. “Broadly
speaking,” he said “we have recovered 80 p.c. of our
prosperity.” He was able to announce tax relief on
smaller incomes and a restoration of economy cuts
in salaries and allowances of civil servants and others.
Industrial output had increased for the year by 12 p.c.,
and exports by £30,000,000.
No sensible person is going to suggest that, be-
cause England is doing well now, an infallible recipe
has been discovered for national prosperity. Ninety-
six years ago, when England was the wealthiest
country in the world —it virtually monopolised textile
machinery, the process of using coke for smelting,
and steam-power—the Government was forced off
gold, and a crisis followed that caused more misery
than the country had experienced for generations.
(Incidentally, the Bank of France came to the rescue
on that occasion, and not altogether in a spirit of
pure altruism. If one great country crashes financially
the repercussions are felt everywhere.) But the
situation does show that there is money in national
stability; in Governments that refuse to be bluffed
by interested sections, or to listen to eloquent theorists
with crazy schemes for grinding leisure and luxury
out of printing presses.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Any Name Will Do.
Loan Council meetings have degenerated into sicken-
ing exhibitions of provincialism and greed for loan
money. The latest series at Canberra had all these
features, with the addition of a sordid wrangle
between State Premiers who wanted more and others
who wouldn’t take less. Both sets of combatants alike
dismissed the warnings of the Commonwealth Bank
Board, and of directors of trading banks, life-assur-
ance cos. and great businesses like Anthony Horderns’,
against overdoing the loan racket and raising interest
rates when the necessities of the country so plainly
demand reduction of taxes and interest.
On the one side were Premier Dunstan, of Vic-
toria, and Acting-Premier Dwyer-Gray, of Tasmania.
Mr. Dunstan, who is designated U.C.P., though
he seems rather to be a Labor politician of the
borrow-and-bust school, went to the meetings with a
demand for £5,500,000 (“£5,970,000 plus deficit”) “to
provide full-time work for the unemployed at a basic
wage of £3 ss. a week.” The £5,500,000 was to
last a twelvemonth, and how much more Mr.
Dunstan would need when it was all spent and a
mounting interest bill had also to be met was not
explained. Mr. Dunstan was accompanied to Canberra
by a delegation from Melbourne Trades Hall, which
issued pronunciamentos supporting its new hero and
attacking the Loan Council. G.H.Q. at 'Melbourne
also attacked the Loan Council, and Labor-leader
Tunnecliffe declared that “the people” were “behind
Mr. Dunstan” (they behind Mr. Tunnecliffe at
the general election with big beets on).
Mr. Dwyer-Gray likewise championed Mr.
Dunstan, and worked up an affecting domestic tragedy
on his own account. For Tasmania’s share of the
money to be borrowed—all Loan Council meetings
are followed by borrowings—Mr. Lang’s admirer de-
manded £1,920,500 (“£2,270,000 plus deficit”) and if
his adopted State didn’t get it he would not answer
for the consequences, which would be frightful. When
the other Premiers objected (Mr. Casey, the chair-
man, seems to have sat like Patience on a monument)
there were fierce remarks about bankruptcy, a bor-
rowers’ boycott (this came from the Victorian corner)
and secession.
The controversy was carried by the malcontents
into the columns of friendly newspapers. “Victoria
and Tasmania,” said Mr. Dwyer-Gray, “are being
victimised; it is a case of spoils to the spenders.”
There was some warrant for this outburst, since, for
example, the N.S.W. Government was allowed
£10,000,000 last year out of a total of £21,893,000 for
the States, and was authorised to raise another
£2,500,000 for its Water and Sewerage Board —a gross
departure from Loan Council practice—while of
£15,000,000 for State “works” this year N. S. Wales
was down for £8,120,000. Victorians and Tasmanians
may nevertheless doubt whether it is an injury to be
denied corresponding opportunities of selling their
States into bondage.
After further stormy scenes and much talk of
applying the “formula” prescribed in the Financial
Agreement, it was agreed to raise £26,050,000 of
dearer money for works, of which N.S.W. is to have
£8,000,000, Victoria £4,000,000, Queensland £3,000,000,
Westralia £2,600,000, South Australia £2,100,000 and
Tasmania £600,000 ; the Commonwealth is to take
£5,750,000 —part for the Port Augusta-Red Hill white
elephant. At the same time, in the jargon of
Treasurers, the deficits, Tasmania’s excepted, are
to be “reduced to £4,450,000” — i.e., increased by
that amount —chiefly by means of more borrowing
and partly with the aid of a grant of £500,000 from
the Commonwealth, which may have a deficit itself.
If Mr. Dwyer-Gray remains in a towering passion,
Tasmania’s share of the £500,000 will be refused.
Mr. Forgan Smith suggests that the word “Loan”
is “obnoxious to many people,” and that the thing
should become “the Finance Council.” Unless there
are radical changes in outlook and policy, it won’t
matter what they call it. By any other name it will
smell the same.
*
“Thank God for Lang!”
From H. W. Horsfield, general secretary of the
U.A.P. (N.S.W,):—-
The Bulletin of 29/5/’35 states that “in four industrial
electorates the U.A.P. bosses actually instructed their sup-
porters to vote for Communists, pretending to regard them
as Independents.”
This statement is not in accordance with the facts.
Certain daily newspapers erred in describing Communist can-
didates as Independents, with the result that what purported
to be a reproduction of the official U.A.P. how-to-vote
instructions published on the day before the election advo-
cated the No. 1 vote for such candidates where there were
no Government candidates standing. Such a direction was
not in accordance with the official U.A.P. how-to-vote
sheet, a copy of which is attached. A mistake was made
in this sheet, however, in respect of Paddington, where
Gowland, who was described by all the newspapers as an
Independent, was so marked on the U.A.P. how-to-vote
sheet. This mistake was detected, however, and a correction
was published in the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
1 trust you will find space for this correction, as it is
evident that the statement contained in your article was written
under a misapprehension, which is quite understandable in
view of the facts related above.
Copy of “the official U.A.P. how-to-vote sheet”
received, audited and found correct, except as to
Paddington. But for everyone who saw that docu-
ment hundreds must have read the list published in
the “Morning Herald” in which Government sup-
porters were advised to vote for the Communist
(styled “Ind.”) in each of four industrial electorates.
Spread over four columns, it was headed “How to
Vote—Official Recommendations.” As it was altered,
though too late to reach many country electors, the
charge of hypocrisy will not lie, though there was
obviously carelessness. For the rest, Mr. Horsfield
had better have it out with the editor of the "Herald.”
Take Off the Gloves!
Horror having been expressed in N. S. Wales at
the discovery that daring last year 365 people were
killed and over 6000 more or less seriously maimed
in motoring accidents, the Traffic Department
has decided to do something about it. During
“the next few weeks” 15 car-driving and six motor-
biking policemen “will be released from all other
duties” and instructed to patrol the roads in and
around Sydney and take action against motorists who
drive at an excessive speed, cut in and so on. If
there is no improvement, “further measures” may be
resorted to.
Campaigns of the sort are periodically started in
Sydney against people who spit on pavements; the
City Council once put a squad of employees on the
streets in a special uniform to identify spitters.
Against jay-walkers. Against car-parkers. Against
any offenders who happen at the time to be front-
page news in the tabloid press. At present those who
feel like spitting on pavements do so unchecked; jay-
walking proceeds as before except in a few constantly-
policed areas; cars are parked by the hundred at
times in thoroughfares such as Onslow-avenue which
exhibit signs specifically forbidding parking. Such
laws are habitually ignored because the authorities
don’t take them seriously for any length of time, and
apply them on discriminatory lines.
The Traffic Department’s latest move won’t do
anything of a permanent nature to stop car-murder.
The annual casualty-list is due to a number of factors
that can’t be countered by putting 21 policemen
on a few metropolitan speedways, appealing to motor-
ists in general to behave themselves, and fining an
occasional yahoo £5 and ss. 6d. costs. Excessive
speed in populous areas is the mother and father of
practically all serious accidents, which means that
every Australian State will eventually have to follow
England’s lead and impose a 30-m.p.h. limit in built-
up areas. Glaring headlights provide another fruitful
source of accidents. Motorists here are liable to
be fined for not displaying lights that they would
be fined for displaying in Europe. Traffic constables
can help to check road-hogging in and near cities,
but there are not nearly enough of them to police
a State.
Veteran car-drivers with good records, not only
as drivers but as citizens, should be sworn in as special
constables and directed to report cases of dangerous
driving. A measure of desperation perhaps, but then
the position is desperate.
♦
More Secession.
■‘Mr. Ogilvie declared that, in the event of Tasmanians
being unable to obtain a revision of the position, they were
prepared to secede, somehow or other.”
—Newspaper cablegram.
A faint glimpse into futurity enables The Bulletin
to sketch the progress of the secession movement as
recorded in Tasmanian papers in a couple of months’
time:
Hobart, August 1: There is no doubt among secessionists
that the time has come to strike. As ever, Hobart will lead
the way, and the whole island will undoubtedly rally to the
cause.— “ Quicksilver.”
Launceston, August 2: The time is ripe for secession.
It behoves the people of Launceston to give a lead to the
rest of the State —that is to say, Dominion —in the struggle
for freedom. — “Inspector.”
Hobart, August 3: Tasmanian patriots will not be misled
by the attempts of certain interests in the northern portion of
the State to usurp the leadership in the fight for liberty.
— “Quicksilver.”
Launceston, August 4: It would be amusing were it not
so serious to consider the parochial attitude of those who
live on the banks of the Derwent. For many years the
position of Hobart as the seat of government of this State
has been maintained only by the purblind policy of the
Commonwealth. In the new Tasmania, the capital will, of
course, be located where the main centre of population, com-
merce and industry has always been, and this despite any
opposition that may come from the southern end of the
island. —‘ ‘lnspector.”
Hobart, August 5: The thinly-veiled suggestion that
Launceston should be the capital of our new Dominion will
meet with scant support among thinking citizens. As every
student of history knows, the city of Hobart was founded
many _ years before the town of Launceston, and its great
historical associations assure it of a permanent place in
the hearts of all loyal Tasmanians.—' “Quicksilver.”
Launceston, August 6: At a public meeting last night
a resolution was carried to the effect that no support
whatever be given to any secession movement emanating from
Hobart, and that an independent secession movement be
launched forthwith, in the confident expectation that the
southern movement would fall into line under the northern
banner (a Tasmanian devil dormant in a field of hops).
— “lnspector.”
Hobart, August 7: The revolutionary element in the north
has at last come out into the open. It has flung down the
gauntlet. Hobart is ready to accept the challenge. Apparently
Launceston and its suburbs imagine they have the right to
secede from the rest of the State. This claim we will resist
with all our resources. The State is one and indivisible, and
we will never consent to its partition. As for their zoological
flag—well, the grand old Union Jack is good enough for us.
—" Quicksilver.”
Launceston, August 8: There will be no partitioning as
far as Launceston is concerned. Hobart will be given an
opportunity to come into the new Dominion of its own
free will, but, if it does not elect to do so, means will be
found to force it to accept the inevitable. Our new flag is
not meant to replace, but to supplement, the Union Jack.
We are prepared to defend the latter against its enemies
inside as well as outside the country.—“ lnspector.”
It is difficult to say just what would have hap-
pened had things been allowed to take their course,
but business interests stepped in. On August 9 the
proprietors of “a certain lottery” delivered an ulti-
matum stating that, in the event of secession from
the mainland States, where most of the good punters
live, headquarters would be removed to Fiji.
Two days later a joint goodwill mission from the
two cities embarked on a fishing trip on Lake St.
Clair.
* _
The Subnormal and the Law.
“Gaol may not be the place for such men as you,
but there is nowhere else to put you,” a Melbourne
magistrate told a prisoner convicted of a minor act
of degeneracy last week. The same day Judge
Mclndoe, in a higher court, referred to the necessity
for a Mental Deficiency Act to enable Courts to deal
with subnormal offepders. Earlier during the trial
the Judge had refused to receive medical evidence as
to the condition of the prisoner, who was charged with
housebreaking; legislation, he added, did not provide
a place for such persons.
His experience with mental defectives who
conflict with the law led Judge Mclndoe to elaborate
his remarks. He pointed out that in Australia such
patients—he did not use the word offenders—were
simply allowed to drift, whereas in Europe and
America there were colonies for detention and cura-
tive treatment under trained therapists.
Ten years ago ex-Premier Argyle introduced a
Mental Deficiency Bill. Judge Mclndoe referred
to this measure, and said that it went close to
providing all that was wanted, and was far in advance
of anything else previously suggested. Being a non-
party measure, it went the usual way of such bills
which do not provide the raw material for an appeal
to the electors. It has been shelved time after time.
4
Failure of a Gamble.
From “Henri Singemoine”:—
Ex-Premier Flandin, who was overwhelmingly defeated
in the French Deputies on Friday when he asked leave to
deal dictatorially with the financial situation, is a gambler
who has had bad luck. A Republican lawyer, he succeeded
Doumergue six months ago. He gambled on cheap money
(the Bank of France opted for dear money); on pound and
dollar stabilisation; on a revival of the tourist trade; on
Wheat and other Acts, which empowered the Government to
buy surplus products; above all, on being able to revive
the depressed industries —and the unemployed are nearing the
million mark.
Premier Bouisson, who has succeeded Flandin, was a
Socialist when he became President of the Deputies. His
Ministers of Labor and Health are Socialists, and his Finance
Minister (ex-Professor Palmade) is a Radical Socialist.
But a French Socialist is different from any other kind.
Radical Socialists were the backbone of the Poincare
coalition which “saved the franc” nine years ago. Unlike
the English, the French love coalitions —as much, that is, as
they love any form of stable government. In Parliament,
the Socialists automatically oppose the Communists, whose
views are expressed by “L’Humanite” —chief organ of the
Parisian “Red Belt.”
Radical Socialists are Republicans in the tradition of the
Revolution; they distrust Moscow and the Action Frangaise
in an equal degree. Paradoxically, their party is affiliated with
the Amsterdam International, and such an essentially anti-
Bolshevist part of France as Card —it is largely inhabited by
well-to-do market gardeners and the like —has returned a
Communist to the Deputies. But French politics are like
that; electors sometimes support a candidate whose general
principles they hate because he assails something they hate
even more. A Communist might get republican votes as an
eloquent enemy of royalism.
The Socialists among the Deputies are returned chiefly by
peasant proprietors, master workmen, small shopkeepers,
minor civil servants, and the like. They have every reason to
oppose inflation; they would agree to heavier land taxation,
even pay their income-tax arrears, first. So Premier Bouisson
may save the franc, as Poincare did.
Australia is deeply involved. Inflation would mean
restriction of imports, and at present we are selling France,
year by year, over £5,000,000 worth of goods for every
£1,000,000 worth we are buying from the French.
♦
“Too Modest.”
It has remained for Yehudi Menuhin, himself seem-
ingly a modest young man despite all the rubbish
published about his fiddling, to tell us that Australians
are “too modest.” He deprecates our dirges about
our weather and our long-distance trains. He finds us
cursed with “a spiritual inferiority complex,” exhibited,
in his case, in the suggestion that his programmes
were selected so that he might play down to his
audiences. This implied to him misgivings about the
cultural levels of the broad mass of the people.
Australians have an inferiority complex. It
shows itself largely in brag and propaganda which
the English and French feel they do not need. Yet
the continuous demand for better broadcasting, the
size and catholicity of Australian bookshops evidence
an average taste higher than that of most European
countries. And, judged by the highlights of achieve-
ment, we can stand on our own feet.
Much older and more populous nations would be
proud to number among their daughters Melba and
“Henry Handel Richardson,” and among their sons
Wentworth, Deakin, John Forrest and Hubert
Murray; Hargrave, Hawker, Hinkler, Ross Smith
and Kingsford Smith ; Wragge, whose slotted wing
made flying nearly safe for the novice, and Michel,
whose thrustblock made battleships like the Hood
possible; Gilbert Murray, Lawson, Boldrewood and
Kendall; the Lindsays, Longstaff and Dyson;
Monash, Chauvel, Brudenell White and the Gaunts;
“Chinese”, Morrison, Maurice Hankey and Knox of
the Saar ; Trumper, Bradman, Messenger, S. M. J.
Woods, Searle, Pearce, Charlton, Norman Brookes
and Crawford.
—— ♦
Stricken Quetta.
From a man who has been there:
Australians may count among their blessings that they
have neither earthquake zones nor responsibilities which call
for the keeping of large armies on remote borders.
Thousands are dead in Quetta. Thousands more have
lain wounded in blinding heat. Centralians especially will
sympathise with Quetta in its earthquake. If Alice Springs
had been stripped of timber by armies, bandits and locusts
for thousands of years, it would be something like the region
round the western Indian border gate. Bound in by a
turbulent medley of hills, Quetta is the third-biggest military
camp in the Empire, spread out over a flat plain in long
cantonment lines, squat city buildings, bazaars and shady
bungalows bowered in the oases which they call compounds.
Westward, the railway snakes through the narrow gorges
of Sheik Wazil into the tufty sandhills which lead to the
Persian border below the ripple of mountains to the north
which mark where Afghanistan lies. Between Quetta and India
proper there are roads which are always guarded, points
where, against a copper sky, you see the giant bombers
practising while the little Gurkhas go unconcernedly about
their work at the posts which command every turn and twist
of the highway.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WUNBKE'S INKS"
“West Port”: Those Edinburgh bur-
gesses who objected to a civic welcome
to Joe Lyons on the ground that he
was an R.C. were inconsistent as well
as bigoted. After all the P.M. is a fellow-
Christian, white his two partners in the
acquirement of the Freedom of the City
are, respectively, a heathen and a journa-
list, otherwise the Sikh potentate Patiala
and John Buchan, Governor-General
designate of Canada.
4 s & H*
“Whitehall”; Sydney Commercial
Travellers’ Club is giving Australia a
lead in one direction anyhow:
Several bedrooms are being provided
with private bathrooms and sitting-rooms.
Though a man is often said to “live at a
club,” the term is a misnomer in the
case of 99 social clubs out of 100. A
member who has occupied a • bedroom
for longer than a given time may be
asked to relinquish it when a rush on
bedrooms occurs. England’s only ex-
ception when I last visited it was the
Oriental in Hanover-square—an Anglo-
Indian club which has a good many
Australian members. It was the only
club in London with sitting-rooms
attached to the bedrooms, and the only
one in which resident members had
security of tenure.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: I join issue with “Box 106”
when he says (B. 29/5/’35) that abo-
riginals, plain or colored, will wilt under
punishment. One or two of the gamest
boxers I have seen have been abos., and
as to football, which he specially cites, I
have found them as plucky as any white.
I never saw the man who could make
Frank Ivory, half-caste fullback for
Queensland in the ’nineties, drop his
bundle, and I can vouch for if that more
than one Caucasian was darned sorry he
tried the experiment. Then are we to
include Maoris and their half-breeds in
“Box 106’s” category? I have met many
of these in football, and I have yet to
recall a cocktail.
“Tiki”; Crossword-puzzle competi-
tions are illegal in M.L. if the puzzles
are capable of more than one correct
solution. The police brought action in
Auckland in respect of a criss-cross in
which there was a “term of endearment”
of four letters ending in “ove.” The
police said it might be either “love” or
“dove,” and the first letter didn’t link on
to anything else. In support of their
contention the Crown Prosecutor quoted
Tennyson’s “Maud”; “She is coming,
my dove, my dear.” A matter-of-fact
magistrate retorted that the poet might
have referred to Maud’s rapid move-
ment. The C.P. countered with an ex-
cerpt from “Lily of Laguna”: “She is
my lady love, my dove, my baby love,”
but the Bench drily remarked that even
there “love” had a two-to-one majority.
Prof. Sewell, Auckland Uni.’s chief
authority on English, testified that “dove”
wasn’t good as a term of endearment.
Case dismissed.
H* 'l* .
“Mudurup”: There used to be a stock
gag in English pantomimes about the
friendly feelings which bobbies were
supposed to entertain towards cooks. It
was as hardy an annual as the mother-
in-law joke, and one never heard of the
police objecting to it. But they grow
more sensitive nowadays. Some cor-
respondence recently published in a
Westralian paper featured a prospective
Bung impressing on his partner the ad-
“What breed d'y' think he is ?”
“Police dog, by the look of his feet.”
visability of keeping sweet with the local
cops to the extent of free drinks as often
as they patronised the bar and a bottle
of whisky, or some such token of appre-
ciation, at Christmas-time. The insinua-
tion drew a hot and indignant disclaimer
from the secretary of the Police Asso-
ciation, who described it as a vile insult
that demanded an apology—as perhaps
it did. Times change, no doubt, but I
can’t help remembering that I once
lived in a Wesfralian pub where the
landlord, after closing his bar, nightly
“planted” a bottle of English stout in
the yard where the John Hop on night
duty would know exactly where to find
it. By some perverse mischance a
thirsty boarder stumbled on the plant
and kept the knowledge (and the stout)
to himself for a week or two while the
relations between Boniface and the
Force, or a portion of it, grew perceptibly
less cordial. Then there were explana-
tions, and a more secure hiding-place
was devised. But that was 40 years ago.
“Nejd”: About the ghastliest bloomer
in connection with the death of T. E.
Lawrence —and there have been many—
appeared in a Sunday newspaper. Some-
one in London gave it as his opinion
that Lawrence’s book The Seven Pillars
of Wisdom “entitled Shaw (Lawrence) to
a place beside the doughty as an his-
torian of Arabia.” What the spook of
Doughty, author of the classic Arabia
Deserta, will say to the shade of Shaw-
Lawrence when the pair meet should be
worth hearing.
* * ;|: :i-
-“Castanea”: Seeing “English chest-
nuts” placarded in a suburban shop I
bought a pound, after obtaining the
assurance of the shopkeeper that they
were English. I don’t think he knew
any better, though the only indigenous
English chestnut is the horse chestnut,
which is about as edible as an acorn or
a Moreton Bay fig. In England, when I
was a boy, we always spoke of nuts
like those I bought as “Spanish chest-
nuts,” and I suspect the trees find cli-
matic conditions much more genial in
Australia than in any part of Britain.
In the south of Europe, teste the Encyc.
Brit., chestnuts have bulked largely, for
2000 years and more, “in the food re-
sources of the poor in Spain, Italy,
Switzerland and Germany.” Quaintly
enough, the man who sold them to me
as genuine English was, if there is any-
thing in the name over his shop, a coun-
tryman of Mussolini.
* * * *
“Jeviel” : “Kwakprak’s” original state-
ment (B. 8/ 5/’35) that, drunk for lack
of oxygen, an airman will behave like
a lunatic” on passing above the 16,000 ft.
level is at variance with his discovery
(B. 29/5/’35) that air-fighting, unaided
by extra oxygen, has been carried on at
well over 22,000 ft. Before an artificial
oxygen supply became practicable, test
pilots took new types to their “ceiling,”
checking climb characteristics, noting the
various instrument readings and making
accurate calculations of vital importance
at altitudes far in excess of “Kwak-
prak’s” sanity limit. Storms over the
Rockies frequently force American mail
pilots up to similar heights, where treach-
erous cross-currents and gale-force gusts
call for clear thinking and sensitive hand-
ling in spite of the enervating effect of
insufficient oxygen and Arctic tempera-
tures. Though oxygen deficiency is obvi-
ously the limiting factor, the frail human,
when put to the test, does not always
knuckle under to unnatural stresses as
easily or completely as theoretical cal-
culations would indicate. My prescrip-
tion for “Kwakprak” is a high flight or
a yarn with an experienced pilot.
$ !t= * *
“Runa”: Maoriland, in common
with Australia, suffered from the mania
for naming scenery after some foreign
locality to which it might or might not
bear a resemblance. To writers of
pamphlets for tourists, the Wanganui
was “the Rhine of New Zealand” until
the war. Egmont has only just lived
down its “Fujiyama of N.Z.,” but Rotorua
cast off its foreign appellation years ago.
Some misguided enthusiast wrote it up
as “New Zealand’s Yosemite.” A trifle
of uncertainty over pronunciation pre-
vented the American name from sticking.
“1- »i : ! i‘
“Guardee (to.)”: Though the position
is as stated by “King’s Regs.” (B.
29/5/’35) with regard to hon. generals,
there are a few hon. major-generals and
even colonels in England. Lord Motti-
stone, who as John Seely served in
the Territorial Force, is an hon. major-
general. But he distinguishes himself
from a regular by putting (T.F.) after
his name. If every retired militia officer
who insists on using a military title in
Australian civil life wore the suffix
(M.F.) a good deal of unedifying de-
rision might be obviated. But, of
course, the right and militarily lawful
thing is not to assume such titles except
on official occasions. Winston Churchill,
though he has a better fighting record
than 99 p.c. of regular officers, and
though he retired with the rank of
colonel after commanding a Territorial
regiment in France, is only Mr.
Churchill. Sir Edward Grigg (grand-
son of a N. S. Wales Cplonial Secretary)
joined the Grenadiers in 1914 and fin-
ished G.5.0.l the Guards Division and
a colonel, but he doesn’t call himself
Colonel, and anyone who did would
be asked to desist. I know because,
meaning to please, I once made the mis-
take.
* * * *
“Scribe”: C. E. Hughes, of the Supreme
Court of U.S.A., who is in the picture as
the man who blew out Roosevelt’s New
Deal, once narrowly missed assassina-
tion. Incidentally, he was the centre of
the best press photograph ever taken
—the assassin in the act of firing
the shot. The photographer had the
camera levelled on Hughes just when
the fanatic dashed into range. That
it was snapped at the precise second
was, of course, a mere fluke, just as was
that of the Australian press photographer
who got a picture of a bather in the act
of being killed by a shark. In that case
the photographer did not know he had
snapped the actual tragedy until he de-
veloped his plate ; but the picture was
never published, Melbourne “Herald,”
for which it was taken, properly deciding
that it was too gruesome for production.
* * * *
“Oran”: When the ancient law of deo-
dand, whereby “any personal chattel that
had been instrumental in
causing the death of a
person was forfeited to
the Crown for pious
uses,” was abolished by
the British Government
in 1846, nobody could
foresee the motor era
of the future. Other-
wise that useful enact-
ment' might have profit-
ably been left on the
statute-book. Nowadays,
when a reckless motorist
in a hurry risks running
down a pedestrian, he
knows he will have to face
nothing more than a fine
or an acquittal for man-
slaughter. There is no
danger of his car being
confiscated. Ma o r Hand
protects its oyster industry
by a form of deodand,
and very effectively, too. When confis-
cation of the launch or yacht conveying
the stealers is a certainty the temptation
to obtain a few oysters on the cheap is
practically removed.
“Morita”: “Pont Noyelles” must have
soldiered with a dismal crew if all the
war songs he heard came from vin-
blanced Diggers in estaminets (B.
29 / 5/’35). We were no different from
others, and we made the rafters of many
a Flemish barn ring with our choruses
when we couldn’t always afford stimu-
lants. Before we had learnt the censored
melodies, the transport had its nightly
sing-song on the way overseas; we
whiled away hours of the tedious train
trip from the Mediterranean singing to
the accompaniment of a mouth-organ.
And whaf of the Y.M. community sing-
ing that Fighting Mac led? We sang
more around glowing hut braziers than
in estaminets, where revelry often
brought the Jacks. A man was usually
too loaded up going into the line to
warble, but I have listened to choruses
deep down in an old Fritz dugout from
a raiding party awaiting zero hour. Still,
I can understand that anyone who could
see no real humor in Bairnsfather’s
sketches would not feel inclined to sing.
* * * *
“Kariah”: He is one of those indi-
viduals who wear several days’ growth
of stubble on the chin without ever
growing a beard or appearing clean-
shaven. However, his patched and
cracked boots are always clean and
shiny. A broken-down bootmaker?
Wrong! There’s no finer hand at sharp-
ening a razor in the country.
* * * *
“Parnasse” peers into his crystal:
The flight from the franc is going to produce
some of the juiciest murders on record it it
isn’t stopped soon. In past bank rushes de-
positors removed coins, which are both portable
and divisible, and they had houses to take
them to containing gardens and the like, in
Paris panicky capitalists are getting about with
bullion valued at thousands sterling per bar,
and the only places most of them have to
keep their unwieldy hoards in are flats and
hotels. . ~
If the gold bars were left in such burglarable
spots for long nothing could save them from
the desperadoes who must already be concen-
trating on Paris from all over Europe. But, ot
course, they won’t be. The aim of 99 per cent,
of hoarders will be to get their gold out ot
France before the embargo is imposed. Pre-
ferably to law-abiding England. Some sen-
sational coups should be brought off between
Paris and London if the crisis lasts long
enough. Nearly 100 tons of gold were on the
move during the week-end, and most of the
metal was drifting here and there with no mili-
tary or even police protection.
A century ago the situation would have
filled the roads with highwaymen, and there is
no reason to think that modern criminals are
less enterprising than their forebears.
THE BATTLE OF FLOWERS.
[After reading’ columns of “Wavatah v. Wattle”
correspondence in the “S. M. Herald.”]
Do you hear the clash of inky warfare, brother,
And the yells of disputants to fury fanned,
Some accusing of myopia all who fail to see
telopea
Is the fittest floral symbol for our land,
Others as intent to throttle those who fain
would rob the wattle
Of its golden pride of precedence and place
As the fair and fluffy glory of our continental
story
And the true armorial emblem of our race?
Are you solid for acacia ? Do you stand for
proteacea ?
Or do you share impartially with me
Thoughts such rivalry engenders of the Big- and
Little-Enders
And the feuds of Tweedledum and Tweedle-
dee?
England, history discloses, pegged an early
claim on roses
In the glowing days of tourney and romance,
While the lilies, white and scenty, nemine
contradicente,
Were annexed as the insignia of France.
Erin found a sprig of clover to be patriotic
over
And to stick in her escutcheon, so to speak;
Hardy Scots would always bristle at reflections
on the thistle;
Even Taffy took a ticket on the leek.
And their choices were selected and approved,
may be suspected,
With a fraction of the blither and the blah
That attend these resurrections of the relative
perfections
Of the wattle and the lordly waratah.
Are you constant to mimosa, of the clan legu-
minosa.
Or does your fickle fancy twist and turn
To the fuller cornucopia of symmetrical telopea
With the leaves that fascinate, the flowers
that burn?
Well, to stay the angry spouting and the
tumult and the shouting, ,
And the holts the partisans are in and at,
I suggest, as an addendum, we should have
a referendum
On the rival claims—and let it go at that.
’Twould be pity (who can doubt it?) bloodshed
should result about it,
And already passions seem at fever pitch.
Waratah or wattle, brother? Let us make it
one or t’other.
And I really cannot see it matters which!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Fi Fa”: Queensland’s quota has been
added to the collective howl over the
distribution of jubilee medals, but it is
largely a howl of mirth —-unmerited, 1
protest. Among those who got ’em
are the Governor’s butler, his chauffeur,
his gardener, his daughter, his wife and
himself ; the Principal Messenger in the
Premier’s office ; the editors of Brisbane’s
three dailies and their brother scribe who
wields the thunders of Thursday Island’s
sole organ of public opinion ; the chair-
man of the Canary Seed Board, his col-
league of the Egg Board and a repre-
sentative of the Northern Pig Board.
It certainly is a notably democratic selec-
tion, and affords a refreshing contrast
to the bureaucratic class-consciousness of
Canberra’s list,
“Waggon Wheels”: Some valedictory
speeches from the scaffold (B. 8/5/’35)
might have lasted longer if the sheriff
had not tuned them out. Eggers, the
West Coast (M.L.) highwayman who
shot three men in cold blood, after get-
ting away with the payroll of a mine, was
attempting a non-stop performance on
the drop in Lyttelton gaol when the
sheriff, with a quiet “I’m afraid I can’t
let you go on any longer, Eggers,”
signed him off. There was a grimmer
execution in that old gaol, now demol-
ished, though the condemned man fal-
tered out nothing more than a brief con-
fession of faith. After murdering a
farmer’s wife, he had taken poison and
jumped into a river. Nursed back to
something like health, though he had
lost the use of his legs, he was car-
ried to the scaffold, where an attempt
was made to bind his legs to crutches
so that he could remain upright
on the drop. But he whimpered,
and the sheriff nodded to the warders to
proceed with the alternative that had
been agreed on. Two warders facing
each other were lashed with ropes under
the armpits to the uprights on either
side of the trapdoor. They had a bare
heel-hold, and the ropes alone supported
them. Then each of them gripped one
side of the condemned man’s trousers,
and when the trapdoor fell open they
let go their hold simultaneously. The
thing I remember most vividly about that
scene was the beads of perspiration that
gathered on the bald forehead of the
stouter of the two warders.
“Sealed Pattern”: Descriptions of the
jubilee pageants, especially the military
uniforms, got some of our
cable interpreters in a rare
tangle. I liked one bit
about the Inniskilling Dra-
goons with their “primrose
facings” and their green
breeches. The facings of
the Inniskillings are orange,
to commemorate the glori-
ous, pious and immortal
memory, etc., etc. Where
the green breeches come
from I don’t know. They
used to be dark blue, with
the usual single broad stripe
peculiar to the originals of
our Mounted Infantry. An-
other gem was the descrip-
tion of the royal escort through the East
End as “composed of captains of the
Lifeguards”—the cable having referred
to a captain’s escort from the Tins as
opposed to a subaltern’s.
* * t- *
“Senex”: In rebuttal of my statement
that young professional men who “kept
NEW OFFICE BOY: “There 's a sheilah t’ see y', sir. If y'r busy , I’LL
attend to ’er.”
getting into the sporting news” (an en-
tirely different thing from having put
up “a good performance in sport”
before becoming professional men) were
not likely to succeed as doctors, bar-
risters, etc., “Senescent” (B. 29 /5/ ’35)
cites Balfour, Grey, Brampton and
the King. The only member of the
quartet who had to make his way in
a profession was Brampton, and he
hadn’t time to go racing as a junior. In
any case, people who attend occasional
race-meetings, go in for fly-fishing or
game-shooting, or play non-champion-
ship golf don’t “keep getting into the
sporting news.” I could have given
“Senescent” much better examples with-
out leaving Sydney. Ex-Premier Bavin,
K.C., is well known as a fly-fisherman ;
Ernest Lamb, K.C., is as keen on racing
as Henry Hawkins, K.C. (afterwards
Lord Brampton), ever was; Colin
Stephen was a first-class picnic race-
rider and is chairman of the A.J.C. But
none of them “kept getting into the
sporting news” after commencing prac-
tice. They don’t keep getting into the
sporting news now in the sense that a
champion or near-champion shamateur
does. Neither does the King.
“Tripod”; Yes, city accountants are
apt to strike trouble in auditing accounts
in western Queensland (B. 29/5/’35). A
Government auditor was checking the
books of a border police station. Dingo-
scalp bounties represented a consider-
able slice of the expenditure, but there
wasn’t a single receipt to cover it. When
the auditor requested to be shown the
scalps, the copper, with a shrug of the
shoulders, pointed to a heap of ashes
in the police yard.
* * * =:=
From “Aust.-Ang.”:
London “Truth,” in a recent issue, referred
to one of the Englishman’s burdens—“teaching
Dagoes to take baths.” On the day I read
the article a London cable arrived:
The London and North Eastern Railway
Company is celebrating the jubilee in its
own particular way. It has just announced
that, commencing on May 1, the price of
bedrooms at its hotels will include bath.
At my Oxford college, not many years ago,
there was no bathroom; at my English public
school there was one bathroom per house; 1
had my weekly bath on a Friday, and nothing
short of a doctor’s certificate could have got
me an extra bath. When Queen Victoria
ascended the throne an Englishwoman of
fashion had a bath once a year. Fox was
never known to have a bath, and at least one
eighteenth-century frequenter of White’s was
habitually verminous. All classes in England
were equally unwashed in the seventeenth and
sixteenth centuries, and Delisle Burns mentions
that during the Crusades “filthy English knights
learned with astonishment that baths were pos-
sible.” The cleanest people that ever existed
were the citizens of Imperial Rome; even
slaves bathed and changed once a day. The
“Come on —DO something. It's my ‘ at-home' to-morrow .”
Americans imposed their high standards of
cleanliness on Europe as tourists (practically
all Continental hotels on the tourist routes
have baths nowadays), but they hadn’t done
it to any extent in Britain up to 10 years ago,
when I last toured the kingdom. Now
Americans and other foreigners are crowding
to England, so hotels like those of the L. and
N.E. Railway Co. have begun to cater 191
the visitors in the matter of baths. How did
this legend of the bath-taking Briton arise?
“Malingerer”: Backstage stuff in hos-
pitals, is it (B. 15/5/’35)? 1 was in the
Proserpine Hospital (N.Q.) some few
months back. There was a little girl
in the critical stage of diphtheria; a
struggling cocky’s child. It was necessary
that she should have steamed sheets. The
boiler backstage was inefficient. A young
probationer was badly scalded, and
screamed with agony. A senior sister re-
proved her sharply —not for getting
scalded, but for making a noise. The
s.s. was scalded. Matron came in, and
in showing her juniors how to handle
that ramshackle boiler made the
third victim. While they were dress-
ing her arm, and while another nurse
was taking a risk with that con-
demned boiler, the matron calmly spoke
her piece: “It doesn’t matter if every
nurse in the hospital is scalded to-night
that steamer has to be kept going, and
those sheets must be kept up to that
child.” And they give 0.8.E5. and jubilee
medals to departmental typists!
“El V.”: Pictures of the jubilee service
in St. Paul’s illustrate the freedom which
etiquette allows to the great in dealing
with their hats. Some wear them and
some don’t. Some nurse them and some-
shove them under the seat. The King
put his on the floor.
* # *
“Shep”; One grew habituated to all
sorts of vaccination (B. 29/5/’35) in war-
time. I vividly recall our first typhoid
inoculation at Liverpool (N.S.W.). We
didn’t have time to brood over it, the
whole company being done together.
When we fell in to march back one man
in the front line flopped down on the
turf, and in as many seconds three others
had followed suit. Others might have
done the same if the Camp S.M. hadn't
waded in to tell us what a blanky sissy
mob we were, and that there was nothing
more in the vaccine than a dopey feeling
for an hour or so. Three issues of
typhoid and paratyphoid vaccines were
given to us before sailing, and this was
livened up each year in France with a
total of five other doses. They vacci-
nated us before we could leave here, and
scratched our arms before we came home
again. Medical sheets of our old pay-
books provided for cholera inoculations.
I still wonder why we missed these.
* * * *
“Ex-Sahib”: Mention of the repeal of
prohibition in conjunction with tennis in
the U.S.A. (B. 29/5/’35) awakened an
old memory. In my young days in India
I used to play tennis, and I always kept
handy a bottle of stuff for painting over
the strings of the racquet before laying
the racquet away. One morning I awak-
ened, stiff and sorry, after a guest-night
in the mess, and called loudly to my new
bearer to bring my medicine, meaning,
of course, the salts with which 1 usually
saluted the coming of a new day. After
some flurry and delay Abdul appeared
with a bottle on a brass salver. “What
have you got hold of now?” I asked him.
“This is the sahib’s medicine,” he an-
nounced, pointing confidently to a label
“Gut Reviver”!
* * *
“Jungor”: In the early days of West-
ralian goldfields settlement hotel licenses
were granted with extraordinary liber-
ality ; at the beginning of this century
there were close on a hundred taverns
within three miles of
the Kalgoodie post
office. Further back
the same large-minded
views prevailed; one
Mulgaland to w nship
was able to point with
pride to a pub at each
corner where its two
main (and practically
its only) streets inter-
sected. Naturally there
were all sorts of stories
of surreptitious
methods being used to
influence magistrates.
In the end one Licens-
ing Bench was ap-
pointed for the whole
State, with a free hand
to travel wherever it
was wanted and to decide not only
what new licenses should be granted but
what old ones should be extinguished.
And now an ex-member has been accused
of having used his position to further
his own interests as sleeping partner in
a pub!
AT GRETNA GREEN.
“The Assembly of the Church of Scotland has
called upon the Government to prohibit Gretna
Green marriages on the ground that they furnish a
continuous temptation to young people in neighbor-
ing parishes.’’
To Gretna Green, across the Scottish border,
No more impatient lovers fly in “shays.”
Now ’groom or bride, to put the thing in order,
Must live in Scotland one-and-twenty days.
But still the easy ceremony plays
Its part in matrimonial routine,
And godly ministers would fain erase
Old Gretna Green.
Still Dumfries lads and lasses face displeasure
By patronising such a handy spot
To wed in haste —and to repent at leisure
Conceivably, and peradventure not.
Just an acknowledgment the twain are what
They want to be and things are all serene.
A lawful mate, hey presto! each has got
At Gretna Green.
No banns, no ring, no frill, no fuss, no
feathers,
No telltale shoe behind a bridal car,
And yet they’re knit as firm, the nuptial tethers,
As by a parson or a registrar!
They’re one for weal or woe, for joy or jar,
When once they’ve designated what they mean
Or, rather, indicated what they are
At Gretna Green.
These stern-browed elders reckon it a scandal,
Something as irreligious in their view
As getting hitched by jumping o’er the handle
Fixed to a broom, as heathen gipsies do.
For swift extinction, it appears, it’s due,
The place where once a blacksmith ruled the
scene;
It fades and falls beneath the church taboo,
Old Gretna Green.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


FACTORY-FRESH
when you open the packing
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and kee ps-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”— 10 for 9 d * and 20 for 1/6
m
H1820M/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
POLITICAL POINTS
Had the U.A.P. run a good man for
Newcastle, he would have had a com-
manding lead at the end of the first
count, and might have won on Federal
Labor preferences. D. O. Watkins, the
Fed. Laborite, would have lost his de-
posit. As it is, Watkins will have a
majority of 3000 or 4000 over the Lang-
ster, J. E. Smith. A returned soldier and
a son of Newcastle’s pioneer and only
member, Watkins has nothing to thank
the faint-hearted Fed. Lab. chieftains at
Canberra for —they never said a word
for him. He owes his victory to U.A.P.
support and Lang opposition.
Dwyer-Gray had the gall to demand
nearly £lO a head from the Loan Coun-
cil: “£2,270,000, plus deficit,” though
he refused to say what the deficit would
be. Dunstan wanted £5,970,000, £3 6s. a
head ; and if the old free-for-all rules
prevailed on the loan rijarket he might get
it. The pro-Lang crowd at Hobart would
find it hard to borrow a tithe of
£2,270,000.
Anti-Labor papers still harp on the
need for “united action against the com-
mon enemy.” They got “united action”
in Queensland; and the unity party
in the State Assembly has been reduced
to 16 members, of whom only four are
Nats. Countrymen are saying that far
better results would be secured if the old
C.P. organisation were resuscitated, and
it probably will be. There is nothing
to prevent. the four Nats, starting a
U.A.P. (United Australia party).
Stevens’s indisposition to concede any-
thing to Dunstan is perhaps attributable
to a sort-of-a-kind of election promise that
his Government would construct the East-
ern Suburbs railway. One of the enthusi-
asts for that project declares that “the job
should be done as soon as possible, for
all opinions agree that it would pay.”
Cleary went into the subject when Chief
Commissioner of Railways, and estimated
the cost at £2,832,000, the annual loss at
£46,600. For good measure, he added
his estimates for the Western Suburbs
railway: Cost, £950,000 ; annual loss,
£190,700.
No tale is too fantastic for Lang to
spin to his diminishing audiences of mugs
and free-show patrons. He had the face
to tell the Newcastle people that Lyons
was accepting conditions which would
“commit Australia to participate in the
coming European war” and that the late
Watkins “gave his vote and encourage-
ment to his fellow-Labor members [i.e.,
Lungsters] from N. S. Wales,” W. M.
Hughes uprose in Melbourne, and Wat-
kins’s son in Newcastle, to give him the
lie, A further insinuation that Charlton
secretly sympathised with Lang Labor
brought that veteran out of his retire-
ment with an indignant denial.
Expectations, based on revenue and ex-
penditure returns for 10 months, that
“equilibrium,” as they call it, would be
reached at Brisbane this year were rudely
shattered when the Queensland party
gathered round the board at Canberra.
Though the difference at the end of April
was only £650, Forgan Smith anticipated
a deficit of £750,000 at the end of June,
and there will be one of £1,000,000 next
year after allowing for a Commonwealth
grant of £72,000. Balancing the Budget,
as State Treasurers go about it, is very
like the children’s game of “This year,
next year, sometime, never.”
Bewailing the loss of his N.1.R.A.,
pronounced unconstitootional by the
Supreme Court, the second Roosevelt
confesses that “the whole New Deal is
dead —unless the Constitution is liberal-
ised to meet present-day economic con-
ditions.”
The Supreme Court on one occasion
saw fit to recognise mining as an industry
in inter-State commerce when it sup-
ported injunction suits against miners.
It now rules differently when the question
of miners’ wages and working hours is
raised.
Australians can sympathise with the
President. They’ve had experiences very
like what he is going through now.
J. G. Latham has been made a
G.C.M.G., like Governor-General Isaacs.
It rather suggests that Latham will suc-
ceed Isaacs, and Australia will not object.
No position in Australia should be
beyond the reach of an Australian.
Unfortunately for the Swanland dele-
gates in London, it is not the silly season,
and newspapers which have to report
really important events 4 cannot spare
much space for secession stuff. But the
Labor “Herald” found room for one
Watson to rant that if the Imperial Par-
liament rejected the separatist petition
“force will be the only means left.”
I do not hesitate to inform my fellow-
Westralians that we will play a full part
in whatever course is decided upon.
A misprint, perhaps, for “fool” part.
Colebatch, who is 63, hurriedly an-
nounced that the apostle of force had “no
authority to make a public statement at
"Supporting Mr. Dunstan at the Loan Council meetings, Mr. Dwyer-Gray said that if
only £800,000 were made available for Tasmania it would ‘produce conditions akin to
revolution.’ He hotly criticised the Financial Agreement, the Loan Council, the Common-
wealth and the N. S. Wales Government, and talked secession.”
“ You'll have to stop him, Dunstan—you started him.”
tb ’ s stage.” No remarks have come from
MacCalliim Smith, aged 67, or Mat
Moss > who is rising 72.
Queer notions about the Common-
wealth Constitution are harbored in
London newspaper offices. One erudite
journal mentions that the Commonwealth
is “not authorised to send an armed
force to the territory of any State without
that State’s consent.” Actually, it main-
tains armed forces in all the States, and
can increase them and move them about
at will. It is bound by Section 119 to “pro-
tect every State against invasion, and, on
the application of the Executive Govern-
ment of the State, against domestic
violence”—which does not necessarily
mean that it is forbidden to suppress
domestic violence on its own account,
States are forbidden (Sec. 114) to “raise
or maintain any naval or military force.”
Plagued with duplicate taxes and
menaced by cranks, the filmmakers in
Hollywood are seriously talking of mov-
ing to Florida. Some of these concerns
might be~ induced to establish branch
studios in Australia, especially if Aus-
tralia could guarantee that they would
be subject to only one income tax in-
stead of a swarm.
Customs Minister White to
the Melbourne Constitutional Club:
Experience has shown that a moderate
course between Freetrade and Protection
is practical and successful.
And I thought him a Protectionist! A
moderately protective tariff is like a wife
who is moderately virtuous.
The Queensland election over, Deputy-
Premier Pease feels it safe to promise
that St. Patrick’s Day will be made a
public holiday again. This means that
four saints’ days will be restored to the
list, for even a Government with a
majority of 30 in a House of 62 members
will not dare to placate one section at
the price of infuriating three others in-
terested in saints’ days. The “Courier-
Mail” very aptly reminds it that “the
calendar is already overloaded with
public holidays”—ll p.a. in Brisbane,
and sometimes 12—and that “it was re-
turned to give more people work, not
to provide those in employment with
more leisure.”
Professor Shann is dead, but some of
his work will live, and his wise words
on national defence should not be for-
gotten. One of the last things he said
was that, “instead of spending scores of
millions of pounds on reconditioning
railways, we should concentrate on
aviation”:
I have a desperate feeling that our
leaders are stumbling along with their
minds benumbed by habit. Yet I cannot
think that Australians generally are un-
aware that the future defence and the
future direction and enlightenment of
this country will be done through the
air.
The people are not, but politicians are.
There has been another secession from
Sydney’s Civic Reform League, which
has a genius for fooling away its oppor-
tunities. Alderman Tressider, arguing
that it would be a fair thing to hand a
bit back to the municipal employees,
whose minimum wage has been reduced
235. to £3 14s. 6d. since 1931, was inter-
rupted by Alderman Walder with the gibe
that it was “easy to say that when you
don’t pay city rates,” “I do pay rates,”
Tressider retorted, “and I’ll take no in-
solence from you,” Mr, Walder is one
of the tingods of the U.A.P. The easy
victories over Lang Labor, for which
Lang himself was 90 p.c. responsible,
have given some of these worthies in-
flated opinions of their own importance.
The latest proposal to ease the traffic
congestion of Central Melbourne is to
make the tramway system dive under-
ground at Prince’s Bridge and emerge to
the surface on the north end of the city,
leaving Swanston-street free for other
vehicles. Such a device is used on a
large scale in Boston (U.S.A.), where the
streets are so crooked and narrow that
trams are impossible. London also
causes its north-bound trams to make
a subterranean journey from the Em-
bankment until well into Bloomsbury.
The only question is whether the relief
would suffice ; during the tramway strike
no trams were running in Swanston-
street, but the drivers of other vehicles
were still hampered for room.
The standing committee which periodi-
cally hurls slabs of “the economic case
for Tasmania” at the public quotes ex-
Premier Lee as saying that when Aus-
tralia voted for the financial agreement
it took a step towards “the unitary sys-
tem of government.” It had been sug-
gested, he added, that the people might
some day accept that system; “I hope
not.” The gentleman evidently prefers
chaos so long as it is called “Federal.”
Britain and South Africa have unitary
systems, and they are working pretty
well.
Queensland Labor thinks so highly of
James Blair, Lieut.-Gov. and C.J., that
it has relaxed its opposition to titles so
that he may get' a step in rank. Named
K.B. in Moore’s time, the C.J. has be-
come a K.C.M.G. on the recommenda-
tion of Forgan Smith. Now the springs
of hope are oozing again in other gen-
tlemen’s buzzums.
“The red blood of Collingwood”
should be infused into the forthcoming
library conference, according to Cr. Mar-
shall of that suburb. He chides modern
authors for basing their plots on “lip-
sticks,” and demands a return to the days
of adventure and conflict, when he-men
roared through the volumes. To-day
the only he-men found roaring are
those in the council of which Mr. Mar-
shall is a member. None of the wide,
open spaces around Centralia can stage
wilder scenes than that deliberative col-
lection of grave and reverend seigneurs
has furnished during the last twelve-
month.
Dr. Dale, Melbourne’s breezy Health
Officer, is annoyed with Dr. Harris,
Dunstan’s Minister of Education, for
having refused to make immunisation for
diphtheria compulsory among school
children, and observing that he would
never allow a little Harris to be
immunised. He suggests that to be con-
sistent the Minister should be against
immunisation of troops against small-
pox and typhoid, and oppose the use of
fire-engines and ambulances because they
might knock somebody down in the
street.
The people who issued jubilee medals
in N.S.W. were so lacking in courage
or gumption that they included Garden,
the Moscow pilgrim, and Grant, the
former I.W.W. man, among the re-
cipients. Garden repaid them by mak-
ing his medal a theme for witless
jests at a Newcastle election meeting.
“In common decency,” said ex-Senator
Gardiner, relating the incident, . “he
should treat the King’s gift with respect.
Garden preferred to take the oath of
allegiance rather than lose the Cook seat
and the salary,”
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


Freedom <=>p Twe - vts op course
ff 2
'w EH .
them the.re.'s hothimq To p/lv ;
f ' 1 Dorn rose Tt>c CLA,&K , ‘i-L JU^T
TH«\T F>L*vlKi RSC V£l_uOVM ONE
They seem to e>«= a. e.»t touchm <ve.ou-
qßEEMV*
// //• I e- , T
sure This- |f-\ncv eo&ruME ; STfc,N f *
r/ Of COURSE IT DOES Joe . SORRY I CaJmV lend you our spider
'' That rewinds me,
I MUST H*WE Av. SPoRRAH vx
f v'
But it is scotl^hd ; iswt it 2
DRESSING THE PART AGAIN.
“Feted and banqueted throughout England and Ireland, Mr. Lyons is now to receive the Freedom of the City of Edinburgh.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagb Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest,
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J, Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Body,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A, Jolly, Esq., O.M.Gf.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking' Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Drunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, Shepheard E. Laidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
all or write for Explanatory Booklet. IT. V. Douglass, Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd. j
Head Office; ■
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest :i
Australian Company ■;
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident ■I
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate ■ |
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex* ' I
plosion, Workers’ Compensation, I j
etc., etc. !
PERSONAL ITEMS
Alfred Parker, Lud Mayor of Sydney,
was a hundred to one on bet for a knight-
hood of some sort; he landed a K.B.
Small, dapper, cheery and tactful, he has
done everything well despite the hostility
of Civic Reform colleagues, and he
got on remarkably well with the Duke
of Gloucester, whom he welcomed offi-
cially. Head of the good old firm of
Dibbs, Parker and Parker, his tastes are
literary and artistic. He plays a lone
hand at the Town Hall, being the only
Civ.-Lab. in existence.
R. W. Hislop needed all the juvenile
energy with which lan Gall’s picture
credits him to win the Brisbane seaside
seat of Sandgate for Labor. At the pre-
R. W. HISLOP, M.L.A . for Sandgate
(Q.).
vious election Sandgate went to Sizer
(C.P.N.) with a fairly good majority, and
it had hitherto been regarded as a safe
non-Labor seat. Hislop won it with 815
to spare.
Major-General Bruche, one of the
new Victorian knights, was a bar-
rister who served for eight years as
a militiaman before becoming a regular.
He saw service in the S’African and
World War (C. 8., C.M.G.), and he has
been commandant of the R.M.C., now
at Victoria Barracks, Sydney, as well as
Chief of Staff. He was District Com-
mandant in Westralia at the outbreak of
hostilities in 1914.
Thomas Buckland, who has been
knighted at 86, is president of the Bank
of N.S.W., and probably the oldest
banker living. He was born in Kent, and
arrived in Sydney to work in the ware-
house of Daniel Cooper and Co. at the
age of 16. An assayer by profession, he
first joined the B, of N.S.W. as bullion
clerk. He retired just before the bank
smashes of the ’nineties, returned from
England to protect his savings, and he
has been here and in harness ever since.
Last year he gave £lOO,OOO and an
annuity for upkeep to a convalescent
home near Springwood in the Blue
Mountains.
Dr. Constance D’Arcy, of N. S. Wales,
who became the female equivalent of a
knight on Monday, is a buxom, genial
philanthropist equally at home speaking
in public or at the University (where she
is a Fellow of the Senate), organising
for the many hospitals she is connected
with, and working as a specialist in
obstetrics and gynaecology. She was
born in N. S. Wales and graduated in
medicine and surgery at Sydney Uni.
“Inner Temple”: Walter Citrine’s
knighthood is an example of England’s
priceless capacity for making up rows.
Nine years ago Citrine helped to organise
the transport strike which cost the nation
millions and might have led to civil war
if it hadn’t been swiftly jumped on. He
hates capitalism and most of the things
the Ramsay-Baldwins stand for. He gets
his award as general secretary of the
T.U.C. and director of the “Daily
Herald,” which employs Will Dyson.
The only objection voiced by most
citizens of N. S. Wales to the 0.8. E.
dealt out to Commissioner McKenzie,
of the Salvarmy, is that it wasn’t some-
thing more conspicuous. The Commis-
sioner was one of the first chaplains to
join up in T 4. He earned an M.C. and
the sobriquet of “Fighting Mac” in the
A.T.F., and he is now the tactful and
highly-efficient boss of the N. S. Wales
and Queensland sectors of the Army.
About some prominent soldiers:
In the transfers of Base Commandants
MeFarlane (who was assailed by the Sydney
tabloids for some perfectly correct remarks
about recruiting made at a soldiers’ function
last month) goes to his native State, S. Aus.,
as a brigadier, while Hardie, well known in
N. S. Wales, is for Sydney. Whitharn, of the
well-known Tas. military family, becomes Com-
mandant in Vic., leaving an Apple Isle
vacancy which Williams—G.S.O.3 in Sydney
when the war began—fills. When the 3rd Light
Horse Brigade, under Fred Hughes, of Mel-
bourne, landed in Egypt on the eve of the de-
parture of the Ist Anzac Corps for the /Egean,
Jack Antill was the brigade-major, MeFarlane
the staff-captain. They packed up for the
Peninsula in May, 1915. Whitharn saw service
in the Boer War, commanded C Company 12th
Battalion at the Landing, was wounded early
in the scrap, and subsequently commanded the
49th and 52nd Battalions in France. Williams
was Chauvel’s brigade-major in the Ist Light
Horse Brigade at the outset, and took over the
13th L.H. Regiment as 0.C., attached to Ist
Anzac Corps as “Corps troops.”
Harry James, now of London, learned
black-and-white art in Melbourne. A
Wesley Collegian, his novel, “Wherefore
Am I Romeo?” contains some excellent
pen-pictures of life in Central Australia,
which he invaded as a member of an
expedition to The Granites.
Robert Helpmann, formerly of Adel-
aide, is a pioneer of sorts; he is the first
Australian to dance his way into the
front rank of the ballet world. Inside
two years he has become one of the
leading men of the Vic.-Wells ballet, and
he has partnered Markova at Covent
Garden. At the moment he is appearing
in two productions at once, dancing at
Sadlers Wells with Markova and appear-
ing in the revue “Stop Press.”
A. Warrington Rogers, of Middle
Camberwell (Vic.), can claim that five
successive generations of his family have
practised law. His great-great-grand-
father practised as a solicitor in England
in the eighteenth century, and begat a
son who was legal adviser to the vestry
of St. Margaret’s, Westminster. The
grandfather of the Melbourne Warring-
ton Rogers left the English Bar to prac-
tise in Tasmania in the ’forties. He be-
came Solicitor-General and acting-C.J.
of the island, transferred to Vic., and
was there appointed a County Court
Judge.
A thwarted destiny;
Carried into the N.S.W. Parliament, like
Dick Sleath, on a wave of sympathy—the
pair had been imprisoned during the great
Broken Hill strike —W. J. Ferguson, dead in
Brisbane, was a Labor member for 10 years.
1894-1904. He fell out with Caucus, and
Parliament never saw him again, though he
tried many times to re-enter it —as Liberal,
Nationalist, and, in the last phase, as a
Country Nat. opposing Premier Forgan-Smith
in Mackay. For years Ferguson had a stand
in Sydney Domain, and he never lost his
gift of fluent speech. When he was still
thought a coming man, Laborites on the West-
ralian goldfields had an idea of running him
for Kalgoorlie at the first Commonwealth elec-
tion. They decided that they couldn’t win
it, and no invitation went across the continent,
nor did any Labor candidate stand. Not till
three years later, when young Charlie Frazer
contested it, very much against the wish of
old hands at the Trades Hall (“You can’t
beat Kirwan,” they told him), was it discovered
that Kalgoorlie was a gift for Labor, and that
Ferguson would have won it hands down.
Frazer was its member till he died, and got
into the Ministry. That strange misreading of
the situation made a tremendous difference to
poor old Ferguson.
Charles Connibere, of Mel-
bourne, who has just given £30,000
to Minister of Health Hughes’s
maternity and infant welfare move-
ment, does most of his good by
stealth. His name is never heard
in any of the organisations of Bab-
bittry ; he does not figure in poli-
tical movements; and the social
columns seldom reveal that he was
among those present. Yet during
the past few years he and his
brothers have paid out no less
than £150,000 to philanthropic
movements. His vast fortune was
accumulated mostly in a Flinders-
lane warehouse.
The cables have been referring to “a
London doctor” (Dr. V. G. Walsh) whose
successful treatment of pneumonia in
association with Dr. A. C. Frazer has
edified the profession. Walsh is an Aus-
tralian, a Maclean-born N. S. Wales
medico who did a good deal of success-
ful research at St. Mary’s Hospital Medi-
cal School before he and Frazer dis-
covered that emulsified olive oil injected
underneath the skin had the effect of
isolating bacterial toxins.
Noel Counihan’s construction of Vic-
torian ex-Attorney-General lan Mac-
farlan indicates the spirit of the man
who has been criticising the policy and
methods of his party, the U.A.P. One
of the institutions grafted on it that he
particularly resents is pre-selection, and
IAN MACEARLAN, of Victoria.
he has declared that in future he and
others of his way of thinking will stand
whether pre-selected or not. How far
Macfarlan is likely to go in politics de-
pends a good bit on himself: he has
warm enough friends among the Cockies
for them to have wanted him in the
Ministp'l and both sides of the House
recognise his ability.
A Syd Miller impression of A. Llewellyn
Brown, N. S. Wales manager of Dewar’s.
He joined the Perth (W.A.) branch of
the firm in the ’nineties, and while there
was secretary for a time of the C.T.A.
Then he became inspector of inter-State
agencies for Dewar’s, and in ’26 he took
charge of the Melbourne branch. Four
years later he was moved to a similar
post in Sydney, and when in ’3l some
A. LLEWELLYN BROWN, of N.S.W.
major whisky companies amalgamated
he became one of the directors of the
merger. Then the merger dissolved, and
he reverted to his present job.
Charlie Bryant, who painted the
jubilee procession from the balcony of
Australia House, is now president of the
London Sketch Club and a luminary of
the Chelsea Arts. Thirty years ago he
was a star member of Melbourne Savage
Club. Charlie originally aspired to be-
come a bank manager, but deserted a
clerkship in a counting-house to become
a vaudeville actor. Then he turned
painter. His pictures of the arrival of
the American Fleet in Sydney Harbor in
1925 and of the setting-out of the first
Australian troops (under convoy) from
Albany hang respectively in America’s
White House and our War Museum. He
is almost as enthusiastic about food as
Oscar Asche.
Arthur Lungley, dead in England at
87, came to S. Aus. from London as a
young engineer about 1871, and rose
high in the Water Supply office, inciden-
tally marrying into the family of Henry
Ayers, a Premier of the period, and
captaining the S.A. team which met W.
G. Grace. (The champion was caught
on the boundary, b. Lungley.) He then,
with George Fulton, started a foundry
which supplied much of the machinery
for Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie. He was
chairman of S.A. Gas Co. when he re-
tired to England in 1927. The widow
is a daughter of F. H. Mann, old-time
N.S.W. railway engineer.
“Mont”: Bill Lawler, of Loloma,
should prove a better immigration agent
than all the lecturers that Australia
could send. He is now in Melbourne
on his way to his native London to carry
out a vow he made when he left — i.e.,
to stay in the best suite the Savoy can
offer. Bill fought in the war when he
was 16, Then he emigrated to M.L.
and, unable to find a job, drifted to Fiji,
Where he ran a tractor, a movie show
and finally became a miner. He paid
the original owner of the Loloma show
£2O for the whole outfit, and was
astounded to find so much gold. Theo-
dore came along with an offer of £lO,OOO
cash and 30,000 shares. If Lawler’s
story doesn’t electrify London I don’t
know the place.


mi
m
■
■
1
.
mm
■
il I
mm
m
mm
< > : £-i-;l.
u
Hi
ili
Rd
M
. . ,r:
:w.-X; <■
■
a
m
i
n
n
* ! •
&3
£3
?:
m.
■■
i
»
ft
■ iss
.u
■H
m
•rr.
m
pp:
asse-
ss
■
■
<iiPr s
II I
v i ®
<**
i
——
MStai
aw <
■
mmm
SHI
■ ■
■Hi
v\v e
G°°
e
» \>e e<v
a - A \V
U e'' eV^
A - '«<
■ & V *V iet
A- •Aft®'’ , VO^A^' S °
» v e\ s ’ c o vft - s°
le6^V%VvV e
"' . V ,A »"
V°t,c» ve ”
cO^
D
Q
w .O


"You may be successful without
this Course but no man can be
successful without what is IN it."
WHAT does this mean? Simply this: There are 5,271 definite
practical business ideas, plans and methods in the Course and
Service. For example, there are;
169 Ideas on Company finance 182 Ideas on credits and collections
513 Ideas on accounting 174 Ideas on office administration
287 Ideas on factory management 647 Ideas on advertising and sales
!No man can be at the top of any business without the knowledge of all
these departments. There are two ways to secure that knowledge : First,
by practical experience ; second, by the experience, methods, ideas and
plans worked out by the most successful men in business. The second is
the method of the Alexander Hamilton Institute.
Send this advertisement with your name and address for a free copy
of “What A Business Man Must Know Today.”
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Executive Training in Business 21
A Division of Hemingway &_Rpbertson
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l. 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack St, Sydney.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE BTRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, M4COI.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS and copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Milestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formula; or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS' METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any ol the Company s
offices, vi 7.. : —
snipUinsr Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
c o S n.r„nnell Street Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
‘ ' lll Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
<OT DMTNFRS send vour gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
tiffle” Thf Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
X ;xchange? 3 wiU settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
Pref. Ord. to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1925.. 22,828 3425 5085 8,610 7 ...» „ q
Provident Fund. £1262 .. ( 4446 ° 9,966
1926.. 26,986 3425 7665 6,798 ) 71 - Rri , 7 r,r,-i
Provident Fund. £1513 .. ) <SBJ
JV.XI Shares
1927.. 28,186 8 p.c = 14,000 7874 1 i6n 52 222
Provident Fund, £1641 .. J
1928.. 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 1 . O , H fi7 17n
Provident Fund, £1791 .. f 4948 bl ’
1929.. 29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7179 J , QQ . r ,
Written off, £3645 f 3994 61,164
1930. . 6,019 Nil Nil ) kio 7 6 7 i
Provident Fund, £612 .. \ 5407 66,571
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil \ q o lo ftQ «on
Provident Fund, £5OB .. \ 3319 69,890
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 \ Q . Q
Provident Fund, £524 .. j
1933.. 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 ) 9057
Provident Fund, £612 .. | 2087 74 > 036
1934.. 20,739 5 p.c. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 „ „ 9,440 3578 77,397
About 18 months ago the business was
extended to Victoria, where the co.
bought the goodwill of Grant, Hedge
and Co., a Melbourne firm of stock and
station agents. It also bought 24 acres
at North Melbourne, put up a fine new
wool store, and began selling there about
the middle of 1934. In both States
(N.S.W. and Vic.) it received 118,526
bales (up 30,093), but put only 99,502
(up 5055) under the hammer, due to
withdrawals and extension of the selling
season. The carry-over was 20,715 bales
as against 1691 at the previous balance.
Also, for the 10 months to the end of
April, the Australian average was £8
per bale lighter at £l2 18s. 4d. The
numbers of sheep and cattle auctioned
were 702,596 (up 287,487) and 29,228
(up 17,939) respectively.
After paying all exes., including the
cost of establishing the Melbourne busi-
ness, and providing for contingencies,
the net result was £8853 lighter at
£11,886. Clients received a 20 p.c. re-
bate (£3578) on woolselling commission,
leaving £B3OB for shareholders, or 3.4
p.c. on capital as against 6.6, 3.9, 3.9,
4.4, 2.3 and 9.4 p.c. back to 1929. A
point was shipped off the div., reducing
it 4 p.c.; visibly reserves were tapped
for £1132 to pay it.
Balance-sheet movements reflect the
carry-over and the extension of activities
to Victoria:
1924.- 1930. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. £93,871 £232,314 £232,314 £243,825
Sundry creditors,
etc... .. 169,790 200,222 177,107 339,618
Freeholds, etc. 211,635 257,308 304,340 390,784
Stocks.. .. 2,170 1,340 6,362 11,470
Book debts . . 90,553 1
Cash and public r 271,885 223,555 306,044
securities . . 15,753 )
To add £86,444 to the book value of
fixed assets, and carry an extra £82,489
of book debts, etc., and £5llB more
stocks, the board went outside for a
further £162,511 and gathered £11,511 of
fresh capital. At the close of accounts
the debt exceeded more or less liquids by
£22,104, a swing of £74,904 over the
twelvemonth.
At 17s. 6d. the fully-paid pound shares
return 4.5 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 265. 4d. in net tangibles. Since
the close of accounts the demand for
wool has strengthened, and so has the
price. Prospects of a better showing at
next balance are thus encouraging.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £, £ £
1925.. 20,853 10 p.c. = 11,000 47,691 1047
1926.. 20,233 10 „ ~11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,706 10 „ ~ 11,000 66,630 1097
Transferred to capital, £15,000 51,630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929.. 20,341 10 „ „ 12,500 ( 223 n 56
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ) 65,228
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 ( 71 7( - fi 648
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ) ‘ ’
Transferred to capital, £12,500. .59,256 648
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 ( 61 890 74
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) ’
1932.. 10,044 p.c. = 8,938 1 gj ogg 1259
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 \ 61 g 65 1710
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ) ’
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 62 840 2511
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ) ’
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 Q 45
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO )
With the exception of the small chances
they take when investing their own funds,
these trustee cos. do not have to risk
much —if there is any doubt concerning
the interpretation of a will there is always
the Court to go to for instructions
and present-day complications associated
with the administration of estates are send-
ing more business into their expert care.
Still, corpus and other earnings were
affected by the shrinkage in values, in-
terest and rents and the growth of taxa-
tion, while moratorium legislation and
the lifeless state of the property market
delayed the winding-up of estates.
Hence the drop in this co.’s div. from
10 p.c, to 6 p.c. But, with the im-
provement in the security and property
markets and continued growth of the
business, earnings are on the up-grade
again.
The co., which has strong connections
in pastoral circles, set up in Melbourne
50 years ago, and is the only one of its
kind to have extended beyond its home
State—outposts have been established at
Sydney, Brisbane and Townsville. It
doesn’t broadcast the volume of trusts
on hand, but gross earnings and the
cost of handling the business have
moved in this way: —,
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Expenses. Earnings.
1915 . . . . £17,818 £9,728 56.1
1920 . . 37,029 24,609 66.4
1925 . . 80,658 59,805 74.1
1929 .. .. 95,036 74,695 78.6
1930 •• 104,567 83,534 79.8
1931 .. .. 98,904 80,895 81.7
1932 . . 89,833 77,789 86.5
1933 . . . . 83,880 73,261 87.3
1934 . . . . 83,433 71,708 85.8
1935 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
Last year’s income (up £8105) was the
best since 1931. Another pleasing feature
was the reduction of 245. per cent, in
exes. After setting aside £2OOO (the same
as in the previous year) for taxation,
the net result was £2330 better at 8.7 p.c.
on the £137,500 of paid capital as against
7.6, 6.5, 8.1 and 11.1 p.c. for the four
preceding years. The div. was kept at
6 p.c., which is worth over 8 p.c. to old
holders at par, owing to the capitalisa-
tion of £37,500 of reserves since 1920.
At the end of February the co.’s own
funds and £Bl of unclaimed divs. (there
was nothing coming to outsiders) were
invested in freehold, £133,035 ; Govern-
ment securities, £60,045; mortgages,
£l5OB ; book debts and cash, £15,763.
Since the close of accounts authorised
capital has been doubled, making it
£500,000 in 50s. shares. But it is not
intended at present to issue further capi-
tal, the board says. The issued shares are
paid to 275. 6d. ; all but 2s. 6d. of the
remaining 225. 6d. is a reserve liability,
callable only in the event of liquidation.
Buyers offer 525., at which figure the
return is 3.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
The investor who looks for a shade over
4 p.c. on his money counts on a one-for-
one new issue at par or a lift in the
div. to 8 p.c.
Toowoomba Permanent Building (Q.)
So far as the methods employed in
conduct of the business are concerned,
this purely mutual society,-which set up
in 1875, claims to be the only one of its
kind in Australia. It makes advances to
its borrowing members to enable them to
build, buy or improve their homes. The
loans are for a period of approximately
16 years, repayable at the rate of 3s. 9d.
per £lOO weekly. Funds are provided by
depositing members, who receive interest
at a rate decided upon by the board.
Last year the rate was 6 p.c.; the charge
to borrowers was 6£ p.c. The difference
(£1506), together with £2340 of sundry
income, was £3 more than the cost of
handling the business.
The low cost of administration, etc, —
last year it was approximately 10s. p.c. of
the total value of the assets, £753,933 —
the high return to depositors, the long-
term nature of the loan and the method
of repayment help to explain the growth
of the business since 1923, when the
bonus system was abandoned in favor
of the present plan, under which no
income tax is paid. Still, considering the
mutual nature of the society and the
character of the security, the money is
dear at 6i p.c. these days. Apart from
speculative investments, few people are
now able to get a clear 6 p.c. on their
capital. Appearances are that no harm
would be done if depositors accepted a
return more in keeping with the times.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the growth
of the business, which now has 4623
members (depositors and borrowers
combined) as against 2429 at the end of
February, 1926: —
Interest Other
Feb., Deposits. Advances. Income. Paid. Outgo.
1925 . . 312,320 323,860 23,022 19,620 3308
1926 . . 375,281 393,970 27,944 23,493 2749
1927 .. 445,083 460,638 34,057 27,805 3139
1928 . . 519,918 533,000 37,330 32,953 3240
1929 . . 594,806 610,114 43,212 38,101 4526
1930 . . 683,018 697,011 48,693 43,694 4171
1931 . . 721,911 716,148 53,547 48,314 4399
1932 . . 726,354 713,493 54,794 49,697 4093
1933 . . 720,491 712,846 46,870 42,487 3881
1934 . . 736,496 710,142 47,041 42,553 4003
1935 . . 725,542 718,308 47,447 43,600 3843
Last year deposits were reduced by
£10,954 and advances increased by £8166,
cash and investments being drawn upon
for £17,076 for the purpose, reducing
them to £28,086 when the books closed:
1924. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Deposits .. £257,012 £726,354 £736,496 £725,542
Other liabilities 9,449 96 135 255
Suspense account 9,040 4,115 5.612 10,680
Reserves . . 10,321 16,778 17,710 17,343
Advances . . 278,1.63 713,493 710,142 718,308
Premises and
fittings . . 2,309 2,079 4,889 7,538
Investments, etc. 7,090 32,771 45,162 28,086
The board has called a temporary halt
in the acceptance of deposits. This
enabled advances to reach 99 p.c. of the
deposits when the books closed as
against 96.4 p.c. a year earlier. To
represent the remaining £18,169 of de-
posits, other liabilities and suspense ac-
counts, there were investments (mainly
Government securities) and cash, total-
ling £28,086, and premises, in at £7538.
The reserve fund was equal to approxi-
mately sixpence in the pound of
advances.
What the margin of security for ad-
vances is the “Wild Cat’’ doesn’t know,
but the fact that neither foreclosures nor
arrears of instalments figure in the pub-
lished accounts suggests that the risks
have been carefully selected.
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends.
, -A N Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit.* (8 p.c.) Ord. serves, serves.
1927.. 4,647 1894 Nil 2,753 27,283
1928.. 12,177 1981 Nil 10,196 37,479
1929.. 7,344 2400 5 p.c. = 6150 36,278
1930.. 4,605 2400 Nil 2,205 38,478
Loss. (4 p.c.l
1931.. 2,116 1200 Nil 35,162
Written offl intangibles, £1448 .. 33,714
1932.. 179 Nil Nil 33,535
1933.. 2,425 Nil Nil 31,110
(6.2 p.c.)
1934.. 2,422 IB6o' Nil 562 31,672
* Including unexplained additions to reserves.
This co. and its subsidiaries in Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth
turn out a number of trade journals,
chief of which is the “Daily Commercial
News and Shipping List,” The public,
which became interested in 1926, put up
£30,000 in 8 p.c. cum. prefs., making
paid capital £153,000. Apart from pref.
money in the Melbourne and Adelaide
cos., all the capital in the pups is owned
by the parent, in whose books share-
holdings figure at £140,638.
After paying its own pref. divs., the
parent’s net earnings for the four years
to the end of 1930 averaged 4 p.c. on
ord. capital, and a lone 5 p.c. was dis-
tributed. Then slump dried up earnings,
and pref. divs., too. In 1933 there
were changes in the control, and, follow-
ing an overhaul of the organisation,
things began to look up.
Last year the parent’s own printing
and publishing business showed a profit
of £BB5 as against a loss (due to bad
debts) of £2608 in 1933. The amount
received in divs. was £lBl7 (up £1075),
or 1.2 p.c. on the book value of share-
holdings. Exes. (£3892) were £3099
lighter, thanks to a smaller provision for
bad debts. Taking an unexplained re-
duction of £2BO in reserves into the
reckoning, enough remained to pay a
full year’s pref. div. (6.2 p.c., after
allowing for the statutory cut), and put
£562 in the cupboard.
At 14s. 3d. the fully-paid pound prefs.
return 8.6 p.c. on a 6.2 p.c. div. basis.
Immediate prospects of their remaining
in the picture are encouraging. When the
books closed there was still approxi-
mately 3s. 2d. per share (£4785) to come
in accrued divs. Including an unspeci-
fied amount of intangibles in the subsidi-
aries, the book value of the cover is
£6 2s. lOd. per share.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1927. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £146,725 £153,000 £153,000 £153,000
Mortgages .. 12,500 12,500 12,500 12,500
Sundry creditors 20,702 13,425 12,724 8,495
Freeholds . . 23.346 23,346 23,346 23,346
Plant, etc . . 32,777 32,187 33-,222 33,416
Shares . . 123,085 130,264 137,849 140,638
S'toeks, etc... 11,663 5,866 1,015 418
Debtors . . 16,775 25,655 13,072 10,495
Cash .. • ■ 37 86 164 14
Including stocks, etc., more or less
liquids exceeded the floating debt by
£2432, up £905 over the twelvemonth.
Much depends upon the condition of the
plant. Nothing was allowed for depreci-
ation of premises.
Haymarket Land and Building Co.
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£,£>£> £ &
1924.. 6,217 6 p.c. = 6000 217 22,605
1925.. 6,238 6 „ „ 6000 238 22,843
Profit on sale, £4759 . . . . 27,603
1926.. 5,614 6 p.c. = 6000 27,216
19.27.. 6,702 „ ~ 23,500 10,418
Pref. Ord.
B*l p.c. 6 p.c.
1928.. 7,434 931 6000 503 10,921
1929.. 8,926 2125 6000 801 11,722
Loss on investments, £lOOO .. 10,722
1930.. 3 1593* Nil 8,132
Loss.
1931.. 5,286 Nil Nil 3,846
Deficit.
Realisation suspense account, £43,348 . . 39,502
1932.. 5,498 Nil Nil 45,000
From assets suspense account, £3645 . . 41,355
1933.. 4,134 Nil Nil 45,489
Rebate of land tax, £2179 .. .. 43,310
Prom assets suspense account, £2319 . . 40,991
1934.. 4,103 Nil Nil 45,094
-Nine months.
Paid capital is £125,000 in 25,000 81 p.c.
cum. prefs. (reduced to 6.5 p.c. under the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act) and
100,000 ords. The ords., or all but a
handful of them, are held by Arthur
Rickard Extended, now in liquidation.
The public put up the pref. money
toward the end of 1928. Then came
slump and the class legislation of the
Lang Government, which struck speci-
ally at property owners, and the pref.
div. had fallen £7477 (approximately 6s.
per share) into arrears when the books
last closed.
It is difficult to say exactly what the
future holds for the business. Despite
improved conditions in the real-estate
market, the co. was unable to make any
sales last year, there being no demand
for vacant land in the area in which
its holdings are situated. The trading
loss was £4103. This and £395 besides
was rubbed out by a land-tax rebate
of £2179, and by transfer of £2319 from
the Realisation of Assets Suspense


BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.T.H.: (1) The values are exceptionally
good, but the area (140 acres) has yet to be
thoroughly tested. (2) Too early, yet to say
whether it is dredging or sluicing ground,
and what costs will be. (3) Is. 6d. application
and allotment, and the balance in seven
monthly calls of 6d. each. (4) No. (5)
A reasonable spec J.M.: Coastal Farmers’
Co-op. and the Berrima Cos. amalgamated
in 1925 to form the Producers’ Co-op. Dis-
tributing Society. Get in touch with the secre-
tary, Valentine and Quay streets, Sydney....
M.E.M.: Yes in both cases J.T.J.: (1) The
banket formation includes certain restricted
thicknesses of gold-bearing material of com-
mercial grade, which are parallel one to an-
other and arranged in sympathy with the gen-
eral structure of the banket beds. These pay-
able thicknesses are known locally as “reefs.”
(2) The so-called “reefs” constitute the ore-
bodies mined on 'the Rand. Large tonnages
are obtainable by reason of the fact that the
“reefs,” as well a$ the banket beds, occupy
an extensive area.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt. •
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.e. Tin and upwards. Write
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
wmsm
*** i
m
gap**#*
i
m
Wy^MM
i
MAs/sfiM*- i
a->Tjrrfv. a. n.i'V.fe'- i
*S*S-***■■.**««.
I
■
Fisherman's Luck .
When bites are few and far between there’s solace in a spot of
Schweppes. Fresh and bubbling as the stream, buoyant as the float,
smooth yet lively like the fish themselves thats Schweppes*
chwcppcs
DRY GINGER ALE I - A
Account (now £37,383), thus reducing
the p. and 1. debit to £45,094.
At the end of 1933 the board ear-
marked £43,348 to cover estimated losses
on some of the assets. But no provision
was made for possible losses on claims
now aggregating £48,791 against other
members of the group which are
in liquidation. Too much notice, there-
fore, need not be taken of book value.
The position as the published figures
show it is as follows:
1930, 1932 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £125,000 £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities .. 38,096 33,418 32,018 31,302
Premises .. 21,477 20,733 20,338 19,928
Unsold land.. 48,038 52,517 51,721 52,467
Shares other cos. 75 75 75 75
Mortgages, etc. 42,811 25,631 21,150 16,641
Debentures .. 35,511
Sundry debtors 377 149 76 97
Cash, etc. .. 2,664 829 1,164 1,237
Liquidation
claims .. 24,273 59,627 59,627 59,754
Liabilities consist of mortgages (£25,499),
deposits (£3640) and sundry creditors
(£2163). Excluding £1607 reserved for
taxation, the net book value of the
undertaking at the. end of 1934 was
£79,906, or £3 3s. lid. per pref. share.
Much depends upon what the liquidation
claims prove to be worth, and upon when
the co. will find buyers for some or all
of its unsold land.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929*.. 10,898 20 p.c, = 4,000 6,898 2,226
1930 .. 31,568 40 „ „ 8,000 23,568 25,794
Bonus scrip issued, £20,000 .. 5,794
1931 .. 24,877 40 p.c. = 20,000 4,877 10,671
Unexplained reduction reserves, £2375.. 8,296
1932 .. 28,725 22J p.c. = 16,875 11,850 20,146
1933 .. 13,053 20 „ „ 15,000 18,199
1934 . . 30,202 20 „ „ 15,000 15,202 33,401
1935 . . 20,818 20 „ „ 15,000 5,818 39,219
*l5 months.
Formed at the end of 1927 as an off-
shoot of Guinea Gold, this co.’s ’planes
provide quick transport from the coast
to the goldfields in New Guinea. In a
little over seven years it has paid divs.
averaging a shade over 26 p.c., sweetened
with £20,000 of bonus scrip in 1930. Its
success has been due chiefly to difficulties
in the way of road construction and to
mining developments in the Morobe dis-
trict, where Bulolo Gold Dredging, New
Guinea Goldfields and others operate.
Here is the co.’s progress viewed from
another angle:
Tonnage Average Passengers Gross
Feb., Transported. Freight. Carried. Earnings.
1929.. 434 10.61 d. 869 £44,006
1930.. 949 8.28 d. 2047 72,766
1931.. 1146 6.50 d. 1995 67,922
1932.. 3947 5.91 d. 1607 95,619
1933.. 3980 4.Sid. 3856 77,695
1934.. 6044 4.12 d. 7398 111,203
1935.. 5688 9721 114,465
Last year increased activity on other
parts of the field largely offset the loss
of tonnage caused by completion of
Bulolo’s No. 4 dredge. An extra 2323
passengers were carried. Gross earnings
sprang £3462. Including “adequate” pro-
vision for depreciation, insurance, etc.,
exes, were £12,646 heavier, leaving the
net result at 27.7 p.c. on the £75,000
of paid capital as against 40.2 p.c. and
17.4 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The div. was kept at 20 p.c.
Finances are robust. When the books
closed the amount coming to outsiders
(£14,437) was more than three times
covered by cash (£13,409) and invest-
ments (£41,509). Debtors, etc., figured
at £23,705, and fixed assets at £50,003 —
a year ago replacement value of the
’planes alone was put at £150,000.
The fleet of aircraft is reported in first-
class condition, and three new units have
been ordered to cope with cargo offer-
ing under contract. The market has
lengthened its bid for the pound shares
from 455. 6d. to 50s. over the last 12
months. At the higher figure the return
is 8 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 30s. sd. in net tangibles. The
co.’s future is governed by the life of
the mines.
The New Loan
Particulars of the last five loans raised
in Australia, together with those of the
£12,500,000 issue to be put on the
market next Tuesday, compare as fol-
lows :
In-
Term, Issue terest, Returns,*
Date. Amount. Years. Price. p.c. p.c.
7/11/’32 £8,000,000 10 par 38 £3/15/-
22/5/’33 8,461,000 9 par 3| 3/15/-
16/11/’33 10,316,000 10 £99/-/- 81 3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 98/10/- 32 3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 99/15/- 3 3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,500,000 14 99/10/- 38 3/8/5
* Including redemption.
There was thus a steady fall in interest
rates until the end of last year. The
issue in June, 1934, was largely over-
subscribed in a day. The one in Novem-
ber occupied over a week in getting;
the Loan Council asked for too much
and offered too little, the market thought.
During the last six months there has
been a definite hardening of interest
rates, due, among other things, to a better
demand for money for business pur-
poses, to the repatriation of foreigh-
owned money held temporarily in Aus-
tralia in the hope (no longer entertained)
of a fall in the exchange rate, and to the
large amount of money taken out of Aus-
tralia by tourists visiting England for the
King’s jubilee.
The terms of the coming issue, which has
been underwritten by the Commonwealth
Bank, approximate market conditions,
and there is still plenty of money avail-
able. The cash is to be used £1,000,000
for financing deficits, £1,740,000 for fund-
ing Treasury bills, £2,310,000 for loan
services for 1934-35, and the other
£7,450,000 towards next year’s loan
works. Of the £7,450,000, the Federal
Government will take £250,000 ; N. S.
Wales, £3,800,000 ; Victoria, £1,100,000 ;
Queensland, £400,000; South Aus.,
£1,000,000; Westralia, £900,000. The
allocation was made on the cash position
of the various Governments ; hence the
exclusion of Tasmania, which has enough
in the till to carry on for some months.
Princess Marina, formed in Sydney in
November, 1933, to open up an auri-
ferous deposit near Gundagai (N.S.W.), is
offering 48,000 new ss. shares at par.
The money is wanted for erection of a
“suitable” 150-ton-a-week plant and to
make provision for a permanent water
supply, etc. When the issue is fully sub-
scribed and paid, capital will be £42,978
in ss. shares, of which 123,912 are
already issued and fully paid. The lode
has been traced for 1100 ft. on the sur-
face. There are no well-defined walls.
Payable values vary in width from 6ft.
to 20ft. and more. The richest stone is
at the northern end of the property,
where two shafts are down 75ft., in
values averaging sft. in width. There is
practically no oxidised ore. H. Hook,
ex-Govemment inspector of mines in N.
S. Wales, says that “when sufficiently
equipped the mine can easily be made
highly profitable,” He puts average
values at 12dwt., and doesn’t expect any
treatment difficulties. The deposit is a
belt of silicified metamorphosed slate,
containing irregular makes of quartz, cal-
cile, etc., much of which is brecciated. A
lot depends upon the depth to which
values live, whether the right kind of
plant is installed, and upon costs.
$ * * *
On Edie Creek’s New Guinea property
the lode, which consists mostly of man-
ganese and quartz, with considerable
quantities of iron, averages sdwt., or a
little more, over a length of 300 ft. and
an average width of 13ft. It is a sec-
tional formation, consisting of about 2ft.
of barren quartz, then 2ft. of quartz and
ferruginous material with much man-
ganese, followed by 2ft. of quartz, 3ft.
of soft manganese with limonite and
good values, 3ft. of quartz and ferru-
ginous material, and then hard silicious
lode matter and rock to the hanging wall.
By careful selection of lode material the
co., which has a direct cyaniding plant,
should be able to squeeze a little profit
out of the stone. Several other lodes of
similar grade are to be found in the
mine, their width being about 3ft.
* * * *
Victorian Gold Alluvials and Mines
Development, Ltd., has been registered in
Melbourne with a nominal capital of a
million in ss. shares. It is a prospecting
and finance co., formed by the De Ber-
nales group in London, and will function
on lines similar to Commonwealth Min-
ing and Finance in Westralia. Headquar-
ters of the new co. is in Perth ; its agent
in Vic. is Gordon Lyon, 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne. The Langi Logan is
expected to be one of the first properties
investigated.
* * * *
On behalf of Anglo-Oriental Mining
Corp., London, A. H. Miles has taken
a 12 months’ option over the Moonambel
Syndicate’s leases at Avoca (Vic.). The
purchase price is £30,000 cash plus 20
p.c. in fully-paids of the issued capital
in any co. formed to work the property.
The co. also holds options over the Lamp-
lough, Barkly Leads and Frenchman’s
ground in the same locality.
* * * *
Mining geologist C. G, Gibson, who
recently overhauled the Norseman
(W.A.), estimates the quantity of payable
ore reasonably to be expected at 71,000
short tons, with a gross value of lldwt.
or thereabouts. On the basis of 3000
tons a month, this is equal to approxi-
mately two years’ feed for the plant.
Meanwhile, prospecting is expected to
disclose further tonnages of profitable
stone. The ore-body is a quartz reef in
a well-defined shear plane. This reef
occasionally splits, runs some distance
as small veins, and then comes together
again. On No. 4 level the pay-shoot is
about 600 ft. long; its vertical extent is
not proved, but it appears to be shorter
vertically than horizontally. The south-
ern extension of the level is expected to
open up more pay-ore. Since Mr. Gib-
son made his report, the drive on No. 3
level has disclosed a new make of stone
(assaying 26dwt. over 138 ft.), separated
from the main shoot by 130 ft. of low-
grade material. This is thought to be
the upward and southern continuation
of the rich stuff recently exposed in a
crosscut on No. 4 level.
t- * * *
Boulder Perseverance’s annual meet-
ing this month will discuss and, it is be-
lieved, agree to the board’s recommenda-
tion to increase capital from £125,000 to
£150,000 by creation of 500,000 new Is.
shares, making 3,000,000 shares in all. In
addition to its share capital, the co. has
10 p.c, profit-sharing notes amounting to
£36,055, which mature at June 30, 1941,
or are redeemable at the co.’s option
after June 30, 1936. The redemption
fund stands at about £25,000, and it is
considered that the notes will be
paid off at the earliest possible moment.
The co., together with North Kalgurli,
controls Kalgurli Ore Treatment, Ltd.,
which handles the stone from both mines,
and which proposes to instal plant to
combine crushing, concentration, cyani-
dation and flotation. North Kalgurli,
which is increasing its output, has an-
nounced its intention of creating 200,000
new 2s. shares, of which half will be
offered at 10s. each in sterling. The other
half will remain in pickle. Next month
Perseverance will pay 3d. and North
Kalgurli 9d. a share in sterling.
* * * *
Commonwealth Prospecting, a small
pup of Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, has landed an autogyro of the
latest design in Westralia. Because of its
ability to hover over auriferous areas at
a low altitude and a slow pace, the
machine will enable its occupants to take
a longer look at the ground than would
be possible from an ordinary ’plane.
Also, it can land easily and take oft
in a small space. After an observer sights
a likely outcrop, the machine will go
back to camp, and lorries with supplies
of water and prospectors will be hurried
to the spot.
* * * *
Mt. Ida and Mt. Bowie, two of the
younger and smaller Westralian gold-
mining cos., held meetings in Perth re-
cently, the former to increase its capital
from £5OOO to £25,000 by the issue of
40,000 additional 10s. shares, and the
latter to acquire a wad of these shares.
Mt. Ida shareholders were told that as
soon as sufficient ore was opened up a
treatment plant would be installed, and
the news was broken to Mt. Bowie scrip-
holders that the show the co. had under
option had been abandoned.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas is very hope-
ful of making money out of the old
White Hope (W.A.). In the past, a local
syndicate crushed 30,000 tons for an aver-
age of lldwt., With 14s. left in the
tailings. Approximately 11s. of this is
expected to be recovered by cyanidation.
There are practically no ore reserves
measured up, but development is tipped
to expose some. It will be some time
before the co. reaches the ore-tratment
stage.
Lady Shenton (W.A.) has surprised
shareholders by making a 6d. call, the
first, earlier than was expected. The
money is wanted to help pay for the
new treatment plant, which is expected
to be ready next month. Glowing de-
velopmental reports continue to come
from the co.’s office.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp. will put £155,901
into shareholders’ pockets on June 7 per
medium of a 2s, interim dividend. At
1320 ft. below the surface, the deepest
point yet reached in the mine, 20ft. of
325. 2d. ore has been exposed in a cross-
cut.
,* * *
Maloney and Magill have located a
large low-grade ore-body on their claim,
two miles south of Burbanks (W.A.).
The deepest working is 20ft. A trial
crushing of tons averaged s|dwt.
*-* * *
General Mining Corp., which has
examined several shows in Westralia
during the last few months, has aban-
doned its option over the Sydney Mint
lease, at Kunanalling, north of Cool-
gardie.
* * * *
Rosterraan Gold Mines, Ltd., a recent
Kenya Colony-London float, sponsored
by Sons of Gwalia and Zinc Corpora-
tion, got 581 oz. out of its first clean-up
from a two-stamp mill, which crushed
357 tons. Good reports have recently
reached Australia concerning the pros-
pects of this venture.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Iron Duke”
While it is perhaps unfair to expect
historical films, whose main object is to
entertain, to keep strictly to facts, it is
reasonable to ask that where a famous
figure is portrayed, his impersonator
shall bear some resemblance to the orig-
inal, and shall interpret the part in
accordance with his known charac-
teristics.
The aim of Mr. Arliss seems to be to
prove that not only does history repeat
itself, but also that most of the great
personages of the past have been iden-
tical in appearance, speech, mannerisms
and sentiment, and that they have their
twentieth-century incarnation in Mr.
Arliss.
The new Embassy film is a particularly
unhappy example, and it was a grave tac-
tical error to allow the picture to follow
so closely upon the Rothschild film in
which C. Aubrey Smith at least looked
like Wellington. The sentimentalism of
the scene in the officers’ messroom after
Waterloo, where the general breaks
down on receiving the first casualty list,
is ghastly. Wellington said that most of
his men at Waterloo were the scum of
England, and he was at all times as
racily cynical as Charles 11.
However, Arliss “fans” expect this
sort of thing. Saturday night’s audience
seemed to enjoy his first British film
quite as much as any of his Hollywood
productions.
“Ruggles of Red Gap”
Watching this film at Sydney Prince
Edward the writer remembered that
Jingle was one of Irving’s best parts. A
great actor can make any character live,
and Laughton does it here to an extent
as a 1908 valet who is won at poker
from his English master by a Wild West
millionaire. Suave, deferential, precise
of touch, one who flows rather than
W'alks, and whose behavior while in
civilised Europe is governed by the in-
hibitions of the servants’ halls in which
he and his forebears were brought up,
Laughton’s Marmaduke Ruggles is a per-
fect period piece—in spots.
Unfortunately, his self-effacing ways
might have made him appear colorless,
pending his transformation into an
American he-man, so some rather trying
and wholly unconvincing drunk scenes
have been introduced. Very trying, too,
is the sequence in which, his manhood
having attained its full stature, he acts
as chucker-out in the restaurant he has
opened in Red Gap, and then stands,
his eyes misty with unshed tears, while
the patrons sing “For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow.” He gets his biggest laughs
when he reclines on the floor and beams
aicoholically up at Maiy Boland, the
scandalised wife of his employer, and
when he kicks his insufferably snobbish
enemy. In short, the director has sac-
rificed this fine actor’s art on the twin
altars of sentimentalism and slapstick.
Can it be that Laughton, like the late
T. E. Lawrence, had an overdraft?
The others are delightful—particularly
Roland Young as Laughton’s first em-
ployer, and Charles Ruggles as a rip-
roaring little Westerner. The clothes,
furnishings, decorations, Paris fiacres,
etc., are unerringly Edwardian.
“Car 99”
Publicity stuff on behalf of the Michi-
gan (U.S.A.) police force. The cops in
their Sam Browne belts and other mili-
tary trappings look like the officers of a
shock battalion. A good deal of the
action takes place at G.H.Q., where
heavily-armed and ruthless criminals are
identified on the map as they speed about
the State emitting smoke clouds from
cars which are fitted with many devices
to defeat the ends of justice. Sir Guy
Standing is sinister as a courtly old
gangster. Fred Mac Murray is the hero
who, after being dismissed the service,
gets his rank back for gallantry in face
of the enemy. Ann Sheridan is the beau-
tiful girl who loves and wins him.
“The King of Paris”
Weak as it is in story and develop-
ment, “The King of Paris,” at Melb.
Athenaeum, presents a magnificent piece
of characterisation, which has happily
been entrusted to Cedric Hardwicke, The
king is an author-actor, selfish, inconsid-
erate and unscrupulous, but with the sav-
ing grace that his demerits are due, not
merely to vanity, but to a sincere devo-
tion to the art of the drama. The, charac-
ter is a contrast with that presented by
John Barrymore in “Dinner at Eight,” a
“THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP” AT SYDNEY LYCEUM.
Ben Webster as Grandfather, Hay Petrie as Quilp, Elaine Benson as Nell; (inset)
Gibb McLaughlin as Sampson Brass.
man in whom vanity was all in all. When
the king learns that his wife has
eloped, his anguish is for the play which
will fail without her acting. When he
later tricks a budding tragedian into a
marriage, he is animated solely by pro-
fessional achievement. His wedding
night is spent working out a scheme for
a new production, and the bride natur-
ally flies to the arms of the stage elec-
trician, who has always loved her.
“Brewster’s Millions”
Turned from the straight comedy it
was on the stage into a comedy plus
revue, “Brewster’s Millions,” which com-
pletes the Athenaeum bill, is good enter-
tainment with a sufficiency of shapely
young women and a series of wild es-
capades interpolated in the actual story.
Jack Buchanan as Brewster loses none of
the finer or cruder points of the humor,
and Lili Daraita is a delight as the girl.
“Father Brown, Detective”
Chesterton’s Father Brown was a mild,
plump little Englishman. Walter; Con-
nolly, of course, makes him an Irish-
man, more roguish than mild. The only
familiar trace that leaks into the talkie
is the trail of broken windows, splashed
walls and upset applecarts that Father
Brown laid when he went walking with
the great Parisian thief Flambeau. Paul
Lukas is the Frenchman, and a romance
that has been pulled in by the ears to make
the affair palatable hogs most of the cel-
luloid. Father Brown does no detecting,
but displays much adroitness in prevent-
ing theft. Chesterton’s stories of the
little priest’s exploits have about as much
relation to real life as a picture by Pis-
saro, but they are intended to be deco-
ratively fantastic. To attempt to trans-
late such fantasy in terms of screen
melodrama is to invite pathetic failure.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Gigolette”
Backstage technique applied to speak-
easies and night clubs. Adrienne Ames,
a society girl reduced to poverty, be-
comes a “hostess” first at a honky tonk,
then at a cabaret resort, both run by
Ralph Bellamy. A wealthy young man
£S"S C °°l ) > t lls !" T,™?
and, after sufficient misunderstanding to
fill up the usual 90 minutes, marries her.
That’s all there is in it. At Sydney
Capitol.
.. c . „
ne M° re Spring
A syrupy version of the novel at Syd-
ney Plaza. Warner Baxter is the antique
dealer who, forced out of business by
the depression, moves into a toolshed in
a New York park with a Napoleonic
bed as his onl y asset - Walter King is
the . itinerant vio i inist who joins Ba ° ter
anc j j ane t Gaynor is the unemployed
actress. They are joined by Grant
Mitchell, a fugitive banker. The four eke
out an existence by pilfering and with
the aid of an Irish park-keeper, played
superbly by Roger Imhof. So the winter
passes and the four emerge with Warner
and Janet looking remarkably glamorous
after their grim experiences.
“George White’s 1935 Scandals”
Also at the Plaza. Vaudeville-revue in
film form. The songs lack distinction,
but the dancing is.clever. Ned Sparks,
Janies Dunn, Cliff Edwards, Alice Faye
and Arline Judge work hard.
“Dandy Dick”
This British film of Pinero’s farce is
mostly a Will Hay caricature of a
country vicar. The writer liked best the
fire sequence in the stables. Hay, twit-
tering and futilely stamping on the blaze
in the straw, epitomised any incompetent
faced by a crisis. At Sydney State.
Some First Nights
There is no pabulum for the Freudists
in “Queer Cargo,” Noel A. Langley’s
play at Sydney Cri. The author, who is
an Australian, apparently learnt play-
writing in an old-fashioned school —but
he learnt it. He crowds the saloon of
the China Seas tramp steamer Hypatia
with an assortment of characters that
bring back memories of the days of
Bland Holt. There are the bluff skipper,
the cowardly waster, the bleating,
asinine parson, the comic old-maid, the
fair and calm heroine, the old scamp and
the dashing, handsome villain who mingles
wickedness with deeds of chivalry. The
dialogue is in keeping with the characters
—no psychological analysis, no drawing-
room flippancies. The characters show
emotion in a manner foreign to the
younger generation of playgoers. As
for the plot, a schoolboy could ask for
nothing better. The captain has been
entrusted with the conveyance of five
valuable pearls, and his cutthroat crew
knows that he has them. A mutiny
occurs—shots are fired —the passengers
are panic-stricken—then a French pirate,
also in quest of the pearls, boards the
steamer. There he finds a friend and
an enemy. The plot takes a new twist,
and keeps twisting to the accompani-
ment of shots, threats and challenges
until the pirate makes his adieu. A fog
and a collision with a gunboat add to
the excitement.
The change from modern to ancient
in no way impaired the efficiency of the
Gabriel Toyne players. All threw them-
selves heart and soul into their parts. As
the pirate Vibart, Frank Harvey was
alert ’and electric, and James Rag-
lan fan him a close second. Vernon
Kelso was sound as Capt. Harley.
Marshall Crosby (Dan O’Mara), Hilary
Fisher-White (Rev. James Travers),
Gabriel Toyne (Lieut. Stocken) and
Cyril Vernon (Ho Tang) each contributed
intelligent studies, while Betty Bowden
(Charmain Warren) and Ella Daincourt
(Veronica Travers) were never out of
the running. Barbara Robison and Leslie
Gordon designed some clever backcloths
which suggested that the Hypatia was
battling down the China coast.
* * *
Yehudi Menuhin continues to draw
audiences to Melbourne Town Hall in
numbers usually associated locally with
Test cricket matches. His playing of the
“Kreutzer” sonata, Mendelssohn’s Con-
certo in E Minor and the concerto which
Mozart composed at the age of 10 were
the chief events of last week. There
was no more pretentiousness in his per-
formance of the last work than there
is in the composition itself, and the only
things that marred it were the cadenzas
introduced by the modern composer
Hindemith. It may have been the con-
vention of the time to leave blank spaces
in a composition to be filled in at the
fancy of the virtuoso, but the practice
seems as inartistic as for an author to
leave empty pages in his novel to be
filled in by the reader. Hindemith’s
cadenzas gave Menuhin the opportunity
of showing off his dexterity to advantage,
but seemed to present critic to bear the
same relationship to Mozart’s composi-
tion as a hiccup to the recitation of
a poem.
{Continued on page 44.)


ĸ
BUY UNKNOWN STOCKINGS?
•
WHEN YOU CAN BUY HOSIERY OF
UNQUESTIONED quality and appearance, produced
by PRESTIGE LIMITED... a company world-famed
for efficient organization and quality productions.
} :
%
:?«
: ;
m
m
il
IP
183 i
■
y
-
&■ *
V
ii
■
m
\
/
f
*
*
A
k
■
\
J
MODE
STOCK
SILK
■
GS
n
H
>
OF GUAR/S
Y
* «*
«A*
, f . * ~
ALTHOUGH Paramount pro-
k ductions are offered at such
attractive prices, the Company
wish it to be known that these
stockings carry the same warranty
as all Prestige products.
We have recently added to this range
the New Ringless Sheer / I
PARAMOUNT No. 444 atQ 11.


ABORIGINALITIES
"Ped O’Mug”; Tea finished, the new
hand entertained the family by hypnotis-
ing Dave—the willing victim of similar
attempts at concerts. “Now,” com-
manded the hypnotist, “go to the chaff-
shed and eat the first thing you lay your
hands on.” Dave meekly obeyed, Rose-
mary giggled, Dad, looking as serious as
he could, glanced up from his paper. A
look of satisfaction appeared on the en-
tertainer’s face, but this gave way to one
of terror when Dad shouted “Gripes, the
rat poison! ” No sooner said than Dave,
frothing at the mouth, staggered through
the door, and collapsed. He had for-
gotten one thing—he still held the tube
of toothpaste. Dad, however, took care
that this was removed before the new
hand came to.
* * * *
“W.F.S.”: The two squatters who
filled a tank with rum (B. 15/ 5/’35) were
the Ellis’ brothers. I have been nearly
60 years in Queensland and distinctly
remember this being spoken of, and I
have had it verified by another old-timer.
“Hoojah”: I’ve heard the yarn of the
“400- gallon tank of rum”; it was
told by the present owner of Lake Pure
station, west of the Cooper and extend-
ing to the S.A. border. Pender Bros,
owned it then, and they have been credited
with the feat. It occurred at least 40
years ago, but there was no mention of
beer in the story I heard ; from what I
know of old bushmen the suggestion of
a beer would be on a par with asking
the present-day flapper to “stop one” at
a milk bar. Lake Pure still upholds a
reputation, but it is fruit and vegetables
now —although I’ve had many a spot
there. The garden (if the present
drought hasn’t wiped it out within the
last three months) is considered the best
west of the Cooper. I’ve weighed and
helped eat watermelons weighing up to
801 b., and sweet potatoes turning the
scale at 281 b. When the fruit is on
travellers come from miles around. They
must bring their own boxes.
* * * -i-
-“ Old-timer”: The lyric on bullockies
(B. 22/ 5/’35) prompts me to ask
“F.Y.7” why he forgot their boots. A
bullocky’s boots were as peculiar to him-
self as his beltless pants, and, like the
pants, anything but laces served to keep
them on. Wire was a favorite fastener,
with twine a close second, and even
safety-pins and bale-fasteners got a
place. Billy Blue, of Moulamein (N.S.W.),
relied on his great toes, each cocked
upward, to hold the leather cases in
place. When Billy got wild, his form
of relief was to kick off both boots
and then sail into the offending animal
with both hands and the whip. He
reckoned if he had to unlace his
boots it would give him time to
cool off; arid no true bullocky would
waste such a rage once it was fairly
under way.
“G.H.M.”: There is an outsize in
cl ay pa ns between the Diamantinu and
Georgina rivers (Q.) \ 25 miles across.
Nothing ever grows on it except
lignum after floods. Even this doesn t
last long; the heat in summer dries
it up, and to those crossing it the
glare is very unpleasant. Pulling up
half-way for lunch it needs a fly over
the rabbit-proof netting fence for sight
protection. The place used to be a
favorite haunt for emus, which would
patrol one day to the Georgina and
return next day to the Diamantina. Once
I counted 700 before getting tired.
* * * *
“Fore R.”: While frying my luck near
Tuggerah (N.S.W.), I was approached by
a lad with a request for a hook and some
bait. After we were both properly rigged
he told me about the family failing. “My
dad goes fishing—when he isn't working.
He’s nearly always fishing. If the tide’s
wrong, or he hasn’t any bait or he can’t
get a boat, he fixes his gear and his
rods and reels and things and has
everything ready in case he can go
later. Sometimes he brings home fish
and sometimes he just says ‘Nothing
doing.’ Mum says that isn’t right—
it’s ‘Doing nothing.’ Dad says fishing
teaches you patience, but mum says that
isn’t right either, ’cause hers is all worn
out long ago.” At this point his sire
came along, and the lad was dispatched
“ ’Ear there Was an ’appy went at Bill Draper’s last night.”
“Go on! Boy or girl?”
“Don be silly. Twin ’eifers."
to help mum weed the peas, “Got any
decent weed?” the old ’un asked. “Mine’s
pretty old.” Passing the same spot at
dusk I heard the childish voice of the
morning again: “Dad, mum says you
promised to take that Sydney man to
the breaming ground, and you haven’t
got your gear ready, and you had no
dinner, so you better have your tea so’s
to have things fixed when he comes.”
H! * * *
“Ex-’Rooer”: While in Kimberley
(W.A.) collecting some skins I had shot
a little while previously, I surprised a
python busily sliming a Too which had
a joey in its pouch. The big wriggler
had stretched the animal until it was
half as long again, and encased it in
slime until it resembled a huge, shiny
cocoon. Another time I came on a
native cat being similarly treated. I
was close to camp, so I got a fish-hook
and some cord. From behind a bush I
slipped the hook into the cat’s skin, and
secured the cord to a rock. When I
returned the python had dined, but was
unable to get away. From that skin a
woman made three beautifully-colored
girths for her show pony.
* # * *
“Rokko”: To anyone acquainted with
Maoriland’s outlaw bird the kea, that
report of a crow attacking a sheep with
the apparent intention of dining on the
exhausted animal (B, 29/5/’35) has a
sinister angle. Nobody knows just
what turned the M.L. brush-tongued
honey-eating parrot into a slayer, but,
whether it was famine, curiosity or mere
wickedness, the acquired habit of alight-
ing on the back of a sheep, tearing away
the flesh and eating the kidney fat has
put a price on the kea’s head and defi-
nitely sealed his doom. Australia's crow
is well-equipped for similar dreadful
vvork 4 which may be in the experimental
stage in advanced crow circles.
* * : i=
“Arachne”: Owing to the depression,
no doubt, Yankee spiders have taken to
catching fish, the flies being too fly or
else hardly worth eating. Professor
Meehan, of the American Museum, has
been telling the world that in a fish-,
hatchery run by the Museum in Okla-
homa the depredations of the spiders
have been so heavy that steps are being
taken to counter them by petrol spray-
ing and burning. The prof, says the
spiders lurk in the grass on the bank,
and when a fish passes jump on its back
and bite its backbone in two. The spider
then steers the dead fish to shore with
its hind legs—no, the spider’s hind legs,
you ass, not the fish’s —and sits down
to dinner. Comment would be gilding
refined gold.
* * * *
“Bribie”: Those writing on the alleged
connection between the simultaneous
appearance in Moreton Bay (Q.) of the
wild honeysuckle, the Blue Mountain
parrot and the deep-sea mullet (B.
22/ 5 / ’35) have not attempted to explain
the real mystery —how the mullet gets the
“office” that the flowers and birds are in
quantities. As far as we know the mullet
lives somewhere in the depths of the Aus-
tralian seas until the spawning urge
drives him shoreward. It is easy to trace
the connection between the honey-eating
lories and the wild honeysuckle, and to
realise that the more plentiful the flowers
the thicker the parrots. But what fish
wireless tells the mullet deep in the sea
that both are thick and plentiful or
scanty and few? It has been proved
beyond all doubt that when the flower
and bird conditions are right the fish
far out in the ocean make for shore in
infinitely greater numbers than is the
case when there is a scarcity of plant
and bird ashore.
* * * *
“Warren”: Nothing new to find
rabbits eating the bark of trees (B.
22/5/’35), for the brutes are as partial
to the stuff as they are to grass or crops.
In Britain plantations of young trees
have to be specially guarded against the
bark-eater until they grow too big
and tough. Orchards and market gardens
are other places vulnerable to bunny’s
appetite, and his depredations are often
a costly item in the annual expense sheet.
*♦■ . ♦ *
“Gam”: A Glencoe (S.A.) cow and
its accident. While being driven into a
paddock, the animal slipped on the bitu-
men road and fell in front of a car.
Before the driver could pull up, the
wheels had passed over her head and
neck. They dehorned her, but caused
no other injury.
* * * *
“Yarn”: Old Jim McPeake, a link
with the boom days of Hill End and
Wattle Flat (N.S.W.), who was recently
taken from an old claim to Sofala Hos-
pital, sick from ill-nourishment and ex-
posure, adds another to the long list of
lucky diggers who drifted back into hard
times. For years he was a prominent
figure about Hill End, and once washed
£3OOO worth of gold in U hours at Red-
bank Gully, near Wattle Flat. Frank
Webster, one of the party who tound
the Welcome Nugget (sold for £10,000)
at Ballarat, and made other good strikes
in the roaring ’fifties, ended his days in
the Ballarat Benevolent Asylum. Hol-
terman and Beyers, who astonished the
world with “the largest quartz golden
specimen in history,” got at Hill End,
died poor. Tom Cherry, who sold
his share in the Morning Star (Vic.) for
£200,000, was humping his swag four
years afterwards. John Johnson, who
took £lOO,OOO out of the Woolshed claim
alone, was an old-age pensioner at the
time of his death. A pensioner also was
Paddy Hannan, to whose memory a foun-
tain has been erected in Kalgoodie.
Hannan never made his pile, but many
a prospector who did ended with nothing.
# * * *
“Newmoon”: A swamp-rail, usually
found only in the Auckland Islands, has
recently been captured, examined and
liberated in South Canterbury (M.L.).
The fowl, a little smaller than the star-
ling, is similar in build to a Maori hen,
and has a brown back, dark-green mark-
ings on its feathers, green legs and back
and red eyes. The swamp-rail was
found in the Chatham Islands in 1871,
but 10 years later was extinct.
* * * *
“Kwa”: A recent waistcoat controversy
brings to mind the tragic end of old
“Camel Tom,” one-time dingo poisoner
of Oodnadatta. Tom always affected a
“weskit”; an ordinary coat he never
wore. He invariably used one of the
waistcoat pockets as a receptacle for
strychnine, reckoning that it was so much
more convenient to take a pinch from
one’s pocket than to fumble about in
a tin or a bottle. As he was bending
over the fire one evening to give a billy
of stew a final stir his elbow fouled the
waistcoat a bit, and out popped a few
grains of strychnine into the stew. Exit
Tom!
* * * ♦
“Bluenose”: Just a few hours before
reading “Hopalong’s” par. (B. 15/5/’35)
we were returning across Lake Victoria
from the Tambo, cleaning our catch of
bream as we went. Gulls were following
the boat. We, too, observed the birds’
habit of hiding the
legs inside the
feathers; even so,
there were fowls
that had only one
leg. Though there
seem to be two
species in this part
of the world—the
silver gull, with red
legs and bill, and
another bird, very
similar, with yellow
legs and bill —it is
always a red-legged
bird which is minus
a leg. Their habits
are the same and
they are always
together, but
“Yellow-legs” is always boss, despite the
fact that he is slightly smaller.
* * $ *
“William!”: Central Queensland abos.
will eat Chinese pheasants (B. 15/5/’35).
Any of those tribes in my day would
eat every kind of fowl available. The
method, after catching, was to put the
bird on a fire no larger than itself,
and, when it was heated through, to
pull off the feathers, yank out the
innards and scoff the hull. One bird
one abo. was the rule. I never saw food
being shared unless it was o.s. in pro-
portions. A relative decided to get rid
of his fine aviary when the Mareeba
goldmine failed. He gave the birds to
the abos. They made little fires on the
main road and cooked the fowls —
finches, canaries, pheasants (including
three of the Chinese variety). What was
left after the feast couldn’t be distin-
guished from a toothpick.
* * *
“0.-t.”; That theory about skeeters
avoiding yellow (B. 22/5/’35) is interest-
ing. The trouble with it is that most of
the blighters appear to be color-blind.
The only man who ever left Mallee Cliffs
station (West Riverina) because “Mossee
kitta too blatty bad” was the Chinese
cook.
# . $ $ *
“Tom Willie”: Caught in a rain-
storm at night under a turpentine-
tree I tore bark off to make a fire;
I was beginning to steam nicely when a
flock of hawk-moths paid a visit. About
the size of tomtits, when they first came
I mistook them for birds. Straight into
the fire the leaders went. I tried to
keep others back with a piece of bark,
but it was no good. When the first heat
burnt the fluff off its brow, each moth
sped forward with all its strength, and
usually got half of the body buried in
the coals before the angels came for it.
MUD.
It's not liie hours we growl about,
The waking up, and turning out
To gloom within and frost without,
And every cold star blazing.
It’s not that we have twice a day
A ritual we can’t delay,
Although, of course, we sometimes say
Wc should have stuck to grazing.
It’s the mud, sticky mud,
Oozing everywhere you tread.
All about the place it’s spread,
Mud behind and mud ahead,
Sticky mud /
The cows come in and out again,
And lift their hooves in their disdain;
Go off to graze while wc remain
To puddle round the dairy.
The very pigs are stied and dry,
But woe betide us if we try
To seek the kitchen lire. Oh, my,
What makes the cook contrary ?
ft’s the mud, clinging mud.
On your boots and on the floor,
On the steps and on the door.
Every footstep bringing more
Clinging mud.
It's everywhere, within, without;
Where’er you tread, without a doubt,
You'll have to drag one gumboot out.
And then pull out the other.
But when the grass is parched and dry,
And starving beasts lie down to die,
It’s full of beauty to the eye
And welcome as a brother
Js the mud, good old mud:
Mud and rain across the fiat,
Mud, and cattle sleek and fat;
Mud, you can’t beat lots of that,
Lots of mud.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Mallabob”: Airwomen are apt to
bring embarrassing situations into a
free-and-easy land where ladies are
scarce. One landed at the Katherine
short of petrol, and someone had to
take it to the aerodrome for her. An
amiable scientist got in a car and
ran it down. He lifted a, case on his
shoulder to carry over to the ’plane, and
when near it his leather belt gave way.
He had to drop the case or let his
trousers go. He held on to the case,
while the birdlady looked the other way.
About the same time two fair motorists,
overlanding, arrived at the Pine Creek
store and pulled up for petrol; while it
was being supplied an old bushman
came up and started to sing—he always
sings when the beer flows. The scientist
popped along to ease the situation, but
the girls stood on the gas as soon as he
started to speak. They had heard enough
about the Territory. The scientist was
taken aback by their apparent rudeness ;
then he remembered he’d been getting
his car out of a bog. He went into the
store to buy a clean collar before re-
turning to the hotel. “What size do you
want?” asked the chap at the counter.
“Well, I really forget for the moment,”
said the scientist. “Well, how big is the
horse you want it for?” asked the
assistant.
:i: * * *
“The 0.D.”: It was out on the Mac-
quarie River, and I had just finished an
inspection of one of the finest little
poultry-yards in the State. The owner
is a wheat-and-sheep man, and it seemed
curious that he should go in for poultry.
“He did it,” he said, pointing to a
youngster standing by. “Blew in here
one day about four years ago and asked
me for a job. I reckoned he ought to be
at school. Anyhow, I gave him a job,
helping the missus an’ that. Then he
kidded me to buy some chooks and
build yards. It was a winner. That kid
read every poultry paper he could get,,
used up all my chick-wheat and lucerne
dust, insisted on having the best kinds
o’ chooks, and went at it properly. Those
chooks are clearing us £6 a week all the
year round. We have a big market in
Dubbo for all the eggs, and get a flat
rate of ss. a pair for the cockerels at
three to four months. I’m putting in
two kero, brooders and building more
yards!” The sapling grinned bashfully
and admitted to having a few quid in
the bank. “Going to have my own
poultry farm before long,” he said.
Casually, he admitted to 19 years of
age and to having tramped up from
Sydney four years previously.
* * * *
“Mac Ah”: Squid (B. 15/5/’35), like
cuttlefish, carry a supply of ink to squirt
round when attacked. Under cover of
this they break for safety. The usual
way to catch them is by spiking with a
fish-harpoon and watching the cloud
form in the water. When “J.BJ.”
plunges his knife into the front end of
a squid he punctures the reservoir and
allows some of the fluid to stain the in-
terior of the squid. As they have no
blood system, the whole body is per-
meated. Death prevents ejection, which
only occurs when wounded or frightened.
Jfc * %
“Old-timer”: The “coo-ee” call is the
sort of thing hikers would use (B.
22/5/’35). It is the ineradicable mark
of the city man (or woman) holidaying
outback. Bushmen don’t use it, as is
erroneously supposed, because as a call
it is too weak. Bill hails lim across the
gully or down the river reach with a
resounding “Wa-hoo! ” beside which
“coo-ee” seems like the bleat of a lost
lamb. If you don’t believe me, go into
the yard and see which call makes the
loudest and most far-reaching sound.
“R.S.”: I saw an old fellow fishing
from a wharf on the banks of
the Mary River (Q.). His bait was
a small live frog, which was proving
difficult to hook on. Returning two
hours later, I saw him still seated there
—fast asleep now, his pipe out, his
line dangling in the water. The bite that
was to awaken him would never come,
for his bait had swum to the nearest
pile, climbed it and was still faintly
breathing within two feet of the fisher-
man.
$
“O. W. Waireki”; Another natural
weather prophet that can always be
depended on (B. 17/4/’35) is your per-
manent fresh-water spring. When it
commences to flow with greatly in-
creased strength in time of drought, a
downpour is not many days distant.
* « * -■!=
“Toheroa”: The bushmen who suc-
cessfully dismantled a German mine (B.
15/5/’35) had better luck than a party
of Maoris who found one on the west
coast of M.L. Henare and his friends,
plus five horses and a collection of dogs,
gathered intrigued round the find, and
preceded to push or hit it to see what
it would do. It did something well and
thoroughly, and when alarmed country
folk rode out to the coast to investigate
the origin of the explosion they had
heard all they found was an enormous
hole and smithereens. The mine was
a legacy from the raider Wolf.
“Take that dorg away, miss! Leo ain't no good mixer."
"No, thanks—never wear one.”
“Wang”: Dave was “right” with Hetty
Dobson till the new hand came. The
fellow was a regular lady-killer, and his
flash clothes and flowery style of talk-
ing speedily won Hetty’s vagrant fancy.
One Sunday afternoon Dave, returning
home from a fruitless hunt for a couple
of poddies which had strayed away into
the scrub, came across Hetty and his
supplanter seated on a log. The chap
had his arm around Hetty’s waist, and
was gazing soulfully into her face. Dave
ducked behind a bush close by, and
shamelessly listened. “Darling,” the in-
terloper was saying, “as I gaze into your
lovely eyes I see displayed before me
the world in all its glorious beauty.” It
was the sort of stuff he had been feed-
ing to Hetty for weeks past, but she
shivered delightedlly. Then Dave pushed
a hate-inflamed face through the bushes.
“Hey, you,” he bellowed —“seem’ y’ can
see so much, ’ave another look into
them there peepers an’ see if y’ can
pick out them calves I’ve been lookin’
fer all day.”
•I* H* •!•
“Mat’s Mate”: Before you form that
company, “Spare Taylor” (B. 22/5/’35),
see me. It will save you time and money,
for by continual inbreeding since the
1919 drought I have the perfect goanna
scrub-cutter. Your steel teeth can’t hold
a candle to my blokes ; I crossed them
with swordfish, reworked the progeny on
to nail-tailed euros, crossed back on to
gos., and am now releasing my special
saw-tailed scrub-fellers on a startled back
country. Under the Better Bull Scheme
I have a few sires available to approved
buyers.
* * -t *
“Dog an Dhoris”: It remained for a
collie in Christchurch (M.L.) to shame
those Australian ludges who declared
that Gaelic was not a living language
“within the
meaning of the
Act.” The dog
was given an
order in Eng-
lish, but ignored
it. When the
tongue was
changed to
Gaelic he imme-
diately got busy.
There must be
some vitality in
a language when
the dogs bark it.
* *
Bill Oliffe:
When I was
managing
Stuart’s Creek
st a t ion (Cen-
tralia) in 1902,
an urgent tele-
gram arrived at'
Coward Springs
late in the even-
ing; the postmaster went out to look for
someone who would take it out to the sta-
tion, 30 miles away. Two white-headed
old abos. volunteered, and set off imme-
diately. At daylight next morning I
opened the front door of the homestead
and saw two very tired and dusty old
abos. squatting on the verandah. One
held out a telegram and said “Bad
pfeller, boss. Brother belongum Missus
Oliffe die.” Those two game old darkies,
both well over 60, had walked the 30
miles on a moonless night in less than
eight hours.
* * * *
“G.A.L.”: Here’s a bush pipe as good
as and easier to get than “Eureka’s”
fungus (B. 8/5/’35). It’s a large gum-
nut shell with a piece of honeysuckle
for a stem. A swaggie put me on
to it, and a cooler pipe I’ve never
smoked. If doesn't last for more than
a fortnight, but replacements are plenti-
ful and coolness starts from the first
draw. You can keep your London
briars when I am in any N. S. Wales
country district.
♦ . # * *
“Ned Kelly”: An old-man goanna is
hard to handle, as Parker discovered
when he was on the Dorrigo (N.S.W.).
He left the rest of the party trying to
warm themselves by the campfire, and
went poking around amongst the pot-
holes left by fossickers. He found a fat
old half-frozen go. on the sunny side of
a rock, and grabbing him by the tail
walked slowly backwards, intending to
throw him amongst the mob. Instead,
he stepped blindly into a pot-hole, tak-
ing the go. with him. It was a very lively
five minutes for Parker.
* ♦ * *
“Runa”: I am astonished at “Jindi-
vick” (B. 24/4/’35) referring to a “mob
of starlings.” Doesn’t he know that
starlings in company ate a murmuration,
even if they are at the moment “screech-
ing fowls”? I explained this to an
elderly farmer of my acquaintance re-
cently. “Well,” he said slowly, “meself,
I call ’em a plague, but there’s others
not so partickler.”
* * * ♦
“M.R.P.”: Blowflies (B. 24/4/’35)?
They made the spring of 1915 at Cue
(W.A.) pretty hellish. Midday dinner
was served by candlelight with blinds
drawn and the crack under the door
blocked with a rug. Even then someone
had to stand over the server with a
swatter.
s{t -i' 'l*
“Grubstake”; “Tidapa” (B. 1/5/’35) is
interested in statistics relating to the
dimensions of sharks’ livers. The Papuan
storekeeper I dealt with, especially after
my claim proved a dud, was, as
“Tidapa” says, “very morose.” Un-
doubtedly he had a huge liver, but I
never killed him properly, so was unable
even to estimate the space occupied by
that organ. However, a mate of mine
once said something about “taking
the ‘shark’ apart,” and I’ll ascertain
whether he has yet performed that opera-
tion. He might then get in touch with
“Tidapa” direct, and they could com-
pare notes.
THE TERROR.
“la my young days,” the old man said,
“although I’m not a cove to boast,
I'll guarantee that you could search the country
round from coast to coast
An’ never find a single man whose punch
could knock me off me feet —
My trouble was, they always said, 1 never
knoo when I was beat.
I’ve risked me limbs in flood and fire; i I
fought wild niggers on me own;
In fact, me only joy in life was gettin’ m
some danger zone.
But now I’m jist a bunch of nerves—l must
be gettin’ old an’ weak —
For I’ve been windy ever since the talkies
came to Dingo Creek.
“Not that I harbor fears at all about the
morals of the joint;
For far as ‘makin’ whoopee’ goes we’d easy
show these Yanks a point.
An’ this Mae West whose wanton ways appear
to cause the godly qualms,
Her wiles seem tame to one who knoo the
barmaid at the Dingo Arms.
'j'ou’Jl find whatever folks enjoy the wowsers
always call obscene —
Sich things are trifles; yet I’m sure there’s
danger lurkin’ in the screen.
Me lad, it fills me with dismay, an’ all me
manly courage frays—
I fear it won’t be long before the bushmen
catch the croonin’ craze.
“It’s hard, it’s crooel hard,” he moaned, “to
find your valor’s wearin’ thin —
Once I could sit an’ never flinch while blokes
recited ‘Gunga Din’;
An’ as fer socials or the like, I’ve stood me
ground, although I cursed,
When fiddlers murdered ‘Yumoresque’ an’
bush sopranos did their worst.”
Tears filled the ancient’s eyes; he twined his
shaking fingers in his beard,
And shuddered as his feeble mind dwelt on
the awful thing he feared.
“My sins are many. Lord,” he sobbed, “but
of Your mercy grant this boon—
May I be pushin’ daisies up before the bush-
men start to croon!”
VICTORIA.
ELLFNBALB.


■I
MTS
LYS
ROOF
MUIUi
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as ' of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in ever ;
Roll of Netting.
******* -}&s
■' '■ ,"' - - - ; • t
~ ',v;
HI -
ISF#;
W I **'
,«r
iOk
v^4 s t-r.v;l; **
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd
Hsad office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydniy
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Spring and Autumn Lambing.
“Lion”: Tell “Valerin” (B. 8/5/’35)
that we practised both lambings for the
last six years. We have large areas of
corkscrew grass.
First, English Leicester stud rams are
used to join because they are small in
the head and give easy lambing to all
classes of ewes. They produce a good
crossbred wool, and at the same time
a quick-maturing export carcass.
They are splendid workers at most
times of the year, and are hardy and
virile, which means good stock.
We lamb twice to avoid a big drop
of lambs at one time. We have found
that spring lambing is often more suc-
cessful than autumn, both for health
and percentages.
Last year we lambed 1000 ewes in
spring with a £ p.c. dam loss.
The secret of success with the spring
lambing is to conserve fodder so that
during the gestation period the ewe can
be well fed. During the winter the
autumn drop is naturally having the best
feed all the time. Entero-toxremia must
be guarded against with both, but especi-
ally at the spring lambing. No time
should be wasted in getting the lambs
inoculated, as they are often taken very
young.
To deal with corkscrew grass we
arrange the paddocks so that the young-
sters are not running amongst it during
the danger period. If the season goes
wrong, shear the lambs and keep them
out of the worst paddocks. Here the
advantage of the E.-L. cross comes in,
as the wool is so readily saleable. If
forced to keep them as hoggets or longer,
their market value merely increases if
the right class of ewe has been joined.
Don’t keep the ewes too long, and
don’t use the rams after six-tooth. If
neighbors get more than you for their
fancy-cross tops, don’t worry, as you will
still beat them in the end. Anything
we have left over is snapped up every
year at a tiptop price.
We have lambed the same mob of
ewes twice in a year with good results,
but you must join at lambing. It should
only be done when getting rid of the
ewes. It is drastic to their wool clip, but
not to the lambs, and pays with old ewes.
Entero-toxaemia and Black Disease.
“F.L.8.”: Tell “Corriedale” (B.
15/5/’35) that because I have 400 acres
of cutting lucerne is no reason why my
tests should be discounted. Deaths from
e.-t. do occur on infected lucerne pad-
docks, as we found to our cost before
inoculation came in. Too much pro-
tein and the Bacillus ovitoxicus produce
the disease. Tender lucerne is full of
the former.
I admit that clovers and top-dressed
pastures are more virulent, but that is
because of the greater amount of pro-
tein they carry.
My advice to the afflicted is to inocu-
late every drop ; repeat next year if the
stock is held on a rich and infected
property.
Regular, careful and general inocula-
tion will stamp out the disease, I think,
if practised generally.
“Corriedale”: “L.L.’s” statements (B.
15/5/’35) need adding to. His method
of detecting black disease by “dogging-
up” could easily cause mortality if the
sheep happened to be affected by entero-
toxasmia, the sister malady.
The only essential difference in symp-
toms is that e.-t. sheep do not have their
livers blackened, as in b.d. Otherwise,
post-mortems produce the same features
for both—black kidneys, pulpy intestines
and rapid putrefaction. In both, the skin
turns purple and wool pulls out freely.
“L.L.’s” advice to send affected parts
for examination to the nearest veterinary
headquarters is sound.
Salt in Licks.
“Doitnow”: I consider that “M.W.”
puts far too much bonemeal in his licks
(B. 15/5/’35). Stock can only assimilate
a certain portion at a time, and if it is a
50-50 mixture then much of the bone is
lost. Sheep supplied with 201 b. best
bonemeal in 1861 b. of salt get approxi-
mately the right proportions. Stock sel-
dom gorge themselves on licks unless
starved. We have found this mixture
most economical.
Different districts need different licks,
and other ingredients should be added
to suit conditions. Have your pastures
and soils analysed, and then there can
be no mistake about what your sheep
will need most.
And don’t forget that the lick that
suits ordinary conditions will need alter-
ing in a drought.
Beating the Fly.
“Valerin”: It is futile to dogmatise
about flies. So much depends on season
and country as well as the type and con-
stitution of sheep.
Apart from fly, sheep with pronounced
body wrinkles and crutch development
are an abomination. They are bad
doers, susceptible to disease. The wool
is generally uneven in quality, and the
fleece comes on the table with strips
of skin and a shower of second cuts.
In good seasons, when feed is lush,
the fly is at his worst. The moist, warm
condition of the grass favors him. The
sheep become surfeited and lazy, so that
the liver and kidneys do not function
properly, with the result that the odor
of the sheep makes it attractive bait.
On damp, swampy country the fly is
invariably troublesome, while on higher
ground a few miles away the attack is
negligible or only intermittent.
It seems to me the attack should be
concentrated on the fly, no matter what
his hue is, by means of trapping, poison-
ing, destroying carcasses, offal and other
harbor. Plantation should be laid down
to encourage insectivorous birds, not for-
getting the maligned crow and starling
—wonderful maggot-scavengers.
A Word for the Vermont.
“Right Angle”: “Dead Finish” (B.
22/5/’35) is right, but he has said
nothing new. Ever since the crusade
set in against Vermont rams the number
of graziers adopting his elimination
method has steadily grown. This, in
certain areas, has greatly checked fly-
strike, but the pest still hits selected
types hard.
The rise and fall of the wrinkly, fine-
wool Vermont merino strain, introduced
over 30 years ago, have done more good
than harm to wool values.
The original idea, sponsored by a
prominent woolgrower of that time, was
to find a cross that could add density,
fineness and quality to the fleece ; hence
the mating of the Vermont rams with
the Wanganellas.
The first lot of lambs proved the capa-
bilities of the new rams. When shorn
as hoggets they cut a fine, dense, bright,
highly-crimped wool of great quality, but
after a few years the fly pest struck the
sheep so heavily, and the Vermont rams
were so persistent in perpetuating the
wrinkles, that buyers of flock drafts
turned from the breed.
Nevertheless, Vermonts have a great
strain which accounts for much of the
beautiful clip that has made the Austra-
lian merino unassailable.
Sane Trucking.
“Upilio”: In N. S. Wales overcrowd-
ing stock in trucks may prove costly to
the owner in the event of any being
found “down.”
The department may unload the stock
at the first suitable station. If the sheep
are not injured they will be reloaded
into enough trucks to hold them com-
fortably. If some are injured and too
weak to continue, the mob will be left
where unloaded until the owner is noti-
fied. Cost of attending stock and extra
trucks will be charged.
If you have much trucking, it is a
good plan to build a yard the same area
as a truck (some vary slightly), and fill
it comfortably with stock before they
start to market. This gives an excellent
idea of how many a truck will hold.
Meatmeal Stock Foods.
“M.W.”; “Hortus” (B. 15/5/’35) did
not go far enough. When the protein
content of the better meatmeals is com-
pared witfi that of seedcakes, and the cost
per unit worked out, the former win.
During drought, when animals are
thrown on their body reserves, the first
line of defence is the stored-up fat. It
is only as a last resource that the flesh
is called upon. Protein-starved sheep,
for example, die sooner than carbo-
hydrate-starved, so that in extreme cases
it is good economy to feed protein con-
centrates at the expense of carbohydrates.
Those derived from meat are best.
They contain a complete range of amino
acids, while most vegetable sources are
deficient. They are more concentrated
and,- therefore, more economical. The
mineral content is higher and the fibre
lower.
Bloodmeal with a minimum of 80 p.c.
protein and meatmeals with 65 p.c.
protein are available at most abattoirs
and private meatworks at a lower cost
than seedcakes and vegetable-meals of
about 33 p.c. protein. However, there
are poorer grades with as low as 50 p.c.
protein and as much as 18 p.c. fat.
These should not be used for sheep or
cattle, but are suitable for pig- and
poultry-feeding.
In general, the ease with which animal
protein meals are taken is determined
by (1) fineness, (2) method of manufac-
ture. An amendment of the Queensland
Stock Foods Act has set a standard of
fineness which might very well be
adopted universally.
Bloodmeal has a standard method of
manufacture. The raw product is heat
coagulated, dried and milled, and the
only risk of an inferior product comes
from storing in a wet room.
Meatmeals are made by the old-
fashioned “wet”-rendering and the
modern “dry”-rendering processes. The
latter is vastly superior. Dry-rendered
meatmeals have a better analysis, con-
tain more soluble phosphate, less fat,
are more digestible, of better appearance
and flavor, and store better.
Some meals are made from the larger
internal organs—liver, lungs, spleen—
and are always dark, whether wet or
dry rendered. They usually contain
about 15 p.c. of fat, and, as it is more
apt to become rancid than the fat in
flesh meals, cannot be exposed for long.
It is a safe rule to use flesh meals made
by the dry rendering, but the analysis
should always be consulted.
Ruining Back-country Pastures.
"R.F.C.”: Nature would soon repair
drought damage were it not for the re-
lentless handiwork of man in rapidly
accelerating the destruction of thousands
of square miles of our back-country
pastures. If these lands are to be pre-
vented from reverting to barren desert
wastes man will need to stay his hand.
Graziers, beset by almost 10 years of
adverse seasons, have been forced to
stock up to the hilt whenever a good
growth occurred, with the result that
hardy natural grasses, Mitchell and Flin-
ders particularly, have never been given
a chance to seed. This is not so much the
effect of bad seasons, appallingly “heavy
taxation and lack of finance” as insuffi-
ciency of country which Queensland
Governments have been handing out to
land-hungry graziers. A few years ago an
overambitious policy of closer settlement
of western sheep lands was launched
which seems to have entirely overlooked
drought possibilities.
I have just completed a motor tour of
3000 miles through! the drought-stricken
areas. I found the most barren tracts on
small grazing farms, where the land has
been so abused that it is now devoid of
stubble; it is crumbling to dust and is
losing its surface soil. Out there you
see dead tufts of Mitchell and Flinders
only on large holdings—the reward of
light stocking.
Pastures on this type of country will
soon respond to rain when it falls, but
in the badly-eaten-out stretches years of
good seasons must be experienced before
the land will be capable of carrying nor-
mal stockings.
The Noxious-weed Problem.
“Albarmount”: N.S.W. shire councils
have been roundly criticised for allowing
the rapid spread of noxious weeds. But
they are much handicapped. Most
noxious weeds gained a hold years ago
on vacant allotments or on Crown lands.
The plants looked so healthy that
many thought them a “fine thing,” and
allowed them to propagate unchecked.
Before alarm was taken pests had got
such a hold that to enforce immediate de-
struction would have brought many land-
holders to ruin. Patches have become
so thick that they are almost ineradic-
able. Stock move in and out of these
areas on to clean land and' stock routes,
disseminating the seed as they go, and
the shires are powerless to stop them.
Until shires are empowered to quarantine
these seedbed areas the noxious-weed
problem will not be solved,.
Nodule Bacteria.
“Valerin”; In Westralia efforts are be-
ing made, with partial success, to extend
the work of legume-seed inoculation.
The idea is to apply to the seed bac-
terial cultures that produce nodules upon
the roots of leguminous plants. Micro-
organisms living in the nodules benefit
the crop by building up from the free
nitrogen of the air compounds which
the plant is able to utilise.
Experiments carried out at Rotham-
sted (England) have shown that the bac-
teria pass through a cycle of changing
forms in the soil. Under favorable con-
ditions, such as moist soil and soft
weather, they migrate quickly through the
earth. An important factor is the nature
of the fluid used to convey the bacteria.
It has been shown that their suspension
in water resulted in three days’ delay
before they began to spread from the
point of inoculation. In milk it took
48 hours, and from a mixture of milk
and calcium phosphate 12 hours. This
{“Man on the Land’’ continued on
page 24.)


IE'HE mVP
. - ■ ■■
8
iili
mm 3
ill
m
II
■ I
111
mm
■
■
*
I
mm
MB
w
I
■
i '<
mm
■
I
nfe»
Hi
■
“We believe in keeping fit .. . and that means
that we are very conscious of the fact that in
these days,it’s‘nerves that take most of the strain .”
“That’s one big reason why we smoke Ardath
De-Luxe. They soothe the nerves—their fine Vir-
ginia tobaccos are specially blended from a
traditional English formula to do this. Naturally
too, such tobacco assures us freedom from
throat harm.”
.V
V <
m
ARDATH
DE-LUXE
SMART FLAT TINS
Ifl 0~3 OA 1/0 Also Flat Pocket 50's, Tins <
XU “ '□Q. £*\j “ L O 100, also Round Airtiaht 50'
95348-5-5


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
&
5?
The finest patent
leather
The Abbey Evening Shoe is
light in weight and restful to
wear. Made in two high-grade
leathers, with a light welted
sole.
25/-, and Super Quality 45/-
DANCING PUMPS,
Low-heeled, light and supple,
with complete patent leather
Uppers. Full and half sizes.
257-
order BY POST: State both
width and size. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Patent Leather Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy, new
cleaning outfit (2/6).
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
WRITE FOR FULL CATALOGUE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 440.
THE BOOKS OF THE DAY—
serious, humorous, descriptive, biographical—
are reviewed by experts in the Literary Pages
of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
See “The Australasian” also for Short Stories,
Literary Notes and an Interesting Literary
Questionnaire.
TCftwvva
JyJ T-H£ -Ptfif £CT
STOC-K W-HI-P.
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
There are no better Whips than these:
the zair core gives tliein that “wonder-
ful feel” and the inner plaited aii-
kangaroo belly gives long life.
No. 16 K’BURRA AVHIP with 16-plait
handle and Bft., 13-plait thong, 41/6.
Postage N.S.W., 1/-.
Prices of our full range of Stockwhips
ranging from 8/- are in our Catalogue
No. 8338, as well as 70 Saddles to choose
from.
AND CASES
ROUND OR OVAL. Quart size 0/9 and
FLAT BACK 10/0, with case.
Postage 1/- N.S.W.
No. 43 SADDLE POUCH. 6/9; Barge, 7/9.
Postage 1/-.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
393 CEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insurance
and
Prosperity
The first deposit of an Assurance
Policy creates an immediate
Estate for the full amount
of the policy selected. You
purchase a lump sum of money
for future delivery—an unfail-
ing protection to your depend-
ents, and a comfort to you
during life.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? LT°
Head Office—37l-37J Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R, V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the -corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
Why Wasn’t It Thought of
Before ?
Starr’s Patent Combination Branding Tool.
For branding Stock, and adaptable for many other purposes on
farm and station.
Will save its cost over and over again. One man will affix more
brands with it than three men could in a day by the old method.
Operates on the blow-lamp principle. Is ready for use in seven
minutes, and thereafter maintains the brand at a uniform heat
until fuel is exhausted.
Efficient and Inexpensive.
Use Starr’s Patent Combination Branding Lamp for branding
Horses, Cattle, Rams’ Horns, Pigs, Casks, Boxes, etc.
Price, complete with Blow-lamp, only £5/15/-
Sole Distributors:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
solution was proved also to increase the
number of nodules and improve the crop.
It is buying trouble to use cultures in-
discriminately on crops, since it is now
known that nodule-forming bacteria are
divided into varieties, each of which is
only able to. infect one or two kinds of
legumes.
To my mind, where a cover crop is
sown with lucerne or sub. clover it is
necessary to compensate for the nitrogen
taken from the young legume.
At present I am seeding an acre of
sub. clover with wheat as a cover crop,
and using a special culture (obtained
from W.A.)- in skimmed milk and cal-
cium phosphate. With the swing-over
to pastures in the Riverina, due to skele-
ton-weed infestation, the possibilities of
nodule bacteria should be exploited.
A Wheat-pickling Machine.
“The 0.D.”: To build a machine for
dry-pickling fix an oil-drum large enough
to hold three bushels to four bushels
of grain with a sliding lid about Sin. by
4in. midway on the barrel. Of stout
hardwood construct a frame large enough
to permit the drum to be fitted on a
fixed axle.
Bolt two wooden slats lengthwise
along the inside wall of the drum
opposite each other. In the top of the
frame fit a shallow tray with an open-
ing in the bottom through which the
grain may be run into the drum. Under-
neath the drum fit another tray to catch
the wheat for bagging.
Attach a turning handle to the drum—
an old crank.
Use copper carbonate —2oz. to the
bushel of wheat —and put about 1}
bushels in the drum at a time.
Turn very slowly until the c.c. is
thoroughly mixed through the wheat.
Dog and Dig the Rabbit
“Valerin”; Trapping, gassing, fumi-
gating and baiting are only palliatives
and—since the work is never finished —
the most costly methods of handling
rabbits.
Destroying under- and over-ground
harbors is the only effective way.
In scrub, mountain and stony country
this may not be practicable, but it may
pay to net off these types of land.
Digging-out must be done systemati-
cally in conjunction with dogs. Start on
a netted boundary and carry on in a
face. After a day or two go back over
the dug-out area, dog it well, run any
missed shoots and fill in the holes.
By this means the rabbits are kept on
the move ahead, and the few that break
back are easily mopped up.
When your own property is clean you
are in a position to talk turkey to neigh-
bors who neglect their job.
Witches’-broom in Lucerne.
“Stump Jump”: Sometimes known as
“bunchy top,” this disease does not
attack stands under two years old.
The characteristics are a complete
stunting of individual plants. Stems and
leaves are developed only in miniature,
the leaves being egg-shaped instead of
pointed.
At first only a few plants are affected,
but the disease spreads. Farmers have
pointed it out to me as a new fine-stem
variety “sported” in the seed. Once es-
tablished, it will gradually take com-
mand and the paddock will become
useless.
The causes of the disease are not fully
and no cure is known. The
best procedure is to plough the stand
under and crop cereals for a year or two.
Meanwhile, look around for clean seed.
Free river-flat soils seem to be immune,
but it is very common in clay soils.
Mallenders.
“Sheepo”: Horses grazing in swampy-
country are apt to contract mallenders—
eruptions, generally breaking out about
the knees and hocks.
First symptoms are swellings, hardly
likely to be noticed unless the horse is
being worked every day. Cracks appear
after the eruption either behind the knee
or in front of the hock, from which pus
is exuded.
Healing is slow with treatment —an out-
break elsewhere is likely if any attempt
is made to rush the job. Wash the
affected parts thoroughly with weak,
warm Condy’s solution. Dry and apply
an ointment of loz. vaseline, 15 grains
red precipitate and double the amount
of burnt alum. Patients need daily treat-
ment.
Super. 100 Per Cent. Soluble.
“R.K.”; Mr. Hendricks, of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, has found
out how to make rock phosphate 100
p.c. water soluble without heating it with
sulphuric acid. He first discovered that
fluorine was the cause of the insolu-
bility, and then that, if the rock phos-
phate was heated sufficiently, the fluorine
combined with the silica (one of its affi-
nities) in the rock and they evaporated
together.
It is a great discovery; but one ques-
tion arises: “How does the plant take to
this fluorineless phosphate?” It is well
known that in many of Nature’s processes
an apparently useless member is vital io
the result. Fluorine may be needed to
help the plant’s digestion of the phos-
phoric acid.
Teeth are mostly composed of fluoride
of calciuni, and it is most probable that
the fluorine acts as a flux for the silica
to make the enamel.
This matter should be thoroughly
tested before the new fluorineless super,
goes into general consumption.
Hints for the Farm.
“Granova”; When erecting round
strainer- and gate-posts, nail a cap of
galvanised-iron on them. This will pre-
vent rainwater from penetrating the
centre of the posts.
“Big End”: To make a sheath for
carrying sheep-shears, use a piece of
thick scrap leather as a base. Rivet on
a pocket for the blades, and, above this,
a strap to pass over the handles. Fit
a buckle in this strap, and at the top of
the base fasten a snap-hook to clip on
to the saddle.
“Underwood”: Try this for a bear-
skin rug. Skin a long-haired bullock
carefully, and peg out the hide on a
floor. Wash it and rub in carbonate of
soda thoroughly. When dry, if it is not
soft and pliable, wet again and treat as
before.
“De Bee”: In erecting rabbit fences
be careful not to leave stumps close to
the netting. One short, leaning stump
of my acquaintance taught hundreds to
scale the fence—bunny can go over the
top like a cat.
“Alpha”: Try the end of an old spring
as an axe-handle wedge. Cut off about
two and a half inches from the tip. To
remove, chisel away enough wood on
the head side to get a grip with the
pincers, and pull hard.
“Marsh”; At gullies and creeks
especially, or at any point in a fence
through which sheep like to poke their
way, fasten a petrol-tin so that it will
rattle when the wires are touched. Sheep
won’t give trouble in that part of the
fence.
“The 0.D.”: Bolt an old chaff-cutter
blade firmly to a pick-handle, and you
have the perfect tool for digging out
pit ensilage.
“Fisher’s Ghost”: To eradicate ant-
beds try this; Throw the dead bodies
of flies poisoned in the house round the
nest. The ants eat them, together with the
corpses resulting from the first poison-
ing.
“C.J.8.”: For farm and teamsters’
harness a simple mineral-oil dressing is
better than any of “Jimmac’s” (B.
15/5/’35) fancy recipes. Most of the
large oil companies market leather-
dressing oils that can be simply applied
with a brush and penetrate thoroughly
without heat or rubbing. Some old
hands still object to mineral oil for
leather. I suggest they examine a motor-
mechanic’s boots.


JUNE 30 IS CLOSE
TO enable you to compile your own income-tax returns for the year
closing June 30 next and subsequent years, the Endeavour Press is
publishing an inexpensive, up-to-date, simple and authoritative handbook —
INCOME TAX RETURNS’
by H. RAWSON STEVENSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
covering the Federal and N. S. Wales Acts as at present in force.
The Acts are explained in simple language, and there is a comprehensive
index of income and expenditure items. This will be the first notable work
on the subject published during the past five years, and the price will be only
FIVE SKILLINGS.
No person liable to Federal or N. S. Wales taxation —businessman,
farmer or salary-earner—who handles his own affairs can afford to
be without this book. He will find Income Tax Returns a simple and
comprehensive guide and money-saver. Accountants themselves will find
this book indispensable for all types of income-tax returns.
To be published shortly by THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
“A man in divorce said that when his wife
left him she took away every mattress and the
bedclothes, so that he could not go to bed.”
That made him sit up.
4- 4* *
Unfair.
The champion golfer was reading the
account of his recent round.
. He nodded his head in approbation
as he read of his “unerring skill on the
greens,” his “matchless iron play,” his
“apparent nonchalance when in trouble.”
Then, as he read further, his face
clouded; pleasure was replaced by in-
dignation : he found it difficult to believe
that such an omission could be possible.
But it was true. He flung the newspaper
away with a contemptuous gesture.
Not once had the reporter mentioned
“a screaming drive down the middle of
the fairway.”
Philm.
.j. .j.
'Hope for the Pastoralist.
My new “Sheep Wave Adaptor” is
goirig to revolutionise the wool industry.
All my sheep have brass rings through
their noses fitted with miniature receiv-
ing sets (these rings can be had cheap
from inexperienced gold buyers as reject
stock). 1 switch on the Adaptor, and
the sheep are drawn to the shed, thus
saving cost of mustering.
The rings, of course, vary, so that if
only one class of sheep is required it is
merely necessary to tune to the correct
frequency, and only ewes or wethers, as
the case may be, will be attracted.
As fly-bitten and wormy sheep respond
to a different frequency from other
sheep, culling is greatly expedited.
But my scheme goes further.
On the same principle as that by which
the walls of Jericho were razed by a
blast of trumpets, the Adaptor generates
the correct frequency which causes the
wool to leave the sheep at the skin. It
is then propelled through the air to the
tables, automatically skirted, classed and
pressed.
I am experimenting with a new valve
and transformer, and hope to make the
Adaptor so sensitive that it will be able
to remove the wool from the sheep in
the paddocks and bring it straight to the
shed, and so save knocking the sheep
about.
“What will become of the shearers,
rouseaboufs and musterers?” you ask.
Well, by injecting a Japanese wool-
growing serum, they should be able to
grow their own fleeces and thus make
fortunes.
Brebis.
The Jim-jam Cup.
“ ‘Nightmares,’ says a Sydney doctor, ‘can
be overcome fay careful training.’ ”
That reminds me of my own experi-
ence. I entered my favorite nightmare,
Falling-Over-the-Edge, in the Jim-jam
Cup. I staked my overdraft with the
man-eating tiger who was doing the
bookmaking. He took it, and then
chased me all the way to the starting-
post. I leaped into the saddle. “They’re
off! ” shouted the crowd. Clinging to the
razor-like neck of Falling, I hung on
as we ran up the first telegraph pole a
neck ahead of the crocodile. The going
along the wires was far from good, and
I wished I hadn’t put my socks on my
mount; they seemed to make its foot-
hold less sure.
The green-and-yellow elephant was
looming up on Falling’s quarters; but
I saw the greatest danger in the blue-
tongued lizard. If it could keep level
with me it would poke its tongue out
when we reached the winning-post and
win by a tongue. Determined to foil
it, I discovered that by leaping ahead
from the saddle and dragging my steed
after me from time to time I was able
to add to his speed. We thundered down
the mountain side well in the lead ;
but here an avalanche joined in. Fren-
ziedly I urged Falling to greater efforts.
We entered the Strait of Gibraltar,
where it became evident that the 40ft.
man-eating shark was the great danger.
It was impossible to scale the precipitous
cliffs ; I felt desperately for a hold, but
kept slipping and slipping.
Someone put a broom into my hand,
and I remembered the race. I’d be able
to sweep past the post now.
1 knew that I had won ; but just as I
was asking about the prize the judge
said “That’ll be fivepence for the
prawns.” I felt in my pockets but could
only find two ha’pennies and a love-letter.
Then, with a roar the judge changed into
the man-eating bookmaker and came at
me. So did the rest of the field. They
chased me over the marsh, where you
“Well, Tony's safe. Now I'll go an find th'
mob."
had to lift one foot before you put the
other one down for fear of sinking in
the mud:
“.Serves you right,” said my wife as she
dragged me from under the bed.
I’ll probably find out what happened
to the Jim-jam Cup some other night.
H. M.
Resolution.
Now I can prove that my next-door
neighbor, who so grievously maligned
me, is a liar! ♦
He said that, every morning since the
advent of the cold weather, I had called
in at the corner pub to drink large quan-
tities of rum. That was true. But when
he said that I was
so addicted to it
that I was quite in-
capable of passing ;
the bar, he lied 1
foully.
It hasn’t got the
better of me! I
made a resolution «
this morning, and.
walked straight
past that hotel as
though it had not
the slightest attrac-
tion for me.
There was a
dreary, cold fog on
the street, too. And
I caught a glimpse
of Harry and Ben
in the bar, and
Harry was singing
already. But I
stuck to my reso-
lution.
Thus having fore-
gone my rum this
morning, I feel
quite satisfied as to
my supremacy. But,
you take it from
me, I’m going to
“Be un a pedigreed goal, Willun laad? "
"No fear, cap'n. He s a full-blooded billy.”
make up for it to-morrow!
T. W. N.
•j*
Too Much.
“Reckless” Jack shivered at the scene
before him. His arm was violently
wrenched and his coat was almost torn
f rom his back. He must make a quick
decision.
Never before had he fled in the face
of danger. In the darkest wilds of Africa
he had struggled, unarmed, with six
gorillas—-and liked it., He had plunged
his hand in a lion’s mouth to retrieve a
box of matches. He had lighted his
cigar before shooting the two infuriated
lionesses that were springing on him.
But this.. .“Reckless” took to his heels
and ran for dear life. No women’s bar-
gain sales for him!
S. Esq,
•i* *f* *f* *J*
The Big Chance.
As he stared at
the cards, his fingers
'an nervously
through his unkempt
hair. His eyes were
troubled, his brow
lined. His whole
appearance was typi-
cal of a young, dis-
sipated gambler.
He gazed furtively
around the circle of
players, trying to
read information in
their faces. Then
he stared at his
cards. Were they
worth betting on?
If he won he
would regain every-
thing he had lost
through that disas-
trous evening. But
if he lost he would
be penniless; he
would even have to walk home.
That would be terrible. For once he
began to think prudently. And he was
just on the verge of withdrawing when a
voice broke in on his meditation;
“Well, aren’t you going to bet?”
Prudence faded into the background.
The old gambling spirit arose in him,
reckless, resurgent, insuppressible.
“Yes, I’ll bet!” he cried.
And with a desperate gesture he hurled
his last tuppence on the table.
Nat.
“From Colombo his wile cabled that she had
been robbed of her money and would have
to return. He cabled her £lOO to enable her
to continue her trip. ’’ —“ Telegraph.”
Giving her something to go on with.
Glimpses at the Globe.
XIV. —Hounded Out of Hollywood.
In Hollywood you’re nothing unless
you’re a star.
I was sitting in a cafe when a young
woman came up to me.
“ ’Scuse me, Mr. Gable, but woodja
mind giving me y’r autograph?”
“Sorry,” I said. “I’m afraid you’ve
made a mistake. My name’s”
“Oh, Mr. Gable,” she broke in. “As
if I don’t know you. Why, I’ve seen
every picture you ever made. Come on,
just a little line.”
“But I tell you I’m not”
“Be a sport, big boy.” She jabbed a
fountain-pen at me. I signed. There
was a wild rush. A sea of autograph-
books surged up around me, supported
by a battery of fountain-pens.
Signing steadily, I at last reached the
door, and made a getaway.
I hurried into another cafe.
“Sorry to disturb you,” said a man
coming up to me, “but Mr. Zukor wants
to see you right away.”
Ah! A chance for a private interview
with a movie Czar. I hastened to
Adolph Zukor’s office.
“Mr. Zukor’s engaged,” said the typist.
“I can put y’ down for two minutes at
three o’clock Friday week.”
“But he sent for me,” I protested.
“Oh yeah?” she replied.
Just then two men came in.
“Hullo, Mr. Beery,” piped the typist.
“Go right in, Mr. Zukor's expecting
you.”
Wallace Beery went in.
The other man spotted me. It was
the chap who’d given me the message.
“What’s the big idea?” I asked him.
“Sorry, Mr. Colman,” he replied. “A
silly mistake of mine. I always get you
two mixed up.”
I wasn’t sure of the correct Colman-
ish answer to this, so I took the prof-
fered cigar and stalked out.
I was passing the first restaurant again
when a female voice shrieked out:
“There he goes. The big still’. Kidded
me he was Clark Gable.” It was the
autograph girl.
She was leading an indignant rush in
my direction when a telegraph boy
thrust an envelope into ray hand and
said loudly and importantly:
“Wire for you, Mr. Chevalier.”
The crowd changed its mood imme-
diately.
“Maureece!” they murmured. “He
will have his little joke.”
Taking advantage of this I slipped
into the cafe.
They followed.
“Waiter,” I shouted. “Champagne for
everyone in the place, and charge it up
to Charlie Chaplin.”
A woman who was sitting alone at a
corner table looked towards hie with a
haughty stare.
“Waiter,” I cried,
“Sir.”
“You can leave Miss Garbo out of it.”
“Yes, sir.”
At this Greta rose and left the room.
“I t’ink I go ’ome,” she murmured.
All eyes were on her as she passed
through the door. Seizing the oppor-
tunity I slipped out the back way.
“A single to New York,” I said when
I reached the station.
“Right,” said the ticket clerk. “Excuse
me,” he added, “but aren’t you Robert
Montgomery?”
“No,” I hissed. “As a matter of fact
I’m Shirley Temple, off for a quiet holi-
day. Keep it under the hat.”
“0.K., kid,” he replied.
Just then my train came in.
Jasby.
Redeeming Feature.
The rain keeps pouring down and down,
As if all things on earth ’twill drown.
I feel despondent and I curse ;
Yet, I reflect, things might he worse.
It may be madd’ning, locked indoors,
Watching the moisture as it pours,
Still falling down relentlessly ;
Vet would I to the doctor flee
With speed that well might win a cup
If I saw rain start pouring up.
HAMER.
Loss.
“The old man was bitter about women. At
67 he had married Ruth, a young woman,
and she left him.” — “Sun.”
Once he loved Ruth. Awhile he had
her;
But she was young and he was tooth-
less.
Her falseness bit him like an adder,
And since she’s gone he’s cold and
R uthless.
M.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Seaplane and pilot wanted to co-operate with
Port Stephens oyster-farmer in prospecting for
natural oyster beds (dredge-beds); also to photo-
graph and map existing dredge-beds and sell
information to owners. —7034.
Business woman (40), good organiser, capable
of handling staff, inter-State exp. as drapery
buyer, requires position, N.S.W. or Q. pre-
ferred. —6929.
Elderly man, Sydney, requires position, light
duties. —6995.
Educated, refined pensioner, Q. (male), would
caretake anywhere, farm, yacht, house or fac-
tory, in exchange for quarters and pocket
money. Refs. —6930.
To buy Music Study in Germany, by Amy
Fay.—6934.
To buy copy of Tom Collins’s Such Is Life.
—7013.
To buy book dealing with South Sea labor
trade by Douglas Rennie. —7039.
Whereabouts of Roy Shields; when last
heard of was overseer at Willurah, Booroorban,
Riverina (N.S.W.), in 1926. —6972.
Words of Australian verse beginning: —
t was travelling once with sheep
And my mate was fast asleep.
—6955.
Words of poem “The Coachman’s Tale,”
beginning—
As he flicked the flies from Marigold
And flattered and fondled Pharaoh.
—6986.
Information Sought.
(1) Who is middleweight champion boxer of
the world ? (2) From whom and when and
where did he win the title ? (3) Is it true that
Australian middleweight champion Fred Hen-
neberry is going to fight him in London or
Paris ? —7012.
(1) and ,(2) According to the Europeans,
Marcel Thil. But the New York Boxing Com-
mission claims-that Terry Yarosz won the title
when he defeated Vince Dundee at Pittsburgh
on September IT last. (3) Nothing has been
arranged, and Henneberry’s departure front
Australia has beqn postponed.
* * X *
Is there any ground for believing that the
British race has deteriorated physically during
the last 1000 years? —6860.
There is no evidence of racial deterioration ;
statistics over the last century indicate the
reverse as regards health and the expectation
of life. In height there is no appreciable
change, though wars, pestilences and famines
coincide with a lowered national stature that
Nature gradually equalises. From age records
for the period 1850 to 1930, the expectation of
life has increased from 40 to about 60 years.
Improved hygiene, official control over in-
fectious disease and the dissemination of know-
ledge in health matters are factors that in-
fluence this result.
* * * *
Am I entitled to draw a gratuity bond in
respect to my brother, who died on active
service? I am his only living relative.- —6717.
A war gratuity may be paid to any person
who is beneficially entitled under the will of a
deceased soldier to any part of his estate
or would, if the deceased had died intestate,
have been entitled to a share in the distri-
bution of his estate, and who ' is either the
widow or a child, parent, step-parent, foster-
parent or dependant of the deceased. If you
were not dependent on deceased you have no
claim.
* * * - i\i
Two of us hold a mining lease in N.S.W.
and put a chap finding and following a leader
thereon, each paying him £1 per week with an
understanding that he should rank as partner
on “thirds.” Is it necessary to insure him
under the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act ?
—6908.
It has been held in Ellis v. Joseph Ellis and
Co., 7 W.C.C. 97, that a partner who is in
receipt of remuneration from the other partners
does not thereby become a worker of those
partners ; therefore insurance is not com-
pulsory.
* :;< *
(1) Must a person be licensed before he can
start in business in Queensland as a stock and
station agent ? (2) If so, procedure necessary
to obtain a license ? (3) Are rates of com-
mission regulated ? —6636.
(1) Yes; he must be licensed as a commis-
sion agent. (2) A form of application sup-
ported by five testimonials as to character and
a fidelity bond to the value of £500 or other
prescribed security must be lodged with the
Clerk of Petty Sessions in the district in which
the applicant desires to trade. (3) Not yet.
Further information may be obtained from the
Clerk of Petty Sessions, Cloncurry, or the
Registrar of Auctioneers and Commission
Agents, Department of Justice, Brisbane.
* * * *
(1) When is the geological and geophysical
survey of N. Australia, directed by Herbert
Gepp, to start ? (2) Any chance of employ-
ment as a member of the survey party ? (3)
Address to write to for information about em-
ployment ? —7021.
(1) It commenced operations at the begin-
ning of April last. (2) The technical staff,
comprising geologists, geophysicists and drafts-
men, has been appointed. The employment of
non-technical staff, such as cook-camp-keeper
and motor-driver-mechanic, laborers, etc., is in
the hands of the respective leaders of the
Queensland, Northern Territory and Westralian
parties, preference being given to residents in
those areas. The number of employees re-
quired for the present has been engaged. (3)
You could register your name, giving Tull par-
ticulars of experience, with the secretary of the
survey, Prime Minister’s Department, Canberra.
* * * *
(1) A resident of N.S.W. wins £SOO at the
races. Is this taxable income in N.S.W.? (2)
A resident of N.S.W. runs a horse and wins
£SOO as prize-money. Is this taxable income in
N.S.W. ? (3) A resident of N.S.W. wins
£IOOO in a lottery in another State and £IOOO
in a N.S.W. lottery. Taxable income in
N.S.W. f—6842.
(1) Depends on circumstances. If the tax-
payer is considered to be carrying on the
business of racing, the profits made would be
correctly taxable, and, subject to the provisions
of the Act, losses made will be allowed as a
deduction. If, however, racing is not a busi-
ness and merely a hobby, the amounts in ques-
tion would not be taxable. (2) The position
in this case is similar. (3) Lottery winnings
are not subject to either Federal or State
taxes.
* * * *
(1) Districts in N.S.W. in which Buddha
sandalwood and liquorice root can he found ?
(2) Have they commercial value ? (3) If so.
what merchants or manufacturers are engaged
in the treatment of the raw products? (4) To
what use are they put ? —6863.
(1) and (3) Write to S. A. Bums, Miller and
Mount streets, Pyrmont, and Kosnala and Cos.,
44 Brown-street, Newtown, for information as
to Buddha sandalwood, and to Elliotts and
Australian Drugs, Ltd., O’Connell-street, or
Parke, Davis and Cos., Rosebery—all Sydney —
for information as to liquorice root. (2) Yes,
but the cutting of Buddha on Crown lands is
prohibited in N.S.W., and the wood is seldom
on the market. (4) Buddha sandalwood is used
for cabinet work, boxes, brushes and fancy or
ornamental goods generally. Liquorice root
is used medicinally.
**. * *
(I) How many persons, male and female,
horn in Italy are there in the various Aus-
tralian States and the whole of Australia ? (2)
Same information regarding persons of Italian
nationality in Australia ? —6854.
(1) N.S.W.. 4585 males, 1727 females, total
6312; Vic., 4423 and 1418, total 5841; QTand,
6005 and 2338, total 8343 ; South Aus., 1203
and 286, total 1489; Westralia, 3662 and 901,
total 4563; Tas., 85 and 7, total 92; F.C.T.,
12 and 4, total 16; Northern Territory, 37
males; Australia 20,012 and 6681, total 26,693.
(2) N.S.W., 3380 and 1079, total 4459; Vic.,
3545 and 963, total 4508; QTand, 3542 and
941, total 4483 ; South Aus., 890 and 166, total
1056; Westralia, 2599 and 432, total 3031;
Tas., 73 and 7, total 80; F.C.T., 7 and 2,
total 9; Northern Territory, 32 males; Aus-
tralia, 14.068 and '3590, total 17,658. All are
1933 census figures.
* * * *
What is the principle of Dreyer’s vaccine, as
used in treatment of tuberculosis ? —6703.
The vaccine as introduced by Prof. Georges
Dreyer (Oxford) in 1923 is a modification of
Koch’s tuberculin, which was first prepared in
1890. The tubercle bacillus differs from the
majority of germs in having a resistant coating
of fatty, material. In the preparation of the
Dreyer vaccine the principle involved is the
extraction of this fatty matter from the bacilli,
the “de-fatted” germs being then used as a
vaccine.' The latter is still on trial ; present
results are somewhat discouraging in cases of
pulmonary tuberculosis. Surgical tuberculosis
involving gland affections, etc., responds well
to the treatment.
H* V H*
What is colitis ; its cause and treatment ?
—6994, ,
Colitis is the medical term for a catarrhal
inflammation of the bowel which may be
acute, chronic' or ulcerative. In acute catarrhal
colitis the large bowel is not involved alone,
the lesion being but part of a general gastro-
enteritis. The causes are improper diet, especi-
ally in the case of children, the eating of unripe
fruit, and bacterial toxins . generated in contami-
nated foods. Pending examination by a quali-
fied man, a non-irritating diet of milk and
limewater, with egg albumen, arrowroot, corn-
flour, etc., is indicated : in severe cases rest in
bed is imperative. Meanwhile, constipation
must be guarded against by small repeated
doses of castor oil over a short period, fol-
lowed by the regular use of liquid paraffin as a
laxative.
H* , H* r . 'Hi
(1) Formula of. ointment to eliminate dan-
druff from scalp ? (2) Does acidity contribute
to the condition ? —6985.
(1) Salicylic acid ,10 grains, precipitated
sulphur 15 grains, almond oil 2 drachms, oil
of bergamot TO minims, 1 yellow vaseline to 1
ounce. Rub ( into the hair roots overnight
twice weekly,, and shampoo in the morning
with coal-tar, soap and hot water. (2) The
nervous, uric-acid subject is inclined to dan-
druff accumulation as • suggested.
* . * *
(1) What are the bird-lice that infest parrots?
(2) Can you tell me anything about their life-
histories and control measures ? —6768.
(1) Bird-lice' are small," dorso-ventrally flat-
tened insects somewhat oval ■ in shape, usually
provided with hairs or spines. ■ They consti-
tute the suborder Mallophaga,. also, called the
biting lice, from the fact that they possess
biting mouth-parts. A species called Philop-
terus forficula .piaget, has been recorded from
the rosella. (2) No records are available as
to the life-history of The species, and it is
doubtful if it would long survive away from its
host. Control measures:' Keep perches clean,
coat with kerosene. Use insecticides on par-
rots.
% * * *
(1) / have frequently heard of a beautiful
tree-lined road from Fremantle to Perth.
What is its name? (2) Genus of trees? (3)
Species ? —6798.
There is no road from Fremantle to Perth
continuously lined with trees. ‘ Possibly you
refer to King’s Park-road, within the city of
Perth and portion of the main drive from
Fremantle to the city, which has a fine avenue
of Eucalyptus corynocalyx. There is also an-
other approach to the city from Fremantle, via
Mounts Bay-road. The section of this road
in Mounts Bay is lined with Oriental planes,
whilst there is a line of Erythrina coraldendron
along the bank.
* * * ' *
(1) What is the literal meaning of “pro
forma” ? (2) General meaning of the term
when used in invoices ? —7016.
(1) For form’s sake. (2) Subject to later
alterations or amendments; pro forma invoices
are frequently sent with goods on consignment.
H< H* H* H«
1 understand that in order to remove dirt,
stains, etc., from certain types of light-colored
clothing the articles are immersed in an oxalic-
acid bath. (1) How is the bath made up ?
(2) How long should the articles remain im-
mersed ? (3) What treatment is required after
removal from the bath ? (4) What types of
material can be successfully treated ? —6528.
(1) No formula is available for applying oxalic
acid on a general scale as a cleaner. It is a
color-remover, used principally for removing
ink-spots. Alkali, petrol or soap baths are
mostly used in the clothes-cleaning trade.
(2) Should be merely dipped up and down in
a weak solution until clean. (3) Plentiful rins-
ing in clean water, as the acid must be
thoroughly washed away. (4) Probably strong
cottons and linens, and some of the spun silks,
but it is dangerous to handle and tricky in
its action.
'I' H- H- *
(1) How can blackberry stains be removed
from a white enamel bucket ? (2) Method for
oiling stained floors ? —6552.
(1) Fill the bucket with boiling water con-
taining a handful of borax, then scrub well
with' soap and Old Dutch or similar cleanser.
If this is not effective, make a paste of whiting
and ammonia, rub well over the stains, leave
till dry, then rub off. If the enamel is cracked
the stains will have penetrated beneath the
surface and cannot be removed. (2) Clean the
floor thoroughly, and when dry paint on a
mixture of three parts good raw linseed oil
and one part turpentine. Let dry, then apply
another coating; when dry, polish with wax
of rub smooth with brush or cloth.
H= ❖ Hr
What is the lace called “point de Nice” ?
Where did it originate, and when ? —6685.
A new kind of lace evolved about fifteen
years ago by Madame Chabert Dupont. It gives
an effect similar to Venetian and Teneriffe
lace, but its technique is quite different.
Madame Dupont was originally a teacher of
drawing at Valenciennes, but during the war
she left there and became a teacher at the
Lycee of Nice. Here she learned that the
Prince of Monaco was anxious to give a fillip
to the art of lace-making, and also to direct
it into more modern channels. She was com-
missioned by him to make designs for this
project, and he stated a preference for marine
flora and fauna, so the designs embodied shell-
fish, starfish, seaweed, etc. When she wished
to execute her own designs she found that she
knew nothing of the processes of lace-making,
and she devised a new technique, A cloth-
stitch is made quite coarsely, like a sieve. On
to this the design is woven. Most lace is a
repetition of small motifs, but point de Nice
is a complete composition.
* * *.
(1) Value of the yellow-brown and blue 9 d.
N.S.W. stamp bearing the names of the Aus-
tralian States on each side ? (2) Particulars
of the smallest stamp issued in Australia ? —•
6700.
(1) Catalogued at 9d.; actual value, about
3d. A similar stamp issued in Queensland is
catalogued at from 2s. to 5s. These are dis-
tinguishable by the name of the State in blue
letters, placed at the foot. (2) The halfpenny
of Victoria, issued in 1873 in various shades
of rose, and in 1901 in green. This measures
about 7-16in. x Jin. A halfpenny stamp of
the same dimensions and somewhat similar
design was issued in South Australia in 1883
in various shades of brown. Both stamps show
a profile of Queen Victoria, with the name of
the State at the top and “Halfpenny” at the
bottom.
* * * *
(1) Materials required for painting in oil
colors ? (2) Process of painting in oils ? —6988.
(1) Prepared canvas, mounted on a stretcher
or glued down on ply-wood; oil paints in
tubes; brushes, hog hair and sable; a palette
and palette knife; turpentine; linseed oil;
meglip and charcoal. (2) The subject is
sketched on the canvas in charcoal, then out-
lined with a sable brush, thin mixtures of turps
and blue and turps and rose madder being
used for the cold and warm colors respectively.
The main masses of color are painted in next,
care being taken to keep the right tonal values
between the lightest white and the darkest
black. A mixture of one part linseed oil,
two parts of turpentine, with the addition of a
little megilp, is suitable for thinning the colors,
and as a general rule the light tones are laid
in with thick, almost undiluted pigment, while
the dark tones are thinned down as much as
possible. Brushes after use are rinsed in tur-
pentine and wiped with old rag.
Information Supplied.
6549. —To treat duck skins for use as decoys,
remove entrails from dead ducks; open pas-
sage to brain, which should be scooped through
the mouth; introduce into the cavities of
skull and whole body some mixture of alum
and saltpetre (lib. alum to jib. saltpetre), put-
ting some through gullet and whole length of
neck; then hang in cool, airy place, first by
the feet, and afterwards by thread or string
through under-bill mandible, till there is no
smell. After it is well dried, clean out any
loose mixture, fill body with wool, cotton-
wool or any soft substance, and pack smooth
with paper. —A.3.
* * *• *
Re the source of the Burdekin River in
North Queensland (B. 24/4/’35). The Burde-
kin rises in the vicinity of Georgetown, 200
miles north of the railway line from Towns-
ville to Cloncurry. Tire Belyando rises near
Alpha, on the line which runs from Rock-
hampton to Longreach. These two lines are
roughly 300 miles apart. The Belyando is a
tributary of the Suttor, which is in' turn
a tributary of the Burdekin, the junction
taking place after the latter has traversed some
300 miles of its course.—S. C.
Brief Answers.
P.T.H.: See the plan of shearing shed
available on application from Dalgety and Co.,
Adelaide. The Department of Agriculture,
Adelaide, has a plan of a walk-in sheep dip,
and a copy can be procured at a small charge.
. v.. W.J.B.: Norma Shearer played with Ramon
Novarro in the M.-G.-M. production ‘The
Student Prince”... .A.W.: Such an arrange-
ment would not be made by the P. and O. Co.,
and there will be little possibility of your obtain-
ing a position on any vessels of other ship-
ping cos S.K.: Napier, Gardiner and Co.,
79 Pitt-street, Sydney J.D.H.: Practical
Boat Building for Amateurs, illustrated by
Adrian Neison (16s.), Simple Boat-Building
(7s. 6d.), Building a Little Ship, by ' Johnston
(9s.), Small Boat Building for the Amateur,
by Monk (16s.) J.E.L.: Scott’s Last Expedi-
tion (11s. 3d.) and The Great White South,
or With Scott in the Antarctic, by Ponting
(8s. 6d.), and Heart of the Antarctic South, the
Story of the 1914-1917 Expedition, by Shackle-
ton (7s. 6d.). Books dealing with Amundsen’s
journey to the South Pole appear to be out of
print... .A.B.: (1) Yes, since the money-
order must be signed by the person to whom
it is payable before payment. (2) Six years.
(3) No. (4) Yes, if acknowledgment is in
writing signed by the debtor. (5) No....
H.E.W.: Cannot divulge a private address with-
out the owner’s permission. A letter care of
The Bulletin will find him....A.W,: (1) The
six wives of Henry VIII. were Catherine of
Aragon, Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, Anne of
Cleves, Catherine Howard and Catherine Parr.
(2) Anne Hathaway was the wife of Shak-
speare... .H.H.L.: Whitaker’s Almanack for
1935 ranks them thus: London (Greater)
8,202,818, New York 6,930,446, Tokio
5,312,000, Berlin 4,000,000, Chicago 3,376,438,
Shanghai 3,200,000, Paris 2,871,039, Moscow
2,800,000, Leningrad 2,783,600, Osaka 2,600,000,
Buenos Aires 2,215,000, Philadelphia 1,950,961.
M.A.T.: Write Secretary, R.S.S.I.L.A.,
Anzac House, 151 Collins-street, Melbourne.
. ...W.R.B.: Yes. A banker is justified in.
disclosing the state of a customer’s account on
a reasonable and proper occasion J.H.:
Unless the council agreed to take care of the
horse as well as to supply agistment, it is not
liable....J.B.: (1) Yes. (2) (a) No innkeeper
is responsible for any such loss to a greater
amount than £20, unless the property has been
stolen, lost or injured through the negligence
of the innkeeper or his servants or the property
has been deposited with the innkeeper expressly
for safe custody. ( b ) No. (3) The publican
may keep the register wherever he desires
F. : (1) No date has been fixed. (2) Annual
contribution from £3 to £10. Further levies
not exceeding £10 at any one time, such levies
not to exceed £50 during whole period of
practice, may be made. Amount of first con-
tribution and levy is not yet fixed H.N.L.:
The specimen referred to is a scink lizard
(Lygosoma sp.). These serpent-like lizards,
which can make but slight use of their limbs
for progression, reside mostly under stones and
logs, where they find small insects J.W.H.:
Get in touch with Non-Electric Refrigerators,
462 Willoughby-road, Willoughby (N.S.W.)....
G. Every person in business is required
to lodge a return to the Taxation Department,
regardless of amount of income... .W.N. (Bal-
lina): Send your full name and postal address.
. .. .R.A.B.: Do not know of any French pub-
lication willing to undertake such commissions.
Get in touch with the Pathfinders’ League,
1017 Sturt-street, Ballarat, which exists for the
purpose, or write direct to the Correspondence
Scolaire International Bureau Frangais, Musee
Pedagogique, 29 Rue d’Ulm, Paris... .C.J.N.:
Write Secretary, Air Board, Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne, for R.A.A.F. Publication No. 14,
“Citizen Air Force”... .B.B.M.: The meaning
of the abo. word “Manoora” is “a spring.”
... .J.N.: A swordfish could not be preserved
satisfactorily by injections of formalin. It may
be preserved by permanent immersion in a
4 p.c. solution, but if it is subsequently taken
out it will shrink and become distorted. For
display purposes it would be necessary to skin
the fish and mount the skin over a prepared
mould.... L.C.: If your thermometer is a
densimeter as well, it could be used for jam
by anyone with a skilled knowledge of the
composition of fruits ; if merely a ther-
mometer for high temperatures, it is of no use
in jam-making, where plain boiling only is re-
quired ... .C.H.H.: Baron Carrington arrived in
Sydney as Governor of N. S. Wales on
December 12, 1885... .C.E.W.: Get in touch
with the Registrar of Auctioneers and Com-
mission Agents, Justice Department, Brisbane.
... .D.F.O.S.: The Koatanui —Truant mare
referred to has not been registered as Floranui.
Both Truant and Standaway raced in Brisbane
in 1910, and the breeding of each appeared as
by Mozart —Rosebud. The Australian Stud
Books record several sires named Mozart, and
several mares named Rosebud. On the in-
formation supplied it is impossible to tell which
of these are referred to. You may get the in-
formation from the Keeper of the Australian
Stud Book, 6 Bligh-street, Sydney D.M.S.:
(1) J. S. Farnell was Minister for Lands in
N.S.W. in 1884. (2) The N.S.W. “Hansard”
commenced publication in 1879... .A.D.:
The ship Ann Duthie arrived at Sydney on
December 9, 1868, on its first voyage to
Sydney D.H.C.: Write to A. M. Morrison,
Maronan, Oorindi (Q.), Fisher and Taylor,
Castle Hill (N.S.W..), Kinneir Tarte, Narra-
been (N.S.W.), A. S. Davidson, Gordon-
road, Bardon (Q.), or L. M. Dunne, Tingalpa
(Q.) W.H.C.: In order to retain nitrogen,
the chief chemical of meat, in the diet, all the
legumes are freely used on that meatless day;
peas, beans and lentils are rich in nitrogen, and
are much used in vegetarian diets....F.J.L.:
Buy a small tube of artists’ flake-white oil paint,
clean the edges of the patch and the place
from which it has broken, and when quite dry
smear both broken surfaces with plenty of the
paint. Press the patch into position and
smooth off surplus paint inside and out. If
the patch is likely to fall or become displaced,
bind it in position with soft rag. Should be
given at least a week to dry ; longer is better.
. ...R.S.S.: Breeders of West Highland white
terriers who exhibited at the last R.A.S. Show
in Sydney were: Mrs. E. Burns, 31 Berith-
street, Wentworthville, Mrs. J. Chard, 27
Barcoo-street, Roseville, C. H. Slade, 4 Wood-
side-avenue, East Burwood (all N.S.W.), Mrs.
A. C. Davis, Harion Hills, Hodgson-street,
Kew, and Mrs. I. McCracken, Moorabbin-
road, Cheltenham (both Vic.)... .T.C.M.C.:
(!) Write Town Clerk, Sydney Municipal
Council, Town Hall, Sydney. (2) Write Secre-
tary, Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board,
341 Pitt-street, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


Call
CcoSks
82r
mifVKKfS
m
W
m
Ccw fecmbincd OlAlbondMctcr Fares.
Famous visiters from all parts cf fee
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares .
jafo’
a sure voaxmv^
can be prevented by
tke regular use of
{uticura
SOAP
(uticura
Ba\j (uticura Todrn)
ķ
Starts June 6
Mighty
RED
SPOT
ĸ
m
m
11
xm
Everything Reduced
Everything throughout the Store
reduced (excepting £3/3/-Tailoring,
Tobacco and a few proprietary
lines) by at least
10%
That, of course, is merely
a general basis, for huge
stocks are reduced even
as low as, and under,
HALF PRICE
Men’s
SBITS-to-MEASURE
fX»9
(Formerly £4/12/6)
HERE —at this extraordinary low
price you obtain Murdoch's
unrivalled Suit Craftsmanship; the
skill which enables the suit, by means of
the vital inner workmanship, the linings
and finishing that make it, keep perfect
styling after a long period of wear.
Cut from pure wool Worsteds in scores
of the latest patterns. Also Indigo dye
Serges. Styled as illustration.
- WRITE FOR PATTERNS ,
Desk “Y,”
Murdoch’s. Limited,
Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney. i
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me patterns of i
Suits to Measure, Sale-priced at £3/3/-,
£3/8/9, £3/14/9, £4/2/9, £4/18/9, £5/12/0, 1
£6/5/0, £O/15/-. (Cross out prices not
required.) Do you require Serges? I
Name ; |
Address I
SThe SALE SPECIALS-
-21- Travel Rugs at .... 14/6
12/6 Men’s Shoes for . . . 10/6
21/- Men’s Felt Hats at . . 13/11
We pay freight. Kindly address letters to Desk “Y.”
SEND FOR THE BIG SAFE CATALOGUE—FREE.
MURDOCH’S LTD.,
Park and
George Sts..
SYDNEY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.M.L.: Not a satisfying yarn... .L.J.G.:
Both bushranging yarns fall short....
Belinda : Four thousand words —too much for
a beer party E.M.E.: Your birdcalls seem
more suitable for broadcasting than for
our pages. .. .M.G.: If a diver is foolish
enough to trust his life to untrained native
attendants he deserves no sympathy... .D.E.:
The old reprobate!... .R.W.H.: Doesn’t
appeal J.W.McC.: Not our style, but worth
a try elsewhere P.K.P.: Joe’s “susancide”
brought forth neither tears nor smiles....
H.K.W.; Too slight... .A.H.: Strains after
effects it falls far short of achieving..,.
W.A.S.C.; So that’s what really happened to
the “Eye of Buddha”? Think of all the ink
that has been wasted trying to support other
theories.... Lever: A history of Australian
hangmen? No, thanks; try a Sunday‘paper.
.. . .R.G.C.: The article would have only a
limited appeal... .K.J.M.: It doesn’t miss by
much... .E.W.C.: It is too indefinite
L.R.S.: Artificial and unconvincing... .W.J.:
A film plot, even to the “wise-guy” ending.,..
Chetee: Glad Sally married him E.F.G.: It
was Twain (wasn’t it?) who said the report of
his death had been greatly exaggerated. “Kaloa”
at least introduced a variant —he restored two
good professors to life.... A.T.P.: None suit-
able... .D.H.M.: There’s good material in it.
Suggest you shorten it and try again E.M.;
Gregson is overdrawn, and without him the
yarn breaks down C.A.8.: “Evening Star”
had one or two bright moments, but on the
whole its light was faint and flickering....
A.G.J.: No sympathy for Miss Masterone.
At her age she should not have hesitated
" P E.Z.: “Romance, or Board and Residence.”
Surely you’re not suggesting they’re synony-
mous terms? ... .E.8.G.: There’s nothing about
it to keep the interest from flagging.. . .F.K.F.:
Not sufficiently amusing... .A.J.P.: Came
within striking distance... . M.T.: “So ends
my first story.” Well, better luck next time.
. ...E.R.R.: Sentiment rather too thick. Find
it difficult to picture wattles holding “their
helpless arms towards her as captive maidens
pleading their lives” A.R.; Girl all right;
man unconvincing G.T.: No; the coach
still fails to make the grade E.M.F.; Solo-
mon should hardly be the one to expose a
bigamist... .J.E.C.: We don’t believe in men
like Dodd, and we don’t like pickled corpses.
.... Bellerive: Ah, memory, what a thing
it is! :
.... D.D.: Doesn’t get beyond direct descrip-
tion—verse needs to M.R.; “June 18” met
its Waterloo... .Roy G.: None in the stack
J Lilly up to scratch, but hints of sparks in all
of them. Try emptying yourself into one in-
stead of losing yourself in a lot A.D.8.:
All too thin... .P.L.A.L.; Joins all the other
poor swagmen lying dead in countless pages of
unpublished verse J.A.C.: It may be an
informative account of a droving trip from
the N.T. to Orient (Q.), but it doesn’t make
what we ’should call “a piece of poetry.” A
sample:—
J.S.A.: From the classical treatment of
“Hey-Diddle-Diddle” one line:
A cow, translated from her natural seat.
....N.K.: Resembles too many other “night
pieces” A.W.D’O.: Neatly done, but con-
veys little R.8.Y.: “We Say Adieu.” We
do K.E.J.C.: Bumps very much, says very
little L.H.S.: Just don’t impress....
R.McN.: Last couple of lines excellent, but the
rest tedious R.H.: Sentiment sound, but
you say nothing in support of it Velie; You
don’t make much of either topic, though both
are g00d... .E. 5.8.; It may be true that there
are no bills in Heaven, but what concerns us
more is that there is no lilt in your verses....
R.M.H.: “Would you give me your opinion
whether it is worth my time trying to write
poems?” On the effort you submit, no; still,
you might yet write readable verse if you paid
more attention to technique T.R.: A tink-
ling pastoral that doesn’t get past... .M.L.8.:
There’s too much prosiness in your rhymes.
T.W.N.; No snap in it.., .L.G.H.: You
take a long time to establish a not very con-
vincing proposition, i. .1.W.: Quite out of our
line P.SJ.: We’ve read many worse jingles,
but the theme is hackneyed. Why not reach
out for a flesh-and-blcrod Matilda? ... .N.T.:
It hardly rises out of the rut... .C.E.J.: No
use to us.. ..C.C.: No space for 120 lines of
rhymed lament about the deadliness of prison
life... .T.E.M.: “Can some of your staff touch
up a libretto I have written, in which the God
of Wisdom falls in love with the Goddess of
Youth, and in which poets, gipsies, nautch-
girls and astrologers appear to sing up then-
love?” No, we haven’t anyone who would
undertake that j0b...,C.K.: The attempt to
rhyme “vistas” with “whispers” isn’t your
worst fault.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.D.: Your mountain crag looks like the
bow of a boat, but the tassels on the moun-
taineer’s scarf are quite attractive R.H.C.:
Those gags have all appeared in New York
“Life” and “Passing Show.” We want original
work or nothing... .A.P.H.: Your tramp
seems to be balancing himself on one elbow.
It’s probably a good trick, but it doesn’t look
natural J.E.M.: Some artists can make a
blob of color look like a splash of light.
You merely make it look like a splash of ink.
... ,BJ.: Immature, but with a certain amount
of promise. Keep trying K.L.S.: Our
idea of the ideal woman does not include bottle
legs S.T.: Two-figure sketches definitely
out. Try drawing humorous situations....
A.D.F.: Figures too wooden. Put more life
into them if you want them to walk in these
pages Alpha: No more alimony jokes,
please D.A.; Use a pen not a pot-stick.
RECOLLECTIONS OP AN OLD BOARDING-HOUSE.
Well I do remember,
Though thirty years or more,
Mrs. Clinton’s Boarding-house
With the horseshoe on the door,
Mary Ann, the busy cook,
The cellar and the kegs.
The garlic German sausage,
And the vaccinated eggs.
Well I do remember
When boarder Jones did scoop
The carcase of a cockroach
From out a bowl of soup.
The maid we called Matilda,
A lass of twenty-one
Who developed a devotion
For Mrs. Clinton’s son.
The bulldog fierce and sulky.
The billygoat old Jack,
Which butted Tim the yardman
In the middle of the back.
Well do I remember
Old Murphy who did' dare
To render on his trombone
“Sweet Spirit, Hear My Prayer.”
We passed the town of Bonlia, the dry spot of the
west;
And coming to the Hamilton we struck some
blooming pests.
Mosquitoes by the millions that buzzed the whole
night long
And flies that bunged your eyes up soon as the
sun had gone.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Japanese delegation-leader Sato in
an address at Melbourne University said
Japanese manufactures are not necessarily
shoddy because they are cheap. The
Westernisation of Japan has led to the
girls wanting new dresses every three
months instead of wearing the kimonos
which had been handed down for genera-
tions and to the realisation that it is
uneconomic to buy trousers for a boy of
10 which he would outgrow in a year.
Mr. Sato mentions that the Japanese
trade-unions are waking up, and will
probably make demands which may
alter the whole fabric of Japanese
industrialism.
* * * *
“G.M.”: While Commonwealth and
States are scratching for further sources
of taxation, they might glance back at
the Internal Revenue returns in not-so-
Old England. The Englishman who desires
to broadcast his snobbery by painting
armorial bearings on his car and emboss-
ing them on his notepaper has to take
out a license and pay for the privilege.
The climber who forces his employees to
wear livery is also taxed. Here in Aus-
tralia, anybody who chooses may stamp
all his possessions with bunyips rampant
or wombats recumbent and set them off
with a Latin quotation, or trick out his
chauffeur or his gardener like a comic-
opera super., without its costing him a
cent.
* * sic *
“G. Trotter”: Why do the trustees of
the Melbourne National Gallery per-
petuate the foolishness of exhibiting
Rodin’s “Minerve sans casque”? Rodin
never intended it to be “sans casque ” at
all. His preliminary drawings—still ex-
tant, I am assured—show Minerva wear-
ing a strikingly designed helmet, and this
helmet, being part of the original s:heme,
should naturally be part of the finished
bust. Rodin’s idea was a marble bust
with a bronze helmet, but for some
reason or other he failed to have the
helmet made by a metal craftsman, and
the Gallery acquired a work which is
manifestly as unfinished as a half-painted
canvas. At the cost of a few pounds a
capable Parisian artisf in metal work
could supply the missing helmet. The
French authorities would certainly give
every assistance with the designs.
❖
Annette Kellerman drops a line:
I have been invited by the Mayor of Atlantic
City to be the guest of honor for the opening
of the season this summer —a good deal, be-
cause there is a pageant entitled “The Evolu-
tion of the Bathing Suit.” There was a time
when the women of this fair land wore so
many clothes when they went bathing they
gave the impression of going for a ski run.
The fact that I was almost on the verge of
being incarcerated in Boston’s best prison
when I first came to the U.S.A. for wearing
what was then called an “immodest and im-
moral” costume on the beach has given me
a kind of Joan of Arc halo in the eyes of the
great American public. I have also signed up
to do some radio work. A number of my
talks are to be on my beloved Barrier Reef.
* * * *
Australians are indebted to P. W. Litch-
field, president of Goodyear Tyres, for a
very concise and interesting explanation *
of the working of the New Deal. Mr.
Litchfield attributes the misfortunes of
his country to booms—
a war-period boom and a boom which
followed the war, during which people
tried to make fortunes without wanting
to work for them, and enjoyed a period
of drunken prosperity which proved to be
fictitious.
He says restriction of cotton production
has been a failure, since other countries
have grown more, but “President Roose-
velt believes in trying everything once.”
So do Australian politicians. Only their
“once” means always in the case of loan
works “to absorb the unemployed,” who
never are and never can be thus
“absorbed.”
* * * *
“Marlow”: A Sydney journal recently
referred to the race for the King’s Cup
as the biggest rowing event in the world.
I dispute the statement, and enter the
Head-of-the-Thames race, founded 10
years ago by Steve Fairbairn, and won
nine times by the London R.C. It is
rowed over the University boatrace
course of three miles two furlongs, but
in the opposite direction—from Mort-
lake to Putney. The first year there
were 25 crews. This year 126 started,
The crews were sent off at intervals of
10 seconds, and the time test ensured a
number of crews racing neck and neck
at the finish. London won in 19min.
41sec., Jesus College, Cambridge, Fair-
bairn’s old college, being second, 19sec.
later.


HOOD DRESSING
Obtainable at all Wholesalers.
«SILVER
EUGt”
tfauAebt&v
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As!{ for “Raybestos” which has proved itself over many years of service ,
RAYBESTOS-BfLA'O LTD., lON DON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE. VIC.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1934
(SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to <xo and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from Tiif Bulletin,
2 M <;eon»e Ml ret SVi'lwv- 111 "Vti-4
The Steering Column.
PAST AND PRESENT PERFORMANCE
COMPARED.
WHAT THE ARMSTRONG TEST ENGINE PROVES.
B Y FRED BERRY.
C NORMOUS advances have been made in both power and
road performance of cars when compared with the
standards of even five years ago. To-day, the majority of
touring cars develop from 60 to 100 brake-horsepower without
vibration or fuss, permitting of terrific acceleration and splendid
hill-climbing, yet are tractable and smooth when operated at
low speeds—an extremely happy combination
Older models, except perhaps “hotted-
up” racing jobs, were relatively poor in
both road performance and acceleration,
whilst driving over hilly country involved
considerable use of the gear lever.
Furthermore, the expensive freak sport-
ing cars could only be bought, main-
tained and driven by a small band of
Layout of the Armstrong variable compression test plant installed in Shell Co.
laboratory, showing rev. counter, brake-horsepower indicator, dynamometer, ignition
and fuel controls, and thermometers in water and air lines.
super-enthusiasts who had selected
motor-racing and competition driving as
a hobby.
The average citizen to-day is not par-
ticularly interested in freak cars or stunt
performances. He purchases a car for
transport purposes, and seeks, above all
things, ease of control, comfort,
economy, reliability and performance,
substantially in that order. Upon these
subjects, comprehensive road tests con-
ducted by The Bulletin supply motor-
ists with a wealth of valuable data; but,
as drivers are now far more motor-
minded than hitherto, many queries are
received as to the reason for wide differ-
ences in performance shown by cars of
similar dimensions or specifications.
To keen students of motoring this ques-
tion is one of absorbing interest, for a
correct reply involves consideration of
every technical advance made in automo-
bile design during recent years.
Fundamentally the car engine is the
same as that used in the early stages of
motoring, but practical experiment and
laboratory research have been responsible
for refinements and modifications in
design that collectively have wrought a
remarkable change.
Improving the Breed.
Racing motors have been driven to
destruction in endeavors to locate in-
herent faults, but, basically, the chap re-
sponsible for improved performance is
the research engineer, who has consis-
tently collected and studied data upon
the influence of compression ratios, com-
bustion-chamber design, operating tem-
peratures, ignition timing, carburettor
settings, the advantages of turbulence in
the combustion chamber, and the evolu-
tion of suitable fuels to accommodate
successive developments in design.
It is not possible to deal with these
different factors individually, for almost
invariably an alteration in any one has
an important reaction upon other essen-
tial features. For instance, combustion-
chamber design, compression ratio, igni-
tion point and fuel used must be
intimately connected so far as power and
performance are concerned.
Compression ratio, which has risen
from 4 to 1 in old-type engines to 7.5 to
1 in modern high-efficiency types, has
been the subject of thoroughgoing re-
search. Ricardo, one of the world’s lead-
ing authorities upon high-speed internal-
combustion motors, describes how such
research has been conducted: “A fuel
was selected which in the variable-com-
pression engine was known to detonate
with a compression ratio of, say, 5 to 1.
The compression was first set at 4 to 1,
and the engine run full out at a .constant
speed. Compression was then gradually
increased and behavior of the engine
noted. As the compression rose to 4.7
to 1 so did the power output, but be-
tween 4.7 and 4.9 to 1 running became
noticeably harsher, with considerable in-
crease in vibration, while at 5 to 1 the
first audible symptoms of detonation
were detected with ignition fully ad-
vanced and mixture adjusted for maxi-
mum power. At this point the motor
would run for an indefinite period at
maximum power, but slight pinking was
in evidence. If the compression ratio
were further raised to 5.1 to 1 and igni-
tion and mixture settings maintained,
detonation would increase in severity
until, after about 10 minutes, pre-igni-
tion would set in and the power would
rapidly fall away. By enriching the mix-
ture and retarding ignition point com-
pression could be raised to 5.25 to 1, but
only at great sacrifice of economy and
with no increase in power.”
Influence of Design.
On the face of the results of such
searching and accurate tests how can the
no-trouble, highly-effkient performance-
of the new cars using a 7.5 to 1 com-
pression ratio be explained? The answer
lies in combustion-chamber design, alu-
minium cylinder heads and modern fuel
specifications.
For purposes of illustration the be-
havior of two motors of similar cylinder
capacity may be compared, the old type
having compression raised by planing
heads until compression equalled that of
the modern type. Under test it would
be found that the converted engine would
not deliver an equivalent brake-horse-
power, nor could it be operated on wide
throttle opening without detonation.
Furthermore, idling would be poor,
whilst running throughout the entire
speed range would be noticeably harsh.
Externally both engines may appear
alike, but the secret of success in the
newer types lies in combustion-chamber
design, promotion of gas turbulence, the
wider use of light
r e c i p r o c a ting
parts and alu-
minium-alloy cyl-
inder heads.
Alumi n i um
alloys are exten-
sively used in
automobile con-
struction. Their
light weight and
property of
rapidly dissipat-
ing heat have in
no small measure
been responsible
for the high stan-
dard of road per-
formance com-
mon to-day. Ig-
nition point—the
timing of the
electric spark by
which the gases
are fired has
also a decided in-
fluence upon
maximum power,
flexibility and
fuel consump-
tion. Until re-
cently the prac-
tice has been to
fix the fully retarded point at some arbi-
tary setting and then by means of manual
control, actuating a rotating cam within
the distributor unit, permit of such
advance as the driver may desire. To
secure efficient results by this crude
method demanded more than average
skill, and as a consequence ignition point
in modern design is almost invariably
automatically controlled. First by gov-
ernor, and later by combining governor
Cutaway section of Armstrong variable
compression engine, showing method of
altering combustion-chamber volume and
{top) the make-and-break unit for deter-
mination of detonation value.
and vacuum control, the distributor is
now rotated instantly and automatically
to produce a spark at the most effective
point in the cycle of operations.
Carburettor settings have, of course, a
definite bearing upon engine performance
and power output; and in this connec-
tion it is interesting to note that the
down-draught fixed-jet instrument is
EFFECT OF DETONATION UPON POWER OUTPUT.
ND, no detonation; OSD, occasional slight detonation; O/FSD,
occasional to frequent slight detonation; FSD, frequent slight
detonation; FS/OMD, frequent slight to occasional moderate
detonation; O/FMD, occasional to frequent moderate detona-
tion; FM/OHD, frequent moderate to occasional heavy detona-
tion; O/FHD, occasional to frequent heavy detonation; FHD,
frequent heavy detonation.
rapidly growing in favor, the most effi-
cient jet sizes for normal running having
been first decided by experiment. When
tuning a carburettor for any specific
object it must be understood that the


r
n
\
C3
m
V
A Kinder Light for Children’s Eyes!
Many are the hours which your children must spend, reading or
doing home lessons, with artificial light.
For the sake of their eyes, and their future, be sure that you
give them a perfect light.
With “Light of the Age” Kerosene in your lamp, you can
always be assured of a steady, brilliant light, yet restful and
kind to the eyes.
Careful refining makes “Light of the Age” really pure and that
is why it is so clean and so free from smoke or odour.
Ask for “Light of the Age” by name. Obtainable everywhere.
k
TEmCO
Only one Grade
FIRST GRADE!
Only one Quality
FIRST QUALITY!
TEXACO
"LIGHT OF THE ACE
KEROSENE
LOA 1.485
air-petrol ratio theoretically correct for
complete combustion is not ideal for
purposes of developing maximum power
output, a mixture up to 15 p.c. richer in
petrol being necessary.
Unfortunately, until recently tests in
connection with power output, fuel con-
sumption and allied matters have, except
under fixed conditions, been of a hap-
hazard nature, precise comparisons under
varying conditions being almost impos-
sible, whilst tuning has been conducted
mostly on the hit-or-miss principle.
New Test Engine.
Recently installed in its laboratory
in Sydney by the Shell Co., the new
Armstrong variable-compression engine
effectively solves this problem of com-
parative testing, and in a few moments
results can be obtained with precision
which hitherto would have involved
weeks of labor. This machine, the only
one of its kind in Australia, is equipped
with a specal cylinder head by which
the compression ratio can be varied from
4 to 1 to 8 to 1 by turning a handwheel
whilst the motor is running on full
throttle. The drive shaft from the fly-
wheel, which, incidentally, is calibrated
in degrees for ready assessment of igni-
tion or valve timing, is coupled to a
How horse-power increases with com-
pression ratio when detonation is absent.
swinging field dynamometer, which gives
a direct reading of horse-power output on
a calibrated dial. Driven through gear-
ing from the crankshaft a large revolu-
tion counter indicates engine speed. Fuel
is supplied through a plain jet-type car-
burettor, provision being made to change
at any time during running to any one
of four independent fuel reservoirs. Jet
is variable, actuated by needle valve with
vernier control. Air is drawn into the
carburettor through a gauze filter, and
the air intake pipe is jacketed by an
electric-heating element whereby air
drawn into the carburettor may be pre-
heated, temperature being read off a
thermometer placed in the manifold.
Cylinder head and cylinder barrel are pro-
vided with individual water cooling, stan-
dard thermometers being placed in each
circuit so that cooling temperatures may
be controlled within extremely fine limits.
Fuel is Stored in four glass Containers,
1 • • 1 t • .1 1 /« . a
each being provided with a self-contained
flow meter. An extremely interesting de-
vice is incorporated in the variable-com-
pression cylinder head whereby the de-
gree of detonation, the result of
excessive compression pressures, ignition
lead or unsuitable fuels, may be read
directly in terms of milliamps. Refer-
ence to the accompanying plan shows a
central plunger, the purpose of which is
to vary the compression ratio. Within
this plunger immediately above the com-
bustion chamber is a metal diaphragm
which, responding to the surges due to
detonation, transmits the movement to a
rnake-and-break assembly on the ex-
tremity of the plunger this m turn being
coupted electrically to the recording dial,
Thus the severity of detonation undei
an 7 condition of operation is determined
relatively within narrow limits. Coil-
and-battery ignition is fitted, the degree
advance or retard being at any time
readily determined by reference to a cah-
bratec* scale.
Practical Experiments
A I ctUllUu.l LiAUcrilllClllOa
„ . . . . . , ,
Permission having been granted the
'y ntei to conduct a series of expeiimenls.
motoi was started up. After idling
untd f and + water had ***** de ‘
sired temperatures a standard fue. was
( Continued on page 30.)


WHOLESALE MOTOR ACCESSSORIES.
Our new Catalogue No. 92 (June, 1935, issue) will
be ready far distribution in a few days. We spent
six months preparing this publication at a cost of
many hundreds of pounds; 61 pages, 500 illustra-
tions ; full of interesting information. Posted free.
As this Catalogue is STRICTLY WHOLESALE,
please enclose your business card when writing for it.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LIMITED, Motor Accessories
Department, 53 North George Street, Sydney; and
at Chicago and San Francisco, U.S.A. Est. in 1900.
Vauxhall’s Big SIX is more powerful
than 37 of the 44 Sixes sold tn Australia to-day
HOW VAUXHALL COMPARES
WITH FOUR LEADING SIX-
CYLINDER COMPETITORS:—
No. lin Sales - - SAME H.P. as Vauxhal!
No. 2in Sales - - I H.P. LESS than Vauxhall
No. 3in Sales - 2.9 H.P. LESS than Vauxhal!
No. 4in Sales - 5.6 H.P. LESS than Vauxhall
Figures based on Jan. Dec., 1934, Registrations
Check over the cars you have credited with sufficient
power to meet Australian conditions and you will find
that Vauxhall’s Big Six exceeds one after another—-
some by as much as five and six horsepower. This
Vauxhall Big Six is within i h.p. of any six-cylinder
car available in Australia to-day, and is specifically
designed to meet your demand for an English Car of
full power and full size at a competitive price.
Matching its power and roominess you find an array
of truly brilliant features that combine to offer amazing
value . . . Pedomatic Starting . . . Synchro-Mesh Gears
.. , Down-Draught Carburettion .. . Automatic Ignition
Control (with a Vernier adjustment for timing the
spark to suit any grade of petrol) . . . Automatic Chassis
Lubrication . . . No-Draught Ventilation —these are
but a few. Examine the Vauxhall Big Six yourself.
Drive it. Feel its steadiness at speed, its deftness in
traffic, its amazing ease of control . . . and as you
drive, reflect that Vauxhall Service and Vauxhall Parts
are readily available throughout Australia.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN'S LIMITED
A'l,.
r- v.
ssss
VT-».
i
■- \an-
■
i
-•••^
■
k
%
PRICES £ 3 4L C
FROM Mm i JO J
Big Six Roadster - - £365
Big Six Tourer - - - £375
Big Six Coupe - - - £4lO
Big Six Saloon - - - £425
and also
A Special 7-passenger'l3o-inch
wheelbase Saloon - - £585
(A ll Prices Plus Sales Tax)
xis 9ig HVHXnVA &}i LZ m
As 'English ♦
as England
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXH ALL DEALER
fed to the carburettor, and with the
compression ratio adjusted to 4.5 to 1 full
load was applied. Maintaining engine
revolutions, compression was slowly in-
creased, whilst power alteration and
detonation were carefully noted. The
accompanying graph illustrates how the
Armstrong test engine, within a few
minutes, supplied data as to the maxi-
mum pressure, best jet setting and most
suitable ignition timing for that parti-
cular fuel.
Various other fuels were then used,
and it was demonstrated clearly that
under certain conditions one fuel would
show 18 p.c. greater power than another.
Obviously, with provision for alteration
of every essential setting and control in
the test motor whilst under full load,
accurate decisions can be obtained on
questions that hitherto have merely been
a matter of individual opinion or guess-
work. The results show clearly that
motorists who disregard such vital
issues as carburettor setting, ignition
timing and the most suitable fuel for
their particular motor are not only losing
efficiency but are paying dearly for their
motoring in terms of fuel consumption.
Conclusive proof of this contention
can be obtained on this remarkable test
engine by a simple series of experiments.
Having determined maximum power
output, the first test involved advancing
the ignition point until detonation
occurred. Immediately detonation be-
came audible power began to fall until
temperature of cooling water rose
steadily. After several minutes’ running
under these conditions the motor showed
symptoms of distress, and would un-
doubtedly have stalled had not ignition
been retarded, when almost instantly the
power curve improved to a normal
reading.
Similarly with carburettor setting.
Having determined the ideal position,
enriching the mixture gave no further
power, while consumption increased
enormously ; but, in reducing the jet size
in an endeavor to secure economy, water
temperature increased and the engine
was prone to knock, while power output
steadily receded.
The Trouble Lamp.
F.G.C. (Yenda, N.S.W.).— What is the cor-
rect grade of oil to use in my 9-h.p. sports
car? At present the oil in gearbox and diff.
is black, heavy compound, and I find it ex-
tremely difficult to move the gear lever on
starting up from cold. (2) / intend to buy
a utility truck. Taking such matters as cost,
petrol, durability into consideration, would you
advise A or B ?
(1) Ordinary engine oil mixed with the cor-
rect''proportion of colloidal graphite will give
you better results. (2) Little to choose between
either type—both splendid value and extremely
reliable.
r WH lAiitJathplla o ) —(1) Where can
Scoured in Australia?
(2) What are the relative merits of the follow-
ing cars (named)? , .
(1) Not obtainable (2) F, G, H equal and
outstanding, both for service and reliability,
Others mentioned follow in order set out.
* * * *
H J V (Pinaroo, Q .).—My 1932 Chev., after
standing idle for two or more days, refuses io
start until cranked enough to pump fuel from
tank to carburettor. Cause and cure ?
Probably the cork packing in the mechanical
fuel pump is cracked, permitting fuel to leak
on standing. Inspect, and, if necessary, make
perfectly gastight. v
* * ~ , „„„
F.A.W. (Bundanoon, N.S.W.). M) cat
suffers from a bad knock in the mam bearing,
and although the mains have been lined up
several times the trouble persists. Cause ana
cure, and where can the job be done .
Apparently the crankshaft is bent, ana un-
less this is rectified the bearings will not las
any time. Take the job to Dalgety ana v-o,
Phillip-street, Sydney.
* * * *
F.I.E. (Junee, N.S.W.). — Generator of my
car has recently failed to show a steady charge
of 10 amps., sometimes falling as low as six.
Battery is in good order, and lights bright.
C Af thenar has been running for four years
without attention to the generator, probably
v verm ires inline:
the armature is scoredl and truing,
Continuing in this manner will cause sp g
at the brushes and ultimately a major oreax
down.
* * * *
MOC (Blayney, N.S.W.). — During the last
six months / have burned out four sets of
headlight bulbs. Lights appear to be very
bright when the car is running, and always flare
up just before blowing out. Whats wrong?
Most likely there is a loose connection some-
where in the circuit. Examine all terminals on
i amp switchbox, battery and generator. Sul-
phated battery terminals might cause the
trouble.
♦ * * *
A.S.D. (Seymour, Vic.).—/ have been advised
to a( id graphite to petrol to assist running in
my rebored Olds. Is this advisable, and can
/ use ordinary powdered graphite !
Powdered graphite would block filters and
j e t s . Use colloidal graphite,
* * * *
L.O’N. (Werribee, Vic.). — In attempting a
top overhaul of my six-cylinder car after 12,000
m ft eSt the gasket wns damaged in removing
the head. Any simple method of avoiding such
tmuh j e jn f utu re ?
Usually lugs are cast on the cylinder block,
on w jjj c h purchase can be obtained by means
a tyre j eve r. Never drive a screwdriver in
jj etween cylinder head and block, as it is almost
certa j n t 0 f rac ture the copper-asbestos gasket.
The safest procedure is, after slacking off the
holding-down nuts, to insert the starting handle,
w h en compression will usually break the joint
anc j render removal of head and undamaged
a simple process.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Uadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Spend the time
to SIMONIZ your car once
and FORGET IT FOR MONTHS
The New Klee net- makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
S. y. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.).
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operate
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
i
I i Telegrams, Colvilleeo, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261
J
RADIO NEWS.
Starters
for the
Clink Stakes
Never let it be
said that our
army of broad-
casting sporting
editors, who earn
a few bob tell-
ing others how
to make fortunes, fell down on a job like
that provided in the “Sunday Sun’s”
item from Tennant’s Creek :
With the completion of the new lock-
up, a Consolation Stakes was conducted,
and a host of bets were written about the
honor of being the first inmate of the
gaol.
Station YOY. Ourah naixt aitem will
featcha Mistah Bertai Belcha, sportaing
editah of Wai O Wai. Mistah Bertai
Belcha.
G’d night, lis’ners. Looks like we
gotta pretty tough lot startin’ fer the
Lockup Stakes at the openin’ of the
new clink in Bungaroo. Coin’ on th’
times put up at their trials, anything’s
likely to ’appen if th’ mob gets bunched
on th’ run ’ome to th’ charge-room. You
gotta give Dirty Dan a big chance on
account of ’is stummick kick, an’ Greasy
Joe looks dangerous to me if he gets an
open go with a bottle. Joe’s a mighty
swinger an’ always makes the pace a
cracker. Long Bay Larry’s got t’ be
reckoned with, seein’ that ’e’s th’ smart-
est lad that ever rolled in the dust when
it comes to bitin’ a policeman’s ear orf.
Blotto Bill’s in great trim, an’ Bungaroo’s
six-pub course should see ’im fightin’
hard for a place. Basher Bert is a
cranky performer, but clocked well in a
preliminary dust-up with ’is ma-in-law.
As we said before, the judges are
goin’ to ’ave a tough job placin’ this lot.
but on present performances Dirty Dan
looks like reachin’ th’ charge-room a
cauliflower ear in front of Greasy Joe
with Blotto Bill a thick head away third
G’d night, lis’ners.
D. McM.
Was
Marconi a
Plagiarist?
Scrutinising the
exhibits at Melb.
Radio Show and
listening to the
various voices
which were
wafted over the
air to my ears, 1 began to wonder
whether, after all, Marconi had not put
one across an unsuspecting world or
whether he was merely an innocent
plagiarist who had happened on some-
thing known a thousand years previously.
History is full of instances wherein
certain privileged persons “heard voices.”
The information tendered by those
voices—such as is on record —appeared
to be astoundingly prophetic and accu-
rate ; but it is quite possible that many
forgotten voices came to those wise ones
which told facts just as unreliable as any
politician’s, made prophecies just as un-
certain as the racecourse urger’s. There
is scarcely a history of any nation, even
Holy Writ itself, which does not tel!
of voices which whispered through the
air, and in every case those voices were
assumed to be of supernatural origin.
My theory is that radio was known to the
ancients many centuries ago, and that the
voices which the prophets heard and
accepted as straight tips from headquar-
ters were really shrewd propaganda put
forth by secret stations controlled by
people who had power and wished to
retain it or other people who hadn’t and
wanted it.
England lost three-quarters of France
through the voices which came to the
ears of the peasant girl of Domremy.
She firmly believed those voices to have
emanated from long-dead champions of
her country, and made everybody else
believe it, too. In reality, I am inclined
to believe that the inner ring of French
patriots worked the whole game from
the 3PS station (Paris short wave), and I
wouldn’t be surprised if Francois Villon
hadn’t had a hand in it. The great Eng-
lish poet (for he was born in Paris under
the English flag) was a shrewd and un-
scrupulous lad, highly educated, and an
organiser who would have won the ad-
miration of Henry Ford himself. In the
course of his researches, it is quite pos-
sible that he happened on wireless and
worked out its possibilities. Of course,
he would have to keep it dark. In those
days anybody who did any original re-
search or was seen tinkering with a
test tube or a spanner was a dead cer-
tainty for the stake or the rack.
Having completed his apparatus,
Francois would just get a good an-
nouncer, keep the advertising matter
clean out of the programme and go
ahead, tolerably sure that some of his
aerial seed would fall on fertile soil.
Probably thousands of unimaginative
peasants in old France heard the records
and paid no attention. Jeanne d’Arc was
a girl of different type. She heard the
call and made good use of it, with the
result that the boys of the bulldog breed
had to get back into their own backyard.
I’m not quite sure that I am scientifi-
cally or historically accurate in my sur-
mises, but that is the way the Radio
Show impressed me. I give it to the
experts for what it is worth.
G. TROTTER.
“Hey, you, cut it out! You 're Worse than an overseas broadcast .”
Blood-and-
thunder
Broadcasts
While we all
look upon the
average American
entertainment as
being specially
made for morons,
we seem to fail
to take any action in Australia to pre-
vent our numerous radio stations beefing
out blood-and-thunder broadcasts cal-
culated to make our children a race of
neurotics or, at best, lazy-minded young
animals who grow up to believe curses
and screams'are the basis of all drama.
Whether my children happen to be
below f.a.q. standards in humanity I
don’t know, but I do know that they
take prizing away from the gurgles of
these drowning heroes and animal-grunt-
ing villains.
And, while this goes on in Australia,
the U.S.A., origin of it all, is taking
action to alter it. A gentleman by the
name of Anning S. Prall, chairman of
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion, has lately been saying true and
nasty things about the mental tripe sent
over the air from American stations. He
compares the broadcasts for juveniles to
be eaual to “dime novels of the ‘Dead-
eye Dick’ or ‘Boy Smuggler’ varieties of
fiction.” And he goes on to say of the
stations: “If they are consistent violators,
we can refuse to renew their licenses.”
In recent years half a dozen American
stations have been delicensed.
It’s about time something was
here to prevent the air barrage of this
sort of vocal violence.
ERIC BEDFORD.
Songs of
Yesteryear
" What a pity
there isn't any-
thi n g between
art - songs and
croonery!” gush-
ed Sweet Nine-
teen, conscious of a perfect high
C, after she had demonstrated her
broadmindedness by sandwiching "The
Old Spinning Wheel” between Hugo
Wolf lieder, “The world,” declared her
brother, who is 18 and just beginning to
baritone, “needs larger, brighter and
nobler songs for men to sing.” (His con-
tributions had been the “Pagliacci”
prologue, “The Spirit Flower” and “I Stole
Back the Girl That Was Stolen from
Me.”) “And I,” I said, “wish to the Lord
that there were a few song-composers
to-day, outside the croonerists, who
would have a bit of pity on the pore
bloke who has to play accompanists at
sight.” “Did they ever?” asked Brother.
“But nobody would want to listen to
those old-fashioned hackneyed songs to-
day,” panted Sweet Nineteen.
“Children,” I declared, “you may be
right, but let’s ransack the pile of old
favorites. You don’t need to know any-
thing about them —they’re pie for both
voice and piano, and they sing them-
selves.” So we rambled among such
faded flowers as “Thora,” “The Holy
City,” “Rothesay Bay,” “Douglas
Gordon,’ The Bandolero/ Lily of
Laguna, Deathless Army, My Old
Shako, ( The Carnival, Less than the
tn S f VhnrH V ” “Mnirp 'mv rfi-p’ “f ovo
Lost Chord, Moire, My Girl, Love
Me and the World Is Mine, ’ “True,
True, till Death” and “I Love the
Moon.” For duets: “Excelsior,” “What
Are the Wild Waves Saying?” and “Alice,
Where Art Thou?” Two hours fled be-
fore my young guests could be induced
to desist. “Some great stuff there!” said
Brother firmly. Sweet Nineteen, medi-
tating something smart, caught my eye.
“I think they’re all lovely,” she ventured
demurely.
“They are not great stuff, and as
examples of melodic loveliness they are
third-rate” (this from me, magisterially);
“moreover, the words are in some in-
stances sloppily sentimental and in others
utterly banal.” “Quite wrong, Major, and
you don’t believe it,” protested Brother.
“They’re good, singable songs, and if
they came out to-day they’d be wel-
corned.” “And if it comes to words,”
chipped in Sweet Nineteen, “aren’t they
better than most translations from the
German? Molloy and Trotere and
Leslie Stuart and those other old ginks
seemed to be able to find librettists who
knew something about singing—nice
round vowels for the high notes. And
those accompaniments carry the voice;
they don’t fight with it.”
“Such considerations,” I said sternly,
“have nothing to do with Art. Art
grows ever more complex and more diffi-
cult, reaching after unattained heights,
and becoming ever more and. more”
“Impossible to understand,” chirped Sweet
Nineteen pertly, “and harder to execute.
But if we just want to entertain our-
selves ”■ “Why disguise our low
tastes?” concluded Brother with a coarse
laugh. Whereupon wc all sang “Land of
Hope and Glory.”
The moral, as the radio-programme
makers long ago discovered, is that there
are a lot of edible fish in the shallower
waters of the musical sea, and angling
there becomes doubly pleasant after
going on serious excursions with such
deep-sea fishermen as Cyril Scott and
Arnold Schonberg.
A. MAJOR
All Round
the Dial
“F i s h e r”:
Radio brings joy
to the aged and
friendless as well
as to youth. In
Brisbane re-
cently, when an inmate of the Old Men's
Home passed away, the superintendent
was surprised to find £3O in the sup-
posedly empty pockets of the deceased.
The reason came out when other resi-
dents applied for a refund of stakes on
non-starters. In Sydney about six years
ago, the poor old codgers at Lidcombe
had their set taken away from them
because authority looked askance at lay-
ing the odds in. tobacco. Bearing simple
joys like this in mind, the inmates of
many an institution are receiving gift
sets.
“Greenhide”: I
won’t be able to
hear him until I get
some new valves,
but I’d like to take
my hat off to the
games t man in
radio, Vic Coombes,
When I first tuned
in to 5CL’s Boys’
Club, Bert Wooley’s
cheery voice and
Coombes’s quips
made the show.
They constituted a
team that really
could handle boys
and make a job of it
in a manly way.
The bunk of the
average children’s
session is sacrilege
after SCL. Vic does
his part in the show
by land-line. He is
a crippled Digger
who cannot leave
his bed even to see the studio. To listen
to him, the boot appears to be on the
other foot. He is perpetually cheering
up unfortunate and miserable people
who are overwhelmed with sadness in the
possession of health and movement.
“T.R.”: Jean Watson, contralto of
2UW’s “Down Remembrance Lane”
session of songs from the past which
have appealed to several generations, is
a pupil of the Melbourne Conserva-
torium, where she graduated following
the winning of the John Danks s'cholar-
ship at the Methodist Ladies’ College.
Moving to Sydney, she carried off the
Clara Butt trophy in the Sydney Eistedd-
fod of 1934. She is one of those who
use broadcasting as a step-ladder to other
things—her aim is concert and operatic
work. Jean’s partner in the session,
David Craven, is also a Melbourne Con-
servatorium pupil. He has been in
broadcasting for some time, before which
he had varied theatrical experience, in-
cluding being featured in musical
comedy and oratorio.
“Spare Mike”; Listeners here have had
the doubtful pleasure of hearing an abo.
gum-leaf performer broadcast, but the
8.8. C. has unloosed an instrumentalist
in, at least, a weirder sounding recital.
Instruments included the sitar, the esraj
and the tambura. The sitar is described
as “the Indian form of a cross between
a mandoline and a lute, having additional
sympathetic strings which increase the
harmonic qualities and beauties of the
tone. It is played with a plectrum.” The
esraj “is a bowed instrument, and is tuned
in a similar manner to the old Welsh
erwth.” The “tambura (drone) is an
ancient stringed instrument used through-
out India to accompany singing, and is
really a simplified form of a sitar.”


WESTON
Selective Analyse
£l9llOl
Complete
(Less Trade Discount)
Compact
Accurate
Never Obsolete
Model 698 Weston Selective Analyser will give you
a lifetime of unvarying accuracy. The price includes
Model 897 Weston Volt-Ohm Milliameter—
complete Weston Model 666 lype 1A Socket
Selector Set—all necessary leads—substantial
leatherette carrying case—complete instructions, etc.
Weston Instruments set a world’s standard and
their range is complete, covering all requirements
for Radio testing.
’Phone or write to our nearest office for booklet B.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON FRANKI, LTD.,
307-315 Kent Street, Sydney.
380 Bourke St., Melbourne. 233 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
ķ
ĸ
k
Model
698.
Measurements.
advt
600-ohm Transmission Line, Any Length.
Antenna
Spacing.
SI.
Ft. In.
8 «)
8
8
8
8
74
4
24
Stub-line Jumper to Antenna to
Length. Feed Line, Reflector.
S2. S3.
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE.
A FIVE-METRE ANTENNA WITH MATCHED-
IMPEDANCE FEED.
[The directive radiating and receiving system for the experimental
56mc. ultra-short-wave band described here is the result of many
months of investigation of different forms of antenna; on the part of
E. B. Ferguson (I VK2BP ), of Hazelbrook, N.S.W. The form finally
evolved is highly efficient, yet not too bulky for erection in a limited
space. With this system, remarkable transmission and reception results
are obtained continuously over a 52-mile range between the Blue
Mountains and Sydney. The input power at Mr. Ferguson’s station does
not exceed 25 watts. —Radio Ed.] /
At the writer’s station experiments
with ultra-high frequencies have been
conducted with various types of
the object being to find the most efficient
and at the same time the most economi-
cal of , space. It has been definitely
proved in the past that beam aerials are
a necessity for consistent results over the
50-odd miles between Hazelbrook and
Sydney: therefore, experiments were
confined to differ-
ent types of beam
arrays. So far,
four different types
have been tried,
and results com-
pared with another
larger beam array
which has been
used as a standard
in the comparative
tests. At these
ultra-high frequen-
cies, with the appa-
rat u s available,
transmitter power
is relatively small,
and it is necessary
to transfer this
power to the aerial,
with the least pos-
sible power loss.
The most efficient
method of doing
this is by means of
a non - resonant
transmission line,
and during the
later experiments
this type of feed
was employed.
The first type of
antenna to be
erected employing
a non-resonant feeder system was
similar in detail to the matched-imped-
ance doublet array designed by D. B.
Knock (VK2NO). Results from this
antenna were encouraging, reports from
Sydney stations disclosing that signals
radiated were almost as loud as from the
larger array previously mentioned. This
proved the superiority of the matched-
feeder system over the conventional type.
However, results obtained were not
quite up to expectations, so another type
was designed and erected. The first mg t
this array was in operation, before final
adjustments were made, it revealed possi-
bilities of being exceptionally efficient, as,
when coupled to the receiver, a decided
increase in signal strength of receive
stations was noticed in comparison with
the larger array. The final adjustments
to the aerial were effected with the co-
operation of VK2XK, situated well over
50 miles away, who listened and gave
progress reports as the adjustments weic
made. The only alteration found neces-
sary was a slight variation from the
measured position for coupling the trans-
mission line. The array was designed
for operation on 59mc., and when
operating on approximately this fre-
quency the best position for the trans-
mission-line coupling was found to be
I ft. Ofin. from the shorting bar on the
stub line. A slight variation either side
of this point resulted in a decrease of
signal strength at VK2XK. Incidentally,
signals radiated from this beam array
were considerably louder than those
radiated from the larger array. Further
checks with other stations have disclosed
increases in strength up to 20 p.c.
Fig. 2 shows the arrangement of the
radiators and reflectors on the wooden
framework. The radiators are fed in
phase by the conventional two-wire
“voltage” feed system, transposed at the
transmission line is attached to a point
marked X in Fig. 2 on this extended
4-wave section, which acts as a linear
impedance matching transformer. The
position for best results must be found
by experiment, as, unless great care is
taken in the construction of the 600-
ohm transmission line, it may vary some-
what from the desired surge impedance.
A glance at the measurement chart will
show the position for connecting the
transmission line to the stub line, but in
practice with individual arrays this point
may vary up to 4in. or perhaps more in
the case ot a
poorly - constructed
transmission line.
To couple the
transmission line
to the transmitter
a single turn “pick-
up” coil is pro-
vided at a point of
low R.F. potential
on the tank coil.
In the case of
pus h-pull oscil-
lators, this point will be found at the
centre of the tank coil.
The supports (“a,” Fig. 2) are strong
cord, and are to hold rigid the arms sup-
porting the radiators and reflectors.
When the aerial has been erected and
coupled to the transmitter as described,
it is a simple matter to tune the trans-
mitter to resonance with fhe aerial. As
the tuning condenser is passed through
resonance a sharp increase in plate cur-
rent will be noticed. This point should
be the correct'operating position.
Preferably, this array should be
mounted on a rotatable framework, as it
may be used only for transmission and
reception to and from one direction, as
centre (see Fig. 1). In the case of the
aerial here the feeders are No. 20 gauge
wire spaced 2|in. To provide a means
of matching, the feeders between the
radiators are extended * wave and
secured to an extension of the main
framework (see Fig. 2). The 600-ohm
shown by the arrow in Fig. 2. However,
the gain in signal strength amply com-
pensates for that one disadvantage.
Maintenance of the measurements
given for a certain frequency is extremely
important.
E. B. F. (VK2BP.)
Pentagrids as Super-regenerators.
Experimenters interested in sm. recep-
tion will no doubt welcome the details
of a valve arrangement that differs some-
what from the familiar “squegger” or
regenerative detector with interruption
oscillator. The main disadvantage of such
receivers is that when the tuning is “off’ 7
a strong carrier wave the interrupter
background hiss can be excessive and an-
noying. “Electronics” (U.S.A.) gives de-
tails of a recent development in which a
pentagrid of the IC6 or IA6 type is used
with material advantage. The circuit is
illustrated, and it will be seen that the
triode section of the valve is used to
modulate the electron stream at the in-
terruption frequency. The oscillator
“anode grid” (grid No. 2 on the valve
chart) becomes a space charge cathode
'above earth. By virtue of this, regenera-
tion takes place in the same way as where
a cathode is connected above earth
through a turn or so of the grid coil.
This circuit is claimed to be highly effi-
cient, and possesses the virtue of being
non-radiating when adjusted for best
signal sensitivity. Another advantage is
that the signal appears out of a relatively
silent background, and the hiss is not
troublesome when the receiver is not
tuned to a carrier. Pentagrids of the
indirectly-heated A.C. type can, ol
course, be applied similarly, and the re-
ceiver described B. 6/3/’35 can be re-
designed to use the 6A7 in place of the
6C6 and 37, thus dispensing with one
valve.
Stabilising the Ultra-short-wave
Oscillator.
There is no difficulty about making an
oscillator which will function as such at
fairly high frequencies, but a really stable
oscillator requires more than average
attention. The 56mc. experimental band
is receiving increasing attention from
amateurs who previously did not realise
its advantages, with the result that over-
crowding is likely to occur in the future.
This congestion should not be possible
in view of the total frequency range
available in this band, but the reason is
obvious.
Since the development of these previ-
ously dormant channels, the receiver
inevitably used has been the most inselec-
tive ever devised —the super-regenerator.
This receiver is handy for certain pur-
poses, but it must in due course be sup-
planted by the superheterodyne or some-
thing similar. Super-regenerators will
not, for instance, be suitable for tele-
vision work. In the meantime, trans-
mitters can be treated to behave ration-
ally, and, fortunately, at ultra-high
frequencies there are methods of stabilisa-
tion more readily applicable than doub-
ling, buffering and amplifying.
By introducing a resonant grid line m
a self-excited oscillator, the output can
be made to occupy much less territory
in the band, even under heavy modula-
tion. In fact, the modulated signal from
an oscillator of this kind can be fol-
lowed with a simple autodyne receiver
at a distance, whereas the output from a
similar but unstabilised oscillator is
entirely unreadable on anything but a
super-regenerator.
Reference to the diagram shows the
essentials. To obtain somewhat gieatei


A
%
\
An exclusive feature of Stromberg-Carlson Radio is
"Chromo-phonic Reproduction". It enables you to
enjoy a greater tonal range and absolutely
balanced reproduction. Every note of music . . .
every inflection of voice has a richness and beauty
of tone that cannot be excelled.
And this is but one of the many features that make
Stromberg-Carlson "the radio for the connoisseur".
Superb in craftsmanship . . . far ahead in design
. . . it is unquestionably first in value. Truly the
name Stromberg-Carlson is the hall-mark of excel-
lence in radio.
f/fcru. its.
its till
//
w
S DON'T know much about radio, technically,
Bill; I'm a traveller, as you know. But I've got
a cousin in the game who knows all the fine points,
and you can't go wrong on what he says. I got his
advice for the boss, about which radio to buy, and
he says 'Tell him to get a Stromberg-Carlson'.
‘What model,' I asked him. 'Any model,' he said,
'they're ALL world-beaters'. And, by jingo, they
must be. The boss has had his Stromberg-Carlson a
few months now and he never stops boasting about
what it can do and what a marvellous piece of
workmanship it is."
When two fellows get together over a friendly pipe or glass,
and the conversation turns to radio, Stromberg-Carlson is in-
variably spoken of in glowing terms.
For the purchaser of this Chromo-phonic
Radio is always proud of his investment.
Its high quality and luxurious finish, its
reasonable price, and the perfect,
trouble-free entertainment that it gives
—all these are a permanent compliment
to his discerning judgment, you, too, can
enjoy this justifiable pride of ownership.
Stromberg-Carlson provides a model for
every taste and every income. See your
nearest high-class radio dealer for a
demonstration . . . without obligation.
Expect to be impressed when you see
Stromberg-Carlson . . . amazed when
you hear it.
MODEL 3 5 5
5-valve A.C. Receiver
The Model 355 is a “single-purpose”
Receiver, for local broadcast reception.
It combines extreme selectivity and sensi-
tivity with ease of operation, and the pro-
vision of a tuning meter takes the guess-
work out of tuning. Automatic volume
control minimises background noises, both
in tuning and operating, and gives free-
dom from fading.
The Model 355 reproduces Australian
stations with amazing fidelity and tonal
purity, and has earned for itself the title,
“the Musician’s Re- gr»«rbd /Id /A*
ceiver”. Price M.f/lSf/O
St
ķ
Stromb erg- Carlson
Chromo-phonic Radio
STROM BERG-CARLSON (A'SIA) LTD., 72 WILLIAM ST., SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
efficiency in the plate tank, this also is
built as a resonant line. Thus the plate
tank is practically all inductance, with
little or no capacity, but with a rigid con-
trol in (he grid circuit. The oscillator
circuit is really the familiar push-pull
TNT in modern dress. The writer uses
this type for ultra-s.-w. tests, and the
R.C.A. De Forest 801 valves arc an
advantage, being designed to operate at
24- metres with high efficiency. The lines
are of fin. copper tube, 42in. long.
mounted vertically, with iin. spacing be-
tween each pair. The plate tank in the
writer’s case is of the usual tuned type
owing to special aerial coupling require-
ments. It will be seen that the bottom
ends of the grid tubes (mounted on small
Birnbach stand-off insulators) connect to
the respective valve grids, the jumper
being adjusted (near the top) for reson-
ance. Minimum plate load (with aerial
disconnected) for resonance with the
tank circuit frequency gives the correct
adjustment. If the tank is retuned, the
grid lines must be adjusted accordingly.
The modulator system diagrammed
calls for no comment, being the usual
“Heising” arrangement with two ’50’s in
parallel. 46’s in Class B will also fully
modulate two 801’s. Using copper tubes
instead of inductance and capacity in the
plate circuit of this oscillator will also
facilitate coupling to a matched-imped-
ance aerial line. The line is tapped to
the tubes through two small fixed con-
densers at a suitable point dependent
upon load on the oscillator.
Most five-metre transmitters suffer from
bad carrier frequency shift when modu-
lated fully, but this type of oscillator
practically eliminates this fault.
VK2N0.
Amateur Chatter.
On the morning of 26/5/’35 special
tests were run on sm. between Sydney,
Hazelbrook and Newcastle (N.S.W.), but
with no results reported. VK2ZW was
on the air at the Newcastle end, with
VK2BP at Hazelbrook and VK2WJ,
VK2XK and VK2NO in Sydney.
Nothing was heard of the Newcastle
station either in Hazelbrook or Sydney,
despite directional aerials. Rumor has
it that the Newcastle and Sydney 5m.-
band calibrations are poles apart, in
which case a check on calibration stand-
ards will be necessary before undertaking
any further tests. VK2AL has been
heard strongly at the writer’s location ;
also VK2FL.
Reported that VK.2UC, always a very
active participant in sm, tests, is tem-
porarily silent owing to illness. One
evening during last week an interesting
conversation took place between Ross
Hull (of “QST”) at W2XAF and A. G.
Hull (of “Wireless Weekly”) at VK2ME.
Brother Ross had a lot to say about the
ultra-shorts and their possibilities.
Last month’s American mail brought
some excellent reading for the amateur.
“QST” features “International 10-
Metre News,” “New Ultra-short-wave
Equipment at WIHBD,” “The New
Metal-type Valves,” “The 954 R.F. Pen-
tode Acorn Valve,” “A 1935 S.S. Super-
het,” “Push-pull-push Oscillator Circuits
for 15-Watt 2nd Harmonic Output” and
circuit diagrams of commerical amateur
superhets. “Radio” (U.S.A.) has articles
on “Controlled Carrier Transmitters,”
“A New 5-Metre Superhet” and “A 5-
Metre Transceiver.” In “R 9” are to be
found articles on “Debunking Tuned
Feeders,” “An Advanced 5-Metre Super-
het,” “A Midget Transmitter,” “A 5-
Band Transmitting Aerial” and “An
Inexpensive pre-amplifier.” From Eng-
land comes “T. and R. Bulletin” with
“The Measurement of Ultra-high Fre-
quencies,” “Aerial-matching Networks”
and the usual B.E.R.U. news.
Sydney amateurs occupied with direc-
tional-aerial design for 5m. work should
obtain one of the Atlantic Oil Co.’s road
maps of N.S.W. These maps show Syd-
ney and the whole State in detail, wilh
mileages, and also show the compass
points—a very useful feature for the
planning of beam aerials. The maps, be-
ing an advertisement, arc obtainable for
the asking.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
After a six-month tour of the U.S.A.
F. Langford Smith, development engineer
of the A.W.A. Valve Co., has returned to
report that American manufacturers re-
gard Australian-made valves as in every
way the equal of their own products.
“Australian valves are subjected in
some instances to even more stringent
tests than the American product, so that
there is less likelihood in Australia of
any defect passing unnoticed.” Just
before Mr. Smith left New York one of«
the principal manufacturers adopted a
method of construction which had been
pioneered and developed in A.W.A. valve
works in Australia.
* * * *
There is an epidemic of wire-snipping
in European broadcasting. Several sta-
tions have had their studio-transmitter
landline links cut by wire-wreckers who
apparently have a grudge against the
individual station or the programmes.
Squads of harassed linesmen are continu-
ally sallying forth on bicycles to repair
the damage, and no sooner is one repair
effected than lines are cut again else-
where. The obvious remedy is to put
the lines underground.
* * * *
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia), Ltd.,
has received news of several applications
of wireless to short-distance marine ser-
vices. The Thames River police are to
be provided with receivers and trans-
mitters on their launches to bring them
into line with the land patrols of Lon-
don and Sydney. The Belfast Harbor
Board has decided to instal a ’phone ser-
vice to communicate with the pilot
cutter. The French Minister of Posts
and Telegraphs is establishing stations on
the coast to communicate with trawlers,
as has been the practice for the last six
years with the trawlers operating from
Sydney. At Rotterdam (Holland) tele-
phone subscribers can now communicate
by wireless with tugs and launches in
port.
* * * *
Maoriland’s B-class station IZR Auck-
land claims the distinction of being the
first in the world to broadcast studio
baptisms and marriages.
Casual Comment.
“Thor”: Every now and again radio
publications receive letters gleefully stat-
ing that the sender can draw crackling
sparks, with a tingling sensation in the
finger, from an aerial during thundery
weather. This may seem a pretty pheno-
menon to one who doesn’t realise the
forces of nature, but it is a mug’s game.
I have vivid recollections of an early
experimenter being seriously affected by
a heavily-charged aerial discharging
through his body to earth. The aerial
was well elevated and insulated, but un-
earthed. Adjustments were being made
to a receiver with the aerial disconnected,
during which a black-looking cumulus
cloud passed overhead (there was actu-
ally no lightning). When the experimen-
ter took hold of the aerial lead a vicious
blue spark, about 3in. in length, snapped
at his hand and shook him up very badly.
Being of a nervous temperament, it was
some weeks before he got back to nor-
mal. Fortunately, most modern aerials
are not heavy collectors of static elec-
tricity, being single-wire affairs, but this
aerial, of 1912 vintage, was a massive
10-wire-cage affair, about 300 ft, long and
100 ft. high. The wise thing to do, even
with the single-wire aerial, is to use the
simple little gap-arrestor and to be con-
tent to watch the pretty blue lights dart-
ing earthwards harmlessly. Indoor
aerials are harmless, being virtually part
of the house, and to-day nine out of ten
aerials are of the picture-rail variety. At
the same time, it should be remembered
that during a heavy thunderstorm a
properly-earthed aerial system outside
and over the house is definitely a pro-
tection to the house in case of a close
discharge. The thing to be sure of is
that the earthing is done correctly, with
the receiver isolated completely ; other-
wise valves and resistances are likely to
go west.
* * * *
“Alpha”: Marrickville (N.S.W.) Coun-
cil has had its deliberations disturbed by
the audio waves from passing trams. A
('Continued on next page.)


u
tc GjM&l RcuLlc
c
m
*
'/)
w
-j
//# ? \v
\
m
Jt
is*
*
,
% /
r
: \
s*
£C>SO*V>v
&
feSfc
ĸ
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BATTERIES
EVER-READY
Eytß
EADY
TORCHES
R EFILLS It RADIO BATTERIES
protest to the Department of Road Trans-
port has led to the installation of a green
light outside the Town Hall as a warning
to tram-drivers to cut the volume down.
A charming assortment of radio-fre-
quency interference from the same
source .plays a background obbligato to
Query No. 265. published B. 22/5/’35, requested the circuit of
a portable receiver using triode valves. The circuit diagram was
omitted from the reply by error, and is illustrated here.
most items heard on the average city re-
ceiver. Several years ago similar inter-
ference from electrical road transport
was denounced in London. Inside a
matter of weeks suppressors were fitted,
and this form of man-made static is
now unknown there.
The Q. and A. Column.
Is it possible to obtain a radio receiver for
world-wide reception similar to the sets de-
signed for motor-
cars'? What is
wanted ■ here is a re-
ceiver for dual-wave
reception ■ with a bat-
tery, generator and
small engine to drive
the generator to charge
the battery. Name of
suitable set, and
price ? —270.
The requirements
call for , special de-
sign. A battery-type
dual - wave receiver
with genemotor plate
supply should be
suitable, but special
care would have to
be taken to eliminate
possible interference
from commutator
sparking on the short
waves. Any of The
Bulletin advertisers
dealing in modern
receivers could
produce such a model, and the best source of
information is to write direct to such raanu-
facturers.
Latest in the Trade.
A radio receiver is only as good as
its components,, and not the least impor-
tant of these are the fixed and variable
capacities distributed throughout the cir-
cuit network. Fixed condensers must,
in addition to being capable of with-
standing continuously heavy voltages, be
accurate and retain their capacity value
indefinitely. Such variable capacities as
padders and trimmers must remain con-
stant at their pre-set value, and be
immune from the
action of moist
atmosphere. Aus-
tralian-made Sim-
plex condensers
possess these im-
portant qualities,
and are thus used
exte n s i v ely by
makers of high-
quality radio appa-
ratus. Simplex
Radio, 716 Parra-
matta-road, Peter-
sh a m (N.S.W.),
makes a wide
range of con-
densers for various
purposes, includ-
ing fixed mica condensers in three types:
Metal-clad, moulded and S/M. The first
two types are available in any capacity
from .000005 to .05 mfd., and the S/M
series from .000005 to .006 mfd. Eveiy
condenser leaving the factory is guaran-
teed to pass a test at 1000 volts A.C., and
to be within 10 p.c. of the marked capa-
city. A useful Simplex product is the
special tone control. At the “off” posi-
tion this unit has a capacity of approxi-
mately .00005mfd., and the rotary action
increases the capacity in six easy stages
to the maximum of .006mfd. This con-
trol is ideal for use in grid circuits, and
has proved popular with many large re-
ceiver manufacturers. Padders and trim-
mers in Simplex make are of dust-proof
design and are not likely to be dam-
aged in handling. These are available in
any capacity from .000001 to .0001 mfd.,
and are a very compact but sturdy
assembly. In constructional articles
featured in The Bulletin, Simplex con-
densers have been used extensively, with
confidence that breakdown or incor-
rect capacity value is not likely to be the
cause of apparatus failure.
* * * *
Price’s Radio Service, Angel Place,
Sydney, has received shipments of Trip-
lett and Readrite meters, also Cyldon
transmitting condensers. The Triplett
meters are available in 0-lamp. and
0-2.5amp. thermo-couple type for meas-
urement of R.F. current. These have
3in. dia. faces, and the thermo couple is
entirely separate from the meter. This
can be wired directly in circuit and the
meter placed on the front panel, thus
obviating the need of running wires
carrying R.F. current from the rear of
apparatus to the front. 0-1, 0-50 and
0-100 ma. meters are available in 5in.
dia. faces, and are particularly suitable
for test panels, as an accurate reading
can be taken without looking closely at
the dial. A comprehensive range of
Readrite meters is available, comprising
0-10, 0-25, 0-50, 0-100 and 0-300 ma.
meters for D.C.; 0-10 volts, 0-3 and
0-10 amp. for A.C. There are also double-
range ma. meters for D.C. 0-20-100
and 0-15-150, and charge-discharge amp.
meters in 3- and 10-amp. ranges.
The Cyldon transmitting condensers are
one of England’s best-known brands.
They are constructed on a solid frame,
the plates being of heavy-gauge metal.
The insulation used is Keronot. Capa-
cities are available in .00035mfd. and
.0005mfd. double spaced, to operate on
1500 volts. The .00025 type will be
available shortly. A special series gap
condenser for use on ultra-high frequen-
cies is stocked, and the frame of this is
so made that the metal ends are con-
nected together on one side by an ebonite
rod, thus eliminating the closed circuit
normally made by ends and connecting
links. Price’s Radio can supply all parts
for Bulletin constructional circuits.
“Sinbad”: The navy sometimes overdoes
its silence. In 1907, when W/T trans-
mitting was still made by spark from an
induction coil and received with mag-
netic detectors, Lt. Craufurd, torpedo
officer of the cruiser Andromeda, car-
ried out numerous experiments in wire-
less, and eventually succeeded in send-
ing continuous radiation, being suc-
cessful in projecting the human voice
through the ether from a microphone
transmitter. An official test was made,
several senior officers being present in
the wireless room of the Andromeda,
where they listened to songs sung into
the transmitter on board H.M.S. Argo-
naut, thus listening to the first wireless
telephony ever known. A report was
made to my Lords of the Admiralty, who
decided that it would not be convenient
if the general public were allowed to
clutter up the ether with all kinds of
messages, and the discovery was there-
fore marked “Secret” and carefully filed
in the Admiralty records, where it remains
to-day. Seven years later Marconi made
a similar discovery, which eventually
gave us broadcasting.


FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Botany Handicap: Regal Star or
Dame Moab ; next, Duke Caledon.
Winter Plate: Confab ; next, Tre-
mayne.
Exeter Handicap: Regal Star or
Foxhunter; next, Cid.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Keith Voitre, the M.L. jockey who
has taken up residence in Melbourne,
reached the high-water mark of success
there by piloting three winners on the
opening day of the V.R.C. Birthday
meeting and making a dead-heat for first
place. There were only four galloping
events on the programme. So much
is this 21-year-old youth the hero
of the hour that turf followers would
put nothing beyond him. With Dun-
can retired from the saddle, Demp-
sey so affluent that he does not hanker
for constant employment and Skidmore
out of luck, the standard of jockeyship
n Melbourne is not —generally speaking
—exalted. Voitre (who pronounces his
name “Voy-tree”) has the ball of for-
tune at his feet.
Valiant Chief, the Heroic—Cohesion
colt for whom Archie Crofts gave
lOOOgns. as a yearling, started the Voitre
triumphs. Tested for the first time over
seven furlongs, Valiant Chief showed
quite a lot of stamina. He kept within
nice striking distance of the pacemaker,
Fine Feathers, and took command a fur-
long from home. Quasimodo put in a
good finishing run, but failed by more
than a length to overhaul the favorite,
from whom he received 171 b. Young
Idea ranks as the best juvenile of the
QeRT ‘ ( JuST LOOK AT MY RACKET J 1 HAVE
YOU 6EEH WITH IT ? SN
//
Bert' Ves y dhar.j 1 Borrowed it
vesterday ''
//
Qert, How o\o you Break it lucs
this f "
Bert : " t\ fellow was showing, me. how
TO PLAY SquASH RACKETS
year, but it is no certainty that he would
beat Valiant Chief up to seven furlongs.
They have not met yet. His last four
starts have yielded as many wins for
Valiant Chief; the owner witnessed only
two. He is president of the South Mel-
bourne Football Club, and gives League
games the preference over racing.
Vauntry—who, like Valiant Chief, was
sired by Heroic—squeezed home by a
head from the Legionnaire gelding All
At Sea in the Royal Handicap. Voitre’s
riding turned the scale, although Vauntry
deserves credit, as he was conceding
the second horse 2st. Calulu King, who
had been galloping in his best form on
the tracks, went out in only a point
less request than Vauntry, but he did not
shape at all well. The unplaced division
was headed by Geyser, a Windbag filly
that Lou Robertson holds on lease from
A. G. Hunter. In the succeeding event,
the Sandringham Handicap, \\ mile,
Robertson enlisted the services of Voitre
for Alaric (Gothic —Foxberry), whom he
trains for Sol Green. Punters regard
Alaric as anything but a world-beater,
and, even with Voitre up, 7 to 1 could
easily be obtained. Alaric was seen in
anew light. Galloping generously, he
appeared to have the race well won until
Dubup (16 to 1) threw out a late chal-
lenge. Voitre’s skill and vigor saved the
situation and enabled a division of the
honors. Royal Armour (favorite at 3 to
1) was far below his Silver Jubilee Cup
form, and finished near the tail of the
field.
The applause which greeted Voitre
after his last-race victory was deafen-
ing. The event was for three-year-olds,
and Voitre rode Turf Boy (Gay Lothario
—Saucy Sue), owned by M. T. McGrath.
A penalty for winning at Ascot on the
previous Wednesday brought the impost
of Turf Boy up to 9st, 21b,; yet he was
installed a hot favorite. Unexpectedly
strong opposition Came from Altanna,
a Beau Fils colt in E. Temby’s stable.
Altanna, too, had a 71b. penalty, earned
at Mornington on Thursday. With
Dempsey up, he fought out every inch
of the last 100 yards with Turf Boy,
who prevailed by the narrowest of mar-
gins.
The York Hurdle went to Mystic
Peak, an imported gelding in the Men-
tone establishment of Ned O’Dwyer,
who prepared Textile for a Caulfield Cup
victory. So bad had been the recent
form of Mystic Peak that he ought to
have been at forlorn odds, instead of
which he was next in demand to Akan-
ree. The latter surrendered to Mystic
Peak entering the straight, and gallant
old Nyerimilang joined issue with the
leader at the last flight. Verdict went to
Mystic Peak by a neck. Nyerimilang
pulled up rather lame, but it is hoped
that he will be all right for the Nationals.
Stewards held an inquiry into Mystic
Peak’s reversal of form. They “viewed
the running with grave suspicion, but de-
cided to take no action.”
Boy Blue, a recruit from the ranks of
hunters, drew attention to his National
prospects by defeating Pactolus and
several other G.N. aspirants in the Hope-
toun Steeple, which he won in good
style. The Alawa gelding now is held on
lease by Tom Branigan, his trainer.
* * * *
Ascot (Sydney) was crowded on Satur-
day. Stake-money for nine races
amounted to £lO25 —Ascot (Melbourne)
recently gave £2400 for a Saturday meet-
ing. Ascot (Sydney) must be accounted
lucky.
On form Regal Star looked a fair
thing for the Flying Handicap, but the
price eased to 9 to 4 when he got rid of his
rider, O’Sullivan, going to the post. Soon
caught, he commenced smartly and
dropped in behind the leaders, Caravel
Boy, Prince Pombal and Paddora. Im-
proving his position as they raced to the
turn, Regal Star continued his run, and
beat Prince Pombal and Golden Gate
easily. He is a very fit horse, and should
win over longer journeys.
Babili was always favorite for the
Botany Mile. Pike, his jockey, tried to
slow the field down, but Parcourir and
Firecello made his mount go at his top,
with the result that his lOst. 51b. anchored
him, and he was beaten out of a place.
Parcourir (6 to 1) took charge at the two
furlongs, and scored comfortably by a
neck from Firecello, with Assumption a
poor third.
Newcastle trainer Tom Murray has a
promising horse in El Paraiso, a plain-
looking four-year-old by Silver King’s
sire El Cacique. Starting at sevens, he
outstayed the opposition in the first divi-
sion of the Mascot States; Allugo and
Padding Queen were the place-getters.
The second division went to Stray Sun-
beam (5 to 1), one of Skelton’s big team.
Loyal Maggie went past him at the Leger,
but tired.
A slashing performance was recorded
by Contrast, a filly by Dark Fox from
Truest, who won races for trainer Joe
Cook. With Darby Munro on top, Con-
trast opened favorite for the first heat
of the Juvenile, but she went to 7 to 2,
while Mirrio firmed to 7 to 4. Contrast
was second-last into. the straight, and
with a furlong to go it looked guineas
to gooseberries on Mirrio ; but the Dark
Fox filly flashed through on the rails and
beat Mirrio by half a length, with
Diatter—evidently a squib—a length
away. Contrast looks the cut of a stayer.
City businessman A. T. Perkins has to
thank Andy Knox for winning the
second division, at fours, on his Blue
Flame filly, Blue Sapphire. Out of the
barrier like a rocket, Knox made good
use of the advantage, and Blue Sapphire
lasted long enough to beat Little Man
by a neck.
A bad position at the barrier and a
slow start deprived Confab of victory in
the Ascot Handicap. His rider was hard
at him to get a position ; then Confab
went past Assertive at the half-mile and
was clear in the straight. But he shifted
out from the rails, and was defeated by
Headgale, backed from tens to fives, by
half a head. Tapestry was a length and
a half away third; Wallace Mimi, who
did not get a clear run, was fourth.
Aussie’s Delight travelled well for a mile.
* * * *
Still trying to popularise hurdle-racing,
though owners and trainers have never
given it much discouragement, the A.J.C.
put up £650 for a tussle over the battens
on Monday, and got a field of seven.
Apart from Greensea and Sixteen Annas,
they were a poor lot. Improving in his
jumping, which was pretty bad, Sixteen
Annas (7 to 4) won for Neil McKenna
from Spanker and Koolagoor. His
recent record is four firsts and a second
for five starts.
(Continued on next page.)
Foolbrawl
In Sydney on Saturday Victoria won
a hard-fought Rugby Union match,
17-14, against N.S.W.; in Brisbane
Queensland went down to the first Ma
State team, 7-14.
-m, , . c
ere was a lack of polish about the
Sydney fixture but it was always inter-
esting The Victorian forwards had
rthf “ tLT%e?e° Ug defiS3y
n me scrums, tney were denmteiy
superior in the rucks and in the loose,
and Bridles three tries were thrilling.
The home team was the better in the
backs but Westfidd fullback for Vic!
toria,’ defended splendidly till he broke
a collarbone. Wansey, at centre for
N.S.W., gave a good account of himself,
and on the wing Walker did well, though
he occasionally overran the ball.
In the Brisbane match the Queens-
landers lost a number of opportunities
because of bad handling. Doneley,
suffering from a twisted ankle, missed
goals that would ordinarily have been
sitters. N.S.W. had slightly the better
of it m the pigs, and the Queensland
backs were outclassed. Towers and
Rankin, a newcomer, made plenty of
openings for the wingers, each of whom
crossed, Hooton after a splendid run.
Other tries were scored by fullback
Sutton and Kelly—at breakaway. Lar-
nach-Jones converted one. Queensland’s
points were made up of a field goal and
a penalty.
* * * *
The best back division N.S.W. Rugby
League has got together for 10 years
proved far too hot for the Bananalanders
at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday. In
the first half Beaton, Hey (twice), Prigg
and Brown scored tries, all of them well-
run, and McKinnon brought the total up
to 19 with a couple of good goals, after
Brown, usually a sure kick, had failed
badly at easy shots. Against that, the
visitors could manage only a lonely and
rather fluky try by Hudson. McKinnon,
brought down at top speed by an arm
tackle early in the half, stuck the session
out, but could not appear after the spell.
With that advantage the Bananalanders
managed to raise their score to 16 —Park.
Bichell and Hudson tries, and Gilbert
two goals—but two tries by Ridley and
one each by Beaton and Pearce took the
wind out of them again. N.S.W. was
still scoring when the final bell went, with
the figures 33 to 16 in its favor. Gibbs,
an outsize forward from Cootamundra,
and Park, a rock-faced gentleman of the
opposition, left the field under orders
after a little light boxing.
* * * *
Fitzroy, regarded as a menace this
season, met South Melbourne before
30,000 spectators. South, taking no
chances, scored 23-14 to Fitzroy’s 10-11,
leading from the end of the second
quarter, though scores were fairly close
up to half-time. Pratt kicked nine of
the 23, by probably the best forward
game that has been played for yea?s.
Collingwood had little difficulty in ac-
counting for Footscray—23-11 to 14-4,
G. Coventry kicked nine of ’Wood’s goals
and his 1100th goal in League footbail.
As expected, Geelong defeated Haw-
thorn with ease —22-19 to 14-9. The
big scoring of the winning teams —each
over 20 —gives some reason for the
Rugby gibe that “they make cricket
scores in the Australian game.” The Aus-
tralian retort is that, if Rugby possessed
such accurate kickers as Australian, its
own scores might be improved.
* * * $
“Little Marks”: One of the unnoticed
faults of professionalism in football is the
temptation of players, slightly injured, to
take the field before proper recovery
rather than forfeit the resultant payment.
This has been more apparent in Mel-
bourne since depression set in. Already
there are fine young fellows out of
the game for good and going through
life with permanent limps owing to their
getting back on the field prematurely.
For others who suffered more serious
injury, the prospect is tragic.
* * * *
‘‘Stand Off”: Billy Wallace, one of
the greatest backs M.L. has produced,
will accompany the Maori team to Aus-
tralia as co-manager with Kingi Tahiwi.
Billy, the star of the 1905 All-Blacks,
was probably the last of the great players
to wear low shoes while playing, a prac-
tice to which many cracks on both sides
of the Tasman were once addicted. The
modern player, be-booted in hoof covers
tied up with yards of what used to be
regarded as feminine staylaces, would
probably faint away if an opponent
appeared wearing the heavy running-
shoes of other days.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Nothing illustrates the
grip Rugby is getting in Melbourne better
than the fact that two of the Victorian
team against N.S.W. in Sydney learned
the game at the Melbourne G.P.
schools, by which it has only been taken
up during the past two or three years.
Waddell, the hooker, was at Scotch Col-
lege ; J. H. Cumming, the scrum-half, at
Melbourne Grammar. Both are just out
of their teens, another matter for con-
gratulation. In N.S.W. youth is dis-
couraged in representative football, in
which ancients are retained so long that
the creaking of their poor old joints
often drowns the referee’s whistle.
0 Continued on next page.)
Australia’s Davis Cup chance looked
pretty good after the French doubles, but
after the singles it was another story.
Turnbull lost to Perry, Quist to Menzel
and McGrath to Von Cramm. Craw-
ford got to the semi-finals without losing
a set, but was no match on the day for
Perry, who made it 6-3, 8-6, 6-3. Austin
beat Menzel, and held Von Cramm till
he was as limp as a rag. In the final
Perry beat the German 6-3, 3-6, 6-1, 6-3.


THE NEW
WINCHESTER
MODEL 65
REPEATING RIFLE.
LIGHT
FAST
A BEAUTY
LEVER ACTION 8-SHOT REPEATING RIFLE.
In calibres .25/20 and .32, N.R.A.-type pistol-grip stock, 22m. rounu
tapered barrel having ramp front sight base, Lyman gold bead front sight,
Rocky Mountain adjustable rear sight. Half magazine only. j 111
Weight, about 6*lb. CARRIAGE PAID.
ADAPTED FOR SUPER-SPEED CAR TRIDGES, FOR WHICH A HIGH
FORESIGHT IS FITTED.
25/20 AND .32 BLACK OR SUPER-SPEED STAYNLESS.
25/20 and .32 Centre-fire Super-speed Staynless Cartridges. Per 100, 21/-
25/20 aid .32 Black Powder Cartridges. Per 100 17/-
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’Phone: M3388.
WORN PLlKif
WAITE YOUR
MONEY
i
m.
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
Replace them with
CHAMPIONS
C3ham
PION
IS' SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at
all leading garages
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Under the Whip
Before William Kelso left for Cali-
fornia he had the pleasure of seeing his
son Jack’s horse Turbulent win a race
at Kensington, a 10-furlong handicap.
Though he had scored on the same track
a few weeks before and had only eight
opponents of poor quality. Turbulent
went out at 5 to 1, Elmaros being favor-
ite at 9 to 4. She finished a poor third,
3y lengths behind the winner, who beat
Lingo by a length. Turbulent, a three-
year-old colt by Brazen —Coolpa, was
bought as a yearling when Brazens were
in the boom. They are far from being
so highly regarded now.
Adelaide R.C. had a field of 17 for
its Birthday Cup. An interesting starter
was Yarramba, winner of the Moonee
Valley and Williamstown Cups in 1932
and second to Peter Pan in the Mel-
bourne Cup in between. By no means
sound, he struck himself in a gallop at
Victoria Park on the Monday, and
limped a bit afterwards ; nevertheless, he
was backed at 8 to 1. Coronado was
favorite at 5 to 1, and Heroic Prince,,
winner of last year’s Australian Cup,
next in request at 6 to 1. Coronado
completed a double for Whelan, who
trains him, arid Medhurst, the jockey—
he had run away with the Parkside Han-
dicap on the first day—but Amalia (12
to 1) nearly made a dead-heat of it.
Mellion, successful in the Adelaide Cup,
was third. Yarramba was fifth. He won
the Alderman Cup on Saturday.
# :!= * *
A two-year-old called Donaster drew
attention to himself by winning a divi-
sion of a si-furlong handicap at Ascot
(Melbourne) in the course-record time
of Imin./ 6isec. The track was fast, as
other times were to prove, but the
winner of the second division took
Imin. S-Jsec. Donaster (he is a chest-
nut gelding by Great Star—Donna
Marie, and thus a brother to Mira
Donna and Great Don) was so little
fancied that the ringmen offered 20 to
1, which means, of course, that the tote
price was much higher. The s.o. divi-
dend for ss. was £ls Is. 6d., the place
dividend £2 ss. 6d.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Merv Blandon, bantam champion of
Australia till he grew out of the class,
plucked the featherweight crown (it’s
worth quite five bob) from Joe Hall’s
brow at Leichhardt. While Hall’s condi-
tion stuck to him Blandon was outboxed,
but Hall had shed almost a stone in less
than two weeks. This weakened him so
much that Blandon’s boisterous battling
in the eighth seemed sure to bring about
an early end. Hall lasted the limit, how-
ever, and really won eight of the 15
rounds, but Blandon was so busy in the
other seven that the decision in his favor
got a great hand. Newcastle’s Broncho
Eldridge outfought Les Brander in their
clash for the N.S.W. middleweight cham-
pionship ; Brander was declared the win-
ner on points. There was no doubt about
the Lindsay v. Hinton mill for the
N. flyweight title, as Lindsay, plac-
ing his punches with precision, had
Hinton so helplessly beaten in the ninth
that the referee intervened.
* * * %
Jack O’Brien, who has fought in most
of the States without winning a belt or
the modern equivalent, is now middle-
weight champion of his native Victoria.
He stopped Johnnie Condon in 13 rounds
at Fitzroy on Friday night. In Perth
O’Brien was whipped by Cyril Pluto,
now boxing in Sydney, but he was a
growing youngster then.
Footbrawl
“Como”: Despite the maunderings of
grey-headed barrackers, Melbourne foot-
ball is better played to-day than it
ever was, though the abolition of the
little mark has robbed the game of one
of its most spectacular features. The
weakest point is the umpiring, which is
far below the standards of the past.
Players of to-day need to be psycholo-
gists as well as footballers, for no two
umpires interpret the rules similarly.
What is a throw to one is a fair punch
to another; one permits holding the
man, another holding the ball. Players
don’t know where they are. Yet the
latter-day umpire has a gentleman’s job
compared with the arbiter of his fathers
time. There were no boundary umpires
then. “Central” had to follow the ball
all the afternoon—ls miles of running
was computed to be his share in an aver-
age match—he had to throw in the ball
every time it went out of bounds, and,
in the face of physical strain, he had to
keep his head and deliver sound judg-
“Now, dad, it's your first time on those things, so don't go jumpin' TOO
far!"
merits —which he generally did. The
insistence of the League that applicants
for umpiring must be ready for dispatch
to any place in the State curtails the
field of choice; if applications were
called for metropolitan umpires and
country umpires separately, the standard
would probably be considerably higher.
& H* *
“Grasspan”: How deceptive are the
tumbles which befall footballers! It is
almost impossible to guess the amount
of injury suffered by a player by wit-
nessing his mishap from the seating area.
In the Carlton-St. Kilda match recently
Mutimer, of Carlton, collided in the air
with an opponent. He fell, and just
stayed where he was without a motion
of a muscle. “He’s dead! ” said some
spectators, and the same thought seemed
to fill the minds of the rushing ambu-
lance-men. Five minutes later Mutimer
was up, taking his place in the team.
though he was replaced at half-time.
Contrast his case with that of one of
Melbourne’s best footballers whom I
saw fall five or six years ago. He was
running easily and surely ; then he slipped
and fell lightly. To the surprise of every-
body, he had to be carried off, and that
was his last football match. He was
never able to play again.
i’c :J: *
“Old Q.”: Something new in football
tours will take place in July, when the
N.S.W. Fire Brigades, now a Union body,
will send a team to engage their Queens-
land cobbers at Warwick and Brisbane.
It recalls the yarn of a League match
between the Fire Brigades and the
Trammies. Among the spectators was
a clothier, who asked what club owned
the badlv-damaged men reeling about the
field fold it was the Fire Brigade, he
said “H’m —I think I’ll send Ikey up to
set fire to der shop vile de goink’s good.”
* * * *
“Cash Buyer”: There has been a rare
row among the N.S.W. country League
football clubs because some of the clubs
are demanding transfer fees before grant-
ing clearances. There seems to be no
rule against the practice in the League
constitution, and one can hardly blame
clubs asking for the brass. The transfer-
fee system would stop a lot of pirating,
and would only be falling into line with
the accepted practice in British Soccer
and League football.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Cowpasture”: N. S. Wales has dis-
covered a 14-year-old golf championette
in Marie Crowe. Last week she won
the N.S.W. junior title, the schoolgirls’
championship and the Golf in Australia
Cup. Five strokes behind after the first
round, she pulled up, and finished in
79 off the stick for the 18 holes. Quite
untaught, she has an ideal swing, and
with both woods and' irons her shots
show that absence of effort that maiks
the born golfer.
* =i= * *
Wanda Morgan won the women s
championship of Britain, beating P am
Barton in the final, 3 and 2. Both have
been invited to join the party to visit
Australia, and Miss Barton has accepted.
“Bertha Biffit”: The British golferinas
are infernally long-winded in announcing
their team to visit Australia. What are
the dears scared of? It cannot be the
Lang menace, for that has been dropped
definitely down the drain, so it can only
be dread of Menzel’s cannibalistic bar-
rackers.
* * *
“Shore”: The fifteenth hole at Rose-
ville (N.S.W.) is notorious for happenings
which would brand the teller of them as
a purveyor of tarradiddles in any other
game but golf. Two members were play-
ing there the other day, and in driving
off one topped his ball, which ran into
his opponent’s bag, thrown down slightly
in front of the tee. This lost the bag-
owner the hole, and he
suggested that they should
finish the round. Driving
off again, the hero of the
first shot this time landed
his ball on an under-
ground water-tap and
turned the water on. It
took half a dozen turns
of the tap to cut the water
off; then the pair ad-
journed by common con-
sent to the nineteenth.
* * *
“Corbie”: Just when
everyone thought the
crows had become fed
up with golf ball-stealing
the epidemic has broken
out again, and with added
ferocity. In a match be-
tween Hillston and a
place with the improbable
name of Merriwagga,
both of N.S.W., the Hill-
stonites lost 20 balls in
one round. One man had
three of them carted off,
two from successive
strokes. The Merriwag-
gers are helpless, though
they have adopted a
variety of bombing which consists in
hurling hunger crackers after the ball.
This takes time, since lighting the fuses
in a wind is not easy, and in the mean-
time the crows are awa’ and o’er the
border with the balls. It seems strange
that stationing half a dozen men with
guns round the course has not been tried.
Nothing scares a crow more than the
presence of a gun, and in a country dis-
trict there should be plenty of volun-
teers available to inaugurate a battue
which would not need to be repeated.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Lawson Little hoisted a
new record by winning the British ama-
teur championship two years in succes-
sion. Horace Hutchinson, in 1886-87,
and Harold Hilton, in 1900-01, turned the
trick, but both were Englishmen ; Little
is the first overseas player to take the
double. He deserves greater credit for
his win in that the runner-up, Dr. Twed-
dell, is the acknowledged headache of
golf, being rated the slowest player in
creation. When Tweddell won in 1927
one of his opponents hired an extra
caddie to carry a canvas chair in which
he reclined while Tweddell was thinking
out his next shot.
# ■ H* * ♦
“Baffy”: Sydney engagements will
prevent Ferrier leaving to defend his


I
DAWONi
Peter
Dawson
'special'
Scotch Whi
fa
1
1
< SAME STRENGTH
€ S A M E P ft I C E
4 SAME MELLOW
SMOOTHNESS
.Should you experience any diffi-
culty in securing your require-
ments of Messrs. Peter Dawson’s
Whisky from your usual suppliers,
kindly communicate with the
Sole Agents,
COOPER NATHAN & CO.,
184-186 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone; 85783.
A WHISKY which lives up to its tradi.
tion of excellence, Peter Dawson’s
now comes to you in a new container,
streamlined in the modern manner.
Easier to hold and to pour; wth
attractive coloured drinking cup and
needing no corkscrew, the new bottle
has a decorative grace that is a fitting
accompaniment to this whisky of
good taste.
PETER DAWSON
SPECIAL
SCOTCH WHISKY
The Prontac
C Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
gXHffifTlOH
mmsm
jm
OLD
MOTORS
B0#n 1900
PAillOm IN
I9J4
ik
1935 USWEDS IN A NEW EDA
of MOTOR CAW «nd TRUCKS
OFFICIAL OPENING Of
o/u.' ' ■
J)-nC&uuUiBfuJc
mmm
mmmW
RZONE
?S voirn
rriers
T_TERE, at last, Airzone’s
magnificent dual wave
model 650 which definitely
advances this type of re-
ceiver to a point where
both local and distant
stations give the idtimate
in reproduction.
Truly Airzone have here
excelled themselves bring-
ing to Australian audiences
the thrill of Overseas pro-
grammes in true tonal
effect and with all their
natural environment.
Local and Interstate pro-
grammes, too, are repro-
duced with beauty and
charm, amply demonstra-
ting the Airzone slogan:
“AIRZONE’S TONE IS
AIRZONE’S OWN.”
MODEL 650
DUAL WAVE RECEIVER
for the best OVERSEAS, INTERSTATE OR LOCAL RECEPTION
6-VALVE A.C. ELECTRIC SUPERHETERODYNE
WITH RADIO FREQUENCY AMPLIFICATION ON
BOTH STANDARD AND SHORT-WAVE BANDS
It is a thing of beauty as a piece of furniture ... a massiv-e cabinet of specially
selected walnut veneers, finished in velvet lacquer. A product that Airzone take
pride in having developed.
FULL AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL and a continuously variable TONE
CONTROL. New Style lOin. Magnavox Dynamic Speaker with extended frequency
range giving most realistic and natural reproduction. These features, coupled with
a "tropik" transformer, a new development in transformers which eliminates chance
of breakdown in the speaker. Covers standard broadcast band 1500 to 500 K.C.
and short-wave entertainment broadcast band from 17 metres to 49 metres. Equipped
with a large Aero dial with a face. AIRZONE INERTIA TUNING which makes
this set the smoothest and simplest to tune ... a marked advancement in tuning.
High quality, trouble-free wave change switch. Provision has been made for a
special noise reducing aerial.
CASH PRICE £37-10-0 easy terms
AIRZONE FINE RADIO RECEIVERS ARE
OBTAINABLE FROM THE LEADING
MUSICAL HOUSES, RADIO DEALERS AND
DEPARTMENTAL STORES OF AUSTRALIA.
Dealers in country districts apply direct to Airzone for particulars of franchise
Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Limited, Camperdown, Sydney. S35.94
k
Queensland titles at the championship
meeting until the last moment, so he and
a couple of mates have decided to fly
up to Brisbane. This will give them time
for a little practice on the championship
course before it is closed for the big
meeting. Half a dozen other amateurs
are going up from N.S.W., but only
three professionals—Bolger, Kelly and
Howard. This is the more surprising
since the Queenslanders have provided
liberally for the professional events.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”; The Australian tennis
ranking list for 1934-35 will meet with
general approval, though one-eyed Syd-
ney critics may cavil at the bracketing
of McGrath and Quist in second place.
Crawford is on top, of course, and after
McQuist come Turnbull, Bromwich,
Hopman, Moon and Thompson. Cum-
mings is bunched with Tonkin and Kay,
of Victoria, in ninth place. Joan Harti-
gan heads the women’s list, with Mrs.
Westacott second and Mrs. Hopman
third. Thelma Coyne, the N.S.W. infant
phenomenon, is ranked fifth.
* * w *
“Hotham”: The Australian L.T.A. has
come out with a profit of £338 for the
year. The international visitors for the
Melbourne centenary cost a lot of
money, their tour finding the association
£612 down. Adding to this payments
to W.A. and Queensland for stands,
there was a deficit of £1832. The Aus-
tralian championships cleared £l7OO, but
£1250 of this went to Victoria for addi-
tions to Kooyong, leaving £450 in hand.
The 1934 Davis Cup tour brought a
profit of £l7OO, and this also helped to
pay off the dead horse and leave a bit
over.
* * * *
“Bondi-ite”: There is too big an
element of luck in the present method of
playing out tennis championships or
Davis Cup contests. Teams of two are
risky propositions; the form of any man
in any sport varies from day to day, and
players who leave one country frequently
fall many grades in the months inter-
vening before they play off in another.
All these big tennis events should be
decided on points—points gained by half
a dozen pairs in the doubles and half
a dozen individuals in the singles. As
it is, the champion of Monday may
become the second-rater of the follow-
ing Saturday, and vice versa.
Miscellaneous
“Glenelg”; The inter-University sports
at Adelaide saw Melbourne again carry
off the bell (its nineteenth win in the
series) with 60 points, Sydney coming
second with 50, and Adelaide third with
17. Metcalfe, of Sydney, topped 6ft.
3\in. in the high jump, and the Vic-
torian Harper did a fine broad jump, 23ft.
6iin., only to have the referee disallow
it as a State record because of a follow-
ing wind. Adelaide took the 100 with
Campbell (10 l-ssec.), and the 200 also
went to him in 22 l-ssec. The ground
was soggy, so these times were good.
* * * #
“Pads”: The barge over the new l.b.w.
rule continues to rage in England. Bats-
men are cursing the innovation as tend-
ing to destroy their art as practised in
England; bowlers loudly acclaim it as a
deliverance from the weary round of
lambasting which they have been suf-
fering for years past from batsmen on
perfect wickets. Arthur Gilligan strikes
a new note in the controversy. He says
the public, fed up with interminable play-
ing for a draw in county matches, is
taking kindly to the new rule, which
brings most matches to a finish inside the
three days allotted.
* * * *
“Kennington”: The South African
cricketers came near to defeat in their
match against Middlesex owing to an
overdose of Smiths. In one case the
arrow which nearly outed them was
fledged with a feather from their own
wing, so to speak, Owen Smith, the
Springbok cricketer and English Rugby
fullback, stampeding them in the first
innings. In the second O.S. got more
wickets cheaply, and the trouble was
added to by the Middlesex fast bowler
usually known as Smith, J., who took
5 for 40. This Smith’s non-selection
against Australia last season is one of
the mysteries of that eventful period.
•I* H*
“Cash Amateur”: The Australian
Olympic Federation has issued a warn-
ing that the rules governing amateurism
at the Berlin Olympiad are so drastic
that athletes will have to see that there
is not the slightest suspicion of profes-
sionalism attaching to them in the past
or the present. The amateur laws have
been regarded very casually in some
Australian sports, notably swimming and
athletics. Detection of any infringement
may mean not only the outing of the in-
dividual but the disqualification of the
team.


Banking
Facilities
HE modern bank makes a wide range of
financial facilities and a variety of
banking services available to its customers,
but the full scope of a bank’s business is not
adequately known by the general public.
In its booklet, “Services and Facilities,”
the National Bank sets out in short and
simple form the main methods by which it
assists its customers and friends to carry
through their financial transactions.
The sections described include: —
Current Accounts
Loans and Overdrafts
Discounts
Safe Custody
Letters of Credit
Fixed Deposits
Collections
Banking by Post
Travel Service
Women’s Department
The booklet is available, free of cost, at any
branch.
The
National Bank
of Australasia Limited
Paid Up Capital
£5.000.000.
Reserve Fund
tused in the businetc).
£3,000,000.
©
Marks the important points i
requiring ALEMITE LUBR.I- |
CATION: Wheel bearing,
ivater pump, cylinders, gear
box, clutch release bearing, 1
universal joints, chassis and
differential. "ALEMITE” is
the assurance of protection.
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
6
LEMITE"
~nat Cjx&a&e-I
m
Wheel Bearing
Particularly on cars equipped with
four-wheel brakes, Alemite Wheel
Bearing Lubricant is successful.
Millions of useful car-miles
are lost to motordom
yearly because of haphaz-
ard greasing instead of cor-
rect lubrication, whereas
performance, efficiency and
endurance of light and
heavy motor vehicles are
improved when the lubri-
cants and the system of
applying them are Alemite.
Ale mite Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address; ALMIT... Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH,
Resident Manager, 554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENKEXT & WOOD, 284 Wtt Street,
urnTOT? SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), lAd., 894 Hay St.,
MOTOR CO. (Pty), litd., 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
E - CORNEEE LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street. Adelaide K-Aust
PertE
-8-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE MOTOR
PLUM BAIOR-’ GUARD
mm
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for gin., Jin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
!] 7-day sets (7 razors in
’ oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
ro the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
LOAN
Under the Authority of the Australian Loan Council .
PROJPECTW
POINTS
INTEREST 3| PER CENT.
PRICE OF ISSUE £99-10-0
REPAYABLE IN 1949.
LOAN OPENS 11th JUNE, 1935, AND CLOSES
NOT LATER THAN 25th JUNE, 1935.
The Acting Treasurer reserves the right to close at any time
before 25th June, and partially to allot subscriptions if
necessary .
Applications may be lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office, or member of any recognised Stock Exchange.
Proceeds of the loan will be used for Public Works of the States,
and for the redemption of Treasury Bills issued on behalf of the States
and for other purposes.
Subscriptions may be paid in full or by instalments up to
30th September, 1935.
The loan is secured as to both principal and interest upon the
Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Commonwealth.
Interest will be paid on 15th April and 15th October of each year.
Interest will not be subject to—(a) State Income Tax; (b) Common-
wealth Super-Tax on Property; or (c) Commonwealth Income Tax to
a greater extent than that imposed by the Income Tax Acts of 1930.
The loan is an authorised trustee investment under the Trustees
Acts of all States.
Sinking Fund contributions at the rate of 10/- per centum per
annum will be paid into the National Debt Sinking Fund.
Banks in Australia will not charge exchange on cheques in payment
of subscriptions or on warrants and coupons in payment of interest.
The loan will be repaid at par on 15th October, 1949,
Loan Opens Tuesday,
11th June, 1935.
Make Early Application
Commonwealth Treasury,
CANBERRA, F.C.T
G. CASEY,
Acting Treasurer.


ur
mm
w
f MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
k
ķ
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD.. Melbourne.
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
VALDABLE INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS
The Budgetary Problems and Loan Requirements of the Various
Governments. The Position in Connection with Treasury Bills. Market
for Industrials. Wool and the Investor. Price of Gold. Small Investors
and Industry. Federal Subsidy to States. Australia’s Wine Industry.
COMPANY NOTES AND REVIEWS.
MINING FROM ALL FIELDS.
NOW ON SALE THE JUNE ISSUE OF
%e
...
t| ■' ■'■■■■
mu*
PRICE 2j- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
£
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and |
Cold Water, ’Phone I
and Reading Lamp, I
from 7/- per day; J
Double Room at |p
Double Rates) 1
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager. a
BUSINESS, ROBBERY. ETC.
A World of Complications
The frustration of projected enterprises
and transport-cost-reduction plans by
“regulation” is a symptom of a disease
traceable to Government control in busi-
ness. “Regulation” is in the hands of
Government departments. In N. S.
Wales at least their authority has been
extended to non-competing car services,
and the remedy is proving worse than
the disease.
This new form of officialdom —again
N. S. Wales is taken as the example—has
pestered carriers and motorists with in-
considerable results to Government
revenue. A correspondent recently
pointed out the case of a N.S.W. country
mailman who serves a district neglected
by the railways, and who has to obtain
special permission to take a party to
the pictures!
Government interference is closely
associated with a large part of the
world’s troubles. That stabilisation will
come only when politics are taken
out of finance is the recently-expressed
opinion of one authority. In the
question of stabilisation of currencies
alone there is a world of complication,
reflected in trading conditions in every
country. Australia feels it in the les-
sened buying-power of Continental coun-
tries. Belgium has been forced off gold.
France is facing a crisis, in which a
Government deficit looms large, that
may result in the franc —the one impor-
tant gold-backed coin remaining in the
world—being cut adrift in the exchanges
to fetch what it will in drifting dollars
and pounds.
Trade barriers, deliberate currency
manipulation in the U.S.A., restriction
schemes and political expedients have
all tended to make the trend of human
affairs too involved ' for the average
person to grasp. Others seem to approve
of fantastically complicated schemes like
the fallacious Douglas Credit proposals,
while rarely understanding them. One
thing stands out very plainly; it is that,
the more complicated do business, social
and Government affairs become, the less
easy is it to distinguish between cause
and effect, and good and bad.
In Britain, where currency matters are
largely in the hands of the Bank of Eng-
land and those who control the Exchange
Equalisation Fund, where the railways
are owned by companies, and where the
Government (through experience) is shy
of borrowing and spending its way back
to “prosperity,” recovery has been more
pronounced than in most countries.
Britain knows that it must buy from the
world as well as sell to it, and discoun-
tenances unsound and oppressive short-
cut methods. The simple and under-
standing way is always the best in the
long run.
The sterling price of gold is likely to
be low so long as gold currencies, such
as the French and Swiss francs, are
weak. The fact that when gold curren-
cies weaken against sterling there is a
corresponding weakness in the London
price of the yellow metal has resulted in
a common misunderstanding amongst
mining speculators. Actually, gold, being
the standard of values, is never dear or
cheap ; it is the currencies which fluctu-
ate. When French gold-backed money
is being converted into sterling (not tied
to gold) on a large scale, sterling natu-
rally strengthens in terms of gold, and
in all sterling and affiliated currencies the
metal becomes cheaper. The present
strong sterling exchange is influenced by
abnormal factors. Last week it took
over 75 francs to buy £1 sterling; at one
stage in March it required only about 70
francs. If France definitely left gold, and
the flight from the franc ceased, gold
should again rise.
* * * *
The crisis of 1929 and the years that
have followed —nearly six, and they said
it would all be over in 12 or 18 months!
—should leave marks in Australia’s his-
tory other than scars. One result of
smaller credits and lessened borrowing
overseas has been a reduction in im-
ports ; though not so good as 1933-34,
1934-35 will still show a favorable
commodity balance. For the 10 years
J 920-21 to 1929-30 —all comparatively
“good” years—in only two fiscal periods
was the trade balance in favor of the
Commonwealth. Every year since 1930
we have had a favorable balance.
Though imports have been reduced in
keeping with the national income, pre-
viously swollen by London borrowings
which made heavy imports a necessity,
the demand for the goods is substantially
the same. Australian factories have
filled the breach in a creditable manner,
especially as regards woollen
The iron, steel, electrical, wireless,
tobacco and foodstuffs trades have all
expanded greatly.
* * * *
From E. J. Garetty, managing director,
Australasian Plantations, Ltd.:
The “Times” on tung-nut culture in M.L.
(B. 22/5/’35) is both incorrect and confradic-
“ Don't shoot me here , darlin '— you’ll wake the baby!”
tory. It is obvious that climate cannot be
blamed for apparent failures a few miles from
satisfactory examples. In North Auckland cases
where success has not been achieved, the soil
has been to blame. The tung-tree ideal is a
soil of sandy loam, well drained but still
fairly moist, and failure to observe this with
some early plantations was the cause of their
troubles. One large co. abandoned its plan-
tation, but has since successfully established
itself on suitable soil in another quarter. Mr.
E. G. Little, of Kerikeri, and formerly of
Central China —the home of the tung-tree—
has proved that not only will his district pro-
duce tung nuts, but also oil of very high
quality. My own co.’s plantations are on Kari
Kari Peninsula, and there we have actual evi-
dence of suitability of soil and climate. I
have photos, showing a tree giving excellent
crops at 2+ years and 3) years within rifle-shot
distance of our plantations. Of course, this
tree is growing where the seed was planted,
whilst in the case of most commercial areas
the process of transplanting is necessary. This
naturally retards temporarily the nut-producing
age, but only for a year or so.
C. L. Wilson, manager of Empire
Tung Oil Products, Ltd., also protests:
The “Times” statement indicates that some
plantations are seven or eight years old, and
that production results have not yet been satis-
factory. No plantation in any part of Maori-
land will, until next spring, have trees which
have been planted for four years, and it has
never been claimed that production of nuts will
occur until after the fourth year. Even on
many of these young trees nuts have already
been produced, with excellent-quality oil, in
experimental plots only a year older. Payable
crops are only expected in the fifth year of
planting, with maximum crops when the trees
are 10 years old. The productive life is at
least 30 years thereafter.
* * -ic *
Commonwealth Government, which
set aside £20,000 for investigating fish-
ing, fishing grounds, market possibilities,
etc., is getting quotes for the construction
of an exploratory steel trawler. First
it was “practically certain that the con-
tract would be let to a British shipyard”—
Australian quotes were said to have been
too high. Now Cabinet has decided to
forget about the extra cost and let Aus-
tralians do the job, which will be better
than paying men dole money. The
trawler is to be used co-operatively
by the Commonwealth and the States,
and research in canning, curing and pre-
serving fish is to be carried out in con-
junction with private enterprise.
* * * *
North Broken Hill has celebrated the
better prices for metals —though lead and
spelter relapsed sharply in London last
week—by declaring a bonus of a
shilling a share with its usual quarterly
distribution of Is. 6d, The market
seemed to have expected more; the
shares fell from 140 s. on Tuesday last
week to 1325. 6d. on Wednesday, then
to 1255. on Thursday. In January the
£1 shares were worth 100 s.
* * * *
The buying tone at Sydney wool sales
continues strong. Last week’s turnover
closed with prices slightly above Bris-
bane rates, setting a new level of nearly
12d. (greasy) for Australian sales. Ger-
many and France were both buying, as
well as Japan and Bradford.
* * * *
Every now and then an Australian
brand of something or other breaks into
overseas markets. It is especially inter-
esting when the line is a manufacture or
invention. 0.T., Ltd., fruit-drink and
cordial manufacturer, of Prahran (Vic.),
in 1929 sold its London business at a
profit £362,000. The concern had its
genesis in John Dixon’s mineral-water
business at Prahran, floated into a co. in
1909. In addition to the London con-
nections, factories were established in
Sicily and San Francisco. Automatic
Totes, owners of the Julius patent, floated
a French subsidiary in 1926. and in 1928
sold its British rights for £lOO,OOO cash
and a royalty, Hume pipes are made
m Singapore, China, India and elsewhere.
Berlei corsets are a successfully-estab-
lished line in Britain. The latest Aus-
tralian-born industry to figure in the
news is the English end of the “Aspro”
concern—a co. was floated in London
last week to take over the London busi-
ness of A. and G. Nicholas, Ltd. The
public oversubscribed 500,000 £1 prefer-
™C+uSk~r£iLat s ' five minutes.
Of the 2,000,000 ss. ord, shares, 500,000
are reported to have been sold privately.
jj.
An ex parte application by two share-
holders was made in the N.S.W. Equity
Court last week for an injunction to re-
strain the directors of Amalgamated
Forests (Australasia), Ltd., from selling
the company’s assets to Queensland
Forests, Ltd. both Moulton companies.
The application was dismissed by
consent. Shareholders in Amalgamated
at an extraordinary general meeting
approved of the sale.
* * * *
Thanks partly to the prolonged wool
sales and the sustained demand, which
has continued to the
present, April was one
of Australia’s best ex-
porting months this
financial year, values
(£8.2 millions sterling)
being almost as good
as for March, and £2.7
millions better than
for April, 1934. Im-
ports (£5.5 millions)
were still higher than
in the corresponding
month of the previous
period, but were down
over a million com-
pared with March. The
favorable commodity
balance for the 10
months was £8.6 mil-
lions (stg.), as against
£32.3 millions for the
same term in 1934.
Net bullion and specie
shipments brought the
total in our favor up
to £14.3 millions, as
against £38.3 millions.
Broken Hill Pty.’s output of pig-iron
for the four weeks to May 12 was
44,967 tons (up 3700 tons), while ingot-
steel production (37,753 tons) was down
4000 tons. The co.’s financial year
ended on May 31.
* * * *
There, has been a fall in butter produc-
tion lately, and export restrictions on
shipments graded after June 8 are to be
lifted. N. S. Wales, Tasmania and West-
ralia have had to draw small supplies
from other States to satisfy home con-
sumption. Queensland and Victoria,
however, between them had a surplus
production of 120,000 boxes in May.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers Pty.
has agreed to provide £4OO a year for in-
vestigation by the C.S.I.R. of the paper-
making possibilities of Australian euca-
lypts. A chemist is shortly to be
appointed to the job. Australian hard-
woodsi apparently have the necessary
qualities for paper-making, but they re-
quire dilferent treatment from softwoods,
at present the almost-universal basis of
woodpulp. Many thousands of pounds
have already been spent by various in-
terests in the newspaper and paper-mill-
ing trades, with optimistic results,
especially as regards Tasmanian timbers.


■
.
m
i
a
mm
v'.
I
mmm
U \
WELL HERE 5 TO EE
99
m
■ ■ 4
I m .r * p»
4 .)
>gMfe
m %
7
sto vt,
V
I?
iiiliii;
lliiiiii
« 4
TDOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
"new life in every bottle /"


«J^S
So writes the user of an "R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: .Moffat, Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE; Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mae Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
A*. -VALLEV, . .BRISBANE »•„**
• Golfers ! Improve your game by
wearing “Niblick” Golf Shoes. The speci-
ally designed non-cloggmg, non-skid soles
make it almost impossible for your feet to
slip The soles are guaranteed not to crack;
they are water-resisting in both construction
and materials. Full and half-sizes for Men
and Women on comfortable, roomy lasts.
«>
Car v bo
Golf Shoe
Everlasting!
“STANLEY
All-Metz I
HOT-WATER BOTTLE
Made of Aluminium, it is ever-
lasting in wear—deakless and
odorless.
And, unlike ordinary hot-water
bottles, it stands up for filling.
A great idea for the home or for
the traveller these wintry nights.
Complete with cover.
PIKE
Price
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
in Queen Street, Brisbane.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
I at
N®
<9
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
/ ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
k
ROSS ' HEIGHT/
IcUent, age 19gains 5 Ins. in G weeks.
„ /, 21 „ 6 „ in 5 mths.
„ .. 20, .. 31 in 16 days.
~ „ 30, „ 2 ~ in 4 weeks.
40, „ U in 6 „
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3 Jins.
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee £2 2s.
Uss c "' d^?Sp m “ y .
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
ROSS SYSTEM
NEVER FAILS
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Box 10.)
NORTGH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Vic”; The occasion when, the
Governor having ordered morning dress
for a levee, half Brisbane shared
a tailcoat, picked up and returned
to the Government House lodge as
each citizen strode in to do honor
to the great, is a classic in northern
social history, but it was matched
on Jubilee Day, when hundreds of
loyal citizens discovered that they were
without visiting-cards. The improvi-
sations did credit to Australian genius.
One dignitary produced a “how-to-
vote” ticket, with his name and rank
in blue pencil on the back. Another
proffered a square cut from a bootbox..
A third managed half a bill with his
moniker neatly printed. One wonders
what a Governor fresh from India,
where cards are regularly left monthly in
letter-boxes, thought of it. They do
things differently in, say, Adrianople.
There half a dozen years ago the leading
British dignitary, after I had dropped in
on him covered in grime and oil, promptly
ordered out his car, and (with orderly
complete) hastened to the modest hos-
telry where I was wrestling with sand-
soap to deposit a neatly engraved piece
of pasteboard with a corner turned down.
# % * t-
“Aychemee”: With the capture of a
25ft. rock python, Kuranda (N.Q.)
has established a record in snakes.
The largest previously caught in the
North was 22ft. long, back in 1874.
Normally, the rock python is a harm-
less beast. Though the blacks have
a tradition that babies have been
known to be swallowed, what the
python likes best for dinner is a
nice fat rock wallaby. Sometimes a
young and venturesome snake will tackle
one that is too much for him. Once on
the Daintree something which sounded
like an avalanche arrived almost in my
lap, and turned out to be a good-sized
too well wrapped up in serpent. They
rolled by like a flash, cannoned off a
tree or two, and finally fell about 20ft.
into the river, out of which the Too
emerged alone and looking much the
worse for wear. New Guinea is reputed
to have bigger pythons than N.Q. If it
has, there can be few snakes in the world
to beat them in size. Even the anaconda
rarely runs beyond 30ft., but he is such
a gentle fellow that it is almost unfair
to call him a snake at all.
* * * *
“Koolpinya”: As one who lived
amongst abos. in the N.T. for a quarter
of a century, I don’t agree with Idriess
in his view of the murderings of Japanese
trepangers and white prospectors (R.P.
22/5/’35). I met Nemarluck in the
wilds of Daly River. This black-
fellow was looked upon by his own
people as a “killer,” and they all feared
him. Quite a different reason was given
for the shambles on the pearling-lugger
Ouida from that stated by Idriess. As
for Takiar, I had some Caledon Bay
natives working for me at Junction Bay ;
they were quiet, inoffensive fellows.
Nearly all the murders committed by
natives have had their origin in Asiatics
or whites interfering with abo. women.
* * * *
• “Gain” : Cricket is fast taking its place
beside football as a popular successor
to head-hunting in Papua. Moresby
district boys have more than one Gilbert
and Mullagh among them. In a match
the other day between Poreporena and
Hula, Piki Ravu, for the latter team,
made 177 n.o. Kila Walo 49 and Kila
Renagi 39, while Bam Morea responded
for the enemy with a neat 90. And was
there a “Hill” on that occasion! The
barracking at times sounded as if the
whole population of the Kokori region
was being chased by a green-tailed
tambaran.
O 0 v
“Vunai”: Gone almost without a fare-
well wave is the old s.s. Mataram. Be-
fore the war she was the wonder of the
western Pacific. In those days the Solo-
mons were her beat, but later every
island in the Mandated Territory knew
her, and she was always full of hearty
young adventurers intent on becoming
kiaps, of touring missionaries and, later,
of gold nabobs. During the depression
she was on the Papuan run, and then
back on her original route until she was
replaced by the Malaita last year. She
slipped out of Sydney at the beginning
“You eat that snake I left hangin' on the fence?”
“SNAKE! By cri, it tasted like stockwhip!”
of the month bound for a funeral in
Japan, where the shipbreakers get her.
* * * *
“Weei”: The loss of a Tennant’s Creek
gold consignment, worth £4OOO, between
Alice Springs and Quorn shows that even
the simple life of the Territory is no
longer immune from the corruptions
of civilisation. City people may re-
flect on the apparent carelessness of
official methods, but the position has
its pathetic side. Normally, the old
safe which travels on the Alice Springs
Ghan carries nothing much more
valuable than somebody’s lunch. Hence
the lock (one account says it could
be opened with a piece of wire)
and the key hung in a jacket pocket
behind a door. Officials have learnt by
experience that the Centralian is more
likely to give you something than to take
it away from you.
“X.T.”: The Minister for the Interior
and his party saw some rare examples
of fortitude and modesty in the N.T. To
one deputation which had trekked 500
miles'the Minister expatiated on the Gov-
ernment’s intention to provide bores.
Whereupon one deputationist exclaimed:
“Oh, it isn’t bores we worry about. Why,
there’s water every 50 mile or so out
there! What we want’s a diamond-
drill.” And he was so natural and sin-
cere that it was a full minute before the
meeting realised the humor of the situa-
tion and dissolved into laughter.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
June is to be the bride’s month. Peggy
Menzies, Lyle Jeffrey, Mary Littledike,
Elva Comley, Hazel Groves and Linda
Johnson are a few of the girls who will
sign on for life before the month is out.
There is, in consequence, a riot of tea
and bridge parties. Many of the guests
have to take tea two or three times in
one day.
Mr. and Mrs. Royston Foulkes were
guests at a dinner party at the Hotel
Carlton. Mesdames F. Tully, J. F. Ber-
gin, M. O’Gorman, Misses B. C. and
M. P. Tully were the hostesses.
Mavis Mundell, who marries W. Ewart
at Thursday Island on June 15, leaves
for the island on June 8 with her brides-
maid, Jacqueline Carter. Rita Mundell
gave a trousseau-viewing party in honor
of her sister, and Jacqueline a bridge
party.
Dr. and Mrs. Neville Sutton enter-
tained visiting medicoes and their wives,
in town for the Post-graduate Week of
the 8.M.A., at a cocktail party. About
50 guests were present.
The air pageant enticed a huge crowd
to Archerfield. The thrill was the lady-
pilots’ race, with Mrs. Bonney, Mrs.
Reis, Peggy Doyle and Ivy Pearce com-
peting. Ivy Pearce won from Mrs.
Bonney by a mere seven seconds. Mrs.
Bonney also entered for the all-comers’
race, in which she came third, with
Keith Virtue first and R. Reid second.
The officers of the 15th-26th Battalions
started their social whirl with a jubilee
dance in the Annerley drill shed. Colonel
J. Craven, C. 0., and Mrs. Craven, the
latter in black satin and a velvet coat
collared and cuffed with white fox, re-
ceived the guests. Brig.-Gen. E. M. and
Mrs. Ralph and Lieut.-Col. F. M.
Lorenzo (who has been transferred to
Sydney), with his better-half in blue,
were among the guests.
On Sunday, June 2, Beatrice Pugh, the
Queensland singer, was down for an
Empire broadcast from 8.8. C., London.
In her group of songs were three bird
lyrics, “What’s the Time, Blackbird?”
“The Nightingale” and “Still the Lark
Finds Repose.”
Mrs. Jane Surrey Dane, an Australian
abroad for some years, dropped off the
Ascanius to visit her sister, Mrs, C.
Durbridge. Mrs. Dane has circumnavi-
gated the earth eight times. Now she
is going to write a book about her
experiences.
A diamond has sparkled on Kathleen
Wand’s finger for some time, but the
official announcement of her engage-
ment has only just been made. The lad
is Michael Addison, who is at present at
Balliol (Oxford). This month he sits for
modern greats, and in August he sails
for Queensland, and will stay at Bishops-
bourne until the end of the year. He is a
son of Dr. Christopher Addison, Pro-
fessor of Anatomy at London University.
The Atcherley Bridge Club divided
the respectable sum of £l5O among chari-
ties for the year.
Mrs. J. Barley, who was Flo Doughty,
of Brisbane, is over on a holiday from
Ocean Island, where her husband is
Resident Commissioner.
Ernest Reeves and Mearon Provan, of
Toowoomba, whose family is among the
oldest residents of the Downs, are to be
married early next month.
At the Biggenden Show, Gwen Dun-
can gathered in 10 first and three second
prizes for horsemanship. Or is it horse-
womanship?
John Mair celebrated his 96th birth-
day quietly at Red Hill. As a lad, he
took the Queen’s shilling because of
a tiff with his employer. He fought in
India with the Black Watch in 1858, and
in the Zulu War of 1879.
The delegates to the Australian News-
papermen’s Conference were given a
royal time in Brisbane. A civic reception
opened proceedings, the Press Institute
gave a luncheon and there were dinners,
theatre parties and dances. The visiting
ladies were made honorary members of
the Brisbane Women’s Club, the Lyceum,
the Queensland Croquet Association and
the golf clubs.
Colin Bell gave a dinner dance at the
Belle Vue in honor of his sister Jean and
two pretty Melbourne girls, Betty Tren-
chard and Lulu Collins. Jean and her
mother, Mrs. Lewis Bell, came up from
Melbourne for the winter, and are stay-
ing at Montpelier.
Colin Dight, with Betty Dight and Mr.
and Mrs. J. Rich motored up from Yet-
man a few days before his wedding with
Peggy Menzies. Keith Black and Cliff
Squires, one from Moree and the other
from Tamworth (N.S.W.), arrived the
next day by mail train, and Mrs. W. Gun-
ning and Peggy Arnott, from Sydney,
stayed at the Gresham. Alice Thomson,
one of the bridesmaids, sent out invita-
tions to a cocktail party after the races
on Saturday, Mary Page arranged her
tea-and-tennis affair for Sunday, and
Monday was booked by six lasses, in-
cluding Jean Douglas and Phyllis Billing-
ton, who organised it, for a sherry-
drinking. Joan Perry’s luncheon of
yesterday was the final before the wed-
ding on the day this sees print.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Bunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager jor full particularx.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id, extra.
A The Larynx or Organ of Voice.
B. -The Trachea or Windpipe.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Lung.
I) The lobe of one of the Lunga.
Take your Doctor’s advice . . .
He will tell you that you need a genuine, high quality
medicinal preparation to banish that cold, influenza
or cough.
HUDSONS
Eumenthol
JUJU B E S
have been accepted and recognised by the medical pro-
fession and the public for over 40 years, and must not
be confused with ordinary non-medicated confections
or gum drops. Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are a
medicinal preparation for a specific purpose.
Sufferers from indigestion will find them a remarkable
digestive agent. Take one after each meal.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
FOR POCKET
OR PURSE,
6(1. tin
FOR HOME
OR OFFICE,
16 (in
BOTH SIZES —USE LARGE TIN AS REFILL FOR SMALL ONE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The thrill of the birthday honors to
this Letter was to find Dr. Constance
D'Arcy shining forth a Dame. A leading
surgeon and gynaecologist, the doctor
was recently invited to make the Anne
McKenzie oration at Canberra. Apart
from all the things you can read about
her in Who’s Who, she’s famous for her
gift for friendship, dimples and a voice
so warm and soothing it seems com-
pounded of the world’s 100 best lullabies.
Scarlet jackets very busy with deco-
rations, colored braid, flags and bunting
marked the tenth yearly night-out of the
Second Division A.M.F. The pillars
in David Jones’s ballroom sprouted
flags, the cash registers were hidden
behind trailing skirts. There were
silver bells but no cockleshells amid
the decorations, and the dance was
one of the happiest of the season.
The Governor-General and Lady Isaacs
were received by Major-General Charlie
Rosenthal and his wife, who handed
her Commonwealth Excellency the red
roses that chimed in with her oyster
satins. There were two rows of diamente
outlining the rounded collar, and these
were knotted at the back, thenceforward
dangling loose. A pearl coronet bound
her brow, and her smile for the six debs,
was very friendly. They were presented
by Mrs, Keatinge, who was in green
moire, and then floated off into the
“Blue Danube.”
Gwen Manchester put sparkle into the
night with her smile and her gold frock,
whose long train coiled about her feet
like a pet python. Gwen’s mother and
Colonel father entertained a cloud of
cherubs, colonels and captains. Gera-
nium-reds flecked with gold frocked the
tall and dark Mrs. Wishton Walsh;
Colonel McFarlane, who suffered more
farewells (he’s so popular that dinners
and lunches served with a few appropriate
words have been his lot for many a
day), Mrs. A. C. Mills, with her
Madonna-like calm, her palely gold hair
parted in the middle and knotted at the
nape of her neck, appropriately wore
deep blues. Mrs. Roy Hendy’s coral-
red moires made a bright splash, and a
snappy moment was provided by Mrs.
David Lindsay’s anemone-pink frock
with its one shoulder cape splashed with
opalescence. Admiral Randle Ford was
there with his wife, who was a twirling
mass of blue satin ruffles. Minister for
Defence Archdale Parkhill’s wife went
handsomely clad in gold with inlays of
black lace. Mayoress Parker’s flowered
chiffons have already won honorable
mention. Miss Birkin was in pink and
vSylvia Purves in blue simplicity.
Thea Proctor’s friend Elsie Stanley
Hall opened Thea’s show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries last week. The pianist
from South Africa, who, musical Sydney
declares, not only plays but looks like
Carreno, made a speech that was neat,
brief, yet infused with enthusiasm. Syd-
ney Ure Smith introduced Miss Hall, and
the opening, quite a social affair, went
happily. The flower arrangements were
as artistic as the fans for which Thea is
famous. Gladioli in an old white urn
stood cool and remote on a table in the
window. In a corner near by a shallow
blue bowl was massed with red roses.
Here and there dishes of artificial fruits
were placed, a pink camellia dropped, as
it were, in passing between the rosy
cheeks of two satin-skinned apples.
Fair women and brave men stepped
from the nippy freshness of a morning
last week into the parade of new Lustre
lingerie. Were they repaid for their ten
o’clock outing? They seemed to think
so, for at 11.30 the reception-room on
the first floor of the Australia was still
congested with both sexes drinking in
details of dulbloom lace trimmed
pyjamas, of lastex-side shorties, step-ins
and velvaray knickers. These same, and
many other items of underwear, were
being demonstrated by mannequins
whose faces and figures would compen-
sate many a girl for not being heiress to
the Woolworth millions. The new under-
wear is, in many instances, completely
without seams. This will be a boon to
the wearer of the diaphanous summer
frock, the chiffon evening dress. The
coloring of the new wear is an artist s
dream. Blues as melting as the sky, as
deep and as soft as the convolvulus, as
coolly pale as the delphinium ; yellows
that run from primrose to orange, camel-
lia-reds ; all the greens that nature ever
produced are prisoned in this fabric.
The mail that reaches the Bush Book
Club is very human. At the annual
meeting secretary Beulah Bolton (a mai-
vellous mingling of sympathy and effi-
cieticy) read a letter from one reader
who said that, being 75, he was no longer
interested in love stories. Travels and
explorations, he explained, were his de-
sire. There’s pathos in that. Another
man wanted vivid love yarns. The Girl
in the Flat Opposite mistook the word
for “livid,” and chuckled audibly. But
whatever the need the hardworking com-
mittee had supplied the desired mental
food. The annual report proved that; no
fewer than 14,000 books were sent out
in the year just ended.
The Royal Empire Society’s rooms
were crowded for the meeting which
marked the 8.8. Club’s silver jubilee,
and was the first one attended by the
new president, Lady Hore-Ruthven.
Treasurer Barbara Knox read the
balance sheet, and, like all treasurers,
pointed out the necessity for an increase
in £s. d. However, as the subscriptions
have increased by £25, prosperity seems
just around the corner. When the busi-
ness was done, Hugh Denison’s lady,
with the right jubilee spirit. Carried every-
body off for tea in the reception-rooms
below.
Eunice Gardiner’s testimonial concert
at the Town Hall will be the lure that
will draw friends to-morrow night from
Ashfield, where as a youngster of three
her playing caused a sensation; from
Woollahra, where she went to school; and
from Conservatorium circles, where she
is recognised as a brilliant young musi-
cian. Eunice is holder of the Royal
Academy scholarship and winner of the
R.A.M. gold medal, and the concert is
to help her avail herself of the scholar-
ship. The assisting artists are of star
dimensions. Photo, from Russell Roberts.
Opera star Muriel Brunskill has made
a success of her concert tour of the
northern State, and is about to give a
series of recitals in Sydney. The
Assembly Hall in Wynyard-square will
be the contralto’s vocal headquarters
from the last days of June. Already in
her bags are presents for sons Desmond
and Patrick, sent by friends made for
them by mother's voice and charm —a
boomerang, a teddy-bear and a pair of
bead serviette rings (these last made
specially by some blind children who
had been among Miss Brunskill’s
listeners).
Mary Regan, of Tamworth, has taken
herself off on another journey. This
time Java, Bali and Singapore will be
added to the store of experiences in
the mind of this much-travelled one.
Europe (Mary took school in England
and extras in France and Italy) and
America, with islands and things in
between, are already old friends to the
girl from the Northern Rivers, Dorothy
Welding photo.
No matter if father made a packet at
the races or on the Stock Exchange, if
mother was given the vacuum or the new
car of her desires, and big sister brought
home the bacon and her engagement
ring, last Friday was still the day of
the Junior Red (Grosser of the family,
Nothing could take it from her—llo,ooo
of her. The J.R.C. exhibition and
pageant had burst into its annual bloom-
ing, and the Town Hall was bursting
with battalions of important young
women, the cross of their emblem a
deep red on the snow-white of their
headdresses. There was the gaiety of
achievement bubbling up among these
good little and practical little girls, for
stalls piled with carefully cut and stitched
garments told of a year’s work for child-
ren of soldiers who are sick or in need.
The arrival of Lady Hore-Ruthyen let
loose the pageant, in which brightly-
hued butterflies fluttered, led by a lovely
gold specimen who presented a posy to
the Governor’s lady. There were bun-
nies, sheep, pierrettes, Maoris, rainbows,
fairies and earlyrVictorians, and every-
body was happy, whether she was a
prizewinner or not. Mrs. R. R. S. Mac-
kinnon, founder of the J.R.C., Dame
Eadith Walker, Miss Kate Egan,
Miss Consett Stephen, Miss Rosa Piper,
many knights’ ladies and Red Cross im-
portants were among the onlookers who
were collected by Mayoress Parker and
taken off for tea.
The Bulletin’s friend Howard
Hinton will henceforth wear an 0.8. E.
in his buttonhole on State occasions. He
was decorated by the Commonwealth
Governor last week. Cremorne, of
which Howard is a resident, is very
pleased; and surely no letters of con-
gratulation will be warmer than those
from the National Gallery and the
Teachers’ College at Armidale. Both are
the richer by hundreds of guineas’ worth
of Australian art presented by Mr.
Hinton.
Artist John Banks is feeling modestly
elated over his first one-man show.
Sales are now mounting towards the 300-
guinea mark. John’s name is constantly
making its appearance in art societies’
shows, but as he is really a painter for
love (his job is something to do with
shipping) he has never before had time
to collect enough of his work to
all by himself. Rubery Bennetts bright
little gallery in Hunter-street is the
richer for such pictures as summer
Light” and “The Fringed Pool. There s
a singing happiness in the Golden Chit
and “Sunlit Noon.” John is now pack-
ing his brushes with a view to conquer-
ing the exotic quality of Java.
The Jiri Baums travelled up from the
South in their caravan and arrived in
Sydney with all their spiders intact. Ihe
two came from Prague in Czecho-
slovakia to collect Australia’s spiders
so good luck to them. They’ll find us
terribly generous in giving away our
trapdoors and those big, thick-bodied
black chaps who come in from the
warden and chirrup “pleasant dreams
just as you are about to draw the mos-
quito net. The caravan is the gay
of the ambulance family. In contrast to
its grey-enamelled sides it has upholster-
ings of blue poplin, and its glazed and
netted windows are hung with cream net.
A sink, a spirit stove, two wardrobes and
tables that can be let down or pushed
up at will help to make up the cosy
interior. Part of the scientific pair’s Syd-
ney stay was spent at the Australia, and
at least one ball, the International, lured
Mrs. Baum from the spider in her own
parlor. .
Susie J. Williams has resigned as
principal of the Women’s College and
goes first to Brisbane, next to Victoria
and then to those vaguely pleasant places
labelled “abroad.” She has been for
weeks past draining the teacup of fare-
well tendered by almost every group
within the Uni. Last week the Old
Students’ Union spread a dinner in her
honor, and more gifts were thrust upon
the departing one.
Another International Ball in Sydney
brought home the fact that the League
of Nations still holds the fort in one of
the beauty-spots of Europe. This year
the idea behind the pageant which is
always a feature of the flutter seemed
to be that commerce is the link that
binds ;"so each country in the League was
represented by the goods she manufac-
tures. Was it just starry hope that made
the English group concentrate on cotton?
Belgium walked in a flashing glass dress,
her mirror train over a yard long. With
her walked Coal and Lace and Velvet.
Sweet were the four maids of China
in their exquisitely embroidered national
dress, their gay burden a bale of silk.
France walked perfumed and in fashion-
able array; Switzerland provided jolly
suggestions in cheese and watches (a
brave man went encased in a timepiece).
Australia, the blue train of her white
robe starry with the Southern Cross, led
her industrial handmaids. Each industry
was escorted by an upright young artisan
enjoying a smoke-oh.
David Jones’s was crowded ; more than
1000 danced at the ball. The galleon
moored on the floor just outside the lifts
greeted the arrivals with a touch of the
spectacular. Interest mounted at sight
of it, and eyes and decorations took on
added brightness. The vice-regals came
to the party, her frock a lovely affair of
green patterned in gold. The Profes-
sorial Francis Andersons were impor-
tants of the night; he’s the, president of
the League Union. The Lieut.-Governor
Streets and the Mayoral Parkers were
others who sat with the mighty; so did
Patricia Little in her silver-dotted blue
chiffons. The Consuls came in battalions,
Belgium’s Henry Segaert very pleased, for
he, Jeanie Ranken and F. de Groot (of
bridge-opening renown) were the creators
of the imaginative and spirited pageant.
Mrs. Segaert was very handsome in grey
and night blue chiffons; so was Miss Kate
Egan in her deep-wine-shaded romaines.
The Julius lady was another who
attracted ; her frock, the plumes of her
ostrich-feather fan and her shoes were
all delicately pink. She led forward the
seven white-frocked debs, and presented
them to vice-royalty.


Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of HESTER MARY RACHEL SHRAMM
REIMER (formerly SMITH), the daughter of
MARY SMITH (formerly SAWYERS) and
EDWARD SHRAMM SMITH, or any member
of her family, please communicate with
GREEN, DOBSON & MIDDLETON, of 60
Market Street, Melbourne.
T. F. MAY, 1933. SOS. “Thine own self.”
—G. Windsor.
Missing Relatives.
MARGARET QUIRK (believed to have mar-
ried one Matheson), sister of John Quirk, late
of Ward, Marlborough, New Zealand, or any
person claiming through her, please communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Blenheim, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Matrimonial Causes Juris-
diction. No. 371 of 1935. BETWEEN MAR-
GARET EMILY SORENSEN (formerly Mar-
garet Emily Barber) Petitioner and SYEND
SORENSEN Respondent.
TO SVEND SORENSEN late of Broken Hill
in the State of New South Wales Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET
EMILY SORENSEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and has
applied for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-third day of August 1935
and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of May, 1935,
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
HARRY R. ANDREWS & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney, Agents
for ELLIOTT & ELLIOTT, Solicitors, Adel-
aide.
Melbourne
Chatter
Things must have taken a turn for the
better, for women are looking nice about
the feet again. On Saturday they kicked
off the badly-cut shoes inflicted upon
them in the depression period and came
forth for the opening of the King’s Birth-
day meeting at Flemington beautifully
shod, as of yore. Mrs. Leslie Stuart, who
has been out of everything for years
through a health breakdown, made a
comeback shepherded by daughter Nan-
ette. She had not been seen at Fleming-
ton since the new stand was opened—
that is going back a few years. Mignon
Munro, sister of the beauteous Gwen,
got within coo-ee of Russia in a Cos-
sack coat and hat of dark-brown astra-
chan. Louise Lovely (Mrs. Bert Cowan)
appeared to have wrapped herself from
head to foot in pink blotting-paper.
Always first with the latest, Mrs. Flenry
Rosenthal sported a veil dotted with
large beauty spots —very effective.
Fur coats had been cut down and
made into capes. Fur fashions were
slavishly Edwardian. Capes of closely-
clipped pelts were in all the shapes that
were in vogue when the Marlborough
House set ruled the roost. The Hon.
Louis Clifford’s wife brightened up
sombre brown with a large outspread-
ing posy of orchids—big white ones
splashed with purple, with a few of the
green slipper variety thrown in to fill up
the gaps. To be up to date one must
have an initial tagged on somewhere.
All the letters of the alphabet, even to
Z, were used for the metal or wood
pinned on scarves, bags and
belts shown off at Flemington. A large
chronium M gleamed on Mary Millea’s
navy-blue frock.
The party with a purpose is taken so
much for granted that when the Lady
Mayoress sent out informal invitations
to come and take tea with her at the
Town Hall on Wednesday every woman
came prepared to hear a charity scheme
debated. But this time Mrs. Wales gave
a party with a solely social objective,
asking whom she pleased. Lots of the
women who are doing things were among
the sandwich nibblers—the Weedon lady
(Austral Salon), Mrs. I. H. Moss
(N.C.W.) and Mrs. Britomarte James
(Centenary Club), for example. The
Hennessy lady, with petunia feather tips
bobbing in her black velvet hat—she was
Mayoress in the war years—found that
so many changes had taken place in the
City Council that she had to be intro-
duced all over again. One of the new
faces was that of Mrs. Arthur Thomas,
whose husband just beat young Carlyon
at the last election. It was the Hennessy
lady who first had a suite reserved at
the Town Hall for the use of the Mayor-
ess. Before that the chatelaine of the
city had no place of her own. Mrs. Rae
Connelly (Lurline Hennessy that was),
kept a watchful eye on mother, whose
eyesight is not so good as it used to be.
Winnie Wales, who married Lem Calla-
way in April, attended her mother’s
party,
A festivity like one of those grey
days when the sun does not break
through for hours was the Prince Henry
Hospital Appeal Ball. The place was
enveloped with a mist of expectancy until
ten o’clock, when Lady Huntingfield
arrived. The silence as the vice-regal
visitor, with escort, walked to the dais
was almost eerie. After the National
Anthem, things began to liven up a bit.
Twelve debs., who had been shivering in
an ante-room all the evening, came forth
and showed off their coming-out frocks
and pink-rose wreaths to waltz-time.
Major-General W. A. Coxen and wife
saw their youngest chick, Dorothy, come
out of her shell. Sister Ella was there,
too, but her wreath was a sophisticated
affair with red carnations in a perky
mood. Yards of jubilee medal ribbons
could have been measured up along the
corsages of the women who hovered
about the dais. Margot Mackenzie,
Muriel Carnegie and the youthful Mrs.
J. Cordner, hanging on to masses of
balloons in many colors, provided a lively
bit of decoration. Knocking off work to
carry bricks, public accountant Bill
Bennett took charge of the finances.
When Dr. Geoffrey Pern in his A.M.C.
uniform danced with Barbara Bradden,
in a scarlet-lined Mephisto cape and
Carmen headdress, the effect was very
fancy-dressy. Vena Milne might just as
well have come in her daytime clothes.
She spent the evening checking in the
ticket-box.
Three hundred women swarmed into
the New Mercy Hospital one day last
week, bent on playing bridge to raise a
few pounds for maintenance expenses.
Having the party on the premises kept
down the expenditure. Madame presi-
dent Kiernan and her backers had only
one regret; they wished they had charged
more. When the players could be torn
from the card-tables they were shown
over the building, the last gesture in
modernity. Every sickroom has its own
color scheme. To be in complete har-
mony a patient would need to have a
dressing-gown to match the wall and
curtains. The domestic-minded lingered
longest among the gleaming pans and
labor-saving devices in the model kitchen.
Most hospitals do a bit of trading in
these hard times. The inevitable shop
is tucked away in the sunset-colored en-
trance hall. Mrs. C. Halleur, who has
taken charge, opened the shop on party
days, and, knowing the taste of card-
players, laid in a full stock of sweets and
cigarettes.
Armed with hockey sticks, a crowd
of country girls unloaded themselves
here on Friday for their annual tourna-
ment. Every year King’s Birthday pro-
vides an excuse for a trip to town. The
brogues slithered all over the place at
Saturday’s opening match in the Uni.
High School playing-ground, rain-soaked
after the sky’s all-night weeping. Hockey
players have smartened up. At last they
have discovered the costume that is proof
against untidiness, but players darting
about in trim tunics of wood-brown put
it all over the girls who had picked royal-
blue, bottle-green or navy uniforms. Rita
Mcllevena, of Ballarat, went home with
a black eye from a hockey-ball hit.
Molly Bloore, otherwise “Piglet,” whose
engagement to Arthur Bennett was an-
nounced last week, will help pick the Vic.
team for the Pacific and All-Australian
Women’s Hockey Tournament, to be
held next month. She is one of Merton
Hall’s old girls; the A. A. Milne nick-
name was suggested by her diminutive
figure.
Here is one of the jubilee medallists,
Mrs. Watson Robertson, who still
brushes her accent with a soft burr,
though it is 30 years since she waved
adieu to the Scottish border. The blue-
bells are not forgotten, but the Scots l
woman has fallen in love with the wattle.
In recent weeks Mrs. Robertson has been
bombarded with flowers and gifts,
one a chromium-and-ebony clock to
mark her retirement from various
branches of social service. Roma Clarke
Harrison, wife of the member for Ben-
digo, has come to the rescue of the
Association of Creches to fill the presi-
dential chair, which Mrs. Watson occu-
pied for 10 years. The Victoria League
Club will have to find a new president
also. The Watson Robertson couple are
on their way to N. Queensland, and in-
tend putting in a couple of months at
Magnetic Island. Melbourne will be in
its new spring clothes before they walk
down their own garden path again.
There was one break the kindly Scots-
woman could not make. She had not
the heart to desert the foreign bairns
who learn their A B C at a creche in
an industrial area where Chinese cabinet-
makers, Afghans, Assyrians, Japanese
and representatives of other races have
planted themselves. The leader’s chair —
very rough and hard —will remain vacant
until she returns from the Land of the
Sun. A place is being retained for her
also on the council that distributes free
milk to youngsters that need it. Dickin-
son-Monteath made the picture.
Only the official visitors had a chance
of seeing the pictures on the opening day
of the British Art Loan Exhibition. Sup-
ported by a donation from Keith Mur-
doch the trustees were able to stage a
free show. The spacious Latrobe Gal-
lery, where the pictures hang, was
thronged, and the overflow surged into
the other galleries. There had not been
so many spectators for years. Late arri-
vals who just managed to squeeze in
heard nothing but muffled sounds, for the
speakers’ voices got lost in the high ceil-
ing long before they travelled so far as
the door.
A more intimate exhibition was the
one that gave friends of the late Bernard
Hall a view of his collected works.
Among the students who came to have
a look at their old master’s handiwork
and offer congratulations to Mrs. Ber-
nard were Louis McCubbin, Charlie
Wheeler, John Rowell, Jessie Trail, Violet
Teague, Dora Wilson and Violet Mc-
Innes.
Composer Edith Harrhy (Mrs. C. B.
Daly), caught by a Broothorn camera in
one of her pensive moods, has been given
proof that her scribbling has not been all
in vain. Since Christmas she has had 12
songs published, and last week she re-
ceived word that Anne Audsley, a literary
figure in London’s theatreland, had
signed a contract to have her play, “And
a Castle Wall,” written round two
Edith Harrhy songs, produced at a West
End theatre. “Elizabeth,” among the
newly-published dozen, for which Anne
wrote the words and Edith the music, is
one of a song serial written originally
for “Queens of England” to take tableau
form. Before the next Bendigo competi-
tions are over, the man who sits in judg-
ment will probably wish that Edith
Harrhy had never been born. He will
have to listen to two of her new songs
over and over again. One, “Pierrot’s
Cradle Song,” although a Harrhy latest,
was written five years ago, after a visit
to M.L., where the composer met the
writer of the verses, Charles Allen, the
blind son of knight James Allen.
Edith Harrhy first came to this
country as a pianist supporting violinist
Mary Law. The romance that brought
her back to Australia ripened in the
war years. She has married into a Bel-
gian family so highly approved by the
late King Albert that a royal decora-
tion was bestowed on mother for
patriotic service.
The Melbourne Hunt Club brush went
last week to Col. Rupert Fanning, who
was in at the death on Zulu. Little
Lynefte Dunstan, of Frankston, was
close on his heels. The hunters had an
exciting chase from Clyde to Cardinia.
Charlie Moore kept his hounds on the
line so well that the fox was killed in the
open. Mrs. Kenneth Moore, one of Vic-
toria’s best horsewomen, came a cropper
through her horse getting his foot in a
hole after a jump. She was carried off
the field with a broken arm. Dick Lang-
don also came to grief, but had only a
few facial bruises to show for taking
the toss. It was an unlucky day for Mrs.
Embling, for she lost Harmony, a hand-
some bay horse, who used to clear the
fences like a bird.
Nancy Osment, who for more than a
year has been collecting household
treasures suitable for a tropical bunga-
low, was married at Nuwara Eliya on
Saturday to Howard Fitzallen Clayton-
Daubeny, an Englishman in his late
twenties who is managing a Ceylon tea
plantation. Howard’s mother—he is the
only son—lives in Southern India. She
had a social pull strong enough to get
Mrs. Arthur Osment and her Nan invited
to stay with a maharajah at his palace
for several days when a native festivity
was being staged with Arabian Nights
magnificence. Before Howard with the
hyphen drifted into the tea business he
devoted most of his time to big-game
hunting. Mother often accompanied
him on these jungle excursions. A rav-
ishingly pretty blonde with the kind of
figure that shows off clothes to good ad-
tantage, Nan captured the young man’s
fancy when they were fellow-travellers
on a liner between England and Ceylon
about two years ago.
Beside a pulpit draped with a Union
Jack (in readiness for the Scots Church
King’s Birthday sermon on the morrow)
Iris Chambers changed her nationality
on Saturday morning, becoming the wife
of Ralph Harding Hunt, of Boston
(U.S.A.), who is attached to the Ameri-
can Consulate in Melbourne. Iris wore
a caped tunic frock of ice-blue crepe set
off with a velvet hat in the deep blue of
the flower after which she was named,
with a large winged bow across its up-
turned brim.
George Walton, who has been
dabbling in amateur theatricals from
early boyhood, had a play “tried out” on
Thursday evening at a charity show in
the Garrick. A lack of stage technique
cramped his style, but he showed an
aptitude for dramatic interpretation.
“There’s A Divinity” (George always did
revere Shakspeare) brought to the front
Nell Hunt, a winsome player who has a
good sense of the theatre. The piece
dragged through nine scenes and three
acts in the old melodrama style, with
only four people to keep the dialogue
going. Playwright George expected his
characters to change from daytime to
evening clothes in a jiffy, and the dressers
had to scurry like hunted rabbits to get
the players on deck before curtains and
cues. Those who helped to drag off and
throw on the stage clothes got honor-
able mention when praise was broadcast.
Walton used a hackneyed theme, the
tragedy of December mating with
May, but managed to get a new angle
on the eternal triangle. As the
Loreto Free Kindergarten was to reap the
profits, office-bearers made it their busi-
ness to see the house was well filled, and
that there were plenty of pretty girls in
the front of the house to get rid of
sweets, posies and programmes.
Mrs. Sam Mackay, who danced into
stage popularity as Fan Dango and
married a wealthy Westralian pastoralist,
is getting in touch with old friends again
after a few years’ absence. Looking as
youthful as ever, she turned up at Flem-
ington on Saturday coated in the fur of
some animal which had been caught nap-
ping in the jungle. Young son Peter, who
inherited a fortune on his 21st birthday
—not so long ago—broke the homeward
journey so that he and his wife might
spend a little time at the station in West-
ralia. They will soon be on the move
again. Mrs. Mackay has taken a flat at
Cliveden, and a family reunion is immi-
nent.
Before the week is through Toorak
flatites will be able to “meal out” in their
subbub. The Percy Bretts’ lovely old
home has been converted into an eating
house. Hec Green, one of the bright
lads of the village, who is going to run
the place, has let himself go on the in-
terior decorations—maroon carpets and
hangings, furnishings of waxed moun-
tain ash, primrose lighting and walls
the shade which yesterday was called
“off” but which to-day is known as
“distressed” white. To be in keeping
with the mansions round about Hec will
hang original Italian prints and rare
water-colors. Will hot pies ever be
served amid all this grandeur?


WAIT FOR IT.
COMING SOON 7
THERE'S SOMETHING
NEW HERE TOO/
F.T.6.
The Independent Theatre’s perform-
ance of Frank Harvey’s “False Colors”
at Sydney Savoy on Saturday, in spite
of capable acting and some excellent
work on the part of the playwright, was
not satisfying. There is a promising first
act, but later the play develops into
hackneyed melodrama. Doris Fitton had
the heaviest role as Henriette Lelage,
“the red-haired devil of the opera,” and
she, with William Gates, headed a very
well-chosen cast.
* h- *
The theme of “The Little Accident,”
performed by the Studio Theatre Club at
Emerson Hall, Sydney, is baldly handled,
and the lines lack sparkle. The players,
an unimaginative bunch, failed to give
the piece significance. Ward Leopold
strove hard to be amusing, and Hay
Simpson scored as a voluble Italian.
* H- *
Sydney Kursaal Theatre’s double bill
was a well-engineered affair. “Buying a
Dog,” a whimsicality arising from the
attempt to combine the offices of matri-
monial and dogs’-home agent, was
tailored to measure for Scott Alexander
and Beverley Myles. Major attraction
was “The Unwilling Bride,” fruitful of
laughs and redolent of heather, in which
Harry MacDonald, Dorothy Sykes and
Reg Wilson figured prominently.
* « *
The Williamsonian G. and S. Co. at
Adelaide Royal has strong reserves. For
“The Pirates” it produced a glorious
soprano, Helen Langton, to match God-
frey Stirling’s tenor, and a rousing
Pirate King, Frank Birmingham. Richard
Watson has an effective double-event in
the Sergeant of Police and “Trial by
Jury’s” farcical Judge. Ivan Menzies
occupies his spare afternoons in the un-
usual direction of giving religious
addresses.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
For the Anzac House Ball a tuneful
prelude was provided by the R.S.L.
Memorial Band. To May Webster’s sing-
ing of “The Debutante” eight snowy-clad
maidens trod the length of the crimson
carpet to be presented to the Lieut.-Gov,
by Captain “Sammy” Hall, and were
then claimed by their military-uniformed
partners for the minuet. In the large
group of official guests black gowns
were the exception rather than the rule,
the Hobbs lady, Mrs. A. N. Martyn and
Mrs. J. J. Kenneally being the excep-
tions, Mrs. Longmore’s sombre laces
were semi-concealed by a scarlet cape,
the Mitchell lady’s deep-blue patterned
taffetas were adorned with scarlet-piped
frills, and daughter Mrs. Terrence
Anketell shot her ice-blue taffetas with
pastel flowers. Mrs. Henderson, who
handed over the presentation posy,
splashed silver lame on her mulberry
velvets.
As a preliminary to the opening of the
hunting season women members of the
W.A. Hunt Club were entertained by
chairwoman Mrs. T. Felloe. Drawing-
room gymkhana competitions loosened
muscles for the next day’s meet, and
saw Doris Colliver, Sheila Hayes, Mabel
Teather, Vera McEnroe and Phoebe
Simpson carrying off the prizes. Bel-
mont Hotel was the venue of the meet,
where gathered about 170 riders and as
many guests, who were tea’d by presi-
dent J. J. Poynton and niece Mable
Teather.
Pink elephants marched round the
walls of the Pleiades Club and stood
guard over the dais at the club’s first
dance of the season. Red, pink and
white streamers were festooned in fringes
from the centre of the ballroom with
their ends tucked into bowls of shining
gumtips. President Florence Arm-
strong’s tomato satins glistened with
diamente motifs; secretary Jeanne
Parker’s soft floral georgettes were in
autumnal tones.
Margot Law came of age to the clink-
ing of glasses at a cocktail party given
by her parents at their home in West
Perth. Her coin-spotted picture frock of
navy taffetas was becomingly draped with
a square yoked fichu, finished in the
front with a trail of fragrant buds. Mrs.
R. O. Law moved from room to room
swinging a black velvet cape over her
heavy georgettes.
Members and officials of the 1935
King’s Cup crew were given a welcome-
home at a dance held in the clubhouse.
The blue and silver of the club’s colors
were seen in the balloons and streamers
which formed a canopy above the
dancers. Mrs. A. L. Walker, president
of the dance committee, allied black lace
with georgette ; secretary Miss J. Graham
chose fitting scarlet marocains, and
assistant sec. Miss M. Car rick combined
pink marocain and grey lace.
News from London tells of the mar-
riage of Cuthbert, only son of Mr. and
Mrs F. E. Matthews, of Perth, and Bar-
bara, daughter of the late Captain Denis
Downes Lane, R.N., and Mrs. Lane, of
Kensington.
Latest on the list of soon-to-be-weds
are Stan Murphy and “Dickie” Padbury,
youngest of the William Padburys quar-
tet of daughters.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Douglas Mawson and his lady gave
a dance at their home at Brighton for the
debut of their second daughter, Jessica.
The garden looked like fairyland, glass-
houses, fishponds and rockeries all
twinkling with hundreds of colored lights.
The rooms where dancing was enjoyed
were decorated with a mass of roses an
autumn foliage. The Mawson lady
looked well in black georgette, with trills
of black taffeta on the skirt and over
the shoulders, forming a V at the back.
Jessica’s period frock of white taffeta
had a full skirt and tight-fitting bodice
with fichu effect. Joan Cleland, another
deb., was also in white taffeta, fitting to
the knees and flaring into a slight train.
Patricia Mawson chose a sophisticated
frock of black lace with frills of black
tulle. Mrs. G. D. Delprat, over from
Melbourne, was at the party.
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Gebhardt were
host and hostess of a dance at Mount
Osmond Country Club to launch their
second daughter, Christel. The huge
lounge and dining-room were reserved
for dancing and decorated with chrysan-
themums and autumn foliage. Supper
was in a large marquee, the tables
arranged with low bowls of mixed
flowers. The hostess’s trained gown of
pale-blue chiffon, brocaded in silver, was
moulded to the figure, Christel wore a
tight-fitting white satin frock with tulle
frills from the knees.
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Law-Smith, of
Yaringa, Gawler, gave a dance at their
home as a farewell to Dr. and Mrs. J. B.
Gillen, who have left the district to reside
in Adelaide. The ballroom was deco-
rated with gladioli and autumn leaves,
and the supper-table was arranged with
crimson Hadley roses. The hostess was
gowned in heavy pervenche-blue de-
lustred satin, moulded to the figure and
merging into a train. Mrs. Gillen chose
a pale-pink chiffon frock, cut on princess
lines.
Among dancers at the Movie Ball at
the Palais Royal Mrs. Abotomey was an
outstanding figure in a slim-fitting sheath
frock of jet sequins. Another modish
toilette was worn by Mrs. R. H. Perry,
a black-and-gold-embossed lame tunic
over black skirt and corsage posy of
crimson roses. Mrs, J. Killicoat looked
well in black satin relieved with silver
lame.
Acting-Premier Ritchie and Lavington
Bonython, son of our G.O.M. in the
newspaper world, are receiving heaps of
congratulations on their knighthoods.
TASMANIA.
The opening by his Ex. of the Port
Arthur Room at Hobart Museum was
a well-engineered show. Guests assem-
bled in the Art Gallery, and were
addressed by Mr. Clunes, the Governor
and Dr. Pearson. Everybody inspected
the loan and gift collection of pictures,
and then adjourned to the new room,
where relics of the bad old days some
gruesome, some pathetic, all inteiesting
were displayed.
Commem. Week wound up with a ball
in the Uni. library. Chrysanthemums
and autumn foliage decorated, and the
dancers were mostly youthful.
The Charlie Wolfhagens had a chris-
tening of the big rooms lately added to
their home in Lipscombe’s-avenue,
Hobart. It took the form of a late-
afternoon party. The rooms were bright
with vivid chrysanthemums and autumn
foliage, and huge fires made a cheerful
interior. The hostess wore a dark shade
of chiffon velvet with big sleeves of
silver lame. A big crush of friends re-
sponded to the invitation.
Mrs. Roy Lethbridge is being wel-
comed at many parties. Her sister, Betty
Giblin, led the way by inviting a crowd
of young people to her mother’s house
in Macquarie-street, and the following
afternoon Helen Gray was hostess at a
bridge party in Fitzroy-place.
The Old Girls’ Assoc, of Broadlands
House School, Launceston, ran a very
jolly dance in the Assembly Hall to swell
the scholarship fund. Gold and green, in
streamers, lampshades and flowers,
formed the decorations. The president,
Miss Rooney, received the guests, and
Gwenda Coogan and Viva Beamish, joint
jecs., worked hard, with good results.
Launceston Art Society’s exhibition
was an advance on former shows. C.
Hills, now living in Melbourne, won the
water-color prize for his landscape
“Winter.” Water-colors predominated.
Work by W. J. S. Fuller and Mrs. Reid
Bell was good.
Archdeacon and Mrs. Birch (she was
Amy Shoobridge), who have been living
in India for some years, are in Hobart,
staying with Miss Shoobridge.
Our Mrs. Lyons continues her trium-
phal march over hearts in England. The
presentation of a brooch with sapphires
“to match her eyes” at Newcastle, after
the launching of the Dominion-line
motor-ship Port Townsville, was a touch
worthy of Barrie, whose theory that the
Lyons family is the ideal size has already
been recorded.


In Miniature .
I'm on a committee,
Consisting of 7,
Which meets in the city
From 8 to 11
On Saturday evenings discussing the way
We’ll manage the stalls for our Final
Display;
But Simeon Sparks,
With his tactless remarks,
Delivered with quite a provocative bray,
Is likely, by letting antipathies in.
To sprinkle the room with belligerent
leaven.
And when the resultant reprisals begin
The atmosphere oozes original sin;
And if you could hear us you’d shudder,
or grin,
At our little committee’s vociferous 7.
The fly in the ointment
Is Christopher Jones,
Who moves his amendments
hi arrogant tones,
Till Hobin, reduced to a querulous sob.
And Saw kins and Benjamin Thingummy-
bob
Produce such a wrangle
That, tied in a tangle,
The chairman’s auricular arteries throb ;
And though he endeavors to keep to the
fore
The subject at issue from 8 to 11
He never succeeds, for right at the core
Is Sparks’s obsession for Christopher’s
gore.
And the answer to zealots who’d ostra-
cise war
Is there in our little committee of 7.
W.A.
L. A.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Cri.
Goes By
Regarded as a
“comedy house,”
Sydney Criterion,
which will dis-
appear within the
next couple of
months, has been strangely tragical.
The Dacres’ compact-of-death tragedy
(they were found dead in their bed in
a Macquarie-street boarding-house) was
made when a poor season at the Cri.
had blasted their hopes. The Dacres
were rehearsing the “Silence of Dean
Maitland,” to be presented at the Theatre
Royal, at the time of the tragedy. Dacre's
wife had been in very ill health for some
time, and that, with the failure at the
Criterion, must have preyed on his mind.
A former medical student, Dacre was
convinced that his wife had no hope of
ever regaining her normal health.
When the Willoughby-Geach company
was about to open with “The Wrong
Mr. Wright” the bubonic plague, break-
ing out virulently, claimed Ada Lee, one
of the co., as an early victim. She died
on the morning of the proposed open-
ing, which would have had to be post-
poned even if the theatre had not been
quarantined. That did not prevent one
Sydney paper from printing a complete
notice of the performance that had not
been given.
Many companies went broke at the
Cri. The most sensational stranding was
that of the Stine and Evans American
Musical Comedy Co. ; the whole Ameri-
can community turned up in response
to an SOS to help the repatriation of
the co. Still, the place had its big
triumphs, too. It was h.q. for Nance
O’Neill, Olga Nethersole and the Clarke,
Meynell and Gunn organisation when it
threatened to eclipse J.C.W. Dampier
and Holloway also made use of it fre-
quently ; and among others Kennedy
the mesmerist found payable business at
this address.
The brightest day of the theatre came
when “the Firm” surprised Sydney with
the delightful “Lilac Time,” which kept
the Full House sign Up for week after
week. Another long period of prosperity
was provided 30 years ago by a Gilbert
and Sullivan season, when Dolly Castles
played the lead and the massive Celia
Ghiloni, unbeatable as “lolanthe’s”
Fairy Queen and Buttercup in “Pina-
fore,” and Howard Vernon, an inimitable
Lord Chancellor, helped.
The history of the house has been a
queer assortment of success and failure,
tragedy (there were several other deaths)
and comedy. At one time the banks took
possession to protect their interests, but
its last private owner was one of Aus-
tralia’s millionaires-—John Wren.
H. M.
Menuhin and
Some Fiddles
I don't agree
with “A. Major”
(B. 15/5/’35) that
the blah pro-
duced by the un-
critical critics of
the popular press is the hyperbole of
idolatry of Menuhin. Really, it is the
hyperbole of publicity written with one
eye on present and future advertising
contracts, and that nicely perfumed swill
does not alter the fact that the young
genius is a front-rank violinist. His tech-
nique is perfect, and his interpretations
are sincere. Certainly he lacks a form
of maturity that is personal rather than
artistic. He hasn’t the gay magnetism
of Szigeti, the contemptuous confidence
of Kreisler or the fire of Heifitz.
I have occupied an ancient Austrian
chair, with my feet wrapped in news-
papers, to study the bowing mastery of
Menuhin, and to listen to his music as
well as the lousy acoustic properties of
"Ramsgate, Botany Bay,” water-color by Robert Campbell at Fisher’s Gallery, Melbourne.
Sydney’s icy Town Hall would allow
at each of his concerts. 1 have done
the same for every other violinist for 30
years, and in every case I have had the
opportunity to personally handle and
critically examine their fiddles. Now “A.
Major” says “there never has been a
perfect fiddle, let alone a perfect fiddler,”
and I am seething with anxiety to be
told what was lacking in Paganini
(placed first by repute) and Elman,
Szigeti, Kreisler and Kubelik (the also-
rans in my order of merit) that debars
them from being classed as perfect
fiddlers.
What improvement is suggested by
“A. Major” to make a perfect fiddle?
Antonius Stradivarius made them per-
fect. He made Menuhin’s in 1733.
Kubelik brought “The Emperor” to
Sydney, and that was one of the three
most perfect Strads in the world. Amati,
Testore and Gand were among others
to make perfect models. They knew
some tricks about seasoning wood that
helped a lot, but Balocovic played on a
fiddle made by Smith, of Sydney, and
•declared that, except for newness, it was
as good as his Guarnerius.
Menuhin has used the same Strad for
all his recitals, and if “A. Major” thinks
thin top notes are due to a faulty fiddle
his think is wrong. Blame the vastness
of the Town Hall, plus a metal E string.
All front-rank fiddlers have perfect
fiddles. Kubelik, Heifitz, Elman and
Erica Morini had Strads. Kreisler and
Szigeti each used a Guarnerius. Balo-
covic used one of each. Franqoise Mores
had a Gagliano. and Daisy Kennedy an
Amati. And if they were not perfect
fiddles and their owners perfect fiddlers
I wish “A. Major” would sav why.
C. Share,
Lending-
picture
Libraries
The picture
library seems to
have come to stay
in England. Man-
chester has had
one going for 15
months now, with
100 subscribers and 600 pictures ; there’s
another in Bournemouth ; the Wertheim
Gallery in London has recently started
one, and a group of young London
artists have a similar scheme going from
a private address.
It’s a good idea. It means that the
artist is getting something, at least, to
pay for his paint and canvas ; instead of
collecting dust in some corner, his works
are becoming known. It is pleasant for
the subscriber to be able to choose a
good picture for a small annual sub-
scription, and, if after living with it for
some months he wishes to possess it, to
know that the sub. will go towards the
purchase price.
The Meldrum Group in Melbourne
started a scheme for lending pictures two
years ago ; but only their own pictures
were available, and, probably, also, for
want of publicity, the thing died. Still, it
broke the first ground. Couldn’t a more
representative library be started? Com-
pared with England, or even France, we
have a high percentage of very compe-
tent artists. Such a scheme would let
us all see something of their work.
S ANDYS.
Is Film Talk
So Important?
“Even the best
English pro-
ducers have yet
to learn that the
two most impor-
tant things in a
film are dialogue and direction —in that
order,” writes Keith Barry from London
in an admonitory note to Australian film
producers (B. 8/5/’35). All the best
American, French, German and Russian
directors share the ignorance of “the
best English producers” of this rule of
film construction. The exception is said
to prove the rule, but a rule can hardly
be formulated from exceptions only. If
dialogue is the most important thing in
a film, why go to the pictures at all?
Yet the public turns a deaf ear to the
orgies of dialogue offered by the modern
theatre.
I cannot recall a single line of dialogue
from good films I have seen, but the
images through which the directors told
their stories come crowding back —the
porcupines with bristles rigid with fear
in “Zoo in Budapesth” ; Leslie Howard’s
automatic gesture of reaching for a cigar-
ette in “Berkeley Square” when, a man
of the twentieth century, he found him-
self in a fix in the eighteenth ; the com-
ment of the lifebelt marked “Titanic”
on the conversation of the honeymoon
couple in “Cavalcade.”
The invention of the sound film has
presented film producers with an extra-
ordinarily difficult problem—that of
bridging the time lag between sight and
sound. While the talkies were young
the novelty of sound was great enough
to distract public attention from the new
immobility of the screen. But that phase
has passed. If, as Keith Barry says, dia-
logue is the most important thing in a
film, it should follow that faithful tran-
scripts of good stage plays make the best
films. But does experience confirm that
view? If dialogue is all-important the
screen must be practically static, for the
image must be held on the screen until
each set of characters has time to speak
its piece, and surely it is of the essence
of moving pictures that they should
move.
Solsky, the director of the Moscow
Sovkino, has said: “On the whole we
are of the opinion that the talkie has no
future..,.On the other hand, I believe
that the sound film not only has a great
future but that it signifies a revolution
of film and art altogether.” The suc-
cessful upshot of such a revolution would
be the fusion of sound with movement
in a rhythmic unity, and since sight is
more rapid than hearing this would in-
volve the minimising of dialogue.
If it is argued that the “dialogue first”
prescription is not guaranteed to make
better but only better-paying films, its
efficacy remains equally doubtful. Has
any box-office attraction ever rivalled
Charlie Chaplin? “City Lights” packed
the world’s theatres long after the estab-
lishment of the dialogue film.
KATHLEEN PITT.
Current
Arthursts
C h a racteristic
of the work of
the late Bernard
Hall is the exhi-
bition of 89 of
his oil paintings
at Melb. Athemeum. All are drawn
with meticulous precision, all are
painted with the conscientious devotion
of the craftsman who has raised his
craft almost to a religion, and all lack
that rare spice of genius and imagina-
(ion which make even badly-drawn and
ill-painted pictures sometimes stray into
the history of art.
The pictures are portraits, nudes, in-
teriors, still-life, landscapes and drawings.
Hall was unquestionably
at his best in his treatment
of nudes and still-life and
interiors. His portraits, ex-
cellent as likenesses for
the most part, vary con-
siderably in their more
subtle qualities. “Violets”
and “Spanish Style” are the
most attractive, though they
are priced at only a frac-
tion of others less satisfac-
tor y. Both show an
arrangement of color and
light which causes them to
stand out as excellent
examples of what portrait
painting should be. “The
Nun” is another portrait of
high quality, and the Robert
Garran portrait is a speak-
ing likeness, well-handled.
Among the nudes, about
a dozen rise above the level
of the finely-finished study.
They are all pictures of
shapely young women care-
fully posed in attitudes
which fit with exactitude
into the general lines of
the composition. The best
of them is “Suicide,” a
cleverly-foreshortened, re-
cumbent figure, the flesh
painted with such skill that it seems
absolutely lifelike and with the light
effect revealing what Hall could do at
his best. “Andante” is one of the few
painted in the open air—a girl lying on
her back playing pipes, with other girls
in the distance. In this, both the flesh
tones and the landscape, bathed in light,
have been perfectly rendered in the ex-
cellently-composed whole.
In one or two, Hall experimented in
color with varying results. His picture
of a smiling girl with a cigarette before
a scarlet background which reflects the
color on the flesh is entirely successful,
but a similar design showing a lady who
appears to be a vamp gloating over the
prostrate form of a man in dress clothes
fails badly in its color. Wonderful dex-
terity in painting silk drapes is shown in
“Sleeping Beauty,” but the discords of
the differing tones clash almost audibly.
“Picture in Mirror” is a fine piece of
painting in every respect and one of the
best of the nude pictures. A couple
reveal the models partly dressed —which
would have shocked the pious Melbourne
of a generation ago —but the objection
is deeper than the kick of wowserdom—
a nude figure wearing stockings and
garters is as incongruous as a horse
attired in a pair of pants, breaking the
lines which form the greater part of the
beauty of a nude. *
Of the interiors the pick of the
bunch is “Dining Room at the Artist’s
House,” and, while all the examples of
still-life are good, the most cleverly
painted is “The Studio Shrine,” with
“Asia,” “Italy” and “The Blue Jar”
close up.


SBN38
A*.
it*?
m
t\\A e
lt u c
\xv^ e
tVi e
£8/10/-
9ct. gold “Waltham.”
Warranted 30 years.
ALL WATCHES ARE
FITTED WITH
STRAPS.
The ‘ELGIN,’ The ‘ROLEX,’
The ‘WALTHAM,’
The ‘INDESTRUCTIBLE’
AND THE ANGUS & COOTE SPECIALS
The “Indestructible Lever” is knockproof and shockproof. It is
accident-proof. Smart chrome case is hermetically sealed. No
foreign matter whatever can gain access to the movement. You
could swim; wearing the “Indestructible” and yet not harm it. And
it’s dustproof. Accuracy is a special feature. Warranted q— .
to wear 25 years—and kept in order free for two. Price .. *JO/-
FAMOUS
“ELGINS”
luTaiTQ
£7/10/-
iiiii
tm
U
Jnj
£6/10/.
SEND
YOUR
REPAIRS
TO US.
Renowned “Elgin” movements of superb strength, and accuracy; jewelled levers, of course, and
fitted in the most beautiful of modern gold-filled cases. The acme of beauty and
utility. Warranted to give 30 years’ wear. Kept in order free for a year
S*0 ; FDySjV
E5I
350
A©
V—1
c=a
li'^
S3
0 (irNgg 5^
m
EffvsSI
r 1 Si)"
Gold-filled, £6/15/-. Sterling Silver, £5.
9ct. Gold, £9.
The “Rolex” is amongst the aristocrats of the watch world. The movement is warranted to give
30 years’ wear, and Angus & Coote keep it in order free for 12 months..
10 - year gold - filled
jewelled lever, war-
ranted ten years.
Luminous _ .
dial. Price.. 50/"
A 4- C
30/-
Eumu
Special chrome lever.
Luminous dial,
jewelled lever move-
nt en t. Warranted
five years.
SEND YOUR
NAME FOR
FREE BOOK
OF WATCHES.
ANGUS & COOTE, 500 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
A SIGNED GUARANTEE OF ACCURACY AND SERVICE GIVEN WITH EVERY TIMEPIECE.
advt
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7$ hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIDP & CO., UTD„
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
‘LIFE’ Begins at
40— if Kidneys O.K.
‘Life’ Ends at about 40 —
if Kidneys break down!
Several million filters operate in your
kidneys. If they function as Nature
intended. Life is an open book for
years yet to come, for each year in-
creases your experience on how to live.
But let these filters fail (as fail they
often do in middle age) and no ex-
perience can save you from misery-
all knowledge becomes useless in the
face of pain. If you suffer from Back-
ache, from Joint Pains, Rheumatism,
Night Disturbances, Burning, Smarting,
Difficult Urination, Palpitation, Blood
Pressure, Loss of Vitality arising
out of Weak or Disordered Kidneys,
Bladder or Urinary Organs take
Harrison’s Pills— quickly. This remedy
of a London Doctor is a proven success
gets to the cause of the trouble like
nothing else —soothes, remedies, and re-
stores. Harrison’s Pills will not onl>
give you surest relief, but they are safe
for young, middle-aged and old —under
all conditions. 18 Pills. 2/-: 32 Pills,
3/- or 68 Pills, 5/ at any good Chemists.
Money back if not completely satisfied
with results from very first bottle. But
be sure you do get Harrison’s Pills!
Story of the New Selection Country by the Author of “Man-Shy”
FURTHER WEST
BY FRAND DALBY DAVISON.
IT was Sunday morning at Dave
Chandler’s camp on Oakey Creek.
The family was at breakfast under
the bough shed that Dave had put up
a few yards from- the sleeping tents. At
every camp during warm weather he
rigged up a bough shed ; and he always
knocked together a rough table and seats.
He knew exactly what standards of
decency and comfort were practicable
under camp conditions, and he lived up
to them.
The tents were neatly set up under
their sapling frames. The waggon was
covered with a tarpaulin, the four horse-
collars, slung together on the waggon
pole, were protected from the sun with
a couple of thick bags. There was no
litter about the place. The family con-
formed to Dave’s ideas; he had a sharp
word, kindly meant, for any slackness.
Dave was about thirty-eight or -nine ;
a large, plump, blonde, clear-skinned,
pleasant-looking man ; a bushman of the.
western school whose patched trousers
and shirt always looked fresh —as if they
were faded with washing rather than
with wear.
This morning he was out of sorts, and
ate in moody silence. That was unlike
him. When the family met at meals it
was his habit to promote amiable inter-
course, with himself as genial centre. As
the meal progressed he was conscious of
failing to meet the expectations of his
household.
Emma was waiting on the children,
interrupting the flow of talk to cajole
or admonish, her dark hands with their
very pink nails fluttering about the table.
A snake had been killed in the camp
during his absence in the early part of
last evening. Emma had mentioned it
when he returned home. The story was
now being recounted, and he knew, from
glances turned in his direction, that it
had been saved for him overnight. It
was hoped that he would follow the
exciting and hilarious details with interest
—afterwards distributing praise or mild
censure, according to the deserts of each
one concerned. Even Phyllis, who was
sixteen, on these occasions forgot the
reserve into which she had retired at
puberty, and became for a while a little
one again.
Dave found it impossible to fix his
mind on the narrative. His eyes strayed
to the landscape, visible under the edge
of the leafy roof, brilliant, like a picture
in a dark fence, and dancing a little in
the bright sunlight. There was promise
of heat.
The mother, in his lack, was filling the
dual role of interlocutor and fellow-
narrator. At the part where the snake
had slithered out from under the bed
she shrieked and laughed immoderately.
Her wide mouth opened to disclose a
cavern pink and vasty; the nostrils of
her broad nose were drawn outwards to-,
ward her cheeks; her eyes became mere
twinkles of light under her overhanging
forehead. Dave glanced at her and
looked quickly away, the pupils of his
own eyes dilating as if with sudden pain.
In her moments of emotion Emma was
very much an aboriginal. He didn’t want
reminding, at the present time, that his
wife was a gin!
HE had finished eating. He pushed his
plate back, folded his arms on the
table and let his eyes wander about the
lightly-timbered ironbark slope that rose
beyond the grove of oak and bush-apple
shading the creek. The grass was tall
and grey-green, like young wheat, and
was coming into green seed.
His superficial mind took note of what
offered itself to his eye, but deep down
his consciousness was concerned with the
image of Mrs. Thorpe, sister-in-law of
Tom Linklater, the storekeeper. The
thought of her set the sap stirring in him
in a way he had not known in years.
The shadow of some relevant thought
passed across his face.
Presently he was going to say: “Do
you think we could pack up and get to
'Bland’s Crossing before evening, Emma?”
That question would explode like a
rifleshot in the ears of the family. The
youngsters would look from him to
Emma in amazement. There would be
tears and sulks from Phyllis; and Emma,
after the first shock of surprise, would
fall in with his wishes, full of unspoken
wonderment, but without reproach. He
would not speak until they had all
finished their breakfast.
A few weeks back Dave had brought
Emma and their half-caste family in to
the new settlement from the stations of
the back country, where he had spent
most of his years ’possum scalping, kan-
garoo shooting and stockriding at mus-
tering-time. All his life he had avoided
towns and settlements. His infrequent
visits to them had seemed like a tern-
porary cessation in the smooth, deep
flow of his own being—like a river
rattling among the stones of a rocky
bar. When he turned his back on popu-
lous areas he always had a feeling of
returning to himself.
The new settlement was different. It
had come to him. It was taking place
on a portion of his old stamping ground ;
at the end of the sixty-mile spur line that
was being built. It was a patch of
swarming activity that had developed on
one of the stations where he had scalped
and mustered for years. He had heard
about it before actually seeing what was
taking place. “They’re cutting up Mirra-
milla for settlement.” The word had
passed from mouth to mouth through
the back country.
FOR a while Dave had given no thought
to it. It didn’t concern him.
Then one day, the supply of flour and
odds and ends running low, he found
it convenient to bring a packhorse into
the railhead. The new settlement had
touched him. A couple of days’ jogging
along the track with his horses was better
than taking the waggon and the family
all the wav to Wilgatown ; and he’d be
able to send his bales of skins from the
end of the new line, too.
At the construction camp an offer of
the use of the telephone saved him the
labor of writing to his storekeeper in
Wilgatown for an order of groceries to
be sent up on the train. The boss ot
the construction office, guessing, from his
hesitancy, Dave’s lack of familiarity with
the instrument, had ’phoned for him.
Dave watched him, a little amused, a
little flattered, but very observantly, so
that he would be able to jiggle with the
thing himself, if the need cropped up,
without asking questions.
A couple of days’ wait, camping at the
railhead, had been necessary, and Dave
had found himself observant of the
affairs of the new settlement. Men
alighted from the up-train ; men with
swags, men with battered suitcases, men
with rolled-up tents. They stood looking
round them for a few minutes, like
newchums. But they weren’t newchums.
Dave looked at their hands and faces ;
he watched the way they set up a tent.
He listened to their talk.
Before long he was drawn into their
interests. Jack MacFarlane, the Crown
Lands ranger, known to Dave from long
since, was circulating among them in
his duty of helping new settlers find suit-
able land. He brought them along to
see Dave.
“This is Dave Chandler. He knows
every foot of this country. He could
take you round it with his eyes band-
aged —couldn’t you, Dave?”
“There’s not much of it I don’t know,”
quietly from Dave.
With MacFarlane Dave, during his
short stay, became a sort of elder brother
to the more recently arrived men.
Some of them were from other parts
of Queensland ; many were from distant
States. They were almost all dry-country
men ; men from the Victorian mallee ;
men who had been share-farming in the
Riverina and had come north to get
cheap land of their own. Quiet-spoken,
efficient men who knew land and stock
when they saw them. Both their grave
demeanor and their occasional bursts of
joviality concealed a subtle excitement.
Each of them had come, after irksome
delay, to a new chapter in life. The
time immediately ahead was full of beck-
oning hopes and hazards. Dave found
himself warming to them.
Just to be helpful he rode out with one
party to show them land that might
suit them. They called at different camps
on the way, temporary habitations of
people who had come early, chosen a
selection and were settled on it. There
were women at some of the camps; red-
handed, simple, hospitable women, all, in
their own way, as deeply engrossed in
what was going forward as were the
men.
Dave’s party had an idea of going in
for sheep. He showed them some clumpy
brigalow country. It was sweet enough
for sheep, he told them, but wild dogs
were pretty thick —unless they could
afford to dog-net their boundaries. They
were disappointed, but did not dispute
his word. Dave liked them for that;


=
£T\
- Y
sisnt:/
VP
'v
\ --
C7s
PokS,' fj. m
□, ■£&- J
vVri'
m
ik-T' r Ak
r
lr[^-
A?. T
nn ■ p <
, -M
Wl.
•fa Settlement
n /*37
ssg*
«S£
«c v
Colonel Licht
founder of /-Idelaide
Colonel Light arrived in South Australia on August 20th, 1836. He
had been sent from London as Surveyor-General of South Aus-
tralia, and on December 17th, 1836, selected Adelaide as the
site of the first settlement.
Captain Hindmarsh, R.N., who had been appointed Governor,
arrived on December 28th, 1836, and the first buildings were
erected early in 1837.
Twenty years before this the Bank of New South Wales had been
established in Sydney. This Bank, the oldest and largest in Aus-
tralasia, was formed when the term "New South Wales” covered
New Zealand and practically all the Australian States except
Western Australia.
The Bank of New South Wales has co-operated closely in the
development of the whole of this vast territory and has now over
720 branches throughout the Commonwealth, New Zealand, and the
Pacific Islands.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. ii 131A.1935
Z^.y.y;
mm
CirGiiluiri’s
Scots Whisky
jtSjqLO.-
Distributors for the House oj McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros, and Co.
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET -SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
id RECTORS;
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
they knew where their own knowledge
ended and his began. They liked the
look of the country, they said, after rid-
ing over it; if it wasn’t immediately suit-
able for sheep, no doubt other good use
could be found for it. Dave liked them
for that, too ; he appreciated that easy
yielding to the earth; not what they
wanted, but what the land wanted. In
the world that was theirs they moved as
proper men.
11HTH his packhorse loaded Dave rode
out from the settlement. Men he
passed on the road greeted him. “Good-
day, Dave,” from those who had become
known to him ; “Good-day” or a dumb
salute from others who assumed that he
was one of them.
Beside his campfire that night, half-
way home, Dave’s thoughts kept travel-
ling back to the new settlement. Within
himself he felt the stirring of a new
rhythm of life.
A week later Dave returned to the new
settlement. He came this time with
family and loaded waggon, preceded by
the eldest boy driving the saddle-horses.
The Chandlers came to the settlement
not as late-comers but as hosts who had
been detained a little. They brought
eagerness with them. There was to be
schooling for the little ones, social oppor-
tunities for Phyllis, and friendships for
Emma. In proportion to their respec-
tive ages they were as openly pleased as
a party visiting a circus.
Dave put up his camp on Oakey Creek
while he looked around him. There was
no immediate hurry. Whatever he did
now he must stand by. He thought a
selection over against the range would
be best for him. There was a bit of
back country, a turnout for young stock,
a ride-about that a man could escape
into occasionally if people pressed too
closely—and he would be able to do a
little snaring along the scrub frontages
in the winter months. While waiting for
his spirit and good judgment to settle
together he and his mingled pleasurably
among new neighbors.
HE saw Mrs. Thorpe first on a Satur-
day afternoon when he had driven
Emma and the children down to the end
of the line to see the up-train come in.
Emma had remained on the waggon
seat. He was with Joe Dunlop, perched
on a stack of sleepers.
Mrs. Thorpe alighted from the train
among others. She was a tall, full-figured
woman, of pleasing appearance and
tasteful dress. With no more than idle
curiosity he watched from a little dis-
tance her and Mrs. Linklater kissing and
exclaiming over each other, woman-
fashion, and then go, past his waggon,
to where the Linklater buckboard was
waiting. The new arrival was a widow,
he understood, who had come to make
her home with the storekeeper and his
wife.
He did not see her again, nor think
of her, until the following Friday. He
was riding back to camp, land map in
pocket, from inspecting a block that he
had pretty well decided on selecting,
and called at Linklater’s to buy some
tobacco.
The store was empty when he entered.
He heard Tom banging a box open in
the room alongside the shop. In re-
sponse to his knock Mrs. Thorpe opened
the glass-panelled door leading from the
living-room.
“Can I get you anything?” she asked.
Her manner implied that she hadn’t
got the run of the shop properly, but if
it was just a little thing he wanted she’d
wait on him. That was the sort she was.
You could see it standing out; if she
were living with people she’d study their
ways and lend a hand where it was
needed.
But that reflection and her question
were superficialities overlying the greater
reality of the occasion. From the
moment when she stood in the door his
eyes and hers had locked, and some-
thing had happened. Dave couldn’t give
it a name. It was just as if she had been
living somewhere in his mind all his
days, and had suddenly appeared before
him ; as if all his life had led up to this
moment. It had been the same with her
—he saw and felt that. The reserve with
which women ordinarily veil their eyes
in meeting the glance of a man had not
been there—only startled recognition.
She came along the space between the
counter and the shelves to take his order,
and stopped opposite him. He did not
speak at once, and there was no embar-
rassment for either of them in his silence.
She was not strange to him. Her fresh
skin, her wide grey eyes, even the way
her hair was looped, half-hiding her
ears, and the fullness of her shoulders
and bosom under the thin white stuff
that covered them were things that he
seemed to have known about for a long
time. He felt her eyes on him, and felt
that for her he had materialised from a
world of half thoughts. It seemed to
him that if he went around and led her
from behind the counter she would have
come without protest.
The moment of enchantment passed ;
her bosom rose with a long, slowly-drawn
breath, and Dave felt himself forced
to speech.
“I’ll have a tin of Old Coolibah,
medium,” he said.
“Old Coolibah, medium.” She turned
to the shelves where the tobacco was
stacked, behind her.
Three times her searching forefinger
went past the brand she sought. Dave
leaned across the counter and pointed
it out to her. The momentary closeness
of their persons proved disturbing;
there was a loss of composure that was
covered by a little mirth at the dis-
closure of her mental abstraction. She
turned back to the counter and passed
him the tobacco, her eyes bright, her
face—and his—a little flushed.
He put his money on the counter and
received change, there being a careful
avoidance of the touching of hands.
Then he stood a little.
She recovered herself somewhat.
Behind her eyes were a hundred ques-
tions concerning him that had leaped
to her mind ; questions whose import his
male mind—though less agile in these
matters —vaguely guessed at.
“I’m taking up land around here,”
he offered, feeling that some explana-
tion of himself would be acceptable to
her.
“The prospects seem good for every
one,” She was content with one direct!
statement, and would prefer just now
the greater security of impersonal i
ground.
He met her there, and their com-
munication with each other during the
rest of their conversation took the form
of comments on the affairs of the settle-
ment.
It was time he was going. “We’ll be
meeting again?” He made the sugges-
tion as he drew back from the counter.
“I hope so.” Her eyes met his. Her
reply gave something into his keeping.
Tom Linklater came into the store as
Dave walked out; but Dave just then
had no desire to talk with him.
Outside the store he stood still. He
had a feeling of having nowhere to go ;
as if he had been travelling towards a
remote destination and had arrived at
one unforeseen.
The voices of Tom and Mrs. Thorpe
came to him through the thin wooden
walls, muffled and indistinct. Then he
heard Mrs. Thorpe’s voice rise in sharp
exclamation, with a quiver of horror,
“Not that black gin!”
She had been asking Tom about him!
Dave led his horse to a little distance
before he mounted, thankful for the
thick dust that deadened the sound of
his hooves.
THAT night in camp he lay beside
* Emma and stared up into the dark-
ness. For the first time he realised, in
the full meaning of the fact, that he was
a white man and Emma a gin. She
would be more and more of a gin as
she grew older. Twice in the last year
he had come upon her rocking herself,
a far-away look in her eyes and a word-
less chant on her lips. It had seemed
merely natural at the time; now it
seemed full of a dreadful significance.
“It’s no life for a woman!” The
words came back to him with startling
clearness. They belonged to the girl he
had courted in Wilgatown when he was
a young man, close on twenty years ago.
She had accepted his attentions and his
entertainment; had observed and en-
couraged his increasing regard for her ;
had listened to his avowal of love as to
a rightful tribute to her womanhood and
then had laughed at him. “Yours is no
life for a woman, Dave.”
He saw her now for what she was, but
he hadn’t then. No other life seemed
possible to him—and he had been suit-
ably rebuked for his presumption in
thinking he had anything a woman would
find worth sharing.
He had gone back to the bush, sore
of heart and humbled. For a year he
tried to forget his hurt in the activities
of snaring and shooting, contacts with
men and the pride of camp and gear
that was always his. He was mostly suc-
cessful, but there were times, in the
lonely days and nights, when he was un-
able to deny the deep dissatisfactions of
body and spirit. A man needed a woman.
Then he met Emma. She was not
long from a mission, and was working
on a station where he was scalping. The
match more than pleased Emma’s em-
ployers ; they conspired toward it, and
in the end arranged for the visit of a
travelling parson. Dave thought in
images. Recalling the wedding he could
have hurled an oath across the years at
a group of sentimental pietists smirking
their congratulations at an innocent
o Continued on next page.)


~noh
Buiiibd si
lirid
injnneoq
gs
p%,
m;
wti
s^v
m
ife/
mb
K
>•
■jim:i
WmWM
m
mmi
1 5 «' ? >/a
Mill hi%
Islands of Enchantment
Come to Fiji this winter. What a holi-
day it offers you. Boating in glorious
tropical settings; fishing that will give
you a new thrill; swimming, tennis,
golf, bowls, hiking; gorgeous tropical
scenery; glimpses of unspoilt native
life; trips to outlying islands; Levuka,
beautiful Taveuni, and on glamorous
Viti Levu a 250 mile motor drive over
good roads—one of the finest scenic
drives in the world. Over all is the
enchantment of a land where winter is
always summer.
Plan a holiday in Fiji now. You will
enjoy the bracing sea voyage via
Auckland, N.Z., on one of the Union
or Matson luxury liners. Post the
coupon on right for Fiji tourist litera-
ture, steamer sailings, schedules of
expenses, etc.
Native Spearing Fish
Post coupon to any of these addresses:
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva Fiji
THOS. COOK & SON, Sydney and Melbourne
UNION S.S. CO. LTD., Sydney and Melbourne
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Sydney
Please send me booklets and pamphlets
on Fiji and information regarding travel-
ling to and ho idays in Fiji.
Name
Address
F or Genuine
SATISFACTION
It seems that only Scotsmen know
the secret o£ making whisky.
Tasting Vat 69 proves it. Glori-
ously mellow and smooth. Try it.
At all hotels. It costs no more.
It’s genuine Scotch. Say 69
in town. Serve 69 at home.
VAT 69
Pure Liqueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
VVm. Sanderson & Son, Leith,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
young man who had taken a Stone Age
woman to wife.
And then? Dave couldn’t trust him-
self to think much further; not with
Emma breathing beside him. He was
troubled by the image of that other
Emma, the Emma of his early recollec-
tions, the gentle companion of his bed
and campfire, to whom he had given
aflWfinn
IT was not until the following morning,
•I after breakfast, when he escaped
from his family and went up on to the
ironbark ridge beyond the creek, that
he was able to meet himself face to face.
He lay among the grass in the shade
of an isolated sandalwood-tree, looking
out across the settlement. For a while
he gave himself up to the new condi-
tion of being in which he had found
himself since his meeting with Mrs.
Thorpe. At thought of her, her image
seemed to merge with him, making live
within him something that had never
lived before. Warm vital tides flowed
through him, their glow seeming to
come from the core of him and to creep
to the outer limits of consciousness.
As these tides possessed him all else
that was and had been became objec-
tively real to him. His thoughts looked
about him and back over the years, just
as his eyes strayed over the landscape,
The years had not been bad in the liv-
ing, empty as they now seemed. He’d
had a satisfying place in his world. The
name of Dave Chandler was well re-
garded. Station managers had been glad
to have a man of his type knocking
around the back paddocks. He was well
greeted among all men, and when occa-
sion brought him and his to a home-
stead they were respectfully treated.
Emma was regarded as a woman who
had triumphed over her disabilities in a
way that commanded consideration,
They were respectable folk.
Once or twice the appearance of some
woman at a homestead had produced in
him a flicker of dissatisfaction with
Emma. But it had disappeared easily
before an act of will by which he re-
minded himself that certain things were
not for him. They had been merely
light fancies.
This feeling for Mrs. Thorpe was dif-
ferent. It moved something deep in him
—and it had struck swiftly ; it had got
behind his defences and taken possession
of him. It was not to be denied.
A movement below the bush-apples
down by the creek crossing drew his eyes,
Emma had come to peep at him. She
must have noticed the change in his be-
bavior over the last twenty-four hours,
and was wondering about it.
He watched her until she withdrew,
In some wonder at himself, he becanie
aware that his only feeling toward her
was of resentment. He thought of his
family. There was kindliness for them,
but it was impersonal. He was like
an understanding stranger looking at
strangers through a window. The man
he had been until a day ago seemed to
have died. He lay back on the grass, and
became lost to everything but his aware-
ness of Mrs. Thorpe His thoughts
gathered her to him; she filled the earth
an £ the sky.
Your dinner s ready, dad.
The words, quietly spoken, came from
a f ew yards away. The hours had fled.
He sat up, and found himself looking
into the eyes of Phyllis; dark, liquid,
with curling black lashes. It was like her
to come right up to him, instead of shout-
ing from a
“All right, Phyllis.
She turned and walked down the hill,
her thin, smooth brown legs ending in
a pair of old ’lastic-side boots, scuffling
through grass. He watched her go. He was
reminded that Phyllis, bodily, was a young
woman, and that young Charlie Hind-
marsh—he hadn’t previously attached any
significance to the matter—had been visit-
ing the camp pretty frequently. Charlie
wasn’t the type to have any illusions
about Phyllis. And Phyllis? If certain
things didn’t come her way before long
in a regular manner, they would come
in an irregular one. They hadn t any
moral stamina, these—these—these half-
castes.
Dave did not immediately go down to
the camp. He remained deep in thought
for a while. When he did go down the
others had eaten. His dinner was kept
warm for him by the fire. He was glad
of the chance to eat alone,
IN early afternoon, after a period of
I restless prowling, he saddled up and
started for the railway,
He was going to see Mrs. Thorpe,
Reason had no part in his motive; he
was drawn toward her as a mist is drawn
into the sun. He wanted to rest his eyes
on her ; to feel her presence. As he rode
along it was revealed to him that the
flickering dissatisfactions of the past had
been evidence of buried discontent; of
the need of a mate of his own kind and
color. It had become imperative only
when the woman he would have chosen
had appeared before him.
One thing comforted him. He had no
need to be furtive with himself. Whatever
part his body might eventually require in
his feeling for her—and was it ever with-
out part in the relationship of a man and a
woman?—it did not insist on recognition,
His thought of her was sublimated. He
wanted only the fullness of spirit her
companionship would give him.
“Not that black gin!” The echo of
her exclamation was still ringing in his
head. He had read in it at first only
an expression of sudden horror; he had
come, with thinking of her, to hear in it
an expression of instinctive sympathy
into which the years had delivered him.
Dave entered the store and knocked on
the counter. He had taken it for granted
that Mrs. Thorpe would appear in answer
to his summons. Fate did not disappoint
him. He saw her figure appear on the
other side of the thin curtain that cov-
ered the glass door. His throat tight-
ened, She seemed to stand for an excep-
tionally long time before coming into the
shop. Perhaps she recognised his shape
against the light of the outer door.
Mrs. Thorpe entered the shop. Hum-
ming to herself, she came briskly down
between the counter and the shelves.
There was nothing in her face to indicate
that she had ever seen Dave before. She
halted before him to take his order.
“A packet of .22 long rifle.”
“.22 long rifle.” Mrs. Thorpe brought
the cartridges and put them on the
counter.
Dave’s eyes had followed her hungrily,
and were on her face as he drew the
money from his pocket; but she was
looking out the door of the shop, her
gaze focused on the distance and her
thoughts, apparently, far away.
She took the money, and placed the
change on the counter, waiting, with
shopkeeper courtesy, until he had picked
it up.
“It’s a pleasant day,” from Dave.
“Beautiful. Is that all?”
“Thanks! ”
She turned, and went back along the
alleyway. Dave watched her. A small
transaction in retail trade had been con-
cluded. As she closed the glass do<pr
behind her, her back was towards it.
She didn’t even turn her head.
Dave walked slowly out of the store.
He stood for a while beside his horse.
Again he had a feeling of having come
unexpectedly to the inevitable,
THE Chandler camp on Oakey Creek
was dismantled. The waggon was
loaded and the four horses hooked up.
Jack, the eldest boy, had gone
ahead with the hacks; the dust of
their going was still in the air. Dave
was waiting near the back of the
waggon for Phyllis, who had gone down
to the creek to fill the waterbag. Emma,
the youngest child on her lap, was up
on the waggon seat. She was dressed,
as was her wont when travelling, in her
black dress, with a bit of white lace at
her throat, and was wearing her black
lace hat with its red calico rose. The
three smaller children were behind the
driving seat in a little nest that had been
left for them on the top of the load.
As he lifted them up to their places, Dave
had pressed a kiss to each smooth brown
cheek; it had occurred to him that life
was lying in wait for them, too.
He stood with one hand resting against
the back of the waggon. Things would
be better when they got into the back
country again. They’d go further west;
where they wouldn’t have to< come in to
the new settlement. There’d be a place
for them all further back. There’d be
smart young half-caste stockmen for
Phyllis to choose from; a girl like
Phyllis could take her pick. And the boys
would be coming along presently.
There’d be a place for them as well
Useful hands on a drafting camp ; smart
lads in a yaM full of colts and fillies,
Dave Chandler’s boys!
Vamping up the old rhythms. Piti-
fully inadequate they seemed. He must
flog himself forward to forgetfulness—
it would come. Contentment would re-
turn. Sometimes, no doubt, in camp or
going round his snare line, memory
would swoop on him. It wouid bail
s“nnT He'd face that The fact of it
™u! d b f. P roof o£ something steadfast
m nimseii. , , ,
Dave slung the waterbag below the
back the wa §g° n and followed Phyl-
lis up on to the driving seat. There was
clatter of hooves approaching, and
Charlie Hindmarsh came into view as
the team drew the waggon through the
bush on to the mam track. He brought
his horse sliding to a halt beside the
waggon,
“G day, Dave. G day, Missus Chand-
ler,” he greeted them, his eyes on Phyllis.
He swung his eyes to Dave and Emma.
“Where are you off to?” he demanded.
“We’re pushing back, Charlie,” Dave
replied , .
“Thought you was going to settle
here!” There was a tremor of chagrin
in the boy s voice,
“Too many people around for us.’
Dave covered the statement with a smile.
“Dave always likes plenty of elbow
room,” Emma explained in her high-
pitched nasal voice. She glanced up at
Dave as if taking opportunity to assure
him that whatever he wanted was right
in her eyes. There followed a pause.
“Ruddy old bushwhacker, that’s what
he is, missus! cried Charlie,
Dave was drawing lines on the ground
with his whip-lash,
“Yes,” be agreed quietly, “a bush-
whacker.”
There was another pause,
“We’ll have to be poking along,” said
Dave, gathering up the reins. The horses
moved into the collar. In a chorus of
so-iongs—and with a backward glance
from Phyllis—the waggon rumbled away
down the track.
Far-away Hills .
My heart knows far-away hills.
With dim, damp gorges,
And white waterfalls „
And summit-crags where sunset forges
Mighty nuggets of gold and fills
Beakers of rock with gold.
My heart knows far-away hills,
Where gum-trees hold
Out branches of writhen and knotty gold.
Whence, with a ringing voice, the magpie
calls . . .
While the shadowy wind in the gorges
calls
To the white waterfalls.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.


SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to 'England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
I
a
WATCH
YOUR MONEY
CROW
The
World’s
Largest
Commercial
Forestry
Company
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments exceeds £3,800,000
Reserves—For maintenance and realisation of the plantations
(including funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceed £900,000
Area Planted, 156,415 Acres; over 100,000,000 Trees.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout_ Australia and. New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourahaya and Hongkong.
No connection with any other Forestry Company.
Dramatic Interlude — Sharp, Vivid and Alive:—
THE BAYONET
BY-EDWARD WRIGHT.
turned and, kicking open the
back door, left the boy, open-
mouthed with terrified amaze-
ment, to gape after him.
“Liverish old cow,” he mut-
tered. “I can’t help if.”
THE heavy double-furrow plough
clattered noisily over a patch of
loose rubble and, still bumping
crazily, skimmed across the solid-set
claypan beyond. For a moment the twin
shears bit sharply into the puggy earth
and as abruptly jerked clear again, pull-
ing the sharply tilled implement from
the open cut with a squeak of tight-
stretched swingle wires.
The boy with the hoe scratched as the
team drew level, glanced at the plough-
man and sauntered to the next tree.
Slow-moving clouds like rolls of warm
fat spread toweringly along the uneasy
ridges and across the flats from the
south. Rifting, mounting tiers, one above
the other, caught the mid-afternoon sun-
light in smudges of pale yellow and re-
flected their turgid glow in uncanny
angles above the orchard-covered slopes.
Beneath their approaching bile-green
sheen and velvet blackness, the apple-
laden trees swayed slowly to and fro.
The rising wind harried the leaves jeer-
ingly for a moment, bending the heavily-
weighted boughs backwards easily as
though testing their powers of resistance.
“Ground’s hard here,” growled Sam-
son, releasing the lever and heaving the
plough back into position.
The boy continued to swing his hoe
round the butt of the apple-tree mechani-
cally.
“Sure is, Mr. Samson.”
C AMSON stood for a pause, half-lean-
~ ing on the upturned handle-bar, with
his head slightly atwist, watching the
effortless rise and fall of the hoe. He
scowled at the inanimate consistency of
the blows. The boy continued to break
up the clods and rake the broken soil
unheedful of his watching employer. He
did not cease for a second, nor did he
intend to do so. This was what he was
paid to do. He could feel the boss’s
critical eyes as he worked. The boss was
pleased with his unrelaxing efforts. He
was a good worker, and he knew it.
“Here, You!” Samson called abruptly.
“Give me a hand to take the horses out.
No use going on just now. It’s going
to pour like old Harry in a minute.”
The boy stumbled over the soft, yield-
ing plough-strip without a word and
began to unfasten the collar-strap on the
nearest horse. As he fumbled with the
clumsy buckle a dozen big drops of rain
forced their way through the closely-
fruited laterals on the tree behind him.
Tossing the trace chains clear, he hur-
ried the jaded horses through the orchard
gate and, after slipping the winkers,
joined Samson on the back verandah at
the house.
Along the first ridge a teeming cur-
tain of misty spray barred all vision
beyond. The belt of timber across the
summit tossed and tumbled as the
squally wind passed over, cut across the
lower slopes and hit the pine windbreaks
round the orchard like a wild bombard-
ment.
Samson swore savagely and watched
his nearly-matured crop take the first
sudden gust as it came on. The boy
squatted beside the wall unperplexed and
eyed the trembling scene without com-
ment. He was a good toiler. The boss
was satisfied with him, that was all that
mattered.
Samson darted outside and looked up
at the greenish strip in the storm clouds,
nearly overhead now. His mouth twisted
into a snarl of bitter anxiety.
The boy screwed his eyes up slightly
as the first burst of hail shattered the
trees at the lower end of the paddock.
He lifted his shoulders a little and re-
laxed. He was a good worker.
“God!” spat Samson. “Can’t you say
anything, you dumb fool! Look you—
idiot! Hail! Hail! Hail, you ”
His voice rose to a mad yell, and the
startled boy sprang up and shrank back.
“What’s wrong? Ain’t I done me
job right, Mr. Samson?” he stammered.
“God Almighty!” snarled the farmer,
“Hail! Can’t you see it?”
“Yes, but”
Samson trembled from head to foot
and brought up his fist. Suddenly he
ON the iron roof the pelting, pelting
hailstones drove in a long bombastic
roar. The wind drove the hard, jagged
lumps angleways into his small shelter
and compelled him to withdraw further
back. Even pressed hard against the far
wall he was not out of their stinging
reach. Presently he plucked up courage
and followed Samson into the kitchen.
Samson was standing by the back
window watching the buffeting deluge
outside. He had a fire going in the stove,
and the feeble flames grinned wickedly
about the gloomy room.
“Gettin’ a bit wild outside, Mr. Sam-
son,” the boy apologised.
Samson grunted, but said nothing. The
clatter on the roof rose higher, and the
boy glanced at his employer’s face un-
certainly. There was a pallid tightness
about it he did not trust. Or, maybe, it
was only the dancing firelight. He ad-
vanced quietly and leaned against the
table in the centre of the room, casting
round curiously as he did so.
Above the mantelpiece he caught sight
of an old bayonet hung up on a nail, just
above Samson’s shotgun. He went over
and took it down curiously. Removing
the blade gingerly from the leather
sheath, he held it before the flickering
light and examined it closely. Samson
returned slowly from the window and
stoked the fire.
“Yours, Mr. Samson?” asked the boy.
Samson glanced at it and shook his
head.
“Turkish,” he said shortly.
The firelight flashed momentarily on
the weapon’s dull polish, and the boy
ran his finger along the groove, puzzled.
“What’s this for, Mr. Samson?”
“Let the blood out.”
The boy shuddered and put it up.
Samson reached out and took it. The
barrage on the roof kept up a steady
crash of destruction, and the boy wan-
dered over to the window and looked
out. Samson took a seat by the fire and
tapped the blade endlessly against his
heavy boot.
The boy pressed his face against the
glass and watched the hail sending the
fruit, hundreds of cases of it, to the
ground, watched the overloaded boughs
bend, rise, bend again and snap off.
Samson clenched his fist, and absently
thrust the bayonet between his fingers,
drew his fist tighter and gave the naked
steel a quick twist, dragging it free again.
THE boy left the window and watched
the motions with interest.
“Did you kill him, Mr. Samson?”
Samson jumped.
“Who?”
“The Turk.”
Samson drew his breath into a sharp
gasp, like a man taking a thrust, and
fingered the point thoughtfully, still
listening to the hail outside.
“Sharp, Mr. Samson?” inquired the
boy.
“Eh?”
“Sharp, I said.”
Samson’s eyes snapped into glowing
brilliance. He ground his teeth and
poised the tip towards the boy’s bent
body. Gathering beads of perspiration
trickled down his ashen face. The
muscles in his arms contracted. He
pierced the boy’s grey shirt, pricked the
skin and pressed.
“Gee, yes! ”
The boy withdrew a pace ; Samson’s
reach lengthened as he followed up.
Overhead the deafening noise eased a
little, fired a parting burst and died away
as the sudden storm passed on. The
bayonet dropped from his stiffened
fingers with a metallic clatter to the floor.
The youtji stooped and retrieved it
quickly.
“Rain’s stopped, Mr. Samson.”
Samson twitched again as he took the
weapon from the oustretched hand.
Then he replaced it in the sheath fever-
ishly, sending it home by a trembling
smack with the open palm of his hand
Click!
“Right. Let’s go and have a look at
the damage,” he said.


Qvefree
.V,
m
'
&
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION S.S. CO., LTD..
217 George Street,
Sydney.
5!) William Street,
Melbourne.
UNION
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
15 Hamilton Street.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F, Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F.3:148.
Western Australia’s
Leading Weekly—
The
the journal with
the
HOME Circulation
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hilt
market, where £20.000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; R. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery'
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street ).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
As a Taxi-driver Saw It:—
The Hite Bud.
BY LIONEL C. H. SHAVE.
££T HAD a funny experience this
morning. It’s fair got me tricked.”
Joe Fetters was turning over his
taxi-cab to his relief driver in the wan
light of the dawn.
“About one, I’m booked to Mr, Dree-
han’s flat in Bayswater-road. You know
him, of course. A decent cove, Mr. Dree-
han, a good spender and a pretty fair
picker of dames. Not that I’d blame
him for that. I’d pick ’em, too, if I was
a bachelor with his cash —or even if I
wasn’t a bachelor, p’raps.
“It seems he was having one of his
parties last night, for there’s a mob in
evening dress just leaving when I turn
up. Mr. Dreehan is there, piloting a
young sheilah —brings her over to the
taxi himself. .
“ ‘Drive this little lady where she
wants to go, Joe,’ he says.
“ ‘Right, Mr. Dreehan,’ I replies, and
out of orie eye I spots him slipping some-
thing into her hand. “That’s queer,’ 1
thinks. ‘He doesn’t usually give ’em the
fare to pay.’ As you know, it’s always
collect next time we see him. ,
UK NYWAY the sheilah gets aboard.
Not a bad-looker, in a way—nine-
teen or so, fair, curly hair and big blue
eyes. Reminded me of Mary Pickford
when she was in the boom. Remember?
One of them goo-goo baby dolls. I could
understand Mr. Dreehan pushing her off
home. Not quite his style, it looks to
me —too ingenuous, as they say.
“ ‘Watson’s Bay, driver,’ she says
when I ask where to. ‘l’d love to have
a look at the Gap.’ That gets me think-
ing. Something on her mind, maybe.
“‘Oh, yes?’ T. reckons to myself.
‘Figuring on going over, eh? I’ll watch
it.’
“When she gets out. I’m with her and
stand close by just in case.
“ ‘lt’s a big leap, isn’t it?’ she says.
Then, after a while, ‘Come on, let’s
return.’ I’m pretty thankful she’s
reneged.
“ ‘Where now, miss?’ I asks. It
knocked me over properly when she says,
‘Back where we came from.’ Looked
like she was only out to fill in time till
the coast was clear.
“Anyway, back we go, and when I
opens the door she’s huddled in the
corner, a wondering look in her eye.
Innocent kind of kid, all right.
“"‘Yes, it’s a big leap—don’t you
make it,’ I’m tempted to say. Not wish-
ing Mr. Dreehan any harm, but I’m
thinking of my own girl. Then she
makes her decision, hops out, across the
footpath a bit reluctant-like, and hanged
if she doesn’t shove a key into the door.
That was what he’d slipped to her
earlier. ‘So much for baby dolls!’ says
I, driving back to the depot.
sooner am I here than I’m called
v* round there again. ‘Ah, told him
off, she has,’ I decide. ‘Good for her!’
“Sure, there she was, and Mr. Dree-
han, too, again piloting her to the taxi.
When she gets in he passes her a white
rosebud —must have took it out of a
vase in his flat. White for innocence—
a real nice thought. Yes, a decent cove,
Mr. Dreehan.
“ ‘Home, Joe,’ he says, and drifts
inside.
“She doesn’t live far away—just over
in Waverley—and when I pulls up she
marches straight out, nose in the air.
“‘The big mug!’ she mutters as she
sails past; and, would you believe it,
there’s that white rosebud pulled to bits
and trodden into my mat. Gawd!
■ “Now, I ask you, what the hell had 1
done to upset her?”
The Door.
As tombs shut close upon the dead they
hold
in amorous, dark embrace, so shuts
this door
on a silent, night-desiring room, where
fold
upon dark fold the shadows hang. No
more
eases the sun this hushed intemporal
gloom,
where no ghost walks, nor dust nor
spider weaves
an inward shroud to fill and bind the
room.
Here no one breathes, or moves at all,
or grieves
to give the silence meaning. Only the
door
shudders and whispers sometimes, and
the latch
says “Nay” in an undertone; or once,
or more,
grips the lock coldly, as a trap will
catch
a straining fugitive; and now the handle
shakes. Is it wind, is it man, is it
ghost outside
with hesitant feet and sloping phantom-
candle,
seeking renewal where the body died ?
Or is it wind that whispered on the sill
beneath the stern wood’s upwardness ?
The sound
like pleading, or cold murder, makes to
thrill
the wise, attentive silence; and around
the door will gather every leaning shade
when something fumbles there, and
yearns, 'and drums
softly, and waits, impassioned and
afraid . . .
The shadows sigh “Who comes?” and
sigh “Who comes?”
No wind, no word, no steps upon the
floor:
Silence sits here with eyes towards the
door.
N.S.W.
M.
Mending the Bridge .
Burnished with copper light, burnished,
The men are brutal: their bodies jut out
square.
Massive as rock in the lanterns’ stormy
glare
Against the devastation of the dark.
Now passionate, as if to gouge the stark
Quarry ualeful light still deeper there.
With slow, gigantic chopping rhythm
they hack.
Beat back and crumple up and spurn the
black
Live night, the marsh-black sludgy air.
And clamor the color of copper light
Swings from their hammering and speeds
and breaks
Darkness to clots and spattering light,
and flakes
Oily, like dazzling snow and storms of
oil.
The night, that never sleeps, quickens.
The soil,
The stones and the grass are alive. The
thrush awakes,
Huddles and finds the leaves gone hard
and cool.
The cows in the fields are awake, rest-
less ; the bull
Restless. The dogs. A young horse
snorts and shakes.
Beneath the square of glaring light
The river still is muttering of flood;
The dark day when, thick with ugly mud,
Swirling with logs and swollen beasts
{and some
Still alive, drowning), it had come
Snarling, a foul beast chewing living cud,
And grappled with the bridge and tried
to rend it,
So now these stronger brutes must sweat
to mend it,
Laboring in light like orange blood.
Men labor in the city so.
With naked forearms singed with copper
light,
And strangeness on them as with stone
they fight,
Each meet for fear, and even the curt
drill
Mysterious as trees and a dark hill.
But these are stronger, these oppose their
might
To storm and flood and all the land’s
black power.
Burnished with sweat and lanterns now
they tower
Monstrous against the marshes of the
night.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


KEEP FIT
»' / / /
WA
'k S
ri.---
7
»' I II.
jv-
.1 r/i,
yy.
?
//I
//
n
s
m
ir
i
/
//z
//
Life is splendid fun when you
are fit. You feel happy and want
others to be happy also. On the
other hand, the person with a
sluggish liver and a system
poisoned through constipation is
generally sick and tired of every-
thing, thus showing how the condi-
tion of the liver, which plays an
important part in regulating the
bowels, influences one’s outlook on
life.
As a medicine for stirring the liver and regulating
the bowels, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are held in
the highest regard by thousands who have used them
with the utmost satisfaction.
Dr. Morses
jy
They Make You Feel Brighter
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms*
Unfortunately/ many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
have worms, are suffering intense pain
and distress, and are practically irrespon-
sible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and, until some
more serious symptoms appear, nothing
is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so char-
acteristic that no mother need have any
doubts. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of
the child is such as. to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will afford
ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the Abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing, Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the Nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
Nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The Bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
Dysentery, The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The Abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
NEW PACK
W°c
COM
2/-
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are a purely vegetable medicinal
preparation compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms,
which infest the intestines. They con-
tain specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared
in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney. Price, 2 /- per Box (6 boxes
11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME ,
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
p
* . \
.0
v
fO-’ e % 'V
V*
.0
<s
%A e e< *vp& G e°
<& o 6 '
«•
°#
► *A
iV „ n'
|l0?.«'
£
V
A>
.v*
. \0
< v
,\' e '
LVS S
A>
(T‘l
o's \° ' v 's
t*
# 1
A'o


botti
AND
&UARAN-
a Jt A OIL.
m*
m
■V
v "ii
V&V
KM
Quality—Cattle OE UHSWEETBIED Gim%^
from Malt and Grain, and higHr jvs
fed at W & A Gilbcys
lb# delicate flavor of the JimireHfe
6 bottles contain approximatelyai»j^
Corfata-NET: t PINT 61 OZS.
PRODUCE OF AUSTRALIA
dW,
WM
WE
GI
SAGII|EY
’-'t
i»
W from SIR CHARLES A,
6 frf&dtnt and Professor of Hygiene sodCHeti
ft’oj'dl College of Surgeons K
"litriilf M I hire Analysed the ccwrtenfs ofd
fcjmhelsrge stock tf tfejf article in He Slor« of
fra label lad
Caatle OE GIN CO-
- ai f L ' n poyerly distilled and whobsentfidri
'AjjJ I? U|>f||lCC< df?« Wfi£*sfi£
■mr w ‘^ ei . rtws Sin will be found an. «c
® n ® , ' l, S « if Joes (9,)fcjct of Junipre Bertie
,V„,, , (Signed) CH ARI
Oishtied viifi V> this baffle was nade
»> T 1» o,n On which this rceart Mjg ma&'yCC/.' i
PRODUCE OF AUSTRALIA dyC'yC',, i
# Quality rather than price has always been the guiding principle of the
■ ’ C • " x t . s *\ _ ~ a.
House of Gilbey. § Gilbey’s to be so high in quality . . so outstanding in
medicinal value, naturally costs a little more to make . . and a little more to buy!
GILBEYS
DRV GIN
0
