

SECURITY
' MSI-. ■ : • ♦
Rome was sacked. Only the citadel on
the Capitol stood secure against the
invaders. At night, the Gauls stole upon
the fortress. They were in the act of
scaling the walls when the clamour of
the sacred geese of Juno, disturbed by
their stealthy movements, sounded the
warning that brought out the garrison,
and preserved the security of those within.
Security—the foundation of the Cranwell
policy of investment. In Cranwells’
principle of offering shareholdings in
ESTABLISHED companies only, the
investing public finds security.
Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd., believes,
further, that balance sheets and full
information about an investment should
always be available to the investor, and
so offers its free service to clients cover-
ing such information. This policy has
earned for Cranwells its outstanding
reputation for stability, integrity and
probity.
CRANWELLS (Australasia) Ltd
Authorised Capital: £250,000
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers
’Phones: 87888, 87889
Inquiries are invited to
ntau .
Barrack House,
Barrack Street,
Sydney.
Head Office;
Branch Offices at
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane,
Auckland, N.Z.
The Bulletin
A Baronet s Life -
Vol. 56.—N0. 2891.
Wednesday, July 10, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transm ssion by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to\
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Study for
’Exam
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE' COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne .
— CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation. particulars of
your Home-study Course for SHIRE CLERKS’
EXAM., as advertised in the Sydney ‘’Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 1335
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
The Red Page
WILD-MEN
AT LARGE
Here are three
fellows —a novel-
ist, an adventurer
and an artist—
who look upon
the world and
find it bad, and have the hardihood to
say so. Thus they are by deliberate
choice, and not by biological accident,
professional wild-men of this most ex-
cellent circus. Instead of being, as most
of us are, quiet and orderly and plastic
fellows, amenable to the supernal doc-
trine of
God’s in His heaven,
All’s right with the world,
they prefer to go about making unpopu-
lar noises, gibbering, grimacing and ges-
ticulating in various ribald ways, and
shouting all manner of nasty and un-
couth things in the familiar fashion of
wild-men. As wild-men they are here
presented ; and no pious horror will be
evinced when the novelist thumbs his
nose and tears into church bent upon
pulling the bishop out of the pulpit and
exposing him for a sham and a humbug,
or the adventurer calls the League of
Nations a Tennysonian super-Parliament
among buttercups, and speaks of Zion-
ism in the Holy Land as something pitiful
and remote like an abscess on somebody
else’s foot, or the artist throws hundred-,
weights of frescoes at what he calls the
capitalist disorder and cries loudly for
red revolution.
First, then, the novelist. Lie is Bruce
Marshall, author of The Uncertain Glory,
and the comic member of the trio. He
is the most human, also, by right of
his comedy, which is of the broad, bois-
terous, uproarious sort, and additionally
by a certain tenderness extremely rare
in wild-men. He has a huge relish for the
racy side of life, glories in it, and exalts
it at the expense of the staid and sober,
to the extent that some of the efforts at
shocking are overdone ; but at heart he
is really a very gentle fellow.
The section of the circus where he sets
up his performance is an imaginary part
of Scotland, peopled with real and
familiar folk, singularly human in com-
parison with the perambulating robots
encountered in most present-day satiric
fiction. In respect of them and the per-
formance as a whole it is apt that the
dust-jacket should carry the enthusiastic
commendation of Eric Linklater, for
Marshall’s manner is here almost too
close to Linklater’s for the resemblance
to be decent. But, though his once
lightly satiric manner has broadened out
into this close copy of Linklater’s Rabel-
aisian robustness, Marshall has remained
sensibly himself in regard to characters.
Whereas the only memorable one from
Linklater’s last novel might be Arthur,
thaf great liar, memorable chiefly for
being just that, it is the everyday human-
ness of Marshall’s people which makes
them memorable, especially the leading
figure, a happy mixture of shrewdness,
hardness and generosity which must be
familiar to anyone who knows Scottish
character at all, and the girl Zoe, a scin-
dilating justification of the modern miss’s
modernity.
In regard to these people whom he
likes Marshall appears as a most tender
wild-man. His tenderness is further
exposed in the gentleness with which
he handles sundry of them in their love
affairs. True, these affairs are none of
them wholly happy—
O how the spring of love resembleth
The uncertain glory of an April day—
but they have their moments of ideal
sentiment and ecstasy. It is one of the
most interesting aspects of Marshall’s
performance how effortlessly he slips his
variations on that tender theme in under
the crusted wrath. For there *is no doubt
about the wrath part of it. He is a ram-
paging savage in the church presided
over by Biblethumping Bobbie, and he
hurls himself against people who might
consider themselves exceptionally godly
and whom he would have no hesitation
in calling wowsers and snobs. He de-
tests these so much that he deliberately
expresses himself in terms most calcu-
lated to shock and offend them. His
vocabulary is richly ample for the
purpose.
Wild-man
Number Two
This wild-man,
Vincent Sheean,
escaped from
Chicago Univer-
sity as a youth,
went to New
York and tried sensational journalism
non-successfully, fled to Paris and
pseudo-political commentating, had a
disgusted look at Geneva, went rough-
ing it, d la T. E. Lawrence, with the riff-
raff Rif, went to earth in a dungeon of
the comic-opera Spain which preceded
the revolution, journeyed to Persia in the
wake of the abdication, adventured in
China while revolution was making
there, proceeded to Russia and was
fairly successfully inoculated with the
serum of Communism, and witnessed the
Zionist effort to remake the Holy Land,
with incidental comings and goings to
America, England and elsewhere.
The name given to his performance
is In Search of History, the quest being
of the living history of the. present day.
In that quest .Sheean figures as a wild-
man literally as well as metaphorically.
His adventures, especially in the Rif
country and in China, are of the dare-
devil order, so much so that the on-
looker easily forgets, as Sheean himself
on these occasions seems to do also, that
the wild-man has gone to these places
at the prompting of a high desire to
attend and witness wherever possible
events “in which large numbers of men
were engaged in some difficult enterprise
involving a fundamental idea—an idea
of race, class or even of nation.”
For its adventure alone it is a capital
performance, leaving the impression of
a vividly-turned panorama, crowded with
action, colored with the wild-man’s
earnest and sincere, if a trifle intense,
personality, and lifted right out of the
class of average performances in this
genre by the continuity of searching
thought which runs through it. There is
nothing else of the kind quite so em-
bracing in its range, so exclusively
centred upon big events to the exclusion
of the merely personal, vide Bruce Lock-
hart, or the merely superficial, vide Philip
Gibbs. Here, for once in a while among
the myriad world observers, is one who
seems to have emptied his inkpot and
himself finally and irrevocably into one
large statement.
The metaphorical aspect of his wild-
man act has been indicated in the refer-
ence to his definition of the League of
Nations and Zionism in Palestine. It
can be briefly demonstrated further in
a comment upon Poincar£; “He lost
our respect because we saw, with the
utmost sickening clearness, week after
week for two solid years; how incapable
that nervous little provincial lawyer was
of rising above the parochial hatreds of
his native village”; or in this, of Mac-
Donald; “Mr. MacDonald, seduced and
intoxicated by the footlights, was already
beginning to play his ‘historic role’; even
then there could be seen the beginnings
of the astonishing personal vanity and
intellectual confusion that were to make
him, in later years, the delight of the
cameraman and the sorrow of philoso-
phers.”
It is a whole performance, this, and a
very satisfying exhibition of wild-manism,
even though, like Marshall in his bouts
of tenderness, Sheean steps outside the
role before the end to create a mystical
mumbo-jumbo fantasy with himself and
a Communist lady as leading characters.
Wild-man
Number Three
As is right and
proper and in
accord with all
the best rules for
running wild-man
shows, our really
wild wild-man has been kept till last.
His name is Diego Rivera, and he is
wilder even than that barbaric appella-
tion might suggest to genteel earholes. He
is an out-and-out wild fellow who throws
polysyllables and paint about with equal
abandon and with complete indifference
to the feelings of those he is bent upon
damaging.
The name of his performance is Por-
trait of America. Here wc witness it
inside the square of a book, but origi-
nally it is contained in a series of the
most savage and ruthless and purposeful
mural paintings, revolutionary alike in
technique and intention. Hailing from
Mexico, he swallowed the book of Marx,
the word of Lenin and the whole Red
Square at a gulp. After this meal, which
he not only swallowed but digested, he
went to, of all places where he could
seem most obnoxious, the United States
of America, and there and thereabouts,
by painting his opinions in frescoes, he
has been instigator of much disturbance
ever since.
First, engaged to paint a fresco in the
San Francisco Stock Exchange Luncheon
Chib, he did a job designed to remind the
members perpetually that what they eat
and what enriches them are the products
of the toil of workers and not of finan-
cial speculation. Then, in the Detroit
Museum of Art, he did a series of fres-
coes of such savagely anti-bourgeoisie in-
tent that, though they have managed to
remain, they have continuously provoked
violent feelings among those most likely
to be provoked. Engaged then to paint
a fresco in the Rockefeller Centre, New
York, he had the true wild-man hardi-
hood to make its leading and most
exalted character one Lenin, and the fat
was in the fire properly. The offensive
thing was destroyed, and all that remains
of it are the reproductions in this book.
After that experience he began his “Por-
trait of America,” a series of ruthlessly
savage paintings depicting the history of
America in as sarcastic terms as could
very well be imagined. What has been
done of these extraordinary paintings
forms the bulk of this astounding picture-
book. Someone more Versed in the ex-
tent of invective and abuse as discharged
through art may be able to say whether
there is anything in the world to compare
with these slashing outbursts of Rivera.
There may be, but it seems highly un-
likely, and it seems equally unlikely that
the stirring mass of mankind has had
from the creative class any champion to
compare, either in artistic or vitriolic
power, with this wild-man from Mexico.
Cecil Mann.
[The Uncertain Glory, by Bruce Marshall
(Gollancz; Angus and Robertson; 10s. 6d.);
In Search of History, by Vincent Sheean
(Hamish Hamilton ; Dymock’s; 14s. 6d.); Por-
trait of America, by Diego Rivera (Allen and
Unwin; 12s. 6d. net).]
Poeta. ...
Non Fit
The schoolboy
who miserably
translated Poet a
nascitur, non fit
into “A poet is
born, he does not
fit” must have been inspired by the hen-
pecked Muse herself. Nowhere in a life’s
critical reading upon the subject of poet-
psychology would it be possible to find
a more succinct and precise summing-up
of the whole question.
This is particularly true in these pres-
ent times of ours. More than one con-
temporary Australian poet of no mean
worth have said, sincerely and legibly,
that they wish they had been born in any
period but this present one. Let who
will say that this has been a plaint of
poets' since the beginning of time (as
T. S. Eliot does, in effect, say during the
course of one of his tortured critical
essays upon “Tradition”); it is really not
so. The whole history of this chief of the
arts does not contain account of any re-
action so drastic, so helpless and yet so
savagely determined as that which might
be, but fortunately is not, shaking the
foundations of the whole of society to-
day. |
John Cowper Powys, in his hugely-
entertaining novel A Glastonbury
Romance, allows one of his characters to
say that “poetry is the only lost cause”
left to us. Mr. Powys is not demon-
strably wrong. The question is: “Why
is he not wrong?”—or to retrogress still
further; “Why is poetry a lost cause to
day?”
Examine the poet. On the canvas of
life his figure is smooth and rounded,
rich with fruitful curves and planes, and
at his best he is made more of Aristo-
telian half-tones than of Marxian high-
lights and full shadows. But ours is the
glorious Age of the Machine, and against
the changed canvas of such a life the
figure is almost grotesquely ill-fitting, as
the schoolboy said ; his slow curves and
the mass of half-tones are in sad dis-
harmony with everything around him.
That he tries to be one with the
Machine is not a fault. We all have
something of the chameleon’s fastidi-
ousness in the matter of harmonisation,
whether it be based on fear or on a sense
of discord. In the case of the poet it
is probably based on both: “Leave me
unthreatened, and one with my surround-
ings, so that I can brew this honey, as
the bee does.” But the chamelon poet,
desperately trying to come to a peaceful
agreement with his background, has
lamentably burst. Not with the modu-
lated bursting of a balloon or a rotten
egg, but with stars, stripes, flashes of
murky light and periods of darkness.
Many are trying to fit. There might
appear to be enough machine-made
poetry in the world in these times to
stuff effectively the mouth of critical
dissension. But the fit is a bad one. The
new Third Sex—the Machine—which is
slowly bringing ruin to all the arts, has
already proved its power to annihilate
living poetry. It is a work of the mind,
not of the heart; and poetry is its oppo-
site.
There is one consolation, already
pointed out by Clifford Bax in his work
upon Leonardo da Vinci: this is that,
at the rate civilisation is progressing now,
there will soon be no need at all for
poets or their wares. It is doubtful
whether Mr. Bax’s prediction, which is
very reasonably worked out, has not
already become a fact. We have neither
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our undeviating policy.
„
THE SENIOR STORE.’
ẅ
’Phone: M 2401, Day or Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2 7 I 2C, G.P.O.
New scope for economy occurs io-day with the
opening of this Half-yearly Sale. The opportunity is
propitious; for not only are the Sale Prices genuine,
but the reductions are made on Winter-time goods
that are in immediate demand. This Sale improves
the occasion; for you have arrived at the time when
your Winter buying cannot be delayed any longer.
These bargains are full of promise for keen,
enthusiastic buying. The opportunity is yours—
so buy now!
HALF-YEARLY GENUINE
Outstanding Overcoat Offers for Men!
mm
':~AS
/
¥a
&
z>
a
<<>
"4 I
.
m
i
wmm
1 1
4%-
'7%
T 26!
/
/
/
6gn. English Overcoats, at
Our huge and complete range of Men’s Overcoats, in all new styles and the
latest materials, are genuinely reduced for the Sale! They represent truly
remarkable value . . . the last word in style and fine tailoring. Made by
world-famous English makers. Prices . 126/-, 147/-, 168/-, 189/-
Sale Prices, each 110/-, 130/-, 150/-, 170/-
49'6 D.B. Tweed Overcoats
This group includes Men’s Double-breasted Form-fitting Overcoats, made from
All-Wool Light Grey Herringbone Tweeds. Every Coat is fully lined with
good-quality Art. Silk, and made to give seasons of practical service.
Price, each 49/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 42/-
79 ! 6 Leather Overcoats, Sale
Men! do you want a smart, good-looking Overcoat for the winter that will
give plenty of wear in succeeding winters as well? We recommend a Leather
Coat . , . made of real hide in smart Double-breasted Raglan style, with
storm collar. Strong linings. Sizes 3to 7. Price, each 79/6
Sale Price, each 65/-
w
84/- Value
RAGLAN OVERCOATS
Windproof and Shower-
proof! Men’s Raglan
Overcoats, tailored in our
best possible manner from
dependable Dark Brown
Showerproof Tweeds,
Light in weight, these
coats will give splendid
service and look well on
all occasions.
Price, each 84/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price, each 63/-
SALE
PR.ICE
63 1
84/- CHESTERFIELD
OVERCOATS
Buy your new Overcoat
during the Sale and bene-
fit by the really worth-
while reductions. Men’s
smart Chesterfield Over-
coats, tailored in a con
servative style from neat
Dark Grey Lightweight
Coatings. Fully lined and
well finished.
Price, each 847-
Sale Price, each . . 65/-
SALE
PRICE
65<
49/6 D.B. Polo Style
OVERCOATS
A substantial saving is to
be made on a favoured
style of Overcoat for
young men. Faultlessly
tailored in neat fitting
Double-breasted Polo
style from Grey Herring-
bone All-Wool Tweeds.
Deep storm collars and
all-round belts. Lined Art.
Silk. Price 49/6
Sale Price, each . . 42/-
SALE
PR.ICE
42 !
9 Men’s Overcoats —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all Seaports in the Commonwealth and Railway
Stations in N.SW.
WRITE FOR A SALE CATALOGUE
Our Sale Catalogue is packed with the season-
able bargains available during the Sale. A copy
will be sent post free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERN
& SONS, Ltd., SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401. Postal Address:
Day or Night. Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


ADD THESE POPULAR BOOKS
TO YOUR LIBRARY.
A selection of books published by the Endeavour Press
during the past two years would be a valuable addition to
your library. Over a score of popular books have been
published, and quite a number have met with considerable
success throughout Australasia. The five books illustrated
make excellent reading for the whole family, and are good
companions for these wintry nights.
THE HOME OF AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE:
ENDEAVOUR PRESS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
i .
PACtANT
0
.
Hran_\
m a
I
\M
ii-\
05
50
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS ARE OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL NEWSAGENTS AND BOOKSELLERS OR DIRECT
FROM THE PUBLISHERS.
“Landtakers,” by Brian Penton 7/6; postage sd. extra
“Pageant,” by G. B. Lancaster 6/6; postage 4d. extra.
“Psalmist of the Dawn,” by Mary Marlowe, 4/6; postage 3d. extra.
“The Doughman,” by R. D. Tate 6/-; postage 3d. extra.
“Forty-six,” by Stewart Howard 6/-; postage 3d. extra.
“The Animals Noah Forgot,” by A. B.
Paterson 2/6; postage 2d. extra.
“The Lore of the Lyre Bird,” by Ambrose
p ratt 5/-; postage 2d. extra.
“The World Is Tours,” by G. B. Lancaster, 6/6; postage 4d. extra.
•Blue North,” by H. Drake-Brockman 6/-; postage 3d. extra.
“Pearls of Papua,” by Commander H. C.
Brewster 5/-; postage 4d. extra.
“Practical Embroidery,” by Rosalie Wilson, 4/6; postage 2d. extra.
“Karangi,” by F. S. Hibble 6/-; postage 3d. extra.
A MOV ft
i S3 W rm*f* ******
ŵ
need nor room for misfits. Soon, no
doubt, we shall even be able to control
that “nascitur.”
KIM.
Shakspeare
in U.S.A.
Advertising
There is no
doubt about if,
when they let
themselves go in
America they can
be more than
marvellous. This
advertisement appears for a new edition
of Shakspeare. First a Him high head-
ing: “The Most Beautifully Bound
SHAKSPEARE Ever Offered for Only
$2.98,” and “Every Word Shakspeare
Wrote—Bound in One Lovely Volume
of Limp, Florentine Tooled Leather.”
Then:
This volume should be the cornerstone
of your library. With it in your hands
discover unsuspected pleasures—a Shak-
spcarc that your schoolboy type of read-
ing may never have revealed.
Chuckle at Falstaffs cver-modern wise-
cracks, be fascinated by voluptuous Cleo-
patra, shudder at Macbeth’s intrigues, thrill
with Romeo’s ecstasies of love, be amazed
at lago’s treachery, step into the whimsical
world of Puck and Bottom. Or be en-
chanted with the Sonnets —or with the
unbridled passion of the “Rape of Lucrece”
and “Venus and Adonis.”
Let’s all go lo America, where culture is
flowing to the depths of society.
BORDAEON.
New
Australian
Verse
Possibly pro-
ducts of spring,
though they reach
this table in mid-
winter, are four
slim volumes of
verse. Patrick
White, whose chips and shavings of
poesy bear a Sydney imprint, is at some
pains to impress that he received his in-
spirations abroad ; each offering is placed
and dated. The style is in the free
modern manner, scorning shackles of
rhyme and metre. Remembering the
splendid music that has been made by
clanking such fetters, one expects per-
haps too much of freemen. It is polite
to assume that they are quite accom-
plished metricists, but prefer a charge of
uncouthness to one of insincerity. But
there is nothing in Mr. White’s little book
that couldn’t have been expressed more
picturesquely and vigorously in the style
of such old-fashioned fogies as Long-
fellow and Byron. The imagery is in
places a trifle obscure, and almost every
piece exudes a melancholy and souh
weariness that ring rather more arti-
ficially in vers libre than they would in
sestina or pantoum.
One excerpt, not chopped into lengths,
must suffice: “Dirge. The slow bell
chimes —Here in the twisted chancel
of the limes, here in the golden
afternoon, the slow bell stealing, reel-
ing, out of the funnel of my peace.
I cannot lift my eyes. Soon they
will be gilded, monkish pictures on a
chapel wall; and from the limes will fall
harvest of gold just where this body lies,
this body that is dead of peace and laid
in the coffin of the afternoon. Wim-
borne, September, 1934.”
James Kennedy, of Melbourne, is un-
tainted by modern poetic heresies. His
forte is the long narrative poem, moulded
rather on the lines of the Shakspearean
sonnet. He tells the story of Psyche and
Eros in 230 nine-line stanzas —the ninth
an “Alexandrine dragging its slow length
along.” It is even, careful work that
never jars ; not quite so direct as Morris’s
Volsung Saga, but smooth; indeed, it
gets monotonous, like a mile of Greek
frieze. Romeo and Juliet, in eight-line
stanzas, completes the volume. As pret-
tily done as the other, but why rewrite
Shakspeare?
Less pretentious, but more sincere, is
Paul L. Grano’s little volume. The best
of the verse here is cantering jingle, but
it sings right merrily:
Give me the roads that wind about
The green and bushy hills.
That linger where the wattles fold
The mounting glens with laughing gold
And fleck the trilling rills.
Grano’s principal virtue is a lack of
affectation, a pearl of great price these
days.
Hubert Parry is a poetaster of the good
old Lindsay Gordon school, with occa-
sional flutters in the more highfalutin vein
of Kendall. He lacks ear and rhythm
sense, and some of his essays in verse rank
little higher than doggerel. Furthermore,
he doesn’t seem to have visited some of
the scenes he romanticises about. “Never
a paint upon your sun-tanned cheek,”
he says of the girl of the West—that was
all altered many years ago. He rhymes
“harbor” with “arbor,” commences a
panegyric on Auckland with “The sun-
set turns the ocean’s blue to gold,” and
perpetrates such sequences aS
But the years have brought their changes,
we are scattered far and wide
From the little church we loved upon
the flat;
For the Martins, Jim and Charlie, fought
and fell the other side,
Then their brother died across at
Piper’s Flat.
Even the best of his rhyming is
mechanical.
Arthur D. Wylie.
[The Ploughman and Other Poems, by Patrick
White (Beacon Press, Sydney); Psyche and
Eros, by James Kennedy (Arthur Barron,
London; 3s. 6d.); The Roads and Other
Poems, by Paul L. Grano (published by the
author); Girl of the West, by Hubert H.
(Barwon) Parry (published by author).]
An Amateur
Writer
Protests
Just what is
Cecil Mann’s de-
finition of an
“amateur writer”?
In his tirade
against dil-
ettantism (R.P.
26/6/’35), he makes it quite clear that
he considers only those who earn a living
by writing alone are entitled to express
their thoughts on paper.
I am a cashier by profession ; by night,
and in any other spare time, I am a
writer, and a very earnest one. I do not
belong to any literary society, and those
moments when I am not writing are taken
up by study of the technique of writing
and of the works of the masters of the
craft. I have been able to sell articles,
paragraphs and an occasional story ; but,
because I am not solely a writer, I am
accused of being a dabbler, something
generally to be scorned.
If Mr. Mann would have his way I
should immediately pawn my typewriter,
sell my reference library and stick to
counting piles of pennies, leaving litera-
ture and writing to the novelist, the staff
man, the “super” freelance and to Mr.
Mann. He may be right, and I and
hundreds like me may be quite wrong
in our attempts to further the cause of
Australian literature. However, 1 am
not so easily dismissed. I am doing no
one out of a job, and if my work is sale-
able I am just as much a professional
writer as he is. Many of the world’s
greatest writers discovered their literary
talent while engaged in other professions
and occupations, Who knows but that
some day a great Australian novel may
not be written by a bank manager?
Is it necessary for one to be “born”
in literature, and must one remain un-
sullied by any hint of toil other than that
of the tapping of typewriter keys? Or
may we “amateurs” keep on writing and
studying for our own benefit and that of
Australian literature, which, Mr. Mann
will agree, is in a position to warrant all
the support it can get from all those who
are genuinely anxious to assist it.
A.H.S.
Effective
Speech
Effective
Speech, by
Dwight E. Wat-
kins (Marcus-
Campbell Cop-
per Angus and
Robertson ; 505.). A course on public
speaking given in six vols., with supple-
mentary material for study in as many
separate pamphlets and an additional
pamphlet entitled Speaking Funda-
mentals. On several counts it is a course
which can be recommended to anyone
who, for any particular reason whatever,
wants to be able to speak unselfcon-
sciously on public occasions, from the
handing over of a gift to influencing a
large audience. It postulates that the
reason very few can stand on their feet
and speak well is because most people
regard ability to do so as a gift from
Heaven, whereas, as a fact,, anyone can
learn to express himself forcefully and
convincingly. On that basis the author
gives a series of well-planned, graduated
lessons for private study. His methods
smack of the American sales-talk, and
the introductory manual to the course
has much in it that will make many
people wince, but the methods have also
the great advantage over those of most
much more costly things of the kind in
that they are direct and plainly practical.
The author is not interested in highfalutin
theories, in the so-called art of public
speaking. His simple business is to give
advice in the making of public speeches.
His basic principle is that every speech
should have a distinct purpose and every-
thing in it should contribute to that pur-
pose ; that “more speeches fail, perhaps,
from lack of a well directed aim than
from any other cause.” The course,
which includes many examples of effec-
tive short speeches, sticks to that plain
principle throughout, and the kind of
speech to the making of which all the
argument is directed is the extempore,
“by which is meant that the outline, or
path of the thought, is carefully prepared
so that the speaker knows beforehand
just what thoughts he will utter, but that
he leaves the exact language in which
these thoughts will be clothed until his
appearance before the audience” —that
as distinct from the written-and-read
speech, the memorised speech and the
impromptu, or wholly unprepared,
speech. In all, and chiefly, perhaps, for
its plain commonsense, a sound invest-
ment.
A Satchel of Books
Ten Thousand Public Enemies, by
Courtney Ryley Cooper (Lovat Dickson
and Thompson; Dymock’s; 9s. 6d.).
Journalist’s account of the work of the
Division of Investigation, U.S.A. Depart-
ment of Justice, in combating crime.
As an arm of the Federal Government
the D.I. is not subject, as are most of
the State and municipal police forces, to
the pressure of crooked politicians and
highly-placed friends o f crooks. It has
a fine record —Dillinger was one of its
catches —and something of its kind cer-
tainly seems necessary in a country with
a record of over twelve thousand mur-
ders annually! Students of criminology
will find much of interest in the book.
The author is a keen and frank observer
despite a tendency towards sensation-
alism.
God’s in His Heaven , by J. L. Hodson
(Gollancz; Angus and Robertson ; 7s.
6d.). Characteristic of England’s current
fiction of despair. Ordinary people act-
ing out insignificant parts in Lancashire
and elsewhere, the object being to depict
the dulness of life during depression
times. Doubtless it is all true enough,
but at this remove from the scene of
action it is also uninteresting. The work
lacks the personal fire necessary to give
the novel of purpose general application
and appeal.
Art Debunked, by Herbert Furst
(Muller; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). Writer
contends that there has come into talk
about art, including literary art, too
much preciousness, arising from rever-
ence for aesthetic. He argues against this
for a return to the primary consideration
of art as a handmaid of life. “Wherever
and whenever ‘Art’ is felt to be in opposi-
tion to Life, we may be sure there is
certainly something wrong with Art,
whatever may possibly be wrong with
Life also.” A cold douche for the dilet-
tante.
Memory and Imagination, by Osbert
Burdett (Chapman and Hall ; 12s. 6d.
net). Looking back on his fifty years of
life, the author records impressions of
his internal responses to things and
events. Autobiography requires one of
two things: either that the writer is a
sufficiently great figure for anything he
might have to say to be taken in avidly
by lesser folk, or else one whose life has
been shaped by matters of strange
interest or general significance. This
writer fails under the second, and if he
is qualified under the first his autobio-
graphy does not suggest it.
The Young Rider, by “Golden Gorse”
(Country Life ; 7s. 6d. net). Pointers for
children and grown-ups in the arts of
horse-management; a new, enlarged and
cheaper issue of the work which has
been through several editions since first
published in 1928. Possibly of more
general application and use in England,
where it is published, than here, where
horse-management is regarded as second
nature, it is nevertheless a good thing to
have here when we can see so much un-
intentional mistreatment of horses, quite
apart from the sort the R.S.P.C.A. looks
after. Discounting small matters of feed-
ing and the like which apply peculiarly
to England, it is a book which ought to
be given to any young person with his
or her first horse. It might even prove
as fascinating as the horse.
Irish Literary Portraits, by John Eglin-
ton (Macmillan ; Angus and Robertson :
7s. 6d.). Schoolmate of Yeats and ac-
quaintance of “A.E.,” James Joyce,
George Moore and other lights of recent
Irish literature, and additionally one with
literary taste and critical talent, the author
is singularly competent to present this
little collection of portrait-studies. He
mingles critical appreciation and per-
sonalia into a happy blend, gives inter-
esting information about his various
subjects’ lives, and assesses briefly what
they have done for literature. Mac-
millan’s have made a graceful little book
of it.


bringing
you
radio
that
is
•*■■■....
k
•: x-
;-.x.
<9
Ik
■i.
different!
YOU cannot make radio different merely by altering externals. A beautiful cabinet
is very desirable (and the A.G.E. "Bandmaster" offers cabinets of outstanding
charm), but it is the marked difference in reception which will impress you when you
hear this new receiver. So real, so clear and lifelike; so faithful and exact is the
"Bandmaster" that your conception of what radio should be will be changed
immediately. No matter which model in the series you listen to console, midget,
all-wave, battery-operated, or all electric you will promptly admit that A.G.E. has
revolutionized reception, made possible a new thrill, created a difference which is
more than skin deep. Go and hear a "Bandmaster" —it will bring your radio education
up to date.
" BANDMASTER" RECEIVERS USE RADIOTRON VALVES EXCLUSIVELY
ẁ
ẃ
/ v
■in
v\\ x, x
ẅ
w
ŵ


ẁ


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2891.
July 10, 1935.
DIRECT FROM THE DARK AGES.
“Prester John, of Abyssinia, I presume. I’m Marco Polo, on a goodwill mission from Italy.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months , 15s, 6d.; 3 months , Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and U nited Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
ETHIOPIA AND ITALY.
Abyssinia is a country slightly larger than N. S.
Wales. Before the Suez Canal was projected nobody
worried about it. There was political gunpowder in
its atmosphere, but the explosions were local ; modern
industry had not yet surveyed its resources of metals
and phosphates, and a theory for the control of Egypt
through the Blue Nile had not been evolved. But no
sooner had De Lesseps begun his work than nations
which at that time had no share in the canal realised
that whoever managed Abyssinia could dominate the
Red Sea and close the new artery at will.
Britain sought to establish relations with the
Prester John of the period, but found him difficult.
The Foreign Office failing to answer a letter from
King Theodore, English envoys, with other Europeans,
were thrown into prison and put in chains. Enter
Robert Napier and 32,000 men ; exit Theodore at
Mungana—no, Magdala.
British troops left the country the year before
the canal was opened. In the subsequent generation
three Powers settled down in a row to watch the
eastern entrance to the Red Sea. France acquired
a resting-place on the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb,
covering the narrowest parts, and established a port —
Djibuti. Britain, already in possession of Aden on
the Arabian side, gradually tamed a slice of coastal
Somaliland. In 1870 Italy, by buying the port of
Assab from a local sultan —it is opposite Mocha,
where the coffee comes from—laid the foundations of
Eritrea, which afterwards became one side of a
nutcracker, with Italian Somaliland, on the Indian
Ocean, forming the other and Abyssinia in between.
Desultory fighting followed. The Abyssinians
claimed that they had been guaranteed free transit
of Abyssinian goods through Massawa; this port
Italy seized and closed, along with other outlets.
About 400 Italian troops were killed before the argu-
ment died down, leaving Italy in occupation of
Eritrea, garrisoned by 5000 troops.
Menelik, the successor to Theodore and John
(not Prester), consolidated his kingdom and signed the
Uccialli treaty with Italy. Presently he was heard
declaring that the Italian version of the treaty dif-
fered from his and bound his subjects to use Italy
as a channel of communication with other foreign
Powers. This dispute, plus the inability of the Abys-
sinian raiders to resist temptations to plunder
neighbors, led to war. Italy suffered a severe defeat at
Adowa, and the independence of Abyssinia was pro-
claimed ; but the Italians have never forgotten. Almost
from the moment of his accession to power Mussolini
has talked of “imperial expansion,” with one eye on
the Red Sea coast, though Abyssinia, having abolished
(or made a show of abolishing) the slave trade,
became a fellow-member of the League.
All this time Britain had not been idle. Its
influence, largely due to its control of Egypt and the
Sudan, was paramount, and it was used in 1906 to
bind France and Italy to recognise Abyssinian inde-
pendence. In this Britain had a vital interest; the
Blue Nile flood decides the fate of Egypt, and the Blue
Nile rises in Abyssinia, in the Lake Tsana region. In
1925 Italy’s right to build railways into Abyssinia
to link Eritrea and Somaliland received British recog-
nition, British rights in the Blue Nile zone being at
the same time recognised by Italy. Abyssinia, for its
part, agreed not to allow engineering works to be
begun in the Blue Nile zone without British consent.
By 1928, it seemed, everything had been settled.
Abyssinia had been five years in the League on the
cheapest possible terms ; with nearly the same popu-
lation as Australia it pays one-thirteenth of Australia’s
annual contribution. It had signed a treaty of “per-
petual” friendship with Italy. That treaty has gone
the way of its forerunners. The situation has changed
rapidly, and for the worse.
Descents of Abyssinian tribesmen such as have
occurred many times in the Sudan and British Somali-
land have given Mussolini what he evidently regards
as a plausible excuse for avenging Adowa and estab-
lishing a protectorate over Abyssinia. Perhaps the
internal situation of Italy obliges him to go sabre-
rattling again, but it really looks as if he means
business this time. Last month he said that 800,000
or 900,000 soldiers would be needed in Eritrea to
“guarantee Italian security,” and in the “off” season
for campaigning he has dispatched a formidable army
there. The Italian notion is that an Abyssinian cam-
paign would be a military promenade. That it would
need to be for very good and sufficient reasons, one
being that Italy could scarcely finance an African
war extending into 1936. And in embarking on a
campaign in the Abyssinian highlands it would be
setting a perilous example to Powers with far greater
military resources, while failure would revive the
hopes of the Tyrolese and other racial minorities
incorporated in the new Italy.
In an eleventh-hour attempt to avert war, the
British Government offered to cede a strip of territory
to the Abyssinians, giving them an outlet to the sea —
an Abyssinian corridor, in short—conditionally on
their making “territorial and economic concessions”
that would satisfy the Italians. Its Mr. Eden conveyed
the proposal to the Duce, who coldly declined it. Mr.
Eden told him that Britain’s foreign policy was
founded on the League of Nations. Most Britons are
beginning to think that it should once more be
founded on British interests, though the greatest of
these is peace.
CHOICE OF DICTATORSHIPS.
Some recent cables show how civilisations differ:
Gloria Vanderbilt, the 11-ycar-old heiress to 4,000,000
dollars, was driven to her mother’s Long Island home
in a guarded limousine. She will be guarded by a
small army of detectives, with machine-guns placed
at points of vantage. Even the private beach where the
child will bathe is guarded by a patrol boat equipped
with a machine-gun.
One of the best-paid officials in Germany is Hitler’s
double, the man who takes the risk of driving through
cheering crowds in the brown shirt of the Fiihrer.
There arc imitation Stalins who acccompany the
dictator in identical armored cars whenever he leaves
home.
In Britain more than 500 persons pay income
tax on £BOO,OOO and over. They get about like
ordinary citizens in streets, trains and restaurants ;
their offspring attend middle-class schools and univer-
sities, they are never guarded by detectives and are
never kidnapped.
The King has no double ; he and the Queen drive
to all parts of London in open cars, expose them-
selves to attack at race-meetings, flower-shows,
theatrical performances and other public functions,
and are never attacked. No British Minister needs
a double; Baldwin would be as safe unarmed
and alone in Limehouse as Stalin is in the Kremlin.
British justice is partly responsible. High officials
cannot be squared, and punishment swiftly follows
conviction. One generation after another has grown
up in the belief that certain crimes are too dangerous
to be worth risking, and a similar feeling prevails
wherever the British legal system is in operation. The
rich in Australia are as safe (i.e., as free) as they are
in England, and it isn’t altogether because the law is
feared. Most Australians lack the sense of being
unfree which is felt by the class-conscious poor in the
presence of ostentatious wealth, and by nearly every-
body in the presence of tyrants. Hence, here, as in
Britain, there are no kidnappings and no political
assassinations.
Naturally, the first aim of all revolutionary
propaganda is to create a sense of unfreedom. “Man
....is everywhere in chains” (eighteenth century)
and “Workers you have nothing to lose but your
chains” (twentieth century) express the same idea.
Marx’s celebrated dialectic did not presuppose execu-
tions and murders, and, in fact, revolutions have been
put through (though never established permanently)
without them. He took as his thesis that man was
not free, as his antithesis revolution, as his synthesis
a new state of society ; and, since nothing in nature
is static, he assumed that another thesis would imme-
diately emerge, to be followed by its antithesis and
synthesis. What he does not seem to have foreseen
is that the eventual dictatorship would be the dictator-
ship, not of a proletariat, but of an autocrat, or that
the autocrat would be given his chance by the
tyrannies of a State salariat.
The only true dictatorships of the proletariat that
exist to-day are in democratic countries like Britain
and Australia ; Presidents have been given autocratic
powers even in France and the U.S.A. But the
peoples’ sense of freedom is being undermined by
officials. It is happening in Britain ; it is happening
to a greater extent here. Taxation constantly
increases; taxgatherers multiply and grow more
insolent and exacting. Taxpayers are instructed to
economise by Ministers who make extravagant over-
seas trips for which the taxpayers have to produce
the money. Australia is becoming a paradise for
lawyers who make laws. Roads are built at huge
expense, but the people who have paid for their
construction are forbidden to carry goods on them in
competition with the Government railways. For dis-
obeying the ukase traders in N. S. Wales have been
fined thousands of pounds, and the Government has
now begun to seize their vehicles on the King’s high-
way —in Soviet jargon, to expropriate them. A set
of new masters has arisen to tell the people they
mustn’t do this and they mustn’t do that. Government
by regulation advances with giant strides.
Only in this way can revolution be brought to
people like ourselves.
LIFE-STORY OF A BARONET.
It closed suddenly on a suburban railway one day last
week. Newspaper accounts were unwontedly brief:
Sir Alexander Thomas Cockburn-Campbell, Bart.,
was killed by a train at Bassendean, near Perth, on
Monday morning. He walked from behind one train at
a crossing, and was struck by another, dying instantly.
He had since November been an inmate of the Sal-
vation Army Aged Men’s Retreat. At the burial the
coach carrying the coffin was followed by one car
conveying four men. There were three wreaths, one
from “Tom, Urban and Sandy.”
So passed the only native-born Westralian baronet.
He was the fifth head of his house and the second
to succeed to the title (“of Gartsford” is added) in
Westralia ; his heir, a North Westralian, is the third.
The first baronet was Sir Alexander Campbell,
colonel of the 80th Regiment. He “greatly distin-
guished himself at Seringapatam, and also in the
Peninsula,” where he commanded a division under
Wellington for two years, 1809-1811 ; two medals for
Seringapatam and Talavera, between them “a rock
proper superscribed Gibraltar,” are quartered on the
family shield. He was created a baronet in 1815 after
Waterloo. He had no son. and by a patent issued in
1821 inheritance was permitted to the male issue of
his daughter Olympia, wife of Alec Cockburn, a
Madras banker, and then to the male issue of his
daughter Isabella, Lady Malcolm.
Olympia brought her lord a son, Alexander
Thomas, and on the death of Wellington’s old soldier
in 1824 he succeeded to the title, assuming the name
of Campbell in the following year. He married in
1828 the eldest daughter of Sir John Malcolm, G.C.8.,
and, (hat lady dying, he took a second wife, Grace,
daughter of Joseph Spence, of Birstwilh, York. Of
this marriage there were two sons, who both became
baronets, Alexander and Thomas. There was no
money in the family, and the second baronet had
been glad to accept an appointment on the Swan
River establishment, becoming resident magistrate at
Albany. There, in 1870, Thomas Cockburn-Campbell
was married to Lucy Trimmer, a granddaughter of
Capt. Sir Richard Spencer, R.N. ; and there, in 1871,
Sir Alexander Cockburn-Campbell having died,
Thomas became the fourth baronet.
For quarter of a century of Westralia's history
as a Crown colony, Sir Thomas Cockburn-Campbell
played a distinguished part. He was a member of
the old Legislative Council, and was named Chairman
of Committees. In 1890 he was one of the delegates
sent to London to urge the passing of the Constitution
Bill, which had been shelved in the House of Com-
mons, and it is recorded that “his evidence before a
Select Committee of the Commons created a con-
siderable sensation.” Nominated to the new Legis-
lative Council, he became its first President, but was
not destined to hold office long. He died in 1892 at
the age of 47. He had been a journalist as well as a
politician, having been editor of the “West Australian”
before John Winthrop Hackett, who was to become
founder of the Perth University.
Thomas’s son Alexander Thomas became baronet
at 20. The father had got him into the civil service,
but the young fellow had little talent for office work,
and his habits were convivial. He rose to be Clerk of
the Assembly, but slipped down the ladder, and in the
late ’nineties was “transferred” to the far-north and
very thirsty township of Wyndham. There, for a time,
he was clerk of courts and general Government fac-
totum. Then something happened, and the civil
service knew him no more.
As I heard the story, one of his duties was to pay
the Government bounty for dingo scalps. He had a
bale of scalps in his office, receipts for an outlay
of several hundred pounds, during the period of the
annual race-meetings, when it was the custom of
Wyndham and the surrounding country to mop up all
the alcohol within reach. When the roystering was at
its height the bale disappeared.
The news was telegraphed to Perth. Placed on
his defence, the clerk of courts could neither trace
the missing vouchers nor produce their value in money.
A message threatening drastic measures came from
John Forrest, the Premier. Very amiable in the ordi-
nary relations of life, Forrest could be stern when he
thought sternness was demanded, and on this occasion
he was as hard as flint. The baronet’s Wyndham
friends —and they were all his friends, except the
unknown thief—collected the equivalent of the scraps
of dead dog and asked whether the Government
would take it and let the matter drop. Forrest replied
that the money would be accepted, but Sir Alexander
Cockburn-Campbell must immediately resign; and
resign he did.
After that, the Kimberleys swallowed him up.
He became a drover, a teamster, a station-hand, a
filler of odd jobs—broke now and then, a wan-
derer most of the time, but contented after a fashion.
He was no loafer, and if he was poor in worldly
goods he did not hold his manhood cheap. His old
mother, the widow of the fourth baronet, was living
in Perth—and still is, I believe —but for many years
his Perth friends heard little of him —though, oddly
enough, he kept in touch with the solemn old gentle-
men who compile tomes like Debrett’s and
Whitaker’s, giving his residence sometimes as
“changing.” Then good news came. In his peregri-
nations from the Kimberleys to the Northern Terri-
tory he met a fine bushwoman, Maud Frances
Lorenzo Giles, daughter of a Territory station-owner.
She married him, cared for him, made a happy man
of him, bore him three sons, “Tom, Urban and
Sandy.” Then tragedy darkened his door.
It was related with real feeling by “Texas” Green,
M.H.R., in the House on March 18, 1926:
For 23 days in January the telegraph service to
Wyndham was suspended. Sir Alexander Cockburn-
Campbell and Lady Campbell, with their three children,
the eldest aged six, lived at Waterloo station, 104 miles
from Wyndham. Lady Campbell was preparing to leave
for Wyndham to be confined when she was suddenly
taken ill. A message was sent to Wyndham for the
doctor, who set out at once on horseback. He arrived
too late. From the time the messenger left until
the doctor’s arrival at the bedside 1 i days elapsed.
There is an air service to Derby; had it been extended
to Wyndham (it has been since] two lives could have
been saved.
After that came financial misfortune, and Sir Alex-
ander Thomas Cockburn-Campbell drifted south,
prematurely aged and almost forgotten, to a fate that
was perhaps more merciful than slow decay in poverty,
far from the northern tracks he could follow no more.
TUART.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Provincialists Prefer Railways.
Intensive air development—thousands of machines,
thousands of skilled fliers, adequate engine-building
plant —is vitally necessary to the defence of Australia ;
and at last the Commonwealth Government appears
to be realising it. Necessary also is plenty of heavy,
mobile road transport, with roads to run it on,
arranged in a system which would admit of exposed
communities being withdrawn well away from the
coast in time of war.
The Government railways are everything that
defensive railways should not be. They straggle
along the coasts within range of naval gunfire and
landing-parties. Breaks of gauge render it certain
that, under stress of attack, the Commonwealth would
be divided into several watertight compartments ; but
it would not matter much, anyhow. Australian rail-
way engines are all coalburners; cut the main lines
in a couple of places and most of the railways would
be without fuel.
Still, railways are the politicians’ playthings, and
they must be served at any cost. About £340,000,000
has been sunk in them, and nothing must interfere
with their predominance. The campaign against
motor-trucks and -buses is in full blast; and now it is
the turn of the air. A company which proposed a
Sydney-Bathurst service, using 10-passenger modern
machines which would shorten the journey to two
hours, was told it would be charged 2|d. per minute
of air travel per passenger. No service was estab-
lished. Westralia has amended its Transport Act to
penalise air competition with railways.
State Premiers will have the Commonwealth to
fight next. They have been gently informed by Mr.
Brown, of the Post Office, that the mails will be taken
away from them and carried by aeroplane between
capitals. After that there will be a reduction of aerial
passenger fares to such a level —they are as cheap now
as the trains for business people when loss of time is
taken into account —that no man to whom time is
money will travel other than by air.
Seizing motor vehicles on the King’s highway is
the latest performance of the Transport Strangulation
crowd. It is useless tyranny. The sane attitude to rail-
ways is that they are a dying entity except for special
purposes. They will give place almost wholly to petrol
and crude-oil haulage and aerial transport as surely as
gas gave way to electricity and horse-power to steam-
power. The intelligent thing to do in the circumstances
is to formulate a constructive plan for liquidating
obsolete and unpayable lines, and transferring em-
ployees released to road and air transport and the pro-
duction of Australian engines and motor fuel. Nothing
parish-pump politicians can do will prevent aeroplanes
from becoming as common as motor-cars in 30
years’ time, and they may just as well face the
inevitable.
♦
Slow-motion Public Works.
Beyond the seats of Victoria’s mighty, Toorak-road
runs out towards the hill country, carrying heaps of
traffic to holiday resorts and intervening orchards.
Two miles past Toorak proper the road crosses
Gardiner’s Creek, whose banks after ordinary rains
are 20ft. to 30ft. apart. But seven months ago Mel-
bourne suffered from rains out of the ordinary, and
floodwaters swept away the bridge, necessitating all
traffic making a detour of about a mile—a detour
with several twists which required careful handling
of all vehicles.
During the intervening period the public bodies
concerned have been engaged in the usual wrangle as
to who shall foot the bill for rebuilding the bridge.
At last an honorable compromise has been effected,
and it is proudly announced that in another six or
seven months —over a year since the bridge was thrown
out of action —a new one will be up and traffic
will be able to flow over it as it did in antediluvian
days.
This, it must be remembered, is a bridge over a
creek which is little more than a gutter. A squad of
military engineers erects a temporary structure out
of logs, capable of carrying artillery, over a similar
opening at every military tattoo. The Sydney Harbor
Bridge—one of the engineering achievements of the
world—was built in five or six years in the face of
enormous difficulties. This toy affair is to occupy one-
twelfth of the time.
Meanwhile traffic will make its detour. Since the
flood, Melbourne traffic is so used to the notice board
“Detour” that the north-easter who asked questions
about the Frenchman who owned all that land may
well be excused. No mention is made of the number
of men to be engaged on the mighty work, but pre-
sumably there will be fully half a dozen jobs available
for the unemployed. Any enterprise, public or private,
capable of doing its work efficiently should be able
to erect such a bridge inside six weeks at the most.
Under a sane system of control a temporary bridge
would have been pushed up in an afternoon.
+
The Fremantle Taxing Machine.
The chairman of Sydney Harbor Trust recently denied
the frequent accusation that sky-high charges are
exacted at Australian ports. It may not be true of
Sydney, but it is true of Fremantle, according to a
deputation of farmers and shippers who put their
case before Hon. Minister Kidston the other day.
Mr. Kidston happens to be a Fremantle member,
so as likely as not the deputation’s indictment will
be pigeonholed. It was very telling all the same.
Though Fremantle Harbor Trust is a com-
paratively small concern, it has in eight years (1926-27
to 1933-34) paid upwards of a million pounds into the
State Treasury, meeting as well all interest and sink-
ing-fund charges. This, as the deputation said, is
indirect evidence that the concern is a “taxing
machine.” And the taxing machine is under political
control ; the Labor Government is represented on it
by a former colleague and the wharf-laborers’ union
by a union nominee, but farmers have no member.
Quoting from a report of a royal commission,
supplemented by experiences of their own, members
of the deputation declared that the cost of loading
wheat on ships at Fremantle averaged over 6s. a ton,
as against 3s. 4d. a ton at Cape Town and 2s. 2d. to
2s. 1 Id. at Canadian ports, where only white labor is
employed. As for loading rates, they were, at Fre-
mantle, 12.57 tons per gang per hour from July to
December, and 14.11 tons per gang per hour from
January to June. Melbourne loading.rates were 17
tons, Port Adelaide 21 tons, Brisbane 22 tons and
Sydney 29 tons per hour. Discharging rates show
corresponding discrepancies: 11.92 to 13.28 tons per
gang per hour at Fremantle, 23 tons at Brisbane,
25 tons at Melbourne and 29 tons at Adelaide.
Said one speaker: “Fremantle is a byword in
shipping circles throughout the world ; the charges are
100 high and the work is bad.” This may be too
strong, but it seems clear that the wharf-laborers—an
important interest, but not the most important—run
the port and that the Labor Government is their
obedient servant. At their bidding, the Government,
together with the Harbor Trust, has even put obstacles
in the way of the useful bulkhandling enterprise
pioneered by Westralian Farmers at a time when every
farthing off the bushel-cost of marketing wheat means
something to the farmers (and the experiment has
saved them a great deal more than that). And the
company’s offer to increase its outfit so as to serve
all the farmers, this without adding a penny to the
huge public debt, has been vetoed. The ex-Labor
politician on the trust is, with other members of a
royal commission, now wandering from State to
State collecting superfluous evidence as to whether
bulkhandling is necessary and whether or not another
experiment in Government ownership should be
launched.
The “Primary Producer” recalls that “the oppor-
tunity is never lost of reminding the Federal Govern-
ment that farmers are suffering because of imposts
placed upon them by the tariff.” Too much has been
heard of these imposts and too little of the taxes
ground out of the farmers by the Fremantle Harbor
Trust.
♦
Facts, Ltd.
“Scribe,” who has been one for 40 years:
Australian daily newspapers have developed into groups,
and in the past each of these groups had its own cable service.
With the merging of groups these services have grown fewer,
and as a result of a recent arrangement there will be fewer
still.
From the standpoint of the newspapers as commercial
concerns, there is much to be said in favor of this arrangement.
In the past vast sums have been absolutely wasted in the
duplication of cables of a routine nature. Not many years
ago the cable-lines between London and Australia were
jambed by column-long speeches of British politicians, repeated
for competing services almost word for word. Costs of cable
messages were out of all proportion to their news value.
The merging of the greater part of the cabled news was the
only intelligent system to pursue, seeing that much was already
a matter of mere duplication. As commercial concerns, the
newspapers of Australia did the only thing possible in the
interests of their shareholders.
But newspapers are not merely commercial concerns.
The newspaper is the only means by which the public can
learn the truth, or what appears to be the truth, from the eyes
of a man of the same views as the reader. A monopoly of
news means that the news, at the highest, will be the cold,
uncolored truth, free from party bias; at the lowest, that it
will be a distortion of facts to suit the demands of its cus-
tomers. In practice, it will probably drift into something
between the two. And with capable men of strong political
prejudices controlling cablegrams—and Australian papers may
conceivably fall into such hands —the attitude of a country
in national and international matters may be determined to no
good purpose.
American newspapers are served in Europe, first, by cable
agencies, which distribute precisely the same news to hun-
dreds of newspapers, and then by correspondents in
every European centre. These men receive flimsies of the
cables dispatched by the agencies, and if they see any item
which they, deem needs elaboration they send additional facts
or comments off their own bat. The individuality of their
newspapers is thus preserved, and readers can form their own
opinions.
♦
Industry’s Front Line.
When Professor ' Greenwood, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, was in Moscow, a Russian professor asked him
what England was doing in metallurgical research.
Mr. Greenwood replied that, owing to the depression,
activities had been seriously curtailed and that some
of the laboratories had even been shut down. “Ah,”
murmured the Muscovite, “it is well to be a rich
country like England. Russia is too poor to neglect
research.”
The irony of the foreigner is applicable to Aus-
tralia as well as to England—possibly to a greater
extent. Vice-Chancellor Priestley, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, has revealed unpleasant truths regarding
equipment and accommodation at Melbourne Uni-
versity. While giving high praise to the staffs of
faculties, he said, in effect, that they were gravely
handicapped by limited, in some cases obsolete, means
of imparting their knowledge.
From Melbourne Technical College comes the
protest that Australian engineering is lagging behind
because graduates are incapable of applying the
modern standard of precision measurement to pro-
duction. Precision measurement, in some cases, must
be accurate to the point of one-hundred-thousandth
of an inch, and it is impossible for students to learn
how to secure such accuracy because proper equip-
ment is lacking. There is a dearth of apparatus
for developing light-rays, the latest method of securing
precision known to engineering science; every up-
to-date European and American technical school
possesses it, but in Melbourne there are no funds.
While briskly bidding for votes, Victorian Govern-
ments have failed to recognise that the first line of
industrial defence is in the scientific training of youth.
The Aussie,
Dear Bulletin, —Major-General Sir George Jeffreys,
Commander-in-Chief of the Southern Army in India,
is a distinguished soldier, but he is no ethnologist. I
read in my big-timber retreat that to the Society of
St. George in Melbourne he said:
You Australians are no less English than the
thoroughbred English horses racing at Flemington
to-day, though you were born in Australia.
The thoroughbred horse born in Australia is the
progeny of the thoroughbred horse. His breed is
segregated. He is 100 per cent, thoroughbred in his
ancestry and in his mating. The people who founded
the Australian race were not 100 per cent. English.
The census shows that Australia is over 20 per
cent. Catholic in religion, and in Australia Catholic
means Irish. The Catholic English, Highlanders,
Italians and French constitute only a fraction. Added
to these is the mass of Protestant Northern Irish,
who make their weight felt in many activities of life.
Next are the Scotch. It is impossible to estimate their
numbers with any degree of accuracy, but the Presby-
terians, who include few people of purely English
origin, amount to over 15 per cent, of the population
of Australia —and there are very many Scottish and
Ulster people who are not Presbyterians.
Then there are the Welsh and the Cornish. They
cannot by any stretch of imagination or any sophistry
of argument be regarded as English. In Cornwall
people still speak of “going up to England,” and any-
body who has lived in any of Australia’s mining
centres knows the extent of Welsh and Cornish blood
which permeates the population of the Common-
wealth. Finally, there is the three per cent, of non-
British origin.
The truth is that Australia is nearly half Celt. This
accounts for some of its virtues and some of its vices.
No unbiased observer can doubt that the last century’s
Celtification of England has been all to England’s
good or that an infusion of the best qualities in
English blood would have made things better for
Wales and Scotland and Ireland had it existed during
the same period. Ethnologically, Australia has better
prospects than it would have were Major-General
Jeffreys’s idea of its being thoroughbred English
correct —better, likewise, than if it had been all
thoroughbred Irish or thoroughbred Scotch or
thoroughbred Welsh, Beyond all doubt the admix-
ture in England of British, Roman, Saxon, Dane and
Norman yielded better results for England and the
world than any of those races could have accomplished
unmixed,-—Yours etc., G. Trotter.
♦
Unfit for Habitation.
Before the Argyle Ministry went out of office, it
asked Victorian municipalities to present local records
of houses unfit for human habitation. Some have
forwarded the information ; others have not. No
returns are to hand from Fitzroy, Collingwood or
Richmond, the three industrial suburbs wherein popu-
lation is most congested.
Geelong municipalities are the worst —or possibly
the most honest. Geelong proper admits to 35 unin-
habitable dwellings and Geelong West to 122. South
Melbourne, which recently had a clean-up, claims
that it has not one house unfit for occupation.
Brighton, largely a residential suburb, acknowledges
possession of 29.
The whole difficulty is one of definition. If
a committee of medical men and architects were asked
to report it is probable that a great proportion of the
dwellings in the industrial suburbs of Melbourne
would be condemned. And it is not only in the indus-
trial suburbs that houses fall far short of modern
requirements of health and hygiene. Nor is Melbourne
any worse in that respect than Sydney. In both cities
hideous “terraces” linger: dens with a front room,
sometimes well, often badly, lighted; behind it a
so-called dining-room, dusky if not dark, necessitating
artificial light for breakfast in winter-time, and above
it a bedroom —a little better, but far short of health
requirements in point of light. Solidly built, they
have not been torn down to make way for something
more hygienic. They remain noisome stud-farms
for the propagation of germs, fitted with inac-
cessible nooks and corners for the convenience of
rats, mice, cockroaches and other domestic fauna.
Here is something on which workless men might
be profitably employed for another 50 years, the
profit being a future population of an AI class and
a death-rate fallen to miraculous dimensions.
*
Broken Hill’s Jubilee.
Broken Hill Proprietary is celebrating its fiftieth
birthday. Charles Rasp, the boundary-rider who
displeased George McCulloch, manager of Mt. Gipps
station, by pegging the metalliferous outcrop showing
in the “broken hill” on the property, often heard
the claim spoken of contemptuously as a “hill of
mullock.” And for a year or two, until Philip
Charley discovered chlorides of silver in the boulders
of lead ore, a hill of mullock it seemed to be.
The period of greatest productive activity at the
Barrier was 1900 to 1908. In 1912 shareholders
sanctioned the steelworks proposal—iron ore at
Iron Knob (S.A.) had been used for smelting for
some years—and in 1915 production commenced at
Port Waratah, Newcastle.
To-day the old mine at the Barrier is not pro-
ducing—metal prices are too low for profitable
production. The Newcastle steelworks pay the divi-
dends and give most employment these days. G. D.
Delprat, a native of Holland who had been promi-
nent in the treatment of Broken Hill ores by the
flotation process (he had been general manager since
1899), was assisted by Australian capital, brains and
labor in establishing the new industry when such
enterprises—like Rasp’s “hill of mullock” were
generally looked upon as freakish delusions. To-day
Broken Hill Prop, stands as an example of Australian
efficiency, organisation and foresight.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: A lift recently jambed
between two floors in a block of Dar-
linghurst flats. It contained a magician
whose stock-in-trade includes releasing
himself from all manner of locked boxes,
chests, trunks and cabinets, a detective
whose knowledge of cells and lockups is
unequalled this side of Scotland Yard,
and an advertising salesman who claims
the ability to talk his way out of any-
thing. Nevertheless all three shouted for
assistance as vigorously and strenuously
as three chorus girls might have done in
similar circumstances. Their yells
brought succor; they were released by
a man with no qualifications as a
Houdini beyond being caretaker of the
building.
* * * *
“Failed 8.A.”: When the false
moustache of a candidate for a Calcutta
University exam, was blown off by an
electric fan and a professional coach
was disclosed, it was thought the limit
had been reached. A London Uni. ex-
perience equals it. On the second day of
an exam, a candidate was seen wandering
about the hall. When he said he couldn’t
find his seat the local Sherlock, knowing
that someone of the same name had sat
the first day, got busy and the gaff was
blown. The nabbed one was deputising
for a friend. He had been supplied
with a map of the seats, but had lost it,
and the fact that he was bushed betrayed
him,
•*' H 1 H :
“Old Q.”: O. Henry wrote it was the
little things that counted, and so a Bris-
bane returned soldier recently found out.
Overseas he had been filled with shrapnel,
much as the Jumping Frog of Calaveras
had been filled with buckshot, and though
much of it remained with him it gave
him no discomfort. Severe pains fol-
lowed on a sneeze while changing his
shirt. The X-ray disclosed in the bron-
chial tubes his collar stud, surrounded by
shrapnel pellets. The stud was removed,
and, though the shrapnel remains, he is
well and happy again.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: There is a fresh move in
S.A. to buy and preserve Sturt’s house at
the Grange, the explorer’s last residence
in Australia before he retired to Eng-
land. Light’s home at Thebarton has
been allowed to go, but Gordon’s in the
far south-east is preserved as a place of
pilgrimage. The Sturt place, on poor
soil behind the sandhills, is now used as
a poultry farm; probably it could be
bought for a few hundreds.
* * * *
“Whisperer”: A Melbourne police-
court decision has delighted the great s.-p.
industry. The defendant, who had been
lumbered in an alley, was charged with
aiding and abetting some unknown in
the commission of an offence by paying
out money on a horserace. His counsel
argued that as there was no charge of
betting it couldn’t be said the lane was
used for that illegal purpose ; the only
evidence against his client was that he
was paying out money and checking
payments on his sheet, and in Victoria
there was no law to prevent a book-
maker settling in public. The beak said
that the defence was watertight, and dis-
missed the charge.
* * :|: $
“Oxmead”: Abyssinia, of course, isn’t
a negro State (B. 3/7/’35), but all my
available books of reference suggest that
it has a generous dash of the tar-brush
within its borders. Even as old an autho-
rity as the prophet Jeremiah questioned
the ability of the Ethiopian to “change
his skin”; also, I fancy Shakspeare has
a reference to the “woolly Ethiop.”—
and “Erithrea’s” ancient Egyptians cer-
tainly weren’t woolly in the thatch. The
Statesman’s Year Book (1934) gives the
population of the realm as something
under six millions, but no more than half
of these are scheduled as genuine Abys-
“If my memory does not deceive me, it's a boy.”
sinians of Hamitic origin—and even of
the ruling race it is recorded that they
have been “adulterated by intermarriage
with negro and other conquered races.”
1 am old enough to have encountered
one Abyssinian in an English public
school—of all places! He was a very-
near royalty of his native land ; his name
was Alamayu, and he was the only
legitimate son of Theodore. The poor
youth, who might have been Negus of
Abyssinia had he not succumbed to the
rigors of the English climate, was much
too negroid to pass muster as an
Egyptian.
“ ’Ooray, Mate”: Whether or not the
word “hooray” is used as a parting salu-
tation in any country other than Aus-
tralia (B. 26/6/’35), I can assure “M.
Turlutu” that it is not a talkie-importa-
tion, nor yet “a growth of recent years.”
The term was in common use as a fare-
well amongst my schoolboy companions
in Riverina over 30 years ago.
* « * *
“Stole”: Touching these Bush Brothers
(B. 19/6/’35), the most famous of them
all was surely the fighting parson, Hulton
Sams, who held the stage in C.Q. from
’OB to T 2, or thereabouts. No one
respects his memory or admired him as
a man more than I; still, his efforts
to do good had embarrassing results for
others. He loved boxing. He’d put the
gloves on with anyone, and he’d go light
or play heavy, whichever the other party
desired. He drew no line —they were all
welcome. And that’s just where the
trouble began. Previous to the fighting
parson’s advent a man might go months
and months in the biggest sheds and
never see a fight. After Sams had been
a year or two on the job. and when
those youthful shed-hands thought they
were pet pupils of his, there was a great
change. Fights were as frequent as
smoke-ohs, and any boss who gave an
unwelcome order was told to put ’em
up. It shows how much harm a muscular
Christian may do with the very best
intentions.
* * .I* *
“Hamelin”: I have no more time for
rats than “General Prac.” (B. 3/7/’35)";
nevertheless 1 suppose there is something
to be said for them on the credit side —
they must have their uses as scavengers,
like the pariah dogs which used to keep
the streets of Constantinople clean. Henry
Labouchere, who went through the Siege
of Paris as a war correspondent, has left
it on record that the beleaguered popu-
lation not only ate them, in default of
anything better, but was beginning to
acquire a taste for them when the siege
ended. Henry himself must have sampled
a salmi of rat, for there is a suggestion
in his memoirs that the whiskered
rodents might yet come to be recognised
as a cheap and wholesome food. But
that was a quarter of a century before
the rat was identified as the carrier of
bubonic plague and other diseases.
* * t- *
“Double Disc”: France and Flanders
(B. 39/6/’35) were not the only places
which lacked plunge (or any other) baths.
In T 7 a party of us were sent for a
Cook’s tour to the Italian front, and
presently found ourselves billeted in one
of the Duke of Abruzzi’s country homes.
Although there were over 30 bedrooms,
several enormous reception-rooms, pala-
tial kitchens, pantries and cellars galore,
there was not a bathroom (or anything
that could be used as such) in the
place. For our morning plunge we had
to utilise a stream running through the
grounds, much to the interest of sundry
ducal employees.
H* # sfc %
“Klepto”: “Como” (B. 12/6/’35)
writes of Maoriland’s many dialects, but
I can’t say that I’ve ever heard them.
He says Aucklanders talk like Austra-
lians. So do nearly all the other Enzeds.
I have been in Dunedin over 40 years,
and visit most centres twice a year ; am
also a member of the local Australian
Society, and yet I cannot pick a visiting
Maorilander from an Australian at any
of our socials. As for the alleged
“Scottish burr” of Dunedin, it is true
that you will strike the Scottish accent
frequently among the very old people
and more recent Scottish arrivals, but
not so among the native-born. Dunedin
is not all Scotch, and has never been so
since the early ’sixties.
* * * *
“Rapid Fire": It may be true that the
savage trained to hand-to-hand fighting
is no good with firearms (B. 26/6/’35),
but it certainly doesn’t apply to native
races accustomed to the bow. In India,
tribes once expert in its use become good
marksmen with the rifle under European
training. Personally I have found the
same thing in my Papuan experience. In
training the Armed Native Constabulary
to shoot 1 always found that the North-
ern Division natives, fighters with club
and spear, were hopeless. On the other
hand, many of the Western boys
from bow-using tribes could be trained
to become quite decent shots, though
they never had any idea of ranges or
judging distance.
“Double Disc”: Zulus and Sudanese
may be indifferent shots, but Gurkhas,
Pathans, Punjabis and Sikhs have
all mastered the art of squinting
successfully along a rifle barrel. One
of the most deadly shots I ever saw
was a Pahang (F.M.S.) Malay, and that
with a century-oki Brown Bess for his
weapon. I have seen Dyaks in Borneo
who could use either their own blow-
pipes or stolen Mannlichers with equal
facility and accuracy.
* * * sjc
“Plankton”: “Pont Noyelle’s” remark
fB. 29/5/’35) that he had never known
Diggers to sing when marching to the
line recalls a poignant memory of mine.
After Fritz made his big push on the
Somme in the spring of 1918, the 7th
Brigade (then at Kortepip) was hustled
south tout a I’heure per motor-truck
and train. We of the 25th Batt. took
the road at Amiens. We were marching
silently through a French village, when
all the women, who stood sadly watch-
ing us pass through, wept unrestrainedly.
It was then that our C.O. rose to the
occasion. “Come on, boys!” he shouted ;
“cheer them up a bit,” and the whole
batt. exuberantly broke into “Pack Up
Your Troubles in Your Old Kit Bag.”
*«=!:*
“A.E.K.”: Australian beekeepers do
make honey beer (B. 26/6/’35), and I
can certify that it’s good stuff. One chap’s
method was to take the wax left after
straining, wash it and use the resultant
liquid as the basis. But the best honey
beer I ever tasted was arrived at by
accident. It was not until the bottom
of the keg was reached that the maker
discovered that the baby had added a
handful or two of corn from a bag kept
in the same shed.
# * * *
“Q.M.T.M.”: Newspaper accounts of
the P.M.’s visit to French battlefields had
it that Mr. and Mrs. Lyons “met four
gardeners who were tending the V.C.
corner of the Australian cemetery near
Fromelles.” That produced the impres-
sion that four men are employed to look
after a cemetery corner where V.Cs. are
buried. The message was correct as
dispatched: “V.C. Corner, Australian
Cemetery, near Fromelles.” V.C.
Corner was too well known to troops
who served in the Fleurbaix sector. The
cemetery, which contains 410 graves, com-
memorates also about 1300 Australians
“missing” at Fromelles on July 19, 1916
a lost battle which should never have
been fought.
* * * *
“Bukshi Sahib”: It wrings my heart
to read that Indian potentates and coun-
try gentlemen who used to maintain at
least one elephant as a sign of affluence
and izzat are abandoning the faithful
creatures in favor of cars. No car, how-
ever lethal, could properly carry out some
of the duties of a State elephant. When
I was financial adviser to the Nawab of
Chupattipore—H.H. now resides some-
where in Europe as the result of a turn
up with the Sirkar over the alleged
poisoning of the next in succession—
obdurate creditors were invariably
appeased with the aid of the court ele-
phant. The Nawab interviewed them in a
high-walled garden, outside which a native
band played in full blast. Once a native
banker went into the elephant’s office, as
I facetiously used to call it, he never
importuned the Nawab again. Ladies
behind the purdah were sometimes dis-
ciplined in the same way if they had
offended against the Nawab’s sense of
propriety. Indeed I might have been
hard put to it myself if I hadn’t returned
to my office unexpectedly one night to
find the Nawab going through my books
by candlelight. He did not spot me, and
by dawn I had invoked the protection of
our rival the Rajah of Dusturibad, hav-
ing presented him with the Nawab’s
finest diamond, which I had providentially
brought with me.
DRIFTING.
“Mr. Lyons drifted in a gondola along the Grand
Canal at Venice.”
He’s walked with kings and dickered with
dictators;
Sipped turtle-soup with Mansion House
grandees;
Been served with chops and chips by nimble
waiters
At that historic joint the Cheshire Cheese.
At York they pledged him in a golden bowl a
Lucullus or a Vanderbilt might prize;
And now he drifts, aboard a gay gondola,
Beneath Venetian skies.
Through loyal British crowds he’s sped,
careering
In ev’ry costly car that runs on wheels.
He knows, our Lyons, if only from the
cheering—
At least, he should—how lionising feels.
He’s sampled amiably, with none to judge him,
The British Isles, from Dublin to Dundee,
And, for a final flutter, who will grudge him
The Adriatic Sea?
He’s walked with kings and princes and
princesses;
But if you think he’s lost the common touch
With you and me by jubilee successes
TH simply tell you, straight and square, “Not
much.”
Both high and low they never failed to note
him
And greet him as a cobber and a pal—
Even if no one volunteered to tote him
Across the Grand Canal.
He’s met with Hitler and with De Valera,
And Mussolini’s views, first-hand, he’s got.
In this superbly democratic era
Why in the blinking blazes should he not?
But, Joseph, pardon the direct suggestion,
Before old Uncle Sam you hail and greet,
You’ve left it still unsolved, the simple question
Pertaining to our meat.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Spare Sidgwick”: According to an
English paper, the captainette of the
English girl cricketers recently with us
was so ill-advised as to criticise (he Aus-
tralian accent, a thing even Fender or
Jardine might have shrunk from doing.
She told of a player in Perth calling to
her partner “Run, Oireen,” “No, go back,
Oireen,” “Steady, Oireen,” and so on
till “Oireen” was bowled ; then came a
dismal “Oh, OIREEN !” Result, a rush
of flappers protesting that the English
pronunciation of the name, “Ayreen,” is
even worse. None of the disputants
appears to have thought it worthy of
mention that the lovely old Greek word
has three syllables.
* * * *
“Bob Sawyer”: The Pickwick story
of the boy who swallowed his sister’s
wooden beads, and had to be wrapped
in cottonwool to prevent him keeping
other hospital patients awake with the
rattling, has had a counterpart in real
life. A N.S.W. youth was riding a
bicycle with a whistle in his mouth when
a bump made him swallow the musical
instrument. Emetics had no effect, but
when he coughed a weird tootling came
from his interior. He was relieved of
his trouble in hospital.
* * * *
“Owlite”: South Aus. has always been
to the fore in feminist movements,
having been one of the first countries in
the world to give women votes and to
grant them university degrees. Now one
of its women preachers, the Rev. Jeane
B. Duncan, of St. John’s Spiritual
Church, has officiated at the wedding of
her only son. Mrs. Duncan has been
licensed to perform the marriage cere-
mony for 16 years, and during that period
has married about 100 couples. She
wears a black coat on these occasions ;
an ordinary dress for Sunday services.
St John’s Spiritual Church is conducted
almost entirely by women. It was
founded nearly 21 years ago by Mrs.
Duncan and her sister, Mrs. J. Watson,
who is assistant-minister. The organist
is a woman.
* * * ♦
“M.R.P.”: The organising committee,
having failed to get sufficient support for
an air race from England to Adelaide as
a feature of S.A.’s centenary, is talking of
promoting a windjammer race, with
Copenhagen for the starting-point. The
suggestion is that the
boats should leave
there in October,
1936, arriving here
at the usual season
for the wheat cargo.
The prize will go to
the craft covering
the course in the
shortest time, not
necessarily the first
in. As few, if any,
of the boats are
likely to be equipped
with wireless, the
excitement caused
by the air race will
be lacking, but the
spectacle of a fleet
of windjammers rid-
ing on Port Lincoln
harbor should be a
real attraction.
♦ *
“Hamer”; Along
with its posts, Syd-
ney has lost its old
post-leaning habits,
though the custom
still lingers in coun-
try towns. I was re-
minded of the old-
time reputation of
the city by a photo-
graph of * Pitt-street
taken some 60 years
ago. The thorough-
fare was then a suc-
cession of posts used
to hold up the old
shop awnings, with
some telegraph poles
thrown in. In that
picture every post
had its occupant;
“That all , missus?"
“Not quite, porter. I Want Johnny to sit on top so as to rest his leg."
some more than one. In the foreground,
to lend a spice of variety, a cabman is
leaning against the wheel of his hansom
while he waits for a fare.
* * * *
“Also R.A.N.”: Ask “R.A.N.” (B.
26/6/’35) if he remembers the first morn-
ing on which the Australian and Japan-
ese warships deployed into day-cruising
order to commence scouring the S.
American coast for the Scharnhorst and
the Gneisenau. Before daylight Sir George
Patey signalled from H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia:—
When the signal is made to take up day-
cruising order, Asama and Newcastle will
take station five miles ahead; Idzumo
and Hizen will spread five miles on either
beam and act as lookouts. Aid, remain
where you are.
Aid was a huge Blue Funnel collier,
the Protesilaus ; as this was too much for
the spelling powers of our signalling staff,
she was dubbed Aid for short. Patey’s
signal was perfectly well understood by
the Japanese, but to the hardy old
British merchant sailor who commanded
the Aid it meant not “remain five cables
astern of flagship,” but what it said. He
promptly stopped engines. The delin-
quency was not discovered until Patey
arrived on the bridge. With a nasty
glint in his eye, he said “Where’s Aid?”
“Just astern, sir,” he was told. On glanc-
ing aft he was horrified to see that our
faithful collier was merely a wisp of
smoke on the horizon. The subsequent
interchange of signals between the
admiral and the collier is a treasured
memory in the R.A.N.
* * * *
“Lily W.”; There was a whiff of (he
true amateur spirit in a cable of last
week:
Menzel’s tribute to Perry was brief and
to the point. He said: “With such a
player I never would be champion. If my
drama at present being produced in Vienna
is successful I shall give up tennis.”
How few cricketers give up the game on
becoming successful writers!
* * * *
“Shad”: Sullivan, the composer, used
to relate that the greatest ovation he ever
received was at Butte (Montana). When
he arrived, the mining community dragged
his coach from the railway station to
the hotel, and the same night they fought
for tickets at the door of the theatre,
over which blazoned a notice, “Mr. Sulli-
van will conduct the orchestra in person.”
"It's the glorious uncertainty of the game that makes dominoes worth while."
He received an uproarious welcome, and
when the show closed the Mayor invited
him to sup with the leading citizens. The
banquet had hardly begun when one of
the guests rose and shouted: “This
guy’s an impostor.” Sullivan modestly
disclaimed any fraud, but the inter-
vener persisted: “Gents., I seen Sulli-
van knock out Paddy Ryan when he
first won the championship, an’ this ain’t
the man at all.” Sullivan used to say
that the most difficult job he ever had
was to prove his innocent intent, but the
crowd eventually took it kindly and made
him as welcome as if he had been the
great one for whom they had mistaken
him.
* * * *
“T. Essbie”: These modern barrow-
pushers couldn’t hold a candle for endur-
ance to William F. King, known to Syd-
ney from 1842 to 1874 as “The Flying
Pieman.” King walked from Sydney to
Parramatta and back twice a day for six
consecutive days; carried a live goat
weighing 921 b., with 121 b. deadweight
besides, from Watkin’s Talbot Inn,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney, to Nash’s Wool-
pack Inn, Parramatta, and back in six
hours 48 minutes ; beat the coach from
Windsor to Sydney by seven minutes;
and walked 500 half-miles in 500 half-
hours. Nor did he ever require medical
examinations to see how his heart was
standing up to the strain. It hurts one to
record that he ended his days in the
Liverpool Asylum at the age of 67.
>l‘ * *
“Casual”: Britain has been singularly
slow in claiming credit for inventions.
The British Association belatedly reveals
that when it met at Aberdeen in 1859 one
Bowman Lindsay demonstrated a method
of sending messages without wires, and
claimed that with a sending station in
Cornwall and a receiving station in
America he could whisk them across the
Atlantic. Forty-three years later Mar-
coni sent the first trans-Atlantic wire-
less messages from the Cornish station
Lindsay had suggested.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Some years ago I was stay-
ing with a doctor friend at Port Mel-
bourne when the bell rang and a dozen
people dragged in an unconscious man
who had been stabbed. My friend
examined the patient, found that some
expert first-aider had already stopped the
(low of blood, and ordered the injured
man to be taken to the hospital. “What!”
cried one of the visitors indignantly.
“You call yourself a doctor and you
leave a fellow human being to go to his
death in a public institution.” He was
continuing his diatribe against the cal-
lousness of medical men in general and
of my friend in particular when a police-
man loomed over the heads of the crowd
and with him a civilian who, pointing to
the orator, observed quietly “That’s the
bloke.” The cop stepped forward and
snapped the handcuffs on the wrist of
the altruist. The humanitarian was the
individual who had done the stabbing.
Port Melbourne did not hear his voice
again for a couple of years.
“Hotham”: One of the aftermaths of
the Melbourne centenary spree was the
presentation of bills for accommodation
booked for American fliers in the Eng-
land-Australia race, but never utilised.
Twenty-six Yanks had entered and were
prepared for, but only one, Roscoe
Turner, and a couple of offsiders turned
up. The Melbourne folk discussed the
matter of sending the bills to the men
who stayed away, but finally resolved
on a more generous
attitude. In view of
the free help given
by the Yankee Gov-
ernment in the
search for Ulm and
his companions, it
was decided to pay
and say no more
about it.
* *
“G. Trotter”: Vic.
Returned Soldiers’
League intends to
discuss the burial of
an unknown Aus-
tralian soldier at the
base of the Shrine.
The suggestion for
the burial of an un-
known soldier is
generally thought to
have been borrowed
by England from
France ; but when I
visited Arlington
military cemetery in
Virginia (U.S.A.)
five or six years ago
one of the first
things that struck
me was the grave of
the Unknown Sol-
dier of the Civil
War, buried in 1868.
ROUNDEL OF REJUVENATION.
It is time to rest. In the stars or our bones
we have read it;
Life’s wine is consumed to the lees of our
worst and best.
Our burden we cast and repeat, though we
welcome or dread it:
“It is time to rest.”
Let endurance in conflict no longer be rated
the test;
Bid rank or prestige remain where Ambition
has led it;
Let hopes unfulfilled go down with the sun
in the west.
Doffed is the martial cloak, and for sleep we
have spread it;
Yet to-morrow’s first call to adventure or
chivalry’s quest
Will find us again in Life’s battle, forgetting
who said it;
“It is time to rest!”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


'
Jill
FACTORY-FRESH
m
m
*
.#■
when you open the packing
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-tn the
natural moisture and keep-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”— 10 for 9 d * and 20 for 1/6
Made specially to prevent sore throats —
POLITICAL POINTS
Swollen customs and excise receipts
have enabled Canberra to show a sur-
plus of £710,200 —nearly £700,000 more
than the estimate. This after £3,168,000
had been taken from ordinary revenue
for wheatgrowers’ relief; the flour tax
yielded only £798,000. Commonwealth
and State finance is getting so involved
(there are six sets of grants to the States)
that the accounts are hard to follow.
The one thing certain is that the tax-
payer will get nothing out of the sur-
plus, £500,000 of it having been promised
to the States.
Of State Governments that have re-
ported on their 1934-35 finances, Adel-
aide’s has made the best showing (surplus,
£36,000) and Sydney’s the worst (deficit,
£2,800,000). Certainly the Adelaide
concern received an additional £366,000
from the Commonwealth. On the other-
hand, it got ordinary expenditure down
£lOB,OOO, though it had already retrenched
(and taxed) harder than any other Gov-
ernment. Ordinary expenditure increased
everywhere else.
Death has forced the hands of the
Queensland Labor bosses who com-
manded three Brisbane aldermen elected
to the Assembly to do both jobs and
hang on to £BOO p.a.—the demise of an-
other alderman. It knocked the padding
out of the pi'etence that aldermanic by-
elections would be “inconvenient,” so the
three gentlemen were ordered to be
Ms.L.A. only. The incident won’t help
the Labor candidates for the vacancies on
Brisbane Council, whoever they may be,
Melbourne Italians, who have always
been divided into two opposing camps,
have clashed over the Abyssinian trouble.
The anti-Fascists got in first, ticking off
Mussolini vigorously for his “war of
robbery” ; the Fascists retorted that the
Duce was protecting “the honor and
rights of Italy.” Fortunately the factions
are divided topographically.
The Vic. Dunstan Government is back-
ing and filling with regard to the re-
engagement of Clapp. The rail chief is
supposed to get £5OOO a year, but with
deductions the screw is £3987 ; to the pro-
vincialists in office even this is too much.
Clapp needn’t worry. The one trans-
port chief with a really modern mind, he
will be needed for a bigger job when the
Commonwealth takes control of trans-
port, as it will after the referendum
which will be forced on the feckless
crowd at Canberra.
Barber, sometime M.L.A. for Bunda-
berg (Q.), who lost the Labor nomination
to another gentleman, has been consoled
with a clerk’s job in the Forestry Depart-
ment. He is a fine old boy, but he is
old (72, in fact); and people never
imagined that Labor had his sort in mind
when it coined the election slogan “Give
the Boy a Chance.” .
Tas. revenue was up £174,000 last year,
and the deficit is reckoned at £125,000
or so, which Dwyer-Gray considers
miraculous. Of a total income of
£2,872,100 the Commonwealth provided
£635,800, and mainlanders also supplied
at least nine-tenths of £349,500 realised
from stamp duties on lottery tickets and
income tax on prizes. These considera-
tions are not expected to deter Dwyer-
Gray and Ogilvie from threatening to
secede.
Collier gleefully reports that the
annual loss was reduced to £167,000 last
year, “a result immeasurably ahead of
anything recorded” since the bottom fell
out of the boom. It is only a few
months since the same gentleman was
morosely suggesting that unless West-
ralia got a massive advance on the
special Commonwealth grant of £600,000
it might have to put the shutters up.
There is alarm in' America at the
admission that in their last financial
year the New Dealers spent 52 p.c.
more than was received into the
Treasury. It sounds pretty dreadful, but
Australia can furnish precedents and
parallels. In 1926-27, for instance, S.A.
collected £10,784,800 in revenue and
spent £20,867,000. Nearly nine millions
was loan money, which was lavished on
“reproductive works” that reproduced
thumping deficits.
Cow-farmers whose milk goes to Syd-
ney continue to protest that they are
getting too little for it, and that the
people are paying too much. The Lang-
Stevens board replies, in effect, that they
don’t know when they’re well off:
Present prices, fixed from March, 1932,
represent a considerable increase, and the
board has been able to maintain these
prices through exceptionally favorable
seasons and serious decreases in the price
of butter.
Despite thumping decreases in taxation
and the basic wage as well. In effect,
“these prices” have been “maintained”
at the expense of the consumer, who
pays 7d. and Bd. a quart and this brazen
concern’s fat salaries,
Assistant-Minister Hunter admits that
there are “blind spots on the Constitu-
tion” —plain people are beginning think
"For alleged breaches of the N.S.W. law forbidding competition with the Government
railways for a distance exceeding 50 miles, a motor vehicle was seized at Wagga last
week, and there have been other seizures since.”
“ Eh, what’s the game? I’ve paid my dues, and this is the King’s highway.”
“Were from the boss of the King’s highway.”
“You don’t mean t’ tell me there’s a Highwayman’s Department?”
it is nearly all “blind spots”—but protests
that unification would be no remedy,
although Britain, Maoriland and South
Africa have it. He asserts that unifica-
tion would mean “little or no saving,”
but that’s all bunkum: Commonwealth
control of education alone would do
away with five Ministers and their per-
sonal staffs. The State member, Hunter
proceeds, has a “full-time job.” Obvi-
ously the Queensland A.L.P. bosses don’t
think so, or they wouldn’t have instructed
Power, Brown and Williams to be aider-
men and Assemblymen too. The Sydney
U.A.P doesn’t even think that an M.H.R.
has a full-time job. It is running McCall
for a vacancy on the City Council.
Somebody mentioned unification to
Dr. Page when he was on his way back
from W.A. Said the worthy surgeon:
Unification would muck the whole thing
up. If we had one Parliament, I would
not go there; I would rather go to a lunatic
asylum.
It would be a dreadful deprivation ; still,
there have been politicians with larger
ideas. For generations one Parliament
made laws for and looked after the
finances of England, Wales, Scotland,
Ireland, India, Burma, the Malay
States and assorted Crown colonies ; and,
though there have been dissenting min-
orities, the world in general acknow-
ledges that it did the vast job pretty well.
Anyway, the British Empire has stood.
If Britain had had rulers scared of
shadows, there might never have been a
British Empire.
Though N.S.W, endowment tax has
been abolished (in part, the “special”
income tax has been disingenuously sub-
stituted for it), collection of arrears is
going on. Among those ordered to pay
up or take the consequences are sundry
Trades Hall unions whose bosses fancied
they were exempt. When they suggested
it, they were coldly referred to Section 3
of the Family Endowment Act, 1927 —
i.e., Lang’s, Lang is a wonder for aim-
ing at his enemies and hitting his friends.
Dubliners of both parties must have
extracted a lot of quiet amusement from
visiting Australian politicians exuding
goodwill and unsought advice. S.A.
Premier Butler, like Lyons and others,
was entertained at “the Castle,” and over
the walnuts and the wine he urged
“parties in the Free State” to “co-operate
in an endeavor to bring peace and pros-
perity to Ireland.” De Valera politely
waited till the gentleman had gone;
then he dourly said his objective was
“an Irish Constitution from top to bot-
tom,” and that if the Irish had freedom
of choice they would not choose “a
foreign king.”
Although the Commonwealth has a
controlling interest in Amalgamated
Wireless, the Post Office is egging it on
to bring an expensive action against that
highly efficient and successful concern
to have the rights of majority and min-
ority shareholders judicially “inter-
preted.” Heaven only knows what good
that would do, except to the lawyers.
The Post Office will be lucky if it doesn’t
get a sheaf of writs itself over its jubilee
air-mail stunt. It was itself responsible for
the jettisoning of bags of registered
letters, though bags of unregistered letters
were brought back. The aggrieved parties
are asking what benefit they derived from
registration, and how the department can
get over its guarantee, printed on receipts,
to pay compensation up to £2 for the loss
of letters cast into the sea at its own
instance.
Glebe’s Lang Labor council has
“unanimously adopted a vote of con-
fidence in Alderman Foley,” who was
declared by Long Innes, L, to have made
“corrupt demands” on the secretary of
a trotting club and given “wifully false
evidence.” Says Alderman Foley: “If
the trotting club’s secretary feels dis-
posed to test the feelings of the people
in the matter, I will resign to-morrow.”
But surely a more appropriate test could
be applied by the Crown.
A Melbourne minor Court has decided
that a bicycle is not a vehicle within the
meaning of the Act. Defendant was a
motorist who, it was alleged, had failed
to report a collision with a bicycle ; his
lawyer quoted the section making it
mandatory to report accidents between
cars and “any person, whether on foot,
on horseback or in a vehicle,” and suc-
cessfully pleaded that a bicycle is not a
vehicle. Amendment of the Act is
advised by the magistrate.
Lloyd George likens Mussolini’s atti-
tude towards Abyssinia to Joseph Cham-
berlain’s attitude towards the Boer
Republics. But Britain did have an
excuse against the Boers —the excuse that
the foreign population in the Transvaal
was not permitted to vote. Mussolini
cannot advance the plea that the Italian
residents of Abyssinia sutler through
being disfranchised.
It seems anomalous that 12-stone
policemen should be doing clerical duty
indoors when there are so many
criminals about. But there has been
method in the madness of police depart-
ments which instituted this practice ; to
utilise Johns as clerks is cheaper than to
appoint clerks under public-service con-
ditions, the policeman’s pay being
smaller than that of a Government clerk.
And the department possesses the addi-
tional advantage of having always within
call men armed with the authority of a
policeman and with the muscle and train-
ing to enforce it.
Goldsbrough Morts, an Australian pas-
toral co. whose head office is in Mel-
bourne, have in two years paid £93,769
(Australian) in Australian taxes on
net profits amounting to £300,000,
of which £288,000 has been dis-
tributed to shareholders —in 6 p.c.
divs. Great Boulder, an English co.
operating in Westralia, has in the
same period made profits amounting to
£154,434 (English) and distributed among
shareholders p.c. in 1933 and 25 p.c.
in 1934. On the 1934 profit of £86,671
Australian taxes amounted to £5581.
Goldsbrough Morts object to being
slugged, but the seven Australian taxa-
tion offices thrive on objections.
Australian politicians still hanging
round London —some of the swarm are
on their way home —have been told by
representative British makers of talkies
that the N.S.W. Film Quota Act is no
use to them. According to Raymond
Longford, unless the Government comes
to light with regulations (so far none
has been issued) that will, among other
things, checkmate perpetrators of cheap
quickies and atrocities Australian only
in name, it will be no use to Aus-
tralians, Apropos, Longford recalls
that “the Commonwealth Government
awarded the prize in its scenario com-
petition,” designed to “foster Australian
sentiment,” “to a story laid in some
mythical European kingdom.” How like
the Commonwealth Government!


/ \a/ell / THAT SETTLES IT ? Oa\/E. We Lt Havß t O
TRY OUR. LUCK. AT FROGS , VV
"if f *
Its the i_egs weve got to concemtrate on.
* PITV WE couldn't CROSS Em WITH KANGAROOS',
'' Hurry Uf* DavEjWith that qbjakjdihg uroki, —
we CWA.NT HOLD "IM DOWN MUCH LOMQ6R ' N
Go eaev Dane-dom t stampede them
0 VN ,
You COUKIT THE Oad
/ Were eleven skort v somebody s
e>Eßtsl OUPCiklg'eM"
Duffers,
0 _. sv
'here GOES the LASTOF THE BUG,HTESs'
* vfee right Dave There's * uot t' be said for covls*
PIONEERS NEVER PROSPER.
“Inquiries have been made regarding the possibilities of frog-farming in Australia."


r
L
5.26-C
SHELL
Just a touch of the starter on the coldest day.
That quick response to the starter is the
result of super volatility —the quality
that is an exclusive advantage of Super Shell.
It enables Super Shell to vaporise as readily
in a dead-cold engine as most spirits do in
an engine that is already warm.
And easy starting is only one advantage.
Super Shell’s super volatility
also gives super pick-up . . . super power
. . . super mileage. You SAVE money
while enjoying advantages never offered
before!
PERSONAL ITEMS
The latest Australian war-book writer
to come to the fore is The Bulletin’s
old-time contributor, “Bill Bowyang”—
otherwise A. Vennard. His The Fighting
Cameiiers has been very well reviewed
in London. “B.B.” has lived in and
about N.Q. since his return from the
war.
J. S. Barton, one of Maorilands
stipendiary magistrates with accountancy
qualifications, is a brother of A. E.
Barton, the Sydney accountant. Last
week he called officially on the Stevens
Government, and the Dunstan Cabinet,
J.S. BARTON. of M.L.
Vic., is on the list, too. He was one of
the two managers appointed to straighten
out the mess at Napier after the earth-
quake in 1931, and was connected with
the McArthur inquiries in Maoriland.
J. T. Gannon, of Rose Bay, dead at
76, belonged to a family that was promi-
nent in N. S. Wales legal and political
circles half a century ago. He was a Pro-
tectionist when his State was over-
whelmingly Freetrade, and he once
undertook the forlorn hope of fighting
William McMillan in Wentworth as a
Barton candidate. He was an alderman
of Woollahra at the time (1901).
“Uramao”: William Hunt, the new
chairman of the M.L. board of the
A.M.P., began his working life as a
rouseabout on Blackburn Hill station,
Otago. His knowledge of pastoral and
agricultural matters got him a job with
Wright, Stephenson and Co., of which he
is now head serang. Born in the Waikato
in 1867, he was knighted in 1932 for
his war work and for assisting the
Government on taxation and civil-ser-
vice commissions.
“Masthead Hoist”; Amongst the half-
yearly R.A.N. promotions is that of
Lieut.-Commander I. C. R. Macdonald
to commander. As flag-lieutenant to
Vice-Admiral Teddy Evans, Macdonald
endeared himself to society in all the
Australian capitals, but his fame rests on
more enduring foundations. His specialty
is signals, and he has added lustre to
Australia’s name by winning the Jackson-
Everett prize, which is awarded to the
officer who secures the highest points in
the qualifying examinations at the R.N.
Signal Schools.
“M.G.”: The late Prof. Harrison
Moore was 25 when he arrived in Mel-
bourne from London. At his first ’Var-
sity lecture the undergrads, grinned at
the spectacle of a boy—as they thought
—carrying in their new professor’s books.
To their amazement the “boy” mounted
the dais and proceeded to lecture. At
that time nobody would have thought
Moore was more than 16 or 17. He
maintained a youthful appearance well
into middle age.
Theodore Fink, chairman of directors
of Melbourne “Herald,” turned 80 last
week. He spends three days a week at
the “Herald” office still, and takes a big
part in handling both its financial and
journalistic sides. One of the founders
of Melbourne “Standard,” a rival of the
“Herald,” which had a short life in the
’nineties, Fink was absorbed with the
rest of the assets when the “Herald”
bought the concern out. For two genera-
tions, Fink has been one of the most
entertaining after-dinner speakers in
Australia. As a member of the Vic.
Parliament, he was too obsessed with
the seriousness of his job to make jokes,
but he created an immense impression
by his knowledge and his capacity for
work.
Dr. L. L. Paterson, who died in his
sleep at the Repat. Sanatorium, Mac-
leod (Vic,), where he was medical
superintendent, had a picturesque life.
He was originally a vet., and served
with the A.V. Corps from T 5 till
April, TB, when he lost a leg at
Ypres. As soon as he left hospital he
began to study medicine, took his
M.R.C.S. and L.R.C.P. in England, and
after working for a time with Repat.
went to Macleod, where he was a com-
plete success. He was only 53 at the end.
Major R. N. Thompson, D. 5.0., M.C.
(“Tommo” to thousands of Diggers),
has arrived in Sydney as brigade major
of the Second Divisional Artillery from
Newcastle, where he was adjutant. Roy
Thompson was one of the brilliant Dun-
trooners who joined A.F.A. units in
1915, but arrived in Egypt too late to
become Anzacs. He commanded a bat-
tery and lost an arm in France. It is a
grim commentary on our military system
that' this distinguished fighting regular
should still be holding the rank he held
nearly 20 years ago.
Stewart McArthur, the retired Vic.
Supreme Court Judge, who died last
week at 74, was knighted only last month.
He belonged to a sporting and pastoral
family, and was himself a first-class
horseman, game-shot and four-in-hand
whip as a young man. Tall, spare and
urbane, he was the ideal Judge in appear-
ance and' manner, and he had infinite
patience. He made his name at the Bar
as a County Court practitioner. He was
a Geelong and Melb. Uni. product and
one of the oldest and best-liked fre-
quenters of the Melbourne Club.
Tom Clarke, who has been made
Director of Practical Journalism in the
University of London, is 51 but looks a
good 10 years less. Smiling, mercurial,
dapper, he was much liked by Melbourne
journalists during the three years he spent
as assistant-editor of the “Herald.” He
became managing editor of London
“Daily News” afterwards, and he was
subsequently editor and director of the
reconstructed “News-Chronicle.” He is
a picturesque writer; the possessor of a
vast fund of knowledge on all kinds of
subjects; and a Tman of the world ini the
best sense. His most valuable qualities
for his new job are his absence of social
or political prejudices, and his knack of
getting on with people of all kinds.
H. V. Vernon, a former N. S. Wales
president of the R.S. League, who has
died in Sydney at 58, was born in Eng-
land and came to Australia with his
architect father, whose
profession he later
adopted. Keenest of
volunteer soldiers, he
was with the N.S.W.
Lancers at Aldershot
when the Boers invaded
Natal, and he went on
with the squadron to
S’Africa. Going to the
World War, he was
second-in-command of
the Ist A.L.H., and
served on Gallipoli with
the regiment. When the
First was reorganised
and remounted after the
Evacuation, he was given
command of the 4th
D.A.C. His column
served the artillery of
the 4th and sth divisions
in France, and he got a
D.S.O. at Fromelles. He
finished the war a lieut.-
colonel. Returned men.
South African and A.I.F. alike, will miss
his sympathy and assistance.
Ton Idriess, back in Sydney after
a four months’ motor tour of the interior,
painted a grim picture of conditions in
the parts he visited. Idriess has written
about half a dozen best-sellers, among
them “Lasseter’s Last Ride,” “Flynn of
the Inland” and “The Desert Column.”
ION IDRIESS.
He has knocked about in Australia since
boyhood ; in his 45 years he has been
opal-miner, tin-gouger, prospector, pearl-
fisher, sailor and sandalwood cutter. He
served with the A.I.F. in Gallipoli, Sinai
and Palestine. His book on Sidney Kid-
man is due to appear shortly.
Alfred Coffey, whose painting “The
Portal of a Great City” (Sydney Heads
seen from the outside) is in this year’s
Paris Salon, has been painting here for
half a century. Born in Ireland in 1869
he arrived in Sydney with his parents as
a child, studied at the R.A. Society’s
School, was art instructor at Sydney
Tech., and taught art and lectured on the
history of the subject to architectural
ALFRED COFFEY, Artist.
students at Sydney Uni. He is a vice-
president of the Royal Art Society, and
was an original member of the Austra-
lian Painter-Etchers’ Society. The Con-
monwealth Government recognised his
ability by selecting him as the Austra-
lian representative at the International
Art Congress at Dresden.
“G.L.D.”: E. F. Burchet, who has
died at the Home of the Little Sisters of
the Poor, Randwick, in his 95th year,
had a stirring life. He fought with the
Papal and French forces when Garibaldi
was defeated at Mentana, and for the
French three years later against the Prus-
sians. He was wounded by a German
sword thrust in 70. His father was an
artist in England, and Burchet began his
military career as a subaltern in an Eng-
lish regiment. He followed various
avocations in Australia, his last job
being that of building inspector for the
Willoughby (N.S.W.) Council during the
war.
“Kiwi”: In addition to M.L. Supreme
Court Judges Northcroft and Callan,
who had distinguished active-service
records (B. 12/6/’35), Justice Johnston,
formerly Harold Johnston, K.C., joined
the London Scottish as a private, and
finished up as a captain, while Justice
Fair enlisted with the Enzeds and also
rose to captain’s rank.
“Relgar” (N. York): The widow of
J. D. Williams, a pioneer of the silents
in Australia, has become chief assistant
to “Roxy” Rotharel, a showman who
owns a chain of picture theatres in the
U.S.A. She was formerly Ethel Hope,
and was secretary to Hugh D. Mclntosh
when he had the Tivoli circuit. Hugh D.,
by the way, is now controlling a chain of
milk bars in London.
“M.”: Commenting on the Epstein
statue which ex-Senator Bob Elliott is
bringing to Melbourne from the B.M.A.
building in London, Melbourne “Argus”
has referred to the sculptor as a “German
Jew,” Jew Epstein is, but he was born
in the U.S.A. He was in a British
uniform during the war, though he
saw no active service. His bust of an
Australian soldier, done in 1916, was
modelled from the head of Harley Mat-
thews, a one-time Sydney newspaper-
man, now a vigneron near Liverpool
(N.S.W.).


OVERSEAS
RECEPTION
a
7
WMmM
mmm
i
mWB
tLf,a
. . . wit the
“All-Wave” Fisk
Radiola 241
THREE wave ranges.
Selective wave range illu-
mination.
Improved three-point Roto-
vision tuning A and B
class station call signs, wave-
lengths and frequencies.
Fully inclined instrument
panel for maximum con-
venience in tuning.
Price 51 guineas
Conveniently extended
payments are available.
RAD I n LA
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BV AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
R7.5


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian C>lass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
i Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
March, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 151,210 15,750 10 p.c. = 80,780 54,680 139,108
1926.. 163,799 15,750 10 „ „ 91,094 56,955 196,123
1927.. 179,365 15,750 10 „ ~93,044 70,571 266,694
1928. 184,868 15,750 10 „ ~93,048 76,070 342,764
1929.. 207,952 15,750 12J „ ~116,310 75,892 418,656
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. .. 416,156
1930.. 187,254 15,750 124p.c.=1l 6,310 55,194 471,350
1931.. 76,768 15,750 6 „ „ 55,828 5,190 476,540
1932.. 92,137 15,750 74 „ „ 69,786 6,601 483,141
1933.. 122,439 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 22,940 506,087
1934.. 129,602 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 30,109 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5OOO. . 631,196
1985.. 175,522 15,75013 p.c.=120,962 38,810 570,006
Emphatically one of Australia’s prosper-
ous industrial undertakings. The tariff,
enterprising management, technical effi-
ciency, etc., have given it virtually a
monopoly of some sections of the trade
throughout Australia and Maoriland.
Although slump caught the co. with
heavy stocks, it was able to unload with-
out much visible damage, as the 1931
figures show, and earnings have since
been quick to respond to improved trad-
ing conditions.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, new lines were added to
the list of manufactures, more plant was
installed, costs were reduced and there
was a marked increase in turnover.
Gross earnings (£529,993) shot up
£112,200, making the improvement
£291,324 over the last four years. In-
cluding a larger but unspecified allow-
ance for taxation, etc., exes. (£354,471)
got away with £66,280 of the increase,
leaving the declared net result £45,920
better at £175,522. That was enough
to pay the pref. div. (it was over 11
times covered) and show 17.1 p.c. on the
£930,478 of ord. capital as against 12.2,
11.4, 8.2, 6.5, 18.4, 20.6, 18.2, 17.6 and
16.3 p.c. back to 1926. The div. was
lifted from 9 p.c. to 13 p.c., of which
4 p.c. was paid out of returns from in-
vestments (£760,480, including cash). It
is plain, therefore, that the subsidiaries,
or some of them, are contributing to the
pool. For the eight years to the end
of March, 1930, the div. was steady at
10 p.c., with a 2\ p.c. sweetener added
during the last two of them.
Anticipations of extra benefits sent the
pound ords. from 275. in 1925 to 61s. in
Sept., 1929. A year later the figure had
dropped to 235. on a nervous and over-
sold market; it reached 525. a year ago
and 565. in May last. Following publi-
cation of the latest accounts, it shot up
to 70s. ; it now stands at 695. The return
at 695. is 3.7 p.c. on a 13 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 4.3 p.c. on
his money counts on a 15 p.c. distribu-
tion, or a one-for-two gift issue of scrip
and a drop in the div. to 10 p.c. The
well-protected prefs. seldom come on to
the market.
The co. and its subsidiaries employ
about 4000 workers, and the payroll
approximates £700,000 p.a.
During the year new milk and other
bottle-making machinery and plant for
toughening glass for motor windscreens,
etc., were installed, manufacture of
moulded bottle-caps was commenced, the
engineering works were extended, and
delivery costs were lowered by introduc-
tion of a new form of mechanical haul-
age. The net addition to the book value
of machinery and plant was £52,015, and
to land and building £13,983:
1924. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital . . £950,695 £1,105,478 £1,105,478
Liabilities . . 87,507 192,186* 282,379*
Land and buildings 206,067 191,821 205,804
Machinery & plant 451,364 234,786 286,801
Stocks . . . . 316,225 465,976 489.296
Book debts . . 127,901 317.188 183,295
Cash, investments,
etc. . . . . 18,816 558,988 760,480
“provision for taxation.”
The growth of £90,193 in liabilities was
due partly to extra provision for taxation
and partly to increased trading. Stocks
were up £23,320. The reduction of
£133,893 in debtors’ balances was due
to repayment of advances to subsidiaries.
This and the year’s earnings enabled
£201,492 to be added to cash and invest-
ments. Owing to the outlay on fixed
assets, the growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,150,692, including
stocks) was only £726.
Owing to the reciprocal trade agree-
ment with Belgium, the subsidiary which
turns out window glass has been unable
to work to capacity; the one which pro-
duces blown, pressed and cut glass, etc.,
has continued to progress, despite com-
petition from overseas.
New Zealand Paper Mills, Ltd.
~ , Nr t To Re- Re-
-VI arch, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
f®27.. 9,059 6 p.c. = 9,000 59 25,089
J*J2B.. 9,052 6 ~ „ 9,000 52 25,141
1929.. 11,033 6$ „ „ 9,750 1283 26,424
1930.. 11,949 7| „ ~ 11,250 699 27,123
1931.. 12,357 74 „ ~11,250 1107 28,230
1932.. 11,798 7 „ „ 10,500 1298 29,528
1933.. 11,814 7 „ .. 10,500 1314 30,842
1934.. 11,177 7 „ ~ 10,500 677 31,519
1935.. 11,191 7 „ „ 10,500 691 32,210
This co., which supplies the Dominion
with most of its wrapping paper, operates
two mills. The one at Mataura turns
out kraft from imported pulp, etc., while
the other, at Woodhaugh, manufactures
sulphite cap-paper, cardboard, paper-
bags, etc., as well. The co. plodded along
until the war provided the protection
which the politicians had failed to give.
Then, following a run of nice profits, an
extra £50,000 of share capital was
gathered (making £150,000 in all) to
finance plant extensions during the post-
war boom. But the revival of manufac-
ture in Europe and of importing in
Maoriland had its effect upon local in-
dustries, and N.Z. Paper paid its last 10
p.c. div. in 1921. Still, shareholders
have since averaged 7 p.c., uninter-
rupted by slump, and their prospects are
encouraging.
One of the features of the accounts is
the evenness of declared net earnings
over the last seven years, despite rather
violent fluctuations in trading conditions.
Things were better last year, but after
making an unspecified allowance for de-
preciation, etc., only £l4 more profit was
claimed.
However, the board can see more busi-
ness ahead, depreciation of Maoriland’s
currency having given the co. a little
further protection, and new plant is
being installed. The year’s net addition
to the book value of property and plant
was £30,716:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
•Overdraft .. 40,505 17,509
Creditors, etc. 10,681 16,068 13,957 33,183
Property & plant 173,477 162,508 139,397 170,113
Afforestation area 1,499 2,055 2,310 2,362
Stocks .. 46,966 43,530 45,905 39,942
Debtors ~ 17,861 16,565 14,615 15,226
Cash, etc. .. 772 725 5,552 116
To meet the outlay cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £5436, the book value of stocks
was reduced by £5963, and £20,018 of
call deposits was gathered, raising the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
to £33,183 —the etcetera is an unspeci-
fied provision for taxation. The year’s
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£22,101) was £30,014.
At 345. 6d. (295. 6d. a year ago) the
fully-paid pound shares return 4 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. Prospects depend
upon the extent to which the new plant
can be kept employed. The cover is
245. 3d. in net tangibles, mostly plant,
etc., the real worth of which lies in what
it can earn.
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd.
r Dividends ,
Pref. To Re-
Mar., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
10 932
1930.. 26,944 18,497 Nil 8,447 2’,485
Reserves.
1931.. 22,965 20,000 Nil 2,965 480
Loss. Deficit.
1932.. 31,365 Nil Nil 30,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £116,321.. .. 85,436
Written off freehold, etc., £85,436 ..
Profit.
1933.. 10,415 Nil Nil 10,415 10,415
1934.. 8,113 Nil Nil 8,113 18,528
(3 p.c.)
1935.. 8,597 7,500 Nil 1,097 19,625
The co. was formed in 1929 to build
the State Theatre, Melbourne, its sole
revenue-producing asset. To see the job
through, the public put up £250,000 in
8 p.c. cum. prefs., largely on the strength
of a guarantee as to div. and capital
by the old Union Co., which held all
the ords. and had taken a 25-year lease
of the theatre at £42,000 p.a.
The picture has altered completely
since. With the demise of Union
Theatres (in liq.) the guarantee and the
lease faded out, too. Then £116,321 of
the ord. capital was used to rub out
the p. and I. debit (£24,052), preliminary
exes. (£6833) and £85,436 of the book
value of fixed assets. That reduced paid
capital to its present figure, £295.305 in
250,000 8 p.c. non-cum. prefs. and 45,305
ords.; the prefs. agreed to forego arrears
and make the div. non-cumulative. Mean-
while the theatre was leased first to
Greater Union (Management), Ltd., at
a rental equal to 90 p.c. of the lessee’s
profits, and later to Greater Union (of
which the management co. was an off-
shoot) for 10 years at £450 a week, with
the right, after allowing the lessee a
reasonable return, to additional rental
which would enable the lessor to pay
4 p.c. p.a. {— £10,000) on its pref. capital.
The lease provides that the tenant shall
keep the property in repair; much
depends upon this.
For the 12 months to the end of
March the co. collected the minimum
rental (£23,400), and doesn’t seem likely
to collect much more in the near future.
Of the improvement of £484 in the net
result, £382 was due to saving in interest
(£6361). The £8597 of profit was 3.4
p.c. on pref. capital, and 3 p.c. was dis-
tributed, thus breaking the drought which
began after the close of accounts in 1931.
At the moment the only promise of
improvement in the net result is the small
saving in interest resulting from the
annual reduction of £2500 in the mortgage
(now £135,000). The market expresses
its opinion by pricing the pound shares
at 10s. At that figure the return is 6 p.c.
on a 3 p.c. div. basis. The book value
of the net tangible cover is 255. 2d., re-
presented by the equity in the premises.
When the books closed the freehold,
etc., figured at £455,113 (unchanged), and
cash and debtors totalled £9004. The
amount coming to sundry creditors was
£940.
Choiseul Plantations, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 7,554 5 p.c. = 7,500 54 1,469
1925.. 10,878 64 „ „ 9.750 1128 2,597
1920.. 11,139 7J„ ~ 11,250 2,486
1927.. 17,379 9 ~ „ 13,500 3879 6,365
1928.. 16,988- 9 ~ „ 13,500 3488 9,853
1929.. 14,116 9 „ „ 13,500 616 10,469
1930.. 13,086 8 ~ „ 12,000 1086 11,555
1931.. 11,041 7 „ ~ 10,500 541 12,096
1932.. 12,659 8 ~ 12,000 659 12,755
1933.. 3,525 2 ~ „ 3,000 525 13,280
1934.. 1,339 2 ~ „ 3,000 11,619
One of Burns Philp's South Sea family,
it took over some 12,000 acres in
the German Solomons about 24 years
ago. The first crop of cocoanuts was
sold in 1919, but shareholders did not
get into the picture until 1924, when
5 p.c. was distributed. High prices and
expanding production enabled 9 p.c. to
be paid for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1929. Then competition
from whale oil and slump brought the
London price of copra tumbling from
£27 a ton in 1928 to about £8 at the
beginning of the last term ; the fall con-
tinued until the figure touched £7 ss.
Thus, despite steady growth of output
and a little benefit from exchange, there
has been a strong and persistent slip in
sales since 1928: —■
Copra Copra
Output, Output,
Tons. Sales. Tons. Sales.
1923.. 906 £15,586 I 1930,. 3348 £38,508
1925. 1609 32,254 | 1931.. 3577 32,694
1927.. 2325 42,165 | 1932.. 3452 33,731
1928.. 2723 44,372 | 1933.. 3689 22,572
1929.. 3078 43,069 1 1934.'. 3875 17,677
Last year’s sales (down £4895) were
equal to £4 11s. 2d. per ton of output,
compared with £6 2s. 6d. and £9 15s. sd.
for the two preceding years. The co. is
fortunate to be able to show a profit
of even 0.8 p.c. on capital, compared
with 2.2, 8.4, 7.3, 8.7, 9.4 and 11.3
back to 1928.
Since the close of accounts there has
been a sharp rise in the London price of
copra (now over £l2 a ton). So the 2 p.c.
div. was repeated, though reserves had
to be tapped for £1661 to do it.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1924. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 4,008 4,027 3,410 4,243
Properties, etc. 134,143 136,019 135,089 140,880
Livestock, etc. 12.841 9,005 7,087 7,464
Copra . . 13,956 12,340 3,345 6,385
Book debts . . 1,801 877 1.172 840
Cash, etc. . . 235 18,382 22,997 13,294
To carry an extra £3040 of stocks and
meet a net capital outlay of £5791 on
properties, etc., the co. drew upon cash,
etc., for £9703 last year.
The rise in the price of copra has
brightened the outlook for shareholders
considerably. The scrip is not listed.
The net tangible cover is 275. 7d. per
pound of paid capital.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-op.
Bonus
Dividends, to Written
April, Profit. (6 p.c.) Clients. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ t
1925.. 4,865 1496 1500 11.222
1926. . 3,092 1496 2000 10,818
7 p.c.
1927.. 5,065 1745 3252 10.886
1928.. 5,263 1745 1.281 500 12,623
1929.. 9,369 1745 1,962 1700 16,585
Rebates;
1930.. 11,623 1745 4,403 2500 19,560
1931.. 13,226 1745 5,473 2500 23.068
1932.. 15,155 1745 6,610 4750 25,118
1933.. 16,585 1745 10.171 3500 26,287
1934.. 13,841 1745 5,355 33,028
1935.. 17,748 1745 7,809 8000 33,222
A lot of the butter exported from Vic-
toria passes through this co.’s freezing
works at Victoria Dock, Melbourne.
Other lines handled are meat, rabbits and
all kinds of butter-making equipment.
The test of service in these co-operative
concerns is the cost at which they handle
the produce received. This one does not
broadcast the quantity of butter, etc., it
receives. The published accounts, there-
fore, afford little opportunity of judging
the efficiency of the organisation. Since
the reconstruction in 1920, it has paid out
in divs., bonuses and rebates £121,170,
an average of £BO7B, or over 32 p.c. p.a.
on capital. The scrip is held mainly by
other factories.
Victorian butter exports for the three
years to June 30 last, compare as follows:
1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35.
July-June. Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
United Kingdom.. 86,396,092 67,292,516 85,216,594
Java and Sumatra 6,586,961 6,201,187 5,659,411
Other . . . . 2,542,112 2,966,760 2,767,347
Total . . . . 95,495,105 70,460,463 93,043,352
The spring in last year’s figures was due
to a favorable season, especially in the
southern and Gippsland areas. Includ-
ing £7809 of commissions rebated, the
co.’s gross earnings (£26,721) sprang
£5094 for the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. Exes. (£8973) took
£llB7 of the increase, leaving the net
result £3907 better than the previous
year’s. The usual 7 p.c. div. was re-
peated, an extra £2454 was paid in re-
bates, £BOOO (nothing in the previous
term) was struck off for depreciation,
and £194 was visibly ploughed in.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1922. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £24,762 £24,930 £24,980 £24,930
Liabilities .. 40,181 27,831 24,673 23,452
Premises and plant 26,847 29,229 21,739 29,621
Stocks . . . . 3,358 5,206 1,317 1,620
Rook debts . . 29,398 22,787 88,665 33,075
Cash and War Loan 123 219 211 197
Shares in other cos. 15,594 25,186 28,386 28,386
The freezing works, etc., which cost
approximately £65,000, are in at £29,621,
up £7882 during the last 12 months.
Shareholdings consist chiefly of scrip in
the Co.-op. Box Co. (£20,000) and Co-op.
Insurance Co. (£7500). When the books
closed, stocks, debtors’ balances and cash
exceeded liabilities by £11,440, an im-
provement of £920 during the year.
According to the recently-formed Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council the market-
ing of dairy produce is over-organised. It
has therefore recommended that the
Dairy Council be abolished and its duties
included with those of a reconstituted
Export Board. In this the Dairy Coun-
cil sees “a measure of Government con-
trol objectionable to the industry.” At
the moment the Export Board controls
the marketing of butter and cheese over-
seas, and the Dairy Council attends to the
improvement of quality.
Jantzen (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends ■, Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill and trade-marks .. .. 15,000
Preliminary exes., £1634 .. ~ 16,634
1929.. 1582 1277 Nil 305 16,329
1930.. 8139 2250 Nil 5889 10,440
1931.. 7867 2250 4 p.c. = 1350 4267 6,173
1932.. 223 2123 Nil 8,073
1933.. 1911 1744 Nil 167 7.906
1934.. 2073 1744 Nil 329 7,577
1935.. 4446 1744 5 p.c. = 1687 1015 6,562
This little offshoot of the Jantzen Knit-
ting Mills, U.S.A., put up a factory at
Lidcombe, near Sydney, about seven
years ago. Of its £58,750 of capital,
£25,000 in 9 p.c. cum. prefs. (now re-
duced to 6.9 p.c. by the statutory cut)
was subscribed locally, the parent took
15,000 fully-paid ords. for rights, and put
up cash for 25,000 (paid to 155.). For
a while demand ran ahead of production,
owing to early difficulties with the
machines. But they were overcome, and,
after paying the pref. div., there was
enough to show 17.4 p.c. on ord. capital
in the second year, followed by 16.6 p.c.
in 1931, when 4 p.c. was paid.
Then demand turned to cheaper lines,
prices had to be cut to hold business,
and reserves had to be tapped for £l9OO
to pay the pref. div. in 1932. Since then
turnover has been on the up-grade,
and the introduction of new: lines,
including men’s knitted coats and under-
wear, helped to absorb some of the over-
head during the slack period.
Despite unfavorable weather condi-
tions, there was marked improvement in
last year’s turnover. The spring in gross
earnings (£26,391) was £3824. Exes.
(£21,945) took £1451 of the increase,
leaving enough to pay the pref. div.
(£1774) and show 8 p.c. on ord. capital;
5 p.c. was distributed.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances: —
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £52,500 £58,750 £58,750 £58,750
Sundry creditors. . 3,189 4,344 3,500 3,004
Freehold .. .. 16,670 17,681 16,704 16,192
Plant . . .. 8,052 9,423 7,794 6,887
Stocks . . . . 9,656 11,599 8,291 7,855
Book debts . . 2,120 2,052 2,569 3,588
Cash, etc 3,353 14.265 19,315 22,357
Liabilities were more than seven times
covered by cash, etc., alone. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£30,796) was £4121.
Government regulations affecting the
dimensions of bathing costumes in N. S.
Wales, which come into force in October
next, are not expected to affect the co.’s
business. Indeed, the board anticipates
further growth in turnover.
At 245. 3d. (15s. 6d. three years ago)
the prefs. return 5.7 p.c. on a 6.9 p.c. div.
basis. Beyond this point they are entitled
to advance with the ords. to their original
contract rate. The cover is 465. 9d. in
net tangibles.


The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ẃ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table, also Mcßichpals Gold-
and Tin-saving Machine. Call for a demonstration. Can also quote for all
classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables,
classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all
other explosives and accessories. Electric motors and switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Low-trade mix) Complex
TIN ORES.
We are noxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. Write
NORMAN HILL & CO.. LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
What a delightful
woman and what
a hint she is to
younger ones!
WHAT a delightful woman!
That’s what everyone says of
Mrs. B. She IS a delightful
woman. Good company and really
charming. She can afford to be.
She is 58, and life runs smoothly
for her and her husband; it is no
wonder that her laughter is ready
and her temper serene. She is not
wealthy—she never was —but she
has sufficient for her needs, thanks
to her husband's early decision that
their later years should be made
free of anxiety through the A.M.P.
Can you YOUNGER wives and your
husbands be sure of an unharassed,
interesting future? Will YOU be
able to afford the leisure, the little
comforts, the recreations, the
friendships that are so essential to
happiness in the evening of life?
Have you and your husbands made
adequate provision for the future
through the A.M.P.? Provision to
give you, not only serenity for the
future, but peace of mind NOW?
The important thing is to MAKE A
START; to begin NOW the prepara-
tions that will enable you to find
contentment in the years that loom
ahead. You can put all your trust
in the A.M.P. Its vast assets,
valued to-day at £97,350,000, will
be behind your own efforts, behind
your own plans and policies. More-
over, you will have the moral
strength of the Society to support
your efforts through thick and
thin.
A.M.P. policies put early retirement
within the reach of men who start
to plan for it when they are in
their twenties. Take a certain mem-
ber of the Society who, in 1911,
when he was 26, decided that he
would provide himself with a re-
tiring allowance at 60. He pro-
vided himself with a Table J policy
for £2,000, the sum assured, plus
bonuses, to be paid to himself at
the age of 60, or to his family at his
death should that occur before he
reached that age.
The last bonus addition to that
policy brought the total assurance
up to well over £3,000. Instead
of taking the full cash payment at
the maturity of the policy (so that
he can invest the sum himself), the
member will be able to arrange for
the money to be paid as an Annuity
for a specified term of, say, 5, 10,
15 or 20 years, or for the rest of his
life. There are many ways in which
the Society can meet his needs and
his wishes when he is ready to
retire.
To all young wives the Society
says this: No matter what your
husbands’ incomes, you can make
provision for the future. Write to-
day for information. Tell the near-
est office of the Society that you
would like an experienced coun-
sellor to call and explain just what
the Society offers its members. He
will call on you in the familiar quiet
of your own home. If you live
far from an A.M.P. office the So-
ciety may have to get in touch with
you by mail, but get in touch with
you it will, directly you say the
word. The Society belongs abso-
lutely to its members; it exists to
make their lives fuller and happier
through the provision of financial
security. It is the biggest thing of
its kind in the Empire. YOU and
your husband ought to be in it!
AMP. SOCIETY
A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay,
Wellington.
Union of Canton
Among the centenary celebrants this
year is the Union Insurance Society of
Canton. Its foundations were laid in
Canton by a little band of “free” mer-
chants after the monopoly of the East
India Co, terminated in 1834. Origin-
ally “it was formed, not for the purpose
of making profit out of insurance, but
for the mutual benefit of merchants who
contributed business to it.” In those days
it was a sort of joint-account marine
undertaking, which was wound up and
a fresh start made annually, and later tri-
ennially. It was not until 1874, when a
branch was opened in London, that it
became a continuous business; eight
years later it was registered as a limited
co. in Hong Kong.
The co., which now gathers premiums
from all quarters of the globe, first came
to Australia in 1883, when it set up in
Melbourne; it has since extended to all
the States and Maoriland.
Paid capital is £540,000 in £lO shares
paid to £4. At the end of 1934 reserves
of one kind and another totalled
£4,262,791. Assets, a solid lot, aggre-
gated £6,337,932. The year’s profit be-
longing to shareholders was £277,184, of
which £201,861 came from investments.
The div. was kept steady at 50 p.c.
(£270,000), and £75,000 was struck off
the book value of properties.
After a 10 days’ aerial trip to Centralia,
E G. Banks, L. May and J. W. Eskdale
returned to Melbourne last week. Mr.
Eskdale described the Tennant’s field as
patchy; the gold-bearing shoots appeared
to be short and the formations lenticular.
The gold is associated with ironstone
outcrops, which appear to occur on defi-
nite fault lines extending for miles. The
sulphide zone has not yet been pene-
trated, no work on the field having yet
gone below 100 ft. Boring to test the
downward continuation of the ore-bodies
would undoubtedly provide much useful
information. Some rich returns have
been won, and in some mines large
bodies of stone were revealed. But the
prices demanded for options were out of
all proportion to the work done, Mr.
Eskdale says. The party also visited
Arltunga, east of Alice Springs, but the
deposits there appeared to consist only
of rich leaders, and offered little scope
for company operation
Pera Flats Syndicate, whose holdings
comprise some 3000 acres on the New
and Dorset rivers, near Ringarooma
(Tas.), has broken through what it re-
gards as a false bottom of soft water-
worn porphyry rock into what looks like
a deep-lead system. A pit sunk to 51ft.
has disclosed “definite strata of ancient
alluvial wash.” Values showed improve-
ment in both gold and tin oxide as the
shaft went down. On the New River
section four lines of bores have been
sunk, approximately half a mile apart.
Gold values varying from 2s. to 4s. a
yard were reported from high-reef wash.
Wash on the flats (value not stated) aver-
aged about 40ft. in depth ; most of the
bore cores showed a uniform grade of
coarse and fine gold, with tin oxide also
present. A lot more work has yet to be
done before a reliable idea can be had
as to the value of the property.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Development, Ltd.,
plans to earn a profit of £600,000 annu-
ally with the erection of a pilot plant, to
be ready in seven months, at Yellow-
dine (W.A.). The plant, which will in-
clude a 20-head battery, will crush 5000
tons of loz. lOdwt. ore monthly. On
the basis of a 90 p.c. recovery, this should
yield 67500 z., worth, with gold at £7
sterling, £59,000. Working costs are put
at 30s. a ton, or £7500 monthly. The
figures are in Australian currency. Ore
averaging loz. lOdwt., available to a
depth of 100 ft., is reckoned at 130,000
tons. Values have been maintained on
a lineal extension of 3000 ft. on the pro-
perty. The scrip is held by Common-
wealth Mining and Finance (50 p.c.),
Gold Fields Australian Development (20
p.c.), Anglo-Australian Gold Develop-
ment (20 p.c.) and Great Boulder Pro-
prietary (10 p.c.).
* * * *
North Kalgurli has met with two pro-
mising developments in new country. On
the 300 ft. level the main west crosscut
entered 20dwt. stone last week. On the
north side of this cut, stripping over Bft.
showed ore averaging 11.2dwt. On the
1350 ft. level another crosscut from the
north drive advanced 12ft. in 19dwt.
stone, while 16dwt. stuff was exposed in
a rise off the south drive. The average
for the rest of the mine is around 9dwt.
* * * *
Murchison Consols, about 16 miles
south-east of Peak Hill (W.A.), expects
to begin production with a five-head bat-
tery within the next three months. The
intention is to mine by opencut. On the
surface the ore-body, a soft micaceous
schist, varies from 20ft. to 40ft. in width.
Previous owners crushed 372 tons for an
average of a shade over 9dwt.
* * * *
The almost-forgotten Donnybrook gold-
field, in the south of Westralia, is getting
a little publicity again. Rich patches are
spoken of, an extensive area has been
pegged, and large sums are being asked
for on the strength of good results from
small crushings. Donnybrook was
worked in the late ’nineties by a London
co, and others, but production ceased
after the field had yielded about IOOOoz.
from formations then geologically de-
scribed as of secondary origin.
!> * * ♦
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has resumed
after a fortnight or so of idleness, due to
breakage of part of the main winder. If
the co. hadn’t had a spare in the store
the shut-down would probably have been
a matter of months. Some cos. insure
against loss caused by machinery break-
ages, and Gwalia is said to be one.
* 4= * *
The demand for what the Yankees
call “the geological pre-finder” is increas-
ing in Westralia. Lake View has had one
on the premises for some time, and so
have Wiluna and Western Mining Corp.;
other cos. are now looking for suitable
men. The ore-finder’s job is to apply
his knowledge to the location of old
bodies which have “changed their spots”
and the discovery of new ones. Cross-
cutting, driving and diamond-drilling do
the rest.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield continues to rise.
The output for June (75,0030 z.) is better
than for any month since 1932. Larkin-
ville, which produced the State’s largest
nugget, is the only alluvial field dis-
covered since the price of gold began to
climb. Prospectors are looking for lodes
and reefs. Deep leads are not considered,
though old ones are being worked.
Geologist J. T. Jutson, with know-
ledge of several Government surveys, is
confident that further auriferous leads
remain to be discovered.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold-profits tax yielded
£84,000 (£4OOO better than the estimate)
for the June half of 1935. Announce-
ment of the Government’s proposal late
last year caused a slight but temporary
setback in the market. The Collier Gov-
ernment has treated a healthy industry
lightly.
* * * *
For the nine months to the end of
March last, 157 local (mostly goldmining)
cos., with nominal capital aggregating
£5,788,460, were registered in Perth,
compared with 84 cos., representing
£1,049,900, for the corresponding period
of the previous 12 months.
* * * *
For the year to April 17 Vegetable
Creek Tin, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), netted
£1761, and a 6d. div. took all but £326
of it. The mine was worked on tribute
throughout the year.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.W.: (1) No record. (2) A fair bet. (3)
Encouraging prospects; everything depends
upon result of new prospecting campaign
T.L.S.: Not recommended A.McG.: Sell
3,4, 5 and 6 L.F.H.: Secretary, A. E.
Llewllyn, 430 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
CJ.E.: Morris Hedstrom and Berlei ords.
worth consideration J.R.: (1) and (4)
Doubtful specs. (3) Lancefield offers better
prospects. (2) Sit tight R.K.F.: If safety
of capital is important, keep out H.E.R.:
There are 250,000 shares of 4s. each issued, of
which 90,000 are fully-paid and the balance paid
to Is. Last offer for f.-ps. was sd.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Mclb.). — Advt.
* * * *
WESTERN MINING CORPORATION, LIMITED,
makes expert reports on and conducts diamond-
drilling and management of goldmining properties
in the S'tate of Western Australia. The Corporation
has an expert staff, and in addition to branch offices
in Perth and Kalgoorlie has represent;!lives on all
the leading Western Australian goldfields.
Write Western Mining Corporation, Limited,
Collins House, Melbourne.
—Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt,
* * * *
AUSTRALAS'IAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service. New Zealand), Consult -
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals.— Advt.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Secret of the Chateau” and “The
Countess of Monte Cristo”
These films at Sydney Lyric are above
normal as regards acting and production,
and they break some new ground. The
first is a thriller, with dapper little Fer-
dinand Gottschalk admirably cast as a
benevolent detective. The Gutenberg
Bible supplies the motive for the murders,
and among the suspects are our sinister
old friends Jack La Rue and Osgood
Perkins. An elderly trustee (one of those
who bite the dust) guards the Bible, and
Alice White snatches his wig off, is chased
about the chateau—in short, does the
comic stuff. The action is supposed to
fake place in France, and the characters
have French names, but the players are
obtrusively American and themselves.
“The Countess of Monte Cristo” has
several interesting themes. A destitute
movie extra (Fay Wray) is engaged to
drive a luxury car, complete with maid
and expensive luggage, to the door of a
luxury hotel on a set. (Clever satire here
on film-production methods.) She drives
madly off, arrives at a genuine luxury
hotel, and some amusing satire follows
on the snobbishness of hotel managers ;
a fawning specimen of the breed wel-
comes her as a real countess. Enter Paul
Lukas as a chivalrous crook and
Reginald Owen as his dastardly rival,
and the story assumes a romantic com-
plexion. Here, as in the other picture,
illusion is slain by the fact that the pro-
ceedings are supposed to occur in
Europe. From the huge Hollywood
studio to the newspaper office in which
the boy-hero howls the news of his
scoop at the editor the manners and
customs are American. It’s first-class
entertainment all the same.
“Les Miserables”
A defect of this fine film is the absence
of any explanation of Valjean’s rises,
first from the status of destitute outcast
who is sent to the galleys for ten years
for a petty theft to that of affluent fac-
tory-owner and mayor, and next from
the status of fugitive from the vindictive
Javert (Charles Laughton) to that of
wealthy Parisian. Valjean is shown
during the second decade as gardener in
a convent (whose gracious mother
superior is Eily Malyon); he emerges
with the girl he befriended as a child —
and so to the luxury life. The other
weak feature, astoundingly, is that great
actor Charles Laughton. Boleslawski,
the director, obviously meant to present
Hugo’s Javert —a relentless embodiment
of the law ; just, implacable, untouched
by any human emotion. All Laughton
gives is a fat man in a bad temper. He
confines himself practically to two facial
expressions ; now looking full into the
camera and twitching his mouth, now
looking into the camera and twitching
his eyelids. Fredric March is brilliant as
Valjean. In a part that reeks of melo-
drama he never overacts. In fact, he
doesn’t act; he is Valjean. The photo-
graphy and lighting effects are superb,
and some of the shots dealing with Val-
jean’s martyrdom in the galleys are Rem-
brandtesque in feeling and composition.
The settings are highly convincing (par-
ticularly the sewers through which Val-
jean carries his adopted daughter
shoulder-high), and the crowds in the
street fights, when students erect barri-
cades in futile protest against the harsh
penal code of the period, are handled
with effective restraint. The casting of
the minor parts is flawless.
“Annie, Leave the Room”
Possibly the best screen comedy Eng-
land has yet turned out. The story is
coherent, the dialogue is humorous and
the acting is almost flawless, with the
figure of Morton Selton, as Lord Spend-
love, remaining in the memory as one of
the milestones of movie history. Pom-
pous, genial, human to his fingertips, the
old aristocrat suffers from the delusion
that he is a born movie actor. One of his
servants, Annie—played by Davina Craig
—suffers similarly and is taking a course
in a correspondence school. When Lord
Spendlove receives an application from
an American picture firm for the use of
Spendlove Hall as a location, he is thrilled,
and the arrival of a bunch of hardboiled
Yanks, headed by a blonde vamp and a
super-efficient director, follows. There is
not a dull moment from now on till
Spendlove is found to be a flop and the
vacant-looking maid discovers that a
female of her type is just what the com-
pany needs —she leaves with a contract
and a cameraman as best boy. Eva
Moore plays Spendlove’s mother-in-law,
who is tired of financing him ; Adrienne
Dietmar is his daughter, Jane Welsh his
“LES MISERABLES.”
Charles Laughton as Javert, arresting Valjean (Fredric March). In centre:
Sir Cedric Hardwicke as the Bishop.
wife and Ed Underdown the juvenile
lead. At Melb. Athenaeum.
“The Man Who Changed His Name”
Also at the Athenaeum, This is the
screen version of an Edgar Wallace story,
the motive being a magnificent hoax
played by a man upon his wife and her
lover. Almost throughout, the guilty
pair are kept shivering in fear of being
murdered at every turn, a fear which is
actually groundless. Lyn Harding, Betty
Stockfield and Leslie Perrins are the
principals.
“Lightning Strikes Twice”
A phantasmagoria at Sydney Capitol
which suggests a hybridisation of “What
Happened to Jones” and “The Face at
the Window.” A homicidal maniac
prowls about shooting people and hid-
ing their bodies —how he manages to
conceal himself in an ordinary dwelling-
house, let alone a number of bulky
bodies, is not explained. With the
maniac as a background Ben Lyon,
Thelma Todd and others go through a
comedy of impersonations that has
nothing at all (save in the matter of in-
sanity) to do with the lunatic.
“Sweet Music”
At the Plaza. Rudy Vallee does the
crooner-hero capably, and Ann Dvorak
displays her shapely legs. Also, there’s a
clever dance band (presided over by
Vallee) to occupy most of the show, and
Ned Sparks and Allen Jenkins gag
acceptably. Nothing much to get a hold
on, but this critic enjoyed it.
“Mary Jane’s Pa”
Guy Kibbee is a small-town printer
who’s attacked by the wanderlust and
works as a compositor in half the coun-
tries of the world. When he comes back
his wife and daughters have built up a
good business and can do without him,
but the ending’s happy. An unknown
youngster of 12 or so as one of the Mary
Janes—the other is an old-fashioned
printing press —does well.
“Gay Love”
In this Sydney Mayfair frivol Florence
Desmond gives imitations of Garbo, Zasu
Pitts and Mae West, and Sophie Tucker
sings comic songs as they should be
sung: “Imagine My Embarrassment” is
a gem. There’s a romance tacked on,
but it doesn’t really matter.
“The Daring Young Man”
James Dunn and Mae Clark are rival
reporters. James, having an appoint-
ment to marry the lady, goes to gaol
instead. (A fake arrest was engineered
by his newspaper to enable him to get the
inside dope on scandals of prison admini-
stration.) The gaol is a sort of social
club. Gang-leaders’ cells are transformed
into boudoirs, complete with telephone,
and any prisoner who is able to come
across with the requisite bribe can have
a holiday outside. The Police Commis-
C Continued on page 38.)
sioner and Mayor raid the place, and
find the Warden trying to eject a bank-
robber who has brought his loot with
him and wants board and residence, in
return for a half-share. The scene being
the U.S.A., it is hard to tell where
burlesque ends and reality begins.
“Black Sheep”
One of those ocean-liner romances
that feature a gentlemanly crook
(Edmund Lowe), a stolen necklace, a
gold-digger (Claire Trevor) who falls in
love with the crook and aids him to clear
the name of his long-lost son, and a
cold, cruel, heartless society dame who
really prigged the pearls. Casting, which
includes Herbert Mundin as a drunk, is
consistently good, and the dialogue is
bright,
“Doubting Thomas”
Will Rogers is a sober-sided sausage
manufacturer whose wife (Billie Burke)
wants to be a film star. She gets tested —
and so does Will, who hires an actor to
impersonate Adolf Zukor or Carl
Laemmle or one of them big shots and
tell his wife, after seeing the test films,
that she is rotten, but that her husband
is what Hollywood has been praying for.
Rogers’s turn is a burlesque on croon-
ery. He opens up with a little speech;
“Never yet has America allowed a
crooner to reach a ripe old age. One
hundred and twenty million Americans
can’t be wrong.”
Outside the film stuff there’s an am.
dram. soc. performance that is nearly
as funny as the real thing. Dozens of
chuckles in this offering.
“Life Begins at Forty”
Another small-town setting which gives
Will Rogers a chance to air his whimsi-
calities. Rogers is an editor this time —
one of those noble editors who fights
the cause of Right against the villainous
small-town magnate, incidentally prov-
ing the innocence of a supposed bank
robber and making the course of true
love run smooth. In addition to Rogers,
who is delightful, the acting is excellent,
the cast comprising Slim Summerville,
Charles Sellon, George Bar bier and
Richard Cromwell. Rochelle Hudson is
the girl friend. At Melb. State. On the
same bill is' “Romance in Manhattan,”
which contains a great part for Francis
Lederer. This movie was commended
when it was shown in Sydney.
Some First Nights
“Ball at the Savoy” (book by Alfred
Grunwald and Fritz Lohner-Beda ; music
by Paul Abraham) has come to Sydney
Royal. Oskar Denes plays Mustapha
Bei, of the Turkish diplomatic service ;
he leaps about the stage with the zest of
a foal at play, emits a spate of fast-
spoken witticisms, rattles out comic
songs, grimaces, chortles and shows him-
self a master of clowning. A distinct
success, in short, and he has a capital
partner in Nellie Barnes. Standing out
among the rest is Mabel Gibson, who
handles a more or less serious role with
artistry and sings sweetly. She is the
bride of the Marquis de Faublas. Scenes
between husband and wife would have
more flavor if James Raglan entered
more into the spirit of the fantasia.
Robert Coote, best remembered as one
of Delysia’s able lieutenants, is effective
as the Marquise’s lover, and Jean Duncan
scores as Nina, a dancer who gives the
Marquis some headaches. Others in the
show who do good work are Cecil Kella-
way, Sydney Wheeler and the ladies who
play Mustapha Bei’s six ex-wives. A
waltz refrain, “I Live for Love,” is the
theme-song; another which should
have a vogue is “I Think I’m in Love
with My Wife.” Denes sings a number
of snappy songs. In the matter of dress-
ing and mounting, the production out-
classes anything the Firm has put on
recently, and the ballets and ensembles
(arranged by Nina Starace) are memor-
able. Frederick Blackman is the pro-
ducer, and Andrew MacCunn directs the
orchestra.
* * H-
“The Patsy,” revived at Sydney Cri.
for the last week of the theatre’s exist-
ence, comes out of its wrappings as


Pf' ~Ji
v ..J
i
R ‘.ufl
N
Bg/rmc/ f/w$ a
are
i
r
Hi
i
m
< ■•
secret
reason tor "Three Threes
ne
link/
'
, . .
M ?
jpjpf:/V '■
.^Hp # < ;*: v. '■ ; ' :
C INCE the day long ago when it was
discovered by the famous English
Tobacco House of Ardath, the secret of
the 333 s blend has been used only
for 333 s Cigarettes.
This exclusive formula, which produces
a superb blending of the finest of pure
irginian tobaccos, has grown more
and more celebrated with the years.
Every day thousands of additional
smokers are realising that only in
333 s Cigarettes can this delightful
blend be obtained. It is this that
accounts for the fact that wherever
you go you find smart smokers insisting
on getting State Express 333 s
Cigarettes.
ft*
i
N/
O
9
6
mi
18-1/-
W .. G l
■ \
27 - 1/6
Also Flat 50's,
Flat 100's and
Round Airtight
50's.
CORK - TIPPED OR PLAIN
TATE
XPRESS
100% PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
w
0
UJ
O
O


ABORIGINALITIES
“Dal”: “G.J.B.’s” par. (B. 12/6/’35)
reminds me of what happened to an
elderly spinster in a N.S.W. North Coast
district. At a church picnic a disturbed
goanna disappeared into her manifold pet-
ticoats. She screamed and threw herself
on the ground, and all the other women
shrieked, being afraid of the go. The
victim looked up, her eyes moving fran-
tically. “Will—will the oldest married
man come to my assistance?” she begged.
* * * *
“Vante”: It’s often wondered how
long a snake can live without food. A
“black” I was chasing took refuge in the
hollow end of a sleeper in the tanksland.
Repeated efforts failing to dislodge the
serpent, I nailed a board over the open-
ing. Between 16 and 17 weeks, later the
board was removed. About an hour later
I saw the wriggler, thin and weak, drink-
ing from the drip of the tap on the tank.
* * * *
“Eosis”: “Quartz,” a half-caste fos-
sicker who still haunts abandoned gold-
fields in the Temora (N.S.W.) district,
dug a hole in a paddock belonging
to a farmer who strongly believes
that an Australian’s farm is his own
stamping-ground. Despite fierce opposi-
tion the mining warden’s court' granted
right of entry. The landowner then
claimed £1 compensation, but “Quartz”
demurred. He had long decided the
amount he was prepared to pay and
wasn’t to be moved. “Twenty-five bob.”
he answered decisively and finally to the
warden’s question.
* * *
“Par”: “G.J.G.” says hares can’t see
directly in front of them (B. 12/6/’35).
/’ll say that birds can’t. Note cocky re-
garding you from his cage. First he’ll
focus one optic on you, then the other,
turning his head from side to side. Or
watch an eaglehawk in search of prey,
banking from side to side.
sfc Jfc sfc ♦
“Western”: Those 200 gal. tanks of
rum seem to have been plentiful in W.Q.
In Westralia we seldom did better than
plain beer in the bulk. I’ve seen lots of
hogsheads put out for the mob. Drop-
ping into Day Dawn one day early in this
century we found a local citizen celebrat-
ing his birthday with two hogsheads, a
case of overripe eggs and a ham. When
the. crush around the barrels got too
thick the happy celebrant standing on top
dropped a few eggs where it was thickest.
The ham, while serving as a baton for
directing the singing, came in handy
when a reveller streaming with egg
sought vengeance.
* * * *
“R.K.S.”: To a big Sydney mail-order
store came a note, with cash, from Mary,
Binghi’s missus. It flustered the m.-o.
clerk, who passed it on for further
advice. It read: “Please send two pair
flesh-colored stocking. Love, Mary.”
* * * *
“Dinosaur”: In spite of many sad
experiences, Australia is importing South
American toads, employed in the West
Indies to devour the cane beetle. A stud
of 40 forms the first batch, and these are
to be used for breeding a number of
flock toads which will be released in the
canefields in due course. There is likely
to be opposition. In the beetle season
small boys and unemployed reap a rich
harvest of beetles at so much a quart,
and the prospect of being thrown back
upon the dole by toads will not appeal
to them. Then, again, what if the beasts
change their habits and their natures, as
so many similar importations have done?
Much has been made of the danger of
interbreeding Alsatians with our dingoes.
Supposing these giant toads cross with
kangaroos! We shall be back in the
age of the giant saurians, including the
leaping carnivorous lizards which look
so unpleasant, even as plaster casts, in
museums. Better let well alone.
*• * * *
“Yes”: And there are many things
that put the city man away, “Old-timer”
(B. 12 /6 / ’35), when he comes to the
bush. For one thing, he’ll always sit
on the windward side of Ihe campfire—
the side the smoke is blowing away from.
He blocks the wind, and immediately the
smoke whirls back in his face.
* * !|! *
"Rctcp”: I’m scrub-cutting in s.-w.
Queensland, and a butcher-bird has learnt
to follow us to collect the big white grubs
from wilga-trees. It is surprising how
deep he can go for a fat grub in the
hollow limbs. He has become quite
tame, and will wait for scraps at dinner-
time. Owing to a tank drying, we had
to shift the sheep for over a month.
“Can any of you give me a sentence with ‘ bait ’ in it?
“I can, miss. ‘W' en Igo fishin' I use prawns ."
When we started cutting again in that
paddock he was back on the second day,
as quiet as ever. Butcher-birds are sur-
prising aerial acrobats, and if scraps are
thown up when two or three are waiting
they can put up some very tricky flying
stunts.
* * * *
“Dionan”: Hobart's amateur weather
prophets confidently predicted a great
storm when flocks of seagulls were seen
trooping inland in silent columns. It
continued fine and clear. Out New
Town way I saw gulls in hundreds, lurk-
ing round rows and rows of little sheds
with skillion roofs. There was an egg-
laying competition in progress. The gulls
were waiting for feeding-time. They then
descend in clouds on the spilt wheat and
other foods on which our breakfast-
laying aristocrats feed.
* * * *
“Bimbo”: Emma, an emu in the Aus-
tralian section of Melbourne Zoo, has
laid eight eggs. But neither she nor
George, her mate, would sit on them, so
they have been placed in an incubator.
* * * *
“Ceegee” (Rabaul): Apropos of derris
root (B. 27/ 3 / ”35), Derris elliptica, which
is commercially cultivated in Malaya, is
indigenous to New Guinea, and no
native garden belonging to beach tribes is
complete without a few plants growing
amongst the bananas and taro. Known
as “New Guinea dynamite,” it is used by
the natives for fishing. The roots (which
alone contain the poison) are pounded to
a pulp between two stones, and, by
means of a forked or cleft stick, portion
is inserted into holes in the reef where
fish are hiding or resting. The remainder
is thrown on (op of the water, and the
native quietly sits in his canoe awaiting
events. In a very short time fish can be
seen darting out of the holes in all direc-
tions, and they soon die.
“Shivers”: Tell “Shakes” (B. 19/6/’35)
that other things than whales play up
with lifelines when pearling in Westralia.
Our chief worry used to be sunfish. They,
like the whales, didn’t do any harm in-
tentionally, though their attentions were
most embarrassing. Those fellows seemed
to take a delight in following a line.
They’d fold their wings round it and
slide up and down (he greasy pole with
all the delight of schoolboys at play.
Then, with much (he same action as that
of a baby with a teething-ring, they’d
take the line in their mouths and close
their gums on it, but never injuring it.
♦ * * *
“Old-timer”: A mail'd have to keep his
“Eyes Skinned” to travel by sun and
stars through an unknown city, which is
what my bushman was doing (B.
26/6/’35); and even in the bush those
guides are not much good on a cloudy
day. in a fog or where the mountains
are steep and high. The average bush-
man who can strike a short cut over
strange country has something that can't
be defined —a bump of location. Either
you’ve got it or you haven't; and in the
latter case it’s better to go back over
familiar ground. I knew a splendid
bushman who was in charge of a 90,000-
acre paddock of whipstick and plain
west of Balranald (N.S.W.) for 11 years,
but he had no bump of location, and
knew it. He used to have us searching
for him on an average of once a year ;
always in cloudy weather. You can't
backtrack in whipstick.
* * * *
“Galinule”; That American writer is
right when he says (B. 26/6/’35) that the
young brush turkey is the only born
flier. The infant, immediately after
scratching his way out of the natal
mound, hooks it like the devil for the
nearest shelter, usually per boot. Ob-
servers say he is capable of flight at that
time if forced to it, and he is certainly
on the wing an hour or two later,
using his flippers to get him up the near-
est convenient tree out of the way of
ground enemies.
* , * * *
“Dungeness”: Conus textile, the
stinging shellfish of N.Q. and South
Pacific waters, recently killed a healthy
man of 28 in a few hours. He picked
up the shell on Hayman Island. Whit-
sunday Passage (N.Q.), and while ex-
amining its curious yellow and black
markings was stung in the hand by a
spike protruded from within. Within an
hour he was so seriously ill that the
launch was headed for medical assistance
on the mainland. He died on the way to
Proserpine Hospital. I have known a
native child of 10 to die within half an
hour after being stung, and have seen
in adults serious illnesses resulting from
the same cause. Visitors to tropical
waters should be very cautious in
handling strange shellfish. Several
species can inflict severe stings, though
none is as dangerous as the handsome
and attractive C. textile with its tessellated
markings, inviting close inspection.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: I asked Henare by ’phone
to give me a hand to muster some ewes
and bring a dog or two. “I just got old
Rusty,” he answered ; “an’ he no use if
I can’t find a strong stick to wave.” 1
promised to provide a stout manuka
waddy, and in due course he arrived ; but
I could see no hound with him. “Where’s
Rusty?” I asked. “Down py te gate
we start mustering at,” he replied.
Reaching there, I could still see no sign
of a tyke, and I again inquired Rusty's
whereabouts. Henare hopped off his
horse and picked up an ancient kerosene-
tin. “ Tis him,” he beamed. And he
commenced a vigorous banging that sent
the mob moving up in grand style.
* * *
“Moturoa”: Having recently spent a
month in the back country of Waitotara
(IVT.L.), 1 support the contention of
“Old-timer” (B. 5/6/’35) that “coo-ec"
has no place in the backblocks. I stayed
at several stations, and invariably the
hail was “hoy.” Those “hoys” echoed
down the valleys and reverberated from
the hillsides on frosty mornings, and for
once the bellbird ceased its ..sonorous
calling, while the whole twittering con-
gregation of bird-life was hushed. As a
sound-carrier, “hoy” makes “coo-ee”
seem like a pig’s whistle.
* * * *
“Psitta”: In saying that he can’t make
out how the connection between the Blue
Mountain parrots and the spawning
mullet shoals is managed (B. 12/6/’35)
the writer of the par. displays the lament-
table ignorance of the habits of our flora
and fauna so characteristic of Austra-
lians. The explanation is simple. When
the banksia and honeysuckle are due to
flower in southern Queensland the
advance guard of the parrots arrives to
have a look-see. If a bounteous season
is promised the news is sent back along
the lines of communication, and
the birds throng into Bananaland
like N.S.W. out-of-works after
Forgan Smith’s unemployment in-
surance. At the same time the
cockies give the tip to their rela-
tives the parrot-fish, which abound in
Moreton Bay, and these get in touch
with the mullet hordes in the depths of
the Pacific and pass the word that a
bonzer spawning season is on. In the
same way, if the prospects are poor, both
birds and fish are given the office, and
act accordingly.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Again our Queensland
press is printing thrilling accounts by
eyewitnesses of desperate attacks by
thresher sharks upon whales. The fierce
threshers have leaped from the water,
raining stunning blows upon the wretched
cetaceans with their tails, often bringing
blood. I am aware of my own temerity
when I say definitely that nobody ever
saw a real thresher shark attack a real
whale. A big thresher is not a hundredth
part of the bulk of even a half-grown
humpback whale ; its tail would not stand
up to half a dozen blows, and the effect
on the whale would be about that of a
dogwhip on a hippopotamus. The
thresher uses its tail to round up small
fish, on which it feeds, rushing them as
they bunch. The alleged combats are
either attacks by killer-whales on other
species, or humpbacks rolling over at
play and slapping the water —or one
another —with their 14ft. fins.
* * * *
“Billy See”: The wee drop of tipple-
whisky in the winter, beer in the summer
—left out for the copper on the beat
used to be common when 1 was a morn-
ing-newspaper kid in Ballarat. The
favorite hiding-place was the then-com-
mon water-trough. One morning we let
a drunk into the secret. Elated at
the prospect of so much free booze,
he made a practice for upwards of a
month of doing all the water-troughs
in the centre of the town. This in turn
brought him close to the d.ts. While
in this condition he was caught one night
by an enraged townsman, and well
soused in the trough. He recovered
from the pneumonia, was discharged
finally from the hospital as cured and well
washed, if not in his right mind. By
rights he should then have signed the
pledge, made a fortune on the Stock
Exchange and married a nurse. But he
didn’t; he went fishing for the Force’s
beer again, had a relapse into double
pneumonia and died.
“RELIEF.”
I’m sick of palchin’ roads and cleanin’ drains,
Ol' pokin’ round and scratchin’ like a hen.
the cockies now, they say, are wantin' men:
For willin’ hands there’s work along the plains.
To feci me muscles stretchin’ might seem
strange,
And yet to do a bit of honest toil
And see the sweat-drops drippin’ on the soil
Would be, I'm thinkin’, not so bad a change.
The days of dinkum navvyin’ seem remote;
But, Lord! I’d like to feel me Douglas swing
Agin tall trees once more, and bile and ring!
Two years of this “relief” have got me goat.
Sometimes I dream of musterin’ mobs of
sheep,
Or ploughin’, sewin’ bags or brandin’ stock.
Or fencin’, pickin’ fruit or quarryin’ rock;
Sometimes I’m buildin’ haystacks in me sleep.
They call a man, they haunt his dreams, the
plains.
Here things arc up to mud; the long days
drag.
fo-morrow I’ll be rollin’ up me swag;
I'm sick of patchin* roads and cleanin’ drains.
N.S.W.
Triantelope.


“Mat’s Mate”: I had taken a road
job in Gippsland, and got to the town-
ship at dark, to be directed three
miles out to the camp. There I was
(old to share a tent with Kelly. It
was too late to rig a bunk, so Kelly and
I pulled bracken and spread our nap
on a heap of the fern, one on each side
of the tent. Sometime after midnight I
awoke with a cold sensation about the
buttocks, to find myself lying in about an
inch of water ; rain was falling heavily
on the tent. I looked round to see how
my new mate was getting on. Kelly was
perched on his suitcase, a blanket round
his shoulders, a cigarette in his mouth, a
candle on one knee; he was casually
reading a paper-backed novel. He eyed
me calmly, glanced at the incipient lake
on the floor, and said, “Wet, ain’t it!”
* * * *
“Ceegee” (R a haul): Tell “Bam” (B.
3/4/’35) that, as the floating island at
Mt. Schank (S.A.) has decided to grow
to the mainland, a number of the
attractions, in sizes to suit the most fasti-
dious tourist, may be obtained in the
Sepik River, Mandated Territory. It’s not
uncommon to see islands ranging from a
lew square yards up to an acre or more,
and covered with vegetation, floating
down the river. The Sepik is wide and
navigable for a couple of hundred miles ;
nevertheless it is considered an art to
navigate between these floating chunks
of Mother Earth and uncharted sand-
banks.
* * * *
“Lichtenburg”: One place where the
eucalypt is prized as a timber tree (B.
26/6/’35) is S’Africa. When I first saw
the place close on 40 years ago most of
the better-class farms sported groves of
bluegums grown close together so as to
form long, straight poles. This was about
the only wood available in the Free State
(I except thorny acacia) and in the Trans-
vaal, save on the Magaliesberg and other
ranges, where some big timber was to b;
seen. Further north still, on the Croco-
dile and other rivers of the bushveld,
something like real timber began to
appear, complete with colubus monkeys.
* * * *
“Hal. Aust.”; “Curly” (B. 26/6/’35)
says I need to take a course of lessons
by post about the dugong. Do I? I got
my information about the dugong from
the late E. J. Banfield, of Dunk Island,
and from close observation of the sea-
cow itself. It was the dugong that origi-
nally gave rise to the myth of mermaids,
so there’s nothing manly about it. That
is, in fact, why the family is known by
the scientific name of Sirenia. I said
that elementary hind legs were to be
found in the small bones. As to the
skull, it is just about as human as a
seal’s,
* * * *
Allegations in court that a
racing dog had been treated with per-
oxide to prevent identification recalls the
fact that caricaturist Alec Laing, who
teamed with Pansy Montague in a
Venus vaudeville act a generation ago,
had a brilliantly-golden-haired cat when
he lived at Brighton (Vic.). Strangers
used to stand spellbound at the beauty
of pussy’s fur, and Laing, who was wont
to explain that the animal was an
Armenian cat, the only one in Australia,
refused many pounds offered by animal
fanciers. In fact, it was merely an ordi-
nary back-fence tabby which Alec
treated with peroxide once a month.
* t\i * *
“Senojo”: Although many Kanaka
plantation laborers still use their own
pointed-stick method of husking a cocoa-
nut, the white man’s axe is much more
popular. The sight of a native steadying
a nut with a bare toe, axe ready to
strike, is more worrying to the onlooker
than to Brown Brother. Occasionally,
after a mishit, the wounded “boy” pre-
sents the injury, requesting “medicine
belong this pfeller.” Should the victim
have been treated previously for a cut
finger, and you pull down the same bottle
for the toe job, the patient, in much
alarm, is sure to protest that you are giv-
ing him the wrong medicine. “That one,
medicine belong finger,” he will assert ;
so it’s wise to have your supply of anti-
septic spread over at least three bottles.
* * * *
“S.G.”: That axeman who stuck his
axe in the log (B. 29/5/’35) and then
stooped beneath it was asking for
trouble. In a fast ringbarking gang
genuine axe accidents are frequent
occurrences; some of them are queer
enough for anything. Thin dry twigs
are usually knocked off with the back
of the axe, but appearances arc
often deceptive, and a springy twig
will occasionally hurl the axe—blade
foremost—straight at the face of
the worker. Or an unseen bough up
above may divert the blade with disas-
trous consequences. One member of a
gang in which I was working was
knocked cold by a neat blow on the back
of his neck —fortunately with the back
of the axe. Timbers which don’t take
the axe well, such as belar and yarran,
account for most of the “normal” cuts,
generally on the leg or foot.
"Any ol' do es, bottles or bones, lady?"
"Yes, wot'll y gimme f'r THIS lot?"
"Hey, sport, give us a hand!"
“Der Jong”: Binghi
isn't the only allegedly
primitive savage able
to draw (B. 26/6/’35).
Some of the most
spirited drawings of
men and animals I
have ever seen were
the work of S’African
Bushmen. I came
across them when a
mounted policeman in
the Free State 30-odd
years ago; the draw-
ings, in black, blue and
red, were done on the
rocks under the shelter
of overhanging
“krantzes” on the hill-
sides, and were thus
protected from sun and
weather. This experi-
ence and others of a
similar nature gained
in Papua, together with
an early acquaintance
in Liverpool (Eng.)
with the West African
carvings and statuettes
on which Mr. Epstein
and his imitators seem
to have founded their style, have con-
vinced me that pictorial art, like music,
is essentially an expression of primitive
mentality.
* * * *
“D.M.”; Anyone ever heard of our
familiar and highly esteemed food fish
the flathead being found outside Aus-
tralian waters? I had always supposed
him to be 100 per cent. Australian until
I saw a small boy, fishing from the pier
at Eastbourne (Eng.), haul up what 1
instantly recognised as a flathead about
Bin. long. The lad said it was known
locally as a “stinger.” Anybody who has
made contact with the two razor-like
barbs at the rear end of a flathead’s jaws
will appreciate the aptness of the name.
* * * *
“Airline"; That Melbourne cocky (B.
12/6/’35) reminds me of one I knew of
m western New South Wales. Several
neatly-beheaded chickens having been
found near his cage, a watch was set and
his nefarious practice was exposed.
Whenever he saw a chick in the vicinity
of his domain, cocky dived to the floor of
his cage, picked up some of the seed
lying about, and dropped it through the
wire at what he considered a nice range.
We prevented another murder just in
the nick of time, and put an end to his
evil ways by the addition of an extra
foot of bird-wire.
* * * *
“Cordon Bleu"; Touching
that reference to bush cooking
methods (B. 26/6/’35), the
frying-pan has ended or em-
bittered many lives outback,
and is chiefly responsible for
the bushman’s cynical outlook
on life. The boiling of food in
fat ruins good meat and diges-
tion at one and the same
moment. Yet the leathery
chop and the deadly stringy-
bark steak, reeking of stale
fat, could easily be avoided by
broiling, a method giving far
less trouble than the frying ob-
session and one which adds
succulence and savor to the
cooking. Even where the
poisoner is too lazy to twist a
gridiron out of a bit of fenc-
ing wire—that’s how it’s in-
variably done —meat grilled on
hot, clean coals is a dish fit for
the angels. Some day I hope
to hear that the cook who
produces a frying-pan and fat
will automatically become
liable to the same penalty as
anyone carying unlicensed fire-
arms.
* * * *
“Nagheer": A visitor from Brisbane
has made the interesting discovery that
Cook town (N.Q.) shire is nearly twice
the size of Tasmania, and that the town
possesses the only barefooted bailiff in
Australia. More than that, this distin-
guished official is probably the only
bailiff in the world to have won a
banana-eating competition by consuming
13 dozen at one sitting. The southern
coastal boundary of the shire is at Cape
Tribulation—appropriately, for £17,000
is outstanding in shire rates and £B5OO
interest has accumulated on the arrears.
The northern boundary is somewhere
out in Torres Strait, near the New Guinea
coast. My chief memories of Cooktown
are the goats which roosted in the Town
Wall and the 10 tons of solid gold to
be obtained merely by unwatering the
Maytown mine. For anyone who desires
a quiet life and first-class fishing at small
cost, Cooktown is the place.
* * * *
“C.H.F. Have bluegums any definite
effect upon earwigs? The hill on which
we live (Dunedin, M.L.) at one time
boasted a miniature forest of the trees,
and though these have now been mostly
removed there are still a few thriving a
bit away from the houses. While most
parts of the town suffer periodical
plagues of earwigs, and invariably have at
least some of these pests, this particular
hill is, and always has been, entirely free.
* =!= ,* s’;
“Matelol”; “Dionan” (B. 19/6/’35)
reminds me. In 1914 a party from
the battle-cruiser Australia spent a
pleasant afternoon swimming from one
of the ship’s boats in North-west Bay,
near Hobart. Later we dragged a seine
net over the same spot and caught, inter
alia, a large assortment of sharks, rang-
ing from 6in. to 6ft. Yes, I know shark
attacks are practically unknown in Tas.
But why are Tassie sharks more gentle-
manly than their brethren further north?
* ♦ * *
“Bof’: That reference to the New
York white-ants in a recent Bulletin
reminds me that the same dorp is being
overrun with dog-ticks. The things have
never been seen or heard of before in
Manhattan, and, as N.Y. is almost as
doggy as London, lamentations are un-
ceasing. The ticks don’t seem to hurt the
tykes, and so far haven’t had a shy at
humans.
* * * *
“Berry”: The armchair-critics (B.
19/6/’35) wrong the Yass (N.S.W.)
crows. These birds are too cunning to get
their feet caught in the jumbuck’s wool;
they’re simply rubbing the gum off their
feet after a feed of wood grubs. This
gum dries hard, and is troublesome at
shearing-time ; so we peg out a rough-
haired sheepskin on a log here and there
about the run. Jim Crow likes these
best, and uses them gratefully.
LOGS.
Here on the trucks they he,
Products of wind andl rain,
Logs that are smooth and light,
Logs that are fine of grain.
To the pent railway yards,
Where some fierce siren shrills,
Hundreds of miles they come,
Spoil for the waiting mills.
Once in the northern scrubs,
Seeking the sunshine’s light,
Upward they ever climbed,
Swept to their leafy height.
Black bean and hickory,
Walnut, a ready mait,
Maples, like amber sheen,
Set with flames in their heart.
Here in the seething yards
Each truck must wait its fate.
Pine lor some shanty walls?
Oak for the halls of State?
Beams for a battleship?
Screens for a carven shrine?
Sovereign and satin woods,
Woods that are warm as wine.
Savage logs, brutal logs,
While some fierce siren shrills,
Hundreds of miles they come,
Grist for the whirling mills.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE JONES.


ẁ
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA 6V
O 7ce
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY
£- Son Ltd • iYDNEY
;*IcPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne. Adelaide, Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/• per night.
All meals a la carte.
DeTghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams. “Grancentral,
SYDNEY.
m
m
RanOiS
“The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, X.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
RAPSONdDUTTON PTY LTD
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Polled Shorthorns.
“El V”: The polled beef-beast is fast
becoming standard. Polls are more com-
pact, fit more to the truck, are easier to
load and trough-feed and are less liable
to blemishes than horned animals. Ex-
periments with motor transport in
Queensland add a new point in their
favor.
For the past three years leading Aus-
tralian breeders have shown great
activity in studying the polled breeds.
The Aberdeen Angus made great strides
—the casual exhibition of them which
used to fill a few stalls at Sydney and
Brisbane shows has become a first-class
showing. N.S.W.’s Anthony Hordern and
other leading shorthorn men have visited
U.S.A. to study the polled shorthorn
there, but > the British Shorthorn Society
Council has refused to recognise polled
animals for pedigree registration.
There are two kinds of polled Durham
in the U.S.A. and Canada—those bred
from local “muley” animals which may
not be pure, and others pure-bred
which descend from some of the rarest
stock imported during the boom from
Britain.
The main basis is an Oakwood Gwynne
cow, from a line which was pre-eminent
in its day—some of the blood came to
Australia, notably to C. B. Fisher’s
herds. Oakwood Gwynne 4th had loose
horns, and by 7th Duke of Hillhurst,
which embodied the combination of
some of the best Bates-Duchess blood
with staunch Booth constitution, dropped
two heifers known as Nellie Gwynne
and Mollie Gwynne.
To a Bright Eyes bull —here again was
a strain imported into Australia by the
Mortons of Mt. Derrimut and the A.A.
Company in the ’seventies—she produced
the red King of Kine (American H. 8.87
412). To these were added the hornless
strains bred from Young Phyllis blood
and a White Rose bull. Young Hamilton,
which won the general championship at
the Columbian Exposition in 1893.
The U.S.A. polled Durham breeders
have had their own society since 1889,
but the strains which come direct and
only from pure shorthorn blood are
“double - standard” cattle and are-
admitted to both the ordinary and to the
polled pedigree registers.
For many years U.S.A. breeders have
mated polled cows to the best Scottish
horned bulls, and this mixture has given
a large proportion of hornless offspring.
The Australian society is likely to take
its own course, and so it should, pro-
vided it does not admit impurities to
Australian shorthorn blood.
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Murrawong”; The prevailing sea-
sonal conditions and the fall in the wool
market since last year were reflected in
the bidding. There was a brisk demand
for special stud rams offered by well-
known studs, yet there were no fancy
prices, the best bid —800 guineas for a
Uardry ram —being less than half of last
year’s top price. However, there was not
the same gap between the leaders and
the rest of the field, and average per
head was not far behind that of last
year.
By reason of numbers and wider repre-
sentation. the sales offer a better gauge to
the merino sheep-breeding industry than
does the .Sheep Show. Not only are many
noted studs represented in force which
do not appear at the show, but smaller
and newer studs send along their sheep
and invite comparison with old-estab-
lished firms. This comparison, though
seldom reflected in prices paid, is of
undoubted benefit to breeder and buyer
alike. The man who buries himself among
his own sheep is apt to have an exag-
gerated opinion of their worth, which is
dispelled when he sees them in pens ad-
joining another man’s sheep. The com-
parison also helps the buyer by creating
a truer standard than if he were inspect-
ing in the breeder’s paddock.
Some of the younger studs did not
show altogether to advantage, but others
proved that their owners arc working
on the right lines and are breeding sheep
that any stud would be proud of. There
were defective animals to be seen ; they
did not all come from the new studs by
any means.
The second-top price at the sales was
775 guineas, obtained by Bundemar for
the reserve champion ram of the
show, which scores an interesting point
against those who argue that the sale
price is the truest indication of the value
of a ram. As a matter of fact, a high
price paid for a ram may only indicate
that he possesses certain characteristics
that are coveted by several bidders to
offset weakness in their own flocks.
Tasmanian rams met a poor market.
Within a few years they have changed
from a wrinkly type to what are probably
the plainest sheep in the sales. If any-
thing, the pendulum has swung too far
and left the sheep weak in front, with a
lack of development in the neck folds.
On the whole, merino flock rams did not
sell well, and buyers were offered oppor-
tunities of picking up good sires at a
fraction of the price they would have
been asked on the property.
Corriedales and British breeds sold
remarkably well; T. B. Macfarlane, of
Merriwa (N.S.W.), obtained a world’s
record price of 495 guineas for a Corrie-
dale ram. The growing importance of
the fat-lamb industry, coupled with the
fluctuations in the wool market, was
responsible for keen competition and
excellent prices for dual-purpose and
mutton breeds, with no evidence of the
“tail” that existed among the merinos.
Superfine Wools.
“Lion”; Whilst admitting that some
districts can produce only superfine
wools to advantage, other types will
grow, although not as heavily as their
count warrants. These days it is price
per head and not per pound that counts ;
so it might pay superfine growers to carry
less fine-woolled sheep until prices re-
turn. (These remarks, of course, don’t
apply to studs.)
This year the difference between a
super 74’s and a 60-64’s wool in price
was negligible.
We got 21|d. for super 74’s ewes, and
the same price for the top-line crossbred
ewes. The crossbred had plenty of
character, was clean and high-yielding.
There was only a farthing between them
on the average.
Many growers don’t realise that fine
crossbred from a good merino ewe by an
English Leicester ram fetches as good a
price as well-bred merino. It is also
higher-yielding than merino.
Lamb-marking.
“Upilio”; An essential at lamb-mark-
ing is to get the lambs into the yard
quietly. They cannot be marked too
young, but it is unwise to drive them
long distances either before or after
marking. The careful sheepman has a
yard in the lambing-paddock, or a port-
able one, consisting of two or three coils
of netting, hardwood slakes, etc. My
experience is that at marking-lime whips
and dogs should not be allowed near the
yard.
A small branch moved slowly back
and forth will keep the ewes and lambs
going forward into the yards. Should
a lamb get away, let him stand. He will
yard as soon as he hears his mother
bleat for him. Once he is chased out of
earshot, it means running him down.
In the cool months, if not overheated,
the lambs can be marked as soon as
yarded. If is good practice to make
catchers pick up the youngest lambs to
hand each time. When ewes are let out
of the yard, shepherd them round until
each lamb is mothered. Otherwise, some
ewes take half the day in finding their
lambs again.
“Drought-proof” Sheep.
“Spring”: In an experiment made at
the Cape Agricultural College (S’Africa),
a pen of full-grown merino wethers was
used. Semi-spiny wild cactus was pulped
and each sheep fed on a ration to which
two-thirds saltbush by weight was added.
No water was given them for 250 days.
Each sheep was weighed and marked. At
the end of the period they emerged fust
as heavy as when first weighed. Odd
sheep were better.
The wild cactus is a similar type to
prickly-pear. Saltbush varies little in any
part of the world.
In Australia (St. George district, s.-w.
Q.) sheep are known to have survived on
pear for over two years without water.
Survivals for three months on water-
carrying weeds and feeds are common.
Dipping Methods.
“G.F.D.”: How an experienced man,
as “Albarmount” claims to be, can argue
that lifting sheep into a dip is easier
than the walk-in-walk-out or slide-in
methods beats me.
I’ve had lifting experience, and hope
never to have it again.
“Once ‘had,’ sheep don’t enter dips
without protest,” says “Albarmount” (B.
12/6/’35). Quite so, but they baulk at
the forcing pen—or catching pen when
you’re lifting them in—and there is just
as much trouble in one method as in
another.
If the catching pen is large, there is
trouble with the last few; if small,
one has to be always filling the pen.
A 16-year-old youth may tip small hog-
gets in, but one would need to be a Car-
nera to lift many 501 b. or 601 b. wethers.
“Albarmount” is right when he says
that there is no need for small flock-
owners to build £lOO dips. Our dip is
built of v’d and slotted Sin. x 2in. Cyprus
pine planks, well tarred. It is 30ft. long
(capacity 900 gals.), and we find it ample
for 5000 sheep. It is home-made,
material costing about £2O.
A ready-made steel dip of similar size
can be purchased through a wool firm
for very little extra cost.
“W.D.McC.”: “Gran ova” (B.
19/6/’35) reiterates what I have been
saying for years. For swabbing affected
parts, fish oil and spirits of tar is
sudden death to maggots; next best.
Stockholm tar and kerosene. The sheep-
man who uses a full-strength powder dip
thoroughly will find most of his fly
troubles disappear.
Nodules in Sheep.
“Agamemnon”: The nodule or pimply
gut worm is one of the most serious
sheep parasites in northern N.S.W. and
Queensland. As it is found in the lower
bowel, no drenches have any effect.
Enema treatment, as developed in the
McMaster Animal Laboratory, promises
to be 90 p.c. to 100 p.c. efficient.
An ordinary drenching-gun is used,
fitted with a rubber nozzle to prevent
injury.
The sheep should first be starved for
24 hours. For sheep six to eighteen
months old, the enema consists of 4grs.
sodium arsenite in one quart water. It
has to be carefully administered ; indeed,
the treatment may always result in a few
losses, but it is, at present, the only way
of dealing with the parasite.
To minimise the risk at least one
minute must be taken in injecting the
solution. It should be delivered slowly
and evenly. Do not give it to a violently-
struggling animal. In cold weather
warm the solution to blood-heat before
drenching.
Scarifying Lucerne.
“Stump-jump”: There are two schools
of opinion. One believes lucerne should
never be springtoothed, the other that it
is always necessary. The golden rule I
have followed is to scarify at discretion.
If the soil appears to restrict the crown
from spreading, so that it throws up only
single and double shoots, it needs tick-
ling. if there is rotting vegetable mat on
the ground, or humus beneath, it
shouldn’t need it. Some grass thrives on
scarifying. Super, gets rid of it best of
all. It is useless to scarify in cold, dry
winters, when the bruising harms the
crown without compensation.
Technique is important. The principle
is to cut each crown cleanly and verti-
cally, This allows a new shoot to spring
from a surface unencumbered by old
growth. A sideways cut is as bad as
shearing the crown clean off with the
plough. It takes a season for the plant
to recover—if it recovers at all. Vertical
cuts don’t interfere with circulation.
To get them, the tickler tyne is best.
On no account should wider points than
Hin. be used. Others chop or bruise the
root.
I fully believe an occasional scarifying
does no harm to any lucerne stand. Dead
growth on the crown can hinder the
plant. But 1 have seen many paddocks
“overscantied,” and when that happens
lucerne dies out quickly.
Tobacco-growing.
“S. Gumm”: Three or four years ago
it looked as if Australia might make
itself independent of overseas countries
—the U.S.A. is far and away the largest
supplier—in respect of its tobacco-leaf
requirements. The market was large and
expanding, there were distinct export
possibilities, climatic conditions were
reported satisfactory and no great initial
outlay was required. So a boom in
tobacco-farming set in. City men hard
hit by the depression (architects and the
like) went in for it; others financed
their sons, and there was a brisk migra-
tion of embryo growers to favored dis-
tricts, especially parts of North Queens-
land.
General results have been disappoint-
ing, though here and there farmers have
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


I
§
9
9
mm
iHsl
MmW- *%t ,r r
$m
W: y ;X.,. : ill® * v |£|
v Iv I i
i
IKJI Wm
p; -W
Ilfts&.f I ? i!Wir*x ~ i , Ww* M
wmf I I ; t *
, v--
■<Ssv
mymm
mm
i-?; •-
>■"
yy -'
s. «> # | pi | »-i >* *f f\
*** w
y ...
M
< 4 'l > * '■ '■* ' * !
.
ss*ll
■•-<--
•••''
■ ■.'■■■■<:■.■■
>/=••• - , S‘ S 5%
* * r **« 5 *
' X.
S3*
0k
Esa*
A.
s.
|
mm
m
, ' 'X-
IS
>
V
ii
■ : x ?>
&
*1
H I
w
, •%/ "%> ~ •/ /- /% •} 5
'
<■:•• • 4 .-.<■■ • *
v w% »/ A .A •, fc
pi
ii
c|:rA *
:- , :S; •■;■:.
■ >-V- ■’•
Si
: *%
>m.
.■>: ■:■■<
-
m
... ;■• •■•■
m
ii
m
: x-
-y ■■
: •
:• ••:••
■:
mm
n g
••■ xV
ICKERS
GIN
hai been FAMOUS SINCE 1750


Acid Stomach
inflicts unfold misery
/
“Why am I always weak,
nervous, despondent?”
There are countless women, men too,
who for years have not known what it is
to feel really lit and well. They drag
wearily through life all unconscious of
the fact that a chronically sour acid
stomach is capable of souring one’s
entire existence. You can easily detect
an acid stomach by the following
symptoms—Always tired and low-spirited,
frequent headaches, disturbed sleep,
overstrung nerves, loss of appetite,
nausea, flatulence and indigestion. If
that is how you feel, don’t resort to pick-
me-ups but take ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia to
sweeten your stomach. This will correct
the excessive acidity of your gastric
juice and overcome the chronic sourness
of your stomach. With the "mainspring”
of your system in healthy working order
your distressing S3unptoms will promptly
vanish and you will soon be enjoying
normal health and spirits. Get a bottle
of ' Bisurated' Magnesia, powder or
tablets, from any chemist and start on
the road to good health by taking a dose
after your next meal—the effect will be
a revelation to you. In ‘ Bisurated ’
Magnesia you have the supreme remedy
for stomach troubles, with over 20 years’
reputation for unfailing efficacy.
BISURATED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the ‘Bismag’ Trade Mark
ẃ
ROSS f° r HEIGHT/
JHent. age 19J, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
21 „ 5 „ in 5 inths.
20, „ 3J „ in 16 days.
30, „ 2 „ in 4 weeks.
40, „ U „ in 6
No Appliances
No Drugs.
No Dieting.
BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3|ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee 22 2s.
Ross Convi S?slm^ on -V
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Cox 16.)
ẅ
FOR THE
ROUGHEST WEAR
This rugged Abbey Cossack is
a boot built for most exacting
service. It is double - soled,
with a stout upper that is lined
inside with soft leather. The
Abbey Cossack is surprisingly
comfortable . , . and it is as
weatherproof as it can be
made.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. When
writing, also order a large tin of
Dale’s English Dubbin, black or tan,
at 2/6. This is splendid for work-
ing and riding boots it softens the
leather, makes it waterproof and
increases its wearing qualities.
Australian Kip . . . . 457-
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
Write for catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGHAfHK■ ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY. -
EEL 445.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
-THINK OF
im SI
>l4
im
sti
St
ANj
m
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
SCHUTE
IBIEHLe Ct?i
riumnftiii
COMMENCES AUGUST 25th
200,000
TRADE BUYERS
Records prove that 200,000 business
men and women from all parts of
the world visited the Leipzig Trade
Fair last March to purchase for profit-
able reselling.
Can YOU afford to overlook this
great Trading Centre when planning
for future business? It is well worth
an investigation.
COMPRISING GENERAL SAMPLES, BUILDING, HOUSEHOLD AND
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FAIR.
Information gladly supplied by Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in Australia for
the Leipzig Trade Fair, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, ’phone B 4006; L. Messey,
Technical Adviser, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Box 1658, G.P.0.,
Melbourne; H. C. Ittershagen, West Subiaco, Perth.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
*HED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
g^SaStOt
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
done pretty well. Blue mould has visited
many plantations with saddening results ;
too much dark leaf has been grown and
too little of the kind required for cigar-
ettes, and not a few of the new settlers
found that they didn’t care for the job.
So output has slumped considerably. The
Commonwealth Government and the big
manufacturing co. are blamed, but the
major faults lie elsewhere. There is an
unfounded impression, which politicians
share, that the public can be forced to
buy tobacco that it doesn’t care for,
simply because the leaf is grown in
Australia.
Now an officer of the Queensland
Department of Agriculture who has been
inquiring into South African methods
has returned with the very definite im-
pression that we have been trying to
grow tobacco too near the coast. That,
he says, is not done in the sister
Dominion ; there the bulk of tobacco is
raised inland, at altitudes ranging from
3000 ft. to 4000 ft. above sea level, so that
conditions are seldom humid. He found
wildfire and white mould present in
crops, but there was no sign of blue
mould, which apparently reserves its
worst attentions for plants grown on low-
lying land near the sea.
So the missionary (R. A. Tarrant) is
going to recommend to the Queensland
Government that crops should be grown
250 miles to 300 miles inland, at an alti-
tude preferably of 3000 ft. If this is
done—and there is no lack of suitable
land in Queensland, or in North West-
ralia for that matter —he is satisfied that
“leaf equal to the best produced in South
Africa” can be put on the market. Indeed,
if the blue-mould problem is solved, and
“if manufacturers use only matured leaf,
Australia in a very short time will be
able to produce sufficient first-class to-
bacco to meet local requirements.” That
means dispensing with imports of un-
manufactured leaf ranging from
11,000,0001 b. to 15,000,0001 b. per annum.
Incidentally, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is financing tobacco-growing in-
vestigations to the extent of £20,000 p.c.
for three years. Of this sum £lO,OOO
p.a. is paid to the States and £lO,OOO to
the C.S and 1.R., for field and labora-
tory work. Tobacco-growers are eligible
lor assistance under the Commonwealth
Farmers’ Debt Adjustment Act.
Grass-fed Horses.
“Bates”; “Mac” (B. 12/6/’35) might
qualify his remarks if he were to go into
the economics of horse-feeding.
In N.Q., where it costs up to £l2 10s.
a ton to land oaten or lucerne chaff
(allowing 50 p.c. rail rebate), hand-feed-
ing is out of the question where natural
fodder is available.
Nobody knows better than the W.
Queenslanders that their horses will not
stand constant hard work, and that they
are prone to sore backs even with good
horsemen.
It is nice to be mounted on spruce,
shining prads shod on all four feet, but
when the cost is something like 255. a
week things don’t look so bright.
A Machine Rabbit-digger.
“W.W,”; After experience on 2500
acres on the Murray, where sandhills go
down to 30ft., I can assure “Upilio” (B.
8/5/’35) that his digging out of rabbits
would be hopeless in some places, be-
cause it is impossible to follow the
burrow below sft,
Having tried many methods, from
poison bats to fumigation, without suc-
cess, I have invented a machine to do
the job.
I have not now a rabbit on the place.
The machine does the job at the cost of
labor and producing charcoal.
A burrow that would take a good man
a day to dig out is treated in lOmin.
The apparatus has been thoroughly
tested by the Closer Settlement Com-
mission, and is being supplied to settlers
by it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Glencoe”: To make an emergency
crowbar take an axle from the beaters
of an old harvester. Heat and flatten
one end, cooling it off with cold water
to temper. Beat the other end back to a
knob.
“Tumbe Munda”: “Mangarratta’s”
contention (B. 19/6/’35) that old 40gal.
petrol-drums cut in half make a good
horse feeder is sound ; but be sure and
turn the edges down. I had a good cow
cut her back tendon when she stepped in
the feeder.
“A.N.S,”: A lid from harvester beater,
with a piece of 4 x 2 at each end to
keep it erect, yvill make an excellent pig
trough.
“O. W. Waireki”: To keep a bottle
of tea hot for about four hours fill the
bottle with fluid as hot as possible, cork
well and wrap seven or eight sheets of
newspaper tightly all around, over and
under the bottle. The heat will cause the
paper to stick and keep in the heat.
“Stump Jump”: “Juggler’s” iron-bend-
ing method (B. 12/6/’35) can be im-
proved. Drive two solid iron stakes well
into the ground ; with these bend long
pipes, sliding the free end in the soil.
Mounting the stakes in an old plough
frame is often handy. Beware of damp
sand ; dry it first —explosions have been
known to occur.
In the past tropical agriculture has
been rather neglected in North Westralia,
though excellent results have been got
in station and mission gardens; but it
is now being tackled seriously on the
Gascoyne. There, in addition to citrus,
pineapples, pawpaws, grapefruit, passion-
fruit and bananas are grown, and for
bananas 375. 6d. a case has been re-
ceived ; May shipments to the Perth
market realised over £1 a case.
“G.M.”: Irish blight, induced by the
abnormally wet season, is once more
playing havoc with Vic. potato crops. A
recently discovered variety of potato
brought from South America to Europe
is said to be blight-proof ; it has with-
stood tests at experimental stations.
Even if it is only half blight-proof, it
might be as well for some of our agri-
cultural departments to secure a few
tubers to breed from. Irish blight has
proved a deadly enemy of the potato-
grower since it first appeared here 25
years ago.
“Mangaratta”; Easily the worst weed
on my property, near Kooringa (S.A.), is
the wild poppy. The seed is small and
hard, and germinates three weeks or a
month after sowing. It cannot be killed
by cultivation. Each seedpod contains
hundreds of seeds, and each plant many
pods. It multiplies with amazing rapidity.
Stock will not touch it. I have been
waging war on it for years. I allow the
seed to germinate. Then I plant an early,
quick-growing wheat (I find Merredin the
best) and apply super., 901 b. per acre,
hoping the wheat will get ahead of the
poppy. The scheme is partly a success,
but I am still far from eradicating the
nuisance. Can anyone suggest a remedy?
“Tuart”: Two chicks have been
hatched out from a setting of Rhode
Island eggs from a Hampshire (Eng.)
farm, brought to Sydney by air mail.
The journey took 15 days, which is
rather long for this form of enterprise.
When the service is speeded up there
should be commercial possibilities in
prize-egg transport.
“J.P.M.”: Seed inoculation with
bacterial cultures (B. 5/6/’35) has been
carried on successfully in N.S.W. for
some time. It is established that the
separate bacteria associated with lucerne
root nodules are suitable only for lucerne
seed inoculation; and those from
bean root nodules suitable only for bean
seed. Mixtures of pure cultures must
be freshly prepared to secure results.
Recently a Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.)
graduate had remarkable success from
inoculated lucerne seed on land which
previously had failed to produce a pay-
able crop.


HOTEL
Bent Phillip
METROPOLE
I Young Streets, Sydney
a f:
if
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Followers of the China-Japan wars
arc beginning to regret not having bought
a season ticket in the first place.
-I* -I- -I- -I-
Our Prizeless Competition.
It is a bitterly cold night, with a howl-
ing westerly touching 40 m.p.h. Time,
approximately 11 p.m. Inside a room in
which a glowing fire radiates a beautiful
warmth, several people are congregated.
The rigorous weather is under lively dis-
cussion, its severity being condemned by
most, though two persons present view
it with an airy nonchalance. The others
all wear miserable looks, the blast out-
side having cast a spell over them which
is in striking contrast to the cheery
appearance of the two whose voices
are not raised in condemnation of the
meterological conditions.
Find the host and hostess.
Keo.
“That settles it! I'll have to get a pair of glasses!”
The Editor Regrets.
The final edition of the “Evening
Gargle” was on the presses.
Several floors above, the news editor
sat back in his chair, mopped his brow
and heaved a sigh of relief. He was just
preparing to light a welcome cigarette
when the cable editor rushed in waving
a flimsy slip of paper.
“Hold the presses!” he shouted. “And
take a look at this!” The news editor
snatched the cable and read :
WAR DECLARED!
“Whew!” he gasped, and then his face
fell.
"Can’t use it!” he announced briefly.
“No room!” •
"What!” exclaimed the other. “Can’t
you squeeze it in the ‘Stop Press’?”
"No. There's no ‘Stop Press’ column
to-day,” answered the news editor. “We
had to cut it out to make room for extra
Free Gift Coupons!”
Roland Butter.
“A public meeting, conveyed by the Mayor
of Strathfield and the Mayor of Burwood”....
Some of these Mayors take a lot on
their shoulders.
“Debating Farmers’ Debts Adjustment, Mr.
Dunstan was asked: ‘Do you think that the
term stay order” sounds better than mora-
torium . It sounds something like corsets.’ ”
— “Argus.”
Well, it’s meant to reduce the figure.
4* A- *
Venetian Vignette.
“Mr. Lyons drifted in a gondola along the
Grand Canal of Venice” — “Sun.”
I hope he had nothing like the unfor-
tunate experience I had in Venice one
carnival night. I was waiting impatiently
for a gondola. Presently one came glid-
ing along. 1 jumped aboard as it passed.
I expected to be greeted in hearty car-
nival style with showers of confetti and
so on, but I was received in stony
silence.
In the dim light I saw that my fellow-
passengers were regarding me with hos-
tility. Apparently I’d barged in on a
private party.
I tried to jolly them up with a joke or
two, but couldn’t raise a grin among the
lot. Slowly we drifted along. What a
dull crowd! Was this what they called
“the carnival spirit”?
“When do we reach the Bridge of
Sighs?” I asked.
There was a silence. Then one replied:
“We don’t reach it. We’re going to
the Campo Sante.
This is a funeral,
my friend.”
When 1 got back
from the funeral I
tried again. I
jumped into an-
other gondola, and
along the dark
canal we drifted.
The gondolier
shouted something
at me. “Viva!” 1
replied.
Presently flowers
and things began
to flutter down
from upper win-
dows. At least I
assumed they were
flowers. This was
better! This was
something like the
carnival I’d heard
of.
Soon, however, 1
was sadly disillu-
sioned.
.Something stick-
ily nasty squelched
all over me. 1
found out after-
wards it was a mix-
ture of stale cab-
bage and overripe
tomatoes, with a
touch of garlic.
“I told yer not t’ sit there,” said the
gondolier in perfect English.
It was the garbage boat.
1 didn’t see the carnival after all.
Uco.
>!• -J- -I- *!•
To Stop Frogs Croaking,
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Could you advise some method of over-
coming the exasperating croaking of frogs in
a garden pool, which renders the night a bed-
lam ?—7381.
“Croaking,” says our expert, “is explained
thus: Male frogs have on each side of the
neck a delicate membrane, which becomes
inflated when they croak.”
The blame for the croaking thus devolves
upon the male frogs, as our authority goes on
to say, “The voice of the females is much in-
ferior.” He considers, however, that the trouble
may lie in yourself, as being perhaps not in a
sufficiently robust state of health or suitable
condition of mind to appreciate the full beauty
of the croaking.
He claims that “the croaking of numerous
frogs in marshy places, or around ponds, often
makes a curious and amusing concert.”
He strongly deprecates any attempt at pre-
vention, and advises you to try to learn
to appreciate their simple music. Nevertheless,
should you still insist, he submits the follow-
ing suggestions:
1. Remove the membrane.
2. Remove supplies of air.
3. Remove the pond.
4. Remove the frogs.
If these methods seem too drastic, the frogs
may be caught and their mouths clamped shut
with strong elastic bands. Of course, you’ll
have to remove the bands for a few minutes
once a day for feeding purposes, and probably
a stray croak or so will be heard then, but
you’ll have to put up with that. If you don’t
feed them they’ll croak altogether, which is
just what you don’t want.
Finally, if you decide to remove from the
district yourself, don’t go to Rio Janeiro, be-
cause there “the Blacksmith Frog croaks so
sonorously that the noise is like the clanging of
a hammer on an anvil, while other species there
have a croak resembling the lowing of cattle.”
You should also avoid Peru, where the noise
“resembles the grating sound produced by a
sugar-mill.”
Sold.
“What am I offered?” yelled the auc-
tioneer.
“Two shillings,” piped the smallest
of the audience of three.
“What!” roared the auctioneer, his
face contorted with fury and derision.
“Did I hear you correctly? 1 put up a
solid vulcanite, self-filling, non-dripping,
gold-nibbed fountain-pen, personally and
positively guaranteed by me, and you
offer me two shillings.”
The little man scratched his bald head.
“Well, 1 don't really want it. you see.
I’m-m sor”
"Not THEY trousers, mawther. Hast forgotten ’ tis
Sunday?”
“Sold,” boomed the auctioneer. “Step
up this way, sir. Take two shillings from
the gentleman, Alf.”
J. R. McC.
* A .T. *
“Slated that examination of the inner ear
of a fish will reveal its age.”
And what then?
V -I- •!• *
All Is Forgiven.
Yes, I have become reconciled to
my family at last! It may sound in-
credible, but they have received me
back with open arms. All has been for-
given.
Old Aunt Teresa, who was so outraged
about Bella the barmaid, has now com-
pletely forgotten it.
Uncle David, who had such bitter
words with me over that fiver I bor-
now grips tpy hand most affec-
tionately. “Pay it whenever you like,”
he says warmly.
And Cousin Annabel, who once
scoffed at my advances, has taken to
encouraging them. The other night she
actually told me she admired Titerary
men.
Even Aunt Beatrice has softened. She
once railed at my writings, declaring they
were a disgrace, but now she reads them
with an indulgent smile.
It’s wonderful what a lottery win will
do!
T. W. N.
Denunciation.
O shallow heart ! O fickle fair !
0 false one whom / thought I knew !
How could you with such ardor swear
Those tender vows, yet prove untrue ?
You met my rival yestereve —
1 saw him gloating o’er your charms.
/ saw your faithless bosom heave.
I saw him lake you in his arms.
Well, he can have you, living lie !
Co to him, love him, rule his house !
Thus, leaving you for ever, I
Return you to your stupid spouse !
T.W.N.
Letters That Might Have Been
Written.
II.
Hairy-legs, of the Stone Age, to o friend,
relating strange secrets in the art of war.
Beyond the Marshes,
1st Moon in Spring,
30,035 b.c.
Dear Lop-ears:
The war is still going on. Yesterday
the most terrific battle of the whole cam-
paign was fought. It lasted over half an
hour, and we lost three men, besides
which many of us were severely bruised.
The enemy’s losses were even greater.
One of our three was killed by the
most cowardly and barbarous means you
could possibly imagine. One of the
enemy, old Shaggybeard, has invented a
murderous contraption out of a bent
stick and a strip of reindeer thong. He
calls it a “bow.” With the aid of this
terrible instrument he is able to stand
off and shoot sticks tipped with sharp
flint at warriors who haven’t even got
a chance of hitting back. He just missed
me at about 50 paces.
It’s not war ; it’s murder! Fancy being
able to stand off out of stone-shot and
kill people who can’t retaliate! Disgrace-
ful, 1 call it. This sort of thing will
mean the end of war. What’s the good
of a man being expert with the club and
axe and a pretty good shot with a stone
if an insignificant old bird like Shaggy-
beard can stand off and mow him down
like that?
(Apparently a couple of moons later.)
Dear Lop-ears:
Great doings, old chap! We’ve had a
smashing victory.
You remember that bow thing I told
you about? Well, it occurred to me that,
if old Shaggybeard could make one, so
could I. I got to work and made one
out of yew wood, and practised for a
while on boars and things until I was
pretty hot stuff. Then I lined up half
a dozen slaves, and —would you believe
it? —after a couple of sighters I cleaned
up the whole batch in six shots! And
the distance was even greater than
Shaggy fired from!
I got the crowd
to work making
more, and soon we
were all dead shots.
We called the flint
sticks “arrows.”
It seemed the most
suitable name for
them.
Then came the
battle.
The enemy ap-
proached, and, as
usual, old Shaggy
was in the lead.
Imagine their
surprise when a
shot from my bow
brought him down
in his tracks before
he was near enough
to have a go at us.
Gee! He looked
surprised. There
he was with the
arrow sticking in
his chest and won-
dering what on
earth had struck
him. Of course, we
. . all roared, and
even his own pals couldn’t help laugh-
ing But they didn't laugh for long
We let ’em have a volley, and in less than
no time victory was ours. We killed
about a dozen, and the rest went for the
hek of their lives.
Gee! These bows are great. Fancy,
we can stand off at 80 paces and pick
em off without ’em having the slightest
chance of hitting back. Magnificent!
JASBY.
The Dovecote.
A woman’s brain’s a wondrous thing;
It doesn’t rest or falter
From dawn till dark — it’s on the wing
From cradle to the altar.
Man’s wisest point of view it tops
And rule with guile it parries.
In fact, I’m sure it never stops —
Until its mistress marries!
P.O.M.G.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Root is, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING KOOMb.
launch from 12 noon (Sunday, 18.45• p.m.), Dinner from 's.So'p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, .M4tiol.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M J. Ryan, Esq.;
, F. ,E. Loxton. Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at Lpndon, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell’’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young man, Q’land, holding marine motor
engineers’, internal combustion, refrigeration,
and locomotive and traction certificates, also
electrical exp., wants job in Adelaide. —7523.
Two brothers, N.S.W., exp. in all classes of
sheep and cattle work, used to fencing and
rabbiting, one able to drive car or lorry and
do station book-keeping, want employment,
together or separately.—7441.
Young lady, senior typist and telephonist,
going to Brisbane shortly, wants position with
firm in that city.—7526.
Young lady, Sydney, own typewriter, requires
typing work; used to manuscripts.—7476.
Lady, N.S.W., desires position as house-
keeper, three years’ exp. as nurse, eight years’
housekeeping.—7488.
To buy latest edition Frigidaire service
manual and workshop manual.—7509.
To buy back numbers of the London
“Mercury” and the “Theatre Arts Monthly.”
—7525.
To buy books on organisation of a building
society.—7413.
To buy A Book for Kids, by C. J. Dennis. —
7424.
To buy or borrow cuttings, photographs and
information concerning J. J. Hammond, pre-
war and war-time aviator.—7436.
To exchange Cecil Hart’s Humorosities for
any other art book.—-7479.
Copy of recitation in which the words of
“The Village Blacksmith” and “The Wreck of
the Hesperus” are amusingly mixed. —7355.
Copy of book giving origin and meaning
of the names of railway stations in Vic. —7457.
Words of verse “The Bushman’s Farewell to
Queensland,” beginning “Queensland, thou art
a land of pests.”—7473.
Photographs of and information about officers
and men who served on Gallipoli with the
15th Battalion, for purpose of compiling history.
To T. P. Chataway, Murmungee, Victoria.
Journalist, Sydney, would like to hear of
N.S.W. country newspaper in good locality
going cheap.—7477. %
Partner with capital to join in working gold-
mine equipped with crushing machinery.—7450.
Information Sought.
What are the weights of the different boxing
divisions in Australia, and who are the present
champions in those divisions ? —7522.
The limit weights are: Flyweight Bst., ban-
tamweight Bst. 61b., featherweight 9st., light-
weight 9st. 91b., welterweight lOst. 71b., middle-
weight list. 61b., light-heavyweight 12st. 61b.,
heavyweight over 12st. 61b. Present champions:
Wally Walker, M. Miller, Merv Blandon,
Herb Bishop, Jack Carroll, Fred Henneberry,
Ambrose Palmer, Ambrose Palmer.
sjs i'fi sfc *
(1) What distance will a bullet carry if fired
from (a) rifle, (b) revolver ? (2) How far will
shot carry as fired from an ordinary shotgun,
and what radius will it cover at a given dis-
tance ? —7453.
(1) (a) 22-, 25- and 32-calibre cartridges are
dangerous at one mile; high-power cartridges
are dangerous at 24 miles. ( b) Revolver cart-
ridges have not the distance of rifle cartridges,
but automatic pistol cartridges which come
under the same category have been very effec-
tive in chance shots at 300 yards. The carrying
power of the bullet is much in excess of that
range. (2) Shot fired from a shotgun would
do considerable damage at 150 yards. Kills
have been effected at 120 yards, but pnly with
the highest grade 2Jin. or 3in. cartridges. The
standard test for shotguns in British proof test
is at 30ft. circle at 40 yards. Beyond that there
is a greater spread.
♦ # * *
(1) Who was the first Australian to win the
V.C., and the last, during the Great War, with
particulars of the deeds which won them the
award ? (2) When was the cross first insti-
tuted, and was it ever awarded for other than
military exploits ? —7496.
(1) The first was Lance-Corp. Albert Jacka,
14th Batt., a native of Wedderbum, Vic.,
awarded the decoration on July 24, 1915, for
an act of conspicuous bravery at Courtney’s
Post on the night of May 19, 1915, when
he attacked a raiding-party of Turks single-
handed and killed the lot. Lieut. George Morly
Ingram was the last to receive the award,
earning it during the attack on Montbrehain,
near Peronne, on October 5, 1918, when he
rushed a strong post at the head of his men,
killing 42 men and capturing a number of
machine-guns; later he rallied his men under
intense fire, and on several subsequent occa-
sions during the same day acted with outstand-
ing courage. Native of South Yarra, Vic. (2)
During the Crimea War, on January 29, 1856;
those under the rank of officers were to receive
in addition a yearly pension of £lO. By
Royal Warrant in 1858 non-military deeds of
valor were included within the scope of the
award, but in 1881 eligibility was again de-
fined as “conspicuous bravery or devotion to
the country in the presence of the enemy.”
(1) What part of the earth is it considered
was . first populated ? (2) How many years
before Christ ? —7374.
(1) Prehistoric human remains have been
found in practically every portion of the earth.
The earliest known civilisations were in the
valleys of the Euphrates, the Tigris and the
Nile, and it is reasonable to suppose the first
group settlements occurred in the same locali-
ties. (2) It is estimated that man has existed
on the earth for 500,000 years. The beginnings
of social habits and the dawn of culture appear
to date from Neolithic man, approximately
12,000 years ago, when agriculture, metallurgy
and settled life first made their appearance.
The first fixed date in the history of man is
4241 b.c., which marks the start of the Egyptian
calendar.
* * * *
I have been reading Meriel Buchanan’s
“Dissolution of an Empire.” (1) Where can
I find the best account of Rasputin’s influence ?
(2) Why was the Imperial family prevented
from taking refuge in England ? (3) Books on
revolution ? (4) Did France declare war on
Germany, or vice versa ? —7197.
(1) Prince Youssoupoff’s Rasputin, M. V.
Rodzianko’s Reign of Rasputin, R. Fiilop-
Miiler’s The Holy Devil. (2) The British
Government had no opportunity of consenting
to receive them, as members of the Imperial
family were kept close prisoners until their
execution. (3) Trotsky’s History of the Russian
Revolution, John Reed’s Ten Days that Shook
the World, Sherwood Eddy’s Challenge of
Russia, A. dc Menzie’s New Russia, and
Florinsky’s World Revolution, obtainable
Dymock,’s or Basement Book Store, 725
George-street, Sydney. (4) Germany‘.declared
war on France—on August 3‘.
t-
Aboriginal place-names meaning “rest from
toil,” “a refuge," “a haven,” or something
similar ? —7411.
Choogoowarra, Inga, Kywong, Lurnea and
Wybalena all mean “place of rest,” and
Warrina, Weerona and Weenga are variations
of the same; Carinya, “peaceful home”;
Gwandalan, “rest,” “peace” or “quiet”; Woola-
doora, “safe harbor”; Koonoongoonang, “to
rest”; and Yoorooga, “safety.” Maori names;
Rangitira, Rangimarie, “peaceful”; Taumata,
Okiokinga, “resting-place.”
* * * *
(1) How many books are published in Great
Britain annually? (2) What six classificationk
head the list ? —7478.
(1) The “Bookseller,” official organ of the
trade, estimated that in 1933 there were pub-
lished 14,608 books, including new editions,
translations and editiom-de-luxe. Books and
pamphlets priced at less than 6d. were omitted
from the count, as were also all save the most
important publications issued by H.M.
Stationery Office. (2) Fiction, 4440; children’s
books and minor fiction, 1372; educational,
993 ; religion and theology, 856; biography and
memoirs, 676; politics, political economy
and questions of the day, 560.
* * * *
Awards made for the Nobel Prize for
Chemistry for the years 1919 to 1934 inclusive ?
—7442.
For 1919 there was no award; 1920, W.
Nernst; 1921, F. Soddy; 1922, F. W. Aston;
1923; F. Pregl; 1924, no award; 1925, R.
Zsigmondy; 1926, Theo Svedberg; 1927, H.
Wieland; 1928, A. Windhaus; 1929, A. Harden
and Prof, von Euler; 1930, Prof. H. Fischer;
1931, Prof. Bosch and Prof. Bergius; 1932,
Irving Langmuir; 1933, no award; and 1934,
Prof. H. C. Urey.
* * * *
(1) Prospects of getting work canecutting in
Northern Queensland ? (2) Best place to go ?
(3) When does the season commence? —7241.
(1) Prospects are slight, as the signing-on of
canecutters has begun, and those who were
signed on for last season have first preference
of employment, second preference being given
to those who worked part of the season. A
person who has not had work on the fields
would stand no chance of getting a full cut
this season. (2) Innisfail district. (3) About
July 1.
* ❖ >:■ *
How are steel balls used in ball bearings
made ? —7425.
Steel of a high carbon content is used, which
is brought up to hardness and then tempered
somewhat to relieve stresses. A typical analysis
of ball-bearing steel is: Carbon 1.2 p.c., silicon
.24 p.c., sulphur .01 p.c., phosphorus .02 p.c.,
manganese .25 p.c. Balls over 4in. diameter are
made of chrome steel. These are hot-pressed,
the rod being first cut to suitable lengths,
rumbled to remove scale and rust, and heated
in a small furnace arranged to deliver the hot
billets automatically to the operator. Balls up
to 4in. diameter are cold-pressed in heading
machines of the Manville type. The machin-
ing operations are too lengthy to be dealt with
here.
* * * *
(1) Possible cause of small black spot and
. line developing in a diamond ? (2) Is it prob-
able that a diamond might develop the defect
after sale ? (3) Should a firm with a name for
reliability sell such diamonds ? —7447.
(1) and (2) Black spots do not develop in
diamonds. A white line may develop as the
result of a fracture or chip caused hy a blow.
(3) Diamonds are graded in various qualities,
and firms handle these grades or qualities
according to their particular class of business.
* * * *
Certain British infantry regiments have special
titles. Can you give me a list of them ? —7483.
The Queen’s Royal Regt. (West Surrey), the
Buffs (East Kent), the King’s Own Royal
Regt. (Lancaster), the King's Regt. (Liver-
pool), the Green Howards (Yorkshire), the
Cameronians (Scottish Rifles), the Duke of
Wellington’s (West Riding), the Prince of
Wales’s Volunteers (South Lancs.), the Black
Watch (Royal Highlanders), the Sherwood
Foresters (Notts and Derby), the Royal Regt.
(North Lancs.), the Queen’s Own (R. W. Kent)
and the King’s Own (Yorkshire L. 1.).
* * * *
Was Madame Sans-Gene a real or a fictitious
character ? If the former, some particulars of
her life 3—7499.
Madame Sans-Gene was the nickname of
Thdrbse Figueur, who was born at Tolmay,
France, in 1774. The daughter of a grain
merchant, she enlisted at the age of 19 in a
cavalry regiment, and saw service at the battles
of Toulon, Hohenlinden, Austerlitz, Jena and
Waterloo; she had four horses shot under her,
and was a prisoner at both Lisbon and South-
hampton. In 1818 she married a dragoon
named Sutter, and, left a widow, died in poverty
in 1861. She is sometimes confused with the
Duchess of Danzig, through the play by
Sardou and Emile Moreau.
* * * *
Has the saying concerning people who live
in glass houses its origin in any historical
event ? —7487.
When James I. ascended the throne of Eng-
land Scots came with him in throngs, and many
of the English were enraged against them.
At the instigation principally of the Duke
of Buckingham, mobs smashed their windows.
The Scots retaliated by smashing the windows
of Buckingham’s mansion, called “The Glass
House.” " The Duke complained bitterly to
the King, who replied, “Those who live in
glass houses, Steenie, shouldna throw stanes.”
* * * *
What to use to get rid of pimples on the
top part of back and shoulders? They da
not form heads, but are more like blotches.
Condition has lasted for years, but spots do
not itch or cause inconvenience. —7355.
A form of acne accounts for the back
pimples; this area is frequently affected owing
to location and insufficient cleansing of the
part. As the- fault is contributed to by a
clogged inactivity of'the skin pores, close atten-
tion in this respect is essential. Take aperient
salines to cleanse' the skin, use, a loofah bath-
strap with soap and hot water, and dust over
with starch-powder after drying. Using the
strap as a friction pad, a healthy circulation
can be obtained, but avoid irritation when the
skin is sensitive. If trouble persists, ethereal
spirit soap will be required to remove grease
excess from the surface pores. Wipe firmly
over the pimpled area twice weekly with a soft
cloth pad or wool, then rinse the part and dry.
* * * *
From a health point of view, which is con-
sidered the best position for the body to lie
when sleeping — back, right or left side ? —7377.
There is disagreement on the subject. One
authority suggests that the sleeper should lie
on the left side, because in this position the
heart retains practically its normal place within
the chest wall; but right-siders have equally
cogent arguments to support them. In gastric
subjects sleep on the right side is sometimes
advised. Food then descends through the
gastric apparatus by gravity, without wastage
of energy in propulsion or stomach power.
The ideal position is that in which most refresh-
ing sleep is obtained.
* * * =|s
Recipe for shaving-cream ?— -7308.
Add a small packet of soap-flakes to half a
cup of boiling water; stir together until the
soap is dissolved. Then add one dessertspoon
of olive oil and a few drops of lavender or
other perfuming oil; finally beat briskly until
a thick cream is obtained. Store in screw-cap
jars for use as required. The addition of a
little toilet lanoline, well mixed with the oil,
improves the holding quality. But it is best to
buy a prepared article.
* * * *
Recipe for lime-wash which includes lime,
mutton fat, butcher’s brine and copperas ?
7423.
One bag of lime, one kero.-tin of mutton
fat; copperas to be added according to color
required; sufficient butcher’s brine to give the
mixture the required consistency—a‘ generous
amount should be added. To dissolve the
mutton fat, place in cask with the lime and
then add the brine. Mix the copperas separately
with water and then add to the lime mixture.
* * * *
Recipe for lithographic crayon ? —7242.
Three drachms of white wax, 34 drachms
of hard soap prepared with tallow and 4
drachm of finely-powdered lampblack. Melt
together in a double saucepan, and stir con-
tinually for about half an hour. Cool the com-
position very slowly, and while it is still liquid
either pour into moulds or allow it to become
set enough to mould, when it can be rolled
like dough to.the required size.' If a harder
composition is needed, add one ounce of
shellac to the stated quantities. To give a
neat finish to handmade crayons, dry them on
sheets of blotting paper and then rub them
down with fine glass-paper.
* * * *
Have any N.S.W. or Commonwealth stamps
been printed in more than one color ? —7062.
Apart from certain fiscal stamps overprinted
for postal use, the only N.S.W. stamps printed
in more than one color are the sixpence regis-
tered, printed in red or orange and blue, and
two Consumptive Homes stamps—the penny,
printed in green and brown, and the twopence-
halfpenny, printed in blue, gold, rose and
carmine. These stamps were sold to the public
at Is. and 2s. 6d. respectively, the, excess over
the denoted postal values being donated to a
hospital fund. The 55., 10s. and £2 Com-
monwealth kangaroo issues are: .printed in grey
and orange, grey and pink, and black and
lake. The £1 was printed in brown and blue
until the color was changed in 1924;
Brief Answers.
J.A.P.: Rickards Bros., 567 and 615 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, were agents for the Swift
car, and have a number of spare parts on
hand but no copies of instruction book. Can
trace no present agents... .P.S.W.: A letter
addressed care The Bulletin, 247 Collins-
street, Melbourne, will find her G.W.S.:
Jim Pike, the jockey, is 5ft. 4in. high; his
riding weight is 8st. 101b L.D.: “Price
Warung” was the norn de plume of William
Astley (1855-1911), journalist and short-story
writer, author of Tales of the Convict System
and Tales of the Early Days and of other col-
lections of short stories. He left unfinished a
novel and a history of bushranging S.M.;
An advertisement in the “Otago Daily Times
and “Evening Star,” both published in
Dunedin, should bring results... .F.M.M.:
Address your questions to the man himself....
O.F.C.: Write Commonwealth Meteorological
Bureau, Melbourne... .F.M.: Write Naval Staff
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgeclifl,
N.S.W R.R.: The Cilento Medal (bronze)
has been founded in perpetuity in connection
with the Australian Institute of Anatomy by
Dr. Cilento, Queensland Director-General ol
Health, to be awarded annually to the scientist
deemed to have accomplished the best practical
work for the furtherance of tropical hygiene
and native welfare in Australasia. The first
award has been made to F. E. Williams, Gov-
ernment Anthropologist in Papua.... D.P.: (1)
No, you need a license only if you hawk the
goods from door to door. What you propose
is a private arrangement to suit yourself and
the people from whom you take the room.
(2) No; when the goods have been cleared
through the Customs you can do what you
like with them D.L.: As it is the secretary
who submits the minutes, he should sign them
on submission. All alterations or amendments
should be initialled by the chairman before
signing and dating the signature; after he signs
they must not be interfered with in any way.
. ...J.M.: (1) It might not be quite as cheap,
but probably would be more satisfactory, to
have it drawn up by a local solicitor, to whom
you could explain what you wished to be em-
bodied in the will. Correspondence is never as
satisfactory in such matters as a personal inter-
view S.S.: No. Before erecting the fence
he should have required you, in writing, to
share its cost in equal proportions. If you had
refused to do so without reasonable cause or
neglected within six months to reply to the
notice, he could have gone on with the work
and sued you for half the cost. Questions as
to the necessity for or the sufficiency of the
fence could have been submitted to arbitration
. ...H.P.W.: Action appears to be more tech-
nical than equitable, but there is no way of de-
feating it except by judicial appeal, and, in view
of the amount involved and the risk of heavy
costs should the appeal fail, it would be wiser
to let it go... .M.P.: The award rates for female
juniors in N.S.W. country solicitors’ offices are
from 15s. 8d. at 17 years of age to £2 8s. at
21.. . .J.G.C.; (1) It is believed that the manu-
facture of these cars was suspended for some
time and recently resumed. The address is
Stanley Steam Motors Corporation, Chicago.
111., U.S.A. The English agents are Branco.
Ltd., St. Nicholas-strcct, Coventry, England.
(2) No. (3) Prices and particulars are not
obtainable here. (4) None... .R.R.M.: (1)
The Wacey Co., 163 Pitt-street, Sydney. (2)
Write the agents for information and instruc-
tions. (3) Practical Course in Touch Type-
writing, by C. E. Smith, 2s. 6d. from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .J.W.: After polish-
ing the article it should be placed in a bath of
sand contained in an iron vessel, and the latter
heated on a gas fire or stove. Move the article
about while the sand is heating, and when it
has attained the desired blue color remove it
and plunge into a bath of engine-lubricating
oil... .B.L.F.: Write to the secretary, N.S.W.
Gliding Club, 39 Liverpool-street, Sydney....
L.G.H.: First-preference votes secured by
N.S.W. Senate candidates at the 1934 Federal
elections were: Macartney Abbott, 270,787;
L. T. Courtenay, 24,165; A. K. Dein, 388,086;
G. Anderson, 31,611; J. B. Dooley, 51,256;
Alexander Hogan, 4340; S. F. Allen, 44,798:
Lillie Beirnie, 2219; J. White, 1681; J. P.
Dunn, 416,997; P. F. Mooney, 4328; Arthur
Rae, 11,551; and L. L. Sharkey, 21,881.
There were 193,612 informal votes. Abbott,
Courtenay and Dein were elected... . R.G.: The
author qf “The Green Bay Tree” is Alexander
Mordau’nt Shairp. Other plays by him are
“The Offence,” “The Bend in the Road” and
“The Crime at Blossoms.” He is a school-
teacher. .. .P.J.: Bernard Shaw’s “The Showing-
up of Blanco Posnet” was first produced by
the Stage Society at the Aldwych Theatre, Lon-
don, on December 5, 1909 J.G.F.: The
population of the Northern Territory at the
1933 census was: Males, 3378; females, 1472;
total, 4850 A.B.; Shark-liver oil is used for
the currying of leather, the tempering of steel,
and in soapmaking R.D.: If a book has
been set up in the United States and published
there it is entitled to copyright for 28 years,
with a renewal of another 28 years on applica-
tion one year before the expiry of the first
period by the author, his wife and children, or
his executors H.L.: The Nationality Act
1920-30 provides (Sec. 18) that “where a man
ceases during the continuance of his marriage
to be a British subject it shall be lawful for
his wife to make a declaration that she desires
to retain British nationality, and thereupon she
shall be deemed to remain a British subject.”
... .T.D.: Yes, Report on the Administration
of Northern Territory, obtainable from the
Commonwealth Government Printer, Canberra
(2s.) AJ.H.: James Squire Farnell was
born in 1827 and died in 1888. He was N.S.W.
Minister for Lands in 1872-75 and 1883-85.
J.B.: Citizen Air Force units are located
only at Richmond (N.S.W.) and Laverton
(Vic.). It is, therefore, only possible for
persons who reside in or close to Sydney or
Melbourne to undertake Air Force training.
It is certain that an extension in scope will
enable persons resident in other localities to
participate... .T.H.R.; An electricity supply was
commenced in Rabaul in 1932 by the Rabaul
and District Electricity Supply. Co., Ltd
(Many others mailed.)


-> underthings • • •
Beautiful
Prestige
garments that
utterly
CP?
Fren
7
make you feel
Micks and
S 5
ch from head to foot!
Slips and
ns • • • f- „
Suits-
ow
Sleekies
Pantees and Pyjarria,
• that luxurious
all handout in that
r 7
powderfee”
fabric,
and smooth as
sheath to your
body ’♦
lac 0A-
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
B.D.: Good nonsense verse is always wel-
come, especially if there’s something Australian
in it. That’s where yours falls short
C.K.M.: Quite agree that the prospectors de-
serve the best you can say about them; but
your tribute is very poor stuff P.T.: “Bul-
locks” came nearest, and that wasn’t very
near C.S.C.: A very labored lament
H.G.: Six lines, if only for their pleasant
frankness: —
1 do not want to know, just now, if man descended
from the ape,
Or if he lias evolved from animals of any other
shape.
The logic of Aquinas, Kant and Comte read to me
like rot
Compared with vital issues like the Problem of the
Empty Pot.
I’m deadly tired of Jung and Freud and all their
pseudo-psycho junk ;
My one desire is where to And some kindly soul to
get me drunk. .
... .C.C.S.: Idea of “pebbly cliffs lounging about
a beach” is a bit too far-fetched... .J.J.K.:
Not enough in it C.R.: Can’t do anything
with any of them Hecker: Dropped of its
own weight into the basket... .J.L.S.: Even
“The House of Death” wants life in it to
make a verse I.R.S.: All lightly musical,
but slight in content... .L.S.: Nothing in that
little lot S.H.: Not our sort, but might
pass elsewhere... .D.A.: We think it good, too,
but to call him “our Southern Homer” is
beyond our enthusiasm E.B.: “Rum” tasted
and found wanting E.V.B.: Just a trifle
slight... .T.L.: Admired the excellent handwrit-
ing anyway V.W. (W.A.): All miss, though
they have signs of thought and craftsmanship.
. ...J.S.: Good imagery, but it’s not much
taken altogether... .E.M.E.: The worst of these
seasonal songs is their tendency to be belated by
the time they reach us... .L.K.U.: Not even
passable doggerel P.J.B.: Wheelbarrow
lyrics are off....E.E.: “The Voice of the
Wild” might do for a hiking club smoke social.
.... E.W.: They’re all a long way from click-
ing.... N.B.: The metaphors are far-fetched,
and, while your verse runs smoothly enough,
it’s quite out of our line L.A.: It has a
Gilbertian tinkle, but not enough body to carry
it past A.T.B.: Not a bad anti-climax, but
the rest is drab C.C.: Your ballads show
some technical skill, but you say little that is
fresh enough to arrest R.N.W.: Seems a
bit late for “Consolation” when
Too long inaction stays the' restless heart.
. ...E.N.H.: Would call it prose... .Wooz:
Might go all right at a golfers’ dinner, but
little other appeal J.R.C.: “Hood Winked,”
and passed by E.W.: Your famous sur-
geon and distinguished artist aren’t real people.
They don’t even talk as if they were... .A.R.:
That isn’t the way a tipping agency works.
Ask anyone in the know and he’ll enlighten
you L.J.H.: No quarter for the Boston
Bigamist... .C.H.S.: Not up to scratch....
R.J.O.: Too near home... .C.C.: Crude. You
merely pile on the agony to secure a moment
of climax Microbe: Not in our line. You
might place it with a daily... .Z.V.W.: Forced
and uninteresting... .Kolmac: One of the
oldest Digger yarns on record E.R.R.: It
had one virtue—brevity... .I.V.: No, the
anti-climax isn’t worth the trouble... .L.McC.:
The character of Bill Maguire is overdrawn.
... .Seagrove: Regret having to reject “The
Love of Slim Jim.” The comps, couldn’t set
it for weeping... .H.E.C.: Stories entitled
“Nemesis” are rejected on principle... .A.H.L.:
Not suitable... .W.M.: A long way off....
J.C.H.: It harks back to the days of
Another volley and a score of Redskins bit
the dust.
S.H.: Too slight... .H.S.: Diaries are
seldom interesting even if true. Yours does
not pretend to be true... .T.K.: To quote your
closing sentence, “There ain’t nothin’ in it”
G.A.L.: Not the type... .B.S.: The most ridi-
culous plot of the year... .D.P.: It covers old
ground... .M.R.P.: Well enough done, but the
subject wouldn’t interest many readers
J. : Don’t like racing yarns in which the
horse drops dead at the winning post. Most
dead ’uns qualify for the distinction much
sooner... .O.A.D.: “In Praise of Nudism”
rather unseasonable....H.S.S.: Too discursive.
C.A.B.: Presume the moral of your yarn
is “don’t have gold teeth” Mr. A.: Simon
doesn’t arouse the sympathy such a character
should.... A.S. (M.L.): Not far off....
C.E.D.: If founded on fact it’s worth a par.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.D.: Gent, with two walking-sticks for
legs is hiking homewards S.L.J.: There is
a lot we don’t like about it, including the
scratchy linework A.M.: The joke is
prehistoric and the drawing is indifferent....
K. : Have another shot and re-submit
V.J.: Promising; draw more from life
N.M.: Has Dave no legs or are they down
the rabbit-burrow?... .E.W.: Comic-postcard
gag T.R.: Some day your industry may be
rewarded, but it looks a long way off....
J.G.H.: A slapstick effort.. .A.L.: Your swag-
men don’t belong to Australia S.C.M.: Neat
sketch, but the jest is sapless F.W.: A
very few seconds decided its fate... .R.C.B.:
The fat lady leaning over the fence isn’t humor-
ous. .. .T.W.H.: Carefully-drawn fashion-
plates and dull wheezes... .P.P.: No hope for
abo. chasing Chinese cook with axe... .A.C.E.:
Keep on, you show improvement... .H.B.: A
failure... .M.R.: We heard that on the talkies
recently... .J.T.: An untidy batch... .W.J.S.:
Have another look at those wizened children
and try to realise your shortcomings D.Q.:
All the guests seem to have just emerged from
a mudbath N.G.F.: Consigned to office
morgue.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
A report on what Britain is doing in
the way of modernising London trans-
port services has evidently had some
effect on the Sydney Government, which
published vast plans for reconditioning
lines and equipment. The British Gov-
ernment is guaranteeing loans amounting
to £35,000,000, repayable in 15 to 25
years, for
twelve miles of new tube railways,
electrification of 56-( miles of suburban
lines (121 miles to be doubled), and sub-
stitution of trolley-buses for trams on 148
road miles.
Two transport bosses have gone abroad,
and the improvements are to be sus-
pended until they return. Seemingly, the
Government is beginning to doubt
whether the blind official devotion to
trams is justified.
* * * *
A few days before he ceased to be a
Senator, Bob Elliott summarised his im-
pressions of France, Germany and
Russia for the Melbourne Constitutional
Club. They are, in substance, that “France
is looking to the past and is fearful of the
future; Germany, proud and defiant,
is looking only to the future ; Russia is
developing its resources so rapidly that
it will make itself felt in all parts of the
world in seven to ten years.” An admir-
ing chronicler notes that it took Mr.
Elliott less than half an hour to unfold
these great truths. It is understood that
he spent quite 35 minutes in each
country.
W. J. Spalford, Deputy-Director of
Agriculture in S.A., and Colonel Butler,
of Adelaide “Advertiser,” have been
studying production and marketing
methods in South America. They re-
turned pessimistic as to Australia’s pros-
pects of beating Argentine competition
in the British beef market without a
large measure of preference—Butler did,
anyway. Argentina he found a land of
cheap labor, low land values and trans-
port costs and “remarkable fertility.”
There is a tract of country, 800 miles
long and 300 to 500 miles wide, with
water sft. to 20ft. down and a well-dis-
tributed rainfall of 30in. to 50in. It is
from the lucerne fields to be found in
this area that the bulk of the chilled beef
exported to Britain comes. The land
can carry nearly a Shorthorn cow to the
acre.
And if you closed the British market
to these cattlemen, wholly or in part,
they could easily turn to the production
of butter, bacon, mutton and fat lambs.
* * * *
“W.”: Errol Flynn, who has married
Lili Damita, the film actress, in Arizona,
was announced by the cables to be an
Irish pugilist. In fact, he is a Tasmanian,
son of Dr. Theodore Flynn, formerly
professor of biology at Hobart Univer-
sity. Before he was 20 young Flynn went
to the New Guinea goldfields. Later he
bought a plantation in Papua, but spent
much time cruising in his yacht around
Torres Strait. In 1932 he turned up in
Sydney, and was chosen by Chauvel to
play Christian in the Bounty film. His
success sent him to Elstree (where he got
a few small engagements), and so to
Hollywood. He had been signed up to
appear opposite Kay Francis at latest
advices. Last year Lili was said to be
engaged to Hugo Brassey, of Queens-
land, a relative of Victoria’s yachting
Governor who was always falling off
things long ago.
* * * *
Gertrude Concannon, the Queensland
singer, Cables from Alexandria that she
has a series of engagements in Asia.
Since leaving Queensland in 1926 she
has made appearances in the U.S.A.,
Canada, U.K., South Africa, Holland
and France. She was in London during
the jubilee celebrations, and at the close
of her latest engagement may turn her
face homewards.
* * * *
“El V.” on a Scot;
The Earl of Airlic, who got a mention as
Governor-General, could have made a fortune
a few years ago in Ronald Colman roles.
An Ogilvy, he is head of an old Jacobite
family; two former Earls were under
attainder for their parts in Jamie’s Rebellion
of 1715 and Culloden. The last lime I saw
the candidate for Canberra (if candidate he
is) he stood out like a good deed in a
naughty world among a House of Lords full
of ancient and slumberous Sassenachs, what
time he inveighed with Scottish eloquence
against the iniquity of allowing grouse moors
to be burnt on the eve of August 12. His
wife is a Coke of Leicester, descendant of the
jurist, and daughter of the third Earl, whose
family holds a record for longevity—the
first Earl was born in 1752, headed the depu-
tation to George 111. in favor of recognising
the independence of the American Colonies,
and was present at the council which approved
the settlement at Botany Bay. The second
Earl, his son, died in 1909, leaving 18 children,
the eldest 49 years older than the youngest.


••SILVER
EDGE”
IRfuAa&yx-
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if ypu ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BE LACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Champion
SPARKING PLUGS
give better
performance
in every
engine
Obtainable at
all leading garages
r
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 2 5
YEARS
The Steering Column.
NEW FEATURES OF THE CHRYSLER
PLYMOUTH.
INCREASED SAFETY AND GREATER ECONOMY
By FRED BERRY.
MOVING up from a comparatively insignificant position in
the list of U.S.A. car sales to third place this year, the
Plymouth has won public favor entirely by reason of the
Chrysler policy of improving all products each year to the full
limit of automotive progress. Convention has no place in
Chrysler vocabulary, for, despite the undoubted success of the
type of independent front-wheel suspension established last year,
the new model, by careful distribution of weight and a new type
ride-stabiliser mounted on the front axle, is still safer when
cornering at speed, and excellent so far as riding comfort is
concerned.
Horse-power of the engine has been
raised without sacrificing economy, and
as a correlative to greater speed the
efficiency of the braking system has been
improved.
Free-wheeling and automatic clutch
are now optional, instead of standard
equipment, and the constant-mesh gear-
Clean, sweeping lines of the 1935 Chrysler Plymouth, tested by The Bulletin.
box has been superseded by a new type
synchro-silent transmission;.
Special attention has been given to
frame design, and the outswept side
members of the chassis, together with all-
steel floor bracing and the method of
mounting the body, all contribute to an
extremely rigid and sturdy assembly.
The 6-cyl. engine is suspended in the
chassis on patented floating mountings
for purposes of absorbing vibration.
With bore of 3£in., stroke 4|in., piston
displacement is 201.3 cubic inches, giving
an R.A.C. rating of 23.44 h.p. Compres-
sion ratio is 6.07 to 1, and at 3600 r.p.m.
the motor develops 78 b.h.p.
A cast-iron detachable cylinder head
is fitted and the combustion chamber has
New design front-end suspension, with
rigid tubular front axle, semi-elliptic
springs, hydraulic shock-absorbers and
ride-stabiliser.
been designed to prevent pinking on hills
even when standard fuels are used. The
cylinder block, cast integral with the
upper half of the crankcase, is of special
grey iron, cylinder bores being honed to
a mirror finish to reduce running-in
period and risk of seizure in a new
engine.
Water passages surrounding the
cylinder bores and valve ports are of
generous dimensions, and extend the en-
tire length of the piston stroke. As a fur-
ther assurance of even cooling through-
out the motor, a tube in which a series of
orifices are drilled is located within the
block. Cooling water is by this means
directed under pressure directly to ex-
haust-valve seats, middle and rear
cylinders.
The heavy, four-bearing crankshaft is
fitted with seven counterweights, and is
balanced both statically and dynamically.
Connecting rods are matched in weight
and fitted with removable babbit-lined
bearings. The aluminium alloy pistons
are each fitted with four rings—two com-
pression, with two oil scrapers located
above the gudgeon pin.
Side-by-side valves are used, exhaust-
valve seatings being hardened inserts let
into the block. Working clearances wifh
motor hot are six thou, inlet and eight
thou, exhaust. The camshaft, running in
four large bearings, is of cast iron, and is
driven from the crankshaft by a short
silent chain.
The main fuel tank, with a capacity of
12 gallons, is swung between rear chassis
members. Petrol is drawn to the car-
burettor by means of a mechanical fuel
pump. Mounted on the right side of the
motor the pump is driven by an eccen-
tric from the camshaft. An efficient fuel
filter, consisting of fine-mesh gauze and
a glass bowl, is an integral part of the
assembly, both bowl and filter being
easily dismantled to remove foreign mat-
ter or an accumulation of water in the
fuel line.
The carburettor is of the plain tube
down-draught type, with fixed jets cover-
ing all speed ranges. Idling speed mix-
ture is manually controlled by external
adjustment. This adjustment is only for
controlling the fuel mixture when throttle
is closed, and is not effective when
throttle is open.
In order to provide the additional fuel
required for rapid acceleration the car-
burettor is equipped with an accelerating
pump, which supplies the extra volume
of petrol required when the throttle is
opened quickly An automatic choking
device is also fitted, which governs rich-
ness of mixture in starling up according
to manifold temperature.
Mounted above the carburettor and
attached to the intake is a Triplex air
cleaner of the oilbath type, which re-
moves dust from incoming air, and in
addition acts as a silencer and flame
arrestor in case of back firing.
Lubrication is full force system to all
crankshaft, connecting-rod and camshaft
bearings. Cylinder walls, piston pins,
cams, valve tappets and valve guides are
lubricated by a stream of oil from an oil
hole in the upper half of each connecting-
rod bearing, and also by a spray thrown
off by centrifugal action from all crank-
shaft bearings. Timing chain and
sprockets are lubricated by a jet of oil
from a small tube leading from front
camshaft bearing.
The oil pump is of gear type, located
on the right side of the motor below the
manifold, and is fitted with a large-
diameter filtering ; screen. Pressure is
adjusted by an accessible release valve,
and a cartridge-type filter is fitted in the
pipe line in order to ensure perfectly
clean oil reaching bearings and cylinder.
An efficient crankcase-ventilating system
is incorporated, an air cleaner being
mounted in the inlet pipe.
Coil-and-battery ignition system is
used; all cables are weatherproofed, and
that leading to the ignition lock on the
instrument panel is armored for pro-
Underside of Plymouth all-steel floor, providing great rigidity of body and
chassis, long life and freedom from squeaks and rattles.
porated, and charging rale at normal
touring speeds is ample to supply the
heavy demands made by radio, cigar
lighters and other electrically-operated
accessories. The usual automatic spark
control is provided, but in addition the
ignition point is further controlled when
full throttle is used at low engine speeds
tection against theft. The generator is
the latest air-cooled type, driven by
flexible belt from a pulley on the
crankshaft. Voltage control is incor-
Illustration of exhaust-valve assembly,
showing hardened steel insert and jet of
cool water impinging on hot valve-seat
area.
by a device actuated by vacuum from the
inlet manifold.
Transmission is through single-plate
dry-disc clutch to three-speed-and-reverse
silent synchromesh gearbox, with central
ball-type change-speed lever.
Clutch assembly is air cooled, the
main pressure plates being ribbed so that
when rotated a considerable volume of
air is circulated through the bell housing.
Pinions throughout the gearbox, inclu-
sive of first and reverse, are quiet, helical-
cut type, and synchromesh cones are
attached to top and middle ratios.
Final drive is through open propeller
shaft, fitted with needle roller-bearing
universal joints, to banjo-type rear-axle
housing. Crown wheel and pinion are
helical cut, reduction ratio being 4.125 to
1. Rear axles of semi-floating type run
in dual tapered roller bearings.
The chassis is newly designed, of the
double-drop rigid X type, side members
being outswept to conform to body pro-
file. The floor of the body, pressed steel,
provides further bracing to the chassis,
Careful consideration has been given
to weight distribution, and the new sus-
pension system incorporates semi-elliptic


USEFUL DATA ON CHRYSLER
PLYMOUTH.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top In 8 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in
4 4-5 seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft.
Maximum speed, 75 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 21.7 m.p.g.
iNid am oj. saiiM anon
/ <y%fcrxs&£^o yw} / \&i
opyvr snow p*ro vtrnp^o
joaiy p*ro pjca \jfmo*<yr
V
0 r
m
<0
i
/
3
%
i
A
£
/?
a/
\
C>*
/
>S
//
springs front and rear. Each spring is
built up from 10 thin leaves of specially
flexible steel, leaf ends being tapered to
give smooth and progressive action. Silent
U shackles are retained, and the front
ends of the rear springs are anchored
in rubber-cored bushings. Double-acting
hydraulic shock-absorbers are fitted, and
roadworthiness and stability on corners
are improved by the use of a ride-
stabiliser attached to the tubular front
axle.
Steering gear is of worm-and-roller
type mounted on the frame by a bracket
permitting variation in the rake of the
steering column. Steering arm and drag
link are mounted parallel to the front
axle, instead of
parallel to the frame
as in conventional de-
sign. Thus the drag
link moves across the
line of travel of the
car, giving easy and
positive control, and
at the same time
eliminating road shock
at the steering wheel.
Pedal-operated four-
wheel service brakes
are hydraulic, of the
se 1 f-equalising in-
ternal-expanding type,
a notable improvement having been made
by increasing the size of the rear shoe
cylinders in each wheel. By this means
greater pressure is applied to the rear
shoes, thereby equalising wear and pro-
viding increased retarding effect. Steel
centrifuge brake drums with spun cast-
New type heavy-duty generator, showing
fan at front which boosts current output
by reducing operating temperature.
iron liners reduce unsprung weight to a
minimum, at the same time giving an
ideal braking surface. Brake, clutch and
accelerator pedals are attached to the
chassis and connected by remote con-
trols to the various units in order to
eliminate vibration or shock being trans-
mitted from the rubber-mounted engine.
Bodywork is air-stream design, par-
ticular attention having been given to
ventilation, whilst passages under front
seats give a uniform temperature in
both front and rear compartments. All
metal panels used in construction are
Borderised before final finish is applied,
thereby preventing formation of rust.
The instrument panel is neatly arranged,
and dual windscreen wipers are actuated
electrically.
The car tested over the Bulletin
course was a four-door sedan driven by
K. E. Dibbs, of York Motors, Ltd.,
N.S.W. distributors, the speedometer
reading being 2711 miles.
Driving through congested traffic to
Parramatta, it was evident that the
Plymouth possessed remarkable top-gear
possibilities, and, despite the slightly-
higher gear ratio, one felt the driver con-
stantly held something in reserve for use
in an emergency. The “floating power”
engine was without vibration either when
cruising at 10 m.p.h. or accelerating
rapidly on full throttle.
o Continued on page 30.)


ẁ
m
must
■
> KM Mm
H
£
PASSENGERS!
All the pas-
sengers are
carried inside, protected from the heat and dust
of Summer or the cold and rain of Winter.
Even with a full load of people there is good
accommodation tor luggage (see inset photo-
graph). Think of the greater driving conven-
ience and safety. No yelling and tapping
through the back light to distract the man at
the wheel. No lurking fear of children falling
out of the rumble seat.
LUGGAGE !
This pile of luggage
was easily accom-
modated in the Oldsmobile Coupe, when emer-
gency passengers were not carried. Nearly
half as much again could be packed in if
needed. The unique body, designed and
patented by Holden's, provides greater luggage
space. Spare wheel and tools are stored sep-
arately where they cannot soil the luggage, and
where they can be reached instantly.
THE SECRET!
Here Is how this remarkable body—an exclusive
patented Holden design—operates. At the left
the deep, comfortable, roomy rear seat is in
position for passengers. The doors, 43 inches
wide, give easy access.
Now see what happens when all the rear space
is required for luggage. The rear seat hinges
forward and the same movement brings the
rear squab down. A woman can do it. At the
end of this movement (see right-hand diagram)
the back seat is rigidly upright behind the front seat and
the wooden backing of the rear squab forms a perfectly
level floor continuing forward from the rear deck, firmly
supported by heavy metal pins and eyes, giving a luggage
compartment 52 in. long, 56 in. wide at its widest, 42 in.
wide at its narrowest, and ranging from 14 in. to 32 in.
high. A masterpiece of Coupe construction!
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LIMITED
Genuine Spare Parts are available from all G.M.-H.
dealers and reputable garages at standard prices through-
out Australia.
□LDSMDBILE
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1934
(SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At ail Newsagents, 3/-
or
posted direct' from The
•iot Ueorge Street. Sydney. 3d.
Bulletin',
extra.
On the open road through Baulkham
Hills to Windsor a high average speed
was maintained, scarcely any throttle
opening being required to keep the needle
hovering round the 50 mark —apparently
the ideal cruising speed for this car.
At Pitt Town the rolling test was con-
ducted. Starting in neutral from a steady
15 m.p.h., the car coasted 702 yards
before coming to rest.
Through Windsor and approaching
Richmond, maximum speed was checked
over a measured mile, with flying start,
the time taken, 48sec., giving an average
of 75 m.p.h.
Leaving the main highway at North
Richmond, the unmade by-pass road
through (jrose Vale was taken, and over
this rough and difficult section the new
Plymouth suspension system was severely
tested at speed with satisfactory results.
On Kurrajong Mountain the final
2 l-sth miles of steepest grade was
climbed against the watch, the time taken,
3min. 23 l-ssec., being very good.
Second and top gears were used through-
out the climb, and the car maintained an
even keel even when negotiating acute
bends at speed.
Returning down the mountain a test
of emergency-braking equipment was
made with satisfactory results, and, tak-
ing the cross-country road via Castle-
reagh to Penrith, further traffic tests
were conducted. Covering 350 yards in
top gear as slowly as possible, followed
immediately by a similar distance on full
throttle, showed that the new Plymouth
is powered by not only a powerful but a
remarkably flexible motor, the slow-run-
ning section occupying smin. 36sec., aver-
aging 2.1 m.p.h., while the accelerated
lime, 17 2-ssec., averaged 40 m.p.h., the
finishing line being crossed at between
60 and 65 m.p.h. From a steady speed
of 10 m.p.h. to 30 in top gear was
clocked in Bsec. and in second 4 4-ssec.,
while from a standstill to 50 m.p.h. occu-
pied 12sec., proving the splendid traffic
possibilities of the Plymouth.
Brake efficiency was then tested by
pulling up from 25 m.p.h., the distance
covered being 20ft.
Turning circle on left and right lock
was measured and found to be 42ft..
while minimum road clearance is
wheelbase 113 in., overall length 191 in.
The quantity of petrol consumed on
the journey of 114 miles was 5-}gal., an
average of 21.7 m.p.g. (33.9 ton miles),
which, taken in conjunction with an aver-
age speed (inclusive of all tests) of 38
m.p.h., is an extremely satisfactory per-
formance.
The Trouble Lamp.
6917. —Who are the agents for S.S. cars?
Coventry Motors, Ltd., Flinders - street,
Sydney.
* * *
R.H.B. (Auckland, M.L.). —A new lin.
exhaust pipe and silencer were recently fitted
to my ’27 model tourer, and at certain engine
speeds, especially when ticking over, a vibration
appears to come from the silencer. Connections
of inlet and outlet pipd seem secure. What’s
wrong?
If all fittings are free from play and no
fractures appear in the welded flanges, the
trouble must be in (he internal construction of
muffler baffle plates. Looseness here would
produce symptoms complained of.
R.K. (Croydon, N.5.W.).—27// I stripped a
pinion in the rear axle my ’27 model T Ford
was giving 25 ni.p.g. Now consumption has
fallen to 18 m.p.g., and hill-climbing ability is
greatly reduced. Valves are in good order,
clearances correct, carburettor tuned by an
expert, and ignition perfect. What’s gone
wrong?
Apparently the newly fitted differential
assembly gave a higher gear ratio than the
original, and now, due to more frequent use
of low gear and greater throttle opening
required for hill-climbing, petrol consumption
is increased. The higher gear would also
explain poor hill-climbing performance in top.
* * * *
W.T.H. (Coolealalaya Station, W.A.). —(1) In
B. 8 /5/’35 Plymouth was stated to have dis-
carded front-wheel suspension. What advan-
tages are claimed ? (2) What was wrong with
the earlier type of suspension ? (3) Do coil
springs of latest types give trouble ?
(1) Greater stability on corners and lower
production cost. (2) Nothing wrong with it;
it gave very good results. (3) No.
* * * *
Oldcar (N.S.W.). —(1) Can much extra power
and more miles per gallon be obtained by
installing new spark plugs to replace old ones ?
(2) For how many miles should plugs remain
serviceable ? (3) How can I tell when plugs
need replacing when mileage is not known ?
(4) Which type would you recommend —l, 2
or 3 ?
(1) Considerable improvement will be
observed in a motor after new plugs of suit-
able type have been substituted for an old
worn-out set. (2) Depends entirely upon type
of engine to which they are fitted. Special
racing engines seldom use the same set twice,
while in stock-model touring cars they run
efficiently for from 10 to 15 thousand miles
before new equipment is required. (3) Only
certain test is by means of a special machine
to which the plugs can be fitted and sparked
at working pressure under observation. The
common test of placing the plug on the cylinder
block and spinning the motor to check spark
intensity is useless. (4) 1,2, 3, in that order.
H.A.B. (Grafton, N.5.W.).-— Can I convert a
six-volt D.C. starter motor to run on 240 volts
A.C., 50 cycles ?
Yes, by completely rewinding, when the
motor would become a universal type —cither
lor A.C. or D.C. Least expensive policy would
be to buy special type.
* * * *
P.A.C.P. (Brisbane, Q.). —(I) Two eight-
cylinder 1935 cars with R.A.C. horse-power
rulings of 32 and 28 claim respectively 84 and
100 b.h.p. maximum output. How is it that
the smaller R.A.C. rated engine can produce
a higher maximum ? (2) Is the smaller-engined
car a better job throughout, and is its system
of independent wheel suspension more effec-
tive ? (3) In crankcase-ventilating systems is it
advantageous to have the inlet to the crankcase
shielded with an air-cleaning device ?
(1) R.A.C. rating has no connection with
maximum brake-horsepower, it being an old-
fashioned formula taking only the bore and
not the stroke into consideration. In practice
“blown” 7-h.p. engines used overseas for track
and competition work commonly develop in
excess of 120 b.h.p. (2) Little to choose be-
tween either, and both suspension systems arc
proving satisfactory in practice. (3) Certainly
reduces possibility of contaminating sump oil,
and should give bearings and reciprocating
parts a longer life.
* *
Y.O.R. (Rydalmere, N.S.W.). —My ’29 model
car has been used only for week-end touring,
and petrol consumption has been reasonable
and consistent until the last month, when a
sudden drop of six miles per gallon look place.
Reason ?
Look for a leakage in the fuel lines, filter
and in rear petrol tank.
Motor Oddities.
“Spica”: Was spinning along the road
to Hampton Plains (W.A.) in my Chev.,
with the speedometer needle at 45, when
1 heard a loud crash from the engine,
and before I could pull up the motor
coughed and cut out. Got out to in-
investigate, and found that the carburet-
tor had been cut in halves, as clean as a
knife-cut. A piece of branch about 4ft.
long and lyin. thick, thrown up by a
front wheel, had done the trick.
* * * *
“Jay”: A Brisbane man figured in a
remarkable smash in Fortitude Valley
recently. He swerved to the right to
avoid a collision with a tram, but met
another going in the opposite direction.
To avoid colliding, he swerved to the
left again, and was sandwiched between
the two. He sat light while one tram
took one half of the car and the other
tram the other half. The trams were not
the heaviest types, but they reduced the
motor to a mass of twisted wreckage.
The motorist scrambled out without a
scratch.
❖ * * *
“Cushion Tyre”: If “Larrapinta” is
really looking for a bad road (B.
24/4/’35) he can leave Vic. and come
to W.Q. Let me commend him to any
back-country road —down the Georgina
for choice —after three to four inches of
rain and after a thousand bullocks have
travelled it. The drover in charge of
those cattle wants to get a wriggle on as
soon as his stuff can move. The cattle
naturally follow the road, as it is a lead
for them. The stockmen favor that
notion, too, as they know the beasts
won’t feed under those conditions of
bog. Each bullock is bogging to his
hocks or his knees as he walks. The
mob of them are treading that track to
the consistency of cement. When it dries
the thing is like an exaggerated rasp, as
hard as the hobs of Hades are supposed
to be, and there are miles of it on end
to move a car-driver to bad language and
tears.


RADIO NEWS.
The Growl
at Radio
N o (withstand-
ing much furious
criticism levelled
at the A.B.C.
only a very one-
cared listener
ẃ
QUAYEAU.
Will the World
Get Sick of
Broadcasting?
The mere sug-
gestion of such a
development is
calculated to
throw a thrill of
horror into the
marrow of
countless thousands of announcers, radio-
set manufacturers, broadcast advertise-
ment-mongers and entertainers who
specialise in microphone performances,
but it is worth considering. Most people
in the first year they own a radio set
work the valves nearly threadbare, in
the second year they arc not so keen. A
home that has had a set three years sel-
dom hears it unless there are youngsters
interested in B-station serials, and even
then the grown-ups, though they hear
the noises, don’t listen to them.
The history of radio broadcasting in
this respect is that of the mechanical
piano-player and the gramophone. If
there is anything a body can get sicker
of in shorter time than anything else it is
a gramophone record, with which must
be bracketed a player-piano roll. One
soon gets tired of buying the darned
things, knowing well the awful satiety
they bring in their train.
“But surely,” you say, “this cannot
apply to radio broadcasting—ever bright,
ever new.” It does, because broadcasting
seldom is bright, and, as for newness, it
outdoes the gramophone and the piano-
player in the matter of vain repetitions.
And it has a worse voice than either of
these—a voice as irritating as a dental
drill in a sore tooth ; as distracting as a
buzzing fly. Really intelligent people
soon give up broadcast browsing.
They listen-in only when some subject
of special interest to themselves is being
sent over the air. Musicians don’t like
broadcast music. It is tolerable only
when the source of origin is a good
gramophone recording, and anyone who
has a sensitive ear and a good memory
soon finds out that a gramophone record
can lie worse than a camera. It gave
up telling the truth just as soon as the
gramophone engineers began to study
acoustics and put the fruit of their
labors into recording studios as well as
into console cabinets. Special piano-
fortes with electrically reinforced vibra-
tions ; gadgets to transform a feeble
violin lone into something supernal;
tricks of control that do wonders to a
voice—all these impugn the validity of
the gramophone record as a truthful
witness. The same tricks are being
applied in broadcasting studios, but with
less discrimination. No wonder people
get sick of the results!
No. As a means of entertainment
radio will probably run itself to death.
Television may revive it for a while,
but at long last all that Marconi and
De Forest and Baird have given us will
be valued only for its capacity to tell the
truth quickly. Radio should have a great
career as a disseminator of news. For
entertainment people will prefer some-
thing that gives more direct contact.
ALKALI IKE.
Broadcast:
“Distinguished
Visitor”
.... w h i c h
brings us to to-
night’s special
fea-ture, an in-
terview with Herr
Kauf Dropp, the
celebrated
paintah, who is on a world lour. It
is the boast of Station EOE that
Herr Kauf Dropp at home.
it has inter-
viewed moaah
celebrities than
any other sta-
tion on the
ayar. To illus-
trate the
seppe lended
service given to
ower listeners,
aye might
mention that
befoah the
Donnerundblitzen had anchored at quar-
antine this morning our representative
was aboard the linah and actually made
arrangements foah this interview whilst
Herr Kauf Dropp was still in bed . . .
Heah is the world-famous artist in the
studio now . . .
Good evening, Herr Dropp. I am
suah that ower many thousands of lis-
teners are all agog to heah from the lips
’Os-pee-tallity.
of Herr Dropp
himself his im-
pressions of
Orstraylia and
th e Orstray-
lians, and his
o b s e rvations
on ower cul-
ture moaah
particularly the
subject dearest
to his heart.
Being the
piece de re-
sistance, as it
were, we shall
—er —keep this
titbit till the
last—ha! ha!
And now, Herr
Dropp, that you have arraived in the
land of the Southern Cross, would you
maind telling us what fea-ture of this
island continent has impressed you
most?
Veil. Aye joos’ gom t’day. Dza ’os-
pee-tallity iz wun’fool, don’t it, ja, nein?
Well, Herr Dropp, it has often been
remarked that we are quaite hospitably
inclained, so if you endorse it there must
be something in it —ha! ha! Visitors
—peaceably-mainded ones, of course —
to these shores are evah welcome, even
though their homelands may be termed
foreign; ower listeners, whose names
are legion, will, I feel suah, heartily en-
dorse this sentiment and
Ja! Zom my gondreymen see zervis
in dat, don’t she!
Er —come again—ahem, that is, to
what do you refer, Herr Dropp?
You —ah —whad you zay—men-shec-
on Foreign Legion—dat life she too
’ard, nein?
’Urn —precisely, Herr Dropp—there—
er —seems to be a slaight misunderstand-
ing—ha! ha! Well, now, you know
that Orstraylia is famed for her sheep—
could you give us your impressions in
that regard?
Nein goodt! I ’ave no like dza sheep
'ere. 1 'ave roosh to ——
Oh! lam so sorry to have embar-
rassed you with so indelicate a question,
mein Herr. I quaite overlooked for
the moment youah country’s tremendous
Breedge, breedge, breedge.
economic difficulties which youah leaders
are gallantly endeavoring to surmount
and which doubtless
Ja! Sheep ’ere nein goodt. ’Ow you
zay, roll bad in beeg sea? Ged seek an’
’ave roosh to side blenty, eh?
Oh! You refer to the ship on which
you voyaged here. Aye thought' at first
—ha! ha! Aye assure you, Herr Dropp,
youah explanation quaite relieves me.
Er—-now l it has been remarked by many
othah distinguished visitors that ower
harbor is comparable with that of any
othah in the world. From what you
personally have seen, would you sub-
scribe to this view?
Veil, der ’cavy vog dis morgen I nod-
ding zee eggzeb warder und land zom
off, p’rabs. Bedder ’arbor four off, five
off, gondries I go —Tibet, Swidz’lan’,
Austria, Latvia, Finlan’ —ozzer gondries
don’t I know, eh?
Thank you, Herr Dropp. Such an
eloquent testimony, coming as it does
from one whose sense of artistic values
is so keen, is greatly appreciated. In the
same sense, no doubt, our great bridge
has created a profound impression upon
you?
Breede! Ja!
I no d d ing
’car cff’ry
nacht on
sheep bud
breedge,
breedge . . .
You would
say, then,
that as an en-
gineering feat
it is u n-
rivalled?
E n g i n c,
near? I
spik k a d a
Art.
breedge play wceth weemen efTry nacht.
Oh! Yes, yes, of course, Herr Dropp.
Ha! ha! —er —yes —well, we must not
encroach too much upon youah valu-
able tairnc, mein Herr, but before you
go we would be delaightcd if you would
say just a few words on contemporary
art.
But oil' der art I nodding know . . .
Ah! now. Herr Dropp, your modesty
is charming, but youah reputation as a
Mit ’Err Adolph in Vienna.
paintah is suahly established internation-
ally, and
Dere moos’ zom —whad you gall—
miz tacks, hein? I ged zom celly-britty
begorse I once baint ’ouse mit ’Err
Adolph ’ltier in Vienna, ja! Bud off
art, nein.
Oh! Well—ha! ha! thank you so
much for youah intenselay interesting
comments. Quaite a pleasure. Youah
remarks, made from a keen observation,
will. Aye feel suah, be greatly appre-
ciated by youah huge unseen audience.
Thank you again, Herr Dropp . . .
Station EOE. You have been listen-
ing to an interview with Herr Kauf
Dropp, a distinguished European visitor.
You are now to heah Elhelbert Tonck
and his dahnee band playing the fox-
trot "He's My Great Big Gravy-eyed
Gazoo mp! ”
S.W.K.
All Round
the Dial
“Tuart”; One
of the worst
features of jour-
nalism is creep-
ing into the an-
nouncing busi-
ness: the absurd idolatry ot musi-
cal composers and performers. It is
bad enough to read the cant and
slush that pass for musical criticism in
daily newspapers, but when the rubbish
is carted into A- or B-class stations and
the idiotic jargon of dictionary-ran-
sackers is shot through the microphone
at inoffensive people who pay a guinea
a year for being instructed and enter-
tained, it' is past endurance. I heard an
announcer say the other night that it was
his thrilling pleasure to introduce to lis-
teners that glorious, delightful, impec-
cable conshairlo in G of Barrelovodka
“that seems not of this world.’' For
the next 20 minutes there was heaved
into the ether a very ordinary composi-
tion, quite 40 p.c. of which —as in the
case of so much alleged classical music
—was made up , f tedious repetition.
The debunking of music which depends
so much for its effects on mere repeti-
tion and mechanical dexterity is long
overdue. It is a pity to see radio resist-
ing the process. Some stations are even
allowing fiddlers and pianists to extol
the pieces they are about to perform in
language that would seem fulsome if
applied to “Hamlet.”
“Wodgil”: There are few things I
enjoy more than band music in its proper
place; and we are very well supplied
with it in Australia. But its proper place
is a park ; in a hall or a broadcasting
studio it is a sad mistake. There are
no great composers of band music, and
a lot of it is sorry stuff. The instruments
are not suitable for high-class orchestral
music, and when anything of the kind
is tackled and transmitted over the air
the effect is apt to be rather dreadful.
I hate to say if, because the bandsman
has rather a tough row to hoe in Aus-
tralia, and he deserves well of the public
he entertains so agreeably—in parks;
but band music should really be banned
by the broadcasters. A.B.C.’s encourage-
ment of it, while well meant, is one of
the counts in the indictment against that
concern.
“Fisher's Ghost”: An extraordinarily
good M.C. is occasionally permitted to
make an A.B.C. old-time dance night
sound like a piece of good fun and
frivolity, but since the days of “Antonio’s
Dilemmas” Australia appears to have
produced no radio comedians. If we
did, the A.B.C. wouldn’t sec the joke.
Humor is almost wholly absent from its
programmes. Now that the mysterious
riles of selecting a manager are again
going on, it might be a good oppor-
tunity fo select a man to manage
a chain of radio stations, and Jet him
manage them. So far, the say on the
programme end, which is all the average
listener is interested in, has been vested
in a body of persons, who don't leave
much managing to be done.
“Seam”; We haven’t yet reached the
stage of final-final-final radio appear-
ances, but we soon should, since the
broadcasting houses arc now the address
of Poverty Point. Latest front-ranker to
hang up his hat gratefully there is Mark
Hambourg, who broadcast for the first
time in Great Britain on April 1 in both
home and Empire programmes. Ham-
bourg had broadcast on only two pre-
vious occasions, once in Canada and once
from Hilversum, and had not thought
much of the medium. Now he is reported
to have said that the effect of broadcasting
on musical appreciation “is much the same
as the gramophone. People who only a
few years ago would have fled at the
mere mention of the words ‘classical
and ‘concerto’ now tune-in eagerly to the
most abstruse compositions. The step
from the enthusiastic listener to the en-
thusiastic concert-goer is a small one,
and I expect that a good proportion ot
present-day concert audiences heard
their first symphony or sonata by way of
the ether.” He added that there is evi-
dence to show that an appetite for good
music has been frequently whetted into
a healthy hunger through the introduc-
tory medium of radio.


Obtainable Everywhere.
w
WIDDIS
DIAMOND
DRY CELXf
m.
no
West
c.;
Road and Towns
Place, Miller’s Point,
Sydney, N.S.AV.
DRY CEEEf
fTY., LTD., \
1!) Hawke St.\
IVest Melbourne \
?.3; Cnr. Daljjet,. '
toad and Towns X
Still Keep
Working when
Others Have
Stopped . . .
The P 5 has the great ability to deliver
efficient current down to the lowest
voltage stage. There is no overnight col-
lapse with Ps’s. See your dealer to-day!
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
PAP ABi .T^
\\\
%
Stromberg
-Carlson 9
Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE.
MAGNETRONS AND THEIR APPLICATION.
Much has been written in the press about new achievements with micro-waves
and the advantages of these very high frequencies for point-to-point communication,
special broadcasting links, and the possibility of their application to television.
To generate radio-frequency oscillations at wave-lengths of the order of one metre
and less, special valves employing different principles are necessary. Such valves
and their fundamentals are discussed in this description by courtesy of
Philips Radio.
Quite new possibilities in transmitter
technique have recently been disclosed
by the use of ultra-short waves of one
metre and less. One of the foremost
advantages is that the dimensions of the
Fig. 1. —Philips
100-watt magne-
tron.
aerial system re-
main exception-
ally small, so that
in a very simple
manner it is pos-
sible to form
sharp beams of
the radiated
energy. This
makes the use of
ultra-short waves
for radio beacons,
secret telephony
and other pur-
poses very
attractive. These
very high fre-
quencies can be
produced in
various ways. In
the first place, the
dimensions of an
ordinary triode
can be reduced,
but the energy
obtained with
such valves is
too small, whilst
on the other hand
there are many
technical objec-
tions. For ex-
ample, a valve for
a wave-length of
about 40cm. has
a plate with a
diameter in the
neighborhood of
Imm. The dis-
tance between electrodes amounts only
to fractions of a millimetre, and the
output is no more than about 0.1 watt.
Another possibility for producing ultra-
short waves is the Barkhausen-Kurz cir-
cuit. Here an ordinary triode is used
with a negative plate voltage and a posi-
tive grid voltage. The electrons from
the filament pass partly through the grid,
are attracted again by the latter and, in
consequence, oscillate around the grid.
When a suitable oscillation circuit is in-
cluded in the grid, the desired oscillations
Fig. 2.—Simple theoretical circuit of a magnetron oscillator.
can occur in the latter. Efficiency is still
low, and is only about 3 p.c. with an out-
put of three watts at the most. A third
method of producing these oscillations
is by the use of magnetrons. These valves
not only produce greater energy, but the
efficiency is much higher. The Philips Co.
is already manufacturing magnetrons with
an output of 50 and 100 watts, and with
Fig. 3.—Schematic diagram of a Philips magnetron trans-
mitter for 100 watts output at 75-300 centimetres wave-length.
an efficiency of 50-60 p.c. Research at
the Eindhoven (Holland) laboratories
has now advanced so far that the manu-
facture of a complete series of magne-
trons for various wave-lengths and capa-
cities has been undertaken.
Characteristics and Particulars.
Magnetrons contain a filament in the
axis of a cylindrical plate which by
longitudinal is divided into a
number of even parts. The frequency
is directly proportional to the number of
plate pairs at the same plate voltage and
with the same magnetic field. Therefore
valves with a two-section plate are used
for the lower frequencies and valves with
a four - section
plate for the
higher ones, the
parts of which are
connected to and
fro in pairs. The
valve is placed in
a powerful mag-
net i c field in
which the lines of
force run in the
direction of the
filament. Philips magnetrons are divided transformer, the device for voltage stabili-
into two groups 50- and 100-watt sation and a regulating transformer for
valves. As the
waves of these
high frequencies
behave as light
rays, and conse-
quently their radius
of action is con-
fined to the hori-
zon, higher ener-
gies are not re-
quired.
Fig. 1 is an illus-
tration of the 100-
watt type with
four-section plate.
For producing the
magnetic field, the
magnet must have
an air gap of at
least 40mm. It is
constructed with
an unscrew able
headpiece to suit
both 50-watt and
100-watt valves.
The coils each have
1500 turns of en-
amelled copper
wire with a
diameter of I.2mm.
The voltage must
be controllable and
have a maximum
value of about 40
volts, at which
voltage the magnet
current will amount
to 2.5 amps. The
highest wave-length
value stated for
Fig. 4.—The complete 100-watt magnetron transmitter, with
power cabinet on the right.
the 50-watt valves is 500 cm., and 300 cm.
for the 100-watt type.
Valves can also
be supplied speci-
ally with a wave-
range between
14cm. and 30cm. or
2cm. The output
power of these
special valves, in
which the plates
are short-circuited,
amounts to about
three watts. The
plate voltage is
2000 volts and the
plate dissipation
30 watts. Filament
voltage is 2.6 at
five amps.
Magnetron ,
Circuit.
A simple theo-
retical circuit of a
magnetron oscil-
lator is shown in Fig 2. This circuit is
also suitable for the shortest wave-
lengths. If the shortest wave-lengths are
not desired the valve can be connected
direct to the Lecher circuit drawn to the
right. The Lecher circuit to the left,
across which the plate voltage is sup-
plied, eliminates by its wiring in parallel
the capacity between the horn-like ter-
minals of the valve. By series wiring of
the variable condensers C the self-induc-
tion of the plate supply leads in the valve
is eliminated. The Lecher circuit on the
right serves for eliminating the internal
capacity of the valve, and the aerial
feeder system is also connected here.
Modulation can be effected very simply
by including a transformer in the plate
supply lead.
Magnetron Transmitter.
Fig. 3 illustrates the complete wiring
circuit of a magnetron transmitter con-
structed by Philips laboratories, while the
appearance of the complete units is
shown in Fig. 4. In this transmitter the
magnetrons are wired in parallel. The
wave-length range is 70-300 cm., and the
transmitter is suitable for continuous-
wave telegraphy and telephony. Output
amounts to 75-100 watts. The adjustment
of the bridges on the Lecher system is
effected by means of a knob on the front
panel. For wave-lengths higher than
150 cm. the condensers Cl, 2, 3 and 4 are
short-circuited. Owing to the fact that
the condensers C 5 and 6 are included in
the feeder system the plate voltage cannot
pass to the aerial in this case. Valve-
holders are constructed in such a manner
that the valves can be turned on their
longitudinal axis so that the plates of the
valves can be placed in the right posi-
tion with respect to the magnetic field.
Modulation is effected via the trans-
former Tl, included in the earth-lead of
the high-tension rectifier, and the first
stage of the modulator is connected via
transformer T 2 to the microphone ampli-
fier or sound generator. The energy con-
sumed, amounting to Ikw., is supplied to
the various rectifiers via a self-induction
across the terminals and a series conden-
ser and auto-transformer. The auto-
the plate voltage are mounted in the
small cabinet illustrated in Fig. 4.
Concerning Death-rays.
Another inventor of death-rays has
turned up, this time in the person of an
Auckland (M.L.) man. One account
said police were guarding him and his
laboratory.
Details are lacking, but the inventor
avers that his rays are capable of ex-
ploding cordite buried two feet under-
ground.
My earliest recollections in this line
go back to 1904, when an Italian named
Ulivi invented an “F-ray.”
Ulivi succeeded in impressing the
Italian naval authorities, but nothing
came of his idea.
After the war we heard that the Ger-
mans had a ray which could derange the
ignition system of an aeroplane in flight,
and early this year a report from Rome
credited Marconi with having held up the
motor-traffic on a public highway by
shooting a death-ray at the ignition sys-
tems of automobiles.
Some years ago a young Sydney radio
experimenter acquired fleeting fame by
tearing splinters off a block of steel with
his particular brand of ray, but he soon
faded out of the public eye.
Without any desire to discourage the
Auckland man, I submit that the proper-
ties of all types of electromagnetic radia-
tion, from the incredibly short cosmic
rays of Prof. Milliken, through X-rays,
light-rays, heat-rays and so on up to the
longest wireless waves, are now very well
understood by physicists, and it is diffi-
cult to see where these death-rays, be-
loved of the daily press, can be fitted
into the picture.
Whilst it is well-known that a piece of
metal in the immediate vicinity of a


Freq
6000
6005
6010
6015
6020
6025
6030
6035
6040
6045
6050
7000
7010
7020
7030
7040
7050
7060
7070
7080
7090
9500
9505
9510
9515
9520
9525
9530
11700
11705
11710
117.15
11720
11725
11730
A
WAVELENGTH-FREQUENCY CONVERSION.
useful table for rapidly converting kilocycles to metres or vice versa, and dealing
with the most-used short-wave bands.
Freq.
11805
11810
11815
11820
11825
11830
11835
14000
14010
14020
14030
14040
14050
14060
14070
14080
14090
14100
14110
14120
14130
15100
15105
15110
15115
15120
15125
15130
15135
15140
15145
15150
15155
15160
15165
15170
15175
15180
25-metre Band.
20-metre Band.
19-metre Band.
♦ SEE /
THAT YOUR
NEW SET IS
a
♦
«
o
%
The Octode is the latest
achievement of radio pro-
gress, discovered and devel-
oped by Philips Laboratories.
Be sure your new set is truly
modern and that means
equipped with
PHILIPS
SUPER SERIES VALVES
5R25
wireless transmitter (especially a short-
wave outfit) can be made red-hot by the
effect of induced currents, the effect is
limited to a range of a few feet. The
amount of energy which can be so con-'
centrated at a distance of, say, 100 yards
is microscopic, and need cause no
anxiety in the chancellories of Europe.
1 am in possession of a “death-ray”
which is capable of setting fire to a copy
of my morning paper. Lest I should be
assailed by the agents of a foreign Power
I hasten to add the ray is generated by
nothing more complicated than a long-
focus magnifying-glass. A concave
mirror will do the trick equally well, and
il I can find a human subject who is
willing to remain still for the necessary
period of time I will undertake to burn
him to death with either of these devices.
MIKE ROHENRY.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions lately have been rather un-
usual, there being present considerable
static right down to 25m. for part of the
week ; as severe as summer conditions.
Another new station has appeared, but
will probably be used for ’phone work.
I his is JVH, on 20.6 m. from 6 a.m. to
8 a.m. (E.S.T.) on .Tuesdays and Fridays.
It also operates in the afternoons, though
the schedule has not yet been stated.
Ihe station has been coming through
recently at full speaker strength, transmit-
ting European and Japanese music and
an English news session.
I here was a special broadcast on
26/6/’35 from Holland, picked up on
relay from NI ROM, but the 49m. band
was far too noisy for the result to be en-
joyable. „
This has been the case throughout a
recent week above 31m., except for a
short period in the early morning, when
GSL and DJC were quite good in the
49m. band.
8.8. C. transmission No. 1 has been at
excellent strength, but with much more
high-speed fading than usual, which
causes distortion and brings out the value
of A.V.C. on short waves. The League
of Nations’ broadcast on 23/6/’35 was
again too weak to follow, as was also
CTIAA.
2RO has been coming in very well in
the 25m. band late at night, but the 31m.
transmission has been poor in the early
mornings. After 8.30 a.m. GSF (19mj
has been excellent, and for a short period
quite as good as the No. 1 transmission.
Another unexpected result has been the
reception of the special transmission for
Canada between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. at
really good strength from GSC (31m.).
Both the German stations in the 19m.
band have again been audible with
'phones between 3.30 p.m. and 4 p.m.
in the afternoons.
FYA, as usual, maintains great strength,
but is not heard after 6 p.m. The broad-
cast reported previously must have been
for some special reason, and this time
would suit Australia admirably now.
The 20m. amateur band has been very
lull of ’phones, with the unusual feature
ol various Australian Stales coming in at
great strength. As a number are in the
American "phone band, they blot these
out completely. U.S.A. stations have
been poor on all bands, With WBXK best
in the 19m. band about 8 a.m. ; also at
weak phone strength late at night. Both
the 25m. and 31m. bands have been
noticeably different this winter on Ameri-
can stations as compared with the last
three years
NIGHTOWL.
Short-wave News.
Netherlands station, call letters PHI,
built and operated by Philips Radio,
Eindhoven, Holland; wave-length
16.88 m.; 17,775kc./sec. The specifica-
tion of hours as given is expressed in
E.S.T.:
July 21: 10.40 p.m., piano recital by Julius
Hijman; 11.30 p.m., news from Holland;
12.05 a.m., records; 12.10 a.m., broadcast by
the Roman Catholic Broadcasting Association.
July 22: 10.55 p.m., meeting of the Phohi
Club (announcer answers listeners’ reports);
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
electrical transcriptions; 12.15 a.m., dance
records.
July 25: 10.40 p.m., violin recital by J. van
Hcldcn; 11.20 p.m., records; 11.30 p.m., news
from Holland; 11.45 p.m., electrical transcrip-
tions; 12 a.m., second part of recital;
12.20 a.m., dance records.
July 26: 10.40 p.m., electrical transcriptions
of opera; 11.10 p.m., station orchestra;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
electrical transcriptions; 12.20 a.m., dance
records.
July 27: 11 p.m., station orchestra;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
records; 11.50 p.m., station orchestra;
12.25 a.m., South American music; 1.20 a.m.,
dance records.
July 28: 10.40 p.m., station orchestra;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
electrical transcriptions; 12.10 a.m., broadcast
by the Roman Catholic Broadcasting Associa-
tion; 1.10 a.m., broadcast from Hotel Ham-
dorf (the Ramblers).
July 29: 10.40 p.m., meeting of the Phohi
Club (announcer answers listeners’ reports);
11.05 p.m., electrical transcriptions; 11.30 p.m.,
news from Holland; 11.45 p.m., records;
11.45 p.m., ’cello recital by Reinier Bresser.
August 1; 11 p.m., 25 years of musical
comedy (1910-1935), records; 11.15 p.m.,
song recital by Toos Schleyer; 11.30 p.m.,
news from Holland; 12 a.m., dance records.
August 2: 10.40 p.m., records; 10.45 p.m.,
talk by W. P. L. Spruit, “Short Waves—Long
Distances”; 11.30 p.m., news from Holland;
11.45 p.m., records; 12.10 a.m., financial and
economical talk by Dr. Wicbols.,
August 3: 10.40 p.m., records; 11 p.m,
station orchestra; 11.20 p.m., electrical tran-
scriptions; 11.30 p.m., news from Holland;
11.25 a.m., electrical transcriptions; 12.40 a.m.,
broadcast from Carlton Hotel, Amsterdam (K.
ter AbramofT and his Russian Gipsies).
Latest in the Trade.
D. G. Mclntyre, A.T.R.E., for ] 1
years manager of the radio department
of Murdoch’s, Ltd. (Sydney), has resigned
that position and purchased Rrice’s
Radio Service, Angel-place, Sydney. He
plans to pay particular attention to mail
orders and repairs. Experimenters and
home constructors wfll find Price’s Radio,
under his guidance, a happy hunting-
ground for those “hard-to-get” acces-
sories Mr. Mclntyre has an able asso-
ciate in Allan Faison, who has been
connected with the Angel-place business
for many years.
* * * *
Users of battery receivers employing
the two-volt range of valves have an
immediate advantage available in the
new Radiotron types 34 and 32, made in
Australia by Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co. The characteristics conform
exactly to the overseas prototypes, but
the Australian production has an out-
standing and important feature. That is
the absolute absence from microphonics.
These 34 and 32 types, along with the
new 30, are designed with a radically
different method of filament suspension
and support. There is no long length
of vibratory V- or W-shaped filament, and
specially-treated supports hold the fila-
ment rigid at intermediate positions.
The result is that the receiver can be
literally hammered whilst in action, and
these valves, other than producing the
sound for which they are intended, re-
main perfectly free from the “church-bell
chimes” effect so conspicuous in many
battery valves.
* ♦ # *
Here is something which a few short
years ago would have been only of
interest to the rabid short-wave DX
hound. In these days nine out of ten sets
sold arc of the dual- or all-wave variety,
with the result that Mr. and Mrs. Listener
are getting to know something about the
overseas stations on the short-wave
broadcasting channels. A universal time
chart is extremely useful for comparison
of reception time with that of the country
of origin. Reference to short-wave notes
by experienced observers as published
weekly by The Bulletin is a guide, with
such a time indicator, of the best times
to listen for various stations. The indi-
cator illustrated is produced by A.W.A.,
from which it may be had for stamps
to cover postage. On the reverse side is
printed a comprehensive station reference
list with wave-lengths.
What’s What in Radio.
The steady expansion of wireless com-
munications has led to the enlargement
of the area of the Pennant Hills station
of Amalgamated Wireless hy 5f acres,
making a total area at Sydney Radio of
46 acres. The newly-acquired land ad-
joins the present station, and is slightly
higher in altitude, being 375 feet above
sea level. Already 15 wireless trans-
mitters are housed at Pennant Hills, in-
cluding those for broadcasting stations
2FC and 2SM, the wireless telephones to
England, IVT.L. and Java, telegraph ser-
vices to New Guinea, Fiji, Noumea, ships
at sea, and aeroplanes in llight. Some of
these transmitters will be removed to the
new site, and to accommodate them a
handsome building is being erected, the
first transmitter to be housed being the
new 2SM with a broadcasting mast 450 ft.
in height.
# >[! * *
The director of Japanese broadcasting
concluded the annual report of his or-
ganisation for 1934 with the words: The
directors of the Japanese Broadcasting
Society are fully aware of their respon-
sibility. Taking into account the special
characteristics of the country, their object
is to advance the national spirit, to raise
the moral standard, to spread culture and
rouse noble feelings. They are fighting
for industrial development as well as
for the improvement of health in order
to contribute in this way to the welfare
and prosperity of the nation.
♦ * * *
The North Coast Co.’s Orara is carry-
ing the first automatic distress installa-
tion placed in a passenger vessel in the
N.S.W. coasting trade. Essential feature
of the A.W.A. equipment is a transmit-
ting instrument by means of which the
SOS signal, the name of the ship and its
position can be broadcast at any moment.
A receiver is provided, and the Orara’s
second mate has qualified as an operator
in the Marconi .School of Wireless.
Casual Comment.
Some curious incidents befell P.
Whelan and R. MacKenzie, A.W.A
radio operators, during 12 months alone
on Willis island. They were busy nearly
the whole night of Christmas Eve throw-
ing out a turtle which invaded the wire-
less station and became jambed in a
narrow passageway leading to the cellar.
The shellback weighed 4cwt., and had to
be levered out with long poles. Between
the months of November and March
.from 10 to 20 turtles came ashore
every night to lay their eggs ; and each
(Continued on next page.)


y
n
m
fv*a 'Si'/ai
-B i - •■
'■ft—\
.rife'
r®
/T»
-■ 1
iX.'A
A
r> a
V;
\\ .'■
/'(.
p/'/c •
Hi STAMINA . VITALITYIfcPOIV
are as inherent in EVER-READY
batteries as in the ribboned
champions of the Show Ring.
PutanEVER-READY refill in your
torch and it will give strong, honest
light... equip your Radio with an
EVER-READY Superdyne or
Heavy Duty battery, and it will
rejoice in new tone and volume.
EVER-READ Y,
the pedigree Battery, judged by
millions of satisfied users, is de-
clared the World’s Champion.
SPREAD
\ik£o
Ever Ready
iS£
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
MANUFACTURED BY THE EYER-REAOY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA! LTD.. SYDNEY AND LONDON
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), *
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
| Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. 'Phone: 82261
T HOUSANDS OF REAL
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
ffrjo at Cro,B » in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
THE
Westralia’s Leading
Weekly,
CARRIES MORE
NATIONAL AND LOCAL
ADVERTISING THAN
ANY OTHER WEEKLY
ISSUED IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
laid about 100. Now and then a host of
small turtles walked into the wireless
station at night. The radio operators
found the best way to get rid of them was
to take an electric torch and march with
it to the beach, the young turtles follow-
ing. Willis Island is situated 300 miles
east of Cairns. It is used to permit of
weather information being telegraphed
to the mainland as a safeguard against
approaching cyclones, the island being
located on the edge of the Coral Seas,
where cyclonic disturbances originate.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Few radio men have
been able to signal in Morse with the lull
voltage of a power-house. At Culcairn
recently an aeroplane flying to Henty
was lost in the late afternoon. Mr.
Murrell, of the electricity co., promptly
dot-dashed his whereabouts to the pilot
by switching the whole of the town light-
ing supply rapidly on and ofl from the
control board in the powerhouse. A
broadcast message from 2CO had put
him on the alert. The ’plane landed
safely. [The Melbourne Centenary Air
Race' will recall the use of a similar
method of signalling the wandering
Dutch ’plane when over Albury, N.S.W.]
jjt
“Emobee”: At one of the prepara-
tory meetings for the annual dinner of
hams in one of the capitals, an old hand
offered to donate a small trophy for the
member who proved the best telegra-
phist. He was prepared to bring along
a standard hand-key and Morse inker.
At first enthusiastic, lots of the boys
went cold on the idea. The R.I. was to
be a guest (and umpire) and might recog-
nise some of the fists as being on his
“wanted” lists. Some even fancied the
promoter was grinding the rust off his
cutlass in the hope of meeting some of
the blithe pirates who use his call on fre-
quencies that he himself is not wont to
frequent.
* * * *
“Alpha”; The portable one-valve set
is a boon to lonely drovers who have no
companion to share a loudspeaker. I
circulated six or seven when 1 was out
west, and could have got rid of as many
as there was time to run up. No manu-
facturers cater for this class of listener,
whose technical knowledge is too limited
to know what they really require when
it comes to a special order. So they
let it slide. A decent job can be sold at
a fiver ; if any radio mechanic feels like
a bush tour, the market is there. Aerials
on a trip cannot be erected by tired
men at night. Put a clip on earth and
aerial wires (about 6ft. long) to fasten on
to the top and bottom wires of a fence,
and a complete aerial-counterpoise sys-
tern results. Tuning is very fine with
these jobs, and only a dry cell is neces-
sary for an A battery.
* , * * *
“McClick”: Ever heard of a marimba?
The latest dodge is to hitch up the harn-
mers of this musical instrument to a set
of electrical relays, linked up in turn to
a bank of photoelectric cells. The
weary player flashes a lamp on the
various cells, and the correct hammer
responds. The) gadget is supposed to be
good for any performance from the scale
of C major to the “1812 Overture.” The
last time I fell for this kind of thing 1
built a one-valve, eight-note electric
organ ; simplicity itself. Even the tuning
was done by waggling a variable resis-
tance, but it took a musical expert to
adjust it and a deep breath to throw it
out again. If anybody builds a marimba
1 shall be only too happy to assist him
—strictly in the capacity of listener.
* * * *
“Crystal”: One of radio’s greatest
enemies is the electric tram, especially
where the lighting main is run along the
tramway standards. Caused by electric
tramways, the “rifle-shot” type of inter-
ference cannot be cut out, despite the
use of special kinds of aerials, trans-
mission lines and power filters. The
reason is that the tramways get their
power through a transformer which is
fed by a large main supplying house
currents. When the motorman starts
the tram the periodicity of the current
is thrown momentarily out of step, thus
causing a “rifle-shot” bang in the loud-
speaker.
“Eh”: Brisbane’s loudest-voiced traf-
fic cop is beefing it out. He is the loud-
speaker enlisted to supplement the work
of the traffic Johns in saving the city
from congestion. A coupe car has been
fitted up with a microphone amplifier,
and will be in full blast until there are
no more breaches of the Traffic Act.
The Q. and A. Column.
A three-valve short-wave receiver I have con-
structed gives weak volume on the strong
French and English stations. Valves are 30
detector, with 30 and 31 audio stages. Trans-
formers are Telsen 3-/0-1 ratio, tuning con-
denser a .00015 mfd. Igranic, and the set oscil-
lates very smoothly over the short-wave hands
with valve-base plug-in coils. Valves and trans-
formers are in order when tested in a broadcast
receiver, and batteries are two 45-volt Bs, one
4 {-volt C and a 2-volt accumulator, all new.
Construction is on a wooden baseboard, with
hakelite panel, and aerial and earth are good.
The dial is an Emmco vernier. (I) How can
I increase the volume, as I consider I should
get good loudspeaker volume on three valves ?
(2) Can you recommend a better dial ? —289.
(1) Do not expect too much volume from a
“detector and two step” unless at least one
high-ratio audio transformer is used. Also, a
total of 90 volts B on a 31 will not deliver
great volume. The first 3-to-l audio trans-
former could be replaced with a 5-to-l or
larger, taking care to decouple and filter the
plate circuit, and the 31 should be changed for
a 33 pentode with 135 volts (at least) on the
plate. Wooden baseboard and panel construc-
tion is likely to result in detuning, due to body
capacity, so the back of the panel should be
lined with metal connected to earth. Tin- or
copper-foil would do here. A far better way
of using three valves is to use the R.F. detector
and audio arrangement. A 34 should be used
as a tuned R.F. amplifier. (2) The Radiokes
two-speed aero-type dial would be much better.
The old Marco type of circular bakelite case
dial did not have the best of drive mechanisms.


FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Kaylah ; next,
Orient Orb.
Canterbury Handicap; Tapestry ;
next, Stonebrook.
Ashbury Handicap: Havilah
Belle ; next, Chatterelle.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Fate was uncommonly kind to the ring-
men over the first leg of the Grand
National double at Flemington. For
several weeks before the race a leading
ante-post operator in Melbourne had
refused to do further business because
the National Hurdle looked a certainty for
Full Charge. “I have ‘diced it in,’ ”he
declared. However, rival pencillers
deigned to lay doubles—B to 1 Full
Charge and Redditch. Even on these un-
precedented terms they did a roaring
trade. Not until the calling of the card
on the eve of the race was there any
straight-out wagering ; Full Charge then
figured at 10 to 9 against. The boom for
A. T. Creswick’s horse persisted; he
actually started at 6 to 4 on, thus making
Grand National Hurdle history.
Full Charge had only lOst. in a field
of nondescript jumpers. With a stand-
up he would probably have scored deci-
sively ; but, to the horror of punters and
the intense gratification of the men
behind the bags, the favorite knuckled
over after clearing the first hurdle and
unseated Healy. After that it was any-
one’s race. Sensation was piled on sen-
sation. The saddle shifted on Prime Seal,
who dashed to the front against the will
of his rider, Hynes. How Hynes con-
tinued on until near the home turn is
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
amazing: he dismounted, refastened the
saddle, and rode back to scale discon-
solately.
Rodda and Dungannon, the outsiders
of the party, took turns at pacemaking ;
but from the three-furlong post the
issue rested between Dress Suit, Mystic
Peak and Fulham. Ridden by Douglas
with conspicuous courage, Mystic Peak
looked certain to outstay the other two ;
but the imported animal began to show
signs of distress at the last flight, where
Fulham, heritor of gameness from
Poitrel, asserted his superiority. Ful-
ham came on unfalteringly, to win by
three-quarters of a. length from Dress
Suit, who got his head in advance of
Mystic Peak just as they reached the post.
The track was dead ; but, even allowing
for that, the time was miserable —25jjsec.
slower than the record for the race.
Akanree ended a long succession of
minor places over the battens by taking
the Maiden Hurdle, in which he was
followed home by the 1934 Australian
Cup hero. Heroic Prince,
The flat races were far more interest-
ing. Voitre’s handling of Donaster in
the Myross Handicap for juveniles was
superb. The Great Star gelding was re-
quired to gather in three horses over the
last half-furlong, and had a good deal
of leeway to make up. But Voitre used
the whip with such effect that his mount
vanished Fine Feathers by a substantial
margin. Studio, the favorite, snuffed
out after enjoying a commanding lead.
Voitre completed a double by winning
the Winter Handicap on Jeldiwallah,
who led all the way. Charles Fox, owned
by a Melbourne barrister, bolted away
in the straight from his Iramoo Handicap
rivals.
The G.N. Steeplechase now looks to
be a four-horse proposition, those with
chances on paper being Redditch, Pacto-
lus, Oldhome and Boy Blue. Competi-
tors in the Kensington Steeplechase seem
entirely out of court; Riawena, who won
with a lot in hand, could not gain a
place at Moonee Valley on the previous
Saturday, and the G.N. distance may
be beyond her tether. Woodlace, the
1934 National hero, ran far below his
old form ; Kenjin, another South Aus-
tralian, broke down. The outstanding
disappointment was Membo. This
Maorilander shared favoritism with
Woodlace. He did not handle the Flem-
ington fences at all well, and had to be
punched right out to finish third, eight
lengths behind a 20-to-l shot, Winging
Home.
There is no doubt about the fitness of
Pactolus, who was taken to the course
by W. Burke, his trainer. If anything
beats Redditch on Saturday—he is the
greatest ’chaser of recent times—it may
be Pactolus. The struggle for thifd place
should rest between Oldhome and Boy
Blue. It is in favor of Oldhome that he
will be piloted by Hynes, who is the
Corrigan of existing cross-country
jockeys.
Kaylah is. becoming costly to punters.
After her failure at Moorefield she was
saddled up for the first division of the
Flying Handicap at Victoria Park, and,
looking a picture, was made favorite.
In a mix-up at the start, she did not get
out of the ruck until the race was prac-
tically over; then the Magpie mare came
home well to get third prize, just ahead
of Oreensea. Bim Boy, backed from
twelves to sevens, hopped out, and Andy
Knox never gave the leggy chestnut any
peace ; he won by nearly a length from
Rosaban.
Although Jaccuse had shown no form
at previous outings, nearly everybody
wanted to back the Promised Land geld-
ing in the second division. From threes
he went to 5 to 4 on, and was never in
danger of defeat. Quick Way and Beau-
anton followed him home. ' The third
division went to Irish Morn (5 to 2),
who, like the previous winners, led
throughout. In the straight he tried to
run off, but the whip corrected this ten-
dency. Old Version was second and
Kersil third.
All distances come alike to Regal Star.
Successful in sprints, in the Victoria Park
Handicap he was tested for stamina;
the long stretches suit stayers. Three to
one Regal Star was a good price. He
shot away at the home turn, and beat
the favorite, Tapestry, who tired, ran in
and just pipped Flying Bullet for second
place. Gothlin was troubled by the
journey; Fluent, narrowly beaten at
Moorefield, was never a possibility.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: The death of “Watty” Black-
lock in Brisbane snapped what was prob-
ably the last link with the golden days
of Queensland racing—the days when
wool was king and the pastoral centres
of the Downs and the Western Plains
could offer prizes as attractive as any
of the coastal towns. Born at Mt. Bris-
bane (Q.), “Watty” learned the game with
old John Finnic, of the Rosevale stud.
near Toowoomba. He and his elder
brother Dick rode as much in the west
as on the coast, taking their horses by
roads from railhead. As a boy he had a
great trot of wins from Charters Towers
to Brisbane. Increasing weight drove
him to take up training in Brisbane,
where for long he had the pick of the
State’s horses. He was a great hand with
two-year-olds, and the list of his suc-
cesses is far too long to publish.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Bright sunshine illuminated Melbourne
football grounds on Saturday, but the
month of rain had left its effects, and
the green turf was churned into mud in
the first 10 minutes. Most of the games
were scrambles, the most striking being
the St. Kilda-Richmond match. In this,
the slipperiness of surface and ball failed
to slow down either team, and one of
the fastest and brightest matches of the
season resulted in the Seasiders winning
by 10-14 to 7-8. St. Kilda led practically
throughout, but at no time dared relax
lor a moment, and the issue was in doubt
up to the last 10 minutes. Carlton
achieved the biggest score of the day
with 19-21 to Fitzroy’s 8-6, Fitzroy
having lately failed to retain the form
it revealed in the opening matches
ol the season. South Melbourne en-
countered unexpected opposition from
Melbourne, but wore it down, winning
out by 18-14 to 11-12; and Hawthorn
put up a good game against the redoubt-
able Collingwood by scoring 12-3—won-
derful goal-kicking— to the winner’s
17-20. North Melbourne, last on the list,
also made a brave effort against Essen-
don, having the ill-luck to lose by a
single point, Essendon scoring 10-14 to
North’s 10-13. Footscray and Geelong
match finished a draw—Footscray 15-13
to Geelong’s 16-7.
“Who’s murdered some-
body?” asked the Collingwood (Vic.)
barrackers at the training-room the other
day when a policeman pushed his way
in. The newcomer was not visiting the
club officially ; he was Power, anew
player, of whom great things are
expected, attending his first training.
C’wood owes much to the Force. In its
early days Billy Proudfoot —later a
sergeant of renown in crime circles —was
its star performer. There is a sprinkling
of cops among the League and Associa-
tion players—some of them footballers
.of note before they enlisted.
* • ♦ ♦
“Richmond”: Persons familiar with
the recruiting methods of V.F.L. teams
are laughing at a solemn instruction
issued by the League to the effect that
when a club desires to pinch a footballer
from another it must politely request
permission. This is an old rule, but has
unaccountably been overlooked for some
time. An interesting sidelight was thrown
on professional football by one official
discussing the rule. His statement that
a player was the property of the club
to which he belongs does not seem to
have been questioned by any of the
others present at the meeting,
* * * *
For the second of the inter-State
Rugby League games at Brisbane, the
visiting forwards countered the hard-
rucking tactics of the Queensland pack,
and their backs, with a better serving of
the ball, made full use of their oppor-
tunities. The Queensland forwards
couldn’t carry their backs with them.
It was 23-9; five tries, two converted,
and two penalty goals to a converted
try and two p.gs. The best man on the
ground was Hey, the five-eighth. He is
to become partner in a Toowoomba
electrical business, and will play the rest
of his football for the northern State.
* ♦ * *
Eastern Suburbs had no trouble
trouncing Newtown 40-10 in a ragged
Rugby League encounter at Sydney
ŵ
ẁ


THE NEW
'WINCHESTER
MODEL 65
REPEATING RIFLE.
LIGHT
FAST
A BEAUTY
LEVER ACTION 8-SHOT REPEATING RIFLE.
In calibres .25/20 and .32, N.R.A.-type pistol-grip stock, 22in. round
tapered barrel having ramp front sight base, Lyman gold bead front sight,
Rocky Mountain adjustable rear sight. Half magazine only.
Weight, about 6£lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
ADAPTED FOR SUPER-SPEED CARTRIDGES, FOR WHICH A HIGH
FORESIGHT IS FITTED.
-£9llOl-
w
ŵ
25/20 AND .32 BLACK OR SUPER-SPEED STAYNLESS.
25/20 and .32 Centre-fire Super-speed Staynless Cartr'dges. Per 100, 21/-
25/20 and .32 Black Powder Cartridges. Per 100 . . 17/-
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St.,Sydney
’Phone: M 3388.
22 NON-RUSTING
MM FIRE?
Obtainable
Everywhere
No smoke, no rust and longer
life for the rifle barrel because
of absence of residues —these are
factors that, combined with
sureness and swiftness, have
gained for 1.C.1. .22’s foremost
place in popular favor.
Sales of 1.C.1. .22’s in
Australia exceed those of
all other makes combined.
22
SHORT
Soho
(F
m
I
ICI
4 lil
Under the Whip
“Jamwood”: Perth and Fremantle
used to be haunts of the pony-racing
brotherhood, and the “gunboat” that took
“sports” down the river to Bicton was
one of the sights of the place. Bicton
and Goodwood (Perth) were unregistered
courses. Alec Clydesdale, who was man-
aging Goodwood for John Wren, and
had an interest in Belmont Park as well,
arranged for registration by the W.A.T.C.
It was a fatal blow to pony-racing, though
Bicton tried to carry on ; and what be-
came of the ponies no newspaper ever
took the trouble to find out. The same
thing is happening in Sydney: since the
four “pony” clubs came under A.J.C.
jurisdiction ponies are no longer catered
for. There used to be hundreds of them
about, and they were engaged in as many
as 30 races a week. Now there is only
one, and it would be fairly safe to wager
that this solitary reminder of a hectic
past will disappear from programmes
before long.
* * * *
The achievements of the late Ethics
have led to the buyer for the Indian horse-
market once more becoming a familiar
object at big meetings; before Ethics
came good he had made only rare
appearances in 20 years or so. During
the last few months there have been
steady purchases of pretty good per-
formers for Indian stables, Cercello and
Rivalli among them. Although he has
this season won two races at Randwick
and the Brisbane Cup, Rivalli was well
sold at 1000 guineas ; but so resolute and
hardy a customer should be useful on
Indian courses. Rivalli is, of course, a
son of Rivoli, whose progeny have been
oddly neglected by southern racing men,
as also have the Spearfelts.
♦ * * *
Still grateful for the resourcefulness of
the Albury people who saved their air-
liner during the Melbourne centenary
race, the Dutch are offering a gold cup
for competition at the Albury club’s next
meeting. And for the rider of the winner
there will be a gold-mounted whip.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
More active than when Ambrose Palmer
stopped him, the colored American Roy
de Cans put up a pretty good show
against Campbell at Leichhardt, and
hoots were heard when the Newcastle
cruiserweight was declared to have out-
pointed him. They were not warranted ;
the improving white had a hatful of
points to the good. In a match for the
bantam championship Micky Miller out-
classed Ron Leonard, the referee apply-
ing the closure after Leonard had been
twice floored in the fourth,
* * * *
Chief Secretary Chaffey has sanc-
tioned the staging of open-air fights
at Sydney Sports Ground. “S. M.
Herald” says “the profits will be devoted
to the Royal Hospital for Women and
the Eastern Suburbs Hospital.” This
does not mean that the promoter will
work for nothing or that the trust will
provide ground and seating free, but the
arrangements with those parties have not
been disclosed. The promoter is Charles
Lucas, who has had plenty of experi-
ence as trainer and manager since he
brought. “Black Paddy” from Westralia
to fight Jerry Jerome before the war —
which, incidentally,-he attended —and he
undertakes to “secure high-class boxers
from other countries.” They could have
been got cheap a while ago, but there is
now a greater demand for their services,
in the U.S.A. especially.
Footbrawl
“Parmelia”: Nicholls, the abo. foot-
baller, proved quite a draw in the
matches played by Victoria against
Westralia. Surprisingly well nourished
as he looks —he has splendid legs—it is
little wonder he was shocked at the
emaciated condition of some of his com-
patriots along the Nullarbor. He played
good enough football, but his visit will
be chiefly remembered by the fact that
on the Sunday he was busy serving up
spiritual dishes in different Perth suburbs.
His rugged eloquence appealed—one
church reported a record collection.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australians hoped
to snatch the laurels from the Victorian
League returning from Westralia; but
the tourists won again—28 goals 16
behinds to 14 goals 9 behinds. A crowd
of 25,000 could not forebear to cheer;
no faster or more spectacular game has
been played in the central State.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Melbourne League clubs
believe in taking time by the short hairs.
Many of them are inviting applications
from country players recommended by
the scouts. None of these men is likely
to be seen, even for training, in Mel-
bourne this season, but all have been
tied up by Form 4 for the next. Once
they have signed, no other club can get
them unless the first slave-raiders are
willing.
* H= * *
“Henare”: The Maori footballers now
in Queensland are the fifth lot to visit
Australia ; the so-called “Native” team of
“Did I hear some gentleman say the hall is greasy ?”
1888-89 had a big percentage of Euro-
peans. In all, these teams have played
44 matches in Australia, and have won
32, lost 9 and drawn 3. By the time
they have played into form against
Queensland the visitors may surprise
N. S. Wales. “Shiner” forwards will find
their opponents far from lamblike
ruckers.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Billy Hill, president of
the N.S.W.R.U., leaves in October for
London to try to pick up some threads
taken up in 1912 but dropped in view of
subsequent happenings. In that year he
represented the Australian Unions, as
well as those of M.L. and California, at
an Imperial Rugby Conference. The great
idea then was to arrange a regular
schedule of international Rugby tours.
and in this South Africa, for once, sup-
ported the Australians. A tentative pro-
gramme was drawn up, but before if
could function 1914 and all that came
along. This time the same objective is
in view. Also, an attempt is to be made
to obtain permission to frame “local”
rules and to have a voting representative
on the International Board. Curiously
enough, South African footballers, as
much Dutch as British, have always been
slavishly content to leave everything in
the hands of the Rooinek. Australia and
M.L. can count on no support there,
* * * *
“Red Mud”: The N.S.W. League foot-
ballers beat Toowoomba (Q.) at the
Downs dorp after a slatherumwhack go
that covered players in blood and mud
of much the same color. The scores?
Oh. 21-7, and a good time was had by
all.
* * * *
“Plugger”: N.S.W. Rugby League has
rather belatedly decided to make the
“stiff-arm tackle” illegal under the head-
ing of foul play. This pleasant practice,
introduced by English professionals, con-
sists in smashing an opponent across the
face with the rigid forearm under pre-
tence of making a high tackle. The
trick often lays out the victim, who is
fortunate if he does not sustain a shat-
tered nose as well.
Racquet and Bawl
Two Australians, Crawford and
McGrath, reached the quarter-finals of
the singles at Wimbledon. Crawford, by
having the better of five hot sets with
Wood, qualified for meeting Perry in the
semi-finals, Perry having beaten Menzel
in straight sets. But McGrath again
proved no match for Von Cramm. Then
the German accounted for Budge, who
had overcome Austin, and Crawford failed
to live up to his Australian form against
Perry, though he took the champion to
four sets. In the final Perry’s speed and
strength proved too much for Von
Gramm’s science: 6-2, 6-4, 6-4. Critics
are agreed that he gave one of the great-
est exhibitions ever seen at Wimbledon,
and it was a very auspicious entry on his
career with Slazengers.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Joan Hartigan, who went
freelancing to Wimbledon, put up the
best showing ever made by an Aus-
tralienne there by reaching the singles
semi-finals at the expense of Dorothy
Round. Down 4-6 in the first set, the
Sydney girl won the second set 6-4 and
the decider 6-3. Before meeting Mrs.
Wills-Moody Joan had a doubles match
with Mrs. Hopman and two mixed-
doubles matches with McGrath —one
on the afternoon of her victory over
Miss Round, when she must have been
tremendously excited and well-nigh
exhausted. Pity she was asked to do
so much. The American lady entered
for the singles only. Miss Hartigan
appeared nervous in their match, and
it was over in two sets; 6-3, 6-3. It left
the final to two Americans; Helen
Jacobs had beaten Mrs, Sperling
% ♦ *
“Top Spin”: N.S.W. tennis is faced
with a serious problem in picking a suc-
cessor to the late Frank Peach. Only
Peach’s personal popularity and bound-
less fact kept the rival factions of grass
and hardcourt tennis from flying at each
other’s throats for some time, and the new
president of the L.T.A., whoever he may
be, will have a full-time job looking after
this end of the stick as well as studying
country interests. All attempts to date
to abolish the district scheme in favor
of a competition where grass and hard-
court players will meet on level terms
have been blocked by the insistence of
the grass players on maintaining their
separate identity.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: There is a good chance of
seeing Perry and Padgham in Australia
this year. Padgham wanted to visit
Melbourne last year, but could get no
offer. Perry will automatically join the
Ryder Cup team for America, and
present advices are that they will come
on to this continent, with pickings on
the way at Honolulu and Maoriland.
* * * *
“Shirley”: Maoriland golfing heads are
to consider whether Kirk-Windeyer con-
tests are worth while. N. S. Wales has
decided that it won’t send any more
teams to M.L., so it looks like a wash-
out. The donors offered the trophy
without consulting the A.G.C. That
body gave all concerned the glassy
eye, and, after a little lukewarm sup-
port from Victoria and Queensland, N.
S. Wales was left to carry the baby.
* * * *
“Sandbox”: A good many n i golfers,
especially those in the mug class, will
bless the determination of associate
players on the new Northbridge (N.S.W.)
municipal links. The tee at the first hole
is within a few yards of the road, and
motorists of the porcine variety have
been making it a practice to pull up and
pass personal remarks. A delegation to
the committee has resulted in a latticed
screen being erected which effectually
hides the players from bounders in cars.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: The programme of
the British women golfers in Australia
suggests that the poor dears will earn
their breakfast cereals. Landing in West-
ralia and playing there on August 13,
they will go to Adelaide, and then to
Melbourne for tbe Australian champion-
ships. They will be taken into the great
Australian desert at Canberra on Sep-
tember 10, and play there, then going to
Sydney for two games with combined
N.S.W. and Victorian players at Royal
Sydney and Kensington ; charge to watch
the games, 2s. Then to Brisbane, and
back to catch the boat for M.L. on
September 26.
* * * *
“Plebeian”: Golfers who can afford
to play only on municipal or other
public links will applaud the decision of


Use The Neiv SIMONIZ KIEENER to
Restore Your Gar’s Original Beauty
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
I
f2jucr~~
BIGGER ULTRA SMART
PMEL TOAT
This 1935 Ford V-8 Panel Van brings new qualities of luxury, efficiency,
reliability and economy to Utility Service. It is stronger, better riding,
easier to handle and more commodious. The splendid body construction affords
complete protection for perishable goods whilst V-8 speed and power ensure fast,
frequent trips. Ask your Ford dealer to demonstrate this new V-8 Panel
Van under your own working conditions. There is also a complete range of
open Utilities with Roadster or Coupe type cabs. Easy Ford purchase terms.
Special Features of the New Ford V-8 Van :
GREATER LOADING SPACE... NEW CENTRE-
POISE RIDING WITH IMPROVED WEIGHT
DISTRIBUTION ... NEW BEAUTIFUL
APPEARANCE... SEDAN-TYPE DOORS AND
PASSENGER CAR EQUIPMENT IN DRIVING
COMPARTMENT ... FAMOUS V-8 ECONOMY
EFFICIENCY AND DEPENDABILITY . . .
NEW EASE OF CONTROL . . . AUXILIARY
REAR SPRINGS STANDARD EQUIPMENT
Also the New.,.
English "DE-LUXE”
FORD
PANEL VAN
1935
FORD MOTOR COM
Economise with . . .
FORD V-8
UTILITIES
NY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F.3.30.C
A PRODUCT OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Malvern (Vic.) Council not to permit the
formation of a private club in connection
with the public links. Aldermen very
properly pointed out that such clubs
nearly always end by claiming vested
rights in the show. If they did anything
to maintain discipline on the courses they
might be tolerated, but they come to re-
gard the player from outside as a
nuisance, to be discouraged wherever
possible,
* * * *
“Sandringham”; Victoria’s golf asso-
ciation is out with a scheme to canvas
clubs for subs, towards the expenses of
professionals going to the U.S.A. It is
mentioned that a team of six. two of
whom will probably be Victorians, will
be sent,
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Freak golf is an
abomination, but to a community devas-
tated by the barrow-pushing insanity an
exhibition of it at Euroa (Vic.) shone like
a good deed in a naughty world. Carey,
the Euroa club champion, accepted a
wager that he could not tee off outside a
township pub and hole out on the last
green of the links, 3| miles away, in 100
strokes. Playing with his putter, Carey
took 20 to clear the town, and reached
the links with plenty to spare. A long
putt at the last hole sank the pill, and the
card recorded 61 strokes.
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. country-
women’s golf championship, always a
sporting event, was won at Killara by
Miss Ebert, of Griffith, after a dour
tussle with Mrs. Byrnes, of Wauchope
The new champion took the title in
1933, and on this occasion, as then,
showed the tremendous length from the
tee which is characteristic of her game.
Miscellaneous
“Shell”: Bobby Pearce experienced a
touch of the gnawing tooth of time—or
it may have just been inside fat—when
he was beaten in the U.S.A. over a mile
by the Philadelphia sculler Miller. In
a later spin over three miles Bobby
downed the Yank in “world’s record
time”—lBmin. 33 3-ssec. No mention
was made of the race being rowed with
a strong tide or current, but it sounds
like it.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The South Africans
achieved their first victory over England
on an English ground in the second Test
at Lord’s. They were on top in every
department all through. The English bats-
men failed wretchedly against the bowling
of the googly Greek Balaskas, who took
nine for 76 in the match, and of Langton,
a fast-medium right-hander with a big
off-break—six for 89. Cameron topped
the first Afrikander score of 228 with
90, which included three sixes and three
fours off a six-ball over by Verity. Eng-
land’s reply was 198 (Wyatt 53). In the
visitors’ second shot, Mitchell, who had
hoisted 30 in the first innings, was n.o.
for a splendid 164 when Wade closed at
seven for 278. England flopped again,
scoring only 151 of the 309 needed. The
next meeting is at Leeds.
“Lansdowne”: English selectors get a
lot of bricks thrown at them for their
inclination to back and fill, chop and
change; nevertheless, their job is far
harder than any that was ever set Aus-
tralian selectors. There are 17 first-class
counties, and nine were represented in
the side walloped by South Africa at
Lord’s—lo if the twelfth man is included.
Yorkshire supplied three players; War-
wickshire, Gloucestershire. Kent, Lanca-
shire, .Surrey, .Sussex, Derbyshire, Essex
and Northampton one apiece.
* * * =?
"Fitzcray”; The first defection from
the Australian team for South Africa is
Hans Ebeling, who has wisely given the
trip a miss to devote himself to his busi-
ness. Ebeling is just the type to do
well on the matting wickets on which
most of the South African games will
be played, and his spin bowling would
have been an asset to his side. He had a
batting average of 14.72 for all matches
with Woodfull in England, and took 62
wickets at 20.80 —fourth on the list. In
his one Test he bagged 3 for 89, and
made 2 and 41.
.* * * *
“Tenth Slip”; The draw for the Shef-
field season has been a bit tangled by
the tour of the Marylebone C.C. team
for M.L., which proposes to go through
the Australian States as the devil went
through Athlone —in standing leaps. The
first Sheffield game begins at Brisbane on
November 8, with N.S.W. and Queens-
land engaged. Then four successive
matches with the Britons block the traffic
until Victoria tackles Queensland in Mel-
bourne on November 29. N. S. Wales
will be making the southern tour
at the same time, and there will then be
a steady string of home-and-home
matches until the last, between Victoria
and South Australia at Adelaide, begin-
ing on February 21.
* * * *
“Achtung”: The German Olympic
Games committee has sent a representa-
five to Australia; he has taken up his
quarters in Sydney. The official P
Cramer, was here in 1933, and his mis-
sion this time is to pass round the oil
about everything connected with the
Games, which will run from August 1 to
16 next year.
* * * ,
“Spike”: It looks as if Tassie will have
further grounds for secesh It was to
have staged the Australian track and
field games, and fixed December 26 and
28 for the show. But the national field
games in Adelaide, at which the Berlin
Olympiad candidates will be picked, are
to be held at the end of January, so
Tassie is being asked for a postponement
until after the Adelaide functions,
* * * *
“Third Base”: The somewhat neglected
Australian baseballer may get a chance
to make a splash if a scheme proposed by
T. J. Davis, of Johannesburg comes off
He suggests that Australia should send a
team of 16 players, with managers and
officials, for a three-month tour of South
Africa, beginning next June. The
standard of Australian play that he has
seen compares well with the South
African. Before the Boer War baseball
cut a wide swath in Jo’burg, which had
many Americans, mostly connected with
the mines. These kept the game going
throughout 1899-1902, and, though Yanks
are not as plentiful on the Rand as they
were in Oom Paul’s day, the seed planted
then has evidently flourished.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: After 10 days of poio at
Kyeemagh, the new ground of the N.S.W.
Polo Assoc, near Sydney, Goulburn re-
tained the Countess of Dudley Cup by
beating Assamanders by nine goals 14
behinds to lour goals six behinds. 1 he
quality of the ponies was excellent in
spite of many exports to India in par-
ticular. Polo is now firmly established,
and in the breeding and training of
ponies there is the makings of a useful
little industry.
* * * *
“Slalom”: A new departure in Aus-
tralian sport has been the engagement
of Ernest Skadarasy, an Austrian pro-
fessional ski-runner ; the N.S.W. Tour-
ist Bureau and the Ski-ing Council have
arranged it, with the help of an agent in
Europe. There are 12 ski clubs in N. S.
Wales, and large snow areas are
still unexploited. Skadarasy, who
arrived in Sydney on July 4, will train
and coach young Australians at Kos-
ciusko. If is 75 years since a Nor-
wegian, at Kiandra (N.S.W.), made him-
self the first pair of skis seen in Aus-
tralia, and the first ski club was founded
there soon after. To-day, the N.S.W.
and Victorian Alps in winter are the
resort of thousands of ski-users. In
Victoria the Australian championships
and inter-State races for this year begin
at Mt. duller (Vic.) on August 24.
* * * *
“Spike”: An Australian mail vote has
decided that the Empire Games of 1938
must be held in Sydney, Some fine
schemes are already at the tape waiting
g e t started. The most important is a
whole-hearted bite of the Stevens Gov-
ernment’s lug for £lO,OOO towards ex-
penses, the Government to have a lien
on the “gates.” It is pointed out that
Hamilton in Ontario, a town of only
150,000, made a profit on the 1930
games, so why shouldn’t Sydney?


\Ccol4*s Call
UIffVRKTS
Ml
lie
r
ij#’
(ew feembined fr\AlLand.Hctcr Fare*.
Famous visitors from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares.
Legal Noticet
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO BENJAMIN JAMES PHILLIPS formerly
of Goondiwindi in the State of Queens-
land Laborer but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane No. 276 of 1935
by your wife VIOLET LINDA MAUDE
PHILLIPS of Goodna in the said State m
which she claims a dissolution of her marriage
with you and by her petition she alleges that
you have deserted her without cause continu-
ously for a period of five years and upwards
and it has been ordered that service of the
Writ of Summons and Concurrent Writ of
Summons issued herein and the petition filed
herein on you' be effected by filing and by
affixing on the notice board of the Registry
of this Court aforesaid a copy of the Writ
issued herein and an office copy of the peti-
tion filed herein and by the insertion of this
advertisement once in the “Courier-Mail” pub-
lished at Brisbane aforesaid once in the “Goon-
diwindi Argus” published at Goondiwindi
aforesaid and once in The Bulletin published
at Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
If you desire to defend this action you must
within sixty days from the last act done in pur-
suance of the said order enter an appearance at
the said Registry and in default of such
annearance judgment may be entered against
yew..
uATED this Fourth day of July, 1935.
J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
For SPORTING NOTES
TIPS . . .RESULTS
and Turf Gossip from all States
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
w
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union.
ŵ
i
as
3.
\ ■ •••?■••••
■■«
,'■: •>:••
a m
57/6 to 84/-
Quality
Men’s
Topcoats
for
ẁ
MEN, the weather’s
decidedly nippy
... it certainly is the
time for the protection of a Murdoch Overcoat, and especially as
they’re offered at a saving. Men’s fancy Tweed Overcoats, in
the latest Fawn and Grey patterns, S.B. or D.B. style, vertical
pockets and plain back. Ready for immediate service.
We pay freight, Write letters to Desk “R”
MURDOCH’S LTD.,
Park and
George Sts.
SYDNEY
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use ‘The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
bright as ever, and Saturday night’s
audience was as amused and delighted
with it as were those of seven years ago,
when the play had a run of nearly six
months in the same house. A few of the
quips, notably those about prohibition,
date others have been staled by repeti-
tion but Agnes Doyle as “The Patsv”
sparkles in the role in which she won her
first substantial success. Marshall Crosby
as her father and Sadie Bedford as the
spoilt girl of the family could hardly be
bettered, and Leal Douglas, Franklin
Bennett and Richard Parry fill othci
parts ably.
* * *
The stilted Russian wit and motley
assortment of subnormal characters of
“The Cherry Orchard,” resurrected by
Scott Alexander at Sydney’s Kursaal
Theatre, heavily discount Chekhov’s play
in Australian eyes. The auction of the
orchard is the only action in four acts
(even that transaction is completed off-
stage), and is made the peg for extensive
psychoanalysis. Pauline Markby, James
Higgins and Ronald Folkard worried
through the melancholy business. “’Op
o’ My Thumb,” an entertaining though
pathetic variant on the ugly duckling
theme, leavened proceedings. Elva Jones
(castle-building butt of fellow-work-
mates), Eve McElligott (workroom she-
cat) and James Higgins (fairy prince who
wasn’t) did really well.
# v *
The performance by Sydney’s Studio
Theatre players of “The Case of Jean
Calvert,” by Kate Howarde, was fair,
but the dialogue was stagy and the story
of Jean Calvert failed to develop beyond
the cliches of “The Girl Who Took the
Wrong Turning.” Daphne Winslow,
Gordon Forsythe, Colin Jones, Nellie
Lamport and Gordon Anderson gave
creditable character studies.
“Jim Jam Gems,” at Sydney Civic, is
mostly a series of sketches—sundry
variations on the equation “Mo plus
anything equals laughter.” Not a show
to attract highbrows, or even middle-
brows, but all who go seem to enjoy it.
Certainly the old lady whose elbow made
this critic’s ribs sore did.
* * v
“Birds of the Night,” the new Sydney
xiv. revue? j s packed with fun. One
0 £ headliners is Janice Hart, who
pj a ys a part taken by Josephine Baker in
p a ris. She has personality, and her sing-
ing an( j dancing should keep Tiv. audi-
ences in a merry mood for some time.
Anot h er topnotcher is Frank O’Brian, a
c | own The ballet has been given more
scope The “Birds of the Night,” “Blue
Danube” and “Algerian Patrol” are origi-
nal in conception and nicely executed,
* * *
, , . ,
The Leonardo, Sydneys am-
dram. soc., made its debut at the Savoy
-in Obey s Lucrece, which more or less
tohows Shakspeare s version of the
Roman legend lortions ot the stoiy a e
told to the audience by male and female
figures who stand in shadow on opposite
sides of the stage. I his device, more arti-
hcial even than the Greek chorus, con-
tmually takes the play out ot the players
hands and leaves them loi long spells win
nothing to do or say. Despite this, there
remains some moving drama, and there
is beauty in the easily-flowing lines of
Wilder’s translation. Jean Mort as
Lucrece, Henry Hewlett as Tarqum and
Dick Ridgway as the wronged husband
took the principal roles, and Alice Lardi
and George Coffin were the narrators.
May Hollmworth, the producer, and the
Frank Hinder couple, who designed the
really fine settings the lighting effects
were particularly good deserve praise.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
“National” Regiments
Inevitably the weakness of the Com-
monwealth authorities in permitting the
formation of a Scottish regiment has
brought like demands. The Irish are
clamoring for a regiment, to be attired
in the Celtic kilt worn at present by
the Irish pipers’ band. Perhaps the Eng-
lish will come along soon with a demand
for the revival of the pipeclay and stocks
which Wellington’s troops wore at
Waterloo.
The Defence Department started the
trouble by scrapping the uniform which
put Australia on the map and tricking
out its own troops, not in the A.I.F.
garb which made tradition, but in a
something evidently designed by one of
the bright young men on the “Tailor and
Cutter.” N. S. Wales had an experience
of “national” military units before Fed-
eration, when the rise of these eventually
led somebody in desperation to form an
“Australian” regiment. Sullgillivan
(N.S.W.).
The Militia Uniform
Tell “Angus McAussie” (B. 3/7/’35)
there is no fear of Australian militia
wearing those “Hollywood uniforms”
into battle. The garb is just a makeshift
intended to stimulate recruiting; on
mobilisation it would be replaced by a
more serviceable rig similar to the A.I.F.
pattern.
Instead of popularising the militia the
present uniform tends to cheapen it ;
many a trainee facing the public in his
lion-tamer atrocity would cheerfully give
a week’s pay to don the respected khaki
of the A.I.F. — Jeviel (N.S.W.).
Titles
There were ecclesiastical generals in
England before William Booth (B.
3/7/’35); the head of the Jesuits has
been known as “general” almost since
the days of Ignatius Loyola. As a matter
of fact there is no law whatever to
forbid people using titles unless it is done
for a fraudulent purpose. “Lord” George
Sanger, the circus man, regularly traded
under that style; and any father can
have his sons baptised “Earl,” “Duke” or
“Viscount.” — Freelance (N.S.W.).
For Public Protection
Vic. Assembly was about to amend
its health laws by requiring persons
isolated because of infectious disease to
pay for such isolation, when Dr. Shields
pointed out —rightly—that a patient is
isolated not for his own benefit but that
of the community, and the community
should pay.
While the laws are being revised, it
would.be as well for Victoria and the rest
of the States to adopt the regulation in
force in many American cities which
requires the residence of an infectious
case not severe enough for isolation to
be labelled “for public protection.” It is
not uncommon to walk along a suburban
thoroughfare in California and to find
the front of a neat cottage bearing the
intimation “Measles” or “Diphtheria.”—
G. Trotter (Vic.).
Smiting the Veterans
Old A.M.P. men drawing pensions
from the officers’ provident fund have,
though resident in Victoria, been called
upon to pay unemployed-relief tax
on that portion of their pensions alleged
by the N.S.W. Taxation Department to
represent their service in N. S. Wales. The
tax is made retrospective to the date of
their retirement, and has to be deducted
from the pensioner’s income, in some
cases leaving him stranded for the time.
Evidently this does not concern the taxa-
tion authorities, who take care to avoid
the trouble of collecting the money as
well as the possibility of legal action.
How long is the taxpayer going to put up
with the tyranny of bureaucracy?—
Senex (Vic.),


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
income tax returns
A Concise and BtliaWe AW for
Federal and H.S.'W. Pnrpows
.
j teernes unls
-r-
-kah I* ■
•A -
■MdMtd
Sfoiai InaW*
By h. RAWSON STEVENSON, <*-•>
Now !
Before you prepare your Federal and
N.S.W. State Taxation Returns purchase
a copy of
Income Tax Returns
By H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aus.),
just published by the Endeavour Press,
and meeting with great success. This
valuable and informative book may save
you much worry and many pounds in
taxation.
Simple, concise and reliable, it makes
compiling taxation returns an easy matter.
PRICE, 5/- (postage 3d. extra).
the endeavour press,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George St., Sydney
ENJOY „
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVINGj
(A good Single Bed-
room, with Hot and
Cold Water, ’Phone
and Reading Lamp,
from 7/- per day;
Double Room at
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager. .4r.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Ups and Downs
Despite the influenza, the loan, the
cold westerlies, politicians and transport
strangulation, things could be a lot worse
in Australia. Certainly a great many
people are holding parcels of mortgaged
mining scrip, and Stock Exchange
mining prices are down so low that
in some cases one can’t be quite sure
whether one’s scrip is still listed or not;
the fitful spasms of life that flicker and
die on the board resemble in a, measure
shareholders’ hopes. Buyers 2d., with
strong-minded sellers holding out at 3jd.
“Well, anyway, someone still wants to
buy ’em,” you’ll hear diehards say.
All very depressing to some people;
but, then, they shouldn’t forget the time,
only nine months ago or thereabouts,
when they thought they were making
money, and pots of it at that. Every-
thing going skywards, and every blue
duck a golden goose. Mining authori-
ties —well, was there ever such an abun-
dance of expert counsel available in any
place, outside barbers’ shops and Rand-
wick and Flemington, as could be ob-
tained in the “financial” streets of any
Australian city?
Adelaide, known for many years as a
city of churches, is really more famous
these days for its being paved with gold-
mining scrip. All telephone wires led
to the S.A. capital a few months ago.
They now lead back to Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and the one that used to run out
to McGoorty’s Last Hope, where the
lOoz. to 20oz. stuff was being dug out,
has been dismantled by the P.M.G.’s
department.
But though it is safe to say that half
of the mining shows floated in Australia
during the last two years have had a
flare-up in the market, and have then
died down to a flicker, and that many
more with substantial and definite pro-
positions in front of them are having,
and will have for some time, treatment
or mining difficulties to overcome, there
has been a fair percentage of success, or
comparative success, especially in West-
ralia. Though there has been a great
wastage of shareholders’ capital in holes
in the ground, there have also been a
loosening-up by investors generally,
greater mining employment, greater gold
production and increased industrial
activity dependent on mining.
Wool went skywards early in 1934, and
was definitely headed the other way
before half the year had run., After a
remarkably invigorating breather, it
looked as though we were going back to
the depressing conditions of 1932-33. But
it didn’t happen. Wool kept down for
some months, but optimism kept up, and
company balance sheets published this
year, with the exception of woolbroking
establishments, have shown highly en-
couraging improvement even on 1933-34.
The recent trade-balance figures are
not all they might be. But, though we
will have to draw on our exchange re-
serves in London for about £10,000,000
sterling this year in order to pay our
way, we shall find some consolation in
the fact that the wool, wheat, butter,
etc., cheques, when added together, will
be no more than £10,000,000 short of
1933-34 figures. Wool was worth two-
thirds of the previous year’s value, and
wheat, butter and meat were better. But
for the fact that imports were up
£14,000,000 (for 11 months) we would
have been able to pay current interest
out of current income.
Rural industries are still having the
roughest spin. Rains have recently
helped. In the cities trade continues to
expand, even though externally our com-
merce is not quite so good as it was. But
this internal prosperity seems genuine
enough, so far as loan-money influence
can be separated from it. People want
to bay things again, and home-making is
reviving. Unfortunately, owing to high
rates and property taxes, landlords still
prefer to build flats rather than cottages
as investments. As a result there is a
shortage of suburban houses in good
localities, and rents are high.
Industrial shares continued strong in
all Australian centres last week. Broken
Hill Props, touched 60s. 3d., Australian
Glass shares were still firm around 705.,
and Metropolitan Gas £5-paids were
£l4 Is. in Melbourne. Australasian
Paper ords. return less than 4 p.c. at
40s. 6d., Amalgamated Wireless about
the same at 50s. 6d., British Tobacco
3 p.c. at 395. 3d., Burns Philp 3.1 p.c. at
655., Yarra Falls 4 p.c. at 405., and
Kandos Cement 4 p.c. at 235. 6d. Peters
(the parent co.) yields 3.4 p.c. at 455.
Higher divs. generally are expected for
“In case you students are interested, it's stopped raining."
the year just closed, though in some
cases the sharemarket should be satisfied
if present distributions are maintained.
Investors are showing very plainly that,
while they are prepared to accept lower
returns on sound industrial shares,
mortgages and first-class property invest-
ments, they haven’t such confidence as
they had in Government borrowing
policy—£3 Bs. sd. per cent, was not
enough the other day. At the week-end
there was a bit of a stiffening in Consols.
* * * *
The Australia Hotel in Sydney is being
extended through to Martin-place on the
site of the old Government Savings Bank,
the foundations of the Plaza at Wynyard
Station are under construction, and in
Melbourne Menzies has started improve-
ments (which include 11 new bedrooms
and an electric lift) at a cost of £12,000.
The hotel trade, especially in Sydney, is
looking up.
* * * *
Sydney average wool prices for June
were down nearly 2d. a pound compared
with May. A good deal of cleaning up
—odd lots, etc. —is reflected in the figure
(9.7 d.) representing the mean price of
greasy and scoured for the month. In
other States, where sales have been of
better qualities, improvements in rates
have lately been registered.
Total sales in Sydney during the year
were 1,214,525 bales (up 134,000 bales),
valued at £15,359,000 (down £6,600,000).
The average price realised was lOd. a
pound (the same as the Commonwealth
figure), compared with 16.3 d., B.Bd. and
8.5 d. in the three preceding years. A
lower clip, in other parts of the world
as well as Australia, is expected for the
new season now opened. The recent
rains in Queensland and N. S. Wales
will have little effect on this year’s clip,
but stock losses should be considerably
diminished,
* * * *
Aloha Alluvials, N.L., is. the latest to
give shareholders a jolt. It took over Fiji
prospecting licenses along the Waimanu
and Waidamu rivers, and an option over
two 500-acre blocks from Aloha Syn-
dicate, N.L., earlier this year. R. M.
Boyd, after a preliminary examination.
recommended testing of the properties.
On the Waimanu area, “results of simple
dish tests were very gratifying, and
proved the upper wash more than pay-
able over a large area.” The shares
went to over £lB. Then E. T. Lewis
was sent over. He has cabled that he
considers the whole of the properties
worthless. Two of them are being
abandoned, and the shares are now
around 455.
* * * *
“X-roads”: In B. 26/6/’35 it was said
that savings represented by assurance
premiums taken out of public spend-
ing power during good limes would
do much to curb inflation during a
boom, and establish a public-spending
reserve when conditions took a down-
ward dip. I think that the idea has
definite possibilities, and opens up a new
angle on the subject. What Douglasites
term shortage of purchasing power is
maldistribution of purchasing power.
There is an excess of spending during a
boom, and a dearth of it during a slump.
Providing for the rainy day during the
good times is the commonsense way of
meeting depressions, and, incidentally,
reducing the bump by not elevating us too
high to start with. A national assurance-
cwm-saving scheme, carried out intelli-
gently and without extravagant “humani-
tarian” frills, seems to have all the ear-
marks of a winner.
* * * *
Vic. Savings Bank estimates that
£440,000 was withdrawn from it for in-
vestment in (he last Commonwealth loan.
When there is an excess of deposit money
in most banks, these withdrawals aren't
noticed. In other circumstances it
might be a different story. Consols, and
the interest return available therefrom,
generally represent a measure for
gauging appropriate returns from other
investments, and competition from
Governments in the borrowing markets,
especially when politicians are not fully
aware of their responsibilities, might
have a very disorganising effect on
finance generally. It has had in the past.
The last loan seems to have been almost
ignored by Stock Exchange investors.
Witness the great buoyancy in industrial
shares.
* * * *
Electrolytic Zinc, despite a hard year
in the metal market, has been able to
declare 5 p.c. on its £1,100,000 of ordi-
nary capital, as well as 8 p.c. on the
£1,500,000 of pref. scrip. Spelter was
very low during most of the term (to
June 30), being about £3 a ton below
the figure for the previous 12 months.
The plant at Risdon (Tas.) treats about
60 p.c. of the zinc concentrates produced
at the Barrier. The worst year since the
works became really established—the co,
was registered in 1916, but profits didn’t
show up until 1922 —was
1931, when the slump in
metals was first definitely felt.
The prefs.’ slate has been
cleaned since, and the way is
open to higher ord. divs. if
spelter picks up in the world’s
markets.
* * *
The Territory of New
Guinea in 1933-34 bought
£375,353 worth of Australian
goods, 40.6 p.c. of its total
imports. U.S.A. came next
with 21.2 p.c., then the United
Kingdom with 10.8 p.c. The
changing aspect of the Terri-
tory’s own means of liveli-
hood shows up in its exports.
In 1929-30 copra (at £l3 10s.
a ton) represented 87 p.c. of
the total exports. In 1933-34
this commodity (at £4 12s.
a ton) accounted for only 16
p.c. of the exports. In that
year gold had risen to 77.3
p.c. of export values—the
whole of the 257,51 loz., valued at
£1,367,616, was sent to Australia. The
year just closed will no doubt show a
further substantial increase in production
of the metal, as well as a recovery in
copra figures.
*.* * *
Wheat continues to be weak in Sydney
markets, the ruling rate of 3s. a bushel
comparing with a steady 3s. 6d. a few
weeks back. Overseas quotations are
also easier, Australian wheat being worth
about 3s. 2d. (stg.) a bushel in London.
* * * *
Australia’s favorable trade balance
went up £1,247,000 (stg.) during May,
making the eleven months’ surplus of
exports over imports £15,520,000. That
compares with £38,697,000 for the same
period of 1934 ; and, of course, it is not
nearly enough. Merchandise exports
were down £8,857,000, imports up
£13,945,000. Gold shipments (£7,775,000)
were only £58,000 higher.


THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery
BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
has the largest and most representative collection
of Australian art in any privately-owned gallery in
Australia.
The pictures are all moderately priced, and afford
buyers an excellent opportunity to secure high-class
works of art at prices within their reach.
!
m
JkJ
m
f
m
m
m
t
«
I
X. V:-:> ,
0
■
H
,
A-
■
1
;
Cosmos
R. W. Phillips. (Oil painting, 18in. x 16in. canvas.)
Strand on the Green
Sydney Long, A.R.E. (Etching, 12Jin. x V^in.)
V!
m a
C i
Mary’s Toilet
Cumbrae Stewart. (Pastel, 13in. x lOin.)
■
Macquarie River, Wellington
James R. Jackson. (Oil painting, 17£in, x canvas.)
Latest works by the principal Australian Artists,
including:—
NORMAN LINDSAY
WILL ASHTON, R. 0.1.
JAMES R. JACKSON
ARTHUR STREETON
E. GRUNER
ROBERT JOHNSON
HANS HEYSEN
BLAMIRE YOUNG
TOM ROBERTS
E. PHILLIPS FOX
PERCY LINDSAY
HERBERT GALLOP
SYDNEY LONG, A.R.E.
DOUGLAS PRATT
J. MUIR AULD
FRED LEIST
E. A. HARVEY
JOHN ROWELL
G. K. TOWNSHEND
etc., etc.
s
V
. :
mm.
Robert Johnson.
Burragorang Pastures
(Oil painting, 18in. x Min. canvas.)
Every assistance given to country and inter-State buyers who desire to purchase paintings or etchings for their
own home or for presents. Descriptions and photographs of pictures to the approximate value of the amount they
specify will be sent to buyers unable to view the originals.
The Gallery is open to the public on week days from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., on Saturdays from 10 a.m. to noon.
Admission free. Director, G. V. F. MANN (late Director National Art Gallery, Sydney).


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Drama in the
Condemned
Cell
George High-
-land, formerly
one of the best-
known theatrical
producers in Aus-
tralia, returned
not long ago from
Europe, and brought a storm about
his ears by telling the Melbourne press
that “the stage is dead.” Lowbrows and
highbrows presented a united front
to prove him guilty of heresy, con-
tumacy, contumeliousness and schism.
All the same, Highland is almost right;
the stage, as a commercial proposition,
is slowly but surely tottering towards its
finish. It is only a matter of time before
we see an apparent repetition of that
drop scene of old Melbourne Royal;
“Thespians Leaving Desolated Greece.”
But the Thespians won’t leave, and
Greece won’t be desolated. Both will
profit by the new medium. The drama
will be a better drama, and the acting
will be better acting. Every tiny hamlet
at the remotest ends of the earth —pro-
vided it is big enough to justify a talkie
house —will see as good plays and as
good actors as London, Paris and New
York.
The moving picture has no limitations.
It can carry out the aim of true drama
in its entirety, which the stage has never
been able to attempt. It has already
shown what it can do by working out
its plot before actual backgrounds—-not
before painted canvas and moulded card-
board. It has shown us how it can fake
convincingly: it does not present Sieg-
fried killing a dragon acted by two
supers, one as the front legs and the
other as the hind legs ; it casts a genuine
frilled lizard in the part of Fafnir, photo-
graphs him in heroic scale, double
exposes the film to Siegfried and gives the
audience the real battle. It permits charac-
ters —characters in bulk, like approaching
mobs or approaching armies—to be seen
coming or going, intensifying suspense
and carrying out the aim of the author
as a mere entrance from the wings could
never do. In addition, it can present
brief snatches of dialogue in different
places which may have a most important
bearing on the story and the art of
presentation.
In another important respect, the
drama will gain tremendously. The com-
petition will be so great that there will
be no room for the inferior actor ; only
the masters of the art will survive. They
will look their parts. No longer will
flyweight Orlandos make a ludicrous
attempt to throw Charles the Wrestler.
But the really greatest contribution which
the talkies will make towards the perfect
presentation of a drama is the retake.
1 he match between Orlando and Charles
is generally rehearsed a score of times
before it is put before a stage audience.
The principals turn out a more or less
convincing wrestling match in rehearsal.
On the opening night they fail so badly
that they almost get the bird. On suc-
cessive nights they put up good contests
and bad contests ; there is no knowing
which will result. But, when a talkie is
being made, the match will be repeated
and repeated until it is perfect—not
merely that it appears perfect to the
people who scrutinise the actual business,
but perfect in registration on the film.
The same will apply to every bit of
acting throughout a play. The actor
who has to hold back a sneeze in the
middle of a love scene in a stage play
may get away with nothing more serious
than a gap in the dialogue. In a talkie
there will be no gap ; the offending part
will be cut and the scene presented
smoothly and without interruption. A
stage actor who has had a bad day at
the races or suffers from a headache
makes his play suffer, for, despite the
stories of clowns who were funniest while
their little cheeild lay dying, individual
acting differs considerably from night
to night, as people whose duties take
them to theatres continuously well know.
Such flaws will disappear from (he drama
when the talkie has taken it wholly under
its wing ; every play will be as perfect
as the authors and the producers and the
actors can make it.
In the lighter forms of drama—musical
comedy and similar productions—the
world has already learned what can be
done. The stage can never hope to
present such magnificent compositions of
Section of Diego Rivera's “Portrait of America” frescoes, commented
upon on the Red Page. This typically savage piece criticises Wilson and
the "war for democracy.”
scenery and costuming and girls as some
of the productions of recent years. Of
late the cost of colored films has been
so great that these spectacular shows
have dropped back to half-tone ; but the
cheapening of color is only a matter of
time, as is the three-dimensional talkie ;
and, with these and the horizon as the
limit of scenery, and the whole wide
world to draw upon for artistry and
beauty and perfect craftsmanship, the
drama in all its forms will reach an
eminence never previously attained.
The talkie offers the greatest form of
dramatic presentation the world has yet
seen.
Montague Grover.
Moment.
The black cup of a winter dusk,
though sullen with the late eclipse
of baleful wailing yellow light
on sodden field and tree’s gnawed husk ,
suddenly shrivelled up my lips.
A while bell with a yellow tongue
across my mind’s dark (Kean swung
as shining as a choir of dew.
Then a belated blackbird flew
shrieking as though a madman laughed ;
hut had no power to break the spell
of lily chimes and holy bell
that on my mind's dark ocean rocked,
shocked by that black and furious
draught.
MAORILAND.
Douglas A. Stewart.
A Quiverful
of Queries
Will “A.D.W.”
(Sundry Shows,
26/6/’35) tell me
what Praxiteles,
Rembrandt and
Bach have in
common? Will he tell me which works
of Praxiteles have survived? Will he
maintain that Nordau’s Degeneration
has 10 readers to-day where The Sanity
of Art, Shaw’s annihilating answer, finds
thousands? Will he tell me what
“fetters” it was that Matisse found him-
self “finally weaned” from? Will he
insist that Matisse’s earlier reputation as
a draughtsman in the orthodox schools
was more securely grounded than his
present world-fame as an exponent of
color-orchestration? Will he quote the
name of one well-known contemporary-
artist —painter, poet, musician, sculptor
—who “scorns tradition,” or “despairs
of improving upon” the great masters?
Will he name one picture by Modigliani
which is demonstrably “brutal” in any
sense of the word? Will he explain what
exactly is the relationship between
“natural beauty” (life) and “expression”
(art)? Will he inform me whose view it
is that “the modernist art movement is
due to an inferiority complex”? Will he
agree that the objection he raises to these
specific examples of modern art were the
commonplaces of popular journalism
years ago in Europe? Will he submit
that his knowledge of the history of art
is more extensive, and that his own in-
nate aesthetic sensibilities are of a finer
order, than those of a man who is
accepted by England’s leading art
journal to write at length on these
matters? And—this is my last!—will he
tell me who is “the alienist” that finds
these productions “of intense interest”
to him as an alienist; and whether that
gentleman is himself any sort of a judge
of art?
A.L.
Early
Australian
Composers
More than a
century ago Aus-
tralia had its
own composers,
but it is surpris-
ing to find, in
preparing a bibli-
ography of music, the number of his-
torians who do not seem to have known
that. Many copyists in the last three
decades have commenced the era of
music in Australia with the arrival of
Isaac Nathan in 1841, and, in addition
to dubbing him with such titles as Father
of Music, hail him as our first composer.
There were at least five recognised
composers who worked in Sydney before
Nathan arrived here, and a number
whose names may never be known, for
Dr. Lhotsky, whose music was the first
to be printed, in 1834, acknowledges that
“A Song of the Women of the Menero
Tribe” was composed by himself and
“several musical gentlemen of the
Colony.”
The first of the composers was Band-
master Reichenberg, of the 40th Regi-
ment, but recent replies to my inquiries
indicate that, as far as military records
are concerned, his biography cannot be
attempted, and even his correct Chris-
tian names may not be made known.
Certain it is that he joined his regiment
in his early teens as a drummer-boy. A
regimental order dated 1823 nominates
him as Master of Music, but he may
have held that rank before then. He
arrived in Sydney with the headquarters
of the 40th in 1824, and left with them in
1829. His band was one of the best the
colony had, and was only equalled by
that of the 73rd Regiment.
Sydney has never been without a band.
Even when Governor Phillip landed the
Marines’ Band, which Mrs. McArthur
says was “complete and numerous,” was
on shore before him. Bandmasters and
bandsmen were capable performers on
several instruments, and apart from their
military duties were available as musi-
cians for the many functions on land at
Sydney and Parramatta or on the decks
of visiting ships. Bandmasters were the
first composers and teachers of music.
Some left their bands to stay in the
colony to become teachers and celebri-
ties, proprietors of music shops and entre-
preneurs. Bandsmen, too, were teachers,
and supplemented their small pay by
transposing and copying music before
lithographers and machinery arrived to
print it.
On April 28, 1825, Reichenberg begged
to inform the ladies and gentlemen of
the colony, through the columns of the
“Sydney Gazette,” that he had composed
a set of quadrilles for Australia, with
proper figures adapted to it for the
pianoforte, flute or violin, as for a full
band. Twenty-four hours’ notice was
to be given for copies, costing six shil-
lings, to be had at the barracks or from
Robert Campbell, at 93 George-street,
who had come from Clement and Co.,
London, to open the first music shop in
Sydney the previous year.
Reichenberg’s music became very
popular. His graceful quadrilles were
so Australian in flavor as to be named
“La Sydney,” “La Woolloomooloo,” “La
lllawarra” and “La Bong Bong.” These
were later printed by Ellard and Sons
in Dublin, and when Frederick Ellard —
another pre-Nathan composer—opened
his shop in Hunter-street that became
the haunt of all Sydney’s musicians, he
sold an album containing Reichenberg’s
“Australian Quadrilles” and his own
compositions, “The Child’s Friend,” a
set of delightful pieces that kept the little
hands of those days busy at the piano.
If anyone has a copy of the “Austra-
lian Quadrilles,” either hand-printed by
bandsmen of the 40th Regiment or pub-
lished by Ellards, it would be a graceful
act to hand it over to the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, for the benefit of music
historians.
C. Sharp.
Australian
Film
Dubber
A branch of
the film industry
about which the
“executives” are
singularly reticent
is that which is
known as “dub-
bing,” and the best dubber in London
to-day is the Australian girl Anona
Winn.
The position consists of deputising for
stars in the matter of their singing and
even screaming. Many extremely attrac-
tive film stars are unable to sing suffi-
ciently well to capture the public imagi-
nation. A popular vocalist is therefore
engaged to do the job for her, and even
to teach her how to act during her imi-
tation singing of the number she is
putting over. The high peak of one of
the three best films made in England last
year is a rousing chorus song sung by
a world-renowned film star. Actually,
Anona did the singing and taught the
actress concerned what actions were
necessary to put it over.
So shy are some of the film studios
about this sort of thing getting about
that it is done behind closed doors at
midnight in a specially-prepared theatre
attached to certain studios.
ẃ
KEITH BARRY.
Current
Artbursts
Alan Reeve, in
his Melbourne ex-
hibition of cari-
catures, bothers
little about
people in public
positions. His show restricted to women
who are always “among those present”
caused more public laughs and private
tears than Garbo’s life-work. Reeve is at
his best in color, and the present collec-
tion includes many delightful lampoons
and few failures. The championship falls
to a self-caricature, an excellent por-
trait, but so merciless that Reeve might
be excused for punching his own nose.
Latham, K.C., should bring joy to the
ranks of Labor, and Justice Mclndoe,
Professor Osborne and Merson Cooper
are other good ones. Among the few
women shown this time the sketches of
Mrs. Louis Nelken and Mrs. Geoffrey
Smith are possibly the most interesting.
“N’lmporte”: Nearly 40 Australian
artists are competing for this year's
Godfrey Rivers prize in Brisbane. The
prize is given annually under the terms
of the Godfrey Rivers Bequest for a pic-
ture to be presented to the Brisbane
National Gallery, and each alternate year
the artist must be Australian. Last year's
selection was the fine half-figure by Sir
George Clausen —one of the few out-
standing things in the Gallery—and this
year is the Australian turn. The first
prize was won in 1933 by Will Ashton
with a seascape. The competitors were
permitted to choose any subject and
any art medium. The judge (Elioth
Gruner), however, recommended that a
set subject be given in future competi-
tions ; that was done, and this year s
subject is a portrait or figure.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH.
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Hore-Ruthven ticked off three
kindergartens from her engagement book
last Friday morning. First of all she
called at the Outpost Free Kindergarten,
and found many young citizens of Pyr-
mont putting themselves outside large
mugs of milk. Then the Governor’s lady,
who is an enthusiast over the work (she
is giving no end of a push to the party
on the Manunda on Thursday for the
Kindergarten Union), took her party,
which included Premier Stevens’s wife,
Ivie Price, Florence Sulman, Mrs. Alan
Box, Mrs. J. Dickson and Mrs. Robert-
son, on to the Maybanke ; and finally the
kiddies of the Golden Fleece, at Chip-
pendale, were called on. In the after-
noon, just to round off her day, Lady
Hore-Ruthven went to the annual meet-
ing of the Mothers’ Union at the Chapter
House ; and later on spent an hour with
the Pioneers. In the evening there was
a dinner party.
Maoriland and Westralia were repre-
sented on the programme of Anthony
Horderns’ first music tea, which hap-
pened last Thursday. As in Music Week,
these entertainments are in the art
gallery, where the eye as well as the ear
can drink in beauty. Managing director
Justly Rawlings made the introductory
remarks last Thursday, and spoke of the
great co.’s desire to help the young artist
on the thorny path to fame. It feels that
only by the encouragement of the singer
and musician will the ranks of Australian
artists be kept supplied with potential
Melbas, Australs, Crossleys, Brownlees
and Dawsons.
This year the ’flu and the sales have
struck the city at the same time, thereby
creating a doctor’s dilemma. For what
woman would take heed of medical
warnings against mingling in crowds
when chiffons and fur coats lure her
citywards? Boadiceas of the suburbs,
female Napoleons of the waterfronts
invade the city and carry away the
treasures for which their hearts pant.
You had to crane your neck to see
the royal blue and black of Wesley at
the college dance. An aesthete on the
decorations committee had shuddered
when the blue and the pea-green of the
chairs in the Blaxland Galleries had
come into contact; so the colors were
hoisted gallery high. Secretary “Blue”
Owen flung a cheery nod up to them
every now and then ; but on the whole
he was very busy initialling cards for
young men who had arrived* with pumps
and belles (that sounds like the village
square), but without tickets. “Sorry, old
man; left them on the hallstand.”
“Sorry, old thing; but I don’t know
what I’ve done with the tickets.”
Senior student Keith Moore was cast
for dignity. He stood at the foot of the
stairs, shook hands with the lads, bowed
to the lasses and led his own group,
reps, of the Women’s College, St. Paul’s,
Sancta Sophia and so on, to a table
blooming with red roses, camellias and
sweet-peas. “Blue” Owen’s table, too,
blazed with incarnadined horticulture,
round which dance secretaries from
other Uni. colleges sipped and nibbled.
One of the girls, Joy Kennedy, looked a
good bet for film-star honors (if she ever
gets screen-struck). Her red-gold hair
topped slimness in amber velvet; her
frock had its deep cape edged with brown
fur, and a few golden buds were pinned
near the shoulder. Camilla Wedgwood
came to the party; Mrs. J. C. Best
brought Parma-violet moires and Dorothy
Wilkinson white taffetas, gold-spotted
like a prospector’s dream. Mollie Kidd’s
beflowered satins were girdled in wine-
colored velvet. Heaps of girls in gay
frocks, plain frocks and glittering frocks ;
noted that Joan Somerville can wear
royal-blue georgettes.
There are lots of bargains to be had
at the Old Clothes Shop, 619 George-
street, from to-morrow morning. All
sorts of fluffs and ruffs have been mount-
ing up in the basement of the Rawson
Institute. If Anne Gordon goes to her
wardrobe and looks for a natty, brand-
new silk sports coat, it won’t be there.
Lady Gordon sneaked if down to the
Rawson the other day with a easeful
of other interesting-looking garments.
Miss Knox was busy shaking out the
ruchings of a carnation-pink taffeta
frock; this is to be a window attrac-
tion. Somebody had given an electric-
toaster ; Mrs. Penfold Hyland is re-
sponsible for many a hangerful of good
things. The Mission to Seamen will
benefit.
Muriel Brunskill shed her opalescence,
and appeared at one of her last week’s
concerts in a gold frock embroidered
with a tiny scarlet flower. Muriel lifted
her voice, rich as an archangel’s trump,
in opera and oratorio. Now and again
it came soft and sighing like a wind
from the south. The earnest student of
lieder kept tryst with her on Church Hill
for every concert. Other women went
because they were stirred by her singing
of such diverse numbers as “Silver” and
“Caller Herrin’.” With one intonation
she could give you a picture of a full-
blooded vulgarian, defiantly roaring her
wares, and then show you underneath
the heart of the fishwife beating in terror
for her man out on the North Sea,
“darklin’ as he faced the billows.” Only
a great artist can breathe such life into
a timeworn song.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite pretends
to find connection between the unusual
crop of engagement rings (most of them
are stunning) and the fact that two big
jewellery firms are holding sales. That’s
a bit too cynical. But can’t you see the
shops being mobbed by expectant wed-
ding guests?
The Mosman Musical Society was
founded in 1903, and for 32 years it has
never ceased to provide excellent enter-
tainment for citizens on the north side
of the harbor. The society has a position
all its own among the amateur groups,
and to play lead in its productions is to
the girl or boy aspiring to musical
comedy what the hall-mark is to silver.
Dell Davies (in this Lupton photograph),
one of Neutral Bay’s pretty girls, is to
play Kitty Brown, principal in “The
Girl Friend,” which the society will
present at the Mosman Town Hall in
August,
One of the busiest women in Sydney
last week was Mrs. Lodewyckx (the end
bit is pronounced to rhyme with “bikes”),
voluntary chaperon of the Y.A.L. girls’
tour of China and Japan which starts
off in August. Mrs. Lodewyckx came to
Sydney to see the intending travellers
and their parents, and left the memory
of an interesting personality. Her hus-
band is associate professor of Germanic
languages at Melbourne Uni. She is the
daughter of a Norwegian sea captain,
and yet cleverly contrived to be born in
the Great Karroo, in Africa. Scandi-
navia, the Belgian Congo, Belgium and
most of the rest of Europe have been at
times this lady’s home.
Vice-royalty dropped in for tea with
the Women Pioneers on Friday after-
noon. When Lady Hore-Ruthven found
what a close neighbor the Macquarie-
street club is to Government House, she
told Mrs. Lingham she’d like to drop in
other afternoons. Friday, of course, was
by way of being an occasion, and presi-
dent Mrs. Lingham and secretary Carlotta
Doyle saw that all the members were
presented to the guest of honor. There
was a flash of robin-red beneath the coat
of her dark suit, and a dark hat of
Breton sailor shape was an added smart-
ness.
Up-to-the-minute was Mrs. Lingham’s
hat with its upturned brim, and the bright
taffeta bow at Miss Doyle’s throat was
quite in the Paris fashion. Jeanie
Ranken’s black hat was of the sailor
family; the mind beneath it (do minds
live under hats?) concerned with her new
play, “The Storeroom.” The club’s
patron, Dame Eadith Walker, had her
long coat trimmed with civet fur, and
arrived and departed in a car of great
size and quiet opulence. Miss Da Silva
Waugh was competent kindliness ; Miss
Rodd added tall good looks. The tea
was a succession of goodies.
Messages of sympathy, not only from
the city, but from the country and States
across the border, are pouring in on Mrs.
Harry Dransfield, whose genial husband
died unexpectedly last week. Mr. and
Mrs. Dransfield were a popular pair, and
Mrs. Dransfield (a daughter of the late
Dr. W. A. West) is a most energetic
worker for charity. The Commercial
Bank at Paddington, which Mr. Drans-
field had managed for many years, will
grieve the passing of its kindly head.
Hard-ups of that district, too, and the
bank’s less favored clients have lost a
friend. There are two sons, Keith and
Colin.
Joan Hartigan, the tennis girl who has
added another star to Australia’s flag,
was caught in rather contemplative
mood before her departure for Wimble-
don by Dorothy Welding’s camera.
Jean Theodosia (Theo) Pockley, daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. H. T. Pockley, of
Mosman, and niece of Ethel Turner, was
married last Monday at St. Augustine’s
in Neutral Bay, becoming Mrs. Walter
Kennard, of Roseville. Theo, in her
froth of pink lace and tulle, looked like
some delectable sundae. Her attendants,
Mrs. Bligh-Jones (matron of honor),
Dorothy Webb and Helen Cole, were in
white satin and Arctic-blue satin scarves
and head veils. The Kruri Club at
Neutral Bay was the rallying point for
congratulations after the ceremony, and
there Mrs. Pockley received in a frock
of crushed strawberry lace.
One of the earth’s most persistent
pedestrians, Miss Benham (she’s on her
eighth ramble round the globe), was the
guest of honor at the Lyceum Club’s
lunch on Friday, Mrs. Bernard Muscio
in the chair. The lady from London
gave a most entertaining account of the
thrills that happen in big-game country.
The forests of Central Africa, the knobby
knees and shoulders of the Himalayas as
climbing exercise, and the rapids and
rivers she has covered by boat made
Lyceum members prick their ears for
more. Miss Benham, who walks as her
favorite recreation, has made over 300
sketches of her favorite high places—
mountains are her hobby. She keeps the
fresh complexion and bright smile of one
who finds the earth a very pleasant place.
City Tattersall’s Hospital Ball promises
to notch the usual yearly success on
Thursday, the 18th. David Jones’s is the
chosen spot, and the hours of revelry are
between nine and one o’clock. The
Sydney, Prince Alfred, Children’s,
Crown-street, South Sydney, Renwick,
St. Vincent’s and Lewisham hospitals and
the Queen Victoria Home for Consump-
tives will benefit. That’s a nice, com-
prehensive list, some one of which is
bound to stretch out and tickle the rib
of sympathy that is nearest to a man’s
pocket. The cheque from City Tatt.’s
efforts is always a generous one.
Mack Shannon married his Joy Chis-
holm, of Breadalbane and Lindfield, at
old St. James’s, and after the ring was
in place the wedding group popped
across the way to the Forum Club for a
cocktail. A soft beige woolly frock and
a coat positively lush with Arctic fox
plus a beige toque and a clutter of mauve
orchids formed the bridal get-up.
Mother, who gave daughter away, was
in navy-and-white and a lot of silver
fox. ’Groom’s father* C. M. C. Shannon,
very impressive, greeted the bride at the
church portals, and Royce Shannon
helped brother through the hoops.
Another link that binds town and
country was forged the other day when
Kathleen Cape, of Darling Point, became
Mrs. Hayden J. Litchfield, of Cooma. St.
Mary’s provided the blessing and the
Macquarie Club the reception.
Sister Elsie Clare Pidgeon, assistant
matron of Sydney Hospital, has two dis-
tinctions : she has never been photo-
graphed except “unawares,” so to speak,
and she has been awarded the Florence
Nightingale medal, presented only once
before in Australia. It comes by way
of the Australian R.C. from the Inter-
national Red Cross at Geneva. Sister
Pidgeon was on active service at Lemnos
and in France. Lady Isaacs will pin the
decoration in place at the headquarters
younger people’s birthday dinner next
Tuesday.
There are 30,000 Maorilanders in N.
S. Wales. Lady Hore-Ruthven passed
on the statistics the other night. As far
as can be judged the 30,000 intend to
stay here. Enzed may be God’s Own
Country, but it takes an ice-pick to
crack a really typical June morning in
Otago Central. If the exile grows nos-
talgic for the beauties of his home land,
he can go to a screening of the scenery
filmed every now and then by M.L.’s
Tourist Bureau. In stills or action these
really are a lovely background for any
party. The Governor’s lady had a party
with the M.L. Women’s Association
and one with the Kia Ora Club last
week, and everything Maorilandish
short of a haka was tucked into the two
to give atmosphere —silver ferns and
Scottish pipes, a Maori canoe (a small,
exquisitely carved craft). Dominion flags
and even a poi. The Julius lady, the L.
J. Schmitts, the W. Freemans, Mrs. J.
Prentice and the Stanley Hemptons were
among the upholders of the Dominion
that keeps the other side of the Tasman
ballasted.
Ruggles of Red Gap has been putting
ideas into the male mind. Ever since
Charles Laughton has said in his inimi-
table way “Never the kettle to the pot —
the pot to the kettle,” the conceited
wretches have started the scandal that
women can’t make tea. That is another
prerogative of the male. “If you say the
tea’s strong, they’ll bring a jug of hot
water and break if down,” complained
one man bitterly ; “that just spoils the
flavor.” “Yes,” agreed his companion,
“and they will pour out the tea first,
and then add the milk. Scientifically
that’s all wrong.” Well, well! I hope
they point this out to their wives these
cold mornings as they push the poor
creatures back among the pillows and
gallop gaily out to make the early-morn-
ing cup of tea.
The silver harvest from the jubilee
balls in aid of the T.B. Soldier and Sailor
amounted to £1035. A cheque for this
nice round sum was handed over to
Lady Hore-Ruthven at the Carlton dur-
ing last week, and then passed on to
T.B. Association’s president W. C. Crid-
land. There was an atmosphere of
congratulation on the success of their
efforts among the committee members,
the Mayoresses (the suburbs had played
their part in the campaign) and other
supporters of the movement. Music and
tea garnished the ceremony. Admiral
Randle Ford’s wife boosted her hus-
band’s service in the buttons and belt
of her pale-beige frock. Her topcoat was
of a different blue —more sapphire in
tone. Lady Hore-Ruthven looked hand-
some in a caped ensemble of navy col-
lared in silver fox.


Kichardson Chain Hotel
m
m
S 5
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
1 Ht rtUltL ALEXANDER
122-13,' Spencer Street, Melbourne
Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
Missing Friends.
Will SARAH PEDERSEN, one time of
Makaretu, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand, or any-
one knowing her whereabouts please communi-
cate with the District Public Trustee, Waipu-
kurau, New Zealand?
SYDNEY BAKER: Your mother, Clara
Stanley Baker, died on February 28 at
Dunstable, England. Will any friend of his
kindly advise him?
DUNN, RICHARD THOMAS. —Please for-
ward me your address.—J. J. LANE, Milton,
New Zealand.
rU**
JroUOH
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Melbourne
Chatter
The V.R.C. blossomed forth with
special racebooks for the Grand
National. On the cover a large chestnut
leaps straight up into the air; there’s
a hurdle in the foreground, but it won’t
trouble him —he’s aiming to clear the
treetops. The weather was marvellous —
perfect sunshine, no wind and enough
nip in the air to induce an appetite for
the many cocktail parties that followed.
Hats were a motley mixture. Some
turned off the face with a decided swoop
—Mrs. Tristan Buesst’s was such, in navy
felt. Others were to jockey caps what
men are to monkeys—intimately related,
if the evolutionists are right, though the
evolution of the caps is only apparent to
the observant. Mrs. Noel Tinsley’s little
peaked affair was ope of these. Mrs.
Ivan Oehr’s hat was perked upwards at
the back; with it went silver foxes.
Liberties had been taken with Louise
Moran’s beret until it was flat and as
large as a dinner-plate, Rosemary Wright
covered her head in a Cossack fashion
and her hands with a brown muff of the
same Persian lamb, Vi Temple Smith
was in black ; and Joyce Collier, all in
brown, had two golden acorns through
which tassels were slipped to fasten her
dress at the throat. Peggy le Plastrier
wore blue and an Arctic-fox collar. Two
smart sisters were Mrs. Jimmy Dodds,
in brown, and Mrs. Irvine, in black and
exuberant orchids. Jean York Syme
was among the many who chose tweed
suits with woolly jumpers.
Guests who drove through the frosty
air to the Ballarat Club Ball found great
fires to thaw their fingers, dancing to
warm their foes and an air of jovial
good-fellowship to put a glow around
their hearts. Supper was served upstairs,
where the chef, in all his warpaint of
cap and apron, cut up turkeys and suck-
ing-pig with an easy swish of his long,
thin knife (his dexterity started an argu-
ment between a young couple ; she said
it was concentration and delicacy of
touch, he said it was knowledge of
anatomy which took years to acquire).
’Tween dances the card-rooms were
snug for sitting out, and everybody, expert
and otherwise, potted and cannoned on
the billiard-table. Club president Dr. W.
Capell brought his wife and daughter
Mary. Dr. Tom Seward escorted a black-
chiffon-clad wife ; also in black was Mrs.
H. R. Coldham, whose gown was a-
shimmer with sequins. Madge Fraser
(Clunes) was in gold. Mrs. C. Best wore
slim-fitting pink ; and Mrs. J. V. Tun-
bridge pink of a deeper shade. Mrs.
Bob Salmon’s black gown had a bouffant
skirt and steel neck trimmings. Joan
Gardiner had a halo band of fresh violets
to match the purple splash at her water-
lily-green waistline. Nornie Nevitt wore
a film-star garment, a bodice consisting
of two flame-colored crossed bands
attached to a topaz skirt. Mrs. Lushman
(Clunes) was elegant in green, and Mrs.
Clyde Fisken was vivacious in floral
chiffon.
There was a day recently when no
delinquents were popped into gaol, no
marriage fetters unfastened, no bank-
rupts thrown out on the cold, cruel
world-—for the Bench and Bar had pulled
on their giddiest golf socks, shouldered
their clubs and gone off to Victoria to
play the United Services. The legal men
annexed the Bruche Cup for A teams, and
at the end of the day the Bs were 40
matches all for the Macfarlan Cup. The
nineteenth cleared as if by magic when
it was announced that Judge Winneke
and Squadron-leader Wackett would
represent their teams and play the first
hole in the dark. Doughty backers
spread themselves all over the fairway
and near-by hazards to listen for the
z-z-z of the ball; hurricane lanterns were
procured, and the competitors, with
mighty swipes, drove off into the un-
known. The Judge won. Lord Hunting-
field, accompanied by General Laverack,
was on the verandah to present the spoil.
Freddy Knight, who sets his legal
knowledge at the disposal of the Services,
produced a poem at lunch-time:
A castle, a moat, a forest —there is
nothing too large or too small to
be excluded from the Troubadours’ back-
ground, for their scenes are those of
imagination, and can be changed in a
twinkling. The Rayner girls, after wan-
dering round Europe and America for
four years, brought fascinating scraps of
mime and folklore to Centenary Hall
in “Scarlet and Grey,” the programme
so named after the colors of the Trou-
badours’ doublets and hose. The pair
have a few props—a cardboard crown,
and Joan is Charlemagne ; grey breeches,
and Betty’s a Somerset lad picking apples
for Joan, a lass in a chintz skirt with
hankerings after marriage and an imagi-
nary basket which tips up now and again.
With no accessories but their charm and
talent, a cotton-wool beard, a gnarled
stick and a print petticoat, the pair tell
a whimsical tale of a marriage between
an old man and a young girl. Betty, as
flirtatious Toda, breaks hearts and dances
while her elderly spouse is dying. Joan,
as the old man (she’s the young lover as
well), catches in her thumbnail sketch
the essence of old age, its pathos and
its absurdities.
Here is Elaine Pearce, who is one of
the committee of the Grand National
Ball to be held at the Embassy on July
12. The dance, which takes place every
year between our two big winter race-
meetings, is organised by a group of
young people who have a soft spot for
the Ministering Children’s League. Miss
Pearce is the youngest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Pearce. Her marriage
to Basil Shaw Fitchett takes place on
August 18. Broothorn made the por-
trait.
The Victoria League’s last at-home
proved such an attraction that more
chairs had to be procured and tea-time
was an interlude of dexterous balancing.
As evidence that older members have
coaxed younger folk to join up recently
there were present several smart lasses
like Betty Stephens, in a black-and-
brown-check coat; Joan Hill, in brown ;
Ruth Knight, with a scarlet piecrust frill
under her chin ; and Catherine Hiskens,
whose Russian hat was a breath of the
windswept steppe. After listening to
Mrs. S. J. Anderson’s talk on a high-
caste wedding in Ceylon all decided
that their own particular niches are quite
comfortable. The Cingalese wedding
celebration lasts a week, and most of the
time the neglected little bride peeps
round corners unnoticed except when
bidden to spoon-feed her magnificent
husband from a bowl of rice as a sign
of her docility. If the poor bride does
not manage to have a son within a cer-
tain time out she goes.
The ’flu wog is among us. There were
plenty of vacant chairs at the Inter-
national Club’s afternoon in honor of
the Secretary-General of the Institute of
Pacific Relations and Mrs, Carter. Mrs.
Carter herself was not well enough to
be present, and the Latham lady and
Herbert Brookes were others who stayed
at home nursing their respective hot-
water bags. In his address Mr. Carter
flitted from country to country. Last
May he encountered the Garden Club of
America, consisting of 87 women, seven
husbands and three sons, who had de-
scended like a flock of swallows upon
Japan, in Tokio they occupied the whole
of the Imperial Hotel, The Americans
were profusely entertained. Japanese
women, all wives and daughters of
worthy citizens, were chosen as personal
guides. The programme was so full that
none of the visitors had time for more
than one manicure or hair-setting during
their stay in Nippon.
Why chimes should peal for several
hours without a let-up from the precincts
of the Flinders-street railway station is
a mystery. Across the main entrance
is a poster announcing the speeding-up
of the Melbourne-Sydney express to 15
hours from July 15 ; there is a rumor
also that Mr. Clapp’s salary will be re-
duced. Either may have been a reason,
or perhaps the bellringers were just prac-
tising for a marathon. It was unfortu-
nate that Lucille Bruntnell’s recital took
place that night in the Rex Theatre. The
chimes worried her, and, being unable
to create atmosphere in all the din, she
had to cut out “La Bretonne.” Scraps
from A. A, Milne filled the first half of
the programme, while Winnie the Pooh
and pals scampered over the walls. Mrs.
Bruntnell wore Christopher Robin’s
velvet suit, and later a gown of bronze
velvet, the skirt split fore and aft.
Mr, and Mrs. J. Howard Taylor are
preparing to give only daughter Marion
into the keeping of Hal Oddie, son of
Mr. and Mrs. T. A. Oddie. The mar-
riage date is July 25, the scene of the
ceremony Melbourne Grammar School
chapel, and felicitations will be turned
on at No. 9. Broothorn made the
portrait.
An immense Statue of Liberty, her
lighted torch held aloft in the region of
the ceiling, a purple curtain at her back,
presided over the Palais for the Ameri-
can Cabaret Ball. Facing Liberty at the
other end of the room was George Wash-
ington, in oils, guarded by two cannons
and two living redcoats dressed for the
War of Independence. There were sign-
boards to show that the band played all
the way between Florida and Idaho ; ice-
cream came out of the cold of Wiscon-
sin and the warmth of Missouri; the
bar was in Maryland, and the gentlemen
parked their coats in New Jersey. Every-
body stood for “The King” during supper
and again for “The Star-spangled
Banner,” sung by Strella Wilson against
a background of the Hall of Liberty.
Uncle Sam’s golden eagle spread his
wings and arched his neck possessively
towards the committee supper-tables,
decked with all-white flowers. Like one
of these camellias was Mrs. E. A. Calla-
nan in her slim, white satin frock, with
her dark, neat head emerging from a
calyx of pink ospreys. A tall, handsome
pair were the Eric Wilsons, she with
severe blonde coiffure, fur cape and white
gown. Mrs. Jim Clymer borrowed the
mode of her collar from the period when
Pilgrim Fathers were settling in New
England. The Harry Cornforths carried
out their traditional July 4 dinner (this
year at Menzies), and afterwards brought
their guests on to the ball. Mrs. S. J.
Prytz withstood the breezes off Lake
Michigan in beige lace and a nectarine-
colored wrap, and Mrs. Norman Picot
wore blossom-pink for her wanderings in
Louisiana.
Mrs, Alan Nathan had golden moons
rising on black net, and Neenoo Due
wore white knotted across her waist with
pale honey-colored bows. In the danc-
ing throng a green chiffon hankie
drooped from Dinah Cockrill’s wrist.
Mrs, Stewart Hancock mixed navy blue
with raspberry, and Mrs. John Ramsay’s
blending was mist-grey and cherry. One
of the few dresses with a tunic to the
knee was Pauline Crick’s corncob crepe
tied with a jade sash. Mrs. Isadore
Goodman wore black with a beaded
coat, and Mrs. Abe Silk’s pink gown glit-
tered as if it had been sprinkled with
silver dust. A pair whose table was
planted in the romantic southland amidst
the cotton and the watermelons were
Helen Anderson and John Journeaux.
Their engagement was announced next
day.
Representatives from 20 different
organisations met to offer congratula-
tions to Dr. Georgina Sweet, who was
endowed with an 0.8. E. on the King's
Birthday. The party happened in the
Connibere Hall on the same afternoon
as the International Club’s gathering for
the Edward Carters, so that many women
found themselves demolishing a second
afternoon-tea at 4.30. The League of
Nations Union, the Y.W.C.A., the
W.C.T.U., the Nursing Federation, the
Board of Social Studies, the Australian
Federation of Medical Women and the
Council of Mental Hygiene were some of
the societies whose voices were heard in
eulogistic speeches.
The Lord Somers Camp fund will
benefit from a jolly shivoo in the Caul-
field Town Hall. The Knox lady, Eliza-
beth Darling, George Linden and a group
of Power House members threw logs of
enthusiasm on the corroboree’s bonfire.
The lads whose job it was to entertain
their friends with a ballet affixed coy
smiles to their faces and funny little hats
with feathers to chin elastics, and with
frail skirts swinging round their hairy
knees performed leaps arid bounds pre-
historic as the Stone Age, mixed up with
a potpourri of twists and kicks inspired
by the front row of the chorus. Among
attractive frocks noticed on the dance
floor was Betty Clarke’s black crepe.
Beth Saul arrived in a lavish wrap of
Egyptian-green taffeta cut like a high-
wayman’s cloak with wide collar and
sleeves. The partners of Lucille Stephens
had to dance carefully to preserve the
perfection of a stiff-starched ruffle round
the neck of her mushroom-tinted frock.
D’Arcy Lawry adorned her hair with
flowers and her slim self with a gown of
glittersome silver lame.
All the week excited little hearts have
gone pitter-patter while tulle frocks were
pulled over youthful heads and a comb
and a finger put a finishing touch to
wayward curls. For every girl who
entered the room at the back of His
Majesty’s to dance for examiner Felix
Demery is at heart a ballerina. This is
the first occasion when examinations
have been held in Australia; South
Africa has been ahead of us. The British
Operatic Society of Dancing was founded
after the war by Genee ; its objects are
primarily to standardise the art of the
dance and to encourage teachers to adopt
correct methods in training their pupils.
Candidates may not skip grades ; even
the most proficient must dance for
Grade I before entering for Grade 11, so
some young folks are having a busy
week. Felix Demery is tall and fair
with a slim waistline, a charming manner
and a genius for being helpful.
Eunice Weston has done good work
towards making these examinations pos-
sible in Australia. She trained in the
school in London, and is the society’s
Australasian representative. Apart from
teaching her own students she has visited
the other States to give lessons to the
teachers. She was on the station to meet
Felix Demery and introduce to him the
dancing exponents of Melbourne.
Some say the Bench and Bar are Bs—
No golfer with such tosh agrees.
Just as absurd is he who says
Admirals and Adjutants are As.
For Bs they very often are,
Which doesn’t take us very far.
From this you’ll readily agree
That, though your name commenced with B
And what you’re like we’d hate to say,
You may not be allowed to play.
I ask for definition, please—
Exactly who and what are Bs?


XI
IX
VIII
VII
Si it'
&JEI
iii s
A
'»?0
«
a
rwl\
Vi
H'^l
V o
e.r
•j
r> u
$ E
u
mu
/'k
Eleven
A.M. has
struck
and the world has
paused for tea
The sound of vacuum cleaner and broom grow still
. . . the click of the typewriter ceases . . . hammer
and saw and whirring wheels are at rest . . . the cafe
is filled from store, and stock exchange, and street.
, . . For the eleventh hour has struck . . . and the
world seeks to restore its energy, find stimulation and
pleasure in the tonic of a cup of good tea.
Few who know the satisfaction of this eleven a.m.
pause, would care to be denied it . . . for the benefits
of good tea are so definite ... so quickly apparent
Pause for good tea at eleven a.m. and the day's work
will be the better for it
But be sure the tea is good.
HOW TO MAKE GOOD TEA
Select a GOOD quality tea. Boil fresh water. Warm
up a clean earthenware tea pot. Put in one teaspoon*
ful of lea for each cup, and one for the pot. The
moment the water comes to a boil, pour it on the tea.
Let the tea brew five minutes.
What you need
is a cup of
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET EXPANSION BUREAU
T-Ha4-35
MIDWINTER PATTERNS NUMBER
THIS WEEK’S
FREE PATTERN.
OUTSIZE UTILITY
SKIRT
ON SALE FRIDAY.
Cjl !.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
AUSTRALIA’S POPULAR 3d. MAGAZINE.
The “Woman’s Mirror” Pattern Service of
modish and reliable paper patterns is acknow-
ledged as the most varied and helpful in
Australasia.
Every issue of the “Woman’s Mirror” includes
six kiddie patterns, eight grown-up and not
fewer than three photofashions. Any type
of stock-size pattern cut. Making hints with
every pattern; pattern talk in every issue.
A special concession of 3d. in the Is. on all
models is now available to readers.
64 Pages of Bright Features
LET US BE GAY!
Illustrated London Fashions Letter.
WOMAN’S EVENTIDE
“Dr. Phil” Advises.
UNDIES TRANSFER
LET A WORM HAVE A TURN!
A Man Hits Back.
NEW ZEALAND HERALDRY
DESIGN
BABY’S TEETHING TROUBLES
PULLOVER FOR A YOUNG
MAN
A JUMPER CARDIGAN.
SHORT, SERIAL AND REAL-LIFE
STORIES.
Price 3d.
WESTRALIA.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
Officers of the Dutch submarine
K XVIII and Customs Minister White
and his wife were guests at the Naval
and Military Club’s Ball. Colonel
Robertson-Smith presided, with his better-
half’s silver-striped pastel-blue crepes
alongside. Mrs. White tied her trained
black sating with a silver girdle. Con-
trasting sashes were popular. Lola Stuart-
Smith wound round her frilly black hail-
spot nets one of ciel blue ; Mrs. J. C.
Murray’s cherry crepes were yoked and
sashed with silver; Mrs. Jimmie Woods
marked the waistline of his black laces
with blue taffetas, and vivid satin was
swathed around Pat Saw’s slinkly black
velvets.
Mary Meares was presented with the
M.B.E. insignia by the Lieut.-Gov. at
Government House. After the pinning
on of the decoration and a eulogy of
the work done by Miss Meares for the
soldiers during and since the war, the
Mitchell lady, with a feathered toque
topping her brown tweed suit, entertained
with morning-tea in the rose-strewn
drawing-room, where a glowing fire
warmed proceedings. Miss Meares is a
daughter of the late J. G. Meares and
Mrs. Meares, who, as a Withnell, was
one of the pioneer women of the North-
west.
The 11 debs, who were presented to
vice-royalty at the Newman Ball were
preceded up the ballroom of Anzac
House by a diminutive couple girt with
green and floral taffetas, who bore
bouquets for official guests. Mrs. E. Le
B. Henderson bowed over presentation
red roses as her black laces were ranged
beside her president husband ; Mrs. E.
Needham’s draperies were of ox-blood
matelasse ; Mrs. D. Mulcahy combined
black-and-white with brocaded lame;
Mercia Scott (who trained the debs,
for the lancers) had skilful touches of
taffeta on mushroom lace ; Mrs. Pons-
ford’s Parma-violet satins made a rich
splash of coloring, and Pat Boyle’s lemon
georgettes were tied with jade-green
taffetas.
The Pleiades Club scored a hit with
Brandon-Thomas’s “Passing Brompton
Road,” presented to an enthusiastic audi-
ence at the Assembly Hall. Gwen Bick-
ford’s production was a smoothly-run-
ning riot of fun. A strong cast was
headed by Mary Ward, and Mrs. Carl
Knapp, Nancy Rogers and Gwendah
Day gave able support.
Rakings from the Clontarf Ball went
to orphanage funds. Joint organisers
Mrs. J. Phillips and Mrs. Harold Hannan
watched the throng at Anzac House girt
respectively in cherry lace and peach-
pink matelasse; Mrs. C. Williamson’s
georgettes were patterned in black-and-
white ; Mollie Malone danced in persim-
mon velvets ; Tess Dullard’s trained matt
crepes were of lido-blue and Marjorie
Bannan’s graceful black gown was of
cobwebby lace.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Rotary Ball filled the Palais with
a thousand dancers. The stage was
draped with bunting, and floral decora-
tions were in scarlet. Acting-Mayoress
Dunstan wore ice-blue satin with a silver
hair stripe, cut on diagonal lines. She
and the Mayor were received by Mr. and
Mrs. H. M. Day and Mr. and Mrs. H.
J. Finnis, who entertained them in the
official box. Mrs. Day added a golden
sequin cape to her black romaine, and
Mrs. Finnis chose blue-and-white floral
chiffon and a ring velvet cape to match
the blue.
The last of the deb. dances was held in
the Liberal Club Hall, when the arrival at
voting age of the Alan Sheidows’ Bessie
and the Cedric Warrens’ Thelma was cele-
brated. Masses of mimosa and Iceland
poppies figured in the decorations. Miss
Sheidow’s frock was white lacquer lace
over pale-blue taffeta, with deep flounce
of white tulle; the same round the
corsage. Miss Warren chose white French
ninon with gold-thread pattern, the frills
on skirt and bodice edged with narrow
gold ribbon.
Mount Osmond Country Club held its
midwinter ball in a setting of poinsettia,
scarlet berries and autumn foliage with
a huge log fire. Supper was served in
a marquee, with mimosa and mixed
flowers on the table. Vice-president E.
W. Holden and his wife received the
guests, Mrs. Holden wearing midnight
blue chiffon with cape effect. Mrs. L.
O Betts’s black taffeta was flowered in
green; Mrs. Roy Le Messurier was in a
floral chiffon; Mrs. Howard Vaughan’s
pale-blue georgette was beaded in silver.
At St. Xavier’s Cathedral, Audine, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Julian Barclay,
exchanged vows with Dr. John Andrews,
of Hilton. After the ceremony the bride
and bridegroom motored to Mount Lofty,
where the bride’s grandmother, Mrs. A.
T. Magarey, entertained a few old friends
at morning tea.
The Tennis Assoc.’s Ball at the Palais
was largely attended. His Ex. and Lady
Dugan were received by President Amos
Rowley. Lady Dugan was gowned in
almond-green with cape effect from the
shoulders at the back. Mrs. H. Dunstan
wore apple-green romaine with flounces
down the back ; Acting-Premier Ritchie’s
lady was in white marocain patterned in
light-brown; Mrs. Darcy Cowan chose
fine black lace. A parade of tennis
fashions from 1890 to the present day
was an event of the evening. A tennis
net was erected in front of the vice-regal
box, and as each couple of girls repre-
senting a period came on they had a
brief game. The racquet carried by Mary
Parsons in the costume of 1890 was
presented to the L.T.A. by Eric C. Ash-
win. Made in the ’seventies or earlier,
it still has its original strings.
The Uni. Ball, held in the refectory,
was well attended. Poppies, marigolds
and daisies decorated. Eighteen debs,
were presented to his Ex. and Lady
Dugan. Early-Victorian frocks were
favored. His Ex. danced with one of the
buds, Millie Frank, who was wearing
white taffeta and a halo of pearls. Lady
Dugan’s powder-blue romaine gown fitted
to the figure and merged into a train.
The guests were received by R. R. P.
Barbour (president of the Uni. Sports
Assoc.) and his wife, who was gowned in
pervenche-blue taffeta with wide silver
lame collar.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and his wife attended
St. Patrick’s College Ball in Launceston’s
Albert Hall, Lady Clark wearing leaf-
brown georgette with long, floating
sleeves. Elvie Quigley and the principal
of the college (Bro. L. Carew) received
guests at the entrance to the hall, and
there was a good roll-up.
The State Commandant and Mrs. Wil-
liams were at the dance given at the
Barracks, Launceston, by the officers’
mess of the 16th Battery and the 12th
Battalion. The affair was well run, the
officers’ messroom being turned into a
comfy lounge for the occasion, with
bulbs and berries for decoration. The
supper-tables were decked in pink.
The Northern Apex Club ran a suc-
cessful dance at the Crystal Palais. A
burlesque of the Russian Ballet by five
“ballerinas” (men in gold-and-black fan-
tastic ballet costumes with backless
bodices and short skirts) made an amus-
ing interlude.
Clemes College (the old Leslie House
School) had its seventh annual dinner at
Hadley’s, with Owen Burrows, president
of the Old Boys’ Association, in the chair,
and representatives of Hutchins’ and
Friends’ schools as guests. After the
feast all adjourned to the college for
dancing in the Memorial Hall. Flags
and streamers in the school colors made
the walls gay, and supper was served in
the dining-hall. Betty Risby and Jack
Burgess were joint secs.
The garden fete at Government House
in the interests of mothers and infants
fell on a sunny and quite warm day.
Tea was served in the balcony leading
off the ballroom, and the Freeman trip-
lets, a fine advertisement for the Mother-
craft Home, were on view.
At St. Matthew’s, Launceston, Dorothy,
second daughter of Rev. and Mrs. W.
Witt Gregson, of New Norfolk, wed E.
Fowell, of Launceston, Bishop Snowdon
Hay performing the ceremony. The
bride was in ivory chiffon velvet, cut on
long, slim lines, with slashed sleeves. Her
tulle veil was held in place by an orange-
blossom halo. Marjorie and Joan Greg-
son, Thelma Fowell and Viva Beamish
followed in pink chiffon rebel frocks
with puffed sleeves and little trains.
Exit, after a run of over 58 years, the
Tas, “Illustrated Mail,” accompanied by
its friendly rival the Launceston
“Courier.” Farewells and presentations
took place in the “Mail” editorial rooms,
where J. E. Thorp, the editor, delivered
the funeral oration and Joan Clemes, of
the literary staff, was handed two hand-
some crystal fruit bowls from her office
mates. Illustrated supplements to the
Hobart “Mercury” and Launceston
“Examiner” will help to fill the gaps left
by the defunct weeklies.


Mining Notice.
Adelong Gold Estates No Liability.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Dividend of
Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared on
all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company.
The Dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 26th day of July, 1935.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will
close at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the 16th day of
July, 1935, and reopen at 10 a.m. on Thursday,
the 18th day of July, 1935, and the Dividend
will be payable to shareholders registered in
the Books of the Company on Wednesday, the
17th day of July, 1935.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
„ ... R- V. WILSON, Manager.
Collins House, Melbourne,
2nd July, 1935. i
Q}
m on Lumen
• . . wants convenience . . .
and canijatt too . . . natntalLj
looks at /-» . .
SYDNEY
Tariff; Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
R- J. Langley, Manager.
23 Goulburn
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Gain”: The spot on the Kabakaul-
road where the first Australians met
their deaths in (he Great War (Sept. 11,
1914) has been marked by a monu-
ment which was unveiled by the
Administrator of the Mandated Territory
a few weeks ago. It stands on raised
ground about 15 yards back from the
road, and bears on a pe'destal surmounted
with the A.I.F. badge in bronze the
words “In this vicinity fell the first
Australians in the Great War, 1914-18.”
♦ * # *
“Magnetic”: Townsville’s new wire-
less station (4QN) will set a new stan-
dard in northern radio. Its foundations
have been laid down about 15 miles by
airline from the city on the Ayr railway,
and it is to cost £60,000. Its mast will
be 500 feet high, and all the settled
North will be comfortably within its
range on the ordinary domestic set.
* * * *
“0.X.”: Queensland registered one of
the most peculiar deaths of the year
when a man was certified to have passed
over through inhaling beer into his Jungs
while vomiting. Liquor is a dangerous
thing to play with. In Boorooloola long
ago a teamster who regaled his mates
with one of two buckets of beer, bought
for an evening’s entertainment, went to
sleep while he was disposing of the
second himself. He was found a corpse
next morning, his face immersed in the
liquid.
* , * * s';
“X.”: Somebody called attention a
few weeks ago to the danger of allow-
ing Germany or any other foreign Power
to secure control of New Guinea terri-
tory in view of the inherent capacity of
the natives as soldiers. In the old Ger-
man time, the natives were a fine force,
but the Australian regime has improved
them. On King’s Birthday, when they
turned out on parade at Rabaul, with
rifles and bayonets complete, the con-
sensus of opinion was that they were far
better with us than against us. There
is a nucleus of a native army of 250,000
waiting to be drilled in New Guinea and
the adjacent islands. Australian legis-
lators should not forget it.
* * * *
“Paling”; A peculiarity noticed this
year north of twenty-eight is the com-
parative infrequency of the hobo. In
past seasons hordes of young fellows
from Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and
even Adelaide flocked north for the
winter, jumping the trains and living
around Cairns, Townsville, Mackay and
the sugar towns in between. Tradespeople,
accustomed to persistent callers asking
for a loaf of bread or piece of steak, are
bewildered at their absence. The chances
arc that Loan Council money getting
around in the big industrial centres is
making the long trip north underneath
tarpaulins hardly worth the candle.
* * * *
“O-Nine”; . At last Brisbane's old
Town Hall, which has been standing
derelict since its million-pound suc-
cessor went up in Albert-square, is to
be turned into shops, with possibly an
arcade. A dignified, square stone build-
ing set round a courtyard, if would make
a fine historical museum. Its floors and
staircases have echoed to the tread of
every man who has helped to make his-
tory since Brisbane was a town. Every
distinguished visitor who came to
Queensland for nearly half a century
was entertained there. But I suppose
history means nothing to salaried
aldermen.
* •* * *
“El V.”: Jim Philp (B. 3/7/’35) was
born out of his age. He should have
been a troubadour or a sennachie, for
topical verse poured out of him on every
conceivable occasion, to the chagrin of
his political enemies. Let an incautious
Cabinet Minister do himself a little too
well and within a day or two the whole
town would be singing:
Jack Fagan’s got a motor, embroidered blue
and green,
Willi bosker covered cushions and a crest upon
the screen;
There’s chicken in the locker and whisky in a
jar
When his swagger friends go picnicking in
Fagan’s motor-car.
But he reserved that kind of thing for
public men. Personally, he was kind.
“Wot's ’ appened , miss?”
“Nothing much , silly. I've merely bet the hoy friend he cant get it up
the tree before lunch!”
generous and considerate to a fault, and
full of good talk.
* * * *
“Psitta”: Brisbane Museum has ac-
quired another curiosity to match that
queer fish (B. 19/6/’3s)—-a Blue Moun-
tain lory whose colors have changed,
the green and red to gold and the blue
to scarlet. This makes the plumage
bright all over, save for the head, neck
and lower abdomen. The bird was
caught alive some years ago, and was
kept as a pet by a Brisbane family until
its death. This abnormal coloring is not
unknown in other species of birds, and
people who like jaw-cracking pseudo-
scientific names in natural history will
rejoice to hear that the change is known
as xanthochromism. Try it on your
Greek fish merchant first chance you get.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
In Port Moresby Kevin Parer, younger
brother of Ray, and an airman himself,
was married to Nance McGahan, daugh-
ter of Jim McGahan, of Warwick. The
bride went to Papua in the Macdhui,
taking with her the blue frock in which
she was married and sister Nell to act as
bridesmaid. Hubert Murray was best
man. After a dinner at the hotel the
young Parers went to their future home
at Wau by ’plane, and found all* the
available members of the Pacific Aerial
Transport Co. waiting on the mat with
a crystal water-set and a brass table.
Many old friends of the family in n.-w.
Q. were interested in the wedding of
Ursula, youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Colin Ross, of Cloncurry, to H. Z.
Armstrong, only son of the H. H. Arm-
strongs, of Narromine (N.S.W.). Silver
lame with three yards of train figured in
the bridal array. Imelda Ross, Zita
Cooke, Judith and Pixie Kerr were the
’maids. The new home is at Toorak
statiqn, Nelia,
The James Orrs’ daughter Marion is
to marry Desmond, eldest son of the
E. J. Shaws, Sandgate, on July 16. Jean
Orr is to be bridesmaid.
St. John’s Cathedral will hear the
“Wedding March” for Jocelyn Hudson
and Gordon Ridgway on July 27. Judith
Herring, who hails from Victoria, and
Del Harris are to be ’maids, and Mrs.
Kelvin Lahey matron of honor.
When members of the Rep. Soc.
crowded into Rhoda Felgate’s studio for
a pre-wedding party in honor of Tom
Stephens and Babette Ferguson, they
found that Rhoda’s brother Jim had just
announced his engagement to Beryl Tel-
ford. Lexie Drake, also at the party, is
to marry Norman Tudberry early in
August, and as her future home is to be
on Bougainville Island, where the bride-
groom-to-be has a copra plantation,
Repertory will lose her. The other vic-
tims of Cupid will still take part in pro-
ductions.
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s godson, Hugo
Brassey, is sponsoring a scheme whereby
a tourist paradise is to be created at
Dunk Island, under the management of
Frederic Trcuthardt, who came to Aus-
tralia as a representative of the Swiss
Tourist Bureau and recently married
artist Enid Dickson. The plan is to
give the island electric light, a French
chef, refrigeration, a fleet of boats and
bungalows built after the Californian
ranch style. Banfield’s home is to remain
untouched, and will be used as a
museum.
While N.S.W. Premier Stevens and his
wife were in Brisbane the festive scone
and buttered toast were placed on many
hospitable tables. Premier Forgan Smith
is in the North, having a look at the
islands of the Great Barrier, but his wife
did the honors. Mr. and Mrs. Percy
Pease also entertained the visitors.
Over 200 played bridge at the City
Hall to raise funds for the Toe H Ball.
So big was the crowd that they over-
flowed from the Mayoress’s room to the
Mayor’s room. Mrs. A. E. Harding
Frew was the convener, and Mrs. M. S.
Herring, president of the ball commit-
tee, met the guests.
The ex-service men’s guild of the
C.T.A. staged an Egyptian night at its
club under the title of Cafd de Cairo.
Signs that had amused the A.I.F. in
Cairo way back in the glorious days of
1914 (slightly bowdlerised) were part of
the decorations, along with pennants and
balloons. Dancing, a concert pro-
gramme and some ballet numbers filled
in a cheery evening.
Mrs. Harold Clapp, who was Vivienne
Noel, daughter of Judge Noel, and the
best amateur actress and producer in
Brisbane, has been staying at the Belle
Vue, Now she has gone out to her son’s
station in the west, and Alice Thomson,
who was Noel Clapp’s bridesmaid, has
gone with her.
The first subscription concert of the
season must have put many shekels into
the coffers of the Musical Union, for
Florence Austral took the leading role,
and John Amadio and Raymond Lam-
bert accompanied her. Madame wore
gold lame patterned with flowers in pink
and rose. Mrs. Edgar Bradfield, the
contralto, was in pink.
Mrs. Sinclair Manson gave a dance
for daughter Joan Drane at the Belle
Vue. and Joan Emery, of Melbourne, was
among the guests. Mrs. Manson, with
her husband to assist, received the guests,
and wore dahlia-red and silver. Joan’s
frock was a picture—all early-Victorian,
and fashioned of shell-pink taffetas.
Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn arrived from
Melbourne with her three children and
Molly Storey. They are dodging the
southern winter, and all are tucked in at
Mrs. Lance Jones’s pretty cottage at
Southport. Other southern visitors who
are sampling our sunny Southport days
are Mr. and Mrs. E. Trevor-Gould, Mr.
and Mrs. H. Corrie Smith (of Sydney),
and Mrs. J. Snape, of Guyra. Mr. and
Mrs. Ross Smith are sun-bathing at
Southport and staying at Chelmsford.
The Uni. women’s swimming club and
men’s football club jointly arranged a
dance in the South Brisbane Tech. Coll,
to raise funds for travelling expenses for
the Uni. sports representatives who are
to go south. Lorraine Streeter (sec. of
the swimming club), very charming in
blue, Hilary Offner, in floral buttercup
taffetas, Zenna Pratten, Una Bick and
Doris McCulloch were the female half
of the committee.
Mrs. A. J. Goldsmith was a member
of the committee of the Lady Mus-
grave Lodge for 25 years and president
for 20; so, when the institution cele-
brated its silver jubilee, the members of
the committee marked the occasion by
giving her a surprise party. 111-health
was responsible for Mrs. Goldsmith’s re-
tirement from lodge work.
The D.N.A. has now acquired a car,
with the aid of which one nurse can
attend to lots more patients than for-
merly. The D.N.A., the Travellers’ Aid
and the Women’s Section of the Social
Service League are to divide the takings
from a bridge party in the Manoora on
Friday afternoon.


BRANDALERS
m
%
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BEANDALEE & CO., Lid, BIEMINGHAM, ENG.
EVERY CORNER OF
tetters from the
extreme North, East
and South of AV.A.
prove the wonder-
ful range of 6AAI’s
broadcasts. In many
rural areas 6AM is
the only station
that can be received.
Over 2000 letters
from all over the
State are available
for the perusal of
advertisers.
THE
STATE
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mula: adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office; F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
15 Hamilton Street.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. Phone: F 3348.
This Colorful Personality in a Light Story of Australia's Past:-
By J.H.M. ABBOTT.
U \7OU are a peculiar villain, Jameth,”
V said Mr. Pilkington, “motht
peculiar. It theemth to me that
you pwactithe villainy, not tho much
for any end that you have in view, but
thimply for the thyeer love of its pwac-
tithe. How, may I athk, would it have
pwofited you at all if thith particular
piethe of woguerwy had gone unde-
tected? You could not pothiljly have
gained anything that would have bene-
fited you perthonally —not a thingle
thing. And the withk of detection wath
tho gweat ath to amount almotht to a
thertainty. What contheivable object
could you have had in altering thothe
weturnth? Come, now —tell me. I
inthitht upon an ecthplanation. And I’ll
thee that you give it me —and at onthe.”
Mr. Acting-Deputy-Assistant-Commis-
sary-General Pilkington sat at his table
in the room he occupied as an office at
the Commissariat Stores in George-street,
and on its further side a young man of
not unprepossessing appearance stood
respectfully attentive to his admonitions.
He was a convict-clerk named James
Boddenham, employed in the department
as Mr. Pilkington’s secretary, and certain
of his transactions had just come under
the unfavorable notice of the elegantly-
attired gentleman who was his immediate
superior. On the table lay some sheets
of paper which Mr. Pilkington, without
waiting for a reply, took up and con-
sulted carefully through his single eye-
glass.
“Well, what have you to thay?” he
went on. “Why did you alter thothe
figureth tho ath to make it appear that
thothe Hawkethbarwy farmerth had en-
deavored to cheat the department? Why,
in particular, in the cathe of Mr. George
Dormer —the motht twuthtworthy of any
of them? You’ve got him down here
ath only having delivered four hundwed
buthelth of wheat, when he weally deli-
vered theven hundwed and fifty. That
ith the amount he delivered here yethter-
day, and it ith at thith moment in the
thtoreth. You couldn’t have done any-
thing with the thwee-fifty buthelth that
maketh the differwenth. And Michael
Tarleton and William Makin, too. Alto-
gether, you make out that thethe thwee
men have twied to defwaud uth of up-
wardth of five hundwed bushelth of
wheat —a vewy conthiderwable quantity,
wepwethenting quite a large amount of
money. Now, then, tell me why you did
it. Come, now —out with it, my man.”
Mr. Pilkington leaned back in his chair
staring at the young fellow through his
eyeglass, the watered black silk ribbon
of which dangled gracefully over a flow-
ered satin waistcoat. He was in his shirt-
sleeves, and the bulge of his great biceps
was strikingly evident through the tightly-
fitting cambric that composed them. A
long, graceful figure was his, but it was
as athletic as it was graceful.
In his rough prison clothing the young
man standing before him was curiously
in contrast with his superior, though not
more so than was anyone else in Sydney
with one whom Mrs. Macquarie was
wont to declare admiringly to be the
only well-dressed man in the South Seas.
«117 ELL, now, confound you, Jameth,
VY why don’t you anthwer my
quethtion?” Mr. Pilkington drawled im-
patiently. “Damme, my good fellow.
I’ll get up and clout you on the ear if
you don’t tell me why you’ve done thith
idiotic thing. You mutht have had thome
object.”
The convict-clerk stiffened a little, as
if alarmed at this unexpected threat of
personal chastisement, and found his
tongue.
“If you please, sir,” he said, “1 did it
because Mr. Dormer deserved it. And
so did the others.”
“What! Whath that you’re thaying?”
The young man faltered a little, and
his eyes dropped beneath Mr. Pilking-
ton’s astonished glare. But he pulled
himself together, and the quick uplift of
his chin before he spoke seemed to indi-
cate a determination to stick to his guns.
“I said they deserved it, sir—Dormer,
Tarleton and Makin. 1 know all about
them, sir. if they’re not cheating the
department they’re cheating Govern-
ment, Mr. Pilkington. And they’ve done
it for years. 1 know well they have.”
“But look here, Jameth. I don’t
quite follow you. Mr. Dormer’th wepu-
tation ith above all thuthpithion. The
Commitharwy-Generwal holdth him in
the very highetht ethteem —he’th told me
tho himthelf. And tho doeth Governor
Macquarwie—l’ve heard him thay tho.
What the devil do you mean by thaying
he’th cheating Government? Why, there
ithn’t a landholder in the colony who’th
in better odor with the authorwitieth.
No one. Ecthplain yourthelf, my man.
I don’t underthtand you. And I’m not
quite thyure you underthtand yourthelf.
Come, now—tell me what you mean.”
The young man cleared his throat
nervously.
“Well, sir,” he said, “Mr. Dormer
came here, a free settler, in Governor
King’s time, didn’t he?”
“I believe that ith tho, Jameth,” Mr.
Pilkington nodded agreement.
“And was given a large grant of land
on the Hawkesbury, close to South
Creek?”
“Tho I underthtand.”
“And ever since then Government has
allowed him as much labor as he could
employ, in order to work his property
profitably?”
“Yeth —that ith cowwect. Mr. Dormer
hath pwoved himthelf to be tho good
a colonitht, of the thort tho urgently
wequired in New Thouth Waleth in
order to develop the countwy, that he
hath been given everwy encourwagement
by thucthethive Governorth. He’th well
detherved it.”
The convict-clerk sneered.
“Oh, yes, sir—of course he has. But
one of the conditions upon which he
has been granted the indulgence of so
much free labor in the shape of prisoners
is that he should feed and clothe them.
Isn’t that so. sir?”
“Of courthe it ith.”
“Well, sir, he doesn’t. He doesn’t teed
them, and he doesn’t clothe them. They
would starve and go naked were it not
for their own efforts. If you were to go
privately and look at Blackbottom Farm
—Mr. Dormer’s place —you’d see, sir,
that what I’m saying’s true. 1 know it
is, because I was assigned to him when
first I came to this country. He’s a slave-
driver and a murderer, Mr. Pilkington.
He cheats Government by not carrying
out his agreement with it, and, by his
neglect of them, damaging and causing
to deteriorate the individuals assigned to
him as laborers. He starves 'em to death
—and some he flogs to death. Fortu-
nately for myself, I broke my leg whilst
at Blackbottom, and was sent to hos-
pital. 1 came out more or less of a
cripple, and was judged unfit for hard
labor in the fields. Being well educated,
I was sent as a clerk to the Stores. So
here I am, sir. But 1 haven’t forgotten
Mr. Dormer. Oh, no —not by any
means. It seemed to me that he should
be punished. So I’ve tried to punish
him. That’s why I’ve done what you
complain of, sir. I’ve tried to avenge
the wrongs of scores of unhappy men,
inflicted upon them by this monster, in
my own way. And I included Tarleton
and Makin in the scheme because I
know that, even if on a smaller scale,
their ill conduct is similar to Dormer’s.
That’s all, sir.”
Mr. Pilkington stared at his secretary
in amazement, and for some time did
not speak. At length he rose to his feet
and look down his brass-buttoned coat
of blue broadcloth from the nail in the
wall.
“Thtay here, Jameth,” he said as he
left the room. “I’m going to thee the
Commitharwy-Generwal. Thith mutht
be inquired into. I’ll be back before
long.”
THE clerk went to his table in the
corner of the room, and resumed
the work interrupted by his “carpeting."
In less than half an hour Mr. Pilkington
returned and sat down. The young man
rose as he came in, and again stood be-
fore him.
“Look here, Jameth,” said Mr. Pilk-
ington, “your allegationth againtht Mr.
Dormer will be invethtigated. I have
told the Commitharwy-General that it
ith nethetharwy for me to go to the
Hawkethburwy on buthineth, and athked
that you might be allowed to accompany
me. We will dwive to Pawamatta in my
gig thith afternoon, and go on in the
morning. You will come with me to my
houthe now, and 1 will pwovide you with
clothing that will enable you to thuth-
tain a part 1 wish you to play. By the
way, d ye think Mr. Dormer would know
you again?”
“I don’t think so, sir. Tis five years
and more since I worked at Blackbottom.
I'm pretty sure he’d not remember me.
He left us to the overseers mostly. He
wouldn’t know me any more than he
might know a working bullock he’d got
rid of years ago. And if 1 was out of
this prison rig I’m pretty sure he’d not
recognise me at all.”
“Good. You will go there with me
ath a vithitor from England who ith
anxiouth to thee ath much of the coun-
twy ath ith pothible in a limited pewiod.
You underthtand me? If I thyould,
thwough your atlhilhtanthe, dilhcover
that Mr. Dormer’th conduct ith thuch
ath you wepwethent it to be —well, Mr.
Dormer will find himthelf in Queer-
thtweet. On the other hand, thyould it
turn out that you are lying you will go
to the coalmineth at Newcathtle —lame
leg or no lame leg—with thome particu-
lar wecommendationth to the Comman-
dant. I am determined to thee juthtithe
done, however, and am giving you
everwy opportunity of pwoving what you
have thaid. If you can pwove it, it will
go hard with Mr. Dormer and the
otherth. Governor Macquarwie will not
allow pwithonerth to be too thcandal-
outhly abuthed.”
MR. PILKINGTON and his obligatory
henchman, having spent the night in
Parramatta at the Dun Cow Inn, resumed
their journey to the Hawkesbury on the
following morning at an early hour, Mr.
James Boddenham had entered thor-
oughly into the spirit of the part Mr.
Pinkington had desired him to play, and
his rendering of the role of a young
English visitor to the colony, desirous
of seeing as much of its conditions as
possible in the brief space of time at his
disposal, had been admirable enough to
evoke the ungrudged admiration of his
supposed host.
“Damme, Jameth,” he observed
thoughtfully, “I would wish that thith
were not weally the little game it ith.
I find your company motht entertaining
ath an equal. Tith a pity you’re on your
twial, tho to speak, and that thith little
interlude ith not what it theemth to
otherth to be. Tell me, now, what were
you lagged for?”
They were driving in Mr. Pilkington’s
high gig along the newly-made Windsor-
road, half-way between Castle Hill and
South Creek, which excellent thorough-
fare in this part of its course stretched
to the westward between two shady walls
of tall eucalyptus. Before Mr. Bodden-
ham could reply to this delicate personal
interrogation, a sudden and startling in-
terruption obviated the necessity of his
making any reply.
A man came out from behind a tree-
trunk on the right-hand side of the road
and presented a musket at Mr. Pilking-
ton’s head. At the same time, another,
who was unarmed, emerged from the
bush on the other side, ran into the
middle of the highway and seized the
bay mare by the headstall, bringing her
to a standstill. And then Mr. Bodden-
ham realised that, for all his affectation


\>
)
WH fR€
L, /S'
mm
~ 8
+ftr 4--4^o
w
AIR ZONE
P dcr/sx
rriers^Distance
ass
T_TERE, at last, Airzone’s
magnificent dual wave
model 650 which definitely
advances this type of re-
ceiver to a point where
hoth local and distant
stations give the ultimate
in reproduction.
Truly Airzone have here
excelled themselves bring-
ing to Australian audiences
the thrill of Overseas pro-
grammes in true tonal
effect and with all their
natural environment.
Local and Interstate pro-
grammes, too, are repro-
duced with beauty and
charm, amply demonstra-
ting the Airzone slogan:
“AIRZONE’S TONE IS
AIRZONE’S OW N.”
MODEL 650
111 U. WAVE RECEIVER
for the best OVERSEAS, INTERSTATE OR LOCAL RECEPTION
6-VALVE A.C. ELECTRIC SUPERHETERODYNE
WITH RADIO FREQUENCY AMPLIFICATION ON
BOTH STANDARD AND SHORT-WAVE BANDS
It is a thing of beauty as a piece of furniture ... a massive cabinet of specially
selected walnut veneers, finished in velvet lacquer. A product that Airzone take
pride in having developed.
FULL AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL and a continuously variable TONE
CONTROL. New Style lOin. Magnovox Dynamic Speaker with extended frequency
range giving most realistic and natural reproduction. These features, coupled with
a tropik" transformer, a new development in transformers which eliminates chance
of breakdown in the speaker. Covers standard broadcast band 1500 to 500 K.C.
and short-wave entertainment broadcast band from 17 metres to 49 metres. Equipped
with a large Aero dial with a face. AIRZONE INERTIA TUNING which makes
this set the smoothest and simplest to tune ... a marked advancement in tuning.
High quality, trouble-free wave change switch. Provision has been made for a
special noise reducing aerial.
cash price £37-10-0 easy terms
AIRZONE FINE RADIO RECEIVERS ARE
OBTAINABLE FROM THE LEADING
MUSICAL HOUSES, RADIO DEALERS AND
DEPARTMENTAL STORES OF AUSTRALIA.
Dealers in country districts apply direct to Airzone for particulars of franchise .
Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Limited , Camperdoum, Sydney. 5. 35-94
ŵ
ML
Have You Considered
the Stability and
Earning Power of
Your Investments ?
The July issue, now on sale, will help you answer this important
question.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd.
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd.
C’wealth Wool & Produce Co.,
Gordon & Gotch (A’sia), Ltd.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth, W.A.)
Union Trustee Co. of Aust., Ltd.
Haymarket Land & Building Co., Ltd.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.
Prestige, Ltd.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
of drawling indolence, Mr. Pilkington
was a very prompt and energetic young'
gentleman.
«JJ OLD her thteady!” cried Mr. Pilk-
** ington as he thrust the reins into
his companion’s hand, and took a flying
leap over the dashboard of the gig in
the direction of the man with the musket.
He came down on his hands and knees,
but regained his feet at once, and, charg-
ing incontinently upon the fellow,
stretched him on the ground with a
straight left to the jaw as the firearm
exploded. Then he turned his attention
to the man at the horse’s head, and treated
him in a similarly vigorous fashion, in
ten seconds the attempted hold-up had
been frustrated, defeated and rendered
supremely ridiculous.
Mr. Pilkington very thoroughly tied
the highwaymen’s hands behind their
backs, and commenced a preliminary in-
quiry into the affair as he reloaded the
musket. He made the two men —run-
away prisoners by their tattered and
scanty garb—seat themselves on a log at
the side of the road, and forthwith com-
menced interrogating them, with languid
curiosity, in the politest of terms. Both
of them gaped at the exquisite young
dandy with fear and surprise grotesquely
manifest in their somewhat unpleasant
countenances.
“A vewy poor beginning, my fwiendth
—vewy poor, indeed!” the admiring Mr.
Boddenham heard him lisp. “Weally, ’tith
motht unfortunate to have made thuch
an unpwopitiouth thtart in the buthineth
of highway wobberwy. I condole with
you both, motht thintherely. ’Twill not
be long, I fear, before you interview Mr.
Ketch —for ’tith a hanging matter, for
thertain. Now —now that you are
wethted—perhapth one of you will in-
form me whenthe you come and what
you were doing before the lure of the
woad beguiled you into thinful cour-
theth? You, Wedhead—where do you
hail fwom?”
Redhead was the man who had pre-
sented the musket at him. His demeanor
was one of sulkiness blended with terror
and defiance, and before he spoke he
spat disgustedly on the ground. He was
an ill-looking fellow, with a broken nose,
who looked as if he might have been a
prizefighter. He growled his reply in a
low tone, only induced to do so, appar-
ently, by the grudging admiration that
possessed him for the unarmed man who,
alone and unassisted, had turned the
tables upon his companion and himself.
He lowered his eyes to the ground as he
made reply to Mr. Pilkington’s question.
“We’ve bin a-workin’ at Blackbottom
Farm, on th’ Oxbro, for Mr. Dormer —
Gawd sink his lousy soul in hell! Starved
an’ perished, that’.s what we’ve bin —till
we could stand no more of it. So we took
to th’ bush, an’ this ’ere was our first
job.”
“Ah —quite,” commented Mr. Pilking-
ton. He turned to the other man. “And
I thuppothe you’ve got the thame tale,
my fwiend?”
The other was as loquacious as his
mate was taciturn. He rose to his feet
eagerly, and gave vent to an oration.
“Y’r honor,” he said, “indade, thin, 1
have—on’y worrus. That mahn Dor-rmer
—he’s a divil out o’ th’ back part o’
hell, so he is. Twelve months I’ve been
at Blackbottom, an’ sorra a skellick o’
rations was give me —or anny others.
We might take cor-rn in th’ cob, an’
grind it into male ’twixt two flat shtones,
and we might have two pumpkins aich
wake —but divil a bit o’ mate’s been
give to me since I’ve been worrukin’ for
th’ blackgyard. On Sundays we might
go hunt th’ rock-wallabies or th’ kang’-
roo-rats over to the Bull Ridge beyant
th’ river. We might have all th’ shnakes
we could find —so we might—an’ th’
goannas. The bir-rds of th’ air was free
to us —if we cud catch 'em. ‘Blackbottom
Farrum’s self-supportin’,’ says Big
George—‘and ye scum o' creation must
support y’silves.’ An’, by God, y’r honor,
we’ve had to do it. An’ th’ floggin’s—th’
crool floggin’s! Ye’d not belave it. In
th’ year I’ve been there, if I’ve had wan
shtroke o’ th’ cat, I’ve had free hund’ed
—so help me, Mary! Tis naught but th’
trut’, y’r honor. Could ye be afther
blamin’ us for a-takin’ to th’ bush? And
now, I s’pose, we’ll shwing for what we
tried to do to y’r honor this marnin’.
But, glory be, ’tis betther for to dangle
at th’ rope’s end than to worruk longer
for Big George. Tis sorry I am, though,
I’ve had no chance for to get aven wid
th’ divil. I’d mint for to take an’ roasht
him alive —by God, I did! ”
R. PILKINGTON walked over to the
ITI gig, where James Boddenham was
standing at the bay mare’s head.
“You heard what thethe fellowth thaid,
Jameth?” he asked the convict-clerk. “I
believe the beggarth are telling the truth.
Ith Mr. Dormer ath bad ath they make
out?”
“He’s all that, and worse, sir. What
that Irish fellow says about his rationing
system’s quite correct. Don’t I know it!
Cobs of corn and pumpkin—that’s all he
gives his assigned servants —and, as for
the cat-o’-nine-tails, ’tis never hung up
for a clear twenty-four hours. He’s no
legal right to flog his own servants —but
he does it. He’d lose a day of their
labor if he sent them in to the magis-
trates at Windsor. They’re all in with
him, of course—and if a man of his does
go before them, God help him. Tis
dread of the Bench in Windsor that keeps
them at the farm. But they’re always
running away and taking to the bush —
like these fellows. I think Mr. George
Dormer’s been responsible for more
bushrangers than any half-dozen land-
holders in the colony. Wait till you see
what 1 can show you at Blackbottom,
Mr. Pilkington. I’m as sure as 1 live
that you’ll believe all I’ve told you when
you see for yourself.”
Mr. Pilkington looked thoughtfully at
the two dejected men on the log, and
presently strolled across to them again
from the middle of the roadway. He I
addressed the Irishman.
“Look here, Pat—your nameth Pat, I
thuppothe?”
“Dinnis, y’r honor.”
“Well, then, Denith —if I let you go,
what’ll become of you?”
The man grinned. There seemed to
him to be something absurdly humorous
in the question. But he answered it
seriously.
“Well, thin, y’r honor—we’ll shtill be
bushrangers, wid th’ gallus ahead of us.
Tis arl we’ve to look for, y’r honor.”
“You’d not like a lift back to Black-
bottom—and my good word on your
behalf to Mr. Dormer?”
“Faith, thin, sorr —for me own part.
I’d sooner be lifted wid a rope to th'
limb p’ yonder three, so I would!”
“And you too, Wedhead?”
“My oath!” growled the surly
man with no uncertain emphasis.
“Oh, well—l’m going to let you go. 1
believe you’ve had a hard time of it—
so I’m going to overlook what you twied
to do to me.” He went behind each of
them in turn, and unlashed their wrists.
“Now,” he said, “you may go. But go
at onthe. You’d only be a hindranth to
me, if I were to take you with me. Go
on, off with you.”
He watched them disappear into the
bush with a smile on his face. Then he
turned to his companion.
“We’ll go on now, Jameth,” he said,
“and we’ll call on Mr. Dormer. It ith my
intenthion to deal with that gentleman.”
“May I ask how, sir—in what way?”
“I’m going to give Mr. Dormer a
d d good hiding. Tith the only way
I can deal with him. Your plan wath
no good at all.”
He climbed into his seat, took the
reins from James Boddenham, and drove
along the road.
THEY drove away from Blackbottom
Farm as the sun was setting, on the
return journey to Sydney, and it is no
overstatement of the case to say, with
regret, that Mr. Pilkington was a bat-
tered wreck. Both his eyes were bunged
up, his nose was broken and his right
wrist was so badly sprained that he was j
compelled to give the reins to his sub-
ordinate. But Mr. Dormer was clearl.
dazed when they took their departure.
“I weally don’t know when I’ve ha. |
thuch an afternoon, Jameth,” he said a
they slowly climbed McGrath’s Hill, o.
the Parramatta side of South Creek. “Bu!
’tith a thatithfaction to know that youi
ethtimate of Mr. Dormer’s iniquitieth
wath well borne out'by what I mythelf
obtherved. The man ith a blackguardly
villain —but he can fight. Oh, motht
dethidedly he knowth how to uthe hith
duketh. Even tho, I fanthy the
honorth were about even. However
we’ll meet again, and I’ll go into twain
ing in the meanwhile. He weally ough:
not to be able to thtand up to me the
long ath he did. Oh, yeth—the matter
mutht be finally thettled.”
“I suppose you’ll inform the Governor
of the way things are done at Black-
bottom, sir,” asked Mr. Boddenham
hopefully. But his hopes were dashed to
the ground.
“Jameth, I am thurprithed at you.
You almotht incline me not to theek a
conditional pardon for you. Of courthe
not. I took the law into my own handth.
We mutht abide by the wethult.”
“But, sir—surely Mr. Dormer is not
to be permitted to carry on as he’s been
doing?”
Mr. Pilkington turned his damaged
face to his companion and, as w'dl as he
was able, winked at him.
“Wait till next time, my good Jameth
—wait till next time. We’ll get the Gov-
ernor to deal with him after that. But I
mutht have my pwoper thatithfaction
firthf.”


Weak Kidneys
STABBING PAINS IN THE BACK, LUHBAGC)
You are justified in regarding
Kidney Trouble as a serious com-
plaint, but you should not let it
make you miserable or spoil your
life. Excepting in very rare cases,
Kidney Trouble yields quickly to
treatment with De Witt’s Pills, and
thus the remedy is within your
easy reach.
Chemists everywhere sell De
Witt’s Pills, and it is a wise plan to
keep a box handy
in the house so that
you can take one or
two the moment you
recognise symptoms
of kidney trouble.
You may awaken with a nasty
taste in your mouth; your tongue
may be coated, your breath foul.
There may be puffiness under your
eyes. Your ankles or your feet may
swell and there may be pain in your
back or your hips or your shoulders.
These are sigus by which you may
know that all is not well with your
kidneys. They are allowing uric
acid to escape in dangerous quan-
tities to poison your blood and
torture your body, but De Witt’s
Pills will quickly put you right,
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of DeWitt’s Pills to-night
and in the morning you will see, feel
and know for certain that they are
doing you good.
because they contain ingredients
which act directly upon the kidneys.
They make the kidneys healthy and
active, and so rid your system of
harmful uric acid.
Nature intended that your kidneys should
act as filters to keep your system pure and free
from poisonous waste matters. By taking
De Witt’s Pills you give weak or congested
kidneys just the natural assistance they need,
and the alarming symptoms quickly disappear.
Thus you see that the treatment of kidney
trouble is quite simple.
There is no need for alarm
and no reason why the
ailment should get the
upper hand and make a
slave of you. The only
thing to remember is that
prompt treatment saves
much suffering and prevents the ailment
getting a firm hold on your system. That
is why yon should get De Witt’s Pills quickly.
The cost is trifling, and a remedy that has
already relieved thousands cannot fail to do
you good. Don’t stop to think it over. Kidney
trouble gets rapidly worse. Buy a box to-day,
price 3/6, or more economical size, 6/6.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen
feet or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains,
gravel or stone. These symptoms usually
precede attacks of Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica or serious Kidney Trouble,
and much suffering and expense may be saved
by quickly getting a box of De Witt’s PiUs
from the chemist and taking them as directed.
K
=
WDHEY TROUBLE—
THE CAUSE
De WIH'S PILLS—
THE REMEDY
Mr. Chas. Hayward, of 15, Lombard Street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, New South Wales,
writes: —
“A few years ago I suffered severely
with rheumatism and kidney trouble . A
friend advised me to try De Witt?s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, and I am very thankful
to say that after taking only three bottles
of this wonderful remedy I found com-
plete relief.”
DeWitt
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
How the House Was Packed in Bungeroo:-
DON'T KICK MY DOG
BY HAROLD MERCER.
THE only things that buzzed in Bun-
geroo were the flies. The place
seemed dead beyond the hope of
a resurrection.
Blogger, advance agent for the Smart
Crack Comedy Company, which he
knew could not raise the funds to get
any further, wondered whether it would
not be better to start without delay on
the walk back to Sydney. He felt sorry
for little Tootsie Martin, who would
have to go back, disillusioned, from her
first opportunity to play lead to her
job in the ballet —if she could get it.
And then a dog yelped.
“Hey, Ted, Cramson kicked your
dawg!” said someone invisible.
A grizzle-bearded man paused in the
street and half turned ; and the heavy
man who, in his shirtsleeves, was lean-
ing against a verandah post of the hotel
opposite spoke insultingly ;
“Yes ; I kicked yer dog! An’ I’ll kick
the mangy cur any time it comes on my
verandah!”
“Oh, wouldger?” inquired the grizzled
man pugnaciously, and turned back.
Blogger, who had been looking
despondently out of the parlor window,
hurried into the street. He was amazed ;
there was really some life in Bungeroo.
A crowd had gathered, and the whole
eleven, including Blogger and the local
sergeant, helped to tear apart the two
men, who by this time were rolling on
the ground, doing their middle-aged best
to punch one another. They were
dragged to their feet, very dirty and full
of threats ; and the general heated argu-
ment was reflected in dogfights on the
outskirts.
«UE had no right to kick his dog,”
** remarked Blogger, drawn into the
argument that was everybody’s.
He found a burly stranger shaking
hands with him.
“You're a man! Come ’n’ have a
drink.”
Blogger, thinking sadly of Tootsie and
the Smart Crack Company, felt that the
idea was an excellent one, and made a
move.
“No ; not there. That’s that swine
Cramson’s pub. Come over the road.”
Blogger was willing ; his own reception
by Cramson had been surly ; Cramson
didn’t want theatricals taking money that
might go into his till. He was a swine,
Cramson!
That was the general opinion in
Dixon’s pub, where the bar was shortly
crowded. Quite by accident, Blogger
had expressed an opinion which coin-
cided with local sentiment, and, given by
a stranger, represented the view of the
outside world on a local matter ; and he
was the guest of honor, almost of equal
importance to grizzled Ted Sayers, who
bore an honorable scar on his cheek and
considerable dust as mementoes of his
scuffle.
Fortified by free whisky, the oppor-
tunity to talk about the Smart Crack
Comedy Company and the evidence that
there was life in the town that had
seemed dead, Blogger’s own spirits
revived.
“What’s the show called?” asked Ted.
“ ‘Don’t Kick My Dog’,” said Blogger.
To Blogger, whose brain was working
alertly, that seemed a bright idea.
Bungle, the manager, would have to drag
in a dog somehow ; it seemed obvious
that Bungeroo would be more interested
in “Don’t Kick My
Dog” than in the
“Fun and Frivolity
Revue.”
Everybody in the
bar announced an
intention of being
present. That —with-
out wives and fami-
lies—meant the hall rent and more.
Blogger felt exalted.
Reluctantly he tore himself
away from the scene of festivity
and —to him —free whisky. Work had to
be done.
He waited at the office of the “Bun-
geroo and Tallawong Bugle” while some
printing was put through. Scribbler, the
editor, had heard about his public-
spirited remark, and made no mention
of cash.
“Cramson, and Sergeant Thomas, and
Martin, the shire president, have got to
go,” said Scribbler with the air of a
dictator. “Cramson never advertises in
the ‘Bugle’ ; the three are a menace. I
will make the incident the subject of my
next leader.”
“The Smart Crack Comedy Company,”
began Blogger, “has no sympathy”——
“The event may seem small, but it
will be big in its effects,” said the editor.
“Look at the result of the attempt to
collect ship money in England! Revolu-
tionary!”
“Yes, these shipping companies are hot
in their charges.” Blogger did not pre-
tend to be a student of history, but he
had had much theatrical experience.
His spirits continued to rise as he
pasted bills. People on foot, on horse-
back, in buggies and in dilapidated cars
were drifting into Bungeroo. There was
a real population in the place then!
The people pulled up and said. “Hey,
what’s this about someone kicking some-
one’s dog?” And Blogger told them all
about it, and about the Smart Crack
Comedy Company.
He was just telling all this to the man
in the motor-car, far out on the out-
skirts, when this stranger interrupted.
“It’s lucky I met you. I don’t want
to be mixed up in their little squabbles.
I’m Podger, the local member, and any-
thing 1 can do for you I’ll do ; but don’t
mention you’ve seen me.”
“I won’t. Can I say in the ‘Bugle’
that the performance is under your
patronage?”
Podger, as he turned his car, gave
his consent. Blogger was jubilant. At
the Cross-roads Arms near by all the
male inhabitants appeared to have
assembled, having knocked off work to
discuss the dog incident in Bungeroo.
As one who could give first-hand details,
as well as news about the Smart Crack
Comedy Company, Blogger was hailed
with more free drinks.
WHEN he boarded the train for Talla-
wong, with a crowd of citizens
attending to see him off, he had had a
lot more free drinks.
“What’s this about some man in Bun-
geroo being bitten by a dog?” asked one
of the fellow-passengers as the train
moved.
Interest was equally keen at Talla-
wong; in fact, a whole, vast district
seemed to have been stirred to its depths
by the kicking of a dog.
Blogger’s jaw grew sore with talking
of the dog incident and the great com-
pany he was bringing to the district. The
feeling was mostly anti-Cramson —for
reasons Blogger only gathered vaguely
—anti-Sergeant Thomas and anti-shire
president Martin ; but there was another
faction. Apart from the dogs, which
appeared to know all about the com-
motion, so that Blogger was always liable
to find himself tripping over 'dogfights,
there were also men-fights, even as far
away as Wallegerrie, where Blogger
helped to separate two combatants.
“There wasn’t anything personal,
Tom,” said one of them. “When 1 said
that a man had no right to kick another
man’s dog I wasn’t thinking of you.
Smith insulted your wife ; and you were
perfectly entitled to kick his dog.”
In the midst of his elation, despon-
dency came to Blogger. It arrived with
a letter from Bungle, the manager.
The epistle began with “What the hell,”
and announced bitterly that Bungle had
no intention of playing at Bungeroo.
“You have landed me into the middle
of a dogfight. What the hell am I to do
to get a dog into the show?” There was
a lot of the letter, with hell burning
steadily through its pages.
Blogger saw all his good work being
wasted by a man who had no imagina-


A.I.F. VERSES.
A Digger has asked the Service
Department to give him a list of
the finest published poems written,
about the A.I.F., preferably com-
positions suitable for recitation at
returned-soldier gatherings. The
field is wide, and any list that might
be compiled by an individual would
perhaps miss some of the best
examples. Readers are invited to
pick six; half a dozen original
Bulletin drawings will be awarded
as prizes. Titles and names of
authors should be given, and,
where possible, the source of pub-
lication. Address lists: “Digger
Poems,” Service Department, Ihe
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Syd-
ney. Closing date: July 24.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
scenic route”
AMD
UNION
Fortnightly Sailings.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
m
m
•yy.yy.
m
%
ELECTRICAL
TEMPERING
gives extra sharpness
Why is It that Gillette can make their blades harder than ever
before and so give a keener cutting edge? Because their new
electrical-tempering process enables them to put two tempers into
one blade. Soft at the ends where it bends to the razor, but extra
hard along the edges to allow for extra sharpening. Result—a keener
shave than you've known before and a longer life to every blade.
• Try these new Blue Gillette Slotted Blades — they’re worth it.
FIVE FOR 2/-
BLUE
GILLETTES
OF ALL DEALERS
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
MADE IN ENGLAND
lion. He sent an urgent telegram to
Bungle imploring him to give Bungeroo
a Ay-
IP was days later that he got back to
Bungeroo. He arrived about mid-
night, to find the town en fete. Misgiv-
mg m his heart, he tried to dodge Bungle
until he had fortified himself with a
drink; but Bungle burst from a hilari-
ous crowd upon seeing him. and liter-
ally, fell upon his neck.
“A wonderful night, my boy!” he
cried. And tor the first lime in history
he thrust some money in Blogger’s hand
without being asked for it.
Revellers surged round Blogger and
bore him to the bar. The Smart Crack
Comedy Company had had a tremendous
success, assisted by popular feeling and
the fact that Podger, M.L.A., gave an
address during the interval. Podger was
present, and, by the way he spoke, re-
garded himself as responsible for the
lot of it,
it seemed to Blogger that the main
cause had been forgotten,
j u , . -r .
e And ho " s ,! he do 8 ? h ? i Jed
fnTlhef’nlbed off
,n f' ! hey pd red J „
. I ' lO (lo S ? O h ' It wasn Imy dog,
sa,d Sayers off-handedly.
fllo ®er was dumbfounded,
“ Not your dog!” he exclaimed. “But
because he kicked it you punched Cram-
son!”
Sayers grinned.
“Well, he thought it was my dog, (he
cow!” he said.
Convincing Character Sketch:-
THE SHILLING
BY D.G. STIVENS
OLD Mat Brown was sitting on a
bench in the orchard when he
heard his daughter calling him.
“Yes, is that you, Mary?” he called
out.
A middle-aged woman came and stood
beside the bench.
“I’ve been looking for you, father.
I’ve brought your tobacco,” she said.
“What’s that? Don’t mumble! When
I was young I was taught to speak up.”
“I’ve brought your tobacco, father.”
“Good. I wanted some.”
The woman looked back through the
garden towards where the sweet-pea
blooms seemed to float like vivid butter-
flies above the plants.
“Aren’t the peas lovely? And the sky
so clear one would think it had rained
in the right.”
“You young ones are all the same,”
the old man grumbled. “Fillin’ your
heads with highfalutin ideas. Why, it
wouldn’t surprise me if you were waitin’
for some young fellow to come around
the corner. You young ones”
“Father! You know I’m not young.
I'm over forty, and been married these
many years!”
“You young ones, all the same,” Mat
Brown insisted.
He sucked noisily at his pipe.
“Empty again!” he said disgustedly.
“They don’t make tobacco like they used
to —or pipes for that matter! ”
His daughter did not pay any atten-
tion to his complaint. She looked in-
tently at a number of places where blood
was still running from little cuts in the
old man’s face.
“Father! I wish you wouldn’t shave
yourself! You don’t have to —you’ve
cut yourself badly.”
The old man straightened a little.
“Not shave myself?” he demanded.
“Why, I’ve been doing that for over
seventy years. I can’t let Neil have the
laugh on me! ” He gave a little chuckle.
“Neil tries to shave himself; but his
hand isn’t too steady! After all, he’s
old, and he never was as active as I
was.”
“It’s only pride that makes you do it,
father. Why must you always be quar-
relling? You could be such friends!”
“So we could. So we could,” he
said, jabbing at the air with the stem of
his pipe. “So we could —if Neil wasn’t
so obstinate. He won’t admit that he’s
old. I’m old —I know it —and I'm
proud of it! I’m old in years only. I’m
as good as these young fellows any day.
Memory better than ever. Why, I can
remember things that happened . . .
fifty years ago. Must be that long when
you think of it . . . things I thought I’d
forgotten. The trouble with Neil is he
can’t remember.”
He gave a little shake of his head.
“The trouble with Neil is he can’t
remember,” he repeated. “Neil used to
be a big chap once, but now he’s cracked
up. They don’t last as well as the little
chaps—he’s all doubled up now. And he
can’t remember”
“Please, father, don’t quarrel with
Neil. You’re really very fond of him.
Why don’t you talk over the happy times
you have had together”
“Together?” he took her up sharply.
“He can’t remember, I tell you! He
says my farm was not the best farm on
the river. My son George always said
so. When I gave it to him, 1 said:
‘George, my boy, this is the best farm
on the river. Look after it,’ I said. I've
a good mind to go out and see how
young George is gettin’ along. After all
he is only a boy. Why, only the other
day his mother said to me: ‘Mat, we’ll
soon be gettin’ old ; the boy’s growin’
up.’ ”
She let him ramble on, thinking, “He
knows mother’s been dead for more than
ten years and George was killed off a
horse last year.”
WHEN she heard the creak of the
gate she looked around and saw
the other old man.
“Here’s Neil, father! There —over by
the peas!”
“Good morning, Mr. Ditson,” she''
called out.
The second old man took off his hat
and answered her greeting.
“Eh, what’s that?” Mat demanded.
“What’s he saying?”
“It’s me,” Neil said.
She saw him seated on the bench
before she went back to the house.
Both old men were dressed alike. They
wore thick boots but no socks, blue j
dungaree trousers and flannel shirts.
Both were coatless, and they wore their
waistcoats unbuttoned.
They had always been rivals. They
were always quarrelling. Neither of
them would wear glasses. Both of them
were not a little deaf. They tried to
hide from one another the little things,
those little irrefutable signs of failing
powers. In thin voices they boasted.
“I’m as good as any of these young
chaps,” old Neil said suddenly; “with
their heads full of newfangled ideas.
I’m over eighty, and I’ve learnt —I can
remember things that I’ve learnt. My
memory”
“I remember when first I fell in love
with Elizabeth,” Mat said. His eyes
brightened and his mouth grew firmer as
the image formed in his mind. “She had
a blue dress on when I saw her, and she
had put flowers in her hair. Ah, she
was pretty! And I was a handsome
young fellow, and she loved me and
would not have anyone else. Do you
remember, Neil, how I gave that fellow
a hidin’, small as I was compared with
him? He was a big chap, but they all
crack up —'specially when they get old.’
Old Mat looked at Neil, and sud
denly chuckled at what he saw. He
clicked his tongue in sympathy.
('Continued on next page.)


“THE AGE ”
• Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
Its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “Th e Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/-' per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted teat “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Cbt Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE;
‘’The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 84038.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: K. Jackson, 71 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: H. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
SERVICE IN ADVERTISING
ẁ
Supplying news for NEARLY A
CENTURY is the strength of the
service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” (Est. 1842), the only daily
paper published in Launceston, and
the oldest newspaper in Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS REACH THE HOMES
IN LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable fron.
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of "Weekly Courier" and "Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
%
%
y : r
a
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
•The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. .Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K- J- McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Aclvt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
“Asleep. So early in the day, too,”
he said.
“Don’t wake him,” his daughter said.
He had not heard her come through the
gate.
“You frightened me,” he grumbled.
Old Neil was murmuring in his sleep.
“What did he say? Tell me,” old
Mat demanded.
“He said mother’s name,” the woman
said gently. “You two fought over her
once.”
NEIL DITSON opened his eyes and
looked from one to the other. He
put his age-knotted hands on his knees
and said:
“I’ve been sleepin’ a bit—l was
dreamin’—it was all so clear.”
He began patting his pockets.
“Now, I wonder where it can be? I’m
sure I put that tobacco in my waistcoat
pocket.”
“You used the last of it,” Mat said,
“before you fell asleep —accidental-
like.”
“Accidental-like! I went to sleep
because I wanted to!”
“Perhaps you did fall asleep because
you wanted to, Neil —and perhaps not.
Your pipe fell out of your mouth when
you fell asleep. Here it is.”
“Thank you,” Neil said gruffly. “I
knew the pipe fell out —just before I
went to sleep. I want some tobacco —
better go- and get it at the store.”
“You can have some of mine,” Mat
said.
“No, thank you. I never borrow when
I can help it. One might forget to pay
it back.”
Old Mat looked intently at Neil.
“One must not forget,” he stammered ;
“of course not.”
“You wait here while I go to the
store,” Neil said ; “I won’t be long.”
When he had gone, Mat’s daughter said
to her father:
“Why wouldn’t he take some of yours?
I’ve often seen you borrow from one
another.”
Mat chuckled.
“I think 1 know,” he said. “Some-
times I wish I had not done it, and yet it
was a very good joke. A very good
joke!”
“What was a good joke, father?”
“The shilling I borrowed from Neil.
It’s a great joke—and yet I wish I had
not —sometimes he seems to pity me. Pity
me !”
“Why does he seem to pity you? What
is this about the shilling?”
“I don’t want his pity,” Mat said.
“Blast him! I’m not like him! My
memory is good! If I was certain that
he was pitying me I would give the
shilling back to him!”
“Why should Neil be sorry for you,
father? 1 Tell me!”
“Of course I’ll tell you. All you
young ones are impatient. Not a sound
idea in your heads.”
He slapped his hand down on his
knee.
“Neil borrowed a shilling from me
some time ago—and forgot to pay it
back. He’s never forgotten before. Poor
old Neil! I never thought he would for-
get. Just to square things up I bor-
rowed a shilling from him and forgot
to pay it back—forgot on purpose like.
I’ve got a good memory—l can forget
when I want to. Neil has my shilling
and I have his—that’s fair enough. Fifty-
fifty!” He laughed. “Still, I wish I
hadn’t done it. Neil thinks I’ve for-
gotten! I’m certain he does! I can see
it in his face!”
“Why not give the shilling back to
him, father?”
“No!” Mat said firmly. “He owes it
to me. Perhaps he’ll ask me for it.
Won’t I say something to him if he
does!”
She was thoughtful for a moment.
“You mustn’t hurt him,” she said,
soothingly. “After all, he’s old.”
“Aye,” Mat agreed, “he’s old. I had
forgotten. These big fellows crack up.
Even when he was a young chap I was
better than he in a fight. I’ll let him off
lightly, but I can’t stand the way he
looks at me!”
“Why can’t you be friends? You like
each other really, yet you quarrel all
the time. Ssh! Here he comes! ”
Neil Ditson came and sat down on
the bench and pulled two plugs of
tobacco out of his pocket.
“I got my tobacco,” he said. “Two
plugs for a shilling. That’s cheap —two
plugs for a shilling.”
“You weren’t long,” Mat said.
“No. It doesn’t take me very long.”
Mat looked inquiringly at his daughter,
who had touched his sleeve.
“Father!”
“Yes?”
“Do you think you could get me some
butter from the store? Mr. Ditson will
go with you.”
“Now?”
“Please,” she said. “Here’s the money.
You won’t lose it? Two pounds—you
won’t forget?”
“Why should I?” Mat demanded. “Do
I forget?”
“No, but these —you know these
things can be forgotten. You see”
“Don’t worry, Mary,” Neil inter-
rupted ; “I won’t forget even if he does.
Two pounds”
Mat’s eyes flashed. He took his pipe
out and stabbed the stem angrily towards
Neil.
“Don’t give yourself airs about your
memory, Neil!” he cried angrily. “You’re
always being sly! Don’t run away-with
the idea—l haven’t forgotten about the
shilling. You think I have. Here, take
your blasted money! Hold your hand
still! Take it! 1 hadn’t forgotten. I
kept it because you owed me one, which
you—you had forgotten to pay back. A
bob each way! Fifty-fifty! Don’t you
see? Take your money! I’ll gel the
butter on my own!”
MAT moved up through the orchard to
the gate, Neil stared after him. His
eyes were puzzled.
“Mat!” he called. “Hey, Mat!”
The old man’s daughter understood
her father when he was angry.
“He won’t listen to-us,” she said.
Neil pushed his hat back from over
his forehead. • ;
“Mat said he owed me a shilling,” he
said. “I don’t remember him borrowin’
it. I must be gettin’ old. Well—well, a
shilling’s a shilling . . . And two plugs
of tobacco,” he added vaguely.
Hebridean.
They came from little island rocks
Which vanish to a northern cloud.
And heathers bloom, and Fantasy
Spreads out her bubbles on the sea . . .
The irises of purple thought,
And paler flowers without name . . .
Voices of dream, and eyes astart,
A heritage of ancient heart,
And wizardry of sun and wind
They left behind.
They sought and came to Christendom.
Culture and learning, art and song,
The facts of science, church and mill.
The streets, the towns, the gallant ships
That never sail to Hy Brasil
Nor carry mead for faery lips.
They found . . . the steeples and the
spires,
Prisons and pain and chains of gold;
The starry host of heaven sold,
And in the sky no purple fires.
Their children go with wistful eyes
Upon horizons far away.
A nameless God is theirs . , . they do
not know
What they for aye are seeking from the
long ago.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Auckland.
Whether thou art more beautiful when
swathed
Jn veils and shawls of gold and amethyst.
In muted radiance of twilight bathed.
Star-spangled in intricacies of mist,
Or when, far-strewn on many an emerald
hill,
Under the blaze of noon thou dreamest
pale
And stately, while the shining waters
' steal
Into thy bosom, flecked with wave and
sail, , . ,
I cannot tell, hut I am still content
Upon thy beauty, caught in any mood,
Raptly to gaze, and marvel, and admire
How aught so fair could burgeon and
aspire
Out of the ugly slag, so rough, so crude.
And from the bursten earth so newly
rent.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


FALSE TEETH ARE A GREAT
INVENTION, BUT KEEP YOUR
OWN AS LONG AS YOU CAN
mm
: :• ~
' 4 Wmm
mtm
mi
n
saw*
"
PMmm
i I
mms
:
IMP
S %•' /.; v ■< >■• . AmS
m$ Wmm
% <■ * \s s '
.
’■■oM
mm
m m
mmm.
mm
>;.yyy"\.
mm
' ' x:
...
:
ill
*•sm mSmmm
. /<•' %.•?>"/I
* s
m x :T
//if
WM
mmm
■mmm
:■ -
mm
■urn
:< >1 5
v:V''
False teeth often follow Pyorrhea, which comes to four people
out of five past the age of 40.
tSTiV
ts‘ Jtiili. H 0
«r»
nPI
mi
PS
II
Small Tube, 2/-
Extra-large Tube, 3/-
What is “Pyorrhea ”
that millions
dread it so?
It’s a pretty grim statement, but the truth is half the people who wear false
teeth must do so because they failed to guard against pyorrhea, which is
responsible for one-half of all adult teeth lost.
They cannot, however, be entirely blamed for their line-drawn lips and
sunken cheeks —those telltale marks of artificial teeth.
For pyorrhea, which comes to four people out of five past the age of forty, is
a sly, insidious disease. It may infect your gums early in life, and lurk
there for years before you become aware of its dangerous presence.
Do not wait for gums to bleed
The first warnings of pyorrhea are tenderness and bleeding of the gums. If
neglected, pyorrhea softens the gums, loosens the teeth in their very sockets,
until extraction is essential to preserve the health.
But do not wait for these warnings. Take care of good teeth
while you have them. See your dentist regularly—before trouble
develops. Visit him at least twice a year.
And in your home brush your teeth, massage your gums with
Forhan’s. I his dentifrice is unique in that it contains the benefits
of an ethical preparation developed by Dr. R. J. Forhan, which
thousands of dentists use in the treatment of pyorrhea.
Protect the teeth you have
't our own teeth are far better than anything you can get to replace them.
Perhaps you do not realise what a blessing they are, so long as they are firm
and your gums are in good health. But do not risk the unhappy experience
of losing them. There is no finer dentifrice than Forhan’s—no better
protection for gleaming teeth and the mouth of youth. By all means, make
Forhan s your dentifrice—you can make no better investment in the health
of your mouth and the safety of your teeth.
Obtainable from all Chemists and high-class Stores, or will be sent post-free upon receipt of the
price by the Australasian Agents~The Sheldon Drug Co.. Ltd., 131-135 Clarence St. Sydney. N.S.W.
Forhan’s
for the gums
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
'T*,
B*
/•
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand, should send 30 /-.)
X
<b'
O
r x^°,
' a'C .iP''
y n u i 6
S <&%¥*«' ■■
«■'
> e^
,p<>
o?£
Kt*
(S e ‘
\\^
# S$ .-*■ .-••■ , se^ce
..** ..•• oA‘S e ' I
.•* •* o \°
0?
\0
h
o*
,\\®
# sS ‘
,^V
.p
o^S 6 ' v
$ ;f *l-$
S’ . aV(O v
0^
o v :
p*o$ c V
o v


Tor Australian farmers
* ,>■
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
/■ v
f ' *■
Sr'.i,:':.-,'
:V f fS?
//
A A
/ <
HVUNDSi
BRAND
m m 9
WARATAH” FENCING WIRE
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS will not burn
WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc .
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING ...
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World’s Best
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD*
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Col’.ins Street, Melbourne.
'Y<mmww.
Write for our Farmers 9
Handbook
wm
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
’hi
