

NEW—sloping V-shaped Windscreen
m
9
WJ
Vx
X
■
<,v;
"s'-/
«A
:
NEW—sloping Radiator
wm** I ’** !
...
tasa - SSk
Wmw* Wm
NEW—attractive Instrument Panel - J
m
<■
mm
’
Wii
m
Vi
w
WK 1
(HMStab
’ <—
NEW—stylish Radiator MascotJ
•*.v<
(never Imagined a car in the low-priced field could
look so beautiful.” That exclamation is being
heard in Chevrolet Showrooms all over Australia.
The new Australian-designed Holden bodies combine an
astonishing beauty with a tremendous, safety factor
due to their extreme constructional strength. In addition,
Chevrolet’s famous 6-cylinder overhead valve engine
offers you outstanding performance and economy, and
Chevrolet’s knee-action springing^ —the springing which
changes bad roads into good roads—provides a perfect,
level ride under all conditions.
There is one infallible way to test Chevrolet value—
compare it! See the new Master de Luxe models before
you purchase any new car.
The Fashion Car
of the Low Price Field
NEW—aerstream Rear Panel with t
■mm hinged lid giving access to con- * -
cealed luggage and spare wheel - -
compartments. ■ J/ ‘ t ~ -/ ||||
See models at your
Local Authorised
Chevrolet Dealer
NEW—independently streamlined
mudguards
Im m i mll gll
I
m s - ", *
- v " - ,i.
■ ■ %
■
&
Imm w ' ,
/* v/' ’* i > :/
Si iw
N EW—Holden designed Coupe seat
ing all passengers inside the car and
having a large concealed luggage
space.
.. .
The Bulletin
A Life-Assurance Supplement
Vol. 56.—N0. 2892.
Wednesday, July 17, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to 1 .
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
SW Writing
»3l Ui VI at HOWE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
MUSE AS
BOGEY
Dozens of
books, booklets,
pamphlets, leaflets
and other con-
tainers of alleged
poetry have some-
how got themselves published in Australia
during the past 15 years. Anyone who
looks into these works of the imagination
must smell out how the bulk of them
reek of antiquity, see how false and
artificial they are under the neon
lights, and altogether realise how barren
they are of reality or the faintest resem-
blance to life here and now.
To which there will be shouting that
the rhythm, of poetry is something apart
from the rhythm of life. “Did not Keats
write marvellously of a Grecian Urn?”
What a pack of fools!
This seems to be what has happened:
life has leapt ahead, to-day has come in
with a crash, and the poets, deafened by
it, are dead to the rhythm of the moment,
and can only dither in a dead tongue.
Our once-boasted “nest of singing birds”
have no articulate successors.
An easy—a too-easy—explanation is
that Daley, Lawson, Kendall, Gordon,
Paterson were men capable of writing
poetry, and such do not exist any longer.
I suggest that the truth is that those
writers, whatever their true merit as
poets, did somewhat reflect the rhythm
of life of their day. Their verse has
the pulse of the life of their times. So
it was here with the poets until the war.
Since the war life has become accelerated,
here as elsewhere; the old ballad-
measure rhythm has gone out of it, been
replaced by something brittle, clashing,
raucous, and the poets are out of tune
with this, have stuffed their ears up with
lavender and old lace, and are despised
on all sides —even by those who regard
Modern Poetry as a bogey, an affront to
tradition, instead of what it is held to
be, a natural development.
Recently on the Red Page two writers
were deliberately allowed to present rep-
resentative examples of the feeling of a
few on the one side and a great many
on the other towards this work that is
called Modern Poetry. Pamela Travers
started it with three surface-tickling
articles, all right as such, very pleasant
and enthusiastic. She represented the
few who adopt the wholly favorable atti-
tude towards the over-mystified article
in question. The defect in this attitude
is that often its holders swallow Modern
Poetry whole and expect everyone else to
do likewise. They are of the countless
breed of dilettante. They take such a
book as the one Miss Travers probably
had in mind, Recent Poetry : 1923-1933,
and everything in it seems to be poetry to
them. It seems to be axiomatic among
them that Modern Poetry has no
poetasters.
So, for what might be made of its
bearing upon that aspect of the trum-
peters of modernity, as well as for what
seems to be a more important reason,
that book which has been mentioned
might excusably be glanced at here in
space ordinarily given to more “current”
books. The second, more important
reason is that, though it is about the best
primary introduction to Modern Verse
available, though it contains examples
enough and representative enough to give
anyone a safe footing on this rocky in-
cline, and though it has been obtainable
here for about a year. Recent Poetry :
1923-1933 has remained evidently un-
opened. That neglect is wrapped up with
the national state of mind which finds
reflection in the inability of our poets to
say anything worth listening to at this
present moment. It is part and parcel
of our present poets’ failure to catch the
living rhythm of these times, as the
ballad-makers did in theirs. We cry
“Bogey!” to capital-Modern capital-
Verse, and we may get such comfort as
we can from the echoes of that silly yelp.
The Modern
Poetaster
In the course
of her articles
Miss T ravers
selected one F. R.
Higgins as of the
most important
of the younger poets of to-day. In the
example of Mr, Higgins’s work men-
tioned by Miss Travers, which seems, as
a whole, a merely passably minor poem
at the best, and in such other stuff of
his as appears in Modern Poetry, I
can see nothing to warrant admiration,
enthusiasm and applause, as supplied
freely enough by Miss Travers. Higgins,
in fact, seems about as minor a poet as
ever sucked his feet out of Quid Ireland’s
boggery.
Higgins, however, is almost an excel-
lent poet compared with the more genu-
ine modern poetasters that appear in
this book. And here it should be said
that their poetastery springs, not from
falling into a metre with rhymes and
going whither these would go, which is
the mark of the past poetaster, but from
a different, though similarly confused,
misuse of the poetic function. The key-
note of this living verse which is called
modern is its precision of statement. It
seeks to be exact, to be done with con-
fused vision, “with spurious furniture put
in for the sake of the picture.” The
modern poetaster’s confusion is that he
interprets exactness of statement as a
negation of beauty ; and so we find the
enthusiasts taking seriously lines in
plenty that make the description of Mil-
ton’s line,
Egypt, divided by the River Nile,
as one of the worst in the language seem
greatly far-fetched. To quote from
Recent Poetry, such stuff as
For we are bankrupt inefeed if we cannot
borrow
At least an expectation of future pay,
or
God is a proposition,
or Pamela Travers herself, represented
in the book by four pieces, which is well
above the average in numbers, and illus-
trating, perhaps, how poets have a way
of being what they think themselves:
Mine is a still small cry
a pipe with one stop,
one ■ tune or two maybe
run in my song,
or, finally, to see the modern poetaster
poetasting in his, or, as it happens, her,
peculiar perfection of affectation, this:—-
Rooting in packingcase of dirty straw,
hurling
lumps of it overboard moaning desire
moaning desire of vermin lovely rat
ineffable mouse attar of felicity....
Since Miss Travers could swallow Hig-
gins as a great poet, and say of a very
ordinary verse of his that nothing love-
lier had ever been written, it may be
assumed that she could do as well by
these poetasters of all sizes. And that
will do for her dilettante side of it. It
is biased, but, at least, it is eager.
And Then
Came
Mr. Denny
Replying a
trifle tartly to
Miss Travers
came W. J.
Denny, an almost
perfect represen-
tative of the gen-
eral readiness to cry “Bogey!” at the
first mention of Modern Poetry. Mr.
Denny was most scathing about another
choice of young poets made by Miss
Travers, Hugh Macdiarmid, without, I
suspect, having previously taken any
notice, except of a hostile nature, of
Mr. Macdiarmid or Modern Poetry at
all. For that, I find, is the position of
those whom Mr. Denny seems to rep-
resent —those who are angered or in-
jured by the mere suggestion that there
is such poetry—they have either not
read a line of contemporary work, or
they have read it largely where bits of it
have been held up to ridicule and have
approached it without sympathy and
with their bristles already up, determined
to dismiss it all as bad. Only something
of the kind could explain a failure to
appreciate that there really is poetry,
of an unmistakable genuineness, in Mac-
diarmid.
“Unmistakable” —but unmistakable to
whom? One of the most fallacious
things about most that is written on
poetry seems to me to be the assumption
that anybody at all can soak it up and
feel it. The average person does not
share this view ; he is not such an ass.
He realises that a great deaf of poetry
calls for a definite effort of the intellect,
perhaps even a degree of talent, on the
part of the reader. He likes verse of which
he knows the tune, just as he does with
music, and “The Love Song of J. Alfred
Prufrock” and the sonnets of Shakspeare
alike are as lost on him as a Beethoven
sonata, unless —and this seems important
—the piece has been interpreted and in-
terpreted over and over and over again
until it has not been taken in by him
but forced into him.
That is how the average man feels
about it, and he has the good sense, if
you drive him to it, to admit it. On his
own account he says nothing; simply,
he is not interested. He does not matter:
the ones who do matter are those who
leap into print, as Mr. Denny does, with
such clearly hostile statements as that,
with the exception of a little of Rupert
Brooke, posterity will know nothing of
our present-day poets. That is a good
representative example of the “Bogey!”
state of mind, that which is expressed in
plenty also in the familiar enlarging of
words like Red, and Sex, and Epstein
into public bogey tags to frighten grown-
up children with. It is about time we said
enough to that; and it certainly is time,
if we are ever to have poetry in this
country again, that we got away from
the state of mind represented by Mr.
Denny —interesting in exposure because
it is so very widely representative—and
which approaches and judges Modern
Poetry not according to the standards it
itself is erecting, but according to various
lots of standards similarly erected by
different ages of poets in the past, to
the scandal, of course, of their contem-
poraries, except when education and cul-
ture were synonymous terms.
The poet of to-day may possibly be
on his way up a blind alley, but we
cannot, in this perspective, say that he
certainly is. Neither am I prepared to
swallow him whole, as a lot of arro-
gant, precious, or otherwise obnoxious
satellite critics do. Many of these good
disciples, I have found, are admirably
sincere ; but I have noticed, too, when
they come to talk of their high priest,
who is T. S. Eliot, that it is Eliot’s
mastery of his technique, not Eliot’s
poetry, which, in the ultimate, they
admire. I, personally, would be the last
one to question the worth of that sort
of excellence. I admire it too much, and
am brought daily into too convincing
evidence of how little it enters into the
consciousness of Australian writers of all
kinds. But I cannot accept it, as these
people do accept it, as an end.
That, I suspect, may turn out to be
the defect of the poetic effort of to-day
—a vast confusion of the means as the
end. And I think this may be sheeted
home to the growing multiplicity of
books. All this mass of the written word
is bemusing. It has grown to such vast-
ness that it itself is a world. And it is
in that world and not in the world of
life that the modern poet finds his nur-
ture. The world of books—he is
obsessed with it. He lives in it, writes
of it and for it. And since books at
their best are not life but only an inter-
pretation of it, he is reduced to inter-
preting the interpretation. Whether or
not great art can result from this I do
not know, nor do I think anybody else
does yet.
As for such fantastic exaggeration as
that of Mr. Denny—and this is all a
part with the “Bogey!” state of
mind —implying that the present-day poet
is not understandable in quotation, this
would be quite unimportant even if it
were correct, since whether or not
we can understand a fragment of
a poet that is flung at our head
is of no matter. On this, however,
Mr. Denny happens to be as incorrect
as he is in other detail of his representa-
tive exposure. The very exactness which
is their peculiar attribute makes the
modern poets most eminently quotable.
Pieces which are not only understandable
but brilliant in their brittle brevity could
be quoted by the dozen from this book
Recent Poetry alone: —
For I have known them all already,
known them all:
Have known the evenings, mornings,
afternoons,
l have measured out my life with coffee
spoons;
l know the voices dying with a dying fall
Beneath the music from a farther room.
So how should I presume?
From much that I feel as poetry in
this book I choose only that solitary
fragment as example out of compliment
to a genuine poet whom I have seen
moved to rapture by it—so how should
l presume?
CECIL MANN.
[Recent Poetry: 1923-1933 (Poetry Book-
;hop; 7s. 6d.).]
New
Australian
Work
A first - class
craftsman is Wil-
li a m Hatfield,
whose latest
novel, authenti-
ca 11 y back-
grounded by the
buffalo-shooting country of Australia's
North, deals delicately with miscegena-
tion. The plot, though unoriginal, is
logically constructed, the characters are
almost all drawn affectionately, and the
incidents and adventures are assisted to
convince by a wealth of local detail.
Jim Stein, a handsome, brave, well-
educated half-caste, who inherits from
his father a buffalo-shooting lease that
yields a substantial annual income, has
been educated by a gigantic and saintly
missionary who is also a miracle of
erudition and tolerance. The half-caste
rescues from the sea a white lady, a
divorcee, and marries her. She dies in
childbirth, leaving a beautiful quarter-
caste daughter, dazzlingly white of skin,
who is known as Black Waterlily. Court-
ing her come a millionaire Englishman of
good family ; a cultured, gifted artist; a
wiell-educated gentlemanly policeman,
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our undeviating policy.
“THE SENIOR STORE.'
ANTHONY HORDERNS
’Phone: M 2401, Day or Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
uiiiinuiiiiiiiin
■lilllillilllllllll
iiimiiminil||||
Values of Special Interest
Horsemen! Save on SADDLES!
'A
£7/10/- Kemp
Pattern Saddles
£6l s'.
Kemp I‘attern NailillvK. well made
with Hogskln seat and puds. Kip
flaps and skirts. Victoria facings
and solid gullet (roe.
Price, each £7/10/-
Sale Price, cadi £<l/15/-
BRIDLES
King: Head or
1 in. Solid Nickel
Price, each, 18/0.
iln. Solid Nickel
Price, each, VI/-.
Un. Nickel-plated
Price, each, 8/0.
lin. Nickel-plated
Price, each, 10/3.
Karcoo Bridles.
Buckles.
Sale Price, 13/6.
Buckles.
Sale Price, 11/-.
Buckles.
Sale Price, 8/3.
Buckles.
Sale Price, 9/3.
£7/10/- Wieneke
Pattern Saddles
£6ls'.
Wieneke Pattern Stock Saddles,
made with Hogskin seat, capped
knee pads, kip flaps and skirts.
Victoria facings and solid gullet
tree. Price, each £7/iO/-
Sale Price, each £6/15/-
£6/10/- Squatter Saddles, Sale
The “Squatter” Stork Saddle, with Hodgkin seat, capped knee pads,
kip flaps and skirts. Well finished with Victoria facings, steel-
plated tree. Price, each £6/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each £5/18/»i
£5/12/6 Q’land Park Saddles
Queensland Park Saddle, with Hogskin seat and pads, kip flaps and
skirts. Victoria facings and extended girth straps. Dependable
steel-plated tree Price, each £5/12/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each £5
£5/5/- Ladies’ Astride Saddles
Xiadies’ Astride Sad<lles, well made with Hogskin seat and pads, kip
flaps and skirts and steel-plated tree. A saddle that will give
satisfactory service. Price, each £5/5/-
Anthony Horderns' Sale Price,.each £4/13/-
£6 Richmond R. Park Saddles
Kichmond Kiver Park Saddles, made with Hogskin seat and pads,
kip flaps and skirts and steel-plated tree. Well finished with
Victoria facings. London colour. Price, eacli £0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each £3/10/-
£4/4/- Tod Sloan Saddles, Sale
Tod Sloan Exercise Saddles genuinely reduced for the sale. These
are properly made with Hogskin seat and plated tree in London
colour. Buy now! Price, each £4/4/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each £3/17/6
Folded Leather Girth. Ijin. stirrup leathers. IJlu. ring surcingle,
4-bar stirrup irons. Price . 20/
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, set 18/-
f s'lBfe
£ s'*
£415
£ siO
‘3176
# Saddlery—Lower Ground Floor, Pill Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
to Country Customers!
Paint Now—Buy at Sale Prices!
Vreserve and
\mproveyovr
ROPIRTY
with i
BORTHWICKS
JB" PAINT
/f
I
to
\
A
XI
20/- M AB” Reinforced Paint 18/6
“AB” Reinforced High-grade Paint, prepared ready for use. Buy
now and benefit by the substantial Sale reductions.
All Colours and White
Sizes, tin i Pint I Pint \ Gal. Gal. 1 Gal.
Prices, tin 1/8 3/1 5/9 10/6 20/-
Sale Prices, tin .... 1/7 2/10 5/4 9/9 18/6
16/-“Solpah”Pavingßed Paint 14[6
“Solpah” Paving Red Paint for cement paths, verandahs, floors and
porches.
Sizes, tins % Pint 1 Pint J Gal. £ Gal. I Gal.
Prices, tin 1/3 2/3 4/4 8/6 16/-
Sale Prices, tin 1/2 2/- 3/11 7/9 14/6
10/6 gal. Hard Oak Varnish 9/6
A Hard-drying Oak Varnish that gives a good finish.
Sizes, tins \ Pint I Pint \ Gal. £ Gal. 1 Gal.'
Prices, tins I/- 1/8 3/3 5/9 10/6
Sale Prices, tins lid. 1/6 3/- 5/3 9/6
8/6 White Ant and Borer Cure 7/9
A sure remedy for destroying White Ants and Borers.
Sizes, tins . I Pint £ Gal. £ Gal. I Gal.
Prices, tins . 1/9 3/3 4/9 8/6
Sale Prices, tins 1/7 3/- 4/3 7/9
lOd. “Palace” Paint Brushes 9d.
“Palace” Brand Varnish or Paint Brushes are made from pure Black
Bristle and set in Rubber.
Sizes, inches I I 2 2\ 3 3^
Prices, each 1 Od. 1/5 2/1 2/8 3/4 4/5
Sale Prices, each .... 9d. 1/3 1/11 2/5 3/- 4/-
% Paints —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City
and Suburbs only.
Bargains in Tools-of-Trade for Thrifty Workmen!
2/9 to 4/9 Screw Auger Bits at
1/9
jjggg
Marples Coxs Patent Screw Auger Bits, with double-thread
points for hardwood.
Sizes, inches 5-16 s 7-16 i 9-16- f 11-lo
Prices, each 2/- 2/- 2/- 2/- 2/3 2/6 2/9
Sale Prices, each .... 1/9 1/9 1/9 1/9 1/9 1/9 1 9
Sizes, inches 3 13-16 a 15/16 1 II
Prices, each 2/9 2/- 3/-> 3/2 3/3 1/9 •
Sale Prices, each 1/9 1/9 1/9 1/9 1/9 l a
2/9 to 7/3 Auger Bits, all 2/-
llarples Coxs Patent Screw Auger Bits, with double cutters
and double-thread points for soft wood. -
Sizes, inches } 5-16 I 7-16 i 9-16
Prices, each 2/9 2/9 2/9 2/9 2/9 - 3/-
Sale Prices, each . . .... 2/- 3/- 2/- 2/- 2/- %/-
Sizes, inches 11-16 J 13-16 j 15-16 1
Prices, each ... . 4/- 3/- 4/6 4/6 4/9 4/9
Sale Prices, each .... . . 2/- 2/- 2/- 2/- 2/- 3/-
3/6
it
7/3,
»/-.
3/6 Combination Case Openers 3/-
‘Per” Combination Case Openers are strongly made.
Price, each 3/h
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 3/-
1/- English Turnscrews - - Sale
London Pattern Turnscrews.
Sizes, inch blades . . .
Prices, each 1/
Sale Prices, each
5/- “Cheney” Hammers
“Cheney” Adze Eye Nail Hammers. 1
Price, each i '..... 5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each .......... 4/6
Brass-plated Levels. Strongly made.
Sizes, inches 10 12
Prices, each 2/- . 2/3
Sale Prices, each 1/6 1/9
2/- French Fence Riers - Sale
Dependable Fence Pliers at worth-while savings.
Sizes, inches 8 10
Prices, each 2/- 37-
Sale Prices, each 1/8 2/6
1/6 Gas Pliers ... Sale 1/3
French-made Gas Pliers.
Sizes, inches .... 7 9
Prices, each 1/6 27-
Sale Prices, each 1/3 1/8
1/- Combination Pliers, Sale Bd.
Strongly-made Combination Cutting Pliers.
Sizes, inches ; 6 8
Prices, each 1/- 2/6
Sale Prices, each Bd. 1/8
• Tools —Lower Ground Floor. Pin Street. Free delivery
City and Suburbs only.


About Your Indigestion.
* v sL m
INTESriNES^^t-
a Vv
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE Painful distension of the
___—— stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE Duodenal ulcers. Excess
■ outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles, it acts in a
logical and common-
sense way and if you
persevsre it will even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain of
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt's Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6
and a Government-reared half-caste, a
low fellow named Gilbert. The English-
man wins, but draws the color line at the
last moment. He gets killed by Gilbert,
leaving the field to the painter.
Stein is made the mouthpiece for
views about half-castes:
They should be left in the camp to
grow up as blacks unless their father
claims them and has (hem brought up in
a white home from infancy. It’s cruel
madness to send policemen out to drag
them from their black mothers and bring
them up with the idea that they are white,
or as good as white, they turn them out
into the world to compete with the white
men who hate them as competitors in the
labor market and loathe them socially.
As to the general question of helping
the abo.:
They want to be freed from their super-
stitious fear, given a workable religion that
can be grafted on to their tribal organisa-
tion, a uniform belief that will allow the
tribes to form friendly relations and begin
to feel one people. Meanwhile start
teaching them the rudiments of herd-tend-
ing and agriculture.
The missionary. Dr. Fleetwood, has
support for G. B. Shaw’s dreams of a
brindled world. The Arabs—colored
folk —he points out, were superior to the
whites in civilisation, in war, in morals
and in religion not so many centuries
ago.
It was they who preserved for us the
learning acquired by the Greeks and the
Jews when the early Christian Fathers
tried to stamp out ancient learning....
The races must fuse. Every war of con-
quest makes for a little more fusion.
Why not smooth the way for it to pro-
ceed without wars of conquest?
Courageous words, these. Hatfield
would be a better novelist if he were less
of an idealist —if he let his Cromwells
have their warts; but that is not his
metier. His world consists of heroes and
villains, and never the twain shall merge.
Alfred Rayment, a retired railway staff
officer living in Sydney, gives, in a little
paper-covered volume, personal reminis-
cences of a long official career, and
mingles with these historical data con-
cerning the development of N.S.W. rail-
ways. The book is interesting—support
for the theory that every man has at least
one book in him —because the writer
knows his subject and is intensely inter-
ested in if.
The Great Depression has given thou-
sands of people who never before wor-
ried their minds about pol. econ. an in-
tensely practical, if melancholy, interest
in the machinery whereby their misfor-
tunes were wrought. They suspect malice
and chicanery on someone’s part, and
their dark suspicions are not entirely
lulled when economists explain that the
whole business came about unintention-
ally and accidentally. In a book by Drs.
Mills and Walker, of Sydney Uni., the
mechanism of trade and finance is ex-
plained fairly fully and as clearly as can
reasonably be expected of such a com-
plex business. The outstanding merits of
the work are that it is right up to the
minute, embodying the latest theories of
Keynes, Fisher, Cassel and Von Hayek,
and that it is impartial—there isn’t even
a harsh word about Major Douglas. It
is a good summary of the present con-
dition of economic knowledge, and it
won’t hurt the feelings of the authors or
of any other honest professors of the
dismal science to say that the present
condition is chaotic. There is no known
general solution of an equation contain-
ing upwards of a dozen interdependent
variables the degree and character of
whose interaction is obscure, and that’s
why endeavors to put economic laws into
algebraic form, from Marx to Douglas,
have so signally failed. When the science
gets a sound mathematical basis it will
commence to be more practically helpful.
Dr. Copland’s Macrossan lecture on
W. E. Hearn, the first Australian econo-
mist, has been put into a book. Trained
in the Adam Smith school, Hearn, per-
haps influenced by the Vic. climate, soon
began to have doubts about the correct-
ness of that gloomy sage’s dictums. We
find him writing “A man is richer and, as
far as wealth is concerned, the happier,
not for what he can save, but for what
he can spend. But while he saves that he
may spend, he must also remember that
if he wishes to continue to spend he must
save.” Australian Treasurers seem to
have memorised the first of those two-
sentences and forgotten the second.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
|Black Waterlily, by William Hattield (Angus
and Robertson; 6s.); The Romance of the
Railway, by Alfred Rayment (Boylan and Co.,
Sydney; 2s.); Money , by R. C. Mills, LL.M.,
D.Sc. (Econ.), and E. Ronald Walker, M.A.,
Ph.D. (Angus and Robertson; 5s.); W. E.
Hearn. First Australian Economist, by Douglas
B. Copland, M.A., D.Sc. (Melb. Uni. Press;
3s. 6d.).]
Here' Looking
at You
I hadn’t seen
The Bulletin in
years. I wasn’t
even aware, un-
til I popped my
apprehensive eye
into the “Answers” column recently, that
the target I was sniping at in ray
controversial (but rejetted) article had
already been splintered to bits by other
shots. I was a fairly frequent, if some-
what callow, R.P. contributor at one
time; and if, when I have come across
those disintegrating pink strips, I have
thought of D. H. Lawrence and his
Kangaroo, it has usually been with the
sort of ruefulness that must accompany
posthumous rumination. Lawrence liked
the Abo. column and the “bits” generally.
For the Red Page he had only a very
dour squint, it may be remembered.
I haven’t seen Kangaroo for years
either ; but didn’t he tell the world in
that book that those who in his day occu-
pied this famous soap-box were merely
“amiable” or “pretentious,” or something
approximate? Lawrence was reading
The Bulletin regularly during his almost
incognitive stay in Australia; during
which, my portentous little articles made
their appearance with sufficient fre-
quency, I should think, to have tinctured
a regular reader’s expectations on open-
ing the paper.
I don't know. And it doesn’t matter.
Except that so far as these little glissades
into esthetic comment were concerned,
Lawrence’s sniffy estimate of our omni-
science in these matters had a definitely
deflating effect on one of us. Coming
from such a man, the implication that our
literary philosophisings were in effect
futile was taken, by me at any rate, much
as a first-offending delinquent takes (if
he has any sense) the Judge’s verdict of
dismissal with caution.
Things have changed since then —
everything, that is, except Norman
Lindsay. Familiarity breeds a disposi-
tion to yawn, even in the brightest com-
pany at times; and it is to be supposed
that the constant reader will not particu-
larly have noticed the increasing capacity
of the writers that produce, week by
week, this compendious sixpennyworth.
I have just been scanning half-a-dozen
or so recent copies, and it is my proper
opinion that there is nowhere such
sinewy and economically pointed stuff —
both in matter and manner —appearing
in any other popular British journal to-
day. And if those who think this en-
comium a bit too flatulently fulsome will
lend me their pink ears for a moment,
I’ll say that I still think the tone too
relentlessly omniscient. Why should the
clever, and perhaps not so clever, people
who fill these columns pretend invariably,
even down to the writer of the humblest
tit-inch-bit or so, that they are the sole
beneficiaries of this supernal quality?
Why do Australian writers, who seem
such kindly, unassuming folk when you
meet them in casual converse, assume
this devastating attitude when they sit
down to type out a par for The
Bulletin? Or is there some marvellous
chromium-plated robot incarcerated in
the editor’s office whose job is to run
through everything that has been ac-
cepted for print, eliminating all traces of
sweet human fallibility and stamping
every sentence with the imprint of his,
or its, own insuperable intelligence?
A.L.
A Secretary
in Defence
“Kellett” (R.P.’
26/6/’35) blames
th e Australian
Literature Society
for the non-fulfil-
ment of a scheme
propounded by a Sydney publisher a
couple of years ago. Does “Kellett'
know that a member of the A.L.S. com-
mittee assisted this publisher by prepar-
ing a list of the literary societies of
Australia which were to be sent a circu-
lar apprising them of the scheme and
asking for their co-operation? Does he
know if this circular was sent out, and,
if it was, does he know if those literary
societies discussed the proposal, and, it
they did, does he know if they promised
to support it?
The minute book of the A.L.S.
recorded a discussion of the proposed
scheme. The scheme met with both sup-
port and opposition. The society heard
nothing further from the publisher.
If the braying of the loudspeaker and
the vulgarities of the cinema have come
to stay, the lazy person will continue to
accept his “culture” from them, and the
small nucleus of people who will buy
(without any pledging) books that are
worth buying will remain small. Only
in Utopia will that ideal society be
found all of whose members will pledge
themselves to buy books they don’t want.
The profitable marketing of books is
a problem which the Australian Litera-
ture Society is unable to solve, but there
is a hint in the saying that “Good wine
needs no bush.”
MARION AGNEW.
A Satchel of Books
Strange' Cults and Secret Societies of
Modern London, by Elliott O’Donnell
(Philip Allan ; 6s. net). Title a trifle mis-
leading, since the modern London is
often not the London of to-day. There’s
a good deal of hearsay, also, in these
chapters by one who apparently has a
belief in ghosts and the power of the
Devil to appear in person and frighten
wicked undergraduates to death.
Love in Winter, by Storm Jameson
(Cassell; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). Mixed
love among misfits of marriage—a
woman journalist-novelist in London,
her husband at Oxford, her cousin liv-
ing apart from his wife, with incidental
people in shipping and politics weaving
in and about the triangle. Nearly all of
them suffer the sad defect of being tire-
some. They are well enough done, but
it seems to matter little what happens
to them, and, what is worse, nothing
does happen to them. Their talk, too
often, has the sound of being merely the
author's opinions at second-hand, and
she is full of opinions. “ ‘The women
of my generation will never catch up
with their men who went through the
war’; ‘We do need authority—obedience
—life must become simple again’ ” ; and
suchlike. Even the excellent woman
portraits hardly compensate.
The Pattern of Courtesy (Dent; ss.
net). Another neat anthology compiled
by Gerald Bullett; a selection of noble
prose and verse pieces bearing upon the
inherent goodness of mankind. . An in-
teresting theme to present in times ol
cheap debunking of great personages and
men in general, and when, also, there is
much evidence of action apparently to
the contrary. Thus, unlike most antho-
logies, it has a design, while the parts it
is made of are excellent in themselves.
Manuscripts, which began as a stapled
magazine, appears in its May issue
book-sewn and cut to the size ol
a standard English review. In all details,
printing, the way the print is pul
on the page, type and type-setting,
etc., it is well up to standard. Con-
tents are also up to standard maybe
a little too standardised to the English
pattern. For the most part the writing
is firm, the thought is clear and hard, and
the attitudes (what would a literary gent,
be without an attitude?) are well-
informed. The best essay in this issue
is by Professor John Anderson—an
analysis of Shaw’s theories of Wag-
ner’s theories of the music drama,
which develops into an attack on sym-
bolism. Percy Grainger’s wife has
written about Nordic literature ; there is
a brilliant summary of French Eclec-
ticism, in which Mr. Munz manages to
say a great deal about modern litera-
ture ; there are some informative notes
on contemporary French writers by
Violet de Mole ; also some excellent re-
views. It is 120 pages of very solid
work, especially when you consider that
“Contributions are invited, but cannot
be paid for.” (Published by the Marga-
reta Webber Bookshop, Melbourne;
copy from the Roycroft, Sydney ; 2s. 6d.)
Henry G. Lamond: Ever since my
book An Aviary on the Plains appeared
(reviewed R.P. 2/1 /’35) the wise ones
have tried to slaughter me because I say
therein that a certain type of kingfisher
laid mottled eggs. In reply to their on-
slaughts I have given approximate dates
when and exact localities where I had dug
out two nests and found mottled eggs.
Lately the editor of an ornithological pub-
lication has upbraided me, slating that
such false statements should not be allowed
to go unchecked—almost, it would seem,
the fate of nations hung on such inaccu-
racies. He concluded with: “Though
several clutches of ’fishers’ eggs in the
collection of the late Henry L. White
were thought to be mottled, they were
found on close examination to be merely
stained from the termites’ nests in which
they were laid.” All those pundits have
conveniently overlooked the fact that I
state plainly in my book that I am not a
scientist, and that I am merely a bush-
man of the big bush looking at birds
through the eyes of a bushman. In all
honesty, do they expect a man when
handling cattle as his daily job to carry
spirits of alcohol and a magnifying glass
in his saddle-pouch, so that he might
examine stains to find if they are natural
or not? And, further, if such a man as
the late Henry L. White is deceived, then
I feel it something of an honor that I
also should be taken in by a simple little
bird. .Somehow, and without undue
egotism, I feel that the honors have been
mine in this discussion.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn it will stick readily. Follow your usua>
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again:
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenm
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
Speed
YOUR
Communications
\
A
A
u
*
m
By
Telegraph
Do you move with the times? In the spheres of
“ d ” commercio!, industrial, professional and social life the
I tLtbKAM is a vital necessity.
It is a business builder and a courier of goodwill.
The telegram reaches the man who makes decisions
and it stimulates prompt action.
the
Other forms of communication invite attention
telegram secures it.
i- ? fe9m ?, h Serv ' ce fs nation-wide and is speedy and
reliable. Its tar.ffs are amongst the lowest in the world.
Ornamental telegrams the latest in social com-
munications. Modern, swift and so expressive of your personality
Telegraph today the modern way.
*‘A ustralia’s Premier
Sports Organisation '’
LIONEL BIBBY famous Rifle and
Revolver Shot and recognised authority
on Firearms and Ballistics, is attached
to Mick Simmons’ Shooting Depart-
ment staff. Write him for his expert
advice on any matter pertaining to
firearms and shooting.
NEW!
Modern Small-bore
Man-sized Rifles
ensuring a New Degree
of Power and Accuracy!
fM
No. 12A —WIN CHESTER SINGLE-
SHOT ROLE, MODEL 10, lor 22
Short, Long or Long-rifle Rimflre
Cartridges; 27in. round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip stock, bolt
action, ladder rear and metal bead
front sight. Weight, about
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 15—WINCHESTER REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 62, 22-cal., 20-shot,
23in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide
action; magazine handles 20 Short, 16
Long, or 14 Long-rifle Cartridges.
«iS. 18 .^:.... a . b . 0 .". t £5/10/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 4—MOSSBERG S.S. 22-CAL. R.F.
RIFLE, MODEL 10, bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, walnut stock, bead
front and ladder rear sights, with
swivels and web sling.
Weight, about 41b
Carriage Paid.
No, S—MOSSBERG S.S. R.F.
RIFLE, MODEL 14, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 241 n. round barrel,
walnut stock, bulge fore-end.
hooded ramp front and peep
receiver roar sight; with swivels
and leather sling. ACt/
Weight, about 51b *xO/ -
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
33-
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD S.S.
RIFLE, MODEL 52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22iu.
round barrel, gold bead front and Af\/
ladder rear sight. Weight, about 4Jlb. m
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 41—SAVAGE BOLT-ACTION REPEAT-
ING RIELB, MODEL 4, 22-cal., 5-Shot, 24in.
round barrel, gold bead front and ladder rear
sight; takes 22 Short, Long or Long-
rifie Cartridges. Weight, sJlb
77/6
World Famous
SHOT GUNS
No
No. I—G1 —G KEENER D.8.8.L. HAMMERLEBB
GUN, 120., treble wedge, fast action, rebound-
ing, “Slemen’s” special steel barrels, both full
choke, shooting guaranteed. Splendid pigeon
gun. With 30 or 32 inch
barrels
£27/ 10/-
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L.
GUN, 120., top lever, bar action, 32in. steel
barrels, both choke, rebounding locks, cross
bolt, snap fore-end, half •CIC/IC/
pistol grip, walnut stock .. cLliJ' 10/*
Carriage Paid.
No. 34— AMERICAN D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12G., 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks, top lever, cross bolt; tested for
nitro. Weight, about 711 b
Carriage Paid.
£7
No. 28—WINCHESTER D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke; top lever, walnut
stock, pistol grip, chambered for 2fin. cart-
ridges. Weight, about 711 b.
Carriage Paid.
Price
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy.
Latest Edition just released.
Post free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The A.I.F. Uniform
“Angus McAussie” (B. 3/7/’35) has
a lot to say in favor of it; but,
like a heap of other things tradition has
made hallowed, it leaves much to be
desired. Surplus stock was issued to
compulsory trainees in 1921, and I was
the recipient of a set of the most un-
comfortable and ill-fitting clothes I have
ever had to wear. No amount of oil
would make the boots soft, the breeches
were coarse and rough to the skin, and
the ridiculous idea of the hat being
turned up on the left side gave me pain-
ful sunburn on that side of the face.
Incidentally, the potentialities of this
uniform as a harborer of vermin are
only too well known. Ask any Digger!
I think the new militia uniforms par-
ticularly elegant, and our lads look as
well in them as do the Grenadiers in
(heirs—R. T. A. (N.S.W.).
Wanted—A Geodetic Survey
“Putting Us on the Map” (B. 26/6/’35)
was read at our monthly council meet-
ing. On behalf of this institute I wish
to thank you for giving this subject such
extensive and favorable notice. The case
has been very aptly put.
This institute is strongly in favor of
a geodetic survey of Australia, and in-
tends to do all in its power to have it
commenced. It is hoped that the united
efforts of all the institutes will have this
desirable result, and with the co-opera-
tion of Mr. M. A. Blain, member for the
Northern Territory (a member of this
institute), I feel that the authorities will
be compelled to take notice.—C. F.
Bennett, president Queensland Institute
of Surveyors.
The Driver’s Share
This is my suggestion for reducing
road accidents. It involves no expense
for police patrols or safety appliances or
for anything else.
Whenever an accident occurs by which
anyone is fatally injured, or so seriously
injured that he is unable to follow his
usual occupation, let the driver of the
vehicle concerned accidentally lose his
license, and be automatically barred
from holding a license thereafter. Not
as a punishment or a penalty, but merely
as the driver’s share of the accident. It
would be hard on an innocent driver, it
is true ; but no more serious for the ac-
cidental killer than for the accidentally
killed.
Think out the moral effect of a few
accidental cases of permanent loss of a
driver’s license. How very careful drivers
would become to avoid getting into any
position that might bring about a fatal
accident to their licenses! Thousands of
rich men deliberately and cheerfully
risked their lives during the war who
would never have taken the some risk
for their money ; and thousands of drivers
take daily risk of accident, to themselves
who would never dream of risking the loss
of their licenses.— J. Smethurst (Broken
Hill).
The Millbrook Home
That reference (B. 5/6/’35) to the
need for psychopathic wards in general
hospitals was of considerable interest to
the Millbrook Home Board and the Tas-
manian Veterans’ Trust. The Veterans’
Trust, aware of the need, interested the
Tas, Government, with the result that
the trustees built an excellent home for
the treatment of psychopaths. Funds were
made available by the British Red Cross
and the Society of St. John of Jerusalem,
the Government contributing a wing. It
was stipulated that the money should
be used for the treatment of psychopathic
disorders among ( a ) returned soldiers.
( b) dependants of returned soldiers and
( c ) the general public.
The home is in a perfect setting over-
looking the Derwent and its beautiful
valley. It is tastefully furnished, and
fitted with every conceivable conveni-
ence. An excellent choice of pictures
was selected and donated by the trustees,
as was also the nucleus of a good library!
There are spacious grounds, 10 acres,
with the use of ground on the Govern-
ment farm adjoining. A nine-hole golf
course is being constructed, and the
property is being systematically laid out
with gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, etc.,
tennis court, croquet lawn and bowling
green.
The home is run along the lines of a
first-class English or Continental spa, in
which massage, occupational, electrical
and general therapy are carried out by
experts. After individual psycho- j
analysis guests are treated with a view 1
to educating them back to physical and
mental normality. They are encouraged
to have and work their own gardens and
indulge in organised games, and are
given such physical training as may be
deemed necessary.
Although it has been functioning for
only a short period satisfactory results
have been obtained, despite an unfor-
tunate and quite erroneous allusion in the
press to Milbrook as a “borderline
home.” This deterred many people from
applying for admission. With the
development of equipment and treat-
ment the public may look forward to
very gratifying results.—W. Thirkell,
Secretary, Millbrook Home Board and
Tasmanian Veterans’ Trust.
New Crimes
Brunswick (Vic.) Council has invented
a new crime—the use of scooters by kid-
dies playing in the streets. Richmond,
closer to the city, has been forced to
secure additional police protection to
suppress the tobogganing enterprises of
its youngsters, who hold what they term
“The Lennox-street Derby” down the
steep hill in that thoroughfare. The
steeds used are billycarts, some of them
fitted with ball-bearing wheels and
bodies imitating the latest streamlined
model cars. Prahran is another suburb
which suffered recently from the billy-
cart menace, but has contrived to stamp
out all but sporadic outbreaks. There is
a serious side to the presence of scooters
and billycarts in the streets ; dozens of
youngsters have had hairbreadth escapes
from being cut to pieces by passing cars.
—Grasspan (Vic.).


dfg
T/iecznd
tr ☆
L- 11 ,/. - Jy
IBrandt
B. SCPPELT A SONS LtMf
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
v/t/Lcecui/
Jcmimda
df
Agent, for New South Wale.; MESSRS. TUCKER & CO.. LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2892.
July 17, 1935.
WHILE THE STRANGERS SLEPT.
“At the White House, Mr. and Mrs. Lyons ‘slept in the very room in which Lincoln signed the proclamation freeing the blacks’—and at the very time when the President
was rejecting the Abyssinian appeal that he should use his influence to spare a black Christian nation the horrors of war.”
‘Rejected! Yet one of my successors formed a League to Enforce Peace, and another got Italy’s signature to a pact renouncing war as an instrument
of national policy.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street.
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Term* to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
VERY DISAPPOINTING.
Premier Stevens was shrewd in deciding to break
the news about his deficit at a Saturday-night dinner
in the Commercial Travellers’ Club. Commercial
travellers are jovial fellows and devoted supporters
of Governments standing for law and order—never
more so than when the Government is a trifle
embarrassed. On another Saturday night long ago
another State Premier, faced with civil discord, went
to the local Commercial Travellers’ Club, where
enthusiastic bagmen enrolled as volunteers for an
exciting expedition. They were to man a launch, and
drop 12 miles down the river to a disputed wharf,
which they were to capture, at the point of the
walking-stick, as it were, from morose lumpers. They
were somewhat less enthusiastic in the pale light of
dawn, when half a ton of rock, thoughtlessly heaved
from a bridge, just missed their craft —but this is
a digression, and that is another story.
Mr. Stevens announced that the latest annual
loss amounted to £2,800,000; and the audience
cheered. He went on to say that the aggregate deficits
of State Governments for the twelvemonth were
£2,000,000 less than the sums paid into sinking fund ;
and the audience cheered again. The cheering broke
out afresh when the speaker praised the achievement
of his Railways Commissioner, now abroad on some
mission or other, who had, it seems, “reduced the
railway deficit” — i.e., increased the accumulated
losses for 10 years, £21,262,200 by £1,200,000.
There was really nothing for taxpayers to cheer about,
but commercial travellers are apt to forget that they
are taxpayers and to regard all as being for the best
in the best of all worlds, especially on Saturday night.
Four days elapsed before details were vouch-
safed ; then it was admitted that, compared with the
1933-34 year, there had been substantial increases
in revenue and expenditure. Revenue was up
£1,174,200, the Commonwealth having provided a
grant of £786,000 out of its 1933-34 surplus ; expen-
diture had increased by £719,919, though, as the result
of Bruce’s conversion loans, there had been a reduc-
tion of £602,700 in interest and exchange. In this
the railways must have shared substantially, and rail-
way revenue increased by £995,300, an effect partly
of the better times and partly of the Transport
Strangulation Act, under which every expedient short
of clubbing is employed to drive traffic to the Govern-
ment lines. Actually, the loss on the railways
reached £2,000,000, since £BOO,OOO p.a. is taken
from tax-revenue to bolster up this decrepit
experiment in Government ownership, and keep
alive the absurd pretence that motor and aerial
transport can be dispensed with by a twentieth-
century nation. In other words, the railways con-
tinued to swallow about a third of the revenue derived
from ordinary income tax, which rises to 4s. 3d.
in the £ on property income exceeding £5500 and on
personal earnings exceeding £7OOO. Nevertheless, the
Premier has the face to assert that “the railways are
an asset to the State, and no longer a liability.”
The actual deficit, it seems, was £2,846,000. The
friendly “Herald” protests that “it was £454,285 less
than the deficit of 1933-34, and £63,920 less than the
deficit budgeted for.” But in the Budget the “Com-
monwealth contribution” was estimated at £2,917,411,
the same as in 1931-32, ’32-33 and ’33-34, and it was,
in fact, £786,000 more. Anyhow it was jokingly
declared at Loan Council meetings that all the
Premiers had overdone the dismal stuff when framing
their Budgets, and it is true that there has been a
great reduction of annual losses in other States —in
Victoria, from £760,000 to £150,000 ; in Queensland,
from £1,130,000 to £565,000; in Westralia, from
£790,000 to £167,000; and in South Australia, from
£840,000 to a credit balance of £36,000. In N. S.
Wales, allowing for the substantial advance in revenue
and reduction in interest for which Mr. Stevens has
to thank the Commonwealth, the position is worse
than it was a twelvemonth ago; and at the end of
May unemployment was worse than in any other
State: 22.7 p.c. in N. S. Wales, 18,9 p.c. in S.A., 16.4
p.c. in Tasmania, 15 p.c. in Victoria, 13.9 p.c. in
Westralia and 8.8 p.c. in Queensland.
Governing the provincial affairs of the State with
two-fifths of the population, more than half the sheep
and practically all the iron-and steelworks, the Stevens
Administration was responsible for three-fourths of the
losses on the operations of the six States. While
every other mainland State can show a substantial
balance of sinking-fund payments over its deficit—
£Boo,ooo in Victoria, £606,000 in South Australia,
£333,000 in Westralia and £85,000 in Queensland—
Mr. Stevens’s State is £1,000,000 down. At the same
time his loan expenditure has been far more lavish
than that of his fellow-Premiers ; £10,000,000 was his
issue last year. The loans and deficits led to increases
of £273,900 in interest and £127,000 in sinking-fund
payments —a sure sign that he is overdoing both.
It is a very disappointing performance altogether.
Mr. Stevens, of course, tries to excuse it by making
familiar comparisons with Mr. Lang’s maddest year,
but an over-governed and over-taxed people won't
put up with these excuses all the time.
BOARDS AND POOLS.
After five years of muddled paternalism, during
which tax-money has been spent like water to keep
hopeless cases on holdings returning steady two- and
three-bushel averages, and good farmers who declared
taxable income have been punished by being deprived
of the bounty given to bad farmers, wheatgrowing
is in a sorrier condition than ever. All along it has
been urged that prosperity could be restored to it by
the establishment of a Commonwealth pool, based
on the notion that buyers can be made to pay what-
ever price sellers choose to fix; and the agitation
has been revived formidably. Dr. Page has given it
his blessing; the good doctor's favorite pastimes are
suggesting pools, appointing boards and throwing up
trial balloons. It is to be hoped that he will desist
from these interesting pursuits long enough to study
recent Canadian history.
Enthusiasts in Alberta decided that it was time
the industry used its weight of supply to improve
prices. Provincial pools were formed ; there was an
amalgamation, and London offices were set up. While
the boom was on all went well. Farmers got a dollar
a bushel. So production expanded ; in 1928 the yield
was a record —567,000,000 bushels. The price slid
at once, Canadian farmers found Argentina, supply-
ing the best Rosafe wheats, underquoting them by
about ss. a quarter (4501 b.). Before long British
millers were getting these wheats 11s. cheaper than
Canadian.
In 1930 Canadian farmers received only 56
cents a bushel. The depression saw prices for good
wheat as low as 42 cents—ls, 9d. Eventually the
provincial and Dominion Governments stepped in and
placed an experienced wheat-trader in control, with
orders to go in for “stabilisation operations.” He
got the price up in 1933, but it soon fell back to 60
cents. Pegging and sales restrictions were of little
avail. Surplus stocks accumulated until the country
had 228,000,000 bushels for sale and no buyers in
sight*. Now a board has been set up to sell it somehow,
and “buy new wheat only from farmers.” The Prime
Minister announces that “the board will launch no
dumping policy to liquidate holdings at fire-sale
prices,” and this has had a somewhat steadying effect
on the market —naturally prices began to tumble —
but it is feared that dumping may be forced on it.
The U.S.A. Farm Board provides another lesson
for pool enthusiasts. Formed in 1930 to “support
prices,” it likewise succeeded in piling up dangerous
surpluses. About £30,000,000 was spent in buying
wheat, and soon 370,000.000 bushels, largely of
inferior quality, was stacked away without a market,
together with 580,000,000 bushels bought on “futures,”
for which the new official owners could not prophesy
consumption. Drought and the New Dealers came
to the rescue, but even with output only a little more
than half what it was in 1931 the U.S.A. expects to
have heaps of wheat to sell if any kind foreigner
will buy.
Australia was, of course, no party to these
Canadian and U.S.A, operations (though ambitious
North Americans toyed with the idea of roping it
in), but it has suffered from the effects. Consumer-
nations in Europe chose to regard all the fancy
schemes for “stabilisation” and “producer-control”
as a threat to them, and set about growing wheat
on their own account. In a surprisingly short time
they were not only supplying most of their needs, but
had contrived to demonstrate that wheat can be
grown almost anywhere except at the Poles. France,
for its part, has made a saddening contribution to
the world surplus, and has been unloading it at “fire-
sale prices.” An Australian M.P., visiting Italy, left
it with the conviction that Australia will lose its once-
profitable wheat market there, and will have to meet
Italian competition in foodstuffs in other markets.
It is improbable that a Commonwealth pool
could operate under the present parody of a Constitu-
tion ; more improbable that the people would sanction
it if asked for a grant of power limited to that
particular expedient; still more improbable that it
would do a hap’orth of good. It is only a specious
substitute for measures that will have to be under-
taken if wheatgrowing for export is to have any
future —abandonment of ill-watered districts with a
bad history, refusal of further aid where it would
be useless (though this doesn’t mean throwing poor
devils on the streets) and reduction of taxes, service
charges and interest inflated the frightful cost of
government.
IN SECRET.
The most alarming fact about German rearming is
the air of secrecy which has surrounded it. While
Hitler was ostensibly obeying the Versailles Treaty, he
was feverishly building aerodromes and making pre-
parations for the creation of large and well-armed
military and air forces. Yet repeatedly this was
denied. British and U.S.A. newspapermen who
exposed the developments were expelled from
Germany as liars.
With the navy the same kind of thing has been
happening. Germany’s cruisers under treaty were
limited to 6000 tons, its battleships to 10,000 tons.
Having lost its navy at Scapa Flow, it began rebuilding
in 1925 with the new Emden (5600 tons), followed by
four other cruisers in 1929-31. These were revolu-
tionary types carrying nine six-inch guns with unpre-
cedented arcs of fire, low visibility, high speed and
wide range of operation.
Then came two “pockef’-battleships, Deutschland
and Admiral Scheer. They are both about the same
size as the Australia and the Canberra, but make the
Australian vessels obsolete. They are battleship-
armored, and are engined for a range of 10,000 miles
at 20 knots without refuelling; they carry six 1 l-inch
guns and eight six-inch guns, together with the
latest type of anti-aircraft and torpedo equipment.
What their maximum speed is nobody knows, but it
is certainly as high as that) of any cruiser in the
British Navy.
It was announced that two more of these ships
were on the stocks. They prove to be cats of another
color: 26,000-tonners, built on the new principle, with
triple turrets of 11-inch guns; speed beyond that of
almost any of the world’s battle-cruisers, and round-
the-world cruising range—something completely
revolutionary and obviously for only one purpose,
long-distance raiding of enemy ports. If Australian
cruisers were to meet these leviathans they could
not last an hour. In addition, there are a flock of
flotilla-leaders, which are, in effect, “pockef’-cruisers,
and two more 10,000-ton cruisers, as well as sub-
marines. Some of the submarines have been con-
structed and put into commission in complete secrecy.
The programme is said to be a reply to the
French construction of two battleships and 32
“pockef’-cruisers, but the type of ship built suggests
something more. Britain and Australia have naval
building schemes, but the programme which they are
studying (60 cruisers) will bring the cruiser total only
within 10 ships of what Jellicoe, Beatty and Roger
Keyes consider safety margin, even with the most
modern type of ship,
Australians would feel less insecure if the Com-
monwealth Government reverted to its pre-war policy
and had at least one battle-cruiser capable of coping
with the huge new long-distance ships which other
countries are building. Without the old Australia
history might have taken a very different turn in the
Pacific in 1914.
THE UNTHINKABLE.
On appearances Mussolini means to fight. If Italy
could be as sure about Abyssinia as Japan was about
Manchuria there might be a short struggle in Sep-
tember, followed by an Italian occupation. But
dictators’ intentions are rarely what they seem.
Consider some of the realities behind the fafade
of nationalistic bombast which every modern tyrant
erects in order to justify himself. It was generally
realised even in 1914 that no war would pay unless
it finished quickly: the'Germans expected to reach
Paris inside a month. The whole world knows now
that no war can be won in a few months unless the
country invaded is as poorly defended as Manchuria
or Abyssinia—or Australia.
Kings, Presidents, and their Governments went to
war in the past for material things—usually territories
and the right to exploit them —or in defence thereof.
It was a good gamble, as a rule, with glory and a
period of prosperity for the winning nation. The
average citizen (outside a few regions which have
been doomed for centuries to supply covering corps)
knew nothing of war’s implications. To-day.
if a real war started —as opposed to the glori-
fied raid which is a possibility in Abyssinia—any
part of the world might be called on to supply a
covering corps at a few hours’ notice; and people
of all ages and nationalities know far more about
what that signifies than survivors of the Franco-
Prussian struggle did in 1914.
Countless plays and talkies have told them what
it means in horror to those in the front lines ; count-
less articles and novels what it means in privations
to those at home. The dictators now ruling in place
of the emperors and kings who were ruined by the
last war are as terrified of a show-down as their
subjects. The pacifist Stalin, like the militarist Musso-
lini, is keeping his unemployables out of mischief by
drafting them into armies and munition works. But
neither could afford to use his army on a grand scale.
Italy, for example, has practically no gold—the
only medium that will be accepted in any future war
in return for foreign goods and services—no petrol
and hardly any of the raw products required for
explosives. The S. African War cost England
£1,500,000 a week, the World War (including advances
to allies) £7,000,000 a day. Such is the financial scale
on which present-day warfare is conducted (Germany
spent £5,000,000 a day, France nearly £4,500,000, and
the fighting men contributed 8,700,000 dead and
21,000,000 wounded).
War, real war, then, is unthinkable. The civilised
world is so appalled at the shadow of the thought
of it that adventurers like Hitler and Mussolini have
been able on the one hand to tear up the Versailles
Treaty, and on the other to defy the moral feelings
of Europe and America by an insolent proposal to
steal a Christian neighbor’s property. Because war is
so utterly unthinkable nations like Britain, which can
look forward to solving their economic problems
without conscription, are rearming. They will never
go to war again even in defence of “scraps of paper.’’
but they are afraid to be defenceless. Woe to the
unarmed!
SECOND DIVVY.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Tale of Two Industries.
Throughout the London season Prime Minister Lyons
and his retinue tried to persuade an obviously reluc-
tant Britain to buy specified quantities of Australian
beef. The expeditionaries, their secretaries and
typists have had a glorious time—walked with kings
and fed with millionaires —but for all the results
that have been achieved they might as well have
stayed at home.
Australia produces an article that the British need
and can never produce themselves, nor get in any
quantity from Argentina—wine. But for tactical
reasons touring politicians don’t talk about this industry
if they can help it. The wowser vote has to be con-
sidered. Yet our wines are forging ahead overseas.
]he British have been drinking Continental wines
(mostly the products of France, Spain and Portugal)
Jor about four centuries. Last year they bought
3,165,654 gallons of Australian wine, an increase
of 351,044 gallons on the quantity bought in 1933;
much more than they took from France or Spain
over the same period and within a million and a
quarter gallons of Portugal’s contribution.
In Australia politicians have done their best to
discourage the industry. N. S. Wales has a Liquor
Act which virtually bars the consumption of wine
during (he hours when it sells best overseas. In every
wine-producing country on the Continent farm-hands
may be seen imbibing at the cafes, which are their
clubs, after the day’s work. No moral stigma
attaches to the leisurely ritual, and drunkenness is far
rarer abroad than it is here.
If wine-drinking were allowed in Australia at
specified hours, as in England (notably at meal-times
and for an hour or so afterwards) ; if Australian
restaurants were allowed, as they once were, to throw
in sound red and white wines with their dinners (a
practice that originated in the London Inns of Court
and was never abused); if, in short, constructive
attempts were made to increase the table at the
expense of the bar trade, the local wine industry
would quickly boom in Australia. And the boom
would be reflected abroad with beneficial results to
our credit. Nothing stands in the way but politicians
in dread of the prohibition vote.
* — :
The Bureaucracy’s Great Idea.
In Queensland the Public Curator’s office is controlled
by the Justice Department, and the Justice Depart-
ment also manages the police courts, and the police
courts inflict fines for breaches of taxation laws.
Hence the emotions with which Queenslanders are
reading advertisements like the following, taken from
a Cloncurry newspaper:
TAX RETURNS
are due to be lodged shortly, and you will need expert advice
and help in their preparation. Let the Public Curator prepare
your returns for you, and avoid the penalties for inaccurate
returns.
Fees are reasonable, and full information as to the services
will be supplied on application to
THE LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR,
Townsville; also at Brisbane, Rockhampton, Cairns.
All Clerks of Petty Sessions are Agents.
T he idea of asking taxpayers to pay fees to the Gov-
ernment to save themselves from being fined because
they cannot understand the Government’s complicated
taxation laws and regulations—well, it shows that the
bureaucracy is capable of an idea.
Queenslanders are liable for Commonwealth
income tax (two taxes if they draw income from
property). State income tax, “super tax,” “additional
tax” and unemployed-relief tax, and when all the
imposts have been deducted income may have to be
examined through a microscope. Still enough should
remain for the purchase of a large leather medal,
suitably inscribed, to be hung permanently in the
Public Curator’s office.
♦
Impermanent and Non-productive.
When £152,000 had been expended on the Eppalock
(Vic.) weir, the Argyle Government decided to
abandon the project. Mr. Dunstan assumed command,
and, in pursuance of his policy of “getting the State
out of a hole,” he shut down on necessary works
around Melbourne and proposed, among other things,
to complete the dam at Eppalock.
The State Water Supply Commission now reports
that the finished job would cost £1,030,000, and that,
if the highest possible water charges were paid, the
taxpayer would have to make up a loss of £30,000
p.a. in interest. For “only a small area of country
could be irrigated,” and “the reservoir would not
assist the Bendigo water supply.”
In view of the commission’s revelations, it is
unlikely that Mr. Dunstan will press for completion.
The strange fact, from the viewpoint of the ordinary
citizen, is that he should ever have dreamed of
throwing this additional million into the dam. for
the facts are not new. They were ancient history
when the Argyle Cabinet decided to cut its loss.
* .
Russia Going Constitutional.
Thousands of Communists the world over, and
thousands of others who make a living by combating
Communism, will go into mourning over Stalin’s
proposal to set up “Parliaments, elected by secret
ballot, in the seven U.S.S.R. republics.” “The Russian
menace” is dying. The last stage of rot set in when
Mr. Eden set out for Moscow, to be carried from
the border in a luxurious train and entertained at
a banquet at which the royal toast was drunk —the
toast which Russian agitators for years had been
urging British workers not to drink.
The Parliamentary system is a complete nega-
tion of Communist ideas of government. In the
establishing of “pure” Communism, capitalism and
constitutionalism (“ists” too) are “liquidated,” and all
property becomes the possession of mass-man, being
held in trust for him by a “dictatorship of the prole-
tariat” controlled by a special and limited trained
class —the Communist party. Then the mass is welded
to obedience and brotherhood until no “State” in
the “capitalist” sense is necessary. All men admit
their equality, and all that is needed to run the
country is a Supreme Economic Council, elected
from trade-union groups.
Lenin’s original idea was that the whole world
should be combined in the new Utopia. So Com-
munist handbooks all over the earth urged revolu-
tionaries to “enter Parliaments in order to destroy
them,” and come to Moscow to learn the technique.
Lenin died, leaving behind Trotsky, who fancied
himself as an organiser of armies and wanted to fight,
and Zinoviev, who, though no warrior, was eager to
hurry on to victory and world domination. Trotsky,
Zinoviev and their friends went under before the will
of Stalin, “the man of steel.”
From Stalin’s advent the Communist impetus
slowed down. Mussolini, indeed, borrowed the
Supreme Economic Council idea, but adapted it for
very uncommunistic purposes, and “Fascist” is almost
an obscene word in Moscow, And world propaganda
began to languish from the moment Hitler arrived ;
most of it had issued from Berlin. The Nazis seized
bureaux, newspaper offices and funds, imprisoned
Communist leaders and cut off Communist heads.
The Reds once had great hopes of the British
Dominions, but they have faded. In Australia former
Communists have fallen so “low” as to accept jubilee
medals, and the Australian Communist organisation
is going through a period of suffering rendered more
acute by the taunts of worthies like Professor John
Anderson, of Sydney University, that “supporters of
Stalin, in their attacks on Trotsky, are resorting
to rhetorical verbiage that is the opposite to the
truth, and are introducing methods of bureaucratic
rule,” among them “the secret ballot.”
«
Melbourne’s Housing Problem.
The agitation for the erection of workers’ dwellings
in Melbourne has moved the City Council to
consider the modernising of a congested area in
North Melbourne, and the building surveyor (Mr.
Kemp) has gone so far as to start planning the
buildings. But he has revealed the disquieting infor-
mation that the land will cost £3O a foot to resume,
and that rents will not nearly pay interest on the
capital amount required.
It may be that this area has been badly chosen
—that it comprises land which should be utilised for
more important purposes, shop or factory sites. But
by no stretch of imagination can land in North Mel-
bourne suitable only for dwellings be worth £3O a foot.
Before housing plans are prepared or sites are
chosen, legislation should be passed fixing the com-
pensation to be paid. On the face of it, a fair thing
would be the rateable or taxable value, plus some-
thing for disturbance. The right to resume should
be made to cover everything likely to be resumed to
the most remote degree. When the road is clear, the
experts in town-planning will be free to do their
utmost in the most expeditious manner.
The ideal worker’s home is a cottage with an
individual garden. That may be impossible in areas
now congested, but the planners will blunder badly
if they merely replace one-storey slums by one-storey
modern dwellings. The great want of congested areas
is space for light and gardens. To-day a block com-
prising 50 cottages housing 50 families has little room
for light and air except in the backyards, which, in
50 per cent, of such cases, are noisome horrors. Per-
haps an area a quarter of a mile square is occupied by
those 50 families, and will be occupied by them
if new cottages are erected. But, if the 50 families
are accommodated in one big six- or eight-storey
apartment-house, that house will take up a ground
space of, say, only 200 ft. by 200 ft., leaving the rest
of the land available for children’s playgrounds and
gardens—and possibly enabling street-widening in
many instances.
There is a proposal to build four-storey apart-
ment houses. It is playing with the question. Four
flights of stairs constitute an architectural handicap
which belongs to the Dark Ages; an eight-storey
building will justify the installation of lifts.
Putting It Over.
A recent number of an English magazine contained
an “Australian” short story.
The action takes place in an outback Queens-
land “saloon.” A young Englishman, newly arrived
in the country, watches a game of poker in which
the players are four men in rather shabby clothes.
(In the illustration two of them look like inmates of
an Old Folks’ Home and the others like racecourse
urgers.) They appear to be playing for small stakes,
and the stranger is astounded when one of them makes
out a cheque for his losses—a mere £6OOO.
The publican afterwards tells him that the loser
“shore half a million wethers last year.”
The whole incident is hopelessly unreal. Station-
owners don’t look like broken-down drovers; they
aren’t found staking large sums at cards in country
pubs and treating a £6OOO gambling loss as a trifle;
and if anyone can find a man in Queensland who
shears half a million wethers in a season he will be
discovering something that the statisticians have
missed.
Describing the horses of the four, the writer says:
Four horses swished tails lazily under the low, hot
roofing of the rough stalls. A chestnut, wild in the
eye, and wicked if ever it had the energy. Two bays,
old as Methuselah and half as fast. And a roan. Ten
pound notes would have bought the lot of them—and
that goes for the furniture.
This paragraph alone is sufficient to reveal the author’s
ignorance of his subject. No station-owner rides a
broken-down hack. Even though the riders may
have appeared poor it’s a certainty their horses would
have been fine beasts, with well-groomed coats, how-
ever shabby those of their owners were. And that’s
assuming they ride horses at all in these days, when
a car is a necessity on every station.
It may be argued that inaccuracies are discernible
in most magazine fiction, and that to take exception
to one yarn is merely to display small-townishness.
That may be so in many cases. The point that
singles this story out from its fellows is that it was
written by R. W. Thompson, who, after a short
stay in this country a few years ago, published “Down
Under,” describing his experiences here and his
impressions of Australia and its people. The book
was described as an “Odyssey,” and gained for Mr,
Thompson something of a reputation as an authority
on this part of the world.
-
“Sauce for the Goose.”
The Labor Disputes Bill which went from the U.S.
Senate to the Representatives last month, and has
now received the President’s signature, reads like a
gift from heaven to trouble-makers. Its main pro-
visions are:
(1) Employers may not refuse to bargain collectively
with the chosen nominees of their employees.
(2) Employers may not discriminate regarding the
engagement or tenure of employment of their
employees.
(3) Employers may not prevent their employees
from organising collectively to secure or retain suitable
wages or working conditions.
An obligation to bargain implies a right to refuse
unacceptable terms. So employees who make collec-
tive demands through nominees may find themselves
collectively sacked. The clause forbidding discrimina-
tion as regards hiring or putting off labor is on the
lines of our preference-to-unionists legislation. It
appears to cut both ways; the attempt at collective
bargaining having failed, the employer should be
entitled in logic and equity to turn to unorganised
workers—or, as Australian unionists would say, to
scabs. The third provision is our old friend the right
to picket. It is of doubtful legality everywhere, being
a form of intimidation. Lord Justice Buckley (now
Lord Wrenbury) laid it down that picketing was “a
flat denial of freedom.”
It means the substitution of a reign of terror for a
reign of reason. It is absolutely alien to democracy.
Ethically there is nothing to be said for the basher
gang, which is what every picket develops into if it
lives long enough, but American employers are not
likely to worry about that. If their employees strike,
they will lock out or engage blacklegs; if ex-
employees picket, employers will organise counter-
pickets. And they will have a moral justification
which didn’t exist before the passing of this crazy law.
-♦
Cornering Gold.
According to Lord Luke of Pavenham, a director
of Australian and other financial institutions,
“Britain’s aim is the restoration of the international
monetary standard.”
But before the pound can be stabilised certain con-
ditions are necessary, including higher commodity prices
and lower international trade barriers, and the avoidance
of fluctuations in the purchasing power of gold.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer said it all
last May, with “final settlement of war debts” as a
fourth condition precedent. Was any of it worth
saying as a matter of practical politics?
One of the objects of Mr. Roosevelt’.s New Deal
was to raise commodity prices by producing “fluc-
tuations in the purchasing power of gold”—by
buying gold high to get the dollar low. He depre-
ciated the dollar to such purpose that many Ameri-
can producers began to get five dollars overseas
for what had previously brought four dollars. The
Silver Purchase Act, besides being a boon to the
silver-producing States, raised the price of silver in
China, India and Mexico, and they had to stop
exporting to the U.S.A.
Of course, currency depreciation caused rises
in the U.S.A. cost of living, and the unemployment
figures didn’t improve as N.I.R.A. leaders had said
they would. They came down from about 13,000,000
to 10,000,000 in 1933. They were back at over
11.000. last month.
At June 30, 1934, America had nearly
8.000. dollars’ worth of gold coin and bul-
lion, and over 800,000,000 dollars’ worth of silver.
Twice before there had been huge accumulations
of gold and silver; when Alexander the Great
robbed Persia, and when the Spaniards robbed
Mexico and Peru. In these cases the money was
immediately distributed, and disastrous falls in the
value of precious metals followed. The hoarding
nations of to-day, particularly America and France,
don’t mean to let that happen to their gold. Rather
than see it depreciate, they are paying vast yearly
premiums in forfeited interest.
The possession of gold would confer great power
should another world war come. Gold, the one com-
modity that can be exchanged for goods and services
the world over, might decide the issue. But the chief
reason why its owners are not going to abandon their
monopoly till they have to is its power as a fiscal
agent. Nowadays, when a country wants to acquire
the export or tourist trade of a rival it depreciates its
currency. Party politicians find elastic currencies
useful too ; if the Veterans’ Bonus Bill had passed
America would have acquired 2,200,000,000 dollars
of new currency almost in a night. It is hideously
dangerous to play such tricks when there is no gold in
the background ; it might be thought safe when there
are large stores of it.
To expect America to welcome an international
monetary standard now is equivalent to expecting
Germany to disarm.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Jackaburra”: Before J. Pluvius cut
loose in Queensland Brisbane clergymen
organised prayers for rain. Many people
were roped in who confessed they hadn't
been to church for years. The modern
six-year-old next door was told he would
have to pull his weight in the drought-
breaking. “What day do they have it?”
“Sunday, of course” he was fold. “Aw,”
he protested, “they would pick on a
holiday.”
“Erua”: Let the diviners take heart
once more. When Tarawera erupted,
one of the edifices that went up for
down) in the general upheaval was the
little Maori church at Wairoa. Believing
that the church bell might be
recovered, Dr. Bennett, the
Maori Bishop of Aotearoa,
engaged two diviners to
locate it. Stout twigs in the
hands of the two men moved
so violently over a patch of
ground near where the
church had stood that the
diviners declared some large
metal object was buried
there. They were right;
after brisk work with pick
and spade the bell, in
perfect preservation, was
brought to light. It was just
about to have a jubilee
underground, but will now
become an item of historical
interest in a Maori church.
“Maitland”: I notice there is a move-
ment, or a suggestion of one, to popu-
larise frog-eating in this country. Not
so long ago the legs were obtainable
tinned in at least one Sydney shop, but
the proprietor, who stocked Roquefort,
Brie and other delectable French cheeses,
told me sadly that neither the frogs nor
the tinned snails d la Bordelaise were
ever rushed. My one experience of them
was in Cape Town. Quartered at Mait-
land cavalry camp, 1 noticed Malays
collecting frogs in the swampy Saltwater
River, and learned that there was a ready
sale for them at some of the leading
hotels and restaurants, so I tried the plat
on my next visit to one of the former.
It proved tasteless and uninteresting and
mighty small value for the money—two
legs for ss.
* * * *
“Woodser”; Collingwood (Vic.) has
acquired a travelling bootlegger who
drives a truckful of liquor round the
suburb about midnight, meeting the re-
quirements of parties which have under-
estimated their powers of consumption.
He specialises in a “Collingwood cock-
tail,” composed of equal parts of pinky,
water and metho. The venture was dis-
cussed at a recent meeting of the coun-
cil, and most probably there will be more
Government interference in private in-
dustry.
“Purser”; When the news of the mis-
hap to the Oonah-Maheno long-distance
sea-tow was received, the dailies dug out
the pictures they had published when
the vessels left Sydney and reprinted
them. One Melbourne paper, however,
apparently thought that some explana-
tion was due to its readers for the fact
that no towrope was visible, so it supple-
mented the picture with the information
that “when the photo, was taken the
Maheno had more way on than the
Donah and the towline was slack.” No
sailor would require to be told that the
towrope was slack (/.<?., invisible), simply
because a deep-sea towrope always floats
along the surface of the water. In deep-
sea towing the towrope is anything up
to 1000 ft. of hemp, with a short length
of wire at either end. It drops over the
stern of the lug, floats along the surface
to within a few feet of the tow, and
then rises up over her bow. A towrope
of such length weighs many tons, and
is only supported at its two extremities.
* * * *
“Incorrig.”: Of all the old-time gaol
punishments that of oakum-picking was
the most unfair. You were handed
a piece of ancient hemp rope weighing
a pound, so toughened with successive
coats of tar while it had been part of a
ship’s rigging that it resembled a piece of
hardwood, and you were expected to
hand it back the same day in form re-
sembling carded wool. The novice found
it an awful task, and very soon wore his
nails to the quick; but the old hand,
especially if he had been a sailor, made
light of the job. He put the stuff on the
floor and rolled it about for half an
hour with his foot. Then he beat one
end on the floor for another half-hour.
Next he unlayed the yarns from the now-
“Another letter from the boy friend. He MUST be fond of you! "
“Fond of me! Why, he writes every day, whether he wants money
or not .”
softened rope, knotted a few around
b j s knee> ant j p assec i the rest of the yarns
back anc j f or th under it, one at a time,
teased them into fluff that no petty
gaol tyrant could fault.
£r ° m Austral,to London were handled
at SIX mtermediate stations, n
times of under an hour were cons.de ed
excellent. A few weeks ago, e
° £ Wates opened the netvKing
a } ,! le London G.P.0.,
P-M.G marked the occasion by handing
in a te j e g ram at ? ne ei /d of the hall foi
a world transmission ; the Prince received
the message exactly 55 seconds later, it
was handled exclusively on the lines of
the Eastern Telegraph’s system ; after
leaving London it passed through Mont-
real, Vancouver and Suva to Sydney,
thence traversing the landline as far
as Cottesloe before jumping on to the
Cocos, Singapore, Suez and London sec-
tion. During its journey it was auto-
matically regenerated at each station ; it
would have gone round the world al-
most instantaneously except for the dif-
ferent speeds used on landlines and
cables.
* $ *
“D.”: The latest development of the
chain-letter idiocy is significant. During
the war, and for a year or two after-
wards, chain-letter cranks embarrassed
the world’s postal systems by circulating
urgent requests, often to strangers, for
10 letters to be sent to the possessors
of any 10 names. The only divvy pro-
mised was luck, but those who broke the
chain were warped that misfortune would
dog them for the rest of their lives. Since
the depresh people have exchanged mys-
ticism for materialism, so a cash bonus
is promised under the 1935 scheme.
Specifically £512 per participant. Mathe-
maticians have worked out that for all
the participants arising from an original
list of 10 names to get their dividends
a sum of over £5,000,000,000 (roughly
the total amount spent by Britain on the
war at November, 1918) would have to
be put in circulation.
* * =i= *
“Oudtshoorn”: After years in the
wilderness of discarded fashions, ostrich-
feathers are coming back. No monopoly
ever came such a crash as did the South
African feather industry when the de-
mand for its goods suddenly ceased.
Port Elizabeth lived largely on feathers,
and when the famous market had to be
closed whole districts had to start out
in a new line. Thousands of valuable
ostriches were destroyed or turned loose,
the farms being devoted to woolgrowing.
If the world suddenly decided it didn’t
want superfine merino wool, Australians
would get an idea of what the Afrikander
ostrich-farmers went through. The
trouble will be replacing the super-birds
which produced the super-feathers, for
the Union has now nowhere to go for
new stocks of prime quality. Building up
will be a slow job, but it may serve to
keep prices good if the fashion holds.
# * * &
“Centurion”: With the greatest respect
for “Double Disc” (B. 10/7/’35), I would
like to know the range at which that
Malay, armed with a century-old Brown
Bess, was such a deadly shot. Bess, good
servant as she was to her masters, had
an effective range, when new, of about
50 yards, which explains why the British
infantry of Peninsula days were always
told to hold their fire until they could
see the whites of the enemy’s eyes. With
a kerosene-tin at the end of a cricket
pitch, I can imagine that “D.D.’s” Malay
would score a hit with his old bundook
every shot, but there are lots of people
who could do the same thing with half
a brick.
* ❖ * *
“Ex-Englishman”: It makes one feel
old to find the absence of bathrooms
noted as worth a par. (B. 12/6/’35). At
Cambridge in my time they were un-
known ; the round flat “tub” with three
inches of cold water did duty. Till I
was grown up, I never lived in a house
that had a bathroom. At school —a good
middle-class affair of over 100 boys—
one’s turn at a bathroom came round
about every 18 days. In between, clean
stockings were served out twice a week,
and put on, whether in the football
season or in the height of summer, over
unwashed feet. It all seems incredible
now. But, as for the Spartan touch,
only 20 years back, and in Australia, I
remember a prominent citizen of 80 who
was amazed and sarcastic when younger
relatives on a visit demanded hot water
in the bath.
$ * *
“Jeames”; If the Federal Government
appointed me a Royal Commission with
power to recommend ways and means
of making Australia less unpopular in
England my first concern would be to
introduce reforms governing presenta-
tions at Court. These functions are re-
sponsible for an appalling amount of de-
rision—not unmixed with jealous fury—
at the expense of our native land. And
not wholly without justification. To be
presented at Court is a rare distinction in
England. There are stockbrokers in the
£lO,OOO-a-year class and English country
folk that have owned the land they live
on for centuries who don’t dream of going
to Court. The offspring of any Aus-
tralian solicitors, shopkeepers, farmers,
etc., who visit London and have a pull
at Australia House are presented as a
matter of course. Sixty Aussie matrons
and maids brought it off in one batch
on the 25th of last month. Middle-class
Britons who don't aspire to penetrate the
fastnesses of Buckingham Palace them-
selves are pleased to read that the
womenfolk of prominent naval and mili-
tary officers, country squires, Judges and
other notables have been honored, but
(hey can’t see why some Australians
should be. Believe it or not, the present
position inspires more embittered sneers
in the residential parts of hundreds of
cities up and down England, Scotland
and Wales than the bodyline row did
at its top.
* * * *
“Exdig”: On special occasions I meet
a Digger who attends all such functions
regularly in a search for his lost war- #
time experiences. His official record is
that he was blown
up by a shell in
France, and there-
after sustained com-
plete loss of mem-
ory ; later he was
declared cured, and
nowadays he seems
normal enough in
most things. But in
the memory restored
to him the years ol
his war service still
remain an absolute
blank. He skips
from the night he
marched out of
camp, with merely a
vague impression of
a transport, to the
time when he came
to his senses in hos-
pital. He attends
Digger reunions in
the hope of meet-
ing someone he
knew on the other
side who may help him to fill up
the blanks. So far nobody has recog-
nised him as a war-time cobber, and he
hasn’t recognised anybody.
* * * *
“Tripehound”: The explanation as to
why such a small percentage of new
recruits .under the German conscription
scheme was passed out as unfit (B.
3/7/’35) is very simple. In Germany
they are conscripting youth, not only
to bear arms, but also to bear the pick
and shovel, or to wield a forest axe, or
even to serve in the humble capacity of
only standing and waiting—in the mess.
There is a place for every kind of young-
ster under such a scheme. In the British
Army, they want only A 1 soldiers. The
number of rejections from Australia’s
voluntary enlistment scheme is as high
as in Britain.
£ % £ ♦
“Freelance”: “Spare a copper for an
unemployed editor,” says “S.G." (B.
26/6/’35). He can’t have been freelanc-
ing long, or he would have kept his
appeal to himself. Hasn’t he ever had
his world-shaking work returned with
stereotyped phrases? Doesn’t he know
what it is to be rejected and cast into
despair? Spare a penny for an editor?
Not on your life! If the cows do go on
the dole all I ask is that they line up
somewhere in stocks, with kickable parts
well forward, and that they’re kept there
till I can collect enough to buy a pair of
studded blucher boots.
HEADACHE POWDERS.
“A Senator who lost his seat at thc_ last
election has found a new outlet for his activities
in the sale of headache powders.”
In English hedges, long ago,
My elders often bade me note,
To soothe the stinging-nettle’s pain,
There always grew, beside the bane,
The dock-leaf cool for antidote.
And now, when for your home you make
From where the factious tongues grow louder.
With brains a bit inclined to ache.
There'll always be a chance to take
A headache powder!
Most politicians pump their stuff
Across the platform, fast and free:
They think we never have enough
Of their interminable guff,
Even if only after tea.
But here’s an orator who’s spoke
From Wantabadgery to Chowder.
The first who thought to give a bloke
Who had to listen to his croak
A headache powder!
He strides no more the halls of State;
His eloquence no longer rings
Around the joints where congregate
For fierce discussion and debate
Our nation’s undisputed kings.
But still, the next time Rhetoric’s blare
Smites on my ear, with none to shroud her,
I have a hope that he’ll be there
Towards my tortured brain to bear
A headache powder!
N.S.W.
T. THE .R.


“ Who's that in aid of, hey?”
Just a snack for the Fairy Queen, sir.”
“Vicar”: A Digger who had been
badly burned about the body was ad-
mitted to a Westralian hospital recently.
The doctor told him it would be neces-
sary to procure skin for grafting
purposes. “Know where I could buy
any?” asked the patient, a self-reliant
chap. Well, there was a fellow in the next
bed who might give or sell some of his
hide—he would have to remain in hos-
pital for a week or so, anyway. The
burned patient, using doctor and nurses
as intermediaries, arranged Vo buy the re-
quired article, “a couple of quids’ worth” ;
and the graft was duly performed. The
skin-seller was discharged, and went down
town with his two pounds. A couple
of days later he turned up on the hospital
verandah to see the doc. or “the bloke
with the burns.” He had “spent the two
quid on shicker” and was suffering a
recovery. “Where’s that bloke with the
burns?” he inquired. “He can have an-
other quid’s worth if he likes.”
“Red Point”; A sturdy young Aus-
tralian pioneer was the lad Martin who
accompanied Bass and Flinders in the
two Tom Thumbs —up the George’s
River to Bankstown (N.S.W.) in the
first, and down the lllawarra coast and
back in the second. For some inexplic-
able reason the youngster has never been
given his historical due. Even the maps
have failed to keep his name ; the group
of islets lying off Port Kembla are
known nowadays as the Five Islands and
not as Martin’s Isles, as named by Bass
and Flinders —“after our young com-
panion in the boat.” And a Maori-
land school publication, noting Martin’s
share in early-Australian exploration,
mutilates his name into Tom Fincham.
Couldn’t Jack Abbott or some other
chronicler of the early days make as
good a story out of Martin as G. Arnold
Wood made out of the cook of the
Endeavour?
* * * *
“D.”; The closing down of William
Farmer and Co., which for over half a
century was one of Sydney’s big three
in the jewellery trade, is another proof
of how hard it is for luxury shops to
exist near a well-patronised railway
station. The natural adjuncts of
busy city stations are fish, vegetable and
ham-and-beef shops—abhorrent, one and
all, to leisurely buyers. To complete the
social downfall of the western end of
Hunter-street, fruit barrows appeared
there a while back. Though Hardy’s and
other jewellers’ shops still flourish on
the “good” (i.e., south) side of Hunter-
street west, the thoroughfare in which
Henry Parkes and the original Hordern
had shops isn’t likely to be Sydney's
Bond-street for much longer. Farmer
and Co., for example, which has been
taken over by Saunders, Ltd., will rise
again in King-street. The King-street
area in the neighborhood of the Aus-
tralia and other great hotels is destined
to attract much the same trade as the
London sector bounded by Grafton and
Cork streets, the dip in Bond-street and
Piccadilly. Incidentally, I shall be sur-
prised if Macquarie-street, on being re-
modelled, doesn’t become another
Champs Elysees —the chief haunt of
vendors of expensive cars and ’planes.
* * * *
“Vicar”: As to Deeming (B. 26/6/’35),
an impression lingered long at Southern
Cross that he had planted gold in
his hut, situated on Fraser’s mine.
Arriving on a periodical visit to the Cross
12 or 13 years ago, I was told the hut
had been burned to the ground, only a
rock-and-plaster fireplace remaining. The
recent occupier was putting the ashes
through a cradle. I asked him whether
he had got a color yet, but he was un-
communicative. These old drvblowing
pensioners are like that.
£ £ ;|e
“Farleigh”: There is a vague idea that
the life of a bottle —a beer-bottle, any-
how—terminates with something under a
dozen refills, and generally with no more
than half of that. But apparently the
older bottles were made of sterner stuff,
and veteran soldiers are no more
tenacious of life. In an informative
article on the operations of a very live
“dead marine” industry in one of our
Australian capitals nothing intrigued me
more than this scientific item:
As an experiment a bottle that looked
particularly durable was marked; it has
already been returned as an empty over
100 times.
Good luck to it! The heads of the
bottle-oh industry can now line up with
the naturalists who “ring” birds to
establish migrationary theories and the
scientists who throw things off ships
(mostly in bottles, too) to widen
our knowledge of the trend of ocean
currents. But do they make that sort
of bottle nowadays?
"Adel' : S.A. Government has agreed
to double the £lO,OOO offered to Adel-
aide Art Gallery by The Bulletin’s old
friend and constant contributor Alex.
Melrose. This will suffice to more than
double the present Gallery in size, and
to recall from the Museum much china,
tapestry and black-and-white work lat-
terly banished for want of space.
* * £ £
“The House”: Oxford is probably the
most cosmopolitan university the world
has known, ecclesiastical and medical
seats of learning not excepted. A vice-
president of the Oxford Society (1934-351
is F. Aydelotte, an American professor.
Among the overseas officials (Oxford
graduates all) are Aziz Abid Bey, of
Cairo; A. E. Bruppacher, of German
Switzerland ; Professor Gamboa, of the
Philippines, and Professor Martinez del
Rio, of Mexico. There are also
Canadians, Australians, South Americans
and residents of practically every part
of the world from Nyasaland to Alberta,
from the Gold Coast to Copenhagen. It
is possible that all the clerical colleges
of Rome combined can show a bigger
range of students from far lands than the
colleges of the little city by the Isis, but
I doubt if.
“Avon”: There was
a touch of poetry about
the way the staff of the
“Christchurch Times”
(M.L.) put the 84-year-
old journal to bed for
the last time. All hands
assembled in the comp,
room. A copy of the
final issue (a 50-page
affair) was brought up
from the press and
placed in a handsome
cabinet together with a
paper bearing the sig-
natures of all present.
An inner metal recep-
tacle was soldered up,
the casket was closed,
and then the father of
the chapel mounted a
ladder and dropped the
casket down into the
hollow brick wall of
(he comp, room,
whence it can’t be re-
covered while the build-
ing stands. That night
not only the oldest but
th e youngest M.L.
daily died, and just
rouqd the corner across
Cathedral - square the
“Sun’s” staff was hold-
ing a tangi over that
defunct evening paper
it had lived just 21 years.
* * * *
“Cosmos”: Five to ten minutes is to
be knocked off the Sydney-Manly trip
at a cost of £35,000 ; and if Manly regu-
lars, whose season tickets are to be re-
duced 20 p.c., respond, a further
£145,000 will be spent on speeding up
all the P.J. Co.’s vessels, it is the modern
touch, but I would prefer the old-
fashioned methods in vogue on many
Continental lakes and rivers, and they
might pay. Reversible seats instead of
fixed benches. Music. Breakfast on
weekdays between Manly and Sydney
from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. ; tea and supper
between Sydney and Manly from 4 to 7
and 10 to 11.30 p.m. respectively. Mid-
day dinners on Sundays and holidays,
and all steamers to be licensed to supply
local wines with meals. Half the pleasure
of travelling on Rhine steamers, or on
those that ply between Como and the
Swiss end of the great Italian lake, con-
sists in the leisurely stops en route. A
comfortable ferryboat that performed a
similar service on Sydney Harbor would
attract two new classes; sightseers and
those with social or business calls to pay
between centres like the Quay and Eliza-
beth Bay or Watson’s Bay and Vaucluse.
* * * *
“Kibitzer”: One queer result of the
Nazi expulsion of . Jews from Germany
is that Britain has recaptured the world's
fur trade which it started when the
Hudson Bay Co. began selling in London
close on 300 years ago. Long before the
war it had drifted away ; Nijni Novgorod
had become the great European centre
of the trade, and was run close by Leip-
zig. During the war Uncle Sam grabbed
the industry from distracted Europe; now
London has become the headquarters once
again. For some inscrutable reason the
fur trade is in the hands of Jews, and the
addition of the Leipzig contingent to that
already in London settled the question
of the central mart. Another point is
that London furriers are the best in the
world at dyeing and treating furs, even
Germany sending its goods to Thames-
side for treatment. The furs dealt in
run from Australian rabbit to Arctic Sea
otter, and some £8,000,000 worth is
handled every year.
* :|t *
“Mac”: There is no general rule about
the antiquity of Highland tartans (B.
3/7/’35). In the Clan MacPherson (I
belong to it), the hunting tartan just grew
through the ages, and even the closest
student of Highland lore could not trace
it back to its origins. The dress tartan,
which embodies a peculiar grey weave
seldom found in Scots dress, was, how-
ever, designed by the French wife of an
eighteenth-century chieftain who found
the hunting tartan sombre. My theory
is that the tartan is a direct descendant
of the ninth-century tunic and cross-
gartering, displaced in England when
the long French robe was introduced
after the Conquest. A splash of color,
and the typical Saxon dress becomes a
ready-made kilt.
***:!<
“Horgeov”; If "Greenhidc” (B.
26/6/’35) saw “line upon line of barbed
wire” on the day of the Landing at Anzac,
he was the only Australian who did.
C. E. W. Bean, referring to the storming
of Pluggc’s Plateau, writes: “The Turks
hud not erected any obstruction of barbed
wire in front of this trench, or of any
other met with by the Australians that
day.” Aspinall-Oglander, known to those
on Anzac as Lt.-Colonel Aspinall of lan
Hamilton’s staff, who wrote the British
official history of the Gallipoli campaign,
says in his description of the Landing:
“None of the Turks’ positions were wired,
and no wire was seen by the Australians
throughout that day.” The nearest wire
was at Gaba Tepe, more than (wo miles
away.
“Catch her, hoys!”
EMPHATIC DENIAL.
You watch me as a cat regards a bird;
You make it clear you entertain the view
That other girls (though the idea’s absurd)
Occasionally lure me more than you.
II I admire a maid you’re up in arms,
Or else you sulk lor hours. When I remark—
Or even gaze—on Jill’s or Janet’s charms
You pout your lips, and your fair brow grows
dark.
I can’t disguise that such suspicions hurt,
Although I know there’s love in jealousy;
But please believe me, dear, when ] assert
that Ginger Rogers cuts no ice with me!
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.


10 for 9 d
20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
“Cellophane”
which protects
and ensures fac-
tory freshness
always.
“Craven“A” have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result, Craven ‘‘A” give
constant smoking pleasure—without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
CRAVENS
Made specially to prevent sore throats—
>*v t*
> *
i'-
V
V
**
8102
POLITICAL POINTS
From a Sydney “Herald” leader on
Broken Hill Prop.’s jubilee:
The tariff has helped in the building
up and strengthening of the iron and
steel manufactured in our midst.
If gibbering ghosts of “Herald” editors
were seen in Hunter-street at midnight,
that’s the explanation.
Former Canadian Minister Stevens,
who is to lead a breakaway party at the
general election, is out with a plan for
paying off the overseas debt within 25
years by means of goldmining develop-
ment. He has obviously borrowed it
from our Dr, Rivett, and the thing could
be tried with much better prospects in
this country, with its immeasurably
greater known auriferous belts. But our
public men lack imagination.
An admiring chronicler records that
the Commonwealth credit balance is
Lyons’s fourth, and “never before have
there been four successive Federal sur-
pluses.” It is good luck rather than
good management; had J. Bull asked
for his war-debt money, it would have
been a different story. And much as
John may esteem Joe, he didn’t grant
the moratorium out of consideration for
that worthy or any other individual Aus-
tralian.
Hay (N.S.W.) has “carried resolutions
denouncing the Victorian ban on road
transport of passengers and goods to the
Riverina and demanding transfer of
inter-State transport control to the Com-
monwealth.” The protestants were
mostly Hay and Booligal graziers, and
they have fired a shot that will be heard
round the continent.
Says Stevens, “The Governments of
Australia paid into the sinking fund last
year £2,000,000 more than the aggre-
gate deficits of the States.” His Govern-
ment paid a million less (deficit,
£2,800,000; sinking fund, £1,800,000). But
he didn’t say that, nor did he mention
that the sinking-fund money is provided
by the Commonwealth.
J. J. Clasby, elected for the East Sydney
Federal division in 1931, died before he
could take his seat. Lionel Courtenay
contested the by-election in the same
interest (U.A.P.) and was beaten, but
was consoled, as it seemed, by getting in
for the Senate next time. Now he, too,
has died before he could take his seat.
In one way and another Courtenay had
served the people, chiefly as alderman,
for 34 years without pay, and it is very
tough luck.
It was poor Courtenay’s dying wish
that Tom Mutch, sometime Minister of
Education, would succeed him —they
were firm friends for many years.
Mutch nearly won Werriwa for the
U.A.P. at the election which saw his
pal head the Senate poll, and each whole-
heartedly helped the other.
If Dunstan has his way, the Metro-
politan Board will be forbidden by law
to fatten cattle on its sewage farm at
Werribee (Vic.). This is a stupid sequel
to the silly beef-measles scare. At
latest reports about a million and a
quarter had been spent on the farm,
which has shown good profits and is
one of the few successful examples of
public ownership. If Dunstan’s bill is
passed, a million may go west, and there
will be a permanent addition to the rates.
The Post Office proudly reports a
1934-35 surplus of £1,747,000, but its
complacency has been disturbed by de-
mands for reduction of the outrageous
charge it has been permitted to exact
since August, 1930 —2d. a letter. Maori-
land, Canada and South Africa have
penny postage. Anything over a penny
is a tax.
Sydney is suffering from a plague of
rats, and municipal councils are too hard-
up to copq with it. Some of the unem-
ployed-relief money might well be made
available to them. Rat-catching is not
a nice job, but it helps to save life and
property. Patching roads and chipping
footpaths and shifting sand don’t.
The most tangible thing which the
League has achieved is its new Geneva
home, which shocked even Mr. Lyons
by its extravagance. It cost £1,750,000,
equal to 30 years of Australian contri-
butions. It will be opened in time to
celebrate Mussolini’s defiance of every-
thing the League stands for.
Bruce starts the conversion season on
Oct. 1 with £12,420,000 of N. S. Wales
3 per cents. After that, £13,500,000 of
4y per cents. —N. S. Wales £11,000,000,
W.A. the rest —will be dealt with, plus
£22,700,000—N.5.W. £21,650,000, Vic.
£1,050,000 —at 5 p.c. There may be a
slight loss on the 3 per cents.; there
should be a substantial saving on the
other operations.
“Royalist stocks are rising again. It is believed that several European countries would
like to recall their kings.”
“Vim goot turn deserves anodder. Any of you shentlemans vant a nishe
Chancellor of de Exchequer?”
The secesh delegation is drifting back
from London. There is an impression
in Perth that MacCallum Smith, M.L.A.,
will have to fight like blazes for the
North Perth Assembly seat (his since
1914), on which a fellow-member of the
Dominion League has had his eye ever
since McSmith over-hastily announced
that he was prepared for eating his heart
out in exile till Westralia was “free.”
Even a paper surplus can bring its
worries. The Butler Government’s pride
in its credit balance of £36,000 has been
chilled by demands for reduction of taxes
from all parts of S.A. Some concession
is long overdue, the S.A. State income
tax being the stiffest of its kind ; and the
Butlers are being tartly reminded that
the Westralian Collier long ago applied
his special grant from the Common-
wealth to tax-relief.
It is evident that Minister Paterson is
not so swift of apprehension as Minister
Parkhill, who inspected the N.T. at 200
miles per day, or Minister Abbott, who
was able to design a policy and instruct
the House after merely flying over his
kingdom. Mr. Paterson left Mt. Isa on
July 16 for Wyndham and Darwin. He
will spend four days inspecting the Pine
Creek mines, and a day each at New-
castle Waters and Wyndham. So the
really vital pastoral country will receive
attention at the rate of 119 miles per day
along main tracks.
It may be characteristic that Lang’s
newspaper should rock it into the Syd-
ney Sports Ground trust, whose chair-
man was a Labor member, for announc-
ing that it will not hire coons for the
boxing contests it has been licensed to
stage. In the past, colored pugs were
imported chiefly because they were
cheap; and their relations with white
women were frequently nasty. In one
notorious case the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment had to intervene with a depor-
tation order.
Obviously Mussolini burns to avenge
the Italian defeat at Adowa 39 years ago,
but his assertion that it was a case of
“4000 Italians,” neglected by their Gov-
ernment, “fighting madly against 100,000
Ethiopians” flatly contradicts history.
The Encyclopcedia Britannica records
that Baratieri had “over 13,000 soldiers,”
and lost “over 4500 white and 2000
native troops killed and wounded and
over 2500 prisoners, of whom 1600 were
white.” It is to be hoped that the Duce
is better informed about the present
condition of the Abyssinian army.
Hobart Hospital is in the limelight
again. Almost from birth the “Labor”
Government began interfering in its
affairs —changed the composition of the
board, named Father O’Donnell chair-
man and insisted that the surgeon super-
intendent, though relieved of part of his
duties, should receive £750 p.a. more
than the old board wanted to pay him.
Among other contentious proceedings, its
new board sacked the matron. The
A.T.N.A. is championing the lady, and
a protest meeting attended by 3000
Hobart people demanded a judicial in-
quiry. The worst of it is that sectarian-
ism has been dragged into the rumpus—
unwarrantably, the Mayor protests.
Though the C.P.N. is not contesting
the Brisbane city by-elections—it says it
doesn’t believe in mixing politics with
local government —Labor is getting it
hot and strong from Citizens’ Municipal
party candidates. Among other things,
they accuse it of having increased the
city debt from £3,153,000 to £22,645,000.
Still this sort of extravagance doesn’t
worry many Brisbane people ; they say
it “increases purchasing power” and is
“good for trade.”
Flats may be necessities in thickly-
populated areas, but why country people
should desire to live in congested condi-
tions is a mystery. Wangaratta (Vic.) has
amended its local regulations to permit
of the erection of flats among the gum-
trees. Now Tennant’s Creek and Laver-
ton will perhaps follow suit.
As president of the Associated Cham-
bers of Manufactures, C. V. Potts has
had many conferences with F. R. Lee,
the secretary; and it’s quite on the cards
that they will be renewed at Canberra.
Potts is likely to be nominated for the
N.S.W. vacancy in the Senate. Lee may
be a candidate for Fawkner.
A few pithy words from Washington,
closing with the reminder that Musso-
lini’s signature is on the Kellogg Pact
renouncing war as an instrument of
national policy, would prevent bloodshed
in Abyssinia. Italy couldn’t make war
on the U.S.A., nor could it stand a
trade and financial boycott on the part
of that country —even the stoppage of
emigrants’ remittances would be a seri-
ous blow. Yet the Emperor of Abys-
sinia was snubbed when he implored the
Washington Government to act in the
spirit of its Kellogg Pact; the President
did not even trouble to read the full text
of the appeal. Woodrow Wilson would
not- have returned such an answer.
It has been calculated that orchard
pests cost Victoria £301,100 a year. A
research farm was started at Tatura
years ago, but was leased before it had
got fairly going. Orchardists are now
asking that the lease should not be re-
newed and that the farm should resume
its original functions. Hogan has
promised to see what he can do.
Britain has adopted a minimum charge
of 6d. for telegrams sent anywhere within
the U.K. Australia’s rates are 9d. local.
Is. within each State and Is. 4d. inter-
state. Mr. Brown comes from the U.K.,
but the U.K.’s good example will not be
imitated by Mr. Brown.
England and America are not likely
to plunge the world into war over the
occupation of Baker and Howland
islands by a U.S. ’plane co. Yet if the
islets happened to be in the Mediter-
ranean the nations in those parts would
be at one another’s throats inside of a
month. Whether they were of any use
or mere desolate, uninhabitable rocks
would signify little. As it is, honor will
probably be satisfied by England telling
U.S.A. that island-pinching is one of the
things that are “not done, old chap,”
while Roosevelt will retort with a char-
acteristic “You’re telling me.”
A Yorkshirernan named Isaac has had
to go to endless trouble to convince
Hitler that he is not a Jew and therefore
not liable to deportation. What would
Hitler have done had Captain Mclsaacs,
master of the Peregrine when that boat
held the Melbourne-Sydney record,
turned up in Berlin? Mclsaacs would
have been a poser for all the Aryan
experts among ethnological professors.


h
You Must to the dewtist Go
a TOOTH out wap vv
* I *
My UMDERSTOTTV IK» CAPITALIST TlB , OPFSK'
" ,«
Whew they throwa da &omB ; wmapfor you pliWcva v
Its A WOHIDEte 6>U_UV Didst USE a Douaus,
/7 Op course you cam mbs/er be l>k.e me,
But Bs a.s L.»K.e mb as yoore able id be,'
WoMS M\CHT P\WC> THE
WHEW As'WKWMSQ QUBSTIOH!
MSE 6.SK.ED A.BOUT TH£ MEAT ,
/O
“DOUBLE, DOUBLE, TOIL AND TROUBLE.”
“All the dictators have doubles.” — Current newspaper.


mam
io>r
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
p-tr-ZQuij*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
& '«£
Have You Considered
the Stability and
Earning Power of
Your Investments ?
The July issue, now on sale, will help you answer this important
question.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd.
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd.
C’wealth Wool & Produce Co., Ltd
Gordon & Gotch (A’sia), Ltd.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth, W.A.)
Union Trustee Co. of Aust., Ltd.
Haymarket Land & Building Co., Ltd.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.
Prestige, Ltd.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
WIDEAWAKE.
Has rolled edge of real Cowboy style
and a high crown. Leaf, 4J inches.
In Fawn colour only. . Q
PRICE ***/ O
PIKES
Of Queen Street
Brisbane
PERSONAL ITEMS
The latest tip for Governor-General is
the Marquis of Linlithgow. He was
born in Melbourne when his father (then
Lord Hopetoun) was Victorian Gov-
ernor, a decade before he became our
first G.-G. The marquis is 48, a keen
land man, and was chairman of the
Indian Agricultural Royal Commission
for two years. He sits on a dozen boards,
including that of the Bank of Scotland.
A kinsman, Louis Hope, helped to
pioneer the Queensland sugar industry.
K. H. Hemkes, Commodore of the
K.P.M. fleet, resides in Melbourne when
he is not afloat. He joined the K.P.M.
in 1910 as fourth officer of the Van
Waerwyck, which at that time was on
A Popular Dutch Skipper.
the Java-Australia line. Since then he
has served in many places, including
China, where pirates are liable to be
among the deck passengers.
“Exdig”: “Willie” Martin, a septua-
genarian who died last week, was one
of the reasons why Diggers loved Devon.
He made a fortune from the woolbuying
firm of W. P. Martin and Co., and
bought a place in South Devon before
the war. Here he kept open house to
members of the A.I.F. on leave, and he
induced several of his Australian neigh-
bors to do the same. He had been a
member of the Union Club for nearly
40 years, and two sons, John and Philip,
settled in Sydney.
“Binnacle”: Sir George Patey, men-
tioned by “R.A.N.” (B. 10/7/’35), in
addition to being the first admiral to
command the Australian Fleet was the
first British seaman to be knighted on
his own quarter-deck since the days of
Drake. It happened when King George
came down to inspect the Australia at
Portsmouth before her departure from
England in 1912. After the tour of in-
spection His Majesty seized somebody’s
sword and knighted the pleasant little
admiral by smiting him on the shoulder
in true Elizabethan style.
Alfred Dreyfus, who has died at 73,
was a benefactor to his race ; to this day
a vociferous anti-Semite is suspected of
being a swindler in France. Jews were
damned with Hitlerite intensity and
frankness in aristocratic Parisian circles
40 years ago. Also among army staff
officers. Dreyfus, as a clever, wealthy and
ambitious young artillery captain,
aroused hostile attention. The forgeries,
designed to show that he was selling mili-
tary secrets to Germany, did their work,
but thousands thought there was some-
thing fishy about them from the first. If
the French hadn’t been anxious to save
their army’s face Dreyfus might soon
have been exonerated. His honor was
restored on the instalment plan, so to
speak. At Rennes, where his second
court-martial took place in 1899, he was
reconvicted “with extenuating circum-
stances.” A few days later he was “par-
doned.” Six years passed, one of the
forgers who had conspired to ruin him
was bowled out and committed suicide,
and Dreyfus was restored to the army
with the rank of major. He did distin-
guished staff work during the World
War, and retired as a full colonel.
“D.”: The “S. M. Herald’s” obituary
of Dreyfus contained some odd slips:
The next person to take up the cudgels
on behalf of Dreyfus [after Esterhazy’s
\ acquittal] was Emile Z01a....He was tried
f for libel, convicted and fled the country.
In 1898 the case was again taken up by
M. Georges Clemenceau, then editor of
(he newspaper “Aurora.”
Clemenceau didn’t become editor of
“L’Aurore” till 1903. Ernest Vaughan
was running the paper and Zola was still
to become an exile in 1898. Zola wrote
J’Accuse! (which definitely satisfied the
world of Dreyfus’s innocence) in his
house in the Rue de Bruxelles, and tried
it first on “Le Figaro.” The editor, who
had rejected previous articles about
Dreyfus, was afraid, and “L’Aurore” got
the scoop of a century. The indictment,
which was addressed to President Felix
Faure, occupied the whole six columns
of “L’Aurore’s” first page. Zola’s flight
to England followed. I was a school-
boy when he arrived in London, and can
still remember the admiration that was
felt for the pluck of this small, fat, be-
spectacled and entirely Gallic Quixote.
The new Field-Marshal, General Sir
Archibald Montgomery - Massingberd,
didn’t see a fraction of the regimental
service of his predecessor, Lord Byng,
but he did useful staff work in Flanders
and he got on well with both French
and Americans. He has been Chief of
the General Staff since 1933. He joined
the army from Woolwich in the mid-
’nineties, went to the S’African War as
a fairly senior subaltern and before be-
coming G.O.C. the Southern Command
in 1928 was Colonel Commandant R.A.
“Jeames”: The new Lord Ampthill, in
his efforts to divorce the munition-worker
whom he had married as a young naval
officer in T 7, established the important
legal principle that a child born to a
couple living in wedlock cannot be
illegitimatised. The various suits, which
were fought with extraordinary bitter-
ness, cost the Ampthill family—by no
means well off to begin with —nearly
£50,000. Marshall Hall, John Simon,
Douglas Hogg (now Lord Hailsham) and
Stuart Bevan, then a rising junior,
appeared, and Lord Birkenhead de-
livered a classic judgment. The founder
of the Ampthill family was Lord Odo
Russell, a brother of the ninth Duke of
Bedford.
Death took Roy Evans, of Sydney
“D.T.,” suddenly at 44. He was a mem-
ber of the A.E.F. in New Guinea, and re-
turned with a bad legacy of malaria. He
was chairman of directors of Sydney
Press Club, and tremendously popular
there and amongst journalists generally.
Bishop Kirkby, who died of heart
failure on Friday, literally worked him-
self to death. He became Coadjutor-
Bishop of Sydney in 1932 when Arch-
bishop Wright was virtually incapable
of further work. After the Archbishop’s
death Bishop Kirkby became Diocesan
Administrator, and carried much of the
burden of the disputes over the cathedral
site and the choice of a new archbishop.
At the same time he preached, visited
and confirmed diligently. The machine
gave out at 56. Bishop Kirkby was a
product of Moore Theological College,
and was ordained in Bendigo ; he sub-
sequently had a parish in the Bendigo
diocese and was acting-principal of
Moore College. As organising secretary
of the Bush Church Aid Society he used
a ’plane, and became known widely as
“the flying missionary.” If he hadn't
been an Australian he might have become
Archbishop of Sydney ; as it was he got
150 votes from Synod.
A friend’s biography;
Lionel Courtenay, elected N.S.W. Senator
last September, died on July 11, at 56, before
being sworn in. Commencing work for John
Tylor and Sons when 14 as a messenger-boy,
at ss. per week, he became managing director,
and, on the formation of the Australian com-
pany, was presented by the English directors
with the goodwill, capitalised at £BOOO. He
became a Mascot alderman at 23, and stayed
there 10 years; was in Mosman council for six
years and Sydney City Council for six years.
He was 13 years on the Local Government
executive, and president for two. Appointed to
the Leg. Council in 1932, he was re-elected on
its reconstruction for a nine-year term, resigned
to contest the Senate, and was elected second
on the poll. Courtenay was the eldest son of
Lionel Lewis Courtenay, a pioneer of the
Palmer, Gympie, Bendigo, Gulgong, Temora,
Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie goldfields. A third
Lionel, in business in Sydney, carries on the
name.
Vic. Judge Foster, who got into the
news recently by declaring hell ultra vires,
is from Beechworth, and he first attracted
notice as a tennis-player. Since his eleva-
tion to the Bench, he has taken no
JUDGE FOSTER, of Victoria.
further part in competitive events, but
still lashes out forehand and backhand
in the interests of peace.
“H.M.”: Countless Diggers who went
through the First T.B. at Lark Hill and
Sutton Veny will mourn W. B. Phipps.
Phipps, originally a marine, joined the
A.I.F. as a private, and was C.S.M. with
the 3rd Battalion at the Landing. He
rose later to captain’s rank. He knew
all there was to be known about soldier-
ing—amongst other things he had been
drill instructor with the cadets who went
to England for the King’s coronation —
but he was nothing like the “regular”
drill sergeant of tradition. He proved a
father to many a soldier in trouble. He
was 67 when he died.
Rev. Father John Meagher, S.J.,
rector of St. Ignatius College, Riverview,
Sydney, is a Temora (N.S.W.) native. He
was educated at Melbourne Xavier, and
went abroad to study under the French
Riverview’s New Principal.
Jesuits and at Louvain. After being
ordained in 1927 by the Archbishop of
Dublin he became Professor of Theology
at Corpus Christi College, Werribee (Vic.),
and later Professor of Philosophy at
Loyola College, Watsonia, near Heidel-
berg (Vic.). He was appointed to River-
view early this month,
Charles George Wheeler, who has
died in Auckland (M.L.), was a trooper
in the Jameson Raid. He stood his trial
for treason at Pretoria, but got off.
Wheeler fought in the Boer War and in
the World War; he finished as an Auck-
land traffic cop.
N. S. Wales is acquiring a learned
farmer in W. A. Merrylees, who has re-
signed the senior lecturership in philo-
sophy at Melbourne University to join
his brother on the land. He was Vic-
toria’s Rhodes scholar in 1921, and got
his D.L. last year for a paper on the
philosophy of Descartes.
Had a seventieth birthday in Adelaide,
Judge Piper, the authority on commer-
cial law. He has been on the Bench
since 1927, and was at various times
president of the Law Society, Literary
Societies’ Union and Geographical
Society, and Grand Master of Free-
masons,
One of the last survivors of the
Gothenberg wreck (Barrier Reef, Feb.
24, 1875) was J. J. Falk, who has passed
over in Adelaide at 85. He was a
member of the crew, and later became
lighthouse-keeper at Bowen (Q.).
J. B. Sharpe, who won the Oxley (Q.)
Federal seat for Labor in 1913 and 1914,
but was defeated by J. G. Bayley in the
1917 landslide, died last week in Sydney
at 67. For a time during the war, after
John Wren secured control of the Bris-
bane “Daily Mail,” Sharpe was its
managing director.
Edmund Fox, of W.A., is 103. He can
remember 12 wars and four British
sovereigns. He was a keen walker till
he lost the use of his legs in a motor
accident at 95. He has, however, his
own teeth, good eyesight and a clear,
unwrinkled skin.


V"
ALFRED J, BRITON, Australasia’s Leading Physical Director
80,000 People Have
Read This Amazing
-BOOK!
OAST the 80,000 mark, and still going strong! If
* you would read something that would stir your
very vitals—if you would learn something the like
of which you had never even dreamed! Then send
for this book and read how YOU can charge your
body full of vitality, add live inches to your chest,
acquire the power of battering rams in your arms,
and develop a neck and legs like pillars! IPs all
here in this very book explained in detail, and you’ll
agree, like thousands of others have, that it’s the
most amazing book you have ever seen.
WATCH THEM TURK AROUHD
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow who carries
himself with head up. Notice how the broad-shouldered
man always gets their eye. They want a dependable he-man
when they make their choice-one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember, I do not only
promise it, I GUARANTEE IT. Now, don’t put it off a minute.
Get going to new happiness and real manhood, to-day!
YOURS FREE IF YOU SEHD HOW!
'J'HIS month, to every reader of this paper who is Interested
—here’s my offer: To prove to you what I have said about
the “Secrets of Muscular Strength and How to Acquire It,” I
am going to give ONE FREE ISSUE providing you make
application at oncel This book has been the cause of
changing the lives of thousands of men. I have received
countless thousands of wonderful letters and photo-
graphs of actual transformation of men who never
thought they could acquire strength and development*
Make me PROVE these assertions to you by sending
for your copy this minute, not to-morrow, you
may be too late, but to-day—NOW! Are you ready?
Let’s go I
STILL MORE GENUINE PROOF FROM ALL
OVER THE WORLD I
is
€
5
m
: K5
9m.
%
mm
'
Xv.v.
l&c*
"I am fitter than ever be-
fore—your course Is dolnw
for me more than I ever
imagined.”
R. A. NORRIS. C.. S. Africa
"The development of my
arms and shoulders has been
really wonderful, and It does
my eyesight good to look at
my biceps and triceps, which
are now becoming a ball of
muscle. I wish I had taken
vour course years ago and so
saved myself much suffering
snd ill-health.”
C. J. CROSBIE, S.. Vlc.
"T have seen my body pass
from a bony structure to
that of a well-muscled ath-
lete. I have gained 7Jin
"•ound the chest In 95 days."
J. M. CRAIG. G.. N.Z.
“My chest has Increased
31 Inches and each arm 11
inches Everyone has mar-
velled at the phenomenal
development of my body
after only one month.”
J. CLARK Calif.. D.S.A.
'•Just a few lines in answer
to vour warm and welcome
letters. lam also thanking
you for vour wonderful
course. which Is indeed
scientific and rapid in its
results. In five days I have
gained three-quarters of an
inch on the chest, and feel
much better physically.”
F. GILL H.. N.Z.
"I am very pleased with your course,
and I feel wonderfully fit—ln fact. I've
never felt better in my life. All
my friends are talking about my won-
derful physique. I thank you again
from the bottom of my heart for what
vour system has done for me."
J. MORRISON. S.. Scotland
“I have completed the first course
and I am amazed. I have gained
eight pounds In weight and 2i Inches
around chest." K. H. FOULIS. T.. Fiji
"My three months’ course of Excpid
ing with you Is now com-
pleted. and I write to express
my satisfaction and gratitude
for the wonderful difference
It has made, and I don’t
think vou have a more thank-
ful and satisfied pupil than I
am.” Q. R EAST. J.. Qld.
"Just a line on my con-
tinued progress, which is
truly astounding me. I must
say I am more than satis-
fied with my progress, and
now have a wonderful show
of muscular development
which. Mr. Briton, I consider
an asset to anv young man.”
K. E SANDOW H.. S.A.
“Just to let you know
X am progressing won-
derfully. Your course s
amazing I have gained Si
Inches around the chest al-
ready and li Inches on the
upper arms. Your course is all
vou claim, simply marvellous”
S. M. AHRENS. W.. N.S.W.
A. J. BRITON Dept. 34
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
RIP THIS OUT AND MAIL NOW
ALFRED J. BRITON,
DEPT. P 4 107 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me, abso
lately FREE and without any
obligation on mv part whatsoever.
a copy of vour latest book. u The
Secrets of Muscular Strength — And How to Acquire It-
Don’t send one penny — it’s FREE!
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
•j,
(Please Write or Print Very Plainly)
17/7/’B5.
df


" ;m'OTitcs cokoiais
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
25!) PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single ar.d Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
.Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.43 p.m.), "Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
I)«e» he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining: security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors 1 .
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc,, etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
, —Dividends—, Writ-
Oovt.’s Ord. ten
March, Profit. Divs. 13j p.c. Off. Reserve?.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 912,160 212,464 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,533,798
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14i p.c. 74 p.c.
1927.. 847,671 231,250 537,600 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73,511 3,083,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 .. 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £2121005.. 3,944,580
1929.. 912,954 *231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,201,002
1932.. 587,023 231,250 537,500 49,219 3,970,056
114 p.c.
1933.. 594,270 173,437 421,875 49,219 3,919,795
10 p.c.
1934.. 573,033 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,918,609
1935.. 578,748 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,923,138
Whatever the co. missed on the swings
it picked up on the roundabouts last
term; the net result was £5715 better
than the previous year’s. In July, 1934, the
bank repaid £529,989 of 4 p.c. guaranteed
stock (a reminder of the ’nineties) from
London funds. The annual saving in
interest will be £21,199. At the begin-
ning of the next month, the Reserve
Bank of N.Z. began business. Among
other things, it took over the Govern-
ment accounts, previously kept by the
B.N.Z. for over 70 years ; it also took
over the trading banks’ gold reserves,
paying in paper at the statutory price of
the metal, and became the sole note-
issuing authority in the Dominion.
The biggest loss to the B.N.Z. was
Government business in the exchange
market. In the Dominion the Govern-
ment will continue to bank with its old
friend, of whose £6,328,125 of share
capital it owns £2,109,375, at all addresses
except Wellington. In local currency
there was a loss of about 45 p.c. on the
£1,770,499 of gold sold to the Reserve
Bank. But this may be more than offset
by the gain on the co.’s excess of London
funds over liabilities there, provided the
excess was bought at less than current
prices, and provided existing rates of ex-
change become permanent. As for the
co.’s note issue (£503,779 as against
£4,259,149 at the previous balance), it
provided some nice pickings while the
tax was 3 p.c. p.a.; but the rate was
lifted to 4\ p.c. about five years ago,
since when there has been little profit
to the bank from this source. It will
continue to pay tax on its unredeemed
notes until Aug. 1, 1936, when it will
pay over to the Reserve Bank the face
value of its outstanding notes and cease
to pay further tax.
During the year the Dominion’s local
trade looked up a little, and so did the
total value of its foreign trade, due to
the growth of imports. Expansion of
fixed deposits ceased, and there was
a cut of quarter of one per cent, in the
prices paid for them. The charge for
advances, reduced from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c.
in May, 1933, was lowered to a minimum
p.c. on best accounts.
Now consider this comparison of p.
and 1. figures:
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1924 . . £1,709,289 £562,596 £389,661
1928 . . 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1930 . . 2,013,526 684,745 359,648
1931 . . 2,009,412 696,515 445,884
1932 . . 1,770,686 659,629 502,835
1933 . . 1,746,339 644,194 486,675
1934 .. 1,569,907 652,163 323,511
1985 . . 1,468,371 651,708 231,439
*After making provision for contingencies.
The year’s contraction of £101,536 in
gross earnings and of £92,072 in the
tax bill were largely connected with the
note issue. Management charges, etc.,
were only £455 lighter. After meeting
interest on guaranteed stock (£6476,
down £14,723), enough remained to pay
the pref. and mortgage share divs. anil
show 10.1 p.c. on the £3,750,000 of ord.
capital, as against 9.9, 9.9, 8.1, 15 and
17.8 p.c. back to 1930. The div., which
had been steady at 14 1-3 p.c. for the
half-dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1932, was kept at 10 p.c.
There were big changes in balance-
sheet figures, of course;
Liabilities.
, _. Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1926.. £4,444,392 £3,721,791 £31,121,288
1928.. 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,339,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,651
19.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33,897,609
1931.. 3,679,957 4,348,941 32,324,685
1932.. 4,062,762 3,720,191 31,565,843
1933.. 4,338,747 3,560,404 32,573.239
1934.. 4,259,149 3,437,612 34,328,004
1935.. 503,779 3,838,441 33,198,614
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1926.. £26,482,848 £22,662,697 £484,103
1928.. 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929.. 30,233,353 22,841,453 549,383
1930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
1931.. 22,628,660 28,400,213 600,759
1932.. 24,199,750 25,653,821 022,825
1933.. 25,712,572 25,079,808 632,771
1934.. 29,971,471 22,370,341 607,490
1935.. 25,907,405 21,490,732 673,678
To repay the guaranteed debentures and
meet the contraction in the note issue,
already referred to, as well as a
shrinkage of £1,129,390 in deposits (due
mainly to transfer of Government
accounts), the co. drew upon liquids for
£4,064,066 net, and reduced its aggregate
advances by £879,609 —loans to the State
against soldiers’ settlement mortgages
were repaid ; advances to the public in-
creased. Still, only 67.7 p.c. of the
deposits was out on advance as against
85.8 p.c. in 1930. After deducting
£275,985 transferred from the Long-term
Mortgage Department, depositors and
others could see £69 of £lOO coming to
them in liquids.
The new Mortgage Corporation is not
expected to seriously affect the co.’s lend-
ing connections, nor does the market
think the 10 p.c. distribution likely to be
interfered with. It therefore prices the
pound ords. at 525. 6d., at which figure
the return is 3.8 p.c, on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
. To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34 127
1926.. 11,008 10 „ „ 11,000 8 34,135
1927.. 11,876 10 „ „ 11,000 876 35 011
1928.. 10,094 10 „ ~11,000 34 105
1929.. 10,016 10 ~ ~ 11,000 33,121
1930.. 10,005 8 „ „ 8,800 1,205 34,326
Written off, £25,000 .. .. 9,326
1931.. 5,017 5 p.c. = 5,500 8,843
1932.. 615 Nil 615 9,458
1933.. 961 Nil 961 10,419
Capital returned, £44,000.
1934.. 6,202 7 p.c. = 4,620 1,582 ,12,001
1935.. 5,233 74 „ „ 4,950 283 12,284
The co.’s own tile works, etc., at Gran-
ville, have never contributed much in
the way of profits to the pool. During
the last term, output was “well main-
tained,” thanks to the activity in build-
ing. Investment interest in the scrip
centres chiefly in the co.’s holding of
100.000 shares, fully paid to 16s. each,
in Kandos Cement. In the 1934 term
Kandos returned 4s. a share of its capi-
tal. The £20,000 thus provided, together
with another £24,000, was used by G.
and S. to return Bs. per share of its
capital, reducing the figure to £66,000 in
110.000 shares of 12s. each. The effect
of this upon balance-sheet figures is
seen in the following table;
1933. 1934. 1935.
Plant, etc £35,000 £30,000 £29,825
Stocks 3,998 558 680
Book debts, shares in
other cos., cash, etc. 85,359 69,545 63,115
£124,357 £100,103 £93,626
Sundry creditors . . 3,939 17,483 10,392
Net assets .. ..£120,418 £82,620 £83,234
It is plain from the £63,115 at which the
blanket item appears that the holding
in Kandos figures at less than its face
value; and, since the market prices
Kandos scrip at 235. 9d., there is a nice
inner reserve in the item.
Although 6 p.c. was received from
Kandos as against 5 p.c. in ’34, declared
net earnings for the last term were £969
lighter at 7.9 p.c. on capital as against
9.3 p.c. in ’34. Still, the div. was lifted
from 7 p.c. to 74 p.c., and prospects
of the higher rate being at least main-
tained for the current term are encour-
aging.
Kandos, which has not yet announced
its div. for the year to June 30 last,
recently secured a 12-month contract
with the N. S. Wales Government for
the supply of 35,000 tons of cement at
£2 17s. 6d. ex works. N.S.W, output for
1934 was up 54,000 tons.
The market prices G. and S.’s 125.-
paid shares at 21s. as against 16s. 9d.
a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is 4.3 p.c. on a 74 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the cover is 14s. 2d. in net
tangibles.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 54,235 123p.c.=31,250 3,622 19,363 189,417
1926.. 54,181 12i „,, 31,250 3,732 19,199 208 610
1927.. 52,595 14 „ ~ 35,000 4,324 13,271 221,886
Reserves disclosed, £lB,BlO .. .. 240,696
1928.. 37,418 10 p.c. =25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
1929.. 46,976 124 „ ~31,250 4,290 11,436 259,892
1930.. 40,180 124,, ~31,250 3,182 5,748 265,640
1931.. 17,572 10 „,, 25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 8 „ ~20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934.. 27,070 8 „ ~20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325.'
1935.. 31,338 8 ~ ~ 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904'
The figures of this stoutly-ribbed Rock-
hampton merchandising co. tell the story
of conditions in the far west of the State,
where much of the business is done, and
of the defence the management has built
up against hard times. Since the be-
ginning of this century, paid capital has
advanced from £93,750 to £250,000 with
the aid of only £11,250 of cash subscrip-
tions ; and at the end of May reserves
were heaped £22,904 higher than paid
capital. The div., steady at 10 p.c. for
over 20 years to the close of accounts
in ’32, with a 1\ p.c. sweetener
added during the fattest ones, has
dropped to 8 p.c. With the whole of
the capital and £100,671 besides in-
vested outside the business in Consols
(£220,000), other securities (£44,828) and
on fixed deposit, etc. (£85,843), the busi-
ness itself doesn’t have to turn in much
to enable an 8 p.c. div. to be paid. On
capital and reserves combined it calls
for only 3.7 p.c.
During the last term, gross earnings
were £5213 better, despite drought;
Gross Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1925. . £138,979 £84,744 I 1931.. £92,044 £74,472
1927.. 148,900 96,305 I 1932.. 88,163 60,413
1928.. 127,775 90,357 | 1933.. 81,298 57,882
1929.. 128,432 81,456 | 1934.. 82,440 55,370
1930.. 124,241 84,061 | 1935.. 87,653 56,315
Exes, took only £945 of the increase,
leaving the net result £4268 better at
12.5 p.c. on capital as against 10.8, 9.3,
11.1, 6.4, 14.8 and 17 p.c. back to 1929.
How well equipped the co. is to ex-
tend its activities when opportunity
offers and/or adjust its capital this
comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
1926. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £'250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 97,971 36,115 33,844 32,651
Stocks.. .. 255,266 208,298 138,732 134,871
Book debts .. 164,467 76,095 27,686 35,568
Cash . . .. 42,478 63,676 101,727 85,844
Freeholds and 1
plant j-131,855 243,568 -j 66,334 65,861
Investments J [ 241,014 264,828
To snip £1193 off the debt, carry an
extra £7882 net of debtors’ balances and
add £23,814 to investments, cash was
drawn upon for £15,883 and the book
value of stocks was reduced by £3861.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£488,460) was £13,145.
Though the drought has broken, its
effects will be felt in the current year’s
figures. Still, there is a comfortable
margin between last year’s net earnings
and the 8 p.c. div. The market therefore
prices the pound shares at 365. as against
345. a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is 4.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 41s. lOd. in net tangibles, of
which 395. is in surplus liquids.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends , Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
1925.. 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11,284 21,325
1926.. 15,481 2700 8 „ „ 10,918 1803 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ „ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 44,, ~ 7,491 1358 2,694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350 Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil 23,310
Profit.
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1913 21,897
1935.. 8,299 4741* Nil 3558 17,889
*9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l, and 6.9 p.c. for
13 months to 31/10/’32.
It was in 1919 that this co. took over
the builders and plumbers’ hardware
manufacturing business of F. Malley
and Son. During the following decade
shareholders put up an extra £126,473,
raising paid capital to £196,473, of which
£30,000 carries a cumulative 9 p.c., less
22± p.c. statutory cut since the begin-
ning of Oct., 1931. The prefs. are also
entitled to a premium of 2s. 6d. a share
in the event of a wind-up or repayment
of their capital, which is not to exceed
one-fourth of the total amount in the
share register. For the five years to the
close of accounts in ’29 the ords. aver-
aged 8.8 p.c., with increasing margins.
Then slump intervened, the co. traded
at a loss for the three years to the end
of April, 1933, and payments to the
prefs. fell behind.
With the recovery in building, earnings
are on the up-grade again, though com-
petition has narrowed profit margins.
The spring in last year’s gross earnings
(£57,821) was £16,990. Exes. (£49,523)
took £10,605 of the increase, leaving
enough to pay a year’s pref. div. (£2093)
and show 3.7 p.c. on ord. capital. Actu-
ally £4741 was handed to the prefs., re-
ducing their arrears to £5231, or 3s. 6d.
per share. The balance was needed in
the business to help finance larger
trading.
This comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows what happened:
, , IQQI 1 Q'QQ IQQJ. IQRK
Paid capital. . £196,473 £196,473 £196,473
Liabilities . . 17,714 23,833 33,274 51,484
Freeholds . . 55,632 55,859 55.997 57,925
Leaseholds ~ 17,272 15,680 15,267 14,662
Plant, etc. . . 40,304 40,820 39,041 40,215
Stock. . . . 54,772 50,960 51,116 60,543
Book debts . . 24,465 32,035 39,682 60,124
Cash, etc. .. 11,677 1,642 7,247 1,389
To carry an extra £20,442 of debtors’
balances and add £9427 to the stocks
item and £2497 net to buildings and
plant, the co. went outside for an extra
£18,210 and drew upon cash, etc., for
£5858. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£70,572, including
stock) was £5BOl.
Prospects of the prefs.’ slate being
cleaned during the current term seem
bright enough. At 265. 6d. the return is
5.2 p.c. on a 6.9 p.c. div. basis, plus
arrears. At 16s. the ords. would return
4.3 p.c. on a 3y p.c. distribution. This
and the pref. div., including arrears,
would call for £13,151 at next balance.
The net tangible cover is £5 19s. Id.
prefs. and 17s. lOd. ords.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 8,040 10 p.c. = 7253 787 14,409
1926.. 8,552 10 „ „ 7253 1299 15,768
1927.. 7,985 10 „ ~ 7253 732 16,500
1928.. 8,351 10 „ „ 7253 1098 17,598
1929.. 9,026 10 „ „ 7253 1773 19,371
1930.. 10,403 10 „ „ 7253 3150 22,521
1931.. 5,215 8 „ „ 5802 21,934
1932.. 2,921 6 „ ~ 4352 20,503
1933.. 3,727 6 ~ „ 4352 19,878
1934.. 6,335 8,, „ 5802 533 20,411
1935.. 6,250 8 .. .. 5802 448 20,859
This little manufacturer of soft drinks
has put up a very encouraging perform-
ance. It started in 1910 with a capital
(Continued on page 18.)


>-
The Whisky
Sampler
will tell
you
every
time
His senses are acutely alive to the variations
in the character of different whiskies.
But once you know what to expect, you
can become an expert in the fine points
of White Horse. First “nose” the rare and
subtle aroma. Then taste the peat and
heather flavour and note the exceptional
smoothness. You will realise that you are en-
joying whisky equal to a fine liqueur and you
will join the company of particular people
who insist on Real Old Scotch at its very best.
"He can tell it blindfold”
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
‘Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
- , u


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates. Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates.
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 35 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. Write
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
NOBEL:
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.; Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VlC.Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.; C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited
of £38,507, to which £21,393 was trans-
ferred from reserves five years later, free-
hold and plant being written up £11,444
for the purpose. At the same time the
div. was reduced to 7 p.c., but it was
worth more than 10 p.c. used to be. In
1922 a par issue carried capital to its
present figure, and another run of 10
p.c. divs. followed. Then, owing to
slump, the rate dropped to 6 p.c., but is
back to 8 p.c. again, and looks like re-
maining there —for a while, at any rate.
During the last term the weather was
unfavorable, especially during the Christ-
mas season, and competition lost none
of its keenness. Still, the management
was able to show a profit of 8.6 p.c, on
capital as against 8.7, 5.1, 4, 7.1, 14,3 and
12.4 p.c, back to 1929.
The market' has lengthened its bid for
fhe pound shares from 19s. 6d. to 31s,
over the last two years. At the higher
figure the return is 5.1 p.c, on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 255. 9d. in net
tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1923. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £72,034 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities .. 8,813 1,970 1,127 610
Freeholds, build-
ings, etc. . . 53,130 33,617 30,255 29,499
Plant, etc. .. 23,021 11,067 5,383 5,196
Stocks .. .. 14,800 8,069 7,109 7,488
Book debts, cash,
etc 11,492 48,605 57,451 57,328
The more or less liquid surplus (£64,200,
up £767) was equal to 17s. Bd. per share.
The most encouraging feature is the
growth in debtors’ balances, cash, etc.,
over the last three years.
Waihi G.M. Co., Ltd. (M.L.)
For the 12 months of 1934 Waihi
treated 229,351 short tons for a yield
of £540,714 in gold and silver, compared
with 224,689 tons, worth £538,581, in
the previous year. The average
value was 28s. 6d., compared with
31s. 2d. and 335. 6d. for the two preced-
ing years. The figures are based on
gold at 84s. and silver at 2s. The slip
was due to exhaustion of better-grade
stone. Recoveries at 91.9 p.c. are again
a shade better.
Interest on investments brought in
£20,279, and power supplied by the
M.L. Government in terms of its pur-
chase of the Hora Hora hydro-electric
undertaking was valued at £9297, mak-
ing total income £570,290, of which
the premium on gold represented
£174,148, or enough to pay the M.L. and
British income taxes (together £76,325),
M.L.’s special export duty on gold
(£39,610), and over a shilling a share
besides. Exes. (£445,481) were £1520
below last year’s high-water mark. The
usual 2s. a share was paid, and the
£25,627 that remained lifted reserves to
£525,711.
During the year the co. received pay
ment for the Hora Hora hydro-electrical
undertaking, sold to the Government in
1919 at cost —£212,500. Payment first
fell due in 1931, but was postponed at
the Government’s request. Actually, the
co. (it is London-controlled) received
£170,682 in sterling; it would have re-
ceived £193,182 had payment been made
on due date. The difference is due to
depreciation of the external value of
Maoriland’s currency. The works figured
in the books at £159,536, so the actual
profit on the deal was £11,146, which
was whisked away to inner reserves.
The money was invested mainly in
British Government securities (£527,406),
worth more than their book value;
Dominion Government and other secu-
rities figured at £91,909 ; other liquids
totalled £66,782; the holding in Punket
Tin was in at cost (£160,564); mine,
plant and consumable stores, etc.,
appeared at £98,872. Including an un-
specified provision for taxation, the
amount coming to sundry creditors was
£126,600.
During the year 528,735 tons of new
ore was developed, leaving ore reserves
at 327,301 tons —155,667 tons, assaying
335., in general account, and 171,634
tons, assaying 345. 4.97 d., in suspense
account —and there was 24,337 tons,
assaying 245. 4.4 d., in the Junction Co.’s
ground. No new ore-bodies worth men-
tioning were disclosed. Much depends
upon whether the propylitised andesite,
which carries the reefs, extends beyond
the group of hills already worked. The
geophysical survey, now in progress, may
throw some light on this.
Since the close of accounts. the co.’s
Maoriland interests have been handed
over to a subsidiary, Martha Gold. The
parent has thus become a holding
and prospecting concern. It recently
turned down an option at Avoca (Vic.).
Punket Tin (Siam), whose dredge began
to dig itself in at the end of 1934, had
won 107 tons of to. for an estimated
mining profit of £7909 at the end of
April.
Presently the parent intends to return
3s. per share (= £148,772) “in some form
or another.” That will reduce paid capi-
tal to £99,181, in 991,814 shares of 2s.
each. The market prices the present
55.-paids at 365. 3d.
Day Dawn (New Guinea), Ltd., is
offering £BOOO of 10 p.c. debentures.
The money is wanted to meet current
liabilities for wages, stores, etc., amount-
ing to £6OOO, and to enable the co. to
begin cyaniding 36,000 tons of tailings,
assaying 4dwt. gold and 12oz. silver.
Profit from this source is figured at
£lOOO a month. The plant is ready, and
electric power can be had from New
Guinea Goldfields. When finances im-
prove, the intention is to open up the
mine to provide ore for the battery.
* * * *
The Queensland Government has
granted Oriomo Explorations a £7OOO
subsidy, to be spent, one for two, in
unwatering the Amalgamated leases at
Gympie, under option to the co. The
money is repayable from the proceeds of
ore won. The leases cover about 294
acres, and include 12,000 ft. of the old
Inglewood reef.
* * < t *
On the advice of R. D. Lawrence,
Resolute (W.A.) has thrown its option
at Spargo’s into the discard, and secured
two others at Mt. Sir Samuel. Here
3500 tons of 58.45. stone (gold at £8 an
ounce) can be treated by open-cut, and
purchase of a five-head battery from the
State is under consideration. Costs are
put at 19s. 6d. It is figured that there
are 118,337 tons —41,825 positive, 41,252
probable and 35,260 possible—estimated
to be worth £333,631. The price is
£15,000, payable £lOOO down, £9OOO on
March 2, 1936, and £5OOO in paids in
any co. formed to work the deposit, to-
gether with a 12 months’ par option over
£lO,OOO of the working co.’s scrip.
* * * «
Gold Fields Australian Development’s
prospects are looked upon with favor in
the West. The co. is in the Wiluna
stable, and, besides possessing the Moon-
light group which adjoins the Wiluna
holding at the north end, it holds a one-
fifth interest in Yellowdine. It hopes to
start treating 10,000 tons a month at a
profit of at least £1 a ton (Australian)
next March, and official Yellowdine
figures suggest that it is likely to collect
another £lO,OOO a month from that
source. Wiluna holds 200,000 of the
1,800,000 issued shares, bought early at
a cost of £50,000. Their sterling market
value is close to the pound mark.
* * * *
About five years ago Golden Horse-
shoe spent £40,000 on a cyanide plant to
extract gold from a mountainous dump
of residues at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), and it
has been very successful. Soon the job
will be finished, and the co. is now nego-
tiating with Gt. Boulder Prop, to treat
a similar dump on the Boulder mine.
If the deal comes off, Horseshoe will find
further employment for its plant, and Gt.
Boulder might be better off financially
than if it installed a new plant and did
the job itself.
* * * *
Testing of the Big Bell, Cue (W.A.),
by Premier Gold, British Columbia, in
conjunction with American Smelting and
Refining, continues. The shaft has been
sunk 260 ft. ; opening-out operations will
begin at 250 ft. The two cos. took a
long lease of the Big Bell and the Little
Bell, both large low-grade propositions,
in 1932. The owners are to receive 5 p.c.
of gold recovered up to 6dwt. a ton ;
above that a sliding scale applies.
* * * *
From their new find in the Erlistoun
district (W.A.), which has interested
Western Mining Corp., Cox and Estree
have cleaned up 112 tons for 1400 z.,
an average of loz, 4dwt. 12gr. The
stone is said to have been picked at
random. A lot more work needs to be
done before much of an idea can be had
as to the extent and value of the
property.
* * * *
Celebration (W.A.), an offshoot of
Australian Mining Trust, is pushing
ahead with the foundations for its new
plant, to be erected by Chas. Ruwolt
Pty,, Melbourne. The co. is considering
the use of electric power from Kalgoor-
lie, about 20 miles away.
* * * *
Distant Pilbara’s contribution to
Westralia’s gold yield is mounting,
though still insignificant cojnpared with
production in the ’nineties. Westralia’s
only tantalite mine, in which the Moulden
lady holds a controlling interest and to
which she occasionally flies from Perth,
is situated on this field.
* * ♦ ■ ♦
Coolgardie Brilliant, one of New Ven-
ture’s pups, is to have another shot at
picking a producer. The co. has taken
an option over a “promising” new find
in the Yalgoo field (W.A.).
* * * *
The Westralian Government will tear
up the recently laid pipeline to Ora
Banda (W.A.) and re-lay with an Sin.
main. Ora Banda United Mines fore-
sees an annual meter reading of
18,000,000 gallons when its Australian-
made 9000-ton-a-month mill starts
work ; at full capacity the figure may
reach 43,000,000 gallons. The present
main can’t do jt. An offer of payment
by the co. of £25,200 in advance for
water at 7s. per 1000 gallons decided the
Government to take the step.
* r * * *
Munsie, Westralia’s Minister for Mines,
and others have been telling London
about new lodes and the extension of old
ones at depth at Kalgoorlie (W.A.). Here
the Gold Exploration and Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie group are billed to join the
producing list before the end of the
year. On the State’s outlying fields
prospecting has opened up some promis-
ing properties, many of which have yet
to come into production. Mt. Magnet
started milling a few months ago, Ora
Banda and Triton are about to kick off,
and Youanmi, Yellowdine and Gold
Fields Aust. Development hope to do so
early in 1936. The Minister’s statement
that the State is one of the best coun-
tries in the world for goldmining may
prove to be correct.
* * * *
Hans Pirow, the S. African Government
mining engineer, analysing the Rand gold-
field in his 1934 report, says aggregate
gross profits were £29,827,000, of which
£18,826,000 was net profit. Costs work
out at 245. lOd. a ton, or, with Govern-
ment taxation of 4s. 4d. a ton chipped
off, 20s. 6d. Divs. at £ 14,500,000-odd
show an increase of £2,250,000 compared
with 1933. The Government’s share of
profits, less taxation, was a little over
£4,000,000. Net profit was 9s. 7d. a ton,
an increase of 4d. Recovery at 345. sd.
was Is. lower. The Government’s aggre-
gate revenue from leased S. African
mines to March last totalled nearly
£41,000,000, of which Government Min-
ing Areas contributed over £21,000,000;
Premier Diamond, £8,000,000; New
State Areas, nearly £6,000,000 ; Springs,
£2,884,000; Brakpan, nearly £1,500,000;
West Springs, £563,000 ; Daggerfontein,
£280,000; and East Geduld, a little
under £200,000. Pirow’s forecast for
1935 is optimistic ; new mines are ex-
pected to be opened up, and some exist-
ing producers are tipped to further ex-
pand the outputs.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
F.M.: Sec B. 3/7/’35... .W.H.: None of
them looks very promising at the moment.
Lancefield, Marvel Loch and Raub are worth
consideration... .F.T.: Milling commenced
March, 1931... .T.M.8.: Not bright; if you
cannot afford to lose, keep out J.J.: (1)
It is used in manufacture of electrodes for arc
lamps, for coloring ceramic glazes and enamels,
and for conditioning or alloy purposes in
various steels. (2) and (3) Yes, but very limited.
Prices range from £6 per ton for material con-
taining 75 p.c. titanium dioxide, to £l6 for a
96 p.c. concentrate... .E. 8.8.: (1) Cannot say
definitely, but most of the scrip is held in Aus-
tralia. (2) Impossible to say. (3) The Stock
Exchange itself... .M.W.J.; See B. 13/3/’35.
Enquiry: No.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith* Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House,' Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing* Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes oi
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. l — Advt.
* * * *
WESTERN MINING CORPORATION, LIMITED,
makes expert reports on and conducts diamond-
drilling and management of goldmining, properties
in the State of Western Australia. The Corporation
has an expert staff, and in addition to branch offices
in Perth and Kalgoorlie has representatives on all
the leading Western Australian goldfields.
Write Western Mining Corporation, Limited,
Collins House, Melbourne.
—Advt.


Hi
w
m
mm
•m
mmm
•: '"*:-■
m
m
m ■
*:• x
: : : x : x : x
mmm
mm
m*m
mmm
mmm-i
mmm
■m
m
¥: : s
■
<m
mm
m
x-xwxowk
mmmmmm
mmm
mm
*m
m
m
mm
L'
PITH HIS OLD SELF AGAIN
»Long hours in the office, ex-
hausting work, heavy responsi-
bilities had taken toll of his
nervous system. He might not
have been able to carry on if he
hadn’t started that course of
Sheaf Stout. The rich barley
onalt, finest of all nerve and
tonic foods restored the vital
energy he expended during the
day. He’s working harder than
ever now—and enjoying it.
SINCE COMMENCING A COURSE OF
TOOTHS
SHEAF
iS
STOUT
IN THREE SIZES: BOTTLES—HALF BOTTLES-BABY BOTTLES
S.S.-43-60.


ABORIGINALITIES
“O. W. Waireki”: Henare confided to
me that he had dark suspicions about
the honesty of his neighbor. “I
terra him I can’ sleep at night,” he ex-
plained ; “an’ he say, with the sly grin,
‘Try counting sheep.’ So I count t’em,
an’, py korry, 16 .missing; so I can’t
snore a wink since wit’ te worry of if.”
* * * *
“Mundowie”: , The recent barrow-
pushing stunt from Beechworth (Vic.) to
Mt. Buffalo was a pleasure-jaunt com-
pared with the feats of gold-diggers in
the roaring days of Coolgardie and Kal-
goorlie. Several of them shoved their
barrows from Perth over 370 miles of
heavy bush tracks, with swag, tucker,
cooking utensils, mining kit and a heavy
supply of wafer aboard. One man, to
provide for the long dry stages, pulled
a beer-barrel full of water, revolving on
light axles, the whole way.
!J: * * *
“Kotuku”: When a few shearers called
to deal with the woollies on the small
run of an ex-imperial Army captain, the
owner intimated that he wished to be
addressed according to his rank. Except
for Henare, the rest of the boys good-
naturedly complied. Never once did the
Maori address his boss as “Captain”—
his favorite term was “Gunner.” Some-
times he soared up to general or colonel.
Then he graduated down to sergeant and
corporal, until he finally reduced him to
the ranks. Though fussy, the captain
was a decent little sort, and took it all
in good part. Henare was included in
the invitation back next year.
* « * *
“Paling”: A visitor to N.Q. could
easily make the mistake of imagining
the chief industry to be that of breeding
wading birds. From Mackay to the
other side of Townsville the coastal
fringes are alive with birds, chiefly native
companions and spoonbills, but also
some white and blue cranes. These fowls
are quite at home. They hardly bother
to look round at a passing car. The
spoonbills seem to be good mixers, and
can be seen in - company with their
cousins the cranes. But the native com-
panions are exclusive. When you strike
a mob you might see two or three hun-
dred but not one spoonbill.
* * * *
“Pagewood”: At Pine Creek (N.T.) a
browsing kangaroo, startled by two
fettlers on a railway section-car, tried
to streak for home by crossing the line,
but miscued and landed on the car.
’Roo and fettlers went off, and the animal
disappeared in a cloud of dust —to sign
the pledge, no doubt.
v * * *
“Quat Quatta”; Reference to the
Kimberley abo. who used to decorate
baobab nuts (B. 26/6/’35) recalls
Tommy McCrea, a well-known figure
along both sides of the Murray from
Tallangatta to Tocumwal half a cen-
tury ago. When a kid I encountered
Tommy camped outside Corowa with
the usual appurtenances of children and
dogs, and discovered that he was
an old friend of the white town,
which he visited at irregular intervals
selling ’possum rugs and skins painted
with illustrations of abo. legends on the
inside. But his masterpieces were emu
eggs, painted and cut into cameos. Not
a city-dweller visited Corowa but went
off with one of Tommy’s eggs. A fair
number was sent overseas.
* * * *
“C.H.S.”: “One-bottle Joe” was broke
in Euston (N.S.W.), and finding it hard
to raise a drink. The old Invincible,
paddling down from Swan Hill to Mil-
dura, tied up at Euston to unload some
stuff for the store. Joe observed a
number of kegs on the after-deck, and
by judicious questioning ascertained that
they contained beer for the pub at Gol
Gol, about two days’ steam away. He
persuaded the skipper to let him work
a passage, and to the mystification of
the crew was pretty well sozzled all the
way down. The skipper got suspicious,
but a thorough examination of the kegs
showed the seals intact and no signs of
tampering. The kegs were unloaded at
Gol Gol, and the steamer dropped down
OSWNLD PRYORY
“Be that right tha told Trevithick I Was an old goat?"
“ Weren't me, cap'n. Why, you be younger than me!"
to Mildura, where Joe, blissfully singing,
was put ashore. On the return trip the
skipper met a wrathful publican at Gol
Gol, who demanded to know who had put
water in his beer. Another examination
of the kegs only intensified the mystery,
for no sign of interference could be
found. Letters passed between publican,
skipper and brewery—without satisfac-
tion. The thing was a mystery to all.
How did he get the beer out and the
water in without marking the casks?
He knocked up a hoop on a cask, drilled
a hole on each side with a gimlet, ran
off some beer, made up the displacement
with water blown in through a pipe-stem,
blocked the holes with bits of wood,
then knocked the hoop down again.
Thus had Joseph filled the silent watches
of the night on the after-deck.
* * * *
“King Cyril”: You tellum “Eureka”
(B. 19/6/’35) him big pfeller pullum leg.
Close up Aboliar, that pfeller. Galahs
no stickum feather ’longa gum belongit
coolibah-tree. That pfeller tree go tit no
gum all same other trees. Gum him
come out of that tree dry-quick pfeller.
Mine tinkit Mister “Eureka” been seeum
tanglefoot ’longa Pitt-street. S’pose that
pfeller molasses or treacle or jam, that
all right; but galah, him eatit off, bitum
feathers, kick up big pfeller debil-debil
and fly away. ,
% * * ♦
“C.H.F.”; When the Byrd expedition
ships quitted Dunedin (M.L.) there was
left behind one of several strange fish
brought from the southland. After much
research Dunedin experts conferred with
other M.L. authorities, but the identity
of the fish remained a mystery. So at
length it went to Sydney, where it was
eventually declared to be a new species.
At present this is as far as the matter
can go, for the interesting newcomer
can’t be named or described in any scien-
tific journal without permission ol the
Byrd expedition. At the time of writing
the fish, just returned from across the
Tasman, is attracting much attention in
a Dunedin fishshop.
* * * *
“Sparrer”: As this seems to be the
open season for fighting ’roos with
sticks, let me into the ring. Two sticks
are good, as “Slab” says (B. 12/6/’35). If
a man can’t get two, he can make a
job with one. Never try to hit a ’roo
with a straight poke or a down-stroke ;
a man might as well try to stab forked
lightning or tap a snake. You can knock
’em every time with a horizontal swing.
Get the club about shouldfcr-high—that
is, shoulder-high for the ’roo —and
swing round in a circle. They can’t
dodge that. Hold the slick above them
and hit down, and you strike air every
time.
* * * *
“Itchy”: That drought (now virtually
broken) in Queensland, holes drying
which hadn’t shown mud before, must
have turned up some hoary old fish. The
crays particularly would wonder what
the devil had struck them. In a previous
drought on the Flinders watershed I
visited a hole which had only a scum
of water, and which hadn’t been in that
state for about 25 years. Crayfish!
Those poor chaps in their hundreds
and thousands were literally a moving
mass. Now and again some old fellow
would heave himself hip-high out of the
mud and ooze which held him, and he’d'
gasp a bubble or two and sink from
sight again. Men took over two thou-
sand crays out of that slime, and count-
less thousands must have been taken
by birds, by other fish (before they, too,
turned up their toes) and by foraging
pigs. Those pigs had a high old time.
Standing belly-deep in the mud, they
could just shut their eyes and stab
blindly, knowing they’d get a mouthful
of good crayfish at every dive.
* * * *
“Conch”: The death of a N.Q. youth
from a sting received while handling a
shellfish reminds me that several varie-
ties of Australian molluscs, most of them
found on the Queensland littoral, are
venomous. Conus has a long bony
tongue, serrated at the edges, the teeth
secreting venom. The tongue is used
to bore into other molluscs, since our
friend is a cannibal, as a preliminary to
dinner. These chaps are more poisonous
as one goes north into tropical waters,
as is the case with the Portuguese man-
o’-war. Many cases of sickness and
partial paralysis have been recorded as
the result of a sting from Conus. The
only other death reported was that of a
member of the mission steamer John
Williams over 20 years ago.
* * * *
“Jurgen”: Frog-farming? 1 tried it
twice, and that was enough. The uncer-
tainty. of the rainfall presented the first
hurdle. My first farm was in a billabong,
within reach of the Sydney market.
Drought fell early and the water dried up.
A hurried rush to save some stud stock
was fruitless. What the small boys of
the village hadn’t got for bait had buried
themselves in the mud. When the floods
came the whole flock went sailing off
down old-man river and were seen no
more. The next venture was quite near
Sydney, and special stock were imported
from France. Here ducks and laughing
jackasses competed for the delicacies,
and when one day a lot of relief workers
came along to drain the property I threw
in the sweat-rag. In short, I found that
the game was too tricky, and the only
dependable thing about the frogs was
that they could be backed to croak on
you without apparent reason at any
moment.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: That native “boy” saw-
ing through a limb on which he was
perched between himself and the tree
(B. 3/7/’35) had a parallel in an Eng-
lish newchum to whom we gave a job
on a clearing contract. Useless with axe
or bar, he was told off to burn down
all the hollow trees he could find. “Often
y’ can climb up a dead tree and break
down enough small sticks t’ start y’ lire,”
Mat told him. We came upon him half-
way up a tree, through the hollow of
which a tire was roaring, and he was
carefully breaking off twigs and drop-
ping them on to the fire!
* * * *
“J.D.S.”: In the Mangrove Mountain
district (N.S.W.) there are many recipes
for making cement and rubble chimneys
that don't smoke. The main thing, ex-
perts agree, is to build the thing straight.
Recently, on the advice of several
“experts,” a new hand at the game de-
cided to build his round a green log of
about 12in. diameter, the log to be re-
moved when the cement was dry. But
he forget several notches, and the log
wouldn't come out. Last news from that
quarter is that chimney “experts” are
giving the newchum a wide berth.
J*c ♦ ♦ **
“Bray Rock”: “Fore R.’s” bonito (B.
26//6/’35) are the same as my tunny —
Euthynnus alletterate, the little tunny,
ranging up to 2ft. 6in. or so. The true
bonito, E. pelamis, does not occur off
N.S.W. or S.Q.; the southern tunny,
Thynnus maccoyi, a near relative, grows
to 7ft. or Bft. or more, and often visits
us. There is no need to squabble over
names. Ever hear a Sydney rodman tell
a Melbourne ditto what he thinks of the
latter’s yarn about having boated a 401 b.
yellowtail after a terrific fight? Both are
speaking truly according to their lights,
but they are speaking of different fish.
“Fore R.,” evidently a brother of the
rod, can take it that a tunny of any
species, large or small, is the toughest
fighter, pound for pound, to be met in
any of the world’s seas. It is built that
way, both in body and in spirit.
* V * *
“Titre”: The world's sugar industry
conference in Brisbane next month is to
be commemorated by a monument at
Ormiston, on Moreton Bay, marking the
site of the first mill to make sugar com-
mercially in Bananaland. The pioneer
was Captain Louis Hope, and the mill
started in 1863. Others followed his
example, and for some years sugar was
grown on a considerable scale in south-
eastern Queensland, some of it about
Brisbane itself, notably at St. Lucia, now
an outlying suburb where the new uni-
versity buildings are to go up. Most of
the experimenters lost their money, and
the canefields gradually moved north,
via Maryborough and Bundaberg.
* * * *
“A.8.G.”; Four years ago a dairy-
man living in the Campbell Ranges, be-
yond Takone (Tas.), bought a pedigree
Alsatian puppy. When about half-grown
the dog took to the bush. Another
grazier noticed the dog with one
of his steers, always the same one,
and during the past couple of years
the two have been inseparable. The
only time the dog left his friend was
when attempts were made to shoot him —
then he hid for a time, being finally
sought and enticed out again by
the steer when immediate danger from
guns was over. A week or so ago
the grazier decided to bring the steer in
for slaughter. It was a 22-mile journey,
and throughout the dog accompanied the
beast, disappearing when any traffic
appeared (which he, of course, was un-
used to), only to rejoin his friend further
down the road. At the farm repeated
but unavailing efforts were made to catch
him; for days he refused to touch food
put out. But a valuable Southdown ewe
was killed, and it was supposed that the
Alsatian, overcome with hunger, was the
killer. He was seen and shot through
the neck, but, despite his wound, he got
away. The steer, too, broke away. The
dog was discovered dying beside a creek,
his friend standing by. It was then
decided that (he best way out was to kill
both.
THE GOLD PROBLEM.
“It’s mighty queer,” said Mulga Mick, and
twirled his dish with practised hand,
And strained his rheumy eyes to find some hint
of colors in the sand,
“The keener grows the hunt for gold, the more
it brings, the less there is—
In minted coinage anyway—to grease the wheels
of trade and biz.
“I’ve follered gold,” said Mulga Mick, “for
half a lifetime, near and far,
And slapped a tidy lot of it in currency across
the bar.
1 liked the sovereign’s mellow ring as well as
anybody did,
Yet now it’s nearly twenty years since last 1
happened on a quid!
“These paper notes,” said Mulga Mick, “we’ve
had so long for substitoots,
They’re apt to crumble in your kick and go
to pieces in your boots.
They buy as much, you say? Perhaps. And
yet it seems to me, me lad,
They haven’t got the stayin’ pow’r those good
old Jimmy O’Goblins had.
“Queer, is it not,” said Mulga Mick, and gave
his dish a final spin,
“I’ve seen the price of gold go up and up—
and yet the more we win
The less and less of it we see, in town or
country, east or west,
In that partic’lar form in which most fellers
like to see it best?
“You’d think,” said Mick, and threw his dish
aside, “the banks that buy the stuff,
Now that’s it’s up to seven pounds and some-
thing more, could spare enough
To let us see a quid or two sometimes, to serve
its age-old end.
But not a bit! The more we mine, the less
of it there is to spend! ”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“0.P.”: During the preliminary stages
of unwatering the Bird-in-Hantl mine
(S.A.), a local lad said that on the day
the mine closed down, 40 years before,
his father’s miner’s hat was accidentally
knocked off his head into the shaft.
Sure enough, (he crown was found rest-
ing on the timber at the 350 ft. plat.
Made of leather, and hard as a board, it
could still be used for a headpiece. The
loser’s soon found it.
* * * *
“J.F.L.”: How does such an abun-
dance of useless plants grow after a
scrub fire? At Bell (C.Q.) I have seen
160 acres of softwood scrub fallen, and
several months later burnt. After the
fire heavy rain fell, and in six months
there were stinking Roger, poison peach,
inkweed and wild tobacco plants grow-
ing so thickly that they formed a minia-
ture scrub sft. high. The growth kept
deteriorating each year. How did the
seeds come in such numbers when there
was none of these plants near at hand?
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: Brown was drunk, but
not so shickered that he couldn’t row
his nervous visitor out to the flathead
ground. With drunk’s luck Brown
hooked a flathead first throw-out. We
watched him clumsily floundering about
as he played the fish, and his friend's
evident apprehension of death by drown-
ing. When Brown essayed triumphant
use of the gaff the boat capsized, and
out of the smother of little seas we
presently saw Brown’s nervous friend
astride the keel and Brown swimming
wildly for the shore, dragging the boat
(in the kellick of which he was en-
tangled) behind. He reached the shore,
boat still in tow. The nervous friend
climbed off and took the first bus back
to the city. What neither he nor Brown
will live down for a long time is the
fact that they were never at any time
in more than four feet of water.
“Dimon”; Duels being in the cables
lately, the funniest ever fought in Aus-
tralia was near Tumut (N.S.W.) in the
late 1850’s between two doctors—Storch,
a German, and Dibdin, a grandson of
the poet. Charlie Lewis, a local wag,
known as Gundagai Lewis, was M.C.,
and loaded the guns. The combatants
stood back to back, a few short paces
apart, and when the word was given both
turned sharply and fired. Dibdin, who
was a mild and peaceful person, blazed
into the air ; but Storch fired point-blank
at his adversary, and that gentleman’s
face was immediately obliterated in what
looked like a mass of bloody flesh. The
crowd that had
gathered there rushed
up to him, and in a
moment their horror
gave way to roars of
laughter. The gun
had been loaded with
raspberry jam.
* * *
“T. Essbie”; I say
“Amen!” to “Car-
mim’s” prayers on be-
half of the Broken
Hill and Ml. Isa
people if the white-
ants ever take to
mining (B. 3/7/’35).
Termites worry
through some tough
materials. Working
on the Hume High-
way at Tahmoor
(N.S.W.) some time
ago, 1 noticed that a
part of the tarred
metal surface, which had been laid down
about 12 months, was riddled with small
holes and was breaking up. It became so
bad that it had to be taken up and relaid.
Then it was discovered that an old stump,
covered over, housed an infinite popu-
lation of white ants. Overcrowding and
the consequent setting out of the ter-
mites in search of pastures new had been
responsible for the damage to the road.
* * * ♦
“Spee-waa”; Reference to the übiqui-
tous habit of the gum-tree is made by
“Bangalay” (B. 3/7/’35). I myself have
seen gums growing in Nice, around the
catacombs at Rome, in Southern Cali-
fornia, and—where many a Digger must
remember them —in the home of the late
Lord Darnley, not far from London. Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Bryce, of Sydney, a few
years back made the trip from Cape
Town to Cairo, and said that over the
whole route, with the exception of one
strip of 500 miles, gum-trees were always
in sight. Other travellers assert that the
gums reach their highest development in
India, where they grow far more luxuri-
antly than in their native land.
* * * *
“Gourmet”: The fresh-water crayfish
(B. 3/7/’35) —I don’t mean the big Mur-
rumbidgee creature, but the handsome
lad of the stony creeks and even the
yabbie—is a prime delicacy anywhere
save in Australia. In France bisque
d’ecrevisse used to be one of the most ex-
pensive soups in the Parisian restaurants
“Well, Wot y' goin' t' do? Ring for the police?”
‘No, the parson !”
of long ago. What it would cost now,
the deuce only knows. One special deli-
cacy which used to cost its weight in
gold was wild duck from the Landes. In
spring these fed only on the crayfish in
the ditches, and as food were far above
rLJ bies.
„ T * . „ *
K.J.O. : Had a visitor from abroad
scratching his head t’other day. Showed
him what is known locally as Bald Hill,
a shrub-covered hill standing between
“Are you living with your wife?"
‘No, y'r 'Onor; but I'm living within a stone's-throw of 'erf"
our house and Botany Bay (Sydney). At
any time of the day smoke may be ob-
served rising above this summit, some-
times black and threatening, sometimes
grey and wispish. Being a stranger, he
swallowed my story of the burning coal-
seam deep in Mother Earth, until he dis-
covered for himself that a gelatine fac-
tory stands behind the hill. Neverthe-
less the volcanic effect is most pro-
nounced, and is particularly striking
when seen against a fiery red or pearl-
shell-pink sunset.
* * * *
“Holothuridce”: “Kaa-pai” mentions
(B. 12/6/’35) red “teat” fish being sold
in N.G. for under one-tenth their value
in China. What, precisely, is their value
in China? In former days “red prickly
fish” (presumably what he means) were
prized. Then a fisherman round Cook-
town used a copper boiler to cook his
catch, with the result that several epicures
died—probably from verdigris poison in
the copper. “Red prickly” fell in price ;
if it has regained favor in Chinese eyes
it can be only very recently.
* * * *
“Hamba Gachle”; It is hard to find
anything new under the sun. One Dr.
Atcherley, of New Guinea, fells of the
discovery of a cave stacked with bodies
mummified by lime-water drip which has
encased them in silicate shells. No N.G.
tribe to-day is known to go in for mum-
mification, though the Papuans of the
Torres Straits islands used to. The
yarn was plagiarised by Rider Haggard
50 years ago in “King Solomon’s Mines.”
The heroes were led by Gagool the witch-
doctor into a vast cave round which the
petrified kings of the lost Bantu race dis-
covered by the party sit in stony silence.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: “Dead finish” (B. 3/7/’35)
as I knew it on the Barcoo has its good
points. For one thing it is not impene-
trable. Florses and cattle make tunnels
in its thick, dark recesses in fly time,
and doze the day away in comfort.
Further, the tough red wood makes
splendid stockwhip-handles. I was the
special protege as a small boy of an old
Eagle Farm lag who spent most of his
time carving whip-handles for me. He
was an artist, and picked out his designs
in red and blue as well as bone. I fancy
those handles would be worth a lot as
Australian curios to-day.
* * * «
“Gryllus”: Daddy Longlegs (crane fly
in naturalists’ Jingo) is hurrying on his
amazing limbs across my table. A horse
with legs of corresponding length and
speed of movement would overhaul the
Bluebird, all out; but such a punters
dream is impossible. No insect, past or
present, ever weighed more than about
half the weight of a halfpenny, for the
reason that insects breathe by soakage of
air through a system of tubes. Had they
developed lungs, or even gills, there
might have been ants the size of lions,
mosquitoes as big as bombing ’planes.
Their lightness makes insects practically
independent of gravity. Falls cannot
hurt them—unless they fall into a liquid.
Then the risk is not one of gravity but
of surface tension —the liquid sticks in-
stead of running off, and the insect can’t
get clear. As with man, drinking is a
serious risk to an insect—that is why
most insects have long probosces, to
allow them to drink safely. A few, like
water-beetles, can’t be wetted—another
way of overcoming the risks from care-
less contact with liquid refreshment.
* * * *
“Bam”: A South Aus. man who breeds
woollies for show purposes keeps them
rugged. One day a lady visitor noticed
he appeared to be interested in her new
spring frock of biscuit-colored material,
and asked him if he thought it a pretty
dress. His answer somewhat staggered
her. “I was just thinkin’ what bonzer
rugs that stuff would make for me
sheep,” he said.
* * * *
Parmelia”; Accordions have been
resurrected in competitions held at
Perth (W.A.) community concerts. Slick
as some of the manipulators may be
there isn’t one would compare with a
full-blooded gin who a few years ago
roamed about Perth suburbs. Once hav-
ing heard a tune, Mary could reproduce
it as note-perfect as a somewhat wheezy
instrument would permit. She has sup-
plied the music at bush dances, but
mostly the jazzers drew the color line.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: I’m t.t. —or near enough
to it —but odd experiences I’ve had at
times have led me, temporarily, to the
conclusion that Australian bush air has
a potency worth bottling. On one occa-
sion I reclined on a log in the Gippsland
bush masticating and meditating when,
to my startled surprise, a large twig
took life unto itself, rose, stretched and
departed for the further end of the log
with an ungainly, lumbering stride. That
was my first acquaintance with a stick
insect. Some months later, some miles
further north, I was wandering in the
deep dusk of a summer evening along
a track bordered by tall gum-trees. In
a spot where night had already de-
scended the quiet was suddenly rent by
appalling shrieks and howls. Imme-
diately two silent, shapeless forms de-
tached themselves from the upper dark-
ness and drifted eerily down to the base
of a near-by sapling. My introduction
to the family of phalangers! My meet-
ings with land-crabs and frog-fish, those
queer creatures that inflate their carcasses
upon threat of attack, also filled me with
strange misgivings as to my sobriety.
GRATITUDE.
“Kate's 'anded me me ’at,” he said. “She
wouldn’t ’ave me on ’er mind,
She told me yesterday. It’s queer ’ow ’ard
it is a girl to find
’Oo sees things in the proper light—that is, the
way us fellers do;
For wrong to ’em is darn well right, an’ right—
well. I’ll leave that to you.
“I met ’cr ole man in the town, an’, knowin’
that ’e liked a spot,
1 asked ’im could ’c keep one down, an’ after
one we ’ad a lot.
I 'olds me liquor like a man; but ’im —it
wasn’t very long
Before the stagger stage began; an’ then ’c
burst out inter song.
“ ’E tried to yodel ‘Nelly Bligh,’ an’ dance a
jig along the street;
’E ’it a post an’ bruised 'is eye an’ got all
tangled in 'is feet.
Then, just bccos ’e was ’er dad, I 'caved ’im
up into ’is dray,
An’ saw to it a flask ’c 'ad to ’elp ’im safely
on ’is way.
“'E muster got ’ome pretty late; an’, as ’e
went an’ smashed the fence
Instead o’ goin’ through the gate, ’e showed a
lack o’ commonscnsc.
An’ so did Kate. She said to me: ‘Git out of
’ere —you made dad blind ;
You made ’im full as full could be.’ ... An’
I was only bein’ kind!”
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


LYSAGHTS
li Jfc
4. 5L
PROOF
100% Australian-made
From Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
.
w A - 4 >f, rjv - * ~iHv " *«s■&
•*&«&
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Grassland and Dairying.
N.S.W. Agricultural Department has
issued a helpful pamphlet on dairying
grassland management by J. N. Whittet,
State Agrostologist. The author hits the
nail on the head when he declares at the
outset that young, leafy pasturage has a
high feeding value and that when pad-
docks are kept in high condition and
closely grazed the quality of the feed is
maintained throughout the season.
Mr. Whittet advocates rotational graz-
ing combined with fertilising as a basis
of his system. His ideal is to feed pasture
3in. to 4in. high to milking cows, leav-
ing the residue to be cleaned up by dry
cows, young stock or sheep. Two or
three days is enough for each class of
stock in any paddock, hence the need for
plenty of paddocks. Roughage rejected
by dry cows should be mown.
Fertilising is only part of the game—
sod-bound pastures do not respond,
especially if carrying paspalum. Dry
grass and trash should be cleaned off
the paddocks; they should have two
workings at right angles in early autumn
with a paspalum cultivator—down to
Sin. or 4in. if the sod is strongly bound.
If lime is used, it should precede the
fertiliser, which should consist of lewt.
super, per acre after rain in spring and
autumn, plus lewt. ammonium sulphate
in autumn or early spring, particularly
where perennial rye is sown. In some
districts |cwt. muriate of potash is needed
—soil analysis will show if this is so.
It should go in with the autumn dose of
super. Where there is lime deficiency
the prescription is half to one ton of
ground carbonate every three years.
The number-of-paddocks rule is; “The
more the merrier.” In Denmark
movable hurdles are used as well as
tether-lines, so that milkers may be con-
tinually on the move. The ideal is enough
division to allow four days’ grazing by
the two classes of stock, and then a three
weeks’ spell, a system which retains the
grass in a state of high digestibility.
Mr. Whittet advises, on N. S. Wales
coastal districts —the same applies to the
best of Queensland coastal land —where
paspalum-white clover is the staple,
about 12 milking cows to the acre under
a two-three-day grazing system. So with
60 milkers five-acre paddocks are best.
Subdivision need not be expensive or
permanent. Plain top and two barbed
wires run through posts 15ft. to 16ft.
apart, with each paddock opening into
a 50ft. laneway leading to water, is sound
fencing. Plenty of shade-trees and wind-
breaks are needed.
At Berry (lilawarra) Experimental
Farm average costs in two recent years’
experiments worked out at 10s. for two
super, dressings p.a., 6s. lid. p.a. for lime
and 14s. p.a, for amm. sulphate. Labor
cost ss. 3d. per acre at 13s. per day per
man —total £1 16s. 2d. per acre p.a. or,
on a 12-cow basis, 3s. per milker. Costs
ran as high as £5 15s. 9d. for a two-year
period on some paddocks, but the total
gain per acre for the two years, over
cost of fertiliser and working, was
£2l 14s. 7d. on the maximum paddock.
Four paddocks under treatment pro-
duced 218, 218.5, 219 and 237.71 b. aver-
age butterfat p.a. during the two-year
period. One paddock was left with com-
paratively long feed, but unfertilised to
demonstrate that rank growth is not
necessarily feed.
Though it was average “natural” grass,
cows coming off fertilised paddocks in-
variably refused to graze on it. Its return
was 27.51 b. butterfat p.c. for the two
years. Limed and fertilised, its produc-
tion since has been revolutionised.
Butter Quality.
“Silky Bag”: Most dictators about
butter quality miss the point that the
cow and her feed are important factors.
Certain grasses produce good flavors
and qualities ; others don’t. Some cows
give sweeter milk than others. Denmark
has specialised in these aspects and
readily sacrified quantity for quality. To
date only a small section of cow dairy-
men have seen the light.
Lucerne, the stock inland feed, is good
as a part but not as a whole ration. It
tends to make butter yellow, heavy-tast-
ing and sometimes flabby. Paspalum, on
the contrary, tends to produce an attrac-
tive white butter, but not always full
flavored. Rye grasses and cocksfoot and
phalaris mixtures with a little clover
have proved the best for color and
flavor.
Maoriland and Danish farmers pull
together when they strike a problem like
this. We usually let the other fellow
start the job. If we could combine to
grow the right type of feed, produce a
constantly even sample of butter, we
could capture the overseas market.
Polled Stock.
“Agamemnon”: Athough progressive
breeders favor polled stock, many are
opposed to dehorning. In evolving a
polled breed from a horned one, many
otherwise perfect animals will have to
be culled, and improvement will be slow.
Using the improved dehorners de-
veloped by the C.5.1.R., calves up to
eight months can be safely and easily
dealth with. Even the dehorning of
mature cows need not be severe.
With calves it is necessary to cut away
both the “button” and some of the soft
tissue around it. If left, a hard, horny
growth will appear.
Dehorning should not be done in hot
weather or when flies are bad, and a
good antiseptic ointment should be kept
handy. Should a sinus be opened up
accidentally, it should be packed with
medicated oakum.
A Handy Sheep-race.
“Pick”: The race should be 20ft. long,
3ft, high and 2|ft. wide. Build it from
the apex of a triangular yard. Sheep
draw readily uphill, but stubbornly refuse
to be driven down a narrow lane.
Use straight rails nailed flush into
grooves sawn in the sides of the posts.
Smoothly adze their inner sides and
punch the nails, leaving nothing to drag
wool out of the sheep.
In a line midway from the race build
a fence to separate the outlet pens. The
most careful drafter sometimes slips a
woolly to the wrong side. Hence, make
the outlets pens small, with bigger hold-
ing yards outside.
To the first post of the dividing fence
bolt-hinge a light 3ft. gate, hung to close
neatly 3in. from either end of the race
fences.
Standing outside, the drafter opens or
closes the gate to slip the running sheep
left or right as required.
A rounded grip on the gate head-post
makes for easy handling.
W orm-drenching.
“Mr. Holly”: After many years’ trial
of various cures for worms in sheep I
have come back to “bluestone and mus-
tard” as the safest and surest drench.
The following makes enough for 400
to 480 grown sheep: lib. mustard, lib.
bluestone (copper sulphate) in 6gal. water.
Mix the mustard in cold water, the blue-
stone in boiling. Pour the two liquids
together, and keep stirring till well
mixed.
Two fluid ounces to a grown sheep
and loz. to those under 12 months should
do the trick; but to ensure absolute
eradication the operation must be re-
peated seven to ten days later. The first
dose will not remove the eggs in the
stomach.
Always yard the sheep last thing at
night. Drench next morning, and let
them go early enough to settle down be-
fore dark. Handle in lots of 1000 to
1500 from one paddock to another, and
transfer back at the second drenching.
This makes for less knocking about of
the sheep and a 100 p.c. muster.
I find a sauce-bottle is a good drench-
ing horn.
A few dozen of them with a dose in
each before you begin gives a good start.
Then keep a boy refilling as you go
ahead.
Breeding-out Wrinkles,
“Sheepo”: “G.F.D.,” discussing the
Mules experiment at Tandawanna (Q.)
(B. 19/6/’35), asks me if I have any idea
how long it would take to “mate the
wrinkles out.”
I cannot say, but some attempt is
better than none, and many Queens-
landers have already freed their flocks of
wfinklies by judicious culling and mating.
The Mules method seems to me only a
palliative. Wrinkles are in the blood,
and no outward surgical operation can
remove them. The sooner graziers take
the advice of the C.S.I.R. to cultivate
types least attractive to blowflies the
sooner will the way be paved for some
degree of immunity.
Dig ’Em Out!
“S. Gumm”: Rabbits have been
bad in the Westralian wheat belt this
last year or two, and interest has been
aroused in the methods of E. H. B.
Lefroy, of Cranmore Park.
The Lefroy plan is to net boundary
and subdivision fences, clear scrub,
hollow logs and other natural cover, and
then dig out all burrows. Finally a man
with a pack of dogs keeps continual
watch for strays. Complete digging-out
of burrows is the indispensable factor.
Results? On one paddock of 1000
acres 12,000 rabbits were killed by men
digging out the burrows; approximate
cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. per acre. Cranmore
Park (13,000 acres) was alive with
rabbits 12 months ago ; it is practically
free of the pest to-day, one man and
dogs being sufficient to cope with strays.
Peg Leg in N. Queensland.
“El V.”: With the dry season peg
leg is worse than usual this season in
N. Queensland. It is a disease marked
by lameness, deformities, under-develop-
ment and failure of females to breed. It
strikes females most' commonly, mainly
during long, dry winters. Bullocks are
not affected to the same extent —usually
they are put on the pick of the feed in
bad times.
P.L. is said to be due to lack of phos-
phorus in soil and feed, intensified by
lack of normal water supply.
In its earlier stages it can be distin-
guished from mere under-nourishment by
the peculiar gait of sufferers, which be-
come stiff-jointed and move with a
peculiar, short stride. Mainly, they early
become bone-chewers. Then come a
general unthriftiness of appearance, a
rigid arching of the back and, perhaps,
spontaneous fractures of the ribs. On
removal to good feed of the right con-
tent, the patients usually improve in con-
dition, but their bone deformity cannot
be cured.
Experiments were carried out at
Helenslee (Charters Towers district) in
1933.
One group was spoon-fed with loz.
dicalcic phosphate every day. Their
average body gain was 471 b. in eight
months. Others which received 3oz. of
disodium phosphate per beast, dissolved
each day in drinking-water, showed an
average increase of 371 b. per head.
Supplementary feeds of meatmeal (4
p.c. phosphate), ground limonite (for
iron) and mixed dicalcic phosphate and
salt were given. The average cost of the
“dicalcic” dosage over the period was
3s. lOd. per head.
The experiment was not conclusive.
Against its success was the fact that the
animals had to walk an abnormal dis-
tance each day to water and were handled
more than usual. Spoon-dosage with
d.p. is out of the question under station
conditions, and the administration of
medicine in water supply is unsatisfac-
tory—it k almost impossible to assure
that any animal will obtain a given dose.
Still, results point the way towards
success. The area affected seems to be
spreading—during the 1902 drought,
when the disease was first named by
Adam Black, of Pajingo (N.Q.), it was
limited to the country round Charters
Towers, and it is now to be seen beyond
the Selwyns. Further experiment is
necessary to provide a preventive lick or
other palliative.
Why Eradicate Lantana?
“Plankton”; According to recent
reports, the authorities at Canberra
regard lantana as a noxious weed.
They intend to introduce the tingid
bug from Fiji to kill off the plant. There
is occasional trouble among cattle from
eating larttana leaves ; but lantana plant
has virtues which must be admitted.
As lantana is a typical surface-rooting
plant, it does not much impoverish the
soil. The leaves are numerous and, when
rotted, the source of valuable potash:
indeed, this fact is taken advantage of
by banana-growers in Queensland.
It has long been a regular practice to
allow exhausted banana land to revert
to lantana for a few years, during which
the humus in the soil improves enough
to allow the area to produce heavy crops.
There is no huge area of lantana in
Australia. In N. S. Wales the plant is
so controllable that varieties of it arc
used for garden hedges, while in the
Queensland volcanic coastal country,
where it flourishes most prolifically, a
good fire will eat it out in no time, leav-
ing a healthy residue of ash with a fer-
tilising content.
In the volcanic fruit areas the Gov-
ernment certainly will get little thanks
for interfering.
Ragwort Problems.
“X.N.”: Victoria now has its Ragwort
League to deal with the scourge which
spells heavy loss to both south-eastern
Australian and M.L. farmers. At a con-
ference the other day it was reported
that three preparations—one based on
arsenic, another on salt and a third on
sodium chloride —had proved effective.
Most experimenters favored the sodium
chloride, since it does not affect pasture.
Nevertheless, the pest remains formid-
able, along with others of its ilk, and
co-ordinated effort seems to be needed to
deal with them. While the C.5.1.R., to


A New
Small Grazier*’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
V ■>'
FOOT FREEDOM!
All the foot muscles enjoy full
liberty of movement in Abbey Shoes
. . . and this shoe, offering choice
of four widths, narrow, medium,
wide and extra wide, in each size,
absolutely guarantees made-to-
measure comfort. It has an extra
heavy and extra strong sole.
ORDER BY POST—State both width
and size, and ask, also, for a supply of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d. per tin),
or a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . .33/6
TAN CALF . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY
FPL 440.
Smart and Attractive
Made-to-Order Leggings
When next visiting Sydney, make a
point of calling on us and being fitted
for a pair. We guarantee perfect'
fit. If you require them immediately,
write for a “Self-measuring” Chart.
£
PIGSKIN:
Spring Front .... 607-
Lace Front 63/-
OOZ CALF-
Spring Front .... 557-
SMOOTH HIDE:
Spring Front .... 38/6
Second Grade . . . 307-
Lace Front .... 42/6
CANVAS:
Grey or White, Spring
Front 357-
Super Quality . . 45/-
W rite for our list of
Saddler-made Horse Rugs.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
:»)■-. i;koik;k sthkkt, svdnkv.
Q.
5C
<>
%
o
Runs valve Radio
Elec Iron for I'au/eek
Above is extract of a letter from
an R-an-D DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
DEBlTl.—Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKL A N D, N.Z. - MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
<>r from the manufacturers.
MADE IN gUEENSLAAJD BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
■VALUEV BRISBANE
CONI RACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
... And now —
Your Income Tax Return!
BEFORE you take out a life-assurance policy you consider
premium rates, expenses, bonuses, mortality and other
items which go to make a policy good or better. You want
to pay the least for what you get in return for your money.
ou have to pay taxes, but you don’t want to pay more than
you’re obliged to. How many people are fairly assessed? Are
YOU being fairly assessed? You don’t know unless you are con-
versant with the Acts.
The best way of gathering an immediate working knowledge
of the Federal and N. S. Wales. Income Tax Acts is to read
INCOME TAX RETURNS," a simple and concise explanation of
the subject by H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.).
The extent to which life-assurance premiums, calls paid to
goldmining companies and losses on share dealings are allowed
as deductions are explained in this book. Other items of income
and outgo are fully and simply dealt with. The book is the
handiest and most concise work on the subject yet published,
and it has been brought right up to date. The price is only
FIVE SHILLINGS
(postage 3d.).
There is a 16-page index of income and expenditure items.
The book is indispensable to businessmen, farmers, salary-earners
and company secretaries. Accountants, lawyers and sharebrokers
will find it invaluable. Write to-day to the Endeavour Press, 252
George Street, Sydney, for your copy of
INCOME TAX RETURNS
“The Book of the Month —JULY means
Income Tax Returns'
which the basic credit is due for the
move which has brought about the
destruction of prickly-pear, is starved for
funds, the N. S. Wales Government has
voted £lOO,OOO, or more than two-thirds
of the C.S.T.R.’s whole appropriation,
, to deal with skeleton weed alone. And,
except for the Riverina wheatgrowers,
nobody seems to want skeleton weed
dealt with, a lot of graziers regarding it
as excellent dry-weather feed.
If the C.S.I.R. were given £1,500,000
p.a., and if it succeeded in sorting out
what are and what are not economically
damaging plants and found means of
destroying the nuisances and mitigating
the blowfly curse only 20 p.c., it would
be paying its way half a dozen times
over. The present haphazard methods
under which the destruction of some
alleged pests is oversubsidised and others,
are allowed to spread at their own sweet
will is far from being economic.
Wheat Prices.
“E.H.M.”: Wheal prices have had a
heavy fall in London and Liverpool, due
to the fear of the dumping of a Canadian
surplus of 228,000,000 bushels, together
with other influences —the licensing of
an export of two to three millions of
bushels from France included.
Had the blow fallen on Chicago and
Montreal pits not so much attention
would have been given to it, but in
Liverpool particularly the market is
rigidly controlled, and, while the Ameri-
can pits gamble only in their own pro-
duct, Liverpool has the world to play
with.
Liverpool’s trading is based strictly on
daily settlements, and there is an insur-
ance system to doubly cover the fulfil-
ment of “futures” contracts, the basic
margins on which are paid through a
clearing house within 24 hours after
registration, with an additional cover of
£2O per load of 4800 centals. Every day
from then on cash adjustment of mar-
gins is made, no credit whatever being
given and defaulters automatically ceas-
ing after 24 hours to be members of
the association. Apparent profits in trad-
ing are set against apparent losses, how-
ever, till a contract is closed. There
have been few calls on the Grain Con-
tract Insurance Company to cover de-
faults. There will be no wild panic or
corners in Liverpool.
A committee grades all wheat, and may
adjust prices to 3d. per cental each way.
July selling is “mid-season” trading,
and mainly affects U.S.A., Argentine and
Canadian wheat. Canadian begins to
arrive in October, and is delivered freely
till January. U.S.A. supplies generally
are a couple of months earlier. Argen-
tine supplies arrive from February and
March onward throughout the year, and
the Australian season lasts for five
months from March, so that the 1935
season is now nearly over.
The recent fall of l|d. per bushel in
Liverpool to 2s. lid., July futures, was
a big thing, but Australian growers need
not yet lose heart about next season’s
prices.
For one thing, the Canadians are un-
likely to kill their own values by a mad
release of supplies ; indeed, the Govern-
ment announces that this won’t happen.
For another, the weather in all countries
has fended to reduce output of first-class
milling wheats. And unsettlement and
high prices in- Europe may lead some
prudent countries which are desperately
struggling to foster home production to
change their policy. Germany reduced
its wheat imports from 9,807,000 quarters
in 1929 to 2,992,000 quarters last year,
and France in the same period from
8,720,000 quarters to 3,423,000 quarters.
The only reflex from the Liverpool
events in Australia so far have been a
2s 6d. reduction in flour prices in some
States and a nominal decline in prices
of from Id. to 2d. on bulk lots, with
no sellers. Growers should not be
stampeded.
English Farm Economy.
“Hortus”: English farmers working on
small areas have learned the value of
straw, which we regard often with con-
tempt.
Their crops are cut to a close stubble
—out of the question on our big areas.
At threshing-time, straw stacks—
wheat, oat, barley, pea and bean —fill the
English rickyards handy to chaffhouses
and cowsheds.
. The pea straw makes good litter for
stock housed during the winter months.
The wheaten and oaten straw, particu-
larly, form the basis of the winter feed.
What is here called “bush hay,” but there
made from super.-top-dressed grasses and
clovers, is stacked near the straw supply.
An armful of straw and an armful of
hay are worked together as evenly as
possible into a chaffcutter, turning out a
nutritious chaff with plenty of roughage
in it.
With this is put machine-chopped
mangel-wurzel, a staple crop on every
farm, however small. The neaps com-
plete the balanced ration and add flavor
to it.
Phis feed is the basis of winter milk
production.
Other straw is used to cover haystacks
and pitted mangel-wurzels, carrots and
potatoes. These “pits,” generally long,
low pyramids, and on well-drained sites,
are godsend to every British farmer.
Straw litter from bails, etc., is thrown
out every other day—good fertiliser- and
humus-makers.
My experience was gained on a 700-
acre English dairy farm. Ninety-two
cows were milked twice a day by hand,
and 250 acres were under rotational cul-
tivation.
1 he same family had owned the land
lor 150 years, and it was on record that
no fodder had ever been bought except
oilcake for the fat stock.
Coming from there to a Victorian 400-
acre farm where the wheat was har-
vested and feet-high stubble burnt was
a shock.
Hints for the Farm.
“L.A.T.”: The use of hessian as an
absorbent makes bale-branding easier
and gives a more even brush than wool,
which is generally used. It gives a 50 p.c.
saving on fluid, which it holds longer
than the wool-pad.
“Wealsman”: Unless weatherboards
are very green a Pin. lap is enough, but
the commonest mistake of amateurs is
not insufficient lapping but incorrect
pailing to make sure they drive the nail
through both boards instead of through
the upper one only, just clear of the
lower. This ensures disaster; as the
boards shrink laterally they pull against
the nail in opposite directions, and one
or both split.
“Hope Vale”: When killing a pig, try
skinning instead of the usual tedious
scraping. It takes little longer than skin-
ning a sheep. Bacon cures well without
the skin, and pigskin is valuable.
“Jackmack”: A strong light gate can
be made from an old sulky tyre. Any
handyman can heat it and bend it to the
desired shape—an oblong with a pyramid
top is as good as any. Drill small holes
at intervals round the frame and rivet in
uprights and crosspieces. Use two bolts
from an old pair of hames riveted into
the frame as hinges. Add a coat of paint.
“Mangaratta”: Cutting dirty crops for
hay is common. A pint of whole grain
will pass through the system of a horse
undigested, and germinates. Thus many
weeds besides barley may be spread over
fallows, and even when clean wheaten
hay is fed the practice probably accounts
for many of the foreign wheat types seen
in crops. The proof lies in the better
control of weeds noted on tractor farms.
Over all parts of the Westralian wheat
belt and the pastoral Murchisons good
rains have fallen. They are very late—
possibly too late for crops in outlying
parts—but, generally speaking, they have
relieved a situation that had grown
serious.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What size piping and what horse-power would
be required to drive a centrifugal pump deliver-
ing 200 gallons per minute to a point 500 ft.
distant and 40 ft. above the pump ? —7470.
Size of the pipe and h.p. of the engine are
correlated. With an 8-h.p. engine the inside
diameter of the pipe may be 4in., but if a
5-6-h.p. engine is employed the diameter of
the pipe must be increased to sin. Selection
will therefore depend upon a comparison of
costs.
** Jfs 4c
When should hurrajong seeds be planted, and
do they take to germinate ?— 7446.
Sow in spring. If the seed is fresh and sown
in good soil the young plants, though rather
small, should be ready to plant out in 12
months from date of sowing.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back covei
Bulletin to hand. , . :rm .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every > q y
must be confined to one subject. , .
The right of selection and rejection is reseryea
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not adrnissime.
Wants.
Young man, N'.S.W., practical knowledge
sheep-farming and agriculture, efficient wool-
classer and book-keeper, managing exp., wants
position as farm manager. Refs. —7530.
Printer (25), N.S.W., ambitious, wants posi-
tion anywhere. Competent lino, operator,
comp., machinist, etc. Refs. —7549.
Young man, N.S.W., public-school education,
three years’ exp. on large western-N.S.W. sheep-
holding, wants job as jackeroo. —7553.
To buy Hall and Knight’s Higher Algebra
and Freeman’s Actuarial Mathematics. 7566.
Words of poem entitled “Mulga Jim.”
7535.
Patient in M.L. hospital, three years, thankful
for reading matter, especially on radio, sheet
music for study (any class), stamps, odd radio
parts of any kind, or anything offering diver-
sion. Will pay postage. —7533.
Information Sought.
(1) Has anything been done in Australia con-
cerning the manufacture of power alcohol.
(2) Is the straw of our cereal crops ( wheat,i
oats and barley) suitable ? (3) Has alcohol
been used in motor-car, -truck or stationary
engines in Australia ? (4) Is manufacture
costly ? (5) Any figures available concerning
cost of manufacture in Australia ? —7376.
(1) Quite a lot. The possibilities have been
discussed in C.S.T.R. Bulletin 33, and at the
present lime a plant, capable of producing
1,000,000 gallons p.a., is in operation at Sanna,
Q. (2) Technically, yes; economically, no. (3)
Yes. (4) In large-scale plants operating through-
out the 12 months, it costs from 6d. to Bd. per
gallon to produce, exclusive of the cost of the
raw material. (5) Sec reports of operations at
Sarina.
* * * *
(1) Is Alice Springs progressing or likely to
progress within a few years? (2) Would a
building and contracting venture there be profit-
able ? (3) Ruling wages for carpenters there ?
(4) Approximate cost of living as compared
with Melbourne ? (5) Opportunities for mica-
mining ? —7056.
(1) The town has progressed considerably
since the railway line was constructed. It is
not, however, anticipated that there will be any
rapid progress in the near future. Develop-
ment of the N.T. is taking place further afield,
in the mining areas at Tennant’s Creek and
Arltunga. (2) No; there is little building
activity. (3) £5 Bs. 6d. per week. (4) No official
record has been kept, but c. of 1. is undoubtedly
higher than Melbourne. The freight on
groceries is £24 ss. 3d. per ton. (5) Not attrac-
tive at present prices. Only a few individual
miners are now working on the Territory mica-
fields.
* * * *
(1) When and why was the building of the
A-class broadcasting station in North Queens-
land sanctioned officially ? (2) When are broad-
casting operations likely to commence ? —7113.
(1) The establishment of this station is in
accordance with a comprehensive plan of
development of the national broadcasting sys-
tem, and it is one of a group of seven new
stations for which funds were authorised in
the estimates for 1934-35. (2) Until test trans-
missions have taken place it is impracticable
to forecast an opening date. The installation
of the equipment should be approaching com-
pletion in November.
* * * *
How is entrance gained into the British Dip-
lomatic Corps ? From where can full infor-
mation be obtained ? Has Australia any depart-
ment resembling the Diplomatic Service ? —7427.
Candidates for appointment to the British
Foreign Office and Diplomatic Service must
appear before a Board of Selection, whjch
meets in England in May each year to decide
which candidates possess suitable qqalifica-
tions to enable them to compete at the pre-
scribed examination. Candidates may appear
before this board at any time after reaching
the age of 19, but must be between the ages
of 22 and 25 in order to compete at the ex-
amination. Candidates must be natural-born
British subjects and born within the United
Kingdom or in one of the Dominions, of
parents also born within those territories. Per-
sons actually serving in the army, navy or
civil service are eligible only under certain
conditions. A fee of £6 is required in respect
of the examination, and particulars of the sub-
jects may be obtained from the Department of
External Affairs. The Department of External
Affairs performs the duties in connection with
international relations and the external affairs
of the Commonwealth, but the Commonwealth
has no diplomatic or consular representatives
abroad. Australian interests in these par-
ticular spheres are looked after by the Govern-
ment in the United Kingdom.
* * * *
What is an “industrial advocate” ? What
are his qualifications ? Is he empowered to take
proceedings in the Industrial Court and appear
there ? What regulations or restrictions are
there ? In case of a grievance, real or alleged,
to whom could one go for redress ? —7285.
In N. S. Wales an industrial advocate is
commonly understood as a person who, though
not qualified as a solicitor or barrister, makes
his services available to litigants in proceedings
before industrial tribunals. He may appear
before an industrial tribunal with the consent
of that tribunal, and before an industrial
magistrate if authorised by the applicant or
the defendant in writing, such authority to be
filed with the Industrial Registrar prior to the
hearing or proof thereof being given orally
at the hearing. Apart from the above, there
are no regulations. Any complaint should be
made to the Minister for Labor and Industry,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Had the American negro plantation songs
any political significance ? (2) Were they com-
posed by educated negroes or by the whites .
(3) About what years were they due fly com-
posed? (4) What is the political significance
of the song "Marching through Geoigta .
7555. ' , . .
(1) None, except in so far as purely local
politics intimately affecting the individual negro
were introduced, as in “Ain t Judge Buies a
Hard Old Man?” which was a local variant foi
Judge Broyle, of Atlanta. The names ol local
characters were afterwards substituted m dif-
ferent districts. (2) By the negro slaves origi-
nally, when the words or music were recoided
by white observers; later they were alteicd and
extensively imitated, the Jubilee Singeis ol last
century first making them widely known
Stephen Foster’s songs, such as Old Folks at
Home,” “Massa’s in the Cold, Cold Giound,
etc., though negroid in character, were original
compositions. (3) For a considerable tunc
before and until shortly after the Civil War.
(4) “Marching through Georgia” is a marching
song of the Civil War, particularly of the troops
under General Sherman, and was wntten by
Henry Clay Wood. As the title implies, it com-
memorates the passage of the army through the
State of Georgia, and was invariably played
and sung in General Sherman’s honor and at
all gatherings where he was present.
* * * *
(1) Can the two ends of a rope he joined
by a long or a short splice ? (2) Is the method
of splicing similar to that used for Manila
rope ? (3) Does splicing impair the strength of
the rope ? (4) How should the two ends of a
rope be joined so that it may be run through
a b10ck?— 7459.
(1) Depends upon the length of the rope
and the purpose for which it is to be used.
A long splice occupies at least 30ft. of rope,
depending upon the size of the rope and the
conditions of working. Splices are forbidden
in all cases where human life might be endan-
gered should the splice break. (2) No. (3) 1 o
a slight extent. (4) A long splice is the only
method that can be used, as the diameter ol
the rope is not increased at the splice. Six-
strand rope lends itself most easily to splicing,
because the strands will then be practically the
same size as the heart, therefore making it
more convenient to transform the strand into
the heart.
* * * *
How can I get in touch with dealers in old
coins, and names of books on the subject ? —•
73 !4. .
Catalogues are as follows: The Numis-
matic Circular,” issued monthly by Spink and
Son, 5 King-street, St. James’s, London, S.W.I
(ss. p.a.), and that issued by B. A. Seaby,
Ltd., Oxford Circus House, 245 Oxford-street,
London, W.l (free). Books on coins include:
The Story of the British Coinage, by G. B.
Rawlings; English Coins and Tokens, by LI.
Jewitt and B. V. Head; Coins, and How to
Know Them, by G. B. Rawlings; The Coin
Collector’s Manual, by H. N. Humphreys (two
vols.); Copper Coins of Europe, by Frank C.
Higgins; and Coinage of the European Con-
tinent, by W. Carew Hazlitt —procurable from
Spink and Son.
* * * *
Is it a fact that the hero of Longfellow’s
poem ‘‘The Courtship of Miles Standish” was
an ancestor of the poet ? —7552.
John Alden was an ancestor of Longfellow
on his mother’s side —she w as a daughter of
General Wadsworth, of Revolutionary fame.
* * * *
What are the so-called ‘‘eight general divi-
sions of poetry” ? Will you give the titles of
some examples ? —7579.
Epic, Milton’s “Paradise Lost”; dramatic
comedy, “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,”
and tragedy, “Macbeth”; lyric, Shelley’s
“Indian Love Song,” Moore’s “Last Rose of
Summer”; elegiac, Gray’s “Elegy in a Country
Churchyard”; didactic, Bryant’s “Thanatop-
sis”; narrative and descriptive, Chaucer’s
“Canterbury Tales,” Longfellow’s “Tales of a
Wayside Inn”; pastoral, Spencer’s “Shepherd’s
Calendar”; humorous, Cowper’s “John
Gilpin.”
* * * *
Is it a fact that several of Moliere’s plays
were plagiarised in English shortly after their
publication ? —7564.
Yes, by Isaac Bickerstaff. “The Hypocrites”
(1768) follows closely Moliere’s “Tartuffe,”
and “The Quack Doctor,” by Bickerstaff, in
collaboration with Foote, is stolen from
Moliere’s “Love Doctor.” The offences
occurred about a hundred years after publica-
tion of the Moliere plays.
* * * *
When an object is thrown into the sea,
will it sink to the bottom irrespective of the
depth ? —7541.
It will eventually sink to the bottom provided
its specific gravity is appreciably greater than
that of sea water (about 1.03). Since water is
practically incompressible, its specific gravity
will not increase as a result of intense pressure,
but it will increase slightly due to fall in tem-
perature. Therefore, water on and near the
surface, being warmer, will be slightly lighter
than water near the sea bed. For this reason
the specific gravity of the object must be
appreciably greater than 1.03 in order that it
may sink.
* * * *
Who was the originator of the bell jar, and
what are its uses ? —7502.
The originator’s name is lost in antiquity,
and the jar probably dates back to a very
early period in glass manufacture. These jars
are used in connection with certain laboratory
experiments, where they are connected to an
air pump and the interior evacuated of air.
Also, this form of cover is used to protect
laboratory apparatus, such as microscopes and
other delicate instruments, from dust. French
and Belgian nurserymen use them in thousands
for raising vegetables under glass.
IF # * *
Is there a market for grass-tree resin; if
so, where is that market, and what prices are
offering? —7333.
Grass-tree resin is saleable at about £2O per
ton for the yellow variety, and £8 per ton
for the red, both prices dependent on quality.
For buyers, consult the Technological Museum,
Sydney, the South Australian Chemistry Depart-
ment or any of the State Forestry Departments.
* * * *
(1) What is the source of the name of the
Ambrose, light-vessel off N.Y. harbor ? (2)
How far out does it lie ? —7300.
(I) Not known. (2) Eight miles east ol the
north point of Sandy Hook, and six miles
seaward from the entrance to Ambrose Channel,
New York Bay.
* * * *
I get a very acute ' pain in the toes of my
right fool. It starts at the end of the middle
toe and spreads to the cushions of the other
toes and underneath the foot, and sometimes
up the shinbone. There appears to be a
slight swelling of the foot at the base of the
toes. Cause and treatment ? —7439.
Cause is partial collapse of the metatarsal
arch, or instep. This also involves the toes;
swelling results from displacement ol joint
flexors or ligaments associated with the latter.
Excessive body weight predisposes to the con-
dition, especially if slippers or low shoes are
worn to any extent. Well-arched footwear >s
essential; avoid long standing and physical
extremes, and bathe the feet in a warm soda-
bath at night. Massage after bathing with
an oil embrocation; for relief of pain rub
lightly with liniment of potassium iodide and
soap. Dust freely with talc, powder during
the day.
* * * ! i>
What value (medicinal or otherwise) has
spinach ? The doctor who has been attending
my children says it should he given frequently
with meals. —7472.
Apart from its value as an easily digested
vegetable, spinach demands respect owing to
the mineral matter that it contains. The ash
percentage is 1.6 —four times that ol; the
tomato and twice that of the carrot—and it
is exceptionally rich in iron. Percentage
analysis of the ash is iron 3.4, potassium
16.6, sodium 35.3, calcium 11.9, magnesium
6.4, phosphorus 10.2, sulphur 6.9, silica 4.5
(all as oxides), and chlorine 6.3. As with other
green vegetables, the food value of spinach is
small, but the vitamin A content equals that
of egg-yolk or butter. It also contains vita-
mins B and C, the latter content being almost
equal to that of fresh lemon-juice. Spinach
may be included in practically any diet con-
taining solid food; it is permissible in gout,
diabetes, obesity, epilepsy, anaemia and debility
and constipation.
* t- * *
(1) Cause of antrum, a nose trouble ? (2)
Treatment? (3) Is it dangerous 3—7307.
(1) Antrum infection is a disease that in-
volves both nose and ear passages through
medium of the sinuses connected with these
organs. The maxillary antrum on each side
of the nasal cavity is most commonly affected
in this way. There is usually some septic
influence from defective teeth or post-nasal
faults, with resulting congestion and pus
accumulaton. (2) Surgical treatment is required.
(3) Extension of the trouble is a menace to
health, and medical examination should be
sought.
* * * *
What is acne rosacea ? Can it be cured by
local treatment ? —7637.
It is a chronic inflammatory disease of the
face, the nose being primarily affected. It is
characterised by redness, dilatation and scarring
of the part; pustules tend to form with the
resulting congestion. Cure is possible in the
early stages with removal of the initial cause.
The latter is usually of gastric or intestinal
origin, a toxic, auto-infective process being
directly traceable in most cases. Exact diagnosis
and treatment by a skin specialist are advised.
Meanwhile avoid condiments and heating
foods, and take a mild saline in warm water
first thing each morning. Calamine lotion may
be used as a covering lotion during the day.
The combined treatment (local and internal) is
usually required.
***.■*
Are oranges and lemons injurious to persons
suffering from rheumatism ? —7546.
Although the citric acid contained in oranges
and lemons is converted into carbonates in the
system, the excess acid in the latter restricts
their free use by the rheumatic subject. Ripe
fresh fruit, especially apples, oranges, pears,
etc., may be included in the diet.
* * * *
Cause of and cure for the softening of the
enamel of a boy’s teeth, otherwise good ?
7510.
When occurring without apparent cause, pro-
gressive softening of a child’s teeth enamel
suggests lime deficiency in the system. In-
ternally, lime in some form is essential; include
fresh milk and cereal foods freely with meals.
* * * *
What is the Rideal-Walker carbolic-acid test ?
—7621. . ....
This test is used to determine the germicidal
power of different disinfectants in comparison
with carbolic acid. The disinfectant to be tested
is diluted with distilled water to various
strengths, five cubic centimetres of each being
placed in a series of test tubes arranged in
order. The strength of these dilutions is now
tried against the typhoid bacillus, and a 24-
hour broth culture of the organism is pre-
pared for that purpose. To each of the test
tubes 0.2 cubic centimetres of the broth culture
is added, the tube being well shaken to com-
bine the mixture. At intervals of 24 minutes up
to 15 minutes, subsequent cultures from each of
the test tubes are taken on broth, and incubated
for 48 hours at 37 degrees C. The results
are compared with those given under similar
conditions by similar dilutions of carbolic acid.
* if * *
Recipe for homemade car-polish ? —7382.
Yellow wax 20 parts, powdered silica (flour-
fine) 40 parts, oil of turpentine 40 parts, soft-
soap 1 part, distilled water 5 parts. Melt the
wax and gradually incorporate the powder;
then stir in the turpentine, and finally the soap
dissolved in the water (warm). Before using
any polish it is wise to find out the character
of the finish of your car. Some lacquers are
affected by turps and other polish solvents.
Brief Answers.
C.M.K.: “The Ballad of Stuttering Jim,” was
written by Samuel Cliall White. It appears in
Tfie Bulletin Reciter.... W.S.: The Insects of
Australia and New Zealand, by R. J. Tillyard.
E.N.: The Duke of York group, which
lies between New Britain and New Ireland,
consists of 13 islands, of which Duke of York
Island is the largest. The island of Mioko is
the seat of settlement. There is a mission
station at Port Hunter, at the northern end
of the main island... .L.S.: All the rat-
kangaroos stand like a kangaroo on their hind-
legs, but in running use both pairs ol limbs,
progressing not by a series of leaps but by
a kind of gallop, after the fashion of a rabbit.
. ...F.C.: 88,250 convicts were transported to
N.S.W. and Tas. from 1788 to 1840; 76,612
were males and 11,638 females... .K. 8.: (II
The steamer Cawarra was wrecked on Oyster
Bank, Newcastle, on July 12, 1866, when trying
to enter the port during an easterly gale. Sixty
lives were lost and only one saved. (2) The
Peony, barque, of Newcastle, was wrecked
near Richmond River (N.S.W.) in March, 1877.
Five lives were lost and live saved. Ihe vessel
sprang a leak and her pumps became disabled.
G.T.: It was Charles Lamb who said
“The human species, according to the best
theory I can form of it, is composed ol two
distinct races —the men who borrow, and the
men who lend”... .D.W.; It is from Ovid,
and reads in English: “In time the unmanage-
able young oxen come to the plough; in time
the horses are taught to endure the restraining
bit” 8.W.: Keep clean with boracic lotion
and anoint night and morning with boracic
ointment. A few grains of bicarbonate of
potash should be mixed with the dog’s food
to cool the b100d... .C.S.; Washing the parts
daily for a few days with kerosene, one part,
and buttermilk, six parts, mixed together, or
J eyes’ disinfectant fluid, eighty limes with water,
will destroy the small red insects with which
your dog is infested... .J.H.8.: Write to
Stewart Jamieson, editor The Australian and
New Zealand Ski Year Book. Box 50CC,
G.P.0., Sydney A.J.M.: Commonwealth
Oxygen and Accessories, Ltd., Wortley-street,
Balmain, and Woodall-Duckham (A/sia) Pty.,
Ltd., 16 Barrack-street, Sydney....C.B.: The
Rosicrucian Brotherhood, Rosicrucian Park,
San Jose, California, U.S.A J.D.G.: The
acting State secretary of the A.R.U. (N.S.W.
branch) writes: “The A.R.U. is not affiliated,
nor has it ever been connected in any way, with
any Labor organisation in Russia or any
country other than Australia”... .J.M. : Sug-
gest Ulnferno di Dante in Harrap’s Bilingual
Scries (with Italian on one page and English
translation facing same on another page), price
Is. 6d R.C.: The book has no commercial
value. .. .T.V.G.: Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Hen-
rietta-strcct, London, W.C.2. There is also a
New York branch.... M.M.T.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of External Affairs, Canberra,
F.C.T N.H.G.: The Local Government
Act (N.S.W.) provides for the general shire
or municipal rates to be levied on “the unim-
proved capital value” of the land. This value
remains the same irrespective of whether any-
thing, from fence to house, is erected on it.
The land having been divided into four blocks,
each block is rated separately L.P.: As the
land on which the cows stray is not yejur
property, you have no grounds for an action
for trespass, but you could sue the owner for
the value of the damage done to your hedge.
A letter saying you intend doing so might have
a good effect. You cannot compel the owner
of the adjoining land to drive the animals off
if he is indifferent to the trespass A.E.D.:
As you do not state the class of work per-
formed, it is not possible to state the rate of
pay. Send full details to the Dept, of Labor
and Industry, Sydney... .J. 8.: In the case of
McNutt v. Widgee (1896), 7Q.L.J.75, it was
decided that if a person is in possession of
land in such circumstances that no person
interferes with him in the use which he makes
of it, he is in occupation of it and liable to
be rated by the Ipcal authority as the occu-
pier of the land. .. .F.W.E.: Get in touch with
Sargood, Gardiner, Ltd., 83 York-street,
Sydney... .G.D.J.: Operation for removal of
varicose veins is not advised in all cases.
Injection treatment with quinine and urethane
affords a means of veinous obliteration in
incipient varicose developments, but much de-
pends upon location and extent of the trouble.
Local injection does not necessarily incapacitate
from work. (2) From three to five guineas
M.H.: Know of no special treatise on the
subject. Tobacco-smoking, its effect on body
and mind, is discussed in many medical text-
books. Excessive smoking is harmful. In
moderation its effect is sedative and mildly
antiseptic... .D.K.D.: Can’t undertake assay-
ing. Can have the work done by a reliable
Sydney analyst; fee, 6s. Bd. for each metal de-
termination, cost to be prepaid... .E. 8.8.: The
book has no commercial value... .M.L.: As
soon as the concrete has set hard enough to
resist pressure from the thumb, cover with one
inch of sand, wet it and keep sand damp for
at least seven days —the longer the better —
before removing... .J.J.C.; Write Secretary,
Air Board, Defence Dept., Melbourne....
J.TT.A.: It is within the power of the acting-
Coroner to allow the police to call the witness.
It is the practice to order all witnesses to leave
the court until called upon to give their evi-
dence, but the fact that a witness is in court
does not necessarily debar him from giving
evidence, though it may weaken the importance
attached to it... .8.G.T.: Oil of turpentine,
benzine or alcohol can be poured over it, and
left to dissolve into a mass; thicken or thin
the mixture by the amount of liquid used.
Other solvents are acetone, sulphuric ether or
amyl acetate. Probably methylated spirit would
make a fair job, and you might try it
J.N.: The coin is a Maundy twopence, and
its value, if in Mint condition, is sixpence....
M. 8.: Know of no helpful book. Get in touch
with the nearest school for the deaf....
R. 8.: Jingoes was the term applied in the late
’seventies to people who believed that Russia
was planning to attack the Indian Empire.
The word comes in the chorus of a music-hall
song of the period which runs: “We don’t
want to fight, but by Jingo if we do, We've
got the ships, we’ve got the men, we’ve got
The money, too!” W.T.S.: The coining of
the word “laconic” is said to have originated
when Philip of Macedon, in the course of his
conquest of Greece, wrote to the Spartan
magistrates “If I enter Laconia I will level
Lacedtemon to the ground”; to which the
Spartans replied with the single word “1f”....
(Many others mailed.)


SMOKE-OH!
Grabyssinia.
4. 4,4,
“The Italians have always defeated the
blacks.” — Mussolini.
Unless the Ethiopians can change
their skins it seems a poor lookout for
them. But wait a bit. Didn’t some-
thing happen to an Italian called Camera
the other day?
4* 4. 4. 4,
“Australia has a targe floating population.”
And most of it is floating in de luxe
cabins at the taxpayers’ expense.
T>
** *. ’
Retort Furious.
I had been practising the stunt for
days, and felt competent enough to show
my fiancde what a superlative driver she
was marrying.
We were doing a steady 35 when.
simultaneously wrenching the wheel,
releasing the accelerator and applying
the brakes, I brought my roadster to an
abrupt and spectacular halt beside a
petrol pump. Unfortunately, the sudden
stop almost sent my fair companion
“ You've got a slight chill. Co straight home and have
a good stiff whisky."
“ Er —Would you mind letting me have that in
writing?"
through the windscreen. Her expression
of displeasure was certainly to the point.
“Darling,” she observed coldly, “if
you’d started to stop a bit quicker you
needn’t have slowed down so fast!”
P. C.
•J* *l* Hf*
The world’s most remarkable man
was in Sydney the other day. He
escaped from the Foreign Legion and
isn’t going to write a book about it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
For Business Reasons.
Although I have dealt continuously
with sly-grog shops ever since my arrival
in Darlinghurst, I have now decided to
abandon them for ever.
No more will my irregular footsteps
pass up the back lane to Swillfast Man-
sions ; no more will my cautious tapping
be heard on the side window of Thirsty
Dick’s flat —I’m through with all of them.
You see, I am now in the business my-
self.
T. W. N.
Speed’ Gawkins’s End.
It was the last of Speed Gawkins. He
had faced his doom 50,000 or so times
and got out of it somehow to face an-
other doom ; but this was the End.
Yes ; the great heart that had never
failed before Lionmen, Hawkmen, Shark-
men, tigroes, dragons, sniffos, hydros,
Mings, bings and bangs was bust at last.
He had fallen eight million feet and
saved himself by catching his breath in
mid-air. In explosions that had blown
cities to pieces he had escaped injury by
keeping a cool hold on himself.
Calm and undaunted, he had carried
on for 70 years, tumbling out of one
stirring episode into another, without
pausing to sleep or eat, and still remain-
ing as young as ever. For a few odd
moments he was allowed to hold his
sweetheart in his arms; then she was
torn from them, and he was after her
again, killing all the things mentioned
before and being electrocuted, speared
and shot, but somehow coming through.
He was prepared, apparently, for the
worst horror his artist-author could in-
vent for him, and never be a day older.
But the most horrible horror was to
come.
It came unexpectedly. Still scathless.
Speed had shaken off the fragments of
a bust air city that had fallen on him
and was ready for the next. Then sud-
denly, so to speak, there was no next.
“ D'you know the way to Ironhark Cully?"
“ Yairs , toss. Follow me. I'm going there meself.”
His author-artist had run out of ideas
and had no new terror to place before
him. There was no fresh horror.
Speed Gawkins died of ennui.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4.
“The vice-chairman said that rumors that
nudism was being practised at a camp at
Rufford had led young people to go bird-
nesting in the woods near by.”— “Sun.”
The Wild Life Protection Society urges
stern measures against nudists.
“It’s tht Little Things” . . .
“The Mayor denied having used the word
‘any.’ What he had said was that he had done
as much work as many others. The letter
‘m’ made all the difference to his phrase.”
— “S.M.H.”
It recalls the sad case of my friend
Artemus Blink, who was a positive martyr
to a brace of similar misunderstandings.
The first dose of trouble came when he
was searching for his old gardening coat
prior to pruning his roses. In his pre-
occupation he was entirely oblivious of
the fact that his wife was talking, and
he called out: “Have you seen that old
coat about lately?” ignorant of the fact
that his wife had just audibly wondered
how her mother was getting on. He had
to face the barrage of his wife’s Xan-
tippean wrath, for she swore he’d said
“goat.”
The wife gave him a dog’s life for
years about it. Just as she seemed to
be forgetting it and was mentioning it
only about once a day the second un-
fortunate experience occurred. He had
received a letter asking him to call on
rich Uncle Pongo to discuss an important
matter. Artemus, with pleasant anticipa-
tions of something good, dashed off a
telegram; “Be there to-morrow. Hope
to get driven over before lunch.” Unfor-
tunately his awful calligraphy was mis-
interpreted by the telegraphist, and the
“driven” reached his uncle as “drivel.”
The Home for Lost Dogs was the gainer.
S. W. K.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If a grain of wheat was placed on the first
of the 64 squares on a draught-board and the
amount doubled for each of the other 63, one
million million tons of wheat would be re-
quired for the 64th square.”
The solution of the surplus-wheat
problem last.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Buying My Skates.
“Yes, I think you’ll be very pleased
with those skates,” said the salesman at
Mammoth Stores.
“I hope so,” I replied.
“Now is there anything else? A pair
of skis, perhaps?”
“No, thank you.”
“You’ll pardon my mentioning it, miss,
but you really should have your own
skis. The hired ones are never the same.
Now, take this line”
“No, thanks’’ (firmly), “I don’t want
any skis.”
“Well, perhaps I can sell you some
snowshoes. They’re great fun, you
know. I remember when I was up at
Kossy last year there simply weren’t
enough to go round. Now, if you have
your own, miss”,...
Again I had to disappoint him.
“I don’t want any snowshoes, thank
you.”
Did he despair? Not he!
“Well, at any rate, I’m sure I can in-
terest you in a toboggan. Tobogganing
is really the best fun there is. ’Specially
if you can get some of the young chaps
to do the uphill work. I’m sure you’ll
have no difficulty about that, miss.”
I trust I blushed suitably. Then 1
told him.
“Thanks very much. It’s very kind
of you. I’m sure, but I’m not going
tobogganing. Nor am I going ski-ing,
nor am I going shoo-ing or whatever it
is one does in snowshoes.”
He smiled patronisingly.
“I’m sure you’ll change your mind
when you get to Kossy, miss. Where
shall I send the skates?”
“I’ll take ’em with me, thanks. I’m
going to the Glaciarium.”
Sal.
4* 4* 4* *l*
“A speaker declared that radio dramas have
been a pronounced success.”
“Mispronounced success” would be
more accurate.
•I* *l* *l* 4*
Seeking the Cause.
“Now look here,” said the psycholo-
gist gravely. “We must carefully probe
your case. Your wife tells me you drink
large quantities of intoxicating liquor.”
Buggins nodded.
“Let me get the cause, and I'll guaran-
tee to stop this terrible habit inside a
month.”
“Cause?”
“Exactly. What drove you to drink?
A nagging wife, frustration, uncongenial
work?”
“Oh, nothing like that,” beamed
Buggins, licking his lips. “I drink
because I like it.”
J. McC.
“A recent fatal accident in a town in the
Shetland Isles was only the second to occur
since the first motor-car was seen there 25
years ago.” —News item.
So now, of course, the second motor-
car has been seen there.
Wisecrack.
, , .
Twas just the second day of
My long-looked-for vacation,
s'/? by accident we met
While we shelter d from the wet
In the dusk on Cooma station.
And I asked her, just by way of
Starting up a conversation,
-Do yew ike winter sports?-
J 1
She gave a smile of sorts,
And looked at me and swept me
With a glance from toes to head.
In suspense a while she kept me,
Then, provokingly, she said,
“On the whole, I think they’re dumber
Than the ones we meet in summer.”
UCO.
Letters That Might Have Been
Written.
in.
Hairy-legs, of the Stone Age, to>a friend,
describing an early disarmament con-
ference.
Beyond the Marshes,
Early Summer,
30,035 b.c.
Dear Lop-ears:
This bow-and-arrow business is worry-
ing me. I wish we’d never had any-
thing to do with it. We’ve been spend-
ing most of our time lately trying to
make bigger and better bows that’ll
shoot straighter and swifter arrows.
We haven’t had a decent club combat
for ages, and our young fellows are be-
ginning to think that all an axe is good
for is cracking walnuts. 1 thought I’d
done a great stroke in finding that yew-
wood. was the best: for bows, but unfor-
tunately I had overlooked one thing. We
haven’t got many yews in our part of
the forest, while the enemy’s territory is
simply full of ’em. Our Old, Men have
been putting their heads together to
get over the difficulty. First of all they
sent a peace mission to the other side
deploring the use of bows and suggest-
ing that they be abolished by mutual
consent.
I was one of the party. We pointed
out that bow-warfare meant death on a
scale hitherto unknown, and that its
continuance might mean the wiping out
of the entire race and the end of civili-
sation.
The enemy declined to take this broad
view, and selfishly refused to give up
their bows and arrows. This was unfor-
tunate, as the abolition of the bow would
have meant ultimate victory to us —we
being numerically the stronger. Not that
that was our reason for making the sug-
gestion, of course.
We then suggested that we limit the
number of bows to, say, 100 each side.
We reckoned we could just about man-
age that number and a bit over, so that,
even allowing that the enemy would
probably ring in a few extra, we’d still
be pretty well equal.
Suggestion declined, with, I regret to
say, raucous laughter.
Still seeking ways
of keeping the
game fair, we pro-
posed that hence-
forth no bows
should be made
with a range of
more than 50
paces, so that the
club- and axemen
and the stone-
throwers would
have a fighting
chance of getting
to close quarters.
Inc i d e ntally, it
would have meant
a return to the less
springy wood of
the oak, of which
we have an abun-
dant supply.
Even this pro-
posal was turned
down, but the
enemy came for-
ward with a “for-
mula” of their own.
They were pre-
pared to enter into
an agreement that
no shots over 50
paces should count.
We consented to this, and went back
well satisfied.
In the very next battle several of our
chaps were killed at a distance of 80 to
90 paces, and, although according to the
ru l es thsy didn’t count, they are just as
dead as if they did.
We realised that wed been tricked,
It s a dirty game this diplomacy. Weve
decided to stick to war.
JASBY.
Comeback.
Still, I simply couldn’t hate her.
However much I yearned to.
And I got my own back later
When the subject she returned to.
/ had told her, looking knowing,
That to-morrow ’twould be snowing,
And, instead of disagreeing.
She inquired, “Do you like ski-ing ?”
So I quickly answered, “Well, it
Just depends on how you spell it.”
FINDY.


LIFE ASSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
A Life Policy
Of the many blessings which the people
of this world enjoy to-day, a life-assur-
ance contract, in one or other of its many
forms, is among the most prominent of
the list. That is because of the wide
range of investment needs it covers and
the security and returns it offers to
every class of the community. Among
the many useful purposes it serves is
provision for a family and other de-
pendants, old age, death duties, educa-
tion of children, and a very wide range
of other needs, both commercial and
private. Thus life assurance has grown
to be such an important factor in social
economy that it has become a necessity
of present-day life.
It takes years to accumulate an estate
through toil, thrift and compound in-
terest, especially when the rate of in-
terest is low. A policy in a sound office
means that the money is always available
when it is due—the full face value of the
policy, plus bonuses —notwithstanding
that due date might be one when other
investments are frozen, or when their
capital value has slumped heavily in the
market. There is no getting away from
the fact that the best way for the man of
moderate means tp make sure of an ade-
quate future income or estate is by
means of life assurance. “Assurance”
and “insurance” are herein used as
synonymous terms.
The Amount of Cover
How much cover should a person
carry? is one of the most difficult ques-
tions to answer in connection with life
assurance. No *rigid rule can be applied.
For the average person the best measur-
ing rod is: How much can I afford?
One American notion is that 25
p.c. of a man’s income is needed for
personal expenses, including assurance,
and that the value of his life is therefore
the present value of 75 p.c. of his future
earnings. What is plain is that it is the
duty of every man to reduce to a mini-
mum the risk to his dependants of the
loss of his income through any contin-
gency. The Government
recognises this, and allows
the taxpayer to deduct life
assurance premiums paid,
within legally prescribed
limits, from his taxable in-
come.
It is cheaper to assure
early. The rate quoted by
one office per £lOO assured
for a whole-life participat-
ing policy, with premiums
limited to 20 annual pay-
ments, is £2 15s. Id. at age
20, £3 6s. 6d. at age 30 and
£4 Is. Bd. at age 40.
Choosing a Policy
To take out any kind of
policy merely for the sake
of being assured is no
solution for Everyman’s
likely financial problems in
the future. Thirty years ago
there were not so many different kinds of
policies to choose from, but now there
is a variety wide enough to suit most
individual requirements.
Choice between whole-of-life, endow-
ment assurance or an annuity, or a com-
bination of all or any of them, can only
be made after full consideration of the
object in view, together with the cir-
cumstances, and the same applies to
with-profits and to without-profits poli-
cies. A without-profits policy has the
merit of costing less. Owing to favorable
mortality some offices have been able to
reduce their premiums for this class of
business, which has also been featured
by concerns paying small bonuses or no
bonuses at all. Although bonus rates
may recede a little yet, the person who
can afford to pay the slightly higher
premium for a with-profits policy seems
likely to derive much greater benefit in
the end. In ordinary circumstances,
bonuses allotted by well-established
offices greatly exceed the difference in
premiums between the two classes of
policies just referred to. Where a wide
range of problems is involved, the ques-
tion of assuring under different classes
of policies, maturing at appropriate
dates, should not be overlooked.
Ordinary Whole-life Policy
The most familiar form of assurance
is the ordinary whole-life contract. It
is taken out mainly for the purpose of
providing for dependants after the death
of the assured. It provides the maximum
amount of cover at the lowest annual
cost. It has one disadvantage which
might arise in connection with the pay-
ment of premiums. Unless otherwise
arranged, these payments run on so
long as the assured survives, and it may
be difflcult to find the money alter re-
t;romont T . , , ..
smmJ 1, sa factory solution
tl ?. ls difficulty is to take out a whole-
llte limited payment policy. The annual
Premiums are only a little more for the
usual ages at entry, provided the number
payments is not very small. By select :
mg a suitable number of payments the
assured can protect himself absolutely
against the risk of having to pay pre-
miums when he is old, and possibly has
only a small income. Another but less
desirable way out would be to accept a
paid-up policy for a reduced amount
that would participate in future profits ;
or bonuses might be applied towards
the reduction of premiums, in which
case the assured takes the risk of some-
thing happening that might seriously
interfere with bonuses.
Endowment Assurance
The next and one of the most
p o p U ] ar forms of policy is endowment
assurance . Its popularity arises from
t h e w j c j e range 0 f investment objections
DAD: “ Have it your own Way, lad, but I tell you it's a rotten substitute
for an assurance policy.”
to which it can be applied. In design,
as well as in practice, it is a combina-
tion of life assurance and investment;
it is a contract for payment of a speci-
fied sum, plus bonuses, if any, at the
end of a stated period, or at death,
whichever occurs first. Here it is neces-
sary to select a short-term or long-term
contract, or to take out more than one
policy, whichever best suits the needs of
the case —provision for family or other
dependants, for old age, for education
of children, for travel or for any other
purpose.
Disability Benefits
A recent development has been the
issue of special whole-life and endow-
ment assurance policies carrying dis-
ability benefits. Speaking generally, Aus-
tralian offices are inclined to look
askance at the extension of these bene-
fits, which involved life cos. in the
U.S.A. in substantial losses, due mainly
to overextension of benefits at too low
a premium. Still, if caution be observed
in the selection of risks and in admis-
sion of claims, this class of business
should prove to be a valuable adjunct
to Ordinary life assurance. Many offices
make a feature of accident and sickness
benefits, and issue special policies for
the purpose, thus keeping this class of
business separate from Ordinary life
assurance.
Family Income Policy
A recent valuable addition to the list
of contracts, and one whose popularity
seems likely to further expand as its
benefits become more widely known and
understood, is the family income or heri-
tage policy. The plan combines ordinary
with term assurance covering temporary
annuity benefits. If the life assured fails
at any time within, say, 20 years, an
annuity of a specified amount per week or
per month will commence at once and
continue for the remainder of the 20
years, when the full sum assured will be
handed over, together with bonuses, if
any. The income period can be arranged
with the company, and, if required, part
of the capital sum can be paid at death
to dependants to provide ready money
for inevitable and urgent expenses. In
this event the income benefit would be
slightly reduced. Policies of this kind,
which are adaptable to both whole-life
and endowment assurance contracts, are
specially designed to meet the require-
ments of the married man when his re-
sponsibilities are greatest; that is, during
the early years of married life. Such a
policy provides a larger measure of pro-
tection for a given premium than any
other kind of policy.
Group Assurance
Another development, and one likely
to remain, has been the growth of group
assurance. By this means large numbers
of employees have been able to secure
assurance on terms more favorable than
they could have obtained as individuals.
All cos. now seek this class of business.
The plan, which is generally related to
the payroll, originally provided for the
issue of a blanket policy, covering a
group of employees, without medical
examination. But medical examination
is now mostly insisted upon, and indi-
vidual policies are issued. It has been
a definite step towards overcoming the
chief objection to Industrial assurance,
namely, its high cost.
Term Assurance
Unlike endowment assurance, which,
especially in its short-term examples,
contains a strong element of investment,
term or temporary assurance contains
none at all —it is protection pure and
simple. The policy money is. paid only
if the life assured dies within a specified
period ; no payment is made otherwise,
and the contract becomes void immedi-
ately the stated period expires. Policies
of this kind are usually arranged for
short periods, the premiums in most
cases are not heavy, and surrender values
are not allowed. Professional men
and others desiring to protect themselves
against the death of a successor before
the latter has paid for the practice pur-
chased, etc., find in term assurance the
cover they need. Since many business
transactions involve the gradual liquida-
tion of liabilities, decreasing temporary
term’ assurance is granted, covering the
balance from time to time outstanding.
Convertible term assurance is designed
to meet the case where cheap cover is
required for the early years of the policy.
Pure Endowment
Under a pure endowment the policy
money is payable only if the assured
survives the period specified in the con-
tract. In the event of prior death the
premiums are often forfeited, although
the terms of the contract may provide
for their return, with or without interest.
If they are returnable, the contract is
not very different from an ordinary
deposit arrangement. The worse the
prospect of longevity the better it is for
the office granting the assurance. The
principle involved is that of accumu-
lation, not protection.
Annuities
For men and women advanced in
years who have no dependants, and who
are relying on the income from their
life’s savings as their sole means of liveli-
hood, an annuity is a sound and, indeed,
excellent proposition. But if people have
relatives for whom it is essential that
financial provision should be made, it
would be improvident and unfair for
them to sink their all in an annuity. It
may be said that an annuity is practi-
cally the reciprocal of the life-assurance
principle. A man buys life assurance
because of the fear of dying before he
has accumulated enough to take care of
his dependants ; he buys an annuity be-
cause of the fear of outliving his in-
come.
In its simplest form an annuity pro-
vides for a series of usually even pay-
ments. to be made annually, quarterly or
monthly, beginning at a specified date
and continuing during the remainder of
the lifetime of the annuitant. There is
no death .benefit. The annuity may be
immediate or deferred, and may be pur-
chased by a single premium payable in
advance, or by annual premiums payable
during the waiting period. A survivor-
ship annuity is a combination of the in-
surance idea and the annuity principle in
such a way as to amount to life assur-
ance on one person to provide a deferred
life annuity for another. It provides an
ideal solution of the problem of obtain-
ing a guaranteed life income for a de-
pendant after death of the breadwinner.
A deferred joint life and survivorship
annuity is suitable for a married man
with available funds who wishes to
obtain a guaranteed future income for
himself and his wife, so. long as either
survives after, say, the husband’s retiring
age. A refund annuity provides that, in
the event of the annuitant’s death before
the income payments amount to the
original premiums paid, the income con-
tinues to be paid to a beneficiary until
the full amount of premium payments is
returned. A cash refund annuity is simi-
lar to the refund type, except that an
adjustment in the event of premature
death is made in cash instead of in the
form of continued payments.
Assuring Children
Endowment assurance on the bread-
winner’s life appears to be the most
satisfactory solution to the educational
problem from the parent’s point of view.
It should be effected in the early years
of a child’s life, so that if the parent dies
while the child is still very young, an
educational fund is immediately avail-
able. If the parent lives, the assured fund
is payable either in a lump sum or as
may be arranged during the educational
period. Moreover, such a policy has all
the privileges appertaining to surrender
and paid-up policy values. If the aim is
to provide for a child should it be
orphaned, arrangement for a temporary
contingent annuity may be made.
(Continued on page 28.)


Could YOUR husband write
this letter to you?
A human document that it will
profit every married couple to read,
IF you have ever thought, madam, of how you and the youngsters would
get along in the event of your husband’s death, just read this letter.
The reading of it may help you to find that peace of mind that every
woman should have. It is a simple letter: —
My Dear Wife,
To-day has been a very happy day for me, for I have completed a plan that I have
been working on for years. I believe that I have put you and the children beyond the risk
of want in the event of my death; it has given me immense satisfaction. I have made a new
will to-day, but this letter is to explain what I have done. Attached to it are seven A.M.P.
policies (which wise men have come to know are the safest investment they can have), and
this is what they are for:
Policy No. /. I call this the PAY-THE-DEBTS policy. It is payable to you
in cash. It will pay the probate duties on my estate, and all outstanding bills, and be large
enough to meet doctor’s expenses should there be any. If I die before you, I want you to
start life again with a clean financial slate.
Policy No. 2 I call my MORTGAGE policy. We still owe a fair amount on
the house. This policy will wipe that out, and leave you a few hundreds to the good. I
know that you love the house that we built together, and, just so long as it suits you, I want
you to live in it. You’ll feel that it is entirely your own with the mortgage out of the way.
Policies Nos. 3, 4 and 5 are what I call CARRY-ON policies. I have arranged
with the A.M.P. that they are to be used to give you a regular income as long as you live.
These policies won’t keep you in luxury—far from it—but they will provide you with a
regular income in fair times and foul. The A.M.P. will see to that. It is one of the largest
financial institutions in the world. You won’t have any investment troubles or have to run
the risk of investment mistakes.
Policy No. 6 is the EDUCATION policy. If I don’t live long enough to see the
children out into the world, I want you to see that they get satisfactory educations. You
couldn’t give them anything better. This policy will provide the means.
Policy No. 7 is the HOLIDAY policy. Every year you and I and the youngsters
have had a good holiday. I want you to go on having them. There will be enough in this
policy to give you all a holiday each year for five years after I go. I am so fit that I feel
like living for ever, but you never know! When the time comes it will ease my mind to
know that life can go on serenely for you. You have been a great joy and comfort to me
all these days, and I am adding to my comfort by making these provisions for you.
My love to you all.
808.
Whether your husband has made similar provision for you or not, show
him this letter. It might help him —and you. Suggest to him that he ask
the nearest A.M.P. office to send him an experienced counsellor to talk
things over with him. He will be surprised to find how little it will cost
him to make some such provision for you.
AMP. SOCIETY
A. W, SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager. C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.


A
m
The Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Australian
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company, Ltd.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian
Metropolitan is one of the old-established Life Offices.
It has 40 years of faithful service to the public behind
it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are
ample for all purposes—but, even so, these Funds are
backed by substantial Reserves, so that its financial
position is impregnable.
At the end of 1934 the Assets were made up as follows:
Government Securities . .
Loans on Mortgage
Loans on Policies
Freehold Property
Cash and Sundry Items
48.5 per cent.
19.9 „
7.0 „
18.3 „
6.3 „
The Company has money to lend on Real Estate.
DIRECTORS:
DR. A. MURRAY WILL.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH.
D. F. STEWART.
J. A. HENDERSON.
F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER:
J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL SECRETARY:
FREEMAN J. EATON.
ACTUARY:
W. R. DAY, F.I.A,
BRANCH OFFICES:
Victoria:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
METROPOLITAN BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
South A ustralia:
22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
Industrial Assurance
The expensiveness of Industrial poli-
cies deprives their owners of most of the
bonus benefits enjoyed under an Ordi-
nary with-profits contract. This inevit-
able high cost is the result of service
extended to the assured by sending
agents each week to collect premiums.
However, the history of Industrial assur-
ance shows that it has been largely trans-
formed from a business conducted solely
for profit into one which now exerts a
widespread influence for social uplift.
Many of the lower-paid workers either
will not or cannot afford the time to
attend to the payment of premiums them-
selves. Increased benefits, sweeping con-
cessions to policies about to lapse, liber-
alisation of conditions and the privilege
to transfer into the more profitable Ordi-
nary department are some of the con-
cessions which have been extended to
Industrial policy-holders. All the usual
forms of contracts can be taken out
under an Industrial policy.
History of Australian Offices
It was in 1836, when Melbourne and
Adelaide were in process of incubation,
that the first life office, the Australian
General, set up in Sydney. It was fol-
lowed three years later by the clumsily-
named, London-controlled Australasian
Colonial and General Life Annuity and
Endowment Society—Francis Keble was
sent out as secretary. But it was not
until after the wreckage of the first big
financial storm of the early ’forties —
the Bank of Australia failed —was
cleared away that the foundations of
what is now the largest mutual life office
in the Empire were laid. That was in
1849, when the Rev. W. H. Walsh, T.
Holt, T. S. Mort, C. Lowe and W. Perry
formed the Australian Mutual Provident.
At the end of its first year the society
had a credit balance of £265. But no
claims arose for the first three years;
then the gold rush brought a heavy influx
of population, and therefore prospective
policy-holders, and the co. has main-
tained a steady advance ever since.
Of existing offices, the next in the
field was the National Mutual, founded
by Colonel Templeton in 1869. It was
the first office in the world to introduce
the non-forfeiture principle, which caught
on like wildfire, and became known
throughout America as the Australian
system. In 1897 the National took over
its old competitor, the Mutual Life of
Australasia, also formed in 1869. Of
recent years it has quickened its growth
by swallowing what remained of the Aus-
tralian business of the Equitable of
U.S.A. and the New York Life.
In 1871 came the Australian Widows’
Fund. Then the Colonial Mutual was
formed in Melbourne in 1874. It was
the first Australian office to extend the
non-forfeiture principle to Industrial con-
tracts ; it pioneered group assurance, and
pioneered also extension of activities to
the U.K. and S. Africa. The Australasian
Temperance and General, now promi-
nent amongst Australia’s five big mutual
offices, made its first appearance in 1876,
and the City Mutual, with which the
name of the late George Crowley will
always be associated, set up in 1879.
It was about this time that the failure
of the Albert and the European, two big
English concerns, led the British Board
of Trade to demand substantial deposits
from life cos. This had its repercus-
sions in Australia, where the formation
of new mutual offices ceased, and the
proprietary, or co-operative, cos. began
to make their appearence. Chief of these
was the Citizens’, formed in 1886, along
the same lines as the big English Pruden-
tial, which, after spreading to many
other parts of the world, recently set
up here. About 20 years later the Citi-
zens’ became the Mutual Life and
Citizens’, having absorbed the purely
mutual M.L.A. and then the Widows’
Fund. The inducement which led to the
amalgamations was a guarantee, backed
by the Citizens’ capital (then £20,000),
that henceforth costs would not exceed
15 p.c. of the total income. In 1895
came the Australian Metropolitan, which,
like the Provident of Dunedin (M.L.),
which also operates here, has developed
into a sound and progressive little con-
cern. The Australian Provincial, formed
in 1912, struck difficult times. But its
finances have been put on a sound basis
by E. S. Paul, and its future appears to
be a promising one.
Post-war Developments
During the artificial prosperity of the
post-war decade, a litter of young life
offices sprang into existence. The only
one which has yet developed what looks
like regular bonus-paying capacity is the
Australasian Catholic, founded by E. J.
Mooney in 1921.
There were 19 offices writing life
assurance in Australia in 1919. Six years
later the numl/er had grown to 35 ; it
was 28 in 1971, failures and amalgama-
tions having accounted for the difference.
Extravagance and heavy lapses were the
chief causes of the collapses that
occurred.
One of the outstanding lessons of this
period is that a change of ownership of
a co. by means of share transactions is
capable of leading to disastrous results
for both policy-holders and shareholders.
The Federal Life and General, formed
in 1923, took over People’s Prudential,
which had set up in 1896, and for
many years had paid regular bonuses
to its policy-holders and a steady
10 p.c. div. to shareholders. The
F.L. and G. also took the very, sick
Federal Building and its three feeble asso-
ciates—Commonwealth Traders’, Aus-
tralian Traders’ and the Empire Life and
General. Within a few years they were
all in liquidation. The solid revenue-
producing assets of the People's Pruden-
tial had been pledged beyond redemption,
and its policy-holders, many of them
women, lost savings of a lifetime.
One way of guarding against this sort
of thing would be to give policy-holders
representation on the board of a pro-
prietary co. There is needed a Federal
Act to put the whole business on a
uniform basis throughout the Common-
wealth.
Stability
One of the first things a person about
to insure needs to remember is that he
is really buying into a partnership, the
future profits of which he will share
with others in the business. Throughout
the crisis of the ’nineties, the big Aus-
tralian life offices went on paying claims,
including bonus additions, notwithstand-
ing that a large proportion of their
assets were represented by mortgages,
and that foreclosures were numerous
—in those days opportunities for invest-
ing in other securities were limited. The
next big test was the Great War. To the
stress of claims during this period, the
cos. stood up without a falter, and
some even refunded the war-risk pre-
miums they had collected. The chief effect
of the war was a temporary reduction in
bonus rates. Then came an even worse
experience, the influenza epidemic, which
had the effect of keeping bonuses down
a little longer. After that interest rates
and bonuses began to soar, until they
were interrupted by slump and the extra
demands of the taxgatherer.
Where Bonuses Come From
In calculating the premiums, or price
to be charged for the various assurance
contracts, an office assumes that its funds
will earn a certain rate of interest, after
deducting taxes, etc., that it will experi-
ence a predetermined rate of mortality,
and that the cost of handling the busi-
ness will not exceed a fixed percentage
of the premium income. If actual net
return from its investments exceeds the
rate assumed, and its mortality experi-
ence is less than that expected, and it
succeeds in handling the business at a
lower cost than allowed for, then it
derives a margin of divisible surplus from
all these sources. The rate of bonus will
depend upon the size of the aggregate
surplus.
If the bonus is allotted on the sum
assured alone, it is a “simple rever-
sionary bonus” ; if it is allotted on the
sum assured plus existing bonuses, it is a
“compound reversionary bonus.”
Interest Earnings
Speaking generally, an established office
derives most of its profits, or divisible
surplus, from interest earnings. In the
eighties of last century, when the greater
proportion of the assets was invested in
mortgages, gross interest returns of over
5i p.c. were common. The crisis of
the ’nineties brought a sharp drop in
the rate, and there was a general reduc-
tion and, in some cases, a cessation
of bonuses. Early in this century the
rate recovered to around 4j p.c., and
remained thereabouts until the out-
break of the Great War. Then it
began to climb, reaching its peak
in 1930, when the average gross return
for the half - dozen big Australian
offices was 5.8 p.c.; in 1933 the figure
was a shade over 4.8 p.c. Meanwhile,
the net return was further reduced
by increased taxation. The Federal Gov-
ernment, however, has granted the cos.
some relief in this respect; in one case
the taxable income for 1934 was only
about 13 p.c. of what it was previously.
There is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest a substantial rise in interest
{Continued on page 30.)


If the answer is “In twenty (or fifteen or ten) years” you need a
“NATIONAL MUTUAL” IMPROVED POLICY OF
INCOME ASSURANCE, which in addition to other
benefits will provide for your children’s maintenance and
education should your death occur within that period.
AN ILLUSTRATION:
The following benefits could be secured by a man aged 30
nearest birthday for an annual premium of £29/13 4 for the
first 20 years of assurance, and £23/6 8 thereafter: —
in the event of his death within the term of 20 years: —
(1) £ 100 and the full amount of vested bonus additions,
payable on death.
(2) £l5O per annum, payable by monthly instalments of
£l2/10/-, for the balance of the term of 20
years.
(3) £lOOO, payable when such income ceases.
In the event of his surviving 20 years: —
The contract becomes an assurance for £lOOO,
payable with bonuses at death.
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Established 1869.
Funds over £39,000,000.
A purely mutual institution which was formed to protect its
members and their dependants from the financial difficulties
caused by death, old age, and permanent total disability.
OFFICES:
N.S.W.: 350 George Street, Victoria: 395 Collins Street,
Sydney. Melbourne.
And throughout Australasia, Great Britain, South Africa, India, Ceylon
and Straits Settlements.
THE ASSOCIATION GRANTS LOANS ON MORTGAGE OF APPROVED FREEHOLD SECURITY.


f [X%- »
\ -K>
./1 ■
r
i
si
Australasian to its very core
Assurances
in force at
the end of 1934
£61,090,957
INSEPARABLY linked with the progress of
Australia and New Zealand from the
camp-fire days of the Pioneers, stands
the Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited. Aus-
tralasian to its very core, its offices are scattered
throughout the length and breadth of the
Commonwealth and New Zealand. Its funds
are invested in Australia and New Zealand.
Its achievements, strength, resources and
stability are unequalled by any other life-
assurance society of similar size. Evidence of
this is disclosed by the Assurances in force,
and the progress made during the last twenty
years, as shown by the graph given at left—
surely, the greatest possible testimony to the
Society’s stability and the mutual advantages
and protection which it gives its policy-holders.
MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria 1876)
rates. Thus, one of the most difficult
problems with which the management of
a life office has to wrestle to-day is the
profitable investment of funds.
To help offset the effect of the fall in
the actual rate of interest earned upon
bonuses, some offices have further low-
ered their basis of valuation (the rate
which they assume their funds will earn).
The compound reversionary bonus sys-
tem demands that the cash surplus avail-
able for division amongst policy-holders
shall increase rapidly. The method of
valuing by a low rate of interest meets
this need by locking up during the early
years of a policy sums which would
otherwise be available for distribution,
and by releasing them with interest later
on. A reduction in the valuation rate
therefore calls for an increase in the
actuarial reserves.
Mortality
The profit derived from the mortality
experience arises from what is known as
suspended mortality. If the lives assured
survive for a longer period than was
counted upon, then the office receives a
greater number of premiums and has
the use of the funds accumulated to meet
the policy when it becomes a claim
for a longer period than was figured.
This applies only to whole-life contracts,
of course. Some offices provide for the
suspension of premiums on whole-life
business upon the assured reaching the
age of 80 years or thereabouts.
Among the mortality tables exten-
sively used are the' British offices’
0.M., which covers the experience in
Britain for 30 years to 1893, and the
Institute of Actuaries’ H.M., compiled in
relation to a period to the end of 1863.
Recent Australian experiences are only
between 50 p.c. and 60 p.c. of the mor-
tality expected under these fables. This
means that the premiums charged are a
bit higher than they really need be;
albeit a good office returns to holders of
its with-profits contracts the amounts
which they have been overcharged, and
more, in the shape of bonuses. The
need to carefully examine the bonus-pay-
ing capacity of an office is thus evident.
Loading and Other Profits
The profit from loading arises from
the difference between the amount
allowed by the actuary for expenses
and the expenses actually incurred.
Other profits include the margin of
gain on fees, annuities, changes in
policies, surrenders and the capital
appreciation of assets, etc. During
the last few years the most im-
portant of these has been surrenders and
capital profit. Surrender values (they
vary with different offices) are less than
the actual reserve created against the
policy. Capital profits have arisen
mainly from the purchase of Govern-
ment securities at a discount. They are
taken into the reckoning when calculat-
ing the effective rate of interest.
Exchange
Changes in the exchange value of cur-
rencies and, for a while, the low price
of securities on the London and New
York markets made sterling and dollai
bonds profitable investments. Yet
depreciation of the Australian pound
has created a new set of problems for
Australian offices writing business in,
say, Britain and S. Africa. It now takes
£125.5 Australian to buy £lOO sterling
or £125.68 Australian to buy £lOO S.
African. Unless a co.’s assets in
Britain are sufficient to meet its liabili-
ties there, creation of a reserve in Aus-
tralian currency sufficient to cover the
exchange difference has now become
necessary. The same remarks apply simi-
larly in respect to S. Africa.
Australian Life Offices Reviewed
A.M.P. —What cover do I get for my
money, what has been the past bonus
experience, and what are the terms granted
to borrowers and policy-holders in finan-
cial difficulties? Australia’s largest life
office can give a satisfactory answer to
those questions, and point to adequate
assurance funds to cover policy liabilities.
The society continues to show expan-
sion in its figures where expansion is de-
sirable ; though income in the Ordinary
department last year (£9,714,268) was
£391,895 higher, constituting a record,
both claims and expenses were lower, the
latter reduction being mainly due to some
relief from the heavy taxation of the
preceding three years. The office allows
18.7 p.c. of premiums in the O.D. for
exes., etc.; excluding taxes, 13 p.c. was
absorbed in this way last term, as against
12.3 p.c. in the preceding year. Of the
year’s total income in this department,
including net interest earnings, 8.1 p.c.
was taken by exes. Deducting taxes
(£287,963, down £455,894), the net in-
terest return on the mean Life Fund was
4.3 p.c. in 1934 as against 3.9 p.c. in
1933. The office’s assumed rate is 3 p.c.
The surplus for bonuses in all depart-
ments last year was £119,623 stronger:
Ordinary. Industrial.
1929 .. .. £2,941,005 £211.584
1930 . . . . 2,849,656 226,578
1931 .. .. 2,468,817 233,998
1932 .. .. 2,470,310 259,751
1938 .. .. 2,566,322 276,776
1934 . . . . 2,674,409 288,312
Lessened taxation helped there, and
before the surplus was arrived at £BO,OOO
was whisked away to actuarial reserves.
Net addition to the O.D. funds was
£3,291,254 (up £761,362).
The ratio of bonuses distributed to
premiums received in the O.D. dropped
from 58.1 p.c. in 1928 to 45.8 p.c. in
1931 ; in 1932 it recovered to 46.3 p.c.,
and last year mounted to 47 p.c.
New Ordinary business pul on the
books last year totalled £13,731,677, up
£1,678,581. New business put on at
moderate cost generally means belter
results for all policy-holders in the future.
The society’s £97,352,519 of funds in
all departments at Dec. 31 was' invested
assets of the following nature: Public
securities, 56.5 p.c. ; mortgages, 22.3 p.c.;
loans on policies, 16.6 p.c. ; premises,
1.8 p.c. ; other assets, 2.8 p.c.
♦J*-
National Mutual Life. — The asso-
ciation has its headquarters in Mel-
bourne, where it was established in 1869.
1c is a sound and progressive office,
having made marked headway oyer the
last decade. A large part of its income
is gathered from outside Australia.
Last year’s total income (£4,902,114)
was up £239,299, and was almost back
to 1929 standards, if the 1934 term s
progress is maintained in 1935, the cur-
rent term will show a new high level for
income.
Bonuses are the subject most interest-
ing to with-profit policy-holders, income
from investments is one source of sur-
plus; in 1928 the office lowered the
assumed interest rate from p.c. to
3 p.c. Thanks to some relief from the
excessive property taxation, introduced
when the depression was giving life
offices plenty of trouble in other direc-
tions, the returns from investments have
shown improvement in each of the past
two years. From £3 18s. p.c. in 1932,
the net return rose to £3 19s. lid.
in 1933 and to £4 6s. sd. last term. This
compares with £5 6s. lid. p.c. in 1930 —
a favorable comparison when the general
trend of investment income is consid-
ered. Of last year’s return, there was
a margin of £1 6s, sd. p.c. to swell
bonuses.
Another source of profit is in respect
of expenses. The actuary sets aside 15.2
p.c. of the premiums for costs of obtain-
ing and administering the business, but
the actual percentage absorbed was 13.4
p.c. in 1934. Premium charges have
always been on the low side.
Considering everything, these trien-
nial bonus declarations speak well for
the management and the quality of the
business put on the books: —-
1925 .. £2,118,974 I 1931 ~ £3,577,833
1928 .. 3,013,518 ) 1934 .. 3,053,074
Extra taxation accounts for most of the
drop. The next triennial valuation
should benefit in this and other respects.
The £37,851,007 of funds on view at
Sept. 30 last were invested 44.3 p.c. in
public securities, 22.4 p.c. mortgages, 14.9
p.c. loans on policies, 4.2 p.c. freeholds,
14.1 p.c. other assets.
<* ♦♦♦ ❖ *
M.L.C. —Australia's biggest and oldest
co-operatiVe office, the Citizens' has
£200,000 of share-capital and £20,426.153
of assurance funds. Shareholders have
to show more than £4 of profit for every
£1 they allocate to themselves. A low
expense rate (not to be more than 15
p.c. in the 0.D.) is thus encouraged.
Income has been remarkably steady
throughout the slump. Last year’s
gathering in the O.D. (£2,202,168) was
£92,796 better than in 1930, a peak year.
Including the Industrial figures, the total
income (£3,123,181, after deducting taxes)
was up £140,703 on the previous year’s.
Claims and surrenders were lighter in
both departments, and the year’s addi-
tions to the assurance funds were
£256,804 greater at £840,749.
Exes, accounted for 8.4 p.c. of total
income in the O.D. and 25.4 p.c. in the
Industrial; on premiums alone the
figures were 13.2 p.c. and 32.9 p.c. respec-
tively.
The Citizens’ has always been conser-
vative in the disposition of its assets, and
at last balance day 83.2 p.c. of the total
was in Government stock. Nevertheless,
thanks a little to the assistance of share-
capital, the interest return in the' O.D.
last year was high at £4 13s. 9d. p.c., up
{Continued on page 32.)


snifpnr^—"
ESTABLISHED 1875.
TO
dl
o Q I ~>
■Mr.'
JET
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR
Further outstanding evidence of public confidence, and
of the security of the Society’s position, is contained
in the recent announcement of another record year
for Colonial Mutual Life.
Record new business production •is reported, and
substantial increase has been made in the bonus rate.
REDUCTION OF INTEREST RATE
As a further protection for policyholders, all policies
of the Ordinary Department have been valued on an
interest basis of 3 p.c. instead of 3 j p.c. as hitherto.
INCREASE IN FUNDS
For sixty years the Society has served the public, and,
from total funds in the Ordinary Department amounting
to £2864 in 1875, the total funds of this Department now
amount to £13,225,374; while the total assets of the
Society now stand at over £16,600,000.
The Society is wholly mutual, and all surpluses are
applied for the benefit of policyholders only.
GROUP ASSURANCE
Colonial Mutual Life was the first Assurance Institution
in Australia to provide Group Assurance in its present
popular form.
HOUSE PURCHASE ASSURANCE
It is also paying particular attention to House Purchase
Assurance, and unusual facilities for borrowing are
offered by the Society under this heading.
Intending house purchasers should definitely examine the
Colonial Mutual Life House Purchase Plan before settling
on any expenditure.
For your own, and more especially your dependents ,
future financial security and independence, invest in
assurance.
A Colonial Mutual Life Policy can be made to meet
practically any financial requirement.
The Society employs a large staff of competent repre-
sentatives, any one of whom will be • only too willing
to explain personally just how assurance may be
made to meet your particular needs.
Get in touch with your local office for a representative to call
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: 316 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
OFFICES AT. . . 14 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
289-291 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
45 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
St. George’s Terrace, PERTH.
“Bursary House,” Elizabeth Street, HOBART.
13 Paterson Street, LAUNCESTON.
And in WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN,
CAPE TOWN, LONDON.
Colonial Mutual News
Clerk Embarks on World
Tour.
Among the
many thousands
who journeyed
home to England
for the King’s
Jubilee Celebra-
tions this year
was a Colonial
Mutual Life
p o 1 i c y h o Ider,
and after the celebrations he intends to
continue on a world tour.
He was formerly employed as a clerk
in a city office, and had taken out a
policy providing for the payment of
£5OO at the age of 45, and it was through
this that he was enabled to make the trip.
£1000 Cash Paid to Widow.
A very interesting case occurred a
short time ago when a man, living in the
country, look out an assurance policy
with Colonial Mutual Life providing for
the payment of £lOOO to his dependents
in the event of his death. The week after
he took out his policy he was fatally
involved in a road smash not far from
his home. The full amount of the assur-
ance policy was immediately paid to his
widow, although only one premium had
been paid.
Brilliant Future for
Young Barrister.
The rising genera-
tion in Australia
ce rtai n 1 y shows
promise, but few
have had such an
outstanding scholas-
tic career as this
young man, who
was admitted to the
Bar only this year. Naturally, he has had
the benefit of the best education obtain-
able ; but he was enabled to have this
only through the foresight his father,
who, when his son was very young, took
out an assurance policy with Colonial
Mutual Life to provide a guaranteed
amount for his education.
Young Man with £3OO
Buys £1000 Home.
A young man, shortly to be married,
recently completed arrangements for the
purchase of a £lOOO home, although he
possessed only £3OO cash.
A loan of £7OO over a 20-year period
enabled him to do this, at a cost per
week of little more than the average
rental. Naturally the loan was arranged
through the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society.
The Problem of Probate
Duties.
Quite a number of policies are being
taken out with Colonial Mutual Life
by land and estate owners and company
shareholders to provide for the immediate
cash payment of probate duties on their
estate.
Such a policy obviates the necessity
to realise on the tied-up assets, a course
which invariably depreciates their value
enormously, and which quite frequently
causes extreme financial embarrassment
to the person’s dependents.
£5 a Week for Life
—quite a handy
amount. The for-
tun a t e recipient
was formerly an
officer in one of
our well - known
public institutions,
and had taken out
an assurance
policy with the Colonial Mutual Life.
Payment was recently made on this
policy, and his investment of the amount
will show a definite return of £5 per
week for the rest of his life. So, to-day,
after 40 years of that work and worry
which is the lot of every man, he is
enjoying the luxury of complete relaxa-
tion absolutely free from financial
worries. He is certainly an enthusiast
about assurance.


THE
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1879.
REMARKABLE PROGRESS.
REVERSIONARY BONUSES DECLARED
1*914 £66,026
1924 £360,279
1934 £533,783
INCOME:
1914 £209,578
1924 £810,161
1934 £1,040,324
ASSETS:
1914
1924
1934
ASSURANCES IN
1914
1924
1934
£771,437
£3,085,102
£7,839,619
FORCE:
£3,491,719
£12,144,681
£19,292,729
o. j. McDermott.
DIRECTORS:
G. E. BRYANT, Chairman.
The Hon. FRANK E. WALL, M.D., M.L.C.
W. BENNETT.
M. J. O’NEILL.
OFFICES:
NEW SOUTH WALES—Temporary premises during rebuilding—6 and 8 CTConnell Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA—City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne. J. A. Thomson, Manager.
QUEENSLAND—3I3-315 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. J. M. Hannan, Manager.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Trustee Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide. R. S. Femer, Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIA—St. George’s Terrace, Perth. A. Wansbrough, Manager.
TASMANIA—E., S. and A. Bank Chambers, Patterson Street, Launceston.
TOWNSVILLE—FIinders Street, Townsville. Mars. Taylor, Manager.
R. McNair, Manager.
TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5.,
Secretary.
WILLIAM BENNETT, Managing Director.
G. F. DIAMOND, A.1.A., Actuary.
Bs, 2d. p.c. on the preceding year, and
£1 13s. 9d.' greater than the ratejissumed.
Bonus distributions are steadily on the
up-grade:—
1929. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Ordinary ~ £692,946 £552,326 £556,512 £623,363
Industrial . . 76,730 70,530 74,851 82>297
Total . . £769,676‘£622i856 £6.31,36"3 £705,660
Lessened taxation has helped there ; its
benefit is manifest throughout the com-
pany’s figures.
Assets other than Consols, etc., con-
stitute only 16.8 p.c. of the funds. Loans
on policies are low at 8.3 p.c.
T. and G.—This is a most energetic
society, and slump had little effect on its
policy-writirfg. In the Ordinary depart-
ment pre-depression income-level was
regained in 1933, a'nd progress since has
Been one of new records. Last year’s
premium income (including that of a
very lusty Industrial, department) was
£215,127 higher at £3,267,381.
In 19'23 total in'com'e in the O.D. was
£747,049 ; last term it was £1,855,750.
The Industrial branch raked in
£1,141,979 in 1923/, last term the figure
was £2,257,022. both depart-
ments totalled £20,284,047 at Sept. 30,
1934.
The net return on the combined assur-
ance funds last term was £4 4s. Bd. p.c.,
as against £3 15s. lid. in 1933. The
assumed rate in both the Ordinary and
Industrial departments is 3 p.c.
Excluding taxes (charged against in-
terest in these calculations), exes, to'ok
17.5 p‘.c. of the year’s net Ordinary pre-
miums as against 17.4 pTc. and 17.1 p.c.
in the two preceding years. Of the In-
dustrial premiums, 35.9 p.c. as against
35.6 p.c. was absorbed in fKis way.
Surpluses for bonuses increase or de-
crease according to the success of an
office in putting rtew business on the
books at low cost, its control over other
exes., its investment experience and
mortality. The Australasian Temperance
and General (to give it attout half its
title), has shown healthy expansion in
its actuarial surpluses over a period of
years; —
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary . . £398,612 £393,592 £460,640 £418,552
Indust rial .. 190,059 , 286,548 290,969 301,519
Total . . £588,671 £680,140 £691,609 £720,071
After putting aside £50,000 for contin-
gencies, reversionary bonuses on the
same scale as in the two preceding years
were handed out.
Public securities represent 62.8 p.c. of
the funds—above the average. Loans,
25.2 p.c., and cash, 2.8 p.c., are the other
items apart from freeholds, 9.2 p.c. The
society has found good publicity value
in attractive premises.
*i* ❖ ❖
Colonial Mutual. —This is another
society which has left old records behind
in the matter of income and established
new high levels for the future compari-
son. Income in both departments last
year was a record. Business in force
is now over the £61,000,000 mark, the
assumed rate of interest-earning has been
reduced to 3 p.c. in the 0.D., and a simi-
lar basis of valuation in the Industrial
branch is expected to be put into force
before the current term closes.
Total income (£2,394,320) in the O.D.
last year was £109,701 higher; exes, took
25; 1 p.c. of the net premiums, as against
24.5 p.c. in the preceding year. Indus-
trial income (£715,779) was up £73,450 ;
exes, work out at 33i8 p.c., as against
32.7 p.c. in 193'3.
As mentioned before, the society
counts on its O.D. funds earning 3 p.c.
Last year they turned in £4 2s. p.c., as
a'gainst 4 p.c. in the preceding term.
The improvement, partly due to the
lighter demands of taxgatherers, :s
noticeable in the surpluses available for
policy-holders:
O LOSS
Surplus;— 1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Ordinary .. £442,427 £328,179 £434,769 £484,401
Industrial . . 100,184 89,521 97,719 212,921
Accident . . 16,822 21,367 86,080 90,772
Total . . £559,433 £439,067 £618,568 £788,094
After making transfers to contingency re-
serves, £459,490 was scattered amongst
Ordinary and £100,347 amongst Indus-
trial policy-holders. The O.D. figure is
equal to 26.5 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, as against 24 ; 8 p.c. the previous
year.
The £16,639,443 of funds are invested
52.2 p.c. in public securities and deben-
tures, 19.6 p.c. in mortgages, 12.5 p.c.
in freeholds, 9 p.c. in loans or policies,
4.3 p.c. cash, etc., and 2.4 p.c. other
assets.
♦♦♦ *** ♦♦♦ ❖
City Mutual. —Net premium income
(apart from annuities) was £18,442 higher
at £691,088. Additions to the assurance
fund were £407,351, the best figure of
the past four years. The fund now
stands at £7,162,244, in addition to which
there are reserves of £450,000 and
£lOO,OOO, for contingencies and equalisa-
tion of bonuses respectively,
William Bennett, formerly Victorian
manager, took charge after George Crow-
ley’s death. The assumed interest rate
has been strengthened from a 3y p.c. to
3i p.c. basis, and the actual rate has
lately recovered noticeably —4.39 p.c. was
shown on the mean fund last term as
against 3.56 p.c. and 3.27 p.c. in the two
preceding years.
Good work has been done with exes.,
too. Last term they took only 10.7 p.c.
of the year’s income, compared with
14.9, 16.5 and 15.7 p.c. in the three pre-
ceding years. This and a better experi-
ence with the investment portfolio—the
society was sharply hit by the Lang
property legislation in N. S. Wales —
should eventually show up in improved
bonus distribution.
Fat bonuses, the outcome of high in-
terest returns (when the property market
was favorable) and slightly higher pre-
miums, were the reward of City Mutual
policy-holders until slump came. Even
now they are handsome —£2 17s. 6d. to
£4 ss. per cent, on whole-life policies in
1934.
The swing from mortgages to other
investments shows up in balance-sheet
figures. In 1932 just under half the funds
were invested in this way. In 1933 they
droppe'd to 45.6 p.c., and last year to 42
p.c. Government securities figure at
20.3 p.c., loans on policies at 14.4 p.c.,
properties at 11.3 p.c., and other assets
at 12 p.c. Handsome new premises are
going up.
♦♦♦ +}►
Australian Metropolitan Life. —
Income in both branches last year was
a record. The office, another of the
semi-mutyal class, has shown steady
figures through a difficult period.
Ordinary income last year rose £15,757
to £121,747. Improvement in total in-
come (£297,763) was £29,282 —£20,595 on
account of net premiums, etc. (£234,283),
and £8687 interest, rents, etc. (£63,480).
To assurance funds £95,373 (£26,604
more than in the previous year) was
added, raising them to £1,269,874.
Policy-holders have the additional pro-
tection and assurance of £ 104,000-odd of
special reserves, etc., plus share capital
(£50,000).
The office assumes that the Ordinary
funds will net 3 p.c., the same as the
larger offices. In the Industrial depart-
ment the co. values at 3\ p.c., and the
margin of loading has been increased.
Actuarial reserves having been strength-
ened, the outlook for larger bonuses be-
comes increasingly bright.
Deducting taxes, last year’s net return
on investment of the funds was £4 16s.
p.c. in the O.D. and over £5 p.c. in the
Industrial —highly satisfactory figures.
After deducting taxes, exes, took 23.1
p.c. of the net Ordinary and 46.4 p.c. of
the net Industrial premiums last year.
The funds at balance day were in-
vested 48.5 p.c. in Government stocks,
19.9 p.c. in mortgages, 18.3 p.c. free-
holds, etc., 7 p.c. loans on policies and
6.3 p.c. other assets.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Australasian Catholic. —A remark-
ably well-conducted and progressive
young office, and, of all the post-war
concerns, the only one which commenced
paying bonuses that were actually earned
during the first dozen years of its life.
E. G. Mooney founded the co. in 1921
with a share capital of £14,610. Assur-
ance funds are now approaching the
£650,000 mark.
These funds have been highly profit-
able. The assumed rate of interest has
been brought down to 3-\ p.c. in both
the Ordinary and Industrial departments.
The actual return rose from £3 18s. p.c.
to over £5 p.c. for the term ended June,
1934. Last year’s premiums were
gathered at an average cost of 37.9 p.c.
in both departments. Altogether, it
has been a highly creditable achievement.
Last year’s interest earnings showed a
margin of 30s. p.c. over the rate as-
sumed. Mortality experience has been
favorable, and investments are less
troublesome than they were. Over 80
p.c. of the assurances are in the Indus-
trial branch, but at present the O.D. is
writing an exceptional amount of busi-
ness. In this department bonuses have
been at the rate of 455. p.c. on whole-
life contracts and 30s. p.c. on endow-
ments, irrespective of age. On new
policies these rates are very satisfactory.
In the Industrial section policy-holders
have benefited at the rate of 255. p.c.
on whole-life contracts.
Mortgages represented 52 p.c. of the
assets last balance day, as against 82.1
p.c. three years ago. The office is build-
{Continued on page 34.)


If every Wife knew what every Widow knows,
every Married Man would carry the Maximum
Amount of Life Assurance that he (and his
Wife) could buy.
The One Investment that Completes Itself
Life Assurance guarantees the delivery of money that time will bring if
you do not live long enough to complete the job.
m
" ,r V
>rk
Calculating the amount of Income his Wife and Family would have to live
on in the event of his early death.
Send your name and address for particulars of the
Latest 15% Family Protection Contracts
providing for Monthly Income for Wife and Family for periods as long as
twenty years after death of assured, the premium for which is very little
greater than for the ordinary Life Policy.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
Corner of Castlereagh Street and Martin Place, Sydney
FOUNDED IN
1886
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, in Canada and Great Britain
Assets Exceed £23,000,000 - - Annual Income Exceeds £3,200,000
Amounts paid to policyholders Exceed £30,000,000


H*
•fM
m
m
iH
Ww-
n
ItMfi
Kfh*
v- w*
muSmSisjam
r-Us
m
A.C.A. BUILDING.
King and York Streets, Sydney
(in course of erection ).
PROGRESS
• Each succeed-
ing year Australasian
Catholic Assurance Co.
has shown improved
figures. BONUSES are
paid out of PROFITS.
An A.C.A. policy,
whole-life or endow-
ment, is safe, sound
and profitable.
Share in the prosperity
of this progressive com-
pany; go per cent, of
profits go to policy-
holders.
See The Bulletin’s
criticism of the igj4
accounts {l4/n/’ 34).
The term {fust
closed) will show an
increase in funds of
more than £ lOO,OOO .
• COMPARE OUR FIGURES; READ FINANCIAL
CRITICISMS ; THEN YOU’LL ASSURE WITH
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
Assurance Co., Ltd.
Present Head Office: 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branches at 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; King Wi!to iWdwde ;
A.C.A. Building, Queen Street, Brisbane; Warwick House, St. George s Terrace, t'ertn.
ing itself fine new premises (with room
for tenants) on the corner of King an
York streets, Sydney.
A Variety of Policies
Protection (in the shape of a lump
sum) for dependants in the event ot
premature death, assurances payable at
a certain age or previous death, annuities
and income policies —these are only a
few of the bread-and-butter lines special-
ised in by life offices.
Whole-of-life policies (payable at
death) and endowment assurance policies
still constitute the basis of the majority
of contracts issued. You either aim to
have the money when you’re alive (en-
dowment) or you intend your dependants
to collect only upon your death. The
terms of payment and the mode of col-
lecting the assurance mainly represent
present-day-variations of what might be
termed “old-style” forms of life assur-
ance.
The A.M.P. since 1849 has issued
1,055,449 Ordinary policies, and 586,834
are still in force. There is no doubt a
story behind every policy, and in 90 p.c.
of cases it would be a tale based on
thrift and regard for one’s responsibili-
ties.
Children’s policies are featured in one
booklet of tables issued by the A.M.P.
The society suggests that an endowment
assurance policy effected on the life of
the parent is probably the best provision
for the future of a child.
The sum assured would become pay-
able at the end of an arranged period
(to coincide with the child reaching a
certain age) or at the parent’s previous
death. This is a most valuable type of
contract, as the money becomes pay-
able when it is most desired.
The premiums are ordinary endowment
assurance rates. A father aged 30 who
aimed at providing a lump sum of £5OO
(with bonuses) for his son (at present a
year old) upon his reaching 21 could do
so (if the father had a first-class life)
by paying an annual premium of £24.
.Such a policy could be arranged to
carry an option of taking 20 quarterly
instalments of £27 os. 3d. each upon
maturity instead of a lump sum. (It
should be noted that, entirely apart from
bonuses, these 20 instalments payable
by the office are each £3 os. 3d. more
than the 20 annual premiums payable
by the assured, and there is the death
cover as well.)
There is no compulsion, of course,
on the part of the parent to utilise the
assurance for the benefit of the child
should the parent’s plans or fortunes
change in the meantime, or should the
child die.
Women, especially single women, are
turning more and more to life assurance
as an investment. The fair sex are
notoriously bad investors as far as
shares, etc., are concerned ; life assur-
ance in a sound office offers a means
of profitable saving and investment com-
bined.
Whole-life contracts are not attractive
to single women with no dependants.
Their main concern is provision against
want in later years. The A.M.P. suggests
a deferred annuity or an endowment in
such a case.
At 25 years of age a woman may
obtain an annuity of £5O, payable from
age 60 until death, for an annual pre-
mium of £9 7s. lid.; or payable from
age 55 for a premium of £l4 2s. 6d. If
the assured dies before the annuity is
entered upon premiums are handed back.
Endowment assurance combines saving
with a death benefit and substantial par-
ticipation in bonuses. A woman taking
out such a policy would receive the sum
assured on reaching a particular age —
arranged in advance to meet with ex-
pected circumstances —or her estate
would collect in the event of her prema-
ture death. If the age were reached, the
sum assured, with accrued bonuses, could
be used to buy an annuity, or could be
dealt with in any other way. A short-
term endowment is a good way of pro-
viding for a lengthy holiday trip, and
with the aid of her parents a young girl
may make some provision for the inci-
dental expenses of her future marriage.
The A.M.P., in another pamphlet,
mentions that a man who saves and in-
vests £5O a year at 5 p.c. interest will
have an accumulated fund of £660 at 10
years; at 15 years, £1133; at 20 years,
£1736. A man aged 30 who pays his
first premuim of £5O under the society’s
Table A (whole-life) immediately estab-
lishes a death estate of £2076 for the
benefit of his dependants. Bonuses would
accumulate if the policy were not
terminated abruptly by death or sur-
render.
Under another table (Q), the same
man, aged 30, could arrange to have his
premiums cease at 60 years of age. The
cover in this case would be £lBO4 for
an annual £5O premium, with participa-
tion in bonuses.
Educational endowments are another
A.M.P. feature. A father, aged 30 next
birthday, wishing to make provision for
the education of his baby son when the
latter reaches 17, could obtain an endow-
ment of £3Bl, participating in bonuses,
payable at the end of 16 years. Four
annual payments of £lOO each, bonuses
being added to the first payment, could
be accepted as an alternative. Should the
father die before the son becomes 17
the policy thereupon matures.
The National Mutual Life, one of the
largest mutual offices in the Empire,
does all kinds of ordinary life assurance,
endowment and annuity business. It has
no Industrial department, but it special-
ises in group-assurance schemes, where
the premiums are paid monthly, fort-
nightly or weekly under O.D. conditions
—which means O.D. premiums and full
participation in bonuses. Premiums are
based on age at nearest birthday.
The National has comprehensive
ranges of children’s assurance and en-
dowment tables. In most cases its de-
ferred assurances are granted on the lives
of children without medical examination
either when the policy is issued or when
the assurance risk commences.
Under one type of policy, where a
child aged five has a 30-year-old father,
an assurance for £lOOO, payable at death
of the child after it comes of age, can
be obtained for an annual premium of
£lO Bs. 4d. If the child should die ber
fore reaching 21 all premiums are re-
turned ; if the father should die before
the child comes of age all liability for
premiums ceases until the child reaches
21. From age 21 the policy starts to
participate in bonuses,- the child assumes
responsibility for the premiums, and
there are several options which may be
exercised by him.
For example, the contract may at his
option be converted into an endowment
of smaller amount or a whole-life
limited-premium policy, or it may be
converted into a paid-up contract. The
terms are extremely flexible.
The association claims to have a
policy for every life-assurance need. One
type in particular is the limited-premium
Contract. Premiums are payable for, say,
20 years or until death; should the
assured survive 20 years premiums cease,
but the policy participates in bonuses
until death. Premiums can be arranged
to cover the period of a man’s most
active earning power, and the policy be-
comes payable, free of further pre-
miums, should the assured die before
completion of the premium-payment
term.
The T. and G. has had a rush on
what might be called “investment” poli-
cies—endowments, annuities, etc. People
who held shares and other investments
saw their values shrink on the .Stock
Exchanges when slump came, while life
offices stood up ably to their commit-
ments. Hence a swing-over to life assur-
ance as a safe and reasonably profitable
investment.
The office’s family-income contract,
which provides for a payment at death,
an income for the balance ol the term
and the full sum assured at the end of
the term, is also popular.
For the young married man of, say,
35, in return for an annual premium of
£35 12s. 6d., he will receive a policy pro-
viding, in the event of his death within
the next 20 years, (a) £lOO, together with
all accumulated bonuses, ( b ) an income
of £l5O a year at least, payable monthly,
for the balance of the 20 -years, and (c)
the capital sum of £lOOO. If he survives
the 20 years the annual premium is re-
duced to £27 10s., and the capital sum,
with full accrued bonuses, is payable at
death. In this way the greatest provision
is made in the days when there is great-
est need, namely, when there is a young
family to be brought up and educated.
Probate assurance is ordinary whole-
life or endowment policies taken out foi
the specific pupose of paying death
duties. The T. and G. finds an increas-
ing demand for such assurances.
The office, in its Industrial department,
has 700,000 policies in force. Bonuses
are distributed out of the profits of this
department, and all policies, provided
they have been 10 years in force, mature
at the age of 80.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ offers
a wide variety of policies, including all
the usual types —whole-lifes and endow-
ments are still the most sought-after
types of contract —as well as family-
income assurance of merit.
This office also recommends a form of
multiple endowment assurance with full
participation in the profits. This is the
B.P. table. Instead of the endowment
being paid by the office in a lump, it is
spread over the selected term of years,
the first instalment being paid at a
selected age. In the event of death before
that age the sum assured becomes pay-
able immediately. If death occurs after
several instalments have been paid to
the assured, the balance becomes payable
at once. The policy participates in
bonuses until the selected age is reached,
and unpaid instalments also participate.
The Colonial Mutual offers Ordinary
and Industrial assurance in all popular
varieties. One the office has featured
has been its “Legacy” policy—of the
guaranteed-monthly-incomc type. The
day the assured dies his family starts to
benefit.
The Colonial Mutual introduced the
non-forfeiture principle to Industrial
assurance, and was early in the field with
group schemes.
A nursing service is extended tp the
society’s policy-holders. It also writes
accident and sickness contracts, annual
bonuses being declared on these.
Some people jib at the idea of paying
premiums for the rest of their natural
lives, because they realise that their earn-
ing capacity might be reduced when they
reach the sixties, if by then it has not
ceased altogether. Some even imagine
that they might, if they live long enough,
pay premiums in excess of the original
sum assured, forgetting that after a con-
tract has been in force for a good many
years the bonuses can almost always be
relied upon to keep the total sum
assured well ahead of the premiums
contributed.
Sometimes an endowment assurance
doesn’t appeal to the jibbers, though
payments are limited under such a
policy. For those who want the extra
cover of a whole-life policy, but wish to
avoid liability for premiums when the
weight of years is upon them, the Aus-
tralian Metropolitan Life recommends
its limited-premium policy.
After payments cease the policy
remains in full force so long as the
assured lives, and continues to partici-
pate in bonuses, so that the assurance is
constantly increasing, though it was all
paid for out of the earnings in earlier
life.
Under the Metropolitan’s ordinary
whole-life policy, a person aged 30 next
birthday would pay £l2 2s. 6d. per year
throughout life, to secure £5OO and
profits for his beneficiaries at his death.
The total amount that he will eventually
pay is unknown.
If he preferred to limit his premium
payments to 10 years, the annual sum
required for £5OO and profits at his death
would be £27. In this instance the total
payment he could make is known —the
maximum would be £270.
Limitation to 20 years under a similar
contract would mean an annual payment
of £l6 12s. 6d., and the maximum pay-
ment he could make would, therefore, be
£332 10s.
Limitation to 30 years would mean an
annual payment of £l3 12s. 6d., and it
will be seen that the assured would have
finished paying for the assurance at age
60—by which time his payments would
have aggregated £4OB 155., though hi*
policy would then be worth, w'itb
bonuses, not less than £BOO, and it would
continue to participate.
The Australasian Catholic offers attrac-
tive Industrial assurance. In its Ordinary
department also the contracts offeree
are interesting; the bonuses on new
policies are particularly good, and they
should improve as business increases.
The office is still featuring endowment
assurance as well as whole-life. With
the saving and investment value of life
assurance becoming increasingly ac-
knowledged, endowment contracts offei
many attractions for those saving up foi
a rainy day —sometimes a fine day, a«
the value of assurance for providing foi
a trip abroad is becoming more generally
acknowledged.


WE ARE NOW
CONSTRUCTING NEW BUILDINGS
FOR THE FOLLOWING
ASSURANCE COMPANIES
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
ADELAIDE.
City Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
PORT ELIZABETH, SOUTH AFRICA.
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
AND ITS ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
New Zealand and South Africa.


«SILVER
EDGE.”
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
Asf{ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Im
i,
i WORLD i
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
WORN PLU6S
WASTE YOUR
1 MONEY
Replace them with
CHAMPIONS
Champion
TAMARA '
I SPARKING
Obtainable at
all leading garages
The Steering Column.
OVER THE TEST COURSE WITH
THE STANDARD TEN.
GOOD PERFORMANCE AND EASY CONTROL.
By FRED BERRY.
r X ’HOUGH British and Continental designers still in the main
-*■ adhere to the practice of fitting small, high-revving high-
performance engines in their cars, the Standard Motor Co.
(England) has for some years realised the wisdom of providing
a bigger-engined car for colonial export. With this object in
view, the chassis which for home use has a 16-h.p. motor has
been equipped with a 20-h.p. engine, whilst the car tested
recently over the “Bulletin” course, in England a 10-h.p.
model, is fitted with a 12-h.p. motor. Thus Australian motorists
are provided with a car wherein top-gear and acceleration
performances are in accord with Australian demands, while at
cruising speeds,, due to a high back-axle ratio, the engine does
its work without undue fuss or vibration.
Mechanically, Standard cars have prob-
ably made greater progress over the last
few years than any other established
marque. They have been lifted from
comparative obscurity by an extraordi-
narily bold and progressive policy which
has culminated in a range of models in-
corporating practically every worth-while
automotive refinement. The secret of this
success has been the ruthless scrapping
of old ideas and the importation of pro-
duction experts from the U.S.A., who
have been able to save weight in the
finished product without in any way sac-
rificing efficiency or reliability.
No longer are castings used where
metal stampings would be equally effi-
cient, and die casting, the wider use of
jigs for repetition work and the scien-
tific testing and measurement of all com-
ponent parts have ensured production
of a high-performance car that is at
once reliable and free from the petty
but none the less irritating service
troubles common to “handmade”
machines.
The 4-cyl. 12-h.p. motor fitted to the
10-h.p. chassis is of the side-by-side-valve
type, with detachable cylinder head, and
is built in unit with gearbox and free
wheel, the whole being insulated from
the frame by a rubber “buoyant power”
mounting to absorb vibration. Crank-
case and cylinders are cast in one piece
and made of a special wear-resisting
cast-iron.
Bore and stroke are 69.5 and 106 mm.
respectively, swept volume being
1608.5 cc.; and, with a compression ratio
USEFUL DATA ON 10-H.P. STANDARD.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 23 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 11 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in third in 8 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 7 2-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 19ft.
Maximum speed, 60.1 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 30.4 m.p.g.
of 5.5 to 1, 38 b.h.p. is delivered at 3600
r.p.m. R.A.C. rating is 11.98 h.p. An
interesting feature of the b.h.p. curve is
the remarkably small fall in output
between 3600 and 2600 revs. —a sure
indication of good top-gear perform-
ance and hill-climbing qualities.
Pistons are made from aluminium
alloy, and each has three compression
rings in the head, the lower also acting
as an oil scraper. The piston skirts fit
closely on cylinder walls to prevent slap
when the motor is cold, but are designed
to accommodate themselves to the
Ten-h.p. Standard four-door sedan—a big car in miniature.
cylinder bores at working temperatures.
I-section connecting rods are light
alloy with bronze little-end bushes and
bronze-backed white-metal big-ends.
Crankshaft is of alloy steel balanced
dynamically and statically, and runs on
three bearings, clutch thrust being taken
by the rear main bear-
ing. Case - hardened
harmonic cams are
formed integral with
the camshaft, and
operate tappets the
fiat cast-iron faces of
which are chilled to
produce a hard-wear-
ing surface. Tappets
are located in detach-
able guide blocks.
The camshaft is
mounted on three
bearings, and em-
bodies a helical gear
drive for the dual purpose of operat-
ing the oil pump and ignition distributor.
Camshaft and distributor are driven by
a roller chain having an automatic ten-
sioning device.
The valves are of heat-resisting silico-
chrome steel, guides of cast-iron being
renewable.
Fuel is drawn from an eight-gallon
tank at the rear of the chassis by a
mechanically-operated pump driven by
an eccentric from
the camshaft,
filter, settling
bowl and hand-
priming device
being incorpor-
ated. The car-
burettor is of
horizontal - type
“easy start” Solex,
with air silencer.
In effect, the in-
strument is a
dual-purpose one,
separate provision
being made for
both slow running
and power, the
auxiliary “easy
start” unit com-
ing into operation
only when the
throttle is closed.
Lucas 12-volt starting and lighting
equipment is fitted, consisting of dynamo,
automatic cut-out and charge regulator,
starter, distributor and coil, lamps, am-
meter, screen wiper, horn, fuse box and
accumulator.
Coil-and-battery ignition is used, a
red warning lamp showing on the dash-
board when ignition switch is made and
the motor idle. Ignition advance is
entirely automatic, but a micrometer ad-
justment is incorporated on the distri-
butor head, facilitating quick adjustment
of the initial firing point to suit various
grades of fuel. Both Startix automatic
starting and manual control are provided,
the Startix system rotating the motor
when the ignition switch is turned on.
Lubricating oil is drawn from the sump
through large filters by a mechanical-
gear-type pump and delivered under
pressure to crankshaft journals, crank-
pjns and camshaft bearings. Pistons,
tappets, valve gear and liming chain
are splash-lubricated.
Transmission is by single-plate “Borg
and Beck” type dry-disc clutch to a four-
speed-and-reverse gearbox bolted to the
engine. Synchronised engagement is pro-
vided in second, third and top gears, the
constant-mesh pinions mounted on the
primary shaft having double helical teeth,
whilst similar teeth are used on the con-
stant-mesh silent intermediate gears.
Gear-change lever is central-ball type,
Bolted behind the gearbox is a free-
wheeling unit and enclosed speedometer
drive. Free-wheeling is thrown in or out
of engagement at will by means of a
push-pull control on the instrument
Cutaway section of the “unit construction” power plant and
transmission of the Standard Ten. Note the adjustable water-
temperature thermostat and accessibility of distributor unit.
panel, and is automatically disengaged
when gear lever is placed in “reverse”
position.
Final drive is through an open pro-
peller shaft with totally enclosed metal
universal joints at either end. Rear axle
is semi-floating type in banjo-type hous-
ing. Helical gears are used in the crown-
wheel-and-pinion assembly, the final re-
duction ratio being 4.86 to 1. Chassis is
X-braced pressed steel, underslung at
rear, with four pressed cross members,
the central member being extended to
carry the running boards.
Semi-elliptic laminated springs are
fitted front and rear, the rear springs be-
ing slung under the axle, and the front
springs on top. “Silent bloc” bushes are
used in all spring eyes. Four hydraulic
shock-absorbers are fitted as auxiliary
suspension.
Steering is cam-and-lever type with a
simple means of adjustment /or wear.
The steering column is provided with a
telescopic adjustment permitting the
driver to lengthen or shorten the steering
column.
Bendix duo-servo brakes are fitted to
all four wheels, and are operated by
either hand brake or foot pedal through
independent linkage. Wheelbase is 94in,
SLOW RUNNING
THROTTLE ADJUSTER
SLOW RUNNING
JET REGULATOR
SMALL FILTER
IN HERE
ADD THIN OIL HERE
AS RECOMMENDED
Solex "easy, start” carburettor, showing
ease of adjustment and ready
accessibility.
The car tested over the Bulletin
course was a four-door sedan driven by
W. Lowrie, of Buckle and Harden,
N.S.W. distributors. With driver and


FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 (SECOND
P EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
V.)i George Street. Sydney, 3d. extra.
i
£
r)\s?
v^f v S ta V^ s
a* (
#W" o ti<«
n VvV _, ♦ '
V°? 0 «
gVet'f
itv^ e
a^ (
dV° u
\Vd s
c\ a
.\ves
feotft
**»
itv
0 0* a ' vw de c ' de ate
'dV P e t^'
c-.tsVW • » 0 ©tW
te s9® cl w u^ oT
T _ o \* veW ‘ v '“ b
t^ eV «d eIT
* a l<^ e
s© 2
\YteV
be at
Vbe
fttt®
vtv
\s “
, » e ta^ e
*■ a !!b^ ed d too<» " e - «v e
,\tW _ at® a , e
5 e '"tr t*** *»* , . VaWes r >o.
pulor V *ac
; n V>° vVv 3 vttvP otX , e ad^
% c ' e - d *w * *'£» oi '" e
LaS'W' f daW e *°® **,»•»»•
1 Yto^ s ®
\
OV)^
t c^' c
observer and full fuel tank the weigh-
bridge docket showed 234 cwt., and
speedometer reading stood at 1361
miles.
First impressions when driving through
city traffic were those of ease and
simplicity of control, while the gener-
ous leg-room in the driver’s com-
partment, coupled with splendid riding
qualities, gave one a “big-car” im-
pression.
Smart time was made to Parramatta,
and on the open road beyond the
speedometer was kept around the 40
mark without fuss, the high back-
axle ration permitting the motor to
turn comparatively slowly at cruising
speed.
Approaching Windsor the car was
slowed down to 15 m.p.h., and with the
free-wheeling unit still in operation the
Standard coasted 683yds. before coming
to a standstill.
Leaving Windsor and approaching
Richmond, a test of maximum speed
was made over a measured mile with
flying start, the time taken, 59 2-ssec.,
giving an average of 60.1 m.p.h. Ovei
this section the car held the road splen-
didly, and steering was light yet definite.
Bitterly cold weather, however, prevented
the motor reaching an efficient working
temperature on the limited run ; further-
more, the engine was still “green,” and
should show to better advantage after
further running in.
Continuing through Richmond, the
unmade by-pass road through Grose Vale
was taken, and over this rough section
the Standard suspension, whilst slightly
harsher than in bigger cars, was not
Clutch housing, gearbox with dipstick for
checking oil level, free-wheel unit and
change-speed lever.
uncomfortable at any stage. Steering
qualities and roadholding were very
good.
Next test involved the speed climb of
2 1-5 miles of the steepest portion of
Kurrajong Mountain, and on this difficult
ascent, in second and third gears, the
Standard held the corners well. Though
the time taken was smin. ssec., the engine
was cold at the conclusion. Returning
down the mountain a test of emergency
brakes was made, the car pulling up with-
out skidding in 10ft. from a speed of 15
m.p.h.
Approaching Richmond the cross-
country road through Castlereagh to
Penrith was taken, and here further tests
were conducted. First, that of covering
1-5 mile as slowly as possible on top
gear, followed immediately by 1-5 mile
on full throttle. Result showed that the
Standard could crawl along in top at
5.4 m.p.h., taking 2min. 12sec. for the
distance, while the “accelerated” distance
was clocked in 20sec., finishing at 50
m.p.h., averaging 36 m.p.h. From a
steady 10 m.p.h. to 30 m.p.h. in top,
third and second was timed as 11
3-ssec., 3 3-ssec. and 7 2-ssec. respec-
tively, whilst from a standing start
to 50 m.p.h. through all gears occupied
23sec.
These times show what a handy
machine the Standard must be in traffic,
for in silent third the acceleration is well
in keeping with that of high-powered,
“full-sized” cars.
Braking equipment was next tested
from a speed of 25 m.p.h., the car com-
Distributor unit, showing "micro" adjust-
ment for manual variation of ignition
point.
ing to rest in J9ft.—a highly-satisfactory
performance.
Turning circle on both left and right
lock was 36ft., while minimum ground
clearance under differential casing was
B{-in.
Returning to headquarters via the
Western Highway fuel used on the full
test of J2B miles was measured and found
to be 4gal. ipt., giving an average of
30.4 m.p.g. (35.7 ton miles), which, when
taken in conjunction with an average
road speed, inclusive of all tests, of 33.7
m.p.h., is a highly creditable perform-
ance.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
Obar (Glen Roy, S.A.).—(l) I have been driv-
ing an Oakland Six, ’2B model, over all classes
of roads since new without trouble, but now
propose getting a closed ’35 model. Please
give me your opinion of independent wheel
suspension for country work, and has it come
to stay ? (2 What is your preference for the
cars (named), in order of merit for country
. o
'work ?
(1) Independent suspension is perfectly suit-
able for country work, and has come to stay,
(2) B. D, F, H, K equal; then A, C, E
and G.
* * * *
C.L.R. (Hamilton Downs, Q .).—ln your
article (B. 5/6/’35) a comparison of the power
output of a test engine with different fuels was
"r ‘j t■> 0U C ' >e name ° l W ’ e Sup '
Plted .
Fuels used in test were made by the same
company, and were merely samples for experi-
mental purposes, in which the knock rating
varied within extremely wide limits.
* * * *
A.McD. (Ballina, N.S.W.).—/ am having
trouble with the lighting equipment of my
’32 model car. Latterly each time the motor
is revved the fuse blows, and / am now afraid
to go out at night for fear of an accident due
to failure of lights. Can you suggest a cure ?
I have already had two new batteries.
One of those cases it is hard to diagnose
without inspection. Possibly when new bat-
tenes were fitted the polarity was reversed,
Otherwise wiring system should be tested with
suitable apparatus.
* * * *
J R. (Gordonvale, N.Q.).—(l) I have in my
model A Ford a 13-p ate battery. I his fits
into the container nicely, but another 12-plate
battery of different make lent to me is 100
large. Would these two different makes of
sinnlar number of plates be of the same
capacity ? I have difficulty in inserting the
starting handle, as it will not register with the
slot in the front panel. What can he done .
(1) Output is governed as much by size
and thickness of plates as the number. (2)
Engine may be out of alignment either by
reason of twisted chassis member or loose
anchorages.
* * * *
J. McM. (Rostock, Q.).— l have broken the
worm drive in my VW type Vulcan car .
Where dan I get spares?
This make of car has long been off the
market. Cannot locate spare parts or agencies.
Will advise should information come to hand.
H.M. (Annandale, N.S.W Thanks to your
advice as to the use of colloidal graphite
some six months ago, my car is now running
beautifully. I have been advised that there is
now no further use for graphite. Is this so?
Don < t discontinue use of graphite. Halve the
titi or use only every other till.
M J *
* * *
E.R.-J.H. (Cairns, N.Q.). — Do you advise
reboring my Essex Super Six Challenger model,
or would fitting new rings remedy piston slap ?
Car has had only one set fitted since new.
Can’t say without knowing exact degree of
wear j n cylinder bores. If wear is greater than
10 thou ncw pi s(0 n rings are only a waste
q{ m a nd a rebore or reline should be
undertaken. If wear approximates four to six
thou , new rings may temporarily cure the
J
uoudic. _ +
E.S.B. (Glen Iris, Vic.). —l have a Willys-
Knight Seventy, 18,000 miles, in excellent con-
ditipn. Would yon advise the addition of
colloidal graphite to the oil in an engine of
ibis type•?
Even at this late stage it is well worth
trying.
* * * *
I.McN. (Werris Creek, N.S.W.). —My Sixty-six
sedan car has recently been overhauled,
s /m consumes oil at the rate of one
quart each 100 miles. Ran the engine for half
an hour on a hoist and could not detect leaks,
(llu j exhaust is reasonably free from smoke.
Any remedy ?
jh c sj x ty. s ; x motor is a high-efficiency “hot”
(yp C; an d when cylinders become worn oil
p asses j,ito the combustion chamber and is
burned instantly without a great deal of exhaust
smoke. You will no doubt find distinct evi-
jence G f exhaust smoke when running free on
down-grades, and carbon will form rapidly in
( | lO combustion chamber. Only remedy is
re bore or reline of cylinders.
# #
' ... ' ...... ~ .
N.McB. (Ballarat, Vic.). While lubncat-
"}B the springs of my car recently I noticed
me flexible brake cable was badly frayed in
several places. Is it possible to make a satis-
fac‘°ry re P air ?
Not advisable, as the cable carries a very
heavy load when brakes are fully applied.
Have a new cable fitted,
( Continued on page 38.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
mm
mk
m
fyA
Oil
m
line
0
Uto&wfflk
°Usi
m
••' ;
***»
HR
?«B|3i #
Q BUY SEALED OIL
Motorists everywhere are reali •
sing that Valvoline Sealed Oil is
the best lubricating proposition.
Valvoline is sold in “tamper-proof"
tins, being sealed against substi-
tution. adulteration, dirt and short
measure.
When you buy Valvoline you
know what you’re getting-an oil
that gives added life and smooth-
Mins N 1 311 ¥ 1 I ¥ A ¥ N ft
VQ^ihVT^
o
ness to anv engine
and cuts down repairs.
Ask your garageman,
then let your motor
and dip stick be the
judge!
df
J.CARRIGAN
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
and tkmlwtd tk Gmmmmltk
66 This is
the most
powerful
car battery
of its size
ever built”
Pi
m
SEE
YOUR
NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
T TS Willard’s new WST-1-15
— w ith 15 plates per cell in-
stead of 13, and consequently
Greater Reserve Power!
It’s the battery for emergencies
—for quicker starts and more
of them —for the extra power
reserve winter starting re-
quires!
Every Willard dealer will
show you the WST-1-15.
Willard
Spend the time
to SIMONIZ your car once
and FORGET IT FOR MONTHS
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever
J.N. (Longreach, Q.).— Clutch in my six-
cylinder car is so fierce that 1 cannot possibly
move off smoothly however carefully the pedal
is let in. Is there any way the engagement can
be made smoother without expense of dismant-
ling ? . , ,
Try washing out with benzine, introduced by
means of a syringe through inspection hole.
Dry out carefully before taking the car on the
road, and make certain thrust withdrawal
mechanism is well oiled. If this fails, the only
remedy will be to reface the pressure plate and
take up wear in the spline.
* * * *
G.C. (Alstonville, N.S.W.). —My ’34 Chev.
has done only 8000 miles, but now on starting
I notice a considerable volume of water ejected
from the exhaust pipe. Car appears to pull
well, and petrol consumption averages 20 m.p.g.
Is the trouble serious ?
No; similar conditions exist in every car, par-
ticularly in winter, as products of combustion
are carbon dioxide and water. After the ex-
haust system has heated up, the water is
vaporised, but with a cold motor it passes out
of the exhaust pipe in liquid form.
* * * *
J.A.S. (Healesville, Vic.)—/ have recently
taken delivery of a second-hand Continental
sports car under the dashboard of which is
fitted a small brass fire extinguisher. There
is no fluid in it, so I cannot get a reduction in
insurance premium. What fluid is used ?
Measure the capacity of the cylinder, and
buy the exact quantity of carbon tetrachloride.
* * # *
M.M. (Rozelle, N.S.W.). —My 1-h.p. roadster
is giving trouble in starling. Sometimes the
engine will fire immediately the starter pedal is
depressed. On other occasions the battery
appears to have run down overnight and the
starter scarcely turns the engine. Motor and
magneto must be in good condition, for a few
turns of the starling handle are sufficient to
get the engine going. Cause and cure ?
Trouble may be due to a number of reasons.
If the battery, after testing, has definitely run
down overnight, then there must be a serious
short in the wiring system, or cut-out points
require attention. As the engine fires readily
when turned by starting handle, carefully inspect
electrical contacts on the starter motor. If they
are badly corroded a high resistance will be
set up causing the starter motor tc ’./““I 1 ®"
erratically, and in some cases to tail altogether.
* * * *
L.H. (Kelso, N.S.W.). —I have recently lifted
t / te ) iea d Q f m y >3O Olds., ground-in the valves
a)J( j decarbonised the chamber. The car pulls
we n > but number three and number four cylin-
j ers cut ou[ frequently, particularly when slarl-
from cold. Plug points are correctly set,
f )ut t j je two o ff en< jing cylinders plugs appear
to be quite damp. What’s wrong ?
Symptoms indicate a defective cylinder-head
gasket, If, when replacing, the copper-asbestos
gasket has been cracked or damaged, water
from the circulating system will leak into the
combustion chamber and cause the trouble you
describe. Only remedy is to remove heads and
fit new gasket.
He * * ♦
L.A. (Hawthorn, Vic.).—/ have difficulty in
getting my ’27 model Chev. to fire regularly,
and my garage has fitted three new sets of
make-and-hreak points within the last 4000
miles. If I lift the bonnet at night with the
engine running there appears to be a distinct
glow from the distributor head. Any sugges-
tions ?
Examine points and see if they are pitted
and covered with a greyish deposit, as the
glow mentioned is almost certainly due to a
faulty condenser. Fit a new condenser and
see if the trouble disappears.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Pick”: Loaded with five tons of
baffle plates, a lorry sank and stayed put
between the sleepers when crossing the
line at Camelia, N.S.W. To get on with
their shunting the crew of a near-by
goods train hooked on their engine,
which, with frantic snorts, jerked the
lorry out of the bog.
* * * *
“Bog In”: When one or both rear
wheels fall into a churned-out mudhole,
though the rest of the car has attained
dry land, get a rail or sapling. Place
the rail under the car against the front
of both rear tyres, strap it to both, get
in and start up. The wheels will climb
over the rail out of the hole. If no
straps—well, it’s a poor road that doesn’t
produce a bit of fencing wire.
“Eureka”: An object of interest out-
side a shop in Paddington (Sydney) is
a 1900 model Oldsmobile, still in gooc
running order. Motor is sing e-cyhnder
drive is by cham, steering by tiller. The
body supports a pair of kerosene
am ps. # + *
“Lizzie’s Boy Friend”: The last 200
miles of corrugated road were proving
too much for our Liz, and it was becom-
ing necessary to stop every five miles to
refill the radiator. Nor was water over-
plentiful. Nor was a pound of loose
pepper, the standard remedy, of any
efficacy in stopping the leaks. Finally,
at the first wayside store, we bought
three eggs and trickled the whites in.
That brought us home, the coagulated
albumen stopping all leaks.
“Yeno Ham”; A very green waybacker
bought a motor-car, received some in-
struction in driving, and returned home,
A few weeks later the garageman re-
ceived a message that the car wouldn’t
go. After an investigation he pointed out
that there was no water in the radiator.
- . „ •,
, me , uc ky, sai , , ’
1 didn t know that you had to pu
water in it. 1. thought it was an 01 na-
ment!”
* * * *
“Dome”: They built ’em tough in the
early days. My father owned a 1902
model of international tendencies. It had
a French engine, Belgian name and
German gearbox (you had to hold the
gear lever in place over the bumps),
Eventually it was burned and the engine
sold to a fisherman as junk. Installed
in his boat it ran for years until the
launch was wrecked. Salvaged after
some weeks, it was bought by a saw-
miller, and until a couple of years ago
ran a 20in. saw. Now it has retired from
active life, and merely works a pump
occasionally.
* * * *
“Back .Seat”: There has been a sug-
gestion in the U.S.A. that the driver’s
seat, in cars at any
rate, should be made
less comfortable, the
idea being that
luxurious cushions
lull him into care-
lessness. Cost of
alteration is urged
against the pro-
posal, but I suggest
an alternative.
Under the back seat
a phonograph attach-
ment would con-
stantly shriek
“George, you fool,
where are you
going?” or “Egbert, you brute, you've
been drinking again.” A small gadget on
screen-wiper lines could be employed to
prod the man in front with an umbrella
at frequent intervals or slam him over the
head if necessary.
* * * *
“Cossy”: The tyre was so easy that
I dropped one lever and finished the job
with the other. With the tyre pumped
up hard, the wheel replaced and the jack
removed, I started to collect the tools,
but could not locate one lever. It had
been dropped on a clear hard surface
alongside a lonely bush track. I was
almost forced to conclude that a lOin.
length of mild steel had evaporated when
I spotted two small bulges in the just-
mended tyre. Never again will 1 sneei
at .surgeons who leave forceps ms.de
P atient s. * *
IID , „ „ . , • „ „
Be ' a >'. : Getting an extra s ram on a
rope by jerking it sideways atter further
direct pulling seems useless (B. 26/6/’35)
j s an old sailor’s trick used to sheet home
halyards after these had been hauled in
the usual way. The method was to jerk
sideways with a foot on the mast while
the others took in the momentary slack ;
in this way a gaff or yard could be got
closer up than by any other method,
“Hope Vale” says nothing about taking
in the slack after each “spring” on the
rope. Without this the car would simply
slip back altei each jcik.
* * * *
“Alpha”: At Tinonee (N.S.W.) the
old cutting to the punt cuts down the
river bank at right-angles to the water,
and is almost as steep. In the darkness of
a stormy winter’s night a car missed the
turn-off on to the deviation and swung
headlong down the old cutting. Passen-
gers screamed as the vehicle gathered
way, and the driver vainly jambed on
everything he had, but failed to pull up.
By a heaven-sent coincidence the punt
pulled in just as the car reached the
bottom, and the attendant swung the
gates open just in time to avoid a nasty
mess. The attendant remarked that he
had never seen the approach tackled so
neatly at high speed.
“G.H.M.”: Pulled up at a shearing-
shed one evening in time to attend a
protest meeting about the cook. Many
men were dissatisfied, and explained why.
One old shearer’s protest definitely settled
the poisoner’s fate. The old chap reck-
oned he should be sacked for serving the
blancmange cold the previous Sunday.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”


tna
WIRELESS
VALVE
Every Radiotron is labora-
tory tested and guaranteed
by Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co. to retain its tonal
quality and give longer life
than any other valve in the
world.
RADIOTR
Distributors: AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/sia). LTD., 47 York Street, Sydney: AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD.. 93-95 Clarence Street, Sydney
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company, Limited.)
K
Ml
i i
RADIO NEWS.
Our Sporting
Session
“Two no
trumps,” said
Bates.
“Piffpoff comes
with a great run
and challenges
Gonecoon opposite the Leger. It’s any-
body's race!” announced the wireless ex-
citedly. Naturally, when Bates looked
nastily at me, 1 was a bit confused
whether it was because wd had failed to
make game on a five-tricks-ovcr deal or
Piffpoff had failed by a neck.
Anyway, it was Bates who, the after-
noon bridge game having been arranged,
had suggested leaving the wireless on.
“Let’s switch it on to
YOY,” he said, “They
give all the sports, and we
can pick them up as we
go along.”
It was a relief to find
that I was not the only
offender when Mrs. Bates
looked at her partner
savagely with a sharp
“Did you notice what hap-
pened then?”
“Beaton got through for
a great try! I’d like to
have been there!” he said.
“Those roars of cheers
are not for your play,”
the lady said acidly.
“We're passing over to
Randwick for an account
of the Cup,” blared the
wireless,
“No post-mortems,” I
said. “One heart.”
It became more of a jumble as the
afternoon wore on especially after Bates
fad opened the whisky. My personal
lecollcction was that Brown and Beaton
scored a great slam in the Flying Handi-
cap, playing a Number 3 postposition
contract; and Bates in the next hand
kicked the goal, flashing past the post
with a neck lead for game and rubber,
At the Stadium in the evening my part-
ner and I were going three spades
doubled by Mrs. Bates and redoubled by
myself on the strength of Speeder (on
which I had a bob both ways) paying
10 to 1 in the Handicap. There was a
roar of applause from the crowd watch-
ing the Randly-North-West match when
L leading my singleton ace of diamonds
and letting my partner in with a small
club (quite by accident), got a cross-ruff
try with the 33 to 1 chance Slowhoof in
the Welter. Bates won on a small slam
declaration in Melbourne on the last
race; and matters were becoming more
and more confused with the arrival of
final scores in baseball, lacrosse, hockey,
golf and tennis; in fact, I had followed
Bates’s demand bid with a declaration
of a set in hearts when
Bates flung his cards on the table.
“How the hell can a man play
bridge!” he roared. “You’re thinking
of football when I go hearts, and the
races if I nominate spades, and”
His violence in rising had shot the scor-
mg-sheet over to me, and in the midst of
Bates’s violence it gave me a triumph,
“Here!” I said warmly, “when did we
score 70 and 2 up above the line? And
how could our opponents have scored
game on 15-14? You lapsed a bit your-
self, didn’t you?”
The atmosphere threatened to become
heated but the radio spoke again.
Follow the string from the wireless
cabinet, it said, “and you will find a
pleasant surprise.”
Bates followed the thread of sugges-
tion, so to speak, to the ice-chest, and
found some beer.
The children’s session had begun.
There was plenty of beer, and we became
childishly happy.
H.M.
Why Radio
Gets Itself
Disliked
Doesn’t most
of the growling
about radio re-
sult from people
having, perforce,
to listen to
broadcasts they
don’t wish to hear, which are not intended
for them, anyway. That must be so at
some time or other in every instance
We will play Schubert’s ‘Serenade ’ to you —
where the set is not owned by a solitary
bachelor. In the average home it must
be the everyday experience,
r?*. T ij , ,
_!n« WOU d ratl ]? r hav s steel
drdls for 10 hours than b sten for 10
mmutes to an a PP a rently recorded serial
prese L nt on tbe air f P r youngsters,
kvery character in it shrills his or her
part on a high-pitched note that seems
to cut my nerv °us system to shreds. It
basn,t this effect on the couple of small
boys who listen to d, and 1 know that at
one time 11 would not have had this effect
on me - have listened to it eagerly, as
! bey do, and found it marvellously thrill-
,All tbat s tbe matter with me is
tbat lve lost m y capacity to be thrilled,
Well, I can forbid them to listen to it,
or J can go for a walk. I go for the
walk. This is not fond indulgence on
my P a rt; I know that what I like
listening to is as repellent to them
ulmost as this shrill-voiced serial is
to me. So it is with other broadcasts,
One member of the house likes corn-
munity singing; I can hardly tolerate it.
I like certain sports broadcasts; others
present have no interest in sport—and I
have found that there are few things
more intolerable than the voice of radio
when it is dealing with anything that
does not on, its own account capture in-
terest. The very rarest sort of broad-
cast is that which is engaging simply as
a broadcast, irrespective of what the sub-
ject happens to be. That is something
which will have to come if radio is to
continue to hold its present popularity,
a nd no doubt it will come in time, when
the novelty wears off and radio has to
chase a public instead of the public
chasing it.
Meanwhile, this is going on in the
majority of homes: some are enjoying
what’s on the air at a given moment
and some are disliking it in varying de-
grecs of intensity. No wonder almost
everybody you question has something
savage or carping to say about radio.
C.M.
Talkers and
Talk
Broadcas ting
talkers as a class
are as capable as
an un e m ployed
crooner doing re-
lief work. It is
said in (heir defence lhat they _are experts
on thetr subjects ; the trouble is that they
often are, and nothing besides. The radio
is not the place for great originality of
thought. It is not necessary that a speaker
have sonic important contribution to
science to make known to the world.
Expert talkers are what is required.
Provided a person is an accomplished
speaker, provided his voice is good and
suited to broadcasting and he knows how
to interest his audience in what he has
to say, it matters nothing (hat listeners
can find all he tells them in an encyclo-
piedia. There are speakers who, pre-
paring their talk from a book—choosing
only that which appeals to themselves —
can be more interesting than the expert
who wrote it. It’s the same with! travel-
talkers. The A.B.C. appears to consider
that anybody who has come here by the
regular routes from Britain or America
have something lo say which every-
body wants to hear. Many of them
could travel to Mars and back and still
be duller than a geography textbook. A
good speaker could tell listeners of more
some other time.”
interesting things in Venice from a study
ol The Encydopcedia Britannica than
could the average broadcast talker who
has sweated a gondolier in search of
local color. In short, except in rare
instances, radio talking would be better
without “experts.”
JACHRIS.
All Round
the Dial
„ .
. M.G.”; While
A is overhauling
the system of
broadcasting gen-
erally, the A.B.C.
~ well con-
sider the allotment ot different types
ot matter to different stations. It
would be all to the benefit of list-
eners if they knew they could always
get music from a couple of stations,
educative matter from another, enter-
tamment from a third and so on.
An excess of stations would enable the
further division of subjects ; for instance,
if classical music were played from 2XY
and jazz from 2YZ followers of both
types would not throw fits of rage so
often as they do now.
“JDKZ”: “Pitt-street” (B. 26/6/’35)
is right; but misguided mothers are very
much to blame. They arrange for some-
thing like this to be broadcast; “And now
here’s one for little Mary . And, oh,
Mary, what’s this I’ve been told! You
won’t practise your scales. That’s dread-
ful. Oh, yes, a little bird told me.” And
so on. It’s time something was done to
spare youngsters the agony of shame
they suffer from such paltry public
censure.
“A.L.”: Not long ago 2UW, as part
ol its all-night and all-day session, began
organising official “listening posts”
throughout Australia, each official lis-
tener guaranteeing to be in touch for
two- or three-hour periods. Already there
have been several striking examples of
how the scheme can work. When three
men who had been lost in a launch were
found on the cliff face near Gronulla
(N.S.W.), (he broadcasting stations were
asked to try to locate the father of one
of the men. He was known to be travel-
ling in the country, but that was all.
Within two hours one of 2UW’s “official
listeners” at Clune, 554 miles from Syd-
ney, intercepted the car and delivered the
message. Another case concerned a
young woman who fell over a cliff at
Manly,
“Alpha”: It's happened—radio adver-
tising that’s easy to listen to. As usual
I spent hours the other night hearing
a lot of advertising blah and pondering
on the strange circumstance that Sydney
must muster close on a
hundred full-blown adver-
tising copywriters, scores
of hack-and-gag-men and
not a single idea that any-
one has not heard ad
nauseam over the air. A
soft lullaby soothed me
off at this stage, and it
was only half-way through
the melody (hat I woke
up to the fact that L
blankets were on the air,
telling me in a really
attractive way that [
would never enjoy sweet,
dreamless repose on any
other make of blanket.
If anyone knows who in-
vented the little ditty
about the blankets, he
might let people know
the address. That man's
blood is worth bottling—•
strictly for advertising pur-
poses, of course.
“L.L.L.”: George Saunders, Uncle
George to thousands of 2GB youngsters
has been in the Uncle game long enough
fo have been Uncle George to the parents
of some of his present listeners. He can
claim to be the original Uncle George of
radio and the daddy of all Australian an-
nouncers, and he still presents a type of
bedtime-hour entertainment which differs
little from that put over 10 years ago.
He believes it is what the children want
—birthday calls, a song or two at the
piano and a little backchat with Bimbo
Uncling isn’t a forced occupation with
him. When his business was running
agencies for various American lines of
goods, he spent his spare time visiting
kiddies at hospitals, and helping them
through the long hours with the yarns
be used to spin them,
“F.J.8.”: Natural-history item over
the radio: “All sorts of fruits and vege-
tables are indigent to the soil of Norfolk
Island.”


5
M\RA Cigy/
Y\ of 193 S
m
Stromberg
-Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
IV
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
•jS. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), ■
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261 |
I STUDY I
JtMWlfl
W AT home
P arficu,o «/ 0 .
ISchool° f Radio
engineering
WEMBLEY HOUSE RAILWAY SQUARE SYDNEY
RADIO NEWS (Continued)
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE.
TELEVISION IN AUSTRALIA.
Although commercial television in
Australia must inevitably be launched
... u - u i n t-pnincr
with high-definition images m keeping
with development overseas, there is ample
scope for experimental services using the
low-definition systems which have been
in action for some time in England,
Even though purely experimental, tele-
vision of the 30-line kind can provide
much material for groundwork among ex-
perimenters, and is better than no material
at all. The fallacy that very poor enter-
tainment value is obtained from the 30-
line systems is exploded by witnessing
the flashes of 8.8. C. television in the
screen picture “Royal Cavalcade,” re-
cently showing in Australia. Serious
thought should be given to the encour-
agement of television, low-definition or
otherwise, with a minimum of delay,
There are thousands of experimental
radio enthusiasts who would gladly seize
the opportunity to watch images, flickery
or otherwise, on their own home-con-
structed outfits if stations were on the
air in the capital cities, and if com-
ponent parts for construction were ob-
tainable. In England an extensive market
has been built up on low-definition tele-
vision alone, with the result that the
majority of radio enthusiasts are also
television-minded, and more competent
to tackle the problems of the much more
advanced high-definition services which
are almost ready to start.
T. M. Elliott, of Brisbane, a well-
known experimenter from the earliest
days, declares that an efficient system of
low-definition television can be put on
the air at any moment. He was inter-
viewed in his Brisbane laboratory (which
he claims to be Australia’s only television
research station), wherein for the past
two years he has been carrying out re-
search work, establishing regular con-
tact with the leading television authori-
ties of both England and Germany.
“For many reasons it is very desirable
that we should start at once,” said Mr.
Elliott. “The immediate effect of the
launching of a public television service
would be the creation of a small army of
experimenters, some of whom would
probably contribute to the advancement
of this new science under local condi-
tions. In fact, the whole of Australia
would become television-minded, and we
should have new developments every-
where.”
Seemingly the establishment of a
public television service is merely a
matter of inducing co-operation on the
part of the Commonwealth authorities,
some of whom have already expressed
enthusiasm over the recent demonstra-
tions of television in Brisbane. Mr.
Elliott, though anxious that Australia
should contribute its quota to the
world’s television achievements, is more
interested in scientific research than in
the establishment of a practical com-
mercial or public service, and has re-
cently rejected offers of financial back-
ing which would have been very tempt-
ing to a man more commercially-minded.
For several months he has conducted
regular daily television broadcasts to
local television enthusiasts, effectively
transmitting pictures of about 9in. by
4in. with only a small marginal loss of
detail by distortion —a whitish blur
which more recent experiments tend to
eliminate. The Brisbane research station
in the old Observatory Tower has be-
come the focus-point of every television-
minded Queenslander.
M.M.T.
HIGH-DEFINITION MECHANICAL SCANNING
IN TELEVISION.
per those interested in the f scanning
problems of television, “Television and
Short-wave World” (Eng.) outlines a
possible method of obtaining high defi-
nition mechanical scanning. The illus-
tration shows how this could be done by
using two mirror
drums, one placed
vertically and the
other horizontally.
The trouble with
mechanical scanners
is one of “mass,”
and this has been
responsible for at-
tracting much favor
to the cathode-ray
tube, in which no-
thing moves
mechanically other
than the minute
movement of the
deflecting plates. It is clear that
ii mechanical scanners are o
used on high-definition they must b
very different, lor many reasons, from
the usual 30- or 60-line disc or mirror-
drum, The two movements of scanning,
spot and line traverse, could be pro-
duced by two moving systems. The two
mirror drums, A and B, in the illustra-
tion, having their mirrors parallel to their
axes, can be made to give the necessary
results.
If a beam of light is projected on to
a mirror drum and the drum rotated, the
reflected beam will sweep along a given
direction, this direction being changed
by a mirror, such as one on the drum
B, which is at right angles to drum A.
If A was stationary, and B rotated, the
light beam would sweep in a direction
which would be at right angles to the
previous conditions. By rotating both,
the combined effect will cause the light
beam to scan an area whose length and
breadth can be arranged according to the
relative positions of the two drums and
the screen. For a 240-line picture, 25
times per second, the A drum could
have 60 mirrors rotating 50 times per
second with the B drum, in both cases
with 25 mirrors rotating once per second.
The object of reducing the mirrors on
A is to simplify construction and allow
more light to be reflected for a given size
drum. Unfortunately the speed of rota-
tion is necessarily high.
Class-B Scheme for Partially Run-
down B Batteries.
Very often a B battery is discarded
prematurely, when it may be only about
half exhausted. In the case of sets with-
out decoupling, even a battery a third
discharged will set up audio instability,
and the battery must be relegated to the
scrapheap. But where decoupling is in-
cluded in the audio network the battery
may be used for a much longer period,
despite a certain amount of internal
high resistance. A useful idea lor get-
ting extended use from the B battery
where a Class-B audio system is used is
shown in the diagram. Instead ol the
, 4-11,0 Ar lvpi- trs ncfnrmpr
2"?. negative o earth of even a
small negativeCs! it is given a small
sn hi.,. The ohiect of this is to
raise’the value (which
and to cause a
small plate current of Ima. or 2ma. to
« in tViic wav the nositive swings
fn b Sn7a r^ U XK
not deliver great volume, but the impor-
that it will retain its good
ft seveml ®
Ultra-short-wave Broadcasting.
Frequently suggestions have been made
to the writer by readers resident within
the metropolitan areas of Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane that something
should be done about ultra-short-wave
broadcasting by one or more of the
regular broadcasting stations operating
in central positions. The point is raised
that the installation of a small trans-
mitter placed at an elevated position
and modulated simultaneously by the
line equipment used to feed the modu-
lator system of the regular station would
be negligible in cost and, in view of the
increasing importance of ultra-short-wave
radio, would be doing a good service to
many who wish to build and try receiv-
ing equipment.
Apart from an administrative angle,
concerned mainly with the necessary
Governmental authority for broadcasting
companies or stations to operate dupli-
cate transmissions on ultra-short waves,
there is no technical reason why this
should not be done. In view of the
rapid development of television overseas
and the fact that television as fit for
public eyes is, with its accompanying
sound, only achieved by the use of ultra-
shorts, sooner or later something will
have to be done in the populated centres
of Australia about getting both the public
and those who trade in radio educated
to just what is meant by these wave-
lengths well below the broadcast scale.
It must be realised at the outset that the
broadcast receiver of to-day will play
no part at all in television. Entirely new
and distinct equipment is necessary, and
it is wrapped in a vastly different tech-
nique. There is no doubt that if ultra-
short-wave broadcasting transmissions
were launched in Australia’s capital
cities they would assist greatly in the
development of suitable apparatus for
the sound side of television transmissions.
Ultra-short-wave broadcasting would be
of great value to the whole radio indus-
try, augmented by a large number of
experimenters with a new field of ex-
ploration. It is of no use sidestepping
the inevitable and swallowing the oft-
aired opinion that television for Aus-
tralia is yet a long way distant. It has
been established as a public service in
other parts of the world, and will, in due
course, be tackled by some concern or
other in Australia. That day is prob-
ably much nearer than many realise.
In the meantime there is a new radio
technique to be learnt, and in the in-
terests of all concerned that education
should commence without delay. Regu-
lar and continuous ultra-short-wave
broadcasting should he established forth-
with. A.W.A. has, for two years or
more, been running a seven-metre pro-
gramme simultaneously in Sydney with
the VK2ME overseas transmissions. This
has proved invaluable to a group of
experimenters, but one station is a lone
representative in an ocean of high fre-
quencies, and the appearance of others
would stimulate widespread interest.
Apparatus for the reception of ultra-
short waves, whilst relatively simple in
some forms, calls for careful attention
to detail in order to obtain satisfactory
results, and without fair experience in
the design and testing of such apparatus
a blind acceptance of printed specifica-
tions, without practice, will lead to cer-
tain disappointment.
The investigation of ultra-short wave
possibilities should be undertaken with-
out delay by competent broadcasting
authorities. The radio industry would
benefit very considerably, and the pub-
lications responsible for detailed ex-
planation to readers would play their
supporting part, as they have done from
the inception of radio as a source of
entertainment and news.
D.B.K.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions were very good on all bands
during the passage of the cyclonic storm
across the northern parts of Australia.
Even the 80-metre band was almost free
from static —an unusual state of affairs
in these parts.
On June 29 and 30 a most freakish
occurrence was the midday reception ol
European stations in the 49-metre band,
DJC being quite good ’phone strength at
1.30 p.m. The writer does not remem-
ber hearing stations in Europe at this
period of the day on 49 metres, but it
must be remembered that it is only
recently that they have been on the air
round about E.S.T. noon. On June 30
RNE was excellent from 7 a.m. until
closing, the English announcements being
followed by French.
WBXK was also much better strength,
and after 9 a.m. W2XAF in the 31-metre
band was at the best heard this winter.
EAQ on 30.4, which was heard well last
A worm’s-eye view of the radiating
antenna tower of Sydney B station 2SM,
at Pennant Hills, N.S.W.
winter, is again clearly audible round
8.30 a.m. EAQ uses 10kw., consider-
ably below many of the more modern
stations.
HBL was also excellent on 30/6/’35
at 8.15 a.m., giving a description of the
vear book published by the League of
Nations. GSF has continued excellent
after 8 a.m., followed later by GSC in
the 31-metre band, and then the No. 1
transmission, which now loses strength
here after 4 p.m., more especially on
GSD, 25.5 metres. FYA on 25.6 has
been strong all day, but there has been
a falling-off on the 25.2 transmission.
JVH was again great strength in the
morning transmission on 30/6/’35 on
21 metres. Time did not permit listen-
ing for the afternoon session.
On 30/6/’35 another unusual trans-
mission was heard —a church service at


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
liadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
ALUMINIUM!!
We are the aluminium specialists.
Chassis, shields, boxes, panels,
etc., made to order at shortest
notice.
12in. x 6in. panels 1/6
14in. x Sin. x 2in. chassis, 4/6.
The above are examples of the
keen prices. All work carried
out in best British Aluminium.
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
Sydney’s Leading Radio Store,
5 & 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
10.45 a.m. on 28.2 metres, apparently in
Dutch. No announcements were heard
in English.
The M.L. amateurs have been very
strong in the 80-metre band ; also a num-
ber of Americans when conditions have
permitted.
Both RVIS and the Dutch station on
68 metres have been excellent, with no
static and the noise level exceptionally
low for that wave-length. Twenty metres
was again full of Americans on 30/6/’35
during the afternoon. Quite a lot of
Queenslanders were heard also—a very
selective receiver is required to separate
them.
The worst period of the 24 hours lately
has been from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m., after
which the Dutch stations have come up to
good volume. On odd occasions GSF has
come in well for a few moments about
9.30 p.m., but fading has been very bad.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
Bruce Chapman, formerly VK2BA,
and now of Makambo, British Solomon
Islands, is awaiting his license and plan-
ning for a motor generator supply. He
reports DX in good condition on J4mc.,
and is anxious to join in (he fray. In a
letter he “wonders why dope on such
tubes as the H.K., Eimac and Amperex
is almost entirely limited to articles in
two certain American magazines, whilst
in another well-known publication there
has been only one reference to one of
these tube makes. Perhaps advertising
has something to do with this?” To
those with experience of this kind of
thing, the explanation is easy. In the
case of the rivalry quoted the ramifica-
tions arc extensive. The poor ham, in
the middle of' it all, hardly knows which
way to turn. All that glitters in technical
print is not gold, and he who slavishly
accepts the advertiser-prompted ideas of
one is likely to miss the genuinely
amateur revelations of another. Amateur
radio (overseas) depends upon business,
much more than the average young DX
hound realises. Ask W6HM— he knows!
London reports a new u.-s.-w. “record”
for overland communication of 180
miles. This was done by taking an out-
fit to the top of Snowdon, the highest
mountain in North Wales, and pushing
reflected signals in various directions.
Whilst such efforts are praiseworthy,
such records would be more fitting if
they comprised contact from backgarden
to backgarden. To do this is one thing,
but to do it from a roof of the world is
another. Anyway, the distance isn’t a
record even for high altitude coverage,
for U.S. amateurs have covered greater
mileages. Recourse to u.-s.-w. history
will show claims for records as far back
as 1926 in which 250, 1600 and 3500
miles are cited. The writer would like
to organise a test in various directions
from Mt. Victoria, N.S.W., but this is no
use without stations co-operating at such
points as Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and
Newcastle. Fulhermore, if the co-opera-
tion of N.Z.A.R.T. is forthcoming, the
writer will be pleased to organise trans-
-1 asman sm. tests. This may seem over-
optimistic, but these things must be actu-
ally tried.
Nothing has been heard of VK2BP
since gales wrecked his aerials, and the
useful Hazel brook link is missing. This
is unfortunate, in view of the activity
now taking place on 2|m. in Sydney.
Excellent signals are exchanged on
between the writer’s station and
VKs 2CG and 2SA, duplexing being
easily done with the latter. This fre-
quency has marked characteristics which
are more favorable than sm. For recep-
tion the 955 “acorn” is used by the
writer, and is strongly advised for use
below sm. Ordinary triodes can be made
to work after a fashion, but the effi-
ciency is low compared with the “acorn.”
The transmitter is a linear single-ended
801, using |in. copper grid and plate
lines. Ordinary voltage-fed Hertzian
radiators are used at present, but a
change will shortly be made to direc-
tional systems. VK2SA and the writer
are now thinking of l|m.
VK2JU reports pirates on the sm.
band. If pirates imagine that the ultra-
short-wave bands are a safe stamping
ground for depredations they have a
shock waiting for them.
Whilst testing an Airzone dual-wave
superhet, the amateur 20m. band was
combed over on the afternoon of
30/6/’35. It was overflowing with
American ’phones, very few of them
below audibility. VKs were hard at it,
but with the chronic interference be-
tween stations some of them must have
had a difficult time. Considering the
extreme difference in power of the
average VK compared with most Ws, the
VK putting consistent ’phone across the
Pacific is doing well to break through
the QRM barrage.
VKZNO
“Bulletin” Test Review.
[ Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.]
After seeing (he Radio Exhibition hcicl
in Sydney Town Hall early this year, the
writer expressed the opinion that, apart
from a luxurious example of technical
and cabinet work displayed at a stagger-
ing price, quite the most attractive yet
reasonably priced receivers in the exhibi-
tion were those with an extra-generous
circular dial produced in the Airzone
factory. This dial, as fitted to the latest
Airzone models, commands attention. It
is the kind of indicator one can see
comfortably from the other side of the
average room, and there is no question
of having to stoop or look over the lop
of a tilled panel ; it is in full view all
the time.
Airzone model 650, fitted with this type
of dial, has been submitted to The
Bulletin for lest. This superheterodyne
is a dual-wave model, and in passing
one recalls that the Airzone Co. is one
which did not rush into production with
all-wave and dual-wave receivers until
the all-important laboratory aspect was
thoroughly examined. Airzone engineers
went slowly but surely about the job, and
the result is just what would be expected
of these long-established and widely ex-
perienced makers.
The first, impulse on testing a receiver
is to try the “feel” of the tuning control,
and in this case the reason for an extra
smooth action embodied in the drive is
apparent. The tuning condenser unit of
the Airzone 650 is counterbalanced in
the dial, with the result that the knob can
be given a quick spin and the condenser
Airzone model 650 six-valve A.C. electric
console superheterodyne.
run almost from one end of the scale to
the other without any delay. Thus is
the question of a quick and fine tuning
ratio solved by a simple application of
mechanics. The dial face, incidentally, is
in diameter, and is calibrated for
the rearrangement and addition of
stations due in September next. The
pointer extends full across the face, the
top section reading off the 200- to 500-
metre broadcast range and the lower the
short waves from 18 to 50 metres. The
chassis is the 604 type, with A.V.C., and
the 6.3-volt valves are 6D6 R.F., 6A7
det.-oscillator, 6D6 1.F., 75 second det.,
42 output, with 80 rectifier. There are five
knobs under the dial, and, although this
may appear formidable, none is super-
fluous. From left to right they com-
prise: Noise suppression, wave-change,
tuning, volume and tone. The latter con-
trol has a pleasingly wide range, and the
superfine audio quality obtained from
the single 42 pentode is somewhat re-
markable.
Generous and solid cabinet design
plays an important part here, and demon-
strates effectively that the cabinet can
make or mar a good receiver acousti-
cally. Although in the instruction
booklet Airzone engineers stress the de-,
sirability of an efficient outside aerial,
at no time was anything more than a
few feet of ceiling wire necessary to
deal with any normal signal with a strik-
ing absence of background. This applied
to short-waves also, and such stations
as FYA and the Daventry transmitters
needed no fishing for ; they were there in
full evidence. Provision is made for
coupling to special aerials of the trans-
posed feeder or noise-reducing type, and
this is an advantage where certain types
of radio-inductive interference are preva-
Maoriland amateur station ALICE is well known to Aus-
tralian hams. The transmitter operates mostly on 14mc ., with
push-pull 211Ds in a TPTG circuit.
lent. The noise-suppression control was
found to be extremely useful in action,
effectively chopping out inter-station
noise on the broadcast band; and,
although this causes a slight decrease in
apparent sensitivity, a touch on the
volume control is all that is needed to
compensate.
The price of Airzone 650 is £37 10s.,
and it is obtainable from authorised
dealers and agents with the usual con-
venient purchasing arrangements. No
better recommendation could be offered
than the performance and appearance of
the set itself, and prospective high-
quality-set buyers should see and hear it
for themselves.
Casual Comment.
“Clumac”: The commercial picture-
gram does not do justice to the efficiency
of the scanning disc. I have seen stills
photographed from television screens
which had not one-tenth of the vertical
striping that mars the newspaper repro-
ductions. Time and money enter into
it, of course, as the closer and finer the
scanning the more detailed the trans-
mission ; but money could have been
no object on the first picturegram of the
Quetta earthquake, while the time factor
could have allowed a longer scanning
without missing the first editions. Either
the P.M.G. plant is out of date for fine
work, which is improbable, or the papers
don't want fine work. It is argued that
fine-screen half-tones cannot be printed
on coarse paper, but newspapers demand
clean, well-defined work from the ordi-
nary press photographer. The most
probable explanation is that the news-
papers reckon that if a picturegram
doesn’t look as if a hippopotamus has
rolled on it the public will suspect it is
a fake.
* * * *
“Alpha”; Listened-in to the opening
of 2SM’s new transmitter the other night.
At the switch-over, the announcer said
“Well done, engineers,” and then the
volume on my set sank 50 p.c., and stayed
there until assisted to more juice. Bondi
may be a blind spot to Pennant Hills,
but reception of 2SM in this locality is
distinctly weaker since the change.
Otherwise there was a definite improve-
ment in the quality of the broadcast.
“Invitation to the Waltz,” whose wide
range is a radio engineer’s nightmare if
things aren’t too smooth, came ovef with
the perfection of a pick-up in the room.
* * * *
“Vic Eddy”: A purist friend fell for
the high-fidelity instruments being
vended in his neighborhood, and I was
invited to the bench to assist in the
initial valve-warming. On gramophone
records chosen at random the set per-
formed admirably, but could show no
points to the double push-pull triodes that
lit up, in friendly fashion, upon a dusty
old chassis away over in the corner.
They, hoary at that, proved themselves
veterans at tossing out tone and “whang.”
I've just finished calculations so that he
can have the old X-core speaker rewound
as a standard electro-magnet-filter-choke.
In future when I pull the gramo. switch
on my old faithful, 45’s in push-pull,
I’ll be more reverent about it.
* * * *
“Spotlight”: Empire listeners have
recently noticed great improvement in
signal strength on programmes from the
GS—“F for fortune, B for broadcasting”
—transmitters at Daventry in the heart
of England. Sir Noel Ashbridge, 8.8.C.’s
chief engineer, reveals in the English
press that improved beam aerials are rc-
sponsible. Experiments are continuously
going on at Daventry, where 14 different
aerial arrays are suspended on the 500 ft.
masts of the old long-waver SXX. More
concentrated beams are planned, with
increased power, in the near future,
*' * * *
“Brassex”: The survey of events in the
reign of King George V., as depicted in
the talkie “Royal
Cavalcade,” includes
an item of interest
for those who
wonder what 8.8. C.
television really
looks like. A shot
shows a performer
before the photocells
with the light of the
scanner playing fit-
fully. The scene
then changes to the
receiving end, and
the lady appears
with remarkable de-
tail to the accom-
paniment of sound.
A minor blurring of
the image at one
stage indicated slight
off-synchronism of
the receiving
scanner, but when
one recalls the
much more flickery
shadows of the movies of 1910 it is
realised that television is indeed well on
the way.
An experimental television broadcast-
ing station has been opened in Paris, the
wave-length employed being 175 m. Tele-
vision experimenters in England have
been receiving these broadcasts on the
fourth harmonic —roughly, about 44m.
The Q. and A. Column.
How can I arrange a Morse code practice set
so that a line can he used between two people,
the signal operated by either person ? —290.
The circuit illustrated shows the simplest of
such arrangements. A buzzer is used as the
signal generator, although this could be an
audio oscillator of the valve type. The fixed
condenser keeps the D.C. from the battery off
the headphones. It will be obvious that by
using other keys and ’phones in parallel it is
possible for more persons to practise at the
same time.
* * * *
An efficient aerial system for short-wave
reception is a problem here. The position
of the house on the road and the nature
of the surrounding terrain make it incon-
venient for erection of the usual kind of
aerial. I have thought of putting up a verti-
cal copper tube, 30 ft. long, with the base at
least 30//. from the ground. This, I understand,
should be non-directional, and above the area of
“man-made static.” Details are: Several copper
loco.-boiler tubes, suitably brazed together
or connected by copper sleeves, set properly in
a length of 3x3. This would be slung in
gimbals on a bracket fixed to projecting roof
timbers. The gimbals would allow the affair
to move in any direction, and so take up wind
pressure. It would he more convenient to make
the aerial in six lengths of tube, each six feet
long, at the same height from the ground. (1)
Would this he as non-directional as the single
tube? (2) Alternative methods of .connecting
are shown (sketched); are these practicable ?
(3) What is , the best type of lightning arrestor,
and should it be fixed outside the house ? (4)
Is a short-wave adaptor, used with a superhet.
as efficient as a properly-made short-wave set 7
—291.
fl) No; nor would it be anywhere so effi-
cient. (2) No: they are all a waste of good
copper tube. The vertical 30ft. would make a
highly efficient aerial. (3) The vacuum type
made by Philips Co. Outside the house. (4)
Depends on the particular combination, but
the set designed solely for short-wave working
is normally the best.


6 tons of
PAY LOAD
and the truck
to haul it
profitably
m&m.
.
mm
m&m
t*
: S :
mSm
T/iis is an actual photograph of the 2-2., ton
Bedford Model udth Semi-trailer Attachment.
Trucks “on the job” tell the best story of
Bedford’s power and economy. Watch them on
the road . . . talk to the drivers ... ask the men
who keep close records of their running costs.
Everywhere you’ll find the same answer
“Bedford cuts operating costs.”
With a Bedford you get four important truck
advantages . . . Six-cylinder overhead valve
engine for the most satisfactory combination of
greatest power and economy ; Cast iron pistons
to stand the strain of prolonged heavy work;
Slow-revving engine— which develops its full
power at low engine speeds ; and itnaxiftiunt
accessibility to all important points.
Your Bedford dealer can show you how to make
drastic savings in operation and maintenance
costs. Consult him before you buy any truck
between 8 cwt. and 4 tons capacity.
GENERAL M OTOR S - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Included in Bedford’s range
of trucks are models to suit
every trucking requirement
8 cwt. Utilities— with' six-cylinder
valve-in-head engine, and synchro-
mesh gears.
12-15 cwt. Utilities— make smart
city deliveries while having the
dependability for country work.
30 cwt. Models —with banjo-type
rear axle and straddle-mounted
four-pinion type differential.
2- ton Models— on 131-inch and
157-inch wheelbases with vacuum
servo power boosted brakes and
full floating rear axle.
3- ton Models —on 111-inch and
157-inch wheelbases with vacuum
servo brakes, and 30 inches more
pay load area than trucks of
similar wheelbase.
BRITISH BEDFORD
G 5148
Consult your local authorised Bedford Dealer
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post 1 ’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any .accredited advertising agency.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“S.T.S.”: King’s Messengers, is it (B.
12/6/’35)? Quiller-Couch loved to tell
how Henry Vlt. sent two of his—pour-
suivants they were called then—down to
Cornwall with some royal but distasteful
message. The Duchy simply hanged
them straight away, and so invented a
* .
Fashions change even m note-paper.
That very thin writing paper known as
foreign post, which was in such de-
mand m the early days when Australians
sent their letters to the homeland by sail-
mg vessels, has come into lashion again.
The revival can be traced to the a‘r-mail
service, by which letters at the ordinary
fee must not run to bulk. It is surprising
how much one can if Job
paper, but one needs the patience ol Jol
to decipher it. #
« p *• ». t bave a notion that this
Persic. . 1 have a notion
Itahan-Ethiopian trouble is deepe
rooted than most suppose. Running
through a translation of I •ocopius,
1 note that the Emperor Justinian,
desirous of establishing,a duect trade
with Ceylon in artificial eat s-eyes,
ebony elephants and other products
of that country, asked the Ethiopians,
who then possessed a meicantilc maiinc,
to run a direct service for him from the
Red Sea to Egypt. Negotiations were
abruptly broken off, the Ethiopians de-
manding a shipping subsidy—in ail
probability to be paid in advance. These
old wounds lankle.
* * * *
Sir James Purves-Stuart, the British
neurologist who is coming to the B.M.A.
neurologist, wno lb cuiiuug IU iucu.ivi.t-v
annual meeting in Melbourne in Sep-
tember, toured Russia in 1932 with a
party of scientists, and embodied his
observations in A Physician’s Tour of
Soviet Russia. Enthusiastic over the
Soviet medical system, he jumps with
both feet on the agricultural and manu-
factoring want of methods, and deplores
the absence of freedom and lack ot
gaiety among the people. #
,-f-i-
Old England for 500 years (B. 3/7/ 35)
cortection . For two centuries
Qf fiye beer was definitely in the
discard while laws were enacted to
force beer down the peop i e ’ s unwilling
gu || ets? gj ns hops flourished during the
seventeentb an( j eighteenth centuries;
d Baron d’Archenholz, who travelled
, E , d in 178 9 5 observed the
R ’ e wrote . - The
common people enjoy themselves during
winter w j tb warm beer mixed with
bitter essences and with ale in which gin,
su B ar and e BBs have been boiled to B ether -
j t is their attachment to strong liquors
< b *it makes them so verv fond of port.”
The reigns of Q ueen Anne and the early
Georges were rema rkable for the number
Actg 0 £ p ar jj arnent pa ssed in an en-
deaVQr tQ squasb the taste for good
b d Span j sb w j nes ant i English-
‘ ‘ F
maac | in - * * «
reminiscence of another blind
nota bi e; __
Thc degth of George Maxwell, the Victorian
b i ind barrister and K.C., who triumphed so
finely over his affliction, both in Parliament
Sho was Gild-
stone’s P.M.G. in the ’eighties. Fawcett, while
still in his mid-twenties and just after he had
gained a Cambridge fellowship, was totally
blinded while covert-shooting. A pathetic thing
that it was his own father’s gun which
wroug ht the damage. But it didn’t prevent him
f rom becoming a Cambridge professor and a
notable figure in the House of Commons for
over 20 years. As P.M.G. he introduced such
reforms as the parcel post, postal orders and
sixpenny telegrams; and in his spare time he
even managed such pastimes as fly-fishing, which
one might think impossible for a blind man.
* * * *
“Inner Temple”: Over-cross-examina-
tion has been the downfall of innumer-
able criminals.. The great Marshall Hall
'himself once sacrificed a client’s life to
his inability to leave well alone ;,and there
is a classic example. In 1875 an East End
brushmaker named Henry Wainswright
(no relative of the poisoner) was charged
at the Old Bailey with murdering Harriet
Lane. A year had elapsed between the
woman’s disappearance and the trial, and
her father had admitted that he couldn’t
be sure of the identity of the remains.
Instead of being satisfied with that
Edward Besley, a notorious Buzfuz of
the period, tried to get the old man to
be more explicit. Suddenly a gleam of
recollection came into the witness s
harassed eyes. “She had a scar on her
right leg,” he said, “the result of a
severe burn as a child.” The leg was
disinterred, the scar was discovered, and
the jury’s verdict sent Henry Wainswright
to the scaffold.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”; Santa Rosa (California),
has been mentioned in the cables as a
centre of civic disturbance to which
troops were ordered. I visited Santa
Rosa once ; it was a picturesque small
town with no visible industry behind it,
except agriculture, and the big chook-
breeding area spilt over from Petaluma.
Where the rioters could come from,
except from a hobo camp, it is difficult to
surmise. Luther Burbank had died
shortly before my visit. He was buried
in the garden surrounding the villa where
he had lived. Burbank conducted all his
experiments on that small' plot of ground
—just about the same size as the garden
of an Australian living at Malvern (Vic.),
or Strathfield (N.S.W.).
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G. de L.; There are jolts in your metre.
. ...K.1.T.: Echoes of Gordon without his
music... .C.C.S.: These long narratives in
rhyme must be . exceptionally good to
give them a chapce. Yours doesn’t make
easy reading... .A.C.: You have something
to say, but you don’t say it deltly,
and there’s too much padding.. ..P.J.1.: The
theme has been worn a bit thin, and you
haven’t patched it skilfully... .T.V.T.; You
don’t put enough lilt in it.... P.D.C.: Melo-
drama is melodrama whether it happens in
Maoriland or Mascot... .G.L.8.: The yarn tn
which a man commits a “perfect” murder,
but is hanged for an imperfect one which he
didn’t commit, turns up regularly. It is never
convincing... .L.T.: After getting all that mor-
bidness off your mind you must feel a whole
heap better.... .N.L.: The trait in old Mil-
wood’s character is certainly very human, but
the yarn doesn’t pass... .P.T.: That’s an old
opium dodge... .E.W. ; Reminiscent ol the
“Schoolboy Detective” K. 8.; Allegories
belong to the distant past. If you have some-
thing to say, there’s no need to disguise it
L. 8.: Not suitable F.C.: The incident
doesn’t convince one of its reality.. . .M.M.:
Can’t detect any material alteration since we
last saw it V.T.: “Dead Men Tell No
Tales” was no better than one would expect ol
a story with such an original title....J.G.:
Your people arc merely magazine-story folk.
We want yarns about people who live... .H.S.:
There may be a lot of humor in a girl’s lover
hiding under her parents’ bed, but you haven’t
succeeded in getting it on paper.... Von K..:
We don’t care where our writers come from.
A Maorilandcr is just as welcome as an Aus-
tralian, if his yarn is up to standard. Up to
the present yours haven’t been W. 8.:
Didn’t ring the bell 8.W.: Your ship now
homeward bound... .E.M.E.; Not much de-
mand for Nature stories... .E.G. (Canada);
None suitable... .R.F.McL. ('U.S.A.): Not in
our line J.K.J.: A good idea, but you
haven’t made the most of it. Might be worth
tackling again... .W.L.: So you are another of
the gloomy school that looks upon death as
“Freedom”? W.Y.; Merely a wisecrack
stretched out to short-story size... .Wigwag:
Albert’s. reverie is like most daydreams —of no
interest to anyone but the dreamer C.G.C.:
It didn’t get past... .R.W.: Out of our line.
. . ..E.W.F.: Came fairly close... .G.R.; We
do not accept translated stories... .0.L.: The
. babies changed in the cradle, the old squire,
the villainous sheep-stealer and the full confes-
sion in the family Bible. Why, we haven’t seen
that plot for years!... .R.C.; Why should a
young Westralian write about Alaskan fur-
trappers? Try something nearer home....
Shep: Doesn’t make the grade.,. .Bellerive:
Excitement at the stables:
.. .'.V.E.J.C.: The bushfire that reunites child-
hood lovers is too imaginative... .B.S.H.L.:
Lightly amusing, but not worth the space.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.K.W.: Sketch about Lyons's Glasgow
visit is dreadful, besides being weeks too
late... .A.J.H.: Conversation between angu-
lar mistress and crumpled maid didn’t raise a
laugh.. .VEJ.: Into the w.p.b. they went
A.B. :.A grubby and humorless batch... .N.C.:
Looks like a stray from London “Punch”
E.R.F.: Can’t you be persuaded to take up
some other hobby? H.S.: Quite unlike a
crocodile, but the man is like a tailor’s dummy.
N.D.: Crudely put together, and only un-
consciously funny.. . .L.H.P.: You’re belter at
line than wash--perspective is wobbly
J.B.A.: The barrel of beer is drawn with great
care —the rest is merely thrown together
P.R.: Contains a greater number of mistakes
per square inch than any other drawing sub-
mitted this week L.S.: Finished on the
scrapheap S.J.W.: The sort of grisly jest
one might overhear at an undertakers’ smoke-
social H.T.: Jokes as heavy as a Budget
SDeech.
Out of the yard rushed
Bill Jinkinson’s- oolt.
Kicked up his legs
And away he did bolt.
Motors he dodged as
Faster he sped,
Dashed round a corner
And galloped ahead.
He was caught in a lane
After a exciting pursuit,
Led home by a halter
. Was the runaway brute.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Ring made a rich haul over ante-
post operations on the Nationals at
Flemington, for many mugs took 8 to 1
Full Charge and Redditch for the double.
Starting at 6 to 4 for the G.N. Hurdle,
Full Charge dislodged his rider at the
first flight of battens. This imparted a
modicum of courage to bookmakers, and
they began to lengthen the odds against
Redditch. On the eve of the steeple-
chase Pactolus went to the top of the
quotes, but when the barrier lifted
favoritism was shared by Redditch and
the M.L. neddy Membo, the money
piled on Membo being quite the feature
of course speculation.
With a stand-up Redditch would have
scored by a street. Third-last for six or
seven furlongs, the Red Dennis gelding
improved his position near the abattoirs,
and when the fence known as “Jumbo”
was reached he had pulled himself into
third place, behind Boy Blue and Rich-
mond Tiger. So brilliantly did Redditch
jump and gallop that Alick Fullarton
could not further restrain the old fellow,
who showed the way over the stone wall
in front of the stand. Fullarton after-
wards stated that he felt as if he were
riding Phar Lap in a Maiden Plate.
Bert: " Domt III catch
vou up'.
I CA.M PLA.Y MUCH BETTER WITHOUT
A.UDISHCE ,
• WO KIT LET u LITTLE. THIKlCj LIKE
THIS BELT ME T
Giert it, Dear,; I h/we /\
SPARE BAvLL HERE "
Then came disaster. At the logs, Red-
ditch discovered that he was taking off
too far, and he put in an extra stride.
This brought him right under the ob-
stacle. Redditch struck it with his near
hind leg, which was shattered above the
hock. After rolling along the turf, he
rose with the limb swinging. Racecourse
attendants hurried over with a hessian
shelter, and the sound of a pistol shot
was heard immediately. One of the
greatest ’chasers of all time in Australia
had gone.
It was Riawena’s day. Several months
ago Riawena appeared to have fluked a
win over Mount Dangar at Moonee Val-
ley. There, at the beginning of June, she
again got up in the last stride to win by
half a head. Subsequent displays at
Williamstown and the Valley made it
appear that the mare was a commoner,
but a runaway victory in the V.R.C. Ken-
sington Steeple on July 6 altered that
impression. Best odds against the
daughter of Costello on Saturday were
8 to 1, and a wager of £l6OO to £2OO
was written.
Doubt existed as to whether Ria-
wena would see out the three miles and
a furlong. Strangely enough, it was
stamina of the highest order that pulled
her through. After Hynes had appeared
to hold the opposition safe on Oldhome,
his mount was challenged at the last
fence by Riawena and Pactolus, Pacto-
lus gaining ground by taking the inside
panel. Riawena tried to get up between
Pactolus and the rails at the furlong post,
but was disappointed and had to be taken
to the outside. She was then two lengths
astern, and her chance looked forlorn ;
but Pactolus began to tire, and Riawena,
gaining inches at a time, beat him by
a head. Oldhome, who stopped to no-
thing, was a poor third. The boom
horse, Membo, ran fourth ; according to
Dulieu, he broke down.
The National result alone was in favor
of the bookmakers. Four first favorites
caught the judge’s eye, while the Doutta
Galla Hurdle went to Akanree, who was
in equal demand with Prime Seal, Heroic
Prince and Ranclea. The manner in
which Akanree has improved in his last
few starts is astounding. He was not
considered good enough to run in the
National Hurdle ; yet if that event were
contested next Saturday he probably
would be favorite. It now is clear that
Akanree shapes best when ridden behind
the leaders.
J. Doran, an amateur horseman, dis-
played skill equal to that of any profes-
sional by taking the George Watson
Hunters’ Cup on Buckler and the Foot-
scray Steeple on Dramask. Dramask is
in the stable of Doran’s father, who in
years gone by trained those great weight-
carrying gallopers Battleplane and Corn-
flower.
The flat races went to All at Sea
(Legionnaire—Bewilder) and Charles Fox
(Son o’ Mine—Brilliance). Each had a
tough struggle. Charles Fox belongs to
E. J. Gorman, K.C.
* * * *
Kaylah gave a glimpse of her true form
in a division of the Flying Handicap at
Canterbury. Backed from 7 to 2 to 5 to
2, the Magpie mare cleared out passing
the half-mile, and the rest was a proces-
sion. Booth’s Pavarti, heavily supported,
was second ; Canegrass and Thebez ran
a head-heat for third. Veteran trainer
Foulsham has Kaylah in great buckle,
and it should not be forgotten that she
was a good second to Count Ito at Caul-
field before his triumphs at Flemington.
• • • . .
A penalty for winning at Rosebery did
not prevent Narbethong (10 to 1) from
taking the other division. The black
Moabite gelding put in a long run from
the turn and worried the favorite, Orient
Orb, out of first prize. Orient Orb
looked a bit light, but showed pace
enough to lead until the last furlong,
The untrustworthy Cid was third;
Moallin, fourth, will win over a longer
journey,
Enamour (8 to 1) did the bookies a
good turn when he got up in the last
stride to beat Alan Verde and First
Balloon in the Canterbury Handicap,
First Balloon essayed to win all the way,
but she could not get the required break
on the field, and when Alan Verde joined
her three furlongs from home it was
plain that he had her measure. Knox
drove Enamour hard from the Leger, and
he kept plugging on to score by half a
head, with First Balloon “a head” away
—it looked more. Limbohm, from M.L.,
was backed. Prominent for the first
six furlongs, he dropped right out and
whipped-in the field,
•
Bullomin has lost races through lug-
giug out at the turns. In a division of
the Juvenile (he was backed to 6 to 4)
Bartle let him have his head until turn-
ing for home; eased at the right moment,
the Bullhead colt came round the rails
like an old stager. He won by two
lengths from the overboomed Ben Field
and Loud Applause.
Golden Chance, from Maoriland, took
the first heat of the Maiden like a good
horse. He started at sixes. The favorite.
Robber, was left at the post, but ran
second. Rossano (2 to 1), a stable-mate
of Broad Arrow, led throughout in the
second division, but just scraped home
from High Jinks and Glabrio, by Wind-
bag. Mirzil (7 to 1) outclassed his
opponents in the third heat; it was only
his second run. He is by Miranton from
Lady Zillah, a slick galloper on pony
tracks in pre-war days.
Verlina (15 to 1) had to survive a pro-
test in the Ashbury Handicap after a
bumping finish with Head Boy, He
chased Prince Pombal into the straight,
and as soon as he had the latter beaten
had to meet a challenge on the party of
Head Boy. Verlina shifted his ground,
but did not touch the other, and when
Weiss straightened him up he shot away
to win by nearly a length. Forestry went
well while his condition lasted, and Tre-
donner’s fourth will keep him in the
boom for a novice event.
* * * *
As a rule it takes a pretty good three-
year-old to get a place in the Chelmsford
Stakes, and when Gladswood (Limond —
Curtain) ran third to Rogilla and Peter
Pan in that race last season, palpably
above himself, a prosperous career was
predicted for him. He improved on the
placing at Rosehill in the Guineas, won
by Theo, but he was a failure afterwards,
and Mrs. Spencer Brunton, who owns
him and had hopes of leading in a Derby
winner, was greatly disappointed. How-
ever, a good spell has wrought a decided
change in the colt, and at Rosebery on
Wednesday he put up a taking perform-
ance in a 10-furlongs handicap, for which
he was favorite at 5 to 2. Bill Wedge-
wood tried to lead from start to finish,
but Gladswood, who trailed him always,
had him settled a furlong from home,
and was not unduly exerted to beat
Measure, the second favorite, by half a
length. Bill Wedgewood being third.
‘ , * , * ’
Gladswood goes up from 7st. 61b. at
Rosebery to 7st. 121 b. in the Grafton
Cup, for which he is to be a runner on
Thursday. He has a decided chance,
1 5 r I10 * : so we ß handicapped as
, r - Kerry, who won the race last year
with 9st. 131 b., giving Confab a couple of
stone, and is now in at Bst. 81b., though
his intervening performances were pretty
S°°d-
An increasing number of Sydney
“ a “ v ‘;X er .L' S M°LT m ° n J"!
Sl P IS h f deprived of
- UnleS K , th ,- „ pn ? e ‘
t” oney i ‘cl ,S ffer ! S su , b , s ?"tially in-
nn Inre u T*
on July 27. a mere £750 has been put
up. Melbourne s amateur clubs think
nothing of providing four times that
money for meetings which are reckoned
nothing out of the way.
Footbrawl
South Melbourne, which stands at the
head of the Vic. League premiership
list, made no mistake when it met
Collingwood—the only team which has
defeated it this season-iu a return match.
South led from start to finish, and won
by 18-16 to 10-11, Pratt kicking 10 of
its goals There were 25 000 nresent
Jhough the resuU wlTGenerally eSSted’
St. Kilda is another club whkh reversed
its earlier downfall, defeating Fitzroy,
12-12 to 9-10, by solid, clevef football.
St. Kilda is now shaping splendidly, but
has apparently left its dash too late.
Carlton and Geelong fought hard at
Geelong until half-time, when the stay-
mg power of the metropolitan men pre-
vailed; they won by 11-10 to 6-7. Rich-
mond defeated Footscray by 16-10 to
3-11 a surprising victory, seeing that
Footscray had shown considerable im-
provement of late. Melbourne v. Essen-
don was the most closely contested
match ; it finished Melbourne 12-21 to
Essendon 10-14. North Melbourne,
which has not won a match for two
seasons, preserved its consistency, being
downed by Hawthorn —second-last on
the list —by 16-18 to 6-10. Interest now
hangs on the clubs to qualify for “the
four.” South, Collingwood and Carlton
are certainties. Richmond and St. Kilda
follow, practically level, with Geelong
and Fitzroy only a shade behind. The
fight for fourth place promises to add
to the interest of the next few matches.
* * * *
The Maoris, with a half-dozen or so
of those chosen out because of ’flu, went
down to Queensland, in Brisbane, 22-39.
It was a brilliant game. The Banana-
landers had the better of the scrums, but
the speed of the visitors’ back line evened
things up, and at half-time the Maoris led
17-11. Afterwards Queensland put on
four quick tries and three field goals—
full-back Vincent contributed two. It
was seven tries, three converted, and
three field goals to three tries, two con-
verted, and three penalty goals.
* * * *
This week Randwick heads the Sydney
Rugby Union table, but changes are
likely. The rest are bunched ; Univer-
sity and Drummoyne one point lower,
and Manly, North and Parramatta to-
gether three points further down. Against
Drummoyne University had rather the
better of the forward play, particularly
in the scrums, but the centres made little
of their opportunities, and Burfitt on the
wing was cramped for room. For Drum-
moyne, Rankin, at centre, and the half,
Backhouse —he collected a couple of
tries—combined well. Drummoyne won
21-16; five tries, two p.gs. to four tries,
two converted. Randwick outplayed
Northern Suburbs both back and for-
ward. The winners crossed four times
and converted three ; North converted one
of its two tries. Manly had to play
splendid football in the last 10 minutes
to down West, 18-14; and Parramatta,
making a forward game of it, trounced
St. George 21-nil.
* * * *
At Sydney Cricket Ground reliable
booting by Griffen nearly allowed St.
George to share the Rugby League com-
petition points with Eastern Suburbs.
Five minutes off full-time scores were 12
all—St. George, five goals and a try ;
East, three tries, two goals. Then East’s
winger O’Loan, who had played a poor
game till then, crossed in the corner.
-Brums”: Dubbo Rugby League has
treated with scorn the application of cer-
,ain Dubbo , s wh £ P deserted t 0 the
U "i°n reinstatement as professionals.
Th have bcen , old th £ wander in
the amateur wilderness for ever and a
day and be Dubbo - d t 0 them
(Continued on next page.)
Harry Hattersley won the N. S. Wales
amateur golf championship at Rose Bay,
and everybody was delighted, for there
J 5 no bette „ r sportsman in the game. S. A
Keane whom Hattersley beat 3 up and
2, m.ght have been champion with a spot
of ' uck t So might McKay or Wh.tton
or Fe ™ r - * ho “ K ff b ? at I U P tbe
take him for all in
aU >“ Probably the nearest to a real
amateur champ, that Australia possesses ;
but even he is liable t 0 blow up ‘ ° ur
have , f thej shots ; the
troub 5 ls f tbey can Ibe certaln doing
Qnou S\of thein in emergencies.
“Long Rest”: For the first time in
Australian billiards history a team of
amateur players will journey from Mel-
bourne to Adelaide next month for an
inter-State match. There will be eight
men on each side. A. H. Hearnden,
once Australian and S.A. champion, is
organising the tour.
FOR MOOREFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Flying Handicap: Porcia; next,
Canegrass.
Moorefield Handicap: Ramrod ;
next, Jutland.
Carlton Mile: Lancaster King;
next, Version.


WINCHESTER
MODEL 60. —THE IDEAL ALL-SERVICE LOW-COST RIFLE,
df
.22 Cal. Bolt-action Single-shot, 23in. proof steel round
tapered barrel, bright chromium finished bolt and trigger,
safety firing pin, one-piece pistol—grip walnut stock, full rounded
well-proportioned forearm with convenient finger grooves, shotgun
type butt plate, Lyman gold bead front sight, sporting rear sight with
sliding elevator, handles short, long and long-rifle standard and o*7 /g
... - - Weight 441 b.
Super-Speed cartridges.
Take-down model only.
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3.
df
IMPROVED MODEE 60.—.22 CAE. SINGEE-SHOT
BOET-ACTION RIFEE.
27in. round tapered barrel, improved bright chromium-finished bolt
with safety firing pin and indicator, Lyman gold bead front sight,
sporting rear sight, walnut pistol-grip stock, finger grooves in fore end, shotgun-
type butt plate, handles short, long and long-rifle standard and Super- 40/“
Speed cartridges. Weight about. 4Jlb. Price '
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3.
IVER JOHNSON
w
mm
gnp,
MODEL 2X, .22 CAL. SINGLE-SHOT BOLT-
ACTION SELF-COCKING SAFETY KIFLE.
24in. round tapered barrel with partridge-type non-blur sights, screw
adjustable rear sight, military style walnut stock with full pistol-
hand checkered and with finger grooves, formed steel butt plate.
chromium-plated bolt unit and trigger, chambered for short, long 32/6
and long-rifle standard and Super-Speed cartridges. Weight 4 Jib. '
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3.
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER-SPEED RIMFIRE
Speed Power
CARTRIDGES.
—Longer Range
Short, 2/8 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100.
ftgjpEßWsPE[p)3^
Long, 3/6 100.
Lone H.P.. 3/9 100.
FREIGHT EXTRA.
Long Rifle, Ah IQO. ,
Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’Phone: M 3388. _______
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Bishop, the “Australian lightweight
champion,” met a better boxer in Hall at
Leichhardt on Wednesday, but beat, him
because Hall would loaf and hold. Hall
rocked Bishop with a nicely-timed right
to the chin in the sixth, and by follow-
ing up his advantage would probably
have won there and then. But he went
on boxing for safety till the 15th, which
was his from start to finish. In the
intervening rounds Bishop had been
busy. In a supporting bout, billed as
for “the featherweight championship of
N. Reilly outpointed Bowers.
H: * =ll *
R. Lean, the Melbourne promoter,
“acting on. behalf of Stadiums, Ltd. and
the National Boxing Club,” is trying to
bring John Henry Lewis to Australia for
three contests, one against Ambrose
Palmer. Lewis is a black, and matches
between blacks and whites have a rather
sorry history in this country. Why not
engage a while American pug to meet
Palmer?
!]; * m “I 1
“Uriah the Hittite”: The thanks of
all true sports are due to Red Maloney,
welter champion of Victoria, for having
rescued the prize-ring from the dull re-
spectability which has enveloped it for
20 years. In the good old times thu
pug was somebody to be feared by
police and civilians alike; he made a
picturesque feature in any
community, and when there
were pugs about peace, order
and good government were
likely to be relieved by some
entertaining melodrama. But
in recent years the breed has
become degenerate. In one
of his novels Wodehouse re-
marks: “A young man en-
tered. He was either a
beauty actor or an American
pugilist; it is impossible to
distinguish them these days.”
And so it has been in Aus-
tralia. At least two pugilists
became municipal council-
lors, and one has even been
a mayor. Now comes Red
Maloney to restore the pres-
tige of the profession. Five
times during the past five
weeks has Red been before
the Courts for some protest
against the dulness of the times. He is
now doing three months for “illegally
using” a car.
Footbrawl
“Jolimont”: There is a tiny tinge of
bitterness in the manager’s report of
the visit of Victorian footballers to
Westralia. The admirable behavior of
his charges and the virtues of their hosts
are suitably acknowledged, but dis-
appointment is expressed that Westralia
should, without consulting its visitors,
have charged the plebeian prices of Bd.
and Is. 2d. for admission to the
matches. Thus, in spite of the big atten-
dances, the size of the takings had come
as a shock, and it was possible Victoria
would be out on the deal.
# * * *
“Fit'zcray”: The V.F.L. has at last
done something to help umpires to deal
with foul play. At present when one
gentleman kicks another in the face the
umpire may only report him to the
League. In future the ump. is to
stop the game and warn the tough,
in the presence of one or more line
umpires, that he is to be reported. It
will help, but why can’t the League
follow the example of the Rugby and
Soccer codes and give the official power
to send a plugugly off the field without
further argument?
* * * *
“Glengallan”: Playing as a team for
the first time the Maoris made a con-
vincing showing against Warwick (Q.),
winning 32-10. Their score included
seven tries to none by the opposition.
N.S.W. critics who opposed the tour on
account of the alleged deterioration of
Maori football are going to get a shock.
t- * * *
“Grasspan”; Old-timers in Melbourne
have been recalling the visit of Seddon’s
team of English Rugby players in 1888.
On their way to Sydney they stepped
off at Melbourne and there played local
clubs under Australian Rules, in which
they had been coached. The opening
match was against Carlton on the
M.C.G., and was a joke, Carlton piling
up a big score with little effort. There was
a vague hope among enthusiasts of the
day that the Englishmen would be con-
verted and take the Australian game
back to fascinate England, but it was
only a pipedream. Still, the national
code has been played abroad. Some
years back president Clota, of the Fitz-
roy (Vic.) club, visited his native Spain
and prevailed upon the local lads of
nutty Barcelona to take it up. Again
Cullen Ward, now a newspaperman in
U.S.A., went to California as a propa-
gandist for the Vic. League, and met
with moderate success for a while. And
Aussie “comrades” have introduced the
game in Moscow. But Soccer has appar-
ently too strong a hold in Soviet Russia
to be displaced easily.
* ♦ * *
“Windy”; Manchester, the hefty for-
ward here with the 1932 and 1924 All-
Black teams, will skipper the side de-
parting shortly for Britain. This follows
up the M.L. policy of picking the cap-
tain from the front line. Gallagher and
Porter, both forwards, were Manchester’s
predecessors in the 1905 and 1928 in-
vasions of Britain, so the big fellow will
have something to emulate. Oliver, the
five-eighth who shone with the Silver
Fern wearers in 1928 and 1934, is Man-
chester’s offsider.
s|: :I«
“Scrum”: A contribution to the front-
row controversy (B. 3/7/ ’35) comes from
"No more bedtime stories , Dig.—rock ’im to sleep."
,
Tom McMahon, a noted League umpire
of other days. He advocates the umpire
Putting the ball in, as done yem
ugo m the League, and ■ -
the outside men of the f o
allowed to strike for the ball The third
man would then be no use at all and
the o bvi ,° u ? T r ? m< /vLrtin n? two me
to the old Union oni This w»s
only in front, both book g. ,
abandoned when Mu! n 1
team came along in 899 with tee
in • r P n j- side rar y , ’
but both N.S.W. Q . .
adopted the new f ,' 8 .
the four three-quarter system, because it
was English, you know.
“Stand Off”: Rugby Union players
this side of the Tasman will be per-
turbed by the discovery of Rugby League
secretary Miller that the amateur code
is declining rapidly in MX. The official
gave this as his opinion at a farewell func-
fion at Wellington. There may be some-
lhin V in .s rn'ie'To aSe
Ei he vanish h ed LT'Mc toe
BridgeJias been eclipsed
by one across the Tasman Sea.
„ -
The Nineteenth Hole
Joan Hammond’s win against 'Mrs.
Robinson for the N. S. Wales L.G.U.
championship disproved the ancient saw
about matches being decided on the
greens. Her long game is so impressive
that on her day she might get within a
stroke or two of Jim Perrier. On an
off day she is capable of putting like a
rabbit. Most of Mrs. Robinson’s chips
and putts were things of pure beauty,
but she isn’t a hitter, and the Kensington
course was heavy on Friday. So Miss
Hammond, though out of touch on many
of the greens, scraped home at the 37th.
No women’s championship match has
gone so far in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
Mrs. Sloan Morpeth (whom the public
knows best as Susie Tolhurst) and Mrs.
Enos Shaw got into the Vic. women’s
championship semi-finals with poorish
scores ; they averaged a shade under fives,
to beat their opponents 4 up and 3. On
Friday Mrs. Morpeth was dazzling in
all departments and downed Mrs. Shaw
by 10 up and 9. The champion (she has
now won the Vic, title four times) won
the first five holes off the reel in the
afternoon round.
* . * * *
“Baffy”: The monotony of the N. S.
Wales amateur golf championship was
agreeably varied by a player who lay
on his back before every putt and took
a sighter at the hole between his turned-
up feet, which were converted for the
time being into a V sight, as the riflemen
would say. I recall another player who
used to sight the line by bending down
with his back to the hole and looking
through his legs. He gave this up after
experiencing the attentions of a mob ol
small boys armed with catapults, who
took up a position near a hole sur-
rounded by scrub. This was during a
competition final, and he always main-
tained that a hated rival who carried
off the trophy had hired the hidden
assassins.
* « * iii
“Divot Digger”: The Victorian goll-
ing heads have notified that they arc one
with their N.S.W. opposite numbers in
the matter of sending a team of ama-
teurs to Britain for next European
season. The other State associations arc
being circularised, and a definite vole
will probably be available next lime the
A.G.U. meets.
i]> * >it *
“Woogaroo": Queensland golf was
rebuffed again when it tried to enlist
N.S.W. sympathies for its claim to an
Australian championship meeting on a
Brisbane course. The Sydney body cray-
fished —ruled the plea out of order. The
matter will now be held up until the
national meeting at Adelaide in August.
* * * *
“Nemarluck”: Darwin golfers are
revelling—on one fairway which borders
a swamp they are often wallowing—in
their new nine-hole golf links, hewn out
of the jungle after the club had been
hoofed off the aerodrome. It is a color-
ful course. The clearing of the fairways
has given bandicoots a chance to get at
yams which the jungle had made inacces-
sible. Where bandicoots are not mining.
crabs from the swamp are taking
a hand, and the disappearance of
balls into the bowels of the earth
is a rub o’ the green. There are
no crows, but hawks and kites have
quickly picked up the technique ol
the game, and pounce on any un-
guarded pill.
“Moonlight”: Cabled that a party of
American golfers, while going round the
course, was held up by masked bandits
and relieved of its cash. We have had
nothing of the sort in Australia yet. The
reason may be that members of many
clubs, after paying green fees and the
multitudinous other imposts demanded of
them, are not worth robbing.
♦ * *
“Carnoustie”: His visit to Australia
seems to have played the deuce with Jock
McLean’s golf. Hailed on his return
as the best amateur in Britain, he was
knocked out of the British amateur tour-
ney in the first round by an unknown
from Birmingham. And in the Scottish
singles championship, which he was sup-
posed to have in his bag, he went down
3 and 1 to Hector Thompson. The
winner is no mug, however, for he was
British boy champion four years ago,
and holds the Irish title.
Racquet and Bawl
“Pothunter”; The end of the Davis
Cup series is in sight. The winners ot
the European zone begin their match
with America in London on July 20, and
the challenge round with the English
holders of the mug commences on July
27. The eliminating-rounds season
having been abolished, teams visiting
Europe next year will have a rare time
chasing from one end of the Continent
to the other in the preliminary ties. When
Australia challenges again it may be in
the American zone.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: A meeting of the
Davis Cup tennis nations during Wimble-
don voted for the institution of a poo!
to meet the expenses of teams travelling
long distances to play their Davis Cup
ties. It is proposed that each competing
nation throw £lO into the hat for a start.
Winners of the first and second rounds
thereafter will part up a fiver each, and
winners of other rounds up to the semi-
finals a tenner. Semi-finalists will pay £ 15.
European-zone winners £2O, inter-zone
winners £25 and Cup winners £5O. In
addition. 4 p.c. of the profits of each tie
before the semi-finals will be earmarked,
2 p.c. of the challenge round if one Euro-
pean nation is playing and 4 p.c. if both
teams are European. American-zone
nations will not contribute.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The N. S. Wales
L.T.A. has elected W. V. Armstrong to
succeed the late Frank Peach as president.
The new president —he is abroad, but will
be back in September—-has done good
work in the rather thankless jobs of hon.


p^*^/
i#
t
Mi
m
Nfi
m
&
ctti
, >vo- < * '
>-
Ik*
|*v*#
mW“
/A»>
35«!
a**
'vv
Vv:
t*v
ETve put up
40 chains
while you’ve been putting up
IO
• • •
® Erecting a “Cyclone” Ring-lock fence takes a quarter
(or even less} of the time needed to erect a plain
fence. The “Cyclone” need fewer posts, so you dig
fewer postholes. It needs no droppers. Straining it
is quick and easy with the “Cyclone” strainer lent
free to purchasers by “Cyclone” dealers. Most im-
portant, "Cyclone” is made entirely of HARD steel
wire wearproof and weatherproof and possesses
the Ring-lock joint, the joint that no beast can move
and that lets the fence follow every rise and dip of the
land even gullies—without buckling or twisting.
“Cyclone” Ring-lock costs less in the long run (often
less in the first place) than any other fence. Post the
coupon for literature showing why this is so and
illustrating the correct type of “Cyclone” Ring-lock for
every class of fencing (sheep. lambs, cattle, horses,
pig*)-
“Cyclone” is not a type of fence, but is our
registered trade mark and can only be le-
gally applied to fences manufactured by us.
and mine's a
longer-lasting,
better-looking
job!
»>
Send for new Price List showing
NEW REDUCED PRICES of “CYCLONE”
Ring-lock Fencing and Ornamental
Gates
Cyclone
IYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY., LTD.,
The Grace Building, 77 York-street, Sydney,
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Ring-Lock
FENCE
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of "Cyclone" Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
lL , 17/ 7’/ 'ss.'*
sec. and treasurer, and is well fitted for
the task before him. He was elected by
20 votes to 10, the other candidate being
Dr. Walkom. A new hon. sec. and
treasurer have now to be found.
* * * it
“Top Spin”: “Judy” Edwards (I sup-
pose one may call him that now, since
he is retiring from the N.S.W. District
Court Bench) was a crack tennis-player
30-odd years or so ago. A contem-
porary of Rice and Colquhoun, the
future wig represented N.S.W. eight times
against Victoria and won the Queensland
doubles championship with the late Dr.
Curtis in 1896. He was fast over the
ground and a holy terror to pass once
he got to the net.
* »!: * *
“Kooyong”: Fired by the example of
the Victorian tennis heads, who have had
tout-en-cas courts going at their head-
quarters for some weeks, the N.S.W.
people are to lay one down at the White
City. The stuff is now used for Davis
Cup matches in European centres, and it
is considered that practice on it will
benefit future Australian D.C. players.
It may do so if they play on nothing else,
but if they have to perform alternately on
tout-en-cas. earth courts and grass the
result is likely to be confusion. To
be logical, our D.C. players and those
in Britain should abandon grass for good
and set in for life on the compo.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Contradictory reports
are raging as to visits from overseas
players. One from Melbourne says
Brookes has invited Von Cramm and the
two Helens to come along this season,
and is also wording Wood, Budge and
Mako. Another from Sydney denies that
anything has been done yet. The two
women have received an offer of £5OOO
to play exhibition tennis in California,
but have turned the temptation down, so
there seems nothing to stop them coming.
The men are a different matter. Last
year the U.S. tennis heads refused a pass-
port to Australia to some of their Davis
Cup probables on the ground that they
must stay at home and practise for the
1935 pot.
* * * *
“Queen’s”: Helen Wills-Moody has
broken the hoodoo attendant on athletic
comebacks. When she dropped out of the
American championships with a hurt
back two years ago everyone except her
determined self thought it was all over
as far as tennis was concerned. Her
victory in the women’s singles at Wimble-
don against Helen Jacobs, who was her
opponent when she broke down at Forest
Hills, was her seventh, her first being in
1927. After Suzanne Lenglen, she is
probably the best woman player the game
has produced.
* * * *
“Cosmop.”: One of the surprises of the
Wimbledon meeting was the sudden
outing in the semi-final of Mrs. Sperling,
who, as Fraulein Krahwinkel, was
champion of Germany before her mar-
riage to a Dane. After her defeat by
Joan Hartigan last Wimbledon, the lady
never looked back, tearing off the
French, German, Italian, Danish and
Irish championships with the loss of
only one set. She didn’t meet Joan this
time ; she went down to Helen Jacobs
in straight sets.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth”; Hardstaff, one of the 13
English players picked for the third Test
against South Africa, bears a name well
remembered in Australia. Papa Hard-
staff came to this country with A. O.
Jones’s team, and was second in the aver-
ages to George Gunn with 51.25. Like
Gunn and Jones, he was a Notts man
and a type rarely seen now among pro-
fessional batsmen, combining sound
defence with hard hitting. The son made
1714 runs in his first regular season for
Notts last year, and hoisted a century
against the South Africans in their recent
fixture with the county.
* * * if
“Trent Bridge”: Playing for Notts
against South Africa, Larwood got a
bad pasting from the visitors, as also did
Voce. The express is said to have bowled
with all his old speed, but he proved as
innocuous as he did against the Aus-
tralians of 1926 and 1930. Evidently no
bodyline stuff was attempted. It is an-
nounced that Larwood and Voce will
play all their future cricket for the
county and take no part in international
matches.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W.C.A. is out
to “reform” the Board of Control by
giving itself and Victoria greater repre-
sentation. It is regarded as an insult
that N.S.W., Vic. and S.A. should have
only three votes each while worms like
Queensland have two and Westralia and
Tassie one each, making it possible for
S.A., Queensland, W.A. and Tassie to
outvote the seniors. This, it seems,
would be tantamount to high treason ; so
it is coolly proposed to take away the
votes of Westralia and Tasmania while
graciously allowing them to sit on the
board. The truth seems to be that the
N.S.W.C.A. would dearly love to run the
whole show itself, as the Melbourne C.C.
did in the bad old days before 1912.
* * * *
“Cinders”; That the next Empire
Games will be held in Sydney is no cer-
tainty, in spite of Australian mail votes
(B. 10/7/’35). The secretary in London
has told an interviewer that no applica-
tion from any Dominion is in yet, though
July 30 is the closing date. His com-
mittee will go into the matter at the
end of the year, and among items to
be considered will be the facilities avail-
able in the country applying for holding
the Games. One item which may tell
against Australia is that visitors will be
asked to run their sprints and shorter
races on grass tracks instead of the
cinders in universal use in more civilised
countries. The Bulletin has com-
mented on this medievalism time and
again.
* * * *
“Shell”; Though world championship
races are no longer held, professional
sculling is probably on a solider basis
in N.S.W. than ever before. There is
now a league in control, with affiliated
clubs in the metropolis and others on
northern and southern rivers. Each of
these stages regular meetings and inter-
club fixtures, and numbers of individual
members regularly attend the annual
rowing carnivals held in the North and
South Coast centres. A. M. Fisher, a
State amateur champion in 1932-33,
holds the professional heavyweight title.
* * * *
“Slalom”: There is no mention in thc
Defence estimates of raising a corps of
Australian Alpini, but it may come to
that yet. Recently a party of Australian
ski-ers travelled 80 miles along the snow-
covered Australian Alps, from Corryong
(Vic.) to Kosciusko, carrying its own
supplies. It set out on Friday morning
and reached the objective on Sunday
night. On the last stage gear was left
to be brought on by a dog team —an-
other unfamiliar note for Australia.
Most of the country covered was unex-
plored, but the journey gave no trouble.
The pioneers were Tom Mitchell, A. E.
Cato, Dr. Colquhoun and Dr. Stokes.
♦ * * *
Victoria lost a fine old sportsman
when C. Forrester heard the final whistle
at 85. A leader in the commercial world,
he was one of Melbourne’s pioneer
cricketers and footballers, playing foot-
ball with Melbourne and cricket with
East. As long ago as 1886 he was a
member of the Melbourne C.C., and was
hon. treasurer until 1930, when he was
made a life member and a v.-p. Royal
Melbourne Golf Club absorbed most of
his sporting interest in his closing years,
though he was long a member of the
V.R.C.


'‘Pall Mall” Radiators.
Elegant, space - saving.
Made in England.
Central Heating
and
Hot-water Supply
as part of the domestic economy of the
modern flat, home, club, hotel or
college, mean heat for rooms or hot
water at will day or night, and at an
upkeep four to five times cheaper.
SHO.VtfO 1
m
6V
%
fe-a
Cast-iron —plain or rustless.
Made by Hartley and Sngden.
England, contractors to the
Army, Navy and Air Forces.
Sydney ’Phones:
M 2751, M 2331 (18 lines).
Melbourne Lines:
Central S3BO-91, 10431-3
(75 lines )
BRITISH
“WHiTE ROSE”
DOMESTIC BOILERS
AND
“PALL MALL”
RADIATORS
supply these amenities, and are
standards of their kind every-
where. We place thirty years’
expert knowledge and experi-
ence at your disposal, as a
result of thousands of installa-
tions supplied by us all over
Australia.
CALL, WRITE OR ’PHONE
for particulars of either system.
/
?J
e
A
Va
ra-T'S. L.TO.
324-330 Pitt Street - - - - Sydney
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne
MO
TH
ERS
THE
The Bank o£ New South Wales provides complete
facilities for the transaction of banking business through-
out Australasia and with other countries.
The Bank establishes commercial credits by mail or
cable. It issues drafts and makes money transfers by
letter or telegraph. It negotiates and collects Bills of
Exchange and issues for the convenience of travellers,
Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Cheques, available all
over the world.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Established 1S17)
730 branches in Australia, New Zealand, The Pacific Islands and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
U
□
I3BA-1935
KNOWS
WHO
MAN
THE
SCOTCH
I
c
WHISKY
The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
BRISBANE. JULY 10, 1935.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and tenth Report, with the
Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended June 30 last, after allowing
for Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, all assessments of Income,
Land and other Taxes payable during that period, reducing
Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £2500, making provision
for Bad and Doubtful Debts and *all known Contingencies
and including Recoveries, amounts to. .
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
June 30.* 1934
Making a total of
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 4 p.c. per
annum for the Half Year ended December 31, 19 34, amount-
to
mg
Leaving for Distribution
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows;
Dividend, at the rate of 4 p.c. per annum for the Half Year
ended June 30, 193 5 (free of Queensland Income lax
and without deduction in respect of Federal Income Tax
payable by the Bank) 7K7 15 11
Balance to be Carried Forward . . . . ■ ■ • • . . £lo,/o/ I > M
£53,767 15 II
A slight improvement in the demand for accommodation has taken place dining the year,
and we hope it will continue, and so enable us to use to better advantage a portion ol om
funds now temporarily invested in Commonwealth Loans.
Total deposits show an increase of £509,740, those bearing interest being £16,679 higher,
and those not bearing interest £493,061 higher.
During the period under review we have purchased and cancelled £39,489/9/8 of our
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock. These transactions, together with dealings in Australian
Consolidated Loan, were profitable to us.
I regret to say that until about a week ago the Central and North West ol Queensland
were struggling in the throes of a drought. Useful rains have since improved the position
somewhat, but heavy losses of sheep are inevitable, and the lambing must be light. Our
sympathy goes out to the men and women who have struggled through droughty conditions
for the last eight or nine years, spending little or no money on amusements. However, provided
the sheep- and cattlemen are allowed to carry forward their losses lor taxation purposes, with
perhaps a little temporary relief in rentals, together with low interest rates, 1 do not see any
reason why the industry should not revive as it has in the past. I mention that we do not
anticipate making capital losses of any magnitude, but our hopes expressed in last yeai s
Annual Report, that with another good season and wool prices holding we could look forward
to increased revenue from sheep advances, will not be reflected in this Balance .Sheet, owing to
the unfavorable season experienced. As far as cattle are concerned, the development ol the
chilled-meat trade seems to be progressing on the right lines.
* Reserves have not been drawn upon during the current year.
£2500 is recommended for depreciation of the Bank Premises and Furniture.
Reference to the Balance Sheet will show the extra details required by the provisions of
the Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
During the year a Branch of the Bank has been opened at Gordonvale (Qld.), and no
Branches have been closed.
By Order of the Board,
M. G. HAYMEN,
General Manager.
* The additional information starred is published in accordance with the provisions of the
Queensland Companies Act of 1931.
The Queensland National Bank
BALANCE SHEET as at June 30, 1935.
Limited
*Authorised
Capital ..£2,000.000 0 0
*Subscribed
Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
Capital paid up 1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 860,000 0 0
Profit and
Loss .... 53,7871511
Interminable
Inscri bed
Deposit
Stock .. 2,814,988 10 3
Bills Payable and
Liabilities
Deposits
other
£5,478,776 6 2
305,362
~ 8,451,035
1 11
6 1
Coin, Bullion.
Australia n
Notes, and
Cash at
Bankers ..£1,766,172 13
Commonwealth
Loans
(under
market
value)
Cash Balances
Bills remitted
and in tran-
situ
Money in
London at
call and on
short notice
2.376,560 15
99,516 9
570,201 12 6
0
*The additional information
starred is published in accord-
ance with the provisions of
the Queensland Companies
Act of 1931.
15,000 0
—£4,827,451 11 8
Advances to Customers, Bills
Discounted and all other
Accounts *(exclusive of pro-
vision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts) 8,860,448 16 10
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery *(at cost less
amounts written off) .. 547,273 5 3
(Of the Bank Premises figures
£170,000 is revenue-producing)
£14,235,173 14 2
£14,235,173 14 2
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT for Year Ended June 30, 1935. Cr.
To Inferim OTvidend paid Feb By Balance from June 30, 1934 £19,095 8 9
To migim dividend Paia r o Q * Nef ProfU for year ended
„ Balance at June 30, 1935 .. 53,787 15 11 June 30, 1935 .. •• 69 - 69 - 7 2
£88.787 15 11
£88.787 15 11
Dr.
To Balance
RESERVE FUND.
.. £860.000 0 0 By Balance
£860,000 0 0
Cr.
£860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
* The total amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in London and
Sydney, as remuneration for their services during the year ended June jU, 1935, was
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
W. HAMILTON HART, Director.
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
* We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information
and explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books on June 3J, lvsx. We
have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
July 10, 1935.
R. H. GUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A.\ Auditors
LANCE A. JONES, F.F.I.A. I Audltors -
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietor 5 will be held at the Banking
House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1935, at noon
BUSINESS - To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the Year ended June 30, 1935. To
elect a Shareholders’ Director in the place of William Alfred Jolly, Esq., C.M G., who retires in
accordance with Clauses 85 ( b ) and 86 of the Articles of Association, but is eligible for
re dectmn! and offers himself accordingly. To elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration
for the ensuing year.


DRIVE OUT
RHEUMATISM
AAD BACKACHE
London Doctor’s Prescription.
Don’t suffer crippling rheumatic pains or backache
when you can get instant relief from Dr. Harrison's
Pills! This remedy immediately gets to the joot of
the trouble by ridding the system of the cause—uric
acid. This uric poison is slowly, day by day, break-
ing down your health, causing ageing back, limb,
joint and muscular pains, and probably weakening
the heart. Harrison’s Pills quickly and effectively
free you from the danger by dissolving and driving
from the system the uric acid crystals now making
comfortable life impossible for you. Why wait until
you become crippled, mentally and physically? Your
very brain refuses to do its best while you are tor-
tured by the uric acid fiend. Get genuine relief once
and for all. . . . Take Harrison’s Pills to-day and
regain your former sparkle, activity and youth.
Harrison’s Pills end the pain and the cause! Any
good chemist or store can supply Harrison’s Pills in
three sizes: 18 Pills, 2/-; 32 Pills, 3/-; 68 Pills,
5/-; thus proriding the least costly form of proven
relief from uric acid, rheumatic, kidney and bladder
pains and disorders to Ire had in this country.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
vour fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation Limited
HEAD OFFICE; Australia House, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA; 475 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings, Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Australian Corporation,
transacting all classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate, Non-Profit,
Annuities, Personal Accident and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT MINIMUM COST n
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
1
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and :
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at |
Double Rates) \
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
{Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Wool Cheque
The sheep’s fleece provides Australia
with more externally-acceptable money
than any other single item produced in
the Commonwealth. Our factories are
of large and growing importance so far
as internal welfare is concerned, and, by
minimising imports, they assist vitally in
reducing the calls on our overseas store
of world-trade counters. But we have
an overseas interest bill to pay each year,
besides the charge for those goods we do
import—some essential, others not so
important, either to the welfare of the
Australian consumer or to the establish-
ment of a goodwill for our export indus-
tries. For the discharge of these overseas
commitments we depend to an over-
whelming extent upon wool.
In 1933-34, out of total exports (in-
cluding gold) of £123,400,000 (Aust.),
wool exports were worth nearly
£50,000,000 (Aust.). The total cheque
was £52,165,000.
This season the return from wool was
£37,927,000, or 73 p.c. of the 1933-34
figure. The drop of £14,000,000 in the
yield from the clip has been partly offset
by more favorable returns from wheat,
butter, meats, etc.
Other countries are more important
as wheatgrowers, beefgrowers and
lamb-exporters. Australia is ihe centre
of the merino-wool industry. We must
not forget, however, that we have
more competition to meet these days
(particularly as regards medium and
coarse wools), and cannot afford to take
our supremacy in this sphere for granted.
S’Africa is of growing importance as a
sheep-run, and some of the South Ameri-
can republics are increasing producers
of medium to fine types of the staple.
Wool has been allowed to find its own
level in the world’s markets. There have
been no restrictions of any kind in Aus-
tralia, except the suspension last year
of sales for a short period. This action
was unavoidable, and excited no
unfavorable comment from buyers.
Later in the season clearances were re-
markably prompt; the low prices of Sep-
tember to March, of course, helped.
The new season has started with prices
showing an upward trend —this time last
year they were pointing the other way—
and we are free of embarrassing stocks.
The import-restriction bogey in Europe,
though bad enough, is not quite the
menace it seemed at first. The countries
concerned are still buying wool from
somewhere, even if not directly from
Australia; and, as there is no surplus
production of wool in the world, the
markets we have lost on the Continent
have been largely balanced up by heavier
purchases on the part of our regular
customers.
The Australian clip for the coming
season has been forecast at 2,930,000
bales —216,000 bales fewer than for the
past season.
London opening prices are up.
Commonwealth sales will open in Syd-
ney on September 2, followed by auctions
in Adelaide, Melbourne and Perth later
that month. The clip from other parts
of the world should be lighter this
season, too. Many Australian farmers
have recently benefited by good rains
where they were most needed.
Wheat is down overseas and locally,
but wool, at the opening sales in London,
was considerably stronger. * Rises were
registered in nearly all types of the
staple, and ranged from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c.
Winchcombe, Carson, the Sydney
brokers, report large consumption of the
product in Britain. Germany, though
not officially buying to any extent in the
Commonwealth, has resumed its place
as Yorkshire’s largest customer for tops
and yarns, and has consequently been
a factor in Britain’s larger purchases of
Australian wool.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Australia
has increased its dividend. The rate
dumped from 15 p.c. in 1930 to 5 p.c.
m January, 1931, and remained at that
i ate until the end of 1934. The declara-
tion for the six months to June 30 last
is 6 2-3 p.c., an average of 5.8 p.c. for
the year; this is the first upward ten-
dency in distribution rates by banks
since depression struck, and it is to be
hoped that the trend will be general.
Banks as investments have been under
a cloud for the past three or four years,
partly because of suggested political in-
terference, and because of reduced earn-
ings, in a measure due to provision for
probable bad pastoral and agricultural
debts.
Following Australian Glass’s increased
distribution, the C.B.A.’s higher final
“ How's business , George?”
“ Rotten , ol' boy, rotten! Still have to play polo on borrowed ponies
div. and an increase in the rate of Good-
let and Smith (Sydney), Adelaide Cement
has declared a div. of 10 p.c. and bonus
of 5 p.c. for the year ended May 31. In
1932-33-34 10 p.c. was handed out, with
a special 12| p.c. cash distribution
(charged to reserves) in 1934. The com-
pany is soundly established, and has
large investments outside the business ;
last year’s higher rate, however, suggests
improved trade.
Australian Cement, joint controller
with the Kandos Co. of Australian Port-
land Cement Pty., has raised its interim
div. to 4 p.c. (as against 2% p.c. this time
last year). Kandos shares are strengthen-
ing in the market.
* * * *
Placer Development, registered m
Vancouver (8.C.), and principal mdivi-
dual shareholder in Bulolo Gold Dredg-
ing, has provided the outstanding rise of
a long, sombre period on the gold-share
market. The $5 shares, recently down to
around £27 on Australian ’Changes,
have jumped to £32 10s. ex div. Placer
is interested in the Middle Creek and
New Pyrenees properties, on the Avoca
(Vic.) field, and has interests in two
Colombia (S. America) properties. These
latter interests and the report that the
shares are to be subdivided into $1
denominations have had their influence
in the rise.
* * *
In the value of Australian factory out-
pul for 1933-34, wages (exclusive of
drawings made by working proprietors)
represented 19.5 p.c., fuel, etc., 3.4 p.c.,
materials 57.5 p.c., and margin for mis-
cellaneous exes, and profit 19.6 p.c. The
average salary (males) fell from £2lO
in 1931-32 to £202 in '32-33, and to
£199 in ’33-34. With the exception of
Queensland (where wage rates have actu-
ally risen over the period), N. S. Wales
still pays the highest rates (£207), fol-
lowed by Westralia (£205), Vic. (£191)
f h n pr ; ° l p lh £H. s ’ ( £185 )- In N - S - Wales
there were 263 males employed to every
100 females; in Victoria the figure was
182, as against 412 in Queensland. The
average number of factory employees at
work during 1933-34 was 405,941.
„ * *. , * ,
JuSlS U tfecrand C a Se ju^)Tn’ihf NSVV
Supreme Court for 6 days, concluded
on Friday night with a majority verffet
for the defendants, A stay of proceed-
ings was granted. Tullamore Gold
Development, N.L., sued Walter F. Med-
calf and his wife to recover damages on
the ground that the co. had been in-
duced to buy the mine by alleged false
representations. The allegations were
denied. Much evidence was given
concerning samples and methods of
sampling. The shares, par value 25., at
one stage rose to 375., and then col-
lapsed—with a pronounced effect on the
quotations of shares in other N. S. Wales
mining concerns.
* * * *
The value of Australian frozen and
chilled beef exports for the first nine
months of 1934-35 was £1,537,944
(Aust.), compared with £1,220,184 in the
same period of the previous year. Quan-
tities were 1,261,410 centals, compared
with 1,046,782 centals. Mutton and
lamb values rose from £2,696,571 (Aust.)
to £3,914,971. Quantities were 1,675,881
centals, as against 1,342,991 centals.
* * ♦ ♦
Shipping entering and clearing Aus-
tralian ports is recovering, and the ton-
nage in ballast has fallen away con-
siderably. The “with-cargo” tonnage
entered rose from 3,946,000 in 1931-32
to 4,481,000 in 1933-34, and further im-
provement has been registered recently.
• * * *
Australian butter continues in demand
in London at 85s. 6d. to 86s. (stg.) per
hundredweight, values being above the
average for the past six months. But
supplies for export have recently been
lighter, owing to seasonal conditions.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Steamship Co.,
recognising that ’planes may be to it as
bitumen roads to railways, has got in
first and formed an Adelaide Airways
Co., to run regular swift services across
the local gulfs to Port Lincoln, Yorke
Peninsula and Kangaroo Island.
Nominal capital, £250,000.
Machines (for a beginning) will
be two Monospar Jubilee
four-passenger English ’planes,
capable of 130 m.p.h. It is
hoped to start about October.
* * *
Victoria now has 203,161
registered motor-vehicles, as
against 243,908 in N. S. Wales.
New registrations in the Ma
State continue to be the best for
six years, notwithstanding that
the State’s wool cheque this year
is down £6,500,000 on last. For
May the weekly average of new
cars registered was 246, as
against 198 in 1934 and 89 in
1933. Even in May, 1930, the
number was only 201. The re-
covery in car sales, despite re-
strictions and taxes, indicates the
extent to which people consider
motor transport a necessity.
The export season for dried fruits
commenced on March 1 ; 37,139 tons had
been exported from the Commonwealth
to July 4. Britain took 6842 tons,
Canada 10,282 tons, and Maoriland 2080
tons. Further substantial shipments are
in hand for these markets. Total exports
for the season are predicted at 50,000
tons. Prices recently have been £29 ss.
(stg.) a ton for currants, and £4l 10s.
for sultanas.
* * * *
Australasian Catholic Assurance’s new
building on the corner of King and York
streets, Sydney, is under way. Concrete
Constructions, Ltd., is doing the job, and
Hennessy’s are the architects. The build-
ing will have 13 floors and a basement.
The land was a bargain at £50,000. The
A.C.A. has made remarkable progress
during its 14 years of existence. Funds
are now approaching £650,000, and the
office is confident in the investment
value of the new premises.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL DISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Mimi”
Everything about this film version of
“Boheme” at Sydney Embassy is accept-
able, Gertrude Lawrence looks more
like Mimi than any opera singer in living
memory, and she is gay, neurotic,
gamine —everything Mimi should be.
Douglas Fairbanks, jun. (whose Ameri-
can accent has completely vanished), is
satisfying as Rodolphe. He is particu-
larly good in his emotional scenes. The
settings are free from artiness ; the Paris
Murger knew must have been very like
this. But the story fails as a movie.
Perhaps because it is so old; perhaps
because it never was much good ; per-
haps because any version of it without
Puccini’s music is “Hamlet” without the
Prince of Denmark.
“It's a Bet”
Gene Gerrard, journalist—sacked from
his job for incompetence—bets a young
newspaper proprietor who is after his
girl that he will vanish and evade detec-
tion for a month. The film shows how
he does it, and in the process finds fame,
fortune and a better girl (Helen Chand-
ler). Judy Kelly is the pretty girl whom
he loses. A typical English farce of the
catastrophic kind, with wisecracks which
are above par on the whole.
‘‘The People’s Enemy”
Towards the end of Uncle Sams
disastrous prohibition era large-scale
racketeers, immune for years under
crooked State jurisdictions, began to be
gaoled by Federal Courts for income-
tax evasion. That is what happened to
Vince Falcone (to rhyme with Capone).
While he was in gaol his lawyer fell in
love with Falcone’s long-deserted wife,
but that didn’t prevent the counsellor
from doing his best (though unsuccess-
fully) to get the Public Enemy paroled.
Falcone thought otherwise; escaped,
and was shot dead by his pursuers after
threatening the lawyer. Preston Foster
as the crook and Melvyn Douglas as the
legal light are well cast, and the story
is interestingly unfolded. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Cowboy Millionaire”
George O’Brien owns a fabulously
rich goldmine out of which Alden Chase,
a smooth and sinister villain who is his
rival for the hand of Evelyn Bos-
tock, attempts to chisel him. O’Brien
chases Chase to England, parades
Oxford Circus in a hat with a 3ft. brim,
and finally gets to grips with his enemy
in an old inn at Datchet which is in-
fested with American crooks. Action
drags at times, and the denouement sig-
nals itself in the first five minutes.
“Captain Hurricane”
This is a story of life in one of those
Cape Cod villages made famous by J. C.
Lincoln, but it adds nothing to their
fame.
James Barton is an elderly sea captain
whose ungovernable temper provides the
reason why Helen Westley takes 20 years
to make up her mind to marry him.
His fits of temper are not as funny as
they are meant to be, but they are much
more stormy than the real storm scenes,
which seem to have been produced by
rigging a matchbox up as a ship, placing
it in a tub of water and shaking violently.
Hurricane’s two captain friends look
as if the nearest they ever got to a ship’s
bridge was when they were kicked down
the gangway for cadging meals in the
fo’c’sle. At Sydney Lyric.
“The Moonstone”
Also at Sydney Lyric. A modernised
version of the Wilkie Collins novel. In
its original period and setting it might
have been interesting; as a modern
thriller it is just another mystery film.
Phyllis Barry and David Manners play
the main parts well enough.
“Sequoia”
An animal film at Melb. Metro, that
won’t pain animal-lovers. The only
horrors are the killing of a rattlesnake
and an attack by a mountain lion on a
blackguardly man. Set in the high Sierras
of California, the story asserts that no
animals are fierce by instinct; that they
kill merely to satisfy their hunger. The
heroine takes home a baby fawn and a
baby mountain lion, and the progress of
the film shows these apparently discord-
ant elements growing up in firm friend-
ships. The climax is the rescue of the
fawn by the lion from the man who
sought its death. Scenic and wild-life
shots of great interest abound, and con-
siderable propaganda for preservation
of native fauna is put across deftly.
“MlMl,” AT SYDNEY EMBASSY.
Douglas Fairbanks ( Rodolphe ) and Gertrude Lawrence ( Mimi ) make
love in a garret.
Jean Parker and Russell Hardie are the
stars, but the best actor is Willie Fung
as a Chinese cook.
“The Triumph of Sherlock Holmes”
At Sydney Mayfair. Arthur Wontner
is an ideal Sherlock. The heavy humor,
the cynical tolerance of his fawning off-
sider, the supreme confidence, the mock-
modest “Simplicity itself, my dear Wat-
son” —he brings them all off. Watson
(lan Fleming) and Moriarty (Lyn Hard-
ing) are equally lifelike. The film deals
with the final overthrow of the Profes-
sor, who has returned on murder bent
after being pushed over a cliff in Switzer-
land by Holmes.
“Danny Boy”
A penniless violinist and his son tramp
the streets in search of a crust, while
the musician’s wife, an actress, consumes
cocktails and caviare with a happy smile
and a breaking heart. Ronnie Hepworth
does well as the youngster, and Frank
Forbes-Robertson exudes gloom to violin
accompaniment. Cyril Ritchard pro-
vides the lady’s cocktails —a thankless job
and a thankless part.
Some First Nights—
And a Last One
The curtain of Sydney Cri., the
theatre which marked the location of
“Poverty Point,” came down for the last
time on Saturday night. It had gone up
and down for close on half a century,
and the packed last-night audience in-
cluded folk whose memories of the house
extended over the whole period. George
Dean, who appeared in the first show,
was among the speakers. Memories of
Robert Brough, Dion Boucicault, George
Titheradge, Alfred Dampier, George
Rignold, Oscar Asche, Nellie Stewart,
Lily Brayton, Marie Tempest, Emilie
Polini, Essie Jenyns and Margaret Ban-
nerman were in the minds of the older
folk in front as “The Patsy,” Agnes
Doyle in the lead, was played.
But with the ringing down of the cur-
tain the mood changed from gay to grave.
A speech on behalf of the Firm made it
clear that the disappearance of the Cri.
means more than the coming demolition
of a city landmark —it involves the clos-
ing of yet another house to the acting
profession and the disbandment of the
permanent staff. Agnes Doyle voiced the
regrets of her colleagues. Harold
Bowden, the Firm’s general manager,
pictured the theatrical industry as
throttled by taxation, though he held out
hope for a new and better edifice to take
the Cri.’s place some time in a hazy
future. Oskar Denes and Nellie Barnes,
from “Ball at the Savoy” at the Royal,
did some cheering up with a catchy
song. Then “Good-byes” went back and
forth from stage to auditorium and
“God Save” echoed from those walls for
the last time.
* * *
The cause of orchestral music in Syd-
ney, which has had few influential
friends since the departure of Ver-
brugghen, has been given a little uplift
recently by Menuhin’s amiable remark
that the material for such music in the
city is as good as anywhere in the world.
That’s probably true enough, but the
heart, soul and brains of an orchestra
reside in its conductor, and the Sydney
players have never been allowed to re-
main under one baton long enough to
become a first-class, well-co-ordinated
instrument of music. They are resource-
ful and adaptable, skilled at responding
to requirements; and when Maurice de
Abravanel, their latest chief, set them the
task of mastering his conception of four
symphonic works of first-class importance
for an initial concert they tackled the
job with gusto. A fair-sized audience at
Sydney Town Hall listened to the result
—product of comparatively few rehear-
sals —on Saturday night.
The “Eroica” symphony opened a little
shakily, but developed security and con-
fidence as it wended its way to its tre-
mendous contrapuntal climax. In the
overture to “Die Meistersinger” the
band revelled in Wagner’s emotionalism.
“Don Juan,” an early composition of
that wittier Wagner, Richard Strauss,
made stern demands, but the orchestra
put it over in lively, recognisable fashion.
Debussy’s “Afternoon of a Faun” was
not very commendable, but Debussy’s
effects depend on hair-balances, and the
work demands very thorough prepara-
tion.
Considering the circumstances, which
made compromises inevitable, the per-
formance was rather better than was to
be expected even of such very versatile
instrumentalists, De Abravanel is mani-
festly a sound musician and a tactful
conductor. Given six months’ steady
practice under him, or under any one
competent chief, these players could
establish for Sydney a claim to be con-
sidered a musical city.
* * *
“JFunrays,” the latest revue at Sydney
Civic, is a chain of titbits of familiar
flavor. “Sly Grog” and “The Dancing
Drama” prove diverting. “Whacko”
Ron Shand, dancer and funny man, dis-
places Mo as first string, and with the
aid of Vincent Ryan and Letty Craydon
a brisk tempo is maintained. Singing is
poor and the clowning a bit coarse, but
the Sunkissed Beauties, a comely, well-
drilled ballet, atone for much. “Rhap-
sody in Gold” is their best effort. The
Harris Sisters perform alarming con-
volutions, and' Mike Connors and Queenic
Paul, responsible for the production,
contrive to keep the wave of gaiety bowl-
ing along.
* * *
Herbert Davis led the suburban forces
of the Malvern Choral Society and the
Zelman Orchestra at Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday night. A few weeks
previously Heinze-Grainger were in occu-
pation, and the gales that blew off the
stage lifted the hair of a large audience.
This time the gentlest of zephyrs stirred
the air, for it was the occasion of the
Bach-Handel festival. The audience was
small, but the music was all unalloyed
delight. Paulyne Bindley sang two arias
of Bach in a firm, resonant and well-
controlled voice, and in the aria to the
“Samson” oratorio of Handel she made
the “loud, uplifted angel-trumpets’
appear as if they were actually held to
her lips. The singing of the choralists
was not so good as the performance of
the orchestra, which was almost exclu-
sively composed of strings. A concerto
by Bach and another by Handel, with
Mary Rusden as pianist, were played
with delicacy and good sense, and roused
the audience to so much enthusiasm as
to fill the conductor with embarrassment.
* * *
The Gilsullivan revival at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, is the best that
has come along in post-war days, and
when dad enthuses as the curtain falls
Tommy and Beryl no longer wink behind
his back and regard him as a back-
number. “The Yeomen of the Guard.”
produced once more by Minnie Everett,
was an excellent show on the whole,
largely through the outstanding merits of
the chorus and Quintrell’s orchestra. Ivan
Menzies scored his third win this season
as Jack Point, whose pathos is liable to
become maudlin in any but the most
dexterous hands. Another player who
followed up earlier successes was Eileen
Kelly.


A Sitwell Nightmare
Brittle girls with muslin faces
By the sea’s black horsehair sofa
Plait their sheepskin locks; go running
With the nachreous, goat-footed breezes,
And watch the feather rain
Ruffle the cinnamon curls of dairy girls ;
Beneath a sad umbrageous tree,
Dreaming her feathered dreams of
parrot-plumed seas, and milk of the
stars and furry fires,
Sits the goose-girl on the dark-blue grass
Listening to the gardener cutting off his
heard of bast
hi the hairy snow !
While in her red-quilted satin house the
aged countess,
Her dyed hair black as tarred grapes'
blood,
Looks out on the tartan leafage,
Thinking of Queen Victoria on a rocking-
horse,
And borealic icebergs, and the casuistries
of slant, fiutt’ring eyes
And fruit-shaped faces 'mid the hen-
cackling grass of hell . . .
Lord! what a florid, torrid revel!
Comedies bucolic ? . . . Oh, the devil!
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. England.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
A Lesson
from
Hollywood
Where Holly-
wood scores over
other film centres
is in its courage
and its audacity.
On two occasions
I have seen an
audience leaving a picture-theatre, its
blood tingling with Imperialistic emo-
tions. The first time was after the screen-
ing of “Cavalcade”; the second after
“Lives of a Bengal Lancer.” Whatever
may be said in criticism of these films,
the fact remains that it was America
that was waving the Union Jack so
triumphantly—an effrontery that Elstree
is allowing to pass unchallenged.
With an unequalled legacy of history
and literature at their disposal, British
producers are content to provide scores
of resurrected Edgar Wallace thrillers,
the best and worst of the Aldwych
Theatre farces and a collection of
musical-comedies that usually star im-
ported songsters. Admittedly they have
given us intimate and entertaining por-
traits of royalty, but neither Henry VIII.
nor Charles 11. struck that patriotic chord
in the audience’s heart that Hollywood
sounded so truly. Now as proficient as
its rival on the technical side, Elstree
prefers to produce mediocre scenarios
and to cling to established conventions.
It has been, and is being, left to America
to commercialise British traditions and
history and to experiment with Dickens,
Shakspeare, Galsworthy, etc.
Hollywood’s enterprise has shown that
the future of the talkies is bound up
with the literature of the present and the
past. But Hollywood is handicapped by
inherent difficulties. When I heard a
British officer in the “Bengal Lancer”
reciting “England, My England,” with a
pronounced Yankee twang I thought of
an office adjunct that was recently shown
to me. It was branded “Chicago Auto-
matic Pencil Sharpening Co.” on one
side, “Made in Japan” on the other.
Elstree could make an immeasurably
superior job of essentially British films —
it has the topography, the diction and
dialects, the types, the instinctive appre-
ciation of sentiment, ready at hand. But,
like Australian literature, the British
film industry is suffering from the dis-
inclination on the part of the critics to
administer a paternal spanking at regular
intervals.
Australia, unfortunately, is emulating
England. Judging by the prizes offered
for scenarios, one would imagine that
there is a dearth of suitable plots for
stories. Yet Vance Palmer’s The
Passage, Katharine Susannah
Haxby’s Circus and Brian Fenton’s
Landtakers —to name only three novels
—have all the essentials for successful
transposition to the screen.
While Australia is afraid to discard its
rompers and Elstree is satisfied to wear
America’s cast-offs, Hollywood helps
itself from the crowded wardrobe of
English literature and history. In its
morning coat and top-hat it has blos-
somed out into a perfect English gentle-
man. Give Hollywood its due: it has
courage and audacity.
PHILIP MASEL.
Repertory
Plays (Local)
“M.G.,” who
complains con-
cerning lack of
encouragement of
local playwrights
(B. 3/ 7 /’35),
should look in at the Studio Theatre,
Sydney (Gordon Forsythe), which
encourages Australian playwrights as
fast as it can. It is the only theatre in
Sydney (possibly Australia) that produces
local plays with such courage.
The Studio people do not demand a
royalty from the author, as some Sydney
rep. societies do. They are willing to
Gum-blossom study by Arnold Shore, in the modernism exhibition
at Melbourne Athenceum.
give any local play a showing provided
the venture is supported, and recent
shows have included by Max
Eyb; “Gigolo Husband,” which has
been taken up overseas ; “Our Kind of
Love,” by John Longden (an English-
man, but resident here now); my own
comedy, “Woolgathering”; and Kate
Howarde’s play, “The Judgment of Jean
Calvert.” They have in view for near-
future releases “The Spy,” a drama by
a South Australian, and “The Voice of
Jerome Keddle,” a thriller, by myself.
Plays that cannot be presented for tech-
nical reasons are given readings with the
author present when possible, so that
they may be revised and reconditioned.
This venture promises to provide a
connecting link among playwrights
stronger than any hitherto forged locally.
R.J.O.
The Insanity
of Art
“A.L.” fires at
me a series of
questions:
(1) What have
Praxiteles, Rem-
brandt and Bach in
common? (2)
Which works of Praxiteles have survived? (3)
Is Nordau’s Degeneration a more popular work
than Shaw’s Sanity of Art ? (4) From what
artistic fetters did Matisse wean himself? (5)
Was Matisse’s earlier reputation as an ortho-
dox draughtsman more securely grounded than
his present fame? (6) Does any contemporary
and well-known painter, poet, musician or
sculptor scorn tradition or despair of improv-
ing upon the great masters? , (7) Name one
picture by Modigliana which is demonstrably
brutal in any sense of the word? (8) What is
the relation between natural beauty and art ex-
pression? (9) Whose view is it that the
modernist art movement is due to an inferiority
complex? (10) Were objections to modernist
an raised by “A.D.W.” commonplaces of
popular journalism years ago in Europe? (11)
Is "A.D.W.” a better authority on art than
“a man who is accepted by England’s leading
art journal to write at length on these
matters”? (12) What alienist finds modernist
art of interest as a product of deranged men-
tality, and is he a judge of art?
To which I reply;
(1) Capacity for expressing the beautiful. (2)
The Aphrodite at Cnidus (a copy is known
as the Venus de Medicis); the Aphrodite,
Phyrne and Eros at Thespiie; the Satyr and
Apollo Sauroctonus at Athens; the Hermes
at Olympia. (3) Can’t say. The respective
publishers might be able to enlighten you.
(4) Principally from the fetter of drawing
Caucasians as if they were Caucasians. (5)
Such as it was, it was grounded on saner
work. (6) Several of them scorn tradition;
nobody expects them to exhibit modesty. (7)
The picture reproduced on this page (B.
26/6/ f 35). (8) 'Hie object of sane art is to
express beauty. (9) Mine. You’ll find thou-
sands of the others in any directory. (10)
Yes. They arc also still commonplaces in every
art school in the world that isn’t divorced from
elementary principles of draughtsmanship, color
and design. (11) If the English writer finds
beauty in ugliness and distortion he isn’t quali-
fied as an authority on art. (12) Any authority
on mental derangement should find modernist
art of interest. Nordau was one of the few
who considered the matter of sufficient import-
ance to write a book about it.
A.D.W.
Architectural
Eyesores
Our cities are
far from being
as bad architec-
turally as they
might have been.
On the whole.
the architects have done their work as
well as they have been permitted by their
employers ; here and there monstrosities
have been erected, but the majority of
our buildings are of innocuous medio-
crity, with a few outstanding examples
of taste and beauty.
But the splendor of a city does not
consist in a few well-designed buildings
scattered among a mass of mediocrities
and monstrosities. It does not neces-
sarily consist in a number of well-
designed buildings. A streetful of build-
ings, each excellent in itself, may present
a shocking medley of discordant notes
calculated to destroy public taste and to
make an artist recoil in horror. Aus-
tralia presents many facades of this type
—Greek, Renaissance, Early English,
Italian Gothic and even Moorish build-
ings jambed together in juxtaposition to
make an important thoroughfare look
like a crazy quilt.
To-day, the municipalities control only
such factors in the erection of buildings
as affect the health and safety of the
public. Apart from that control, a man
may erect whatsoever he pleases. He
may wreck the whole composition after
which better qualified men have sought
for a generation. There is nothing in
the building regulations of any Austra-
lian capital to prevent some craver for
profits from building in Collins-street or
Martin-place the facade of one of the
fun factories which are part of the equip-
ment of the suburban giggle-cities.
Paris has its Department of Fine Arts
to control such crimes against public
taste. Not only .must the design of a
building satisfy the authorities that it
is safe and healthful, but it must present
a facade worthy of the importance of the
street it occupies. Most important of
all, it must harmonise with its surround-
ings. Pressure is brought to bear to
prevent the erection of buildings on front-
ages too narrow to admit of adequate
balance. Adjoining owners of land are
prevailed upon to adopt one design for
both buildings. It is rare to see more
than three distinct designs on the smaller
of Paris blocks, and it is impossible to
find one block which does not consist
of the same style of architecture.
The license given to private enterprise
in Australia works the other way. In
one Melbourne principal street are two
adjoining buildings. Both are the same
height—within a couple of feet. The
floors of both are on the same level—
within a couple of feet. The windows
are in line—within a couple of feet—
imd so are the cornices.
The buildings are so alike that it is
doubtful whether the owner of one could
pick out his own plan ; yet that couple
of feet's difference destroys the whole
beauty of the street. Had the buildings
been constructed as part of a whole, they
would have been an ornament to Mel-
bourne ; as it is, they form an eyesore.
Possibly the worst example of the
menace of small frontages is the Collins-
strcet “Block.” Nearly all the allotmcnts-
in this strip of land—the most important
street property in Victoria—are owned by
different people and consist of 16-feet
frontages. Up to the present, half the
frontage from Swanston- to Elizabeth-
street is still occupied by the crumbling
remains of the ’sixties and the ’seventies,
but progress is gradually raising new
structures—some of them ornaments in
themselves, but, taken in all, they menace
the appearance of the city as a whole.
Before it is too late, Sydney and Mel-
bourne councils should secure sufficient
power not only to censor rigorously the
freak advertising architecture, but to
insist on adjoining owners coming to-
gether to occupy proportionate areas of
land and to erect on them buildings
which harmonise with their surroundings,
both in architectural style and material
and color. Certain areas should be
zoned, and all facades in those areas
should consist of stone or brick or terra
cotta. The stucco front is something
that belonged to the age of Queen Vic-
toria, and should be cast into the discard
with the antimacassar and the horsehair
suite.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
Current
Artbursts
It is easy for
the convention-
alist to sweep
away all modern-
ism in a general-
ised diatribe ; a
trouble is that, here and there, are
modernists who produce pictures of
beauty and originality. Arnold Shore
is one of them, and he is grand pan-
jandrum of the Melb. Athenaeum show
by the “Twelve Group.” Shore himself
exhibits only three pictures, all flower
pieces, but they stand out by reason of
power of design and brilliancy of color.
Roger strikes James out for himself.
His draughtsmanship is excellent, and
in “Azaleas” he has massed his flowers
and arranged his background with an
exquisite color sense. The remainder of
the pictures, with a few exceptions,
appear to be mere echoes of Shore and
the masters of modernism at the other
end of the world. Here and there is an
effort to form an emulsion of psycho-
analysis and art; here and there is
deliberate distortion, especially in nudes ;
and here and there discords of color are
thrown in the face of the onlooker
apparently to make him sit up and
notice. The drawings on the whole are
interesting, and some of them are excel-
lent, especially those of Shore, Jamesj
Marjorie Rankin and Dr. Clive Stephen.
However bitterly the orthodox may scoff
at the exhibition as a whole, it is a dis-
tinct challenge of youth to the estab-
lished order, and as such is entitled to
serious consideration.
Anthony Horderns’ gallery, in a gal-
lant effort to live up to the red “Sale”
flag flying from the tower, is selling
etchings at marked-down prices—half to
a third of original values. They are all
by one artist—E. Warner —and there
never was work offered in Sydney which
less needed the inducement of a price-
cut to make it palatable to Australian
eyes. Warner is the etcher of the bush
and the outback. His bullock-teams,
horse-teams and wool-waggons, his
station-sheds and station-hands, his gum-
trees and his river pieces all bear the
stamp of authenticity. A fine draughts-
man, Warner, and a past master of the
etcher’s craft. His eye is as good in the
city as in the bush, as spirited glimpses
of Sydney’s George, Macquarie, Phillip
and York streets testify. This critic likes
best “Sundown,” “Stock Route,”
“Smoko,” “Clearing” and “Sun Up,” but
they are all good, and as staunchly Aus-
tralian as a gumleaf.


ƒd
inr
m
ITT
n
kHEffei
iSSrjmtV
f'lXll
H
L^'VfiV
3*l!
fllf
XU
3SS
SPRINGTIME IN SYDNEY!
Make “The Australia” Your Headquarters.
Make "The Australia” your headquarters m Sydney and
be assured of luxurious comfort and flawless attention to
your personal preferences.
When you can enjoy “Australia” excellence. . . .at moderate
cost.,..why then be satisfied with any accommodation
of lesser quality?
NEW TARIFF—“ROOM ONLY” RATES,
Single Room 10/6 per day
Double Room - -- -- -- -- 20/- per day
“THE AUSTRALIA”
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.” 4
. fs;
Write tor yOtP
copy of the
new rate-card,
as illustrated
above.
A WOMAN'S
LETTERS
To own up you were not on the Man-
unda last Thursday is to admit yourself
on the social outer. The party that
raged on all decks and in the scuppers
had the special backing of Government
House, so there was a plethora of volun-
teer entertainers, and the lookers-on
were as closely packed as herrings in a
barrel. The saloon during the manne-
quin parade of beach wear was the hot-
spot of attraction. The Governor sat
right in the front row. Next to him
Lady Hore-Ruthven grasped a bouquet
from which the yellow eyes of poin-
settia gleamed. Near by was Mayoress
Parker. Beyond that the scene was a
welter of heads —nearly as many male
as female; as for the portholes, they
were completely blocked by faces whose
bodies were on the deck outside.
Ivie Price, her green costume deco-
rated with a committee badge, rushed here
and there in the matter of deck sports.
An A.D.C. and some others got busy
over an ankle or a calf’s-foot competi-
tion —this Letter isn’t sure, owing to
counter-attractions such as tea and
savories.
The committee of the Kindergarten
Union, which will benefit, was tangled
up in every group, terribly pleased to
notice the streams of arrivals that even
up to half-past five climbed the red-
carpeted gangway. The five-o’clockers
were, of course, keeping tryst with sherry
and jazz. For this last a dancing space
had been latticed with colored streamers,
and. through this gay rooftree the early
stars peeped and blinked at the jewelled
lights set in the fragile rafters. Prizes
in the lucky dips were worth fishing for
—one was a week-end in the Blue Moun-
tains. If you had a mind above this you
could have your horoscope cast or youx
future divined by cigarette ash.
In retrospect the Bastille fell again on
Saturday night. It crashed to the pop-
ping of corks and the felicitations of
members of the French Alliance and
Chamber of Commerce, The Florentine
ballroom at Hordern Brothers’ was
decked with the tricolor, which was a
background of glory to the long table
at which Acting-Consul Meyer and
Mrs. Meyer sat in company with the
Alfred Wunderlichs and many Consular
couples, including Belgium’s Henry
Segaert and Mrs. Segaert. Mrs. Meyer’s
sapphire chiffon velvets and Mrs.
Segaert’s burgundy laces were balanced
by the sleek black velvets of Mrs. Wun-
derlich.
A jolly group was about the Frank
Wrights’ table. Here were Mrs, Wright,
her jade greens caped in glittering silver,
and slim Dorothy Tremlett, in moss-green
velvets. Marguerite Wunderlich, very
attractive in parchment satins, the ship-
ping T. S. Gordons and Dr. Alfred
Playoust and Mrs. Playoust (rose moire
her choice) were among the groups who
made merry till the first hour of the
fourteenth. During the evening Mrs.
Despres and Miss C. Prevost received
the decoration of Officier d’Academie,
and the Alliance treasurer, P. Kerry, the
engraved silver medal of the society.
fudging by the rate the buds blossom,
it will soon be necessary for the sword-
bearers who hold aloft their bodkins in
glittering arch for debs, to pass under to
be a specially trained body of men.
Health, strength and the pink of physical
fitness will have to be theirs.
There were 57 debs, at the Scottish
Royal Arch Masonic Ball, and the
traditional arch of steel clashed aloft to
their glory. You can’t hurry a debutante
on her way to her presentation. Her
approach must be fraught with leisured
dignity. But arms and the man must be
taken into consideration, so by a wise
decree the arch was broken now and
then. So far no case of housemaid’s
knee in the shoulder has been reported,
though one man, absent-mindedly, nearly
got rolled up with the red carpet. The
ball was a grand affair, and completely
filled the floor and the galleries of the
Town Hall. The Governor (who is the
Grand Master elect) and Lady Hore-
Ruthven were piped into the ballroom ;
the vice-reine’s tulle frock and ostrich-
feather cape were in the deep shade of
green that is now known as Marina. Mrs.
A. J. Foster, who presented the debs.,
also wore green —moss-green laces of
graceful design.
Singer Marie Brown drops a line from
Berkeley-square telling of meetings with
Sydney’s old friends Mrs. de Beaupuis
and Isabel Crowdy. The cocktail party
given by Mrs. Dent, of Canberra, at the
Cumberland on the evening of daughter
Alison’s presentation was a great suc-
cess. Alison showed herself in her mag-
nolia satin frock, its train lined with
green. This toned with her green ostrich-
feather fan, green shoes and jade ear-
rings. Mrs. Scott-Wayne, of Sydney,
another presentee, wore ice-blue satins.
One guest arrived with a movie camera
and took a film of the 60 guests. Among
these were Mrs. George Sayers, of
Vaucluse, and daughter Joan; Mrs.
Springthorpe, of Melbourne ;• Mrs. and
Miss Gill, of Adelaide, and Eddie
Samuels. After the party everybody
went off to the Mall, in spite of the rain ;
to see the debs, on their way to the
Palace.
Mary Kenny (shown here) is just leav-
ing U.S.A. for Australia, after an
absence from Sydney of three years.
Part of that time she has been with her
sister, Mrs. H. Walker, of New York,
and in the intervals she has travelled
extensively in North America. She says
she is glad to have her face set towards
Sydney, as she has found no place to
equal Australia. Mary has been a sort of
unofficial ambassador for this country
during her stay abroad, correcting mis-
taken ideas regarding it, and on occa-
sions giving short talks on its beauties
and resources.
Balloons bobbed blithely overhead,
and on the tables the red and the garter
blue of the 33rd Fortress Company, Aus-
tralian Engineers, were expressed in
bowls of poinsettia and crepe paper. The
33rd Engineers themselves thought theirs
was, a good dance, and so did everyone
else in the Assembly ballroom last Satur-
day night. Table decorations ran to
searchlights (casting light on military
operations is a big part of the 33rd’s job),
and one clever host had his beam directed
every now and then on a cut-out of
Sydney Heads, through which a ship was
homing. He got the prize—a bottle of
champagne. The wife of Major Boyle,
very vivid in her scarlet-and-white crepes,
handed the fizz over. The friendly Mc-
Callions (he is Major 0.C.) were among
the officials (her frock was of powder
blue). Helen Nealon, just back from
Singapore, was in white satin, and with
her fiance, Frank Spurway. Lieut. L.
R. Halpin’s party was 40 strong. A
pretty dancer was Mariea Sara, in sunset
pinks. Captain and Mrs, Whitford were
among the gay. But among those not
invited was the girl who said, “Had the
colors a hundred years, have they? I
expect the dance is to help buy some
new ones.”
It was just natural for Sadie Bedford
to take to the stage. Her mother, Mrs.
Bedford, has been advisory secretary to
E. J. Tait, of the J. C. Williamson firm,
since she was a girl herself. Sadie, after
doing very well on the Australian stage,
went to London, where she understudied
Isobel Elsom in “Living Dangerously”
at the Piccadilly, played Charmian in
“Queer Cargo” and the Norah Swin-
burne part in “Lover’s Leap.” Miss
Bedford came home by the Chitral to
see mother, and played Grace in “The
Patsy,” with which the Criterion put up
(he shutters. A Dayne photo.
Shrined under a canopy of the flags
of Australia and of Greece, “The Birth
of a Nation,” the symbolic picture by
Vlazio J, Zanalis, was viewed by inter-
ested groups of fellow-Greeks and artists
last week. The painting was unveiled
by Greek Consul Kocotakis, and, stand-
ing near by, in the middle of Anthony
Horderns’ gallery, the modest Vlazio re-
ceived congratulations and handshakes
from his many admirers. The artist him-
self has a romantic background. He
was born on the island of Castel Rosa,
where his mother was an embroiderer
in gold. He came to Perth when he was
12, and it was there he studied his art.
Pipers and drummers and trumpeters
flung out glad streamers of sound and
the Palais at Moore Park glittered with
medals and uniforms and red carpets
for the A.I.F. Ball. The rising sun, gar-
landed with green, was the motif of the
official loge decorations. Names of
battles immortal in Australian eyes were
blazoned on many pillars, and brought
back a strange mixture of memories to
the soldier of middle age. The Navy
and the Air Force added their blues to the
military scarlet, and Lady Hore-Ruthven
brought handsome parchment satins,
sashed in black velvet, to the grand entry.
With the vice-regals came Mayoress
Parker, president of the ball committee.
Her frock of beige lace was girdled in
cherry velvet. Mrs. Ford, who came
with her Admiral, wore a niched neck-
line to her turquoise taffetas. Brigadier
Hardie was a notable, and with
him was Mrs. Hardie, whose ivory laces
were warmed by a posy of red roses.
Mrs. Gordon Bennett jazzed up the color
note of the procession with taffetas
checked in navy and red.
The Palais floor achieved the right
degree of speed—fast but not furious.
In every loge men and women sat smok-
ing and talking. President Robb, of
the R.5.5.1.L., was a happy man seeing
the response to the winter appeal for
the League, Mrs, R. A. Eakin and her
white chiffons that ended in a flouncy
train were very attractive; so were Mrs.
A. B. Coleman’s black satins, crusted
with paillettes. The members of the
committee of Furlough House, which also
gets a helping from the till, smiled with
contentment; six white-frocked debs,
smiled with happiness. They were pre-
sented to the Governor and Lady Hore-
Ruthven by Mrs. C. A. Burnet.
Straight from its Paris tissues, an
evening frock of light and dark amber
greeted Sydney the other evening. It is
a mixture of moire and tulle. The skirl
is ground-length at the front, and lulls
in fulness from the waist at the back,
stretching into a train. The train is ol
tulle and glitters with paillettes. These
are crusted on the shoulder straps, which
travel from the waistline at the back, il
you can speak of a back where none
exists. The new idea seems to be lor
evening frocks to be all glittering sophis-
tication, and hats to be artless.
“What price the hat, lady? A shil-
ling? Ah, I can’t afford that” . . . The
customer looked at the seller, the seller
consulted another. “Well, what about
ninepence?” came the whisper across the
counter. “Right, lady, and what about
the woolly dog; is he sold, miss?” The
shop, at 619 George-street, which is being
run for the Rawson Institute, was doing
a roaring trade last Friday. Cots were
sold to beginning fathers and mothers ;
elderly women came along to pick up an
evening frock for their granddaughters.
A cuddly fur tippet caught everybody’s
eye, and, though it was a bargain, for
many who longed for it the treasure
was too dear. Gramophone records went
for less than a song; surgeon McKel-
vey’s lady sold hats for a shilling with a
smile that was worth at least a guinea.
Anne Gordon’s beautifully waved head
was a willing mannequin for hats of
youth and age. “She’s about your height,
and her eyes are the same color. Yes,
I’ll have that one,” and the hat went to
the customer and a shilling into the
pocket of Anne’s apron. The Alexander
Gordon lady and Mrs. Penfold Hyland
had been on duty since just after seven ;
Miss Knox and Mrs. I. C. Leete helped
keep the flag flying till eight o’clock in
the evening. On its first day the shop
took over £6O. It closes to-morrow.
A journalist from Bagdad, Richara
Coke, went off to Brisbane last Saturday
on his way to Singapore. From there
he goes to Hollywood and New York,
then to London, and expects finally to
reach Bagdad late in the year. It’s not
a leisurely travel programme. Last
Friday, before he left, he tried to fly to
Canberra, but the weather made landing
impossible, so the ’plane dropped him in
Sydney in time for afternoon-tea. A
book on his air travels and a novel
return with him to London.
Lo! the fair pageant! Lady de Chair,
wife of the State’s one-time Governor,
can pat herself on the back for the lauda-
tions given by the press to her and
fellow-promoters of the Runnymede
pageant. London “Truth” acclaims it
“one of the best entertainments of its
kind ever presented in this country.’
But the fact remains that a debit ol
£5OO is the outcome, and the organisers
and the institutions thaj: had hoped to
benefit have only disappointment to hug
to their bosoms. Pageants are expensive
things. Though the attendance at the
Runnymede one was enormous, the
expenses were much heavier than anti-
cipated. There was a margin of £l5OO
over expenses, but entertainment tax of
£2064 mopped that up and left a debit.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades, Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
..pO'WDE^^ed
•* * frenC b
\aces •• - p ava'i'ab' 6
Five s'» s «e
J "ts it«S*
Missing Friends.
Will SARAH PEDERSEN, one time of
Makaretu, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand, or any-
one knowing her whereabouts please communi-
cate with the District Public Trustee, Waipu-
kurau, New Zealand?
DUNN, RICHARD THOMAS—Please for-
ward me your address.—J. J. LANE, Milton,
New Zealand.
ftgSi
KSo
70 years reputation
Melbourne
Chatter
It’s not yet time for the spring-about-
town suit. Paler shades can well hang
in the wardrobe for a month or two
longer, and people who are lucky enough
to own one of the new little fur capes
will get more satisfaction out of these
fetching accessories when there’s less nip
in the air to go creeping up towards
arms and shoulders. Two of the most
elegant matrons at the second Grand
National meeting were Mrs. E. A. Cato
and Mrs. Jervis Crespin; both wore
black —coats beautifully cut, furs, orchids
and sophisticated little hats. Mrs. Alan
Mackay’s coat was of broadtail, and her
hat belonged to the coalscuttle classifica-
tion. Mrs. Ewan Mackinnon wore a
brown check suit, a woolly jumper and
a string of pearls. Blonde Mrs. Charles
Osborne had a little hip-length coat of
pony-skin, and Mrs. Scott Morell an
unusual cape made of rucked and fluted
grey tweed, knee-length, and with an
extra layer over the shoulders like a
monk’s cape. Margot Ardlie wore a
blue fox and tweeds, and Marjorie Wat-
son two shades of blue and a squirrel
coat. Celia and Betty Fogarty were in
suits, one brown with a green jumper
and the other navy blue. Skunk furs
were wrapped between the black coat
and the little peaked cap worn by Sybil
Lyons.
The Grand National .Ball was timed
to commence at nine, but at eleven lads
and lasses were still arriving. They found
Mrs. J. H. Hewison on duty at the
ticket-table—she’d sent the girls up to
dance —wearing a spray of pink and
gold carnations pinned to her fur coat
by some of the young committee, Marie
White wore orchids and ruby-tinted
fingernails to cheer her dark navy satin
gown. Claudia Palmer’s cream satin
wa'S fashioned in a long-sleeved mode.
Dorothy Shaw’s blue-green taffeta had
puffed sleeves, and swept and swirled
into a bouffant skirt. Fluffy with tucks
and bows was the frock worn by Pat
Shaw, also of taffeta, while round her
neck were wound several gold chains.
Lace had a following with Mrs. T. C.
Manifold (her gown was blush-pink)
and with Pat Carnegie, whose nut-brown
American model had shirring down the
front of the corsage and a frilled hem-
line. Mrs. James Buchanan wore
rectangles and other geometrical shapes
in navy and white. Nancy Mitty’s pale-
blue satin was attached to infinitesimal
shoulder-straps, and a runaway frill cas-
caded diagonally across the skirt of Syl-
via Lane’s pink cockleshell crepe.
Dorothy Raws held up a train of navy-
blue vine-leaves creeping over a white
ground. Jean Staughton made a highly
successful color-combination by tying a
violet sash about the waist of a lime-
green frock.
At the Silver Jubilee Ball organised
by the Victoria League pipers marched
into Earl’s Court at the head of the Scot-
tish-reelers. The men wore kilts, and
the women were in white frocks with tar-
tan sashes. Those taking part weren’t
all Scottish, but the vigor of the dancers
(the fours should take about 10 minutes,
the eights 25, with scarcely a pause for
breath) gave a hint that a sprig of
heather must have been grafted at some
time or other into every family-tree.
The men danced with more abandon
than the women, for the wearers of high
heels remembered how easy it is to slip
on a polished floor.
Captain and Mrs. Moffatt-Bender and
tall Monica Starke were particularly im-
portant people at rehearsals. Heather
MacKellar’s toes twinkled through the
Highland steps from breakers of white
tulle, and Mrs. Horace Calder’s emerged
from white satin, a gown made with
caped sleeves and a bow tied across the
shoulders above the decolletage.
The v.-r. allotments (the carpeted en-
closure in the ballroom and the long
supper-table downstairs) were lighted
with ruby candles in silver candelabra.
After the dance finished—early, as is
usually the case when there are no
cabaret tables —owners of the silver-
ware were noticed carrying their posses-
sions along the Esplanade while search-
ing for their cars. Sharing the tfcket
sec.’s duties were Mrs, Trevor Oldham,
her black gown a sophisticated success
with its single layer of net across the
back, and Cara Holmes Hunt, in bouf-
fant layers of tulle. Mrs. Dudley Brun-
ton, all in white, had a camellia in her
hair and carmine toes peeping out of her
sandals. Mrs. Raynes Dickson came in
a raspberry wrap made with a highway-
man’s sleeves and a diamond pin stab-
bing her collar. Mrs. David Syme’s
white satin flew a scarf edged with fur.
Mrs. Bill Seymour wrapped her neck
with blue ospreys, and Mrs. Ford Guth-
rie garnished hers with pinky feathers.
Joan Hill, who was very busy during
supper counting change and pushing a
whecltray loaded with drinks, had a
bunch of snowdrops almost buried in
her black tulle ruffle. The band, feeling
round for a waltz to follow “The Merry
Widow,” produced something slow and
languorous out of old “Yip-l-Addy.”
Even the trombones looked rather
startled when they found themselves
playing “There is a Tavern in the Town”
as the v.-r. party was being escorted down
the ballroom on the way to supper.
Here is Mrs. Richard Williams, wife
of the Air Vice-Marshal. Mrs. Williams
founded, is president of, and is a most
enthusiastic worker for the Air Force
Officers’ Wives and Mothers’ Assoc., which
is holding a bridge party this afternoon
at Buckley’s, The association does splen-
did work in a quiet way, with beneficial
results to the Air Force Trust Fund, the
District Nurses and the After Care insti-
tution, in which it has maintained a bed
for over six years. In addition to its
charitable ventures the association is a
means D f bringing together wives of
officers who would not otherwise have a
chance of meeting. Mrs. Williams always
bas a par ticularly kind word for the new
members who are young and possibly
sb y. The Air Vice-Marshal, who is
Chief of the Australian Air Staff, received
a C .B. among the jubilee honors.
Broothorn made the portrait,
• u ~ ..
Civic brethren are still in the toils of
mayoral balls. At the St. Kilda func-
tion a flamboyant chandelier made of
silver leaves and golden lanterns rotated
over the dancers’ heads, and smaller
satellites hung in space in the four cor-
ners of the Town Hall. In the official
procession were 22 mayors with 22 wives,
and a long string of councillors and
town clerks from 22 districts, all with
wives. When robes, fur, lace cuffs and
silk-stockinged calves had been distri-
buted among the chairs, 22 debs., each
escorted by a partner, stepped up the
hall on a billowing wave of white taffeta.
Daughter of the mayoral couple, Joan
Nelson, led the parade. Mrs. C. H. Nel-
son was in parchment satin. Pat Clarke,
who accompanied the President of the
Legislative Assembly, wore bouffant
skirts of seaweed-green. Mrs. Michaelis
had printed flowers blooming upon a
black ground. Mrs. Isaacson wore black
delustred satin. Mrs. W. Flintoft was
all pink and white and afloat with chif-
fons ; one of her hands was occupied
with a feather fan, the other with a long
train. Mrs. Sam Harcourt wore a trained
gown of lily-green satin, and J. H. Hewi-
son was elegant in black lace and orchids.
Here is an Athol Shmith glimpse of
Peggy, only daughter of the Phil Finkel-
steins. Miss Finkelstein and her mother
have recently returned from a holiday
in M.L. They travelled through the North
Island and stayed six weeks in Wellington,
where they have many friends —Mrs,
Finkelstein hails from the land of the
Fern. Miss Finkelstein was one of the
committee of last week’s Grand National
Ball.
Melbourne ad.-men made merry in the
cause of charity at the Advertising Arts
Ball in the Palais. There was an elephant
(not a pink one) 25ft. high; telegraph
girls in brass buttons and red braid ran
about with messages ; sandwichmen gave
publicity to the Home Quack (how to
poultice a chilblain, etc.) and the Never-
Will-Know-Anything Dictionary. En-
cyclopaedias, giant size and made of
wood, were wheeled round the room.
Out of their leaves popped ballet girls
who offered to give black eyes to anyone
handing them a coupon. The football
competition people got mislaid, but the
ad.-men pooled their united brains and
their memories of the days when they
were little boys and did permutations
and combinations and worked out with
much biting of pencils that the odds
against putting 12 teams in a certain
order run into well over four hundred
million. After this heavy brain effort
they all danced the cucaracha.
Organised by young folk who are
always willing to frivol in the cause of
charity, the Links of Service of the Red
Cross held their initial dance at Ormond
Hall. Four hundred people twirled be-
tween the mirrors, and the overflow
spread into the smaller room used for
sitting out between times. The vice-
regal folk can give Melbourne points on
punctuality. On the tick of 10 Lady
Huntingfield, clad in prune-shaded
romaine with a sequin-studded neckline,
stepped out of her car. Mrs. Helme Pott,
in white with a green capelet, followed
her. The Cresswell lady, Miss Philadel-
phia Robertson, with a moss-green wrap
over her black gown, and Mrs. G. D.
Bowcher, swathed and caped in sapphire
velvet, received the guests of honor.
Among the bridge players who shut
themselves in a small room were Mrs.
Carlyle Smyth, Mrs. Tim Mclnerncy,
Mrs. David Grant and Mrs. Steinle, The
Links of Service presented an ambulance
to the Children’s Hospital last year.
Funds from the dance will go towards
its maintenance.
Military weddings arc such rare occa-
sions that a flash of khaki and clink of
sword in Christ Church, South Yarra,
was one of last week’s events. The bride
was Nell Watson, who chose a frock of
primula-pink made with cape sleeves and
a simplicity neckline, and worn with a
hat which dipped forwards over the
brow. The ’groom was Captain Eric
Dixon Robinson, of the Scinde Horse,
India. Captain Colin Farran was best
man, and John Dobel ushered, but there
were no ’maids for the pair to squire
down the aisle. The Alan Robinson
couple served wedding tea at Grosvenor.
After a honeymoon in Sydney and M.L.
Captain Robinson and his bride will
leave for India and the North-west
Frontier.
Fifty years—a lifetime surely, but it
does not seem long to Mr. and Mrs. J.
L, Menzies, who celebrated their golden
wedding last week. The flowers at the
party were superb; so many boxes,
bunches and posies had arrived during
the morning that there was a temporary
hold-up over vases. Baskets of early
wattle were placed in the hall, and high
over the guests’ heads as they entered
the lounge were golden horseshoes lied
with mignonette and daphne. Mrs.
Menzies wore a black velvet gown and
a black toque ornamented with a pert
white quill. Daughters of the host and
hostess, Mrs. J. P. Bryce and Mrs. Con-
sett Carre Riddell, and grand-daughter
Barbara Dougharty assisted with the
entertaining. Mrs. Byron Moore and
M r. W. Weigall exchanged remembrances
of the day when they had sped the car-
riage and pair containing young Mr. and
Mrs, Menzies on their honeymoon. Yes,
times have changed. A late-afternoon
party marks the golden wedding, and
the hostess as a grandmother wears
orchids when as a young girl she had
worn one demure rose.
There was every incentive towards
good golf during the first three days of
the women’s championship events. The
links were bathed in warm sunshine,
there were no blustery winds, and Vic-
toria’s committeemen ordered the greens
to be swept clear of heavy moisture everv
morning. But on the semi-final day the
rain came and lasted till after the finals.
There were large galleries for the semi-
finals, when Mrs. Morpeth accounted for
Miss MacLeod and Mrs. Johnston was
put out by Mrs. Shaw, and on the final
day, when Mrs. Morpeth had an easy
win to become champion for the fourth
time, A particularly virulent ’flu wog
prevented Shirley Tolhurst from defend-
ing her title, but she got out of bed.
wrapped herself up in woollen scarves
and rubber overshoes, and tramped the
wet fairways to give Sister Susie a cheer
to victory on her final round.


II
ROSS/or HEIGHT/
No Appliance!
—No Drags.
No Dieting.
3Uent, age 19}, gains S Ins. in 6 weeks.
„ 21 _ 8 „ in 5 mths.
„ „ 20, ~ 3} „in 16 days.
.. ..30. „ 2 „in 4 weeks.
40. „ 1} „ in 6
„ „ 40. „ 1} „in 6 „ ROSS SYSTEM I
Increased my own height to Oft. 3 Jins. NEVER FAILS I
Hundreds oj Testimonials from aB over ike world. I
Fee *2 2s. !
k,. , . n Convincing Testimonyy
W Malcolm ross 6d . Samp. y
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Box 15.)
n
/
A WIRELESS MESSAGE
TO FRIENDS AT SEA
Thousands of happy people are
enjoying cruises along the Queens-
land Coast in luxurious ships, but
not everyone left behind knows that
each ship fitted with a wireless sta-
tion forms a unit of the world’s tele-
graph system.
+ To hear from friends is always a
pleasure. A wireless message re-
ceived at sea, however, has an added
charm that can only be appreciated
by those who have had the pleasure
of being remembered in that way.
gf
Lodge your wireless messages at:
47 York Street, Sydney
or at any Post Office.
The moderate charges are based on a rate
per word without minimum or exchange.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS
ORGANI SATION
A PEEP IN THE “MIRROR
A HOCKEY STAR.
The story relates how a girl’s ambition
to “see the Queen” was fulfilled. Miss
E. Mcßae, Australian Hockey Star, tells an
interesting story of her trip to England.
DOMICILE OF MARRIED
WOMEN.
As domicile is of such practical import-
ance to a large number of married
women, a woman solicitor explains what
it means.
STYLES FROM THE MOVIE
STARS.
Fashion tips from Carline Van M irt
touch upon the clever uses made of the
contrasting jacket. Styles of the stars
are within the reach of all, and the
striking illustrations of movie modes will
appeal to every Modern Miss.
WINNING BY A NECK.
This health and beauty feature by
“Janine” tells how to deal with the
neck; many other beauty hints are
also given.
ARE YOU A LOSER?
Day after day brief advertisements con-
cerning things lost and found appear in
the papers. Dulcie Deamer in this
week’s “Mirror” relates the pathos
and humor behind those advts.
HAND-PRINTING OF FABRIC.
This article deals with planning, stamp-
ing and fixing the design on to material.
Almost any kind of material can be
printed.
OTHER OUTSTANDING
FEATURES.
A TAILORED OVERCOAT.
Something for the Broadish, Short
Woman.
WILDFLOWER EMBROIDERIES.
CROCHETED BED-SOCKS.
A Simply-worked Two-color Design.
SOME PROBLEMS OF THE
MOTHER-TO-BE.
A Mothercraft Feature by “Mother,
M.D.”
“MIRROR” PATTERN SERVICE.
Free Pattern of Ensemble for the
Lady Small; Fourteen ‘Valuable
Modish Patterns; and Special Price
Concession.
AND THEY’RE ALL IN THIS WEEK’S ISSUE OF
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
64 BRIGHT PAGES.
ON SALE FRIDAY.
PRICE 3d
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A big event was the christening of
Jacyntha Winthrop MacPherson Knox,
to which her grandmother, the Moulden
lady, invited 400 guests. The Rev. C. B.
Law, warden of St. George’s College,
christened the infant in the college
chapel, with ’Varsity Vice-Chancellor
Whitfeld standing as godfather; the
trio of godmothers were the James lady
and, in absentia, auntie Pat Hackett, of
Adelaide, and Mrs. Geste, of Melbourne.
Rejoicings were at Winthrop Hall, where
the Moulden lady received in soft biscuit
tweeds collared with beige fox fur. Mrs.
MacPherson Knox’s cocoa-brown cos-
tume hovered near baby Jacyntha’s cot,
which, surrounded by exquisite flowers,
occupied a central position in the poin-
settia-and-wattle-decked hall.
At the Karrakatta Club’s bread-and-
butter dance senior vice-pres. Mrs. F. G.
Dempster draped her Lido-blue laces
over the box seat; Mrs. Stan Brearley
slipped a black-and-white plaid organdie
coatee over her black moss crepes ; Joan
Clement’s black nets were agog with
taffeta frills; Mrs. Felix Levinson har-
nessed her striped black cellophane with
gold lame ; a wealth of white net frills
floated on Diana Davy’s silver lame;
Mrs. Victor Mansfield’s moon-blue
georgettes were splashed with crimson;
and Felicity Sands topped brown velvet
with an orange-satin tunic.
A century-old Honiton-lace veil, grown
deep cream with the years, fell softly
over Bettie Davies’s lissome lines as she
trod the aisle of St. George’s Cathedral
for her marriage to Eddie Nicholson.
Her ivory satins were draped butterfly-
like across the bodice and caught down
the centre with a long, brilliant ornament;
bell sleeves were finished with padded,
stitched cuffs, and a silver girdle hung its
tasseled ends far down the front of the
long trained skirt. From her white
prayer-book fell two garlands of hya-
cinths and roses. Molly Cairns Hill and
Lesley Everett brought up the rear, their
scarlet velvets cowl-backed and fichu-
fronted and wreaths of scarlet leaves
crowning their heads.
M.L.C. Old Girls put on their dance
at Anzac House, where the principal,
Miss Gertrude Walton, brushed presen-
tation gladioli with the grey-furred
sleeves of her corded blue silk crepes.
President Lorna Booth’s floral satins were
flounced into a train ; touches of brown
adorned Phyl Longbottom’s secretarial
primrose georgettes ; Mrs. Lance Quar-
termaine 'rustled black moire taffetas;
blue flowers blosomed on Barbara
Evans’s white chiffons.
Christ Church School Old Boys kept
up the good work with a jollo at the
R.A.C. Hall. Archdeacon and Mrs.
Riley (she in powder-blue lace) were
guests of honor. Joan Ollifent, Mavis
Bickford (with silver speckles on her
pastel-blue crepes), Nancy Hugall, Ethel
Diamond (combining pink and silver with
black satin), Marjorie Church and Edith
Morrison were young things who danced.
Prior to her departure for Adelaide,
the Moulden lady was entertained at a
morning-tea at the Karrakatta Club by
Miss Lee Steere. The hostess’s navy
blues were inlet with gold block-
patterned crepe, and the guest of honor
pinned an orchid on her black velvet
ensemble.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
For the Hunt Club’s Ball the ballroom
at the Embassy was decorated with large
horseshoes, a brush fence and a stuffed
fox. His Ex. and Lady Dugan were there,
those taking part in the costume sets of
lancers forming a guard of honor for
them at the entrance to the ballroom. The
white satin skirts, scarlet jackets with
pale-blue facings and white lace jabots,
and Gainsborough black velvet hats
were becoming. Lady Dugan was
in shell-pink chiffon, pintucked, fit-
ting to the figure, with pale-pink
tulle round the corsage and diamond
and pearl ornaments. Mrs. H. Dunstan,
acting-Mayoress, was gowned in black
lace. The supper decorations were
scarlet, with miniature hunting scenes
arranged about the table. The jolly
affair wound up with a hurdle race,
during which a mirror was broken and
one of the lady hurdlers came a cropper,
but worse things happen on the hunting
field.
On the same night the Commercial
Travellers held their ball at the Palais
Royal, decked with poinsettias and
mimosa. President A. T. Berry and his
wife entertained the official party, the
lady in black French lace, with a gold
sequined cape. Miss Berry chose pale-
pink taffeta. Mrs. Malcolm McIntosh
was gowned in black chiffon velvet.
Acting-Premier Ritchie brought his
daughter Isabel in a maize Broderie
Anglaise frock with a cherry-toned silk
The Rover Scout Ball at the Palais
Royal was so crowded that it was
almost difficult to dance; there were
over 1100 bookings. The proceeds will
be used to endow a cot at the Children s
Hospital. Deputy-Chief Commissioner
H. W. Rymill and his wife presided in
the official box, Mrs. Rymill sporting
powder-blue crepe with diamente trim-
ming.
To mark the visit of managing direc-
tor E. A. Callanan, Vacuum Oil gave a
bright dance at the Embassy. Mr. Calla-
nan was the guest of the a.-g.m., R. D.
Hack, and his wife. Mrs. Hack was
gowned in black ring velvet, and wore
a mink fur coat. During the evening,
Mr. Callanan presented J. Stead Clark
(formerly State g.m.) with a 40 years
service emblem.
Mayor and Mayoress Cain gave an
informal reception in the Mayoress s
room at the Town Hall, when aldermen
and councillors and their wives were in-
vited to meet Mayor and Mayoress
Wales, Councillor and Mrs. T. Kerr and
Councillor T. Nettlefold, of Melbourne.
The room was massed with almond-
blossom and pots of primula malacoides,
quite spring-like. Mrs. Cain wore brown
romaine with a brown velvet hat and a
brown fox fur. Mrs. H. Dunstan’s wine-
colored bouclet suit had a velvet hat to
match, and was worn with a silver fox
fur. Mrs. Wales had a mink fur coat
over a leaf-brown frock and small hat
of brown velvet. The Ritchie lady s
brown cloth coat was trimmed with
brown fox fur, and her hat was of brown
velvet. Her daughter Isobel also chose
brown—-a tailored suit and felt hat.
The Bankers’ Ball in the Palais Royal
was the usual success. Every bank sup-
plied its quota of pretty girls and danc-
ing men, and many smart frocks were
worn. Mrs. M. J. Moten (wife of the
president of the associated banks) was
gowned in a burgundy faille cut on
princess lines with diamente clips.
TASMANIA.
The midwinter holidays have cleared
the town of many families of youngsters
whose long-suffering mothers wafted
them off to Swansea, Brown’s River or
Ferntree. Not a bad idea was an ar-
rangement whereby several friendly
groups fetched up at the same hotel or
boarding-house so that the mothers
might get a game of bridge or a gossip
when the youngsters had gone to bed.
Launceston Grammar School Ball had
a special jubilee flavor about it this year.
His Ex. and Lady Clark were there, and
the Albert Hall was dolled up with bunt-
ing, school colors and greenery, A well-
engineered Pageant of Empire, arranged
by Mrs. Dougharty, which paced to the
strains of Elgar’s “Land of Hope and
Glory,” was the first item. Mrs. Adams
(the head’s better-half) was in black
panne velvet; the Mayoress chose smoke-
grey.
The Uni. Dramatic Club’s perform-
ance of “The Transit of Venus” at
Hobart Royal deserved bigger audi-
ences. Mrs. Alan Burn attended capably
to the producing, and the acting was
above the average.
The Royal Yacht Club’s shivoo over-
flowed from the Continental to the
adjoining clubhouse. In the official party
were the Mayor and Mayoress of
Hobart, Commodore G. H. and Mrs.
Evans, Rear-Commodore W. T. Gibson
and Mrs. Gibson, Lieut.-Commander W.
F. Heriot, Col. and Mrs. E. M. Williams,
Mr. and Mrs. E. Boyes, Mrs. R. L.
Ditcham and Mrs. Weller Arnold. Nauti-
cal caps and gadgets of a seafaring nature
were handed round to the guests, and
supper was all that a supper should be.
Vice-royalty braved the breezes of
winter in the Midlands and paid an
official visit to Oatlands, which produced
an illuminated address of welcome, a
guard of honor of Girl Guides and after-
noon tea, given by Oatlands Council.
There was a ball in the red-white-and-
blue-decorated Town Hall in the even-
ing.
The J. J. Gatenbys, who have been
over from M.L. on a visit to both north
and south of the Speck, have gone back.
The W. F. Hinmans farewelled them at
a late-afternoon party at their home,
Ilfracombe-crescent, while the Gatenbys
were in Hobart.


Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Enoch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN LIGHTNING
ARRESTERS.
The proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
10427/27 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan. Esq. •
F. E. Loxton. Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEX.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
;v
' >1
2*.vsa:
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Maheno Ashore
“Pialba”: The Maheno, once a crack
Union liner carrying passengers to M.L.,
and the Oonah, an ex-favorite on the
Melbourne-Tasmania route, did not
leave Australia for a 4600-mile tow to
Japan, where (hey were to be broken up,
without a protest. The propellers were
removed from the Maheno before she
left Sydney on July 3 in tow by the
Oonah. The latter, which cost (he
Japanese £5OOO, had a crew of 31 aboard,
(he Maheno seven and a captain. Off
Fraser Island (Q.), a few days later, the
iwo ships met a cyclone. The steering
gear of the Oonah went wrong. The
Maheno, without propellers, and with
only a small crew, became a wal-
lowing hulk. The crew was lucky—
the ship went ashore on the island in
an isolated spot in which deep water
runs right up to safe sand beaches. No
lives were lost, and the wreck and its
landed crew were soon discovered by
an aeroplane flown by Keith Virtue, chief
pilot: of New England Airways. The
Oonah, after repairs, made Wide Bay
safely. Fraser Island is used to wrecks
—it got its name from the captain
of the Sterling Castle, which went
ashore there a century ago. The pioneer
party was not so lucky as the Japs—all
on board, except the wife of the captain,
who was kept captive for 18 months
before she escaped in an iron tank with
a convict, were speared by natives.
“X.N.”: Five hundred Gordon Park
petitioners have staggered the Brisbane
City Council by protesting against the
extension of the trams to their suburb
on the ground that the privately-owned
bus services are adequate. Even a
counter petition by 200 residents approv-
ing the scheme and the comforting re-
mark of one alderman that a busman
must have got up the bigger requisition
could not prevent the council from look-
ing like Belshazzar when he saw the
writing on the wall.
* * * *
“Ashgrove”: Another example of the
new transport tyranny is the decision of
the Queensland Railway Commissioner to
let by tender the right to carry passengers
across the Hornibrook Bridge from
Sandgate railway station to Redcliffe.
The route does not compete with any
Government bus service or railway—the
department refused to build a line to
Redcliffe years ago. The roads have
been made by the city and Redcliffe
councils and the Hornibrook Co. But
there is “controversy between private
interests as to who should have the right
to run a service,” and any excuse is good
enough to tighten the official clutch on
highways and squeeze a bit more out of
travellers.
“J.A.T.”: The depression has passed
by Mackay (N.Q.). Show and race week
here have revealed its amazing prosperity.
The sugar cheque for 1934 was paid
over last month—£2so,ooo—and six
vaudeville shows, a J.C.W. opera co.
and a circus played to bumper houses.
One of the vaudeville cos. paid £3OO for
five nights’ rent and still showed a profit.
The advantage of having the Premier as
local member is reflected in the £900,000
harbor-improvement scheme and a
£200,000 sewerage contract. When the
harbor job is completed, Mackay will
no longer escape the notice of globe-
trotting journalists. Even its occasional
tidal waves will not keep it under.
* * * ♦
“Vic”; The £12,000 presented to the
Queensland University by Mrs. James
Forsyth, widow of a director of 8.P.,
and her niece, a daughter of Robert
Philp, is one of the biggest which the
institution has received, and is to be used
to build a Forsyth memorial library.
James Forsyth was active in helping to
establish the University, and left it
£5OOO in his will. Other members of
(he Philp family had already contributed
towards the foundation of the marine
biological laboratory. In its 25 years
of existence, the University has had
“You noisy Wretch! You know my nerves are all to pieces ."
“Yes, missus—all same longa teapot .”
nearly £350,000 in gifts, including
£146,000 from the Samuel McCaughey
estate, £62,000 from Dr. Mayne and
Miss Mayne, who gave the new site at
St. Lucia in the western suburbs yet to
be utilised, £30,000 from Walter and
Eliza Hall Fellowships, £20,000 from
T. C. Beirne, £lB,OOO from the Darnell
Trust and £lO,OOO from Miss Kate Gar-
rick- for the law school. But it would
still welcome a George Bosch who would
give it a couple of hundred thousand to
develop its newer faculties.
* * jgC 3ft
“Zedo”: It won’t be long before the
Barrier Reef Islands, which look so
lonely, will become a string of settle-
ments, each with its boarding-house and
its signboard. A move is being made
to build a nest of tourist cabins on Dunk
Island, and an Englishman has now
arrived to take over Richards Island,
about three miles to the south, and pre-
pare its 212 acres to receive southern
visitors. Northerners so far have scorned
to settle on these isolated hillocks in the
sea. If they were in the Mediterranean
they would form a fertile and self-sup-
porting principality.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Daru”: Australia will lose one of its
most valuable tropical servants if any-
thing has happened to Jack Hides, who
is on his way across New Guinea and
has not been heard of for months. Hides
is a strikingly good looking and robust
young North Queenslander, member of
a pioneer Cairns family and the complete
answer to critics of tropical physique.
He has spent almost all his life among
natives, and has an intense sympathy
with them and a sound knowledge of
their customs and prejudices. It would
be difficult to find any man in the Aus-
tralian tropics less likely to get into
trouble with local inhabitants. He has
more than once been sent to pull ihe
chestnuts out of the fire when other
people have found themselves in hot
water with the tribes.
* * * *
“O’Nine”: Another newspaper, the
Brisbane “Telegraph,” has been ordered
to pay damages for libel arising out of a
court report. A young woman sued the
paper, claiming £2OOO, for having pub-
lished in the report of another case a
letter which had not been read in court.
The scribe deposed that he had not been
present at the hearing, but had com-
piled what he considered a fair report
from the depositions and exhibits, which
had included the letter complained of.
The plaintiff's counsel contended that a
newspaper was not privileged to pub-
lish more information about a case than
a person in the public gallery could hear,
but defendants claimed that if documents
not read in court could not be published
the Court itself became an instrument
for the publication of an unfair report.
Chief Justice Blair said that he did not
agree that all the public had a right to
read was what people in court could
hear, but he might be wrong, and other
tribunals might take a different view.
The jury found that the matter was pub-
lished in good faith but was not a fair
report; damages, £250.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Palms and poinsettia decorated St.
Patrick’s, Toowoomba, when Claire
Godsall, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Godsall, was married to Mr.
W. Stratford Sheldon, son of Dr. and
Mrs. Herbert Sheldon, of Granville
(N.S.W.). The bride, whose family is
one of the oldest in the Downs capital
—her grandfather, father and uncle have
all sported the Mayoral rabbitskins—
wore a travelling ensemble of dusty-
pink angora and a Russian toque. Sister
Joyce Godsall and Marie Meagher, of
Sydney, in Marina blue, ’maided ; and
George Wright, of Sydney, was best man.
Dinah Hordern is staying at Govern-
ment House. Patricia Little, of England,
who was at Fernberg, has gone to Mr.
and Mrs. Dudley Persse at Eskdalc before
leaving for Singapore.
The Governor and daughter Marjorie
went to the Rotary Ball, in aid of a swim-
ming pool at the Montrose Crippled
Children’s Home. Of the 78 countries
in which the Wheel of Service rotates,
60 were represented by national flags.
Mr. S. Willmott (president) and Mrs.
Willmott, Mr. W. B. Darker (past presi-
dent) and Mrs. Darker, vice-president
R. L. H. Peterson and his wife, and Mr.
and Mrs. E. R. B. Isaacs met the vice-
regal party.
Dame Margaret Davidson’s daughter
Diana is in Brisbane, staying with her
cousins, the Mortons, daughters of the
Earl of Ducie, who used to live here.
Melville Haysom, artist and musician,
won the Godfrey Rivers prize with a
portrait of his wife. The lady is a hand-
some brunette.
There have been packed houses for
“Roberta,” and lots of her old Too-
woomba friends have been bestowing
their wedding gifts on Madge Elliott.
Winnie Tait is to be one of the brides-
maids.
Mrs. F. Ewen Loxton and daughter
Alice have returned after a long stay
overseas. May week in Cambridge, where
two sons were undergraduates, presenta-
tion at Court, Scotland and the Isle of
Skye, and jubilee celebrations were some
of the excitements they enjoyed. Alice
also visited Central Europe, Paris, Milan
and Rome.
Old St. Mary’s Church, Kangaroo
Point, glowed with scarlet and gold for
the wedding of Brenda Weinholt and
Kenneth Wetherell. The bridesmaids
were Margaret Lord (Augathella), Bar-
bara Weinholt and Marjorie Wetherell.
Margaret Hart is to be associate to
her father, Acting Justice Hart. Now
the dingy Supreme Court has two of
our prettiest girls, since Claire Macrossan,
daughter of Justice Hugh Macrossan, is
her father’s offsider.
Ethel Morrison, who looks extremely
like Queen Mary on the stage, is one of
the big hits of “Roberta,” and is be-
sieged in her dressing-room every night
with invitations to sup. Marie le Varre
looks about 18 on the stage, and wise-
acres who know that she cooks as well
as she acts are anxious to arrange “little
chafing dish suppers,” with Marie as the
star attraction. Brisbane is a home town
to most of the company.
Show Week visitors next month will
need several pairs of dancing shoes. The
United Services, Girl Guides, Nudgee
College Old Boys, the “Girls,” the More-
ton Club and the Bachelors all have
listed affairs for “August week.”


m
V ''".\
' Ms
1
i
U
*1
.
Islands of Enchantment
Come to Fiji this winter. What a holi-
day it offers you. Boating in glorious
tropical settings; fishing that will give
you a new thrill; swimming, tennis,
golf, bowls, hiking; gorgeous tropical
scenery; glimpses of unspoilt native
life; trips to outlying islands; Levuka,
beautiful Taveuni, and on glamorous
Viti Levu a 250 mile motor drive over
good roads——one of the finest scenic
drives in the world. Over all is the
enchantment of a land where winter is
always summer.
Plan a holiday in Fiji now. You will
enjoy the bracing sea voyage via
Auckland, N.Z., on one of the Union
or Matson luxury liners. Post the
coupon on right for Fiji tourist litera-
ture, steamer sailings, schedules of
expenses, etc.
Illative Spearing Fish
beautiful
FIJI
is calling
qou~
Post coupon to any of these addresses:
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva Fiji
THOS. COOK & SON, Sydney and Melbourne
UNION S.S. CO. LTD., Sydney and Melbourne
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Sydney
Please send me booklets and pamphlets
on Fiji and information regarding travel-
ling to and holidays in Fiji.
Name
Address
F or Genuine
SATISFACTION
It seems that only Scotsmen know
the secret of making whisky.
Tasting Vat 69 proves it. Glori-
ously mellow and smooth. Fry it.
At all hotels. It costs no more.
It’s genuine Scotch, Say 69
in town. Serve 69 at home.
VAT 69
Pure Liqueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, Leith,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
In Which Mr. Pilkington Again Meets Mr. Dormer
THE PRIZEFIGHT
By J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THAT Mr. Arthur Moorefield Pilking-
ton, of the Commissariat Depart-
ment, was humiliated and abashed
through the encounter recently recorded in
a Bulletin story is clear from a letter
written by him to his friend Ensign
Calder, of H.M. 46th Regiment.
Mr. Pilkington was not a gentleman
who might easily be prevailed upon to
feel small. Although a dandy and an
exquisite of such singular rarity in New
South Wales, during the Governorship of
Major-General Macquarie, C. 8., as to
render him more than a little conspicuous,
he was a very deceptive person. On more
than one occasion, people who had pre-
sumed to judge from his appearance that
the keynote of his character was effemi-
nacy had rudely realised their mistake. He
was, in fact, a highly-trained amateur
boxer, of splendid physique, who had
studied the noble art under no less gifted
a professor of it than Isaac Simmons,
well known to English devotees of the
ring of the period as the Tilbury Trifle.
But, as has been duly recorded in these
chronicles, a day came when he met his
match—at least, his temporary match-
in the person of Mr. George Dormer, of
Blackbottom Farm, near Windsor, on the
Hawkesbury. His letter to Ensign Calder
is a sufficient explanation of the incident.
It reads as follows:
MY dear Patrick,—lt is with some
amount of Humiliation that your
abashed and humbled friend ad-
dresses to you these few lines, in
order to solicit your aid, and that
of Gregory Wicks, in adjusting and
righting a Wrong under which he is
at present suffering, owing to Cir-
cumstances over which he does not
appear to have had sufficient control.
I am at present confined to my
room with two black eyes and a
broken nose, and cannot quite com-
prehend how I came to acquire them,
I would be obliged if you and Pansy
would come and see me as soon as
possible.
Learning from a subordinate, a
few days since, when I had occasion
to correct him for seeking to do that
gentleman an injury over the ac-
counts of the Stores, that Mr.
Dormer, of Blackbottom, near
Windsor, was in the habit of out-
rageously persecuting and ill-treating
his convict laborers, I determined to
see for myself if such was indeed
the case, and, if so, to punish him
for such Irregularities by represent-
ing them to his Excellency and to
the Superintendent of Convicts. So,
taking the young man with me, I
drove to Windsor, in order to carry
out this intention.
On the way thither, between Castle
Hill and South Creek, we were set
upon by two Bushrangers, from
whom I learned, after defeating
and disarming them, that they
were runaway servants of Mr.
Dormer’s who had suffered the
Grossest wrongs at that gentleman’s
hands. So harrowing was the tale
they told that I granted them their
liberty, and proceeded upon my
way with the intention of inflicting
upon a Tyrant that chastisement
called for by the Spirit of Humanity.
I found Mr. Dormer at home,
and demanded of him what he
meant by such conduct. Whereupon
he called me a Popinjay, and hit me
upon the nose, with disastrous results
to that organ. An Encounter of
great fierceness naturally ensued,
in which, I lament to have to admit,
your humble servant received a
severe and undoubted Drubbing,
being finally knocked out by a very
carefully placed Left to the Point.
I was not in a condition to continue
the Combat then, so was compelled
to return home, where I have since
been in Retirement.
I desire most fervently to amend
this unhappy state of affairs, and
would be glad to consult with you
and Pansy as to the best means of
doing so. I could, of course, call
Mr. Dormer out, and meet him with
pistols or other weapons, but would
greatly prefer to arrange another en-
counter with him under the condi-
tions of the Prize Ring, which would
be much more satisfactory to my
feelings. I beg of you both, there-
fore, to call at my house as soon as
possible, so that
we may discuss
the affair with a
view to arrang-
ing another meet-
ing with Mr.
Dormer. Y’rs in
Deep Abase-
ment,
Arthur Pilkington.
ON the following
day, when his ser-
vant announced the arrival at Moore-
field Villa, up on the Rocks, of Ensign
Patrick Calder and Lieutenant Gregory
Wicks, R.N., it was with deep concern
that those gentlemen noted the chastened
demeanor of their friend and ally.
He sat in a magnificent silk dressing-
gown of Eastern origin in an easy chair
before the open French windows of his
dining-room, contemplating with swollen
and discolored eyes the exquisite view of
Sydney Cove and Port Jackson obtain-
able from that elevated situation. His
well-shaped nose was tightly bound up
in sticking-plaster, and a couple of raw
beef-steaks on a plate beside him indi-
cated the nature of the medical treatment
he had been applying to his facial injuries.
He received his friends in a manner that
did not lack warmth, but from which
much of that gay cocksureness to which
they were accusomed in him was lacking.
“Pway be theated, my dear fellowth,”
he said to them, “and help yourthelveth
to dwinkth. You thee before you one
who hath met with dithathter—one
whothe thpiwith are not high. Ath a
matter of fact, they are vewy low indeed
—d d low, I atthure you. I feel at
pwethent that life ith little elthe than a
thnare and a deluthion.”
Messrs. Calder and Wicks surveyed
him with deep commiseration manifest
in their countenances. They had been
wont to regard their friend as one to
whom, in the many crises that from time
to time affected them individually, they
might turn for advice and assistance with
the feeling that they had a stout tree to
lean against. Now he appeared some-
what in the light of a broken reed.
“Good Gad, Brummell,” said Mr.
Calder in a tone of deep concern, “you
have had a doing. Lord save us —I didn’t
think there was anyone in the settlement
could fix you up like that. ’Tis almost in-
credible!”
“Sink me!” was all that Mr. Wicks
could find to say. “Sink me! Oh, h 1!
A faint smile—a painfully forced smile —
flickered over Mr. Pilkington’s disfigured
features as he applied a piece of raw
meat to his right eye. He was perhaps
a little gratified to find that his visitors
regarded his condition as something
extraordinarily unnatural —as the mani-
festation of some amazing miracle which
passed their comprehension. He hastened
to reassure them.
“Though you thee me bwought low,
my dear ladth, it would not be cowwect
to athume that I am entirely dithpo-
thethed of the power of wecoverwy. In
a few dayth I thyall be quite mythelf
again. I am quite well now, to be thyure
—but it ith altogether impothible to
appear in my uthual haunth in the con-
dition in which you thee me. The nothe
might be accounted for in a number of
wayth—but there ith, in a thcoffing
world, but one ecthplanation for a black:
eye—and the thame applieth to two black,
eyth. I mutht wemain inditpothed, offi-
cially, until they have wegained their
normal appearwanth. There ith nothing
el the for it but that. Did I make mythelf
clear in my letter, Patwick, ath to what
happened—and did you tell old Panthy
here all about it? I want you both to
underthtand the magnitude of the dith-
athter, in order that you may atthitht me
in turning the tableth upon my late
advertharwy. You quite wealithe the
nature of my twouble?”
“If I didn’t quite realise it from your
letter, Brummell, I do now,” replied Mr.
Calder, with a grin he could not sup-
press. “You’ve had a d d good
hiding. There’s no doubt about that.
But what about the other fellow—this
ruffian Dormer —is he dead?”
“Lord! From what I’ve seen of your
way of using your fists, Brummell,”
joined in Mr. Wicks, “I should say there’s
been a funeral at the Hawkesbury since
your return to town. I’d bet a month’s
pay Dormer’s a pretty sick man at this
present moment —if he isn't a dead one.
Mr. Pilkington shook his head mourn-
fully.
“No —Dormer’th all wight. He’th
hardly marked, I think —unleth, maybe,
he hath a black eye, too. But that
doethn’t matter. What doeth matter ith
that I’ve got to have it out with him
under fair conditionth. I thay ‘fair.’
thimply becauthe 1 think that the bwoken
nothe he inflicted on me at the opening
of pwothedingth mutht have wattled me
a little and put me off my uthual form.
What I want you fellowth to do ith to
get leave fwom your wethpective com-
manding offitherth on account of urgent
pwivate buthineth and go out to Wind-
thor to thee Mr. Dormer. Can you gei
leave, both of you, d’ye think?”
“Oh, yes,” Mr. Calder nodded. “I'm
in old Molle’s good books just at present.
I can go—to-morrow or next day.”
“And I can, too,” said Mr. Wicks.
“The skipper and 1 are always pretty
good friends. He’ll make no trouble
about it.”
“Good. Well, I want you to convey
a challenge to Mr. Dormer to fight me
at Pawamatta a month fwom thith time
for a purthe of fifty guineath. I have
witten to him to thay that, if he doethn’t,
I’ll thay all I know about the way he
tweath hith athigned thervanth to the
proper authorwitieth —but that if he
doeth he’ll hear no more about it, tho
far ath I am contherned, whichever of
uth pwoveth to be the winner. I want


t can>it..you see i
..ana sc can attest
in Film on Teeth!
• Film must be removed from teeth ... for beauty
and for health.
Film is that slippery coating on your teeth. Film
contains the germs associated with tooth decay.
Idm invites tooth and gum disorders. Stains from
food and smoking lodge in film—make teeth look
yellow when they’re really not.
Film sticks like glue. T o remove it you must use
a special film-removing agent. Pepsodent is known
throughout the world today as the special film-
removing tooth paste.
Due to Scientific Formula
Pepsodent’s unique power to remove film from teeth
is due to the formula. A new cleansing and polishing
material has been developed. This material is far
safer than any leading tooth powder—far softer
than polishing materials used in any other leading
tooth paste. Yet it removes film with striking
effectiveness.
This special film-removing material is contained in
Pepsodent exclusively—and in no other tooth paste
whatsoever. That’s why Pepsodent gives results not
possible with other kinds.
Dentists use Pepsodent
That is why thousands of dentists have told us that
they make Pepsodent their personal tooth paste.
That is why millions of people will not risk their
own teeth or their children’s with harsh, abrasive
pastes or powders.
Don’t take chances on cheap tooth pastes, when
Pepsodent leaves teeth brighter, gives higher polish.
Use Pepsodent twice a day—sec your dentist at least
twice a year.
M73H
f-r
mk
mm
. ... ......
L
Wm$t
'uZAUIt
I
m
Hi
iill!!!
mum
The main purpose and endeavour of active educational effort
must necessarily be the training and equipping of youth to face
and successfully surmount the trials and problems of life.
In all things, a habit commenced in childhood, while the
mind and individuality are plastic, is far more likely to prove
lasting than when begun later in life.
It was with a full conception of at least one great purpose
in the pursuit of knowledge that the Commonwealth Savings Bank
planned its service to apply as directly for the benefit of children
as for adults. The depositing of regular weekly sums in a Savings
Bank account is a practical and logical illustration of the thrift
lesson, and the Commonwealth Savings Bank has extended its
facilities throughout all Australia to make that lesson easy and
valuable.
commonweßLTH
-***
SAVINGS BANK
O-F -AUST -R-ALI-A
you both to go, for the weathon that he
will be impwethed by the fact that the
navy and the army are backing me —ath
well ath becauthe, if only one went, he
might take it into hith head to be a
little wough. He’th bound to be thivil
to two of you. I think he’th a thporth-
man, and will acthept my termth. In
the meantime, I will go into twaining,
and if 1 can’t beat thith fellow —I’m thure
he hathn’t ath much thienth ath I have,
though he’th nearly two thtonc heavier
—l’ll go home to England. We can
make all awwangementh for the meeting
after you weturn fwom Windthor. You
are quite clear, my ladth? You under-
thtand whath to be done —what mutht
be done?”
“Rather, old Brummcll—and I’ll put
my last dollar on you,” replied Mr.
Caldcr with enthusiasm. “Well sec you
through it, won’t we, Pansy?’’
“Split my tops’ls, yes. I’ll swallow
a roundshot if we don’t.”
FOUR weeks later a remarkable con-
course found itself assembled in a
little open grassy glade in the midst of
the forest not far from the locality near
Parramatta now known as North Rocks.
It was mainly composed of a care-
fully selected number of the inhabitants
of Sydney, Parramatta and Windsor, with
a sprinkling of military and naval offi-
cers thrown in. and was a picturesque,
orderly and sober-minded gathering of
(hose who were most reputable among
the “sports” of the period in the little
settlement lying between Sydney Heads
and the Hawkesbury River from east to
west, and the Macdonald River and the
Cow Pastures from north to south —that
is to say, of those to be found in the
old-established County of Cumberland
of New South Wales. They stood in a
circle beneath the shady timber about
a level patch of green arid treeless turf
that was probably the site of some old
aboriginal ceremonial ground, long since
abandoned by those who had used it
through the ages before white men came
and took Australia from them.
Outside the ropeless ring, at opposite
ends, two little groups were gathered
round the contestants in the impending
pugilistic encounter which was to settle,
once and for all, who was to be regarded
as the best bare-knuckle fighter in the
colony. In the centre of the ring stood
Ensign Patrick Calder, of H.M. 46th
Regiment of Foot, who, as Master of
Ceremonies, was addressing the assem-
blage. Close beside him stood that
fine soldier Private Michael Mul-
doon, Mr. Calder’s servant, together with
that equally fine seaman Bill Miller,
boatswain of H.M.S. Emu, whose func-
tion it was to “keep the ring.” They
were both splendid specimens of their
respective services, and, from the look
of solemn determination to do their duty
in their sunburnt wooden countenances,
it was well understood by the eagerly
expectant crowd surrounding them that
they would certainly do it to the best of
their ability. Each of them grasped in
his right hand a formidable wand of
office in the shape of a bluegum sapling
denuded of its branches and leaves.
UpENTLEMEN,” said Mr. Calder,
“you all know all about what
we’ve come here to witness this after-
noon, so I won’t detain you very long
while 1 mention formally the names of
the two gentlemen who are about to
settle for a wager a trifling dispute which
occurred between them a few weeks ago
in the neighborhood of Windsor, together
with the terms of the contest.”
He turned to that end of the ring
outside which stood waiting the Hawkes-
bury champion with his seconds.
“Mr. Dormer!” he called loudly. “Will
you kindly step this way, if you please?”
There was a buzz of excitement as an
immense and muscular athlete pushed his
way into the enclosure and walked across
the grass to the middle of the ring. He
stood beside the scarlet-jacketed young
officer, smiling confidently and nodding
to acquaintances in the crowd —a splen-
did burly figure of a man, stripped to
the waist, and in his stockinged feet. The
muscles of his powerful shoulders, back
and biceps bespoke hard and fit condi-
tion, and the tanned, brown forearms
were an indication that it was strenuous
work in the open air that principally
accounted for it.
“This, gentlemen,” said Mr. Calder. "is
Mr. George Dormer, of Blackbottom,
with whom many of you are acquainted,
and whose chances in the forthcoming
affair have, I know, been heavily backed
by a large number of you.”
He turned to the other end of the ring.
“Mr. Pilkington! Will you have the
goodness to step this way, please?”
There was a subdued cheer as the
spectators at his end made way, and
Mr. Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-Gen-
eral Pilkington, clad only in tight white
buckskin riding breeches and white silk
stockings, made his appearance in the
arena. Though slighter and lighter than
his opponent, he also was such a figure
of a man as must always command man’s
admiration. He moved with a grace
that was lacking in Mr. Dormer, and
gave an impression of greater activity.
He bowed to all sides of the gathering—
slight, elegant bows that one would not
have looked for or expected in the other
—in acknowledgment of the greeting
extended to him by the spectators, and
placed himself opposite his burly an-
tagonist, to whom he bowed also. That
gentleman returned the courtesy, as
though it were unwelcome, with a curt
and scowling nod.
«W7ELL, gentlemen,” went on Mr.
Caldcr in his capacity of an-
nouncer, “you see before you the two
parties to this little affair. It only
remains for me to state the terms
of the bout before calling on ’em
to begin it. Each of these gentle-
men has backed himself to win for a
sum of fifty guineas—the winner to take
the lot—and the stakes are held by
Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, of H.M.S.
Emu, who is well known to many of
you. It has been decided by both parties
that the fight will be to a finish —that
is to say, until one or other of the com-
batants is knocked out, or so disabled
that he is unable to participate further
in the contest. There will be no rounds,
and no interference on the part of either
seconds or lookers-on will be permitted.
The two ringkeepers have strict injunc-
tions to deal severely with any who may
attempt to do so —and I may perhaps
be permitted to state, from my knowledge
of Private Muldoon and Bos’n Miller,
that they are very capable of so dealing
w'ith any who may evince a disposition
to interfere, though 1 am quite sure,
gentlemen, that you are all sufficiently
lovers of fair play to render such a
caution on my part totally unnecessary.
“Before I conclude, I may mention
that there is one other condition attached
to the fight which is of considerable
interest. Should Mr. Dormer win, Mr.
Pilkington undertakes to leave the
colony and return to England by the
first means available. If, on the other
hand, Mr. Pilkington should prove the
victor, Mr. Dormer undertakes, on his
part, to return to Government all the
assigned labor at present employed by
him at Blackbottom or elsewhere. This
is merely a private arrangement entered
into by the parties with which others
have no concern —but I thought it might
add to the interest of the affair if 1 in-
formed you of it. That is all, gentlemen.
I will call upon the parties to shake
hands and set about it.”
A murmur of applause greeted the ter-
mination of Mr. Calder’s polite periods
—it had been a speech such as no one
in the gathering who knew him suspected
he would be capable of making. Even
his intimate friend Mr. Pilkington was
astonished.
“Vewy pwetty, Patwick,” he mur-
mured smilingly.
AS the two gladiators each took a step
forward to accomplish the perfunc-
tory handshake which was to be the pre-
liminary to battle, a gasp of admiration
moved the crowd —a gasp of involuntary
tribute to the Creator for having
fashioned two such splendid specimens
of the human race.
Dormer was one of those powerful
men who, in old age, would run inevit-
ably to a grossness of body equal to his
present grossness of mind. That was an
opinion formed —and left on record —by
bluff and burly Dr. Hastings, standing in
the front rank of the human circle on
the side through which Mr. Pilkington
had made his entry. The younger and
slighter of the combatants, on the other
hand, would probably finish his days as
one of those graceful and courtly old
men who have ever stood as the proto-
type of the “fine old English gentleman.”
“I made a good job of that nose,” mut-
tered the doctor aloud ; but to himself,
“I hope that d d great bull doesn’t
bust it up again!”
For a moment their hands clasped—
and then each took a short pace back,
and assumed the traditional posture of
offence and defence all men of British
breed have long been familiar with. The
silence of the onlookers was so pro-
found that the singing of the birds in
the bush all round sounded like some
sweet musical symphony that would
presently turn into the crash of drums
and the blare of brass instruments when
real battle should be joined.
And then it was joined. With a hoarse
grunt, the heavier combatant sprang for-
ward to launch his attack.
The thing was done so quickly that no
one afterwards was quite sure how it
was done. Mr. Pilkington seemed to
o Continued on next page.)


THE
lIMITCn insurance
U 11 1 IC U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office;
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. O. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
i at
V 1
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest passible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The- Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal,
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rales on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
REMEMBER
THE
Perth’s Leading Weekly
is used by all the leading
LOCAL ADVERTISERS.
The man on the spot is
the best judge of relative
values.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd*
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1883)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:——
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman):
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
Qiefree
cTva Ve/
f -
I V. I
L'fl
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
iVeu; Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
Co., litd.,
247 George Street
Sydney.
59 William Street
Melbourne.
CAsUNION
“THE EXAMINER”
Established 1 842
Is the Family Morning Newspaper of Northern Tasmania
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS Pty., Ltd., 73-75 Patterson St., Launceston
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter St., Sydney
step lightly aside, and then to leap for-
ward as his left fist shot out. Full on
the other’s jaw, just below the closely-
cropped mutton-chop whisker on the
right side of his face, that terrific blow
landed.
For a moment or two George Dormer
swayed unsteadily upon his stockinged
feet, and then began to give way at the
knees. With a half-lurch forward, as if,
unconsciously, he still sought to get at
his enemy, he subsided in a heap upon
the short green grass, gave a convulsive
kick with his left leg, and then lay still,
stretched out upon his face.
The fight was over.
MR. PILKINGTON stepped back as
Mr. Calder sprang forward and
bent over the stricken giant.
“Dr. Hastings!” he called. “Where
the devil’s the d d doctor?”
Dr. Hastings came rhnning from his
place, and the two of them rolled Mr.
Dormer over on his back, whilst Private
Muldoon and Boatswain Miller vainly
belabored the crowd with their saplings
in an effort to keep the ground clear. A
mighty shout shook the stillness of the
bush.
The doctor was examining the sense-
less man’s face. Presently he rose from
his knees, and turned towards Mr. Pil-
kington.
“By Gad, my boy,” he said, with some-
thing of awe in his tone, “you’ve broken
his jaw. I think you may claim the
fight. I’d not permit him to go on were
he to come to. But he won’t come to
—not for a while, at any rate. Gad,
that was a punch.”
“Oh, well, doctor,” said Mr. Pilking-
ton apologetically, in his lisping, drawl-
ing fashion. “If I’ve bwoken hith jaw,
he thertainly bwoke my nothe, thith day
latht month. I think the honorth may
be thaid to be even. What?”
Mr. Wicks burst through the crowd,
and seized the victor’s hand.
“Brummell, old boy,” he yelled in
frenzied excitement, “you’re a
wonder —a d d miracle!”
“Oh, not at all, Panthy, my dear
fellow. Not a wonder or a mirwacle.
Merely a humble liberwator of the
oppwethed. Thath all.”
Convincing Realism in a Timber-mill Drama
THE SUPER RIGHT.
BY ROY DE COQUE.
JOHN REGAN hummed a little ditty
as he entered the dilapidated bar
of the Sluicer’s Arms. The hum-
ming increased as he waited for Jimmy
Alderson to serve him, and he noted
that the three men at the far end were
all Nashes. Three to one. About the
odds that would appeal to a crowd like
this, especially when fortified with
Alderson’s rum. Quite possibly there
would be the show-down that everyone
assured him would come.
“Shake it up, Jimmy. I’ve got to get
home.”
Jake Nash sidled a pace nearer along
the bar rail.
“Maybe you’ll need someone ter take
y’ home to-night, Regan . . . y’ big cur!”
“So.”
That was all. Challenge thrown out,
challenge accepted.
“Your sort always picks on a man
littler than therselves. All they’re good
f.”
The taunt was hardly fair. It would
1 have been difficult to find a reasonable
match for the magnificent physique of
the new miller of Lumbervale, and no
man could expect him to refuse a chal-
lenge from a man of only slightly in-
ferior proportions. That was all Regan
was guilty of when, a few days pre-
viously, Art Nash had come at him,
berserk, armed with a six-foot paling.
What the big man had done to Art Nash
was the immediate cause of the present
situation.
Regan made no effort to pour oil. On
the contrary, he deliberately precipitated
hostilities.
“I’d stop any three Nashes, any time,
one-handed,” he sneered.
“Then stop this you !”
The rum must have made Jake Nash
reckless. Bottle in hand he leapt, open
to the world, obviously with no thought
that Regan would jump to meet him,
and just a fraction quicker.
Regan leapt like a huge coiled spring,
landed squarely balanced, to hurl a mur-
derous right, with every ounce of his six-
teen stone behind it, crashing full into
the Nash champion’s face.
Again the big man reached out. He
grabbed Rupe Nash kitten-like by the
scruff of the neck and shook him, and
hurled him at the third member of the
trio.
They carried Jake Nash to the bar
door, paused.
“We’ll get you fer this, you !”
“One at a time or all together? I’ll
have the lot of you on, one-handed.”
Regan had gone affably fighting mad.
Alone with the landlord, he calmed
down under the mellow influence of rum.
Fat Jimmy Alderson beamed with
pleasure that the fracas was over with-
out damage to his property. Now he
lifted the big man’s hand off the counter,
reverently.
“Gawd,” he said, “what a hand! What
a super right! ”
THE third and fourth generations of
the Nash family milled the moun-
tain timber as the first Nash had milled
it when, eighty years before, he had
erected the primitive water-power plant.
Then the nearest neighbor had been
twenty miles away, the nearest market
forty, per bullock team. Time brought
roads, and villages strung out along
them, but did-not modernise the Nashes.
They could afford to meander when
theirs was the only sawmill within a
hundred-mile radius and farmers and
miners had to send to them for timber
or go without.
One achievement stood to their credit,
the road through Rocky Gully that made
accessible the forest resources at the
back of Razor back. It was their road,
their forest —till Regan came.
It was Regan who had the ash tested
and who proved its value for aeroplane
work ; Regan who made the immensely
profitable contracts with city firms
for incredible quantities of first-class
timber ; Regan who sold timber to Nash
customers at prices the Nashes couldn’t
sell at, because building limber was only
residue to him, and cumbered up his
mill yard.
And the road through Rocky Gully
was no longer the Nash road. The
Forestry Department sympathised, but
it could not indefinitely tie up huge
timber resources while the Nashes pot-
tered about, generation after generation.
Regan would pay it royalty on tens
of thousands of feet monthly. So the
department gave him a choice lease
behind Razorback, and it also gave him
access through the Nash forest road.
“Hit me, hit my mob,” had always
been and still was a fetish of the Nash
family, now grown so numerous and
so intermarried that they themselves
became hazy about their relations. There
had not been enough fresh blood intro-
duced to leaven a mean, sullen kink that
the original Nash had passed on to his
descendants.
It could almost be said that there were
two races in this mountain country —
Nashes and newcomers. And the latter
warned Regan to tread warily, told him
of Nash feuds, bet that with their “hit-
me-hit-my-mob” attitude they must
sooner or later fix him. Regan laughed,
and built his modern plant a hundred
yards off the main road in full view of
the Nashes as they passed to and
from their mountain mill and their
mountain farms. Regan brought a mill
team with him, and started into the cut-
ting at a speed that made the locals gasp.
Of that mill team the man he had
brought to tail out to him got homesick
and chucked the job. Only Nash men
had any experience of sawmills locally,
and no Nash man would think of work-
ing for Regan. Half a dozen novices
that were experimented with had all
failed.
It was James, the hotelkeeper at Ridgy
Gully, who suggested a way out. Regan
had driven out the twenty-odd miles to
inspect a horse team, and mentioned, his
trouble over a glass of rum.
“I’ve only been here a month. Mr.
Regan, and don’t know all the men here-
about. But I heard talk in the bar that
Lanky Thompson was a first-class mill
hand. He used to run a small plant, but
went broke and took on farming. Now
he’s broker still, and he might have you
on. A champion, they reckoned he was.
His farm is about three mile out —why
not give him the once-over?”
Lanky Thompson, lounging on
his dilapidated verandah, watched
Regan approach with expressionless in-
terest. His six-feet of sinewy strength


and
neuritis . •
■ Caused by Sell-poisonins'
Dr. Agasse-tafont
-■nique ot
says
■ ■
YOU MUST CLEAR UP THE CAUSE
You may get temporary relief from rheu-
matism, sciatica, muscular pain, neuritis,
gout or lumbago, by the use of pain-
deadening drugs and tablets, but to be rid
of them permanently, you must clear up the
cause. COLOSEPTIC does this. It gently
stimulates and tones up the colon, thus
restoring life to the weakened walls. Also,
it activates the three other important elim-
inative organs the pores of the skin, the
kidneys, and the respiratory system. Be-
cause it clears your body of poisons,
COLOSEPTIC means a permanent end,
and not just doubtful temporary relief, to
rheumatism and neuritis. Scientists have
traced 95% of to-day's ills to autoxima.
End this menace to your health, happiness
and efficiency with COLOSEPTIC. You'll
be free from the tear of disease. You'll
regain all the vitality of vigorous youth.
YEARS OF SUFFERING ENDED
Bangalow, N.S.W.
"I cannot speak too highly of this wonderful
medicine, for after years of terrible suffering from
constipation and piles, one bottle of COLOSEPTIC
did me more good than all the medicines I had
ever taken, and after taking a course of it I am
overjoyed to be able to say that ! am now
completely cured."
Mrs. M.C.
(The original of this letter may
be seen at Head Office.)
Rheumatism and neuritis cannot be permanently
overcome unless you get rid of the cause. This,
Dr. Agasse-Lafont points out, is autoxima self-
poisoning. Incomplete evacuation of the intestines,
caused by to-day's modern foods, leaves decaying
food-waste adhering to the walls of the colon.
Opening medicines cannot remedy this. They only
purge the lower end of the bowels leaving them
irritated and weakened. Autoxima —or self-
poisoning lowers your vitality, causes disease,
and leads to serious trouble unless it is checked.
The decaying waste matter in your colon forms
virulent bacteria and acids which seep into the
blood stream. Every vital part of your body
becomes affected, and the way is paved for the
cruel attacks of rheumatism and neuritis as well as
hosts of other complaints.
An
Unclogged
Colon
I
OP
A
Clogged
Colon
Banish COLON CLOG
The left illustration shows
how your colon becomes
clogged. Germs from the
decaying food waste poison
the blood stream, which af-
fects every important organ
in your body. Regular bowel
movements are no guarantee
of safety. It is the encrusta-
tions that must be removed before you can regain full
vitality and health. The right illustration shows the same
colon cleared by COLOSEPTIC. All clogging waste has
been removed, incomplete evacuation is remedied because
life has been restored to the walls and the basic cause
of disease has been swept away. Clean your colon with
COLOSEPTIC now, and know what it is to be really well.
INTIMATE BOOK ON AUTOXIMA —FREE
Mail the coupon for a trial sample of COLOSEPTIC. You’ll receive it
by return mail, and, under plain cover, a book telling more about the
vital and intimate subject of Autoxima will be sent to you FREE.
It tells you how you are lowering your vitality, and paving the way
for disease. Don’t I—sitate mail the coupon nowl
r»t kM
m
c 010 S £ f
■ AUSTRALIA)
DRINK
(WAYNE'S IMPROVED * FORMULA)
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., Box 3415 R. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
CUP OUT
JY4
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd..
Bex 3415 R, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book
on Autoxima in plain envelope.
Also send me my test package of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose
sd. in stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS _
was propped up against a post. He did
not attempt to rise and greet his visitor.
Verging on fifty, Lanky was still a fine
stamp of man; might even have been
handsome except for his set poker-game
expression.
“They tell me you’re the best mill hand
in the hills,” Regan opened his mission
without preamble.
“They told y’ right, Regan.”
The big miller looked at the lounger,
surprised.
"Recognised y’ from y’ build, and y’
hands,” ottered Lanky. “Heard what y’
did t’ Jake Nash with one hit. Y’ pub-
keeper, Alderson, was over this way and
give y’ a good ad.—reckoned y’ had a
super right. He weren’t far out, neither ;
damme if ever I seed such a fist.”
Lanky paused, waiting for his visitor
to disclose his purpose.
“I came to see if you’d tail out for me,
Thompson. I can’t gel a man in Lumber-
vale.”
“I weren’t lookin f a job, Regan.
Still” Lanky broke off short, turned
expressionless eyes on Regan. “Hear
y’ve run foul of th’ Nashes, Heard said
that one o’ them, or th’ lot o’ them, is
goin’ t’ git y’, goin’ t’ drive y’ from the
hills.”
Regan laughed grimly.
“I’m not an easy man to drive off,
Thompson. Anyway, that’s my affair ;
nothing to do with my men. Arc you
frightened of the Nashes, Thompson?”
“No ; I ain’t feared o’ them, Regan,
They’d be surprised t’ see me, though.
They might be narked, too, because
more’n once I been asked t’ work with
them. I ain’t workin’ fer them Nashes.
They got no brains.”
Silence fell on the Thompson verandah
while Thompson mentally debated.
“Y’ might beat ’em, Regan ; they
mightn’t get y’. If Art Nash’s father was
alive I’d bet long odds agen y’. He ’ad
brains. But the young lot is plain goal,
the sort that runs their ’eads agen brick
walls . . . like Jake run ’is inter that there
right o’ yours.”
Lanky Thompson paused to light his
pipe, continued.
“1 hears that y’ offered t’ take th’
whole Nash family on, one at a time or
all together, one-’anded.” Lanky looked
in open admiration at Regan’s ham-like
fists. “Come t’ think on if, that ’ud be
just erbout fair odds ’tween you and
young Jake.”
Regan ignored that.
“Well, will you come and work for
me, Thompson?”
Thompson’s expressionless eyes took
in Regan minutely from head to foot. *
“I’d like t’ come and tail out fer y’,
Regan,” he said, and of a sudden burst
into harsh laughter. “Yes, I’ll come with
y’ . . . take me ’alf an hour t’ git ready.
But it’s damned funny when y’ think on
it . . . you offerin’ ter take on the Nashes
one-’anded. Haw, haw, haw!”
THE whistle at John Regan’s mill had
blown for the start, and the new
tailer-out leaned idly on the bench wait-
ing until the owner gave a few instruc-
tions to the breaking-down gang.
Lanky strolled over to the skids, where
half a dozen flitches awaited them. He
eyed them professionally, finding no fault
to cavil at. Thoughtfully he dropped
his hands under a big sixteen-by-four.
The flitch lifted, jumped a good foot
towards him. Yet the new tailer-out had
not heaved, merely tensed the muscles
of his forearms and almost imperceptibly
twitched his sinewy wrists. He turned
slowly to see Regan eyeing him.
“Haven’t touched a flitch fer five
year,” Lanky explained apologetically,
“Givin’ meself a bit of a tryout.”
“A man never forgets the knack,
Thompson. Come, we’ll get going.”
Regan levered a flitch on to the truck
with effortless ease. Lanky hammered
a wedge into the cut as soon as the saw
disappeared, then moved backwards as
the timber came through, his hands
easing the strain slightly when required.
Regan watched him closely as he put
the cut inch-board on to a truck with
one hand, sending the remainder unerr-
ingly back to him with nice judgment.
The sawyer sent the next cut through
much quicker, the following one quicker
still. Ten minutes later he called to
O'Halloran on the breaking-down bench,
delighted.
“You can step on it there, Billy. We’ll
keep you going flat out—me and
Lanky.”
Ten o’clock brought a slight diversion.
Two of the Nash men passed on the road
a hundred yards away. Regan glanced
up to catch them staring at the new
tailer-out. Too far away to catch their
words, but there was no mistaking the
expressions, the actions. Regan wanted
no help in his private quarrels, but it
pleased him to know that his new hand
and the Nashes were at loggerheads.
"Didn’t know the Nashes had it in
for you,, too, Lanky,” he called across
the saw.
Lanky merely grunted.
HALF-WAY through the week Regan
knew it was easily going to be a
record cut. No matter how he pushed
the sawing, yelling now and again to
the breaking-down gang not to keep
them waiting, Lanky Thompson put
away all the timber he could send and
looked for more.
The new man camped in a hut by him-
self, got his stores through Regan, never
once left the mill precincts ; just the sort
of lone wolf Regan had expected he
would be.
Friday afternoon came, and the whole
gang looked forward to a let-up. Regan,
pleased with the week’s work, offered
the lorry to take (hem to Ridgy Gully.
There was method in the offer, for the
Nash mob gathered for the week-end at
a village in the opposite direction, and
Regan wanted to keep his men out ot
trouble.
Came a slight interlude while the
owner talked to a visitor. Lanky
mooched across to the half-dozen flitches
still left on the skids. The second-last
held his attention, and he regarded it
with interest. About six inches from the
far end an exceptionally big knot inter-
sected it for the whole width. Hard as
milled steel Lanky knew that knot would
be, the first of its kind they had struck
in the whole week, something to really
test the quality of Regan’s saw-sharpen-
ing.
Four o’clock saw it on the bench. The
tone of the saw changed when it bit
into that calloused hardness ; its speed
. . .
s . ‘ ‘ „, Pf , J* .
stopped the cut. pulled the Hitch back
and beckoned Lanky to drive the wedge
a bit harder, then sent the flitch back
again Regan cursed the knot, but tt
seemed all right now. He sensed the
exact amount ot extra push required
altered his grip a trifle higher and called
on his great arm muscles for the neces-
sary extra effort.
The slightest change in the regular sing
of a saw draws instant attention from
men accustomed to its song. O’Halloran,
on the breaking-down, glanced casually
towards the running-out bench. Then,
with a great oath, he hurled himself over
the skids to collide with Lanky Thomp-
son, who had come from the far end.
John Regan stood swaying drunkenly,
gazing with incredulous horror at what
had been his super right hand,
O’Halloran, a man of action, grabbed
the maimed arm in a vycc-like grip while
be yelled lor cord for a tourniquet,
Ashen-faced already from loss of blood
shock, Regan, supported by Lanky
Thompson and O Halloran, now looked
with almost childlike wonder at the muti-
|.,|jon
1 „ Mc careless .. he whispered brok-
en, “Me, a sawyer for over thirty
/ , Mc , h , c / n fec , ounce
h a saw is taki for Mc
care f ess , H ow did Ido it, Lanky? How
, , he name f God dia j' do it f
(Continued on next page.)


National
Advertisers;
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Cultivate a National Outlook with
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
Australia’s National Illustrated Weekly.
Pictures, Sporting Notes, Literary Reviews,
Household Page, Children’s Section and
Special Articles for the Pastoralist and Farmer.
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
Tlie daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST.
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
i
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
m
13
gdf
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard,l9/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with'each'lazor.
THE PIiUM KAZOK GUARD, for |in., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CBAIG & AITKEN. 634 George Street, Sydney.
m m
' 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black. 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, gin. and gin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
New Worlds to
CONQUER
Until the advent of 6AM the
advertiser could keep no regular
contact with the great pastoral
market of the North-West. To-
day 6AM offers the advertiser a
means of effectively reaching this
wealthy market, whose purchases
are over one million pounds a
year.
6AM
Prince’s Chajnbers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Che IDmury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY" is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
"The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Svdney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. Phone: F 3348.
THERE was no hospital at Ridgy Gully,
* but the bush nurse improvised one
out of her office for John Regan when
the doctor from fifty miles out arrived,
ministered and ordered strictly that the
patient must not be moved for a week.
“Three more days!” Regan spoke
petulantly. “I’m still as weak as a cat.
I wish Lanky Thompson would come,
nurse. All the others have been, but
I’d like to see Lanky ... he might be
able to explain. The knot must have
been rotten half-way through or the saw
must have got into a split, leaving me to
push on nothing. But me careless! ”
He shook his great head incredu-
lously.
Through the open window came the
sound of a gradually increasing din. The
nurse moved across to the window,
looked out.
“The wedding,” she exclaimed excit-
edly. “They’re tin-kettling them. Jake
Nash is still bandaged up.”
“Jake Nash,” Regan said without
interest.
“Yes. And it oughtn’t to be allowed.”
The nurse spoke hotly in professional
condemnation. “Jake Nash’s father mar-
ried his cousin, Lanky Thompson’s
sister. Now Jake Nash marries Lanky
Thompson’s daughter. First cousins, the
children of first cousins, marrying! It
ought to be prohibited. Lift up and look
out of the window, Mr. Regan.”
But Regan was looking with set lips
at nothing—and seeing quite a lot. Jake
Nash, Lanky Thompson’s nephew, now
his son-in-law. Regan’s eyes narrowed,
blazed. The blank wall of the office
made an admirable screen for a moving
picture of a scene at the mill. Lanky
Thompson, who stood carelessly over a
flitch ; Lanky Thompson, who, without
any apparent heave, merely by a sudden
tensing of forearms and a flick of his
wrists, trickily brought a heavy flitch
bounding forward a full foot.
“I’ll send a message to Lanky Thomp-
son if you like, Mr. Regan. I”
The nurse jumped for the bed as a
groan of agony came from her patient.
John Regan did want to see Lanky
Thompson. He wanted to see him so
badly that he had forgotten that his
super right was gone, and, forgetting,
had involuntarily pulled agonisingly on
newly-severed tendons in a hopeless
effort to clench the great fist that was no
longer there.
Comedy in Brief:-
TROPICAL
INTERLUDE.
By A.D. EWING.
THERE was a commotion in the labor
line.
Hammond, the planter, was aware
of it in a subconscious way. His friend
and neighbor Morton, of Aroa Estate,
had ridden over before the evening meal,
and now the two were lying back in
comfortable Sandakan chairs arguing the
respective merits of Hot Air and Ceylon
dried copra.
Hammond had just called to his house-
boy to replenish the empty glasses, when
the commotion he had heard previously
was renewed. This time it had a more
serious note, and, cursing the interrup-
tion as he got to his feet, he picked up
a pliable cane, excused himself to
Morton, hurried down the steps of the
bungalow and disappeared in the direc-
tion of the labor line.
DANGI, quick-tempered Aitape boy,
lay sprawled across the plank which,
supported on two trestles, served as his
bed in the “houseboy.” He had been
chewing betel-nut, and a trickle of the red
juice ran from one corner of his mouth.
His head was pillowed on one arm.
Suddenly he started and sat up, dimly
aware that the cigarette that he had been
smoking prior to drowsing was no longer
in his hand. Wiping the dribble from
his mouth with the back of his hand, he
got up and began to search round the
floor. The flickering light from the
homemade lamp, consisting of a wick
and an old tin with kerosene in it, only
served to increase the darkness, and it
was some time before he realised that the
cigarette was not there.
A further search in his blanket and
sleeping-mat failed to discover it. Dangi
cursed. The smoke was the last rem-
nant of his previous week’s issue of two
sticks, one of which he had returned to
his friend Wiak in repayment of a loan.
Twist tobacco of prodigious strength
though it was, and rolled in an old piece
of newspaper, it still represented a great
deal of pleasure to him, and the loss was
great.
Looking round the “houseboy” he saw
that there was only one other occupant,
a figure wrapped in a coarse blanket,
apparently asleep.
It was Jarwa
from Finschafen.
Dangi did not
believe that he
was asleep, and,
further, was con-
vinced that he
was the guilty
party. He crept
across the floor
a' nd, grasping
Jarwa by his
thick mop of
hair, hauled him
to an upright position on the bed.
Jarwa had really been asleep, and it
was some moments before he was suffi-
ciently awake to realise that Dangi was
shouting at him and accusing him of
theft. Suddenly he flung out a leg and,
catching Dangi in the middle with a big
splay-toed foot, sent him tumbling
winded to the floor. Then, rising and
spitting his contempt at the recumbent
form, he went out through the door and
joined a group of his friends near the
cook’s fire.
A few moments later, a very ruffled
Dangi came hurrying out and made for
the group, shouting recriminations in
pidgin, and bent on revenge. This was
the commotion which Hammond had first
heard.
DANGI was too shrewd to attack
direct. When near the group he
swerved suddenly and, coming in at an
unexpected angle, caught Jarwa by the
middle and hurled him to the ground.
There for some moments they struggled,
the only sounds being the muffled grunts
as each strove to obtain the mastery.
By this time most of the labor line was
aroused and was gathered round the
fighting pair. Nearer and nearer the fire
they rolled until those watching saw
Dangi’s lap-lap catch alight. In another
moment he, too, was all too aware of
the fact. He yelled, and the assembled
natives, always amused at the sight of
pain in others, made the night loud with
their laughter. The noise could be heard
a mile away in the stillness of the tropic
night, and it carried easily to Hammond’s
ears as he rapidly approached the
scene.
Jarwa, quick to take advantage of his
adversary’s misfortune, was now upper-
most, and, seated on Dangi’s chest, was
busy beating Dangi’s head on the ground.
In the excitement of the occasion, no one
noticed the approach of the planter, but
his presence was quickly felt as he began
to lay about him with his cane.
The natives scattered, Jarwa included,
leaving Dangi alone on the ground. On
him, Hammond wasted no time. Grasp-
ing him by the hair, he had him on his
feet in a moment, and demanded to
know the reason for the commotion.
Poor Dangi, vainly attempting to clear
his head of the dizziness created by
Jarwa’s bumping, did not reply imme-
diately. The planter, whose thoughts by
now were centred on the cold beer await-
ing him on his verandah, and taking
Dangi’s silence as mere stubbornness,
gave him a cut with the cane and as-
sured him that there would be no tobacco
issue next week. Then, with a word to
the labor line at large about what was
likely to happen if there was any further
noise that night, he departed.
IT was a very disconsolate and sore
native who limped back to his house
and eased himself down on to his bed.
He helped himself to a betel-nut and a
generous helping of burned lime, and
began to bemoan the fact that he had
ever left his Aitape village and come to
work on a plantation.
Suddenly he heard a squawk from the
rafters and, looking up, saw his white
cockatoo perched there. He called to it,
and was about to lie down when some-
thing in its claw attracted his eye;
in a moment he was climbing up, all
thoughts of his recent fight forgotten.
Seizing the bird and descending to the
floor' he departed for the fireplace out-
side.
An hour later, Dangi and Jarwa might
have been seen squatting round a bowl,
cleaning up the remnants of a meal. A
stench of burning feathers filled the air.
A.I.F. VERSES.
A Digger has asked the Service
Deportment to give him a list of
the finest published poems written
about the A.1.F., preferably com-
positions suitable for recitation at
returned-soldier gatherings. The
field is wide, and any list that might
be compiled by an individual would
perhaps miss some of the best
examples. Readers are invited to
pick six; half a dozen original
Bulletin drawings will be awarded
as prizes. Titles and names of
authors should be given, and,
where possible, the source of pub-
lication. Address lists: “Digger
Poems,” Service Department, The
Bulletin,, 252 George-street, Syd-
ney. Closing date ; July 24.


mm
Wmm
mam:
vm.
■i
m
m.
W/,
m
i '
f m
m
n
i :
wWMmm
mm
<m
wKKtSm
888m
>• 3
WrnmWM
m
■
' f
«
, •:: ••
f V
nn
m
wm
m ,
fftHP
m
"
v' ';•
VMM//',
mmm
m,
Ym
mm
Wgm
■■■si
■
■ft
H
,. , :
■
mm
«
II!
■ II
- I •
§§§§|plli|§
«!■
■
■
O c Gxllurrif
W*4&sh
Scots COb'bk»j
I
$ vY/m
VM.
Iillf
-'I
m
wm/,
'//My//
gffii
1
i
HI
m
m
hii
m
wm.
mm
m.
WMm
W/rnm
H
-
mm.
mm
wYm,
'■■: ■■
m
*
mm
m
H ■
iH
m
m.
m
WM%
\Ym.
van
ii
l
8 1
11
■
ii
C^v?
iHHl
' .Si:
H
III
■■i
■
li
881
m.
■
III
mm
■<mm.
m
9,
W,
mkwm
my
m
mm
m,
Ml
II
■
m/mm.
m
.
IP
1
m
/m/Wm
m
m
»
iH II
li
M
m
mm
■ I
li
■■
Hi
H
'Wmia
mm.
WM
' . ;
M
■
■; ; '.;: :
mmmmm
'awe js
e
(D c CalliiiT) , s
C Je Wlsl
'/SKI/ /S
d>
33
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON. Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
v 5»
,^ 6
&*$&&& ■
* v v
S&“ \0 s' J
t>» V n\ ' . 4*\
\' et '<.-
#•
.-•’ > .-*’
O'


I
I
'■ ■ >
... ;
mat
a
Ph
mm
:
K
BAND-SPREAD
(Illustrated Above.)
lEPURA . . . Crooks . * . Tauber . .
TASMA. They Live ... ail the/gfor;
TASMA as though the artist werejn thl
)e\r presence with a
Ices comes through the
is the TASMA ideal of
radio— perfect tone. And in each of a remarkable range of receivers that
ideal has been achieved ... in battery receivers for country dwellers; in All-
Wave and Short-Wave sets; in Receivers for the rriotorist, the large home or
the small flat; for those who cart afford luxury os well as for those who desire
luxury at low price. No family, r|o individualin this country need be without
I
a TASMA, Radio's latest development—the TASMA Band-Spread Dial.
280: Universal A.C. and D.C.
2-valve Console, with Auto-
matic VoI a m e Control,
£2211916.
250: An All-Wave Battery Set
lor the man outback,
£4B/10!-.
285: Low in price— economi-
cal to maintain; 4-valve Bat-
tery Set. Complete, £251101-.
aatima
DETAIL-BUILT
RADIO
A PRODUCT OF THOM & SMITH, LTD., 55 Dowling Street, East Sydney.
MODEL 295: A Detail-Built quality Dual-
Wave Receiver with the new TASMA Band-
Spread Dial—London, Paris, Berlin, Petrogra
or ANY Australian Station at your finger-
tips. Has Automatic Volume Control (whic
practically eliminates fading) and attractive
piano-finished Cabinet; with every modem
feature £27/lU ''
INTERSTA TE JUSTBI R U TORS.
N.S. W. COUNTRY
DISTRIBUTORS .
ERIC CUPITT, 25 Perkins Street,
Newcastle.
District Representative.
C. R. DONNELLY, 45 Cathcart Street,
Lismore.
Northern Representative.
QUEENSLAND:
G. .T. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Also at Rockhampton, Cairns,
Mackay, Townsville.
rosensteS'gels pty.. ltd
Ruthven , Street, Toowoomba.
VICTORIA:
R. J. S. BRYCE, Room 710,
7th Floor, London Stores Build-
ing, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Factory Representative.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
NOYES BROS. (MELB.) FTY.,
LTD.. 89 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
MILLER ANDERSON. LTD.,
Bindley Street, Adelaide.
CHARLES BIRKS CO.. LTD.,
Bundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE. 'V.A
LTD., 381 Murray Street, Perth
THOMSON’S, DTD.. 674 Hay Street
Perth. .
