

OATMEAL
STOUT
y..
RM
‘1
mm
m
m
m :
m
f
gpife
if
y
■
:•
. .
ill
•. , ■
wm
m
Sfis Aayd j
HERE'S TdEE /
and khj3 mjeanb it *
ao*
SSWSS
■
THE'I
ORIGINAL
I
TOOHEVS ua ;
The Bulletin
Lindsay on Shaw
Vol. 56.—N0. 2888.
Wednesday, June 19, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
.earn _ --
Bookkce
png
at HOME
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Home-Study Course in BOOKKEEPING, as advertised
in the Sydney ‘•Bulletin.'’
My Kamo
My Address
SJ3. 1233. ,
S. H.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book tights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A TRUSTY
OLD FRIEND
RETURNS
The return of
Sherlock Holmes
was never half
so surprising as
the reappearance
that ocxurs in
A. J. Cronin’s
new novel, The Stars Look Down. Here,
without any pardon-this-gentle-intrusion
or explanation of how he clambered
out of the awful chasm, our trusty old
friend Melodrama struts on to the stage,
makes his bow and proceeds to appro-
priate all the fat as active agent once
again in serious literary effort.
In the background hovers the noble
old mother. Overdone Emotionalism,
pleased and satisfied to see her offspring
take the stage once more. What a thrill
of pride is hers to hear him, through the
mouth of David, cry out in the local
council on page 490: “I appeal to you
as a minister of the gospel, Do you
want these sick people in the hospital to
go on eating inferior meat?” Again,
at page 503, what a thing it is to hear
Jenny, drunk, tell David the che-ild is
not his, and to hear David’s appalling
cry, “Is that true?” And something
almost equally as touching and true to
the fine old tradition on at least half
the 701 large pages.
It is an event. In an age cocksure that
it is an improvement on all other ages,
cocksure of its singularity and its sophis-
tication both, it is an incredible and
perhaps a significant event. The once
lush fields of fiction, blasted by the chill
winds of intellectualism, had begun to
look dry and arid, to resemble geometric
designs and problems in mathematics.
Such a flood of emotionalism as is here
let loose on them, unpleasant as it is
while we are wallowed in its swirl, might
be the sign of a loosening-up of the soil,
an indication that we are beginning to
be done with bareness and aridity.
The setting of Dr. Cronin’s novel, this
North England mining-place, has a cer-
tain stagy reality. The people, too, are
similarly familiar. For instance, Barras,
the mineowner, aware of the danger the
miners run of letting the flood in through
the old seam, and keeping them at it —
Bland Holt would have greeted Barras
as an acquaintance, and if the author
casts back to the leading figure of his
own Hatter’s Castle he will see that he
has gone mighty close to plagiarising
himself. Arthur, too, the raineowner’s
sensitive son, who suspects that his father
was well aware of the certainty of im-
pending disaster, and whose psycholo-
gical reaction is to go to gaol rather than
go to the war and kill more of his fellow-
men. Others, also - none of them
unfamiliar, though all competent con-
structions. Better still, the gallery of
women. The doctor knows his women
—as, perhaps, a doctor needs to.
The mine, also —a real enough place.
The pompous Court of Inquiry after the
disaster, holding itself above the paltri-
ness of common justice, preserving its
fat dignity at, and with, all costs —a cer-
tain reality there. The vicious gaol sys-
tem under which the war objectors suf-
fered—a pretty picture of modern civil-
isation. Then the story’s theme —an on-
slaught of some power against the social
organisation associated with the winning
of coal from the earth in England, with
its complement of miseries and brutali-
ties and the evils that men must do under
it to each other and to themselves. On
these and other counts, and especially
for its sound and honest action, not a
book to be despised. Its narrative has
muscle.
Even despising its melodrama may be
questionable, in one sense, at least. A
novel which carried over 701 pages as
an unbroken reality the terrible brood-
ing atmosphere of a time of strike with
which this 230,000-word story opens
would be well-nigh intolerable. In such
circumstances we may even come to like
the melodrama, as a little light relief
Picture of
a Literary
Period
Dr. Cronin’s
m o n u m e n tal
effort would
doubtless be fav-
orably received
by Frank Swin-
nerton, whose
The Georgian Literary Scene is almost as
bulky. Not that Mr. Swinnerton would
be likely to view with much joy its gush-
ing melodrama. But he is all for what
he calls the novelists of normality, and
has a hearty contempt for those who
despise such writers as Wodehouse and
Priestley.
For this reason Mr. Swinnerton is
eminently qualified for the job he has
undertaken —a friendly general survey
of the literature of this century. He does
the job like a tradesman, thoroughly and
engagingly, and as patiently as an in-
tolerance of anything that looks like
preciousness will permit. His especial
bane is that intellectual aridity against
which Dr. Cronin’s novel may be accepted
as a, possibly unintentional, protest. The
whole basis of his survey, the ground of
his approach and the theme of his com-
mentary is that what matters in creative
art is imagination rather than intellectual
performance, and that to restrict the
award of merit to intellectual introverts
is to show not great judgment but insen-
sibility.
On that plain ground he stands to re-
view the mixed pageantry of literature
over the past 30-odd years, and it is
doubtful if the spectacle could be well
reviewed from any other. He is
only ruffled when a Joyce or an Eliot
or other of the “modns” break out
of the line and impinge upon his ground ;
and even these he excuses, shrugs his
shoulders and says that what they have
done is without doubt in obedience to
the spirit of the hour, though as far as
he is concerned it is arrogant in tone
and pretentious in object. He believes,
and it does not seem such an outlandish
belief, that a book of poems which needs
another book to explain it is largely ah
affectation, a term he would apply
roundly to the whole general obscurity
of this faction. A faction only he be-
lieves it to be, and one that shows signs
of waning. He finds that some who
worshipped are coming to the conclu-
sion that its obscurity is a mask for im-
potence, that its arrpgance is part of an
elaborate humbug, and that the much-
vaunted restrictiveness of the “modn”
poets is not so much artistic as costive.
Others, he finds, are feeling that this par-
ticular modernity has reached its farthest
point, and that the time is ripe for a
still newer modernity; and, since a new
modernity is usually a swing to reaction,
he looks forward to a great revival in
esteem for the unpretentiously explicit.
He has one striking qualification that
has lately been missing from writers of
biography—admiration for his chosen
subject. As it happens, also, he has
known the greater number of those he
writes about, and is able to mix just
enough personalia, anecdotes, appear-
ances and the like with his critical appre-
ciations to stay well this side of mere
gossipry while making the best book of
literary talk that has come out in years.
It is a solid, sound, commonsensible
book, worth anyone’s while reading be-
cause it is good writing on its own
ground and a fine survey of a literary
period.
Napoleon
Goes Nap
Like Mr. Swin-
nerton, anc
equally and simi-
larly qualified for
the job in hand
the pr i nci p a
assistant at the pageant that is unfolded
in The Letters of Napoleon to Marie-
Louise stands on the plain ground of
ordinary normality and friendly toler-
ance. Quite openly he admires the man
who signs himself Nap to most of these
318 letters, all but two of them now
published for the first time.
The letters are, of course, Napoleonic
treasure-trove. Hitherto utterly unknown,
they came to light last December in a
manner appropriately romantic, when,
out of the blue, they were advertised for
forthcoming auction in London. Much
waving of excited hands in Paris, and
—an unheard-of occurrence in its history
■—the Bibliotheque Nationale empowered
to raise a loan towards helping the Gov-
ernment to purchase the precious scrawls.
Before the month was out “a telegram
from London brought M. Julien Cain the
news of a great victory,” and shortly
afterwards the letters, many of them
and the best of them written during the
retreat from Moscow, were making their
own more triumphant retreat into the
sanctuary of the Reserve des Manuscrits.
Now, Chief Custodian M. Ronciere
takes them up with a care that is almost
visible and a tenderness bordering on
to love, and gives them to the world at
large, set like jewels in a commentary
benediction. They begin two or three
months before the arrival of Marie-
Louise in France, and continue through
the three following years, “the most
pathetic periods of the Imperial epic.”
The commentary is an uncommonly com-
petent job. With an economy of words
almost equal to Napoleon’s own, it con-
trives to string the letters together, giving
significance to the most trivial of them,
and making with them altogether a blend
that is a dignified and fascinating piece
of historical writing.
Cecil Mann.
[The Stars Look Down, by A. J. Cronin
(Goliancz; Angus and Robertson ; 10s. 6d.);
The Georgian Literary Scene, by Frank Swin-
nerton (Heinemann; 12s. 6d. net); The Letters
of Napoleon to Marie-Louise (Hutchinson;
Angus and Robertson; 125.).].
S. H . PRIOR
MEMORIAL
PRIZE
Complete con-
ditions for the
second annual
competition fo i
the S. H. Prioi
Memorial Prize
are published al
the foot of this page. It hardly needs
stating that the Red Page is pleased to
have the Prize associated with it as a
permanent addition—a standing practical
cash encouragement of Australian writers
and their work to support what might be
called the theoretical encouragement
which forms, and has always been meant
to form, the main principle of this page’s
conduct.
Different editors of the page have in-
terpreted that principle in different ways.
The present one feels that it is no en-
couragement to lavish disproportionate
praise on mediocre writing simply be-
cause it is Australian work, and that at
the moment the best theoretical service
that can be performed for Australian
literature is to try to help bridge the chasm
in time that seems to yawn between the
bulk of writing here and what is being
done to-day in English literature as a
whole. He knows perfectly well that to
make that statement is to invite the smirk
that he is suffering from the usual Austra-
lian inferiority complex. Well, if an in-
feriority complex is indicated by an
opinion, formed from consistent and
pretty exhaustive reading, that the
general tone of our literature, not to
mention the quality, needs considerable
keying up, then he will admit to the
impeachment.
The fact is that nothing of the kind
is indicated. If we cannot look at what
is being written in the world from week
to week and see where we stand, it is
not a complex we are suffering from but
a calamity. It is to be deliberately blind
and dull and a poor sort of sots into the
bargain. That way we certainly are not
helping Australian literature to develop.
We are plastering its eyes up with a
sticky hypocrisy; indulging the coolie-
minded and stupid self-satisfaction that
allows the award of merit, not compara-
tively towards the highest standard, but
slavishly towards the lowest. An in-
feriority complex is not an unhealthy
thing to have about the place if it keeps
us from falling into the sentimentality
which will have Australian literature
great because it is a cut above that of
the Solomon Islands. Logic becomes a
topsy-turvy animal when to see a beacon
and aspire towards it is more reprehen-
sible than putting the anchor over and
wallowing smugly in the slough. There
is no belief here in such a ridiculous
contention.
That, for the present, is the interpre-
tation that will be given to the Red
Page’s guiding principle. An attempt is
made here to select from week to week
what appears to be good in current work,
irrespective of its source. It must be
patent, of course, that the selections
cannot always be of work of any per-
manent value. That would be asking too
much even of a critic who had to make
a selection only once a year, and it is
impossible and foolish, anyway, to toss
the laurel of permanence to anything
contemporary whatever. But, at least,
attention can be directed to the kind of
work that is being done by sincere
writers wherever they may be, and the
quality of such work thus held us as a
beacon for aspiring towards.
That, with the permanent annual re-
ward of this Prize for Australian literary
effort, seems a combination of encour-
lagement that has clear and definite pos-
sibilities of helping towards results. The
one, as has been said, is simply theoreti-
cal, attempting to indicate what sincere
writers are doing or trying to do. The
other is practical and direct, an award
of £lOO to be won annually by writers
of Australia, Maoriland and hereabouts.
The point at which these apparently
very different lines come together is
where the Prize is won by a work com-
parable in sincerity and quality with the
best contemporary work, wherever
written.
It seems worth mentioning here that
this annual literary prize offers practical
assistance not only to one writer for
one work. As stated in the conditions
governing the award, the trustees will
publish the successful work, together
with any others they may deem worthy,
and usual royalties will be paid. Thus,
in any year any number of published
books may directly result from the year’s
competition and earn royalties for their
writers, the quality of whose work alone
will indicate how much they are deserv-
ing, or it may be in need, of just such
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the conscience of business. “THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
Such Values as these have made Anthony Horderns’ famous!
t
' ■: .
:
- /
! ! !
Jkx
mwi
c
■V
HUH
■lll
;'! <
.I'-.,
m
0 JHHH|
u
s.
i &A HS *!
/- ■
Ml
IKJ
: I,## 14 ? I
2sJ
W&W'
'§»
mm
m
m
I
K
I#
:
v-y :■:•
m
Exceptional Value!
Roll Neck
AN ALL-WOOL
CASHMERE KNIT
PULLOVERS
im
This is the kind of Pullover men buy for
economy, because it is the kind that will last
several seasons. Roll-neck style of All-Wool
Cashmere Knit. Dark and Light Greys, Brown
or Lovat tonings. Sizes 36 to 40 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 15/6
Also in neat Pin Checks of Grey or Fawn
tonings. Sizes 36 to 40 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 19/6
OuA
I -w , ■;•<•:# I
MENS WINTER
OUTERWEAR
LUMBERJACKETS
JACQUARD
DESIGNS
FD
Warm, cosy and serviceable. Men’s Lumber-
jackets of All-Wool in interesting Jacquard
designs. Buttons up to neck. Step collar.
Sizes range from 36 to 42 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 17/6
Also made in better qualities.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices .... 22/6 and 25/-
An Outstanding
PURCHASE OF
6,000
m v
Men’s
/
06
OO
o :
OO o 0° ° r ,
oO ° o OO 0
° G OoO ( S^
O o
0 O
O O O
9* o° 0 Q o
1
<ss
m
3 / 6 value
Special Price
I
'
EACH
With wool bias linings for extra wear!
Made not only to look well, but to give
wonderful wear. We made an outstanding
purchase of 6000 Ties . . . embracing almost
every design possible. Included are double-
warp Silken Weaves, English Silk Failles and
Marocains, etc. Every Tie is made with wool
lining, which gives double the length of wear.
Price, each 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each. . 17-
Mail Orders will be supplied as long as stocks
last, but early ordering is definitely essential.
%
Men’s Sleeveless
PULL-ONS
POPULAR FOR
SPORTS WEAR
F
The Sportsman will find this a con-
venient, comfortable Pullover. It is a
sleeveless style in knitted All-Wool.
Made with V neck, plain or Jacquard
effects in Fawn, Brown or Grey tonings.
Sizes 36 to 40 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 12/6
Better qualities. Prices .. 15/6, 19/6
mm
All wool
COAT SWEATERS
IN GREY
FAWN TO
AND
N E S
DF
An excellent quality Coat Sweater . . .
a cosy All-Wool winter weight in
interesting Jacquard designs, mostly in
Grey and Fawn tonings. Sizes range
from 36 to 42 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 19/6
Better quality. Price 25/-
“Hanro” Brand. Price 30/-
9 Mens Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all Seaports in the
Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
■
■
■
■
« m
H ■
' 4J"
iSi
Roll Collar
CARDIGANS
B U T T O.N I N S
UP TO NECK
D
It is a delight to wear one of these
Cardigans during the winter. Made with
roll-back collar, buttoning up to neck.
An All-Wool winter weight in Mid Grey,
Fawn, Brown or Marl effects. Sizes 36
to 42 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 17/6
FD
With Slide Fastener
PULLOVERS
JACQUARD
DESIGNS
F
Here is another version of a comfortable,
serviceable Pullover at a popular price.
Knitted in All-Wool Jacquard designs. Turn-
down collar, sliding fastener front. Many
patterns in tonings of Fawn, Grey or Brown.
Sizes 36 to 40 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 17/6
Better qualities. Prices .. 19/6, 21/-, 22/6
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd,
’Phone:
Day or
M 24 0 1
"N i‘g hr.
-SYD N E Y
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


About Your Indigestion..
*
ft
>c
o
fti
INTESTINES
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE
Painful distension of the
stomach by gases from fer-
meriting food. Excess acidity is
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn
palpitation are the symptoms.
the
and
HERE
Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE
Duodenal ulcers. Excess
outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles. It acts in a
logical and common-
sense way and if you
persevere it wiil even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
On entering the stomach De Witt's Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain ot
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digest's a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6
practical encouragement. It is a perma-
nent urge for them to be up and doing.
Forthcoming
Competition
As was stated
on the Red Page
last week, for the
competition which
closes on June 6
next the literary
field has been enlarged to include any
prose work that could be published as
a book. “No restriction whatever is
placed on the kind of prose work that
may be submitted: fiction, biography,
travel, history, drama and any other
kind of prose work will be eligible, in-
cluding short stories, essays or one-act
plays of sufficient number to make a
book.”
Clearly, conditions which allow for
such a wide range of literary effort
promise to make this forthcoming com-
petition for the Prize one of the most
interesting literary competitions so far
conducted in Australia. A plan has
already been devised for the judging of
it, and, briefly, the Prize will be awarded
for what is considered the most out-
standing contribution to Australian
literature. It seems quite probable that
through this coming competition a good
deal of work may be brought favor-
ably to the notice of publishers which
might not ordinarily make a peremptory
appeal as suitable for commercial publi-
cation. For the complete details of this
second annual competition writers are
directed to the published conditions. A
complete list of the titles and pen-names
of the entries for the first competition
will be printed next week.
First Year’s
Judges
This page goes
to press with the
judges appointed
and already at
work on those
fi rs t 200 -odd
manuscripts of novels. The trustees
selected the following judges:
Tom Mutch,
Guy Moore,
Camden Morrisby,
Stewart Howard,
Cecil Mann.
MUTCH —to drop all superfluous
nomenclature and addenda —is the
former N.S.W. Minister for Education,
a Parliamentarian who graduated from
journalism. He has contributed to books,
apart from “Hansard,” and has also
occupied himself as a publishers’ reader,
selecting MSS. of books for publication.
His more recent training for his present
post includes being one of the three
judges whose adjudication on The Bul-
letin Humor Story Competition achieved
the seeming miracle of pleasing almost
everybody.
MOORE reads books in vast numbers
for simple pleasure, and sells books as
often as possible for a living. Thus he
brings a bookseller’s plus book-reader’s
brains and enthusiasm to the task at
hand. For the next few weeks, when
he is missing from his new shop in
Pitt-street, he will not be drinking
coffee in some near-by dive, but giving
Australian literature, through this com-
petition, the benefit of his intelligence
and experience.
MORRISBY is not the radio book-
reviewer who runs a grave risk of being
parodied at any moment on the Radio
News page by “Sizzle and A.” Still
he is one of that burgeoning profes-
sion, and anyone who can beat his record
of regular radio book-talking is wel-
come to the honor. His record is that
he started with 2SM Sydney a month
or two after the station itself began, and
has talked books regularly from that
address every week for four years or so.
Also, his name his appeared frequently
on Red Page criticism and commentary.
HOWARD, the only one in the group
who successfully avoids a name begin-
ning with “M,” wrote a book a few years
ago called You’re Telling Me which
committed the serious trespass of tickling
people and making them laugh. More
recently he wrote the novel called Forty-
six, which, so far, has not succeeded in
making his publishers cry. He, also, has
served as a publishers’ reader, has writ-
ten something in the nature of the his-
tory of a brewery, and at one time sold
jute, if that can be regarded as a quali-
fication.
The other member of the judges, hav-
ing a sincere horror of anything that
might look like contempt of court, de-
clines flatly to make any comment here
upon himself.
New
Australian
Work
In Lift Up
Your Eyes
Ambrose Pratt
soars into the
realm of high
ethics. Peter
Gaunt, a Mel-
burnian, returning from long exile in
Malaya, whither he went (all for the love
of a lady) to live down a crime com-
mitted by another, finds himself among
Bright Young Things. A female of the
species falls for him, but his aim is the
regeneration of humanity. Believing
himself to be divinely guided he
gambles in wheat futures (opening
the Bible at random for inspira-
tion he came upon “corn in Egypt”),
amasses a million or so and estab-
lishes an orphanage. The inmates,
selected in infancy, are to be brought up
as altruists and idealists on non-sectarian
Christian lines. A stockbroker, a Jewish
wheatbroker, a canon of the Church of
England and two University professors
abet Gaunt in this project. What hap-
pened to the experiment? Lacking the
courage of an H. G. Wells to pursue the
battle between new ideals and old con-
ventions to some sort of conclusion, Mr.
Pratt kills off his hero on page 362, and
drops the matter. Clare, the modern
miss who loved Peter, has more vitality
than the rest of the characters, but they
are all rather peculiar people. Still, the
aim of this novel is lofty, and the discus-
sion of ethical ultimates which it em-
bodies is interesting.
T. Inglis Moore, while he was teach-
ing English in the University at Manila,
made a close study of the aboriginal
Filipino and his mythologies. The
Half Way Sun has as its hero Kalatong,
a mighty head-hunter who felt himself
to be an aristocrat. His people were
harried first by the Spanish, whom they
despised, and later by the Americans,
some of whom they respected. In Lieu-
tenant Gallman, Mr. Moore introduces
us to a servant of Uncle Sam who car-
ries the white man’s burden as adequately
as any of Kipling’s Empire-builders ; in
Kalatong to a savage whose inherent
nobility and strength of character have
had few peers in fiction since Rider Hag-
gard limned Umslopagaas, and in In-
tannap and Aparas women who demon-
strate that their sex is dominated by the
same principles in any stage of civilisa-
tion. Companionate marriage, so
strongly advocated in the U.S.A. by
Judge Ben Lindsey, is, according to Mr.
Moore, a time-honored Filipino insti-
tution, and birth-control is well under-
stood, so evidently there isn't much scope
for real innovations in social custom.
Kalatong, though by instinct monoga-
mous, has his extra-marital experiences
and occasionally gets tight—no immacu-
late hero this.
Mr. Moore has mastered the story-
teller’s art. His style is clean, simple
and direct; his human sympathies are
warm, and, while he weaves romance
and adventure into his narrative with a
liberal hand, it comes smoothly and
naturally, even inevitably, into the
sequence of events. A very sincere piece
of work, this book.
Not so the Primavera of David
Lanark, the principal object of which
seems to have been to use up a mass ol
not very well digested entries in a dili-
gent notebook concerning life in Anglo-
Spanish circles. Sojourning in Spain a
young Englishman (of course, wealthy,
aristocratic and handsome) fell in love
with an Anglo-Spanish miss whose tem-
perament was as uncertain as that of a
French grey kitten (they’re subject to
brainstorms in the course of which they
climb up curtains), and remembered too
late that he had a perfectly good fiancee
in England. The lady left behind was a
sensible girl and released him without
any fuss whatever. The expansion of
this simple set of events to a novel of
303 pp. is accomplished by recording
verbatim conversations which are
supremely uninteresting and almost en-
tirely irrelevant.
A less pretentious bottle, but one con-
taining far better beer from both the
human and the literary standpoint, is that
of Frank dune's brewing labelled Roll-
ing Down the Lachlan. Mr. dune is by
profession an income-tax compiler, and
he takes with him on his extensive motor
journeys an impish sense of humor and
an absorbing but quite irreverent in-
terest in local history. The tour he de-
scribes followed the road from Sydney,
through Goulburn, down as far south as
Canberra, and the Lachlan towns come
into the story only towards the end, on
the homeward lap, but the title is a good
one. On these travels Mr. dune scraped
up an astonishing amount of informa-
tion about bushrangers, explorers and
queer characters. Incidentally, he tells of
the comparatively recent exploits of Hunt
and Grey, who undertook canoe voyages
down the Shoalhaven and the Wollon-
dilly from source to sea. dune's good
humor is inexhaustible, his phrasing
quaint and unexpected ; and he has Mark
Twain’s faculty for finding fun in the
most solemn surroundings. To wander
with dune along the Lachlan (using his
own wide interpretation of that locality)
is to get a better understanding of the
more important part of N. S. Wales that
lies outside Sydney than could be gained
in a twelvemonth spent in the Mitchell
Library. Not that dune despises the
Mitchell. He checks his historical refer-
ences there.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
[Lift Up Your Eyes, by Ambrose Pratt
(Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.); The Half
Way Sun, by T. Inglis Moore (Angus and
Robertson; 65.); Primavera, by David Lanark
(Angus and Robertson; 65.); Rolling Down
the Lachlan, by Frank Clune (Angus and
Robertson; 65.).]
A Satchel of Books
The Mutiny of Madam Yes, by Dale
Collins (Harrap ; Angus and Robertson ;
7s. 6d.). Falls away after a strong be-
ginning, but still manages to be a fair
sort of sea-adventure yarn. Skipper, on
the eve of taking his ship from England
to new owners in China, goes to a dock-
side pub in search of romance, meets the
unashamedly amoral Madam Yes, in-
duces her aboard, and the voyage begins,
all set fair for complications, which duly
materialise in the shape of mutiny,
piracy and suchlike.
The Enjoyment of Literature, by Eliza-
beth Drew (Cambridge University Press ;
Angus and Robertson; 125.). Genial
roving over the general field by one de-
termined to be smiling and friendly to
all that has been well tried and found
true. In a general and sweeping way,
quite nice light gossipry by one who
might be a schoolmistress, and if she
isn’t belies her tone of voice.
The Camberwell Beauty, by Louis
Golding (Gollancz; Bs. 6d. net). In
which we follow a lot of tiresome people
on a fantastic expedition from London
to Sicily and listen to small talk on
magic which, placed end to end, would
reach 12 feet into the stratosphere and
back again. The author wrote a fine and
sincere and beautiful piece of fiction
called Magnolia Street. This latest per-
formance is so far removed from it in
quality that if he were a racehorse the
stewards would all go into a room to-
gether and close the door.
Gilbert and Sullivan, by Hesketh
Pearson (Hamish Hamilton ; 10s. 6d.
net.). Nothing more commonsensible
has been done on the illustrious pair
than this brisk, light, breezy and in
places uproariously funny account of
the most successful artistic marriage of
all time and its principals, with suffi-
cient, also, concerning the best man at
the wedding, Richard D’Oyley Carte,
called by some “Oily.” Pearson’s out-
look is the mean between Quiller-
Couch’s horrified, and, in its way, hor-
rific, reading of Gilbert as a pernicious
person addicted to laughing at ageing
women and glorifying cruelty, and those
charming works which pour forth at
every Gilsullivan season on the note that,
of course, Gilbert was a trifle bad-tem-
pered, but we must think only about
his Art.
The Public and Preparatory Schools’
Year Book, 1935 (H. W.Deane and Sons,
London ; 10s. 6d.). This solid and well-
turned-out annual is now in its 46th
year, and is packed full of facts and
figures about all of Britain’s numerous
public schools and countless preparatory
ones. It supplies lists of governing
bodies and teaching staffs, information
about fees, scholarships, numbers of
pupils and houses, dates of foundation —
in short, it is a compendium of who’s
who and what’s what in schooldom.
Stabilised Money (Allen and Unwin;
165.). Human and interesting historical
survey of a question about which the
world yet knows little, though in the
midst of interesting experiments on the
subject. The author, Professor Irving
Fisher, a Yale (U.S.A.) man, came into
economics from mathematical physics
with a definite conviction of the need
for a stable yardstick of value. A strong
case is presented against the pickpocket
price-fluctuation, who robs first one set
of people and then another, confounds
business calculations, convulses trade,
stirs up discontent and fans the flames of
class hatred and perverts politics. Sweden
is the apple of the author’s eye. He
“would depend for a staple dollar on
open market operations and occasional
adjustments of discount rates under the
supervision of a special monetary author-
ity or commission.” Simultaneously he
would amputate the banks’ power of
creating or destroying “circulating
medium,” leaving them with “strictly
banking functions,” such as lending
money.


HELP THE GOVERNMENTS
TO INCREASE EMPLOYMENT
AND STIMULATE BUSINESS
Invest in the
LOAN
31 t at £99-10-0
Average Annual Yield — £3-8-5 percent
Apply to any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Office or
Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
Subscribe Early
Commonwealth Treasury,
CANBERRA, F.C.T.
R. G. CASEY,
Acting Treasurer.


v ■
%
1 i
m
■ -a
l/* i //. ' \";■ ,
' I i/®'** J’’ h -"? “V ; /
( Jhar/f//,
ma /bfc/
■$
-'/ '■•*,<- •* - ,"3
’ 'Vi’/.' ~ .... ", r
mm..
/; ; • -7 P;/ ’• v ¥
J- P fc <7 it j
'«/ ' ¥ , r/; ! 'f . |*y|
.j • MrUt* i// // , \
I , rn /; )
-v ,</'■• V\*a
\' / t : - ;,i J m-I
f„ 1■ / A
'fflK i|||||
•.V;... >v:/v „
. .
■
.
mmm
H
¥
i :
,‘lf// '/•'/
rn- i. i
l ¥
&
%
y/
■ .
%/4 :
¥ ¥ :
.:■■■'
. 4
I
.
zs
f «l MfsterHi
■
L
• \
It. ’ J
i-rx
alii
■ :
/
■
IK . J
■ I
H
s I wmiSm inii
1 v
fc i■, :
mm
:
■' :
nnnHHmai
■
'a**
■t
C£ j r W J
cW /mw


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2888.
June 19, 1935.
THE NEW PYGMALION.
“Mr. Shaw suggests that white Afrikanders and white Australians should intermarry with blacks.”
“Wilt thou have this man?”
"Not bloody likely.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone B/971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6c/.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Slate cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “AH Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
OUR OVERGOVERNED LAND.
At three recent meetings of company shareholders
there were pointed references to the rapacity of the
taxing horde. In Melbourne the chairman of
Prestiges mentioned that profits for the year were
£14,000 less than the taxes paid by the company and
its staff. In Sydney the chairman of the semi-co-
operative Country Producers’ Selling Co. stated that
40 per cent, of its earnings for five years had gone
in taxes and rates. In Sydney also the chairman of
Jantzens pointed out that the severity of the taxes
to which the concern is subject is increased by their
complexity.
Ours is only a small company, but we have to make
returns to every Australian State and to the Common-
wealth. In addition, most of the States have two or
three different taxes, such as ordinary income tax,
special income tax, unemployed-relief tax and hospital
tax. Preparation of all the returns costs considerable
time and money.
Still, the American parent of Jantzens is no stranger
to such experiences. According to a “Saturday Even-
ing Post” writer, “it is quite common for [U.S.]
corporations to pay from 40 to 60 different kinds
of taxes.” A manufacturing co. selling about
$5,000,000 worth of goods a year has to make 500
separate tax returns, which cost it nearly $40,000 ;
and two-thirds of this figure is “due to tax require-
ments resulting in the actual payment of only $5000.”
Fifty different returns are made for one particular
type of lax, although the actual amount paid is only
$509.
Even small businesses “must employ tax experts
or outside auditors to watch the thousands and thou-
sands of rulings,” and argue the point with tax-
gatherers who “assess a tax many times greater than
it should be.” It could be written with equal truth
by an Australian.
Evidently these things are inseparable from
federal systems. There is nothing like them in Maori-
land or South Africa, where taxation is simple, certain
(the Australian never knows at the beginning of a
financial year what his income tax will be) and
comparatively light. Generally speaking, Maoriland
tax-rates are little more than those imposed by the
State of N. S. Wales (from what N. S. Wales has left,
the Commonwealth takes up to Bs. Bd. in the £);
and, while N. S. Wales farmers with taxable incomes
are bled white, “all income derived from [Maoriland]
farming land in cases where unimproved value is
less than £3OOO is totally exempt.” Totally exempt,
also, are “amounts paid as unemployed-relief tax,”
which N. S. Wales taxes, and “all income not derived
from Maoriland, if such income is chargeable with
tax in any other part of the Empire”—which helps
to explain Maoriland’s success in getting tourists.
N. S. Wales demands lOd. in the £ of income drawn
by residents or sojourners from Britain, other
Dominions and even other Australian States, except
Victoria, regardless of what the local taxgatherers
have taken. The Commonwealth, for its part, levies
tax on the British income of residents, plus 25 per
cent, for exchange, even though the money has never
left Britain.
Robbery should not be endured at any time, but
clumsy extortion, it seems, can be suffered. And
clumsy extortion will go on while the people acquiesce
in a system which imposes on them seven Government
Houses and 13 Houses of Parliament, in which there
are 74 Ministers, six Upper House Presidents, seven
Speakers, 13 Chairmen of Committees and 526 private
members. The Commonwealth Statistician estimates
the annual cost of this collection at £999,620. He
includes loyal-commission and Electoral Department
expenses, but not the direct or indirect costs of wage-
fixing tribunals, though they are certainly part of
the creaking machinery of government (some Admin-
istrations are never out of these courts), nor depart-
mental outlays incident to the grinding-out of 50 or 60
measures a year in each of the seven Parliaments and
the supplying of information to members too lazy to
get it for themselves. And his estimate is for the
1932-33 year, so the value of the 60 or 70 N. S.
Wales railway and tramway passes granted to Leg.
Councillors who failed of election to the new Upper
House is not included. Even so, the amount he
mentions exceeds the value of all the gold produced
in 1933 in five of the six States and the Northern
Territory.
Australians of all parties believe there are too
many taxes, and too many members, and too many
civil servants, and too many lawyers wielding powers
which are denied to lawyers in other countries. They
see the necessity for great and enduring reforms, and
some of these reforms —notably the transfer of educa-
tion control and income tax to the Commonwealth —
could be effected by consent of the Parliaments con-
cerned ; the rest by referendum. But they will get
no reforms unless they provide the impulse and direc-
tion themselves. The political caste will do nothing
for them until its hands are forced.
FILCHING MELBOURNE’S PARKS.
Nor long after the arrival of Batman and Fawkner
certain young men —nowadays it is customary to
regard them as stodgy old fellows because they
happened to be alive in the last century—had the
wisdom to reserve for future generations immense
areas of park lands in various parts of the new metro-
polis. As they had very little idea that Melbourne
would ever develop to anything much larger than
Batman’s “village,” they revealed a foresight which
was almost uncanny. Since their time the control of
the city has passed into the hands of elderly persons
who have been persistently nibbling pieces of land
from the park areas whenever a free site is wanted
for public or semi-public purposes, or, worse still,
whenever money may be raised by selling areas to
private owners.
Richmond Park, which extends almost from
Prince’s Bridge to Punt-road, had a huge slice cut out
of it for railway yards without the Railway Depart-
ment repaying the citizens of Melbourne one penny
or recompensing them by handing over a similar area.
When the railways were electrified the department
calmly snatched another piece of park land for its
sub-station. Now comes the suggestion that the traffic
tangle which collects every peak period at the
Cathedral corner should be eased by taking a wide
strip of the same park to construct a direct road from
the city to the bridge to be erected over the Yarra
at Punt-road. Once more there is no reference to
compensation.
It is questionable whether the proposed road will
do much, if anything, to ease the traffic where relief
is mostly required. Every vehicle coming from the
east side of Swanston-street will help to congest the
Cathedral corner, just as it does to-day. Every vehicle
on the east side of Swanston-street leaves the city
now without passing the crowded intersection. All
that the new road will do is to prevent a slight con-
gestion at the corner of Bridge-road and Hoddle-
street; and there are many corners about the
metropolis which present difficulties as great as exist
here. A direct route to the new bridge is
already provided by Batman-avenue —the thorough-
fare which runs along the north bank of the Yarra
—and, if there is any diversion at all, the only differ-
ence will be that the north-south traffic will provide
the congestion at the Cathedral corner instead of the
east-west.
If the area wanted for the new road were
vacant land owned by private people, there would
be no demand for its purchase. It is only because
it is the property of a park trust, which is, in itself,
the creature of bureaucracy, that an act of grand
larceny is advocated with impunity.
New roads, new enterprises, even new sports
grounds or extensions to old ones may require the
surrender of areas now held as parks ; but they should
not be permitted to go without the public being
adequately compensated for their loss. If the road now
projected is a necessity to the traffic-handling of
Melbourne, the necessary land should be cut from
the park area, but a similar area in some spot con-
venient to city residents should be provided by the
body making the appropriation. If the size is the
same it need not be in one piece ; acre-blocks in the
cheapest and slummiest parts of Richmond are
urgently needed for playgrounds. There should
be no kick against a fair and sensible scheme ; there
should be a kick of ten thousand horse-power if
the scheme is to take something for nothing from
people who cannot resist.
“MARRY NATIVES!”
Bernard Shaw has become an advocate for piebald
continents. After a fleeting visit to South Africa he
demands that Europeans there should mend the birth-
rate and improve the breed by marrying blacks. And,
although he has not visited Australia, and does not
“know the sort of whites” we have “for interbreeding
with the natives,” he thinks the Commonwealth may
have to substitute miscegenation for the White Aus-
tralia policy in order to check sterility.
Mr. Shaw has read much and travelled widely
in his long and garrulous life, but obviously he has
a great deal to learn about the history of half-breeds.
The plan he recommends has been tried in Mexico,
Central and South America, with no shining results
to the world. It was tried in Portugal, very calamit-
ously for a nation once the greatest of navigators and
colonisers. It has been tried furtively in the U.S.A.
One of the consequences, along with lynching bees, is
that places like Harlem are infested with good-
looking mulattoes who have a talent for barbaric
dances and the melodies of the jungle, but lack
stamina and tend to die out.
The Eurasian in India has reached no higher
standard. A poor thing, inert, chi-chi in speech, he
is despised alike by Briton and Indian. Even in the
East Indies, where to be half-caste is no slur, the
mixed Dutch-Malays have not the same intelligence,
endurance and race persistence as the pure-bloods of
both peoples.
South Africa itself has its half-castes. They
haunt the outskirts of the cities —shiftless, shamb-
ling, dull-witted human refuse, pigging it in hovels.
They are inferior to the pure-blooded blacks and
immeasurably inferior to the whites. The wandering
playwright must have missed them, nor, while suggest-
ing that whites transferred to South Africa tend to
become sterile, did he compare the South African
Dutch with the Dutch in their homeland. To Aus-
tralians, who have had opportunities of making the
comparison (there being a small immigration of both),
the Afrikander is decidedly the finer physical type.
And statisticians, who have a way of bowling out
persons like Shaw, coldly record that the South
African whites have a comparatively high crude
birth-rate (i.e., number of births per 1000 of mean
population)—23.7 in 1933 compared with 20.8 in
Holland, 19.2 in the Irish Free State, 16.4 in the
U.S.A. 14.7 in Germany and 13.7 in Sweden.
In its application to Australia the Shavian theory
is even more wildly grotesque. If the garrulous old
gentleman were himself to test it by marrying an
Arunta queei —the soundest and healthiest of Aus-
tralian aboriginal stock —his particolored offspring,
if any, would either die out in a generation or two
or revert to the ranges to live the walkabout and
goanna life, instead of writing plays in cities and
talking unscientific and unhistorical rot.
COMMUNISM AND THE BANKS.
From time to time sections of the human race seem
to require new loyalties. The pagan gods were super-
seded by Christianity under Constantine. Christendom
was divided by the Reformation ; .and the races ol
Europe turned individually to nationalistic and
imperialistic creeds. For several centuries Europeans
believed passionately in Thrones, Empires and the
Bill on London. Came the Great War and another
era of doubt.
In most of these crises the assailed institutions
behave like the aristos. of the French Revolution ;
they face their troubles composedly, leaving most of
the talking, and all the loudest of it, to be done by
their enemies It must have been obvious to millions
at the end of the eighteenth century that “Liberty,
Equality and Fraternity” were ridiculous aspirations,
but few said so. Fox himself was taken in by the
slogan for a time. It is happening all over again,
with the banking system as Public Enemy No. 1.
We know now that the Bourbons and their
friends, like the late Czar and the ex-Kaiser and their
friends, were not monsters but well-meaning people
on the whole. The outstanding iniquities of their
reigns were perpetrated in most cases by others —
politicians, militarists, police officials, ambitious under-
strappers. But it was heresy to say it in certain official
circles, and in some Labor circles it is heresy now to
say that power-hungry or dunderheaded democrats
are far more to blame than, Tory bankers for most
of the world’s troubles.
France is a case in point. The banks had nothing
to do with the 1926 crisis, which ruined*tens of
thousands of small investors in Britain and America
as well as in France, and which brought millions of
French wage-earners to the verge of starvation. The
franc became almost worthless because the Treasury
was empty, and it was empty because the Govern-
ment had shirked imposing taxation for party reasons.
The present French crisis is also political. The
Treasury is again empty, and taxes are hard to collect
because, for reasons which have no connection what-
ever with the banking system, French exports, visible
and otherwise, have enormously declined. The
struggle which is going on between inflationists and
deflationists in France has no more relation to inter-
national banking than the struggle which has always
gone on in Australia between Freetraders and Protec-
tionists. Mr. Lang’s paper nevertheless attributes
France’s plight to “the sinister influence of Mr.
Montagu Norman,” and that “Jew Suss of Inter-
nationalism” is represented as “working with Dr.
Schacht” to undermine France’s currency, though
recent cables disclosed that Britain’s Exchange Equal-
isation Fund has been used to maintain the franc.
The silver policy of the U.S.A., which led recently
to the closing of the Mexican banks, is being cited
by Labor-Socialists in Australia as another example
of the infamous ways of bankers. The N.I.R.A. silver-
buying programme caused the price of silver to exceed
the value of the Mexican silver dollar. In April
last Mexicans began to smelt and sell their dollars,
and the Government had to introduce a paper
currency and put an embargo on the export of coins
and bullion. The peso jumped sensationally in value,
and in consequence Mexican exports to the U.S.A.
declined and Mexico was flooded with cheap American
goods. Bankers abhor such upsets, and they occur
only where, in a phrase coined recently by a director
of the Bank of England, “currencies are in politics.”
The object of the most insidious of the crusaders
against the banks is to justify the new evangel,
Communism. Not, it is said, till the pagan altar in
Threadneedle-street has been overthrown will the new
faith be in a position to get to work and save the
world. Meanwhile, in Russia the unprecedented
spectacle is offered of a new religion stultifying itself
before it has been widely accepted. The U.S.S.R.
began by being anti-capitalistic ; and it is trading on
orthodox lines wherever it can. It still talks the jargon
of internationalism ; but it is as nationalistic as its
ally, France, which employed a similar jargon after
its first revolution. Russia was to have been a haven
for the workers of the world ; and it has become
notorious for luxury cities, where Commissars enter-
tain lavishly, where class distinctions exist, and where
rich tourists are catered for by means of expensive
hotels and restaurants and shops like “Antiquariat”
which, in Moscow and Leningrad, offer “paintings,
jewellery, brocades” and the like (“free export license
issued to every purchaser”), as in London and Paris.
Flow grotesque if, when Christianity finally over-
threw paganism in Europe 1600 years ago, it had
offered nothing but the beliefs and practices it had
been assailing! That paradox is to be seen in the
U.S.S.R. now.
J.D.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Better Wool Prices.
Eleven months ago the most sanguine gambler_ would
scarcely have dared to bet that the 1934-35 wool
season would close on a high note. There was a
carry-over of 177,000 bales, and, though many districts
were dusty and dry, a larger clip was indicated (actu-
ally in 11 months 2,822,000 bales were received into
store compared with 2,664,000 bales). Tops prices
were down, and Germany was apparently out of the
market.
The immediate result was that prices fell. The
September average for greasy was.B.79d. a pound, or
£ll 16s. a bale; the average for the July-September
quarter was 9.13 d. a pound. For that quarter the
decrease in bales sold totalled 88,934 and the falling-
off in returns £2,337,101. Woolbrokers had hurriedly
reduced their proposed sale quotas, and even then
could not realise them.
Towards Christmas it became evident that Ger-
many, while developing substitutes, was buying more
wool than had been supposed, though not so much as
in the year before —buying in secondary markets and
through agents of other nationalities, while striving
to use its abstention as a lever to negotiate reciprocal
agreements. With S’Africa, which had a 25 per cent,
decline in clip, it succeeded, but not with Australia.
In November the average price rose above lOd.
It then fell a bit, but in April it took another leap
to 10.7 d. greasy, 16.4 d. scoured. At the same time
tops prices, always a sound indication 'of the future
of the market, rose from 3d. to 4d., steadying
about the middle of May. The opening of the June
sales saw a still stronger demand and rising prices,
merino fleeces soaring to \9{d. at Sydney, and come-
back lines to 17|d. —maximum, of course. It became
certain that there would be no carry-over at the end
of the season, and that sales —£35,360,000 to May
31 —would exceed £37,000,000.
The market is closing healthy. Prices are not
high enough to check demand. At the International
Wool Conference the German representative said his
country had a decided preference for the natural
fibre. Japanese commercial interests forecast heavy
purchases for Asian needs. As consumers will not
see any of the new season’s wool before October,
when manufacturers’ stores will be pretty bare, there
should be a strengthening of demand and early realisa-
tions of clips which are already being shorn. Through-
out the present season, export mutton prices and stock
prices have stood to producers, and a hardening ten-
dency is evident.
But Queensland wool and mutton supplies will
be short as a result of drought. Discouraging reports
about the season come from parts of N. S. Wales
and Westralia. The requirements of pastoralists
smitten or threatened with drought will have to be
met in no niggardly spirit. And, generally speaking,
our greatest industry still stands in need of reduction
of taxes, interest and freight-rates.
♦
Destroying History.
The N.S.W. Government has appointed a committee
to redesign Macquarie-street, Sydney, and in the
process pronounce the doom of historical relics. Build-
ings marked down for destruction are the Mint, which
dates almost from the beginning of civic history, the
District Court and the Supreme Court. The Supreme
Court might well be dispensed with, especially if
its removal served to provide additional park space
and a better setting for the beautiful St. James’s
Church. To wipe out the District Court, one of the
best of the Macquarie buildings, neglected though it
has been, would be sheer vandalism.
Before Macquarie’s time there were no solid
public buildings in Sydney, if the Commissariat stores,
built the year before he came and still standing at
Circular Quay, are excepted. He turned Sydney into
a town with lighted streets and solid buildings which
owed' as much to his inspiration as to that of his
architect, Greenway, who gets most of the credit.
In the stores which he built in 1812 in lower George-
street and in the Barracks at the top of King-street,
any traveller can discern reminiscences of the military
stations on which he had served his life. The red
brick of the latter has a haunting savor of Charles-
ton (S. Carolina), where Macquarie and many another
Australian pioneer served during the War of American
Independence, and of ancient Bombay. St. James s
has a family likeness to St. James’s, Piccadilly, where
he sometimes worshipped.
None of these buildings occupies much space,
and, as there is little excuse for Parliament House
being in Macquarie-street at all, or for any fresh
heavy expenditure on legislative halls, they might
well be preserved as memorials to the first man, after
Phillip, who had a really practical vision of Australia
as a nation. . ,
A sound plan would be to build the courts and
the Justice edifice on the present Parliament House
site, and transfer Parliament to two or three floors
of the Government Savings Bank the House That
Jack Built for the Bank That Went Bung. The excuse
that legislators must have tennis courts, bowling greens
and club facilities will not answer. If Chambers
of Commerce, employers’ federations and big trade-
unions can conduct their affairs in city buildings, a
Parliament which meets for only a few months in
the year, and which is destined to be shorn ot its
excessive powers, should be able to do the same.
♦
Air Dangers.
The efforts of European nations to build up air
forces mark a definite change to new methods and
a new insecurity. It takes years to construct navies,
even cruiser squadrons, but Hitler has shown that a
huge air fleet can be flung together in a few months.
Ten months ago the German propaganda bureaux
were bemoaning their country’s defencelessness.
To-day it has an air force so big that Britain is
feverishly building ’planes and enlisting pilots and
aircraftsmen to achieve parity with it.
The last war early taught the combatants that
success depended as much on defeating civil activities
as on killing men in trenches. Now, as General
Petain puts it,
The object of war is evident to us with all its impli-
cations and horrors; it is the destruction not of a
whole army but of a whole nation.
The former Minister Yukio Ozaki wrote in his book
Japan at the Cross Roads:
It is absurd to state that the murdering of non-
combatants is cruel slaughter. Is it not the object of
war to kill human beings and to destroy everything, and
are not the old and young men and women who
produce ammunition and foodstuffs behind the enemies
lines as guilty and as worthy of destruction as those
who fight at the front?
An official Japanese observer in Europe during the
Great War and after, he predicted that in the next
war attack would precede declaration.
The development of fast giants like the Douglas,
capable of soaring out of sight and reaching Aus-
tralia in three or four hops in a few days, has a vital
significance for Australians. The Commonwealth is
almost without aerial defence. Yet no country needs
it more, and in no country would it be more effective.
«
The Mystery of the Tattooed Arm.
An unfinished story that would have thrilled Dickens
and Poe:
It begins with a shark. There are millions of sharks
in the Pacific, but this one was caught—not on a hook, but
tangled in a set line on which another shark was struggling.
The catcher was a brother of the proprietor of a Coogee
(Sydney) aquarium. Having been taken alive, the prize was
placed on exhibition. On April 25, according to the state-
ments of spectators, it became violently ill and disgorged,
with other objects, a human arm to which a piece of rope was
attached. On the arm figures were tattooed.
Two doctors testified at the inquest that the arm had
been severed from a body with a knife. Police witnesses
stated that prints of the fingers of the hand (though oh some
fingers they were not legible) were the same as those of a man
named James Smith, taken when he was charged in 1932 with
permitting betting on his premises a Rozelle athletic
club. Smith’s wife declared that tattoo marks on the arm
as shown in a photo, corresponded with those on her husband’s
arm, though at first glance she was not clear about it.
Smith was a versatile person. It was stated at the inquest
that he had been engaged in building flats, but he was also
a boat engineer. One boat on which he worked was the
Pathfinder, owned by Reginald Holmes, a well-known slip-
owner and builder of luxury yachts. While Smith was on
the Pathfinder she was sunk in circumstances which aroused
remark. Insurance, it has been said in the box, was not
claimed.
On April 8 Smith disappeared. According to his wife’s
account, he said he was going to Cronulla to join a motor-
boat party. It has been deposed that a man who has been
in custody for weeks under the name of Brady had taken
a cottage there—the landlord said he recognised him in court
but knew him as Williams. On the afternoon of April 8
Brady (or Williams) and Smith, according to a barman at the
Arncliffe Hotel, were playing dominoes in the bar. A taxi-
driver said he had driven Brady and “another man” to
Cronulla on April 6. When the Cronulla cottage was vacated,
various articles were missing, the owner said, though they
might have been taken by anyone, and in a tin in the pantry
there was “a red substance which had a horrible stench.”
Mrs. Holmes was called. Her account was that Smith
had visited Holmes several times, and had received £5 from
him —borrowed it, Holmes said. Mrs. Holmes was under the
impression that Holmes owed Smith money. Brady, she
declared, also had received money from Holmes, having
visited his house several times —once early in April, and again
in the evening. He called again on April 26. Afterwards
Holmes asked his wife to send £5 to a Mr. “Jamieson”—she
asserts that “Jamieson” was Brady.
Her husband then went to Melbourne, returning on
May 6. On May 20, according to police statements, he
was seen to fall off a launch into Sydney Harbor, to
climb in again and go to his boatshed, and then to set
out for the Heads in a speedboat. Police gave chase, and
eventually he was persuaded to come on their boat. He was
found to have a bullet wound in his forehead —self-inflicted,
the police concluded, though Holmes persisted that it was
not.
At 10 minutes past one on the morning of June 12,
the day fixed for the opening of the inquest, at which he was
to be an important witness, Holmes was found dead. He had
been shot below the heart in his car in a lonely spot beside
the Harbor Bridge. No gun or pistol was found. There were
no signs of a struggle and, except for some blurred finger-
prints on a door and three empty revolver shells, no clues.
Stranger than anything the mystery-writers have invented
is the unfinished story which began with the shark that was
tangled in a set line.
♦
Legislation in Reverse.
If it were not tragic to see the money of the people
being wasted to provide an exciting game for a number
of middle-aged gentlemen, the proceedings of the Vic.
Assembly when the Financial Emergency Bill was
before it for re-enactment last week would make an
excellent basis for an Eddie Cantor or a Laurel and
Hardy comedy. The bill was sponsored by Mr.
Dunstan (U.C.P.). His former colleague, Mr. Kent
Hughes (U.A.P.), proposed the restoration of 25 per
cent, of civil-service cuts. The Government treated the
motion as one of no-confidence, and, with the assist-
ance of Labor, cast it out.
Had the Kent Hughes party been in power, the
restoration of that 25 per cent, would not have been
considered. The party would have fought to the last
ditch against sugh a flagrant violation of “the prin-
ciples of economy and sound finance.” Had Labor
been in office it would have been found battling for
restoration of the 25 p.c., and more. Because Labor
is now for Mr. Dunstan, it kicks its policy into the
gutter and jumps to his aid ; and because Mr. Kent
Hughes has fallen out with Mr. Dunstan he picks
up the discarded Labor policy and flaunts it as his
own. Such shameless hypocrisy could only be wit-
nessed in politics.
♦
The Case of Dr. Murray.
Dear Bulletin, —I read in the cable messages that
Dr. Murray has relinquished control of the Cancel-
Research Association, having reached the retiring age.
During a trip to England in 1903 I met Murray, who
had not long been qualified as a medical man, but
whose brilliancy as a student had led to his being
appointed a demonstrator in the institution which he
has just left.
From his friends I gathered Murray’s story.
He was one of those marvellous examples of Scottish
tenacity that nothing can stop. Starting without a
penny of his own or a penny he could obtain, he
took a humble job and contrived, by living on the
smell of an oil-rag and working every minute he
could snatch from his slumbers, to study medicine
and pay his fees. After years of this ordeal, he came
out on top, and gained the position, poorly paid
but full of opportunity, which he held when I met
him.
In London again 17 years later, I discovered
that Murray was now head and forefront of the big-
gest thing of its sort in the world. I called on him,
and he came out of his office bidding good-bye in
Spanish to a man and a woman who looked like
foreigners. “You speak Spanish now,” I ventured
after we had been talking for some time. “Yes,”
replied Murray, “I had to for this work. It’s
necessary to keep in touch with other countries, and
in my spare time I’ve had to learn to speak French,
German, Italian, Spanish” he reeled off a list of
languages so long that I’ve forgotten what they exactly
were. So much for Murray personally—a truly great
man.
But what of the public? Murray qualified
late in life, owing to economic handicaps. He has
to retire after, at most, 30 years of most valuable
research work. What sort of intelligence does our
civilisation reveal when it makes use of only 30
years of an exceptional man’s life when it might
have increased the range to 40 years by giving him
adequate facilities in his youth? Had Murray been
the son of a rich man and qualified at 22 or 23,
the additional time available for his researches might
have led to the conquest of cancer and to length of
days, free from suffering, to millions of people now
doomed. After all, the troubles of civilisation are
only what it deserves. —Yours etc., M. G.
*
Preference to Footballers.
Though it is not yet embodied in the industrial code,
things seem to be shaping in Melbourne towards
preference to footballers.
The Liquor Trades objected to non-union barmen
being employed in the St. Kilda pavilion. The club
stood pat until it was seen that there was_ a likelihood
of the Collingwood team —mostly unionists —refusing
to take the field against St. Kilda in a match which
was expected to return a big gate. Unionists in the
St. Kilda team, as well, seemed likely to down foot-
balls. So the club capitulated and the match was held,
bringing in many shekels.
Now the Trades Hall has discovered that 21
members of the Carlton cricket and football clubs are
employed by the Melbourne City Council, and
that five are not unionists. Players earning £3 a
week as footballers and £4 a week as municipal
employees should belong to unions, the Trades Hall
contends —implying, incidentally, that the men aimed
at were given their jobs, not because they had out-
standing qualifications for municipal work, but because
they were outstanding footballers.
Victoria is crazy about football, and for a genera-
tion it has been customary for a star footballer to
hold out for a lucrative billet before he will sign on
to play with some particular club. Sometimes an
enthusiastic businessman has made the necessary
vacancy, but more frequently it has been the Govern-
ment or some public body with club enthusiasts hold-
ing influential positions.
Collingwood is in a peculiarly strong position to
enforce “union principles.” It is one of the top teams
in the League competition, and its presence on a
ground ensures a big profit, not only to itself but
to the competing club and to the ground on which
the match is played. And its players will stand firmly
by what the union says. Every other club has its
proportion of unionists. Altogether, there is a prospect
of a merry scrap over employment before the season
ends, with the general public as the innocent by-
stander intercepting stray bullets.
o
The Tourist Trade.
“Ex-Exile”: One reason why France is in trouble is
that its tourist trade has slumped. The tourist trade in
nearly all countries is based chiefly on cheap money
and picturesque scenery and buildings. If the climate
is agreeable, and if there are facilities for sport, so
much the better. Monqy is cheaper in England, so
tourism is booming. Of course, there would be no
boom if the nation hadn’t pretty places to show.
The British are careful to preserve their ameni-
ties, as much for business as for aesthetic reasons.
A tremendous row is going on in the Essex
village of Writtle because a disfiguring knacker’s yard
has appeared in the neighborhood. The yard has its
uses, being designed for the slaughter of tuberculous
cattle; but where vandal hands touch an English
beauty-spot even sanitary considerations tend to be
ignored.
Australia has the beginnings of a remunerative
tourist industry. Our money is relatively cheap ; we
have many climates, most of them conspicuously
good, and there is plenty of sport. But nobody takes
any interest in the look of the place. Man has made
nature hideous all over the Blue Mountains. Also
along the coast north and south of Sydney. Narra-
been beach had a lovely fringe of palms ; they were
cut down to make way for mostly jerry-built cottages.
There was a theatrically perfect little valley, with
almost unspoiled beach, between Newport and
Avalon; the other day it acquired a quarry, and
became an eyesore. This kind of thing is happening
everywhere, and it is bad business besides being an
outrage to the beautiful.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Spica”: A Perth firm recently re-
ceived a letter from a manufacturer in
far-off Minnesota suggesting the open-
ing-up of business relations. It ended
thus:— ■
We enclose complete literature covering
our line, and in this instance apologise for
English print. However, due to irregular
conditions throughout the world for the
past three years, we have not gone to the
expense of printing literature in your
language, but are willing to do so provided
you think the market in your territory
would warrant it.
Now that Lyons is going to America he
might direct Ripley’s attention to the
fact that the Australian language is
English.
* * * *
“Pounce”: A quaint old legal usage
was mentioned in Melbourne the other
day when the jury panel at the law
courts ran out. It was suggested that the
Court should “pray a tales,” which
means that the sheriff’s officers can go
into the street and haul in the first
people encountered to make up the de-
ficiency of jurors. In this case the dis-
missal of another jury saved the situa-
tion. In the good old days when the
tales was a common form of procedure
there was a class of professional jurors
always in waiting about the doors of the
courts.
$ :J:
“Shellback”: The paragraph about
the 30-year-old casks of salt pork (B.
12/6/’35) wakes some old memories in
me. In 1908 I was shipmates with some
salt horse —beef in this case —that had
been invalided out of the R.N. because
of old age in 1877. We had to eat it,
and the fact that there was still a two-
year supply aboard the old barque
when I left hastened my departure. But
it certainly couldn’t have been used for
carving snuffboxes and paper-weights—-
the stuff could be ground to powder be-
tween finger and thumb. The ship traded
regularly to Newcastle; the tugboat
skippers swore they could tell when she
was 500 miles away by the smell of the
salt horse cooking.
* * * *
“D.”: Apparently George Arliss has
a movie mission to prove that the most
cynical of England’s historical charac-
ters were pure, kind and fairly awash
with sentimentalism. In accordance with
this formula he has done Dizzy (who
married a rich widow to avoid bank-
ruptcy) ; Clive (undoubtedly as corrupt
as his accusers said he was), and Wel-
lington, who despised his men and chased
the girls assiduously almost to the day
of his death. I am expecting Wilkes
shortly as an uxorious husband who pre-
sents his adoring wife with a flower and
a courtly bow and kiss every morning ;
romps with children on the floor of the
Hell Fire Club, and breaks down and
sobs in the great sequence in which the
printers of the “North Briton” arrive
as a deputation to say they will stand by
their beloved old master to the death.
❖ * * *
“P.M.”: This periodical sling-off at
field officers who are accused of dodging
the firing line ignores one essential
point. The Great War was largely a
scientific affair, and every technical man
had his job to do. I served in the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps, and 1 have had to
answer many silly gibes as to why 1
didn’t go up to the front line. Our C.O.
was a capable administrator (one of the
“field officers” “10-2-4” prattles about),
and he is a permanent staff colonel
to-day. When there were vacancies for
flying officers he called for volunteers,
and usually over half the complement of
220 mechanics lined up. One corporal
1 knew paraded specially to the C.O.
“ Darling, Would you mind if your little popsy-Wopsy didn't go on the
honeymoon with you?”
and asked why he was never picked for
a commission. The reply was; “You are
a competent fitter; a fitter takes a six-
year apprenticeship to train ; a pilot can
be trained in three months. I can’t afford
to lose good engineers.”
❖ H* sfc
“Fiona”: A judicial investigation into
industrial conditions in Sydney has made
public the fact that many a young woman
wears her stockings inside out. This has
been the habit of the smart flapper for
many moons. Her contention is that
poor stockings look good, and good
better, when worn in reverse. As the
poorer quality in hosiery is apt to have
whiskers round the seams inside, the en-
terprising damsels carefully pare the
fringes off, when 2s. lid. can be worn to
look like 7s. 6d. Another thing a B.Y.T.
wears inside out is the hand-knitted
jumper, which provides a diversion in
stitch when worn the other way round
for a change. The modern miss may
have her limitations, but they don’t have
to do with clothes.
* * % *
“El V.”: The efforts of various
authorities to prescribe a bathing-suit
which will not shock the public con-
science (B. 12/6/’35) remind me of our
troubles with the black ladies of the
Cooper (Q.). Though Mother Hubbards
were provided for them, they were
as likely as not to hang their garments
on the kitchen nail, to the grave scandal
of the station missus. At length the boss,
visiting Brisbane, saw the new red-
coated Salvation Army uniform of the
period—glaring enough to enchant the
native mind. Back he came in triumph ;
and, next week being race week and the
local aristocracy having gathered at the
station for an opening dinner, Manny
and Goanna, the two housemaids, were
inducted into hallelujah garments, which
they received with rapture. The guests
assembled round the festive board, and
to them presently came Marmy and
Goanna bearing marrow bones. Con-
versation stopped, and the male guests
politely looked at the ceiling. For our
handmaidens had both shown themselves
daughters of compromise. They had
their red coats on, certainly. But below
those garments nothing was to be seen
but long, lank, bare expanses of Marmy
and Goanna.
* * * $
“October”: I notice that a meeting of
apiarists in Sydney is advocating the
further employment of honey by utilising
it as the basis for spirit and for various
drinks. The noble old Saxon tipple mead
is made from honey, but it hardly
measures up to the standards of the Tem-
perance Alliance as a beverage for a hot
day. It has a pleasing flavor, and does not
go down as if there were any after-results
looming, but the “head” following on an
overdose becomes a lifelong memory.
Metheglin, or honey-beer, I have never
encountered. It is said to have been
originally compounded by the Piets from
the honey-bearing heads of the heather-
plant, which no doubt explains the fond-
ness for “the bonny heather” frequently
expressed in song at Caledonian dinners.
Like mead, the stuff is brewed in odd
corners of Britain.
* t- *
“W.E.F.”: Not only Old Masters may
sometimes be picked up cheap (B.
12/6/’35). Walking along an East Syd-
ney street I saw an original Phil May in
a second-hand shop. Entering, I asked
the price. “Two and six, and this goes
with it,” responded the proprietor, as he
fished a grimy and valueless engraving
from a shelf. I took both, and left with
the assurance, “You’re getting a bargain ;
the frames alone are worth five bob.”
The same day an art dealer gave me six
guineas for the Phil May, and he dis-
posed of it later for twice that figure.
=1; * ie *
“Scaevola”: Most persons regard with
aversion the prospect of having their
finger-prints taken, but few would go
to the lengths recorded at a Syd-
ney police station the other day. There
was a bright fire burning in the charge-
sergeant’s room, and the delinquent (up
for some minor offence), thrust noth
hands into the blazing coals and held
them there until he was dragged
away. Unfortunately for himself, his
stoicism availed him little ; though most
of his fingertips were badly seared, two
of them had escaped sufficiently to fui-
nish what are described as “satisfactory
prints.”
“General Prac.”: The man who plunged
both hands into a fire overlooked one
fact. Although skin is easily destroyed
by accident or of set purpose, the re-
sulting scars and deformities are just as
distinctive as the prints themselves would
be. Accident apart, the loops, whorls
and arches on our fingers change very
little between the cradle and the grave. Jt
used to be said, as an objection to this
method of identification, that heavy
work, such as bricklaying, played Old
Harry with the markings, and enabled
criminals to dodge the police, but none
of the authorities attaches much weight to
that objection now. Anyhow, few
criminals with any respect for themselves
ever toil at any job likely to damage the
most sensitive parts of their fingers.
:Jc >}e
“Historicus” explains:
there is more than meets the eye in the
Edinburgh demonstration against Joe Lyons.
It certainly was not wholly anti-Catholic, for
Scotland has staunch Catholics whom it has
delighted to honor in recent years. For ex-
ample, the late Lord Lovat, chief of the Clan
Fraser, who raised and commanded Lovat’s
Scouts and part of the Highland United
Brigade; the Marquis of Bute, president of the
Bute Territorial Assoc, and Lord-Lieutenant of
Buteshire; the Earl of Granard, a Lieut.-
Colonel (ret.) in the Scots Guards; Lord Sem-
pill, president of the Royal Aeronautical
Society and member of the Royal National
Lifeboat Assoc, (predominantly Scottish organi-
sations) and Major-General Sir Walter Scott,
of Abbotsford, who joined a Scottish regular
regiment 40 years ago, and commanded the
52nd (Lowland) Division till last year. He is
a member of the King’s Bodyguard in Scot-
land. One of the real objections to Joseph
was stated; demonstrators thought he was an
emissary of the British Empire League, which
nationalist Scots hate. Then he is of Hibernian
descent and has been Labor most of the time.
Councillor Cormack belongs to a conservative
Glasgow family, and persons suspected of
either Hibernianism or Laborism are as un-
popular among Glaswegian as they are among
Belfast Tories.
* * * *
“Morita”: Plunge baths or showers
were rarely encountered in France or
Flanders. Near Estaires I noticed a
chateau where a small fortune must have
been spent modernising the huge kitchen,
but bathtubs were still carted around the
bedrooms when they were wanted. At
Cassel I once had to report to an officer's
quarters. He was billeted in a private
school, and one of the schoolmarms per-
sonally escorted me up the stairs so that
I could wait for him in his room. “He’ll
be back soon,” she said, and opened the
door —to disclose the said officer attempt-
ing to bathe in a ridiculously small tin
dish, while the bath-water slopped
everywhere in his efforts to camouflage
himself. The homes that sold us hot
baths, at about a franc a time, didn’t
have permanent fixtures —just portable
bathtubs they filled with buckets.
* * * *
“9th Batt.”: “Shep’s” medical sheet in
the old paybook (B. 5/6/’35) may have
missed cholera inoculations, but we got
two issues on the Peninsula in June,
1915. The lump on the arm was a shade
larger than usual; otherwise there was
little inconvenience: certainly I don’t
remember anyone flopping down in the
front line under the ordeal. As we
were doing two hours on lookout and
four hours off, and “Jacko” was never
far away, I suppose we had more to
occupy our minds.
* * * *
“Vic”: “Fiona’s” Maoriland flappers
(B. 12/6/’35) remind me of an old
friend. He arrived in a Queensland
town with a dray, two goats, a
wife and a brood whom he intro-
duced to the school roll as the Honor-
able Michael, the Honorable Patsy, the
Honorable Mehitabel and so on for half
a sheet of foolscap. Loud protests being
heard, the fond father of the young
aristocrats blandly produced their birth
certificates, which showed that they had
all been christened in their titles. Our
head teacher, a persistent person whose
own name was Hezekiah, was not satis-
fied —he pointed out the ridicule that
would be brought on the poor children,
and vainly pleaded with their parent to
consider their futures. Long afterwards,
a retort stalked into the schoolroom in
the form of a new six-year-old with
the startling moniker Prophet Hezekiah
Kekewich O’Flaherty! Incidentally, none
of the titled offspring seemed to suffer
anything worse at the hands of their
fellows than being nicknamed “Honey.”
But as the eldest, who became a pros-
perous selector before he died as a
prisoner of war on the way to Alton
Karahissar, remarked to me once: “It
was very convenient for the wife.”
THE OLD MAN OF THE SEA.
“The Old Man of the Sea. begged Sindbad the
Sailor to carry him across a brook on his shoulders,
and refused to get down when firmly fixed there.
Sindbad only shook him oil by making him drunk.
Often used figuratively.”— Webster.
I’m Labor’s Old Man of the Sea,
And it hasn’t a hope to get rid
Of my staggering load
By adopting the mode
That Sindbad the mariner did.
I’m Boss by the junta’s decree,
And critics can take it from me
I’m going to prove
Much harder to move
Than Sindbad’s Old Man of the Sea.
As light as a limpet I cling,
1 stick like a tick or a burr
To the billet assured
1 adroitly secured
When Dooley was fighting McGirr.
Twelve years 1 have handled the key
To what tarts in the shop there may be.
And I’ll lay I’m more hard
To dislodge or discard
Than Sindbad’s Old Man of the Sea.
Though I booted one Cabinet out,
Though I’ve severed the party in twain,
Though we’re downed at the polls
Like a hundred of coals
Again and again and again,
The Gardens and Baddeleys agree
Their crowd must still bow me the knee
And struggle along
.Without making a song
About their Old Man of the Sea.
I’m Labor’s Old Man of the Sea;
I’ve still got the mob by the wool,
Though, I frankly confess,
It’s largely my press
That gives me my punch and my pull.
But my £ and my s. and my d.
Are an equally safe guarantee
Twill take something to shift
Me or cast me adrift
As Labor’s Old Man of the Sea.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nifty”: The other day a Sydney
sneak-thief made off with a parcel
of dead rats which a municipal rat-
catcher had neglected to keep an eye
on while he was reading the paper in
an office basement. It recalls a yarn
told me by an Australian who had en-
listed towards the end of the Boer War.
He had been a freelance ratcatcher in
Sydney during a plague outbreak, when
rats fetched 6d. a head. One hot Saturday
he just missed cashing a big bag of his
spoil before the office closed. He took
them home to his Surry Hills boarding-
house and stowed the bag beneath the
bed in a room which he shared with
three other men. Late that night there
were profane remarks about the drains,
and by dinner-time on Sunday the posi-
tion had become impossible. His hoard
was discovered, and he, with it, was
hurled into the street. He sat in a park
to windward of his property all Sunday
night, and then came the crowning blow.
The rat cashier chokingly pronounced his
currency inflated and non-negotiable.
“Spare Surplice”: I met many Bush
Brothers (B. 29/5/’35) in my young day*
on stations, and
conceived a genuine
liking for them.
That they knew no-
thing of local con-
ditions didn’t worry
them; they were
out to impart
knowledge in their
line and equally
eager to pick up a
bit from us in out-
line. One fellow,
little more than a
boy and bubbling
over with youthful
spirits, was having
his first ride. After
mounting, he
pointed to the
breastplate on an-
other horse, and
said plaintively; “1
haven’t got one of
those things theah.”
We got him one,
and fixed it. A
crupper on an-
other saddle in-
trigued him next,
and he wanted one
of those things,
too. We got it.
But there was not
a crupper - staple
on his saddle, and
we tried to explain
to him that it could
not be fastened. He
nodded thought-
fully ; still, he did
want that crupper, even if there wasn’t a
staple. Struck by a sudden thought,
he ran his finger through the back of his
belt and suggested “Why not fasten it
on to heah?”
❖ 'I- % %
“L.V.”: Mankind always loves to
watch the other fellow in action, whether
at work or play. Womankind, too ; and
apparently it even extends to newspaper
routine. Anyhow, two flappers entered
the Melbourne “Argus” office the other
day. “Will you tell us where the re-
porters are,” they asked the liftman
earnestly, “and do you think we could
see them at work?”
* * * *
“Cave Canem”: A magistrate has ruled
that a dog may kill a neighbor’s cat with-
out the killer’s owner incurring any liabil-
ity. The venue was Grafton (N.S.W.);
the animals were a greyhound and
a Persian, For the defence it was
argued that the hostility between dogs
and cats was proverbial, and as the
hound was merely “obeying a natural im-
pulse” there was nothing to support legal
action. The beak, after consulting authori-
ties, concurred ; dogs, he said, had been
given a favored position in law, and an
owner was not responsible for mischief
done by the animal in following its
common instincts. This may be good
law, but a much older axiom of juris-
prudence lays it down that there is no
wrong without a remedy, and in this case
there wasn’t any doubt about the wrong.
As for domesticated animals being held
free from blame for following their
natural instincts, I can’t help wondering
if the same immunity would apply to a
cat which wandered over the fence and
raided an inadequately protected aviary.
“D.” on a Super-romance:-
According to the “S. M. Herald”:
Douglas Fairbanks arrived at Thursday
Island in the palatial million-dollar yacht
Caroline, accompanied by Lady Ashley
and Miss Maureen Carew (chaperon).
It is edifying to picture the chaperon at her
duties. The young people are whispering on
the boat deck in the shadows cast by a tropic
moon when Miss Carew looms. “Now, then,
my dear, it’s ten o’clock, and quite time you
came down to bed. Think how people would
talk if you were seen up here after ‘lights
out’!” Lady Ashley blushes shyly. “Five
minutes more. Please !” “Not another second.
Definitely.” “Aw! Cummawn! Givvus a
break, Miss Baloo,” pleads Mr. Fairbanks,
but half-heartedly, for he knows it is hopeless.
Or the yacht has reached a port and they are
trying to sneak off for a stroll. Alone. Ah,
the magic of it ! The implacable duenna joins
them. Their delicious dream fades.
Apparently the small boys of Thursday Island
remembered that Mr. Fairbanks is in his late
fifties, Lady Ashley in her middle thirties.
The “S. M. Herald” says the urchins
“barracked the travellers.” How characteristic
of the youth of to-day! We who are the con-
temporaries of Mr. Fairbanks can have nothing
but reverence for his latest attempt to bring
the conventions of the Victorian era to Holly-
wood.
“Hamer”: Although a waratah man
myself (B. 5/6/’35), I think it worth a
mention that Australia’s first composer,
Isaac Nathan, was solid for the wattle.
Nathan was a friend of Byron, whose
Hebrew melodies he set to music. His
songs and operas had a vogue in England,
but financial embarrassments sent him
to Australia. He died in Sydney at the
age of 71 through an accident in Pitt-
street, being run down by one of the
early horse trams. Nathan’s songs “The
“Your husband, Mrs. Tyke?”
“Oh, no —just a friend !”
Golden Wattle,” “Land of Sun and
Wattle” and others introducing the
yellow bloom showed that he recognised
no possible rival to the wattle as a
national emblem.
“Joker”: These Income Tax Depart-
ments give nothing away. From Jan.
to June I was in Queensland. From
June to December 1 was in the N.T.
In neither case did I earn for State taxa-
tion, though the two together made a
Federal liability. I sent in my return,
and found that the State had assessed me
on my year’s income. I thought 1 had
the laugh on it when I wrote to point
out that half of my income had been
earned outside the State, but all I got
was a curt intimation to pay first and
protest later. The cheque for £4-odd, in-
clusive of exchange, went by return. It
took me a shade over 12 months to get
that bit of dough returned to me, and
when it did come it was minus exchange
and the duty stamp had to be affixed by
me.
* * ❖ *
“Tenth Brigade”: The “British Cabi-
net appointments as approved by the
King” contain a lesson in military man-
ners for Australia. The only Minister
who sports a military title on the official
list is the P.M.G., Major Tryon. He got
no decoration either in S’Africa or the
World War, but he was a regular, having
gone from Sandhurst to the Grenadiers
in 1890. On the other hand, “the Min-
ister for Agriculture (Mr. Walter Elliott)”
was a major with M.C. and bar ; “the
Minister for Labor (Mr. Ernest Brown)”
was a captain with M.C. ; “the President
of the Board of Education (Mr. Oliver
Stanley)” was a major with M.C. and C.
de G., and so on. All the younger
Cabinet Ministers served, with the excep-
tion of Malcolm MacDonald (Secretary
for the Colonies), who was only 13 when
the war began, and Lord Eustace Percy
(Minister without portfolio); all were
“given leave by the King to use their
retiring ranks,” as the saying goes ; and
all have obeyed the law and only use
their temporary, territorial or militia
titles at functions where they are en-
titled to put up their war medals. Some
Australian politicians set a good example
in this respect. The Assist. Treasurer
is Mr. R. G. Casey when he asks for
subscriptions to a loan, and only Major
Casey, D. 5.0., M.C., when he dines at
Government House or attends a military
function.
* * :1c *
“Exdig”: Billy Hughes, talking to a
gathering of veterans of wars which did
not know the wholesale flying iron-
mongery of the last one, said, in effect,
that it look more courage to face cold
steel than flying shell-pieces. Yet I sus-
pect that if Billy had ever faced either
he would have decided that any form
of warfare was preferable to sitting
under heavy barrages, never knowing
how close the next shell was going to
drop. Even in a hop-over it was the
fear of the shells that was uppermost;
once you got moving the blood warmed,
and there was a certain amount of for-
getfulness of everything but the job on
hand. In the pitched battles of antiquity,
with their set clashes, half an army might
be wiped out; but if the average soldier
had his choice he would probably prefer
a war fought with arrows and spears to
the modern soul-searing shells and poison
gas, endured with the blood cold.
* TT „ * , /; : . * ,
\ee H. : Add to the artisans and
who 'don t get holidays (B.
22/5/ 35) that necessary band of post-
masters and postmistresses in charge of
what the department terms “non-official”
offices. Christmas Day and Good Friday
are the only days I can stay in bed and
ignore ’phone rings and the public. If
you are foolish enough to get ill you
must employ a relieving p.m. at your
own expense and responsibility. A great
fife for those who see it out! ’
* * * *
“Becks”: Mention of Royalist activi-
ties in France recalls that the monarch-
ists are still a force, though the Republic
has been in existence for over 60 years,
The last of the senior branch of the
Bourbon family, Henry, Count de Cham-
bord, whose foolish insistence on “Divine
Right” lost him his chance of the throne
after the Franco-Prussian War, died in
1883. The succession, for whatever it
is worth, passed to the Orleans branch,
of which the Duke of Guise is the
present head. His position, however, is
something of an anomaly, seeing that he
can only boast one king of France among
his forebears since 1643: Louis Philippe,
1830-1848, The Orleans family is
descended from Philip, Duke of Orleans,
a younger brother of Louis XIV. Actu-
ally, the Duke of Guise is not the nearest
in the direct line —the Spanish Bourbons,
ex-King Alphonso and his son, also the
remnants of the Neapolitan and Parmese
Bourbons, are all nearer. But these are
descendants of Philip V. of Spain, grand-
son of Louis XIV., who was placed on
the Spanish throne by the latter, and
forfeited his rights to the French succes-
sion by the Treaty of Utrecht.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Melbourne “Argus” is con-
ducting a referendum to decide the re-
spective popularity of Gilbert and Sulli-
van’s operas ; “Yeoman of the Guard”
leads at time of writing, with “The
Mikado” a good second. Unexpected
interest has been roused by the approach-
ing revivals, and newspaper correspon-
dents are taking their operas very seri-
ously, many expressing righteous hopes
that the comedians will refrain from
clowning the parts, as they have been
getting into the habit of doing. The
excuse that the plays as written are out
of date is not borne out by a study of
them. I have been looking over the
librettos, and find that there are very few
lines which mightn’t have been written
to-day. In “lolanthe,” for instance, the
only archaic references 1 could find were
to the Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill and
the assertion that everybody was either
a Liberal or a Conservative. “Patience”
is the only opera built on a forgotten
theme.
“G r e yhound” :
Whatever it may
have been once, I
fancy the job of
King’s Messenger
(B. 12/6/’35) is far
from what the
fancy of Oppen-
he i m and L e
Queux used to
paint it. The tele-
graph killed the
last element of
romance conected
with it. A family
friend who had
been a K.M. for
years loved to tell
of what he con-
sidered the most
important job ever
entrusted to him.
His regular run
was from Vienna
to London, and
on the return jour-
ney he always had
to come by way of
Strasbourg. There
one of the familiar
yellow bags was
always handed to
him with strict in-
junctions not to let
it out of his sight.
It was always ad-
dressed personally
to Albert Edward,
Prince of Wales.
For years my
friend wondered
what the sacred
trust was. One
day he found out
it was a super-
variety of pale de
foie gras, made
specially in small quantities for H.R.H.
and dispatched frequently so as to ensure
its freshness.
“Vic”: Australia has achieved a repu-
tation for sanctity with the issue of the
new Methodist hymnbook, drawn from
the church songs of eight languages and
composed by religionists of several
Christian sects plus one Buddhist.
Twelve hymns by Australians have been
included.
* * *
“Ex-Cavalryman”: Touching military
titles, “Second Divvy” says that a D. 5.0.,
an M.C. and war medals would look
comical with a wig and gown (B.
12/6/’35). But why should they look any
more comical with a wig and gown than
with a cassock and surplice? I have
seen ex-padres sporting them in their
uniform.
•f* •!’ 'i' •!'
“M.G.”: Numerous purists who de-
nounce Americanisms in the bulk, how-
ever pungent or expressive, have fallen
victims to the worst verbal abomination
that ever emanated from Yankeeland —
the use of the word “loan” as a verb. In
English loan is a noun—something that
is lent, not “loaned” ; yet we find sup-
posedly educated people and proponent
newspapers referring to “loaning” money
and goods. One of these days I expect
to see some professor of English litera-
ture refer to Shylock as a “moneyloaner.”
A FRATERNAL FORECAST.
I know I’m not perfection —
I hear it day and night;
I’m used to such correction,
For that’s a sister’s right.
Why wear myself to tatters?
My chance to please is slim;
In everything that matters
I can’t compare with him.
For when he comes to visit,
And she’s as sweet as sweet,
Is it his due? Or is it
There’s truth in my conceit
That when they’ve been united
His daily lot will be
To hear each day recited
The way ’twas done by me ?
VICTORIA.
A. G. B.


“I have smoked 44,000 during the past j
years and have never suffered any
throat trouble”
Try Craven “A.” Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour;
their freshness and freedom from all irritation. Carreras con-
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—-the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
CRAVENA
J 1944M/A
as
POLITICAL POINTS
McLachlan, the P.M.G., is out with a
plan for aerial carriage of mails and pas-
sengers between the mainland capitals
that will cut the Melbourne-Sydney and
Sydney-Brisbane schedules down to
hours. It will have to come (though the
Speck mustn’t be left out), but isn’t it
inconsistent with the Government’s other
plan for building a railway somewhere
—apparently anywhere will do—in Mc-
Lachlan’s State? And won’t it conflict
with all the State Transport Strangula-
tion Acts?
Three of the Brisbane aldermen, who
get £3OO p.a., have become Labor
Assemblymen at £5OO p.a. By order of
the party executive they are to be privi-
leged to hang on to both salaries, though,
if Assemblymen work as hard as is
alleged, they can’t do justice to both
jobs. Besides, “one man one job” is
supposed to be a Labor principle. But
when principle clashes with expediency
it is generally principle that takes the
count.
Swollen customs and excise receipts
have enabled Canberra to show a credit
balance of £1,300,000 for 11 months ; so
another surplus is now assured. But
the taxpayers are to get no relief, though
relief is urgently necessary. Instead of
going for redistribution of functions
which would admit of the States paying
their way, Canberra has drifted more
and more into the bad habit of supplying
them with tax-money (loans, of course,
as well) for expenditure at their
own sweet will. And who spends easy
money wisely when there is no obliga-
tion to render accounts?
“The central administrative staffs of
four Federal departments,” Commerce,
Auditor - General’s, Bankruptcy and
Prime Minister’s (“development branch”),
are to be moved from Melbourne to
Canberra. There they will be out of
touch with 99.9 per cent, of the people
who need their services—although only
antiquarians are interested in the
“development branch” but Canberra
tradespeople must be placated somehow.
The matter-of-fact Afrikanders have a
legislative seat, Cape Town, and a seat of
government, Pretoria, each a living city;
and the arrangement works admirably.
But the makers of their Union were not
bemused with American precedents.
American precedents may be the ruin of
us.
How these Government clerks increase
and multiply! In other days Australia
had no Premier’s department. Now they
are all over the place, each with an
Under-Secretary on the four-figure mark
and a secretary of his own. In Sydney
last week a gentleman in the Premier’s
department was appointed Special
Assistant to the Under-Secretary, on the
grade next to the Assistant Under-
secretary. The announcement was made
simultaneously with the revelation that
the State accounts for the 11 months
showed “excess expenditure, £2,549,200.”
“To assist the Victorian Railway
Commissioners to develop co-ordinated
carriage of goods,” the State Transport
Strangulation Board has delicensed all
commercial motor vehicles plying be-
tween Melbourne and the Riverina. One
man alone has 25 lorries on the route ;
he employs 30 drivers, and, unlike the
Railway Department, is a substantial con-
tributor to the revenue in respect of
registration fees, income tax and petrol
tax. If these road transport services
were not necessary and efficient they
would not have prospered. But, as the
Act stands, a word spoken by a non-
elected person can snuff them out.
At the beginning of the week the Dun-
stan Government was meditating an
amendment of the Transport Regulation
Act to remove the strangulation powers
of the board and save the Riverina trade
for Victoria. It means a quarrel with
the Labor party, which can’t stand up
to the railwaymen’s union ; but the queer
allies were bound to quarrel some time.
Detestable forms of sweating are prac-
tised in the name of transport. Hobart
has municipal tramways on which one
man is expected to collect fares from
and look after the lives of scores of pas-
sengers. A driver-conductor found by
an inspector with only 81 passengers on
his caravan was scolded because it was
not full; next day he packed it with 110.
Sydney, for its part, has one-man Gov-
ernment buses that career fully-loaded
down steep streets. When the smash
occurs the driver-conductor will no doubt
be the one to stand in the dock if he
hasn’t been driven to the cemetery.
Drought has already had such an
effect on Queensland wool supplies that
sales fixed for the last week in June are
to be reduced from four days to three.
“Now that the secession question is disposed of”.... —Westralian Premier Collier, who
took it up and sent the secesh delegates and the secesh petition to London.
“Now, don't you go trying any of those Monte Christo tricks.”
There will be a shortage of 15,000 bales.
The trifling circumstance is not expected
to deter Labor from pushing on with the
great programme of loan works it has
arranged for Brisbane.
The one good deed done at the recent
Loan Council meetings was adoption of
the principle of the uniform taxation law
for which Acting-Treasurer Casey has
been working. But it may be years be-
fore action is placed at the service of the
principle. Forgan Smith has undertaken
to bring in an early measure, but
Dwyer-Gray pleads that his Government
will be too busy with other matters —
loan matters principally.
Vic. politicians and newspapermen
who went scaremongering about the
alleged prevalence of beef measles
on the sewage farm at Werribee are
not quite so certain now that the
country will be eternally grateful to
them. Refused permission to send
fats to market, the Metropolitan Board
has lost £31,000 on cattle boiled
down —before the scare was raised the
farm used to return £50,000 p.a. If
it has to be sold —it stands in the books
at £1,200,000 —the board may lose a mil-
lion. Meanwhile, a penny is to go on
the rates.
Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution (“Trade, commerce and inter-
course among the States.... shall be
absolutely free”) threatens to be even
more prolific of litigation than Subsection
xxxv of Section 51 (“Conciliation and
arbitration for the prevention and settle-
ment of industrial disputes extending be-
yond the limits of any one State”). The
High Court has decided that it doesn’t
bind the Commonwealth in respect of
the marketing of dried fruits—in effect,
that a Commonwealth Minister can
require a man to send portion of his
dried-fruits output overseas as a condi-
tion of his being allowed entry to
markets in Australian States other than
his own. It is expected that the thing
will go to the Privy Council, along with
a litter of transport cases.
Details of the Commonwealth elec-
tions, belatedly collected in a pamphlet
issued last week, confirm the impression
that the U.A.P. bosses, by not contesting
the Newcastle by-election, made a present
of the seat to the younger Watkins.
Senate figures show that 17,155 votes
were cast in Newcastle for the U.A.P.-
U.C.P. ticket (Abbott, Courtenay and
Dein), and 14,882 for the Lang-Labor
three (Dunn, Mooney and Rae). That
was in September, and State elections
giving the U.A.P.-U.C.P. 61 seats to
Lang Labor’s 29 intervened. Yet Bligh-
street hadn’t the nous or the pluck to
run a man against Lang Labor.
In Brisbane and Sydney alike, racing
clubs complain of the falling-off in atten-
dances and takings because of broad-
casting and s.-p. betting, and are implor-
ing the State Governments to do some-
thing. State Governments can do little ;
the Federal authorities, who broadcast
descriptions of races and let s.-p. law-
breakers have as many telephones as
they want, could do much. Because they
will do nothing an increasingly large
part of the population spends its Satur-
day afternoons hanging round pubs and
s.-p. joints listening to racing broadcasts,
and betting in between.
Italians are infuriated at British oppo-
sition to their policy in Abyssinia, and
one excited editor has had his news-
paper suppressed for suggesting that,
while keen on slugging the Ethiopian, his
country would rather bash Bull. Britain s
attitude is influenced, not only _by a
desire to preserve world peace, which an
Italo-Abyssinian war would menace, but
by memories of its own African cam-
paigns. It had trouble enough with the
Zulus and Sudanese when they were
mostly spearmen, and can imagine what
they would be like with modern rifles,
machine-guns and artillery. All these
implements the Abyssinians possess,
along with a difficult terrain.
Compared with 1933-34, S.A. wheat
production declined last season from
35,373,400 bushels to 27,455,600, and the
acre-average from 9.26 to 8.61. Good-
rainfall districts made far and away the
best showing: Stanley returned 3,751,000
bushels averaging 16.08, Daly 3,883,152
(13.34), Fergusson 2,375,700 (17.83),
Victoria 2,743,000 (14.79), Light
1,501,700 (16.4), Buckingham 414,400
(20.97). All have had double-figure
averages for four years, whereas districts
beyond Goyder’s Line or near it have
never once reached 10 bushels: last year
Dufferin’s was 1.40, Robinson’s 2.38,
Le Hunte’s 2.99, Buxton’s 3.60, New-
castle’s 1.43, Granville’s 0.25 and
Hanson’s .003. Settlers trying to grow
wheat in these remote parts are being car-
ried by the taxpayers, and it can’t go on.
“Mossy” Hynes, the Queensland
Minister of Labor, protests that “our
worst critics” ought to “give us credit
for the way we are coping with unem-
ployment. We are encouraging local
authorities to borrow.” They require
precious little encouragement. Brisbane
alone is borrowing £1,400,000 this year
for “works,” and is to get another half
a million, also borrowed, from the Gov-
ernment. Withal, it has vast plans for
“supplying electricity to towns along the
N. S. W. North Coast.”
Although Australia has not ratified the
Statute of Westminster, the Privy Coun-
cil decision that the statute removes
the Imperial Parliament’s right of veto on
Free State laws evidently applies to all
the Dominions. But it doesn’t neces-
sarily apply to Australian States, and it
probably won’t require the rewriting of
lines “kept standing in the N.S.W. Year-
book”
The Imperial Parliament is legally om-
nipotent in 10ca1... .affairs, and.... may
exercise effective control over the affairs
of the State by direct legislation. Im-
perial legislation forms the basis of the
existing [State] Constitution.
That Constitution is not embodied
wholly in the State Constitution Act,
nor does it wholly derive from the Com-
monwealth Constitution Act. It is drawn
in part from the Colonial Laws Validity
Act, and the N.S.W. Parliament cannot
pass laws in spite of that measure,
although Dail Eireann can.
“F.P.”: What Customs Minister White
said to the Melbourne Constitutional
Club was:
A reasonable tariff, based on Protection
and fair trade, is preferable to any un-
desirable extremes of Freetrade or prohibi-
tion.
“G.M.” (B. 5/6/’35), who made it “a
moderate course between Freetrade and
Protection,” could not have been present
when the address was given. He should
not be so ready to criticise a policy that
has proved beneficial to the Common-
wealth, nor a good Australian, who
for three years has successfully held
down the most difficult portfolio in the
Ministry.


NATURAL INSTINCTS, OR MURDER WILL OUT.
"A Grafton (N.S.W.) case in which the owner of a cat claimed damages from the owner of a dog that had killed it was dismissed on the ground that the dog was
merely following its natural instincts.”


FD
FDF
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M J Rvan Eso •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jollv, Esq., C.M.G " ’ ’
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
f or the transaction of all general banking business.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining- security and experience
with efficient administration.
Writs for explanatory Booklet, sent free , on request
O. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors-.
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
J. 11. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Both the doctors who attended Law-
rence of Arabia in his dying moments
are Australians. Dr. Hope Gosse is
a son of Dr. John Gosse, of Wallaroo,
and Dr. Cairns a 1916 Rhodes scholar
(S. Aus.).
Victoria’s new County Court Judge,
W. H. Magennis, was Scotch College’s
champion athlete, and he proved to be
no mean horseman afterwards. He was
master of the Oaklands Hunt for some
years, and he has ridden winners across
country.
The Rev. A. T. Holden, president-
general of the Methodist Church, has
held all the highest positions available to
a minister of his faith in Australia. He
was a padre in the South African War
and senior Methodist chaplain in the
A.I.F. A C.8.E., he received the Free-
dom of the City of London in 1932.
Charlie Powers, who has died while on
holiday in London, was a son of the
former High Cburt Judge. He was born
and educated in Brisbane, and joined the
Adelaide law firm of Frank Fisher and
Culross about 30 years ago. He did
most of the Commonwealth’s work in
S.A., and he had as junior partner State
Attorney-General Jeffries.
Dead at Wynyard (n.-w. Tas.) at 80,
James Belton was Minister for Lands
and Works in Lyons’s 1923 Cabinet. He
served under the late John Earle as
Lands, Works and Agriculture chief
from 1914 to 1916. Belton began life
at Talbot (Vic.), where he farmed and
ran a timber mill. He never wore a tie
in his life. He claimed that his profuse
beard rendered such an ornament super-
fluous.
John James Virgo, in Australia on
his tenth world tour in the interests of
the organisation to which he has devoted
his life, is chairman of the British Com-
monwealth Union and National Field
Secretary of the Y.M.C.A. A Glenelg
(S.A.) native, he linked up in 1886 with
the Red Triangle in Adelaide, and was
general secretary there for 14 years. A
VIRGO, of the Y.M.C.A.
similar appointment in Sydney followed,
and when a call came from London he
was the head of the movement in Aus-
tralia. He got a C.B.E. in TB,
From “Up 400, Shoot”:
Thousands of Aussies will grieve to know
that “Freddy” Dreyer—otherwise Admiral Sir
F. C. Dreyer, K.C.8., C.B. (twice), C.8.E.,
Ph.D., D.Sc., R.N. C. in C. on the China
station—is seriously ill. Apart from having held
most of the big R.N. jobs and having been
Jellicoe’s Chief of Staff at Jutland, Dreyer is
famous as an inventor. Deep down in the
vitals of every British battleship lies a gleaming
monster of steel and brass known as a Dreyer
range table. It looks like a cross between a
rotary printing press and a tote, and its job is
to integrate gunnery data. Surrounded by a
team of humans, it grinds out ranges, rates and
deflections for the guns. To see and hear the
crew of a Dreyer table in action is to acquire
a new conception of the meaning of the
term “Silent Navy.” Dreyer visited Australia
in 1919 as Jellicoe’s Chief of Staff in the New
Zealand.
Rabbi E. M. Levy, the new chief
minister of the Great Synagogue, Syd-
ney, comes from South Africa, where he
was minister of the Durban Hebrew
Congregation. A graduate of the Jews’
College, London,
and of Oxford Uni-
versity, he is also
a barrister of the
Middle Temple,
and has practised
journalism. His
orations at the
Durban Jewish
Club on Nazi anti-
Semitism were
widely followed
throughout South
Africa. He also
earned praise for
his successful dip-
lomatic work in
connection with
the Grey Shirt
campaign in Natal.
William Brad-
shaw, who joined
the Tasmanian
civil service 51
years ago as a
court messenger,
and has just re-
tired, served under
four Chief Justices
and 10 puisne
Judges. Now 71,
William (never
Bill) has been
Judge’s attendant
and a stern up-
holder of decorum.
He was known in
the courts as “the
fourth Judge.” His
last official rebuke was given on the
day he finished up to no less a person
than a deputy-registrar who demurred
when a witness slammed his hat on to
take the oath. William turned an icy eye
on the interrupter. “His name is Gold-
stein,” he said.
Fred Aydon, brother-in-law of the late
Harry Rickards, and for years manager
of Harry’s vaudeville show at Melbourne
Opera House (now the Tivoli), has died
in Melbourne, aged 80. Fred commenced
his acquaintance with everybody by hav-
ing a glorious row, and, later, grew from
being “not a bad sort, after all” to be-
coming a fast friend. Scarcely one man
who mourned his death last week but
had engaged with him in a fierce verbal
bout. Before joining the profesh Fred
was in the Vic. Railways Department.
He left it, to the sorrow of those who
had been associated with him for years
and the delight of people who had only
met him once.
Harry Cawsey, ex-superintendent of
Vic. detectives, died last week. Tall, well-
dressed and debonair, Cawsey could pass
muster in any society, and he was pheno-
menally shrewd. His best-advertised feat
Sydney’s new Rabbi.
was the tracing of Deeming from Wind-
sor (Vic.), where one of his murders was
committed, to Southern Cross (W.A.).
Cawsey used to describe how, at all the
wayside stations between the Cross and
Perth, the populace rolled up to hoot
Deeming. At one tiny hamlet an indig-
nant citizen rushed to the open window
of the carriage and lashed out a wild
left at the murderer which landed on
the nose of Farley, a W.A. boss-cop.
“Arrest that man,” cried Farley to the
constable on the platform. The police-
man grabbed an innocent youth. “Not
that man —the one with the brown hat,”
cried Farley, wiping the blood from his
nose. The policeman edged up. “It’s
all right for you, sir,” he protested ; “but
I’ve got to live here.”
“Inner Temple”: Sir Horace Avory,
dead at 84, was a neat, precise little man
who weighed perhaps 9st. 61b., and
looked like a steeplechase jockey in
hunting kit, which he often appeared in
before going on the High Court Bench
in 1910. He used to hunt with drags
round London. He became a Treasury
Counsel ( Aust ., Crown Prosecutor) in
1889, and remained a terror to crimi-
nals for the rest of his life. The late-
Victorian and
Edwardian under-
world of London
classed him for
relentlessness with
Hawkins. Like
many severe
Judges, Avory was
extremely religious,
and with his con-
temporaries, Lords
Darling and Car-
son, was usually to
be seen on Sun-
days at the Temple
Church. He wasn’t
a great advocate or
Judge, but he was
a sound lawyer
and a tireless
worker. Lord Chief
Justice He wart
paid a warm tri-
bute to his mental
staying qualities
only last month.
From London:
England’s two lead-
ing self - advertisers,
movie stars not ex-
cepted, are women-
and milli o na i r e s.
Lady Houston, widow
of the Liverpool ship-
ping magnate, gets
most of her publicity-
out of flying; she
makes sensational
offers of financial help
to the Government
(which she despises),
the object being to
show that the
defences of the country have to be undertaken
by private patriots. When the Government de-
clines to stultify itself by taking her money she
makes a grievance of it, and gets a fresh
supply of limelight. She bought the “Saturday
Review” shortly after her husband’s death,
and in this weekly, which once scintillated with
the writings of “Max” and “G. 8.5.,” articles
appear by her ladyship which would be en-
tirely in place in the “Empire Girls’ Magazine.”
Mrs. Van der Elst is also a widow, who has
buried two husbands, and she further resembles
Lady Houston in being stout, middle-aged and
genial when not in conflict with the authori-
ties. She specialises in opposition to capital
punishment. Whenever a British murderer is
about to be hanged her Rolls arrives outside
the gaol; a petition against hanging is circu-
lated among the huge crowd which her methods
always attract; her sandwichmen deploy below
and her aeroplanes roar overhead.
From Goulburn (N.S.W.):
The late Dr. Clune, Archbishop of Perth,
spent seven years in Goulburn, first as a
teacher, then as a parish priest. He captured
rnany of the local youths in a movement which
involved signing the pledge. Medals were
struck, awarded to members, and flaunted in
the faces of the hotelkeepers, many of whom
were good R.Cs. The outcome was a petition
to the bishop of the day, and the future Arch-
bishop was moved. By the way, a panegyric
which he preached on the death of Edward
VII. attracted world-wide attention; a copy of
it, embossed in gold, was presented to Queen
Alexandra. He had lived long enough in
England to know and like the inhabitants.
A Victorian Banker.
George D. Healy, depicted here by
Noel Counihan, is superintendent for
Australia and M.L. of the Bank of Aus-
tralasia, and chairman of the Vic. Asso-
ciated Banks. In the second capacity he
took an important part a few years back
in the deliberations with the Federal and
State Governments and the Common-
wealth Bank in connection with the
Premiers’ Plan and the £556,000,000 Aus-
tralian conversion loan. He is a native
of Maryborough (Vic.) and 63.
“Pardon Me”; George Grossmith
wasn’t “a lieut.-commander of sorts”
(B. 12/6/’35), but a lieutenant in the
R.N.V.R. Also he was much more than
a musical comedian. He was author or
part-author of some of the most suc-
cessful farces, burlesques and musical
comedies of recent years, managing-
director of Drury Lane since 1931, and
the first to popularise revue in London.
Incidentally, he was awarded the Cross
pro Ecclesia et Pontifice by the Pope,
having ’verted to Catholicism in 1907.
“Uramao”: Maoriland’s C. of E. Pri-
mate, who has been celebrating the 25th
year of his consecration as bishop, the
21st of his assumption of the Arch-
bishopric of Auckland and the 10th of
his Primatical elevation, has been cheered
by a gift of £40,000 for his new cathe-
dral. Miss Horton, one of the family
that made a fortune out of the “N.Z.
Herald,” was the donor. Archbishop
Averill is a native of Stafford (Eng.),
the birthplace also of the late R.C.
Primate Redwood. Averill looks like
an Irishman; so much so that in
Dunedin once, after telling a taxi-man to
drive him to the Bishop’s house, he found
himself at the R.C. palace.
Crockett v. The Bulletin has crowded
Sydney Banco Court; the case is still
proceeding as this goes to press. Plain-
tiff was represented by K.Cs. A. B. Pid-
dington and R. Windeyer and their
juniors, I. W. Shand (son of a former
leader of the N. S. Wales Bar) and J.
Pilcher, grand-nephew of a still-earlier
Bar-leader. W. X. Curtis, K.C., appeared
for The Bulletin, his junior being
Norman McGhie. Chief Justice Jordan
—tall, benign, oddly aloof from the
wordy turmoil below —presided.


v %O
11
Checks
WITH MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
DESIGNED TO
W
WITHOUT A SLIP
Positive starting . . . positive running . . . positive
braking always with Barnet Glass “Checkskid”
Tyres. Built to hold and grip the road from one
sturdy shoulder to the other; built to resist heat
and minimise tendency to internal friction; built
with heavier, deeper tread where pounds more
rubber meet the road surface. “Checkskid” are
safe, long-wearing tyres that give thousands more
TROUBLE-FREE NON-SKID MILES
B
9.
i
A
rf
m
W
m
jh
m
,
m
mmm
Barnet Glass
»
TYRES
for Endurance
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS
DF
TUBES
M63.F.P.35.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyeis under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates
PRODUCERN Pe OF yan §S ’ ° £ aU materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper . ’
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestonei
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications
PRINTERS’ METALS.— Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KBMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
The Oldest Mutual Eire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance covered at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: 74-76 Eagle Street. Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN. General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
1925 372,313 63,316 15 p.c. = 212.592 1,353,377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,969
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,9ff7 15 p.c. = 287,500 1,865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.c. = 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 -. 2,083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074,644
Premiums on new shares, £457 .. 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2£ „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
To contingency reserve, £420,000 . . 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 24 p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 . . 1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 ~ „ 144,000 1,656,375
The co.’s scrip is the most active of the
pastoral-finance stocks. The business,
which is scattered all over the Austra-
lian States, is strongest in N. S. Wales,
where the co. receives nearly half the
wool it handles, does most of its live-
stock business and is a large run-owner
itself. For the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts it received
307,648 bales (down 49,266). Due to
extension of the selling season, only
253,841 bales (down 64,194) were sold
and shipped ; the carry-over was 61,935
bales (up 53,807). The price was down,
too, the Australian average in the grease
for the nine months to the end of March
being 9.55 d. per pound as against 16.04 d.
for the corresponding period of 1933-34.
As for livestock, the season was more
satisfactory, though the co. does not dis-
close its figures.
After setting aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, gross
earnings were £49,281 lighter:
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 806,413 429,100 63.346 5000 308,967
1926.. 846,050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927.. 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509.213 62,967 5000 311,880
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62.553 2500 114,976
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2000 63,294
1933.. 508,675 367,137 62,553 2000 76,985
1934.. 615,705 354,321 62,553 3000 195,831
1935.. 566,424 402,683 62,553 3000 98,188
Of the spring of £48,362 in exes., £30,111
was on account of provision for taxation
(£61,940); most of the balance was
due to extra cost in dealing with the
heavy carry-over. The net result
was little more than half the pre-
vious year’s at a shade over 4 p.c. on
capital as against 8.1, 3.2, 2.6, 4.7, 9.5,
15.9, 16.3, 17.7, 18.9 and 21.8 p.c. back
to 1925. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.,
though visibly reserves had to be tapped
for £45,812 to do it. The marked im-
provement in wool sales and prices since
the close of accounts and the generally
satisfactory outlook for the coming
season no doubt influenced the board’s
decision in respect of the final distribu-
tion, which was at the rate of 8 p.c, p.a.
Of the £2,400,000 of capital, £1,149,151,
which brought with it £761,113 of share
premiums, was gathered during the half-
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1930. The new money, together with
over half a million of borrowed funds,
was put out largely in advances on stock
and station properties, wool and pro-
duce, etc. To protect these advances,
£420,000 was whisked away to inner
reserves at the end of March, ’33. The
position so far as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows;
1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. 2,399,892 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures 1,418,702.1,418,702 1,418,702 1,418,702
Sundry credi-
tors . . 1,309,596 633,687 636,812 564,697
Liquid assets 398,515 505,248 1,108,465 513,394
Advances . . 5,886,051 4,720,487 4,209,568 4,645,594
Pro perties
and stock 290,904 252,331 229,170 220,755
Premises,
etc. . . 649,158 625,245 654,699 664,345
Other assets 166,564 105,332 116,940 125,759
Finances are obviously comfortable.
Last year’s growth of £436,026 in ad-
vances reflects the carry-over, now mostly
sold. It was mainly to meet this outlay
and a net reduction of £72,115 in the
floating debt that liquids were drawn
upon for £595,071 ; they have since
been increased by the sales just referred
to. The growth of £9646 in the book
value of premises was due to erection
of a new wool-store in Brisbane.
Over the last 12 months the fully-paid
pound shares, which fetched 51s. 3d. six
years ago, have fluctuated between 275.
and 325. At 30s. 6d., the present price,
the return is 3.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 335. 9d. in net tan-
gibles. The immediate outlook is for a
better showing at next balance.
Provident Life (Maoriland)
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
ucc., income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190,475
f®25.. 58,583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,680 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367 446
1929.. 87,475 27,821 16,883 ) OD
Trans, to shareholders, £4278 J 38,493 405,939
1930.. 94,735 39,038 17,589 '38,108 444,047
1931.. 96,332 40,546 18,327 ) „„ , OA
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO 3 00,459 480,006
1932.. 98,989 44,532 17,994 ) ORO
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO ) 510,969
1933.. 101.922 44,567 18,913 ) w ,, 9
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO j 37,442 553,411
1934.. 105.203 49,773 19,631 ) oq q-q
Trans, to shareholders, £5840 j 29,9u9 583,370
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.c.)
1925.. 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
Transferred to
Shareholders.
1929.. 172,600 43,320 74,745 4937 519,671
1930.. 181,594 61,001 72,412 567,852
1931.. 181,664 71,997 68,023 609,496
1932.. 183,361 101,928 69,286 621 043
1933.. 185,043 92,120 73,971 040,595
1934.. 194,368 79,378 78,104 6340 671,141
This 32-year-old Dunedin-cqntrolled
office gathers about two-thirds of its
income in the Dominion and the other
third in Australia. Its finances are
sound, it pays regular bonuses to policy-
holders and dividends to shareholders,
and the outlook for both is now more
encouraging than at any time since 1930.
The co. has scored heaviest from sur-
plus interest, which is the difference
between the rate the office assumes its
funds will earn and the rate actually
realised. Thus one of the legacies of
the slump is the problem of profitable
investment of surplus income.
To help offset the effect of the drop
in interest rates the basis of valuation
was lowered from p.c. to 3 p.c. in
the Ordinary department. In the Indus-
trial section the basis remains unchanged
at 3i- p.c. Also, premiums received on
conversion of Maoriland local govern-
ment bodies’ securities to 4\ per cents,
last year were used to write down book
values, to the benefit of the effective rate
of interest. After deducting taxes, the
net return in the Ordinary department
(£5 2s. Id. p.c. in 1931) was 3s. Id. p.c.
better last year at £4 7s. Id. The net
return in the Industrial section was prac-
tically unchanged at £4 4s. 7d. p.c.
Including interim bonuses paid, sur-
pluses available for distribution com-
pare as follows at the last two quin-
quennial valuations:—•
„ . 1928. 1933.
Surplus:—.
Ordinary £42,782 £58,402
Accident 24,686 31,700
Total £67,468 £90,102
Bonuses to policy-holders were un-
changed. On Ordinary contracts where
bonuses had already vested they ranged
from 355. p.c. on endowment assurances
to 60s. p.c. on whole-of-life, and on
Industrial policies from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c.
of the sum assured, according to age of
the policy. These bonuses called for
£52,562 (= 90 p.c.) of the Ordinary and
£25,360 (= 80 p.c.) of the Industrial
surplus.
The other £12,180 was transferred to
shareholders’ account. The div. has been
kept at 10 p.c., with the usual 2 p.c.
bonus added. Also, 2s. per share is to
be capitalised, making paid capital
£24,000 in 33,000 £2 shares—3ooo paid
to £2 and 30,000 paid to 12s. each.
Last year the amount of new business
put on the books increased by £59,327 in
the Industrial section (£640,250) and
£1055 in the Ordinary department
(£308,276); it was £194,427 lighter in
the Accident branch. Excluding taxes,
and allowing 3 p.e. for consideration for
annuities, exes, took 18.7 p.e. of the
Ordinary and 45.6 p.e. of the Industrial
premiums as against 18.9 p.e. and 44.5
p.e. respectively in 1933.
The contents of the investment port-
folio compare as follows:
„ . 1933. p.e. 1934. p.e.
Government securities. . £227,579 18.4 £248,105 18 9
Local-body debentures.. 761,240 61.7 802 414 61 •>
Other debentures . . 46,357 3.8 i.l
Loans on policies, etc. 86,981 7.0 93,297 7.1
Mortgages . . . . 15,308 1.2 16,756 1.3
Premises . . . . 52,250 4.2 52,250 4.0
Debtors, cash, etc. . . 45,225 3.7 45,247 3.4
Most of last year’s net growth of £77,184
in the book value of assets was on
account of Government and local-body
securities, in which there is a tidy inner
reserve.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus, -Dividends N
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 8 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.e. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£* £r £, £ £ £
1925.. 6,905 1250 200 8 p.e. = 586 4,869 8,193
1926.. 14.791 3000 200 8 „ „ 964 10,627 18,820
Premiums on new shares, £694 .. 19,514
1927.. 17.461 4500 200 8 p.e. = 1136 11,625 31,139
Premiums on new shares, £330 .. 31,469
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.e. = 1268 3,348 34,817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.e.
1929.. 11.011 3196 250 10 p.e. =2042 5,523 41,475
Premiums on new shares, £521 .. 41,996
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.e. =2250 41,101
12 p.e.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 „ „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14,073 3163 300 12 „ „ 2700 7,910 55,230
1934.. 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 2700 - 53,648
174 p.e.
1935.-18,984 2423 437 17£„ „ 3988 12,186 65,834
This little co., which severed its con-
nection with the Royal Auto. Club (Vic.)
and welded “Fire and General” into its
title about seven years ago, has given a
very good account of itself. Despite
slump, a run of 8 p.e. divs. was fol-
lowed by 10 p.e. for the two years to
the end of April, 1930, then 12 p.e. for
the next four years and 11% p.e. for the
last term. Meanwhile, the co.’s connec-
tions were strengthened by the patron-
age of the United Travellers’ Association
and the “Herald” Touring Club.
With the trouble in connection with
the Adelaide branch —it affected the 1934
figures—out of the way, last year’s in-
creased activity in 4he motor trade and
better arrangements for reinsurance have
enabled the co. to win its juiciest return
yet. An extra £10,725 of net premiums
was gathered at £3594 less cost:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
April, miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1925.. £26,055 £6,200 £13,800 23.8 p.e. 53.0 p.e.
1926.. 50,819 16,871 22,520 33.2 „ 44.3 „
1927.. 83,028 29,206 38,370 35.2 „ 46.2 „
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999. 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
1933.. 50,062 17,866 20,493 35.6 „ 40.9 „
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1935.. 54,898 21,569 17,155 39.2 „ 31.2 „
Claims were £1484 lighter, too. The
underwriting surplus thus benefited by
the whole of the increase in net pre-
miums and £5078 besides, reaching
£16,174, compared with £578 and £11,703
for the two preceding terms. Interest
and rents turned in £2BlO (11.2 p.e. on
capital). Allowing for rebates to policy-
holders, there was enough from all
sources to show 66.2 p.e. on the £25,000
of paid capital as against 5.6, 43.6, 23.8
and 21 p.e. back to 1931. The div. was
lifted from Is. to Is. 9d. a share. Whether
the \l% p.e. can be maintained will
largely depend upon underwriting results,
which in turn will partly depend upon
claims, an uncontrollable factor.
When the books closed policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 165 p.e.
of the year’s net premiums, and that is
15 p.e. more than is usually considered
adequate. There was £20,782 coming to
sundry creditors. Government securi-
ties and cash totalled £67,975 ; freehold,
etc., £42,969; debtors, £6606 ; shares in
other cos., £2566.
Capital is in £1 shares paid to 10s.,
of which 5000 carry a cumulative 8 p.e.
and advance with the ords. beyond that
rate. For the ords. 28s. is offered with-
out attracting sellers. At that figure the
return is 6.2 p.e. on a p.e. distribu-
tion. The prefs. are tightly held. The
net tangible cover is £lB 3s. 4d. prefs.
and 395. 3d. ords.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
r~ Dividends \
5 p.e. To Re— Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925 65,121 4325 10 p.e. = 40,423 20,373 209,754
1926 71,121 4325 10 „ „ 50,423 16,373 226,127
1927 73,020 4325 10 „ „ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 363 209,406
1931 39.172 4325 5J „ , 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5 \ „ ,’, 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 —6„ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 6£ „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ ~ 25,780 5,100 282,194
Before the slump, this old-established im-
porter of paper and printers’ requisites
was a steady 10 percenter, and it's pros-
pects of re-establishing itself on that
basis are encouraging, subject, of
course, to economic and other develop-
ments. Few have been able to so satis-
factorily adjust their capital structure to
altered conditions. Between 1915, when
the public became interested, and 1928
capital was more than doubled by par
issues, raising it to £690,740. But little of
the extra money was invested in fixed
assets. So, when slump reduced the co.’s
'capital requirements, the management
was able to work down stocks and
debtors’ balances (they were reduced
without visible mishap), lower the out-
side debt and build up cash and invest-
ments. In July, 1932, £207,355—the
whole of the pref. and one-fifth of the
ord. capital—was returned to share-
holders, who received a further £161,128
(6s. Bd. per share) in the following term,
reducing paid capital to £322,256. The
scrip was consolidated into pound shares.
Still, financially the co. remained well
equipped to take immediate advantage
of any improvement in trading condi-
tions: —-
1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £690,740 £483,384 £322,250 £322,256
Liabilities . . 100,094 53,180 63,219 84,204
Freeholds . . 110,319 110,319 110,319 110,319
Stocks. . . . 216,163 125,418 136,488 148,668
Sundry debtors 456,252 279,310 277,939 313,303
Oash and in-
vestments . . 308,471 298,802 143,804 123,212
The most encouraging movements last
year were net additions of £35,364 to
debtors’ balances and £12,180 to stocks.
The latter have been valued at replace-
ment cost or less, and provision has been
made for any decline in market value,
while debtors’ balances are “adequately
protected by securities and/or reserves.”
Liabilities (up £20,985) include the provi-
dent account and provision for taxation.
The year’s visible improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£500,979)
was £5907.
During the year the co. “experienced
an expansion of trade which has con-
tinued to date.” After providing for
contingencies, declared net earnings were
£1666 better at 9.5 p.e. on capital as
against 9 p.e. in the previous term. The
div. was lifted from 6| p.e. to 8 p.e., the
final being at the rate of 8i p.e. p.a.
Over the twelvemonth the market lifted
its bid for the scrip from 38s. 6d. to
435. At the higher price the return is
3.7 p.e. on an 8 p.e. div. basis, or 4.2 p.e.
on a 9 p.e. distribution, which is already
within reach. The cover is 375. 6d. in
net tangibles.
W. H. Paling and Co. (Sydney)
, —Dividend— N To
Oct., Profit. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 5.398 3f p.o. = 16,222 163,106
Palings is one of the oldest and largest
dealers in musical instruments, etc., in
Australia ; but it was not until March
last that the scrip was listed on the Stock
Exchange. The foundations of the busi-
ness were laid by William Henry Paling,
son of a Rotterdam musician. He came
to Sydney in 1853, being then 28 years
of age, and his abilities as a teacher of
music and concert organiser soon gained
recognition. In 1888, seven years before
his death, he handed over to the State
his model farm at Camden, valued at
£20,000, together with a cheque for
£lO,OOO, as a hospital for convalescents.
He named the institution after the then
Governor, Lord Carrington.
The business became a limited liability
co., with a capital of £40,000, in 1883.
Some idea of its growth since is to be
had from the fact that paid capital now
figures at £432,579, which has the sup-
port and assistance of £163,106 of visible
reserves. In the past divs. of 10 p.e.
o Continued on page 18.)


r.fc. . I
um it 3
&
M
uehind this name lies a
taare
.
.. ... •''•
m
<
w w
IT
mm
• •
secret
reason
Unique Success •
4 .
Sllilllll
?$ '4 {4
O. /M ■ .'.4. M-
# *mA
4T y> IV
,J4
Jm
jii
.#3
A
■
II
C INCE the day long ago when it was
discovered by the famous English
Tobacco House of Ardath, the secret of
the 333 s blend has been used only
for 333 s Cigarettes.
exclusive formula, which produces
perb blending of the finest of pure
irginian tobaccos, has grown more
more celebrated with the years.
Every day thousands of additional
smokers are realising that only in
333 s Cigarettes can this delightful
blend be obtained. It is this that
accounts for the fact that wherever
you go you find smart smokers insisting
on getting State Express 333 s
Cigarettes.
O
9 -
6
N°3^>
VjVeV) unique
*» oW ’ e f
18-1/-
27-
1
w
jSI^TE
r' p
mm
1/6
r
2
Also Flot 50's,
Flat 100’s and
Round Airtight
50's.
CORK - TIPPED OR PLAIN
State Express
100°/ PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
333
CIGARETTES


smi;
1‘ !
:m¥i
I.^ . .
u | it
ws
iH
mm
■Hi
liiffl
am m
The Ludowici
PIVOT DRIVE
m
too H.P. PIVOT DRIVE to Saw
at the Fitzroy Timber Mill, Melbourne, Victoria
THIS drive has eliminated
belt slip and enabled a faster
saw cut to be made. Has saved
space and proved a most
economical and satisfactory in-
vestment.
It's the patented Ludowici Pivot
Base which enables the power
to be transmitted at such short
pulley centres without belt slip.
Our Engineering Departments
in Sydney or Melbourne can
show you the Pivot Drive in
operation and discuss its many
technical and practical advan-
tages.
AGENTS: Hoey, Fry Pty. Ltd., 168-
170 Edward Street, Brisbane® John
McKell & Sons, IS Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide® William Hart & Sons Pty.
Ltd., Charles Street, Launceston® Chas.
Davis, Ltd., 60-64 Elizabeth St., Hobart®
Flower, Davies & Johnson, Ltd., 413
Murray Street, Perth® G. W. Arnold.
Ltd., Box 1535, Wellington, N.Z.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen's Bridge Street, S. Melbourne
L.ow-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. Write
NOBMAN HILL & CO., BTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.; Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.8.W.; R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Mnnro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
aNVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
and more were the usual thing, with
occasional issues of bonus shares. But
the talkies, broadcasting and slump have
somewhat changed the outlook for this
class of business, and the co., which has
more money than it can find employ-
ment for at the moment, has added
refrigerators and vacuum cleaners to its
stocks.
Accounts for the year to the end of
October last, the only ones available,
claim a net profit of £5398, equal to 1.2
p.c. on capital. That leaves out of the
reckoning £9518 taken from reserves to
write down the book value of premises,
which are claimed to be worth more
than the figure at which they appear.
Shareholders were handed 3j p.c., re-
serves being requisitioned for £10,824 for
the purpose.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances. Creditors figured for £BBB7.
Freeholds stood at £113,500; plant, etc.,
£3410; shares in other cos., £2368 ;
stocks, £67,070 ; book debts, which are
the most vulnerable point in the co.’s
armor, £330,989; bonds and cash,
£132,326. Appearances are that the co.
could return ss. per share without ham-
stringing itself.
At 17s. the fully-paid pound shares
return 4.4 p.c. on a 3| p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 275. 6d. in net tangibles.
Upper Watut Gold Alluvials, formed
early this year to take over three proper-
ties on the Upper Watut, New Guinea,
on the opposite side of the mountain to
Bulolo Gold Dredging, has bought Day’s
adjoining area, containing approximately
4,000,000 c.y. of payable dirt. The price
and average value of the new ground are
not stated. The other three areas to-
gether contain about 16,000,000 c.y., esti-
mated to average 3s. Costs were put at
Is. 3d. The co. expected to make a start
on the three-mile water race for its hydro-
electric scheme last week.
* * jH *
Tennant Batteries, N.L., has been
launched in Adelaide with a nominal
capital of £35,000 in 2s. shares, of which
175,000 are offered. The idea is to put
up a 10-head battery to treat prospectors’
ore at Tennant’s Creek, Centralia, where
extra crushing facilities are needed at the
moment. On treatment of 160 tons of
ore a week, the co. figures on netting
£4750 p.a. Provided crushing charges do
not exceed 355. a ton, the Federal Gov-
ernment will advance the co. £2500.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold. yield for 1934 was
valued at £2,766,708, or 88.77 p.c. of the
.State’s total mineral output. It showed
an increase of 14,131 fine ounces com-
pared with the 1933 figure, which was
31,6460 z. better than 1932. Average
value of ore treated decreased from 345.
in 1933 to about 30s. 6d. in 1934, with
gold at the statutory price. East Cool-
gardie (Kalgoorlie) field produced 52.2
p.c. of the total output. Production of
asbestos, copper, arsenic (a by-product at
Wiluna), coal, tin, silver-lead ore and
tantalite all increased slightly. Number
of men employed in all classes of mining
was 13,310, an increase of 2620, wholly
on account of goldmining. Government
assistance to prospectors, mineowners
and the industry generally amounted to
£53,307 compared with £50,807 for the
preceding year.
* * * *
After soaring to 30s. or there-
abouts on bullish reports, Ora Banda
Amalgamated has come down to about
half that figure. The weakness is
attributed to yarns that, as the ore
became impoverished in winzing be-
low the No. 2 (present bottom) level,
permanency was endangered. The man-
agement thinks otherwise, and is confi-
dent that shareholders have nothing to
fear. Norseman is another Westralian
gold-producer whose shares have been
knocked back recently. In February they
were quoted at 395. 6d.; two months
later they were under 255. on reports,
subsequently confirmed, that the output
and quarterly div. would be affected by
the reconstruction programme, which in-
cluded enlarging the main shaft and in-
stalling a new treatment plant. The
market has since had a further
drop, following the report by mining
geologist C. G. Gibson (B. 5/6/’35). A
later report by Mr. Gibson states that the
discovery of 30dwt. values over a small
width in the south end of the No. 3
level is encouraging, and indicates the
probable occurrence of further large ore-
bodies outside the main shoot.
* * * *
From its published monthly treatment
figures it is not plain what progress, if
any, Lancefield (W.A.) has made in over-
coming its treatment difficulties. During
May the co. put through 6506 short
tons of crudes, plus 123 tons of March
concentrates, for a return of £12,690 in
Australian currency at the mint price of
the metal. This return excludes an un-
specified amount of gold absorbed in
the plant. Expenditure was £7416 on
working account and £4377 on capital
account. April treatment figures were
5439 tons of crudes and 377 tons of
March concentrates for a return of
£11,843 at Australian mint prices ; an-
other £7OOO worth of gold was estimated
to be absorbed by the plant. Working
exes, were £6337, and capital expenditure
charged to earnings £1530. In March,
and taking gold at 85s. an ounce, 3993
tons crudes, average value 37.25., yielded
745 tons of concentrates, worth £6140,
with 7.35. in the tailings. The March
figures show a concentrating ratio of
approximately 5 to 1, since claimed to
be improved; they also suggest a re-
covery of over 80 p.c., but that leaves out
of the reckoning gold lost in roasting and
cyaniding. The ore is more complex
than it is at Kalgoorlie, but less com-
plex than at Wiluna, where treatment
difficulties have been overcome. Lance-
field’s recent capital expenditure sug-
gests that it is vigorously attacking the
treatment problem. Recent mine de-
velopments are encouraging, costs appear
to be right, and so does the value of the
crude ore, the mine average for which
was put at Bdwt.
* * * *
For some years Westralia’s chief gold-
producers numbered eight. Then Asso-
ciated was absorbed by Lake View, and
there were seven; now Lancefield and
Ora Banda Amalgamated have been
added to the list, and Triton is expected
to follow in a couple of months. At
present about two-fifths of the State’s
total output is furnished by Lake View
and Wiluna, which together treat about
100.000 tons a month.
* * * *
Lake View has commenced treating the
1.750.000 tons of Associated’s tailings
which it acquired along with the pro-
perty for 100,000 Lake View shares last
year. When operations are in full swing
it is hoped to treat 1000 tons daily. Profit
from cyaniding this pile is roughly esti-
mated at £200,000.
* * * *
After spending over a year in reopen-
ing and testing the show, Ora Banda
South has decided to abandon the old
Orinda mine, near Ora Banda (W.A.).
Instead of being a high-grade proposi-
tion of moderate size, it is more likely
to be a low-grade show of large size.
Efforts are to be made to sell the pro-
perty. The co. is now turning its atten-
tion to the Auburn Falls mine, near
Mundubbera (Q.), where open cuts have
disclosed a lode from which £oz. stone
has been taken. It is estimated that
from 10,000 to 15,000 tons of profitable
stuff is available.
* * * *
The Forest Belle Syndicate, the parent
organisation of Timoni, is opening up the
David Copperfield lease, which adjoins
Timoni’s ground on the north at Mt.
Ida (W.A.). The main shaft has been
unwatered to 323 ft.; at 220 ft, it passes
through about 3ft. of rich stuff, the
downward continuation of which is ex-
pected to be met in a 40ft. crosscut on
the 320 ft. level. From here the diamond-
drill will stab to 500 ft. to test the per-
sistence of lodes in that region. The
mine is sloped out from 80ft. to the sur-
face, but lOdwt. stuff is showing in a
crosscut on the 180 ft. level. The syndi-
cate is also interested in a deep alluvial
property at Glenlyon (Vic.).
* * * *
Associated’s old dry-crushing and
roasting plant might be hired by Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, an offshoot of Gold
Exploration, to treat ore from the neigh-
boring Iron Duke lease. The co. re-
cently exposed a large body of high-
grade stone, reckoned to be the down-
ward continuation of a rich formation
worked by a tribute party in the days
when the Duke was owned by Asso-
ciated Northern, and when a lot of gold
was taken from the section containing
the famous Oroya shoot.
* * * *
North Kalgurli’s ore reserves continue
to expand. The latest estimate at
487.000 tons is 124,000 tons above that
of a year ago. The grade is slightly' less
at Bdwt. During the last 12 months the
co. has opened up a lot of new ground,
and has increased the tonnage sent to
the mill. Between 6000 and 7000 tons
are now being treated ; 10,000 to 12,000
tons is the objective.
* * * *
Ora Banda North is still looking for
wealth in the Golden West. The co.,
originally known as the Mt. Monger,
changed its name two years ago, when it
secured an option at Ora Banda. This
and a subsequent option at Burbanks
were abandoned. Consideration is now
being given to the possibilities of other
properties. Funds are not plentiful, and,
if another option is taken, shareholders
may be asked for rhore.
* * * *
Gambier Lass, operating at Leonora
(W.A.), expected to commence unwater-
ing the mine last week. The south shaft
is down 360 ft.; the objective is the ore-
body under Kelly’s old workings. The
co. has £ 18,000-odd in hand.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia’s figures for 1934 leave
nothing to grumble about. Profit at
£125,000 is the best for many years, and
so are divs., which aggregate 6s. a share.
Ore reserves are now five years ahead of
the mill, compared with four years 12
months ago.
* * * *
Gold Reefs Development, which is
working near Ora Banda (W.A.), will
spend about £3500 during the next three
or four months on development. Ample
cash is in hand. About 30,000 tons of
payable ore has been proved.
* * * *
The Empress Co., which has ceased
work on its Coolgardie lease (W.A.), has
turned attention to ground near the
Commonwealth Mining and Finance
Co.’s property at Yellowdine.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Any sharebroker will sell the scrip
for you Miner; (1) Recent advance in spot
price of tin is attributed largely to French
buying. International control aims at keeping
price above £2OO per ton. Apart from disso-
lution of the cartel, nothing in sight to suggest
that price is likely to fall below £2OO. (2)
Stick to what you know J.T.W.: No record
of Golden Pike... .W.N.H.: If you cannot
afford to lose, keep out... .C.R.H.: Write Mines
Department, Brisbane, for Guide to Prospec-
tors; also Royal Mint, Perth, for Hints to
Prospectors.... F.R.V.: In view of recent
legislation, scrip appears to be fully priced at
26s H.L.G.: Each is speculative; at the
moment the outlook for any or all is not
bright... .A.M.: Know nothing of it; the co.
does not publish its figures M.V.0.: It
is not an investment; it is a speculation, with
the odds against you G.M.L.: Hold; price
fluctuations have been due to (1) market opera-
tions and (2) recent general weakness....
W.T.W.: (1) Fully paid to 'ss. (2) and (3)
No E.G.A.: The installation is complete.
and regular crushings can be expected when
adjustments, following a trial run, are made.
....R.A.M.: Only if the co.’s: articles say so.
Write to the secretary and ask for a copy
W.L.: Cannot trace D.F.: Doubtful
S.G.: Hold Nos. 1,2, 3 and 4; the others
are gambles at much longer odds. No record
of No. 9.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffitlc Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
% # * 5jC
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.


to e
■gtf a
*
•S 3
a®
M
A
S
e
tv
o
z
tv
v
a
t
t
s
e
V
e
*
3
Hi
■
■I
m
mm
m
a
m
?S:
■ i
k
if
■
i j
THE END OF THE EVENING
iMiii
Tka < fei^ect
CoiC&oL CoiJ2
k Jk
Advertisement of ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES LTD.
SYDNEY. . NEWCASTLE.... LISMORE
and at Melbourne . . . . Brisbane . . . . Adelaide . . . . Hobart
W.A. AGENT: Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
gUCCESS comes from thinking and working twice as hard as the other fellow. But
you can’t work twice as hard, you can’t even work half as hard, unless you watch
your diet, your exercise and, above all, your eyes.
Straining your eyes under improper light not only makes
you feel “fagged out”, but brings on headaches, nervous-
ness, irritability and functional disorders. Remember
your eyes are no belter than those of your remote ancestors,
yet to-day, you use them for severe visual tasks 30 per cent,
more than was common a generation ago !
You can banish eyestrain zones (zones of inadequate light)
in your home or office without increasing your lighting costs.
You can get up to 50 per cent, more light without using any
extra current or paying any higher price for lamps. Fit
Mazda Australian-made Lamps the light-
ing units with the double spiral filament and the rare filling-gas . . . the lamps which give
extra light without extra cost either for the lamp itself or the current it consumes.
GOOD LIGHT —GOOD SIGHT
ML43


ABORIGINALITIES
“G.M.”; A spectacle to thrill Jardine
or even Menzel is the sporting event now
proceeding at Burnley (Vic.) Horticul-
tural College. There is no bitterness, no
heartburning, no violence among the
contestants. The game is played in a
perfect spirit, and the voice of the
barracker is unheard.. I refer to the
egg-laying competition among A-grade
Victorian ducks. Three competitors
laid one egg a day for the first 63
days of the test; but when they have
done their day’s good deed they say no-
thing about it. Unlike the hen who gives
way to the unsportsmanlike habit of
clucking her triumph, the duck just leaves
her nest and proceeds to the next busi-
ness. An example to all “sports” and the
embodiment of the true amateur spirit.
“H.H.”: Scarcity of water has driven
two brolgas into Kynuna (n.-w. Q.).
These fowls, with their long, slender
legs and grey feathers relieved with a
tomato-colored band where the head
joins the neck, have become quite tame.
They visit most of the houses, and will
even eat scraps from one’s hands.
❖ % sH ❖
“Eureka”: Near Narrabri (N.S.W.) I
saw half a dozen galahs unable to fly.
Their bodies were covered with the gum
of coolibah-trees. They were in an emaci-
ated condition, and would surely have
died of starvation or thirst in a day or
so. Do the galahs eat this gum and get
it over them in the act, or is it just mis-
adventure through flying into the trees?
*♦♦ ' ♦
“Warlock”: We are an inconsistent
lot. Recently three natives were sen-
tenced in Darwin for trying to murder
a man they believed to be “pointing the
bone” on them, and pitying references
were made to the superstitions of
the savage. About the same time
the second well-site selected by a
gifted water-diviner sent up by the
Queensland Government to Tennant’s
Creek goldfield was abandoned as an
even drier proposition than the first
attempt. The dowser and the bone-
pointing abo. have this in common —
both have a serene belief in their mumbo-
jumbo. Usually, however, the bone-
pointer gets the better results.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The first recorded suicide
by spiderbite is reported—of course,
from America. The spider was a “black
widow,” the only poisonous species in
the U.S.A. Our red-spot—thel polite
popular name —Lactrodectus hasselti, is
a close relative of the grimly-named lady
who did the American’s business, and has
at least six Australian deaths to its dis-
credit. Two were infants, one a boy of
17, the remaining three adults; only one
was a female. Spiders are nearly as fatal
as snakes in Australia —between 1927 and
1932 seven deaths occurred from spider-
bite and 10 from snakebite. Our most
dangerous spider is the funnel-web,
common near Sydney, but luckily a
ground-dweller and nocturnal in habit.
As a suicide method spiders are not to
be recommended. Results are uncertain
and painful.
* * * *
“Bowen Downs”; The shades of Star-
light and Dick Marston probably shook
their heads in Gehenna the other day
when the news came through that a
Longreach (Q.) squatter was shipping 21
fat bullocks overland to Broken Hill by
a six-wheel motor-lorry. The journey
occupied some 30 hours, whereas the
men whom Rolf Boldrewood disguised
under other names took six months when
they drove cattle from Roma (Q.) to
Adelaide nearly 70 years ago, and made
a new record in Australian droving and
cattle-lifting. It was a wonderful feat,
for the route was unmapped and un-
known. They took their chance of grass
and water, but the luck held.
* * * *
“Yabbee”; Difficulties in dealing with
bone-poinfers, as revealed in that recent
case in Darwin, have been solved by a
station manager near the Gulf. One of
his station abos. was the victim, and was
in a bad way, firmly convinced that he
was going to die. The manager got hold
of the bone-pointer and ordered him to
remove the spell, but neither threats nor
punishment had any effect; the nig. was
ready to endure anything rather than
lift the sentence of death he had in-
“Seen a roan heifer anywhere about? She's branded W.M. over 6,
earmark on the off.'
“Y airs. Seen one up on the Darling in the spring of 'ninety-four."
flicted. At last the white man adopted
Mussolinian tactics —poured a bottle of
castor oil down the throat of the
magician. That did the trick. When
another bottle loomed in the offing, he
lit his fire, got together his acolytes and
threw his magic into reverse. The
victim bucked up at once, had three
meals in one and was at work next day.
* * * *
“R.C.” (New Hebrides): Volcanic
pumice on the Barrier Reef? I would
suggest that the volcano of Ambrym
Island in this group is responsible. In
1930 we went through fields of floating
pumice with disastrous results to our
Kelvin engine. As is well known, the
main currents here set towards the Aus-
tralian coast.
* *
“Shakes”: I’ll take “C.C.’s” word for
it (B. 27/3/’35) that T.I. luggers use jam-
tins for gull-scarers. When I was pearl-
ing over on the Westralian side we used
’em for a different reason. Whales, par-
ticularly at night, are a confounded
nuisance. Apart from dozing in the
track of a silent sailing vessel and
awakening with a rude bump for all, they
also like to play an inverted sort of leap-
frog when a ship heaves-to and drifts
for diving. They charge the vessel, dive
and come up the other side. They
shake the water out of their eyes and
do a repeat. That’s no good to the
fellow down below, with his lifeline likely
to be fouled. We used kerosene-tins
bumped together to serve as motor-horns
to clear the track at night—that was when
we didn’t have a few empty jam-tins
strung on the rigging. That used to wake
up any sleepy fish and give us the right
of way and a clear track all the time.
* * * *
“R.S.”: A Queensland country medico
was very proud of his citrus-trees and
their yearly crops. This year the local
lads who liked lemons, oranges and man-
darins overcame the difficulties of
barbed wire and semi-passive watchdogs
and helped themselves. The doctor, after
fiddling around in his dispensary, treated
several of the choicest remaining fruit.
A few days later he received several
’phone calls from frantic mothers. Their
children seemed to be all suffering; from
severe gastritis. The medico grunted with
triumph as he wrote out their prescrip-
tions and sent out his bills.
* * * *
“Peel Island”: Australia can boast
plenty of queer fish of its own, but there
was an addition from outside when a
spotted-file fish sailed into Moreton Bay
(Q.) recently and obligingly hooked itself
to a snapper-fisherman’s line. This queer
beastie, which gets its name from the big
white spots which cover it and the file-
like dorsal fin, had never previously been
reported in Australian waters, though it
is common enough in the East Indies
and some of the Pacific groups. It would
be interesting to follow this fellow’s
itinerary through alien waters from the
far north-west and to know the urge that
drove him so far from home.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: That tank-o’-rum yarn (B.
5/67’35) recalls another rum happening
in the early days of the Darling Downs.
Wangdoodle station was owned by three
brothers who were renowned for their
stupendous jamborees and their playful
habit of practising shooting with a rifle
on wayfarers using the winding road
which ran some distance from the home-
stead. News came to other stations of
an exceptional spree, and a muster
of young “colonial experience” men —
there were no “jackeroos” then —was sent
over to straighten things. Two of the
brothers were in the horrors, and were
shipped off to the hospital in the near-
by township. The third was out to it,
and advantage was taken of this to plant
all concealable liquor. One large cask
of rum was a problem. At last it was
hoisted by a rope and pulley up to the
limb of a tree, some 50ft. from the
ground, near the house, and the rope-
end, having been made fast up aloft, was
cut off. When the eldest brother recov-
ered he found his appeals for a drink dis-
regarded. Wandering about, he cocked
an eye aloft and spotted the dangling
barrel. To climb the tree was impossible
in his state. After pondering the matter
for some minutes, he went into the house
and* appeared with a rifle and a tub ;
before anyone could stop him he put a
bullet through the cask and shoved the
tub underneath it. His ingenuity so
touched the hearts of his guardians that
they salved the rest of the rum and
rationed him back to sobriety on it.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Nothing sinister about
the Yass (N.S.W.) crow apparently trying
to ride the sheep to death (B. 29/5/’35).
All that happened was that Kelly
dropped on the sheep’s back, probably
in mistake, and got its claws tangled in
the wool. Immediately the jumbuck
stirred, Kelly tried to get free. Result;
Wildly flapping crow, madly galloping
sheep, and sheepman who ought to have
known better relating his version to the
P.P. Board.
“Assoc.” I noticed a crow flying over
here (Narrabri, N.S.W.) with something
like a sheep in its claws. The fowl was
hurrying and looking over its shoulder
in the direction of Yass. Is the witness
from Yass sure that the crow he saw
was flapping its wings only to spur its
mount on, or could it have been taking-
off with it?
* * * *
“Gidya”: The willy-willy is apt to be
a boon to the sheep-cocky in muiga
country, as each one blows down a few
more leaves. It doesn’t take the stock
long to lap them up. In drought-
stricken s.-w. Queensland a large amount
of ringbarking is being done, mainly
under the Government relief-fund
scheme. It is sometimes impracticable
to ring a gidya, owing to cracks in the
bark and sapwood, such trees being
usually burnt down. The sheep will
not miss a leaf of such a tree, yet
should you fall gidya for them with
the axe stock won’t touch the foliage.
These windfalls save a lot of scrub-
felling in some cases, but can anyone
tell me why sheep won’t eat the leaves
from cut gidya?
* * * *
“Notaden”: The white-ants have got
in some dirty work on my petrol-case
writing-table, and I hope they will get
indigestion. They are frauds
anyhow: neither ants nor
white ; they even have to have
their digestion done by a gang
of protozoa. Most of them are
old maids; the few who do
marry overdo the population
stunt to a scandalous extent.
They are a snobbish lot, strictly
divided into castes and severely
class-conscious towards one
another, though subservient to
royalty. They feed their sol-
diers on the spittle of the
workers, which is truly demo-
cratic, and rather reminiscent
of some recent public utter-
ances on the reorganisation of
Australia’s defence force. And
termite soldiers have to use
their heads, be it remembered
—they rush to any break in
the nest wall and ram their
heads into it. Some species
have soldiers whose heads provide a
sticky substance used in peace to cement
the nest and in war as a sort of poison
gas.
* ❖ * *
“Tom Willie”: Did any Aboliar want-
ing to know the distance ever have it
supplied correctly? My experience has
been that, no matter how many people
you ask in a day’s march, you won’t
find one to give you the correct informa-
tion. Even people living within a few
miles of a town don’t know how' far off
it is; there’ll be anything up to 20 p.c.
margin of error.
* * * *
“Dionan”: The shark menace in Tas-
mania is fast becoming a serious matter.
A week ago we were seining in broad
daylight on a sandy beach. One of the
party, dipping his hand to pick out a
fish from the net, was bitten by a sharp-
tooth shark. Plucking the writhing mon-
ster out of the water, he held it up. The
shark curled up on its tail, snakewise,
and severely bit its captor on the same
hand again. The bitten one gave a yell
and flung the vicious creature out to
sea. It was about 12 inches long!
THE CHAMPION OF MODERNITY.
“You meet a lot o’ blokes,"’ said Tom, as on
the bar he banged his pot
And with a hairy forearm wiped his lips, “ ’oo
talk a lot o’ rot
About the ‘good ole days,’ and ’ow the present
lime can’t be compared
With when their beards were black, and ’ow
much better ev’rybody fared.
“They’re mostly old galoots ’oo ’ang to this
one-eyed and worn-out view.
Although as far as age goes I c’n give ’em all
a year or two;
The difference ’tween them an’ me amounts to
this, 1 tell yer straight;
They still live in last cenchury, while my idcars
is up to date.
“You’ll alwiz ’ear ’em say the present genera-
tion’s no damn’ good,
Nor able to do anythink as well as their grand-
fathers could.
A lot o’ tripe! They know it, too. It’s just
to give ’cmselves a boost.
(Another? Well, I wouldn’t mind, although
I can’t drink like I uset.)
“I s’pose,” said Tom, “that Noah reckon’d
Shem was not a patch on ’im
At navigatin’, or at keepin’ pairs of animals
in trim;
An,’ ever since, the played-out cove ’oo’s livin’
in a mental blur
C’n see no good in things that are, but only
in the things that were.
“As I was sayin’ . . . No, me lad; I don’t
think I’ll ’ave any more;
It plays the devil with me stummick now if 1
sink more than four.
When I was your age I could put at least
five times as much away.
But beer was beer in ’ninety-two—not chemicals
as like to-day!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“We're just passin' Botany.
“ Botany? Thought it was your cigar!"
“Bray Rock”: In the name of suffer-
ing bushmanhood, let me enter my
heartfelt protest against that accursed
innovation in working pants which
drapers describe as “gauntlet bottoms”
or “permanent turn-ups.” The infernal
things form an effective and ingenious
trap for tripping you when on foot in
rough country, or even going down
steps ; in dry weather they accumulate
a ring of dirt, gravel or grass-seeds which
wears holes in your ankles ; in the wet
they clammily perform the same dis-
agreeable office with the run-off of your
raincoat. They wear through at the fold,
conferring thereby a dissoluteness of
appearance that no plain trouser ever
attains. Ticks, bull-ants and centipedes
use them as passenger vehicles until they
can ’ get a really effective bite at your
leg. There isn’t enough material in them
for patching. Personally, I always cut
the adjectival things off, and stitch a
strip of thin leather inside over heel and
instep.
SjC
“D.D.”: “Hop In” on the Lismore
boys at the Junior Farmers’ Show (B.
29/ 5/ 35) reminds me of an exhibition
at Geelong wheat-sheds when the lads of
one_ of the public schools were given a
half-holiday. On one stall was a pile of
literature on agricultural and pastoral
matters issued by the Immigration De-
partment, bearing a neat card with the
legend “Please Take One.” Close at
hand was an exhibit of goods we export
to England, the chief feature being a tall
pyramid of luscious red Jonathans. With
an unwonted thought for others, two boys
removed the card from the literature to
the apples and passed on, while delighted
newcomers, among them respectable citi-
zens of Geelong, accepted the invitation
and cleared the decks.
“Theine Dhu”: When “Spare Wal-
ton” says (B. 29/5/’35) that English
perch are inedible it makes me doubt
whether he has ever tasted one. Every
autumn Wimmera (Vic.) farmers travel
up to 100 miles to catch the fish as they
shoal between the Jeparit weir and Lake
Hindmarsh. In many people’s opinion
the redfin is superior to the trout as
a table-fish, and not far below it for
sport. Removing the scales is the chief
trouble, but a currycomb makes this
easy. They are voracious cannibals,
ranging up to 61b.. and have cleaned out
all the native blackfish in the Wimmera
River. The best live bait is a small carp.
“Jayaren”: “Spare Walton’s” par. (B.
15/5/35) about the fight between a
swordfish and a shark is evidence that
he doesn’t know much about the
geography of Sarina (Q.). The contest
wasn’t staged in Sarina Inlet at all, but
at Half Tide Island, several miles north.
If it had been in the inlet it would have
been impossible to witness anything,
as the bottom is a sheet of mud.
The State alcohol factory doesn’t empty
its waste into the inlet. It’s not allowed
to, as the stuff would kill all the fish
and crabs l;or miles around ; it is dumped
into the flats near Boundary Creek, about
four miles south of Sarina Inlet. Some
of the muck did get into the creek once,
and it spoilt the fishing for months.
* * * *
“Jungly”: Writer, much addicted in his
boyhood to ratting corn stacks with fox-
terriers, makes a free present to the citi-
zens of Brisbane of a sovran remedy
against such a happening as that re-
corded by “M. Turlutu” (B. 12/6/’35).
It is simply to tuck one’s trousers into
one’s socks. A rat may climb all over
one in attempting to escape a dog, but
worse than that he cannot do.
“Ringer”: An attempt is to be made
to keep tab on the lyrebird population
of National Park, Middle Harbor and
other places quite close to Sydnev where
the allegedly shy and
retiring fowl is plenti-
ful. The nesting season
is now on, and it is
proposed to ring the
legs of young birds, as
pigeon-fanciers do with
their pets. The num-
bered bands are ex-
pected to identify the
birds later and help to
map their wanderings
after leaving the nest.
At present little is
known of what hap-
pens when a young
lyrebird is thrown upon
the world, and whether
it sticks to the old
homestead or goes far
afield has yet to be
settled. In spite of
rigid protection and
careful watching the
number of birds in a
given area does not
seem to increase, so the
inference is that emi-
gration of some sort is
the rule. For some
years the young birds
in the Victorian Dande-
nongs, scrubbed ranges
entirely surrounded by
open cultivation areas which the lyre-
bird is supposed to be unwilling to cross,
were ringed. Not one of these has ever
been identified again.
* * *
“Jack Hamlin”: The Pilliga (N.S.W.)
scrub has struck a new gambling vein.
The males thereabout are
mainly timber-getters and
sawmill hands, with red-
blood attributes and
thirsts. When the new
lockup was completed at
the rural centre of Gwa-
begar lately a sweep was
started, the winner to be
the first man thrown into
the new cooler. So far,
the only boarder has been
a wandering stranger who
doesn't count, and none of
the 80 local ticket-holders
has qualified to time of
writing. One potential
captain of industry went
to a woman who had
drawn him in the sweep
and offered to earn the
prize •if she would go
halves. When she refused
he took out a prohibition
order against himself just
to nark her. Meanwhile,
the John Hop, who was
barred from taking a
ticket, waits for the tardy guest.
* * * *
“Gryllus”; The successive earthquakes
which have caused widespread disaster
in India during the last year are due to
the fact that the Himalayas are becoming
lighter. They really are a fold of the
earth’s crust, pushed by a vast compres-
sional force from the north against a
slippery grade, very slowly, but very
steadily. Now and then there is a jerk
up a smooth stratum such as clay, and a
very small jerk makes a big earthquake.
Because of denudation, the mountains
are lighter to move, and denudation also
increases the jerk effect by filling up the
plains. We do not get earthquakes in
Australia because we have neither lofty
mountains nor adjacent ocean abysses.
Japan and Maoriland get them on
account of the vast ocean abysses near
their shores. Rabaul owes its “gouriers”
to the hole in the ocean-bed off the coast
of New Britain.
* * * *
“Horse-tailer”; “Old-T.” (B. 15/5/35)
says Ki Downs, the old eucalyptus
factory on the mid-Murray, is now
merely an outstation of Euston station,
worked from Tammit. This hasn’t been
so for nearly 12 years: I know, because
I worked on Tammit for five years
till 1932. When the Victorian railway
crept towards the Murray, Euston station
was obliged to sell its many outstations.
Since then both Ki Downs and Tammit
have changed ownership several times.
And all that the white-ants and wreckers
have left of the eucalyptus works are a
large shed covering the boiler—once
from the steamer Rodney, burnt in
dramatic circumstances on the Darling—
and the peculiar antproof-constructed
manager’s house, now occupied as a
homestead.
“Bill R.”: The shooter who aims at
the forehead curl of a horse or bullock
(B. 8/5/’35) hasn’t studied animal
anatomy. The hair-twist marks the
union of nose and skull. A hit there
registers an outer. It is at least half an
inch below the brain, and rarely knocks
an animal off its feet. Make the curl the
line of windage, but judge it to be two
verniers low in elevation.
* * * *
“Overlander”: Cattle as well as horses
make fly-rings (B. 29/5/’35) when the
pests are bad in wet seasons. I’ve seen
as many as 2000 circling in the dust of
a claypan, and on a calm day the fine
cloud rising high into the air was a capi-
tal guide to stockmen when mustering
fats and branding. I’ve seen horses roll
themselves in mud as a protection against
sandfly pests out on Queensland’s western
plains, making it almost impossible to
distinguish required nags. Dobbin has
another device when avoiding the enemy.
If a waterhole or lagoon is handy his
protection is submersion of body and
neck, occasionally dipping the head
under.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Easily the best bush poul-
tice I have seen used was made from
prickly-pear leaves. Pulped and boiled
for a few minutes, they are applied to
the affected area, and will reduce swell-
ing or inflammation. I’ve seen them used
in cases of bull-ant bites, bee-stings,
swollen joints and sprains. Pulped pear
seems to retain heat longer than bread
or even linseed.
* -f * t
“Blue H.”; “Yarri” isn’t quite right in
stating that both Byers and Holtermann
died poor (B. 5/6/’35). Byers certainly
lost his money over a deal involving the
King-street (Sydney) block which in-
cludes Belfield’s Hotel, and returned to
Hill End a poor man. He died in West-
ralia still seeking to rebuild his fortunes.
Holtermann, however, came to Sydney
and built himself the mansion in the
scrub at McMahon’s Point known
derisively at the time as “Holtermann’s
Folly” owing to its isolation. It is now
the “Shore” schoolhouse. The lucky miner
entered the eleventh State Parliament as
member for St. Leonards in 1882 (emu
lating Byers, who already had represented
Mudgee), but died before the three-year
term was up—in comfortable circum-
stances. Holtermann-street, Crow’s Nest,
is named after him.
* * * *
“Mah”: Hares and burrows (B.
1/5/’35)? On the railway line between
Nashua and Binna Burra (N.S'W.) 1 saw
for two years, almost every morning, an
old hare that raced out of a burrow be-
side a railway bridge, frightened by the
train. He was always back next morn-
ing. The schoolkids travelling daily on
that line kept watch for him with a hat-
ful of smuggled stones, and great was
the disgust when one morning he was
noticed lying dead about 20 yards from
his burrow, presumably shot.
“So here you are , you ol' dog! Bet you're having a good time with
the nurses!"
COO-EE!
“A movement is on foot, sponsored by Jewell, the
Vic. M.L.A., to make the call ‘coo-ee’ illegal except
as a signal of distress.”
Hear it ringing down the aisle of lofty gums!
How the sudden purport of that message
comes!
A clarion cry to speed to some fellow-man
in need.
And it wakes the bushland like a roll of
drums.
Tis a poignant SOS, ’tis a signal of distress,
And the bushfolk recognise it, one and all;
Coo-ee! Coo-ee!
Hasten, hasten, when you hear the vibrant call.
Coo-ee ! Coo-ee ! it re-echoes from the stirring
days of old;
Coo-ee! once it roused the diggers in their
tireless search for gold;
It comes ringing down the years, since the
early pioneers
Braved the dangers of the bushland and the
wold.
When a wall of flame is leaping to the sky,
And the wild red horses come careering by
In a fiery cavalcade through each glen and
forest glade.
How the shrill insistence of that old bush cry
Reaches forest mill and shack, through the
smoke clouds dense and black,
With a universal summons in the sound!
Coo-ee! Coo-ee!
Gallop, gallop, o’er the hot and blackened
ground 1
You may hear it when the brown flood swirls
across the plain,
And the rivers, swollen high by ceaseless rain,
Burst their banks and, sweeping free, make
a seething inland sea,
Leaving death and devastation in their train.
Coo-ee! Coo-ee! —and the settlers all turn out;
Coo-ee! —help is needed now, beyond a doubt;
In the wintry snow and frost, p’raps some
little one is lost:
See the lanterns flash as round the hills they
scout!
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


HITS
LYS
Jfe
PROOF
MUUiI m»l
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
L
J»
. .0
■ I 'I : :■•• : i \IW
11 )jj§.- # 1 i
■‘.4 MSKMfc y^'%^
'iSi iL«iSo.ti',. i!S.- *t&i£h
m
%
?•*&»?*
i# ***
*v.
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
The Corriedale’s Merits.
“Liss”: “Valerin” (B. 29/ 5/’35) can
rest assured that the popularity of the
Corriedale-merino cross is no passing
craze. It is a sound small graziers’ cross
in the cooler parts of Australia, such as
New England and Monaro (N.S.W.).
A trial was commenced at the Glen
Innes Experiment Farm (N.S.W.) in 1929,
using both Corriedale and Polwarth rams
on merino ewes and extending to the
second cross. The results show that the
bulk of the wool of both breeds and
crosses was finer than that grown by the
foundation merino ewes. Though that
of. the Polwarth crosses was generally
finer and more attractive than the Corrie-
dale crosses, the former was more uneven
and less bulky. The Polwarth carcass
was not so good. The Corriedale pro-
geny did well in the long, cold winters
experienced.
On Monaro the Corriedale crosses re-
sist disease better, particularly internal
parasites. The young lambs, too, are .
more robust than their merino cousins,
and quicker on to their feet.
This is important on a rough, cold
night, as a lamb generally survives once
it gets up and sucks.
The breed is quiet and docile, and the
ewes make splendid mothers. They are
not so inclined to rush about and lose
their lambs when disturbed, and mate
well with the Downs breeds for fat-lamb
production. They are excellent foragers,
being mostly individual grazers which
forage in every corner.
At the end of the 1934 season, on a fall-
ing market, S. Monaro Corriedale-cross
(first and second) clips beat the merinos
both in top-line price and in the average.
The difference was very marked in lambs’
wool and in the return per head. The
same thing has happened this year on a
rising market.
Of course, suitability of country and
type and quality of sheep are important
factors. It is no more use taking Corrie-
dales to some parts of Australia than it
would be to try to acclimatise penguins
to New Guinea.
“Hope Vale”: No, “Valerin,” the
Corriedale is not a craze. It has a defi-
nite place in our fat-lamb industry. But
co-operation between growers in outer
and inner districts is necessary.
The western N.S.W. grazier can breed
comebacks as a sideline by mating some
of his big merino ewes with Corriedales.
If the season is good, the wethers can
be sold as lambs—otherwise as wethers.
The ewes could be sold in the fat-lamb
districts, where the grower, aiming at
production of a 255. fat lamb, would be
wasting his time trying to breed come-
back ewes.
Thus the benefits of the market would
be shared by both types of district, with
the Corriedale as the link.
The comeback ewes, in my experience,
are much less subject to blowfly attack.
In droughts they will forage where
merinos wait under a tree for the feed-
cart, and over years my comeback wool
has brought as much as my merino.
“CD.”: In all breeding, introduction of
another blood —unless for utility purposes
in the first cross —is unsatisfactory. The
Corriedale is assumed to be a breed with
the characteristic that its type leans more
to the merino than that of any other
fat-lamb sheep. Thus it is supposed to
join better with our staple sheep.
Unless the bigger breeders dispose of
the whole of the Corriedale-merino first
drop, either as lambs or comeback-type
hoggets, future breeding results are un-
happy. All the troubles of throwbacks
and type fixation must occur, and the
whole flock become affected.
Where the Corriedale does shine* is on
small farms, where a dual-purpose sheep
capable of producing good wool on rich
feed, together with, a decent lamb, is re-
quired. Another sphere of usefulness is
in districts where heavy feed tends to
strengthen merino wool out of recogni-
tion.
The Corriedale must be kept fairly
pure to be a success. Good ewes are
difficult to buy, and must be bred frorn
comebacks. Third- and fourth-generation
ewes are almost wholly Corriedale. At
(his stage the full benefit of the breed
is secured, but only after heavy culling
of throwbacks.
Arsenic in Wool.
“Sheepo”: A Queensland committee is
inquiring into the effects on shearers of
wool jetted with arsenical solutions.
Samples of air and dust in the environ-
ment of jetting plants, shearing-sheds
and dip factories have been collected for
analysis. One test at Yeerongpilly is to
determine the difference between air in-
haled by shearers from sheep jetted with
a .02 arsenical solution (the maximum
under the Health Act for sheep jetted
six weeks before shearing) and from
sheep jetted with solution four times
stronger.
The C.S.I.R. maintains that a .02
solution is too weak to prevent strike.
Invariably, graziers use .06 or .07
strength, and still find plenty of sheep
struck. My experience has been that
jetting is a washout after a month —less
when flies are bad.
In former years the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture recommended the
use of an arsenical solution for combat-
ing blowflies. It doesn’t now, nor will
the C.S.I.R.
It is time somebody invented a sub-
stitute.
Breeding-out Flybait.
“Quien Sabe”: Many breeders pin
their faith on breeding-out wrinkles, but
history shows that fly-strike originally
developed on light-cutting sheep without
a wrinkle. It first became serious about
1883-34 over a limited foothill area of
the Western Tiers (Tasmania) where
high-priced wool is grown. From there
it spread. The rich flats of the Esk
rivers, where the studs are, were not
affected till later. Photos, of sheep of
that period show the total absence of
wrinkles. Sir Thomas, the first of the
wrinkly type, would be classed as plain
to-day.
At first only weaners (of both
sexes) were affected, and then only for
about six weeks in the autumn —below
the ears, at the crutch and on the
back. The usual remedy was rubbing in
dry ashes. This was the panacea of an old
shepherd who asserted that sheep were
sometimes similarly affected in Scotland.
It was hard work, but there were no
losses.
When the flies did appear on the main-
land it was claimed that they were brought
with the Vermonts. There was a lot of
controversy, but it was definitely shown
that the pest was at work before the
U.S.A. importations.
Mr. Brown (Bruni) reported before the
flies crossed Bass Strait that, “if the in-
festation was allowed to spread and
reached the mainland, it would be a
national calamity.”
Even if breeding-out wrinkles would
do the trick, it is a moot question whether
the loss of lllb. per sheep which it in-
volves would be worth while.
“G.F.D.”: A demonstration of the
Mules method of dealing with fly-strike
at Tandawanna (Q.) impressed me favor-
ably.
The 10,000 ewes at Noondoo (Q.)-were
done following a successful experiment
on 1600 ewe lambs at marking six
months previously. The fly-strike was
estimated to be from 50 to 70 p.c. less
in treated than in untreated sheep.
“Sheepo” (B. 22/5/’35) says;
Why bother about surgery when right
breeding can produce a remedy? Every
wrinkle in the country could be mated out
of existence.
Has “Sheepo” any idea how long it
would take to “mate the wrinkles out
of existence”? The Mules method re-
quires one extra hand at current mark-
ing instead of a cycle of Cathay.
A Hay-feeder for Sheep.
“Boka”: One of the cheapest clover-
hay feeders I have seen is a wire-netting
trough. Two rows of ordinary fencing-
posts 2]ft. apart, with 10ft. between each
pair, are erected, with wires along the
top. The wires are threaded through
the sides of a large-mesh netting and
fastened at each end to a well-strutted
strainer. The belly of the netting hangs
down between the row of posts, and a
batten across the tops of each pair of
posts keeps the outfit rigid.
The clover is pulled through the net-
ting, as the sheep feed, and there is little
waste. The scheme eliminates the waste
and crowding common in ground-
feeding.
A feeder four chains long will com-
fortably accommodate 250 ewes and
lambs, and it need only be filled once in
three days.
Spring Lambing.
“Winfield”: In north-west N.S.W.
spring is ideal for lambing, and the winter
rains generally start herbage that comes
on quickly in the ensuing warmth,
especially on fallowed land..
Shearing should mean only one yarding
and one handling for each ewe, and is
not a serious obstacle.
After last winter’s lambing from a
paddock of 470 ewes I lost 100 ewes and
300 lambs through lack of feed and cold.
In late spring 190 ewes reared 182 lambs.
Once saved, however, winter lambs
grow better.
Dipping for Fly.
“Granova”: Last November a Bar-
medman (N.S.W.) grazier dipped 600
merino ewes with an emulsion dip, and
a similar mob, but two years younger,
with a powder dip.
The mobs ran together until April,
when they were separated for lambing.
Flies were troublesome in May, but only
one ewe in the younger mob was struck.
In the emulsion-dipped flock 5 p.c. had
to be treated.
The insoluble particles in the powder
dip are not washed out by rain. Their
presence in the fleece causes a noticeable
odor to rise from the sheep when moving
or standing in the sun. The scent ap-
pears to repel the flies.
There seems to be room for further
experiment.
Sucker Lambs.
“Currum”: Lambs off half-dry mothers
will fatten on good feed. But “F.L.8.”
(B. 29/5/’35) must remember that it is
the sucker lamb with its pence per pound
greater value that the fat-lamb raiser is
after. The weaned lamb may be fat
but not “milk-fat,” and the expert
knows if the lamb has been off its
mother for even a few days.
Why not try changing the mothers
from paddock to paddock? The lambs
will get the pick of the feed through
their dams.
Fodder, and Other Things.
“The 0.D.”: Have just finished a tour
of N.S.W. inland districts from Tenter-
field to the Murray. Draw a line from
Merriwa westward, color the northern
portion light brown and the southern por-
tion emerald green and you have a pretty
good idea of conditions —drought in the
north, grass and growing crops in the
south.
New England and the north-west
haven’t had a useful rain since January; —
paddocks are either bare or carrying thin,
unpalatable, frost-withered dry grass.
The Gwydir, Namoi, Beardy, Mclntyre
and their tributaries are mere chains of
waterholes. Stock routes are being
flogged out by sheep travelling south ;
yet I can’t say I saw an animal on the
properties I visited in bad shape.
Practically every stockowner had
fodder conserved —lucerne as hay, baled
or ensilage, wheaten and oaten hay and
grain, maize as hay, grain or ensilage.
One man had a variety of roots (turnips,
carrots, pie-melons, mangolds) put by.
On 17 properties, ranging from 300 to
30,000 acres, I saw a total (by measure-
ment) of 9123 tons of fodder, or an aver-
age of about 535 tons each. The total
was made up of 4299 tons of various
hays, lucerne preponderating, 4469 tons
of silage and 355 tons of grain. Roughly,
about 3cwt. of a balanced ration is ex-
pected to keep a sheep going for 10
dry months.
This drought might even be advan-
tageous —if it doesn’t last too long.
Dry weeks and heavy frosts will knock
gaps in the worm population. Many will
get rid of the toothless old jumbucks,
and the vigorous survivors will clean
up hitherto despised roughage and weeds
as a supplement to hand-feeding. Fur-
ther, the drought won’t help the mice
plague around Gunnedah. Provided the
weather does its duty by the end of this
month, the north will not lose greatly.
Champion fodder conservers up there
this year, according to R.A.S. standards,
are Chaffey Bros., of Nemingha (open
section), and H. R. Munro’s Keera
station, Bingara (graziers’ section), each
of whom gets a £lO 10s. trophy.
In the west pastures are green and
crops are germinating well, although a
little hand-feeding is going on, mostly
with lambing ewes. A drop of rain
within a few days will put the west in
good fettle. There’s a lot of fodder out
there, too, 10 men having 3971 tons of
hay, 2431 tons of silage and 1000 tons
of grain between them. Ken Gault, of
Trundle, won a fourth championship for
his little farm, and Berry Bros., also near
Trundle, won the first graziers’ contest
in that area.
The tour was an eye-opener to a city
man in our party who had been reading
of the amounts made available to farmers
in grants and subsidies. It would be
safe to say that practically every one of
the 45 farmers and graziers visited
wouldn’t give a toss if doles to primary
industry ceased to-morrow. They have
adjusted themselves to new conditions,
and, instead of whining and trying to pull
political strings, have got a grip of the
scientific side of the job, and are keeping
well above water.
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


jfc -
5:
’ ■ ' . ' '
1
r& O
mm
U Qj
S
Qj vQ
\
is
Bn
iiiiniiiii—
Hffifftgi a
■ I
i
n
*^-1r
- /I
?|i Hiiiipi ipj l|
WB .
:
s2\
“SHEAF”
V
n
KS
1
n
»>
NX


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
ffiTShlOeHa.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Modelled for muscles
This pliant, shapely Abbey Boot
is built on an exclusive last,
designed to ease all cramping
strain on the muscles of the foot.
It is delightfully comfortable . . .
the ideal for active wear. A
double sole of first-grade leather
ensures exceptional durability,
too.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin) or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . . 43/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 442.
Cultivate a National Outlook with
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
Australia’s National Illustrated Weekly.
Pictures, Sporting Notes, Literary Reviews,
Household Page, Children's Section and
Special Articles for the Pastoralist and Farmer.
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
*4Kfr\C«>el«*s Call
UITOIIiKK
s
fmmm
%
m
/
Cow Combined ‘jiCAll>and.Hctcr Fare*.
Famous visiters from all parts cf the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that'the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares .
THE
iiMiTtn INSURANCE
Ulil I lU companyltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
3P»
Runs Radio
Elec. Iron for & u/eek.
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details from any of the following;
ADELAIDE.-—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH. —Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEEN SLA AID BY
RAPSON 6, DUTTON PTY LTD
••VALLEY BRISBANE-
F
BRANDING WITHOUT IRONS
Starr’s Patent Combination Branding Lamp
A tool, operating on the same principle as a blow-lamp,
which enables one man to affix more brands in one day
than three men could using branding-irons and fires.
Specially constructed for use in all weathers, it eliminates
vexing delays due to rain and wind extinguishing
branding-firfcs.
Ready for use in seven minutes.
Using petrol, this tool maintains the brand at a constant
temperature until the fuel is exhausted —no waiting fox
irons to get hot.
Used on farms and stations throughout Australia.
Effectively brands:
Horses, Cattle, Pigs, Rams’ Horns, Barrels, Casks,
Boxes, Fruit-cases, etc.
Removes paint and rusted machinery bolts.
Price, complete with blow-lamp, only £5/15/-.
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. And at Lismore and Wagga.
Breeding Dairy Cows.
“Hortus”: The best way to develop a
high-class dairy herd is, first, to- cull out
all low-yielding cows.
There is only one method of finding
out the productive value of each cow
to record each milking and Babcock-
test for butter-fat.
Give each cow a fair trial. Some milk
heavily for a time and then go dry.
These may prove less profitable than per-
sistent milkers, yielding less butter-fat
over a period. Seasonal figures are the
ones which count.
Having culled out wasters, don’t try
to improve your herd by buying. Rear
your own calves —it is the best safeguard
against introducing tuberculosis and con-
tagious abortion.
Get a good bull, with a milky and pre-
potent pedigree. Breed him when young
to a few of your best females, and watch
the heifer calves he gets from them.
If they are better than their dams, you
have a trustworthy sire.
Bacteria and Digestion.
“Stump Jump”: Recent research results
at Cornell (U.S.A.) are against the idea
that bacteria play no part in protein
changes in the stomachs of animals.
The work was done at Cornell Uni-
versity 18 months ago, when sheep fed on
lucerne containing a known quantity of
cystine were found to be producing con-
siderably more wool than they were
eating materials for.
Animal systems abound in bacteria
and parasites, the bulk of which are help-
ful. Some make the digestion of fibre
possible. Research workers I have met,
though not attacking the problem
directly, see no reason why these organ-
isms should not play parts vital almost
to animal life itself.
A known case in support of this is
milk. The common dirt bacteria, spread-
ing normally in milk, render it more
palatable and kill germs of infective
diseases. Our pastures may not be defi-
cient in sulphur, but they are in cystine.
Sulphur is needed to form cystine and
promote wool-growth, no matter whether
it comes from pastures or lucerne.
A Word for the Gum-tree.
“L. de F.”; At the Melbourne Science
Congress O. C. Barrett elucidated his
studies of trees as precipitants of rain,
which he has measured with gauges in the
open and under various trees. During a
period when the rainfall in the open was
over Min. he found the rainfall under
three varieties of gum-trees varied be-
tween lOin. and 12in. Beneath three
different conifers the rainfall averaged
less than half this.
From calculations, Mr. Barrett esti-
mates the evaporation surface of one
mature pine-tree at \\ acres. A gum of
similar size has only a fraction of this
exposed surface. Gum-trees are de-
signed to shed water, conifers to retain
it. This one fact would have the effect,
in a forest of pines as compared with one
of eucalypts, of reducing the effective
rainfall more than one half.
But that is not all. The investigator
found that trees vary immensely in their
power to precipitate water from dew or
fog. The gums were high on the list,
the pines very low.
Add that most gums are comparatively
shadeless, each leaf being delicately hung
so that it turns edgewise to the sun, thus
minimising water loss by transpiration.
Then consider the difference in effective
rainfall that would result from a plan-
tation of a square mile or so of pines
on some important watershed as against
the same area of eucalypts.
The general idea is that one tree is as
good as another, provided they can be
induced to grow. Actually, the gum is
the fittest tree to cope with our niggard
rainfall; just as the pine has evolved to
suit another climate of greater moisture.
The craze for pine plantations in Aus-
tralia is a shortsighted rejection of
Nature’s gifts.
Oats for Green Feed.
“Mangaratta’ v : “Granova” is right
(B. 22/5/’35) in stressing the importance
of sowing oats for green feed quickly and
early, but the crop should be combined
straight in only on clean land.
To have any chance of killing the
weeds one must sow deeply, and the oats
are then slow in coming through.
It may take longer, but better results
will be obtained if the land is first cul-
tivated and then combined. Early Kher-
son is rapidly assuming front rank as a
feed oat in S.A., while Calcutta Cape
will stand any amount of feeding off.
A Farm Gong.
“M.P.”: A gong which can be heard
a mile away can be made by taking a
length of spring steel bar, 16ft, by Hin.,
and bending it into a triangle, open at
one angle, with a loop turned in the
centre of the side opposite to this angle.
The last 4in. or 6in. of the ends should
be tapered gradually to a point and
turned outward into a circle about 4in.
in diameter. The triangle is suspended
to a convenient point and struck with a
wooden or iron hammer.
The sound given out by a wooden
hammer will be duller than when iron
is used, but will travel just as far.
Hints for the Farm.
“The 0.D.”: No need to load the
cow up with yokes and straps if she sucks
herself. Rub her udder twice a day, after
milking, with a good, strong eucalyptus-
oil extract. That should stop her.
“Horsey”: With a bad-leading horse
pass the offside rein under the chin and
through the nearside ring of bridle. With
reins coupled in the centre as usual and
held full length the horse will lead nine
times out of ten, although perhaps a
little behind.
“Mangaratta”: Old 40gal. petrol- or
kerosene-drums halved lengthwise make
horse-troughs which will stand more
knocking than boxes.
“Herbert Dawson”: Do not burn or
saw the broken handle of an axe to re-
move head. Soak overnight in water and
stand on top of stove or in a hot oven
for at least an hour. The head should
then fall off.
“The 0.D.”: Here’s a mice plan
that works well in the Gunnedah
district (N.S.W.). Make a galvanised
corrugated-irCn fence round the stack
by laying the sheets on their edges
in a narrow trench a couple of inches
deep. Fill the trench with sand and
pour tar over it. Fix flanges of
square iron over every joint in the fence.
The mice can’t climb oyer the iron, the
flanges stop them at the joints, and tarred
sand is effective against burrowing.
“Glencoe”; A yard 66ft, by 80ft. per
1000 sheep is a good size for mating
ewes and rams. Bigger than this gives
the ewes room to knock themselves about
and the rams space to fight. A smaller
one does not give the rams enough room
to circulate.
“Winfield”: Comparatively few sheep-
men realise the value in a dry season of
changing their sheep from paddock to
paddock. Two or three days’ spell, even
without rain, will freshen a paddock up.
Two or three paddocks changed about
in this way will last weeks longer than
the same area in one paddock.
“Brooklyn”: A handy knife for soft
work can be made from a bit of wool-
pack hoop-iron. Take a piece 12in. long
and cut diagonally to leave a pointed
blade long at one end. Sharpen
on emery or file. Double the uncut end
over to where the blade starts and rivet,
leaving a loop in the handle to fit the
palm' of the hand. Slung on the wrist it
is an excellent corn-husking tool.
“R.H.P.”: A cheap cow rug is made
from two cornsacks, each split on one
side. Cut a V-shaped hole in each uncut
corner of the bags—one large to slip over
the head, one small for the tail. If the
bags are fitted and overlapped they can
be stitched firmly, and no further fasten-
ing is needed. Manure bags will fit
heifers well. Four-bushel bags are best
fit for larger cows.


NOW ON SALE
TO enable you to compile your own income-tax returns for the year
closing June 30 next and subsequent years, the Endeavour Press has
published an inexpensive, up-to-date, simple and authoritative handbook —
INCOME TAX RETURNS’
by H. RAWSON STEVENSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
covering the Federal and N. S. Wales Acts as at present in force.
The Acts are explained in simple language, and there is a comprehensive
index of income and expenditure items. This is the first notable work
on the subject published during the past five years, and the price is only
FIVE SHILLINGS.
No person liable to Federal or N. S. Wales taxation —businessman,
farmer or salary-earner—who handles his own affairs can afford to
be without this book. He will find Income Tax Returns a simple and
comprehensive guide and money-saver. Accountants themselves will find
this book indispensable for all types of income-tax returns.
Now on sale by THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SOKE-OH!
“When in China, Mr. Reid said, he was
struck by the lack of roads. It was not pos-
sible, for example, to travel by car from Hong
Kong to Canton, a distance of only 60 miles.
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
In South Australia, of course, the
main road from Adelaide to Kangaroo
Island has been open to traffic for many
years.
•b
Making the Money Safe.
“In this contest the horses were sent away
from a lying start.”
This is a method which should com-
mend itself to the kind of clubs where
the officials bet on the winner. It is
much better than disqualifying, in a race
with four starters, the first three horses
home, the officials having backed the
fourth.
One good method for a lying start is
to give the jockey of every mount but
the favored one the idea that the race is
to be run in one direction and then set
the field going in the other. Another
good plan is to have several lying
starts, calling the horses back each time,
until the chosen steed jumps away with
a ten lengths’ lead.
Every official who wants to make the
game safe for himself and his cobbers
should insist upon the introduction of
the lying start.
H. M.
•b**b*b
“ ‘People should eat more and drink less,’
says a doctor.”
In other words, more meals to the
gallon.
►j. »j«
“He was, the prosecutor declared, a earless
driver.”— “Sun.”
That is, of course, what he should be.
•I*
Against It.
The speaker rose and looked solemnly
around the temperance meeting.
“Gentlemen,” he began, “we are con-
vened to-night to consider the suggestion,
recently made by hotelkeepers, that their
closing hours be extended from 6 p.m.
to 10 p.m.
“Now I want you to picture, gentle-
men, the horrible situation that will
ensue if this becomes legalised.
“Imagine the unfortunate wife, with
her infant clasped to her bosom, waiting
at home in suspense—agonising sus-
pense—for four extra hours every night.
“And imagine that debauched repro-
bate her husband reeling out of the
hotel at ten o’clock, to stagger home-
ward through the night, making the
streets horrible with his degradation!
“And not only would this measure
hasten the moral downfall of the
drunkard, but his physique would also
rapidly crumble, for, rather than leave
the hotel, he would miss his evening
meal.
“Therefore, it is our duty to oppose
this suggestion with all our ability, with
all our energy, with all our heart and
with all our soul!”
Amid thunderous applause the land-
lord of Slye Grogge Mansions, Darling-
hurst, resumed his seat.
T. W. N.
“During a game of whist a man had a
perfect suit of spades dealt to him. After one
glance at it,, he collapsed and died.”
—News item.
That should be a warning to those
players who are always complaining of
the hands they get.
Satisfaction.
His wife had gone out, and would be
absent for an hour or more. He rubbed
his hands gleefully. Now for it!
Quietly he went into the kitchen,
deserted save for Thomas, the cat, purr-
ing contentedly before the fire.
“Tommy, Pussy! ” he cajoled, click-
ing his fingers.
Thomas looked up warily. Such
attention was unusual. He prepared for
flight, but the man suddenly pounced
forward, grabbed him and carried him
struggling from the room.
Out and along the passage he went,
and into another room, closing the door
carefully behind him. A moment later
there was a sudden, agonising wail, a
soul-piercing cry. The door opened, and
a terrified animal rushed out. Then
came the man, smiling triumphantly.
He had been right all along. The
dining-room was big enough to swing a
cat in.
C. H. F.
“Any old stained glass in your chapel, Mr. Trevarrack ?”
“No, maister—missus d ’ keep ’un clean's a new pin."
Fairplay.
“Sydney City Council is setting aside special
areas in the parks for the playing of draughts.”
This plan is all very well for the
draught-players, but why should one sec-
tion of the community be singled out for
special consideration in this fashion? On
behalf of the Federation of Snakes and
Ladders Players I wish to voice an
emphatic protest.
This grand old game, combining as it
does representatives of the animal and
vegetable kingdoms, is instructive and
educational to an extent that draughts
can never be. Why, to play that game
one need not even know how to count!
Anyone can move counters across a
board, but in snakes and ladders one
needs, firstly, a good grounding in arith-
metic ; secondly, a steady hand to control
the movements of the dice in the shaker ;
and, thirdly, nerves of steel so that one
can move one’s man up a ladder or down
a snake with equal aplomb.
The federation calls upon players of
dominoes, ludo, halma and other fine old
English games to join in the demand for
equal rights in the use of our parks.
Uco.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The history of wheat will be published in
monthly instalments.” — Advt.
A true cereal story.
4* 4* 4* # 4*
Distant Relationship.
“You know,” said the critic, “in this
second novel of yours I see a faint re-
semblance to your first. Nothing big,
of course ; but there is a similarity.”
“No doubt,” the author replied. “My
second novel is the prose version of the
film version of my first novel.”
Sef.
Glimpses at the Globe.
XVI. —In the Alps.
The population of Alpine towns con-
sists of guides, toboggan-pushers and
skate- or ski-fasteners.
A boy starts off as a toboggan-pusher.
The name is rather misleading, as the
greater part of his job is to pull tobog-
gans up the hillside, the actual pushing
being confined to the push off from the
top of the run. After this push he is
expected to run down, beating the
toboggan to the bottom so as to be ready
to lend first aid to the occupants in the
event of a spill.
The job of a fastener does not call for
the expenditure of quite so much
energy, but as it entails much kneeling
it is an admirable means of developing
the huge knees which are the distingush-
ing mark as well as the proudest pos-
session of the senior branch of the pro-
fession, the guides.
The guides’ job is to take mountaineers
up to mountain tops. Most of the moun-
tains are quite easy to climb, but the
guides’ job is to find the most difficult
routes, and to map out courses that will
give the climbers the greatest number of
opportunities of breaking their necks or
falling into abysses, or both.
“Who’s that?” asks a newcomer as a
stalwart Swiss, attired in shorts and
rucksack, with huge knees and a frost-
bitten nose, struts by.
“Oh! don’t you know? That’s Ber-
nard, the champion guide. Twenty-seven
of his climbers broke their necks last
season.”
“You don’t say!”
“Yes, and that’s not all. Nineteen fell
down crevasses and were lost.”
“Good heavens!”
“And 33 perished from frost-bite and
exposure from blizzards he led them
into.”
“What a man! D’you think he’d let
us join his party?”
“Not a chance. He’s got a waiting list
as long as the Mt. Cenis tunnel. You’ll
have to be satisfied with one of the lesser
guides for the first couple of seasons.
Still, some of them have a fair slice of
luck at times. You know, avalanches
and things. But, of course, they can’t
come up to Bernard.”
Although Alpinists delight in risking
their necks scaling slippery peaks, once
one falls into a crevasse his next-of-kin
take an inordinate interest in him. The
gradual movement of the glacier down
the mountain eventually brings his corpse
back to those waiting below. This usually
takes many years, and the slopes of the
mountains just below melting point are
dotted with little huts which house people,
sad-eyed but hopeful, waiting for their
frozen relatives to come down.
The record is held by the last sur-
viving descendant of a reckless moun-
taineer who disappeared near the top of
Mont Blanc somewhere about the time
of William Tell, and whose family have
been waiting for him ever since. How
the sole survivor is going to recognise
deceased when he arrives no one knows.
I had a nasty experience myself once,
in the course of which my favorite back
collar-stud fell down a crevasse. I com-
plained to the guide. He sympathised
with me, and suggested that I should
build a hut and wait for it to come
down. It seemed a slow job to me, so
1 called in a mathematically-minded
friend. As a result of his calculations
he assured me that my stud would again
see the light of day shortly after lunch
on April 22, 1973.
I can thus dismiss it from my mind
for the time being, but you can be sure
I’ll be there on the appointed day.
In the meantime, I’ll have to get along
as well as I can without it,
Jasby.
+ 4 1 4 1 4*
“A cyclist run over by a car escaped
serious injury because he was wearing a vest,
a jersey, a waistcoat, a jacket and an over-
coat.”
That’s a good argument against
nudism.
“Situated at the foot of the Pyramids is
the exclusive Mena House, where wealth and
splendor mingle.”— “S. M. Herald.”
The flashpots of Egypt.
4*
Too Bad.
The ganger had a good, willing crowd,
and they more than made up for the
one who had gone to sleep in the shade
shortly after starting time. Smoke-oh
came, but the ganger decided that the
poor chap must be sick, and let him
sleep on. At midday he still slept, but
when knock-off came the ganger shook
him gently and asked if he wanted any
help to get home.
“What time is it?” asked the sufferer,
“Knock off.”
“Blime—mean to tell me you’ve let
me miss dinnertime and two smoke-ohs?”
Ned,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He replied that the forwards were all sober,
but one of the other players was intoxicated.”
—Football news.
He probably referred to the full back.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In most cases everything a man has he owes
to his wife.” — Woman’s paper.
That is the attitude she takes on
Friday night, anyhow.
“A single vertebra of a large sea-snake that
lived 60,000,000 years ago has been given to
the Smithsonian Institution.” — News item.
The original owner, we understand,
has no further use for it.
A Sound Proposition.
“It is better for a prospective bride to be a
good cook than a beauty.” — Woman’s paper.
Two maids 1 love. Though one is plain
And far from witty,
Her meals my admiration gain —
The other’s pretty.
This latter’s charm and sweet allure
Stir me like magic ;
But, though I’m not an epicure,
Her cooking’s tragic.
So, when at last for wife l look,
My heir to mother,
I’ll chose the plain one as my cook
And wed the other.
P.O.M.C.
Compensation.
The ambulance came and bore me away,
And now Tm a total wreck.
I feel my liver has gone astray
And is somewhere near my neck !
The doctor’s looks are very severe,
And my relatives talk with sighs,
But what do I care ? for the night-nurse
here
Is a blonde with big, blue eyes!
NAT.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or ala Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by'Phone. M 4601.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon-from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, own machine, would like
typing or secretarial work; fully competent. —
7172.
Energetic young man, N.S.W., married, re-
quires work of any description; capable car- or
lorry-driver; used to all classes wheat- and
sheep-farming. Go anywhere.—72ll.
To buy or borrow Volume IV of Electrical
Wonders of the World, published by Cassell’s
in 1922.—7209.
To buy An Appreciation of Poetry, by
Lafcadio Hearn. —7194.
To buy book on rubber-stamp making. —
7129.
To hear from persons interested in the leas-
ing of a Barrier Reef island. —7145.
Information Sought.
Briefly, can you tell me the history of whaling
in Australian waters ? —7222.
la 1798 Ebor Bunker, who arrived in Sydney
as master of a transport, was so enthusiastic
about the possibilities of the industry that he
induced the great whaling firm of Champion
to fit out for him the Albion, a 362-ton ship
armed with ■lO guns. The venture proved very
prosperous. Parties of foreign whalers, chiefly
American, arrived. By 1838 the Hentys had
established a- flourishing whaling station at
Portland Bay; in Westralia by 1840 there were
several stations, and in 1842 Ben Boyd began
to operate in Twofold Bay. But by 1860
only 12 vessels were employed in the trade.
There was a brief revival during the ’eighties
and ’nineties, but this did not last, and
whaling was practically suspended until 1912.
Then the Norwegians introduced modern
methods of catching and treating in north
Westralia till the war intervened.
* * * *
(1) Is the unemployment problem as serious
in the Northern Territory in proportion to the
population as in N. S. Wales? (2) What
opportunity would a young man with N.S.W.
dairying experience have of obtaining employ-
ment in N.T. ? —6657.
(1) Due mainly to the greatly increased activi-
ties in mining in the Territory, the number of
unemployed has considerably decreased in the
last 12 months. Approximately 20 men are
at present receiving unemployment-relief work.
In addition, a large number receive ration
issues. Persons must be resident in N.T. for
three years before they are eligible to receive
relief work. (2) Practically none. It is unwise
for anyone to go to N.T. without first obtaining
a definite offer of employment.
Aboriginal word or words for dust, red
dust and duststorm ? —7036.
Dust, “boonun” or “pono”; storm, “gam-
mar,” “go-ong” or “gumma”; red, “carra-
carra” or “dirrung”—there are many others;
red mud or clay (sticky), “mungery.” Cannot
trace any word for duststorm.
sjs * *
Particulars regarding a case of cannibalism
occurring on a ship bound from England to
Australia during the latter part of last century,
as a result of which several of the participants
were sentenced to death ? —7133.
The yacht Mignonette, bound from South-
ampton to Australia in 1884, foundered during
a gale when 1600 miles from Cape Agulhas.
Three men and a boy left her in a lifeboat;
20 days later the boy was killed and eaten.
Four days later the survivors were rescued and
taken to England, where they were tried for
murder. Two were sentenced to death; the
sentence was commuted to imprisonment for
several years on the ground that the boy was
in a dying condition when killed.
•I 5
Is there an actual “Grub-street” in London,
or is it merely a literary myth ? —7099.
Grub-street is the old name of a London
thoroughfare near Moorftelds which, according
to Dr. Johnston’s Dictionary, was “much in-
habited by writers of small histories, diction-
aries and temporary poems, whence any mean
production is called Grub-street.” It was also
satirised by Marvell, Pope and Swift as the
home of the poorest and most helpless of
literary drudges. In 1830 the name of the
thoroughfare was changed to Milton-street,
by reason of its proximity to the Bunhill resi-
dence of the poet, and it is now notable for
its business establishments.
* H= He . H=
Did the expression “Mrs. Grundy” have
its origin in the fact that the custodian of the
works of art in one of the royal palaces during
the Victorian regime was so named, and was
notorious for her prudishness ? —7091.
No. The name is taken from Thomas
Morton’s comedy “Speed the Plough,” pub-
lished in 1798, in which one of the characters
frequently refers to Mrs. Grundy—“ What will
Mrs. Grundy say?”—as the embodiment of
the social proprieties.
He He H J He
Ancient Rome was called the “City of Seven
Hills.” Can you give the names of those
hills ? —7074.
The hills enclosed by the original city walls
were Palatine, Capitol, Avertine, Caelian,
Esquiline, Viminal and Quirinal.
He He He 'He
What was the Psalter of Queen Marv ?
7080.
A fourteenth-century English illuminated
manuscript made during the best period of
the Anglo-Norman school. It is considered
the masterpiece of the century, and was pre-
sented to Mary Bohun, wife of Henry IV.
It contains a pictorial Biblical history from
the Creation to the death of Solomon and a
number of New Testament scenes.
What is the Book of’ Kells ? —7063.
The most famous example of Irish illumina-
tion. Made between a.d. 688-700 approx.,-and
represents the apogee of Celtic interwoven
patterns. Perfect technique is allied with rich
color. An excellent reproduction of this book
was published some years ago.
* * * *
(1) Who designed the Tower Bridge,
London ? (2) When h>as the work begun ?
(3) Total cost ? (4)' Particulars of the bridge ?
—7164. <
(1) Sir Horace Jones and Sir J. Wolfe Barry.
(2) On April 22, 1886. - (3) Over £1,000,000,
including property purchased. (4) The two
main towers rise over, 120 ft. , from the river
piers, and consist of steel columns encased in
masonry. . The .central span consists of two
cantilever arms which ‘ meet in . the centre.
They are . heavily weighted, to counterbalance
the weight of the projecting portions. The
average time, taken to raise or lower the cen-
tral portions is five minutes. -
*** ■ *
(1) Who was the inventor of the clock? (2)
When did clocks first come into use in Europe ?
—7138.
(1) The invention has been ascribed to Pope
Silvester 11. in a.d. 996, but the . Egyptians,
Greeks and Romans used a water-clock, or
clepsydra. (2) About the thirteenth century,
although there is evidence that they may have
been in use at an earlier dale. A clock was
installed at Westminster in 1288, and one in
Canterbury Cathedral in 1292. One placed in
Dover Castle in 1348 was exhibited, going, in
the Scientific Exhibition of 1876.
* *,-■■■. * *
A rancher in Central , Texas ( U.S.A .) has
asked me how to pickle or brine beef. Can
you tell how we do it in Australia.?— 6B64.
Dry pickle: Take 41b. brown sugar, 3oz.
saltpetre, 1 teaspoon pepper, 6oz. bay salt
(which may be omitted), 11b. common salt
and a little allspice. Rub over the beef, turn-
ing and rubbing every day for a week, then
hang up to dry. Thick pieces should be stabbed
with a long sharp knife, and the pickle in-
serted so that it can penetrate and effect com-
plete curing. Wet brine: Take 2 quarts water,
21b. brown sugar, 4oz. saltpetre, 21b. common
salt, 6oz. bay salt. Boil all together for 15
minutes, let it grow cold, put in the meat,
and turn it every day for a week.
* * * *
(1) A textbook says, “In photosynthesis or
plant respiration, blue and yellow rays unite
to form the green of chlorophyll, and the red
rays are masked.” Do these red rays emerge at
oxidation and help to color the hcemoglobin of
blood ? Is the general statement true ? (2)
Address of Julian Huxley ? (3) It is stated
that bodily circulations have rhythmic timings
or synchronisation depending on the heart beats.
Any evidence ? —7009.
(1) Plant photosynthesis and respiration are
two entirely different processes. The first in-
volves the manufacture of carbohydrate by
green plants from carbon dioxide and water, in
the presence of light. It is thus a construc-
tive process, with gain in potential energy by
the plant. Respiration is a destructive process
in plants as in animals. In it carbohydrates
are broken down, and carbon dioxide, water
and energy set free. - Chlorophyll is a com-
plex of four pigments in the leaf. These pig-
ments have definite chemical formulae; certain
rays of the spectrum do not unite to form
chlorophyll. The latter absorbs certain por-
tions of the spectrum, notably at the red end,
but there is also absorption. of' the orange,
yellow, blue and violet. Read Botany Fritsch
and Salisbury; Plant Life, Farmer; or Life
of Plants, Feeble. (2) Sir. Julian Huxley,
IJni. of London, England. (3) Yes. The
heart is the chief force that controls circula-
tion. • ' ■ •
•t * * *
What are teklites ? Have any been found
in Australia? Any literature'on locally-found
lektites ? —6757.
Tektites is another name for Australites, also
known as obsidian bombs, since they resemble
the glassy form of lava called obsidian. They
are found scattered throughout the coastal dis-
tricts of southern Australia, and many have
been collected along the Trans-Australian Rail-
way. W. H. C. Shaw, of Perth, made a fine
collection which was classified by Dr. Charles
Fenner in the Trans, and Proc. of the Royal
Society of South . Australia, Vol. LVIII, of
1934. Fenner concludes that they fell in one
meteoric shower in prehistoric times.
* * * *
Cause of erysipelas, symptoms and treat-
ment ? —6964.
The disease is an acute inflammation of the
skin characterised by toxic symptoms of high
fever and general prostration. Due to infec-
tion by the virulent streptococcus germ the
disease spreads freely in the epidermis, or sur-
face skin. The inflammatory reaction which
results is limited to a definite plane; there
is always a well-marked edge that can be seen
and felt as the process extends. Commonest
site of attack is on the face, usually at the
junction of the skin with the mucous mem-
brane of the mouth, the nose or the eye; a
scratch or abrasion permits entry of the germ.
The complications of erysipelas are common
and usually dangerous; medical supervision
is essential with treatment.
* * * *
What tests are there for cancer in its early
stages ? Is there a reliable blood test ? —7094.
Although sometimes it is possible to say
at once that the disease is present, there are
many instances in which exact diagnosis can
be made only when the microscope demon-
strates cancerous changes. In the case of
deep-seated cancers special methods of exami-
nation are necessary. The intestines and abdo-
minal viscera can be examined by X-rays or
inspected by exploratory opening of the abdo-
men. If there is any doubt about an acces-
sible tumor, it may be sectioned and examined
by the microscope. Specimen tests are made
for carcinoma cell casts in the excrement. The
blood test is indefinite.
:J-. * =K *
Is the approach of serious disorder of the
heart sometimes signalled by an occasional
pain in the left arm? —7031.
No. Symptoms of functional heart troubles
are shortness of breath on exertion or excite-
ment, palpitation of the heart, pain over region
of the heart and giddiness. Fainting and pro-
fuse sweating may occur; also hot and cold
sensations and rheumatic pains. Other indi-
cations are nervous tremor, blueness of the
hands and cheeks (cyanosis) and a tendency
to sickness. In organic (apart from functional)
heart disease * the organ itself is usually
damaged through medium of its valves or
mechanism.
♦ * * *
(1) What proportion of cement, sand and
stone should be used in making a concrete
fishpond ? (2) Any special preparations to
obtain a complete watertight pond ? —7025.
(1) A mixture consisting of one part of
cement to two parts of clean sand and three
parts of stone or metal of Lin. gauge should
be used to obtain a dense, watertight concrete.
(2) Before placing fish in a pond of this
nature, it should be filled with water in which
a small amount of alum has been dissolved,
and allowed to stand for three or four days;
this treatment should be repeated twice, and
the pond then thoroughly cleaned with fresh
water. If this practice is not adopted, trouble
may be experienced by the lime from the
cement affecting the fish, but the alum treat-
ment prohibits any lime from getting into the
solution.
sfc H« He
How to preserve the juice of lemons? —
7098.
Squeeze the juice into a preserving-pan, and
to every gallon of juice allow one egg. Place
the juice on the lire, which should not be
fierce, and when it begins to get warm whisk
in the beaten white of the egg only, but do
not stir again. Raise the temperature almost
to boiling, and let it steam for a while. Have
the bottles and corks in the oven, and let them
get very hot. When everything is as hot as pos-
sible, fill the juice into bottles, and close with
the hot corks, allowing each cork to be im-
mersed in the juice so that there is no air space.
Close the bottles tightly, and store in a cool,
dark place. Particles of fruit must be strained
or skimmed off the juice before bottling.
(1) A brief description of the electroplating
process ? (2) Voltage and current ? —7078.
(I) The object to be plated is suspended in
a solution of a metallic salt such as silver,
nickel, chromium, etc., and is connected to the
negative terminal of a low-voltage D.C. supply,
the positive supply terminal being joined to a
plate of similar metal to that contained in
the solution. This plate, called the anode, is
also suspended in the liquid. On connecting
up the supply the current flows from the anode,
through the solution, to the object to be plated,
and in so doing causes the metal held in solu-
tion to be deposited thereon. At the same time
an equal quantity of metal from the anode
is supplied to the solution. Thus the strength
of the solution is maintained. (2) Usually
from half to six volts, depending upon the
nature of the bath. The current needed will
vary with the area of the surface to be plated.
* =H *
Anv information about old Korean pottery ?
—6906.
Usually divided by collectors into three
periods—Shiragi dynasty, a.d 57 to 918; Korai
regime, a.d. 924 to 1392; and Ri dynasty, which
closed with the annexation of Korea by Japan
in 1910. The middle period yields the finest
examples, known as Korai-Yaki. Pieces show
a thick, transparent celedon glaze which varies
somewhat in translucency. The texture re-
sembles jade, and feels satiny to the touch.
The color generally is a greyish-blue tinged
with green, although some famous pieces are
a delicate yellow. The decorations, if any,
are of a very simple nature, “slip” painted
in dark brown, black and white and well
covered over with the glaze. This has an un-
evenness which causes a varying crackle.
* * *
Particulars of the royal jubilee stamps issued
in the following countries ; (1) Australia, (2)
M.L., (3) Papua, (4) Territory of New Guinea,
(5) Solomon Islands, (6) Gilbert and Ellice
Islands, (7) Cook Islands, (8) Samoa ? —7164.
(1) Three values were issued, 2d., 3d. and 2s.
The design depicts King George in field-mar-
shal’s uniform, mounted on his charger Anzac, a
gift to him from Australia. (2) |d.. Id., 6d. A
portrait of the King and Queen is illustrated on
these stamps. (3) and (4) None issued. (5)
lid., 3d., 6d, Is. The design shows a profile
portrait of the King and a view of Windsor
Castle. (6) Id., 14d., 3d., Is. Design same
as (5). (7) and (8) These islands used their
current Id., 2-Id. and 6d. issues overprinted
“Silver Jubilee of King George V. 1910-1935,”
in black.
* i|: $
Any information about a book on Goya
by Blamire Young? —7oB3.
In The Proverbs of Goya, published by
Jonathan Cape at 7s. 6d., Young explains
the series of plates by Goya, known as “Los
Proverbios.”
Mrs. Browning in one of her poems men-
tions the name Aornus. Was there a “Mount
Aornus” in ancient times, and where was it
situated? —7112.
The word, literally meaning “without birds,”
was applied by the Greeks to lofty, barren
heights that no bird, supposedly, could reach.
It is mentioned by Diodorus Siculus as the
, name of a rock-fortress on the Indus which
was stormed by Alexander the Great.
Brief Answers.
M.M.; See The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook (2s. 6d.)..--W.H.K.. (
and (2) J. C. Ludowici and Son., Ltd., it
York-street, Sydney. (3) Angus and Coote
J-td., 500 George-street, Sydney. ( 4 > JJajo
Bros, and Co., Ltd., Philhp-street, Concoid
N.S.W. (5) 2s. per pound English cun'sncy o
2s. 6d. per pound Australian currency in
Hong Kong. (6) For good-qiaaiity shell, ex
eluding any blistered or deeply-scratched pieces,
averaging 4mm. thickness, 20s. per pounc
Sydney. (7) James Hardie Trading Co 378
Kent-street, Sydney K.C.C.. ne
2-6 Boulevard Poissonmere; RariS'Soir, 3
Rue Lamartine; “L’Echo . ,
de I’Opera; “Le Journal,’ 100 Rue de Rich
lieu; “LTntransigeant,” 98-100 Rue Fea ™ f ul f ,
all Paris... .D.M.: Within three months ot the
grant of probate it is the duty of the execute
to file in the Supreme Court a statement
showing the assets and liabilities ot the
tator. Fifteen months after the grant
probate he has to render a second neco
showing how he has dealt with the cst •
He is not required to furnish further accoun
to the Court unless specially ordered to do so.
Apart from the above, he is, as trustee for those
interested in the estate, liable at any time_
account to them... .H.M.R.: “Quamera is
Q’land abo. word meaning water-rat....
E.J.K.; You could search in the Probate
office for the will. If it has been lodged, you
can then, on payment of a fee, examine it pi
get a copy. It will contain the name ot the
executor, and you can then communicate with
him. Failing this, put the matter in the hands
of a solicitor... .W.J.8.: Norma Shearer..-.
L.L.F.: According to records, the Victonne
made the following voyages during 1872-73 :
Sept. 5, 1872, to Mauritius; Jan. 9, 1873, to
Bramble Bay; April 29, 1873, to Mauritius.
The captain on all three voyages was C. Le-
maistre... .C. 8.: If she is a half-caste she
would not be eligible for admission unless the
Minister for the Interior saw fit to grant
authority as a special case. Get in touch
with the Commonwealth Department of the
Interior R.C.P.; (1) A composer of very
minor fame; no details available. (2) The
French composer Waldteufel ranks with the
Strausses and Gung’l as a writer of ballroom
waltzes. (3) and (4) No details available. (5)
The younger Strauss wrote the waltzes referred
to A.M.: No means known of counter-
acting sulphur fumes, which are extremely pene-
trating. If the cloth concerned is clothing,
it should be of white material, and, after being
exposed to the fumes, should be rinsed quickly
in cold water and washed at once in hot soapy
water with several rinsings. If you are refer-
ring to fumigation tents in the orchard, write
to Department of Agriculture, Box 36A, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for leaflet on their use and care....
LG.: Write Secretary, Development Branch,
Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra, F.C.T
J.S.: There are no vacancies for policewomen
in N.S.W S. McN.: (1) Yes—possibly in-
herited or acquired through personal associ-
ations, diet, etc. (2) Physical exercise, an
outdoor hobby and a cold or tepid bath daily
are essentials. Drink limejuice cordial as a
beverage. Curtail red meat, condiments and
heating foods... .S.J.D.: The use of a magni-
fying lens upsets normal accommodation of
the eyes. Focus of vision is fixed by glasses
prescribed. If the glasses are at fault, prompt
correction should be made; otherwise trouble
and damage to the eyes will result. Injuries
such as glaucoma may be caused in this way.
H.W.: No exact figures available. Height
Bft. 6in. (male) and weight 35 stone (female)
have been claimed as records... .C.J.F.; Write
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney....
E.A.T.; Best to allow four to six weeks to
elapse C.L.D.: Get in touch with the Gov-
ernment Astronomer, Astronomical Observa-
tory, South Yarra, Melbourne... .F.R.: Males
577,997, females 583,458, persons 1,161,455.
These figures do not include 63,861 males and
63,681 females who were recorded as “Catholic,
undefined.” As there was no legal obligation
to answer the question, 12.8 per cent, of the
population gave no reply. Of those who stated
their religion, 20.1 per cent, were Roman
Catholic and 2.2 per cent. Catholic, undefined.
The corresponding figures at the 1921 census
were 21.2 per cent, and 0.7 per cent, re-
spectively... .E.H.; (1) J. L. Peace and Co.,
17 Parker-street, Sydney. (2) Guthridge, Ltd.,
10-12 Parramatta-road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
(3) Sold in widths of 28in. at 10s. 6d. per
yard... .W.C.G.: If by the term “mining en-
gineer” is meant “mine manager,” communi-
cate with the Department of Mines, Sydney.
A course of instruction in mining engineering
may be obtained at Sydney Uni H.G.B. :
Refer the matter to the Secretary, Returned
Soldiers and Sailors’ Employment Board, Dept.
of Labor and Industry, Sydney R.McL.:
Practical Mathematics, by Castle, or, for a
more complete course, Arithmetic, Algebra and
Geometry, all by Larcombe, and published by
the Cambridge Press... .G.W.: The chances
of the violin being genuine are very remote.
In all probability it is a cheap copy. A. E.
Smith and Co., Ltd., 68 Hunter-street, Sydney,
could let you have further information
H.R.C.; See reply to G.W C.W.:
Communicate with K. A. Dorhauer, hon.
sec., Amateur Fishermen’s Association, 192
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .W.H.G.: Yes,
there are numbers of deer roaming in
the National Park, near Sydney. Several kan-
garoos are in a compound at Audley, but there
are no emus in the park.... W.W.: As there is
no general exemption from death duties for
policies of assurance, proceeds of policy would
Ire included in estate for assessment of probate
duty, if any. Society is precluded from settling
a death claim until Stamp Commissioner issues
his certificate in terms of Section 122 of the
N.S.W. Stamp Duties Act, and the decision as
to whether the policy proceeds are dutiable or
not rests with the Commissioner... .A.A.: The
4| by 3? Graflex fitted with f/4.5 anastigmat is
recommended. Shutter speeds range from one-
tenth of a second up to and including one-thou-
sandth of a second. With this make of camera
it is possible to use either plates, roll film or
flat film. The Graflex will also accommodate
a telephoto lens D.R.G.: Only satisfactory
method of rebrowning Damascus gun barrels is
by a special acid process which takes approxi-
mately 10 days’ attention to be effective. A
gunsmith would do the work for about 30s.
J.J.O.S.: The books recommended for phy-
siology are: Haldane and Huxley’s Animal
Biology and Huxley and Barcroft’s Lessons
in Elementary Physiology. The cost of the
Sydney University Calendar is 35., postage lOd.
The Students’ Handbook is issued gratis....
W. 0.8.: Harry Crabb, 261 Riley-street, Sydney.
Prices range from £8 10s. upwards, according
to size (Many others mailed.)


Y'
&
4,
w
x
•r£^
. ~ Sue*"'
“■t^i»»
a**ls
p- M *” t “’ *„*..'
Svdoo
. o< ' at °°
' s " ' " ied <) • »**
ivinfc * a rai ol
~OU> » 4
Ro«
u« li
siatn
fast
year*
x\^an
>bia» nC
;tacw° 0
5 U„d
tcV» asC
have
bad
vbev
and
,en»
year
cto'* 1 '
tour
cas*
ViaU
)uttn*
>pp' n?
bote'
:\.ed
ctac
ibetwa' 1
date
■Went
exec
such
jbtatnc
,dtn«
ofay
\nteo 1
16 • i
ifafa*
yoU
ufay
this
V out
tree
British
and Best.
14 ll\ 1114 I
THE WORLD'S BEST SAFETY
ONE BLADE
LASTS FOUR
YEARS ...
writes satisfied user.
For 12 years the Rolls
Razor has maintained its
reputation as the
Aristocrat of
Safety Razors,
and the year 1935 finds
this masterpiece of
British workmanship
with its reputation
further enhanced by
many thousands of
satisfied users.
Years of clean, smooth shaves
from otic blade is the usual experi-
ence of Rolls Razor users.
Why don’t you join this happy
band of well-groomed men who
look forward with joy to their
morning shave with a
Rolls Razor ?
Rolls Razors are obtainable at all
leading Retail Stores, Chemists and
Tobacconists. If your local dealer
cannot supply, write direct to
Rolls Razor Company of
Australia, Ltd.,
8a Castlereagh St, Sydney, N.S.W
TO PASTORALISTS
Have you sometimes wondered why an
-« apparently well-grown wool is passed by the
buyers at Sales, or fetches only a surprisingly
low price?
CONCERNING WOOL GROWTH'
BY
FRANK WHIDDON
tells you why and also gives much other new
and valuable information to the pastoralist.
p ric e 3/g
Obtainable from
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney;
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd., 424 George Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Mn notice (except Of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.H.: Pretty enough in its way, but
like “gladsome joy” don’t help it... •
“Futility” could hardly be more aptly labelled.
F.S.: It makes terribly hard reading m
more ways than one W.A.C.D. : It’s a good
old yarn that might pass m tripping veise.
But yours is full of limps and stumbles....
E.V.8.: We’ve struck some amazing rhymes
in our time, but “fingers” arid “harbingers
beats them all for sheer perverseness K.b..
“I submit the enclosed poem, ode or what-
ever it may be.” If you don’t know we don t.
... .R.W.:
if this life should pass away
And leave upon the shores of Time
No trace of what I am,
No trace of what I was
But why worry? It’s a guinea to a gooseberry
it wi11... .Herob: Breaks all records —even the
title is undecipherable... .T.R.: None of them
published. As your latest are, they were on
the thin side J.L.; Disagreeable poem about
drowning returned... .K.E.J.G.: One virtue —
it’s shorter than most “Wet Week-ends”....
R.McN.: Right in calling it “The Elusive
Song,” because what you’re after is still elusive.
Last two lines admired as much as previously.
M.F.C.: “The Owl” is no oofbird
L.H.: None gets beyond direct descriptiveness.
A.L.McI.: Don’t make anything of interest
of your night thoughts H.E.0.; Frankly,
what do you think of it yourself? ... .Eesar:
You seem to think the way to write verse is to
give old Jingle the bit and let him g 0....
Minnehaha: Can’t place any more “Autumn
Songs” this winter, thanks... .T.D.C.: You
needn’t be so embarrassing; but how about
Unaipon or Nicholls? Bellerive: And so
say all of us:
, ...N.G. (U.S.A.): You were a very lucky
girl to get to school at all D.S.: Not funny
enough to support the unlikely p10t... .E.V.W.:
Your closest so far... .Z.V.W.: Back on the
beaten track. The other yarn broke new
ground... .P.M.: Too slight. The final twist
was good, though W.H.8.: A very hack-
neyed theme... .J.P.; They lack sincerity, and
the characters are lifeless... .G. 8.; A tall yarn,
with very little to it K.T.: Attempts to
pin the blame for an accident on one small
incident are usually unsatisfactory. In your
case there were at least half a dozen con-
tributory causes each as important as the one
selected M.D.; It doesn’t hold the interest.
... .P.H.M.: Your entry for the Cloncurry Billy-
goat Derby scratched... .Mrs. K.: You should
be in a better position to judge than we.
Why not give him the benefit of the doubt.
... .Faisi: Old news, and of limited appeal... •
A.G.H.: The most melodramatic yarn of the
week N.K.: And the most futile T.A.L.:
Trust you feel better after it....J.W.: All
miss Q.C.8.: All very well, but you haven t
considered the mid-Victorian young man’s atti-
tude towards the girl he doesn’t intend to
marry... .F.S.; Fairly close, but the theme
isn’t very satisfying... .A.N.M.: Your abo.
sprinter has probably reached home by now.
G.L.: A long way off... .W.C.; The treat-
ment is rather sentimental.... S.R.: It’s hard
to say which is the more unlikely—that the
showman should attempt such a plot or that
Cornell should fall into it.,. .C.W.P.: That
era hasn’t quite arrived yet. There have
always been a few men satisfied to be kept by
their wives... .H.D.: Off our beat... .R.L.:
Not suitable... .J.M.: Not sufficiently humor-
ous. Still, you are young. Keep trying....
J.McL.: “Peregrinations of Paul” don’t im-
press. Not much reality about them....
A.W.D’O.: The whole thing depends on keep-
ing the ending a secret. Unfortunately we
guessed it in the second paragraph... .H.H.:
Old Tom’s trip to the workhouse brought no
tears.. . .C.E.D.: Except that you used radio
where other writers used dreams or drugs, it
has been done a score of times.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.K.S.: Thin idea and niggling treatment.
. ...J.P.: A commonplace sketch plus a hack-
neyed pun... .D.S.H.; Wash drawing looks like
something that has been dragged out of a
swamp R.M.; The Bulletin first heard
that joke half a century ago C. 8.: Smart
in patches, but badly put together T.J.R.:
Worse drawings have possibly been published,
but not in our pages G.F.: Take those
misfits away and bury them deep M.J.: You
won’t score until you learn to take more pains
with your work... .A. 8.: Don’t copy another
man’s style; and give us gags that are fresh.
H.M.: Not badly drawn, but not humor-
ous enough .A.D.W.; As dejected as a cat
that has been out in the rain all night... .T.G.:
An impossible horse and an equally impossible
rider F.P.: Not a laugh among them
H.S.: Just feeble scratchings I.B.: An-
other 30 years or 50... .F.T.P.: We dare
not tell you what we think about it....
J.E.S.: All your characters seem to go at the
knees F.H.: Nothing about it to warrant
a cheque M.P.: You might have told us
what the joke was about... .J.D.: Milk-
pilfering drawing is this week’s worst.. . .S.S.:
Jest was so feeble that it died on the journey.
GOD BLESS YOU OLD CHAP.
(,'heer up said Jinks—
Be happy and smile.
Keep the pen on the move.
In your same old style.
You encountered rough times.
And battled your way.
And still write a good poem.
Though your hair is grey.
Don’t sit and ponder with —-
Your dog on your lap.
Good advice I -replied.
God bless you old chap.
Brace up resumed Jinks.
You’ve done your best.
And may do a lot more—•
Before you go west.
1 heard you yet play—•
A good game of nap.
Flattery, I exclaimed.
God bless you old chap.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Como”: Two thousand years ago
Aristophanes showed in “Lysistrata”
how a combination of women could
stop a war. On the N.W. Frontier
of India dusky damsels have found
another method. Their chief amusement
is to gather on the rocks overlooking
the roads and watch the cars. Afridis set
out to blow up a bridge as a demonstra-
tion against a rival band on the other side,
The women would have none of it; the
destruction would mean that no more
cars would pass until the bridge had
been rebuilt. They gathered on the
span and refused to budge, challenging
their husbands and brothers to start the
fuse. The men argued the point, but
eventually gathered up their explosives
and went home.
. * .
Medic : When Lord Chiet Justice
Hewart (now 65) said he hoped to con-
tinue for another 20 or 30 years,” and
c ; ted Sir^ ra f A X or y> who . is g° in S
stiong at 84, he missed an important
pomt. Avory, like practically all ce e-
bribes who have retained their mental
vigoi till very late in life (Gladstone,
Leo XIII., Shaw, Chamberlain and
Carson), is very thin. Lord Hewaxt is.
stout. Of course there are exceptions.
George Judah Cohen, of Sydney, whose
mind is probably as active as it was 20
ago, is no sylph.. But the rule is
that the only man who keeps his mental
vigor is the man who keeps his figure.
“G. Trotter”: Few film-fans who
are thrilled by Warner Gland’s elu-
cidations of different mysteries are
aware that Charlie Chau was a real
man. He died only a few months
ago in the home of his_ detective
triumphs, Honolulu, where his work in
the local police force, especially among
the variegated population of that pic-
turesque town, put him right among the
mandarins of sleuthdom. Chan’s sue-
cesses became a feature of the Sunday
press of the Pacific slope ; it was a Holly-
wood writer, struck with the novelty of
a Chinese detective, who made him the
centre of the sensational scenarios which
the world knows to-day. Chan himself
was said to be vastly amused whenever
he visited a movie show and discovered
what marvels he had accomplished.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Rev. T. C. Rentoul de-
fined the “true wowser” to the Methodist
Conference in Melbourne as “one who
wants to put trousers on the statues in
the park.” It is difficult to imagine Italy
as a home of true wowsers, but that is
what the municipality of Rome did many
years back when a new large fountain was
erected opposite the railway station and
was found to consist of nymphs and boy
friends in such a realistic state of nudity
that the Roman Bumbles ordered them
to be provided with scanties. These were
duly stitched on to the offending bronzes
that day, but the same night a determined
band of artists and students decided on
direct action, tore off the garments
and bore them off as triumphant banners
in a procession down the Via Nationale.
Bumble jicver moved again, and the
tourist of to-day may gaze upon the
statues in all their pristine nakedness and
beauty, for the fountain is a genuine
pj ece of art.
*'* * *
From Jo’burg; S. African mineowners
now know their fate regarding new taxa-
tion They have to - fork out ° surtax of
2g in the £ on profits • from July 1.
p ro £ ts mean taxable income without
a fi owance f or redemption of capital or
j osses j n previous years. Profits for the
p irst half of 1935 fall under the new tax.
Xast r Xr ansvaal goldmines as a whole
showed near]y £3 2 5 000,000 of profits, of
w bich £15,878,500 was paid in divs., and
Government took £14,000,000-odd in
taxes and royalties, as against £15,000,000
b for to is est^ted
f° y ield £2,500,000 a further £5,000 000
is expected from the income
f- c ”
Ie^ e royalties. What excess-profit duty
Wlll y ield cannot y et be determined.
* „ * , * . . *
.“G.M.”: Vic.’s enthusiastic moun-
ad^pt^ d i tbe _ pOpU ar
Shuffle Off to Buffalo as an anthem
for Vic. s centre for winter sports. It
is far more appropriate foi the Australian
than for the U.S. Buffalo which is _ a
clt Y with nothing to attract the tourist
except as a jumping-off p ace for Niagara
and the Lakes. A semi-industrial town
with tew surrounding beauty-spots, Buf-
falo * s the last place in America—except
possibly Cohoes which the Yankee
bridegroom would suggest to his girl
friend as the spot for a honeymoon.
Buffalo (Vic.) is just the place that he
would.


SL
'» c
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-<xjmz-xo>x
Icwr-ZQUH»
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD.,
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Melbourne)
“SILVER
EDGE'*
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON , ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VC.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 (SECOND
£9o*7 EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
252 George Street, Sydney. 3d. extra.
The Steering Column.
HIGHWAY FATALITIES AND SPEED
LIMITS.
HOW THE ROADS CAN BE MADE SAFER.
By FRED BERRY.
ACH year there is an increase in the number of deaths and
•I —* serious casualties due to mishaps upon public highways,
and the problem of devising effective measures to reduce this
tragic incidence is of vital interest to motorists, pedestrians and
police alike.
In discussions of this intricate problem armchair critics
without practical modern experience have aired their opinions
freely in the columns of the press, whilst practical motorists
who know all there is to be learned about operating an auto-
mobile in a thoroughly safe manner under every conceivable
condition have not been heard.
Admittedly the fact that 356 persons
were killed and 6069 injured in highway
accidents in N. S. Wales last year calls
for urgent attention and, if necessary,
drastic action on the part of traffic
authorities ; but, serious though the posi-
tion may be, a study of the history of
repressive legislation in other countries
shows clearly that hasty measures in-
spired by panic will serve no useful pur-
pose, will create inconvenience, and are
foredoomed to failure.
Rightly or wrongly, Australia legisla-
tion has been moulded along the lines of
British practice, and, as Mr. Hore-
Belisha, Minister for Transport (Eng.),
has recently decided that in order to re-
duce motoring casualties a speed limit
of 30 m.p.h. in “built-up”
areas is to be enforced,
there is a tendency in this
country to follow suit
blindly and without study-
ing the position thor-
oughly.
The suggestion that an
arbitrary speed limit,
whatever it may be, will
in itself, at one stroke, re-
duce highway accidents
does not appeal to sane
and experienced motorists,
for the remedy gives no
cons i d e ration to the
psychological aspect of
motoring.
The Old Order.
Retracing history, it
will be found that initial
difficulties of traffic authorities in deal-
ing with automobiles were mainly
those of preserving the lives of road-
users in charge of livestock. To this end
it was decreed that every motor-car must
be preceded by a man carrying a red flag,
in order to warn the populace of the
approach of one of these fearsome
engines of destruction. Gradually cars
became less noisy, and people and horses
more used to them. The red flag was
discarded, but soon, due to increased
speed, legislation was introduced in Eng-
land setting a speed limit of 30 m.p.h.
This law remained in force for over 20
years. It was repealed as the result of
insistent public demand, and its re-
imposition has been given a decidedly
hostile reception.
In Australia speed limits hitherto have
been avoided, except in the by-laws of
municipalities and shires, and everybody
has been satisfied. When framing regu-
lations, even in pre-war days, Australian
traffic authorities realised that, where the
larrikin or road-hog was involved, speed
limits meant nothing, but that the phrase
“driving to the public danger,” giving
the police, as it did and still does, un-
limited power in handling any hazardous
situation, was perfect from an adminis-
trative standpoint.
If in need of further evidence spon-
sors of the 30 m.p.h. speed limit should
MOTORIMPRESSIONS .
What your car looks like after they've given you a price for a trade-in.
turn t h e i r attention to the U.S.A., where
last year 24,000,000 cars and trucks
(more than 80 p.c. of world registrations)
were in me Speed limits are unheard
of - Instead, *>"<*■ mounted .on Ire-
mendously fast motor-cycles, traverse the
mam highways. Road-hogs and danger-
ous drivers are arrested when the occa-
sion warrants, their cars are impounded
and their licenses cancelled. • But, on the
other hand, the potterer who loafs along
a busy highway at less than 30 or 40
m.p.h. is politely shepherded into a
side street and kept out of the way.
Speed-limit advocates claim that since
introduction of the 30 m.p.h. rate in
£ ng ] anc j recently road accidents and
f a t a lities have been reduced, but while
j s true t^e y f or get to mention that
tremendous expenditure involved in
policing this new regulation might have
been applied to tfie old regime with
greater effect.
Dangerous Potterers.
Basically the weakness of a set speed
limit as a means of reducing motoring
accidents is rooted in the common fallacy
that fast cars are dangerous when
driven on the highways. In this con-
nection an extract from the editorial
columns of the “Autocar,” possibly
England’s most conservative motoring
journal, will be of interest: “With the
contention that, when properly driven,
fast cars are more dangerous than
their slower brethren we do not
agree for a moment. The owner of a
fast car very seldom wishes to use its
maximum speed. On the other hand, its
rapid acceleration and its excellent brakes
make for safety. One of the most dan-
gerous operations for any driver is the
overtaking of a vehicle ahead. The more
that operation is prolonged the more
risky it is. The car with first-rate ac-
celeration can overtake in a few seconds
and return immediately to its own side
of the road. We cannot deprecate too
strongly the fallacy that the fast car is
dangerous while the slow one is safe.
The opposite is far more often the case.”
It is not the speed or acceleration but
the proper handling of a car that is the
vital issue. After almost 30 years of
motoring, covering in that period
approximately 750,000 miles without'
serious accident, establishing inter-State
records, racing on dirt and concrete
tracks and in organised competitions, sit-
ting on numberless committees formed
to propagate safety first principles in
motoring, the writers opinion is that the
only certain method of reducing motor-
ing accidents is to educate the man at
thl wheel in motoring ethics. Speed
limits such as suggested are in these
modern times not only absurd but posi-
lively futile. The real offenders, usually
road-hogs and larrikins, must be coerced
by efficient police supervision into be-
having fairly to other users of the road.
Where necessary their licenses should be
cancelled, and in extreme cases the
penalty should be imprisonment, for, un-
questionably, dangerous or wanton driv-
ing constitutes a criminal offence.
Accidents Mostly Avoidable.
The writer’s experience, coupled with
a careful study of the behavior of every
type of driver, has supplied evidence that
fully 80 p.c. of highway accidents could
have been avoided, the remaining 20 p.c.
being debited to failure of some mechani-
cal unit.
Whenever a serious motoring accident
occurs a careful perusal of evidence avail-
able invariably shows that the human
element has in the main been responsible,
and that either the driver of the vehicle
or the pedestrian, or both, have been
lacking in experience, careless or negli-
gent, or under the influence of intoxicat-
ing liquor.
No motorist is entitled to shelter behind
the plea of inexperience, for once seated
at the wheel of a car he accepts serious
responsibilities, and those who venture
into difficult traffic conditions or who
drive at high speed on public highways
without sufficient skill and
ability commit a criminal
act. Speed limits do not
apply in cases such as
this, for as the result of
the driver pressing the
accelerator in mistake for
the brake pedal a pedes-
trian may be killed or
seriously injured with the
road speed of the vehicle
well within any stipulated
limit.
Plainly the only solu-
tion of this difficult prob-
lem lies in disciplining
the motorist who is care-
less, negligent or drunk.
Carelessness is possibly
the least of these evils,
for damage is usually
confined to bent mud-
guards or bumper-bars
and squashed tail-lights,
due mainly to faulty judg-
ment when manoeuvring
in confined spaces. The
careless driver is usually
rather more a nuisance
than a menace.
On the other hand, were
it possible to prevent
the negligent or drunken
driver from operating
his car, highway tragedies
would be the exception rather than the
rule, and in this regard pedestrians in the
same category must accept their share of
responsibility.
Negligent Driving.
Broadly speaking, negligent driving in-
cludes every conscious risk taken by a
motorist. It does not mean that one must
tear madly down the wrong side of the
road at high speed to be guilty of this
offence, for in such circumstances the
offence is obvious. Far more subtle
factors are involved, a common instance
being the case of experienced drivers
operating their cars over wet and greasy
roads at a speed which, reasonable with
new tyres, is bound to be hazardous
when treads have worn smooth.
Overtaking on the crest of hills and
cutting in sharply after passing another
vehicle are both prolific sources of
disaster even though road speed my be
below 30 m.p.h. In many cases the


[Vietn'' **"•“
Uo« «<"“
r w\ v"#\
/r
utjoer
joerjforwLCLin.ee, al
NO EXTRA COST
Only one Grade — FIRST GRADE!
Only one Quality— FlßST QUALITY!
oej /// n luulancl
o
worry, r
NO, JIM DOESN'T WORRV
ABOUT ME —NOT EVEN ON THE COLDEST, WETTEST
NIGHT. He knows I'll be safe.
“No trouble in starting, always plenty of power in reserve on
the hills, so I rarely change a gear. And I'm never in trouble
in traffic. If I didn't use Power Chief Jim might worry!"
Texaco Power Chief is the only motor spirit with all the advantages of
CONTROLLED COMBUSTION sold at the same price as ordinary first
grades throughout Australia.
TEXACO
POWER tHIEF
ONLY ’POWER CHIEF ’ IS ORANGE TINTED
PC6-485
offending party is not directly involved
in a serious accident, yet by reason of
his actions has been primarily respon-
sible. Particularly does this apply to
drivers who draw out from a kerb in
busy thoroughfares without making per-
fectly sure that vehicles behind are given
ample and sufficient notice of their in-
tention, and to the huge number of slow-
moving cars and trucks which, instead of
keeping to their correct side, shape a
course along the middle of the road and
torce overtaking vehicles into errors. In
both these instances what the other
fellow is forced to do on the impulse of
the moment adds to the list of highway
tragedies
The Real Culprits.
So far as drunken and wanton drivers
are concerned—included in this category
being the flash youth who chooses in the
early hours of the morning to show off
the paces of his high-powered car—the
remedy is as clear as it is simple. To
these people speed limits convey no mean-
ing, and only cancellation of license or,
in flagrant cases, a term of imprisonment
will effect a remedy. Effective police
supervision alone can be of value in
curbing such behavior,
Every motorist must whole-heartedly
agree w i t h an y sound plan whereby road
acc id en ts can be reduced, even if only
a few Hves are saved each but
before a final decision is reache( j
a review
of fl es supplied by trafflc au , ho rities
shou|d be » id hast and
, - 0 , .• J r
sibly iniquitous legislation
Last year foi every 1000 vehicles in
W f ,H 1 in
U.S.A., 1.5 in N.S.W. and 3.1 in Great
Britain ; so that, to begin with, although
the position could undoubtedly be im-
proved, we in this country compare not
unfavorably with other parts of the
world. Detailed analysis of accidents in
N.S.W. shows that of the fatalities 39.4
p.c. were pedestrians, and of those in-
jured 35 p.c. Many accidents occurred
at intersections, and it is interesting to
note that of the 216 drivers and passen-
gers killed 120 deaths resulted from acci-
dents in which one motor vehicle only
was involved — i.e., cases of overturning,
skidding, running off the roadway, etc.
Police Vigilance.
Plainly, then, the only possible method
whereby these fatalities can be reduced
ts along the lines at present being adopted
by N.S.W. traffic authorities—that of
i-jre • . c ~
placing On the road an efficient force of
experienced uniformed police, equipped
with powerful motors, who will almost
certainly drag into the arms of the law
that small minority of road-hogs and
irresponsibles answerable for the majo-
rity of accidents
Furthermore the simnle fnet that thece
r urtnermore, me simple tact mat mese
safety bureau cars are on patrol 24
hours each day and likely to be on the
spot at any time will exercise a restrain-
ing influence upon those usually sane
drivers who, due to the inherent weak-
ness of human nature, may be prone
to fall into error.
The Trouble Lamp.
A.Y. (Homebush, TA.S.W.).—Where can I
get an instruction book for the 1930-33
Cadillac ?
Try John McGrath, Ltd., 155 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. Or perhaps some reader may
have a spare copy.
* * * *
J.D.P. (Dawson Valley, Q.). —(1) Would re-
moval of the oil-bath air-cleaner from the
carburettor intake of a Ford V 8 improve engine
performance ? (2) If so, would a gauze strainer
over the intake be necessary ?
(1) Slightly better power output will be
secured without the air-cleaner, but the advan-
tage will be more than offset by increased
engine wear due to foreign matter being
admitted to the induction system. (2) A gauze
strainer, to be thoroughly efficient, will restrict
the free flow of air into the mixing chamber
probably to a greater extent than the standard
oil-bath air-cleaner. Better leave well alone.
* * * *
W.J.R. (Maclagan, Q.).—(l) Where can I
obtain 1927 Dodge Four handbook ? (2)
Clearance for plugs, breaker points and valve
tappets ? (3) Am using an oil (named), and
(“Steering Column” continued on
page 30.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
I
/t/CG
W
S \*W 'e d tve*
s „^ 4 s^&^S^ boo
. _«»S2
i
At® ' 3 . -iatv» * \\\® ® _ i Q t 3S ■■veß’P
«s£ b I***%* **J!te.
ad s
ds
atW
lot
otn
inQ
a \l® c
ace
sW^Yvous® 5
d^ c
cap 3
\d
\NOt
S
*•
®>°
t
OV^
O^
?<£** *
*gsv ? * oS
\
\
s^sss
«Hss*
\OO V*l
e c\e
S»
Vied
i\\e
s\<*
ad
♦Aatt
\\Oti
*£&&***
tv\sa
a ie
ouw
\\att
\
v\v®
OtdV
\ut e
uiac
scva^
dAW kins 7,
WHOLESALE MOTOR ACCBSSSORIES.
Our new Catalogue No. 92 (June, 1935, issue) will
be ready for. distribution in a few days, lie spent
six months preparing this publication at a cost ot
many hundreds of pounds; 64 pages, 500 illustra-
tions • full of interesting information. Posted free.
As this Catalogue STRICTLY WHOLESALE,
nlease enclose vour business card when writing for it.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LIMITED, Motor Accessories
Department, 53 North George Street, Sydney; and
it Chicago and San Francisco, U.S.A. Est. in 1906.
pressure gauge drops to 2 when motor is hot.
Is this as it should be ?
(1) Write Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Flin-
ders-street, Sydney. (2) Plugs, 18/25 thou-
sandths; breaker points, 12/18 thou. Breaker
noints should always be set approximately six
thou, less than plug points. (3) Oil is as good
as mos‘ others. Low pressure may be due to
bearing or cylinder wear. Provided motor
pulls well and plugs do not oil-up, there is no
reason to change. But at this stage it would
be sound economy to have the engine
thoroughly overhauled.
% *
KJ. (Wallerawang, N.S.W.). —I am having
trouble with the lights of my 1934 14 -h.p. car.
When revs, drop to idling speed there is a
noticeable dimming of lights. Charging rale is
eight amps, at 25 m.p.h. with headlights
switched on, yet last time I drove the car at
night a headlight bulb burned out. Mileage
1700. Cause and cure ?
Inspect all terminals in the wiring system.
With headlights burning ammeter should only
show from zero to two amps, charge. Head-
light globe burning out indicates that the
generator is passing the charge through the
system instead of to the battery. Make sure
that the earth return from battery to chassis is
making good contact.
* * *
W.N. (Goulburn, N.S.W.). —1 have a 1934
Chrysler Six which gives trouble only when
driven on full throttle for several miles, or when
climbing long, steep hills on middle gear. Under
these conditions the engine ‘‘pops” violently
through the carburettor, and unless the throttle
is eased back for several seconds the trouble
persists. Timing and ignition have been
checked, and carburettor setting has never been
disturbed. Can you suggest a remedy ?
Symptoms clearly indicate lack of fuel when
the car is driven on full throttle. Examine
the fuel line from tank to pump. A small
piece of rubber from a bowser hose or other
foreign matter could cause the mischief. Fail-
ing this, dismantle the mechanical fuel pump
and make sure it is delivering normal volume
of fuel at all engine speeds.
* * * *
L.B.W. (Alawoona, S.A.). —I am considering
fitting a four-wheel trailer weighing about
B cwt. to carry 10 or 12 sheep a distance of
25 miles over hilly country. Car is an old
four-cylinder Durant in fair mechanical con-
dition. Can it be done without undue damage
to the car ?
The car was never intended for heavy duty
of this description, and will be so grossly over-
loaded that mechanical trouble is almost in-
evitable, even though the old machine may
struggle on for some time.
* * * *
B.D. (Temora, N.S.W.). —The new car I am
about to purchase must stand up to a lot of
heavy work on rough country roads. Please
advise as to relative merits of cars named.
Three, four and seven equal; next five; then
one, two, six and eight for further considera-
tion.
* * * *
W.E.D. (Mt. Isa, Q.).—My 1934 Chev.
roadster has done 9000 miles, and has been
well cared for. On the road up from Sydney
a few weeks ago the brakes developed a
screech when applied. They were checked for
wear, found sound, and adjusted carefully, but
the noise continues. What’s wrong ?
Check brake drum for truth and see whether
there is evidence of internal scoring. Linings
should not be brittle or unduly shiny, and
rivet heads must be below surface. Wear in
anchor pins of brake shoes will sometimes cause
a squeak when leverage is applied.
* * * *
A.B.C. (Merredin, W.A.). —Address of Sydney
agents of Erskine, and where can an instruc-
tion book be obtained ?
Agents are Sneddon’s Motors, Ltd., Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. Perhaps some reader
can oblige with a 1929 Erskine 'instruction
book.
* * * *
H.F (Maclean, N.S.W.). —/ wish to fit a
Stromberg carburettor to my ’29 Chev. truck.
Bore of present carburettor is \\in. where con-
nected to manifold. Would fitting another
carburettor with larger or smaller bore have
any adverse effect on petrol consumption or
pulling ?
Best results can be obtained only when
bores of carburettor and intake manifold union
are identical. Unless perfect streamlining of
induction system is maintained the incoming
gases will not follow the path intended by the
designer, and as a consequence uneven run-
ning will be sure to follow and fuel consump-
tion will be relatively poor.
5>C 9|s )je Jfc
M.C.D. (Spring Ridge, N.S.W.). —Can a
coil be used in conjunction with a magneto
to make it throw a better spark and give easier
starling ? If so, approximate cost ?
Yes. Similar conversion ,is frequently made
in cases where magnetos on old-type cars fail
to give reliable service. You will require a
battery as well as a coil to operate this ignition
scheme. Communicate with one of the lead-
ing city accessory houses for quotations and
wiring diagram.
E.T. (Shellharbor, N.S.W.)•—O) My 1934
Chev. sedan is doing 18 m.p.g. It has been driven
only 5300 miles. Should 1 not get 22 m.p.g.
on good roads ? (2) I also own a four-cylinder
Chev. six or seven years old which has covered
approximately 50,000 miles. Has been running
quietly and pulling well until this week, when
on a good road one of the exhaust valve stems
broke. On opening up engine it was found
that all exhaust valve heads had burned' almost
through. What could cause this ?
(1) With this type of car, m.p.g. depends
largely upon the speed at which it is driven.
On full throttle petrol consumption may be
as high as 10 m.p.g., while, if driven carefully
at, say, 30 m.p.h. average, one might make
25 m.p.g. (2) If valves are not inspected and
ground in at reasonable intervals, such troubles
are to be expected. Worn valve guides and
badly-fitting seats will cause heads to be burned
and pitted in a surprisingly short space of time.
A.G.G. (Croydon, N.S.W.).— My sedan car
is just a year old, and so far has been washed
only with water. Duco is in excellent con-
dition, but friends tell me it should be polished
with a wax or liquid in order to preserve it.
Is this so ?
Either wax or liquid will give a much better
shine. Wax polishes tend to preserve the finish,
but liquids, though quicker to apply and more
brilliant in final lustre, do not act as a pre-
servative.
* * * *
G.B. (Grafton, N.S.W.). —When I press the
starter pedal of my car with my foot the
engine sometimes turns slightly and then slops.
When this happens at night sparks can be
observed near the starter pedal through cracks
in floorboard. Cause and cure ?
Examine starter switch gear for bad or
dirty contacts. Trouble is probably due to the
copper faces of the switch having become worn
or pitted. This will cause erratic starting and,
in bad cases, sparking.
Motor Oddities.
“Pat”: Did anybody ever have more
trouble in one day? The journey started
with a puncture, and an hour later came
a second one. Next the vacuum tank
refused to function, then a loud knock
developed in the gearbox (a burred
tooth), and at last the rear universal
joint on the propeller shaft broke, and I
got stuck in the wilderness, miles from
anywhere.
* * * *
“T. 8.”: There is nothing much new
under the motoring sun. The Alvis has
had independent front springing since
1926, and the Lancia had it before that.
The 1914 Cadillac had an electric starter
and dual rear-axle ratio, both operated
by the clutch pedal. The Wilson pre-
selective gearbox, the Vulcan pre-selective
electric gearshift and four-wheel brakes
(Argyll) are all pre-war inventions.
* * * *
“Jo”: Robots could drive some of the
latest cars, but drivers of the early
models may recall the uncertainties of
leather-lined clutches. They would often
slip, and the engine would “rev.” seem-
ingly for ever. A friend of mine hit on
a novel cure for this slipping. He was
half-way on the road to a bunfight when
his progress became funereal. He went
into a wayside farmhouse and saw some
jam on the table. He carried off a few
spoonfuls and smeared it on to the clutch
lining. It worked.
* * * *
“Mt. Holly”: While driving along a
rough track in s.-w. Queensland many
miles from the nearest garage a stick
flew up and punched a hole fin. in
diameter in the honeycomb of the
radiator. Help came from an old chap
who didn’t know whether the radiator
was for water or petrol. He mulched
up some old newspapers with water and
packed the stuff in the cavity, where it
set like cement. I filled up with water
from a near-by dam, and drove 35 miles
to solder and a soldering-iron.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Was driving a brand-new
Ford tourer which behaved perfectly for
the first 250 miles or so, then stalled half-
way between Ipswich and Brisbane,
Examination seemed to indicate some-
thing wrong with the filter, which was
empty. Filled it up by hand, and every-
thing went well until it emptied itself.
Uncoupled the feed pipe, blew through
it, and found all clear, but the same
experience was repeated. Eventually had
to give up. Mechanics discovered a small
pellet of solder in the bend of the feed
pipe, which, under suction, acted as a
valve and cut off the petrol.
* * * *
“Coventry”: Exaggerated streamlining
on modern cars is sometimes a nuisance.
On Eyre’s Peninsula (S.A.), where great
ridges of drift sand are the bugbear of
motoring, I came upon a 1935 model
with its projecting tailpiece resting on a
ridge and its rear wheels barely touch-
ing the road. The distraught driver was
hacking away the streamlined tail with
an axe! He said it was about the tenth
time in 30 miles that he’d experienced
the trouble, and this would be the last.
As the car moved away leaving the hand-
some piece of streamlining on the road-
side, I couldn’t help thinking of the
lizards that shed their tails when in
trouble.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
When conducting a top over-
haul, one must be certain to
secure a perfect gastight fit be-
tween valve and seating.
Keep "grinding in” until a
continuous and clearly-defined
ring is seen on the valve face
as shown.


WIRELESS
VALVE
RADIOTR
Distributors: AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/sia) LTD. 47 York Street, Sydney; ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES LTD. 93-5 Clarence Street, Sydney;
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited)
Every Radiotron is labora-
tory tested and guaranteed
by Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co. to retain its tonal
quality and give longer life
than any other valve in the
world.
RADIO NEWS.
The A.B.C .
Disciplines
Dramatists
It would ap-
pear that the
radio is to be
th e blossoming
ground for Aus-
tralian dramatists
who understand
the beauties of ultra-politeness in speech.
The Australian Broadcasting Commis-
sion, though responsible for some shock-
ing examples of Australian drama-
culled from its recent competitions —is
at least offering tangible encouragement,
not to mention financial assistance, to
the local playwright striving for recog-
nition. But if some of the stuff that won
prizes in the last competition of the
A.B.C. is all the local dramatist can
offer, then the quicker he is allowed to
die of starvation the better.
There are, however, signs that a few
of the promising sort will develop into
good writers if given sufficient encour-
agement. But the A.B.C. conditions are
a real obstacle to anything like success.
The dramatist mustn’t blaspheme, use
coarse or profane expressions, or deal
with any of the afflictions to which man
is heir. And he mustn’t suggest things
or present sex problems. He
is allowed to say “Great
Scott!” or “Dash it all!” but
that seems the extent of his
vehement vocabulary under
the A.B.C. That is the worst
of allowing children to tune
in after bedtime-story hour
has passed.
There is also too much dis-
ciplining of the dramatist in
his creation of a character’s
conversation and general atmo-
sphere, for such disciplining
can come perilously near to
censorship if it doesn’t already
do so. Certainly we have too
many pious or hysterical “Oh,
Gawds!” in our dramatic
literature, such as it is, but
surely a playwright will be
stunted if he be denied all vehement
retort.
This “Eric, or Little by Little” attitude
is going to hobble many an Australian
dramatist’s imagination.
KELLETT.
Broadcast:
“What’s on the
Air To-night”
.... titude to
you all for listen-
ing to me so
patiently, and,
finally, I would
add this further
word of warning
and advice. Having stalked the prey,
aimed carefully and fired, there is, per-
haps, no other experi-
ence quite so discon-
certing as to suddenly
discover that you had
inadvertently held the
weapon back to front.
Good-night, listeners.
Thanks, Harry. Too-
roo. Keep away from
the milk bars . . . Well,
now, everybody, here
we are again. Station
OIC, and you’ve been
listening to our special
Use More Rubber ses-
sion, sponsored by the
Grand United Rubber
Stretchers’ Association.
In pursuance of the
Use More Rubber campaign, Mr. Henry
Cceur de Hare has just described
for you the fascinating sport of sparrow-
shooting with catapults in Toorak. And,
now, what’s on the air to-night?
Well, as far as this station’s concerned,
it’s about as lousy as usual, thank you
very much. This is, of course, the Truth-
As usual!
fu 1 Announcer
speaking. The
last time you
heard from me I
was leaving,
under notice, for
the Northern Ter-
ritory, for not
putting enough
sincerity into my
work. Well, I’m
back, and I’ll tell
you how come.
There were so
many letters of
protest about them dismissing the only
frank announcer on the air that even this
crowd of congenital nitwits saw the wis-
dom of resuscitating me from the back-
blocks. They delayed as long as they
could about it, of course, but when all
their listeners appeared to have written
in on the subject, they sent me the entire
batch of letters and an offer, and after
I’d read the 13 of them I decided to
sober up and leave Brisbane for the city
immediately.
And here I am, and here’s
what’s on the air to-night, as
far as this station’s concerned.
For a start, there’s our notori-
ous Character Delineation ses-
sion conducted by our own
Hadn’t got the smell of a prize.
inimitable
Madame Gazer,
and I’ll say this
for Madame —
she’s a little
snifter. A snappy
brunette—or, at
least, she was last
time I saw her.
In fact, she’s the
swiftest bit of
goods on the air
—and I might
say, in absolute
confidence, that’s saying something.
You know her lay, of course. You
send in some personal belonging, and she
gazes soulfully on it and then gives your
character an airing through the mike.
Not a bad stunt, if there weren’t so many
confounded narks about —like Mrs. Zee-
buses, for instance. I’ll tell you about
that lady.
She sent in a small parcel of hornlike
chips that stonkered Madame completely
till she took them to the University and
had them identified as nail-clippings of
the male sex, very strong and healthy.
Even in Hell there are bagpipes.
Well, then, Madame duly delineated to
the effect that the gentleman’s future was
assured, that he had a strong personality
and winning ways, and that, if he
crossed the water, success awaited him.
After which a letter came in from Mrs.
Zeebuses to the
effect that she
had been
cruelly disillu-
sioned, that
Madame had
wilfully misled
her, and that,
with his toe-
nails nicely
clipped and
all, she had
taken him
across the har-
Madame Gazer.
bor to the North Sydney dog show, and
hadn’t got the smell of a prize.
Personal effects sent to Madame for
delineation to-night include a photo, of
a parrot, a piece of rope, an ounce of
arsenic, a revolver and a certain line
of advice.
When Madame’s through there’s to
be a talk on “How to Raise Pigs,” as
Admire how they’ve spent the night.
if anybody wants to know that. Any-
how, there’s nothing to it. You fence
in a bit of ground, hollow out a couple
of logs, pour some separated milk into
the logs, put the pigs in and leave them
at it till next morning, when you go
out into the vegetable garden and admire
how they’ve spent the night.
After that a nice note of variety is
introduced into the programme with a
talk entitled “Businessmen’s Lunches,”
and then our sporting announcer will do
his best to give you the losers for Satur-
day. He’s the only one of his sort on
the air that I’ve personally found thor-
oughly reliable, and
I’ve tried the lot.
Every one of the others
has let me down at
some time or other, but
I’ve yet to be out of
pocket through not
backing one of his tips.
Then, for the further
sake of variety, there’s
another talk, this time
by the president of the
Anti - suicide League,
whose talk will be en-
titled “Beware: Even
in Hell There Are Bag-
pipes ! ” after which
comes the real big
item for this evening,
our play in three acts,
entitled: “Murder,” The setting for
this characteristic example of radio
drama is, of course, on a lighthouse.
In the first act the husband asks
the assistant lighthouse-keeper to pass
him the butter. The assistant light-
housekeeper grumbles, but passes the
butter. That is the end of Act I.
In Act 11. the lighthousekeeper’s wife
tells the lighthousekeeper that the
geranium in the window-box has been
badly scorched by the light, and that she
is going to put it in the cellar. That is
the end of Act 11. In Act 111., everyone
On a lighthouse.
by now naturally seething with suspicion,
they all murder each other, and the
Pacific Ocean is left to carry on as best
it can in the dark.
And that’s about the lot, listeners.
Mind you, we’re not bragging about it.
We simply offer our programme to you,
as usual, so that you’ll have something
to listen to that’s at least a bit afiove the
average of what’s on the air to-night.
SIZZLE AND A.
All Round
the Dial
“G r e enhide”:
Now that every-
body agrees that
records suit them
better than the
real thing for
Australian opera broadcasts, what about
musical comedy from the theatres?
It isn’t that the scene-shifters make a
row, or anything like that. Merely
that the average theatre hasn’t enough
acoustic properties for the performers
to be heard distinctly in the gal-
lery. When the mikes are put on the
stage to overcome this, the performers
walk to and fro, their voices vary from
“blast” to inaudibility and their faces
swing away from the trans-
mitters in the middle of a
sentence, as stage conven-
tions demand. Any dia-
logue or music that survives
such a test is at the mercy
of a crowd of howling
echoes from the brick fire-
proofing behind the scenes.
The social announcements
preceding a first night are
also murder. The only
people interested are the an-
nounced, who obviously
can’t be listening-in as they
come across the foyer (no
standard pronunciation). On the other
hand, the same plays produced from the
studio are invariably a credit to all con-
cerned, from technicians to artists. A
solution seems to be to confine the broad-
casts to Sunday nights, when the ordinary
casts are free to make an appearance
away from the theatre.
“Fisher”: The theory of radio adver-
tising is still in its experimental stage.
Even allowing for this, it seems difficult
to see why the advertisements of small
suburban shops are heard on the air. A
nationally-distributed product or a
centrally-situated business is fully jus-
tified in using the ether to secure results,
but no crowds will be attracted to a sea-
side resort in the
winter, to quote one
recent example, just to
purchase cosmetics that
can be bought as
cheaply at home. The
shopkeeper may be for-
given for making such
a slip ; he isn’t an ad-
vertising specialist to
work out that he must
pay for time on a
State-wide basis to
secure suburb-wide re-
sults. The studio ad-
vertising managers
should adopt a more
ethical attitude, and
avoid soliciting such
business. Most of it is
bound to fail; one failure prejudices the
advertiser against radio as a medium, and
permanent harm is done to the B-class
stations as a whole. As they depend on
advertisements to keep afloat, any short-
sighted contract-grabbing is bound to
injure them in the long run.
“L.”: Another Australian at the
8.8. C. mike is soprano Dorothy Can-
berra. She has been singing bush lyrics
composed by Linda Phillips, including
“Wattle Tree,” “Bird Call,” “Bracken
Brown” and “Where the Colored Parrot
Flies.”


METERS!!
Readrite 3/0/3 amp. D.C 8/6
Readfite 10/0/10 „ 8/6
Readrite 0/25 milliamp. D.C 8/6
Readrite 0/50 „ 8/6
Readrite 0/100 „ 8/6
Readrite 0/300 ~ „ 8/6
Readrite 0/10 .. 13/6
Readrite 0/20/100 ~ „ 13/6
Readrite 0/15/150 .. 13/6
Readrite 0/10 volts A.C 15/-
Readrite 0/3 amps. A.C 15/-
Readrite 0/10 ~ „ 15/-
Triplet 0/1 amp. thermocouple .. £3
Triplet 0/2* „ .. £ 3
We can supply every part of the 12-3411
six-valve battery receiver. VCk/ r 7/Ct
Kit of parts for chassis .... / // v)
Complete kit with valves and Rola
speaker
£l6
Complete in cabinet with en« >
batteries and royalty ... * / 10/ '
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
SYDNEY’S RADIO PARTS SPECIALISTS,
5 and 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA43S7.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
THE 12-348 BATTERY SUPERHETERODYNE.
An Outstanding Kit-set for the Constructor.
Using high-quality components designed to withstand tropical climatic conditions,
the superhet described here is an excellent and inexpensive proposition for the
broadcast listener for whom battery supply is the sole means of power. It has
all the desirable features of sensitivity, economy and reliability, and, because of
the detailed point-to-point wiring scheme outlined, may be readily assembled by
the absolute beginner in home radio-building.
An excellent combination is respon-
sible for this description of a modern
battery-operated constructional superhet
for the benefit of radio readers, namely,
Radiokes and Philips. Of all Australian
Fig. 1. —Front view,
showing the positions
of components. The
on-off switch is directly
underneath the tuning dial, with the
volume control on the right and
sensitivity control on the left.
radio manufacturers catering for the
needs of people who prefer the enjoy-
ment of making their own to the pur-
chasing of the factory-made article, the
Radiokes Company excels. The word
“Kitset” adopted by this manufacturer
means a comprehensive series of boxed
component parts with instructions for
the making of all kinds of radio re-
ceivers, from relatively simple to appar-
ently complex all-wave types. This co.
exists almost entirely for the home-
builder, and it is refreshing to know that
the constructor is thus considered as an
important accessory in the radio busi-
ness. All the good ideas do not origi-
nate in the manufacturer’s laboratory, and
the man who modestly tries out his own
little schemes could often show experi-
enced engineers an unexpected trick or
two. Home construction is just as im-
portant to radio to-day as it was when
broadcasting was a novelty, and it is
likely to become even more so in the
near future. This 12-348 superhet is
good material. The technical application
of the Radiokes engineers in working
out this design centred on the Philips
2-volt battery high-gain valves, and the
resulting set is a first-class performer. It
can be used away in the bush, and will
do just what a good A.C. set would if
power were available.
Features of the 12-348.
Valves.—The new Philips battery valves,
the KF2 R.F. pentodes, and the KBCI
diode-triode, are used in conjunction with
the 8240 (or 19) Class-B output valve.
The oscillator section uses the IC6 penta-
grid.
Intermediate Amplifier. The tre-
quency is 175 kc., the transformers being
of isolantile air dielectric type especially
designed for the KF2 valves for maxi-
mum amplification.
Automatic volume control is intro-
duced by the KBCI diode-triode valve
working in conjunction with the KF2
valves.
Class-B Audio.—A special Radiokes
driver transformer is used. This provides
wide audio response and a maximum
2-watt output from the Class-B valve.
Fig. 2: —The circuit diagram of the 12-348 battery superheterodyne.
Battery consumption is remarkably
low considering performance. When
using the 30 and 19 valves in the audio
stages the plate-current drain is about
Isma. at 135 volts and 18ma. at 150
volts. If the new 8217 is used—see Elec-
tronic Battery Four (B. 15/5/’35) —with
a 8240 in place of a 30 and 19, the drain
will fall to 10 or 12raa. at 135 volts, but
reproduction will not be quite so good
at low-volume level. At medium- and
high-volume levels no difference is
noticeable. The A battery consumption
is approximately .9 amperes.
Assembly and Wiring Instructions.
Special Precautions. —Study diagrams
and illustrations carefully. The sockets
must be mounted exactly as in the
diagram, and the I.F. transformers
placed in their correct positions. The
resistor panel position is indicated in
the underneath view of the chassis. The
socket position and wiring of the KBCI
must be exactly as indicated in the
diagrams, including filament polarity.
Assembly.—Mount all sockets on the
chassis, using fin. x fin. round-head
brass screws. When fitting the IC6
socket, use the same socket screws for
the mounting of the valve screen base.
The gang condenser is next fitted, this
being bolted down with 3-16 in. x fin.
round-head steel screws. All holes for
the various components are ready drilled,
and the constructor is concerned only
with assembly and wiring. Before fixing
the gang condenser, solder 6in. leads to
each stator section underneath, otherwise
it will not be possible to reach these con-
necting positions with the soldering iron.
The audio and I.F. transformers are next
in order for mounting, followed by the
R.F. coils. Next are the volume and
sensitivity controls, followed by the
padder. This is fixed by fin. x fin.
round-head brass screws and fin. spacers
to keep the padder spaced away from
the chassis. Finally, the terminals are
fitted, with lugs underneath these and
under various screws on the chassis so
that a common earth lead may be made
at several points.
Wiring. —Before commencing the wir-
ing, the panel should be assembled and
wired, but not mounted. The com-
ponents are mounted under the panel,
the wiring being carried out on top.
The actual wiring should start with the
negative filament circuit. This lead con-
sists of a length of tinned copper wire
commenced from the orange lug on the
audio transformer and connects to No. 6
on the KBCI socket. From here to No.
6 on KF2 (I.F. amp.) to 6 on IC6 to 6
on KF2 (R.F. amp.). Connect 3, 5 and
6 together on the KF2 sockets and 3 and
5 together on the KBCI socket. Con-
nect 3 of KF2 (R.F. amp.) to 4 on 30
socket to 6 on 19 socket. Connect 6 of
KF2 (I.F. amp.) to this lead, so that it
runs parallel to the side of chassis. Run
a lead from the earth lug to padder
(moving plate); from here to the nega-
tive filament (earth lead). Run a lead
from 5 on aerial coil to 5 on KF2 socket
(R.F. amp.).
Now the leads from the gang con-
denser stators may be connected to their
respective lugs (see diagrams). First
section to No. 1 aerial coil, second sec-
tion to No. 1 R.F. coil, third section to
No. 1 oscillator coil. Following this, the
intermediate transformers may be wired,
starting with the I.F. trans., which has
all the leads brought through the bottom.
1.F.T.l Connections: Green to No. 2
of aerial coil, red to plate IC6, yellow
to No. 5 osc. coil, orange to No. 4 KF2
socket (I.F. amplifier).
1.F.T.2 Connections: Green to one
side of volume control (imeg.); other
side of volume control goes to No. 1,
19 socket; orange to No. 3KBCI socket;
yellow to B + 135 v. on battery socket.
When this is finished the remainder of
the set may be wired in the following
order: Start with the positive filament,
using hook-up wire. Begin with No. 1
KF2 (R.F. amp.) and connect to No. 1
of JC6 and then to No. 1 of KBCI, fol-
lowed by 1 of 19 and, last, No. 1 of 30.
Connect No. 2 KF2 socket (R.F. amp.)
to No. 2 KF2 (I.F. amp.) and then to
B + 90v. battery plug socket; Connect
.Imfd. condenser from No. 2 KF2 (R.F.
amp.) to earth. No. 4 KF2 (R.F. amp.)
to No. 1 aerial coil.
IC6 Socket and Osc. and R.F. Coil
Wiring: No. 5 IC6 to B + battery
plug ; .Imfd. condenser from No. 5 to
earth lead ; .05meg. resistor from No. 4
(IC6) to earth lead; .0001 condenser
from No. 4 IC6 to No. 1 osc. coil; No.
5 R.F. coil to No. 5 osc. coil; No. 5
osc. coil to B + 135 v. battery plug ; No.
3 IC6 to No. 4 (osc. coil) ; No. 2 osc.
coil to stator of padder ; No. 2 R.F. coil
to C-4+v. battery plug socket; .Imfd.
condenser from No. 2 R.F. coil to earth.
KF2 I.F. amp. is already wired.
1.F.T.l and 1.F.T.2 are already wired.
The Battery Plug Socket Connections
are; A + 2v. to No. 1 KF2 I.F. amp. ;
A-B-C + to one lug of switch ; C-9v.
or 12v. to T of panel ; to B of
panel, also to one of pick-up terminals ;
B + 135 v. to red of audio transformer
and also to speaker socket lug corres-
ponding to the centre tap of speaker
transformer. This may not be the same
as diagram, depending on which speaker
is used. Also a .smfd. condenser con-
nects from B + 135 v. to earth. B + 90y.
is already connected. B + 67|v. is
already connected.
Connections to KBCI Socket: No. 1,
5 and 6 already wired. No. 2toT of
panel (leave lead about 3in. long until
panel is mounted). No. 3 to P of panel
(leave lead about 4in. long until panel
is mounted). No. 4to O of panel (leave
lead about 4in. long until panel is
mounted).
Connections to 30 Socket: No. 2 to
yellow of audio transformer (primary).
No. 3 to K of panel (leave lead about
6in. long until panel is mounted).
Connections to 19 Socket: No. 2 con-
nects to speaker-socket lug which con-
nects to one of the outside lugs of the
speaker transformer. No. 5 connects to
speaker-socket lug, which connects to
the remaining outside lug of the speaker
transformer. These two leads, Nos. 2
and 5, should be run side by side along
the side of the chassis and isolated as far
as possible from other wiring. No. 3 to
green of audio transformer (see con-
nections in diagram). No. 4 to green of
audio transformer (see connections in
diagram).
The panel may now be mounted. Do
all the wiring on the panel that you can
before the panel is mounted. The re-
mainder of the panel wiring should be
done as follows: A to B + 135 v. bat-
tery-plug socket. Tto No. 2 KBCI. S
to the remaining pick-up terminal, and
from here through hole in the chassis
to cap of KBCI. B to C-4W. battery-
plug socket. P to No. 3 KBCI socket.
O to No. 4 KBCI socket. N to No. 2
aerial coil. K to No. 3 30 socket. F to
centre lug of 10,000-ohm sensitivity con-
trol. One side of control goes to switch
lug diagonally opposite A-B-C + and
lug (see diagram). The remaining lug
on the control goes through a 5000-ohm
Maxome to No. 2 R.F. coil (C-4{v.).
One of the remaining lugs on the switch
connects to No. 1 30 socket. The centre
arm of 500,000-ohm volume control con-
nects to D of panel. J of panel connects
to C-9v. of battery-plug socket. If 150 v.
H.T. is used this will be 12v. This com-
pletes all the wiring. All there remains


I ivasn’t a Radio Engineer
I
Illustrated above is another famous Radiokes
set—the A.C. Dual-wave Superhet, type 12-35.
but I built this Fine
Receiver myself!
think it’s hard for a chap who knows
| nothing about radio to build a splendid,
A big set like that, wouldn’t you? I thought
so, too, before 1 built my set. Now I KNOW it isn’t!
If you take my tip you’ll get a Radiokes Kitset.
“It’s the easiest thing in the world to build just
the radio you want if you follow the instructions
carefully . . . and they’re as simple as falling off a
log—you don’t need to know a THING about
radio.’ 1
AND while you are building your set you are
learning radio in the most interesting way—the PRACTI-
CAL way. Large, fully-illustrated instruction sheets tell
you in a clear, easily-understood language just how to
wire from point to point . . . how to add the finishing
touches . . . how to get the maximum efficiency out of
the set you have built yourself. And when your friends
admire your set, and how it pulls in all the stations,
what a fine tone it has, and how efficient and solid it
looks —then you can really feel proud.
The Radiokes “Champion of Champions”
Battery Superhet (as described in this week’s
“Bulletin”) is the finest straight-out battery
superhet yet designed . . . undoubtedly the
best battery set on the radio market to-day.
It is GUARANTEED to give a performance
equal to the latest type all-electric super-
heterodyne! You can build it yourself with
the Radiokes Kitset, type 12-348, which costs
only £9/7/6 (not including Valves, Speaker
and Batteries). You can do it in your
spare time!
Remember the parts are specially
selected and matched, securely packed, and
with complete wiring and assembling instruc-
tions. Order your Kitset NOW. Write direct
to Dept. SB, Radiokes, Ltd., Box 10, Redfern,
N.S.W. Also at all high-class radio dealers.
FREE
Get your copy of the new 1935-36 Radiokes Catalogue,
which gives details of other Radiokes Kitsets, com-
ponents, etc. You can have it FREE. Send name,
address and Id. stamp to cover postage to Dept. SR,
Radiokes, Ltd., Box 10, Redfern , A'..S', W. Supply is
limited, so write immediately.
F
RADIOKES
The Name to
Know in Radio
to do is to mount the dial and, if re-
quired, wire the light sockets, wire the
battery cable to plug and connect the
grid clips and the spade terminals to the
valve caps.
Fig. 3.—The under-chassis diagram, showing the actual connections.
Note. —There are no leads from the
aerial coil. There are two leads from
the R.F. coil, one orange and one red.
Orange goes to cap of IC6 and red to
cap of KF2. No leads from 1.F.T.1.
One lead from 1.F.T.2, a red lead. This
lead goes to cap of KF2 (I.F. amp.). Use
grid clips on IC6 and KBCI, and spade
lugs on KF2’s.
General Details.
Visual tuning can be added by con-
necting a 5/6ma. tuning meter in series
with the H.T. lead to the two K.F.2
valves. A lA6 type pentagrid valve can
be used without any circuit alterations
in place of the IC6. To ensure the
absence of interstage oscillation it is
essential to place the wiring exactly as in
the diagram and to connect the by-pass
condensers as shown. Grid wires must
be kept away from plate wires. The A-
battery polarity is important and must
be correct. When mounting the Aero-
vision dial, leave both grub screws loose
and tighten up the nut holding the dial
frame to the receiver chassis first. The
dial will then find its correct position
on the condenser gang shaft before the
screws are tightened.
Aligning and Testing the Receiver.
Start by removing the lead from N
to M (on panel) and the lead which con-
nects to the centre arm on the 10,000-
ohm sensitivity control. Connect lead
from No. 2 aerial coil to M of panel,
and another lead from No. 2 aerial coil
to centre arm of sensitivity control. The
set is now ready to align. Using an
aerial about 6ft. to 10ft. long, tune in a
station at about 1300 kc. (2SM, 4BK,
3KZ, etc.) and, with gang trimmers about
half out and padder likewise, commence
to align.
Turn the volume low and begin with
the R.F. gang trimmer ; turn this trimmer
until maximum volume is obtained.
Treat the aerial section trimmer simi-
larly. Before turning the gang, screw
the oscillator trimmer in and out. While
doing this there will be found to be two
peaks ; the correct one is the one when
volume and selectivity is best. If the
adjustment of the oscillator trimmer is
not carried out in this manner, the
padder will be found very difficult to
adjust and actual results from the re-
ceiver will be poor.
When the above adjustments are com-
pleted, turn the gang to a station on
about 600 kc. (2FC, 2CO, 7ZL, 4QG,
etc.) and adjust the padder in the follow-
ing manner: Holding the padder adjuster
in one hand and gripping the dial-control
knob with the other, turn the padder ad-
juster, at the same time turning the dial
back and forth across the station. Both
these operations should be continued
until maximum volume is obtained.
Next turn the dial back to the station
the gang was aligned on and readjust
aerial and R.F. trimmers. Do not touch
osc. trimmer.
This completes alignment of the gang.
Before moving from this station the
trimmers on the intermediates can be
adjusted. This operation is carried out
in the same manner as the gang trim-
mers, care being taken to avoid shorting
the trimmers to the can.
When all these adjustments have been
completed the wiring may be recon-
nected as it originally was.
Note. —While adjustments are being
made, the sensitivity control is used as a
volume control, and the volume control
is left full on.
The sensitivity control should be
turned in a clockwise direction for the
reception of long-distance stations, and
in an anti-clockwise direction to
eliminate between-stations noise when
tuning in comparatively strong stations.
Technically, the control has the follow-
ing effects: (1) Applying a negative, bias
to the KF2 tubes. (2) Applying a negative
Redfern (N.S.W.), at the attractive price
of £9 7s. 6d. The kit is complete in
every detail, and includes full-sized
wiring diagrams, illustrations and in-
structions. Working from a stock kit,
the construction of the 12-348 empha-
sised that the veriest tyro cannot go
wrong in duplicating the results obtained.
bias to the A.V.C.
diode, thus pro-
ducing delayed
A.V.C. The sensi-
tivity control will
not have any con-
trol of volume on
strong stations, but
it will be noticed
that it has a strong
effect in the reduc-
tion of the noise be-
tween stations which
goes hand in hand
with ordinary
A.V.C.
The list of parts
comprises the 12-34B
kit as available to
Bulletin readers
from Radiokes, Ltd.,
Cleveland -street,
On test this receiver gave a fine perform-
ance in every way, and the sensitivity on
distant stations convinced the writer that
this set will give good results anywhere
in or around Australia where people live
and where battery radio is the order of
the day. Moreover, it is simplicity itself
to make, and is inexpensive into the
bargain.
List of Parts for the 12-348.
One 5-348 coil kit, comprising one aerial coil,
one oscillator coil, one R.F. coil, one
11-plate padder, 6-40 R, two 5-238 I.F.
transformers, special.
One three-gang condenser.
One 12-348 steel chassis.
One Radiokes 3-7 B audio transformer, with
lugs at bottom.
One Radiokes clock dial, 0/100 scale, type
No. 7-14 N.
Five six-prong sockets.
Two four-prong sockets.
One seven-prong socket.
One two-way single-pole switch.
One 10.000-ohm volume control, Radiokes,
with insulation washers.
One 500,000-ohm volume control, Radiokes.
One T. 33 panel.
Two T. 33 mounting pillars.
One 5000-ohm resistor Maxomc.
Four .5-meg. resistors.
One four-meg. resistor.
Two .5-meg. ohm resistors.
Two .OOOlmfd. cond. tubular.
Two .OOlmfd. cond. tubular.
One .Olmfd. cond. tubular.
Four .Imfd. cond. tubular.
One .smfd. cond. tubular.
One seven-pin plug, small.
One yard seven-way battery cable.
Two Jin. spacers for padder.
Two Jin. x Jin. round-head screws, brass, for
padder.
(Continued on page 34.)


*
w ■ -o~'
WPj
'll
1
i
m
mmm
Mil
...
THE IDEAL HOLIDAY
NO HOLIDAY offers so much entertainment at so small
a cost as a P. & O. Cruise.
Days and nights at sea, in which the pastimes and
repose of a holiday voyage in a great modern liner
are happily blended, may be fully enjoyed.
TO SAMARAI
R.M.S. Mooltan leaves Sydney Inly 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 18 and 11 guineas respectively.
TO NEW ZEALAND
R.M.S. Strathnaver leaves Syd. Nov. 15
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
247 George Street. Sydney
TO FIJI
R.M.S. Strathaird leaves Sydney Aug. 23
First Saloon and Tourist Class-.
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
TO NEW ZEALAND
R.M.S. Strathaird leaves Sydney Dec. 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class.-
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class :
Gilchrist, Watt '& Sanderson Ltd.
5 Bent Street, Sydney
p &
PLEASURE
O
CRUISES
Colville Wireless Equipment Co
- S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.).
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleoo, Sydney. ’Phone; 822G1
Vi
V
A Qfl93®
Stiombergl
-Carlson 9
Chromo -phonic JRADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C 2
VAT
saif 69
in town
MS
M
wive 69 #
at home
Next time you have a glass or
buy a bottle of whisky switch to
Vat 69. Find out how smooth
and mellow a pure liqueur
Scotch Whisky can really be.
It’s better but costs no more.
VAT 69
Pare Liqueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
■ Wm. Sanderson & Son, Leith.
Scotland. Distiller? since 1863.
69.1
Twenty-four |in. x |in. round-head screws,
brass.
Thirty |in. hex. nuts
Three |in. x 5-32 in. round-head steel screws
for mounting gang.
Two 3.5-volt pilot lamps for dial.
Twelve solder lugs.
One shield, type No. 3.
One screen-grid clip.
Three spade-type large lugs.
Four knobs.
Fig. 4.—Under-chassts view, showing the layout and wiring.
Four n.p. terminals.
Four yards hook-up wire.
Two yards 18g. tinned copper wire.
NOT INCLUDED IN -KIT. :
Valves required: Two KF2, one KBGI, one
IC6, one 30, one 19/ or 8240 (Philips).
Speaker required: Amplion pefmag,. input to
suit whichever output valve is used, 8240
. or 19.
Batteries required; One two-volt accumulator,
one nine-volt C battery, three 45-volt B
batteries. ‘ • •
D.B.K.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions lately have been such that,
apart from an odd station in the 49-metre
band and amateurs on-80 metres, there is
little of value after dark. For those who
can spare the time there are stations
from all parts of the world that can be
heard at different times of the day.
The League of Nations station HBL,
on 31.2 metres,'is again coming in well at
8.15 a.m. on Sundays. This station is
also making a transmission for Aus-
tralia at 3 :p.m. on Wednesdays.
CTIAA, Lisbon, has continued at
fair strength around 7 a.m. in the 31-
metre band. Quite the strongest station
at 7 a.m; has-been RNE on 25 metres.
Recently a talk was given in English on
the Soviet marriage laws.
The 8.8. C. station GSF (19 metres)
has been very good at the same hour,
but the band has been weak in the after-
noons.
On Sundays hosts of American ama-
teurs have, been heard, j most of them
calling VK2EP, who seemed to be get-
ting over to U.S.A. in great style, judging
by reports. v ' ’
The 8.8. C. transmission has continued
excellent to'Australia, but signal strength
on GSD has. been considerably weaker
than GSB towards the end of the after-
noon. As soon as'FYA changes up to the
25.6-metre mark in the morning the
signal is good for the rest of the day.
The Americans have continued weak
both in the 31- and 25-metre bands, and
have been much weaker than last winter
in this part of ,'N.S.W. Hong Kong has
not been heard lately. Actually this sta-
tion is outside the broadcast band, and
Bombay has also gone until the summer
conditions are with us again.
The writer has been experimenting a
lot with aerials, and finds that in country
districts where there is no local inter-
ference the longer they are the better,
provided some method of tuning is used
to prevent dead spots.
NIGHTOWL.
The Q. and A. Column.
/ have heard two stations on the amateur
80-metre band signing VBZ2 and VBZ3. Where
are they situated 7 — 211.
Probably R.A.A.F. wireless reserve stations
operated by specially enrolled amateurs.
Whereabouts is a military secret.
* * * *
(1) Would it be possible to adapt the four-
valve ultra-short-wave superhet ( B . 24/4/’35.)
for use on wave-lengths above 10 metres ? (2)
If so, what is the maximum wave-length at
which it would maintain its efficiency ? (3)
Alterations necessary for higher wave-lengths 7
—2BO.
(1) To some extent it could be used above
the ultra-s.-w. bands under the same condi-
tions. All that is required is the necessary
inductance and tuning capacity. (2) About
12 metres. (3) Complete redesigning with
band-pass intermediates, otherwise I.F. gain
and selectivity will be very low.


FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Granville Stakes: Irish Morn;
next, Snow Glare.
Dundas Handicap: Mr. Kerry or
Turbine ; next, Royal Star.
June Handicap: Headgale ; next,
Turbulent or Confab.
Parramatta Mile: After Money ;
next, Chatterelle.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Because Full Charge was handicapped
to meet Baanya on 81b. worse than Grand
National terms, A. T. Creswick with-
drew his horse from the Port Phillip
Hurdle at Williamstown. As it hap-
pened, Creswick need not have been
fearful of the Baanya opposition. This
Tasmanian-owned gelding is a light of
other days as a jumper, and his useful-
ness on the flat may also have departed.
Punters served Baanya up a hot favor-
ite. With L. J. Hynes in the saddle,
everything was in his favor, for Hynes
is the best Australian rider over obstacles,
and before being legged-up on Baanya
had given a perfect display of horse-
manship by winning the Williamstown
Steeplechase on Oldhome. For half the
journey Baanya shaped something like
the Baanya of 1933-34. Then he knocked
up, dropping completely out of the pic-
ture five furlongs from home. Various
theories have been advanced for the
retrogression of Baanya. One is that he
now suffers from wind infirmity; an-
other that he has had too many long-
distance gallops.
Fulham, winner of the Port Phillip
Hurdle, is a seven-year-old gelding by
Poitrel, who sired several excellent
timber-toppers, including the 1933 Aus-
tralian Hurdle hero, Poidale. Fresh from
a lengthy spell, Fulham gave an excel-
lent first-up display, which brings him
strongly into the limelight as a candidate
for both Nationals, The jockey on
Menelik may have acted unwisely in
starting his run from the six-furlong
post. It made Telford’s representative
look unbeatable at the straight entrance,
but Menelik could not withstand the late
challenge thrown out by Fulham, who
scored, easing up, by nearly a length.
With seven furlongs still to be covered,
Douglas was hard at work on Mystic
Peak with whip and spur. Though the
imported gelding received the father of
a hiding, he finished a poor third.
The Maiden Hurdle went to Coolana,
carrying the colors of R. J. Watson,
whose brother is on the V.R.C. com-
mittee. In 1928 Longlands went on to
a Grand National triumph after annex-
ing the Maiden Hurdle at Williamstown.
Coolana may not be up to the Longlands
standard ; however, he is a great finisher.
Backers would have sold their tickets at
a heavy discount when they saw the
chestnut trailing the field after going a
mile. He moved forward rapidly along
the back of the course, and the effort
was splendidly sustained; getting on
terms with Sarto at the final flight of
battens, Coolana gained the judge’s ver-
dict by two lengths. It was only his
second outing over obstacles. Coolana
is by Costello from the dam of Bun-
dong, who lost the Grand National
Hurdle of 1917 to Merunqua by the
narrowest of margins.
In winning the Williamstown Steeple-
chase, Oldhome equalled the race record
of King High, which had stood for 13
years. He belongs to P. G. Hay, the
brewer. For six or seven weeks Hay has
been in Westralia; during that period
his horses have won four races in Vic-
toria. Hynes rode Oldhome with con-
spicuous skill. He trains Poidale and
other horses for Hay, but Oldhome is in
the stable of Bewsher. It was the second
success of Oldhome over Williamstown
fences, but he did not shape well over
the Flemington “country” at the King’s
Birthday meeting. Dummett broke a
thigh when Actaeon fell, while his spill
off Richmond Tiger gave Armsden a
broken leg. The horses escaped injury.
Turf Boy registered his fifth succes-
sive win when he carried Voitre to vic-
tory in the Point Cook Handicap. He
was all out to score by a neck from
Sordino and Galli brook, who dead-
heated for second. A goldmine to
McGrath, the owner-trainer. Turf Boy
was bred by G. L. Scott, and is a half-
brother to La Trobe, who was beaten by
Sylvandale in the Australian Cup. Doubt-
less McGrath will give him a let-up now
with a view to spring engagements.
The Juvenile Handicap went to Feld-
spar, who belongs to A. T. Creswick
and is by Thracian, the sire of Full
Charge. Gallant little Watchful took
Usee, off the race record in winning the
Esplanade Welter. Second place went
to Voitre’s mount, Ginetheon, a three-
year-old filly by Pantheon.
* * * *
First Balloon is very plain, but she is
better than A she looks and much better
than was thought. As in the Winter
Plate at Randwick, the daughter of Air
Balloon led from start to finish of the
chief event at Canterbury. Raised, from
6st. 121 b. to Bst. 61b., she started at fives,
and was admirably ridden by Thomas,
who slowed the field down. Turbulent
threw out a challenge in the straight, but
failed by three lengths to reach the mare ;
Flying Bullet, second early, was a neck
away,
Gayhawk on his home track is gener-
ally difficult to beat in his class. Hickey
bounced him away smartly in the Flying
Handicap, and, though he shifted a bit
near the judge, Gayhawk beat Atucas by
half a neck, Pavarti being a neck away,
just ahead of Questionnaire and Some
Boy. Gayhawk was early at fours, but
eased to sevens. A protest was dismissed.
Bouyeo, backed for big money, was
almost knocked over by Dermid at bar-
rier-rise. He finished last, but Dermid
was well up.
Randwick trainer Neil McKenna has
been much in the limelight through the
successes of Sixteen Annas and Delwood.
Orient Orb, who is owned by a north-
wester, recently joined his string, and the
Ring offered tens about the good-looking
son of Orby’s Pride in the first heat of
the Park Stakes. He firmed to fours,
and, a bold galloper, was never in danger ;
he won, pulling up, by five lengths from
Prince Biseau and Big Head —a stable-
mate of First Balloon. Paddora (3 to 1)
scored in the second heat, thanks to
Darby Munro’s vigor; Thebez (3 to 1)
beat' his opponents pointless in the third
division, though he went wide at the
turn.
Turbulent’s sister Chiming (3 to 1),
trained by young Bill Kelso for Dr.’
Harold Ritchie, of Darling Point, showed
pace and determination when she took
the first heat of the Juvenile from Posi-
tive, one of J. J. Leahy’s, with the favor-
ite, Blue Sapphire, third, Newcastle-
owned Man o’ Mark (5 to 4) made his
opponents in the second division look
cheap.
Scratchings reduced the Ashbury field
to four. After Money (11 to 8 on) broke
a run of ill-luck for trainer Price by
scoring comfortably from Samovar and
Lapthorne. Fernclove made the pace,
but' tired. He is a smart horse when fit.
* * * *
At Rosebery (Sydney) followers of
Peter Riddle’s stable got back some of
the money they had lost on Magnus. A
likely-looking three-year-old by Magpie
—Orofino, Magnus had done such strik-
ing work on the tracks that he was
heavily backed for two races at Rand-
wick, but the money was all left in the
bags. But for a fortunate run on the
rails, he might have been beaten again
at Rosebery—the race was a division of
the Maiden Three- and Four-year Old
Handicap—but James Munro was quick
to avail himself of the opening, and the
horse put in telling strides at the right
time.
Footbrawl
The only surprise in Vic, League foot-
ball on Saturday was Richmond’s indif-
ferent showing against Geelong. Gee-
long, playing on its own ground, gained
the lead before half-time and held it to
the bell: 13-12 to 10-16. Fitzroy beat
Essendon comfortably, 14-19 to 9-7, and
St, Kilda held Footscray from start to
finish, running out 14-10 to 7-13, after
a shocking display of goal-kicking by
both sides. The most gratifying feature
of the day was the game struggles put
up by teams low down in the list against
adversaries regarded as vastly superior.
South won by 17-14 against Hawthorn,
9-23 ; but, despite the preponderance of
points, the winners could not relax for
a moment. Pratt accounted for eight of
their goals. Melbourne, which has won
only two matches this season, gave an-
other plucky and determined exhibition
by scoring 7-12 to Carlton’s 9-12. North
Melbourne, which has lost every match so
far, fought every inch of the way against
Collingwood, though ’Wood won by
16-30 to 6-10.
* * * *
The surprise in Saturday’s Adelaide
games was provided by the South-Nor-
wood match,, Norwood being downed
on its own ground, 21-17 to 8-7. South
has for many years hovered around the
bottom of the list, but this season it
has several good wins to its credit. The
defeat of. Norwood and the victory of
Port over West—l 6-12 to 10-14—enabled
Port to rise to the head of the list, Nor-
wood slipping back to second place;
South is third.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian Governor Hunt-
ingfield has become an enthusiastic
barracker for Australian football, but
finds the rose has a thorn. On the eve
of H,E.’s visit to the Fitzroy-“Sowth”
match Melbourne newspapers urgently
requested players not to put resin on their
paws before shaking hands with the pro-
consul. As the warning grimly notes,
“on two Saturdays recently he has shaken
hands with League teams.”
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Though the season is well
advanced, emissaries from Melbourne
clubs continue to infest country districts
on the lookout for potential stars. There
was some feeling at Seymour the other
day when a couple of these gentry came
along, but nothing serious happened. In
the old days when Soccer scouts from
English clubs scoured Scottish villages
for young talent, the Sassenach often
took his life in his hands. If his presence
leaked out there was a general hue and
cry, the women leading—they feared the
contact of sons and husbands with the
Capuan delights of the south. Many a
Southron loon crossed the border with
nothing but his boots and what repu-
tation he may have enjoyed, and others
fared still worse.
* * * *
“Rover”: Twice has Haydn Bunton, of
the Fitzroy team, been adjudged by the
Vic. League umpires to have been the
best and fairest player of the season —an
honor which carries with it the Brownlow
medal. One man does not make a team
—there are 18 players—but the absence
of such a man as Bunton is a serious
matter. This season Fitzroy has been one
of the most formidable clubs —every
opponent has had to play all it knew—
yet, when Bunton was unable to take the
field recently, South Melb. kicked 23
goals to Fitzroy’s 10. Bunton’s play
could scarcely have overcome such a dif-
ference, but he would perhaps have pre-'
vented South from kicking five or six,
and might have helped his own side to
score a similar number. He is like that.
* # * sic
Randwick had a close call against St.
George in their Rugby Union match.
Ahead 16-5 at the spell, the Greens were
afterwards outplayed, and it was 19 all.
A last-minute try by centre Murray gave
the game to ’Wick. Towers crossed once,
converted two of the five tries and kicked
a penalty goal; for Saints Trehearne
added a converted goal and two p.gs.
Against Western Suburbs, Drummoyne,
only one point’ behind Randwick, couldn’t
go wrong. The forwards, weightier and
more vigorous than the West pack, got
plenty of the ball, and the backs—
centres Rankin and O’Gorman particu-
larly—ran hard and straight. It was
35-6—nine tries, four converted, to two
penalty goals. Northern Suburbs and
Parramatta had a hard forward tussle,
North finishing the stronger, 21-14.
Manly trounced Eastern Suburbs 34-13,
the forwards, with Hodgson back, rising
to the occasion.
* * * *
For the first half-hour of the Rugby
League encounter at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday North Sydney put
up a good show of making a game of it
against East. North even led 4-0 in this
term, but .after that, and especially in the
second half, it was a massacre. A clumsy
sort of try and an easy goal were North’s
only other scores, whereas East, playing
football so superior that it was almost
indecent, piled up 57 points—12 of them
tries by Tottey, a reserve-grade winger
replacing a casualty in the first team.
State skipper Brown also crossed four
times, and showed some return to goal-
■ kicking form by booting four , of the best.
(Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
Australia is out of the Davis Cup
series. Its team got a dreadful doing
at Berlin. Crawford proved no match
for Von Cramm, who beat him in straight
sets, 6-3, 7-5, 6-2; and Henkel found
McGrath very little more troublesome—
4-6, 6-2, 6-0, 6-2. Von Cramm dropped
out of the doubles to save himself for
McGrath, and Crawford and Quist,
though they played poorly at times,
settled Denker and Lund, 6-1, 11-9, 6-3.
McGrath improved next day, and took
Von Cramm to five sets, but the baron
won the fifth: 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2.
Then Henkel downed Crawford, also in
five sets, 2-6, 6-3, 9-7, 4-6, 6-4. A
melancholy finish to a journey which
began with extravagant expectations.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Perry’s appointment as
director of a tennis-requisites firm will
remove all necessity for his openly em-
bracing professionalism. The young
man says he will now be free to tour
Australia next season, so everyone will
benefit by the change of circumstances.
(Continued on next page.)


WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
Model 67, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle, 27in, Round
Tapered Barrel a ’ r ‘ T M— '
ing Hear Sight.
Tapered Barrel and Improved Safety Catch, Elevat- AK / m
Approx, freight in N.S.W., 2/8 •
IVER JOHNSON
Model 68, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle, similar
to Model 67, blit with Aperture Rear Sight for
Target Shooting. Pest free
55/-
Approx, freight in
NIS.W.. 2/3.
Model 2X, .22-cal, Single Shot, Bolt Action,
Self-cocking Safety Rifle.
24in. round tapered barrel with partridge-type sights, screw
adjustable rear sight, military-style walnut stock with lull
pistol grip, hand checkered and with finger grooves, formed
steel butt plate, chromium-plaited bolt unit and trigger,
chambered for the .22 regular and high-velocity long 32/6
rifle rimflre cartridges. Weight about 4lib >
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER-SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
Speed Power Longer Range
foarfsnijgja
Short, 2/8 100.
S'hort H.P., 3/- 100.
Long, 3/6 100.
Long: H.P., 3/9 100.
FREIGHT EXTRA.
Long Rifle, 4/- 100.
Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’Phone: M 3388.
533
m
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
TO
KEEP YOUR CAR
you no..
__ replace
wornplugs with
CHAMPIONS
Champion
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at
all leading garages
WINDSOR,
,CANADA
The glass-like covering of a SIMONIZED
protects it from exposure.
That is why it is so easy to keep new.
The New Kleenex makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Another Government relief-worker has
achieved fame in a day. James J. Brad-
dock, who, like Hanke, winner of the
Archibald Prize, was in that position
last year, has become champion of the
world by beating Max Baer at New
York. Accounts of the bout, which went
the full 15 rounds, show that there was
no fluke or “funny business,” for the
outsider (the holder of the title was 10
to 1 on) outpunched and outgamed the
flash Baer, using principally a long left
swing to the head. Baer weighed half
a pound short of 15st., Braddock being
13st. 9ilb. The new champion is Irish-
American, and has turned 30.
* * * *
Georgi has won a fight at last. He
beat Rainsford on points in a return
match at Leichhardt. The mill was not a
minute old when a left hook landed on
the Australian light-heavyweight’s chin,
and for five rounds he did more running
than boxing. Then he began reaching
the foe’s face with stinging straight lefts ;
but he attacked so seldom that “Georgi
the winner” was the only possible de-
cision.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Victorians are invading
Westralia in strength for the football
clash between the two States. In addi-
tion to 24 players there will be a
manager, 12 V.F.L, delegates—why, no
one seems to know —an umpire, a trainer,
press representatives and a band of en-
thusiastic barrackers. There must be
something in the Australian game when
men will brave the terrors of the Nullar-
bor Plain in winter to adjure their favor-
ites to wring the other fellow’s neck
when they could do it far more comfort-
ably on any of the Melbourne grounds
or at home with the wireless turned on.
* * * *
“Spare Eden”: Delicate diplomatic
situations sometimes have their origin in
footbrawl. Beveridge, a Melbourne player,
was transferred to Perth. He appeared
for West Perth, but the question arose
whether he had fulfilled the three months’
residential conditions. A player going
west by train is accounted a Sandgroper
from the time the train crosses the W.A.
border. This chap made the trip by
boat, and it was claimed that, as his ship
was outside territorial waters most of the
time, he was not a Westralian until he
landed at Fremantle. However, the
powers dealing with the matter have
decided that a Cabbage Gardener be-
comes a citizen of Seceshia when his ship
is 48 hours out of Adelaide.
* * * *
“Wendouree”: A bitter cry has gone
up from the Ballarat football heads be-
cause patrons of the game watch the
matches on unenclosed grounds without
paying. The custom is to take collec-
tion-boxes round, and 3000 enthusiasts
who watched a match with a Melbourne
team assayed £4 7s. including 239
thrippenny-pieces. No wonder the par-
sons complain people won’t go to church.
In Ballarat at least they keep their trey-
bits for the football matches.
* * * *
“Tout en Noir”: The Maori Rugby
side arrives in Sydney on July 6, a day
earlier than expected ; its opening match
will be against Warwick on July 10. The
only suggested alteration in the pro-
gramme is the omission of the game at
Newcastle on August 7. This match
should certainly be retained, even at the
expense of one of the three Sydney fix-
tures. The Newcastle Union has done
well for the amateur code since it was
revived in centres outside Sydney, and
deserves every encouragement.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Though the obvious
decline of professional Rugby in Queens-
land and parts of N. S. Wales makes the
outlook gloomy, N.S.W. Rugby League
apparently aspires to permanent control
of Sydney C.G. Not only is it demand-
ing that applications for the use of the
ground must go to it direct, but it is
hopeful of filling a vacancy on the trust
with an official nominee. In no other
country in the world would a represen-
tative of professionalism be permitted to
sit on a body controlling a ground dedi-
cated to amateur sport.
jH He * ❖
“Bung Rules”: N.S.W. Rugby Union
officials showed up badly when forcing
Victoria to play in Sydney under the
“amended” rules. Faced with no alter-
“ Aren't you Mr. Boggin, the footballer?”
“No, miss — that's my brother. He's a little taller, but not quite so fat.”
native but the abandonment of the
match, the Victorian manager contented
himself with the protest that the Sydney
rules were quite contrary to the rules of
the English K.U., to which Victoria —and
N.S.W. for that matter —is affiliated. He
asked whether N. S. Wales proposed to
treat the Maoris in the same way. The
reply was that nothing had been settled.
Yet the Maoris are to play under inter-
national rules.
The Nineteenth Hole
On a great day for Queensland golf,
Norman von Nida, the Nudgee profes-
sional, won the State open championship
from a field that included Bolger, Ferrier
and Kelly. His aggregate was 294 ; Fer-
rier (295) was second and Howard (296)
third. A great third round, done in 68,
clinched the business for the little
Queenslander, who graduated as a caddie
and is only 21.
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers got
a shock when N.S.W. professionals
Bolger, Kelly and Howard refused to
play for a purse hung up in Brisbane
because the authorities there had
accepted the entry of a Sydney player
named Bourke. According to the rules
of the Professional Golfers’ Association,
no player is accepted as a pro. unless he
has served a two-year apprenticeship
with a golfer or in a club-making fac-
tory. This Bourke has not done, and
though he may play in open events the
professionals will have none of him. As
matters stand, Bourke is in the peculiar
position of being neither amateur nor
professional, but a sort of shandygaff
player outside the pale of both sections,
* * * *
“Gregory Terrace”; Brisbane’s muni-
cipal links have proved a success in more
ways than one—provided healthful re-
laxatiOn for ratepayers and a comfort-
able means of gathering beer-money for
’beats. The other day an alderman asked
the Town Clerk the meaning of an item
of £5 19s. for special services. He said it
was the pay of a mounted policeman re-
tained at week-ends to prevent ball-
stealing, which had grown to outrageous
proportions. One man, he said, had been
arrested with 70 balls in his pockets.
Aldermen were busy figuring out on
their blotting-pads what 70 balls at 3s.
each amounted to when the next item
came up.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”; There is talk of Jim
Perrier and Hattersley going to England
next year for the British amateur cham-
pionship, and even of making up a team
of four with players like Williams to
return the recent visit of the British side.
Several Australians have tried their luck
in the event in the past, including such
good men on this side as Ivo Whitton.
None did much good, though Len Nettle-
fold once reached the last eight. Perrier
and co. are likely to find out what their
predecessors did —that British champion-
ship courses are in another category alto-
gether from the Australian variety.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Long drivers always
appeal to the golfing public, whatever the
experts may say about them, so the
people at The Lakes (N.S.W.) are staging
a special hitting exhibition at the end of
the Spalding Purse tourney on June 24.
Professional competitors for the purse
will be the entrants, and somethin!
mighty in the way of long-distance
whacks is expected. In America this sort
of competition is in high favor.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Cotton won the £750 pro-
fessional tourney at Sandmuir, and is
expected to win the British open. The
big event begins on June 24 at Muir-
field, with 268 entrants, among them
Kirkwood, Alec Russell and Little.
Brews has had bad luck ; he says he
forwarded his entry weeks ago, but St.
Andrews replies “ikona,” the S’African
equivalent of “no savee.”
* * * *
“Brassey”: That comment on the com-
paratively kindergarten nature of Aus-
tralian golf courses compared with those
overseas (B. 12/6/’35) calls attention to
the fact that Sam Parks, winner of the
American open, took 299 on the Oak-
lands course —16 strokes worse than the
score of Bolger when he won the Aus-
tralian open on the Rose Bay links.
Bolger’s achievement was acclaimed as a
world’s record, as if records were pos-
sible in such circumstances. According
to one authority, the Oaklands course is
a typical overseas stiff one. Greens are
heavily trapped, and even the bunkers
are made specially hard to escape from.
Racquet and Bawl
“Roland”: The Australians, Germans,
Czechs and South Africans were left to
play off the third round of the Davis
Cup. Australia’s victory in the second
round over France by three matches to
two was far from reassuring. Crawford
won both his singles, but was hard
pressed in both, as also were he and
Quist in the doubles. McGrath lost both
his singles. The final round in the Euro-
pean zone must end by July 15.
* * * *
“Kilkenny”: The Donnybrook between
the N.S.W. grass- and hardcourt tennis-


Unbreakable !
An All-Metal
VACUUM BOTTLE
that holds its temperature
all day long.
The “STANLEY”
At borne or when travelling perhaps
no item is so convenient or handy as
an efficient Vacuum Flask, and the
“STANLEY” is a line that we can
thoroughly recommend to withstand
the hardest service.
Available in Quart Size. C 7 /A
Price J/ / U
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
PIKES
OF QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Branches at Townsville, Lismore and
Toowoomba.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MACHINES FOR
MAKING REINFORCED SANITARY
CUPS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
2376/21 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A RECEIVING
TUBE FOR CUP FORMING MACHINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
2377/21 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CONICAL
PAPER CUP AND PROCESS FOR
MAKING THE SAME.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
12913/23 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
The Prontac
(. Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
lal
n-
m
vV
lirrTl
Urn
'mSs&
f%S
I
follows every rise and dip
fet
a
£
m
a
vi>,
ns
'lf
N
\
x
w»c
OF VITAL IMPORTANCE IN HILLY COUNTRY
TH E “Cyclone” Ringlock Joint allows the “Cyclone” Fence to
follow every dip of the country without buckling and without
any possibility of joints snapping. Possessing all the advantages
of the mesh-type fence, “Cyclone” is also even more secure across
gullies, etc., than a well-erected plain wire fence—and takes only about
a quarter of the time to erect and strain. (Note : A special “Cyclone”
Strainer is lent free to purchasers as part of dealer service).
On every type of country, use “Cyclone” for boundary and paddock
fences. Made entirely of HARD-steel wire, wear-proof and weather-
proof. The “Cyclone” Ringlock Joint is immovable and unbreakable,
whether by beast or any other strain of erecting or usage. Needs
fewer posts and no droppers. Cost ? Less in the long run, often less
in the first place, than any other fence.
Post the Coupon now for illustrated literature covering all types of
“Cyclone” Fences, and showing their true economy.
“ Cyclone” is not a type of fence, but is our registered trade mark and can
only be legally applied to fences manufactured by us.
vl A
I I'll
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY.
The Grace Building, 77 York Street, Sy
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
LTD*
DF
Ring-Lock
FENCE
DF
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
BL 19.6. 65
players has received a fresh impetus,
this time from the hardcourters. They
resent remarks made at a recent meeting
by some of the grassfed coves to the
effect that hardcourt players are not
in the same class as grasshoppers, and
that if they gain control of the game
through the proposed amalgamation
“heaven help it.” Finally, a double ulti-
matum was fired at the grassies. The
hardcourters insist on the constitution
of the Ma L.T.A. being altered to give
the hardcourters 12 votes at all meet-
ings—the voting strength of the L.T.A.
at present is 33, including the chairman’s
vote, and of this lot the hardcourters
have six. Also, the hardcourters an-
nounce that if this isn’t done forthwith
a special meeting will be held to arrange
for cancelling the present affiliation
with the State body—so there!
“Old Tie”: Eton seems to be getting
almost human. Some years ago it adopted
Rugby football in place of its own field
game, which was one of the parents of
Soccer. Now it is announced that the
school will officially recognise tennis.
This has been played casually for several
years, but has been ignored by the
authorities.
Miscellaneous
“Figure Seven”: Australians have dis-
tinguished themselves at most sports, but
few people would expect them to reach
world class at ice-skating, facilities for
practice being so- limited. However,
K. Kennedy, who learned the art at Syd-
ney Glaciarium, and has four N.S.W.
and Australian speed championships to
his credit, went abroad last year to try
himself against overseas speedmen. He
returned to Sydney with the British
amateur mile and half-mile champion-
ships, the latter in the record time of
Imin. 31 3-ssec. Two other Australians,
Sadie Cambridge and Albert Enders,
have been the world champion pair at
figure-skating for the last four years.
* * * *
“Bias”: Twenty-four bowlers will leave
Australia for a tour of South Africa at
the end of the year, and 16 womenfolk
have been granted permission to go along
also. A rigid quota for the various
States has been fixed. Victoria is
allowed six women to nine bowlers, while
the Ma State ration is, four women to
six men. Queensland and South Austra-
lia have each three players and two
women, Westralia two men and one
woman, Tassie a solitary Adam and his
Eve. There are the makings of some
sharp domestic differences in the arrange-
ment, especially when it comes to pick-
ing the ladies,
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide is to have inter-
collegiate sports next year—without St.
Pete r’s and Prince Alfred’s, who will
own old duel. An obvious
sna g comes wd h the inclusion of Rose-
worthy Agricultural, for whose sake the
a g e jj m it \ s raised to 20—which ought to
outclass mere schoolboys,
# t
„. . , . „ ' . ’
f Aigburth : In spite of a poor season
r h ,m > Sutcliffe scoied his l_7th first -
?! ass r f passing W. G.
P race 8 tal ly °i 126, which had stood
? or ma ?y years before the greatly-
increased number of first-class matches
made it possible for Hobbs to reach the
huge total of 197. Hendren, Mead and
Woolley are ahead of Sutcliffe, but he
j s a comparative youth as modern pro-
fessional cricketers go (41), and should
have plenty of time for many more cen-
turies —in county cricket, at least.
* * * *
Keith Lee, who as an all-rounder has
had a secure place in the S.A. XI for
years past, and has one Test match to
his credit (1933), announces his retire-
ment from big cricket. He has married,
and taken a hotel at Balaklava (S.A.).
H= * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Neither Voce nor
Larwood was included in the team chosen
to meet the South Africans, though the
match was staged on their home ground
at Nottingham. Reading between the
lines it looks as if the M.C.C. has re-
solved to put these heroes of the bodyline
trouble on the shelf. Nothing can be done
with Jardine, though he has disappeared
from the Surrey team since his return to
England and has not been mentioned as
a member of the Gentlemen or M.C.C.
teams.


Tenders.
IN THE MATTER OF
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
(In Voluntary Liquidation under the Supervision of the
Supreme Court of Queensland)
Tenders are hereby invited for the purchase of the residue of the Assets of the Bank,
more fully described hereunder.
The Assets offered for purchase consist of “Book Debts” due by customers for advances still
outstanding. Against the major portion of these debts some security is held in the nature or
mortgages or personal guarantees.
The assignment of the debts to the successful tenderer will be accompanied by the transler 91
the securities held against same. The costs of such assignment and transfer are to be paid
by the successful tenderer. . , D ,
The amounts due by debtors as at March 28, 1935, are reflected in the books or the Bank
in the various States of the Commonwealth as follows:
£131.472
140,582
78,675
45,765
147,997
3,543
£548,035 19 1
Tenders for the purchase of the debts may be lodged for the above in separate Lots or tor the
complete total, and should be expressed in terms of a percentage ratio of the amount expressed
above. More favourable consideration will be given to an offer to purchase the complete
total than to separate tenders for individual Lots. As the collection from debtors is
continuously proceeding, the amount collected by the Liquidators subsequent to March
last will be deducted from the amount of the accepted tender, subject to a charge ol 5 p.c.
for the collection. . ~
Particulars of the debts, and the relative securities held against them, are available to panics
who contemplate tendering for their purchase. Application for the lists and information and
forms of Tender, with conditions applicable thereto, must be made to the Liquidators at
their offices as follows;
Brisbane 270 Queen Street.
Sydney 105 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen Street.
As an earnest of their bona ficles applicants will be required to lodge a deposit of £lOO to
he held in escrow, and sign the required form of covenant of secrecy relative to the information
made available. ..
All Tenders must be lodged, accompanied by the stipulated deposit ol £lOOO. with the
undersigned, not later than noon, Saturday, July 20, 1935. The highest or any Tender will not
necessarily be accepted. „ „ T .
R. H. GUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A., F.F.1.A.,
R. B. FORD, A.C.I.S. (Eng.), F. 1.1.5.,
270 Queen Street, BRISBANE, Liquidators.
June 4, 1935.
ImculS
M
Polo”
tyles.
X#
m
V''
II
I
am
m
I
■ ■
m -m
>•4;
Mens
OVERCOATS
Sensationally sale-priced clear /
Leather
Topcoats
55/- Polo Style. Now
Talk about savings! Smart D.B. Style for
Men, as illustration, made from latest
fancy Tweeds. Vertical pockets, full belt
and buckle,
SALE PRICE
90/- Leather O’coats.
Leather Overcoats for Men, fashioned
from full Hides. Double-breasted Raglan
style.. Nigger Brown shade.
SALE PRICE .... ...
.
THOUSANDS OF OTHERS !
We I’ny Freight. Write to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S LTD., Park s ? ie ? t r se SYDNEY
THE 60 SECOND SHAVE
»
mmmm
m
m
■m
39 SEC?
Mi
61
i
50
HI
m
Mi-
mii
m
11
»
m
wmm
1
P
m
W.
mm
m.
AND THE SIXTY-SECOND
AS GOOD AS THE FIRST!
Shaving’s quick work Avith a Valet.
There are no screws to turn, no
adjustments to make—it’s as simple
as A.B.C. A few seconds on the
strop to put that extra keenness on
the blade, a clean close shave, then
a few more seconds under the tap
and on the towel and the job is done.
That’s why the Valet —the original
self-stropping razor —is still the
simplest and the best.
Complete razor sets from 4/6 to 65/-.
10 Secs. to strop
00 Secs. to shave
4 Secs, to rinse
7 Secs, to wipe
00 Secs.
VALET BLADES
FIVE FOR 2/ -
OF ALL DEALERS
(4
Aulo'Strop
VALETS
Safety Razor
BRITISH MADE
Money for Manufacturers
The liberal lending
policy of the Bank of New South Wales
should be examined by all manufacturers
and other producers who require over-
drafts to finance an expansion of their
businesses.
This Bank’s maximum overdraft rate in
Australia is now 5% —the lowest maximum
rate on record.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Established 1817)
The oldest and largest bank in Australasia
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of Tire Bulletin', 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).


7T7:
ENJOY i
LIFE AND I
GOOD LIVING,
(A good Single Bed- p
room, with Hot and |
Cold Water, ’Phone 1
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day;
Double Room at
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
■u *
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Y our premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
° Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s’’ criticism (10/l/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
QnrTTH VI AA i t1 75 oo ol i ins Me ] bourne ; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
AUSTRALIA; 2D King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Ten-ace, Perth: P J. Smith
. Resident, Secretary. , ’
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States\
IMPORTANT : Those who suffer
from nervous troubles and general
debility are advised to send for
particulars of a product made to
a well-known English formula.
Address: VOROK, Box 74 7G,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD.. MELBOURNE
ROSS M HEIGHT/
Ilient, age 19jt, gains 5 ins. in 0 weeks.
»» •> 21 ~ 5 „ in 5 mths.
». »» 20, „ 3J „in 16 days.
». .. 30, „ 2 „in 4 weeks.
„ 40. .. ii in 6 „ EOBS SYSTEM I
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3 jins. NEVEE FAILS I
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world. I
Fee 22 2s. I
Ross' ot)yh lt s^ nony J
Height Specialist, Scarboro.
2 Id. stamp,
in, Eng. (P.O. Box 15.)
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
BUSONESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Moral in Currency Troubles
The United States dollar is worth
something like 59 p.c, of its old gold
value, the pound sterling is worth three-
fifths of a sovereign, the Australian
pound note fetches between 9s. and 10s.
overseas. France, Holland, Switzerland
and Germany are the few important
countries whose currencies are still worth
their gold value abroad, and in Ger-
many’s case the position has been main-
tained only by a multitude of restrictions
in trade and finance.
Holland’s and Switzerland’s money is
of pre-war quality; France’s has been
devalued to one-fifth, while the old Ger-
man mark was wiped out altogether.
Booms and excessive Government ex-
penditure—for wars or other purposes—
lie at the bottom of most currency dis-
turbances. Practically the whole of the
British national debt is a dead-weight
burden —the cost of financing wars, par-
ticularly the last. As for booms and
their disastrous effects, it is only neces-
sary to consider the recent gold-share
bubble. When the fever was on, people
who genuinely desired an interest in the
Australian mining industry were forced
to pay silly prices for shares, owing to
the activities of speculators, some of
whom were shrewd, others fools.
The gold-share boom was of minor
importance, but it shows clearly how
artificial prices and “easy” profits dis-
organise industry. It is extremely diffi-
cult to float a mine, however seemingly
good, at the present time. Shareholders
are discouraged by the market’s re-
action and the overcapitalised state of
the industry generally.
America changed from a debtor to a
creditor country during the war. Many
United States factories established them-
selves on the orders received from war-
ring countries. Employees were highly
paid, and their wants, soon to become
extravagant, created new demands from
other factories, particularly those making
motor-cars, etc.
Wall-street, in its turn, experienced a
wave of buoyancy out of keeping even
with the extraordinary prosperity of
American industries. Ridiculous prices
were paid for shares. Typists and office-
boys dabbled in New York industrials,
mainly “on margin,” during 1928-29.
The gold boom directly affected only
the mining industry; a boom in in-
dustrial shares always affects the in-
dustries themselves, inasmuch as it
tempts new companies into the field,
forces up the price of land and other
capital assets, and generally tends to
bring about overcapitalisation.
Overcapitalisation may mean that
there are too many people engaged in
one industry, or that too much capital
is represented by the factories at work,
even though they are kept working full
time. Generally it is a mixture of
both, and, whichever the case, it results in
a marking-down by investors of the
value of the assets at work.
Following abnormal activity, such as
was experienced during and after the
war, there is inevitably overcapitalisation.
The depreciation in values that nearly
always follows affects debenture-holders
and mortgagees as well as shareholders,
and eventually reacts on the banks.
Diminished employment sets up a circle
of troubles, and, while Government
revenue falls off, there are nearly always
extra calls on revenue.
Flight of capital, withdrawals of gold
and reduced exports eventually strike at
the currency medium itself. Devaluation
has been the alternative most countries
have accepted during this depression. The
unfortunate part of it is that human
nature is slow to acknowledge the trouble
being stored up for the future when
things are booming. Certainly it is
sometimes hard to distinguish between
normal and artificial conditions.
Investment-share dealings on ’Change
continue strong, while many gold issues
are weak, though there has been a bit of
a rally in sound Golden Mile shows.
Twelve months ago (and later than that)
the prevailing advice was “Buy West-
ralians; anything you can get on the
ground floor should be good.” Norse-
man has slumped heavily (from over 40s.
to 18s. 6d.) ; Lancefield and Ora Banda
have come back considerably; Lady
Shenton, First Hit, Rothsay, Pomme
d’Or and Hill 50 have all weakened in
varying degrees. Last year operations on
Adelaide ’Change put Bullfinch days in
the shade, and in Sydney the ordinary
’Change routine was disorganised under
heavy buying orders. Those who were
in and out early made money—on the
market. The majority of those who got
in late will have to rely on mine develop-
ments for profits.
* * * *
Lysaght’s recently-completed mechan-
ised galvanised-iron mill at Newcastle
“ ’E's gone through every penny I 'ad , the brute! And I on'y got married
'cause I was frightened o' burglars."
(N.S.W.) is to be duplicated at a cost
of £125,000. Australian Iron and Steel,
at Port Kembla, has just completed a
mill; the plant capacity of the two corn-
panics should be adequate to look after
the Commonwealth’s present demands,
It is asserted that there has been a short-
age of the product, notwithstanding that
the output of Lysaght’s works rose from
28,058 tons in 1926 to 88,033 tons in
1934. Permits for the importation of
10,000 tons of overseas iron are to be
granted by the Customs Department
* * * *
The average Australian price for
greasy wool during the 11 months July-
May was 9.9 d a pound (as against 16.2 d.
last season), with an average of 11.3 d. for
May (12d. last season). The Sydney price
for the week ended June 8 averaged 9.4 d.,
and the market remained unchanged last
week. A good deal of cleaning-up of
odd lots is in progress. Wool in store
at all centres aggregated 184,000 bales
at May 31, as against 177,000 bales
last year. The cheque to date has
been £35,360,000 (Aust.), as against
£50,798,000. Over 2,608,000 bales have
passed under the hammer this year to
date, as against 2,463,000 in the corre-
sponding part of 1933-34.
* * * *
Output of Australian factories is in-
creasing. The value for 1933-34 was
£330,000,000, up £25,000,000 on the
previous year, and the fiscal year just
closing should show a further increase.
In 1933-34 there was an increase of
35,214 in the number of Australian fac-
tory employees (bringing the total to
405,941); there has been further im-
provement since, especially in the heavy
industries at Newcastle and Port Kembla.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.,
which amalgamated the working assets
of Australasian Paper Pulp and Cumber-
land Paper Mills in 1926, is one of the
several companies investigating paper-
pulping possibilities in Australia. It has
an interest in Tasmanian Paper Pty.,
principally controlled by Amalgamated
Zinc and Broken Hill cos., and in addi-
tion has conducted experiments and sur-
veys on its own account, the cost to
date being over £20,000. A tentative
agreement has been entered into with
South Aus. Government for an option
over thinnings from the pine forests near
Mt. Gambier; at present the wood-pulp
used by the co. in manufacturing Kraft
papers and cardboard comes from Scan-
dinavia. The mills at Fairfield (Vic.) and
Botany (N.S.W.) are to be extended at
a cost of £500,000 ; with freeholds, plant
already figures at over £1,300,000 in the
company’s books.
* * * *
Rosebery Engine Works (Sydney) have
been turning out a Westinghouse product
under license. If present arrangements
are carried out, there will be a merger
of interests, and a new co. will manufac-
ture and market Westinghouse products
in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
The base-metal markets overseas were
up again last week; lead and spelter
both rose strongly to £l4 a ton. Tin
also recovered, to £224, with the for-
ward market stronger. Copper, generally
less stable than other metals, is fairly
firm around £35. Sterling has been
strong in relation to the franc, and gold
was slightly below £7 Is. per fine ounce
at the end of the week.
* * * *
Sales of Australian wheat in London
during the week ended June 11 averaged
3s. 34d. (stg.) per bushel. Sydney quotes
last week-end were easier at 3s. 2d.
This compares with a steady
3s. od. a few weeks previously. The over-
seas position is not so cheerful as it was.
* * * *
Rehabilitation of the Yallourn (Vic.)
brown-coal opencut, flooded during the
Melbourne inundation at the end of 1934
had cost £205,000 to the end of April.
Reconstruction of the levees in order
to make an “impregnable wall” against
floods * s likely to run into
£60,000 more. There is still a lot of
work to be done in getting the works
shipshape again. Pumping alone has
cost £50,000 to date.
* * * *
Federation of Industries has been
urging the British Government to “arm
itself with full powers by way of duties,
quotas or otherwise,” to deal promptly
with goods flowing in on a tide of cur-
rency devaluation. It is contended—with
some truth—that if such a potential
weapon were made ready it would prob-
ably cause foreign Governments to think
twice before starting on a programme of
deliberate currency depreciation. In
Australia there is an Industries Preser-
vation Act designed to prevent dumping,
etc. International trade at the moment
is truly perplexing.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits in Australia in-
creased 1.5 p.c. during the 10 months to
April 30, a slight slowing-down com-
pared with the same period of 1933-34.
In 1934 the British P.O. Savings Bank
showed an increase of 9 p.c. in its
deposits. Gold gambles and lotteries are
not so commonplace in England.
* * * *
In quantity our export trade to Britain
during the nine rnonthsi ended March 31
showed substantial improvement. Beef
shipments were up 29 p.c., despite re-
strictions, lamb and mutton were 25 p.c.
higher, butter 17 p.c. and cheese 86 p.c.
Wheat went up 17 p.c. and greasy wool
24 p.c. Dried fruits—no inconsiderable
item, as a rule —declined 17 p.c.
* * * *
The Stock Exchanges have made no
reductions in their commission rates,
though the fraternity which gathers daily
in front of the Sydney quotations board
has petitioned the Pitt-street body to
make some reduction in the both-ways
brokerage on mining shares. A conces-
sion might do something to revive the
market.
* * * *
Income Tax Returns, by H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A., Aust. (Endeavour
Press; 55.), is a well-produced volume
designed to aid all those people who
have to compile and check Common-
wealth and N. S. Wales income-tax
returns. The features of the Acts thought
likely to affect the majority of taxpayers
are dealt with in simple language, and
there is a 16-page index, which is a com-
prehensive guide to taxable and non-
taxable items and deductions. The work
should be a handy reference book, par-
ticularly for businessmen, farmers and
those goldmining speculators who are at
present licking their sores and wonder-
ing how their profits and losses of the
year almost past will be viewed by the
two departments.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Bella Donna”
“D.’s” impression:
The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic called this
“a bad talkie,” and no doubt it is. It has
an inevitably false ending
With such a husband such a woman as
Mona—spoiled, not so young as she was, in
sensuous Egypt for the first time —might have
developed a brief passion for Baroudi or any-
body else. She might even have become a
poisoner. But she wouldn’t have confessed. She
would have had no difficulty in persuading the
infatuated Nigel that Dr. Isaacson’s diagnosis
was wrong, and she would have ended her
days as a model English wife, prominent
charity worker and pained critic of the morals
of the younger generation. Such is life—but,
of course, talkies can’t be expected to say so.
The acting is supremely intelligent. Melo-
drama is consistently made adramatic. You
see every step in the moral deterioration of
Mona (Mary Ellis), every step in the reversion
to type of Baroudi (Conrad Veidt). There are
countless subtle touches; as, for example,
when satiety supervenes, and Baroudi, his
rococo manners forgotten, fails to offer his
mistress a cigarette or strolls about devouring
sweets. Cedric Hardwicke (Isaacson) and John
Stuart (Nigel) are pretty well perfect in
straight parts.
The settings of this Sydney Mayfair produc-
tion and of the farce which precedes it are
curiously stark and unconvincing. Sydney
Howard is funny as an incompetent policeman,
and he is supported by Garry Marsh, Donald
Calthrop and other stars; but they function in
an England which is devoid of glamor and
practically uninhabited.
“Star of Midnight”
At the State. A society gossip writer
on a New York paper is murdered, and
a “masked actress” in a revue mysteri-
ously disappears. The events appear to
be related. A gangster, a young man
about town, a divorced woman, a
criminal lawyer, a producer and others
are mixed up in one or both affairs.
Who is best fitted to solve the mystery?
The police? Certainly not! The man
for such a job is clearly William Powell,
immaculately groomed, overflowing with
flippant remarks and with the thirst of
a camel. The innocents behave like sus-
pects, and the culprit is only seen once
or twice, which makes the task of trying
to spot the guilty one harder. The
police, as usual in talkies, are asses.
“The Fountain”
The plot of Charles Morgan’s fine
novel is so slender and the chief char-
acters are so morbidly introspective and
elaborately polite in all circumstances
that the attempt to make a dramatic
talkie of it was foredoomed. There is
hardly any action, and the pace is
funereal. Ann Harding plays the
Countess von Narwitz, Brian Ahern the
English aviator. Paul Lukas is the noble
German who joins his wife and her lover
in Holland after being badly smashed
up at the Front. The three do little but
talk of spiritual things and admire each
other’s fine qualities. Their Dutch
friends appear refreshingly normal by
contrast. Jean Hersholt and Sara Haden
are conspicuous among the latter.
“Jane Eyre”
This Sydney Lyceum production is in
the popular Arliss tradition ; the famous
characters have been deodorised of all
unhealthy qualities. The Rochester of
the novel is a pathological case. Colin
Clive makes him a dapper, interestingly
sad young romantic who gazes at Jane,
“his soul in his eyes,” as the “Family
Herald” used to say, when they first
meet in his house, and who never forgets
his charming manners afterwards. The
interior of the sinister hall is as
bright as a modern interior deco-
rator and Louis Quinze and Seize
pieces (anathema to London, much less
country, taste at the time) can make it,
and Virginia Bruce plays drab, put-upon
Jane, whose one asset was her uncon-
querable soul, as an exquisite American
lass. Mr. Rochester’s unworthy conduct
in making arrangements to marry Jane
when he has an insane wife on the
premises may puzzle lovers of wish-ful-
filment movies, but there is no other
departure from the accepted formula.
The film is unusually good of its
class. The children are clever as few
but American film children can be,
the costumes and settings are Teutoni-
cally picturesque, and there are half a
dozen situations —notably the one in
which Jane returns to her poor, blind
Rochester—that can hardly fail to bring
a tear to the eye of sensibility.
“My Song Goes Round the World”
Another variant on the “Laugh,
Clown, Laugh” theme. Joseph Schmidt
" DON QUIXOTE,” AT SYDNEY VARIETY.
Chaliapin as the mournful knight; George Robey as Sancho;
Oscar Asche as Captain of Police.
is the tragic mummer, Charlotte Ander
the nice girl who turns from him to his
friend, handsome John Loder. Schmidt’s
tenor is heard in some luscious songs,
and the action takes place in a Venice
which looks so like the real thing that
you can almost smell the back canals.
“It’s a Small World”
Spencer Tracy is marooned in a comic-
opera small town with Wendy Barrie,
whom he met when their cars collided.
Though at first cold, Miss Barrie thaws
so rapidly in the sunshine of Mr. Tracy’s
smile that it is necessary to chuck in
some misunderstandings to keep the sus-
pense going for the customary 90
minutes. Efforts of many of the charac-
ters to produce a Southern accent make
the dialogue mostly unintelligible. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Menace”
Night-time in Santa Barbara (Cal.).
Eleven persons are in lonely house. One
is a homicidal maniac who hurls Afghan
knives into people’s backs, and has sworn
to polish off three of the inmates. The
characters seem to agree that even the
threatened three are not immune from
suspicion, and several of the others be-
have in a guilty manner. Best bet at
half-time appears to be the butler (Halli-
well Hobbes), who surreptitiously binds
and gags one of the females. But it
turns out in the end that he had some
good reason (not disclosed) for his
strange behavior. Why people threatened
with murder by an unknown lunatic
should fly to a lonely house and enter-
tain there half a dozen total strangers
who crash the door, so to speak, is not
explained ; but a house-party thriller in
which any of the characters betrays a
vestige of sense has not yet been cellu-
loided. Also at Sydney Capitol.
“Don Quixote”
At the Variety, one of Sydney’s small
independent houses. Pabst has made an
amusing and beautiful film out of Cer-
vantes’ classic satire. There is nothing
spick-and-span about the settings, and
the dresses have the same air of dusty
realism. Chaliapin’s Quixote is adequately
touching. George Robey is a great
Sancho Panza. Oscar Asche appears as
a captain of police, and Sydney Fox is
Quixote’s niece. The musical score,
which was composed by Jacques Ibert,
gives Chaliapin some chances to sing.
“Conquest”
The Rural Bank of N.S.W. had this
talkie made for advertising purposes, but
it deserves notice on its merits as an
epitome of farm life in the oldest State.
Briefly and effectively are shown the
taming of the wilderness, the battle with
drought, the coming of the tractor and
other modern farm machinery, and finally
the rewards of success —comfortable
homestead, large flocks and herds, and
trim, smiling paddocks. And just a sug-
gestion, near the end, that Codlin (mean-
ing the R. 8.) is the friend. The photo-
graphy is splendid, and the scenes could
not have been better chosen. A first-
class advertisement for Australia and its
sunshine.
Some First Nights
Yehudi Menuhin continued to be in
strong demand in Melbourne all last
week, but this week his name is asso-
ciated with the word “farewell.” Fears
that his programme would not fulfil the
highest expectations of the musically
educated have not been sustained, and on
Thursday evening the difficult Enesco
Sonata is to be repeated at the Town
Hall. A feature of one of the concerts
was a Russian boy of four who beat time
to the violinist from beginning to end,
and was evidently under the impression
that if he ceased conducting Yehudi
would be obliged to stop, although he
was behind the virtuoso’s back. The
audience near him gave him stony looks,
but his mother gazed at him with ador-
ing eyes and the daily press professes to
have discovered in him a new musical
genius.
Ida Park, one of the most powerfully-
built and technically-complete of Mel-
bourne’s virtuosi, sat down at the
Assembly Hall piano one night last week
and gave a packed house selections from
her distinguished repertoire. Her Bach
was her best, but her Beethoven ran
well into second place. The “Waldstein"
was beautifully rendered, the most tem-
pestuous passages never getting out of
control. The lovely “Fantasie Im-
promptu” of Chopin rounded off the
programme.
* H- H-
Joan and Betty Rayner, back from a
world tour with ecstatic press notices
from Berlin, Paris and Gothenburg to
Victoria (Canada) and New York, have
been delighting the cultured side of
Adelaide with their dainty Troubadour
show at the Torch. (It starts fashionably
at 8.30 p.m.) They now diversify the
bill with items ranging from Sweden and
Somerset to Czecho-Slovakia and the
folk-song of all lands. Comedy and
tragedy come alike to these sisters.
They have utter lack of self-con-
sciousness, keen sense of humor, voices
adequate, acting more than adequate (in
this kind of work an emotion has but
to be indicated rather than depicted)
and, above all, winning personality. They
would be wise to (1) add some musical
accompaniment to support their songs
and enliven intervals and (2) introduce
some other artist entirely different for
variety ; it is a heavy job for two girls,
however clever, to hold an audience for
a full evening’s entertainment. As two
20-minute turns in a mixed bill they
would be ideal.
Bulwer Lytton’s poetic drama “The
Lady of Lyons” —its revival is a reflex of
the current screen vogue for period
pieces—comes refreshingly after over-
doses of modern melodrama. Genuine
drama is skilfully blended with a dash of
satire, and Scott Alexander’s production
of the romance ranks among the finest
achieved by Sydney’s Kursaal Theatre.
Pauline Markby gave a winsome and
intelligent study of Pauline Descha-
pelles, and Harry MacDonald lost little
of the verve of the audacious Claude
Melnotte. Arch Hull introduced a touch
of rustic humor, abetted by Fenton Dob-
son, a comical fop. James Higgins’s
colonel maintained martial dignity, and
John Rybak was equally at home as the
villainous Beausaint. The settings were
excellent for so small a stage.
H* *£•
“Lond”: Henrietta Watson, Australia’s
very old friend—her girl heroine in “The
Christian” with Thomas Kingston was
unforgettable—has a strong part in the
unpleasant “Frolic Wind” at the Royalty.
She is a strong-minded lady of 80 who
shuts herself up in a tower which is
found (when she is struck by lightning)
to be full of improper works of art.
Nina Boucicault is in the play too ; all
parties are titled, and London loves it.


COME to Sydney
and STAY
I at
<9
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885 s
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
Comoany never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
IKI-CTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Rraddon, K.8.E... M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay. R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .. . . 2/-
THE WENTWORTH.
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Mezzotints of
Past Masters
At Anthony
Horderns’ (Syd-
ney) just now it
is possible to buy
original works of
art bearing such
signatures as Joshua Reynolds, Henry
Raeburn, George Romney, Thomas
Gainsborough, Thomas Lawrence, Frago-
nard, Corot, Greuze or Meissonier for a
few guineas. The catch about it, of
course, is that they are not originals.
Nevertheless, they are much more than
reproductions, as the term is currently
understood, for the mezzotint process
involves first of all the engraving of an
accurate copy on copper in microscopi-
cally fine lines, and the separate prepa-
ration of the colors for each print. Most
good mezzotints are signed by the en-
graver, and in addition bear an assur-
ance that the picture was produced in
one printing. H. M. Raeburn, R.A., a
descendant of the famous Sir Henry,
Arthur Hewlett, Dorothy Woolard, L.
Busiere and H. Banner are a few of the
leaders in mezzotint engraving, and all
are represented in the Hordern show.
The prints are all of subjects graceful
and romantic, products of an age that
hadn’t heard of realism and impression-
ism, and consequently needing no inter-
pretation. It is only necessary to take a
glance at Romney’s picture of Lady
Hamilton (“as Nature,” but very elabo-
rately dressed) to understand why Nelson
fell for her. Reynolds’s portrait of
Colonel Tarleton is so pretty that the
gallant gentleman looks like a principal
boy in a panto., and the peasants in the
rustic symposiums of Gainsborough and
Wheatley seem to be culled from Gil-
sullivan choruses, but that was the
pleasant fashion of the period. Coloring
of some of these prints has a glowing
softness that, save in the case of Greuze
and Corot, was- not a feature of the
original. An interesting show.
A. D. W.
Frogs.
Each night now, since the rains last
week,
The frogs keep croaking in the creek.
I hear, ere sleep, the medleyed notes
Escape the wet, moon-gleaming throats.
There’s one old bullfrog’s bass that
comes
Up from the mudbanks by the gums . . .
Last night, while drifting off, I heard
That sound, and it recurred — recurred.
Insufferably loud and harsh,
From giant reed-growths in a marsh,
Where starlight streamed insipid on
The slime of Labyrinthodon.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.
The Miracles
of Menuhin
It would be
difficult to add
anything to “A.
Major’s” intelli-
gent analysis (B.
15/5/’35) of the
Sydney dailies’ orgiastic criticisms of
Yehudi Menuhin’s playing ; but some re-
marks may be usefully hazarded on the
educational aspects of the phenomenon.
When Menuhin appeared on the Mel-
bourne Town Hall platform completely
surrounded by adoring adult faces, I
was immediately struck by the fact that
if his sturdy figure, which is tall though
it looks stocky, had been completed by
the appropriate headgear, he might easily
have been mistaken for a midshipman
from the Flinders Naval Base. What
has made him one of the most distin-
guished of the world’s masters of the
fiddle? Well, the popular opinion would
be that he was born with an innate
faculty. Possibly he was, but in the
absence of precise knowledge about
what ia given in the case of genius, it is
more sensible not to bother about in-
nate qualities and consider what can
be done by educational conditioning.
It is well known that Australia pro-
duces a large number of distinguished
cricketers, and, as cricket is generally be-
lieved in, there must be many families
where the slightest sign in a child of
interest in cricket is immediately noted
and enthusiastically encour-
aged. When such a family
produces a Bradman we say
a born genius has come
among us, but it is obvious
that if he had been born in
the family of Menuhin he
would not have been a
cricketer. In China, where
from economic necessity
children share almost from
birth in their parents’ acti-
vities, I have seen mere
babies handling sailing sam-
pans as well as their fathers,
and there is a boy of 10 in
a Chinese cafe in Mel-
bourne who is an accom-
plished waiter. In Menu-
hin’s family music is wor-
shipped ; two of his sisters,
I believe, are as accomplished
as he is. A child’s first
gods are his parents. We
all desire to earn the favor
of our deities. How can
we best do it? By imita-
tion. That is all there is to
it, in my experience.
If you tell a child he is
too young to do what you
are doing you will keep
him, in relation to those
things, a helpless baby, and
he will probably look for
guidance elsewhere. One
look at Yehudi tells the
whole story. His deter-
mined chin, his serious ex-
pression, the superb cour-
age and confidence with
which he attacks the most
difficult compositions show
that not one single doubt
has ever been allowed to enter into his
mind as to the worth and importance of
what he is doing. You see exactly the
same expression on the faces of the prize-
fighting sons of prizefighters.
If you meet people who are not sure
whether they want to be this or that and
are little good at either you may be
pretty sure that they had parents who
were equally undecided. If a child has
a father who wants him to be a success
in science and a mother who wants him
to be a success in society, the chances
are that the parent who will win will be
the one who most believes in his or her
ambition.
M. G. S.
British
Government
Goes Musical
For the first
time the British
Government i s
taking an interest
in music, not an
obtrusive official
interest, but an
influential one, nevertheless. Last year
it sent Thomas Beecham and Austra-
lian William Murdoch to European
capitals to give programmes of British
music. The British Embassies were in-
structed to see that the house was full
and that the right atmosphere was
created. Recently the 8.8. C. orchestra
went to Brussels and astonished the
natives by its excellence. Adrian Boult
got special leave to go to America a few
months ago, and his excellent critiques
were a source of much Satisfaction-
Government circles here are, in fact,
slowly realising that music and art count
for something.
For years the Briton, looking some-
what contemptuously from the football,
boxing or cricket arena, has scoffed in-
dulgently at the “sissy” game of music.
Lately he has got it into his head that
the culture of the mind is almost as im-
portant as the culture of the muscle.
Looking at his Teutonic blood-cousin he
has noticed that the fact of that gentle-
man leading the world in music has not
even begun to make him look “sissy.”
On the contrary, the German type is
quite the reverse.
These past few months I have roamed
fairly widely up and down Europe. Where-
ever I have gone, Paris or Prague, Brus-
sels or Berlin, I have found the Govern-
ment, whatever its political shade, realis-
ing that music has at least equal claim
“Colonel Tarleton,” by Reynolds, from Anthony
Horderns’ show of mezzotints of past Masters.
Interesting as fine work, whatever may be thought
of the composition.
on its support with any other branch of
education.
Looking at Australia from this distance
one sees that in the frenzy of our
material building we have had little time
to attend to the “spiritual” side. We
point with tremendous pride to our
great cities, quite forgetting that they are
incomplete, judged from civilised stand-
ards, without great orchestras and an
opera house or two. There is a munici-
pal subsidy for most opera houses abroad
and quite a number of orchestras. Often
the opera house orchestra is also the
nucleus of the city orchestra.
There is a lot of blah talked about
people being taxed to the limit. Of
course, no one wants any more civic or
State expenditure than absolutely neces-
sary, but I refuse to believe that a coun-
try like England dr Australia, each of
which spends millions on alcohol, race-»
horses and sport, cannot squeeze out an
odd ten thousand or two for something
from which their sons and grandsons, if
not themselves, will ultimately get more
enjoyment and benefit. Australia and
England have now reached the stage
when both of them can no longer afford
to be behind the rest of the world in
their estimation of the value of the cul-
tural side of life. The British Govern-
ment has begun to realise it.
London.
KEITH BARRY.
Epstein
Statue for
Melbourne
The trustees of
the Vic. National
Gallery ought to
rush to sign on
the dotted line in
acceptance of that
Epstein statue
which ex-Senator Bob Elliott has con-
trived to secure from the Southern
Rhodesian High Commissioner. Why
Southern Rhodesia wishes to get rid of
those 18 statues is beyond understanding.
Epstein turned them out in 1908, before
he became so extreme in his sculptural
views as he is to-day. The kick against
them when they were erected was not
due to any artistic criticism, but to their
anatomical realism, and the world has
moved so fast since 1908 that anatomical
realism is no longer regarded as shock-
ing. The figures are all human and sym-
metrical—there is nothing of the Easter
Island monoliths or even of his “Christ
from the Cross” about them—and their
shocking qualities are no more shocking
than the water-colors of Norman Lind-
say, which, in modern times, fail to bring
a blush to the cheek of a Moderator of
the Presbyterian Assembly.
G. TROTTER.
Current
Arthur sts
Most engaging
features of Thea
Proctor’s show at
Macquarie Gal-
leries (Sydney)
are the still-lifes
and the fan designs. Miss Proctor
has few Australian rivals as *a painter
on silk, and her sense of design
and color-harmony enables her to
fill the few square inches of a fan’s
surface with remarkably effective decora-
tion. Her larger water-colors, such as
“The Green Door” and “Preparations,”
are light and dainty, but a trifle insipid.
In “The Picnic” the legs of children
wading in a pellucid pool undergo no
distortion through refraction. Nature is
not so considerate of any man’s legs.
There is little that is new or striking
among the 150 or so pictures that con-
stitute the Australian Art Society’s ninth
annual show at the Education Depart-
ment’s Galleries, Sydney. Like most
society exhibitions the bulk of the work
is from members who paint exactly the
same sort of thing year after year with-
out getting very much better at it. The
peaks of achievement, in this show as in
its predecessors, reach but moderate alti-
tudes, but the valleys that dip below
normal mediocrity are fewer, so it may
be said that the general standard shows
an improvement. Among the landscap-
ists in oils Rhys Williams has the most
impressive showing. “The Bay, Athol,”
“Killara Landscape,” “By the Lagoon”
and “Sunlit Bay” are attractive essays in
color, and worthily record the varied
scenery that girdles Sydney. H. C.
Hadley is at his best in a delicately
lighted scene, “Morning,” and William
Oates scores one of his quiet successes
in “A Picton Hillside.” W. M. Whitney
and F. S. Davis have been around Syd-
ney with water-colors, and their harvest
is pleasing. Davis’s picture of Bombo
Quarry, done for the Railway Depart-
ment, makes a rather prosaic scene a
thing of beauty. Most successful of the
portraitists is J. B. Giblett, whose “Javan-
ese Girl” glows gorgeously. Alan D.
Baker airs some original ideas in “Sun-
shine,” a portrait with a telegraph-pole
in the background, and “The White
Quilt,” which represents a painter draped
in the bed-covering standing before an
easel. Surely it isn’t often that cold in
Sydney! R. Broadley’s “Self Portrait”
shows three similar heads of diminishing
sizes—mirrors front and rear give the
effect. Jerrold Nathan’s, “Miss Birkin,”
Clif Pier’s “Red Scarf” and Noel Ruble’s
“Bob” are good, vigorous portrait work,
and Garrett Kingsley’s charcoal head
“An Old Warrior” is effective. Best'
still-life in the show is a vase of zinnias
by Wallace Cocks.


Australia Hotel
I /Waiting for You. SYDNEY
The Brilliant Atmosphere; the Notable Social
Life; the Convenient Location; the World-
famous Cuisine; and the
NEW “ROOM-ONLY” RATES:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20 -
.Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney
&—fV"
'
•j-mm
:LL; II?
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In spite of the murk that slowly en-
folded the city last Thursday, the rooms
of Mayoress Parker were gay with flower
designs and sparkling with music. The
civic fastness was, so to speak, pinning
the Freedom of the City on the bosom of
Music Week, and the Mayoress threw
wide the three subsections of her draw-
ing-room. Through its length the voices
of Raymond Beatty, Alice Prowse, Con-
stance Burt and Charles Nicis came rich
and clear. Lloyd Davies’s violin sang
seductive invitation to tango and pav-
anne, and Charles Philip played such
numbers as Goossens’s “Old Musical
Box” and Rubinstein’s , staccato study
with crystal clarity.
Even if you didn’t know do from
la, you could enjoy the tea. This fol-
lowed the music, and was served from a
long buffet in the corridor. There were
savories of note, and the marzipan mas-
querading as potatoes and puff balls
banished consideration for waist lines.
Palm for the nicest hat goes to Mrs.
Norman Macleod. It was of white felt,
and pork-pieish in build, and was worn
above shining black hair, drawn over
the ears Spanish fashion. The civic
lady’s millinery was burgundy in tone —
quite a heady affair. Mrs. Florence
Taylor, always associated with hats of
sweeping brim, caused a mild shock by
arriving in a small lid. It proved that a
profile like hers deserves more airings.
Mrs. Harrison discussed a trip to Europe
with Mrs'. Hamilton-Lewis ; and, judging
by the murmured conversations, in every
group there were at least two master
sleuths who only needed about 1000
cigarettes, a violin and some leisure (say
half an hour) for concentration and the
mysteries now confronting the C. 1.8.
would be laid bare.
The musicians who played and sang
at Anthony Horderns’ during Music
Week are giving three cheers for the old
Brickfield Hill establishment. To begin
with, some artistic mind had been at the
back of the arrangements, and the stage
was set at one end of the art gallery.
With its Louis (Quinze, maybe) furni-
ture and its tall gilt standard candelabra
brilliant with camellia-red candles, it
might have been a corner in the drawing-
room of some old French chateau. In
addition, there was the altogether admir-
able programme, clearly printed, carry-
ing the photographs of the artists for
each day. Beside each picture was an
introductory paragraph, complete with
details of achievements.
The Overseas Club has moved from
its old address, and is now installed in
Bull’s Chambers, on the third floor front.
Its chief joy is a music-room of great
dimensions, the whole of its front com-
posed of windows that face Martin-place
and will stare the new wing of the Aus-
tralia out of countenance when the last
bit of scaffolding is withdrawn and it
bends its plutocratic eyebrows above the
traffic. Lovely woodwork they put into
these old buildings. The floor of the
new club’s music-room has been scraped,
sand-papered and oiled, and now its
mellow golden grain is revealed. The
league hands out a welcome to the Gov-
ernor and Lady Hore-Ruthven to-night.
But the new home isn’t big enough to
house that. The Carlton will be the
setting.
At the Rural Bank Ball there was a
table to the glory of rural industries; it
was spread with merino wool above which
the State’s heraldic arms, flanked by
sheaves of wheat, reared proudly. Also
there were fruits, pyramids of butter and
model pigs and sheep. On the Homes
Department table a large and effulgent
cake was enthroned. This was decorated
with roads, fingerposts, cottages and
trees. The confection was as imposing
as its near-by neighbor, a large model
home, surrounded with lawns and gar-
dens. The Sydney Hospital and the
Legacy Club will benefit by this, the
bank’s second dance.
When Ralph Connor (Dr. Charles
Gordon) took the rostrum at the
Assembly Hall on Saturday night he
might have wondered if he had strayed
to Greenland’s icy mountains. The night
certainly was chilly. However, the
author-lecturer comes of hardy Scots-
Canadian stock, and at least his legs
weren’t exposed to the cold, cold world
fortified only by silk stockings. As a
speaker Ralph Connor has a nice easy
style, and when he throws out a hand
every now and then to round off a
thoughtful period the listener notices
that the hands have those flexible, back-
ward-bending thumbs that the palmists
say denote generosity to the nth degree.
Dr. Gordon’s pride in the Empire ran
like a flame through his words. He told
of Canada and the wisdom shown in its
colonising. As he spoke, Quebec, the
Great Lakes, the St. Lawrence, the fur-
traders and the early French-Canadian
settlers flashed before the mind —a series
of vivid pictures. He told of his
momentous war-time interview with
Woodrow Wilson when sent out of the
trenches on a special mission to the
U.S.A. After almost 20 years the story
still held excitement. In the audience
sat daughter Ruth, wrapped in a coat of
carnation-red velvet, in her hands red
camellias and violets sent by one of
father’s admirers.
Gladys Lorimer, a singer from Maori-
land, has had the distinction of singing
lead at Covent Garden. With the Eng-
lish Opera Company she took such
roles as Micaela, Rosina and Gilda. She
also appeared under the Carl Rosa
banner. Between those achievements and
her early lessons with Neville Smith m
Enzed were some years of study in Italy.
In addition to her work in opera Miss
Lorimer was one of the televised artists
of the 8.8. C.
Singing for television almost smacks of
black magic. Against a black back-
ground, the singer stands facing (almost
up against) a square of frosted glass.
On the other side, from a camera-like
apparatus a red-and-white beam of light
plays up and down. In the air two
microphones are suspended. The singer
wears black-and-white, because that
gives the best results. The make-up con-
sists of a thick layer all over the face of
a pink so pale it is just not white. A
line of white is drawn down the middle
of the nose, another circles the eyebrow,
blue shadows are placed under the eyes
and the lips are a deep blue. Well-de-
fined features are necessary for a good
television broadcast. When Miss Lori-
mer sang her eighteenth-century songs
there were 25,000 television radios in
England ; and, sitting before his or her
machine in Mayfair, Newcastle-on
Tyne or Bournemouth, the owner by
twisting a lever could have reproduced
on the front panel of frosted glass on the
radio a picture of a girl in a black-and-
white period costume singing directly to
the individual. Sometimes the picture
was full length ; sometimes a close-up of
face and shoulders. Miss Lorimer sang
at the Unemployed Musicians’ concert
two Sundays ago, and was on the pro-
gramme for Eunice Gardiner’s testi-
monial. She sings for A.B.C. A Bulletin
photograph.
Marion Riley, who carries a whiff of
North Shore-line gardens in her pleasant
laugh, is president of the women’s com-
mittee ot the King’s School Old Boys’
annual dance. This will be held in the
Blaxland Galleries, and will turn Friday
into one of those nights in June that old
school friends love to recall. Marion’s
father, B. R. Riley, is president of the
union ; her brother, another old boy of
King’s, is taking law at Oxford.
Last summer polo at Roehampton,
one of those luxury clubs for the sports-
man and -girl within a bus ride of Picca-
dilly, was played in a cloud of dust that
couldn’t be bettered by our back coun-
try in times of drought. But if last Fri-
day’s brand of rain is repeated this week-
end our players will have to call in the
assistance of artificial sunlight to dry
off Kyeemagh, the new polo field. The
big polo “do” for next Saturday night
is the ball at Retford Hall, which has
been lent by the Tony Horderns. A
cocktail party hostessed by a long list of
well-known names will put a curl into
the late-afternoon of Tuesday, 25th.
Ladies with sweet, gracious or be-
nign smiles, ladies smoking cigaretes as
gracefully as any Spanish senorita,
threaded their ways amidst the throng at
the Music Week revel on Saturday. There
were prizes to be had for many charms,
and the cigarette-smoking was a very
popular competition. The Week’s or-
ganiser, Mrs. Ferrari Passmore, was all
smiles, lily-of-the-valtey and mist-blue
and silver. Mrs. Bertie Kelly trailed
regal pink and silver brocades. Marjorie
Skill, in black moires, and Mrs. Lashmar
were among the dancers ; Natalie Rosen-
wax was handsome in red and gold
brocades, and singer Emily Marks was
another notable of the night.
The National Gallery is feeling pot-
bound (not potboiler-bound), and nothing
but an extension will soothe its grow-
ing pains. Director of the Gallery
Jimmy MacDonald points out that Bris-
bane has handed £20,000 to its Gallery,
and why can’t Sydney do the same? The
Brisbane amount had for its base the
Darnell bequest of £lO,OOO. To this the
Government added £4OOO, the City Coun-
cil £2OOO and the citizens subscribed
£4OOO. But Sydney has no kind Mr.
Darnell, so where does the foundation-
stone come in? Reminds one of Mrs.
Beaton’s recipe for hare soup: “First
catch your hare.” And it is to be hoped
Jimmy and the Gallery Trustees will.
What would the Botanic Gardens be
without the wishing-tree? How many
generations of Sydney youngsters have
run three times around the tall, wise pine,
leaving the wish they have breathed to
its care! Their absolute faith that a desire
uttered while moving rapidly backwards
would be granted has so often been re-
warded that the tale of the green magic
goes murmuring around the class, around
the school, around the State. Now,
alas! our old friend is dying, and a move-
ment is on foot to plant another tree
replete with the same powers.
Just as the clutching hand of winter
is grimly tightening its grip, the spring
shows burgeon in all the big stores.
Yvonne Printemps, delicious heroine ol
Noel Coward’s “Conversation Piece,”
can be blamed for the crop of Regency
styles that are going to mean hair shirts
and fastings to the thick of waist. The
world at the moment seems full of those
nipped -in - above-the-solar-plexus little
suits, high on the shoulder, and very
bouncy and feminine in all materials
from sheer wool to taffeta. You can be-
gin to arrange your facade to look like
a highwayman or a beau of Bath when
Brummel ruled, for cape collars and ex-
aggerated revers are the fashionable
coat’s bid for the limelight.
Organdie and pique—very crisp and
wide-awake, as this Letter predicted—
appear on every second garment, and day
frocks are shorter. A few months ago
London tailors prophesied them knee-
length. Crystal buttons dazzle on many a
cuff and coat front, and navy shoes and
navy silk hose will make blue-stockings
of us all. Indeed, navy seems the color
prima donna this spring, though there’s
a wine-into-violet toning that should
marry off any left-over brunette who
prefers matrimony to bridge. By the
way, if you are a just-emerging widow
there’s a grey on the market (in fact,
several of them) that makes the solution
of the problem easy. You pick your
man, and it will do the rest.
Henry Lawson’s birthday will be cele-
brated by a programme of Alfred Hill
compositions, which will include his
quartet for strings in A and a violin
sonata. Montgomery Stuart will give a
recital of Australian verse. The whole
will be presented under the banner of
the Henry Lawson Literary Society at
the Arts Club next Monday evening,
and the National Literary Fund will be
the beneficiary.
May Matthews lies seriously ill in the
Community Hospital. That her friends
have not forgotten her, a testimonial
from the Federal Labor party, the League
of Nations Union, the National Union
of Women and colleagues in the Child
Welfare Department shows. And on
a recent day the patient’s room at the
hospital was made gay with flowers, and
in the presence of a few intimates May
was presented with the King’s Jubilee
medal.
There was nothing unlucky about the
Vacuum Oil dance, though it did notch
up the co.’s thirteenth annual. Nearly
1000 dancers popped into the Blaxland
Galleries to make the affair bigger and
better than in any previous year. The
co.’s State general manager, D. S.
Aarons, and Mrs. Aarons entertained at
a table glowing with chrysanthemums
and autumn leaves. Lots of flying men
were at the party ; so were the E. A.
Callanans —he’s chairman of directors of
Vacuum Oil. The Legacy Club and the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital will
share the boodle.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLENS MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
D
I INGOT Riding Breeches and Jodphurs are
right in style, right in cut, right in quality,
moderate in price. Into every stitch, seam
and curve goes the experience that comes from
a lifetime of outfitting the equestrienne.
These hard-wearing garments will keep then-
shape and color after repeated washings.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
Missing Friends.
ALEXANDER GEORGE
KING, draper, formerly of
Alexandra, N.Z., in 1901 ;
last known address, 22 Acland
Street, St. Kilda, Melbourne,
about 15 years ago. Communi-
cate with SWARBRICK &
SWARBRICK, Solicitors,
Hamilton, New Zealand.
JOHN TRAIL, last heard of at Bonalbo, Rich-
mond River, New South Wales, March, 1929,
or anyone knowing his address, kindly com-
municate with the Manager, NEW ZEALAND
INSURANCE CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
Keith Murdoch and his lady had to
meal out on Friday. Heathfield was lent
all the afternoon and more than half the
night to bridge players, who paid well
in order that the Y.W.C.A. should reap
the benefit. Social stars stumbled over
each other in the scramble to help. Lady
Huntingfield, worded by Lady Forster
before leaving England about the good
deeds of the Y.W.C.A., not only took
tables, but played herself. Nobody had
to be coaxed or driven to help. Realis-
ing how little things are often over-
looked, Mrs. Geoffrey Syme provided
tablecloths and ashtrays, in addition to
all the boxes for the sweets. As it was
for a blue-ribbon objective, the organisers
could not run a cocktail bar, but neither
could they look a gift horse in the mouth.
A donation of a case of whisky was dis-
posed of somehow. Mrs. Arthur Bloom-
field made hay while the sun shone.
Instead of waiting to sell flowers at the
party, she put in three weeks’ good work
beforehand finding customers for the
autumn foliage gathered about Gisborne
and Macedon. The party started off free
of all expense and overladen with sale-
able gifts, so those in charge felt that the
supper could run to hot crayfish patties
and things like that.
The opening of the Motor Show by
Premier Dunstan was a replica of many
other such ceremonies, Mr. Dunstan reel-
ing off yards of statistics to show the
progress of motoring in Vic. The most
picturesque feature of the afternoon was
the rising of an autogyro —the first public
exhibition in the State. The ’plane
hovered over the oval to cast a wreath
on one of Cobb and Co.’s old coaches
standing below.
Busy country bees are showing how
they have improved the shining hour.
The honey, in handicrafts form, is on
exhibition. Crude crochet and lurid
colored arascene work went out with the
passing of great-grandma, and the girls
have been struggling to put art into
craft ever since. Australian manufac-
turers would starve if all the women in
the community took to making their
household belongings with the zeal of the
country lasses who are giving examples
of their skill at the Town Hall. Furnish-
ings have been made from material
yielded by neighboring paddocks. One
woman has woven a wire mattress for
her infant’s cot. Instead of making tea-
cosies and d’oyleys edged with tatting,
the needlewomen of the bush now devote
their attention to the needs of the bridge
table. All the glove-, rug- and toy-
making and the putting of rush bottoms
into chairs raised on the premises have
not lured the masses from the preserv-
ing-pan. The demonstration shows that
they can still make quince jelly and
pickled red cabbage as well as their
grandmothers.
Rehearsals are in full swing for the
reels at the Silver Jubilee Ball, which
will be danced in “sixteensomes and
eightsomes”—whatever that may mean.
Capt. Moffat Pender is putting the High-
land-flingers through their paces, but, as
slick footwork and stout hearts are
needed for the prancing that belongs to
the Land of Heather, many of the
original selection have been forced to
drop out of the ranks. The women who
last the distance will drape white frocks
with tartan shoulder sashes, and their
partners will swing the kilts of many
clans.
Doting mothers are busy putting the
finishing touches to small daughters’ bal-
lerina frocks in readiness for a great
event —the visit of Felix Demery, who
arrived at Fremantle on Saturday to con-
duct an examination tour on behalf of
the Association of Operatic Dancing of
Great Britain. For the la.st nine years
little Eunice Weston, who holds the high-
est diplomas of the association, has been
battling to bring students and teachers in
line with standards set in Britain. She
has hit her head hard against many
brick walls, but the impending visit is
due entirely to her efforts. With one
exception all the teachers who will place
students under Felix’s piercing eye have
been brushed up by Eunice. The asso-
ciation aims at pushing incompetent
teachers off the map, although, of course,
it' doesn’t hope for an Act of Parliament
such as that which sent Sairey Gamp into
oblivion.
Under the guidance of Gaston Mer-
vale, who until lately was in Maori-
land, the Cairns Memorial Players tried
their luck in a costume drama at the
Garrick. “Berkeley Square,” the story
so shrouded in mysticism that only the
imaginative can draw aside the veil, pro-
vided the test. Most of the players lived
up to the Queen Ann setting, so true to
period that many of the belongings had
to be heavily insured before placed in
position. The bits and pieces were
genuine antiques ; and a Hogarth, valued
at £lOOO, adorned the make-believe walls.
Nobody rushed the stage-producer with a
Joshua Reynolds, so Quentin Sutton
came to the rescue and painted a couple
of props. A composition by May Brahe,
an Australian who has won musical recog-
nition in London, was worked into the
eighteenth-century music. Iris Jones, in
her dark ringlets and green frillies, bore
a striking resemblance in figure, speech
and deportment to Heather Angel’s per-
formance in the film version of the story.
Loveday Hills deserved a pat on the back
for her old-world elegance as the Duchess
of Devonshire. Frederick May looked
far more at ease in his costume belong-
ing to the reign of the dandies than in a
1935 dressing-gown. Lady Huntingfield
was able to pin her presentation posy —
a spray of orchids mingled with lily-of-
the-valley—into her coat. William Brun-
ton and his wife and Mrs. D. A. Skene
were in the group who came along to
express thanks on behalf of the charity
organisations that will reap the benefit
of the show.
Mrs. Louis Nelken, never out of the
social limelight in the pre-war days, came
into the open again to stand by Blue
Triangle Amy Snelson. The good in-
tention placed her at the head of the
social success of the year—the subscrip-
tion party for which Keith Murdoch and
his lady lent their Toorak home on Fri-
day. Mrs. Nelken, who convened the
inaugural meeting and acted as presi-
dent, came through the campaign with-
out ruffling a ripple in her wavy hair. She
was quite at home in the presidential
chair. For her social-service training
she was caught young. During the
periods that John Madden was on duty
as Lieut.-Governor he always had a pair
of attractive daughters, noted for their
schoolgirl complexions, to make a deco-
rative splash. When Daisy and Sylvia
married, the dimpled Ruby came to light,
followed by Leslie (Mrs. Louis Nelken)
and Beatrice. The sisters are scattered
now. Mrs. C. V. Vallange (Sylvia) has
made her home in England. Mrs. Harry
Osborne (Daisy) lives at her station, Cur-
randooley, Bungendore (N.S.W.). Mrs.
Pat Osborne also settled on the land. She
is hostess at Willeroo, Tarago. Mrs. M.
H. Baillieu (Beatrice) and Mrs. Leslie
Nelken are the only ones who have not
deserted Melbourne.
Meet Mrs. Harold Brookes, who is just,
as nice as she looks —and that is saying
a lot. Someone who knew how many
beans made five captured this matron
with the radiant personality to act as
leader for the Silver Jubilee Ball —the
Victoria League’s flamboyant flourish in
July. Mrs. Harold lost no time in
palavering once she had taken the chair.
Her first speech was a query. Who will
give a donation? Within a few minutes
she had hall-hire, dance orchestra, tickets
and programme expenses all defrayed by
gifts. Broothorn made the picture.
Flinthill, the Brookes homestead nest-
ling among the Woodend bluegums, is
one of the few surviving places in Aus-
tralia where hospitality is dispensed with
the open-handed liberality of the pioneer-
ing days. The social custom of entertain-
ing in the home that went with Mary
Ann is still observed at Flinthill. Big
parties are given there, and all the cater-
ing is done on the premises. To be in
harmony with their simple and pleasant
cheeriness, Flinthill dances should finish
up with a Sir Roger de Coverley. Daugh-
ter Margaret’s debut a couple of years
ago was made the occasion for merry-
making in the style of the early days,
with all the elderly folk taking part in
the fun. Mrs. Brookes is the daughter
of a most distinguished Australian sur-
geon, the late Dr. Bird.
A comedy with that piquant flavor
known only to the French was staged at
the Little Theatre on Saturday night.
Just in case every member of the audi-
ence had not mastered French, the title
was translated for the programme—“My
Wife’s a Great Man.” Jack Wiltshire,
Wilbur Reid, Betty Tait, Margaret Reid
and Enid Hollins were drawn into an
entanglement of domesticity at cross pur-
poses. In satirical fashion the playwright
proved that looking after a husband was
a full-time job.
At the Garrick on Thursday, Irene
Mitchell, clad in doublet and hose and
changing in turn from cherry-red to
lobelia-blue and then to jade-green, cut a
romantic figure as the lovelorn swain
who embarrassed the house of Capulet.
Louie Dunn, who staged “Romeo and
Juliet” with women playing all parts,
scored a social, financial and artistic suc-
cess. Not another patron could have
been squeezed into the house. As all the
leading players were winners of elocu-
tionary competitions, full value was given
to the English language. Slender and
petite, Sylvia Archer recalled the fact
that Shakspeare’s Juliet was in her teens.
The new K.C., Crown Prosecutor Clif-
ford Book, went behind after the first
act to offer congratulations to Miss
Dunn. Charlotte Hemming, of the
Shakspeare Society, nodded approval
from the front stalls. Lorna Forbes,
granddaughter, and Russell Chapman,
great-grandson of an Australian actress,
Carrie George, who played Juliet when
she was 15, led many rounds of applause.
If the producer eats one quarter of the
chocs, that were heaped upon her after
the performance her digestion will be
ruined.
Among those who deserved all the
fuss that was made of them at the
finish were Rea Lawson, who made her
first stage appearance as the nurse;
Elsie Rowland, who was the Friar ; and
Elvie Allen (Mrs. Blackwell), who made
a spirited Benvolio. By the end of the
year the Louie Dunn Shakspearean
players will be ready to play a season of
five nights, staging a fresh piece each
evening.
Although the Town Hall was packed
to overflowing for the Menuhin concert
on Wednesday night, there were enough
music-lovers left to fill the Assembly
Hall cosily for Ida Park’s recital, her first
appearance solus on the concert plat-
form since her return from a finishing
course in England. All the musical
societies with which Ida is identified
rolled up loyally, and the Ormond pro-
fessor gave the lass, who took her Mus.
Bac. at the Uni. six years ago, the hall-
mark of his patronage. Ida confides that
one of the proudest moments of her
young life came when she was allowed to
play the great organ in London’s Albert
Hall.
“In Memoriam” notices in the Mel-
bourne press have chronicled the fortieth
anniversary of the death of Violet
Varley, the little comic-opera star of
the early ’nineties. One was inserted by
her husband, Joe Tapley, whom she
married while he was appearing as tenor
in the same company, and the other by
her sister, Mrs. Charlie Dyson, who,
before her own death, left instructions
for it to appear. Joe Tapley left Aus-
tralia shortly after his wife’s death,
which occurred after a brief married life.
Returning to his native Canada he left
the stage and bought a ranch outside
Toronto, where he married again and
reared a family, now grown up. Tapley
still runs his ranch, and has prospered.
These days big houses seem to be like
matrimony—those who are in want to
get out, and the covetous yearn to get
in. Judging by the number of hostesses
who are deserting lovely old homes to
try housekeeping on a smaller scale the
mansion has had its day. Beautiful
homes are not so easy to sell or lease at
the moment as bungalows or attractive
cottages. Tired of keeping up style at
Kinnoul, a residence of the old-fashioned
ostentatious type, Mrs. Neil Lawrence
has decided to try flatting for a time.
Before putting some of her favorite bits
and pieces into Cliveden, she gave a
party at the old place to mark the mov-
ing. This is the house where Louise
Dyer, sister of Gengoult Smith, gave so
many parties that her friends grew tired
of buying stamps to answer the invita-
tions. Many times Louise would have
exchanged the grandeur of Kinnoul very
gladly for a shooting box in Scotland.


Cairns Tourists Visiting Magnetic Island.
/ CAIRNS .By Sea
The Incomparable Winter Holiday
26 Days of Delightful Sight-
seeing in the Sunny North.
The Luxurious Interstate Liners
“MANOORA” “CANBERRA” “ORUNGAL” “KATOOMBA”
Leave Every Week up to end of .August.
Fares ... 1st Class Return, from £27/2/6
2nd Class Return - - £19/5/-
For full particulars, etc., apply
The Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
Howard Smith, Ltd. \ AT
Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd. | ALL PORTS.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 756 of 1935.
BETWEEN LORNA LUCY MARY YOUNG
Petitioner „ , .
And GORDON YOUNG Respondent
TO GORDON YOUNG late of Newcastle in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LORNA
LUCY MARY YOUNG has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion during three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of June, a.d.
1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors, Eldon
Chambers, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 815 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELSIE VERONICA MEDWOOD
Petitioner
And JOHN MICHAEL MEDWOOD Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN MICHAEL MEDWOOD late of
Albury.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE
VERONICA MEDWOOD has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
I the Thirtieth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-five and in the event ot
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of June, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) A. B. H. HARNES,
Clerk in Divorce.
ERNEST A. CLEARY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
It covers
THE WEST
Every market in Western Australia
is reached by 6AM. Pastoralists,
wheat-farmers, dairy-farmers, fruit-
growers, timber-workers, miners—
in fact, every class of industry in
W.A. is catered for by GAM. It is
the only commercial station which
serves the great rural communities
of the State.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Legal Notices. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1641 of 1934.
BETWEEN ISABELLA PARKER Petitioner
And ERNEST EDWARD PARKER Re-
spondent.
TO ERNEST EDWARD PARKER.
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitu-
tion of conjugal rights dated the Thirtieth day
of May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five has been made against you in a suit
wherein ISABELLA PARKER was the Peti-
Sner and you the said ERNEST EDWARD
PARKER were Respondent requiring you
within twenty-one days after the Nineteenth
day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five to return home to the Petitioner
and render to her conjugal rights and further
requiring you within four days after the expna-
tion of the said twenty-one days to file in the
Registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the decree AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by an order
made on the Thirtieth day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-five it was ordered
that substituted service of the said decree be
made by advertising a notice twice in a weekly
newspaper circulating in the State of New
South Wales the first of such notices to be
advertised within fourteen days from the Sixth
day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and the second notice seven
days thereafter AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that the home to which you are to
return and render to your wife Isabella Parker
conjugal rights is your former residence at Vic-
toria Street St. Mary’s in the State aforesaid
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
consequence of your non-compliance with the
decree is that the Petitioner may at once present
a petition asking for a decree against you for
judicial separation or dissolution of your mar-
riage AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
service is to be taken as complete on the nine-
teenth day of June One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-five from which day the twenty-
one days in which you are to return home to
the Petitioner will commence to run. A
copy of the decree and notice herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of June, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 169 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
TO SELMA HARRIET ISMENA AIMEE
BLIGHT of Sydney New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the fourth day of May 1934 has been issued
out of the Divorce Registry of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to
appear and answer the petition of NORMAN
EDWARD BLIGHT of Perth in the State of
Western Australia praying for a dissolution of
his marriage with you AND in default of
your appearing the Court will proceed to hear
and determine the said charge and you will
not be allowed to address the Court IHEKb
FORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within one month from the
date of the last advertisement to attend in
nerson or by your Solicitor or Proctor at the
Divorce Registry of our said Court and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided
for that purpose. T F DAVIES ,
Registrar.
CHARLES GREIF, of Warwick House, St.
Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner. , , ,
To be inserted in one issue of the Sydney
Mnrnine Herald” and in one issue of the
Sydney Bulletin, both published in Sydney m
the State of New South Wales;.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Night in June dance at the South
Perth Pagoda went cosmopolitan in its
decorations, with Egyptian figures stalk-
ing round pillars, Chinese lanterns shad-
ing lights and English ivy climbing over
latticed alcoves. Norman Gledhill and
Bill Kinnane fitted into the scheme with
an Anthony-and-Cleopatra burlesque, and
introduced the foliage in a “Faun in
Spring” number. Mrs. T. D. Murphy’s
black georgette and lace occupied the
presidential chair; Imelda Dominish
donned secretarial robes of black moss
'crepe. Mrs. Dominish sprinkled her
black georgettes with flowers, but Mrs.
Hunt, Mrs. Lynch and Mrs. Kinnane
kept theirs unrelieved. Pink roses
bloomed on Greta Gorst’s primrose
satins.
New Norcia rejoiced at the golden
wedding of Alfred and Sarah Cuimara.
There was a big dinner at midday,
when the couple were the guests of
the Abbot and the Benedictine commu-
nity, and in the evening the natives en-
tertained the township with a concert.
With Dr. and Mrs. Donald Tregonning
playing host and hostess, the hockey
folk rallied in force to their dance at the
Myola Club. Mrs. Tregonning’s apple-
green taffetas glittered with brilliants as
she presided over the carnation-decked
supper-tables in the dining-room. Kay
Grieve’s taffetas changed from gold to
pink with the lights ; Gwen Barker’s pink
satins were luminous with silver ; a silver
Russian tunic topped Sylvia Cox’s black
satin skirt; Barbara Unbehaun stitched
her black velvets with silver beads, and
Biddy Dodd, Marjorie Church and Joan
Trenoweth were in pristine white.
The Alliance Fran?aise soiree at the
Pleiades Club attracted a goodly crowd.
Ramel’s two-act play “Le Coup de
Gong,” directed by Mrs. E. Shacklock,
was followed by a lecture on Debussy by
Betty Gravenall, who illustrated her
points with musical excerpts.
Homage was paid to the memory of
the late Mrs. Edith Cowan by a group
of people who carried floral offerings to
the memorial facing the entrance to
King’s Park. After the silent memory
members of the Edith Cowan Mennorial
committee were the guests of Mr. and
Mrs. T, Felloe at their home in King’s
Park-road, where Mr. J. T. Franklin
presented Mrs. Egglestone with a hand-
painted book in recognition of her work
as hon. sec. of the committee.
Mrs. Percy Howard, who has resigned
after nine years as secretary of the Karra-
katta Club, was farewelled at a morning-
tea in the club reception-room, where
vice-presidents Mrs. F. Dempster and
Mrs. W. H. Vincent received with the
guest of honor, who held a trio of posies
against her brown and beige marocains.
For the tea given in her honor by
members of the Repertory Club Molly
de Gunst covered her black frock with
a huge-collared black coat. Rabbi
Freedman welcomed the singer.
The J. A. Collister family is doing a
round of farewells prior to departure for
England. Mrs. R. Love’s tea at the
Green Gate was in honor of Mrs. Col-
lister, and Pat Hadfield’s and Helen
Dobson’s shivoos saw twins Joan and
Joyce in the box seats.
The Carl Gillespies’ ewe lamb, Peggy,
has promised to graze on pastures new
with Joseph Gray, of Kulin.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
There was a splendid attendance at
the Floral Ball in the Paldis Royal,
organised by Lavingfon Bonython’s lady
for the Mothers and Babies’ Association.
His Ex. and Lady Dugan were received
by the president of the association (Doug-
las Mawson’s wife) and the organiser,
and escorted to the v.-r. box, which was
beautifully decorated. Lady Dugan
looked charming in powder-blue chiffon
fitting to the figure and flaring from the
knees. She wore pearl ornaments. The
Mawson lady chose black georgette, with
flounces of black taffeta on the skirt
and over the shoulders and a corsage
spray of red roses. The Bonython lady
was gowned in black romaine cut on
slim lines, with shoulder straps of
pale-green ring velvet. Three debs, were
presented —Beverley Beale, Mavis Cole
and Betty Atack.
Twenty-six pretty girls, wearing evening
frocks in every shade and carrying large
silver baskets filled with flowers, mounted
a stage of mirrors in turn, curtsied
to his Ex. and stepped down the other
side, forming a long row in conclusion.
Then a small boy in tatters sang “Won’t
You Buy My Pretty Flowers?” and in a
very short time the girls had sold all
their posies.
Although the night was stormy the
Town Hall was thronged for the first
concert of the season by the South Aus-
tralian Orchestra. Adelaide folk are pray-
ing that the City Fathers, as a centenary
thanksgiving, will insfal central heating
in our one and only concert hall. Several
citizens brought hot-water bags and rugs
to avoid being frozen stiff. Lady Dugan
was welcomed by Dr. Harold Davies,
director of the Elder Con., and Mrs.
Davies.
At the L.T.A. Ball there will be a parade
of tennis costumes worn from 1900
to the present day and a guessing com-
petition calling for a display of legs
beneath a curtain. Mrs. W. T. Rowe and
Mrs. H. J. Lipman are arranging the
parade, and Lorna Bollen and Betty |
Ward will supervise the leg show.
The Jewish Women’s Guild held a
successful bridge party at Birk’s Picca-
dilly to raise money for its sewing for
the poor. The Bonython lady presented
prizes and drew the lucky numbers for
gifts. She was received by Mrs. Herbert
Solomon (president) and Mrs. S. J. Jacobs
(vice-president).
The engagement has been announced
of Vanda, the pretty only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Finnis, of Unley
Park, to Keith, elder son of Mr. and
Mrs. J. Fitmin Jenkins, of Port Pirie.
TASMANIA.
Broadland House Ball, run in the
Albert Hall, Launceston, was more
of a pageant than a dance, Mrs. F.
Dougharty, who excels in this sort of
organisation, arranged tableaux in which .
groups of children enacted the legend
of Proserpine.
Jean Wishart Smith and Harold Hastie
Harvey faced the music of the “Wedding
March” at St. David’s Cathedral. The
bride wore magnolia-tinted satin, with
touches of silver in the long girdle and
in the knot holding her halo of orange-
blossom. The square train was cut in
one with the skirt, and the veil was of
tulle, very voluminous. Mrs. Adye Page
(bride’s sister) was matron of honor, and
two weenies, Philippa Agnew and Fleur
Findlay, were also in attendance in mid-
get replicas of Mrs. Page’s dress, which
was of deep-pink taffeta, corded round
the hipline with a quilted effect —this
also appeared in the collars and cuffs
of the turned-back elbow sleeves.
Coralie Edith, second daughter of Mrs.
and the late W. J. Taylor, New Town,
and Lieut.-Col. J. W. Turner were
wedded at Davey-street Congregational
Church, the bride in heavy white satin,
veil of embroidered net and coronet of
orange-blossom. Two sisters, Doreen
and Nell, ’maided, one in green and one
in maize-yellow taffeta. Military and
naval friends and fellow-officers of the
’groom made an arch of swords.
A Launceston wedding of wide interest
was that of Mary, only girl-chick of the
E. L. Halls, and Leonard Keam, of
Breadalbane. The wedding garment was
pale-pink ring velvet, with a band of
silver quilting round the hem. The square
cowl neckline in front had a decoration
of pale-pink roses and silver leaves. The
bride’s cousin, Margaret Shann (Mel-
bourne), was the sole ’maid, also in ring
velvet, of a much deeper tone of pink,
the bodice with deep cape sleeves and
high neck.
Hobart Repertory Soc. scored one of
its biggest successes in Van Druten’s
“The Distaff Side.” Junee Cornell, Mrs.
Booth, Kitty Cook, Mary Fuller, James
Pratt, John Bushby, K. W. Nicolson and
Dora Miller, in the important parts, were
all on a high level, while the minor
characters were so well done that one
wasn’t conscious of their minority. The
staging was delightful. Olive Wilton was
responsible.
Mrs. Bertha Southey Brammall spon-
sored her own play, “Flickering
Candles,” at the Lyceum Drama Circle.
The play won second prize in the broad-
casting competitionit is founded on
Tas. history.
Mrs. Edith Waterworth, who came in
for an 0.8. E. on King’s Birthday, is an
indefatigable feminist, and under her
pen-name “Hestia” has done much for
flagging causes. She represented the
Speck at the 1924 Women’s Peace Con-
ference in Washington.


WNERSHIP
f
Homes and farms, objects of
national pride and symbols of
progress. What a valuable, help-
ful part the Rural Bank . . . your
Bank ... is playing in their
development! Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that
by so doing they are enabling it
to increase its useful services.
Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all
sections of the community.
© is
rite RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office:
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
The Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation Limited
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings, Adelaide.
A modem, progressive and purely Australian Corporation,
transacting all classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate, Non-Profit,
Annuities, Personal Accident and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE
MAN
C
I
WHO KNOWS
PUIP SCOTCH
20 3 WHISKY
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
“X.”: Dead, suddenly, in Rockhamp-
ton, A. H. Franklin, a journalist of a
vintage rare in these days. About 27
years ago, when policy speeches were
policy speeches, I shared the press table
with him when William Kidston de-
livered an oration on the occasion of the
fusion with the moribund Philp party.
Queensland took its politics very
seriously those days, so I, who had been
dragged out of a Brisbane theatre to
catch the special train at ten minutes'
notice, sans pyjamas and money, was
charged to telegraph five columns—no
typewritten text in advance —and Frank-
lin and a colleague had been ordered to
turn in “copy” for a page and a half
of cold print. Kidston was a slow, jerky
speaker with a resounding Falkirk accent
and a habit of repeating which made
shorthand an agonising occupation when
he was about. The only man who had
any spark in him when we finished the
pooled jobs somewhere about midday
next day was Franklin, who, always the
optimist, said “Well, thank God, anyway,
the beggar doesn’t lisp!” Had Franklin
cared to “go south,” as many other Rock-
hampton men did, he might have risen
high on one of the solider “great” papers,
but he preferred to stay in the Central
District, where everybody trusted and
liked him and he exercised a strong and
unobtrusive influence in public affairs.
* * * *
“Plankton”: One Sunday afternoon in
1934 a young man lay sleeping in a
bedroom at his home in Ipswich-road,
Brisbane, beside him his infant daugh-
ter. A jarring crash on the iron roof
dispelled their slumbers. Through the
broken ceiling he saw part of an aero-
plane’s wing, while the heavy engine
hung above him. He seized his child
and fled to safety. Four months later
an aeroplane flying over Moreton Bay
got out of control and crashed. The
aviator was killed. A few yards away in
a boat the man from Ipswich-road sat
fishing. If there is a house to let near
an aerodrome he is definitely not
interested.
>J: * :|; :J;
“El V.”: I am afraid that “Giligili,”
of Papua (B. 12/6/’35), lives in an
area where civilisation has vitiated
the coon’s taste in smokes or else that
there has been a distinct change in
fashion since my time. The Papuan may
like “S. M. Herald” cigarettes, but I
used to keep my Bully covers for the
luluai in New Britain. “’E good pfeller,
mars ter; ’im ee ste-rong pfeller too
ma-ach,” was his Worship’s explanation
when he requested the perquisite. And
was it strong pfeller too much? Any-
body who visited that chieftain on a hot
Bismarck evening when the roll was
about three parts smoked out could
follow the scent for a mile.
H* %
J. G. Corran, who refused to bow to
movie reputation, remarking that it was
Douglas Fairbanks’s place to call on
him, is one of Australia’s most persis-
tent mayors. Few Thursday Islanders
born in the last generation can remember
any other civic head in office. He is a
hard worker in Torres Strait interests,
and he owns what is claimed to be the
smallest newspaper in the world- —the
Torres Strait “Pilot.”-
;Jc :Jc :jc :Jc
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Does The
Cruet still exist in Darwin? It was a
seat near to the long flight of steps which
led down to the waterfront, along the
Residency boundary. There, in the
glorious days of old, was manufactured
most of that genuine hot-stuff which
was apt to bring tears to the eyes of any
Australian who wished his country well.
At The Cruet there originated such his-
torical incidents as the Bulk-whisky Strike
and the Great Revolution, not to speak
of such industrial activities as the evolu-
tion of perfect job-control at the meat-
“How far to Mungana, Jacky?"
Bout fifteen mile, boss. P'raps only ten if you've got a good horse."
works and that ingenious system where-
by the total loading or discharge of any
ship could be maintained at one ton per
hour per hatch, or less, by a gang of 30
men per hatch. There, too, was drafted
the Mayor’s telegram to the Prince of
Wales. But even The Cruet wouldn’t
have treated the Flying Doctor as official-
dom has tried to do.
* * * *
“Humpybong”: Within three months
Queensland will own the longest sea
viaduct in Australia in the Hornibrook
Highway, which is being built across
Bramble Bay from Sandgate to Woody
Point, thus bringing the centre of Bris-
bane within about 15 miles by road of
the city’s nearest real beaches. It has
been a huge job. When it is complete
there will be over 8800 ft. of decking,
carried on 294 concrete heads, and the
decking will consist of a quarter of a
million superficial feet of lOin. by 4-fin.
ironbark, held down with 80 tons of gal-
vanised bolts. The viaduct will carry a
20ft. roadway and two 3ft. footpaths.
Fast roads are being built from the
Brisbane end by the City Council and
from the Redcliffe end by the Redcliffe
Council, so that the site of Queensland’s
oldest settlement, which was moved from
Humpybong to Brisbane in the early
’twenties, will soon be within a half-
hour’s run from the centre of the city.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
When the Returned Soldiers’ Cricket
Club held its annual dinner one
woman was present among the 30 men —
Mrs. Sims, the official scorer, who accom-
panies the club on all country trips. Her
husband is the team’s best all-rounder.
A gold pencil was handed over to the
lady by way of thanks.
Two of Redcliffe’s oldest inhabitants
have had a joint birthday party—
Colonel Koch, who was 80, and Mrs.
Bailey, 72, whose husband formerly was
Mayor. Colonel Koch is chairman of the
Redcliffe Council Finance Committee,
and his straight back would put many
a man half his age to shame. Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. Filmer were host and hostess,
and the Mayor and Mayoress (Aid. and
Mrs. Langdon), the Town Clerk and Mrs.
Lucas and a host of friends helped to
cut the enormous birthday cake.
When small Joan Barnes was returning
to school in Melbourne from Warwick,
father S. E. Barnes flew her to Albury in
his own Puss Moth. The journey took
seven hours.
Freda Sternberg Barrymore and her
husband, back from a holiday in N.S.W.
and Victoria, stopped off at Canning
Downs with the J. H. S. Barneses for a
few days. They went north at the end
of the week.
Donald Cameron, who has put in four
years with the R.A.F., was a passenger
on the Kitano Maru. His father is chair-
man of the Victorian Railways Staff
Board, and his great-grandfather settled
in Queensland in 1847. Mrs. Cameron,
who was Margaret Roper, of Edinburgh,
is with him.
Died recently at Yeppoon, Lady Henry
Phipps. She was a daughter of the late
James Leith Hay, of Perthshire, and her
husband, a son of the Marquis of Nor-
manby, was aide to his father when Gov-
ernor of Queensland. The Phipps home
at Gleneagle, Beaudesert, was noted for
its hospitality. There were two sons, one
of whom, Russell, died of meningitis in
camp in England during the war. The
second son, Vivian, three married daugh-
ters and Moira Phipps survive.
At the annual conference of the Cen-
tral Division of the C.W.A. held in
Rockhamption the treasurer announced
that receipts were £5135 Os. Id., expen-
diture £4587 Os. lOd. and the bank
balance £2301 13s. 2d. Assets exceed
liabilities by over £lO,OOO.
Brisbane Repertory never made a
better choice than Lionel Hale’s delight-
ful play “She Passed Through Lorraine.”
Dulcie Scott, who produced and who
appeared as the bogus “maid,” deserves
a sheaf of laurels. The stagecraft was
excellent, the costumes were good, and
Dulcie’s own performance a worthy one.
Fifi Billington gave a
post-wedding party for the
guests at the Dight-Menzies
ceremony.
Bingara Plantation Church
was crowded for the double
wedding of the daughters of
Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Skil-
lington. Edna, the eldest,
married Aubrey Murray, of
Toowoomba, son of Mrs.
Terence Murray, formerly
of Bundaberg; and Eileen
wedded Clarence William
Bates, son of Mr. and Mrs.
A. W. Bates, South Kolan.
Sister Dorothy and Miss D.
Skillington, a cousin,
’maided,
Muriel Brunskill did the
round of the soldiers’ hos-
pitals in Brisbane. Ardoyne,
the Anzac Hostel and Rose-
mount all heard her rich
contralto.
Louie'Gatacre made such
a good job of the Brunskill
publicity in North Q. that
she has been engaged to
carry on the work in other
States. She and Ray Moni go south
by car.
The £lO,OOO which retained the Dar-
nell Bequest for Queensland has been
handed over to the Appeal Committee.
The Government gave £4OOO and
the City Council £2OOO, £4OOO being
raised by public appeal. Maurice
Herring made a few remarks about
using the income from the money
(£5OOO goes to the Randall Art Gallery)
in the upkeep of the National Gallery,
the art world being of the opinion that
upkeep is the concern of the Government,
and that the available £15,000 should be
devoted to buying works of art. Prob-
ably nothing definite will be done until
the new gallery promised by the Premier
materialises.


This winter
enjoM a month of SUMMI
TAKE one of the big Trans-Pacific liners via
Auckland, N.Z., and a few days will see
you in Fiji, islands of enchantment.
Every day you spend in Fiji will be notable—
swimming, tennis, hiking, driving, golf, bowls,
idyllic days by lagoon and river; brave sport
with giant fish among the coral reefs; colourful
inter-island trips of 5 to 14 days’ duration, and
on beautiful Viti Leyu a 250-mile motor drive
over good roads—one of the most perfect
scenic drives in the world.
Now is the time to plan your holiday in Fiji.
From now till September the climate is perfect
—calm, sunny days, cool nights. First-class
hotels will cater for your comfort. Post the
coupon below for Fiji tourist literature and full
particulars of steamer sailings, etc.
Post coupon to any of these addresses:
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOS. COOK & SON, Sydney and Melbourne
UNION S.S. CO. LTD., Sydney and Melbourne
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Sydney
Please send me booklets and pamphlets or
Fiji and all information regarding travelling
to, and holidays in Fiji.
Name
id dress
FD
hi
come to
FD
ISLANDS OF ENCHANTMENT
THE x
SHOULDER BLADES
SOUR REPEATING, ‘
TRSTE RNO BRERTH \qJ
OUIHTERBRRSH
IN THE THRdfIT
O PAINS IN CHEST
EENERHL BHO HEALTH
0 HEART PAIN.
PALPITATION
0 BURNING PAIN
IN STORTA EH,
'LUHIPY FEELING*
due fa neg/erfEd acid!
Weak Stomach means food fermentation, gas-
pressure on the heart, acid which, eating into
the stomach walls, causes dire ULCERATION.
Heart and chest pains, burning sensation, fear
of food, unnerving stomach and bowel pains
—these mean misery. Here’s ease and restora-
tion! Doctors and public alike approve.
Through Prof. H. Maclean, of St. Thomas’s
Hospital, London, millions have found stomach
peace this way. And more, for Harrison-
Maclean Stomach Powder adds to instant
relief, REJUVENATION of both stomach and
bowels. Continual dosing is no longer neces-
sary. You get rid of both cause and effects
of your disorder with Harrison-Macleau
Stomach Powder. Benefit without equal in
cases of Indigestion. Gastritis, Dyspepsia,
Heartburn. Palpitation, Ulceration, Sick Head-
ache. Sourness. Biliousness, etc. WHY lose
health and risk an operation through stomach
upset when this real remedy can so quickly,
SURELY put you to rights? Results are
astonishing. Men and women of forty, fifty,
and past can eat like youngsters again—with-
out fear! Chemists sell Harrison-Maclean
Stomach Powder at 2/6. or package posted
to order. (Add Id. post.) Amalgamated
Laboratories. Australia House. Sydney.
Regain health in this truly modern way!
Step Right Out of Your Trouble by Taking
Stomach Powder
'Qti
How Hannigan Brought Home the Bacon:-
"CALL HIM CUPID."
By LANCE GAY.
U W H,NIVER T eat bacon ’” said
YY Hannigan between bites, “I
have a vision o’ the night in
Ireland whin I wint to Flaherty’s to fetch
some home. Though ’twas pitch-black
an’ clouded over like the gates o’ doom,
1 can see all that happened as plain as
1 can see your face. They say Love is
blind, but ’tis not so —not in the dark,
annyway. ’Tis like the owl for sight,
if not always for wisdom. Though many
a good man canoodlin’ in the dark has
put his foot in it whin ’twas not his foot
he meant at all, ’twas not so wid me an’
Nora McShane.”
Hannigan’s eyes grew pensive. “My
Nora,” he went on, “was a pernickety
young thing wid notions av gintility.
Whin I told her 1 was goin’ for some
bacon, an’ asked her to ride home wid
me in the dark, she said:
“ ‘Ridin’ wid a gossoon like you in
the daytime is bad enough, Patsy ; but
to be seen wid you an’ a slab o’ bacon
in the dark—galong wid ye!’
“ ‘The road is deep-sunk, an’ ’twill be
very dark, Nora,’ says I, wheedlin’-like ;
‘an’ the bacon will lie quiet behind the
sate wid no disgrace to no wan. Ye’ll
come, now, alannah —won’t ye?’
“One o’ thim mock-disdainful looks
shlipped past her nose.
“ Til meet ye at the fork o’ the roads,
Patsy,’ she says, shy-like.
«W HIN I got to Flaherty’s ’twas near
dark, an’ there was me noble
sittin’ on his doorstep fondlin’ a pig’s
ears.
“ ‘Where’s me bacon, Misther Flah-
erty?’ 1 says, anxious to get back to
Nora. ‘Don’t disturb yersilf. I’ll hoist
it up.’
“ ‘This is your bacon,’ says he, pattin’
the pig affectionably. T clane forgot to
cure it for ye. Ye can take it an’ cure
it to yer own likin’. Tis sorry I am to
part wid the darlint.’
“Me mouth fell open. Shnakes
couldn’t have made me ask Nora to ride
home wid a live pig! Why, the Me-
Shanes wouldn’t even allow a pig in their
kitchen!
“An’, there, I’d left me mother scourin’
the fry-pan, an’ me father, poor man,
wid a far-away look in his eyes an’
wather on his lips, pinin’ for the feed 1
was supposed to bring him. An’, worst
of all, there was poor Nora waitin’ at the
fork o’ the roads, little thinkin’ that she’d
have to ride wid the two av us instid o’
wan.
“But that was jist like Flaherty. A
sore-forgetful man always ; but this time
I do believe ’twas not his head but his
heart that forgot. That pig was like a
brother to him, wid the advantage that
it wouldn’t kick back whin Flaherty
kicked it off his little low bed in the
middle o’ the night. Considerin’ the
company it kept, that pig was a wonder
of domesticacity: quiet an’ friendly ; an’
more mannerly than many a wan I’ve
met in far superior walks o’ life. But if
Nora had known ’twas alive
UII7ELL, we loaded up the pig widhout
” throuble, an’ off I wint. I was
drivin’ a little four-wheeled affair wid
a low seat in front an’ a good space
behind where we’d dumped the pig, wid
his legs loosely tied. He niver mur-
mured. He was used to riding wid
Flaherty. He’d stretch out in a cart for
miles like a dog or some other pet —
which, av coorse, he was.
“Begorra, ye can imagine how I was
ticklin’ meself wid gladness that
Flaherty’s pig was a pet an’ not wan av
your rampageous beasts that always
seem to be afraid they’ll lose their lives
or, maybe, their bacon. All the same,
many a time whin the straw rustled me
heart near busted me Adam’s apple on
its way to me mouth.
“Cornin’ near the fork in the road 1
heard a whisper from the roadside:
“ ‘ls that you, swateheart?’
“Me heart jumped twice, thin stopped
altogether. Nora callin’ me swateheart!
“ ‘Yes,’ I whispers, all a-trimble ; ‘this
is me, swateheart. Is that you?’
“ T can see no other body,’ whispers
her chucklin’ voice—-an’, begob, she was
right; ’twas pitch-dark—an’ she climbs up
on the seat beside me.
‘The old horse started off, an’ I, in
me bewilder, didn’t know what to do
next. But, begorra! I didn’t need to.
Trust a wise gyurl to know what to do
whin her swateheart doesn’t seem to
know that he is jist that same!
“A pair o’ warm arms wint round me
neck, swate breath fanned the down on
me cheek, an’ swater lips were pressed
hard to mine. How she could aim
so shthraight in the dark I dunno at all.
at all. Dark or light, gyurls can clout
ye wid a kiss jist where they want to ;
while a man, whin he aims at a gyurl’s
lips, is more’n likely to find himsilf wid
his nose in her ear.
“Well, she holds me lips for a long
time, thin draws back wid a shivering
sigh an’ says:
“‘Oh, Mick, darlint—l’m so glad ye
came!’
“1 pulled up the horse.
“ ‘Me name is Pat,’ says I, like a fool.
“1 heard a little chucklin’ grunt from
the straw at the back—to this day 1 be-
lieve that pig was laughin’—an’ the gyurl,
showin’ some white things for which I
had a keen eye in thim days, scrambled
out over the wheel an’, wid a wild
scurry, disappeared.
“For a long time I jist sat there wid
me lips tinglin’, cursin’ the luck that had
made me plain Pat instid av Pathrick
Michael. '
<(THE old horse stopped av his own
* accord where the roads forked.
A gyurl climbed up beside me widhout
a word, an’ I, bein’ a bit hopeful that
history might repate itself, held me lips
ready an’ said the same. This time I’d
made up me mind that I’d be whativer
I was called, avin if ’twas the Prince av
Orange himsilf.
“ ‘Did ye bring the bacon?’ whispered
a voice ; an’ thin me heart rose an’ fell
at the same minute. Rose an’ fell, be-
cause history seemed likely to forget its
own reputation for repitition.
“We drove along for a bit, wid nothing
goin’ on between us but a couple av
feet o’ silence, when suddenly Nora says,
severe-like:
“ ‘Take your fist away, Pat. Don’t go
pokin’ me like that! I don’t like it.’
“But I noticed she moved closer.
“I was jist goin’ to tell her that both
me fists were in me lap, when she giggles
an’ says, more soft-like:
“‘Pat —stop ticklin’ me neck, will ye!
Ye’re pullin’ me hair.’ An’ she moves
away again.
“I was bedoozled! I began to think
that maybe she was sayin’ these things to
egg me on a bit. 1 could see the white
cuff av her sleeve restin’ on the back o’
the seat, an’ I was jist reachin’ to touch
her hand, when she says, softer than
iver;
“ ‘What was it ye tickled me hand wid,
Pat? It felt hairy. You haven’t grown
a moustache this day, have ye, now?’
“Bein’ a backward lad, I sat dumb
wid bewilder.
“Somethin’ soft slid up me arm an’
rested on me shoulder; thin somethin’
kissed me softly on the cheek. I turned
me head quick to return the kiss, an’
me pursed lips jist brushed somethin’
cold as it moved away. I thought ’twas
Nora’s nose, or her ear maybe, an’ was
growin’ bold wid me conceit, whin sud-
denly both me conceit an’ boldness were
driven out o’ me by two screams an’ a
slap that seemed to come all together
from where Nora sat.
COULD see nobody, but, begorra!
* I soon felt somebody. The horse
slopped as someone grabbed the reins ;
thin I felt a hard hand grasp me arm.
“ Tis Pat Hannigan, I know by the
broken harness,’ growled neighbor
Clancy, suckin’ his thumb. ‘An’ phwhat
are ye doin’ to that gyurl? I thought
’twas a pig squealin’ till I heard the slap.
Thin 1 knew ’twas some young rooster
thryin’ his spurs. You’d a right to clout
him, alannah, whoiver ye are.’
“ T did,’ says Nora.
“ ‘So, ’tis Nora McShane, is it?’ says
Clancy. ‘An’ what for are ye ridin’ wid
this shpalpeen in the dark?’
“ ‘He offered me a lift,’ says Nora, shy-
like.
“ ‘An’ I’ll offer him the same for mis-
threatin’ me frind’s daughter wid dis-
respect,’ says Clancy grimly. ‘Out ye
come!’
“T niver touched her!’ says I as I
shtruck the road.
“ ‘You’d lie to me, too, would ye?’
says Clancy, pullin’ me to me feet.
‘Haven’t I ears? Take this to taitch ye
to be respectful to a gyurl wheriver ye
are!’ An’ he clouted me on the jaw so
hard that iverything wint dark except
the sparks that busted from his fist as
he hit me.
“ ‘An’ you,’ he says to Nora, stern-
like; ‘l’ve a mind to tell yer father
shthraight away.’
“ ‘You woulden do that now, surely,
Misther Clancy!’ says Nora in a voice
that would’ve wheedled the teeth from
a saw. ‘Ye woulden’ve liked annyone
to tell on Missus Clancy—now, would
ye?’
“ ‘No,’ says Clancy, softenin’ at once.
‘But if ye like his kisses, for hiven’s sake


Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post’’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers;
bet
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from tne mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner*' is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building:, Sydney; R. j. McCartney,
Newspaper House, .Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
This is more than
a NAME
&
m
*
2fS
AmW*
This medallion on a battery is more
than a mark of identification —more
than a guarantee of old-fashioned
honesty. It stands so definitely for
quality that to millions of motorists
it is a guarantee of dependability!
Over 30,000,000 Willard Batteries
have given satisfaction. Quality
materials and workmanship have al-
ways maintained this standard. En-
list in the vast army of satisfied Wil-
lard users—you can enroll with your
nearest Willard dealer.
Willard
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsvillo,
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham.
Weymouth Service Co., Adelaide.
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and Lismore.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
take thim quietly so the neighbors won’t
hear.’
“ ‘The kissin’ was nice enough, Misthei
Clancy,’ says Nora softly; 'but ’twas
their awful coldness an’ the prickin’ av
his hair that made me yell.’
“ ‘Bad scran to the one that gives cold
kisses, annyway!’ says Clancy, laughin’.
‘Good-night to yez!’
U iVU HAT made ye say ye niver
” touched me, Patsy?’ says Nora,
hurt-like. ‘He’ll think I’m the queer one
to go scraitchin’ for nothin’. An’
afther all ye did to me cornin’ along, too!
I didn’t mind your nudgin’ an’ ticklin’
an’ kissin’, Patsy, but your nose was so
frightful cold! I had to scream that
time ye pressed it so hard to me cheek
an’ started to bite me ear.’
“ ‘An’, Nora,’ says I, ‘whin ye put your
arm on me shoulder an’ kissed me, 1 liked
that foine, too.’
“‘Kiss ye? I niver did!’ says Nora,
bridlin’. T sat wid me head shtraight
up so’s ye woulden think I was enjoyin’
your nonsense. Is it another gyurl
ye have wid ye?’ An’ she leans over
to see.
“Gettin’ bolder, I leans towards her,
feels something wid me lips, an’ kisses it.
“ ‘Oo! ’ says we both together ; ‘your
nose is cold!’
“I put me hand out to fondle her head.
Begob, ’twas a head I fondled all right,
but not Nora’s. I shtruck a light. There
was me noble bit o’ bacon standin’ on
his four legs like a sailor, wid his black
head restin’ on the back rail o’ the seat.
’Twas his snout we’d kissed—one on
each side!
“Nora cried wid disgust. ‘’Twas not
ye I was talkin’ to at all, thin,’ she wailed.
‘Please disremember all I said. To ride
home wid two live pigs, indade!’
«DUT I brought home the bacon in
D more ways than wan that night,”
said Hannigan, pushing his plate away.
“I began to think that if a four-legged
pig, by a bit o’ nudgin’ an’ kissin’, could
make Nora say the swate words that I in
me gyurl-shy confusion niver could,
surely there’d be a chance av a two-
legged wan doin’ the same be the same
means. Now that I’d embibled wisdom
from the pig, an’ knew how Nora would
take things, I soon showed her that ’tis
not only a pig’s mug that’s made for
kissin’. An’ she? Ah, well, what wid
her teasin’ ways an’ her cornin’ an’ goin’
she inded it all up be wipin’ the pain
from me busted jaw wid the soft, warm
silk av her cheek. Whin she left me wid
her promise in me heart she said:
“ ‘Ye won’t kill that darlin’ pig, will
ye, Patsy? We’ll call him Cupid.’
“Like bacon? sez you! Now, wouldn’t
ye like avin the shnake av Eden if he’d
done as much for ye? Perhaps he has.
I dunno at all ; but by the grin av ye I
see he’s had a thry.”
Goldfields Story, by Turns Comedic and Dramatic:-
COMPENSATION.
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
OCCUPYING a lonely seat in the
hindmost of the two trailers which
the elderly tram was dragging to
Boulder Block, Arthur Jones was in a
mood for murder.
The men around him, all born to toil
in the mines, were merry enough, but
Arthur’s gloom was as black as the
nethermost corner of the “Fifteen Hun-
dred Foot,” where he expected to be
occupied before long in “bogging” dirt
for a machine miner more unpleasant
than he had ever imagined it possible
for a machine miner—or any other
human being—to be.
The previous day had been the anni-
versary of his arrival on the goldfields,
and it had also concluded a week-end of
absolute disaster. He had, by masterful
effort, achieved slumber in the early
hours of the morning to the tune of a
dirge of shrill complaint and harsh re-
proach from his wife. He had wakened
with furry tongue and throbbing head,
his ears ringing to a continuation of
Anastasia’s endless monologue. It had
been almost a relief to board the tram
which now bore him in rattly haste over
ripply rails to lesser miseries.
As the distance between himself and
the lesser miseries became less, however,
he pondered despairingly upon twelve
months of hell, spent in the bowels of the
earth, and cursed the depression which
had driven him to such employment.
Cracked and broken fingernails and
palms ingrained with dirt reminded him
of the depths where great grey boulders
awaited him, to further crack his finger-
nails, if not his neck. He had always
been, and always would be, very close to
terror in the maze of tunnels where
voices, hollow, ghostly footfalls, muffled,
far-away explosions, and even the mad
clatter of the rock-drills were cut off by
any corner, and leapt at one out of the
darkness.
Monday was always misery; but now,
because of a despairing effort to get away
from it all, to swell his fortnightly pay
envelope until it meant fares to Perth
and a new start in the cool, clean,
orderly heaven of a suburban store, it
was even worse than usual. He knew he
could rely upon Anastasia to retail to
him for weeks the caustic comments of
the tradesmen who could not now be
paid, and upon Angus O’Malley, the
miner, to treat his misfortunes as a joke.
The leering faces of the lot of them
seemed to swim around him and their
grasping fingers to probe behind his
throbbing forehead.
AT the Half-way Angus O'Malley,
swinging his billy and the great
parcel of food which seemed necessary
each day to sustain his large, coarse body,
came aboard the trolley with his usual
hearty bellow of greeting.
His red, wrinkled face, ornamented by
an untidy, tobacco-stained moustache,
glowed with offensive amiability, and his
lumpy, hairy, brick-red chest and arms
slumped from violent activity into easy
repose as he seated himself in the vacant
place next to Arthur. Arthur’s misery
was complete.
“Well!” roared Angus, with detestable
cheeriness. “How was the week-end,
cobber?”
“No good,” said Arthur briefly. “I
did in my pay at the two-up.”
“Done in yer dough, did yer?” sang
out Angus in tones which overpowered
even the shriek of worn steel wheels
upon worn steel rails. “Well, y’ ain't
th’ only one. Mine was a lot bigger
than yours, an’ I lorst th’ most of it on
a flamin’ whippet. Anyway, there’s
plenty ways o’ gettin’ more.”
The words might have been chosen to
fan to flame his mate’s smouldering rage.
Of all the injustices under which Jones
suffered he considered it the worst that
this animal, this bundle of flannel and
whiskers and dirt, should each fortnight
receive a fatter envelope than himself.
He was stung.
“Perhaps there is, for your sort," he
snapped. “There’s not for me in this
damned place.”
Angus was astonished, but his good
humor was impenetrable.
“Gain,” he bellowed, with a disregard
for listeners which made Arthur tremble,
“y’ can git hold of plenty of the yeller
stuff down where we are, fer one thing.”
“Then, if y’ got guts enough,” he con-
tinued, “y’ can always shed a finger or
two an’ git compensation.”
He thrust under Arthur’s nose a hairy
and toil-blackened paw from which two
and a half digits were missing.
“See them? They was worth best part
of a coupla hundred to me, an’ a bit
more, too, if y’ allow fer bein’ able t’
make the old woman write all th' letters
since I done it. But, o’ course, them
sort o’ methods wouldn’t be no good t’
you.”
o Continued on next page.)


....
The Nev) 1935
FORD V-8
UTILITIES
/ J
f y
0 J
■t *
*so /
/ X
,y / /
111*
O
48&33
Further advanced in style and design, these 1935 Ford V-8 Utilities offer
brilliant, economical performance at negligible maintenance cost. With
their new handsome appearance, increased carrying capacity and many
improvements, they are today’s greatest commercial value, surpassing
even the previous famous V-8 Utilities. The Ford dealer near you is now
displaying these new Models and will gladly demonstrate. Ask him to
explain also, the Ford easy purchase plan.
features of the 193 J FORD V-8 UTILITIES :
GREATER LOADING SPACE . . . NEW CENTRE POISE
RIDING WITH IMPROVED WEIGHT DISTRIBUTION
. . . NEW SMART APPEARANCE . . . FAMOUS V-8
ECONOMY, EFFICIENCY AND DEPENDABILITY . . .
NEW EASE OF CONTROL . . .
Economise with a FORD Vd UTILITY
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) UVI/30
P ROD U C T
Arthur impotently resented the im-
plication in the last remark. Regarding
at close range a trio of warty and cal-
loused stumps, he wondered that any-
one could value at “a coupla hundred”
a few inches of such unattractive flesh,
He blinked at his own slim fingers, once
skilled in the handling of delicate fab-
rics, and thought that if they had plenty
of washing and less work there might
be some real value in them.
In silent unhappiness he stared at
*, ern > Angus s voice rumbled on.
Valuable fingers. What was the com-
pensation for each joint accidentally re-
fT h „ bl “°i a " c ! pained grind-
l : rn>hi p ' ih° . L , a ' l . 1owl )
e u^ n h S haLdT „ ht his\Ue,T bled ’
F
A T the mine, in the change-room, in
A the cage and in the level, Arthur’s
depression increased. ’
Garbing himself in uncouth garments
for the journey below, in a great common
room noisy with the week-end gossip of
his cheerful mates, he longed for orderly
shelves of soft and pleasant silks, in-
stead of a filthy jumble of dungarees,
Bouncing into the depths at the end of
a half-mile of springy wire cable,
crowded close to the sweaty smell of
some careless washer, he thought of city
elevators and well-laundered shoppers.
And, tramping along the 1500-feet level
in the wake of the exuberant Angus, he
craved, with a bitter, hopeless craving,
for the well-lit, dignified elegance of the
long clean aisles at Mammoth Stores, his
last place of employment.
The ground at the “1500” “talked,”
creaking weirdly and terrifyingly, and
ahead of him O’Malley's light bobbed,
revealing nothing but rock, fitful sil-
houettes of a vast, misshapen behind,
and the crooked fingers of the mutilated
hand that held it. The stumps hooked
around its handle, repulsive and puckered
at the ends, but they had been, valued at
almost four times the amount Arthur
had dreamed of for over a month as
representing his release,
With a plop, a drip of water, seeping
through the rock above, spread itself
over the back of his hand. It was warm.
like blood, and he frenziedly brushed it
o fi
At the scene of their labors the move-
ments of Angus’s finger-stumps fascinated
|T 35 S" W ?M V “
his machine. Ugly they were, like the
quick-moving heads of snakes. In his
repulsion an alternative occurred to him.
“Angus,” he asked, “what’s a toe worth
in the mines? ’
O’Malley dropped a hissing air-hose
to gape through the gloom at him in
amazement.
“Gorblime,” he exclaimed, astonish-
ment gradually giving way to enthusiasm
in his tones, “d’ y’ want to lose a toe,
sonny?”
“Don’t be silly,” said Arthur. “1 was
only asking.”
However, as he labored up and down
the level during the morning, with heavy-
full trucks of stone trying to bolt away
down the grade on one trip, and emptv.
but still heavy, ones to be pushed on the
other, he thought a great deal about
fingers and toes, those little parts of one’s
self which would be so painful to re-
move, but which would not be missed
so greatly once they were gone. Toes,
in particular, were useless things, and
feet were hidden by boots. But the idea
of hurt to them, through a thickness of
filthy leather, an accident that would
result in strands of unsavory sock setting
in congealed blood, became too revolting'
to consider.
By crib-time he was convinced that it
would be easy to keep a mutilated left
hand out of sight a good deal, but
shadows on the rocks seemed to grin
derision at his courage, and the amount
of pain involved became an absorbing
and nerve-racking problem.
IN the afternoon, up near the bin, away
from even the sound of Angus, he
experimented.
Chocking the wheels of the truck, he
balanced a great boulder on its edge and
rested three fingers over the other side,
supporting the stone with his right hand.
If he let it go it would roll back into the
truck and sever his digits as neatly as a
pair of shears. But after that, while
suffering the scorching pain he could well
imagine, he would have to somehow up-
end the truck over the mouth of the bin.
so it would seem that it was during that
act that the accident had occurred.
His face beaded with sweat, peering,
ghost-like with terror, into the blackness.
With a little yelp of horror he withdrew
both hands, and the big stone, falling
away from the truck, rumbled and
bumped through the depths into the bin.
He sat, with his face on his knees,
shivering.
Directly, when it seemed that soon
Angus would come to see what had hap-
pened to him. an aching recklessness
seized him. He went to the edge of
the shaft, tempted to throw himself from
the plat and end it all. But there was
water in the shaft bottom, and he would
only drown, with broken limbs, he knew.
He went back to the truck, balanced an-
other and smaller stone and placed his
left hand ready.
Somewhere in the workings a sudden
shot echoed. The concussion extin-
guished his lamp, and the deep rumble
of explosion and moving earth so startled
him that the stone tottered and fell. It
bruised his knuckles with a sharp pain,
and his wail of overwrought agony
echoed through the damp corridors.
OATHS and stumbling footsteps in-
formed him that Angus was on the
way along the level, post-haste, in the
dark. In shame and misery he awaited
his arrival, sucking his fingers.
“Well, I’ll be damned!” said O’Malley,
when re-lit lamps revealed the scene. “I
thought you musta fell down th’ blasted
bin, an’ all y’re tryin’ t’ do is git rid
of a coupla lousy fingers. Gripes, lad,”
he continued, with a light of evil enjoy-
ment in his eye, “y’ can’t do a job like
that on yer own. Why didn’t y’ ast me
t’ give y’ a hand?”
Arthur sprang back in horror.
“N-n-no,” he stammered. “It was an
accident.”
Angus gloated wickedly.
“Aw, now, boy,” he purred, “y’
needn’t be nervous about me. Why, I
bin in trouble meself at diff’rent times.
I know what it’s like, an’ I’d like t’ help
y’.”
“No,” said Arthur frantically. “I don’t
want a hand. 1 don’t want to lose any
fingers.”
“Well,” said O’Malley, “if y’ stuck
fer money, y’ ort to. It don’t hurt a bit,
if th’ bloke what’s helpin’ y’ does a good
job. I know, ’cos I had it done meself.
Spare me days, it ain’t as bad as gettin’
a tooth out, an’ y’ don’t git no coupla
hundred quid fer that. Y’ve seen a pup
git his tail orf? Well, you shove y’r
fingers on th’ edge agin’ an’ it’ll be all
over, jist like that.”
The aching recklessness again assailed
Arthur. Twelve months’ bitter hatred of
O’Malley reached its culmination in a
savage, but wholly impractical, desire
to kill him. To smash the big red face
would have been the purest joy. He
could not; but he could, at least, defy it.
Wordless, dazed with hate and misery, he
thrust his fingers over the edge of the
truck’s side and waited silently.
O’Malley’s big features seemed to
swell and mingle grotesquely with the
rocks as he made passes in the air with
a weighty hammer. Jones experienced
a feeling of faintness and surprise at the
situation in which he found himself. The
big man’s weapon whistled through the
still air and struck the steel plate with a
crack like a rifle bullet.
But Arthur had jerked his hand away
and fled into the gloom.
AT the other end of the level, among
timber and pipes that were piled
there for future use, he lurked until
knock-off time, sick of life and of him-
self.
Gradually shame gave way to resent-
ment and defiance. He waited until he
had heard Angus’s booming voice at the
plat and heard it borne aloft in the
cage. Then he came out, trembling, un-
happy and with a grievance, but sane
enough to have abandoned all ideas of
compensation.
When the cage reached the “1500”
again, he boarded it with the platman
and a solitary pipe-fitter who had been
working there.
“Hullo! ” said the latter as they settled
themselves within, and he noticed the
blood on Arthur’s hand. “You had an
accident?”
“It’s nothing much,” said Arthur, “but
it nearly was. I almost lost those fingers
like that swine O’Malley lost his.”
“What!” said the pipe-fitter. “I’ll bet
you never! Didn’t you know he had
’em shot off in the war?”
“Eh!” yelped Arthur, suddenly and
sickeningly aware that he had been the
victim of cynical humor. Blood pulsed
against his eardrums, and his brain
seethed with regret that he had not at
least tried to slaughter Angus down there
on the level. His hands groped for sup-
port, and found the timber and metal
of the cage’s runner.
The platman rang his signal. With a
smooth tug the cage went aloft. Arthur
experienced a sudden agony, then felt
warm blood —there was no mistaking it
this time —in his palm.
Dazedly he regarded the stumps on his
left hand for a moment, and then slumped
to the bottom of the cage.


SADDLER-MADE
ISA- No. 4AG. —Bleached Strong
WW Navy Canvas, Grey Wool
Mj Lining, “Stays-on” Fix-
V ings. sft. Oin.. 34/-;
sft. Oin., 35/-; Oft., 36/-.
No. A.—Super-hleached Flax
Canvas with Fleecy Wool Lin-’
ing and “Stays-on" Fixings.
sft. Gin.. 43/-; sft. Din.. 43/6;
Oft.. 44/6.
BOOKS FOR
HORSE RIDERS
W UIII., O'*/-,
sft. Din., 35/-; Oft., 36/-.
No. A.—Super-hleached Flax
Canvas with Fleecy Wool Lin-’
ing and “Stays-on" Fixings.
sft. Oin.. 43/-; sft. Din., 43/6;
Oft.. 44/6.
//* ®ZE2O.—“The Diseases of
3 > jl Horses” (Dalziel), 2/6.
Post, 2d.
BZE22, “Horsekeeping for Ama-
teurs’ (Russell), 2/6. Post, 2d.
GAUI. “Ponies’ Progress” (Sir
Edward Durant). Breaking and
Training Ponies for Polo, Hunting
and Children, 11/6. Post, Bd. regd.
GP2.—“First-class Polo” (Brig.-Gen.
Ricketts), 7/-. Post, 3d.
HBI. “Modern Polo” (Lieut.-Col.
E. D. Miller), 27/6. Post, 1/4 regd.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE >ST., SYI). (opp. Dymocb’s).
Sanitation
uH-ib
Cntieura
SOAP mo OINTMENT
T> ATHE freely with the
-*-* Soap, dry gently, and
anoint with the Ointment.
You will he surprised how
quickly the cause of the ir-
ritation disappears, whether
eczema, pimples, rash or
other form of skin trouble.
For over half a century
Cuticura. has been suc-
cessful in controlling and
healing skin troubles.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
' £13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
1.
m
Ca.MNION
S
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
Co.. Ltd.,
217 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
IMD
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle . 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., Jin. and Sin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIXKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) ; Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
A Fine Story Out of Australia's Past:-
THE GPSSIP.
By J.H.M.ABBOTT.
ROBERT WHITTLE, constable of
the Sydney police, who was sup-
posed to preserve order and
decorum in the little town during the
reign of Lieutenant-General Sir Thomas
Makdougall Brisbane, left the Market
House towards 12 o’clock on a night in
March, 1826. The better for a half-
quartern of rum, he slowly began to
patrol down George-street in the direc-
tion of the waterside. An hour of the
dreary six which made up his turn of
duty before daylight had been pleasantly
and profitably consumed in the crowded
taproom of the inn, where he could take
his ease and discharge his constabulary
functions at the same time.
It was a warm, dark, starlight night,
and most of the town was already asleep.
Only occasionally did the dim light of
a tallow candle illuminate one of the
windows of an odd cottage standing back
from the highway behind its little vege-
table garden. Here and there a drunken
man lay across the footpath and had to
be stepped over by the conscientious con-
stable. For his part, such adventurers
might remain where they were until con-
sciousness painfully returned to them.
Harmless, poor creatures they were, in
Bob Whittle’s tolerant estimation. He
had early learned in his constabulary
career the advisability of non-interfer-
ence with such. A man dead-drunk was
innocuous and peaceable. Wake him up
and he was naturally put out and peevish,
and might be the cause of much trouble,
disturbance and exertion. Nobody could
blame a man who got drunk like a law-
abiding citizen. A fighting drunk was
another matter altogether—he deserved
to suffer his recovery in the stocks.
The constable yawned as he made his
way down Sydney’s main thoroughfare.
There were still weary hours to be got
through before five o’clock in the morn-
ing, when he would go off duty. But
he was to be relieved of his burden long
before that time.
He paced down the silent street, with
his watchman’s rattle in his hand and
the scabbard of his cutlass gently bump-
ing against his left leg with each meas-
ured stride, the embodiment of dig-
nified watchfulness. From somewhere
along the banks of the Tank Stream, a
hundred yards or so away in Pitt-street,
he heard a comrade bellow raucously—
it Was Paddy Delaney, his friend:
“Twelve o’clock an’ a foine noight!”
In his turn he shouted the disturbing
information to sleepy householders, and
a few seconds later heard it repeated
from the top of the western ridge near
the corner of the barrack wall. ,He
paced leisurely along the side of the
street opposite the gateway of the mili-
tary barracks, through the open wicket Of
which a stream of yellow light poured out
into the empty roadway from the big lan-
tern by the door of the guardroom. He
came to Hunter-street and crossed it, and
then to Bridge-street. A few minutes
afterwards he was relieved by Constable
Death, and went off duty for eternity.
HE had strolled leisurely past the
Orphan School, opposite the end of
Grosvenor-street, and the Main Guard-
house, on its north-western corner, and
was just approaching Merchant Under-
wood’s big square dwelling, when he
saw a fellow crouching in the darker
shadow of the low stone wall, obviously
trying to conceal his presence. Instantly
he became alert, shifted the rattle to his
left hand and sprang forward to appre-
hend the prowling lurker, who was obvi-
ously up to no good purpose. A short
run and a jump brought him to the place
where the fellow knelt in the gloom, and he
grabbed him by the collar of his jacket.
“Aha, me lad! ” he cried triumphantly.
“In the King’s name, I’ve got ye, ye
carr’on! ”
The man gave a wriggle and slipped
the coat from his back. Next instant a
burst of flame scorched Constable
Whittle’s whiskered face, and the crack
of a pistol shot echoed through the silent
thoroughfare and over the still waters of
the quiet Cove behind George-street.
When the soldiers came running from
the main guard across the way the light
of the sergeant’s lantern revealed the
smashed and bloody face of Bob Whittle,
and that his right hand grasped in a con-
vulsive grip a dark-blue peajacket. His
condition was horribly obvious.
“Gawd!” said the sergeant. “As dead
as Haaron!”
AT half-past seven on a sunny morning
in the following month, the Rev.
John Joseph Therry, head, for all prac-
tical purposes, and sole priestly repre-
sentative of the Church of Rome in New
South Wales, halted for a moment orj
two of meditation on the stone bridge that
crossed the Tank Stream somewhere near
the present site of the Royal Exchange,
whilst he subconsciously feasted tired eyes
on the beauty of the morning and the
loveliness of Port Jackson.
A red-headed young man was Father
Therry, slim and active of figure, with
pleasant features in which kindliness and
combativeness were about equally ex-
pressed. There was something in him
of humility and simplicity, of aggressive-
ness and enthusiasm —it is hardly pos-
sible to describe him as he was then, for
his day is not ours, but now we know that
he was a very great and fearless man.
Probably some day his Church will
canonise him, and, if that should hap-
pen, the memory of Father Therry will
be getting only its deserts. As there is
already a St. John and a St. Joseph, he
might be entered appropriately in the
muster-roll of the hagiologists as “Saint
Felonius,” because it is with regard to
the felonry of early New South Wales |
and Van Diemen’s Land that his saintly ;
character becomes most obvious, j
Whether they were Protestants or Jews
or Hindus or Catholics, it was the same
to him —the prisoners were his children.
He did what he could for all of them,
however good or bad they might be or
however pagan or heretic.
AS he stood that morning looking down
the estuary of the little creek he
suddenly heard his name pronounced in
a woman’s voice so close behind him
that it made him start. He turned to
confront the speaker.
“Francy Dolan!” he said. “Why,
what’s the matter. Mistress Dolan?” He
saw a good-looking young woman, bare-
headed and a little dishevelled. Tears
were in her eyes, and she gazed at him
appealingly with parted red lips. Her
face was pale, and he thought he saw j
evidences in it of a night of weeping.
He looked at his watch. The time was
pressing onward, and that unhappy man j
in the cells was waiting.
“Father,” she whispered hoarsely, “are
ye hangin’ Tom Dinwiddie this morn-
ing? Is there no reprieve for him?”
“Faith, I'm not hanging him, me good
woman,” he replied, “but ’twill be the
Sheriff’s job to do so at nine o’clock.
Pray, hasten, 1 beg ye, and tell me what’s
amiss, for I must go to the poor fellow
at once.”
“Oh, Father, he must not hang! He
never done it. He couldn’t ha’ done it.
He never shot the constable outside Mr.
Underwood’s. I tell ye, he never done it!”
“Mistress Dolan, the Criminal Court
found him guilty of the crime, and I’m
bound to say the evidence is all against
the poor fellow. Why, they even found
his jacket clutched in the hand of the
murdered man —there was no mistake,
for ’twas marked with Dinwiddie’s own
name. True it is, he said it had been
stolen from him a few days before —
but the Court didn’t believe that tale.
I’m bound to say the case against him
looks mighty bad —much as I grieve for
the poor man’s dreadful situation. Sir
Thomas Brisbane signed his death war-
rant yestereven, and he’ll surely be
executed in little more than an hour’s |
time. Pray, what d’ye know of the matter j
at all that ye speak so positively?”
She hung her head and nervously
clutched the lapel of the priest’s black coat.
“Listen, Father,” she said. “You
know my husband, Michael Dolan?”
“I do, then. The overseer of the car-
penters’ shop in the Lumber Yard
yonder?”
“Yes, sir. Well, the night the con- I
stable was shot—at the very hour when
it happened—Tom was with me. Mick,
he’d gone down the harbor, a-fishin’, for
all night long. ’Twas Sat’d’y night, three
weeks gone. Me an’ Tom, sir—oh, 1 I
can hardly say the shameful truth, sir—
me an’ Tom was together all night, as I
I can prove. Twill take ye but aji
moment, Father—come to my house, and [
I’ll prove it to ye. Quid Biddy Clancy 1
saw him come and go, an’ she lives in
th’ skillion at th’ back o' th’ house. Be-
sides. Fve a paper he writ that very
night, with the date and the hour on it —
{Continued on next page.)


“THE ”■
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon *
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible .
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life,.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- ' per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates oh application to the principal
Advertising S'ervice Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3' Temple Avenue.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
15 Hamilton Street.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
Queensland's
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
'.4♦- - - - -
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
' ’
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper Hon >e, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
THE EXAMINER, The Newspaper of Northern
LAUNCESTON. Tasmania,
NOW on *y daily effectively covering the North
IN ITS Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
93rd YEAR, part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,» *•Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. K. Rolpb & Sons Pty., Ltd. Mr. M. S. Allan, Mr. W. G. Dousran.
73-76 Paterson Street. National Bank Chambers, 56 Hunter Street
Launceston 271 Collins Street. Melbourne Sydney
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he ■ to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Mepresentative:
' W. J. HESLEHURST.
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
When planning your
Advertising Campaign
in
Western Australia
remember the
is the Home paper of
the people with the
money to spend.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Sfeet.
some poitry, sir, he writ to me. Oh, for
th’ love o’ God, come, Father Therry—
or ’twill be too late. Mary watch over us
—it may be too late now!”
“Francy Dolan,” he said sternly, “may
God forgive your sin—and this still
greater sin of having allowed the unfor-
tunate man to come into the perilous
position he’s in this morning. Quick,
now —where d’ye live?”
“Close by here, Father —in Pitt-street.
Oh, my God, ’tis a sinful woman I am!”
“You are —but I’ll attend to that after-
wards. Come —let’s run! There’s but
an hour. They’re mighty punctual in
these affairs. Hurry, now —there’s not a
moment to be wasted. Run !”
DOWN from the bridge, and a little
way southward along Pitt-street,
they hastened together, and went into the
little slab hut where the erring and re-
pentant Frances Dolan dwelt with Over-
seer Dolan of the carpenters’ gang.
A quarter of an hour later, Father
Therry, his hat in his hand, sped across
the bridge in the direction of the gaol.
He raced down George-street until he
came to the gateway of the somewhat
primitive prison that stood, in those
years, opposite to the position now occu-
pied by Messrs. Nock and Kirby. He
banged his fist upon the stout wooden
door. The gaoler himself admitted him,
and gaped at the heated appearance of
the Catholic chaplain.
“Tom Norton,” cried Father Therry
breathlessly, “take me, at once, to Din-
widdie—man they’re going to hang.
There’s a chance of saving him. Has
the sheriff arrived yet?”
“He’s but just come, y’r rev’rence.
They’re knocking off Dinwiddie’s irons
this very moment. They’ll be taking him
out directly. It’s gone half after eight,
an’ Mr. Argyle’s that punchool I,never
seen anything like it. Gets ’em off to the -
tick o’ th’ clock Th’ pore felly’s been
askin’ for y’r rev’rence something pitiful.”
“Take me to the Sheriff, Norton —to
Mr. Argyle. Dinwiddie must be saved.
I’ve but just discovered indubitable proof
of his innocence of the crime he’s con-
demned for. Hurry, please—we’ve not a
moment to lose.”
“Come on then, Mr. Therry, sir. I
wish ye luck—l do, indeed. A decent,
harmless pore chap’s Dinwiddie. But 1
fear ye’ll be too late, Father.”
They crossed the yard—thronged with
a motley collection of prisoners, who
greeted Father Therry in friendly and
respectful fashion—and in one of the
condemned cells, which were constantly
tenanted a century ago, they found a
convict blacksmith finishing the job of
knocking the rivets out of the doomed
man’s legirons. Dinwiddie, pale but
composed, looked up as * the chaplain
and the gaoler came to the open door.
Outside it waited Mr. Argyle, the Sheriff,
with two constables and an ugly, squat
individual whom the priest recognised as
the hangman.
"Oh, God be thanked!” exclaimed the
prisoner as he saw Father Therry. “I’d
feared ye was not coming, Father. God
help me, I can die happy with you here.
I’d been a-thinking, y’r rev’rence, I was
to go lonely, an’ it disheartened me”
“ ’Tis all right, dear man,” said, the
priest hurriedly—“we’ll save ye'yet. Mr.
Argyle—a word with you, sir, , if you
please. Out here.”
. Mr. Argyle, a somewhat pompous in-
dividual in a fop-hat, stepped a little way
down the corridor, looking wonderingly
at the hot and excited Father Therry,
whose manner was eager and imperative.
“Father Therry,” he said in a,low tone,
as he stepped aside with the priest,
“hadn’t you better prepare the man for
theend? Tis twenty-five to nine—and,you
know, the warrant must be obeyed to the
letter. At nine o’clock, you know” ——
“Listen, Mr. Argyle—l pray you, by
any means within your power, to delay
the execution. I’ve the soundest proof—
only just now acquired—that this man
is wholly innocent. Give me but time
to see his Excellency, and I’m certain
he'll.grant a respite. Here are my proofs.
This was written almost at the very
minute when Dinwiddie was supposed to
have shot the constable, and establishes
the completes! alibi. Look at it, sir. And
here’s, the hurried deposition of the
woman he was with at the time, the wife
of a respectable official in the Convict
Department—though I fear she’s not very
respectable herself. However, I’ll see she
is in future. Cast your these
papers, Mr. Argyle, and I’m sure you’ll
give me r time to save this man’s life.”
The Sheriff took the papers, and read
them carefully, whilst Father Therry
almost danced with impatience. This is
what Mr. Argyle read. It was in Father
Therry's handwriting, and was signed by
the deponent with her “X” mark.
I, Frances Dolan, of Pitt-street, Sydney,
do solemnly state that Thomas Dinwiddie
was with me in my husband’s house at the
time when Constable Whittle was mur-
dered by some unknown person. He wrote
this poetry at midnight on March 25.
1 declare this, before Almighty God, to
be the truth. The poetry is attached to
this paper.
/ wood dye for ye Fannie
you eye is True Blue
manny a day it will bee
be for I seise to love You
you luvvin Tom Dinwiddie
12 o’clock midnight March 25.
Mr. Argyle smiled, and then turned a
serious look upon Father Therry.
“Lookye, Father,” he said, “I’m
stretching my duty to oblige you—but
I’ll tell you what I’ll do. Tis a quarter
before nine. I’ll get the man ready and
take him out, and at nine-fifteen he dies.
Youffl have time to get to Government
House to see his Excellency. If he
grants a reprieve, hurry out to the gate
and wave your handkerchief. I’ll be on
the lookout.- That is all I can do. I’m
exceeding my duty —but I don’t think
any man should face his Maker, my
dear Father, until he’s been absolved of
such a crime as this verse. There—half
an ' hour. Heavens, Father Therry—
why, couldn’t The d ——d woman have
done this earlier?”
The priest wrung the Sheriff’s hand,
and, then bawled for the gaoler.
“Tom Norton, Tom Norton —come
and let me out! Good bless ye, Mr.
Argyle. I’ll wave, surely. Sir, Thomas is
a just man, and a merciful. Hurry, Tom
Norton!”,
TERRIBLY that long half-hour passed
whilst, with his arms pinioned, Din-
widdie was led to the gallows standing
in the open ground on the slope of The
Rocks behind the-gaol, where the usual
morbid babble awaited him.- - 1
Presently 1 he stood on the scaffold,
with ; the rope about his neck. The
Sheriff and the gaoler were beside-him,
straining, their eyes across the little valley
towards the big white cottage on the
hillside above the south-eastern corner
of Sydney Cove. They had watched the
running black figure of the priest, as he
sped down Bridge-street past the Lumber
Yard and up the further slope, growing
smaller and smaller, until he disappeared
through the gates of the vice-regal resi-
dence. The minutes slipped by, and
presently, as he looked at his watch, the
Sheriff whispered something to the hang-
man. Then he turned to the gaoler.
“Ten minutes past nine, Norton!” he
said in a low voice.
“Lord!” whispered the gaoler below
his breath.
The crowd was very silent, and they,
too, gazed across the valley.
A minute later, when the strain was
becoming unbearable, and women among
the spectators were sobbing audibly, a
black figure came running through the
distant gateway and halted beside the
red-jacketed sentry standing by his box
outside it. With one hand he waved his
hat, and with the other a white handker-
chief. Then he began to run down the
hill towards the bridge.
“Take him down!” ordered Mr.
Argyle.
“Back to the cells!” commanded the
gaoler.,.
The fainting man was assisted to the
ground. Someone in the crowd hooted
his disappointment, whilst others laughed
good-naturedly—as if they did not really
begrudge Dinwiddie his life, even if they
had been done out of the pleasing spec-
tacle of his convulsive death.
“A —— sell!” one of them, remarked
as the mob dispersed.
ci.,;
AS Father Therry came tq the bridge,
the Governor’s reprieve clutched in
his hand, he was accosted by pretty
Francy Dolan.
“Have ye saved him, Father?” she
shrieked.
“I have that —glory be to God! ”
shouted Father Therry triumphantly.
“Sir Thomas Brisbane —he’s reprieved
him and will hold an inquiry.”
, He slackened his pace, in order to re-
assure her —and was appalled at the fury
in the woman’s face.
“Ye’ve ruint me,” she shouted ; “ye’ve
ruint me entirely! Entirely! Ye’re
naught but a gossip!”
As he walked hurriedly away in the
direction of the gaol, all that Father
Therry could mutter to himself in a
half-dazed fashion —and he kept repeat-
ing it at intervals —was:
“A gossip— me!”


Li
as (>
-G)‘CftU iifn
/}l\
T 7
r-'
r
wm
9L S
w
i*
■
.■>
mm.
p
mzmm
'D-
iiii
wmm
m
u
m
m
ip
*
■
■
a*.
-<
f
> u
r
f
mwmm
*
wil
H
mWm%.
CTKaiam-s
Scots MJKisky
WM
a
yH^L.Cutt
■
33*57
m
WmWWWmMmmmmWm&
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart,
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do ncft miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send SOj-.)
F
*>■» 0°
e°°'
Ov^^V 6, ■s*' ffvC e *jTf& fX& ~*’
►v- ..-••• ..-•
> ••* .** .-** n *l
6
*\V 6 '
f
X s-
..••■* ,Kt>K 0 '
•••■ „« to *^s>


ED
6
Y
r-m
m
l&oo'
toPl
Ml
irtv
1
*fflg
m
u'h
Mmtmmji
<*&
m
i
m
n
s-
ift*
IN the choice of a radio receiver be
■*“ guided by experts——those who are
continuously helping the progress of
radio performance and who are now in-
corporating the Octode and other types
of the Philips Super Series in their 1935
receivers.
Whatever type of receiver you are buy-
ing, be sure it is equipped with Philips
Super Series Valves.
Every valve in the Super Series
is a feature valve . The Philips
Octodes are amazing new
types which banish back-
ground hiss, whilst the
AC/DC Series includes a
remarkable barretter lamp
which controls the power
supply and eliminates undue
heat in AC/DC Sets.
k SUPER
VALVES
SI AN DARD EQUIPMENT FOR MODERN RADIO RECEIVERS
Acivt. of Philips Lamps (Australasia ), Ltd. ( Radio Dept.), Head Office and Showrooms, Philips House, 69-73 Clarence Street. Sydney. SR-16.
