

tiim
1J
x
>
1/x.l
\
K
<
x
iX
X
for belter molonn
XI m
u
I Ki
X
i I
K'
/ /
/ /
k
<
><
X7XXXXXI iXXZXz-W
><
\
sz
K
□
<7
_//
-A
ii
1
ISs.
i
wv
m
H®' ' Nil
a
M
# wonderful stretch
of roadway across the
Sydney Harbour
Bridge, and covering
its approaches on
either side,. A joy
for the motorist to
drive on.
W© are proud of our own contribution to better motoring the introduction of
Atlantic Ethyl, the fuel that has proved its leadership as a performance spirit*
For mileage, anti-knock, pick-up • • * * the wise motorist chooses Atlantic Ethyl*
ETHYL
tatno ot
i ANTI-KNOCK
Si. COMPOUND J
dMEHEE
C. 1.48.35
ATLANTIC
£TNYZ
f
The Bulletin
Scorfield on the Jubilee Plungers (Page 13)
Vol. 56.—N0. 2872.
Wednesday, February 27, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
akes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
mvm
mm
5 km
BJ
Ills!
USE
Many minor skin troubles, if neg-
lected, may become serious. At the
first sign of redness, roughness, itch-
ing, burning, pimples, rashes or
eczema start using Cuticura Soap
and Cntlcnra Ointment. Bathe
with the Soap and hot water, dry
gently and anoint with the Ointment.
Note how quickly your skin is soothed
and restored to a healthy condition.
Cuticura
Quick Safe Economical
si^-ardWrumq
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE ’ COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Home-study “Newstylk” Course in SHOW-
CARD AND TICKET WRITING, as advertised in the
Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name .............
My Address
S.B. 636
THE AGE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
Us news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
? ri ? e , P er °°Py at a H newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes abotft 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
5!
s
W.
i
m.
KL
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu>
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
hag real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the Ngw Zealand public.
Cbo Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHUKST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Ca,
252 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Week’s Best:-
A VICTIM
ESCAPES FROM
GREATNESS
R. Bruce Lock-
hart deserves
some credit as a
literary vivisec-
tionist. Most of
his breed find it
better to operate on the dead, who can’t
scream. Mr. Lockhart carves up him-
self in Retreat from Glory (Putnam ;
Morris Bookshop; 125.) with no more
than an occasional groan.
Sometimes the reader may wonder in
the early stages whether he is worth 367
pages of carving, but in the end he is.
Those who desire to judge how much
of his personal tale is colored by lime-
light should read his climactic pages, on
which they will find the young man slip-
ping into his forties, an apparent oracle
to whom kaisers and chancellors turn
for counsel, the intimate of kings and
Lord Beaverbrook, yet so ignorant of
European conditions of 1928 that he
needs to ask a Russian actress beside the
Wannsee who some young men in brown
shirts marching about Berlin in military
order might happen to be.
Using this question as a tuning-fork
to listen for the authentic measure of
the man behind the fanfare, Mr. Lock-
hart seems to dwindle. But his trumpets
are so musical that he can be forgiven.
Even while we weary of his adventures
with moneylenders, his trout-fishing and
his petty legation horseplay, and reflect
that his might have been a kinder book
from a man with a wife (Australian,
though he does not say so) and son, if
he did not parade his love affairs and
lady friends so frequently, he is fascinat-
ing. Apparently he believes that con-
fession excuses everything, especially in
a confirmed pessimist who seems to have
feared the worst at every stage of his
life, except when dealing with British
ambassadors, whom he regards as im-
peccable.
Quite a lot of ambassadors will agree
with him on this point, as would a fair
proportion of philosophers, from the
author of Ecclesiastes onwards, about his
philosophy; But there is a hot time wait-
ing for Lockhart in Elysium, where, no
doubt, the Supreme Court is crowded
with people as diverse as Solomon and
Marcus Aurelius lodging applications
against him for breach of copyright in
anticipation of his future coming.
Mr. Lockhart drifts into his thesis on
himself as a refugee from Moscow, where,
after a time in the Consular service, he
had headed the British mission to the
Bolsheviks in 1918. When Dora Kaplan
fired on Lenin, he and his fellow-mis-
sioners were immediately incarcerated,
and were only released when Litvinoff,
in England, was declared hostage for
them. Then, through the efforts of Lord
Balfour and Rex Leeper (a Melbourne
schoolfellow of S. M. Bruce), he and his
party escaped—all save Cromie, their
naval attache, who was-murdered.
Followed 10 years in Middle Europe,
partly in the commercial diplomatic ser-
vice at Prague, partly in a curious inter-
national bank, the child of Montague
Norman’s brain, which was designed to
collect debts due to,, the Bank of Eng-
land and turn an Austro-Jewish concern
into a British
institution. This
project was not
so dull as it
sounds at a time
when
an English ac-
count ant....
proved by an
analysis of
figures that dur-
ing one part of
the inflation
period it was
possible to make
a fortune of
one million
pounds sterling
in six months’
time with an
initial capital of
£lOO.
While diplo-
macy produced
Bruce Lockhart.
contact with a gallery of characters garish
enough to satisfy any specialist in the
bizarre, the bank seems to have been just
as rich in personalities. Among the poli-
ticians of an earlier Prague period, Trot-
sky, whom everybody avoided by crossing
the street “because he was always borrow-
ing money,” had set the fashion in wilder
democracy. The aftermath of his and
other people’s propaganda was a socialist
Administration in Czecho-Slovakia and a
depressed but undaunted aristocracy, one
of whom inscribed his visiting-card:
Adalbert Sternberg
Ennobled by Charlemagne 798
Disennobled by Karl Renner 1918.
Even among such as these, one feels,
moving in a whirl of monocled British
attaches who took their own lives when
the moneylender failed, Italian counsel-
lors who were let down from balconies
by sheets in Nach-lokals, Animierdamen
—who but a Teuton could tack a name
like that on to the little public danseuses
of the cabarets?—bankers appear to have
been able to hold their own. What Aus-
tralian financier could compass the retort
of Kunes Sonntag, the president of Mr.
Lockhart’s bank, who, when shown
Runnymede as the spot “where the
Mother of Parliaments was born,” re-
moved his cigar slowly from his mouth
and said drily: “She was not a mother,
but a painted old harlot who has led
many young men astray.”
It is sad to hear that Mr. Lockhart’s
bank failed. There is no need in the
world greater than brighter bankers.
Evidently his were not bright enough in
the land of Masaryk and Benes. The
picture of the former lingers: a gentle
old scholar living almost as a god in a
Presidential palace which looks as if ii
has come Out of Grimm or Hans Ander-
sen, but, startlingly, a secret agent when
he traversed Germany safely during the
war under a false name, to discover after-
wards in the security of Russia that he
had forgotten to take his true name off
his collars!
One needs to have seen the countries
of which Mr. Lockhart writes to appre-
ciate his outlook on their amenities.
Whatever his egotism about personal
things, there is no doubt that the beauty
of the hills and rivers and forests and of
the exquisite Dalmatian coast, which has
to be seen to be believed, and the magic
of tsigane music absorb him, with the
result that his rhapsodies upon them
always transcend the consciously con-
structed descriptions of professional
travellers, who necessarily are not steeped
in their subjects as he is.
One feels that if he had not been so
racked and unsettled by the events in
which he was an actor ‘he might well
have become the Doughty of Austria and
the Czech, Magyar and Slovak countries.
Perhaps, when he mellows and excite-
ment becomes less important to him and
his restlessness and periodical introspec-
tiveness wear off, he may write another
Arabia Deserta in a different key.
Despite its faults and its exaggerations
and its frequent lack of perspective.
Retreat from. Glory is a fine, intensive
study of a post-war life in the thick of
European turbulence.
M.H.E.
Edmund
Blunden’s
New Poems
Edmund Blun-
ders new poems,
Choice or Chance,
confirm rather
than emphasise
or enlarge the
qualities established in his 1930 volume
of collected poems.
Blunden, now in his middle years, was
first heard of during the war, and he
appears in the 1920-22 volume of the
Georgian Anthologies. He belongs to
a line of English poets, that of Clare
and the Wartons (not of Wordsworth
and the Romantics), which is as unique
and native to England as the English
water-colorists. The Romantic tradition
inevitably decayed into the week-end
pastoral, but Blunden is native to the
English earth, and his roots strike deep
and firm. He has the sense of reality,
of rational form, the acceptance of things
for what they are, which is a character
of the best eighteenth-century lyric.
Nature is not to him a veil to be pierced
or a system of symbols or a scene for
fantasy, but earth, hills, trees, sky,
birds, fish, sea. One imagines that the
quaint old gentlemen who deprecate
Eliot and fume at Pound would enjoy
Blunden, if they really enjoy (or under-
stand) any poetry at all: but it is prob-
able that they leave him alone, as they
left William Watson alone (a tragic wit-
ness that the ardent defenders of tradi-
tion are not prepared to buy and read
a traditionalist poet).
Blunden took the Hawthornden prize
with The Shepherd (1922), and Under-
tones of War is one of the few war-
books of unmistakable and authentic
merit. He has held the Chair of English
Literature at Tokio (his Japanese Gar-
land is a graceful and appropriate
acknowledgment): he has edited Clare
with scholarly acumen and filial devo-
tion. He has, in brief, a well-rounded
competence in letters, a mastership in his
craft which again reveals the solid and
sensible influences of his eighteenth-cen-
tury progenitors. (It may be worth
noticing that other English poets than
Blunden have found support and sus-
tenance in Japanese chairs: it is per-
haps only of a polite people that one may
expect gestures of such tact and aptness.
A Chair of English Literature is not in-
appropriately filled by an English poet.)
, Blunden is, of course, primarily a
country poet, a poet of familiar land-
scapes and of homely peasants; he is
as removed as the average farm laborer
from wild, romantic thrillings and from
Peasant Art Shops. He mildly protests
at being labelled “among poets of the
time as a useful rustic, or perhaps not
so useful—one of the class whom the
song describes”:
/ sit with my feet in a brook ;
!f anyone asks me for why,
I hits him a whack with my crook—
“lt’s sentiment kills me,” says I.
Yet, as he himself has said, great is
the power of country life over him, “of
that stately march of the seasons above,
around, below it”: though “I have
always suspected myself of some inclina-
tion to explore other objects.” He is
a Cobbett of a poet, or perhaps it would
be better to say a George Bourne, for
Cobbett has a swaggering robustness, a
surging vitality which Blunden misses:
(Continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the conscience of business.
THE SENIOR STORE."
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
Attractive Cutlery
for discriminating: hostesses
C
c
#
Robert F. Mosley’s
'genuine “Rusnor-
stain” Table Knives,
with oval xylonite
handles and mirror-
polished blades.
Price, half dozen,
22/6. Special Price,
17 1 6. Dessert Knives
to match. Price,
half-dozen, 20/-,
Special Price, 15/-.
c
We guarantee these
“Palace” Brand
Table Knives to give
long, serviceable
satisfaction. They
have round or square
xylonite handles and
mirror - polished
blades. Anthony
Horderns’ Price,
half-dozen, 15/-,
Dessert Knives to
match. Price, half-
dozen 12/6
Sheffield “ Crown ”
A 1 brand Carvers,
with high-grade oval
xylonite handles.
Knife has mirror-
polished blade.
Stainless fork. Three
pieces are packed in
beautifully - lined
case.
Anthony Horderns’
I7 7 6
? 1
2 DOZ
Is'-
35-
CASE
The “Capitol 91
Walnut
Canteen
A serviceable set inexpensively priced!
The “Capitol” de Luxe Polished Walnut
Canteen contains 44 pieces, comprising
a complete service for six persons.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £7
6 Table Knives. Robert F. Mosley’s
Rusnorstain, mirror polished.
6 Dessert Knives. Robert F. Mosley’s
Rusnorstain, mirror polished.
6 Silver-plated Table Forks. Crown A 1
quality, guaranteed 20 years.
6 Silver-plated Dessert Forks. Crown
A 1 quality, guaranteed 20 years.
6 Silver-plated Dessert Spoons. Crown
A 1 quality, guaranteed 20 years.
6 Silver-plated Soup Spoons. Crown A 1
quality, guaranteed 20 years.
6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons. Crown A 1
quality, guaranteed 20 years.
2 Silver-plated Table Spoons. Crown
A 1 quality, guaranteed 20 years.
Also in Crown A 1 brand, A quality.
Price £6/2/6
7
m
m
U
12
1
II
10
9
4.
16
it n i
410
4
os
6 5
Q Cutlery and
seaports
Clocks —New Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to
in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
i
Si
BSE*
• •:
Ml
..
An extra dock is always
useful, or you may need
a new one
I—Mantel Clock - 65/-
This handsome Eight-day Mantel Clock has hour
and half-hour gong strike. In rich walnut case 9in.
high and 13in. wide. Chromium-plated bevel and
5-|in. silvered dial. A most reliable timekeeper that
will give long service.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 65/-
2 -30-hour Clock 16/6
This inexpensive Bedroom Clock has a thoroughly
reliable 30-hour lever movement, and is complete
in a handsome Chromium-plated case 4in. high and
6in. wide. Silver dial x 3|-in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 16/6
/
3 Mantel Clock - 80/-
A dependable Eight-day Mantel Clock that strikes
hours and half-hours with gong strike. Richly
polished walnut case, silvered dial with Black
or Chromium raised figures. Height 9|in., width
15in. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 80/-
4 Fancy Clock - 15/-
A smart Fancy Clock in coloured glass case. It has
a 30-hour lever movement, and, although so inex-
pensive, is an accurate timekeeper. Height
width Available in Pale Lemon or Black
colours with Chromium mounts.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 15/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night • Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS'
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rate
DIRECTORS;
R. Rawnsley Moss ...
Thomas A. Magney Sydney Sampson
Chairman
William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
R, A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
liilte
■
Obtainable from all
Booksellers or from
THE
ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
252 George St., Sydney.
Another New Book from the Endeavour Press
NOW ON SALE
“ KARANGI
99
By F. S. HIBBLE
The novel which shared with Vance Palmer’s the FIRST PRIZE in the Melbourne
Centenary Competition.
Don’t miss reading this arresting, realistic novel.
As sincere and authentic a novel as the
Endeavour has yet published, it has for
setting the rich and in many ways pic-
turesque North Coast of N.S.W., and for
the theme the study of a girl who, though
she loves deeply and despises her parents’
marriage schemes on her behalf, allows
herself to drift into this arranged-marriage
existence with a wealthy farmer obsessed
by a futile ambition to beget a son; her
temporary escape through a friendship
with the woman-of-the-world wife of the
local doctor, and the relighting of the old
flame of passion during her visit to the
city. The author spent years in the country
he deals with, and he describes this phase
of its life faithfully and accurately.
PRICE 0/- (postage 3d. extra).
but Bourne or Izaak Walton are legiti-
mate parallels.
Blunden has remarked, very justly, that
war moulded and colored much of his
poetry (he was a very young man when
he went to France): but, though one
notices in some of the immediately post-
war poems a certain fevered reaction,
the enduring and fundamental virtues of
the poet are nowhere strained. Blunden
is rooted like an oak or a peasant to with-
stand great gales: one might argue that
his work reveals less sensitivity to the
appalling experience of war than a poet
should possess, but that is to ignore the
almost infinite variety of poetry and
poets. Blunden is a poet sensitive to con-
crete and material objects, and from
these he draws the images of his art:
he probably saw the war much more as
the ordinary normal man saw it than as
Siegfried Sassoon with his tortured nerves
saw it.
Blunden is probably not as dependent
for his comfort as most of our megalo-
politan poets on deep-drainage and Life-
buoy soap: he is nearer the earth, his
nerves are lower pitched, his endurance
tougher, and the bestial experiences of
war burdened and embittered him less
than many of his fellows, for the same
reasons that they burdened and embit-
tered the average country man less than
the average city man.
Blunden has the savor and flavor of
English country life, as the English coun-
try men know it, in his lines. He delights
in country sounds and scenes ; he will,
for instance, enumerate birds and beasts
and flowers and fruit, not merely for
his pleasure in the rich vocabulary of
the countryside (as is somewhat the way
with week-end pastoralists), but because
he knows and comprehends, with intimate
knowledge and interest, each separate
bird and beast and flower and fruit, A
spade is a spade to him, and he knows
it as a tool, not merely as a rustic “prop-
erty.” He knows the texture of its
wooden handle, he feels it in the digging
muscles: he delights (with a calm and
sober and workman’s delight) in all the
country trades, “their gear and tackle and
trim”: and all the details of country life
are dramatic and vivid, or perhaps it
would be better to say real and substan-
tial, in his mind, as they are in the mind
of a Somerset thatcher.
And he has that mark of the true
English country-lover—a deep and abid-
ing affection for fish and the lore of fish,
for calm ruminant days by some mill-
pool or by old stone bridges. His con-
tact then with reality is immediate and
uncompromised; he is a descriptive more
than an interpretative poet, if one may
make, without danger of misunderstand-
ing and for the moment only, a crude
distinction. Few English poets can have
given us so much description or have so
excelled in sustained description: there
are certainly few whose descriptions have
the same solid shapes and veritable
colors. He is a painter, and his titles
suggest it—a painter of infinite detail,
missing nothing in his records.
At the same time he is a literary (or,
better, literate) man, with a fine sense of
literary continuity and of the values
which endure. In poems like “Nature
Displayed,” “The Age of Herbert and
Vaughan,” “The Whartons,” he recognises
his own derivations with a singularly dis-
cerning eye, characteristic of his calm
and ordered perceptions. He owes a
great deal to the landscape poets and
something to the metaphysicals— to
Vaughan and Marvell, but more to Clare
and the Wartons in his brushwork, in
his shapes and colors and patterns, and
in his relish for the simple and enduring
things which is at the root of all his
other affections and attitudes, persisting
through the Far Eastern poems and the
war poems as through the rest.
Even in his metres, images and vocabu-
lary, he returns to the eighteenth cen-
tury—to stylised Auroras and Floras; to
personifications like “O clear, blue-eyed
Tranquillity”; to the calm rumination,
the graceful and contained imagery:
“frost’s blue eye,” “with first dewberries
blue as thunder’s haze.” He reminds us,
in short, how closer to the real life of
the English country man was the for-
malised mode of the eighteenth-century
naturalists than were the excursions of
the Romantics. The Romantics returned
to nature, but they returned with urban-
ised intelligences, finding in hills and
clouds and streams a strange spirit of
wonder. The naturalists could not return,
for they had never left the country. They
saw it with the sober eyes of familiarity:
ii is to them that Blunden belongs, the
last perhaps of a line little known to the
mob and the anthologists, but very dear
to all to whom the English countryside is
dear.
D.P. McGUIRE.
Richard
Birnie,
Essayist
Who can for-
get that ever
read them the
Essays, Social
and Political,
written bv Rich-
ard Birnie, M.A., and published by Alex.
McKinley, Melbourne, 1879?
Birnie was the uncrowned Elia of our
local Victorian literature. His father was
Sir Richard Birnie, Chief Magistrate of
Bow-street. Young Birnie was a boy
with a head of lovely curls, and George
IV. had sat him on his royal knee and
admired his curling locks of hair. Birnie
won his Master of Arts degree at Trinity
College, Cambridge, and was called to
the Bar at the Inner Temple in 1883.
Thackeray proposed him as a member of
the Garrick Club, and Lord Edward Bul-
wer Lytton seconded the nomination.
When Thackeray wrote his Book of
Snobs, in Chapter 50, on Club Snobs, he
sketched in Birnie as “Wiggle” and an-
other young clubman as “Waggle.”
Thackeray, in opening, said:
Wiggle and Waggle are both idle. They
come of the middle classes. One of them
[Birnie] makes believe to be a barrister,
and the other has smart apartments about
Piccadilly. They are a sort of second chop
dandies....
The Snob sketches originally appeared in
“Punch” in 1847. Birnie, writing 32 years
afterwards on “Fact and Fiction,” said:
The Book of Snobs is sheer hard fact.
Every character is a photo. Whewell, Arch-
deacon Thorpe, Lord Gardiner, Major
Grunby, Calcroft, and many other celebri-
ties of the century are portrayed under
the ■ names of “Crump,” “Hughy,”
“Shindy,” etc., and very many of the
events you have laughed at in the book,
even the most farcical, are, by the writer,
and many others, known to have actually
and literally occurred, and not a few were
witnessed by the writer, who is compelled,
in fairness, to recognise the niche contain-
ing his own immortalisation, should any
future Bentley write a “Key to the Snobs.”
Here, then, was fame already for the
young barrister Birnie who had sat when
a boy on a king’s knee, and who was a
member of the exclusive Garrick Club
and friend of Thackeray. Birnie lec-
tured at Oxford in a series with Froude
and Charles Kingsley,
The Duke of Newcastle in 1853
selected Birnie to be the Advocate-
General of Western Australia, then a
Crown colony, and in 1859 he came to
Melbourne and was admitted to the Vic-
torian courts as a barrister. Then in
the vigor ,of his manhood, he failed to
succeed as he should have succeeded,
and the disappointment was due to
Richard Birnie himself. Profound as
Birnie’s classical learning was, his know-
ledge did not secure briefs for him at the
Victorian Bar, though his having been
also Advocate-General and a ludge for
a year in Western Australia might have
been expected to weigh in his favor with
Melbourne attorneys.
In his last years, in the Old Benevolent
Asylum at North Melbourne, a frugal
dish of herbs contented Birnie, and often
perforce was his, but his expansive mind
and responsive appetite became expec-
tant when a feast was in sight, and he
kept a mental calendar of feast days.
His lovable, gentle personality was wel-
come in Masonic lodges, and few Masters
were installed without “Old Birnie” ap-
pearing at the banqueting table.
Birnie belonged by nature to Bohemia.
He speaks of the. farcical happenings de-
scribed in the Book of Snobs, but
“Wiggle” in Melbourne was funnier
than Thackeray had shown him to be in
London. A shabby genteel man, with
the crown of his high hat daily settling
down towards his head, Birnie still car-
ried himself with an air. He was as
courteous as a courtier, and always con-
scious of the conduct expected from one
of gentle birth and university education.
He never failed to salute vice-regal
loyalty by a profound bow in Collins-
street, and the removal of his battered
.old weatherbeaten hat. Whether or not
in Bohemia, in the days of Birnie, it was
usual to carry socks in the recess made
by the top of the head and the crown
of the tall hat, Birnie had that habit.
One day in Collins-street his socks fell
from his hat on the roadway while he
was in the act of saluting Governor Sir
Henry Barkly as he passed in his car-
riage.
Birnie carried an old-fashioned walk-
ing-stick, ornamented (as was the fashion
in mid-Victorian days) with a bunch of
leather tassels. With a blow from the
stick Birnie knocked down a man whom
he saw annoying a woman in Collins-
street, and so perhaps, on occasion,
Birnie was not so gentle a man as he
was an essayist and a reviewer. He
gained the friendship of Adam Lindsay
Gordon by his review of Ashtaroth.
Gordon, referring to the review, said:
“Birnie has found out beauties of which
I myself was unconscious.”
Birnie’s tastes were catholic ; he loved
Jew and Gentile, but he preferred the
Jew, not without reason, for the late
Nahum Barnet, the architect, was in
Birnie’s last years his most generous
friend. A plate was laid for Birnie every
Sunday at Barnet’s dinner-table. The
source of Birnie’s inspiration for his
essay on “Diet” is obvious. In the essay
on the Jew and his diet, Birnie wrote:
The fact is he [the Jew] uses both
self and family right liberally. His loyal
cashbox abounds with the Queen’s picture
in gold, yet never saw I a Jew miser, any
more than a Jew drunkard.
In eloquent sentences Birnie continued,
and stated that the basis of the Jew’s
many virtues “is his diet.” “Old Birnie”
had eaten often enough of the tree of
knowledge at Nahum’s table to know.
Marcus Clarke, being less impecunious
than was his wont, and Collins-street
being free from bailiffs, invited Birnie
to dine with him. The menu card sup-
plied fairly well the old gourmet’s de-
mands, more successfully indeed than did
the money in Clarke’s pocket meet the
bill, since Birnie’s expensive selective-
ness cost Clarke a sovereign.
Birnie died on September 16, 1888. JHis
will, made by himself, bequeathed wealth
he did not possess to friends, but they
took the will for the deed. In reason
and out of his reason, Birnie loved his
friends. His barrister’s old wig, which
had shared his varying fortunes, he left
to his good friend, the late genial Wolfe
Fink, the barrister, and, if Fink liked it
not, then to some litigious farmer to
place in his fields, on a pole, to sway in
the winds as a legal scarecrow!
J. B. COOPER.
A Satchel of Books
A Key to the Eucalypts, by W. F.
Blakeley (The Worker Trustees, Sydney ;
10s.), described as a companion to J. H.
Maiden’s critical revision of the genus
Eucalyptus, and written to interest and
instruct timber-getters, bee-farmers,
foresters, seed-collectors, oil-distillers and
others. That the survey of the Austra-
lian eucalypts is still incomplete is ad-
mitted by the author—one of the best
informed eucalyptologists in Australia.
After describing and tabulating 500
species and 138 varieties of gums, he
adds that a large number, especially in
Westralia, N.A. and Queensland, .still
await discovery.
Scott’s Book (Hodder and Stoughton ;
per Dymock’s ; Bs. 6d.), described on the
paper jacket as “The life and Milden-
hall-Melbourne flight of C. W. A. Scott,
told by himself,” might be opened with
trepidation. Stories of “epic” achieve-
ments and overnight heroes, written
hastily for quick sale, are nearly always
bad. This is the exception. The ghost-
ing is admitted, but it is clever ghosting.
There is no striving for dramatic effect,
and the unpretentious style reveals Scott,
if any revealing is needed, as modest
almost to a fault. According to himself,
Scott was an indifferent Air Force pilot.
Minor crashes and a reckless “stunt”
leading to a court-martial ruined his
chances of obtaining a permanent com-
mission, and eventually he drifted to Aus-
tralia, where he joined Qantas as a mail
pilot. Prior to the air race, he made the
England-Australia flight three times,
establishing record figures on each occa-
sion. These flights were prolonged men-
tal and physical strain to Scott, who
cursed his folly for undertaking them.
The best thing in a good book is the
account of a crash in South Australia in
which Scott’s mechanic (George Nutson)
was killed:
I seemed to be one mass of blood; and
then I suddenly remembered George Nutson
in the cabin 1 staggered into the flames
and dragged him clear of the cabin. He
was nothing better than a living torch. I
was so dazed and bewildered that I tried
to beat the flames out with my hands, and,
finding this of no avail, again re-entered the
bonfire to try and find a fire extinguisher
that we carried.
Scott scorns any suggestion of heroism
in this act, but does not labor the point.
“Spare Webster”: “Inaha” (R.P.
23/l/’35) dates “bootlegger” as from
1889 and asks whence the derivation.
Long before that Maine (U.S.A.) went
dry. The lumberjacks—timber-getters we
would call them—drank as hard as they
worked and lived, so a way out of pro-
hibition had to be found. Working con-
tinually in snow and slush, they wore
knee-high leather boots. A local genius
invented a flat, slightly-curved flask to
replace the old tubular whisky bottle. The
new flasks slipped easily down the high
bootlegs, and only experts could spot the
existence of the illegal beverage. “Boot-
leg” was born into the language, “Chink”
also goes much further back than the
date assigned—l9ol. It was used on
the Australian goldfields long before that,
and it was much later that “Chow” re-
placed it. The word also occurs in Bret
Harte and Stevenson. “Josher” or
“josser” is much older than 1908. Gus
Elen and other Cockney bards featured
it in the ’Alls donkey’s years before.
“Scrounger,” assigned to the 1908-09
period, was a mossgrown Tommy Atkins
phrase over 30 years ago, as I can per-
sonally testify. South African soldiers
brought it, like “fed up” and “damn-all,”
back to Australia, and I fancy the A.I.F.
revived it, for it was still popular during
the argument with Fritz. To say the
Yankees did not invent “mortician” until
1923 is Jabberwockian. In his Sea to
Sea, published in the 1890’s, Kipling
gives a gruesome account of an enthu-
siastic member of the profession in a
Middle West town who shows him “the
ghastly tools of his trade” and describes
his processes.
“Teed”: Tell “Inaha” that “hiker” is
a very old English word. Here’s evidence
from some verses of 1764 vintage:
If that’s the case I know you’ll say
Tis time indeed to hyke away.
The word was still used in a few
English counties before it became uni-
versally rejuvenated from America.


b —-
■ v
m
*A ■
■
ft
H
HMHI
mssm
i
NT"-
I >
■
H
Warn
;
m
Hi
i«i
p
■Si
li
. I
is
■
i
E «
■
P
■■ ■
iiP
»
#«
•» * •i<**V
\
v : ;.* p
X
5^


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2872
February 27, 1935.
NEW DEALING.
“Hey, what kind o’ game’s this? I want five cyards.”
“Three’s enough fur you, I reckon, and if I hain’t skinned you enough I aim to make it two cyards next time. The Jedge here says I kin.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
JUDGES AS POLITICIANS.
By what a cynic describes as “the familiar five-to-
four majority,” the U.S. Supreme Court has decided
that persons who lent the Government 100-cent dollars
or deposited gold with the Treasury or surrendered gold
certificates to it may be repaid in paper dollars worth
59.3 cents or less. The legality of the decision is clearly
doubtful, but, if the Court had not authorised the Gov-
ernment to bilk holders of bonds and gold certificates
by inflating the currency, “the balance in the
Treasury,” to quote the Attorney-General, “would
have been reduced by 2,500,000,000 dollars.
The virtual establishment of a precedent by the
American equivalent of our High Court that injustice
must be done lest the Government get into a fearful
mess is likely to have awkward repercussions in
America. One of the dissenting Judges (Justice
Butler) asked counsel for the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation whether Congress could legally “make
the dime a dollar,” and was told it could. The French
adopted what Lang Labor calls “economic liberalism”
as a method of paying off their bondholders in 1926.
Inside six months the franc lost half its value rela-
tively to sterling. Foreign gamblers intensified the
catastrophe by selling francs for a fall. Speculators
in the U.S.A. have no doubt begun to sell dollars
at 59.3 cents, believing that they will be able to buy
them cheaper when the time for delivery arrives.
Britain’s war debt to the U.S.A. before the
“settlement” of 1923 amounted to £920,000,000, and
she was owed that sum and about £324,000,000 more
—most of it by countries which had repudiated or
devaluated. What moral case would America have if
Britain endorsed the dictum of the U.S. Supreme
Court that “gold clauses constitute a serious obstacle to
the effective exercise of monetary power,” and paid
its debts by making the shilling a pound?
But these aspects of a ramp which means, in the
words of Justice Mcßeynolds, another dissenting
Judge, “repudiation of national obligations” are not
nearly so serious as the fact that the highest Court
in America has endorsed them. It emphasises the
most dangerous feature of the Federal system —its
tendency to turn Judges into politicians. No Aus-
tralian High Court has done a Government’s dirty
work as the U.S.A. Supreme Court did last week ;
but it is within the bounds of possibility that some
future High Court might. Since, in a Federation,
the chief business of the Federal Court is to interpret
Federal laws, the parties in power are apt, if chances
offer, to appoint Judges who are known to be of their
own way of thinking. And a single appointment
may alter the whole national economy. There is
no doctrine of stare decisis in the Federal sphere ;
the High Court, as Justice Isaacs pointed out in
Huddart Parker v. Morehead, can review itself.
Before the war Samuel Griffith, a State-righter,
was Chief Justice, and the principle laid down in
McCulloch v. Maryland, that the States had sovereign
powers as regards their own instrumentalities, pre-
vailed. Adrian Knox, who was known to hold that
everything on which the Federal Parliament is
authorised to legislate is subject to Federal law,
succeeded Griffith, and a minor revolution followed.
Almost every important decision of the previous 12
years was reversed.
An inevitable effect of this position has been to
involve High Court Justices in undignified rows.
Knox found the position “hateful” (his own word)
and resigned. The present High Court Bench is very
strong ; at least four of the Justices would ornament
any Bench in the Empire. But judgment after judg-
ment has been criticised by somebody as tinged with
political prejudice; and after the validity of the
Financial Agreement Enforcement Act had been
upheld, the “Labor Daily” came out with an out-
rageous insult to one of the majority Justices.
Last week the same newspaper attacked the Court
for “allowing itself to be befogged in a maze of
Constitutional technicalities” when “confronted with
the very issue” that the American Supreme Court
has just decided. What would other Australians say
of a High Court that sustained inflation to enable
the Government of the day to “press forward with
a programme of social reform”?
The British system which keeps the Courts aloof
from politics is the best. Under it Ministries must
be prepared to shoulder full responsibility for their
acts. Under Federalism, as last week’s American
example showed, a Ministry may shelter behind a
Court. Worse, it is possible for a party to choose
a Court that would function as a dictator in opposi-
tion to the electors’ wishes for the lifetime of some
of its members. The difficult days ahead will show
if this suits the U.S.A. ; it might lead to riots, even
to revolution, in Australia.
MR. WEAVER AND MR. FITZPATRICK.
As Damon was to Pythias and David to Jonathan, so
is Mr. Reginald Walter Darcy Weaver to Mr. George
Fitz Patrick. Dear old pals, jolly old pals, asso-
ciates in politics and good works. They have been
partners in business, too, according to Mr. Fitz Patrick;
there is a letter extant in which that gentleman men-
tions that “Reg Weaver and 1... .are fellow-directors
of Weaver and Co.” The date is August 26, 1933.
Mr. Weaver was then Minister for Health and
Secretary for Public Works; Mr. Fitz Patrick was
(and is) superintendent of the N.S.W. Community
Hospital.
Mr. Fitz Patrick’s Community Hospital is greatly
admired by Mr. Weaver, In a graphic account of
it he wrote that it was “no different from Sydney
Hospital, Prince Alfred, the Royal North Shore or
Western Suburbs or any similar hospital.” But Mr.
Weaver must have his little joke, so he went on to
say that
It might just as well be called the Recovery Hospital
or the Hopeful Hospital or the Nil Desperandum
Hospital or the Goats’ Hospital or the Quake and
Shiver Hospital. In other words, a rose by any other
name would smell as sweet.
Mr. Fitz Patrick’s hospital had put out a report
illustrated with pictures of pretty girls and of Mr.
Weaver. It related that the institution “combined
medical, surgical and clinical facilities with modern
hospital service”: businessmen who languished there
had a free secretary and a French library; lady
convalescents were begged to invite their friends to
tea ; patients could “ring London from their own
rooms.” Nothing so vulgar as towels irritated the
inmates’ hands, which were dried with special “hot-air
machines.” And for young Australians who entered
the world in this paradise there were “Babygrams.”
The patients were a select band. The daily
average was 16 (there were 1.14 patients to one
nurse and half a domestic), and they were serenely
unconscious of the struggle against penury in which
Mr. Fitz Patrick was engaging on their behalf.
Charging them only £6 11s. 3d. per head per week
in fees —at least, that was the average—he had to
meet bills of £8 7s. 2d. per week per bed (it had
been £lO Bs. 3d. the year before). Mr. Weaver came
to his rescue with £lOOO from the Government, and
the Attorney-General let him hold an “art union.”
It yielded £BO3 12s. 9d. for the hospital out of total
collections of £3845.
Compared with other hospitals’ records, the Com-
munity’s weekly average of expenses per bed might
be considered a little extravagant. Bellingen, which
had approximately the same number of patients,
managed with £2 10s. Id. per bed per week, Crook-
well with £2 10s. 6d., Quirindi with £2 18s. sd. While
the Community’s staff-cost per bed per annum was
£2OB, Bellingen spent £56, Quirindi £6B, Crookwell
£69 and Gundagai £7B.
But Mr. Weaver was not hypercritical. He
showed his sublime faith in Mr. Fitz Patrick’s gift 16
humanity by becoming a patient himself. Going
further, he promised, “on behalf of the Government,”
to find £lO,OOO “towards the erection of a most useful
and necessary unit at the Community.” In September,
1933, he included the £lO,OOO item in a hospital-
building programme forwarded to the Unemployment
Relief Council, which was furnishing the funds. He
asked for £350,000, and said he could use £400,000,
but was limited to £200,000. No hospital of corre-
sponding size was put down for anything like the
amount which the Community was to receive.
The Unemployment Relief Council was not so
enthusiastic as Mr. Weaver. It asked Mr. Weaver
several questions, and Mr. Weaver became annoyed.
To him it was incomprehensible that the U.R.C.
should “want to know what the Community Hospital
stood for.” Surely the Minister was not to be placed
in a subordinate position and asked to give details as
to how he was to spend money allotted to his depart-
ment.
But the U.R.C. was adamant. Its chairman, Mr.
Dunningham, the Minister for Labor and Industry,
declared that feeling was against the delegation of
its authority to any individual Minister, but it was
agreeable to Mr. Weaver amending or altering his
schedule if he desired it.
On October 25 Mr. Weaver, acting without the
council’s concurrence, wrote to Mr. Fitz Patrick specifi-
cally offering the £lO,OOO “in cash as a grant,” and
agreeing “to co-operate in raising a further £lO,OOO
by way of loan in other avenues.” He regretted that
he could not find “sufficient money to assist you to
develop the hospital just so far as you suggested, M
demands upon a very limited financial purse are con-
siderable” ; but he could do something else; “owing
to the extraordinary delay of the Government Archi-
tect’s Department” the £20,000 job might be done by
a private architect for a 6 p.c. fee, half to go to the
hospital.
Mr. Fitz Patrick was naturally grateful. Within
two days his board had accepted Mr. Weaver’s offer
and authorised a firm of architects to proceed. Pos-
terity, Mr. Fitz Patrick wrote, would honor Mr. Weaver,
since this “would be the first hospital in Australia to
provide specifically for the prevention of disease, and
you will be the first Minister for Health in the Com-
monwealth to lay down this policy.” Ten days after-
wards he submitted plans.
On November 15, 1933, The Bulletin began
to take an interest in the Community Hospital. It
asked, among other things, how much it had cost to
raise the £BO3 12s. 9d. mentioned in the balance sheet.
“Nil,” was the official reply. It transpired that “nil”
was represented by about £3OOO in prizes and adver-
tising expenses. Other people became interested.
The Premier inquired about the £lO,OOO grant, and
what he learned in the course of patient investigations
obviously astonished him. He issued orders that the
thing should be referred to Cabinet.
Mr. Weaver is a fiery politician. When he writes
in a passion, as he did on this occasion, his signature
is about six inches long and an inch high. What infernal
presumption it was for a Premier with a half-inch
signature which looks like a Frith drawing of a piece
of rabbit netting to refer his expenditures to Cabinet!
“I have already made the money available to the
Community Hospital,” he wrote (though not to the
Premier), “and if I have any interference in the alloca-
tion of such moneys then my resignation will be forth-
coming within five minutes.”
The “interference” went on, but Mr. Weaver
did not resign. Just when his Ministerial career
seemed about to be blasted, Mr. Fitz Patrick came to
the rescue. Though the grant had been accepted and
the architects were at work, Mr. Fitz Patrick’s secre-
tary wrote to the Minister saying that, “because of
circumstances over which it had no control,” the
Community Hospital board was “compelled to defer
the acceptance of the amount mentioned,” while
hoping that the Government might “see its way clear
to renew the offer later on.” This was on November
21, 1933 —five days after the writing of the threat or
promise that “my resignation will be forthcoming
within five minutes.”
Now the Government has decided to struggle
along without Mr. Weaver because, he says, he
“placed the people before power and pelf,” and
refused to allow “shocking extravagance, inefficient
administration and medical interference with some
hospital boards to continue.” Prior to dispensing
with Mr. Weaver’s services, it passed a Charities Act
which will severely regulate Mr. Fitz Patrick’s “art
unions.” There are people who question whether the
Government can offend Mr. Weaver and Mr. Fitz-
Patrick and survive, but it must have a perverse notion
that it can.
THE PARLIAMENTARY COLD STORE.
Barrister Herring, who is opposing Vic. Attorney-
General Macfarlan as unendorsed U.A.P. candidate
for Brighton, has put forward the most sensible
suggestion for Parliamentary reform that has emerged
from the present election campaign. Mr. Herring
demands that non-contentious measures should be
classified and considered apart from contentious
measures. This would simplify Parliament’s job and
expedite the passage of useful legislation. v
One of the anomalies of the Parliamentary system
is that the reform which everybody is agreed upon is
the reform which is rarely carried out. Every session
of every Parliament terminates with a mass of
undebated bills scrapped—“slaughtered innocents”
they are termed. In the majority of cases, these bills
deal with subjects upon which both sides of the
House are substantially in agreement, or nearly in
agreement. There may be details and clauses which
need amendment, but there is practical unanimity
about the general principles upon which the bills are
based.
Next session most of these bills appear on the
notice paper again, but, as both sides are agreed about
them, nobody bothers to introduce them. While the
factions are fighting and clawing at one another over
measures highly contentious —fighting and clawing at
great length—the session passes, and once more the non-
contentious bills pass into the cemetery of slaughtered
innocents. Some are overlooked the following session
and gradually pass out of the minds of the politicians
and the public. So the eternal circle revolves and
nothing is done.
During the first session of the Commonwealth
Parliament a Patents Repeal Bill and a Common-
wealth Divorce Bill were introduced without serious
opposition, and appeared likely to go through on the
voices. But the session closed without their being
reached, and, after 34 years, they remain in cold
storage.
Each of our seven Parliaments would be more
efficient if, at the opening of each session, bills
not contentious in point of general principles were
classified and referred to a committee representing
all parties, with authority to knock them into shape.
They could then be remitted to the House as a whole
for general discussion. It is unlikely that there would
be any long debate, for the whole of the business
would have been gone into by the committee, and
reasons for each clause would be given, if necessary,
when the bill was introduced.
Mr. Herring’s proposal carried out in such a
manner would lighten the task of the party in power,
improve its relations with the party in opposition,
save time and enable people to see results for the
votes they cast every three years.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Off to London.
Representatives of Australia’s greatest industry,
accompanied by delegates from the Taxpayers’
Association, recently asked the Prime Minister to
relieve them of the burden of Federal land tax.
They pointed out that the price of wool had for four
of the five depression years fallen below payable levels,
and was once more less than the cost of production.
They pleaded that the tax had become a tax on
capital, and was seriously affecting the capacity of
pastoralists—especially those with properties on which
the best types of sheep are bred —to carry on. The
Prime Minister replied that the Government would
like to abolish the tax but could not afford to.
There are nevertheless many costly follies which
the Government contrives to afford. It spent £6OOO
in getting advice from the Grants Commission where
advice was not needed, and £17,000 on having the
Westralian case for secession answered by another
commission when it could have been answered in a
few sentences. It has found nearly as much for a
Wheat Commission, whose reports it has pigeonholed,
and little less for a Petrol Commission, whose con-
clusions (majority and minority) will share the same
fate.
A defeated politician has been appointed to
police certain industrial awards, and the news from
Canberra is that other appointments of the kind are
to be made. Government Trade Commissioners are
to be sent to various parts of Asia, though the busi-
ness world has not asked for them, and a school for
training trade commissioners is contemplated.
And grants and bounties have been scattered in
all directions regardless of whether the beneficiaries
have any hope of economic survival. Dud wheat-
growers have received a bounty which has been
refused to good farmers because they have proved
themselves good farmers. Growers of mandarin
oranges are bounty-fed, though they send such rubbish
to market that people won’t buy it.
Now the Prime Minister is going to London, and
three Ministers with him. There is important work
to be done there, besides which Australia has to be
i at the King’s jubilee celebrations; but
with a former Prime Minister in Australia House
surely two Ministers, the P.M. and another, should
be sufficient. It is explained that the Attorney-General
is going on private business, having accepted a brief
to appear before the Privy Council before he entered
Commonwealth politics ; but why should the country
be put to the expense of sending his private secretary?
Minister Gullett is also taking a “confidential” secre-
tary, and a meat consultant” is going, though a world
authority is available at the S.A. Agency-General in
Mr. McCann. The chairman of the Tariff Board,
the assistant-secretary of the Commerce Department
and two officers from the Customs are also members
of the- party.
But the Prime Minister’s own retinue beats the
band. He is accompanied by his publicity man, his
confidential” typist, his private secretary and another
gentleman who goes as baggageman and messenger.
Each of these worthies will cost the country more
than did Alfred Deakin on the London mission which
closed with his returning his unexpended allowance
to the Treasury. How far-off seems that grand
example of democratic simplicity!
4
A Fair Thing.
The Stevens Government’s final offer to Sydney
Synod was as modest as the taxpayers of N. S. Wales
had a right to expect in the circumstances.
The resumption of the area behind the cathedral
will involve paying about £130,000 compensation to
the proprietors of the Baptist Church and the
Worker building and providing them with new
sites; but that should be much cheaper than giving
the Anglicans a Macquarie-street site.
The first Lang Government offered an immediate
grant of £500,000; the Stevens Government has
offered £lOO,OOO, payable in five annual instalments,
to assist the cathedral authorities in remodelling
and re-establishing their buildings.” Taxpayers of
all denominations, and of none, will have to find the
money, which seems inequitable in a sense ; on the
other hand, assuming the cathedral area is made
more beautiful, the whole of the citizens of the State
will derive aesthetic enjoyment from it for all time.
>• , , At the worst > the taxpayers look like getting off
lightly. From the moment Mr. Lang turned this into
a party issue by making his fantastic bid for Anglican
votes it became clear that the other side would have
to make a counter-bid. And then there is the con-
sideration that, under the Stevens scheme, St. Andrew’s
will stay where it is—in the most convenient possible
place for the bulk of Anglican worshippers, and in
a part of the city which sorely needs a fine building.
4
Meat Problems.
Australia has not done badly out of the Ottawa
meat agreement. Frozen beef prices were £d, to id.
lh. higher in January, 1935, than in January,
1933 ; mutton prices are 14 p.c. better ; lamb, about
British meat imports were 568,000 tons in
1932 and 537,000 tons for 11 months of 1934. For
those 11 months, while British imports from Argen-
tina fell from 423,000 tons (for a twelvemonth)
to 343,000 tons, Australia’s increased from 48,000
tons to 75,000 tons. Mutton imports for 11 months
from within the Empire were-within 9000 tons of the
figures for the whole of 1932, while foreign imports
will show for the year about 25 p.c. decline.
The agreement with Argentina expires in Novem-
ber, 1936. After that month Britain will be free of
obligations to the South American suppliers and other
foreign countries.
Last July Major Elliot proposed that the Aus-
tralian quota should be fixed on the figures for the
Ottawa year. This was rejected. In December he
proposed a short-term restriction till March 31, while
a scheme of subsidies to British farmers was in opera-
tion. After a lot of talk, Lyons and co. agreed.
Britain next suggested that the basis for future
negotiations should be average trade for the 1932-
34 years. Again the Commonwealth demurred, on
the ground that “Australia’s expansion would be
seriously impaired.” Britain was informed that “live-
stock, unlike most agricultural produce, do not come
to maturity in a single season.”
Plans must be laid seven or eight years ahead so
that the necessary stock may be bred to stages required
lor export.... Sudden restriction would lead to
dangerous overstocking, with ruinous losses to stock-
owners.
An Argentine killer matures in 15 to 28 months.
Mr, Lyons, who regards the position as “serious,”
has gone to London earlier than he intended to
negotiate “from the viewpoints of the future develop-
ment of Australia, Empire defence, distribution of
Empire population and world economic recovery.”
Dr. Page has gone to Queensland, where it has been
suggested that graziers should get a million of Com-
monwealth money to help them put their stations on
a basis where they can compete with, Argentine chilled
supplies.
Price, not quantity, is the essence of the immediate
problem. For example, in London last week Aus-
tralian ox hinds (over 1601 b.) were quoted at 3|d.
per lb. ; Argentine at 4fd. An extra penny per lb.
obtained by baby-beef production would be worth
more to Australia than a 25 p.c. increase in the quota.
•
Function of the B.M.A.
When demagogues find themselves hard up for some-
thing to abuse they often attack the B.M.A. Mr.
Weaver, of N. S. Wales, has been at it for weeks.
He seems to think that the 8.M.A., in addition to
wielding Naziesque powers over doctors, has a poli-
tical pull which enables it to make and break
Ministries ; or, anyhow, Ministers. It is as silly as
Lang Labor’s yarns about the powers of the trading
banks.
The B.M.A. isn’t nearly so powerful as the Bar
Council, which is never attacked. The Bar Council,
like the 8.M.A., exists primarily to impose rules of
etiquette. Barristers mustn’t advertise themselves by
giving their photographs to the papers; they ‘mustn’t
take less than specified fees; as Crown Prosecutors
they mustn’t press for convictions, but must behave
as Ministers of Justice assisting in its administration,
and so on. B.M.A. regulations are identical in
principle.
As showing the essential weakness of both bodies,
senior members habitually break many of their rules.
Publicity-loving K.Cs. are photographed for the
tabloids, and doctors give details of their careers
to “Who’s Who”—a practice barred by the B.M.A.
here, though permitted in Britain. Neither body can
discipline its members, a truth which has been demon-
strated every time one of them has tried to.
What they can do is give members moral support
when an injustice seems to have been done. A few
years ago Lord Chief Justice Hewart, who is some-
what temperamental, criticised a defending counsel
named Valetta for “improper observations” in a
murder trial. Mr. Valetta appealed to the London
Bar Council, which considered his case, and ruled
that “there had been no breach of professional
conduct. ’ It completely exonerated him in the eyes
of his profession.
The council of the London Bar, like that of every
Australian State Bar, is supported, in theory, anyhow,
by every practising barrister. The position of the
B.M.A. and its branches isn’t nearly so strong. Of
the 3000 and odd doctors in N. S. Wales only a
shade over 50 per cent, are B.M.A. members. Obvi-
ously it would be futile for the B.M.A. to try to exer-
cise political powers ; and one of the reasons why its
prestige stands 39 high is that it has never been
accused of anything of the sort outside Parliament.
The dream of the council of the B.M.A. meeting
officially .to plot the ruin of Administrations that
refuse to obey its class-conscious orders is thrilling,
but it is only a dream. The professional organisations
of doctors, lawyers, bankers, architects and the like
have to be strictly non-political to live.
*
Norfolk Island Troubles.
Something is seriously wrong at Norfolk Island,
which has been a Territory of the Commonwealth
since 1913. It is only a speck five miles long and
three miles wide, and down to the war period was
inhabited almost exclusively by the descendants of
Bounty mutineers.
In 1925 the Commonwealth invited Australians
to take up Crown leases. Many of them did, and
started fruit-growing, which is the staple industry.
Bananas, oranges, lemons, passionfruit and potatoes
are the main produce lines. Exports are valued at
about £20,000 p.a. and imports at £40,000. A third
of the exports used to go to Maoriland, but recently
the shipping service has been cut off. Even before
this loss overseas buying had dwindled £13,000 in
three years.
Norfolk Islanders are not considered enlightened
enough to have votes, though Lord Howe Islanders
have them as citizens of N. S. Wales. Norfolkians
cannot be trusted, according to the official idea, to
buy liquor freely, so the Commonwealth sells them
£3 10s. worth per head per annum—which, seeing
that infants in arms are included, is a fair wad. It
makes £6OO per annum on the deal, but against that
it gives a subsidy of £3OOO p.a. towards the cost of
#vernment, which is about £ll,OOO per annum,
including £5400 for salaries. What governing this
community needs that can cost £lO per head. Can-
berra only knows. Customs duties alone are equal
to 20 p.c. of the value of exports, a heavy burden
on a community dependent on the land and faced
with strong overseas competition in everything it
grows, especially as there are only eight acres per
inhabitant available for occupation, inclusive of
worthless tracts, and only about 1000 acres are under
cultivation.
Lord Howe Island doesn’t pay customs duties
on goods imported from Australia. Norfolk is fined
for having been “emancipated.”
The Sydney Collector of Customs points out that
as a Territory it is “not part of the Commonwealth.”
But there seems to be conflict in the Commonwealth
Government about the position of Territories. The
G.P.0., for instance, was so convinced that another
Territory, Papua, was part of Australia that it
secured the prosecution of wireless listeners there
who had not taken out licenses.
The Court held that it
had no jurisdiction in respect to persons charged with
offences against the laws of the Commonwealth.
It is said that Mr. Pearce “intends to inquire into
Norfolk Island conditions.” He had better hurry
up. Otherwise, if reports which are arriving in
a spate are true, he will find little but a bare island
to inquire into.
*
An Art Director for Melbourne.
Victorian artists are already smelling something
regarding the appointment of a new art director for
the National Gallery. The importation of a vice-
chancellor for the University leads many to fear that
Australian artists may be overlooked in favor of
somebody from Birmingham or Upper Tooting.
According to the secretary to the gallery trustees,
the post will be filled “either by an Australian artist
or one from overseas.” This is reassuring on one
point; the trustees are going to get an artist—-no bank
managers or bricklayers for them! But whether that
artist is to be an Australian or a Uzbekstani is left
in the air.
There should not be a moment’s doubt about the
matter. Australia has many good artists, and among
them are men with the ability to teach, some with'
the gift to inspire. Moreover, being Australians,
they are particularly well-fitted to instruct their feljow-
Australians. If the trustees are so ill-advised as to
import a man when there are so many capable men
looking for buyers of pictures and doing little else,
they will deserve all the criticism they will get.
Theodore Fink once told a Melbourne gathering:
“When I was young it was regarded as an honor to
be a trustee of the National Gallery. Now the only
qualification is to be chairman of directors of a fire
insurance co. or vice-president of a football club.”
Fink was wrong in one respect. The director of
any insurance company or the vice-president of any
football club would not offer a man of culture, skill
and organising ability the wages of an expert brick-
layer all that was paid to Bernard Hall. His salary
of £4OO a year was fixed when laborers received ss. a
day and policemen £2 a week. Living standards have
advanced generally, but artists have no trade-unions
and not sufficient votes to count in elections. So
the £4OO stayed from the ’eighties until Hall’s death.
♦
One of the Neglected Ports.
Shipping men who know every rock on its southern
coast say Victoria’s best harbor is Welshpool, an
inlet, not far from Wilson’s Promontory which few
people have heard of. At Welshpool a few fishermen
get a precarious living—precarious because of the
difficulties, not of fishing, but of getting their catches
to market. Behind the staggering township is fine
agricultural country.
For years the virtues of Welshpool have been
known to coastal seamen and a few tourists ; but it
is off the beaten track, it has had no publicity and it
is still little more than landscape.
At last some revolutionaries have commenced to
talk about it, and have asked that the Government
should construct a pier to cost £lB,OOO. Welshpool
has few votes ; but its possibilities as a port must not
be overlooked. With a pier to serve its fishermen,
catches of the flounder which abound in these waters
could be sent by rail to Melbourne and to Sydney
by the cheaper water carriage. Tasmanian crayfish
would be brought closer to Melbourne, and the
potato-eaters of Sydney would most likely prefer
tubers from the Welshpool hinterland to Tasmanian.
It is probable that the Vic. Government will wake
up and grant that £18,000; but the surprising thing is
that such an outlet and inlet for trade should have
remained undeveloped for generations.
*
Back to the Horse.
“H.S.” overstates his case when he says
(B. 20/2/’35) that all save what he calls luxury horses
have vanished from the roads and streets of England
and will be seen no more. The Shire Horse Show
at Islington was the biggest and most successful on
record. Far from being driven off the streets by
motor transport, the draught-horse (light and heavy)
is more than holding his own, many owners, beguiled
by the motor-traction fad some years ago, having
gone back to the horse, a recantation that has taken
place in Australia as well. Rail companies, brewers,
coal merchants, councils and many other trades have
always employed horses in preference to any other
mode of traction. This season there are complaints
that the supply of draughts is barely equal to the
demand. Yet last year nearly 1000 shire stallions
alone were licensed to travel in England and Wales.
As to loads, two shires in the trials at Islington
moved off on wet sets with 18i tons, and the shafter
of another pair shifted 16| tons before his leader got
into the collar —jobs that would tax the capacity of
any motor-lorry.


AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS
“Grunt’er”: Strolling through Sydney’s
Hyde Park I came on two grizzled
ancients, obviously from the wide, open
spaces, gazing interestedly at the Archi-
bald Memorial. Presently one remarked;
“Well, I’m glad I’ve seen it, Charlie. But
what beats me,” he went on reflectively,
“is what this here Hanke is going to do
with the thing now that he has won it!”
* * * *
“Stolen Thunder”: A Sydney daily
published an announcement by the
P.M.G.’s department of results obtained
over a period of months with five-metre
radio tests. Any reader of The Bulletin’s
Radio News pages must have noted that
a group of Sydney’s radio amateurs is
more than a jump ahead in such work.
With a 50-mile two-way ultra-short-wave
telephony circuit operating daily and
nightly between Sydney and Hazelbrook
(Blue Mountains), the amateurs evidently
know their stuff. But the daily press has
given them no credit.
* * * *
In Sydney Harbor a trim-
looking tug called the Hall Caine tootles
to and fro, calling up a mental image of
a grave, bewhiskered gentleman who
wrote numerous books. A tug might
appropriately be named (say) the Saucy
Sally or the Samson or the Stalwart
Sarah, but not the Hall Caine. The name
sets me wondering whether the first
owner of the vessel was a friend of the
author’s or a fervid admirer of his work.
She’s a smart little boat with a saucy,
dancing movement, alluring to watch.
* -i c * *
“J.8.J.”: On a calm day one may still
see the bones of the old Orient liner
Orizaba off the Five Fathom Bank, a
few miles out from Fremantle. She
grounded in a thick haze, said to have
been caused by bushfires, in Feb., 1905 ,
two years later a tremendous blow bat-
tered her off the bank and left her on
the ocean bed. The crack mailboat of
the ’eighties and ’nineties is now just a
jumbled heap of boilers, plates, machin-
ery, masts and cabins, with old ropes,
lying like gigantic eels across the wreck-
age, still clinging to the barnacle-covered
blocks.
* A- *
“M.G.”: The restoration to life of
Vincent Harrington at Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.) after his heart and his lungs had
ceased to function opens a tricky legal
question. Harrington was a dead man,
according to all legal and medical tests.
Had he been pricked, his blood would
not have flowed, and this is regarded as
the one absolute proof that life has left
the body Any other person similarly
placed may some day claim a dead man’s
privileges. He would not, for instance,
be amenable to the criminal law; he
could punch policemen on the nose and
run only the risk of being killed a
second time—for, of course, the police-
man could not be charged with murder-
ing a man already dead. And if
the deceased were insured his wife could
walk into the company’s office and draw
the money ; and he, the principal actor
in the piece, could not extract it from
her. But the most cheerful thing about
being dead is that you would cease to be
liable for income tax, unemployment
tax, rates or debts contracted with con-
fiding tradesmen who did not recognise
you as a corpse.
“Tiny”: “J.G.” (B. 13/2/’35) is cor-
rect in his statement that “Rose of Den-
mark” is the name of many Rechabite
lodges. Don’t know what these good
people would think if they knew that
the pub I patronise in Sydney bears the
same moniker. And, seeing that it was
built over 70 years ago, it could probably
establish a prior claim.
sp * #
“Cap’n Bells”; Up till recently Maori-
land possessed two unique warships—
H.M.S. Leith, the newest ship in the
British Navy, and H.M.S. Laburnum,
the last to burn coal and wear sail.
After service on the station since
1923 the latter vessel, a sloop, was
saved from the scrapheap this year
by a request from the Singapore
R.N.V.R. for a training ship. When
H.M.S. Laburnum left Auckland for her
destination, via North Australian ports,
she presented a spectacle that Maori-
landers are never likely to see again.
“I’d better not touch you, my dear, in case I destroy evidence that would lead
to the burglar’s arrest. I’ll just stroll down to the station and tell the
police.”
Flying her 235 ft.-long paying-off pennant
from truck to keelson, the little sloop
steamed down the Waitemata with sails
set —an incongruous, and to some a
pathetic, sight. The three triangles of
canvas, the foremainsail on the foremast
and the mainsail and the staysail on the
mainmast, give her in a fair wind only
three-quarters of a knot more speed, but
the navy must have thought it was
worth while, even in 1915, when she first
took the water. The Laburnum will be
replaced on the Maoriland station by
H.M.S. Wellington, a sister-sloop to
H.M.S. Leith.
❖ * *
“General Prac.”; My patient was an
opulent bookie, much worried about a
small lump on his neck. “No, no,” I re-
assured him, “it’s not a cancer. And I
can remove it for you in two ticks. It
only needs a little local anaesthetic.”
Shortodds pondered; then he said, “I
got plenty o’ dough, doc. Don’t use this
local dope. I can pay for the best im-
ported stuff on the market.”
* * *
“Say 99”; It was tough luck for every-
one when a poor girl died while
under “gas” in a Sydney dental sur-
gery, for such tragedies are rare.
A pathologist puts down the mor-
tality rate from nitrous oxide at one
in 30,000 ; but I have figures placing the
risk much lower than that—at one per
million, to be exact. It any anaesthetic
is trustworthy “gas” is; and a patient
who died under it is unfit for any
anaesthetic. Yet it is strange to recall
that Wells, the American dentist who
really brought “gas” into vogue in
1844 (though it was discovered by Hum-
phry Davy in 1800), gave up his practice
after his one and only fatality. Nitrous
oxide’s only drawback is that it needs
rather cumbersome, apparatus. Some of
the latest machines (what with their cylin-
ders, gauges, taps and dials) make an
operating theatre look like a corner in
a battleship’s engine-room. But the stuff
is safe, all right. In the old days students
used to go on nitrous oxide “benders,”
falling down and bumping into furniture
without apparent damage to themselves.
That, really, is how Wells got on to the
value of the stuff as an anaesthetic for
hauling teeth.
* * * *
“Cimex”: It isn't only with regard to
Kisch (B. 19/2/’35) that newspaper re-
porters turn in wildly conflicting state-
ments. A young woman was brutally
murdered in Sydney last week. Said one
of the three morning newspapers:
Her body was found lying on the bed
clad in silk pyjamas. There were no
marks of violence and no signs of a
struggle; apparently the woman had been
strangled in her sleep.
Said another:
A terrific struggle had apparently pre-
ceded the murder. The bed was in dis-
order and blood had stained the bed-
clothing. One arm had been bruised and
battered; the face was contorted with pain
and fear; the head was covered with blood.
Is it any wonder that the old confidence
in the printed word grows weaker and
weaker?
* * * #
“Pop”: Yeast is not the only liquid
with high explosive possibilities (B.
13/2/’35) ; all the “brewed” soft drinks,
so-called, are in the same class. Once
on a time in western Queensland, when
every station had its own recipe for
ginger- or hopbeer, it was the custom to
add a raisin or a couple of grains of rice
to each bottle to give the stuff a kick.
In hot weather as the stuff matured
there was often a risk in moving the
bottles, and casualties from flying glass
were far from uncommon. Wines which
develop effervescence naturally have the
same property. One of the troubles of
the champagne trade is the loss from
bursting bottles during the maturing
period. The strain on the bottles is such
that they can never be used twice, and
the fizz container is about the solidest
thing in bottles going.
# * * *
“Chela”: In my hermit’s cell I have
been much edified by the newspaper
accounts of Bizet’s “Pearl-Fishers,”
especially the story of the “plot.” One
journal says the story centres in the
practice of the pearl-fishers who each
year chose “a vestal virgin of Brahma”
to sail with the fleet for good luck. Put-
ting aside the fact that Cingalese are
Buddhists to a man, I am interested in
the reference to ihe young ladies of the
Hindu temples. These are to be found
in numbers to this day in the service of
such deities as Prithi Devi and other
members of the Hindu theocracy, but
they are not vestal virgins by a long
chalk. Indeed, any one of them discovered
in that condition would probably come to
a sticky end.
“Moniker”: Examiners and other
officials of London University must have
breathed a sigh of relief when Thala-
singhgampillai Sithambarapillai Nagan-
thiram took his degree and passed out of
their lives. It seems fortunate that the
young Cingalese did not go up to Oxford.
It is easy to imagine the feelings of
a proctor pulling the young man up for
some infringement in the town and being
given his name in reply to the customary
request. “Your name and college, sir?”
* * * *
“Oran”: Bragge, our local K.C., is
addicted to teasing the youngsters he
meets ; he banteringly assured the youth
next door, aged 10, who was exceedingly
proud of his promotion to captain of his
football team, that he (Bragge) could play
the whole 15 single-handed. He thought
no more of his jest until a perturbed clerk
appeared at his desk next day and re-
ported that a crowd of little boys had
arrived and declined to go until they
saw Mr. Bragge. One look convinced
the humorist that he had been taken at
his word; the juvenile captain sternly
requested him to forthwith accompany
them to the park and do his darnedest.
But Bragge is not a K.C. for nothing ;
tact and 15 ice-creams smoothed out the
situation.
-I- -k : 1» H*
“Don”: Kerensky’s assertion that the
British Government in 1917 first offered
asylum to the deposed Czar and his
family and then withdrew the offer owing
to political pressure (B. 6/2/’35) is
directly contradicted in Lloyd George’s
“War Memoirs.”
At no time between his abdication and
his murder was the Czar free to leave
Russia. An invitation to take refuge here
was extended by the British Crown and
Government. The Czar was unable to
avail himself of it, even had he been
anxious to do so —and of that we had no
evidence.
Sir George Buchanan, in his book “My
Mission to Russia,” amply corroborates
this; —•
Our offer remained open and was never
withdrawn.
* * * *
“Raymond”: I suggest that a whole-
some fear of conspicuousness is the main
reason why Australians stick to felt hats
on broiling days. I was chatting to the
handyman who
was pushing our
lawnmower.
“Pretty warm,” I
remarked. He as-
sented, dragging
off his felt hat
and mopping his
brow. “W all a
them things like?”
he asked, indicat-
ing my old solar
topee. “Try it,”
I invited. He put
it on. “Like
shovin’ yer ’ead
in a ice-chest,
he com mented
approvingly.
“Beautifully
light, too. But,
Lord! wouldn’t a
bloke get a ‘hoy’
if ’e went out in the street with a thing
like that on!” In a London summer
I’ve worn exactly the same clothes as in
Singapore, and nobody’s paid the slight-
est attention. But in Melbourne it is
different.
Ms Me * Mf
“General Prac.”: Diabetics, more than
most patients, have my deep sympathy. It
isn’t that they cannot be efficiently treated
—they can be. But having to endure,
day in and day out, the trivial but mad-
dening pricks of their hypodermic needles
they must feel like people pursued by
large, ferocious mosquitoes. Still, it
looks as if the time is coming when the
patient will be able to take his insulin
by mouth. A Frankfort doctor has pre-
pared a substance (he calls it “omalkan”)
which seems to have worked well on
some scores of diabetics for a year past.
It is not on sale in Australia yet; still,
you might like to know its composition.
Powdered pancreas, yeast, rhizoma gal-
angae, sodium glycocholicum, dimethy-
lene-diguanidin phosphate and syzygium
jambolanum, all easy things to re-
member.
M: * * *
“Maryell”: Writing as a governess on
a station I can’t see that “M.R.P.” (B.
23/1/’35) has much to complain of. In
my job, besides teaching the children
(and what children!) and helping to
mend, cook, sew, knit, wash up and
clean, I have charge of the 18-months-
old infant, and also assist in feeding cats,
dogs, fowls, waterhens, ducks, magpies,
pet lambs and ’possums. In my spare
time I mess round with the car, arrange
flowers, check accounts, mend my em-
ployer’s crepe de Chine underwear, skin
rabbits, entertain visitors and help the
youngsters to muck out the loose boxes
on wet Sundays. Hardly an ideal job,
but a long sight better than none at all.
THE MEN WHO HAVE TO SHOUT.
“ Conciliation Commissioner (Sydney); ‘Why do
travellers in wines and spirits claim a daily expense
allowance of £3, double that of other commercials?’
“Advocate: ‘Because they have to shout.’”
He’s gotter shout. Not with the cheerful
clamor,
The flow of words that other bagmen use,
The glib persuasiveness that casts a glamor
Over their jams or pickles, shirts or shoes.
He doesn’t need that sort of vocal hammer
To boost his samples and to earn his dues.
He’s not obliged to pay chin-music out,
But, cripes! he’s gotter shout.
His mere appearance in a bar the cue is
For emptying glasses and for brightening
eyes;
His hospitable presence needs no cooees
To put recipients of his bounty wise;
And though the word might cause old Judge
Curlewis
Professional distaste and pained surprise,
Where’er he plies his craft, beyond a doubt
It’s up to him to shout.
He oils his wheels with real froth and bubble,
Not that wherewith his fellows push their
wares.
It makes his exes., naturally, double,
The rigid precedent in these affairs.
If it were only Bungs he wouldn’t trouble.
But he must “set ’em up” for them and
theirs,
Including everybody roundabout.
Part of his job’s to shout.
He needn’t have a voice like storied Stentor,
Whose prowess Homer never failed to tell;
Or take vociferous Duckworth for a mentor;
Or cultivate a clothes-prop hawker’s yell.
No elocutionary art need enter
Into the formula he knows so well.
But mighty soon his biz will feel a clout
If he omits to shout.
Some salesmen chirp and tweet like birds in
summer;
Some gabble with such vehemence and vim
You can’t but wish they were a trifle dumber
Or sometimes give their yap an interim.
But when you come across the whisky
drummer
You sense there’s no alternative for him.
In rain or shine, in floodtime or in drought.
He’s always gotter shout.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Salamaua” (New Guinea): Possibly
the most comprehensive invitations to a
dance ever given were made by the mining
camp of Bulwa (N.G.) quite recently—
every woman in the Mandated Territory
(91,000 sq. miles) received a card. On
the afternoon of the appointed date,
almost the only means of transport being
by air, ’planes of every description, from
huge Junkers to Puss Moths, glided to
the ’drome. The guests were met by 60
of the 70 men in the camp ; the other
10 were fixing up a bar in the dance hall,
normally the mess. Every expense of
the guests, from the time of leaving their
front doors to their return, was borne by
the hosts. The official computation was
£407.
* * * *
“Aster”; The police in my city have a
trap for bicycle-thieves like that described
by “Ceebee” (B. 13/2/’35), but they
eliminate the risk of losing the “bait.”
Almost any day you may see a bicycle
leaning unattended against a posh whilst
on the opposite pavement a dilapidated
person seems to be idly gazing into a
shop window —in reality he is using the
“H’m, it’s rather like barbed-wire. Protects the property without obstructing
the view.”
plate-glass as a mirror to watch the trap.
The thief presently comes along, assures
himself that the coast is clear, mounts —
and crashes. The watcher rushes across,
grabs his catch, escorts him to the lock-
up, returns with the bike and resets the
trap—first making sure that the handle-
bars have been nicely loosened.
* * * ♦
“Awbeca”: At Port Pirie (S.A.) an
apiarist, while shifting 30 hives of bees
in his motor-lorry, came into collision
with a car carrying five passengers. Both
vehicles overturned scattering their occu-
pants on the roadside ; the bees, liberated
from their boxes, promptly fell upon the
injured humans. Only one person escaped
hospital, and he saved himself by a fine
burst of speed. It sounds like the sort
of thing one connects only with night-
mares.
jj; * ♦
“Oxmead”: I question a republished
yarn that the Duke of Edinburgh, visit-
ing this country in the ’sixties and con-
fronted with a Geelong abo. who greeted
the visitor with “You king?
Me king, too,” pressed two
sovereigns into his co-
royalty’s dusky hand. It
requires corroborative evi-
dence. Even in Queen Vic-
toria’s golden days there
were few illusions about
Edinburg h —the grand-
father, by the way, of the
present King Carol of
Rumania. Stories of his
parsimony were always go-
ing the rounds of the clubs,
and even in Sydney, as I have heard, he
maintained his reputation. The two quid
looks to me, with my knowledge of Vic-
torian days, like a mistake for two bob.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Town Hall, after
standing for some 70 years without a
clock, gets one at last, as the gift of
Lavington Bonython, present alderman
and former mayor. Its tower has always
had the holes for clock faces, but the
G.P.0., which went up soon after it, got
in first with illuminated dials and West-
minster chimes, and made the other time-
piece unnecessary. The new one is an
up-to-date electric affair, run by a big
storage battery.
* * * *
“Plane”: William Edgell, last of the
exponents of the theory that the world
is flat, is dead in London. He spent most
of his nights observing the Pole Star
through a telescope, and the fact that it
never dipped below the horizon was to
him irrefutable proof that the world
didn’t revolve. At one time quite a
wealthy society with London offices up-
held the theory. As a small Australian
boy in England, I was always struck by
an argument of Lady Blount, then the
leader of the movement, at meetings and
on other occasions connected with her
hobby: “If the people of Australia hang
head downwards, why don’t they do it
when they come to England?” My
younger relatives and schoolfellows never
failed to advance that argument when
they felt they needed a little excitement,
and they invariably got it.
* * * *
“Salamaua”: New Guinea, so moun-
tainous and densely wooded and subject
to sudden storms, must be about the
worst flying country in the world. Out-
side the regular landing grounds there is
hardly an acre of clear land. The other
day a pilot found himself flying aim-
lessly with nothing but clouds to see ; de-
scending he found himself in a ravine,
flattened out and continued along it until
he saw a towering face of rock in the
distance. Realising that if he zoomed up
again he would be in no better position
tnan before and might be in a worse
one, he elected to “squat” in the tree-
tops. Although the ’plane was smashed,
“You always said you wanted to leave me, you brute! Well, now’s your
chance.”
the engine was left intact, the pilot was
unhurt and of three cases of beer only
three bottles were broken. He calmly
scrawled on the underside of a broken
wing that he was proceeding in the north-
erly direction, scrambled down 60 feet
to the ground and fetched up safely in
a miners’ camp two days later. This is
the third instance of a N.G. pilot “squat-
ting” when in trouble ; all have escaped
scot-free.
* * -1! *
“Surafend”; I note that there is a
movement in Sydney to have a portrait
of ex-Governor Sir Philip Game painted
for Government House. Which reminds
me that soon after the Armistice, along
with other officers who had served in
Egypt and Palestine, I received a circular
asking for a subscription towards having
a portrait of Allenby painted and pre-
sented to “Bull.” A sub. was sent along,
but nothing more was heard of the
matter for some years. Then came
another circular, setting forth that
the portrait had been executed but
that the cash received was not suffi-
cient to square the bill. A further con-
tribution, it was added, would be wel-
comed, since the artist was slavering for
his money on the doormat. Writer did
not come across, and has often wondered
since what has become of the portrait, to
say nothing of the artist.
* * * *
“0.8. J.”: I note that a chimpanzee,
the first of its kind to be born in the
London Zoo, has been named Jubilee,
in honor of this memorable year. The
name had a brisk vogue in ’B7, not only
for monkeys and dogs; but in ’97
the novelty had worn off it. In the
former year, when Queen Victoria had
scored her 50, the mouth-filling word
was worked into everything available.
The Poet Laureate burst into dutiful
verse on the subject. The music halls, at
the other end of the literary scale, tuned
in with a raucous ditty which began
My wife’s gone quite mad about the
jubilee!
Mercifully, I forget the rest The turf
responded with the “Jubilee Stakes” and
its £lO,OOO prize—the biggest on record
in England at that time —landed by a
fine horse with the Australian name of
Bendigo. There were scores of other
jubilees, but the one I remember best
was a young gentleman named E. F.
Benzon, fresh into command of a for-
tune, whose operations with bookmakers
earned him the title of the “Jubilee Jug-
gins.” Its appropriateness was shown by
the title of a book he published two
years later, “How I Spent £250,000 in
Two Years.” At the cost of his quarter
of a million, however, Benzon gave a
new word to the language. The “Jubilee
Juggins” was shortened to the “Jubilee
J.” —or “Jay”—a confusion of terms
ludicrously unjust to the predaceous bird
that flits about English woods. Hence
now in Australia we have regulations and
warnings against “jay-walking” from
people who probably haven’t the faintest
idea where and when the noun origi-
nated. The jay, quite undeservedly, has
become, entirely because of Benzon, an
owl.
* Jfc *
“Jungor”: Perth, Westralia’s capital,
was named in honor of Sir George
Murray, Secretary for the Colonies when
the Swan River settlement was founded.
Murray, a patron and friend of Captain
Stirling, had been born in the Scottish
city, and also represented it in Parlia-
ment. Now somebody has dug from the
records of Westralia’s early history a
bitter protest from an infuriated English-
man on the subject. It was addressed to
the Colonial Office, the writer being a
certain William Leake, of London.
Writing as “one who has sent out a son”
(to the new settlement) he condemned
the Scottish Perth as an obscure place,
known only to reading men and geo-
graphers. “Why,” he demanded, “was
not the principal town called Swan
Town, London Town, Wellington or a
name to which the three countries in the
Union may look up? I have heard a
vast number already declare against
Swan River because they now consider
it a place where Scotch interests only
will prevail.” However, the Londoner’s
letter probably went into the waste-paper
basket; Perth remained Perth, and Mel-
ville Water, Cockburn Sound and other
names that grated on William Leake’s
susceptibilities were not altered. And
in due course the Leake family supplied
Westralia first with a Supreme Court
Judge and then with a Premier.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: A thing I can never make
out is why philately has so many de-
votees while so few are interested in
numismatics. The rarer stamps com-
mand high prices; the rarest are worth
fortunes. Yet there is hardly a coin in
a numismatic catalogue valued at more
than £2O. Gold coins a thousand years
old fetch little more than the value of
the gold in them, and I have been offered
silver Roman coins for ss. apiece. Theo-
retically, there should be as much interest
in collecting the coinage of past civilisa-
tions and centuries as there is in collecting
little bits of colored paper that were once
stuck on letters.
% i\i He
“Shep”: Touching those railway lost-
property sales (B. 20/2/’35), there must
have been stacks of military “left-
behinds” in the war years. I remember in
Liverpool (N.S.W.) days having to meet a
campmate on Central Station on the way
back from leave, and finding him hatless
and inebriated. Though he had left his
hat on the ferry he insisted on inquiring
for it at the Lost Property Office on the
station. “I’ve lost me ’at,” he told the
attendant. “What sort?” came back at
him. The other became peeved when
we asked “Did you think it would
be a belltopper?” and slammed down a
pile of A.I.F. hats on the counter. My
mate picked out the best, and I swapped
mine for the next-best. Then we started
to remember greatcoats and caps we had
lost, but the unsympathetic attendant
bluntly told us to go to blazes.
A JUBILEE TIP!
Joe Lyons will be there, in the glow and the
, glare
Of the limelight that flickers and flashes.
With a team at his back like a cricketing pack
That’s come to recapture the Ashes.
Guests of honor by scores from Imperial
shores
In royalty’s smiles will be sunning ’em,
And the rep. and the mouthpiece of good old
Noo South
Will be smiling and sociable Dunningham,
Unfailingly jovial Dunningham.
There’ll be grave M.H.Rs. in the oversea stars,
And staid nominees Senatorial
With their presence will grace the home of the
race
For these celebrations memorial.
They’ll get the glad hand, all th& visiting band,
From the amiable hosts who are.running iem,
And they’ll all be in spats and belltopper
hats,
Including the jocular Dunningham,
The breezy, insouciant Dunningham.
There were three in the quotes for Assembly-
men’s votes
When the fateful decision was taken,
But the pace was too quick for Danny and
Mick;
It was Jack galloped home with the bacon.
Ceremonial shivoos give some people the blues,
But he’s never the fellow for shunning
’em...
And among the blithe blokes at the Derby
and Oaks
I’ll wager you’ll light upon Dunningham,
I’m taking a ticket on Dunningham.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


■ ’
'f S* '4.
mmm
FACTORY-FRESH
m
m
m
w
wen you open
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and keeps-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”—10 for 9 d * and 20 for 1/6
HUM
HIB2OM/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
POLITICAL POINTS
Vic. Labor will capture seats at the
State election, chiefly from the U.A.P.
It has promised restoration of 1929
salaries in the public service and work
for all the unemployed “at award rates” ;
and there are always mugs to be caught
with such stuff. But it will need to gain
17 seats (it had 16 in the last Assembly)
to be in a position to form a Govern-
ment, and the performance seems be-
yond its power. Lang made a greater
gain in 1930, and Tunnecliffe’s pro-
gramme is as reckless as Lang’s. But
lots of things have happened since 1930,
and it will be queer if the Victorians
have forgotten them.
Vic. Minister Kent Hughes described
himself as “a Fascist without a shirt” —
and denied that he was one ; threatened
to sack the president of the Public Ser-
vants —and climbed down; publicly
tore up a letter circulated by the Trans-
port Defence Council —and read in the
“Argus” that fellow-Minister Maltby
approved of it. Argyle can’t reconstruct
his Ministry before the election, but
Eight years ago when Macfarlan got
in for the Brighton Assembly seat there
was a big field of candidates, and if he
had any objection to “the open go” it
was not then recorded. Now, as U.A.P.
Attorney-General, he has one opponent,
Herring, and he has emitted a squeal.
A little group of schemers in Collins-
street is using Mr. Herring as a tool to get
me out of the road for its own purposes.
Rather is opposition the outcome of Mac-
farlan’s strange speech at the Australia
Day dinner, when he said that Australia
was “sending abroad representatives who
might not fight hard enough for Aus-
tralia —in an atmosphere of spats and
social amenities possibly Australian in-
terests would get into a mist.”
The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled
that Congress had the right to cancel the
gold clause in private bonds and Govern-
ment certificates, and that, though Gov-
ernment bonds containing a gold clause
must be redeemed in gold or the equiva-
lent in devalued currency, bondholders
are not entitled to sue. Oddly enough,
the Hughes who was Republican candi-
date for the Presidency in 1916 deliv-
ered the judgment, which has infuriated
his old party.
One of the dissenting Judges at Wash-
ington is reported to have said: —-
The Constitution is gone. This judgment
means that Congress can pay in a 60-cent
dollar, which may be 30 cents to-morrow
and 10 cents the'next day. I do not want
to talk about such matters, but it is my
duty.
It is a “duty” that need never be under-
taken by a Judge in a country where
the legislative power is supreme, as it is in
Britain. In national crises and emer-
gencies, the British system works much
better than the American system—or
ours. It can never go into a condition
of suspended animation while Judges
argue whether the income of a provincial
defaulter may be seized, as happened in
Lang’s case.
N.S.W. Governor Hore-Ruthven sum-
marises his conceptions of his job;
A Governor can advise his advisers; he
can warn, he can encourage, he can sug-
gest; but as long as his Ministers are the
chosen representatives of the people he
must defer to their advice.
The must goes too far. Governor De
Chair did not look at it in that way.
Neither, did Governor Game when Lang
tried to make the King a party to his
lawlessness.
Canada charges the Soviet with stirring
up trouble in the timber industry so that
it may get orders which Canada can’t
thus fulfil. The “comrades” must be
learning more from “capitalism” than the
mere technique of production.
Government railway freight-rate books
have become amazing productions, but
it has been reserved for the chairman
of the Vic. Transport Board to dis-
cover the most grotesque contribution.
He declares that a sheepman at Albury
can send his wool to Geelong, through
Melbourne, and then back from Geelong
to Melbourne at less cost than if he
freighted it direct from Albury to Mel-
bourne.
The A.W.U., which was supposed to
have such a reverence for industrial
arbitration, has the members of its West-
tralian mining branch back on the job
after their six weeks’ strike. They are
reckoned to have lost £215,000 and the
companies £187,000. The Government
lost £16,000 in wages- and hospital-
taxes and water rates, apart from its
share of 62,000 fine ounces not taken
out of the ground. It has, in addition,
lost caste with mining investors, and it
would lose its eight Ministerial jobs if
it had to go to the country this year.
Last September
the Douglas Credit
people ran tickets
for the Senate and
the House of
Reps, in most of the
States, and made
quite a good show-
ing in Victoria.
Now there is
only one Douglas
Credit man out for
Vic. Assembly—
Hollins in Haw-
thorn. An inglori-
ous anti-climax.
From Canada
comes the report
that a plan for try-
ing Douglas Credit
in Alberta has been
held up because
“it is not definite
when the Major
will arrive.” What,
is he squibbing,
too?
It seems that the
U.A.P.-U.C.P. elec-
ti o n agreement
that no “Govern-
ment member”
shall be opposed
does not apply to
Jarvie, the Ashfield
man, whose con-
nection with Mc-
Arthur trust cos.
drew some coldly
critical sentences
from a Royal Commissioner, The U.A.P.
central executive doesn’t want Jarvie, and
has virtually asked the local branches to
choose someone else. When the same
gentleman was under a political cloud
in 1929, the Bligh-street people, then
called Nationalists, let his constituents
pass judgment on him, and in common
fairness —the man is a returned soldier—
the same course ought to be taken this
time. In a word, pre-selection should be
dropped.
The strike at Brisbane abattoirs has
moved the State Industrial Court to issue
an extraordinary statement. It pleads
that since 1931 it has not reduced slaugh-
termen’s wages, “though wages at south-
ern abattoirs have fallen as much as 15s.
a week.”
The conduct of the union leaders might
yet compel the employers to seek the inter-
vention of the Federal Arbitration Court,
with disastrous results to the men. Appar-
ently they respect the Court which accords
their members the least favorable treat-
ment.
For artless candor this beats anything
that opponents of industrial arbitration
have ever said on the subject of “the two
shops.”
Pending the negotiation of a long-term
agreement, Britain is to clap import
duties on meat (fresh, frozen, chilled and
live animals): “a penny a pound foreign
and a halfpenny Dominion.” This plan
is to operate from July 1 next till Novem-
ber, 1936, when the arrangement with
Argentina will expire. Lyons and Page
were asked whether they were agreeable,
and they said yes. There was nothing
else to say.
Hartigan, the N.S.W. Railways Com-
missioner, has been permitted to raise the
salaries of his headquarters staff and
make additions to it, though the money
comes out of the taxes. Now he is going
abroad, also at the taxpayer’s expense,
and Deputy-Premier Bruxner says the
Government is pleased. It must be
dashed easy to please.
Willcock, the Westralian Minister for
“Just Us,” has been asked to explain
why penalties imposed on 144 Collie
coalminers for breaches of the industrial
law have not been enforced, and has
failed to reply. Possibly the gentleman
has been too busy attending to the affairs
“Major, shall we go out to swim?”
“Yes, my darling daughter! But don’t you venture beyond
the brim —I hate yon sort of water.”
of the Yellowdine concern of which he
is a director. If industrial arbitration is
“a new province for law and order,” as
the late Justice Higgins called it, the
King’s writ ought to run in it and judg-
ments ought to be executed, even if trade-
unionists are concerned.
It is now suggested that the Australian
Governments —there are seven, and each
is working on a deficit —should adopt
Mr. Benjamin Fuller’s opera co. on “a
put-in, take-out basis” —taxpayers to put
in, “company and theatre staff, about
200 in all,” to take out. Mr. B. Fuller’s
g.-m. asserts that it would be “a sound
business proposition.” Then why doesn’t
Mr. B. Fuller keep it going himself? And
since it is proposed that A.B.C. should
share the liabilities with the seven Gov-
ernments, why didn’t Mr. B. Fuller go
in for uproar when he had the broad-
casting contract with two other gentle-
men? The Auditor-General formed the
impression that they did very well out
of it.
Recently a Queensland Government
sedan car careered over an embankment
on a Richmond River (N.S.W.) road and
just missed plunging into the river. It
was reported that Deputy-Premier Percy
Pease was one. of the four passengers,
but it transpired that the Pease in it was
the politician’s son, who was accom-
panied by three other non-elected per-
sons. This started other non-elected per-
sons writing to the “Courier-Mail”
asking whether it was a fair thing that
politicians’ relatives should rush about in
Government cars. One asserted that the
same car had taken parties on three trips
to Sydney within two months ; adroitly
adapting a Labor slogan, he signed him-
self “Use the Railways—YOU Own
Them.” For once in his career Percy
has been frozen into silence.
Customs Minister White’s declaration
that the book censorship will not be
changed is flatly contradicted by the sug-
gestion of his own Government that there
should be free admission of all political
books which do not advocate violence,
and that the moral censorship should be
applied only to works of a pornographic
character. If the Government will only
carry out this suggestion without bias,
declining to read barricades and guillo-
tines into mere advocacy of economic
changes and pornography into scientific
and analytical studies of human nature,
nobody will have a kick left.
, It has rained Labor conferences lately.
In Sydney at the week-end Fed. Labor’s
N.S.W. branch, after listening to its forth-
right president Chifley and to Fed. secre-
tary Macnamara from Melbourne {he
remarked that the Langsters had accepted
“no portion of the unity agreement”),
said it would see the other faction in
Sheol before it would withdraw Fed.
Lab. candidates from the N.S.W. elec-
tions. In Maryborough the Queensland
Labor delegates did everything Forgan
Smith asked them to do, and placed him
in control of the party executive. Aus-
tralian Labor is happiest when it has a
Scotchman for leader. And it doesn’t
matter if he is dull so long as he is
truthful and honest.
Vic. Council of Churches has had the
temerity to enter party politics and advise
Caulfield electors to vote against Colonel
Harold Cohen on the ground that he has
“supported the liquor interest.” Cohen
resigned from the Leg. Council, where he
has done well, to contest a seat in the
House which offers him greater oppor-
tunities. He had a fine war record, and
is an able man in and outside politics.
The opposition of the Council of
Churches will hqrt him less than it will
hurt the Council of Churches.
Cotter, Labor M.L.A. for Richmond
(Vic.), objects to women going without
stockings, saying it creates unemploy-
ment. Cotter perhaps imagines that the
girl who is proud of her sun-tan ned legs
puts the money she would otherwise have
spent on stockings into a tin box and
buries it. The probabilities are that if she
wore stockings lipstick-makers would
suffer and picture-theatre receipts would
show a proportionate slump. These poli-
tical economists never seem to trace
things back to their source.
One of the many anomalies of this
mad world is that the Melbourne Metro-
politan Board threatens an increase in
water rates “owing to the wet summer.”
It is explained that a hot, dry summer
means a large consumption of water and
bigger revenue for the board. This sum-
mer nobody has wanted any excess water
—the rainfall has provided it all —and
the board’s coffers are thus depleted. To
add to its difficulties, the Government
insisted on the boiling-down of thou-
sands of the board’s fat cattle, alleged to
have —or have had —beef measles.


ROCKING THE BOAT.
“Three Ministers and a flock of public servants are accompanying Mr. Lyons to London.”
Prune Munster or no Prime Minister, if you don’t stop your delegation from crowding to one side I won’t answer for the safety of this ship.”


m
Do not miss
the King’s
Silver
Jubilee
celebrations
1935.
HOWARD
HOTEL
NORFOLK ST.
STRAND
LONDON
London’s luxury hotel, everything new and
up-to-date. Every room has either private
bathroom or running water, central heat-
ing and telephone. The restaurant is unsur-
passed, the bathrooms and suites are really
beautiful. Perfect environment for relax-
ation and pleasure. Close to ail Theatres.
12/6, including breakfast. Early reserva-
tion advisable. Wire: Howdotel London.
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
Booklet jrom “Bulletin/’ Sydney.
BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds £3,800,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds £900,000
AREA PLANTED: 156,415 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sy
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at Lon on,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melbourne, like Sydney University,
hangs out the board “No Australians
Need Apply for the Juiciest Plums.” R.
E. Priestley has arrived to fill the new
position of paid vice-chancellor. His
qualifications are high; he has a record
as an Antarctic explorer as well as a
scientist. But Victorians say there are
Australians equally fitted for the job.
Scrum-half Sub-Lieut. S. St. V. Welch,
who impressed British Rugger critics
when the R.N. beat the R.A.F. at
Twickenham, is doing a course at the
engineering college, Keyham. He is a
Blayney (N.S.W.) native, and won the
King’s Medal for “best and fairest
student when he passed out of Jervis
Bay.
Major Clowes has been “granted the
honorary rank of lieut.-colonel while
holding the appointment of C.O. troops
at Darwin.” Clowes was the first to
graduate from the R.M.C., and he is
the first product of the college to reach
his present rank. A gunner, he was at
the Landing, and he served in France
till the Armistice (D. 5.0., M.C., etc.). He
got his majority in T 6, and there stuck
under the rule that Duntrooners must
not be promoted to colonel’s rank.
Father Long, of Centralia, has a
300,000-square-mile parish. It stretches
from the Queensland border to Westralia
and from Oodnadatta to Newcastle
Waters. Father Long travels in a utility
truck with portable altar, vestments, food
supplies, water, spare parts, tools and
clothing, and petrol often costs him ss.
a gallon.
From Adelaide:
C. M. R. Dumas, dead at Mount Barker
(S A.) at 83, was founder of the local “Courier”
in 1880, and had been sole editor and pro-
prietor ever since. He was president (twice)
of the Australian Provincial Press Association:
and he held about every possible local office,
including a term in Parliament about 1900.
One of his sons, Lloyd (now in S’Africa with
the Press delegation), edits Adelaide “Adver-
tiser.”
Ronald Minchin, the new director of
Adelaide Zoo, follows his father, A.C.,
who died last September. He makes the
third generation, R. E. Minchin having
been the first head of the Zoo when it
developed in 1882 from the few original
cages in the Botanic Gardens.
Australia is the only Dominion with
representatives in British diplomacy;
Allen Leeper’s death at 48 has reduced
the number to four. Geoffrey Knox, late
of the Saar, finds himself at 50 able to
command practically any position offer-
ing in the British Consular service. The
others are Rex Leeper, Arthur Yencken
and Peter Garran. Of Allen Leeper Sir
John Simon wrote in the “Times”
(26/1/’35): “He did work of a kind
which justifies the claim that our civil
service is the best in the world.”
Stanley Ferguson, of S. Aus., was a
night air-mail pilot in the U.S.A. before
he crossed the Atlantic to pilot airliners
between London and the Continent. He
left America owing to a decision that
only American citizens may fly Uncle
Sam’s mails in future. Despite his
5000-odd hours’ flying experience, he had
to qualify for a “B”-class pilot’s license
before going aloft from English soil.
E. F. Playford, S.A.’s new Registrar-
General of Deeds, is the youngest son of
Thomas Playford, who was a Senator
(1901-06). E.F. was a Land official at
Darwin before the war. He went to
France with the 43rd, and after some
months in hospital ended as O.C. West-
ham Camp, near Weymouth.
From “Also R.A.N.”:
Excessive familiarity between his flagship and
last command has given Rear-Admiral S. R.
Bailey the unhappy distinction of being the
first English admiral to be court-martialled
since the war. He took over the Renown when
she returned from Australia with the Duke and
Duchess of York, and recently hoisted his flag
in the Hood after a spell on the naval staff
at the Admiralty. He was specially promoted
to lieut. for work with Seymour’s expedition
to relieve Pekin; and Beatty, who chose him
for his gunnery officer in the Grand Fleet,
never misses an opportunity of coming over for
a quick one when his yacht Sheelagh runs
across the battle cruisers. A command in this
squadron is always a sign of m’Lords’ favor,
and Bailey is an inspiring leader with a first-
class strategical brain.
R. O. Blackwood, the first to book a
passage on an England-Australia air-mail
’plane, is a Victorian pastoralist and
commercial magnate who has belonged
to the Melbourne Club for nearly half
a century. Though barely sft. 6in. he
was middleweight boxing champion at
Cambridge. He stood for Riverina in
the Reps. 30-odd years ago, and was
given the decision over J. M. Chanter
on a vote or so. Chanter demanded a
recount, and Blackwood was unseated by
a vote or so.
This is “Dick” Windeyer, leader of
the N. S. Wales Bar, as Frith saw him
last week during the marathon whisky
RICHARD WINDEYER. K.C.
case. His father was an eminent Supreme
Court Judge of the Victorian era. His
specialty is Common Law, and he has a
winning way with juries, but he also
shines in other jurisdictions. His hobbies
are yachting, the stage and backing for-
lorn political hopes.
“Exile” (London): Lord Beauchamp
was given a farewell dinner by his
admirers of the Reform Club before
leaving for Rome en route to Australia.
He has been a member of the Reform
for nearly 40 years. N.S.W.’s former
Governor has taken the house of his
friend Lord Berners, overlooking the Foro
Romano —the site from which R-omulus
first governed the city, and which has
seen more history made since than any
area of its size on earth.
“Jeames”: Lord Nuffield, who was a
commoner when last in Australia seven
years ago, is a curiosity amongst self-
made millionaires. He didn’t have to
leave home to make good. His father
was an Oxford townee, young Morris
went to a small school in an Oxford
suburb, started a garage in Oxford, and
now owns so much of the surrounding
country that the appearance of the city
of “dreaming spires” has been revolu-
tionised. There is a grey old Oxford in
a new red brick setting. Lord Nuffield’s
firm is now turning out cars at the rate
of one a minute (working time), and,
unless America’s New Deal confuses the
economists by proving a success, the
Morris fortune is expected to outdistance
that of Ford.
About a famous family:
C. T. Wedgwood, who has arrived in Aus-
tralia by way of S’Africa to conduct exhibi-
tions of his firm’s products, belongs to the
oldest family of potters in England. Josiah
is a Privy Councillor and D.S.O. (he served
with the R.N.A.S. in the World War), a
member of the Athenaeum Club and a Labor
M.P. His brother Ralph, who is general man-
ager of the L. and N.E. railway, also did well
in the war (C. 8., C.M.G.), and a nephew,
Geoffrey, won the Rome Scholarship in En-
graving. Stoke-on-Trent has been giving Eng-
land more or less eminent Wedgwoods for 200
years, and the great Staffordshire firm which is
the basis of the family fortune is now more
prosperous than at any time in its history.
In future when an urgent ’phone mes-
sage reaches Watson’s Bay telling of a
prospective suicide en route to the Gap,
a new policeman will take the necessary
steps. The 6ft. Sergeant J. T. Strong,
who has been steering people off this re-
sort for a couple of decades, has reached
the age-limit. He saved over 100 lives
first and last, several of them at the risk
of his own.
From a Sydney member of the Monck-
ton (Lord Galway) family:
Touching “Jeames’s” par (6/2/’35), my family
does not derive from “John Monckton in the
first half of the eighteenth century,” but goes
back to Simon Monckton, of Yorkshire, in
the year 1326. Also, no Moncktons living in
Napier or elsewhere in M.L. # belong to the
family except one, Rev. William Monckton,
living in Auckland'.
Lydia Allen, who died last
week in Melbourne, reached her 100th
birthday last August, and had lived in
Batman’s village for 83 years. Since
1853 she had occupied the house where
she died—a wooden building in Domain-
road, South Yarra, which was con-
structed of teak specially imported from
Singapore “to withstand the colonial
climate.” Miss Allen used to describe
the gloom of her friends when the gold
discoveries of ’5l leaked out. They
wanted Victoria to remain a sheepwalk
with an aristocratic land-owning caste.
Just started, with his wife, on a driving-
tour of Australia, Dr. Jiri Baum, from
Czecho-Slovakia, authority and author
on bird and insect life. His outfit,
which has had experience in other con-
tinents, is a six-wheel motor caravan,
complete with cases and cages and
camera dark-room, besides wireless and
the domestic conveniences. The route
planned is Westralian timber-country to
Kalgoorlie, thence eastward round the
coast by each capital to Brisbane and
(with luck) to Darwin for New Guinea.
“Wen”: When Bob Cobbler passed out
at Collarenebri (N.S.W.) the other day,
the Barwon tribe was left without a king.
Cobbler’s brass plate of office was pre-
sented to him by the late Sir Harry
Rawson. There is only one other king
in the north-west of the Ma State —
Charlie Hippi, of Toomelah. Charlie is
getting up in years, but he can still attend
social functions, with his brass plate on
his chest. Lord Stonehaven was the last
representative of King George to call
on the Toomelah monarch. Charlie’s
palace is the Toomelah Mission.
Some March birthdays:
A. C. C. Holtz (Melb. “Argus”), 61, on Ist;
ex-N.S.W. Customs Collector W. H. Barkley,
66, J. B. Cramsie (meat expert), 64, Eric
Spooner (N.S.W. Local Govt. Min.), 44, ex-
Q’land Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, 72, on
2nd; author Rev. Dr. Frank Boreham, 64, and
S. C.P. leader Malcolm Mclntosh, 47, on
3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 71, and N.S.W.
Senator A. K. Dein, 46, on 4th; Senator-
elect Lawson, 60, and Col. Spain (Syd.), 67,
on sth; Major-Gen. Bruche, 62, and naturalist
David Stead (N.S.W.), 58, on 6th; Dr. iEneas
McDonnell (Toowoomba), 71, on 7th; Lieut.
Wm. Dunstan, V.C., 40, and Prof. R. C.
Mills, 49, on Bth; medico-knight Colin Mac-
kenzie (Aus. Inst, of Anatomy, Canberra), 58,
on 9th; artist-knight John Longstaff, 73, Lieut.-
Col. J. P. Fry (Bris.), 55, and Speck Premier
A. G. Ogilvie, 44, on 10th; knight Frank
Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council Pres.), 56, G. S.
Knowles (Federal Solicitor-General), 53, Prof.
F. A. Todd (Syd.), 55, and N.S.W. Senator
Arthur Rae, 75, on 14th; Archbishop Hayden
(Hobart), 67, knight Wm. Goodman (Adel.
Tramways Trust), 63, Walter Lucas, pioneer
island trader, 66, Mat Charlton (ex-Federal
Labor leader), 69, and Prof. W. R. B. Gibson
(Melb.), 66, on 15th; N.S.W. Govt. Geologist
L. F. Harper, 62, on 17th; Prof. E. R. Holme
(Syd.), 64, novelist Bernard Cronin, 51, artist
Louis McCubbin, 44, and Alex. Melrose (Adel.),
46, on 18th; Capt. W. D. Joynt, V.C., 46, on
Nth; Vic. ex-Governor Somers, 48, poet Arthur
Bayldon, 70, former Federal Speaker Mackay,
63, Ben Fuller, 60, and Rev. John Armour
(Q.), 46, on 20th; E. A. Atherton (ex-Q’land
Min. for Mines), 56, and Monsignor Lonergan
(Administrator, St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Melb.),
47, on 22nd; knight Chas. Marr, M.H.R., 55,
Vic. ex-Agent-Gen. Geo. Fairbairn, 80, E. W.
Parkes (Clerk of House of Reps.), 62, and
novelist Roy Bridges, 50, on 23rd; N.S.W. Min-
ister Bruxner, 53, on 25th; knight Harry Gul-
lett, M.H.R., 57, ex-W.A. Senator de Largie, 76,
Prof. Melville (Adel.), 33, J. G. Bayley (ex-
M. for Oxley, now Q’land M.L.A.), 53, on
26th; Vic. Minister John Allan, 69, Peter Board
(ex-Director of Educ., N.S.W.), 77, Federal
Public Service Commissioner W. J. Clemens,
62, and Prof.-knight Wm. Mitchell (Adel.), 74,
on 27th; former W.A. Premier Walter James,
72, J. S. Macdonald (director N.S.W. Art Gal-
lery), 57, Josiah Francis, M.H.R., 45, N.S.W.
Solicitor-Gen. C. E. Weigall, 65, and
author Alex, Chisholm, 45, on 28th; Prof.
T. G. Tucker (Melb.), 76, G. V. Brooks
(Speck’s Director of Educ.), 58, W.A. Agent-
Gen. knight Hal Colebatch, 63, and L. V.
Biggs (Melb. “Age”), 62, on 29th; former
N. Gov. Philip Game, 59, and Speck
Senator Sampson, 53, on 30th; Bishop O’Col-
lins (Geraldton), 43, S.A. Premier Butler, 50,
Bishop-Coadjutor Wylde (Bathurst), 55, Adel.-
born Prof. W. Lawrence Bragg, F.R.S. (Nobel
Prize winner), 45, N.S.W. Chief Sec. Chaffey
47, Hon. W. L. R. Clarke, M.L.C. (Vic.), 59,
and ex-Federal Speaker Norman Makin (M.H.R
for Hindmarsh), 46, on 31st.


m ft#' Ml
I ~ wmm 2 « m
SKS?
wm
wm
///■■.
d
w///.
WM
Wmmm
m,.
Wmmi
m
m
. I
wm- mmk
I
mm
Wfl
mmm
mm.
WM
mi
I
agf-mi
Jr 1:
V/
**4? ,
%|:|:|
mm
m
Mddddm.
wrnrnmmm
m
MMmmm
Mi l
iiiiiii
•Mi
iySt;*:*
fayydt-y/'Zi
WM,
wdmmmm
m
m
m
ggs*
jsv::
W
■££;?;iSg:£
M
:v:-:v;x-%vv:'::<
i :
HI
WAS
SSI*
:¥:¥:
asa
{Because Built to Minimise
Generated Heat—the Main
Cause of* Tyre Destruction.
Laboratory and working tests prove conclusively
that the terrific heat generated by road friction
is the main cause of tyre destruction. And
Barnet Glass engineers have perfected a Truck
Tyre in which that tendency to heat is minimised
I —is reduced by a scientific balance between the
stretch of rubber and cords. These vital cords of
long staple cotton of high tensile strength, are
effectively insulated by a coating of specially
compounded heat-resisting rubber. And this,
with a deep-cut, slow wearing tread which grips
and holds , and heavily buttressed walls that give
stability . . enables truck owners to reduce over- i
heads and bus owners to keep running to schedule. I
HEAT RESISTING - ARMOURED WALLS - CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS
fds
TUBES
MT5Ba-35.


m
v
FotMS'v.T' • wP W, ■■?■■■>
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
l.aneb from 18 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.). Dinner from 6.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on reguest.
Directors:
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD THOS. BUOKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman* J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
-arOkl
PUMPMOBIL
I
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
to To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 44,435 7 p.c. = 12,080 17,000 15,355 50,380
Added reserves, £7069.. .. •• 57,449
1928.. 34,796 7 p.c. = 13,522 12,000 9,274 66,723
Reserves drawn on, £13,312 . . .. 53,411
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
Deficit.
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil 50,333
Profit.
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
Loss.
1934.. 567 Nil Nil 56,071
includes bad debts written off.
The activities of this big semi-co-opera-
tive distributor embrace all the most im-
portant branches of primary production
in its home State. It borrowed heavily
to lend, and wheat (as agent for the pool
and others it handles nearly two-thirds
of the grain in the State) dominates the
finances. Hence the losses, due mostly
to allowances for bad debts, and the con-
tinued absence of divs. and bonuses to
clients. The next table helps to explain
the reason why:
Westradia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel. per Acre.
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. B*d. £2/15/4
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7Jd. £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 13.5 Is. 10|d. £l/5/9
1932.. 41,521,000 13.1 2s. Sfd.f £l/15/7
1933.. 41,792,000 12.3 2s. sd. £l/9/9
1934.. 37,305,000 11.7 2s. 2id. £l/5/7
1935*. 27,000,000 10.0 2s. 3d. £l/2/6
*Estimate. tßxcludes 4id. bounty.
The fall in the price has enormously in-
creased the burden of debt expressed in
terms of the grain. When wheat was fetch-
ing ss. a bushel, and costs were, say,
35., leaving a margin of 25., it took 700
bushels to pay an interest bill of £7O
(=7 p.c. on £1000). With wheat selling
at 2s. 3d., and with costs at Is. 6d. (few,
if any, have been able to reduce costs
to this figure), would take 1333 bushels
to pay an interest bill of £5O (= 5 p.c.
on £1000). To help relieve the strain,
the co. has lowered its handling and
other charges, and is encouraging clients,
who previously relied entirely upon
wheat, to mix grain with sheepgrowing.
This looks like a way out, though the
escape may not be a quick one.
During the last term gross earnings
from all sources were £2298 lighter,
despite a growth of over 100 p.c. in mer-
chandising sales:
Gross Profit. Exes.t Net Profit.
1927.. £370,664 £326,229 £44,435
1928.. 340,809 306,013 34,796
1929.. 285,028 274,687 10,341
Loss.
1930.. 254,217 269,089 4,872
1031.. 264,830 319,180 64,350*
1932.. 232,391 249,244 16,853*
1933.. 201,137 201,137 *
1934.. 198,839 198,839 *
*Not allowing for reserve adjustments.
•(Includes allowance for bad debts, etc.
Owing to extra handling of wheat, fol-
lowing the March, 1934, rains, ordinary
trading exes. (£172,569) were £5740
heavier, leaving a surplus of £26,270
(down £8038). This was sent to the bad
and doubtful debts reserve, to which the
p. and 1. account has contributed
£244,037 over the last five years. The
small loss shown in the introductory
table is due to minor reserve adjustments.
The extent to which the co. had gone
into debt, and other things, are seen in
the next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
IQ9R 1090 1099 10.94-
Paid capital.. £193,243 £212,567 £213,790 £213,716
Debentures .. 137,736 140,901 107,730 108,802
Overdraft . . 179,193 212,607 I fiQ o aoa sqB 957
Other liabilities 259,493 622,587 J G 93 ’ 434
Freeholds, etc. 92,575 130,612 148,058 130,149
Plant, etc. .. 60,354 62,188 37,190 34,333
Shares in other
cos., etc. .. 16,120 48,570 48,705 108,422
Stocks .. 197,798 159.018 119,311 112,139
Debtors ~ 490,494 818,640 599,279 464,214
Cash, etc. .. 11,709 10,950 9,765 14,946
The year’s reductions of £135,065 in
debtors’ balances, £7172 in stocks and
£20,766 in the book value of fixed assets
enabled £95,177 to be knocked off the
amount coming to the bank and others,
and £59,717 to be added to shares in
other cos., etc. The addition was on
account of advances to Co-Op. Bulk
Handling, Ltd., and the acquisition of
scrip in Westralian Wheat Farmers, Ltd.
Excluding shareholdings, etc., the excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids
increased by £42,951, reaching £115,760.
North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ & £ £
Dec., 1924.. 48,664 8 p.c. = 46,113 2,551 36,424
Premiums on shares, £1983.. .. 38,407
Dee., 1925.. 48,501 8 p.c. = 48,387 144 38,521
Premiums on shares, £7130.. .. 45,651
Dec., 1926.. 48,344 8 p.c. = 51,675 42,320
Premiums on shares, £12,463 .. 54,783
Dec., 1927.. 56,785 8 p.c. = 56,695 90 64,873
Dec., 1928.. 59,254 8 „ ~ 59,254 54,873
Dec., 1929.. 59,191 8 „ ~59,254 54,810
Dec., 1930.. 41,707 7 „ ~51,847 44,670
Dec., 1931.. 48,496 6$ „ ~ 48,144 352 45,022
Dec., 1932.. 44,782 6 „ ~ 44,440 842 45,364
Dec., 1933.. 44,928 6 „ ~ 44,440 488 45,852
Dec., 1934.. 44,483 6 „ ~ 44,44.0 43 45,895
The drop in interest rates and com-
petition for sound securities with a more
or less assured return have sent the co.’s
pound shares from 235. 9d. to 275. 4d. in
the market over the last two years. At
275. 4d. (the figure was never higher) the
return is 4.4 p.c. on the statutory 6 p.c.
div. basis.
The div. was lowered from 8 p.c. to
6 p.c. by the N. S. Wales Gas and Elec-
tricity Act of 1932, which placed the in-
dustry under control of a commission—
one member represents the Government,
another the cos. and a third the employees.
The price of gas to the consumer is fixed
at a figure which will allow the cos. to
pay a 6 p.c. div., after meeting, exes.,
including interest on loan funds, and set-
ting aside not more than 3 p.c. p.c.
under the old Act) of capital outlay on
buildings and plant for special purposes
and depreciation.
The quantity of gas sold last year
(835.8 million c.f.) increased 20.6 p.c.
Yet returns therefrom were £1527 lighter,
due to two cuts, totalling 5d., in the
price to the consumer (now ss. Bd. per
1000 c.f.) towards the close of 1933:
Per 1000 Per 1000
Revenue: — 1933. c.f. 1934. c.f.
Gas sales ..£238,446 5/9| £236,919 5/8
Residuals, etc. 50,068 1/2$ 48,981 1/2
Exes.:—
Manufacture.. 118,988 2/10f 113,046 2/8$
Distribution.. 58,104 1/5 62,293 l/5f
Special purposes 22,000 -/6$ 22,100 -/6-i
Other charges 44,494 1/1 43,978 1/0$
The most encouraging feature there is
the drop of £5942 (2|d. per 1000 c.f.)
in the cost of manufacture, despite a
rise of Is. a week in the basic wage.. The
saving was due mainly to the fall in the
price of coal. The amount (£22,100) sent
to the special purposes fund was about
two-thirds of the statutory limit, while
the amount spent on replacements and
renewals and charged against this fund
was £35,009 (up £8595), reducing the lay-
by to £47,429. In addition, £32,388 (up
£1505) was spent on maintenance and
repairs and charged to revenue.
Another heartening feature is the
board’s decision to instal 18 new vertical
retorts and additional coal- and coke-
handling plant at Oyster Cove. The
saving in costs will more than meet the
charge on the extra capital outlay, the
chairman says, and the co. anticipates
that it will be able to further reduce the
price of gas. The year’s expenditure on
new equipment and transfer of some old
plant to Oyster Cove was £38,627, of
which £22,181 was charged to special
purposes.
To widen the use of gas and liven
sales, producers have decided to form a
National Gas Association.
When the books closed, the share capi-
tal (£740,675) and various reserves
(£115,543) were supplemented by
£310,000 of 4\ p.c, debentures, £83,653
of temporary loans at 2\ p.c. to p.c.,
and £68,532 coming to sundry creditors.
Fixed assets figured at £1,270,318, and
more or less liquids totalled £48,085.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sj £,£*£>
1924.. 21,726 7* p.c. = 16,876 4850 29,182
1926.. 13,882 7 „ „ 15,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 22,275
1927.. 11,733 7 „ „ 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8,030 5 „ „ 11,250 15,038
1929.. 3,082 2} „ „ 5,625 12,496
Deficit.
Provision for doubtful debts, £10,226 } gg 801
Provision for contingencies, £69,070 )
Loss.
1930.. 8,199 Nil 75,000
1931.. 30,021* Nil 75,000
1932.. 16,474* Nil 75,000
1933.. 18,011* Nil 75,000
1934.. 37,662 Nil 112,662
*Debited to contingency reserve.
David Mitchell set this now-ailing dry-
goods business on its feet with money he
had made storekeeping at Ipswich in the
sixties of last century. The co.’s con-
nections are largely in the country dis-
tricts, and much of its funds have been
used in carrying stocks on clients’ shelves.
For the 10 generally fat years to the end
of 1929, the small reserves were raided
for £21,324 to pay divs. averaging 6.5
p.c. Owing to the plight of wheat and
other farmers, small storekeepers have
since been unable to meet the whole-
saler’s bill in full, and demand has
centred mainly upon cheap lines, carry-
ing margins too narrow to support this
co.’s costs, including the cost of distribu-
tion. Thus for each of the last five
years trading has resulted in a loss, bad
debts have exceeded expectations and
the Kent- and Clarence-street properties
have been a drag.
Here is a close-up view of what has
happened;—
( Losses v
Property
Trading. Upkeep. Bad Debts, etc. Total.
1930.. £8,189 £10,226 £18,415
1931.. 8,542 £3,708 17,771 30,021
1932.. 5,579 3,223 7,672 16,474
1933.. 3,932 2,968 11,111 18,011
1934.. 3,767 2,591 31,304 37,662
£30,010 £12,490 £78,084 £120,583
In 1930 the board made what was then
considered liberal provision (£69,070) for
contingencies. At the close of last
accounts, the lot and £37,662 besides had
evaporated, leaving £112,662 (=los. Id.
per share) of the capital unrepresented by
tangibles in the books.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1930 1932 1933. 1934
Paid capital. £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages, etc. 55,633 42,546 42,478 42,478
Overdraft ~ 51,540 68,933 74,341 71,163
Sundry creditors 29,653 30,423 28,557 27,338
Freeholds .. 47,85 0 4 6,650 4 6,650 46,650
Plant .. 4,935 5,089 6,072 6,842
Stocks .. 78,175 59,060 51,386 62,419
Investments. . 22,398 28,491 28,781 29,191
Book debts.. 194,379 152,537* 162,413* 118,026*
Cash .. 8,159 75 74 188
* After deducting contingency reserve, etc.
The year’s net reduction in debtors’ bal-
ances was £44,387, making the contrac-
tion £76,353 since 1930. Over the same
period £4153 net has been added to the
outside debt, and the shrinkage in the
more or less liquids (now £29,654, includ-
ing stocks but not investments) was
£114,233, of which £38,843 was in re-
spect of the last term. The losses are
thus gradually consuming working capi-
tal. Investments consist of scrip, etc.,
in the subsidiary, Mitchell’s Factories,
Ltd.
The market prices the pound shares at
3s. 4d., thus valuing the undertaking at
£74,925, or £37,413 less than its net tan-
gible book figure.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 9,249 10 p.c. = 11,354 124,040
1925.. 13,710 10 „ „ 11,355 2,355 126,395
1926.. 13,778 10 „ „ 11.355 2,423 128,818
1927.. 12,722 11 „ „ 12,490 232 129,050
1928.. 14,683 12 „ „ 13,620 1,057 130,107
1929.. 13,643 12 „ ~13,626 17 130,124
1930.. 11,394 11 „ ~12,490 129,028
Unexplained additions to reserves, £30,000.. 159,028
1931.. 14,363 12 p.c. = 13,626 737 159,765
1932.. 14,522 12 „ ~ 13,626 896 100,661
Unexplained additions to reserves, £20,000.. 180,661
1933.. 51,085 384tp.e.=43,716 7,369 188,030
1934.. 22,058 16 „ ~18.168 3,890 191,920
flncludes special cash bonus of 25 p.c.
The figures in that table suggest that
the management has been able to fore-
cast the erratic markets of the last few
years with uncanny precision, or it may
have been extraordinarily lucky. Despite
the collapse of prices and other difficul-
ties, declared net earnings over the last
four years averaged £25,507, as against
£13,110 for the four preceding ones.
Over the same periods, and including a
special 25 p.c. cash bonus sent out with
the final div. for 1933, shareholders have
averaged 19.6 p.c. and 11.5 p.c. respec-
tively. Further, the visible growth in net
tangibles over the last eight years
amounts to £63,102. It is a unique
experience in a very difficult trade.
Maoriland’s export-price index (1909-
13 = 1000) for meat (it includes lamb and
mutton) averaged 1827 for 1929; 1109,
1932; 1165, 1933; and 1518 last year.
The strong and persistent rise in the price
of wool and pelts helped to put some of
the spring in 1933 earnings. After pro-
viding for contingencies, etc., last year’s
net result was £29,027 lighter. Still, it
was 19.5 p.c. on capital as against 44.9,
12.7, 12.6, 10, 12.9 and 11.2 p.c. back
to 1927. The div. was lifted points,
making 16 p.c. for the year, and £3890
was added to reserves, raising the heap
£78,373 higher than paid capital.
During the year £20,322 more was
spent on fixed assets than was written
off:
1924. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £113,539 £113,547 £113,547 £113,547
Liabilities .. 40,587 89,862 155,154 222,418
Works .. 121,946 129,274 177,996 198,318
Stocks . . 22,861 63,582 47,748 60,645
Book debts,
cash, invest-
ments, etc. 139,037 177,130 267,890 278,573
Liabilities (up £67,264) include an un-
specified amount for contingencies. The
slip in the more or less liquid surplus
(£116,800) was £43,684, due to the outlay
on fixed assets and payment of special
bonus already referred to.
The prefs. (26,160 of them) enjoy
priority as to capital, and advance with
the ords. beyond 5 p.c. The market
prices both lots of. scrip at 78s. as
against 365. two years ago. At the
higher figure the return is 4.1 p.c. on a
16 p.c. div. basis.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £,£*£>
1924.. 15,460 6 p.c.= 15,233 227 64,588
1925.. 19,348 7 „ „ 19,303 45 64,633
1926.. 24,254 8 ~,, 22,567 1,687 66,320
1927.. 9,594 3 „„ 8,463 1,131 67,451
1928.. 17,536 6 „ „ 16,925 611 68,062
1929.. 10,134 3 „ „ 8,463 1,671 69,733
1930.. 15,459 54 „ „ 15,515 69.677
1931.. 7,910 3 „ ~ 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 24,,,, 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 24 ~ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 ~ „ 14,195 1,467 67,464
This co., set up in 1875, is Sydney’s
oldest milk distributor, and it does
a large bread, butter, ice-cream and
cold storage business as well. Since the
beginning of this century, when £73,384
was struck off capital to cover
drought losses —it was restored by the
gifts of 1911 and 1913—the richest patch
was the 10 years to the close of accounts
in 1920, when divs, averaged 10| p.c.;
for the next 13 years the average was
5.4 p.c. The business-kept on expanding,
but owing to competition, which means
price-cutting, and mounting costs the co.
got no benefit from the larger trading.
Now that the distribution and price of
milk are controlled by legislation (but not
{Continued on page 18.)


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
GOLDEN AGE AMALGAMATED
NO LIABILITY
(To be Registered Under the Companies Act 1893 of Western Australia .)
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £120,000 (Divided into 600,000 Shares of 4/- each).
400.000 Shares are now offered for public subscription, payable 2/- application and 2/- allotment.
100.000 Shares will be issued to the Vendors as fully paid in terms of the Agreement herein mentioned as part consideration for the acquisition of the
mining properties erein re erre to. The Vendors will utilise £BOOO of the cash consideration for the purchase of ordinary shares in the
Company to that amount.
100.000 Shares ° f 4/ ’ each shall be held in reserve to be dealt with as the Directors of the Company may from time to time determine.
600.000
TT , PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
Hon. Hubert S. W. Parker, M.L.0., Barrister, Howard Street,
Perth, W.A.
Thomas J. Martin, Esq., Investor. Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Charles Horn, Esq., Investor, High Street, Fremantle, W.A.
Leo I. Atkins, Esq., Contractor, 36 Thomas Street, West
Perth, W.A
BANKERS;
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited.
BROKERS:
Messrs. A. G. BIRD & SONS (Members of the Stock Exchange
of Perth), Surrey Chambers, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, W.A.
And applications may be made through any member of the
Stock Exchange of Perth.'
SOLICITORS-.
Messrs. PARKER & ROE, Howard Street, Perth, W.A.
AUDITORS':
Messrs. O. L. HAINES & CO., Chartered Accountants (Australia),
Perpetual Trustee Buildings, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth. W.A.
SECRETARY (Pro Tem.) :
W. A. CAROARY, Esq., Chartered Accountant (Australia),
V-12 Warwick House (Third Floor), St. George’s Terrace.
Perth. W.A.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
~ The Company is being formed for the purpose inter alia of acquiring from the Vendors,
the Golden Age Mining Company Limited, the following mining properties
(a) Gold Mining Lease 5613 Z in which is contained the following mines, “Golden Age,”
“Two Dicks,” “Little Wonder,” “The Nugget” and the “Baden-Powell.”
(b) Prospecting Area No. 1625 Z.
(c) Prospecting Area No. 1632 Z.
(d) Prospecting Area No. 1633 Z.
(e) Gold Mining Lease 5614 Z known as the “Florence.”
(/) Gold Mining Lease 5600 Z known as the “Maori Chief.”
LOCALITY OF PROPERTIES.
T !' e G . olden fge Group, including the “Maori Chief,” is situated approximately one mile
I?' Menzies, and about a quarter of a mile from the “Lady Shenton” mine. The “Florence”
in e adjoins the Lady Shenton” on the Northern boundary. The properties cover 104 acres.
WORK DONE.
“The Golden Age”
Ibis mine is down to 80 feet vertical with an underlay of approximately 275 feet.
“The Two Dicks”
A new prospecting shaft has been sunk to 97 feet and the lode which is being developed,
free gold encountered at this de P th over a width of 4ft., and rich stone has been cut, showing
“The Baden-Powell”
A new piospeeting shaft has been sunk to 15 feet and a quartz reef was encountered. A
gran sample dollied gave a return of about 15dwts. per ton.
“The Maori Chief”
r P nt,^ e^hoO C -i :h ev e / b r ftS \ Ms i ea , S E e o The North Shaft is sunk to 114 feet vertical, the
Genual Shaft is 67 feet vertical and 152 feet to the face of the present workings, where the
ore .body has been opened up for a width of 7 feet over a length of 20 feet.
Assay samples taken by the Company’s Manager gave ISdwts. lOgrs., loz. 4dwts., 12dwts
ogis., and 2oz. Bgrs. Systematic sampling by an independent Mining Engineer from this
shaft and assayed by R. de Passey, Certificated Assayer and Metallurgist, Analytical Chemist
halgoorlie, shows 4dwts. 4grs., 3dwts., 6dwts., 2oz. Hdwt., loz. Bdwts. Bgrs. A crushing of
647 tons was treated for a return of 737.410z5. fine gold, showing a return of over loz "per
ton over the plates. r
The South Shaft is down 85 feet.
to expend'over 0 ! Maoli Chief haS 1)6611 proved through numerous prospecting shafts
“Florence”
tl „ . is si tuated on the North West boundary of the Lady Shenton leases. In the
denth of enn w « )ntlnua * lon of r the Lady Shenton lode was worked in this property to a
. 30 ° feet a return of 3475 tons of ore for 3349.3 fine ofcs. of gold. A cloee-
tiinhered two-compartment shaft sunk to 300 feet is in excellent order.
HISTORY AND REPORTS.
crushed 6 ° f fi Min6s ,? f W6s ]; 6ri) Australia records show that 6164.36 tons wore
Age treated o/"® ? >ld ’ a , nd ! hat du T g the - veavs ™27-1938 inclusive the Golden
Age treated 1006 tons of ore for a. handsome return of 3250 ozs. flue gold.
REPORT BY MR. E. J. GOURLEY.
Engineer, late Chief Inspector of Mines West Australian Government dated
January 31, 1935.
This report states inter alia: —
Minina
THE MAORI CHIEF MINE (Lease No. 5600 Z. containing 24 acres).
The Railway to Menzies passes through this Lease.
There are three shafts, two of which are sunk in the hanging wall two chains West of
the outcrop. Ihe North shaft is down to a depth of 114 feet vertical and has cut the lode
"“t at the present time is inaccessible. Most of the dump has been crushed, amounting to
some 200 tons, and yielded 4J to 5 dwts. per ton.
,r„ T b< ? shaft has been sunk 67 feet vertical and then on the underlay to a depth of
1.)2 feet. The stuke and dip of the lode is 50 degrees South West, and consists of greenstone
differei l l"'phi ces conslderable quantity of quartz which intersects the lode formation in many
. . J, h f re , is a main shaft sunk to a depth of 85 feet South West of the workings,
?, uoualF to cut the lode at a depth, and, while the shaft appears in good order, I estimate
torn,refft another 120 feet will have to be sunk to cut the values and to give a large
tonnage to stope out It certainly appears as though this lode will live down a great depth
to mef is very Se satisfactory SampleS ’ ° f whlch 12 were taken > was ldd wts. llgrs., which,
; THE TWO DICKS.
The shaft is down to a depth of 100 feet and there is a strong cross course in the
bottom on which a, small patch of rich stone was struck, and in almost everv instance in
enzies the throw of these is down and to the East. I therefore advise sinking another 20 feet
or driving from the present bottom South East.
• * .w! 1 .,.?* opinion, after inspecting the Golden Age workings on many occasions, that the
mine should be unwatered, for while what is known as the bottom shoot where the large
tonnage of high values was mined after passing through a cross course this shoot of nr» I*
somewhat broken up in the bottom, probably disturbed by another cross course yet there is
another shoot adjoining on the West to some extent over the top of the mafn reef which
avereg™vahfes. lnspectlOD ’ 18 stlll S° ln £ down in the bottom of the underlay with good
THE FLORENCE LEASE (containing 8 acres).
into thl™lease he ° Plnl ° n that the Friday reef > the Leonidas and Falconers reefs should converge
ss
£°™he th bert‘mine 'on'at (Should
tn e best mine to start on at the moment with the necessary machinery.
Kalgoorlie, January 31, 1935. GOURLEY ’ Minin ? En g in «* (Late Inspector of Mines).
REPORT BY MR. NORMAN S. STUCKEY, Mining Engineer.
(Dated January 31. 1935.)
This report states inter alia: —
dMrsj “• ooiaen Aee «"•» of ■— ••
more’VS seXdte%sch d< " !l0Pl ” i! W ble «» «
" iam " *— ™ d <• ™ «-
su* - «*• «•*“ -
fr .. . . . THE FLORENCE LEASE.
Se C, «*«■ >«-. « «»
The extensions of the Shenton lodes travm-so’ , . , , , ,
has P two™ evels & ° * orth Shenton boundary and
-«* * “•
190 fee^from^he 1 South I '^ l ? U -u the Eastern boundary of the lease at
course and just outside the North an< s * rlkes East and West. North of this cross
which extensive been done on^Vlenf °/ the l ea f. th T are two deep shafts
aone on a lens of ore striking North West and underlaying
and pitching into the Florence lease. From one crushing of 900 tons about 2500 oz. were
obtained here. I could not ascertain the total return. It seems probable that where this
ore channel strikes the cross course, an enrichment will occur.
Further West the Leonidas line of reef should enter the Florence lease at a point about
200 feet West of the North East comer peg. There are two branches of this line of reef and
both should strike the cross course before referred to, and an enrichment should be looked for
at or near the junction. The Leonidas line of reef has yielded a considerable amount of gold
and the pitch of the payable shoots being Southwards it is likely that gold will be met with
where they are cut in the Florence lease.
Where displacement occurs of ore bodies cut by cross courses (in the Menzies field) the
displacement is usually Eastward when going South and is up to 150 feet with possibly some
downward throw as well.
!t would be good prospecting work to drive from the Florence main shaft Northwards and
follow the cross course when intersected. As the rich ore shoots are usually • short, careful
sinvey and calculation should be made to choose the best horizon before this work was done,
"he most experienced men, accustomed to Menzies conditions, are of opinion that the Florence
lease is very favorably situated, and if properly explored may yield large quantities of gold.
It has already yielded about 3400 tons of ore for 3300 ozs.
• vT here , a , re otbei ' ore bodies further North and East of the Florence East boundary that
might underlay into the Florence ground at depth.
GOLDEN AGE GROUP OF LEASES.
• Th ? Golden A " e . I ? as ?> Application No. 5613 Z, lies to the South East of the Lady Shenton
mine at Menzies and includes three lines of lode from each of which considerable amounts of
gold nave been won.
Kt riJ^,S a hoot !i’ V V ° S 1 ™ mber > are situated at the North end of the lease and
i 3, i d West f a " d underlay South at about 45 degrees. The most Northerly of these
inn w outeropped at surface and was worked by a Company down to about 80 feet to
iitVlw w i dC Ti } Va f el,t ofl and throWll to the East-by a vertical cross course
TO 4 feet to pw W i S , tnk t e - 0 0 3 i at ? r . lt was , found South of the cross course, the throw being
70 teet to East, and about 20 feet downwards,
in a A South l9°;,"pa!ly" pa ! ly to 250 feet vertical depth was cross cut at bottom
ffl-ar svjsvsjeta
S’ AT&i 0 b^it by wa d B n^h North and SoUth - This ore bod;v was smal1 ’ max ™
2 f° £** shaft , be oleaned 01lt and cross cut and vein be carefully
i P t? be tbe cap of a very valuable ore shoot,
ther development of these bodies might, disclose valuable ore at little cost.
LITTLE WONDER ORE BODY.
At a distance of 400 feet West of the Golden Age line lies the Little Wonder line This
contained some very rich ore, crushing up to 20 ozs. per ton.
v TWO DICKS ORE BODY.
Southand^ ln u e nderlavs e West in if par l °I the Goldcn A^c lease and strikes North and
Vielded 78n tnnf m -7on 9 14 'it be l n . worked over a considerable length in old days and
11elded 780 tons for ,20 ozs. in the portion worked down to the 80ft level
3 been S “f to 97 feet where has cut the lode, a quartz leader in which about
”’ ch r, g , lve f T h prospects. The balance of lode, about 3ft. wide of LCt is low
be developed. 018 b j Sh ° uld be dnVen 011 North and South and liable ore will almost certainly
carefiv er ™ n ined at been ; ob ‘ ained in the Golden Age lease should be further
™w n Q n . 1 , s difficult country to prospect and the ore bodies are easily missed
as has been shown by the experience of the Lady Shenton mine. y ’
for 6515 a he P r f en * Golden Age lease show a total of 3000 tons
In .gold:, the piesent-day value of this return being about £52,000
Jn addition: to the workings described, at about the 50ft level a reef has been driven on
for a considerable distance North and youth in the Golden Age workings ft is loviJrade
produ “
_ . , the MAORI CHIEF.
. Jhislease, which lies to the South East of the Golden Age lease, with which it is connected
by the North Maori Chief and the Golden Age East leases (both included in your holdimrsl
s traversed by a line of lode from North to South, a distance of 20 chains in all Thence the
h f S ° Uth 18388 “ ,d haS bee " WOrked by shallow shafts and
require? 6 wmprLed Zh. M h3S ***” m ° Stly C ° nflned to the top 50 feet Below that it
bore T and S ™ is -° f a hard blaek **fatoße nature, which would
panning" showed T.ee gold. ThBre 18 a COnsiderable a ™™t of pyrite present, but
The great length of this line of lode gives warrant to exoeot fhaf it win u T r« fr,
z r™ “c a« A levei ■ h ” ia * ■>-»» »•>» “ 2 st,c t i?„rs suv
to tr- most Westerly shaft down to the bottom level and
and one fomwidetof B b ® f en the °re might average between four feet wide
Tht ‘he walls ha.ve not been examined, and payable width might be greater
nvo f™ ne 5 a fair mmmg risk and might yield 10,000 tons per level if the payable
ore shoot is continuous. All ore raised has been taken away and crushed P J
whichhgav^aVtverao’c 8 valm" of l^Vt” 8 + for 7 37 and this return supports two samplings
and u/rt. 9m . tk f 19 , d ?' te - to the stQ P e a t the bottom level over 20 feet long
22 dwts/per ton* Th<i °'' e br ° ken m the cxt,eme b »ttom of this opening crushed for
January 31, 1935. (Sgd.) N. S. STUCKEY.
PROSPECTS.
Possibl eS«s for optimism in future. When the
ssc
mZmp'iS “plpio r M,,r
value ol thfp'SertT b “ r testimmy to the
properly S 3 7«My “Se“ ' °‘ •*» *• >"“«> »•
. . , AGREEMENT.
Golden ll l 01 eb ™ ary ’ 1935 > has boen entered into between the
Perth as Trustee for (the Vei ? dors ) a "d John E. Roe, Solicitor, Howard Street,
for the pvrrfase o the ri !F any ’ wb . ere,n it: is set forth that the total consideration
sharerof 4s each in rhe ahovementmnad properties is £20,000 in cash and 100,000 fully-paid
in the purchase of ordinary «h 16 vc : nd °?' also agreeing to utilise £BOOO of the cash consideration
draft the - C ! > : to that amount. The Agreement, together with the
and Roe Solicitors t *l9 9 6 of Association, can be inspected at the office of Messrs. Parker
ana itoe. feolieitois to the Company, Howard Street, Perth.
. .. . APPLICATION and allotment.
members l 15 ?. lo<igCd at , the offlces of the Company’s Brokers, or with
Ho^e^ThirdbFlwr^SL^GTOrge’s^Teriuc^^Pertli' 1111 the (P? ’° at 2 Warwick
ST4i ISSST 2h per ' h " e
*t5T<UE3g? , “ and lo such pe ““ " *° rcfU!e
applied for ree in’ S the Ivent nmo’ Y P rocc ; ed l 9° allotment when 200,000 Shares have been
returned ?n full to suKbers. 1 ~0t beln * ™ bsclib «l, application moneys will be
DATED at PERTH this 14th day of February. 1935.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF ACSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0 Sl.
F "“S Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of C »W«S P Tbbif‘“1 o “her
BEARING and ANTIFRICTION METALS.—' Graphme, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers own specmcations
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and p nnters Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers own specification. r ,
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company s
offices, viz.: — „ _ __
a , Offlee- 25 S"ti'S P °“ T !Son™ Collin. Streei.
Sydney “ "E.ntype,” Sydney, Melbourne or PoriiK—.
’jins exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the rehnery.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House. 32 Martin Place. Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £soo*ooo.
All classes Marine. Fire and Accident Insurance covered at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: 74-76 Eagle Street. Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
VK/ n RRO\X/N. Op.npral Manaapr.
HH9ON
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.; R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company Limited.
tiARWIN. N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
as far as the consumer is concerned) the
competition just referred to has been re-
moved. Also, during the last term the
co. replaced some of its obsolete plant
with modern equipment, to the benefit
of costs, and renewal for a further five
years of the £lOO,OOO of old 7 p.c. first-
mortgage debentures at 5 p.c. gave
the co, a little further relief. Earnings in
the bread section were affected by the
Federal flour tax; in the other de-
partments they improved. So, from one
cause and another, the net result more
than doubled, reaching 5.6 p.c. on capital
as against 2.4, 1.4, 2.8, and 5.4 p.c. back
to 1930. The div. was lifted from 2\
p.c. to 5 p.c., and the outlook has lost a
lot of its drabness. With the completion
of the new engine-room, the co. will be
placed on a sounder dividend-earning
basis, the board says.
Most of the money that became avail-
able during the year was held in cash,
etc.: —
1921. 1929. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £209,359 £282,091 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 76,334 65,186 30,141 31,777
Property 1 228,209 229,266 229,239
Plant ]■ 243,975-1 121,743 123,517 125,155
Rolling stock) 44,488 39,918 33,555
Stocks .. 27,664 43,743 32,296 26,523
C a s h and
investments 34,129 16,362 6,333 26,962
Book debts .. 50,207 76,982 61,868 61,964
Only £1638 net was added to the book
value of plant. On rolling stock £6363
more was written off than was spent.
When the books closed, the outside debt
(£131,777) exceeded more or less liquids
(£115,449) by £16,328, an improvement
of £13,316 over the twelvemonth. The
floating debt was well covered.
Mindful of the co.’s history, the now
nervous market prices the pound shares
at 17s. as against 11s. a year ago. At
17s. the return is 5.9 on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 245. 9d. in net tan-
gibles.
Sandy Creek
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, Ltd.,
registered at Canberra at the end of
January, but subscribed for mostly in
Sydney, has a nominal capital of
£lOO,OOO in 2s. 6d. shares. Of these
480,000 were offered and snapped,
mainly on the strength of R. J. Winters’s
opinion of the property and its possi-
bilities. The vendor, Sheba Options,
takes 140,000 paids, plus £37,000 cash.
Of the cash, £36,000 goes to Graham
and Smeaton, who owned the leases, and
who have agreed to subscribe for 80,000
shares.
Total purchase consideration is thus
£54,500, or 70.3 p.c. of the £77,500 of
issued capital. Allowing for brokerage
(5 2-3 p.c.) on all shares offered, the
co. will have £19,600 in cash to equip
the property and cover the balance of
formation exes., etc. No estimate is
given of the cost of equipping the pro-
perty, or of the annual yardage it is
intended to treat. This is probably due
to the vendor’s short option, which also
stood in the way of thoroughly testing
the whole area —German interests were
nibbling at the show.
The property (approximately 1000
acres, of which 284 have been applied for
since registration) is about six miles
from Wau, New Guinea. It embraces
Sandy and Poverty creeks, about two
miles apart, on the right bank of the
Bulolo, together with a big intervening
breccia deposit (Midlothian area), inter-
sected by small creeks. The yardage
measured up on each area, the average
value and the cost of treating the ground
compare as follows:
t Value \ i Costs \
Measured Average
Area, per Average
c.y. Amount. o.y. Amount, percy.
Sandy Ck. 2,763,215 £385,,073 2/5 £138,161 1/-
PovertvOk. 715,800 132,857 3/8 67,470 1/10.6
Midlothian* 38,704 13,208 6/9 3,870 2/-
Total. . 3,517,719 £531,138 3/-£209,501 1/2
*Watercourses only.
These estimates have been made by
R. J. Winters; costs are confirmed by
independent authorities. The working
profit in sight is thus £322,637, or over
four times the present issued capital.
Estimates are claimed to be conservative,
because prospecting pits did not go to
bedrock. Values are figured on the gold
being worth £7 Bs. 9d. an ounce in Aus-
tralian currency. It is 86 p.c, fine, the
purest yet discovered on the Morobe
field. The highest values are found in
the creekbeds, where stones, etc., act as
natural ripples ; next comes the ad-
joining flats and then the breccia.
One of the speculative possibilities of
the venture is what some millions of
tons of braccia in the Midlothian area
will turn out to be worth. Estimates are
that the stuff can be hydraulicked for not
more than 3d. per yard, and that it will
probably average 7.5 grains ; much de-
pends upon this. Extensive tunnelling and
prospecting will be necessary to prove
the deposit, which is over 200 ft. thick
in one place. There is also the gamble
that mother reefs or lodes may be dis-
covered in the near-by dividing range.
This is suggested by (1) the presence of
quartz in a few specimens of lumpy gold
in Sandy Creek and (2) the existence of
gold of the same fineness on a small field,
the Black Cat, on high ground on the
other side of the watershed.
Golden Age Amalgamated
Golden Age Amalgamated is a Perth
float with a nominal capital of £120,000
in shares of 4s. each. Of these 400,000
are offered. The vendor’s consideration
is £40,000, one half in fully-paids and
the other half cash, of which £BOOO is to
be used to buy scrip. The other 100,000
shares are in pickle. The, co. has half
a dozen leases, previously worked to
shallow depths, south of Menzies (W.A.).
The idea is to unwater and develop these,
all of which yielded rich returns in the
past. Although the old workings are
mostly inaccessible, geologist N. S.
Stuckey and E. J. Gourley, formerly
Chief Inspector of Mines* in W.A., both
say that geological indications favor the
development of payable ore. The Flor-
ence, north of and adjoining Lady Shel-
ton, yielded 33000 z. from 3400 tons, but
the shoots were short. Here possibilities
lie in enrichments being, met with where
three makes of stone are expected to
intersect a crosscourse. The other five
leases straddle the railway line to the
south-east. The most important at the
moment is the Maori Chief, traversed by
a north-and-south lode for 20 chains.
The ground is hard, and work was con-
fined mostly to the first 50ft. A total
of 647 tons yielded 7370 z. It is a fair
mining risk, and it might yield 10,000 tons
per level if the payable ore-shoot is con-
tinuous. From the Golden Age, Little
Wonder, Two Dicks and other workings
an aggregate of 3000 tons yielded 65150 z.
of fine gold. What was left remains to
be proved.
Yellowdine
Commonwealth Mining and Finance’s
fourth borehole at Yellowdine (W.A.)
has partly retrieved the early reputation
of the field. The core disclosed solid
quartz from 86ft. to 105 ft., averaging
15dwt. a ton. According to cable reports
from London, values began at 21ft.;
from this point to 40ft. the average was
7dwt.; 40ft. to 72ft., lowest 13dwt,
highest 153dwt. ; 86ft. to 90ft., 16dwt. ;
93ft. to 96ft., 12dwt. ; 100 ft. to 103 ft.,.
44dwt.; 103 ft. to 105 ft., 30dwt. Experts
who recently examined the field say there
is strong evidence that the ore occurs in
the form of a synclinal trough, pitching
very flat to the south, or as a synclinal
basin.
In both cases the two original bores,
put down to meet the lode in accordance
with surface indications, of dip, would
have been drilled under the ore-body,
says chairman J. A. Agnew. The third
hole collapsed and was abandoned.
The co. figures that it already has
between 30,000 tons and 40,000 tons
of 2oz. ore blocked from the surface to
water level. With gold at £8 an ounce
(Aus.), that prize is worth around half
a million. The 800 tons of ore thus far
raised from development average 79dwt.
by assay. Still, a lot more work needs
to be done before a reliable idea can be
formed as to whether any really big
mines are likely to develop on the field.
A small co. is being formed in Sydney
to prospect the old Lone Hand, Uralla
(N.S.W.), which appears to have possi-
bilities. It is a tunnelling proposition,
which means cheap working. There are
10 reefs, the most important of which is
No. 4,10 ft. wide, with 12dwt. stone in
the face. No. 5 is a rich shoot, 18in.
wide, assaying up to 7oz. in parts; No.
6 is another 1 Sin. vein, in which some
ounce stone is showing ; Nos. 8 and 9
are sft. and 2ft. bodies respectively, in
which stuff can be seen. To what
extent both makes and values live has,
of course, to be proved.
* * * *
St. Aignan’s, next door to Bismarck,
Lucknow (N.S.W.), expects to strike
something worth while toward the end
of a 400 ft, drive, now under way, along
the contact. The work is being pushed
on at the rate of 25ft. a week. The drive
is now in black rock (dense serpentine),
with traces of gold and arsenical pyrites
in the joint channel.
* * ♦ ■ *
On the advice of the Government
Geologist, a Gympie syndicate is
diamond-drilling on the Sovereign area,
just beyond' the old Scottish Gympie
workings. The objective is the plumbago
auriferous stratum that meant so much
to the Scottish, Great Eastern and others
within a stone’s-throw of the present
drill-hole. It’s 30 years since the last shaft
was put down in search for this forma-
tion, which was not found. Old Gympie
miners remain dubious, but the syn-
dicate has been impressed with the
geologist’s case, and, if borehole indica-
tions are favorable, capital will be found
to look for a continuation of the Scot-
tish reefs. The bore is now down 400 ft.,
and has to go another couple of hun-
dred at least.
* * * *
Recent crushings from Golden Sur-
prise, North Arm (Q.), amounting to
985 tons, show total recoveries to be
worth only 645. an ounce. Recent de-
velopment has shown nothing compar-
able to the values of a couple of years
back, and but for the premium it looks
as if the field would have petered out
after the surface ore was taken. Not
long ago a £70,000 float was in the offing
on the hopeful report of an outside
enthusiast.
Celebration, principal relic of the
Hampton Plains (W.A.) boom, is de-
scribed by M. R. McKeown and E.
Paton in a joint report as “one of the
best available goldmines in Westralia,
and capable of a yearly output of 50,000
tons of expected 6dwt. stone “or even
better.” The immediate installation of
a plant is recommended, and Australian
Mining Trust has flotation of the show
in hand. According to McKeown and
Paton, there are 21,300 tons of 51s. sul-
phide ore, and 36,500 tons of 325. oxi-
dised ore, immediately available for
sloping. Values in each case are recov-
erable and calculated on the basis of
gold at £8 an ounce Australian. A
further 7800 tons of 445. “possible”
ore is also mentioned.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant has added two
shows at Hopes Hill, near Southern
Cross, to its Westralian goldmining op-
tions. The usual favorable report is pre-
sented, also a statement that recent
crushings by the owners averaged lOdwt.
to 14dwt. In the past Hopes Hill ore
in bulk has averaged nearer 3dwt.
to 4dwt. Western Mining Corp. found
this out when it was looking for some-
thing suitable in the district a short time
ago.
* * * *
Imperial shares recently soared to 355.
on a report that an Anglo-Australian
crowd might buy the remaining 20,000
reserve shares at 30s. each. But profit-
taking checked the rise and caused a
dive. Small, rich, irregular shoots have
been worked in the co.’s holding, which,
on present indications, appears to be
more suitable for a syndicate than a co.
of any size.
* # * *
Sprago’s Find (W.A.), which holds a
newly-discovered area near Coolgardie,
talks of forming a bigger co, to secure
additional capital for development and
plant. Enrichments occur at various
points in the co.’s holding, but so far
they have been confined to shallow
ground.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Inquirer: (1) and (2) Extraction of much
higher-grade ore during last few years has
created doubts as to average value of future
crushings. Still, co. is working a big lode, and
promises to remain on dividend list for long
time. (3) As a long-term investment, yes. (4)
Doubtful; much depends upon how Morning
Star (Vic.) turns out. (5) Yes, and better ones,
until September next... .E.L.: (1) Pay the
balance. If you then want to get out, you
may be able to do so without loss, or at less
loss than by forfeiting now. (2) It’s a long-
term speculation, and guesses as to what profits,
if any, are likely to be realised aren’t worth
much F.K.: (1) Probably Avoca (Vic.) deep
leads. (2) Lucknow, where the stuff appears as
a replacement deposit along a contact joint of
andesite and serpentine. (4) First test by pitting
and dish prospecting H. 8.: Among the
most speculative of their class, but may rise
further yet.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * ♦
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.sc. (Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Pleased
As a direct descendant of an officer
who lapded with Governor Phillip and
laid the foundation of an Australian
family, I congratulate you on your article
“After 147 Years” (B. 6/2/’35). Several
good men were nominated for the Angli-
can archbishop’s job, but the stinking-
fish brigade gained another victory.
When a new headmistress was needed
for one of the large church schools our
imported archbishop promptly imported
a lady for the post. Highly qualified, no
doubt; but no one can tell me that there
are no native-born women equally quali-
fied who could run the school as well? —
Jobber (N.S.W.).
Displeased
Your political articles contain a good
deal too much cheap and irresponsible
criticism, particularly of people con-
temptuously described as “politicians,”
who have sometimes done more service
to the country than those who criticise
them have. An instance that particularly
annoys me is the article “Argyle on
Yesterdays” (B. 13/2/’35). Though not a
chartered accountant, I followed the Pre-
mier’s very clear presentation of achieve-
ments and future policy with perfect
ease, and fail to understand why the
expression “guff” should be applied to
promises in general terms (a) to reduce
taxation as soon as practicable, ( b ) to keep
the raising of loans within reasonable
limits. What more precise promise, if
it be an honest one, could be given?
While I concede readily that your
paper has improved a good deal recently
—it used to be much too self-consciously
clever —I feel that if it is to justify its
claim to be the “National Australian
Newspaper” it should make some
further effort to be at once bright and
responsible.—Sß. (Vic.).
“Jumping the Rattler”
The latest batch of train-jumpers
caught making for the Dawson Valley
cotton-fields was convicted but not pun-
ished. The Rockhampton magistrate,
Mr. O’Kelly, said; “Why not put a truck
on some of the trains for these men?”
Many earnest people feel that at least
one magistrate has taken a human and
commonsense view of a sorry business.—•
L. A. 8. (Q.). ■
The New Despotism
Under its present Labor Government
W.A. has produced some queer para-
doxes. For the first time probably in
British history it has become an offence
to seek a day’s work at the commonest
sort of labor. In Perth one unfortunate
was given 14 days’ hard for the crime
of applying for sustenance employment
while not disclosing the fact that his wife
was earning a few shillings at washing
or charing.
Sustenance workers (there is no free
dole) work darned hard in W.A. for what
they get, but a man has to be right down
to destitution —and then a week more —
before he is entitled to the privilege of
breaking stones or digging sewerage
trenches. And he won’t get that either
unless he parts with £1 ss. of his meagre
wage for the doubtful benefit of sup-
porting the political Labor party through
the cashbooks of the A.W.U. Refusal to
pay means dismissal to practical star-
vation of himself, wife and children —
they won’t even give the children food at
the Charities Department. Not even in
the blackest days of anti-trade-unionism
was employerdom capable of such des-
potism.—Groper (W.A.).
'
Tickets of Leave to Live
At the present time, both in Queens-
land and Westralia, before an unemployed
man can get Government relief work
he has to go to a union office and pay
for a ticket of leave to work. It only
remains for these Soviets to get control
of four other States and the Common-
wealth and the whole adult population
will have to go to a union office—hat in
one hand, cash in the other—and buy
tickets of leave to live. Only a stock-
man, I have fought for my own hand all
my life, and have had a good time while
doing if, but this last stunt beats me. —
P.F. (N.Q.).
Lang ISN’T Right!
“Seth” (B. 13/2/’35) supports Lang’s
sweeping assertion that N.S.W. sqldier-
settlers were victimised by rapacious land-
owners. Fiddlesticks. At the end of
June, ’32, an area of 7,915,269 acres was
occupied by soldiers: 6,326,622 acres of
Crown lands, 1,499,930 acres of ac-
quired lands and 88,717 acres within
irrigation areas.
I have personal knowledge of a
number of properties in Riverina ac-
quired for soldier-settlement; in no case
was the land overvalued.
Disaster was certain when the Gov-
ernment allotted farms to inexperienced
men and left them to do their best —or
worst. As soon as the £625 sustenance
allowance had been squandered these
men were in difficulties. Departmental
blundering is mainly responsible for the
failure of soldier-settlement. If “Seth”
and his friend Lang require confirma-
tion of this let them study Mr. Justice
Pike’s reports. — Valerin (N.S.W.).
Artificial Diamonds
The London jeweller who has discov-
ered how to make diamonds (B.
13/2/’35) is running late. The process
has been known for many years, but is
so costly and the stones are so small
that it has never been a threat to the
natural diamond. Further, it is not
“I’m in the money at last, boys!”
“Wot, lott’ry?”
“No. King’s bounty. Triplets!”
chemically or physically possible to make
a diamond except by copying the natural
process —subjection of carbon to intense
heat coupled with practically immeasur-
able pressure. There are so many
diamonds held in reserve to-day that the
artificial process—even supposing that it
is something quite new and has achieved
extraordinary results—is not worth while.
The De Beers interests and those of the
South African Government, which con-
trol the diamond output of the world,
would put the exponents of the new deal
out of business in six months by making
diamonds cheap enough for buttons on
a. readymade suit.
The gem that 'is menaced by artificial
production is the pearl. The natural
pearl is rare and hard to come by. The
manufactured gem has the advantage of
being made like its natural brother and
by the same agency —the oyster and a
bit of sand—but in controlled quantities
where it can be easily supervised and
marketed with a minimum of cost.—
Jagersfontein (N.S.W.).
Himalayan Cost of Bankruptcy
Interesting to me was the statement of
the N.S.W. official assignee, quoted in
B. 6/2/’35, that “easily 25 per cent.” of
an estate is lost through forced realisa-
tions and receivership charges—l parti-
cularly like that “easily.” Here is a list
of receipts and payment's in the bank-
rupt estate of a Brisbane man in the
smallgoods trade, not long dead. Re-
ceipts first:
Preliminary deposit £5 0 0
Personal cash 15 0 1
. Trust account (in name of wife) 180 9 0
Savings Bank account 39 6 9
Commercial Bank account .... 27 8 0
Fixed deposit 25 3 1
Sale of plant and effects .... 564 6 3
Sale of house property 666 16 10
Book debts collected 277 5 9
Insurance premiums refunded 13 9 8
Rent of house 7 17 6
Relief-tax refund .. i 8
Total ••• £1822 3 7
Now for the payments:
Taxed costs of petition £35 4 11
Other law costs 662 11 10
Trustee’s remuneration 108 17 3
Securing and protecting assets 91 5 4
Sales tax 37 1 10
Postage, stationery, printing,
etc 15 10 1
Reserve for advertising declara-
tion of dividend 1 0 0
Preferential creditors (4) .... 423 14 5
Payment of 2s. in £ on account
of first and final dividend
on claims, £3585 12s. lid. 358 11 3
Balance 88 6 8
Total £1822 3 7
There is a note on the statement to the
effect that sales tax is to be refunded, pre-
sumably in consequence of the now-cele-
brated High Court judgment freeing
fish-and-chips from tax:
On receipt of this amount the estate will
be finalised by a further payment of
approximately Bd. in the £.
If there are no charges to be deducted,
which seems doubtful, the unsecured
creditors will get £483 19s. 9d., whereas
bankruptcy expenses come to £913
9s. sd. 1 should like to comment but
words fail me. —Humpy B. (Q.).
Speaker and Newspapers
The “highly diplomatic interview”
mentioned by W. A. Holman in his
Memoirs (B. 13/2/’35) did not take
place.
One evening I passed through the turn-
stile at the ferry wharf, Circular Quay.
A water-police officer came forward and
said the police were looking round the
suburbs; the Government wished
urgently to see me —I had spent the
evening with my brother at Mosman. A
telephone number was handed to me as
from the Under-Secretary, the Chief
Secretary’s Department. Upon my arri-
val at the Speaker’s rooms I rang up the
number.
To my surprise Mr. Holman answered.
“We are here in Cabinet,” he said,
“at the Justice Department. We have
been waiting all the evening for
your return. The ‘Daily Telegraph’ has
threatened to use every means to turn
out the Government unless the reporters
are allowed to return to the press gal-
lery.” I had myself thought it time to
let the “Telegraph” return. “Why not
amend the Standing Orders?” I replied.
“Yes, a capital idea, Mr. Speaker,” said
the eager one. “In what way, Mr.
Speaker?” “Shall I draft an amend-
ment and let you have it in the morn-
ing?” I said. “If you would I should
be glad, Mr. Speaker.”
The amendment I drafted was for-
warded on the morrow as arranged. In
effect, it was I, not Mr. Holman, who
suggested the amendment of the Stand-
ing Orders under which the “Daily Tele-
graph” staff could return to the re-
porters’ gallery. Not at any time was
my Speakership insecure. A majority
of the House can support and protect
its Speaker. Against treachery my quiver
was full of arrows—two of which could
have destroyed the Ministry. From the
beginning to the end of my Speakership
overtures were made on behalf of the
Premier asking me not to resign office. —
Henry Willis (N.S.W.).
Homework
“Como” (B. 6/2/’35) is talking
through his hat when he says that the
“exceptionally brilliant or exceptionally
lazy” child puts in two solid hours every
evening at homework and the “ordinary
f.a.q. child is often going hard at it until
10 p.m.”
Boarding-school rules provide one hour
and a half for evening “prep.,” but the
average boy below school-intermediate
standard has to be set extra work or
allowed to read to keep him from mak-
ing a nuisance of himself during the last
20 minutes. (We resident masters know
this, to our sorrow!) And the boarding-
school boy is prevented, by compulsory
daily games, from doing his home-lessons
at any other than the prescribed time;
but he is not permitted to do anything
else until he has made a concentrated
attempt at his work, and nobody is
allowed to interrupt him in any way.
Contrast this with the working con-
ditions of the day scholar. Dinner may
be late, and he may not make a start
at his lessons until the evening is half
over. Unless he is extremely lucky, he
has to sit in the living-room with the
rest of the family, struggle with x squared
minus y squared while dad and mum
argue about the baby’s tonsils, learn “Oh,
Mary, Go and Call the Cattle Home”
during a visit of a herd of relations who
i ask him every three minutes how he’s
getting on at school, and rescue
the red-ink bottle at frequent in-
tervals from his younger sister.
And then there is the wireless ...
Teachers rarely set more work
than the average child can man-
age easily, and, when ap-
proached by the parent, they
are always ready to make liberal
allowance for ill-health or any
other real handicap. Reform
lies not in reducing the amount
of homework set, but in persuading
parents to take sufficient interest in their
child’s progress for them to see that for
part of the evening he has proper facili-
ties for study.— Wusslean (Tas.).
What Is History ?
A professor remarked recently that
accurate chronicling of events should be
the aim of historians rather than beauti-
fully modelled sentences, charging past
historians with sacrificing fact for literary
beauty. While the professor is probably
right, it is difficult to say what is fact
and what is fiction. Pilate’s question
“What is truth?” remains unanswered
after nearly 2000 years. It is only neces-
sary to spend an hour or two in a court
of law and listen, not to perjurers, but
to honest, disinterested witnesses to
realise the difficulty of obtaining the
truth from anybody.
Half a dozen witnesses to a motor
collision, all strangers to the parties and
all apparently unbiased, will differ to a
ludicrous degree about times and visi-
bility. One will say that it was broad
daylight, a second that it was pitch dark,
a third that it was dark but the street
lights made all objects perfectly visible,
a fourth that the lights were showing but
failed to illuminate the roadway.
In a test made at one of the Melb.
public schools for girls, the flappers in
the highest class were lined up and an
anecdote was whispered to the first in
the line. She passed it on quietly to the
next, and so on through 15 girls. When
the last was told to relate the story
audibly, it turned out to be a totally
different yarn from that given to the
first lass.
Tests given in psychological labora-
tories all the world over show the same
remarkable variations. And it must be
remembered that in these cases the sub-
jects are above normal intelligence and
are forearmed. If this is the experience
of people endeavoring to secure the truth
about events which are of recent occur-
rence, what chance has the historian of
trying to elucidate what Pericles did in
335 b.c.? Our own historian Bean will
tell anybody about the difficulties he has
had in disentangling the variety of
stories submitted by eyewitnesses of
war incidents.
GRASSPAN (Vic.).


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: I wonder whether the
Riverina still remembers “Snaky Bob.”
Said to have been a British naval officer,
he could sustain a fit of rage for a day,
and longer. Camped in Tapalin Bend,
River Murray, he was frying pufftaloons
when a light shower caused the hot fat
to jump and sting his hands and wrists.
“Snaky” tried to make the pan sit on the
coals so that he might retire, but the
thing refused to balance and the fat kept
on stinging. Suddenly he raised the re-
fractory utensil high over his head, roared
“Sit, you blanker!” and brought it down
hard on the fire. The upward
gush of hot fat took him in
the face. He raced up and
down, clawing madly at nis
whiskers, then seized the pan
and sent it spinning into the
river. Talking fiercely to him-
self, he smeared butter on
his damaged dial, and went
duck-shooting. The old d.b.
gun missed duck after duck.
“Snaky” became incoherent
and, taking it by the barrels,
smashed it against a tree. He
grabbed the oars and rowed
savagely towards the camp.
The flat-bottomed boat shot
up on a submerged stump
and stuck fast. Having tried
every known method of re-
leasing it, he jumped into the
water, clothes and all, hoping to lift it.
When he clambered aboard again be
took one of the oars and battered the
bottom boards out. Then he struggled
to the bank, mounted his old bike and
pedalled furiously towards Euston. The
sleepy old river hamlet woke up with a
start when a bottle sailed through the
bar window of Shaffer’s pub and burst
on the road. When the trooper arrived
“Snaky” was in midstream in a com-
mandeered boat, roaring, “If I only had
my old crew, begad, I’d blow you all to
hell!” It took the combined efforts of
the trooper and the Balranald mailman
(an ex-wrestler) to land him in the cala-
boose.
* * * *
“J.8.J.”: A cow belonging to a West-
ralian farmer gave birth to two calves, a
bull and a heifer (born dead), on the
second of the month. Another bull calf
came to light on the twenty-seventh.
Anyone know of a more unusual case?
* * * * *
“Sharkbait”: Sharks in fresh water
(B. 30/1 /’35)? Lately I was helping a
fisherman to put a block-net across the
Herbert River, near Halifax (Q.). We
started at 2.30 a.m. and took it out at
6.30 p.m. ; results, 19 sharks and one
crab, the sharks ranging in length from
2ft. to 4ft. When I saw the catch and
thought how much of me had been in
the water during the operations I said
“Never again!”
* * * *
“G.”: The Vic. Government is in a
quandary regarding two abos. stranded
at Geelong. Their story is that they came
from Oodnadatta to attend the centenary
celebrations and went broke. Now the
Government finds that its largesse to
the original owners of the country is
limited to those of Victoria, and it is
furiously endeavoring to find a method
by which it can legally repatriate the
dusky ones. Perhaps the simplest method
would be to declare them Abyssinians or
Koreans within the meaning of the Act,
and ask them to write at dictation 40
words of Gaelic. When they were once
over the border, proceedings could be
gracefully withdrawn.
***=!■•
“Army Worm”! The other day our
papers told how a man on a Queensland
station had died as the result of being
bitten by a poisonous caterpillar. This
was something new in natural history,
and experts were wondering whether the
reporters had not mistaken a death-adder
for an outsize caterpillar when the ex-
planation came. The man had been in
contact with one of those hairy cater-
pillars which, when they are on the move,
travel in single file, the head of each
touching the tail of the chap in front.
The hairs are highly irritant when they
touch the skin, and this was the poor
chap’s undoing. He scratched the seat
of irritation raw, and sepsis did the rest.
* * . t- *
“Louden”: That canary-yellow, frill-
necked snake (B. 13/2/’35) seen near
Holbrook (N.S.W.) was a doobite. They
go about in odd numbers. Last time I
travelled from Little Billabong to Hol-
brook I saw hordes of them. At Hol-
brook a particularly big mob sped
through the town on its way north. A
policeman, the only other soul in sieht,
standing with his back to the oncoming
“How you likit bathing-dress, latest style belonga white Mary?”
“Later, mine tinkit, that one won’t be in time.”
doobites, was regarding me, a stranger,
intently. I shouted a warning, dropped
my swag and bolted westward along the
Cookardinia road. Nowadays, although
I may be dashing through eastern River-
ina in a motor-car, I always take the
more westerly, and safer, Wagga-Gero-
gery-Albury track.
* * * *
“F.A.4”: Feed was scarce and killers
were hard to get. As in all dry times
we were busy and working short-handed.
Some cattle were agisting on a next-
door selection, so I suggested to the
cocky that he should kill, take half
the beast and deliver half at the head
station. He jumped at the chance, and
promised to bring it along that night.
The cattle were quiet, so he drove out in
his car with knives, steel, salt and bags
galore, also a .22 calibre Winchester and
a box of BB caps. It’s true —BB caps to
shoot a bullock! I contrived to - see the
performance. He picked a dry poley cow
—not bad beef—and fired at her fore-
head from his seat in the car. The old
girl shook her head and looked sur-
prised. More shots and more head shak-
ings. She was getting stirred up.
The tenth shot dropped her. I
don’t know what his idea was —if he
had one —but he rushed at her, caught
her just as she was rising and pulled her
down again. That left him on a nice
little plain with a very angry old cow and
only hands and teeth—false at that—to
kill her with. Before I could go to his
aid he split the breeze for his car. A few
yards from it his lead was so slight as to
be hardly noticeable. Then the old poley
lifted him, and he nose-dived through
the hood and made an awkward-looking
landing with one ear in the coarse
salt. Poley fussed round the car a
bit, slobbered all over him, bellowed
a bit and left him. For possibly ten
minutes the only movement was the
torn hood flapping in the breeze.
Then his head appeared, cautiously,
and on seeing a clear horizon —as
far as poley cows were concerned —
he stepped on the gas and pointed her
nose for home.
* * *
“Larrapinta”: The late David Lindsay,
on one of his exploring trips in W.A.,
saw and photographed a native girl with
an extra finger on each hand (B. 6/2/’35)
and six toes on her feet. He was in-
formed that “plenty pfeller all-same this
one” existed in the locality, and later
narrowed this assertion down to the fact
that all the members of one family had
the abnormality. Possibly “R.N.C.’s”
abo. was one of this same clan.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”; Forty buffaloes by one hunter
in one run (B. 6/2/’35)? I dip my lid to
him! I’ve tried, and three was my limit
—with a week’s rest for my bruised and
jarred right hand afterwards. A Mar-
tini carbine has a kick twice as strong as
that of the ordinary 12-gauge shotgun,
but after most of the barrel has been
sawn off the recoil is simply terrific. If
you hold your arm rigid the kick jars your
head half off your shoulders and bruises
your arm and wrist joints. If you hold
your arm slack the sawn-off blunderbuss
flies back, with disaster to your ribs.
The weapon has to be held out at arm’s
length with one hand, as if it were a
pistol. With its half-handful of black
powder and huge, soft-lead slug, and
the aforementioned disadvantages, the
sawn-off carbine is the only weapon suit-
able for buff, shooting.
* * * *
“Twin Corns”: Can any Aboliar give
me the exact meaning of the word
“scrounger”? It has a very useful sound,
and one can get hold of it with one’s
teeth and do much violence by the use
of it in an argument. I heard a lady
calling a gentleman a “scrounger” the
other day, and I really liked the sound of
it. It’s a word I want to be friendly
with ; I hate to be unfamiliar with it
after hearing the way she used it and
seeing the effect it had on the bloke
addressed.
* * * *
“Irritans”: “Your flea loves a woollen
fabric,” says “Pulex” (B. 6/2/’35), and
T believe him. On a motor tour to Adel-
aide from Melbourne I pulled in to a
wayside pub for accommodation for the
night. “You can park your car in that
old stable up there,” said Bung. I drove
on to the old, open shed, and my pas-
sengers, two ladies and a male friend,
got out. While I was still fiddling about
the car I heard yells from the two ladies.
They seemed to be in a sort of hysterical
dither. The exciting cause was fleas.
Their legs were black with them. They
rushed off to the bathroom and threw
their clothes out through the window for
defleaing. I was wearing puttees myself,
and as I unrolled them there was a black
spiral of fleas half an inch wide all the
way up to my knee. My male friend,
who wore trousers, was in a deplorable
state. “Oh, yes,” said Bung ; “I forgot
to warn you about them fleas. Even the
dorgs won’t go near that old stable.”
We put in an exciting and busy night,
and nearly asphyxiated ourselves with
the lethal fumes of flea specifics with
which the pub was liberally—and suspi-
ciously—supplied.
* * * *
“Psycho”: “Lacon’s” Hawkesbury
River eels (B. 9/1/’35) remind me of a
camping trip in a canoe up that stream
a few years ago. It was flood-time, with
the water a foot over Windsor Bridge.
We started off from near Brooklyn and
met the full force of the flood four days
later just above the junction of the Colo
River. There we met the eels —tens of
thousands of them, ranging in size from
a foot to five feet long, all writhing sick-
ishly on the surface of the swollen
waters. At first, I had a lot of fun with
my .22 rifle picking off some of the big
chaps, but it soon became a boring game.
Just above Sackville Reach the eels
actually prevented our further progress
for hours.
* * * *
“Unity”: Our old cat Johanna, rat-
catcher-in-chief to the family for 11
years, is well aware that she is a privi-
leged feline, one of her most valued con-
cessions being a chair and cushion of
her own. The other day a caller un-
acquainted with Johanna sat himself in
it while waiting. He declares he was
meditating on his past when a large
grey cat stalked in, looked at him in-
solently and then seated herself on his
feet. He was about to speak to her
kindly when she began to claw his ankles.
A push merely made her extend the exer-
cise to his knees. A shove with his left
hand led to a long, unsightly scratch. He
sprang up, letting the cushion fall to the
floor, whereupon Johanna leapt into the
chair. In a second she was down again,
and, paw on the cushion, turned and
quite definitely requested her victim to
put it back in its proper place. Slightly
dazed, he did so. Johanna, purring
her approval, stretched and went to
sleep.
:[: * * *
“Yangardook”: Camped under a big
pine on the roadside, I am nightly given
a demonstration of Blondin
tricks by three ’possums. They
jump out of another pine, three
chains away, on a double tele-
phone wire ; from the wire they
hop into my tree, which they
descend to forage for scraps of
tucker. The two wires are 14
inches apart, and whilst my
visitors run erect along one they
extend their tails and with the
extreme end grasp the other as
a balance.
“Mugwump III.”: “Canopus” (B.
30/1 /’35) can’t know very much about
magpies and their ability to eat mice.
Have one, semi-tame (we found her
about five years ago exhausted through
trying to get through a coil of wire-
netting), that will eat any given quan-
tity. They haven’t to be presented,
either; when pulling down a haystack
Maggie vies with the old cat to see which
gets the best haul. I have seen her grab
a mouse that has fallen off the stack
before the victim hit the ground. I
speak of a Westralian bird.
* t- * *
“The 0.D.”: I burst into tears of
gratitude for the Mullewa (W.A.) farmer
who was attacked by a Too (B.
30/1/’35); the story corroborates one of
mine that has been jeered, scoffed and
laughed at in three States. In 1920 I was
wood-and-water joey at Prill Park sta-
tion, near Euston (N.S.W.). Out for
the cows one Sunday afternoon, the
kelpie with me stuck up a big old red
Too on a pine ridge. Tales of what had
been done to dogs in similar circum-
stances prompted me to go forward (the
dog wasn’t mine), and the only weapon
I could find was a thick pine stick, dead
and brittly. In my innocence I thought
the Too would wait for me to walk up
and crack him. Instead, he reared on
his hind legs, towered above me for a
moment and leaned forward. The pine
stick hit his cheek and flew to fragments,
and then followed the liveliest minute
or so I ever want to have. He was bigger
than a Border Leicester ram, and as
quick as a black snake. In the flurry
we both fell over a stump, and when I
got up the Too was beating it for the
scrub. One side of my face was torn
from near the right eye to the ear, my
shirt was ripped almost in half and a
great scratch extended across my body
from below the chest to under the arm-
pit. I haven’t been near Prill Park for
15 years, but any loud laughter nowadays
recalls old Harry Leslie’s howl of joy
when I staggered in and told him the
story.
PLAIN AUSTRALIAN.
“His fall,” the moralist would groan,
“Was due to no malignant chancei
’Twas but the sequel to his own
Regrettable intemperance.”
But such polite periphrasis
We outback chaps disdain to use;
Our usual formula is this:
“He got the bullet through the booze.”
I’ve heard some blokes in diction nice
The lamentable fact reveal
That beer was Brown’s besetting vice
Or rum was Smith’s Achilles’ heel.
But few, except in city or town,
Such phraseology would use
To indicate that Smith or Brown
Had got the bullet through the booze.
“He crooked his elbow overmuch”—
Who for a highbrow phrase would reach
When there exist so many such
Amenities of Saxon speech?
The Demon Drink has caused, you’ll hear,
Some hapless soul his job to lose.
Our version makes it just as clear:
“He got the bullet through the booze.”
With snags and stones our steps are jarred,
And other traps the Devil strews.
Who hits the bottle over-hard
Risks hoisting on his own petard,
Or, where fine words we disregard,
May “get the bullet through the booze.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Wang”; “Well,” said Dad to the young
parson, “did Mary accept yer when yer
proposed to her?” “No,” replied the
cleric, rather downcast; “1 regret to say,
Mr. Cowbails, that your daughter
answered me with a very decided nega-
tive.” “Did she?” exclaimed Dad with
some warmth. “That’s what’s come of
her trip to Sydney. She’s picked up
that sorter talk there. Been to too many
of them blarsted talkies.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: “I think I’ll send down and
get a hydraulic ram,” Dad said at the tea-
table. “It’s none of my business, sir,”
the new hand replied ; “but all these big
farmers prefer merinos.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: The little animal that
pulled the splinter out for “Peter D.”
(B. 13/2/’35) was a wattle-borer, or
elephant beetle. Wherever the wattle-
tree grows he is known to kiddies, who
sometimes amuse themselves for hours
by working the borer overtime, making
him pull out the splinters which they
stick into the outer skins of their hands.
Though he may have been an obliging
little cuss in “P.D.’s” case, he’s really a
destructive hound, and couldn’t resist a
piece of wood if his life depended on it.
He is the born enemy of wattle-trees. The
strongest wattles seldom see their seventh
year through owing to the boring habits
of that dear little “splinter-puller.”
* * * *
“De M.”: We also had a kookaburra
at Bundanoon (N.S.W.) that was a
chicken-fancier (B. 6/2/’35). A chick
or two mysteriously disappeared ; then
“I'm awful’y sorry, readily”
"Not ’alf as sorry as y’re goin’ t’ be!”
one afternoon I returned home to hear
an awful din coming from the chicken
coop. A missing board had made it pos-
sible for Mr. Kooka to dive in after a
chicken, but he’d reckoned without the
broody hen. But for my intervention
he’d have been a dead fowl then and
there. As it was, he lived only three
days.
* * * *
“Ec”: “Seein’ ’Em” mentions (B.
23/1 /’35) the remarkable fact that at
Swan Creek (N.S.W.) oaks grow in mid-
stream on the water hyacinth until they
sink through and disappear. If “Seein’
’Em” had lived as long in the vicinity
as I haven’t, he would have been able
to complete the story. It is just a few
years since the subsidence of these
young trees reached saturation point; in
other words, there was no room for an-
other down below. After that, when
one, by sheer weight, forced its way
down, one or two smaller ones were
pushed up from below. These seemed
to shake most of the mud off, and, after
the first shower of rain, looked all right.
They started to grow again, and kept up
till, size and weight prevailing, down
they would go again.
* * * #
“Geebee”: As a cook “Spider” was
no worse than many others, and he had a
knack of wheedling things out of the boss
that put all predecessors in the shade. He
wanted a cover on the iron tank near
the kitchen door; this time, we reck-
oned, he’d strike a snag, for the boss be-
lieved in bore water being exposed to
the sun before using it for culinary pur-
poses. “I don’t like birds drinkin’ and
bathin’ in the water I use for cookin’,”
said “Spider” ; “and I bet he’ll put a
lid on that tank.” That night I saw
“Spider” add to the boss’s tea about half
a cup of water from a saucepan in which
meat was boiling. It wasn’t long before
the old man came storming into the
kitchen. “What’s wrong with the tea?”
he demanded. “It tastes meaty!” “It
couldn’t be the cat and the two kittens,”
said the cook, “so it must have been the
magpie and the rat.” “Have you gone
dippy?” roared the boss. “No,” said
cook, unperturbed; “it couldn’t have
been the cat and kittens—they hadn’t
been in the tank more’n a couple of
days when I found ’em. But the magpie
and the rat were pretty far gone when
I fished ’em out.” There’s a nice new
cover on the tank now.
* * $ *
“Bringelly”: Iggleford, ray neighbor,
being a city woolman, is a “good fellow,”
and ahyays the suave, polite man-about-
town. As he was walking from the
train the other evening, some time after
six o’clock, he contentedly puffed a cigar.
At a street crossing near his home an
ancient lady, well-known for her garru-
lousness, bore down on him at right-
angles. Iggleford swept off his hat and
bowed gallantly, but kept on his course.
“I hear we’re getting a new minister next
month,” cackled the old lady. “Good!”
said Iggleford with a beaming smile.
“You’ll find they’ve been digging up the
footpath in front of your place when you
get home,” went on the gossiper. “Good,
good!” said Iggleford, the words fairly
bouncing out of him. “There was nearly
a motor accident on this corner this
morning,” continued the old lady.
“Good!” exclaimed Iggleford, raising
his hat with a flourish, and making for
the other corner of the street. The old
dame walked on a few steps ; then it
came out with a rush. “I’ll be 80 next
Tuesday,” she called out triumphantly
after Iggleford. “Good!” ejaculated the
woolman in the distance, heartily but
abstractedly,
* * * *
“Wang”: In the blistering heat Dad
came across the new hand sprawled in
the shade of a tree. “I’m not feelin’
well,” moped the hand in a feeble voice ;
“I reckon I’ve got a touch of th’ sun.
I think I want a stimulant of some kind.”
“It’s more than likely that yer have,”
said Dad, with a note of sympathy that
surprised the hand. “Yes, yer want a
stimulant all right. Wait here, and I’ll
go and get yer one. Don’t move from
where y’are; I’ll soon fix yer up.”
Dad hurried off towards the house, and
a few minutes later was back, carrying
a pannikin. The hand saw him coming.
Keep gain’ straight along them ridges for ten or fifteen miles, an’”
“But suppose I get lost?”
“We’ll soon find y’. Findin’s easy in these parts. We fist follow the crows.”
and lay back with his eyes closed,
breathing hard. Dad bent over and held
the pannikin to the youth’s mouth, at
the same time opening up the front of
his singlet. The hand took a gulp, and
then, with a yell, bounded to his feet,
rubbing frantically at his chest and danc-
ing about madly. “Holy smoke!” he
yelped. “What was that y’ give me?”
Dad grinned at him. “Jest a little
stimulant of me own invention,” he
replied as he watched the hand
frenziedly trying to locate the bulldog-
ant he had pushed inside the front of
his singlet.
* * *
“Airline”: If “Mallee Root” (B.
30/1/’35) had ever visited Lightning
Ridge opal-field in his travels, he might
have seen something better than merely
petrified sharks’ teeth. It isn’t unusual
to recover opalised sharks’ teeth there.
Indeed, the marine
deposits which con-
stitute the opal-bear-
ing strata often yield
interesting spe c i-
mens; only recently
a mass of “potch,”
weighing about
161 b., in the shape of
a fish was recovered
at the Three-mile.
Had it been opalised
—and it was found
in the centre of a
£2OO patch of gems
—its value would
have been colossal.
A perfect opalised
fish, about six inches
long, was found at
the Grawin field
some years ago, and
mussel and oyster
shells are common.
An “oyster-shell nobby,” incidentally, is
a very encouraging prospect; some of
the field’s choicest gems have been recov-
ered from them.
* * * *
“C.R.H.” : It’s extraordinary how quiet
horses become when handled by women
or children. My father owns an excel-
lent stock horse; sure-footed and full
of stamina, he is as fresh at the end of
a day’s mustering as though he had just
started out. My sister recently walked
up to him in the paddock, caught him
and rode him without saddle or bridle.
A year or so ago it would have been
dangerous to attempt such a thing on
this particular horse, but since Sis has
been riding him he has become marvel-
lously quiet. He isn’t lazy either; when
ridden in the ordinary way he is inclined
to pull and reef.
* * * *
“Ophir”: If “P.L.S.” wants to kill
those snakes which fall into shafts (B.
23/l/’35), and if 70ft.
falls don’t do the trick,
here’s a simple way of
putting paid to their
accounts. Get a hand-
ful of dry grass, set firs
to if, get it burning
well, and drop it down
the shaft to keep the
snake company. One
handful in a shaft is enough. I’ve killed
many a snake by merely enclosing it in
an airtight space and letting the fumes
of a fire drift across.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Touching on “Kwa’s” par.
(B. 6/2/’35), it beats me how Binghi
avoided internal complications after
some of the meals I have seen him polish
off. On Sundays and bank holidays 1
always used to give my camel-boy cocky’s
joy on his damper. It was an even-
money bet that he’d drop it, syrup side
down, in the sand before he ate it, but
a viscous mass of sand and syrup ap-
peared to be his idea of a perfect cele-
bration. I was the only one who suffered
any ill effects ; my teeth would be on
edge for hours afterwards.
* =i' * «
“The Galvomaniac”: Lightning, they
say, never strikes twice in the same place.
That isn’t proved, and disproof wouldn’t
be very reassuring to Sydney, which
suffers more and more heavily when one
of the district’s seasonable summer elec-
trical disturbances rages. Following on
minor terrifying manifestations of the
same sort, a “fireball” recently rolled
through a Botany factory and produced
effects commensurable with those of a
dynamite explosion. Prior to the Sydney
experiences, all the most sensational
stories about “fireballs” came from mari-
ners, who were suspected by stern judges
of evidence to be suffering from the psy-
chological effects of too much ozone.
“Voltage enormous, amperage negli-
gible,” has been the verdict of the in-
structed world upon the thunderbolt ever
since electricity was harnessed, though
investigators who have had some experi-
ence of the disruptive effects of con-
denser-made static discharges have been
inclined to think that there is room for
a lot of research regarding atmospheric
conditions. When you get a district like
Sydney, subject to electrical storms, and
pour into its atmosphere for 30 years
the burnt residues of volatile gases in
ever-increasing quantities (Sydney trans-
port is to-day almost entirely dependent
on petrol and electricity, and every elec-
trical spark makes a chemical change in
the air), and when in addition you shoot
through it electrical radiations ranging
from those of big power stations to the
tiny but possibly catalytic emanations of
energy sent out by the short-wave radio
experimenters, it isn’t' unreasonable to
expect that the alteration in the air and
the ether will be reflected in Nature’s
electrical flurries.
ON THE AIR.
Just half-past ten —already we are weary
Of inactivity; this Day of Rest
Has, somehow, grown inexplicably weary
To us who’re listening-in “away out west.”
The “News from Other States” is only falling
On heedless ears that diligently search
For echoes of the bells we know are calling
Our friends in cities far away to church.
Eleven o’clock —a pleading voice uplifted
In prayer brings back those years we deemed
forgot
Before, complaisant derelicts, we drifted
Towards that coast where kirks and pews are
not.
The organ peals, a woman’s voice caresses
The very words she sings, and Fancy weaves
The rustle of cool, dainty, fragrant dresses
Into the trembling of the wind-stirred leaves.
Upon our minds our childhood’s faith is
working.
We’d like to be far better men, we feel,
And dimly sense that underneath is lurking
Some subtle, psychological appeal,
That strange, elusive thing we cannot capture
Which holds us but a moment in its sway;
A passing phase; an evanescent rapture;
A shadow of some long-past yesterday.
The preacher’s voice is silent; we are walking
Demurely down the tessellated aisles;
Outside we wait and watch our elders talking
And copy faithfully their bows and smiles.
But someone yawns and asks, “Well, how
about it?
A rubber now we’ve done our church
parades?
A cooler day than yesterday? I doubt it.
A decent sort of service, eh? Four spades.”
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


HITS
LYS
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Nails
Our Netting and .Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
f
dsf
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head office; 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydne/
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
SUCCESS COMPETITION.
A NORTHERN WOMAN WINS OUT.
A. T. Patterson, P.O. Box 2, Yeppoon
(C.Q.), was awarded second prize for the
subjoined story. The name of the heroine
has been supplied, and the facts are cov-
ered by a statutory declaration :
She is a neat little woman who has
been doing a man’s work ever since she
could balance chubby legs astride a small
pony. In 1914 she married the man-help
on the farm. Her only brother was
killed at the war. Her husband left the
farm to work for wages. She stepped
into her brother’s shoes. Three babies
came while she grew to be her mother’s
“right-hand man.”
There was no male employed, save at
such times as a boy could be persuaded
to work there. The husband occasion-
ally came home at week-ends. He
brought her his wages ; nearly all went
into her savings bank account.
The mother died. The daughter man-
aged a deposit on the farm, and per-
suaded the Rural Bank to finance her for
the purchase money still owing to vendor.
Followed an epic struggle without
farm machinery or any capital, save a
tigerish energy.
For a couple of years before the
mother’s death she wangled free grass
for the few cows and horses they had
managed to collect. With these they
made a start. Having spare time she
worked with her husband like a man
between milkings and small local road
contracts. She needed money to buy
cows ; that is how she got it.
A lucky drought-time buy gave her a
small mob of heifers at a ridiculous price.
She nursed them home and through, to
milk them with the rains, battling the
whole district for grass. She had to
rent a paddock, and erected temporary
bails in it, carted the milk per waggon-
ette home for separating, poddies and
pigs.
A neighbor’s girl needed help. The
little woman housed, fed and clothed
her, gave her a small wage. The two
women, with odd assistance from the
children, ran the dairying. The man
cultivated and broke-in horses. Came
a record drought. Cattle died in dozens
all over the district.
The little woman, tireless and daunt-
less, borrowed a cart, got the loan of a
hoist, made a tripod. At peep of day
her pony’s hoofs struck sparks as she
sped around her widely-scattered stock,
distributed wherever chance offered for
survival. If they were down she got them
up. If they were dead she skinned them.
Where they were in between she hoisted
them into the cart with tripod and blocks
and slings of hay and saplings and drove
them home.
Morning and evening she drove her
food-squad around the wretched animals.
The whole district contributed to her
tenacity. Even the coarse rushes in the
swamps went through her borrowed
chaffcutter, mixed with grass from the
railways and greenstuff from anyone
without cows.
Came a fire and an action for dam-
ages. She lost. Things were desperate.
By hook and by crook she saved a small
herd to meet the rain. When ’possum
season opened she secured country to
work over, joined her husband on it and
rode it nightly with him, using a search-
light, shooting and skinning, carrying
carcasses long distances to feed her pigs
and hens.
She loved horses, and learned to shoe
all her own saddle-horses and -ponies, to
make harness with neatness and dispatch,
to swing an axe. She was a better bush-
man than most. And she won out.
Starting with almost nothing a dozen
years ago, she possesses to-day a farm, a
commodious home, a car, a family leav-
ing school, a piano, a gramophone, a
small library, well-bred bulls, fair-to-
decent cows to work on and the best
saddle-ponies in the district.
And she is young yet!
HOT-WEATHER LAMB-MARKING.
“Right Angle”: “Lion” (B. 9/1 /’35)
gives some good hints on lamb-marking,
but it is questionable whether his advice
to sear with the hot iron is sound. A
little blood-letting does a lamb no harm,
provided he is not too old when doc-
tored and not unduly squeezed by the
person holding him. Strike can be
avoided by disinfecting well. A strong
solution of powdered sheep-dip does all
right. A good idea is to use an oil-
drum split longways for a trough, with
a hole in the bottom plugged by a cork
to drain the trough occasionally. It
should be fastened to the yard-rail in a
handy position to the holders.
The holder after the operation dips
the lamb in the disinfectant for a few
seconds. Holders must be cautioned to
let lambs down gently after the opera-
tion ; a man who pitches a doctored
lamb down should get his cheque.
When tailing, as “Lion” explains, care
should be taken not to cut with the skin
of the tail drawn taut, otherwise the bone
will be exposed to fly-strike. Ewes should
always be given longer tails than wethers,
for obvious reasons. There are many
cold-weather fatalities as the result of
failure to observe this precaution.
BELLY WOOL.
“Sheepo”: It pays to sort belly wool
in even ordinary-sized clips. The wages
of the extra man entailed in the work
will be returned by the better average
price obtained.
Often, except in big clips, short-
stapled, waSty and fuzzy bellies are
allowed to go in with bellies worth per-
haps 2d. per lb. more. Little attention
is paid to burr and seeds.
The merest tyro can pick bellies. If
the wool is free from seed all that is
needed is to have the pizzle-stains re-
moved and to trim off the rough edges
of each belly. The longest-stapled will
comprise A bellies; the balance, minus
the stains and trimmings, become bellies.
If wholly seedy or burry the procedure
will be the same, but if some of the
bellies are free and others seedy or
burry the former must be kept apart.
FLUKE AND BLACK DISEASE.
“Pick”: By anti-snail measures some
sheepmen of the Monaro (N.S.W.) keep
fluke and black, disease under control.
Marsh country on their holdings has
been channelled and drained. Weeds are
raked from watercourses and damp gut-
ters. Sluggish streams and springs are
regularly bluestoned. There’s no fluke
danger in swift torrents. And twice a
year the sheep are drenched with carbon
tetrachloride.
On areas where a few years ago black
disease was a seasonal menace these pre-
cautions have wiped out the disease.
And in the livers of sheep killed for
rations there now appears no sign of
fluke.
CALCIUM AND PHOSPHORUS
DEFICIENCY.
“Molecule”: “Cooloothin” is barking
up the wrong tree (B. 2/1 / ’35) when he
attributes the trouble experienced in
Queensland’s coastal dairying districts to
calcium deficiency. It is doubtful
whether any of that country is actually
calcium-deficient, and deposits of high-
quality lime are quite common. Actu-
ally, the trouble is phosphorus deficiency,
which is prevalent over large areas of
dairy country throughout the Common-
wealth. Bone-chewing, stiffness in the
joints, especially the hindquarters, loss
of appetite and general unthriftiness are
unmistakable signs of phosphorus de-
ficiency, and in a big percentage of cases
the trouble is accentuated by protein de-
ficiency.
If “Cooloothin” wishes to prove it let
him give a couple of affected beasts a
lick compounded of salt and calcium
only, and a couple of others the formula
which he recommends, in which sterilised
bonemeal and finely-ground Nauru phos-
phate figure prominently. If the trouble
is calcium deficiency the salt-and-lime-
lick will correct it at about a quarter of
the cost of the other mixture. Both
bonemeal and rock phosphate are used
primarily to supply phosphorus, their
lime content being of minor importance.
Rock phosphate costs twice and bone-
meal three times as much as high-quality
lime.
It has been demonstrated countless
times that the best way to correct a
mineral deficiency is to top-dress the
pastures with the missing elements (in
this case super, will do the trick). The
second-best way is by purchasing concen-
trates, such as bran, linseed- or cotton-
seed-meal. A lick comes third on the
list. Top-dressed pastures, grazed in
rotation, will give more than double the
carrying capacity of untreated pastures
and supply abundant protein and min-
erals. Protein supplements also act on
the pastures indirectly, because practic-
ally all the fertilising elements pass
through the animals unchanged. The
idea that a lick will effect a miraculous
cure of what is usually plain starvation
has had a pretty good run, and it’s time
that stockowners discarded it in favor
of the much more sensible method of
protein and mineral feeding through
pasture improvement.
STARVATION IN DRENCHING.
“Corriedale”: Sheepmen can thank
C.S.I.R. vets. Clunies Ross and H. M.
Gordon for scotching the fallacy that
woollies should be starved before drench-
ing for fluke. Starvation actually gives
the sheep a severe setback, and renders
the drench less effective by about 13 p.c.
with copper sulphate and 3 p.c. with
carbon tet.
A useful sidelight was the comparison
between the two drenches. The former
was 30 c.cs. of a 2 p.c. solution (9.3 grains)
per sheep and the latter 2 c.cs. of carbon
tet. chi. and 3 c.cs. of liq. paraffin. The
efficiency was measured on eggs and
dead fluke. Post-mortem examinations
showed 93.5 p.c. for the former against
99.1 p.c. for the latter. In both cases
more female fluke were destroyed than
males.
No drench is 100 p.c. effective. With
odd sheep it is rendered useless by going
into the rumen. Low egg counts give
little information, but large ones do indi-
cate bad infestation. The sheepman
should not be deceived by the former,
should he have counts taken, as it may
mean a low female population and plenty
of males, or a temporary sterility
amongst the fluke.
FAILING PASTURES.
“Albarmount”: “Sheepo’s” remarks
about failing natural pastures (B.
13/2/’35) are applicable after the rabbit
menace has been removed.
Bunny must be given first place as
our chief pasture destroyer. And after
eradication, unless pastures are resown
or top-dressed and renovated, it takes
many years before they reach their
former nutritiousness. In my opinion
rabbits reduce the productivity of in-
fested lands by more than half. And in
sheep country, by denuding the surface of
root-binding grasses and burrowing, they
have added greatly to the incidence of
soil erosion. They still infest too large
an area of good grazing land, and owners
of rocky-mountain country are faced with
a knotty problem to eradicate them.
RINGBARKING AND RHODES.
“Airline”: Millions of acres of scrub
country have been ringbarked in s.-w.
Queensland during the last few years,
most of it done under the Unemploy-
ment Relief scheme.
Much of it is rich belar scrub. The
landowner appears to be content to wait
a few years until the country is naturally
grassed. In only one case have I seen
seed broadcast after ringbarking in this
district, and the result was impressive.
Rhodes grass was used, and an excel-
lent strike resulted.
I saw the paddock 12 months later
and, although the area sown represented
scarcely a twentieth of its total, every
head of stock in the paddock had
moved into it. Not only were they in
the pink of condition, but they could
also be easily located at any time —a
valuable factor during mustering.
The thick belar country lends itself
admirably to pasture experiment, the soii
generally being a deep, moist loam.
Other country, such as box and bud
dah, is too scattered.
SOIL EROSION.
“Spring”: Now is the time to attend
to paddock washaways and prevent the
extra damage which the autumn rains
will bring. Ordinary gutters can be filled
with boughs, which must be placed with
their leaves facing upstream and on top
of the stems of the preceding ones.
Cover them with soil from the sides of
the gutter. A plough will do the job.
When ploughing work across them,
and slip out the plough as you cross.
This helps still further in the filling-in
process. Prevention of further trouble
consists in filling in all furrows after cut-
ting out the “lands.” If erosion is bad
on a sheep property, fill in sheeptracks
by dragging a cultivator over them. Time
is thus well spent, as sheep start much
erosion. Don’t take a wheel vehicle over
the slopes of ploughed ground, and
always deal with the smallest gutter as
soon as it appears. To-morrow it may be
a creek.
SKELETON IN THE PADDOCK.
“West”: For years experts and veteran
wheatgrowers have been issuing warn-
ings against skeleton weed. It first
appeared in 1914 —probably imported
with fodder during the drought. Ernest
Field, of Marrar (N.S.W.), was one of the
first to realise its danger, and he has never
let up on either the weed or neglectful
neighbors. “Valerin” (B. 13/2/’35) says
some are trying to cope with it by using
discs and cultivators. Nothing could be
worse, for it thrives on cultivation. Where
very small patches appear sodium chlorate
(■Continued on page 24.)


\
. \
t-if e
is
100,000
Ne
forty
the fiffht
is hardest
90,000
60 76
30 40
50
20
"<EAK.S; 10
le average Life
ends at
fifty-five
80,000
no,ooo
The fight
for Child Ufe
partly won
%0
60,000
1 §
W
/:■
mil*
50,000
»*q
a
£\
40,000
Wim«; ill t
so
(f'
• ••
i
30,000
Steeper : - V
am* Steeper
»lant» the JAne
a
i It
*•'
20,000
10,000
QVearj 5 10
ti — 45 A 53—55 sr 90 P 3 m m
Why Age 40
/> the turning point i* health
«.. guard Yourself against these insidious
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women . .
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point’’ or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may be ex-
tended; 5, 10— or more —years
of life being gained by timely
attention to the symptoms of
disorder.
ACCORDING to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy —maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age —that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100—though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison’s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itsell
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yoursell
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms ol
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark al
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs ol
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out thal
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten—even twenty years, and ir
these added years of life, who knows whal
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of IS
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. Il
remote from a chemist, post your order tc
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle
ESS
HARRISONS
k:c..cV 4 bladoeb "
o PILLS
nARRi SON'S
r.'jNtY ano BL .oDc-R
PI LLS
HARRISON’S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Aches & Pains &
Make You QUICKLY Young * Well Again I


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
.• m
IBiill
3
'Sm
:
r
r3>
Pliant, smart and
better-lasting!
With a double sole that gives
much extra wear, and a supple,
specially-designed upper that in-
creases foot-ease, this Abbey
Boot is an ideal design for every-
day service. It is always snug-
fitting and comfortable.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF ... 43/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 426.
KINGFISHER
STATION
STOCK WHIPS
KANGAROO RIGHT THROO
AND
STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No. 8, with 10-plait Handle and 7ft.
Plaited Belly Thong 19/6
No. BA, with Bft. Thong .... 217-
No. 9, with 12-plait Handle and Bft.
12-plait Thong, with Plaited Belly,
25/-
Postage: 1/ N.S.W., 1/6 Q’land, Victoria.
™ STOCK RIDER
STATION SADDLE
No. 130.
An inexpensive Saddle, with pig-
skin seat and firm capped knee-
pads. Mounted with girth,
leathers and N.P. irons. Kail
freight paid for cash on N.S.W.
railways.
Write /or 96-page Saddlery Catalogue —7 0
Saddles to choose from.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
wmm
4t
o
Runs Li£,htm& .seven-valve Radio
Elec. Iron for oreek
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY.—Moffat Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE. —Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH. —Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers,
MADE IN Q'UEEN.SL AAJ.D BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD
VALUEV BRISBANE ■■
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
FENCING Wife*
%i 11% fence STANDARDS
#l>iS>sPwiftE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
H
111
II 1
hi
QUKNSLAND PASTORAL
> SUPPLIED LIMITED^
Hibiscus
Fencing Wire
Hibiscus is the Highest Grade
Wire Manufactured. No other
firm can supply Hibiscus Brand—
therefore, send all orders direct
to us.
Hibiscus Tested Galv. High Tension Wire, 12-|g., 1 coil runs 1500 yards.
Price: 27/- cwt. or £26 per ton.
Australian Standard Galv. High Tension Wire, £2o per ton.
HIBISCUS BARB WIRE: Made in our own factory in Tull cwt. coils.
12g., 24/6 cwt.; 12-£g., 26/- cwt.
Any southern make Barb Wire, 12g., 23/- coil; 24- coil.
Also a line of 12-Jg., 440 yards to the coil, 17/6 per coil.
Oval Banana Wire from 25/- cwt. Wire Strainers, 15/-.
WIRE NETTING—NEW REDUCED PRICES NOW AVAILABLE.
Sole Agents for Weldmesh Fencing for Sheep, Cattle and Pigs.
Write for Maker’s List.
ON WIRE AND MOST GROCERIES WE PAY FREIGHT BY BOAT TO
MAIN NORTHERN PORTS.
CEMENT: Best Portland to Queensland Government Specification. Small
lots, 4/9 per bag, or £5/12/6 per ton. Special Quotations given for
quantities. Also in casks, 20/- per cask.
JOINERY AND ALL BUILDING LINES: Best Grade Queensland Pine Doors,
6ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin., M. and T., 3-panel, 17/6 each.
PAINTS: Crown, 11/6 per gallon. Best Blundell Spence’s, 17/6 gallon.
Fibre Cement Sheets Q.P.S. Price, 2/6 per square yard, less 3 p.c.
Also all PLYWOOD at lowest prices.
GALV. CORR. IRON: Another 100 tons just landed of the new iron, B Grade
6ft.. 2/-; Bft., 2/6. Write for full list of iron.
LOWEST ALSO FOR; Medicated Salt Blocks, reduced to £ 1 0 per ton; Sheep
Dip, 59/6 case of 1001 b.; Raw Linseed Oil, 4/8 per gallon; Water
Piping 50 p.c. and 10 p.c. discount; Farm Gates; K. Wire; Droppers;
Furniture; Camp Beds; Shearers’ Supplies; Crockery; Groceries; Tank
Material; Sheep and Cattle Troughing; Tents and Tarpaulins; New
Era Separators; Cream Cans; Poultry Goods; Cottonseed Meal;
Molasses, etc.
We never charge extra for Sales Tax on any of our goods.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
Bowen Street (off Ann Street), BRISBANE.
applied to the crown of the plant will kill
it, but such treatment is too costly on
large areas.
Experiments have proved, time and
again, that lucerne, strong-growing pas-
ture grasses and sub. clover will choke
it out.
If “Valerin” sowed his lucerne last
autumn, he should keep his paddock
well stocked for a year. The only hope
of coping with the weed in the districts
south of the Junee-Narrandera line
(N.S.W.) is to throw the badly affected
paddocks out of cultivation for a few
years, sowing them down with improved
pastures. The seriousness of skeleton
weed in the eastern Riverina is shown by
the fact that nearly 500 farmers in Wagga
the other day asked the Government to
act.
It has been reported from places as far
apart as Narrabri, Dubbo and Bogan
Gate —only in small patches as yet, but
Riverina conditions point the future.
DRY-SOWING WHEAT.
“Stump Jump”: Sometimes it pays to
sow wheat before the autumn rains, but
you must use your head.
The first need is a flat seedbed with
a thin layer of fine soil —clods on top.
Put the seed right down on the bed,
with fine stuff surrounding it —a combine
is the best instrument to use. The vital
point is that the bed and soils are bone-
dry. This is where “Tumbe Munda”
(B. 30/l/’35) got on the wrong track.
The malting he disparages is the result
of dampness left and not allowed for.
So long as the grain is dry it will keep
as well out as in the bags, and you save
mostly a good three weeks in sowing.
With plenty of super, there is little weed-
growth.
Another point is that half an inch of
rain will shoot the sown grain, but may
not be enough to start regular sowing
with. Wheat will live for weeks in the
autumn without more than this amount
of water. It grows its first 4in. at least
on energy from its own kernel and the
air.
We have very few wheats that don’t
split along the centre cleavage whilst
passing through the thrashing-drum. It
is usually just enough to break the skin.
Consequently, wet-pickled stuff shows
poor germination sown in dry soil, as
I have found to my cost. Ons the other
hand, dry dust is preservative and an
effective bunticide.
“Tumbe Munda’s” country must be
very clean for him to get away with his
pickling method of mixing by shovel.
It’s hard to see how the whole surface of
the grain gets an even dose. It would
need doing thoroughly.
LETTING NATURE WORK.
“Corriedale”: Why “Sheepo’s” wholesale
insistence on licks as the remedy for fail-
ing pastures (B. 13/2/’35)? Overstock-
ing is almost the sole reason for the
trouble, though any essential mineral not
in the ground must be made up for.
Stock eat the finest grasses first and
clip the coarser ones later. The con-
sequence is that the most valuable fodder
dies from never having had a chance to
reproduce.
Again, overstocking decreases available
plant growth to be returned as humus,
which would restore all necessary ele-
ments in the soil, except phosphorus.
What straw does go back to humus is
mostly old and hard.
The grazier is just beginning to wake
to the fact that, after 50 or 60 years’
work, a paddock must show signs of
wear. It can be kept in good order by
natural means, i.e., lighter stocking,
which is unpopular in depression times.
Rotational grazing seems to be the
only other cure, but the big grazier often
finds this unworkable; though I can see
no reason why in paddocks up to 800 or
1000 acres the stock could not be put
in month about. Instead, the grazier
often divides the flock into as many
mobs as he has paddocks, and proceeds
to deplete the whole lot. It doesn’t pay.
PROTEIN IN THE RATION.
“Molecule”: I didn’t suggest, as
“Stump Jump” (B. 9/l/’35) implies, that
protein could replace the carbohydrates
in a ration. The point I wished to make
was that too much protein could be used
to produce heat and energy—the normal
function of carbohydrates—-whilst even
large carbohydrate excess cannot com-
pensate for protein deficiency. The whole
success or failure of a ration depends
primarily on its protein. But I won’t
quarrel with some of “Stump Jump’s”
remarks, especially those on the virtues
of maize.
It is seldom, however, that we need
to add carbonaceous supplements to
secure the proper nutritive ratio. In
most cases it is protein that has to be
added. In trials in which maize alone
was fed to pigs, they gained only ilb.
per head daily, and it took 6ylb. of maize
to make a pound of pork.
A control group which was fed enough
meatmeal along with the maize to bal-
ance the ration gave just double the daily
rate of gain, and it took only 3|lb. maize
and |lb. meatmeal to make a pound of
pork.
In this case, lib. meatmeal not only
replaced 61b. maize at much reduced
cost, but did the job better, because the
pigs on the balanced ration were better
grown and brought higher prices, whilst
the females were naturally more fit for
breeding.
Despite such spectacular results, how-
ever, it should always be borne in mind,
firstly, that protein is almost invariably
the most expensive part of the ration ;
and secondly, that the nutritive ratio may
vary widely according to age of animals,
whether resting or working, growing, fat-
tening, gestating, etc.
It isn’t simply a case of the more pro-
tein, the better the results.
An important point is the nature of
the protein. Cereal proteins are unbal-
anced, and, though the nutritive ratio
may look all right, it is virtually impos-
sible to balance a ration satisfactorily
without recourse to animal protein —
butter-milk, skim milk, meat- or blood-
meal.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kish-tar”: Fit old motor-tyres to the
transport wheels of your binder. It
makes travelling easier, and results in
less shaking to the machine and fewer
loose bolts and lost nuts.
“Tochilly”: To prevent cracks in the
ends of logs after felling, make oblique
crosses from the centre of the log to the
end of each crack. A sharp tap with a
maul on a wedge is sufficient.
“Mulyan”: To keep gateposts plumb
put a heavy sleeper between them, sunk
to the level of the ground with the ends
let into the sides of the posts or mortised
in and spiked. This holds the posts both
ways; at the same time it prevents a
hollow wearing under the gate.
“Bundalinga”: Horses generally get
redwater by eating weeds which irritate
the bladder. Often a change of pasture
and the addition of one teaspoonful of
saltpetre to the feed will eliminate the
trouble.
“D.”: To get more light from a lantern
extract one of the panes of glass and
cut a piece of broken mirror to size.
Insert in place of the glass.
“Upilio”: Place a bush or two over
wire-netting traps. It induces the rabbits
to come out quicker. Bunnies some-
times kick a netting trap out of the lead,
and the hole is open for the escape of
those inside. So place a small log at
the top of the trap.
“Lion”: The best of all edible thistles
is the variegated brand. It makes good
ensilage, and if cut with lucerne hay
when young makes good hay. At one
period after frostbite it is poisonous, but
stock never touch it here (Riverina) then.
When very young it will cause bloat.
“Rockbank”: Bridgetown (W.A.) Agri-
cultural Society can be commended for
a practical endowment fund. A five-
acre orchard has been planted adjacent
to the showground, and is maintained by
members gratis. When it is in full bear-
ing the revenue will provide for a full-
time Caretaker of the society’s property.
This sound idea could be copied by other
small communities which have essential
services to maintain.


SMOKE-OH!
“All the liquor was removed to the roof
of the hotel.” — “S. M. Herald.”
The drinks were on the house at last.
* *
“Failing the achievement of unity, many
delegates to the Labor conference hope to
arrange a truce.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
Among these factions truce is stranger
than friction.
* *
“A Museum official states that rabbits are
not so silly.”
Well, they certainly get beneath the
surface of things.
¥ V
“It seems that the police are no nearer to a
solution of the murder than they were before
it was committed.” — Vic. country paper.
And they could scarcely have been
very near to it then.
* *
“A submarine is to be named after Casa-
bianca.”
The burning deck will merely have
to submerge.
* H-
“N.Z. expects balanced Budget for 1934-35.”
The not-so-shaky islands! •
* *
“Copying their Western sisters, Turkish
women are now emancipated.”
They will be emaciated next.
* *
“To prevent spilled wine from spreading,
cover it quickly with salt.”
But surely no one would be silly
enough to spill wine.
* *
“The bride wore shrimp-blue cellophane
tweed.”
And the shrimp wore the usual de-
fected look of a bridegroom.
* *
“In the intensity of her hats she could have
killed Mary.”— -“World’s News.”
Hats do go to women’s heads.
“A beauty specialist says that the mani-
curing department is the only one in which
credit is not given.”
It’s cash on the nail there.
“ ‘Marriage is just a matter of give and take,’
says a lecturer.”
Yes ; we give and the wife takes.
* *
“Fishermen are notoriously hardy fellows.”
—Brisbane “Sunday Mail.”
True ; they often go for a whole day
without a bite.
* *
“Bagpipes players should practise slow walk-
ing.”—“Sun.”
What about fast running?
* *
“A clergyman says that listening to some
men talking at a sports gathering he heard one
horrible adjective employed at least a hundred
times.”
The curse of the country.
“Witness said that the accused approached
him with the suggestion that he could exchange
the notes for gold.”
And, of course, he fell in with it.
* *
“Certainly it is a very small town, but only
one of the inhabitants has ever had a cold.”
—“Age.”
A one-hoarse town.
* *
MOTIVE.
“No,” she said, “it wasn’t just the heat
that made me do it; it wasn’t the crowd
waiting to be served with milkshakes ; it
wasn’t the discomfort of the lipstick melt-
ing and running down my chin ; it wasn’t
even the boss urging me to mix more
milkshakes that made me commit the
crime.
“Nor did she chide me for being
slow. She stepped up to the milk bar,
smiled sweetly and said ‘You’re busy to-
day, dear, aren’t you?’
“Now, wouldn’t you have hit her with
the cash register?”
M. D. S.
REVENGE.
We were having a quiet drink when
Smithers abruptly stopped talking. He
was eyeing the newcomer near us who
had ordered a pint, mopped his brow
and placed a bowler hat on the bar
counter.
Suddenly, without warning, Smithers
crashed his two hands hard down on the
bowler, squashing it flatter than a par.-
writer’s purse.
I caught up with him four blocks away.
“What the blazes did you do that for?”
1 demanded.
“Revenge,” he trumpeted triumphantly.
“That’s our dustman. Through chuckin’
them from the top of his cart he’s con-
certina’d three rubbish-tins of mine in
ten months. That’s one on him —the
cow! ”
Darken.
HINTS FOR N.S.W. CANDIDATES.
To an old campaigner like myself, who
slid into a seat on the Dilladoola Rabbit
Board in ’B2 with the aid of the first slid-
ing panel seen west of the Blue Moun-
tains, the game is fairly simple, but
younger candidates who are not yet case-
hardened may appreciate a few wrinkles.
Indications are that the campaign will
be fought during Lent. Take a tip from
that. Give up borrowing, and, if you
can afford it, do a bit of lending in the
right quarters —even if it is only a sym-
pathetic ear.
Be humble in your demeanor, but at
the same time exude a manly pride in
the crystal-clear intelligence of the
electors.
A mistake many candidates make is to
tell people what they will do if elected.
Far better to ask them what they want
you to do when they elect you. If the
ideas are any good you can claim them
as your own when you get in ; if they
are foolish you can disown them. Let
the elector take the responsibility for
your pre-election policy.
Kissing babies is out of date. There
are fewer babies to kiss, and the women
who do have them have read so much
about microbes that they won’t let
strangers mess about with their infants
as they did in the old days.
Nevertheless, you must watch the
women’s vote. Get around among sew-
ing guilds, feminist clubs and women’s
sporting organisations. Go as a seeker
after truth, and let them do the talking.
Get them to show you how to do the
stocking stitch, how to bluff through on
a busted flush or how to play leg theory.
Angus O’Cohen.
DOWNRIGHT NEGLIGENCE.
Otto’s new speedster skidded around
the corner. An old man stared after it,
wondering if it had been a flash of light-
ning. A woman screamed and leapt back
on to the footpath.
Otto rushed on, delirious with the joy
of speed. Other cars swerved aside, their
drivers cursing vehemently. A milkcart
overturned as its frenzied driver strove
to get out of danger. Three pedestrians
had miraculous escapes.
Far ahead, a little boy was playing in
the street with a soft rubber ball. Zip!
The car flew past, and the ball, falling
inside it, hit Otto on the arm.
He jambed on the brakes, nearly kill-
ing an old lady, then thrust his head out,
red and furious.
“Hey, you!” he shouted. “Why the
hell aren’t you more careful?”
T. W. N.
* *
SIGNS OF PROSPERITY.
How pleasing it is to see the signs of
prosperity all around us! The landlord
has raised the rent half a crown ; the
grocer has put a ha’penny on the butter
and several other things ; bread has gone
up, and friends who used to come to
dinner in times of necessity have become
uppish.
Tagwell, instead of asking me for a
bob, makes it two bob every time.
The Taxation Commissioner, who got
tired in the arm signing demand letters
to me and gave it up, has resumed his
attentions.
Five people who decided that to pursue
their debts in depressed times was useless
have issued summonses against me.
There are compensations. Isaacstein
sprang an extra bob on the overcoat I
pawn with him.
And Gottlots cashed a cheque for me.
Six months ago he would not have con-
sidered such a transaction. I anticipate
signs of returning prosperity in his
language when he presents the cheque at
the bank.
* H.M.
THE SNAG.
“ ‘Modern boys are machine-minded, and
they can run almost anything,’ says an in-
structor at Sydney Technical College.”
I heartily support this opinion. Like
other lads of his generation, my son is
essentially machine-minded —though only
14, he can manipulate a lathe, band-saw,
motor-cycle, motor-car, speedboat and
glider. Also, he builds miniature radio
transmitting and receiving sets.
In short, he, too, can run almost any-
thing—except an errand.
P. O. M. C.
“The artist in him revolted against this
philistinism, yet his heart ached for her,”
—Short story.
Art for heart’s ache.
* *
“Reported that an elusive robber who had
terrorised a certain town has been captured at
last, and that he turns out to be none other
than the local tax-collector.”
Possibly the poor man was only getting
in a little overtime.
* *
THE UTILITARIAN.
“My husband got quite a surprise when
I give him his birthday present,” said
Mrs. McGoogan at the afternoon bridge
table. “I had promised him something
plated, which would be useful as well as
ornamental; something which would
have a sharp cutting edge, and which he
could use every day. Manlike, of
course, he guessed the wrong thing.”
“Men really are stupid,” caustically
commented Mrs. Browbeat. “You’d think
he’d know it would be a razor.”
“Razor?” said Mrs. McGoogan
sharply. “Who said anything about a
razor! I gave him an E.P.N.S. tin-
opener ! ”
Keo.
THE SAVING GRACES.
When something costly takes your eye
You do not hesitate to buy; ,
A jewelled clasp, a model frock.
An etching, scent or bedside clock —
It matters not what it might be ;
You know you may depend on me.
You wheedle, coax, cajole, entice,
Or frankly drag from me the price.
Ah, it’s a blessing, dear, I think,
That you don’t gamble, smoke or drink !
P.O.M.C.
PEEPS AT THE PROFESSIONS.
XXIII.— THE QUACK.
You’ll see displayed inside his door
Testimonials galore,
Telling how with magic skill
He’s cured folk with his Purple Pill.
How is it we never hear
Of the times he fails ?
The answer to the question’s clear—
Dead men tell no tales.
It is quite simple to become a quack
provided you first find out which branch
of quackery you are best suited for. You
can’t expect to make much money as
a phrenologist when your real forte is
selling Heal-all Balm. If you experience
any difficulty in deciding which line to
adopt, try the lot and stick to the one
you like best —that is to say, the one that
is the most remunerative.
Many a bad tipster makes a good
herbalist. This line, in fact, is one of the
simplest. The only stock in trade needed
is an Eastern name like Jam Chutnee,
with a robe to match, a bundle of testi-
monials and a mixture which you de-
“Oh, you dreadful creature! Wiping the dishes on your master’s shirt!”
“He all right, missus. He no boss’s shirt —he belonga cookee.”
scribe as the Great Heliotrope Pill.
You prescribe this pill for all ailments,
from surfer’s foot to the King’s Evil.
If the client isn’t satisfied, prescribe two
pills. If he is still dissatisfied, tell him he
needs more faith.
When the news of your powers gets
around you’ll have a steady stream of
clients. Of course, yoii’ll come in for
a lot of criticism, but you mustn’t mind
that. The clients who recover, despite
the pill, will sing your praises. Those
who don’t would probably have died in
any case, so why should you worry?
Moreover, they’ll probably die in hos-
pital, and the regular medical men will
get the blame, so you’ll be all right.
It is natural for human beings to want
a change, and after a while you will
probably find your clientele falling off.
When this occurs, close down immedi-
ately, and announce that you have re-
turned to Madagascar or wherever you
claimed to have come from to start with.
Shut up your shop, change your name
and robe and shift around the corner.
The same testimonials will do. Nobody
reads them anyway. Soon the fame of
your Great Mauve Pills will spread far
and wide.
For women, fortune-telling is undoubt-
edly the thing. Rent rooms in an obscure
street in an inaccessible suburb, get the
baker and milkman to mention you to
their customers, and you will soon be
well on the road to affluence. If you
can manage to have a policeman stand-
ing near the entrance to add a spice of
danger to the business, so much the
better. Don’t try to be original. Stick
to foreign travel, money, letters from old
friends, matrimonial prospects and lot-
tery prizes. You simply can’t go wrong
on these.
“You should try Madame Bosko,”
gushes young Mrs. de Jones. “My dear,
she tells simply gorgeous fortunes. I’m
going to be married three times, and my
third husband is going to be a million-
aire. I’m going for a trip abroad next
year, and a ticket with a seven in it is
going to win the lottery. So thrilling,
too, you know. The police have been
watching her house for weeks. When
you go there you have to mention Mrs.
Golporgie’s name. That shows you’re all
right, you see. I felt positively criminal
when I went in.”
It’s a great game, but, of course, if
you prefer faith-healing, table-rapping or
a new method of removing the craving
for alcohol, go right ahead.
JASBY.
THE BLOOMER.
I dreamed she was a blooming rose,
All fragrant, fair and fine;
That was another (goodness knows!)
Blooming mistake of mine.
H.M.
FIRST ESSENTIAL.
“Mother, may l go out to swim
And bake and laze on the beach’s rim,
Where maddening radios are none
And the waves are the only
crooners ?”
“Why, yes, of course you can, my pet;
But, before you leave, you mustn’t forget
To bring my workbox and let me run
My tape across your Spooners.”
H.
The shades of night were falling fast
When for a kiss he asked her.
She must have answered yes, because
The shades came down much faster.
J. L. P.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
‘vVanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, good appearance and
personality, requires position as reception clerk,
library assistant or secretary.—s67l.
Young woman, Q., wants position on station,
exp. general station work; willing to help with
domestic duties and act as companion or motor-
driver. Refs. —5633.
Ex-jackeroo, Sydney, desires holiday on
station. Will contribute as guest and assist in
station work if necessary.—s6s7.
Elderly man (Q.), with tools, and turnout,
wants bush contract work, fencing or shed-
buildifig, etc. —5652. \
Maoriland compositor seeks employment.—
5614.
Companion, with knowledge of shorthand,
fond of children, required for small country
home, Narrabri district (N.S.W.). Light house
and secretarial duties.—s 669.
To buy books about Australia by James
Bonwick and old Australian directories. —5670.
To buy reports, pamphlets and leaflets deal-
ing with Federation, Federal capital sites and
New States. Also “New State Magazine.”—
5608.
To borrow, hire or buy 75 copies of full
score of quintet “Love Is Meant to Make
Us Glad,” from Edward German’s opera
“Merrie England.”—s6ss.
Information Sought.
When did boxer “Hop Harry” Stone first
come to Australia, and whom did he oppose in
his opening contest at the Sydney Stadium ?
How many times did Stone fight Tommy Uren,
also Fred Kay, and how did the American fare
with the two Australian ex-welterweight
champions ? —5601.
Stone arrived in Sydney from New York
early in 1913. His first Stadium opponent was
Hock Keys, whom he outpointed in 20 rounds.
Stone had nine contests with Kay and eight
with Uren. Stone lost six and won three of
his fights with Kay, and the Uren encounters
resulted in a draw, one win and six defeats
for Stone.
I am about to type my entry for the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize. Could you give me a
few hints as Jo (1) best class of paper to use,
(2) method of typing, (3) numbering pages and
(4) binding ? I understand that such details
have been left to the discretion of entrants, but
I want to make the reading of my MS. as easy
as possible for the judges. —s6s6.
(1) . Use white bond paper, of standard
business-letter size (8£ by 11 inches) and of
medium weight (161 b. or 201 b.). Generally
speaking, the 201 b. paper is to be pre-
ferred. (2) Use a black record ribbon on your
typewriter. Use one side of paper only.
Keep your margins uniform and fairly wide,
an inch on top, bottom and right side, with
about H inches on left. Double space be-
tween lines. Indent the first line of each para-
graph ; about five spaces. Write the same number
of lines on each page (after page one). Keep
a carbon copy. (3) Number each page in the
upper right-hand corner. Do not start num-
bering over again at the beginning of a new
chapter, but carry numbers consecutively
throughout entire manuscript. (4) It is gener-
ally best to leave the pages loose, though MSS.
which are fastened in chapters with a slide-on
clip are easy to handle. Place the whole in
an ordinary springbuck letter-file or box-file
with simple spring clip inside. Files in which
sharp screws and spikes and bulky clips are
used are apt to prove a nuisance. Any form
of fastening which makes it difficult to read
the first few words on the left-hand side should
not be used. . In all cases the MS. should be
easy to get at and take apart if desired. Let
commonsense be your guide.
How much is an old-age pensioner allowed
to earn without having his pension stopped or
cut ? I am married, and the wife is also a
pensioner. —s4l6.
The Act says a pensioner’s income, pension
included, must not exceed £7B per annum.
In the case of husband and wife, except where
they are living apart “pursuant to a decree,
judgment or order,” the income and property
of each must be deemed to be possessed by
both in equal, shares. Old-age pensioners who
receive the maximum rate of pension, £45 10s.
per annum, may earn an additional £32 10s.
without pension rate being affected. In the
case of husband and wife, the combined earn-
ings must not exceed £65. If pensioners are
provided with free board and lodgings, the
value of such is regarded as income.
(1) Brief particulars of James Ruse, Aus-
tralia’s first settler? (2) Inscription on his
tombstone ?— 5700.
(1) Ruse, a Cornish farmer, was sentenced
to seven years’ imprisonment in August, 1782.
After serving five years in England he was sent
to N. S. Wales with the First Fleet. His term
having expired in 1789, he was granted ly
acres at Parramatta with the understanding that
his grant would be increased to 30 acres should
he prove a successful farmer. This additional
land was granted in March, 1791. Ruse sold
his farm to Surgeon John Harris in 1793 for
£4O, and got a grant of land at the junc-
tion of South Creek and the Hawkesbury
River in June, 1794, and, at a later date, a
new grant of 100 acres on Saltpan Creek near
Bankstown. Ruse obtained his last grant in
1819 in- the Riverstone district. He died on
September 5,, 1837, and was buried in
St. John’s , Cemetery at Campbelltown. . (2)
“Secred 1 To the Memrey Of James Ruse Who
Departed This Life Sept. 5 in the Year of
Houre Lord, 1837, Natef of Cornwell And
Arived In This Coleney By the Forst Fleet
Aged 77.
My Mother Reread Me Tenderley With me She Took
Much Paines,
And When I Arivod in This C'oelney I sowd The
Forst Grain
And Now With My Hevenly Father I Hope For Ever
To Remain.
Particulars concerning Tom Petrie, author of
“Tom Petrie’s Reminiscences” ? —5676.
He was born in Edinburgh in 1831, and
brought when three months old to N. S. Wales
by his father, Andrew Petrie, civil engineer and
builder of a large portion of early Brisbane.
From early childhood Petrie fraternised with
the aborigines and learned to speak their
languages; ultimately he became well known
to thousands of wild blacks, and was granted
privileges extended to no other man outside
the tribes. He frequently prevented conflict
between whites and blacks, and did valuable
work in opening up tracks through the Queens-
land ranges. He was the only , white man (ex-
cept a few escaped convicts) allowed to be
present at the feast of the bon-yi (bunya
nut). As a boy of 14 he “went bush” with the
blacks for a fortnight. In his later years he
related his experiences with the aborigines, and
a wealth of information concerning their cus-
toms, to his daughter Constance, who compiled
from this material “Tom Petrie’s Remini-
scences.” Petrie died in 1910.
(1) What English sovereign instituted the
Order of the Companions of Honor ? (2)
Upon whom is it conferred? (3) How is the
badge of the order worn ? (4) Are there any
Australian members of the order? —5675.
(1) King George V. in 1917. (2) The order
consists of the sovereign and not more than 50
members. It may be conferred on either men
or women for conspicuous national service.
Recipients put the initials C.H. after their
names, these being placed next after G.B.E.
(3) The badge is a gold medallion, oval in
shape. Men suspend it round their necks from
a carmine riband 14in. wide, with a bordure
interlaced with gold. Women wear it attached
to a similar riband tied in a bow on the left
shoulder. It is never worn in miniature. (4)
The only Australian member is Stanley Bruce.
How much bitumen is required to give a
tennis court one coat, and should it be applied
hot or cold ? —5451.
The court should be dry, well consolidated
and swept free of dust and loose matter. Two
coats are best; the first should be applied at
the rate of about one-eighth gallon per square
yard, followed within two weeks by the second
coat at the rate of one-quarter gallon per
square yard. It should be applied as hot as
possible, either by pouring-cans and brooms or
sprayers; hot material is more economical' than
cold, spreads better and penetrates more
thoroughly.
Annual salaries of superintendents and in-
spectors of police in N. S. Wales, and number
in each class ? —5606.
Superintendents: Ist class (4), £727 7s. 6d.
p.a.; 2nd class (4), £677 7s. 6d. p.a.; 3rd class
(7), £627 7s. 6d. p.a. Inspectors: Ist class (10),
£527 7s. 6d. p.a.; 2nd class (20), £502 7s. 6d.
p.a.; 3rd class (42), £477 7s. 6d. p.a.
What is the utility of “heavy water,” men-
tioned in the cables recently ? —5412.
It is much too early to define its utility. At
present it is extremely costly to manufacture,
and its main interest is of a scientific nature.
It is possible that industrial applications may
be discovered'as time goes on.
How can 1 nominate a person in Scotland
for an assisted passage to N. S. Wales ?
5337.
Nomination must in the first place be
accepted. Communicate with the Officer in
Charge, Immigration Branch, Department of
Labor and Industry, Sydney, who will supply
you with full information and forms of appli-
cation.
What part does the spleen play in the human
body? Diseases of spleen; cause and symp-
toms ? What causes enlargement, and what are
the symptoms ? —5522.
Although the spleen is not essential to life
it plays an important part in combating dis-
ease, in the manufacture of red blood cor-
puscles, and in other important functions.
Injury to the organ is not common, but it is
readily affected by certain diseases involving
splenic anaemia and enlargement. While it is
surmised that the spleen has some influence
on the pancreas and liver which may help
digestion, the relationship to the liver blood-
circulation is possibly responsible for its par-
ticipation in some hepatic diseases. Enlarge-
ment of the spleen ‘accompanies certain blood
diseases —malaria, typhoid and septic foci in
general are factors to be anticipated. Pernicious
anaemia and jaundice (haemolytic) are usually
associated with some degree' of enlargement.
Medical diagnosis is a necessary prelude to
treatment in all cases.
What is the olfactory nerve, where situated,
and what purpose does it serve ? —5634.
The first cranial or olfactory nerve arises
from a slender process of the brain devoted to
the sense of smell and called the olfactory bulb.
It consists of small filaments that pass- from
the bulb through sievelike perforations in the
plate of bone which roofs the nose, thence
to the interior of the nose and nasal mucous
area. The latter is specially modified to serve
the sense of smell. It is called the olfactory
mucous membrane to distinguish it from the
general lining or respiratory area; in it the
olfactory nerves are embedded. In the lower
animals which depend for existence on acute-
ness of sense of smell the olfactory bulbs are of
much greater size and importance than those
of man. Catarrhal conditions, head cold and
local congestion of the post-nasal area tem-
porarily destroy the sense of smell; the nerve
centre is dulled by mucous accumulation due
to this. cause.
(1 ) Is'it possible for an adult (26) to increase
his height by exercising? (2) If so, would
health be adversely affected ? (3) Names of
books dealing with this subject ? —5485.
(1) There is no certain method of increasing
adult height. Physical culture and exercise, with
stretching movements, are best advised in early
maturity. (2) Health should benefit from the
exercise involved. (3) Various books on
physical culture stocked by booksellers.
Could an average handyman make a small
reflecting telescope ? How much would it cost,
and where could directions for making be
obtained ? —5547.
It is quite possible for anyone with ordinary
capacity in the use of tools to construct a small
reflecting telescope. The cost of materials
would be from £2 10s. to £3. Government
Astronomer, Sydney Observatory, will advise as
to method of construction.
How to treat a house paintbrush after use ?
5692.
If brushes are likely to be used at reasonable
periods they should be suspended by their
handles with the bristles submerged in raw
linseed oil, keeping the tips of the bristles clear
of the bottom. If the brush is not likely to
be used for a long period it should be thoroughly
washed in soap and water, dried, and wrapped
in waterproof paper. Brushes should be stored
in a moderately warm place.
Was a referendum taken on six-o’clock
closing for hotels in N.S.W. ? If so, when,
and what was the result ? —5507.
Yes, on June 10, 1916. Voting was: Six
o’clock, 347,494; seven o’clock, 4830; eight
o’clock, 21,134; nine o’clock, 178,842; ten
o’clock, 1405; eleven o’clock, 3193; informal,
22,208. Since July 21, 1916, all hotels have
been closed at six o’clock.
( 1) Population of Queensland ? (2) Of
N.S.W. ? (3) Of Brisbane? (4) Of Sydney?
(5) Of the six largest N.S.W. towns outside the
capital ? (6) Of the six largest Queensland
towns outside the capital ? —5541.
(1) 947,789. (2) 2,601,104. (3) 299,782. (4)
1,235,367. (5) Newcastle and suburbs 104,491,
Broken Hill 26,921, Goulburn 14,851, Cessnock
14,387, Lithgow 13,444, Lismore 11,763. (6)
Rockhampton 29,373, Toowoomba 26,430,
Townsville 25,872, Ipswich 22,499, Cairns
12,004. All 1933 census figures.
What is the plural of “xyst” ? —5631.
Xysts. Had to look it up in Webster to see
what it means, but the rule is that if the
standard lexicographers admit a word to the
English language it becomes amenable to Eng-
lish laws of grammar.
I understand that there is a reference in
one of Dante’s works to the Southern Cross,
said to be the first reference in modern litera-
ture. Can you quote the passage ? —5679.
You will find it in the “Purgatorio.” In the
translation of S. W. Griffith the lines are;
1 saw four stars that never
Were seen excepting by the folk primeval.
The heavens seemed in their flamelets to be joying.
O desolate indeed, thou northern region,
Since upon these thou art bereft of grazing!
Can you give in (1) French and (2) English
Talleyrand’s remark about whist and old age ?
—5673.
(1) “Vous ne jouez done pas le whist, Mon-
sieur? Helas! quelle triste vieillesse vous vous
preparez!” (2) “You do not play then at
whist, sir! Alas, what a sad old age you are
preparing for yourself!”
What was Sir Philip Sidney’s advice on how
to write poetry ? —5612.
“ ‘Fool!’ said my muse to me, ‘look in thy
heart and write.’ ”
Did Oscar Wilde write “Stone walls do not
a prison make nor iron bars a cage” ? —5680.
No; the lines are by Richard Lovelace (1618-
1658).
Title and author of poem containing these
lines:
Ha! What avails death to erase
His offence, my disgrace ?
I would we were boys as of old
In the field by the fold.
—5643.
“After,” by Robert Browning.
What character in John Galsworthy’s works
says: “Plenty of those gentlemen in these days
esteem themselves Christian, but I have only
■ once met a Christian who esteemed himself a
Jew” ?— 5646.
Ferrand, in “A Simple Tale,” in the volume
entitled “Abracadabra.”
Name of character in Roman history who
was given as a hostage to a King of Etruria,
and escaped by swimming the Tiber? —5376.
Cloelia, a Roman virgin.
(1) Where are hnari plates and pottery made ?
(2) Is there anything special in their manufac-
ture ? —5281.
Imari ware is a Japanese baked ware made by
various potters in the province of Hizen during
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. It
obtained its general name through being ex-
ported through Imari. It had a great vogue at
one time, and was so sought after that it was
extensively imitated by German, French and
English potters during the seventeenth cen-
tury. Its influence is still noticed in some
of the ware produced by the Crown Derby
potters and porcelain-makers. There was
nothing special in its manufacture except that
it was made by old methods, copied by the
Japanese from the Chinese, and that some of
the shapes and patterns, particularly designs
in blue, were distinctive.
What French author wrote the following, and
what does it mean in English: “La carriere des
lettres est plus epineuse que celle de la fortune.
Si vouz avez le malheur d’etre mediocre, voila
des remords pour la vie; si vous reussiez, voila
des ennemis; vous marchez sur le bord d’un
abune entre le mepris et la haine” ? —5512.
Voltaire. In English it reads: “The career
of letters is more thorny than that of fortune.
If you have the misfortune to be mediocre, you
have disappointment for life; if you succeed,
you find enemies. You walk on the edge of an
abyss between neglect and hatred.”
Titles and authors of poems in which occur
the following lines? (1) “My name is Norval, on
the Grampian Hi 115 ”.... and (2) “ ‘Hold your
tongue,’ said the Saxon, laughing.” —-5600.
(1) In “Douglas,” by Rev. John Home. (2)
“The Happiest Land,” by Longfellow.
Recipe for a waterproof dressing for fishing
lines ? —5482.
A good dressing is made of boiled linseed oil
2 parts, gold size 1 part. There are ready-made
preparations on the market.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of abo. word “Wooroolah” ?
5642.
Brief Answers.
G.A.R.: No record of any loans having
been issifed by any Australian Government free
of probate duties C.S.: It would cost
£2 12s. lOd. at current rate of exchange (£125
8s. 9d. Australian for £100 English) to buy
English currency to value of £2 2s. The
most suitable method of sending the amount
would be to purchase from a bank a draft in
favor of the party desired for the sum of
£2 2s. English and forward direct.... R.M.:
The book has no commercial value.... J.C.M.:
Heros has neyer won a Standish Handicap....
K.M.: “The Authors, Playwrights and Com-
posers’ Handbook for 1935,” compiled and
edited by D. Kilham Roberts (John Lane),
3s. 6d. net....A.T.W.: Camelopard is an early
name for the giraffe. It was thus designated
on account of its camel-like form plus the
leopard or spotted skin... .E.A.: (1) 24. (2) 12.
. ...C.G.: The polar diameter of the earth is
7899 miles. The mean equatorial diameter is
7926 miles. The circumference at the equator
is 24,902 miles... .D.L.: (1) Yes. (2) In
1933 G. Richards rode 259 winners in 975
races, thus beating the record of 246 winning
mounts (667 rides) set up by Fred Archer in
1885... .W.B.: Easter may fall on any of the
35 dates from March 22 to April 25 inclusive,
but the dates at the end of the series occur
less frequently than those in the middle....
R.W.M.: Write J. B. Chandler and Co., 43
Adelaide-street, Brisbane... .J.W.: (1) A Braille
and Moon Library is attached to the Sydney
Industrial Blind Institution, William-street,
Sydney. (2) A Queenslander would have to
write to the committee there and give it a
guarantee that books would be cared for
and returned. (3) A catalogue will be
forwarded at a cost of Is. (4) Two monthly
magazines are published by the Institution,
the “Woman’s Magazine” and the “Boom-
erang Magazine.” (5) 15,000 volumes are
available for the blind and are forwarded to
readers free of charge... .C.A.L.: Inquire from
the Government department concerned in each
State... .PJ.S.: Write Graziers’ Co-operative
Shearing Co., Sirius House, 23 Macquarie-
place, Sydney G.A.H.: Battleship Rodney
cost £6,148,319 ; Cunard liner Queen Mary
cost £6,000,000... .C.D.: “Truth and Tradi-
tion,” by Dr. Angus (4s. 6d.)... .F.M.: Yes,
it is a prerogative of the Crown to claim
priority for its debts before all other creditors.
... .S.A.M.: (1) Eight thousand ens an hour is
usually considered a satisfactory output for a
linotype operator. (2) A top-notcher could
do 10,000 to 12,000, depending on the class
of matter being set. (3) (a) Opportunities of
employment in both cities, though till re-
cently few, are increasing. ( b ) Expertness is
expected as a matter of course. (4) Get in
touch direct with unions and employers and
watch Position Vacant columns. (5) Both are
effective; depends on circumstances... .E.G.H.:
Write to the Clerk of Probate, Divorce and
Admiralty Division of the Supreme Court, Law
Office, London, who may be able to supply
you with some information. Full particulars
should be given... .F.W.T.: Write Juvenile
Employment Section, State Labor Exchange,
Box 21a, G.P.O., Sydney F.H.: Write
Under-Secretary, Public Works Department,
Sydney... .G.A.H.: There is no scheme of
conversion that could be applied to such
a case. The rate of interest is reasonable,
though at the present time money can be
obtained at a lower rate. Write to the mort-
gagees and ask for a reduction G.M.C.:
(1) Yes. (2) No, provided the physical family
history on both sides is satisfactory. Inquiry
should be made H.T.T.: Afraid prospect of
getting money after such a lapse of time is very
remote.. See, or write to, the U.S.A. Consul, 7
Wynyard-street, Sydney L.C.W.: Yes, losers
score honors in bridge. Honors may also be
scored if held by declarer’s opponents R.L.:
Derris root powder is what you require; obtain-
able from any chemist. It is used in soap solu-
tion at a strength of one per cent. Wash your
dog in this every sixth day and the animal will
be protected from injury by tick... .B.E.L.: (1)
Evidently an ordinary Mexican silver dollar.
Collector value 2s. 6d. (2) 2\ guilders, 1866.
Collector value about 3s. (3) Two English shil-
lings dated 1757 and 1826. First worth Is. 9d.,
latter Is. 3d L.J.: S. Rowe, 704 George-
street; Paterson, Laing and Bruce, 2 Wynyard-
street; and Robert Reid and Co., 32 York-
street —all . Sydney... .F.W.D.: Perfumes and
chemicals, etc., from Elliotts and Australian
Drug, Ltd., 20 O’Connell-street, Sydney; tin-
foil, aluminium-foil and packing papers, from
Hermann Haege, Ltd., 379 Kent-street, Sydney.
J.O.D.: No information available in Sydney
regarding prospects in either country
T. : Vic. Public Library is unable to trace
the incident. Vic. Police Department, Mel-
bourne, may be able to help... .G.R.: I.C.S.,
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney D.W.: “A
Book of Lettering,” by J. K. Robertson and
A. Field (Is. 6d.)....J.P.H.: After Australia’s
victory at The Oval (Aug. 29, 1882) an epitaph
with black-edged border, “In affectionate re-
membrance of English cricket.... the body will
be cremated and the Ashes taken to Australia,”
appeared in the “Sporting Times” (the “Pink
’Un”) of Sept. 2, 1882. The metaphor appealed
to cricketers, and since then it has been custom-
ary to refer to Test matches as contests for
“The Ashes”... .R.B.: There are no vacancies
in the police force of New Guinea... .C.IL:
Liamena means “near a lagoon”; Mooyung
Bogal, “an owl coming out of a hole”; Barbi-
gal, ’ “frosty place”; and Arrabri, “a high
mountain” —all are N.S.W. abo. place-names.
B.C.A.: The six longest railway tunnels in
the world are: Simplon (Switzerland-Italy), 12
miles 668 yards; Apennine (Italy), 11m.
879yds.; St. Gothard (Switzerland), 9m.
551yds.; Lotschberg (Switzerland), 9m. 132yds.;
Mont Cenis (Italy), 8m. 832yds.; and Cascade
(U.S.A.), 7m. 8yds C.H.A.: (1) Not very
bright. All companies operating in the islands
with head offices in Sydney report no vacan-
cies. (2) New Guinea goldfields; nearest port
Salamaua. (3) New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.,
and Bulolo Gold Dredging, Ltd.—both Sydney.
R.M.S.: A shoe known as the Cantilever
is made by the Cantilever Corp., Pennsylvania,
U. It is unobtainable in Sydney S.C.:
Districts are open for kangaroos only at cer-
tain times; particulars of the open seasons can
be obtained from the Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment, Sydney. There is a ready sale for the
skins, but whether it is a payable proposition
depends, of course, on the quantity of skins
obtainable... .G.T.S.: Write to Cyrus Brooks,
Secretary, the Translators’ Guild, 188 Piccadilly,
London, W.l S.L.: Gainsborough Pictures
(1928), Pool-street, Islington, N.l; Gaumont
British Picture Corporation, Lime Grove, Shep-
herd’s Bush, W.12; New Era Films, 26
D’Arblay-street —all London... .(Many others
mailed.)


HEAR WITHOUT
YOUR EARS!
AND KNOW ONCE MORE THE HAPPINESS OF HEARING
THE NATURAL, HUMAN VOICE.
DEAF PEOPLE CAN DO SO—BY MEANS OF THE
“SONOTONE ”
The “Sonotone” is a small, unnoticeable
device, worn behind the ear. There is nothing
to carry—so you have both hands free.
If you are deaf,
Come and test the “Sonotone” yourself. A trial costs you nothing.
Bring your friends. Let them see how easy it is for them to make
you hear. If you cannot call, a consultant will come, without
charge, to any suburb.
The “Sonotone” has done more than make the deaf to hear. People who
were born deaf and dumb have been enabled to speak with it. They have
heard sound for the first times in their lives —and have been taught to
speak—as children of all times have been taught.
READ WHAT TWO AUSTRALIAN “SONOTONE” USERS SAY:
The Hon. D. 11. Drummond, Minister for Education,
“The has given me extraordinary relief, and has materially altered my
whole outlook in many ways. I have tried a number of instruments of various
kinds, and obtain from the ‘Sonotone’ a marked relief and assistance, far transcending
any previously experienced.”
A. Galbraith, Esq., of Rosebery, Sydney,
‘lf you derive the benefit I do from the ‘Sonotone,’ you will be a happy man. There
is not the slightest strain. It is amazing what one can hear with the ‘Sonotone.’
It is perfect. I have five other hearing aids —but they are wrapped in a parcel. I
would not use them after the ‘Sonotone.’ ”
CALL AND SEE WHAT THE “SONOTONE” CAN DO FOR YOU.
To test it costs you nothing.
A CASH ALLOWANCE MADE ON YOUR OLD INSTRUMENT.
ANGUS & COOTE
Sole Australian Agents for “Sonotones,”
With Distributors in all Other States,
500 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEOFLAK
The Latest and Most Successful Powder for Shot Guns
Mak/sS Sum.
Of yotui Duc/cP
—a 2|in. load in a cartridge—with
consequent high velocity and hard
hitting at long range.
X
a
m
\
fO&bi
Use DUXBACVICIL SPECIAL
NEOFLAK LOADED
WATERPROOF CARTRIDGES
—— s ' ——-
and prove these claims yourself.
No Excessive
Pressure or Recoil
Order your supplies
NOW ready for
the Duck Shooting
Season.
British—
and Best
A Product of
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd
(Ammunition Section),
380 Collins St., Melbourne.
211 Clarence St., Sydney.
In N. S. Wales
Seasons already open ii\ Vic., S. Aus., W. Aus.S Tasmania
UW-eJt •ntaA&s SbiMtAJLtucji^/
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany
J.N.H.: Have mercy on the comps.! The
ink runs on that paper you use... .M.L.8.:
You’ll have to find some better rhymes for
Stawell T.L.: They are, as you suggest,
“full of faults”—as full as a bin of bottles....
M.L.: A very little of that punning on place-
names goes a long way... .Z.W.: It runs along
pleasantly enough, but the theme and the
properties are both very 01d... .0.C.D.: “The
Trier” tried and found wanting F.S.: Your
“laborious rhymes” describes them, though in
spots there’s very good stuff... .J.L.S.: Read-
able, but off our track T.H.; “Farewell” it
is H.T.K.: Fair idea; heavy treatment
S.E.T.R.: “The Ship” foundered; don’t call
the Australia... .T.1.L.: “You probably won’t
like this.” You’re right C.A.U.: Can dis-
cern no promise whatever in it... .Pranto: The
thinnest for a month—and that’s saying some-
thing L.U.E.: Since you “know this is
original and not, as The Bulletin states, an old
idea,” would you look up Genesis? ... .H.D.:
First page of the verse (also “stamped addressed
envelope”) missing, but what there is seems
p00r....L. and W.: As has been stated, the
demand for humorous stories does not close
with the competition. The Bulletin can take
plenty on the lines of those published....
R.F.J.: Hundreds of girls at that age write
competent verse, and you should be able to
get some of that published elsewhere... .S.F.:
That it’s “based on fact” only makes it dan-
gerous... .Hello: Good night D.8.F.: Do
something to the third and fourth lines and
let’s hear “The Magpie” again D.M.C.:
Treated as satire the story might pass
J.G.: The dream ending is generally used by
an author trying to explain the seemingly
incredible.... R.P.; Soon guessed that the old
boy was telling the horror yarn against himself.
C.R.: Dull P.D.C.: Four thousand
words for that... .G.C.A.: Thin tale of com-
monplace courtship C.M.: Time that plot
was pensioned 0fi....N.C.: As rambling and
badly typed as previous submissions... .W.C.:
You take too long to start a journey that
wasn’t worth making F.S.G.; Old
J.A.M.: Callow... .S.P.: Needs a stronger
finish... .W.T.S. : You seem under the spell
of the mistaken-identity plot. Both stories are
much the same—and poor K.W.: To reach
the yarn we had to read the wearisome com-
ments of the club bore who told it and the
man who told it to him Y.R.A.: Almost
got through... .Z.Y.W.: Try it elsewhere....
0.W.W.: Story of opal find might have been
told by an unimaginative reporter... .J.M.C.:
Could be made more vivid R.D.N.: That
hackneyed plot needs stronger treatment to
pass... .F.W.E.: Something in the idea, but it
is weakly constructed E.E.C.: Getting rid
of a character in that way is an inartistic finish.
... .C.C.: Strengthened and with more suspense
packed into it the yarn might stand a chance.
A.S. : Only worth a paragraph R.C.:
An exciting situation lamely described
H. : A rather aimless description of village
brawling J. 8.: Flapperish M.K.H.; In
the same class... .G.R.; Directly we learned
he was a collector of orchids we guessed
that he would be strangled by one of his plants.
S. :An unpolished effort... .L.A.R.: A lame
duck L.M.W.: As valueless as the cheque.
... .C.W.S.: Too slight....A.H.: “Urger”
warned off... .A.C.W.: The end was tame....
T. : Same old amateurish gold prospectors
and same old chapter of accidents F.M.:
Much too long and far from absorbing....
I. : Couldn’t work up any excitement over
the fate of the old maid V.W.: Unreal and
unconvincing J.L.: Condensed it might
make an Abo. par 0.L.: It didn’t sting us
for a cheque J.A.K.: “Don’t Waste Words!”
Thanks for supplying the criticism of your own
story.., .J.F.: There is a story in it, but it
needs smarter handling K.G.P.: Only a faint
speck of a p10t... .E.C.S.: Goes the same way
as the last... .A.M.D.; Country wife dreaming
of her girlhood lover earns neither tears nor
cheques... .W.H.8.: Rather vague and incom-
plete... .C.C.8.: Commonplace.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.M.: Little more than labels... .S.F.D.:
Faint indelible pencil marks on tissue paper....
G.H.: You’re about six months too late with
the idea... .A.J.W.: Fisherman’s left leg might
be one of the wharf piles,.. .8.N.; Not much of
a drawing, though you show signs of improve-
ment... .G.L.: Yes, the paper and ink are all
right, but the sketch and suggestion are not.
... .W.E.M.: Might stand a chance if done
four times the size C.S.: A glimmer of
humor in the wheeze; not a scrap of merit in
the drawing H.F.P.: Glad to hear you
are sending no more P.R.: You won’t suc-
ceed by copying another man’s style and ran-
sacking American comic papers for ideas.
A.B.J.: An expressionless face for a man
faced with certain death 1.J.: Picture of
three queerly-shaped males and one freakish
female declined.. . .R.M.A.: You must learn
to take pains... .F.W.T.: Pawnshop joke has
been going the rounds for as long as the office's
oldest inhabitant can remember... .S.T.: Dog
with head and body unknown to science has
been sent to the Australian Museum... .J.H.:
The signature is a perfect piece of lettering; the
rest is awful 0.J.8.; Don’t use that harsh
linework N.J.G.: If you continue to turn
out such atrocities you’ll need a larger in-
cinerator W.W.: That weird, microscopic
style will never receive our blessing K.L.:
The same besotted clubman has been gazing
at the same park statue for 50 years
E.8.W.: A three-page covering letter to intro-
duce the week’s weakest... .A.F.: Fair idea;
art lacking G.H.S.: Honestly, what do you
think of them yourself?
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“S.T.S.”: Australia gets two testi-
monials in the new reminiscences of that
hard case Hugh Hole, son of the rose-
growing Dean. (1) In South Africa
(1899) he was, as a prisoner of the Boers,
allowed to address a meeting: “You
made a good start. Why? Our people
are mostly out of towns. They attacked
in mass, and got wiped out. Do you
know anything about Canada —or Aus-
tralia? The men are like yourselves—
good shots, good riders, men who can
rough it. Those men are pouring into
Africa at this moment. What earthly
chance have you?” (2) In Palestine (1918)
“the man who had the heaviest hand en-
joyed the greatest respect. The Austra-
lian rider was so venerated by the hill
Bedouin that the mere suspicion of a
man with feathers in his hat being in
the neighborhood would cause these cut-
throats to down tents and vanish.”
* * * *
“Vega”: Cabled that the Portuguese
Government has drafted a bill to combat
illiteracy by installing radio receiving sets
in every city and village square, sur-
rounded by chairs and tables where lis-
teners may receive instruction—in the
three R’s, presumably. Sixty per cent, of
the population, it is added, are unable to
read and write. The “Statesman’s Year
Book” gives the figure at 54 p.c,, and
it is obviously only the older generation
that will need this alfresco schooling,
for primary education was made com-
pulsory in Portugal 24 years ago. Still, as
far as education goes, Portugal obviously
retains the melancholy distinction of be-
ing the most backward country in
Europe. Spain is very little better; the
latest census returns showed that nearly
45 p.c. of the population could neither
read nor write.
sf * * *
“Clan C.”: In this controversy about
the Black Watch “Trews” has got his
facts mixed (B. 6/2/’35). The “Campbells,
Monroes and others” had nothing what-
ever to do with the policing of the
Highlands in the time of George I. Lord
Lovat, the Marquis of Atholl and Cluny
Macpherson were the three principal
Highland chiefs who raised these
“Watches” in 1725. What “Trews” —and, I
think, “Claymore” (B. 23/1 /’35) —is prob-
ably confounding with the formation of
the Black Watch is the raising of “Lou-
doun’s Highlanders,” a regiment of 12
companies formed in 1745 under the
Earl of Loudoun (John Campbell) as
colonel, and the John Campbell who was
afterwards Duke of Argyll as lieut.-
colonel.
“Aberfeldy”: Though the original
commissions for the formation of the
Black Watch, or Am Freiceadan Dubh,
are dated October 25, 1739, the regiment
was not embodied till May, 1740. The
detailed companies first met at Weem,
adjoining Castle Menzies ; in an adjacent
field they were embodied as the Royal
43rd Regiment, a title later altered to
the 42nd Royal Highlanders. The origi-
nal dress included a scarlet jacket and
waistcoat, buff facings, with white lace,
and a tartan plaid. There was a blue
Atholl bonnet, bordered with checks of
red, white and green and mounted with
a tuft of feathers ; hose of red and white
Menzies tartan were worn. The founder
of the Black Watch was Chief Junior
Captain Robert Menzies (1660-1692),
“Fiat” of Menzies. He was the first
Highland chief to raise an independent
company from his clan for the service of
the Government during 1684-1685.
* * * *
“Parlyvoo”; The rival supporters of
Latin and French teaching in schools are
fighting once more in Melbourne. One
supporter of the modern tongue admits
that it is better to have Latin well
taught than French badly taught. Why?
For myself, I have little French and less
Latin, but I got through six weeks in
France considerably better than an Aus-
tralian woman acquaintance who had
won honors in French, taking her M.A.
degree at Melbourne University. Stolid
Frenchmen laughed at my bull-at-a-gate
fashion of tackling their language, and
one, between smiles, confided that I had
a great knowledge of French words but
my grammar was epouvantable; still, I
got there. I could make myself under-
stood before the learned damsel at my
side had reached the end of her first
sentence. Her academic training made her
want to speak French like a French high-
brow. I spoke it like a Digger. She
would wrestle to work out the pluperfect
subjunctive, talking to a Frenchman who
never used it himself and had never
heard of it; I got the answer I
wanted at once. My French is rotten;
I know it. But I can read any French
book, almost any . French newspaper
—which is far more difficult—and I can
make myself understood with French
people. What more can any education
do?


“SILVER
EDGE"
fficuAei&i,
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
SAFETY!
You are a motorist. There
are many laws made for your
safety—rules and regulations of
road traffic and so on—but the
fundamental basis of all safe
driving is in your own hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
. ... in Good Condition .
Have them adjusted and examined
periodically by experienced men,
and, if you wish to maintain true
adjustment and long life, specify
RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING when
re-lining is necessary.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
The Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation Limited
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings, Adelaide.
A
modern, progressive and purely Australian Corporation,
transacting all classes of Life Assurance, including.
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate, Non-Profit,
Annuities, Personal Accident and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
E F LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
The Steering Column.
NEW SERIES CARS DESIGNED TO
RELIEVE TRAFFIC CONGESTION.
IMPROVED ACCELERATION AND POWERFUL
BRAKING SYSTEMS IN ALL TYPES.
BY FRED BERRY.
IN recent years speeds of almost every type of stock car have
been greatly increased, and to-day it is an open question
whether the average driver can make any rational use of those
high speeds. There will always be people who buy cars for
speed, though in the ordinary course of events they may never
have the occasion or the nerve to use what they are paying for.
In some measure the persistent public
demand for a car with foolproof top-
gear performance has been responsible
for this condition of affairs. Traffic
authorities, particularly the cop at the
cross-roads, who is impatient about
fumblers, is one of the impelling factors
behind the demand.
As a matter of fact, however, speed
in motor transport for practical purposes
outside racing does not imply a high
maximum, but rather a capacity of get-
ting between two given points in the
shortest possible time. In other words,
to the motorist who isn’t racing rapid
acceleration is of greater importance than
maximum speed.
Enforced Speed Limits.
In England, in closed areas, 30 m.p.h,
is now the legal maximum, which in
effect means that 80 p.c. of English
motorists must abide by the regulation
or be caught in the innumerable traps
set for the speedster.
English manufacturers have worked
themselves into a frenzy over this new
regulation, realising that, due to the
absurd horse-power tax, their products
have in the past been equipped with
small high-revving motors giving a
reasonably high maximum speed but
relatively poor top-gear acceleration.
Possibly the 30 m.p.h. maximum has,
from an Australian point of view, been
a blessing in disguise, for, as the result
of numerous conferences, it is reported
that British manufacturers are now con-
centrating upon cars with enhanced
acceleration in order to relieve the con-
gestion which must inevitably follow the
recent regulation.
Importance of Acceleration.
Good acceleration is the secret of
rapid motor transport, whether it be in
congested city traffic or on a long coun-
try tour, for the absolute maximum can
be so seldom used as to be of quite
secondary importance to top-gear pick-
up between, say, 10 m.p.h. and 40 m.p.h.
Keen motorists who have carefully fol-
lowed tests conducted over the Bulletin
course will have noted the tremendous
variation in acceleration between cars
with substantially equal maximums.
Logically, the one showing better accel-
eration is the faster car in traffic or be-
tween any two points.
Probably the greatest thrill any driver
can get from his motoring is in instant
and ready response of the engine to
slightest pressure of the accelerator pedal.
One of the first features sought for by
the discriminating buyer is a rapid, cer-
tain and smooth pick-up in top gear.
Driving a car possessing good accelera-
tion is not only a pleasure, but definitely
ensures better mobility in traffic and
better pulling on hills. Inversely, the
high-revving or “flabby” engine demands
more frequent gear-changing to main-
tain a set average, and converts what
would otherwise be a pleasure into some-
thing akin to hard work.
Skilful Driving.
Demonstrations at the hands of a skil-
ful competition driver are prone to be
misleading, for the unsophisticated pas-
senger cannot fail to be impressed with
performance of any modern car. The
only reliable guide is actual figures,
clocked by an unbiased authority and
made under identical conditions, as in
the Bulletin tests. It must be plain to
any motorist that, given two cars of equal
quality, that which accelerates from, say,
10 m.p.h. to 30
m.p.h. in seven
seconds is a far
easier and much
more responsive
car to handle
than one taking
12 seconds to get
similar results.
Broadly speak-
ing, acceleration
may be anything
the manufacturer
chooses to make
it, and, while the
last few years
have brought
forth a decided
merging of ideas
throughout the
motoring world,
yet, as a general
rule, the country
of origin may still
be determined by
a casual glance
at performance
figures. As an
example, C o n-
tinental types al-
most invariably
adopt a four-
speed gear box and low-powered motor
giving a comparatively slow top-
gear acceleration, but apparently ideally
suited for good level roads, especially as
maximum speed is usually high. Ameri-
can practice has, however, been to use
a larger and more powerful engine
coupled with a three-speed box, first and
second gears being more or less emerg-
ency ratios. Consequently, a much better
top-gear performance was provided, to-
gether with extremely good pulling in
hilly country or over indifferent highways,
a service particularly adaptable to Aus-
tralian conditions.
Power-weight Ratio.
In determining how any car will behave
when the throttle is opened there are
three main deciding factors —weight,
brake-horsepower and gearing. Friction
and wind resistance enter it, but may be
for the present neglected.
Discarding for a moment the subject
of gearing, which we might assume is
constant, the issue is mainly affected by
weight and horse-power—in short,
power-to-weight ratio.
Take a car weighing one ton equipped
with a motor developing 50 b.h.p. and
another weighing 30cwt. with an identi-
cal power plant. The lighter car must
get off the mark more rapidly and be a
better climber of hills on top gear than
will the heavier vehicle.
Incidentally, this explains why the
motor-bike can, and does, play with any
car when it comes to a test of accelera-
tion on the road. The motor-cycle engine
develops equal power to that of many
MOTORIMPRESSIONS —LADY DRIVER WITH DOG.
light cars, but it has to pull only a very
light load.
High v. Low Revs.
Returning now to the 50 h.p. developed
by the two cars under review there is a
further aspect overlooked by the major-
ity of motorists that, in effect, explains
why two cars of equal weight, power and
gearing may vary in performance. In the
case where one motor develops its peak
power at 3000 revs, per minute and the
other at 4000 revs, the former will accel-
erate in any given gear ratio more rapidly
than the latter, for the simple reason
that at low speeds its power output is
greater, and, in addition, the slow-running
performance will be relatively better.
As a consequence of increased attention to
the acceleration factor, it will be found
that 1935 models will, almost without
exception, show a decided improvement
over older models, whilst maximum
speeds will not be increased to any great
extent.
As for a year or two most motorists
will not be driving these new creations,
it would at this juncture be opportune
to explain how older types can be im-
proved in this particular respect.
Hotting-up Stock Cars.
When it comes to boosting accelera-
tion in any individual car there are a
number of minute alterations to be made,
each in itself hardly perceptible but, when
taken in the aggregate, productive of a
distinct improvement in performance.
First and simplest job is to reduce the
weight by going carefully through the
tool kit and lockers and discarding use-
less junk—it is surprising the additional
weight the average motorist carries round,
all tending to slow up the car and in-
crease fuel consumption.
Brakes next demand attention. They
must definitely be “off” when the foot
pedal is released, and not drag or retard
progress in the slightest degree.
In tuning the carburettor an effort
should be made to secure the most effec-
tive setting over the whole speed range
from idling to maximum revolutions. It
is a comparatively simple matter to effect
a good slow-running or a good high-
speed performance as separate adjust-
ments, but the difficulty lies in the fact
that for good acceleration the mixture
must be right throughout the whole
speed range.
Tuning the Carburettor.
High speed involves a generous jet
opening coupled with large venturi, but
this would obviously be unsuitable for
slow pulling, due to low gas velocity
and large air opening. For best accel-
eration the most suitable setting lies in
a happy compromise, with a tendency
towards best slow-run-
ning results and fuel
level just short of flood-
ing.
Final adjustment is
in ignition point, when
a slightly greater ad-
vance must be given
than is usual in stand-
ard practice, those
motors equipped with
octane selectors being
adjustable to an exact
setting without diffi-
culty. It must, how-
ever, be mentioned that
where motors are sus-
pended in the chassis
on “floating-p ower”
mountings or live-rubber supports too
great an advance can be given to the
ignition without the motor knocking, and
as a consequence care should be exer-
cised or the adjustment left in the hands
of an expert.
The Trouble Lamp.
D.V.C. (Gawler, S.A.). — Will you settle a
dispute as to the correct designation of “direct
top” ? Do engine crankshaft, main shaft in
gearbox and back axle turn at identical speed
when in direct drive ?
Not exactly; crankshaft, drive shaft in gear-
box and propeller shaft do turn at the same
speed, but, except in a few special racing
machines, the crown wheel and pinion in the
differential provide a “final-reduction” ratio
varying from 3.3 to 1 to 5.75 to 1.


Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
Aircleaners and intake silencers
rapidly lose their efficiency after
2000 miles, allowing dust and grit
to enter the cylinders. Dismantle by
slacking off thumb screw, remove
wire mesh, wash thoroughly in ben-
zine, then immerse until gauze is
saturated in fresh, heavy engine oil.
EXPECT
mote item
ijgg -
0 FULL BUMPERS front and rear ;
LUGGAG E RACK, except on 8/40 Sedan
which has a SPECIAL BUILT-IN TRUNK ;
TWO SPARE WHEELS with metal covers
and locks; LEATHER UPHOLSTERY
RADIO AERIAL (closed models); CENTRE
AND SIDE ARM RESTS in Sedans;
ADJUSTABLE DRIVER’S SEAT; NO-
DRAUGHT Ventilation (dosed models)
• Rear quarter Window Blinds (closed
models); Rear Blind with remote control;
Radiator Mascot; Clock (8/40 series only) ;
Ash Tray ; Corner Lights and Assist Cords
in Sedans; Dual Windscreen Wipers;
Dual Sun Visors < closed models) ;
Wool Pile Carpets (front and rear);
Cowl Ventilator; Glove Box (8/40 series
only) ; Rear View Mirror ; Foot Rests;
Driver’s Arm Rest.
BUT JUST LOOK OVER THIS
•COMPLETE EQUIPMENT
WHICH GOES WITH BUICK ..
From front to rear—inside and out —any one of the
newest Buicks is the better car you hoped to own. It
is true Buick ... all the speed and power that you will
ever need . . . Comfort made ultra by “ knee-action ”
wheels, ride stabiliser and deep, all-leather upholstery
. . . Beauty that satisfies I
But that’s only half the story . . . Buick is a
COMPLETE car. Where else will you find so much
Extra Equipment included in such a low price ? Look
over the list at the right—is there anything more you
could need ? Your Buick is completely equipped and
ready for years of continuous hard travel in perfect
comfort.
Go to your nearest Buick dealer and see the three
newest models—Sedan (illustrated). Coupe and
Roadster. Admire their beauty ride in them . . .
experience their silky power and “floating” comfort
check their extra equipment—then, you, too, will
say. You can’t beat Buick.”
(GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LTD.
See also the Buick
8-50 series Sedan
and Coupe,
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED BUICK
DEALER.
W.McN. (Werribee, Vic.). —7 am experienc-
ing trouble with the recently relined leather
clutch of my nine-year-old car. Every time
gears are changed my passengers are severely
jolted. Have tried running the clutch in
engine oil, but it remains smooth for a week
or so and then becomes extremely fierce. Can
you advise ?
Examine the face of the cone in the flywheel,
and, if it is scored or worn unevenly, have it
turned up true. When fitting a new clutch
leather it must be cut exactly to a template, and
the grain of the hide must be carefully watched.
Flat steel springs should not be discarded, but
either retempered or renewed, as these control
smoothness of engagement. Never run a leather
clutch in engine oil. A fabric lining may be
worth an experiment.
A.E.S. (Muswellbrook, N.S.W.). —(1) The oil-
filter cartridge in my 1928 car (22,000 miles)
has not yet been renewed. Gauge pressure is
still normal. Should I change ? Filled sump
with one gallon at 18,500, since when 1 have
added two quarts. Sump is three-parts full;
should I drain out and renew or add the re-
quired amount and carry on ? (2) Instruction
book advises changing crankcase oil every 3000
miles in summer and 500 in winter. Why
should there be this variation ?
(1) As a general rule oil-filter cartridges
should be renewed at least every 15,000 miles,
and, provided this is done, you can with reason-
able safety carry on with original sump oil, re-
plenishing as required, up to 3000 miles. (2)
Provided first-grade lubricating oils are used,
changes may safely be made at 3000 miles
summer. and 2500 winter, excessive use of
choke control with attendant crankcase dilu-
tion being responsible for the lesser winter
mileage.
W.R.B. (Wollongong, N.S.W.). — After all
adjustments have been carefully made and the
master cylinder filled with special oil, there still
remains a great amount of lost motion in the
foot pedal of my car. Can you suggest a
remedy ?
There seems no doubt that air has entered
the hydraulic system. The only remedy will
be to bleed the lines.
J.B.D. (Lakemba, N.S.W.).— My 1927 car
will seldom start when the motor is hot. When
cold, the engine turns at first kick of the starter.
Have been told coil is to blame, but, having
renewed both coil and condenser, the trouble
still remains. Spark, valve timing and car-
burettor have been checked. Cause and cure ?
Probably one or more of the valves are
either warped or seating badly when the motor
is warm. While on the job, check spark plugs
under full running pressures.
C.M.G. (Bega, N.S.W.). —Whenever I attempt
to get away, either in first or reverse, on my
1934 six-cylinder car there is a clattering noise
under the floorboards. Can you suggest a
remedy ?
Slight wear in universal joints will set up
a clatter such as you describe, but the trouble
is more likely due to a fierce clutch. Wash
the clutch out with benzine, replace oil, and
see if there is any improvement.
N.E.W. (Heathcote, Vic.).—My six-cylinder
car has an engine mounted on live rubber sup-
ports, and in the first 3000 miles I have paid
for four gaskets in the exhaust system. What’s
wrong?
Due to the flexible mounting of the motor
considerable side-thrust is imposed upon the
exhaust line. Best way to avoid necessity for
frequent renewals is to fit either a copper and
asbestos gasket or one of clingerite.
W.A.B. (Lane Cove, N.S.W.). —Starting up
my Ford Model A the motor jambed. On
disconnecting the starter gear I found the square
grub screw locking the Bendix spring of the
starter had worked out and fallen in the sump.
Must I remove the engine to recover the stud,
or is there an easy way out ?
After a run in which the motor has reached
normal working temperature drain all oil from
the sump. Next remove the starter motor and-,
using a very heavy “cup” grease, plaster the
starter ring of the flywheel about I in. deep and
extending three inches along the teeth. Then,
with switch off, insert the starting handle and
turn tiie motor oyer quietly. One turn of the
flywheel should pick up the grub screw from
the sump and enable you to recover it. Fail-
ing this there no option but to lift motor
out.
G.T.B. — Petrol consumption of my ’26 model
four-cylinder car has increased from 26 to 20
m.p.g. Have checked valve clearances, plugs
and carburettor, and have advanced the ignition
one tooth on the timing wheel without improve-
ment. What’s wrong ?
Probably higher consumption is due to badly-
worn valves and guides, pistons and rings,
together with losses due to wear in transmission
and running gear. Advance of one tooth on
timing wheel ahead of standard setting is alto-
gether too much and serves no useful purpose.
W.O’B (Bendigo, Vic.). —I have been driving
for only six months. (1) Will you explain
how drivers are able to stop in traffic on an
up-grade and start off again without touching
the hand brake ? (2) The engine of my car
stalls quite frequently when hot, and the car
pulls up quickly. Any remedy ?
(1) This involves slipping the clutch and hold-
ing the weight of the car by delicate foot con-
trol of the clutch pedal against a fast-running
engine. Most experienced drivers in cars of
your type adopt this procedure, and, provided
the slipping is not overdone, no damage need
be feared. Not recommended where multiple-
disc metal clutches are fitted. (2) Stalling with
a hot engine is a common defect in all modern
cars with down-draught carburettors and engine
mounted on live rubber supports. Best plan is
to keep the idling control on the fast side and
avoid sudden pressing or releasing of the
accelerator when driving in traffic.
(Continued on next page.)


*'Wi
,
vl?^wb
mu
c
\v
Jr
M
I
3M
m.
to
■
***?
&TA
s%fejS?s
•SwS3»«4<
///SM
7A? Burke and Wills Expedition
In the seventy-five years that have passed
since the ill-fated Burke and Wills Expedi-
tion left Melbourne for the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, the vast areas covered by these
explorers have been opened up for settle-
ment. In what was then unknown and
virgin bush country, there are now exten-
sive grazing properties and numbers of
villages and towns.
An essential factor in this development has
been the banking facilities provided by the
Bank of New South Wales, the oldest and
largest Bank in Australasia.
This Bank had been established for 37
years, and its first Melbourne Office for 6
years, when Burke and Wills set out on
their tragic venture.
To-day branch offices of the Bank are scat-
tered throughout the country traversed by
these explorers, and form part of the net-
work of over 720 branches of the Bank
in Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific
Islands.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817}
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 1
106 c
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Aluminising Cylinder Heads.
Read “The Bulletin” Motor Editor’s article on
Aluminising cylinder heads ( B. 26/12/’B4).
Metal Coatings, Ltd., have the latest
equipment to carry out this class of
work, which they guarantee.
PRICES:
Four (4) cylinder heads, 107-
Six (6) cylinder heads, 15/-
Same day service.
All other classes of Metal Spraying.
Wheels protected against rust for the life
of your car from 5/- to 7/6 per rim.
Same day service.
METAL COATINGS, LTD.,
16 Bridge Road, Stanmore, N.S.W.
Telephone: L 2533.
NEVERLEEK
HOOD DRESSING
Now in Half-pint Tins
DISTRIBUTORS:
NOLAN, O’ROURKE & CO., LTD.,
Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
BUTLER BROS. (AUST.), LTD.,
Creek Street, Brisbane.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
NOLAN, SHANNON & CO., LTD.,
Hyde Street, Adelaide.
'‘A ustra lia’s Premier
Sports Organisation
, s^, *>.< t
UK «RU I
«L
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and
Revolver Shot and recognised authority
on Firearms and Ballistics, is attached
to Mick Simm.ons’ Shooting Depart-
ment staff. Write him for his expert
advice on any matter pertaining to
firearms and shooting.
NEW!
Modern Small-bore
Man-sized Rifles
ensuring a New Degree
of Power and Accuracy !
No. 12 ~ LATEST MODEL WIN-
CHESTER SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 68, for 22 short, long or
long-rifle rimfire cartridges, 2 7in
round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip
stock, latest Mauser type safety bolt
action, hooded front sight, adjustable
aperture, rear sight. Weight, 55/-
about 4Jlb
Postage, 2/3;
Other States, 4/-
No. 4—MOSSBERG S.S. 22-CAL. R.F.
RIFLE, MODEL 10, bolt action, 22in
round barrel, walnut stock, bead front
and ladder rear sights. *3O/
Weight, about 41b .. J '
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 6—MOSSBERG BOLT ACTION
REPEATING RIFLE, MODEL 40,
24in barrel, walnut stock, hooded
ramp front and peep receiver rear
sight, chambered for 22 long-rifle
cartridges only. Weight, /
about 51b
Carriage Paid.
No- g—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD
S.S. RIFLE, MODEL 52, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 22in round barrel, gold
bead front and ladder rear OC /
sight. Weight, about 4Slb
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No 15 WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE, MODEL
62, 22-cal., 20-shot, 23in
round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear
sights, slide action; magazine
handles 20 short, I 6 long, or
14 long-rifle cartridges.
*fi ght, ° bout £5/10/-
Carriage Paid.
World Famous
SHOT GUNS
No. I—GREENER D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12G, treble wedge, fast action, re-
bounding, ■‘Siemen■s , ’ special steel barrels,
both full choke, shooting guaranteed.
w “ £27/10/-
No. S—HOLLIS5 —HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G, top
lever, 32in barrels, both choke, bar lock, X
bolt, rebounding locks, snap fore-end, walnut
stock. Weight, about £ J J 5/.
Carriage Paid.
No. 23 —STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G, top lever X bolt,
steel barrels, both choke, matted rib, barrels
and lug one piece, 32in barrels, walnut stock,
riP W3h? .ME £6/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No 28—WINCHESTER D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 12G, 30in steel barrels, right,
modified: left, full choke; top lever, walnut
stock, pistol grip, chambered for 2 Sin
cartridges. Weight, about £,lB/JO/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
IS STREAMLINING WORTH WHILE?
Recently a number of critics have
rushed into print to throw cold water
on the practice of streamlining auto-
, . .. T . e , . _
mobile bodies. Lack o£ head room, small
gam in efficiency except at extremely
high speeds, and “tenderness” when
driven in cross winds have been the
chief grounds for complaint.
The objections do not seem to be
justified. Early streamline designs were
The Mercedes 200-m.p.h. coupe, illustrating the modern trend
of road-racing bodies, streamlined fully-enclosed type proving
more efficient than old type open cockpit.
in some instances a rather close fit for
tall back-seat passengers, but to-day the
trouble has been practically eliminated
by sub-frame floor construction. Thus
the passengers’ feet are six to ten inches
below the level of the chassis members,
rear seat is correspondingly lower, and
generally with new-type suspension the
crew have ample clearance even when
driving fast over rough going.
On the score of efficiency the hostile
critics are hopelessly astray, for from
practical experience in testing every
make and type of car for a number of
y ears the writer can give testimony that
streamlining, even in a modified form,
has been “ sponsible £or approximately
f ]Ve m ij es p er hour increase in maximum
speed and a corresponding improvement
in fuel consumption,
Even if if be granted that the stream-
line effect, however good, is very small
below speeds of 50 m.p.h., it doesn’t alter
the fact that in practice a car travelling at
a modest 40 into a 30-m.p.h. headwind is,
from an aerodynamic point of view, doing
70. Furthermore, with a following wind,
the streamlined car derives almost the
same advantage as the “hearse” type of
a few years ago, and when it comes to
driving in a crosswind my personal im-
pressions are that the modern streamline-
designed car will steer reasonably well
under conditions that would turn the
square type over into the ditch.
Another practical advantage of stream-
lined closed bodies is the facility with
which large quantities of luggage can be
stowed in the “tapered” tail without the
use of luggage grids or littering up rear
compartment.
Driving with Colored Headlights
in Fog.
Though Australian motorists are not
often hampered by foggy conditions the
results of recent researches conducted
by the National Physical Laboratory in
regard to advantages accruing by the
use of colored lights in headlamps are
not without practical interest.
Drivers of the the older school be-
lieved that kerosene-lamps were more
effective in fog than electric lights, and
that yellow headlight-glasses used in con-
junction with conventional lamps pro-
vided a longer beam in such circum-
stances. They were wrong. The N.P.L.
investigators, after a series of very care-
ful experiments with plain, red, yellow,
blue and green glasses, have found that
the distance at which a test object could
be detected through fog . was almost
exactly the same irrespective of color.
Motor Oddities.
“Sambo”: Leon Galli, of Christchurch
(M.L.), has invented an apparatus to keep
drivers of cars awake. Driver’s right leg
is supported in a rest. Should he be-
come drowsy and relax, the slight varia-
tion of pressure on the rest causes a horn
to blow, a bell to ring and a fan inside
the car to direct a stream of fresh air
on the driver’s face. Lights at front and
rear of car flash on and off, warning
overtaking and approaching traffic that
something is wrong.
* ❖ •>'s■ SjS
“Jo”: Radiator started to leak badly
miles from any garage. We ultimately
passed a farm, and I suggested by way
of a joke that an egg might fix the
trouble. With some misgivings, my mate
bought an egg and broke it into the
water. The radiator did not require fill-
ing for nearly a week afterwards.
* * * *
“0.T.W.”: My 1928 Essex Super Six
is fitted with a hot-air chamber around
the exhaust manifold ; a pipe runs from
this chamber to the carburettor. The
chamber has two slides which can be
opened for summer running. On a recent
run these were opened. The car is
usually a good puller, but on this occa-
sion she would not take the slightest
grade on top. I thought moisture must
have condensed in the cylinders and that
this would dry out when the engine
warmed up, but after running two miles
there was no improvement. So I investi-
gated. The trouble was soon apparent.
Rats had built their nest in the hot-air
chamber and thereby blocked the air
pipe to the carburettor. Mrs. Rodent
was evidently looking for a warm crib
for her ratlets.


CONVERT
Your Broadcast Receiver to
ALL-WAVE
with a
■
EASY installation,
EASY tuning,
EASY band selection
with COLORCODE
selector.
DUf SHORT-WAVE
CONVERTER
D.W. RADIO CO.
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest
NEW !f POWERFUL! I CLEAR!
qaaiNvavnoi
The Micro-Sensitive
RADIOTRONS
with 5 great advances
1. More Efficient Cathodes.. .. assure uniform
performance throughout life.
2. Higher Vacuum results in quieter
operation.
3. Cooler Grids ... prevent fluctuation in
volume due to erratic valve performance.
4. Precision Construction ... makes every
valve a "matched" valve,
5. Improved Heater Design ... reduces hum,
eliminates crackles and gives quick action.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/sia) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney. 167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
... ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES LTD
93-5 Clarence Street, Sydney. Cnr. Queen and Little Collins Sts., Melbourne C.l.
RADIOTRONS
(Advertisement
Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company LimitedJ
RADIO NEWS.
WHY THE VOLTMETER MUST BE
“HIGH RESISTANCE.”
BY DON B. KNOCK.
In answer to multitudinous questions
from constructors and experimenters
reference is frequently made to the neces-
sity for making voltage measurements
with a high-resistance-type meter. Some
readers of such advice may wonder why
an ordinary pocket-type voltmeter won’t
fill the bill. The cheap little gadgets that
passed for voltmeters and cost around
2s. 6d. were a good enough check
upon things when A and B batteries
were the sole means of powering a set
and the alternating current house supply
was not yet applied to even the
humble B eliminator. Once this sub-
stitute for batteries put in an appearance
the B side of the cheap little combination
pocket meter told all kinds of lies, and
it became evident that comething of a
more reliable and accurate nature was
necessary.
Meter Resistance.
When one considers a voltmeter, one
should also think of it in its correct form.
The voltmeter is, of course, nothing more
Fig. 1. —A simple D.C. supply unit taken as the
basis for explanation of the reason why a high-
resistance voltmeter is essential.
or less than a milliameter having a resis-
tance in series with one of its leads. This
resistance is not visible, because it is
built into the case of the meter. The job
this resistance has to do is to cut down
the current to the value permissible
through the milliameter. When a volt-
age is applied across the output terminals
of the milliameter-resistance combina-
tion (in other words, the terminals of
the voltmeter), a current will flow
through the meter, thus causing a deflec-
tion of the needle indicator. If the meter
is still considered as a milliameter, it
means that calculation would be neces-
sary to determine the actual voltage in-
dicated, so the meter is calibrated ac-
curately, and provided with another
scale according to the voltage range
covered with the series resistor. Whilst
the current is still the actuating force
in the meter, the deflection is now indi-
cated in volts.
The amount of resistance necessary
is governed by the current range of the
meter and the maximum voltage it is
desired to measure, and for reasons dealt
with later this resistance must be of a
high value if the voltage measurements
to be made are really accurate.
A milliameter having a full scale de-
flection of five milliamperes or less may
be converted into a reliable voltmeter.
Looked at another way, a voltmeter
having a resistance of 200 ohms per volt
or more will give sufficiently accurate
voltage measurements for all ordinary
radio purposes.
Why the Low-resistance Meter is
Inaccurate.
For measuring the voltages at any of
the points in the D.C. output of a recti-
fier - filter - voltage-distribution arrange-
ment as used in all A.C.-powered radio
sets to-day, a low-resistance voltmeter is
entirely unsuitable. This applies simi-
larly to the once popular B eliminator,
of which there are yet thousands in use,
particularly for small short-wave re-
ceivers. Such D.C. filters have a high
internal resistance, due to the inclusion
of the necessary filter chokes and voltage-
dropping resistors. If a low-resistance
meter is connected across such a unit it
will naturally take more current than a
high-resistance meter, Ohm’s Law being
that Current is equal to Voltage divided
by Resistance ; and this high drain re-
acts on the source of voltage to be
measured, thus causing an inaccurate
indication on the meter scale.
The Effect on a D.C. Supply Unit.
For the purpose of explanation, a
small D.C. filter unit is indicated in Fig.
1. Such a small unit might be used with
a home-constructed two or three-valve
receiver, and many people do make sets
of this nature, even in 1935.
Assume that this unit delivers 125
volts at 25 milliamperes. This means,
referring to the illustration, that across
points A and B there is a voltage of 125
when the current measured on the mil-
liameter C is 25ma. There is a filter
choke with a resistance of 500 ohms, in
series with a voltage-dropping resistance
Fig. 2. —Showing the voltage drop
across the filter condenser as the
load is increased.
of 4500 ohms. This means that the in-
ternal resistance of the unit is 5000 ohms.
To obtain the specified output voltage
of 125, the current consumption must
be 1-40 ampere (25ma.), and therefore
the total circuit resistance must be 250
volts divided by 1-40 ampere. This is
10,000 ohms. Having already a resis-
tance of 5000 ohms included in the
apparatus, the external load (the receiver
to which the unit is connected) must be
5000 ohms. If a voltmeter with a resist-
ance of 5000 ohms is now connected
across points A and B, with the receiver
switched on, the total load will be re-
duced to 2500 ohms, for the reason that
the meter resistance of 5000 ohms will
be in shunt with the receiver resistance
of 5000 ohms. Therefore, the total re-
sistance across the input (assumed at 250
volts) will be the 4500 ohms resistor —
plus the 500 ohms of the filter choke,
plus the 2500 ohms of the meter and re-
ceiver. This totals 7500 ohms, and so
the total current consumption will be
increased to 1-30 ampere (250 volts
divided by 7500 ohms). The voltage
drop inside the unit will then be its
internal resistance of 500 ohms multi-
plied by 1-30 ampere, which is 166 2-3
volts. Thus, when the meter is con-
nected across points A and B, the actual
voltage here will only be 83 1-3 volts
(250 minus 166 2-3), but as soon as the
meter is removed the voltage will rise to
125 volts. If the meter resistance were
100,000 ohms instead of 5000 ohms, it
will be evident from the foregoing in-
stance that its effect on the output voltage
would be negligible, and the reading
obtained would be sufficiently accurate.
There is a further limiting factor to be
considered in the filter unit, and this
is the effect of the filter condenser or
condensers. This is connected across
the rectifier output circuit, and the
voltage across this condenser varies with
the output circuit load. This is illus-
trated in Fig. 2, showing the drop in
D.G. voltage across the condenser as the
current drain taken by the receiver is
increased. It is obvious that if a low-
resistance meter is connected across the
output terminals the current drain will
increase considerably and the voltage
available at the filter condenser will
be reduced. The reading on the meter
would not indicate the true output volt-
age. From the foregoing remarks it
should be clear that the specified output
voltages of a B eliminator or plate volt-
age supply unit are obtained only when
the unit is on load ; that is, when the re-
ceiver is switched on.
Battery Receivers.
In the case of the battery-operated
receiver a low-resistance meter will give
sufficiently accurate measurement of the
voltage of A, B and C batteries, because
the internal resistance of such batteries
is very low. If, however, it is desired
to measure the voltage at the plate of a
valve with a resistance in its plate circuit,
as with a detector followed by a resist-
ance coupling to the next audio stage,
the low-resistance meter is again un-
suitable for the same reasons as with the
D.C. voltage supply units.
RADIO AMONG THE SHADES.
For ferrying the battery set across the
river, Charon charged four denarii and
an obulus, explaining that the cost of
dying was a lot higher than it used to
be, and that the Styx Transport Commis-
sion was really losing on such trans-
actions. Arrived safely on the further
bank, I dialled 2CH, and in a few
moments the atmosphere of the Land
of Shades was reverberating with
“Hootchy-Kootchy,” foxtrot, played by
the Black Banana Peel Band of Hobo-
ken, N.J., a Columbia recording.
“Strange music! Strange music! ”
screeched a high-pitched voice, and Cas-
sandra flitted past, wailing bitterly “Woe,
woe! I predicted this! ” From out the
billowing iridescent mists advanced a
little group of shades. “Allow me to
welcome you to our midst,” said the
leader courteously. “I am Herr Bach,
president of the Elysian Musical Society,
and these are some members of the com-
mittee —Herr Handel, Herr Haydn, Herr
Beethoven and Monsieur Chopin. What
is this strange musical instrument you
bring us, and how did you smuggle it
through the Customs?”
“Herr Bach and gentlemen,” I said,
bowing with dignity, “I present to you
the crowning scientific achievement of
the twentieth century. From out of the
ether this contraption brings music and
speech from the land of the living to
these Elysian fields. Since you gentle-
men left us, we have sought out many
inventions. You are now listening to a
piece of music that was performed four
or five years ago by Ethiopians in a city
in America. It is quite possible that
some of the performers are now shades
like yourselves—for the sake of the dear
ones left behind I sincerely hope so —
yet their work lives after them.” At this
stage a hot passage for saxophones and
trombones, interspersed with cowbells
and a big drum, drowned my utterance.
When it passed Chopin stepped forward.
“If indeed they have passed over,” he
said moodily, “seek them by dark
Acheron. Not here. But tell me, friend,
am I forgotten? Are my works ever
performed by this contraption?” “And
I, and I?” chorused some of the other
shades.
“I cannot hope,” remarked the ven-
erable president, “that any little thing of
mine survives The good Abbe” (here
he bowed to Liszt, who had just joined
the group) “tells me that when he played
my Chromatic Fantasia on the clavi-
chord in 1880 ’twas but politely ap-
plauded.”
“Indeed, gentlemen,” I assured them,
“you are none of you forgotten, and Herr
Bach’s name stands as high as any. But
you shall hear for yourselves.”
Switching to a Philadelphia station we
had half an hour of pianism—a Bach
fugue played by Grainger; final move-
ment of the “Moonlight,” played by
Backhaus; the Fantaisie-Impromptu,
played by Cortot; the “Liebestraum,”
played by Godowsky. From Sir Henry
Wood’s orchestra (per 8.8. C.) came a
Haydn quartet and Handel’s “Water
Music.” The faces of the musical shades
perceptibly brightened as each received
his evidence of surviving fame. “Py
Himmel,” swore fat old Handel, his
broad face beaming, “those fellows know
how to blay. Bot you gif me a pig pipe
organ and I show them somethings yet.
Hein?” “When I played the ‘Moon-
light,’ ” remarked Liszt, bowing to
Beethoven, “people wept. Do they weep
for this Backhaus?” Beethoven rounded
on him brusquely. “Silly women,” he
snorted, “might weep for anything. This
Backhaus plays with a lion’s claws. I
like him.” The Abbe bristled, and was
about to retort when a suave voice said,
“Gentlemen! Gentlemen!” “Ah, Men-
delssohn,” said President Bach, “you
{Continued on next page.)


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
—— S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), ——*
4 Eowe Street. Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin" Con-
structional Articles
j Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: li’JZiil.
Reallocation of Frequencies for Australian Broadcasters.
An official communication from the P.M.G.’s Department gives the details
of the individual frequencies to be used by stations from September 1, 1935.
On this date a simultaneous change-over from the frequencies now in use
will be effected. The list of reallocations, which includes new stations,
should be retained for future reference.
BROADCASTING STATION FREQUENCIES—ALLOCATIONS ON AND
AFTER SEPTEMBER !, 1935.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
uadlo Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO supply stores,
j Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
come just in time. Now we are to listen
to the music made after we departed.”
So, raking the world with that re-
markably efficient battery set, we had
an hour and a half of modernism—
Debussy, Ravel, Gershwin, Richard
Strauss, Honegger, Ornstein, Cyril Scott,
and, for good catholic measure, a mili-
tary band playing Sousa’s “Stars and
Stripes.”
A babel of comment broke out.
Chopin declared Debussy was a true
poet. Beethoven growled maledictions
on all French twaddle, but said he had got
three good ideas out of the “Rhapsody
in Blue.” Brahms, who had joined the
group, was in raptures over the Scott
Sonata, and Mozart and Schubert, who
had been detained, they explained, by a
game of billiards, stated bluntly that if
Sousa were not elected a member of the
society they would resign at once. Old
Bach, scratching his periwig, said such
music was beyond his comprehension.
At this stage a vast cloud of feminine
shades who had been twittering in the
offing advanced in a body and reminded
Herr Bach that this was ladies’ night
and that dancing had been promised.
Herr Handel was delighted. “Yes, yes,”
he said, “and I tell you what we haf!
Dot saraband of der Hootchy-Kootchies
black-mens.” We weren’t able to re-
capture “Hootchy-Kootchy,” but there
were plenty of other foxtrots and
rumbas on the air and a pleasant time
was had by all. Cassandra was the life
and soul of the party.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
The chief interest recently has been
the improvement in the No. 1 transmis-
sion from the 8.8. C. From 6 p.m. until
7 p.m., after which strength has dropped
sharply, both GSD (25.5 m.) and GSB
(31.5 m.) have been well worth listening
to ; but, as formerly, GSB is easily best.
The transmission from Germany at the
same hours fell below reception value, but
around 10 p.m. DJB (19m.) came in at
excellent strength, as did DJN (31.45 m.)
after 11 p.m. The first of the special
Monday transmissions from HBL (the
League of Nations station in Geneva)
was watched for, but the 16m. trans-
mission is seldom heard here. The later
transmissions will be on higher wave-
lengths, and should be heard at excellent
strength. It is proposed to give these
each Monday evening, and probably
the wave-length finally chosen will depend
upon reports.
PHI has lately been coming on the
air at 11.30 p.m. instead of 11 p.m., and
has been losing a good deal of signal
strength towards 12.30 a.m. PCJ was
heard weakly one night, but only at poor
’phone strength. FYA has continued
excellent at night on 19m., and in the
daytime on 25.6 m. from about 2 p.m.
In the early morning the 25.3 m. transmis-
sion has been still very weak. This seems
to be unsuitable for Australia, being
rarely heard at strength equal to either
of the other wave-lengths.
Neither VK3LR nor VK3ME has been
audible, and will rarely be heard at
night-time in these parts until next sum-
mer, on account of the skip effect.
WBXK was very weak on a recent Sun-
day until the last half-hour before clos-
ing at 4 p.m. This station should very
soon improve to good strength on Sun-
day afternoons, and it will be interesting
to see if the special session from 2 p.m.
to 2.15 p.m. for short-wave listeners is
still given. We should soon have much
better reception on the wave-lengths
around 50 metres, though the writer’s
locality seems to suffer worse than most
districts from static.
DJC has been quite good strength in
the 50m. band at 6.30 a.m., and last
year, a little later in the autumn, was, at
splendid strength each morning, as was
also the 8.8. C. station GSA. At present
GSA does not come on the air until 8
a.m. for Canada, which hour is too late
for Australia. 2RO has been rather
patchy, one morning being excellent and
the next inaudible. Very little English
is used.
On the 25.4 m. wave-length 2RO has
been coming up to fair strength for a
short period about 10.30 in the evenings.
All the Americans in the 31m. band
have been weak, none being above fair
’phone strength in the morning.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
Whilst contests come and contests go
on the lower frequency bands, a few
seriously-minded experimenters plod
along with their work on the higher fre-
quencies, undisturbed by thoughts of “CQ
DX.” Nevertheless, DX in a smaller
measure is an objective, particularly on
At the Hazelbrook end of the five-metre
link. Left to right: E. B. Ferguson
(VK2BP), Don. B. Knock ( VK2NO ) and
W. Dukes ( VK2WD ). The Beam aerials
can be seen in the background.
56mc., and indications are that ranges
covered overseas will at least be equalled
in Australia. The 50-mile link between
Sydney and Hazelbrook (VK2BP) is now
well established, and proves to be far
more reliable and effective than 3.5mc.
at the best.
On Saturday, 16/2/’35, the writer,
along with VK2WD and G6PC, in the
latter’s Wolseley Hornet, with a small bat-
tery receiver, trekked to VK2BP to look
over the aerial systems and that most
enviable of mountain locations. No
wonder VK2BP can work across the
Pacific on 3.5mc. ’phone in winter! From
the station, a clear view presents itself to
smoky Sydney, and Newcastle is almost
visible. When and if some ultra-s.-w. co-
operation is forthcoming from that yet
dormant region, a 56mc. tie-up with
VK2BP is a foregone conclusion. VK2CG
in Sydney (not using directive aerial) was
worked duplex by VK2BP during our
visit, 2CG being QSAS, RB, and the
writer’s station was operated for a few
minutes by the YF. The strength of the
signal at Hazelbrook, with the directive
aerial at VK2NO facing west, is posi-
tively amazing. If the two stations were
separated only by a few feet instead of
50 miles, the signal could not be stronger.
VK2BP’s directive aerials have raised
an important point. He has two, one
facing Sydney and one facing west (with
an eye on Bathurst). During repeated
tests the western system is even stronger
in Sydney than the eastern one. This
is against all theory, and there appears
to be only one explanation. Both sys-
tems have been erected temporarily, and
are supported on long wires instead of
ropes. These wires are very close to
radiators and reflectors, and, as they are
joined together at the ends, form virtu-
ally a closed circuit. Thus the action of
the reflectors is nullified, and they appear
to act as directors instead. Experimenters
installing directive aerials should remem-
ber this, and use no metal in the construc-
tion other than the aerials and reflectors.
With VK2BP on the air, a mobile test
was made along the Western-road, and
the transmission was received continu-
ously at good strength. Time did not per-
mit going further than Katoomba, but a
trip over Mt. Victoria is planned ; also a
sea trip to Broken Bay from Sydney.
VKs 2UC and 2UB have installed
four-wire rotating “beams” and are get-
ting much improved results. VK2SN is
among the “reliables,” and is heard
almost every time the receiver is switched
on. VK2WD put's a powerful signal west
and east with his bi-directional aerial,
and VK2CG is ready for northerly tests.
VK2JH has been heard intermittently,
but is not yet tuned up properly.
VK4MM reports on 56mc. activity from
Brisbane, and sends details of parabolic
reflectors in use there. Attention is turn-
ing in Sydney to the possibilities of
112mc. and 224mc., but, as frequencies
higher than 56mc. are not included in
Australian amateur allocations, the co-
operation of the P.M.G.’s department
for permission to use these frequencies
is necessary before anything is attempted.
Experimenters interested in ultra-high
frequencies are urged to join those now
Durine five-metre mobile tests. Left to
right: E. B. Ferguson (VK2BP), W.
Dukes ( VK2WD) and C. D. Price ( G6PC ).
in action. There are new records to be
established on these “ultra-shorts,” and
a pioneering spirit akin to the early days
of amateur radio can achieve the appar-
ently impossible. Make the most of
your status as a licensed radio experi-
menter by blazing new trails whilst the
opportunity exists.
VK2NO.
Television Problems and Ultra-short
Waves.
“Querex”: Long-distance television by
radio will undoubtedly come to pass in
the future, but at present the question
of high-definition pictures is confined to
a purely local service by the use of ultra-
short waves. Ten metres and below
seems to be a natural solution, and Baird
in England has demonstrated this over
a lengthy period. Ultra-short-wave radia-
tions are somewhat similar to those from
an intense light beacon, and so are re-
ferred to as “quasi-optical.” Theoreti-
cally, any site which cannot be seen from
the transmitting position is outside the
service range of the signals. In prac-
tice this is not quite so rigid, but inter-
vening objects such as trees, hills or tall
buildings influence the signal consider-
ably. With special direction of aerials,
such as those now in use by a few N.S.W.
56mc. experimenters, the signal range is
very considerably extended. Some of
these directional systems concentrate the
signal in one direction, but others, known
as “bi-directional” arrays, are equally
effective in two opposite directions. Tele-
vision transmitters using two of these bi-
directional aerials at right-angles should
be able to cover quite a large service
area, up to at least 50 miles. There
would be little difficulty in putting a
strong ultra-short-wave television signal
over Australia’s capital cities to include
the remotest suburbs.
Casual Comment.
English listeners are complaining of
“fading” on the giant Droitwich trans-
mitter at distances of 100 miles or more.
Just what is considered as “fading” is
hard to visualise, for the reason that this
recently constructed super station radi-
ates a full 150 kilowatts, and this on the
long waves, where, as Eckersley put it,
“the signal strides unhindered over hill
and dale.” There must be some dubious
receivers in use or the English listener
is hard to please. Fading, is it? Droit-
wich complainants should be made to
listen for a spell in some of Australia’s
country districts, where fading is fading
and the “local” station is several hundred
miles distant with comparative fly-power
in the aerial, and that between 200 and
600 metres!
* * * *
Many country users of radio, with
home-lighting plants available for power,
are turning to the 32-volt type superhet
with genemotor-plate-power supply. De-
spite the faultless design of such excellent
units as these miniature power stations, a
slight amount of commutator ripple is
present in a few cases when the receiver
is tuned off a station. This is no handi-
cap, and does not affect reception in any
way, but it can be completely minimised
by using shielded leads from the small
generator to the receiver. Lead-covered
cable will serve the purpose, with the
lead sheathing connected to earth. A
further precaution is to enclose the gen-
erator in a wooden frame with copper
gauze. The gauze and the generator
frame should be earthed.
* * ♦ ❖
The mystery of the crashes heard dur-
ing the broadcasting of the wedding cere-
mony of the Duke and Duchess of Kent
is more or less solved. Many listeners
noticed these interruptions (they were
100 p.c. audible in Sydney), and at least
one horror-stricken resident of Eng-
land’s suburbia put a telephone call
through to London to find out if any-
thing terrible had occurred. What
caused the row was merely the sword
scabbard of some military member of
the congregation touching a stall con-
cealing one of the 8.8. C. microphones.
The sensitive type of microphone used
reproduced the touches of the scabbard
as loud bangs.
* * * *
In the craze for high-fidelity receivers
have appeared, in the U.S.A. and in Eng-
land, with three loudspeakers. Each of
these has its job to do, in dealing with
“lows,” “mediums” and “highs” respec-


SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Communicator A.C. Three,
Readers interested in the con-
struction or purchase of this receiver,
as featured in The Bulletin for
January 30, 1935, may experience
difficulty in obtaining supplies. The
complete list of parts or completed
and tested receivers may be obtained
from R. Chilton, Broadway Radio
Laboratory, First Floor, E., S. and
A. Bank Building, cnr. Broadway
and City-road, Sydney. ’Phone
MA7038.
THE BROADWAY RADIO
LABORATORY
where the repair, adjustment, design and
construction of special sets of all types is
undertaken by competent technicians.
Country business given special attention.
R. CHILTON,
BROADWAY RADIO LABORATORY,
Ist Floor, E., S, and A. Bank Building, cnr. Broad-
way and City Road, Sydney. ’Phone: MA7038.
Dependablef
Cigars
\Craig &Aitken
cr»Wholesale Distributor*
rP Sydney N S.W.
The SLADE-PATON (Neon Type) VALVE TESTER
wm
Modern Multi Element Valves positively require a Valve Tester to show high resistance
leakages between the elements of a Valve, as more often than not this is the cause of
noisy and intermittent reception and distortion.
th? SLADE-PATON a turn of a rotary switch will pick out and test each element
of a HEATED Valve, identifying a short or leakage, and recording same on the NEON
even if it is as high as 500,000 ohms or more.
Other unique features are:—
(1) Calibrated Chart in booklet, that includes practically every Valve sold in Australia,
hull range of standard American as well as over 60 of each of the following: Philips,
Milliard and Osram Valves.
(2) Direct reading coloured Dial, with GOOD-BAD sections in conjunction with scale
showing percentage readings of each.
(3) Line check with line adjustment.
(4) Only Five Sockets. Will test all future releases that plug in.
(5) Heavy panel of three-quarter inch English ebonite in oak case.
(6) Tests all second plates and Diode plates.
Price, £11/17/6 Trade net.
Slioit and leakage unit for older model, in black leatherette case, price £2/7/6 net.
Available all leading Distributors or
SLADE-PATON, Radio Test Equipment Manufacturers, LANG ST., CROYDON, SYDNEY
Send for FREE Booklet, “12 Uses for an R.F. Oscillator/'
’Phones: UJ5381-TJA1960.
*J Ve “1,- T h ® ! ld e fellow that looks after
the ‘highs’ is dubbed a “tweeter,” and
it is interesting to note that it is merely
a small edition of the once-familiar horn-
type of speaker, redesigned with a
crystal unit. Many old radio principles,
such as reflexing and the super-regen-
erator for ultra-short waves, are thus
getting new leases of life.
What’s What in Radio.
The Irish Free State Army authorities
have been conducting tests with 5-metre
G2NM is probably the most famous of the world’s amateur
radio stations. Owned and operated by Mr. Gerald Marcuse,
of Reading, England, G2NM pioneered many radio records,
including the foundation for Empire broadcasting. Here is
part of the experimental apparatus now in use. The photo-
graphs on the walls are eloquent of several incidents in the
earlier history of amateur radio.
radio apparatus at Baldonnell aerodrome,
near Dublin. The tests were directed by
J. B. Campbell, one of the best-known
amateur transmitters in Ireland. His
call-sign is EISB.
The value of radio in aviation was
forcibly demonstrated recently when a
pilot in Ohio (U.S.A.) took the air on
a cross-country trip. He tuned his re-
ceiver to the station normally sending
weather reports, and was startled to hear
the operator calling him and stating
that his landing-gear had gone. Leaning
out of the cockpit he saw that the in-
formation was only too correct, for
landing-struts and one wheel were hang-
ing loosely in mid-air. But for the radio
cal! the damage would have gone
unnoticed, and a normally attempted
landing would have been certain to result
in a bad smash. With ambulance and
fire brigade standing by, the pilot made
a good landing, first with the tail wheel,
then the remaining good wheel, much to
his own and spectators’ relief.
* * *
Returning to Sydney from a world
tour, including a visit to the 8.8. C.
(England), a prominent broadcasting
personality expressed the opinion that
television as demonstrated by the 8.8. C.
was like the old silent pictures, flickery
and jumpy, and that it will be a long
time before it is available for commercial
purposes. As the 8.8. C. has been using
the 30-line system, apparently as an ex-
periment, this, it appears, is the system
criticised. According to latest reports
the Baird high-definition system as used
over the ultra-short-wave channel at the
Crystal Palace is a bird of very different
color, and it is this method on which
commercial television will undoubtedly
be based.
* Jj: *
“Querex”: A new streamlined passen-
ger train in U.S.A. has a searchlight that
talks. The demonstration of this modu-
lated light beam, whilst in itself nothing
revolutionary, must have been sur-
prising to people on a station platform
in the vicinity. On a hand-truck on the
platform was a tripod-mounted concave
mirror and a loudspeaker system. As
the train approached the station along
the track a beam of orange-red light
shot out, this being aimed by an opera-
tor on the train directly at the concave
mirror. Persons on the platform were
astonished to hear the loudspeaker burst
into speech as passengers on the train
called their This is one way
of communicating over a limited distance
from a train at high speed, but ultra-
short waves would be even more useful,
and over longer distances.
* * * *
A new geophysical device for locat-
ing hidden metallic objects buried under
ground has been perfected in U.S.A.
Carried by two handles, it enables the ob-
server to watch continually the dials that
detect hidden objects
of varying electrical
conductivity. The
instrument contains
a high-frequency os-
cillator and a sensi-
tive detector, and is
equipped with a gal-
vanometer for indi-
cating the variations.
If an electrically-
conductive mass is
brought within the
effective range of the
oscillator as the
person holding the
apparatus walks
slowly over the
ground a reaction is
produced in the de-
tector, and this is
shown by the gal-
vanometer. Experi-
mental work on
apparatus of this
nature was done in
Sydney in 1926, but
nothing further was
heard of the development. The applica-
tion in collection with mining or the loca-
tion of any other sort of buried treasure
is obvious.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
An idea prevalent with many people
concerned with radio design is that to
utilise the Philips four-volt series of
heater valves is but a matter of a suitable
power transformer winding. Nothing
could be further from the right track,
and application of the erroneous theory
has in some instances resulted in a half-
hearted performance from valves designed
to do their work efficiently. It is re-
Incorporating the Philips octode—the
Briton Dual Wave 5/6 superhet chassis.
Valves : Philips AKI, E44Ts {I.F. stages),
E 454 duo-diode-triode, E 463 pentode,
1561 rectifier. Price, in velvet two-tone
console cabinet, £35. Manufacturers:
Briton Electrical and Radio Co., 25
Mountain Street, Sydney. ’Phone,
MA7162.
freshing to witness the difference when a
painstaking radio engineer makes the
most of such valves by literally mould-
ing the chassis around them, and using
them as the valve laboratory intends.
Such an engineer is I. N. Briton, B.Sc.,
8.E., M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), head of the
manufacturing concern bearing his name.
The Briton Dual Wave superhet sub-
mitted for test is a triumph of careful
design. From the moment the receiver
was switched on and tuned to a station,
the impression grew that here was some-
thing “out of the box.”
A marked brilliance of reproduction,
with complete absence of spurious noise,
characterises this receiver, added to which
there is a most satisfyingly smooth per-
formance on the short-wave side. This
range includes 17 to 55 metres, and tun-
ing is done most easily without any re-
course to manual trimming. By careful
attention to tuned circuits, complete
tracking is effected. The tuning dial is
unique, and, of all dials fitted to any
receiver, is the smoothest yet encoun-
tered. This is Efco’s latest, and in its
Briton form appears in a most attractive
setting. The drive plate is 7in. in
diameter, and the speed is just right for
broadcast and short-wave tuning. Fea-
tures of this superhet include: Philips
AKI octode with accompanying four-volt
valve series ; a band-pass circuit followed
by two I.F. channels at 450 kc., compris-
ing nine tuned circuits ; adequate selec-
tivity without sideband cutting ; Amplion
lOin. wide-range speaker; three watt
pentode output, with extra-commendable
reproduction.
High-grade workmanship is evident in
the chassis construction. Well-designed
all-wave type switch, with easy and posi-
tive action, and Ducon electrolytic con-
densers provide trouble-free filtering.
The left-hand position of the three-way
wave-change switch provides an alter-
native broadcast level for local reception
only, the short-wave range being to the
right, and distant broadcast in the centre.
At no time during The Bulletin’s test
of this well-engineered receiver was any-
thing but a short indoor aerial necessary
or used, and this acid test for the short-
wave side produced surprising noise-free
signal level on the usual overseas stations.
In short, the Briton 5/6 Dual Wave
superhet is a pleasantly surprising pro-
duction, incorporating many new com-
ponents and up-to-date features. Above
all, it is far from being a laboratory
experiment. It effectively combines the
ideals of the radio engineer and the list-
ener, and is a credit to the designer, who
has brought the processes of planning,
designing, laboratory testing and manu-
facture to the production of a modern
radio instrument which must be heard
and used to be appreciated.
Latest in the Trade.
If any short-wave radio engineer
should know his business in the, appli-
cation of the short-wave converter to the
broadcast receiver, it is H. A. Warby,
of D. W. Radio Co., Crow’s Nest. Since
short waves began to be of use for radio
entertainment the name “D.W.” has been
foremost in the converter line. A super-
het converter is a very useful gadget for
the man who already has a good broad-
cast receiver, and would like to be in
on this short-wave business, with the
help of the faithful receiver. The com-
bination of a good converter and a good
broadcast receiver means extremely good
all-wave operation. It can be every bit
as convincing as the latest all-wave
model superhet. Those who have not
yet tried the short waves should ask for
a demonstration of “D.W.’s” latest con-
verters. The address is D. W. Radio Co.,
210 Willoughby-road, Crow’s Nest,
N.S.W. ’Phone X 4927.
The Q. and A. Column.
Enclosed is a circuit diagram of a radio-
frequency gramophone pickup arrangement ,
Please publish a diagram showing how this
A.C. unit can be adapted for battery opera-
tion. —234.
The arrangement in accompanying plan is
quite workable, and consists of a modulated
R.F. oscillator operating at a frequency within
the range of the 200- to 600-metre broadcast
receiver. It is actually a small transmitter. The
diagram shows the use of a pentode valve. This
can be any type of battery pentode according
to the filament voltage. Coils L and LI are
the usual screened R.F. coil for the broadcast
range. The primary winding is used to couple
the oscillator to the receiver.
(1) I have made the Wide-World Two ( B.
15/8/’34). Results on the broadcast band are
good, but on short waves I can only hear faintly
a few C.W. stations on the amateur 40-metre
band. The coils are constructed correctly.
There is a fair amount of hum when using
headphones. lam using a six-volt heater trans-
former and a Philips 3002 B and C eliminator.
What’s wrong? (2) Is a 50,000 -ohm Yaxley
potentiometer suitable for regeneration control ?
Circuit diagram attached. —23s.
(1) Possibly the hum may be caused by the
high-impedance audio choke. More decoupling
may cure this trouble, and this may be done by
using a 15,000- or 20,000-ohm resistor in place
of the 2000-ohm, and a 2mfd. condenser in
place of the .Imfd. Changing the position of
the high-impedance choke may help, and, better
still, it can with advantage be shielded by en-
closing it in a tin or aluminium casing. If
you have an A.W.A. high-impedance choke
available, this will be worth a trial, as this
choke is screened. Although the 38-type pen-
tode is not supposed to be used with A.C. on
the heater, the writer has never been troubled
with hum when doing so. Since the receiver
was described the new 6C6 valve has been
found to be a big improvement on the 77. (2)
Yes, eminently suitable.
I know that there are “bands” allotted tp
amateurs, such as 80, 40 or 20 metres. How
do these allocations compare with each other
in frequency coverage or wave-length range ?
Is the width of the 80 -metre band the same
frequency range as the 20-metre band, for
instance ? —237.
A chart showing the frequency comparison
of the amateur bands is illustrated here. This
is self-explanatory, but, being an American chart,
does not apply to Australian amateurs in the
matter of telephony restrictions. The 40-metre
band, for instance, is open to Australians for
telephony, whereas this band is solely for tele-
graphy in U.S.A. The frequency range, how-
ever, applies similarly in Australia.


MODERN TRAVEL
[paw*]
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON
R.M.S. Maloja, 20,914 tons
R.M!S. Mooltan, 20,952 tons
552
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON
R.M.S. Cathay, 15,225 tons
R.M.S. Chitral, 15,346 tons
R.M.S. Comorin, 15,241 tons
Principal Agents'.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.,
Union House,
247 George Street. Sydney.
Telephone B 7511.
IN addition to the per-
sonal comfort, excel-
lent service and cuisine
offered by the modern
Liners of the P. & O.
Company, passengers
have a varied choice of
excellent accommoda-
tion.
In the three classes pro-
vided—First Saloon and
Tourist, Tourist Class
only, and First and
Second Saloon exclus-
ively travellers will
find unsurpassed travel
facilities at rates to suit
every requirement.
Fares to England
From
First Saloon £B5
Second Saloon £65
Tourist Class £39
Subject to Exchange.
FIRST SALOON AND TOURIST
R.M.S. Strathnaver, 22,283 tons
R.M.S. Strathaird, 22,284 tons
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON
R.M.S. Narkunda, 16,632 tons
R.M.S. Naldera, 16,088 tons
TOURIST CLASS ONLY
R.M.S. Mongolia, 16,600 tons
R.M.S. Moldavia, 16,556 tons
Joint Booking Agents,
Tourist Class :
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson,
5 Bent Street, Sydney.
Telephone B 6701,
fds
A MIXED GRILL.
Arthur Reid, an old Kalgoorlie news-
paperman who was associated with Mc-
Callum Smith, M.L.A. (now secesh dele-
gate in London), and the late Hugh
Mahon in more than one successful news-
paper venture of the roaring ’nineties, has
been visiting Sydney. A year or two ago
he collected his goldfields reminiscences
into a very live and readable book en-
titled “Those Were the Days.” The pub-
lication met with a brisk demand, and is
now in its second edition. The author
is a native of Ballarat.
* * * *
A couple of Victorian country dis-
tricts have arranged for seaside camps
during State-election week, and special
polling arrangements are being made for
them. It is intended to erect an absent-
voters’ booth and call voters out of the
surf one by one until all are accounted
for. Now that inland towns are becom-
ing accustomed to the sea water, the
“surfers’ vote” will probably grow into
a factor at succeeding elections, and can-
didates will have to mould their politics
accordingly.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia is already
preparing for the next Australian
National Games, to be staged in Adelaide
from January 25 to February 1 next year.
They are held every four years, and serve
as a final trial for the Olympic candidates
of the year. The meeting will be one of
the star turns of Adelaide’s centenary
hullabaloo.
* * * *
“Fan Kwai”: We may see the Chinese
Davis Cup team in Australia this year—
Lin Pao Hwa, of Shanghai, and Hsu
Cheng Chai, from Batavia. The pair
carried all before them in China last
year, and great things are expected of
them.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Helen Wills-Moody will
be in England in May, her object being
to equal the record of Mrs. Lambert
Chambers by winning at Wimbledon for
the seventh time —she and Suzanne
Lenglen have turned the trick six
times each. Helen has been out
of the game for a year, but says
she is better than ever. As to her
chance of a comeback, she can quote
Tilden’s win at Wimbledon in 1930 (10
years after his first championship there)
and Brookes’s defeat of Hunter in 1924
(20 years after his first victory in the
singles). Helen will face a tough pro-
position in Dorothy Round, who will
probably have improved as the result of
her Australian trip.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Recent Bulletin discus-
sions as to the dangers of golf remind me
that Liverpool (Eng.) Municipal Council,
which runs five public courses, has
adopted a third-party insurance scheme to
cover players using the city links if they
should unwittingly chance to injure any-
one. As adopted by Liverpool, the scheme
for the five courses calls only for an
annual premium of £25. The English Golf
Union is taking up the idea, and has pre-
pared a scheme by which a player can
be insured against third-party claims up
to £5OOO for 4s. 3d. This doesn’t look
as if golfing dangers are as terrible as
some folk have tried to make out.
* * * *
“Odyssey”: Cochet’s proposed tour of
the world, giving exhibitions of tennis,
which is to start next month, has some
peculiar aspects. If, as is stated, the
French Government is financing the trip,
it is pretty certain to drop money; it is
improbable that Cochet, who has been a
failure as a professional with Tilden’s
circus, will draw decent gates. Cochet
will have to take a good sparring part-
ner, since in some of the countries he
will visit he will find no opposition
worthy of the name —unless amateurs are
allowed to oppose him, and of that there
is Buckley’s chance. As far as Australia
is concerned, Anderson, Willard, Baker
and O’Hara Wood will be able to give
the Frenchman a decent go ; but he will
have to be here in the football season.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Geoffrey Bourne, of the
Institute of Anatomy, told his fellow-
scientists the other day that civilisation
had divested man of certain glandular
functions which primitive man de-
veloped by being chased by wild beasts.
I’m going to capitalise that bit of infor-
mation, get a magnificent diploma to
hang in my office and start business as
a feroxapath, guaranteeing to cure all
ills for high fees. I shall have a big
paddock at the rear of my sanatorium
with a wild and aggressive bull in wait-
ing. Patients, after the fee is collected,
will be turned loose in the paddock, and
so will the bull. Five-minute treatments
will cost £2 2s. ; to meet the times a full
course will be obtainable for a tenner. If
the scheme catches on, I might develop
more spectacular treatments with wart-
hogs, anacondas or even rhinos. The
only fear is the competition of other
feroxopaths (certificated) who will rise
with my prosperity.
* * * *
Mrs. Bleazby, one of the few women
who have gained election as municipal
councillors in Victoria, gave her fellow-
dignitaries of the Brighton Council a
bit of her mind the other day. “More
women are needed in public life,” she
thundered; “men have single-track
minds.” Mrs. Bleazby is a daughter of
the late Tom Bent, and acquired a heap
of wisdom at the old man’s knee when
he was Premier of the State. In her
single days, and even after her marriage,
she accompanied the Stout Fellow to
Parliament House, sitting through the
debates, giving him tips and generally
acting as a remarkably efficient unofficial
secretary.
* * * *
Tucked away in Jolimont in a narrow
lane known as Agnes-street is Latrobe’s
Cottage, Melbourne’s first Government
House. Because of time and white-ants
its days are numbered. Half of the cot-
tage was demolished years ago ; even the
front door has disappeared, and the one
remaining post on the front verandah
swings in the breeze, being attached to
the beam supporting the roof by a few
overworked nails. The dwelling that
sheltered Victoria’s first vice-regal pair
had a low roof, very narrow windows
and a tiny fernery at the back,
Visitors are not permitted inside the
cottage, but occasionally when the
blinds have been left up a few inches
one may obtain a peep through lace cur-
tains at old silver and glass, pictures and
furniture which are undisturbed in the
quiet interior. The original kitchen,
.., ,
overgrown with moss and creepers, may
be inspected from the outside only. In
winter the Latrobes’ food could never
have been piping hot, for the kitchen is
separated from the main building by a
,K c ,_ i • -r ■
ship of garden. The firm which owns
the land and manufactures shoes in the
tall factory next door has terraced part
of the garden, preserved the sundial and
fj . i • x j j up i
some old trees and introduced a goldfish-
P onc n
* * * *
TL • A „c • . , j
The Chinese Am. Dram. Society staged
one of the operatic masterpieces of Old
China at Melb. Imperial. The piece was
, , . . .. a a
produced just as it was produced s c.,
even to the women’s parts being taken by
men and the sceneshifters working in
full view of the audience. The costum-
ii .
mg, as m all Chinese pageantry, was mag-
nificent, color, gold lace and ornament
being blended in exquisite harmonies,
The acting was good, and complied with
all Chinese tradition according to a
learned Chinese youth who told the
writer how the plot progressed, though
it seemed strangely artificial to the
Caucasian, being symbolic. The opera
was preceded by a Chinese vaudeville
entertainment which everybody was able
to understand. The only girls in the
show gave a national dance, and Kwok,
the swimmer, manipulated an instru-
ment which looked like a remote Mon-
golian ancestor of the zither.
* * * *
Treatise on morals by “Historicus”:
Major Haverfield, of the Galloway Diocesan
Council, attacks the “appalling immorality of
Scotland.”
“One out of every five children in Scot-
land is born out of matrimony.”
Puritans have been making charges of the kind
for a couple of centuries off and on; yet
during all that time the Scot has been proving
himself as good (to put it mildly) as any
Southron. What an appalling advt. for
matrimony it would be if the Major’s
figures meant anything! But they don’t; any
more than England’s periodical waves of
naughtiness (under Elizabeth; under Charles
II.; during the Regency; since the war) mean
that the English are on the down-grade.
Solomon Eagles and Savonarolas have been
howling since the dawn of history that all is
lost; but the truth is their shocking dis-
coveries mean nothing at all. After a long
career in a venal political society Caesar —then
a bankrupt—conquered most of the world for
Rome; after the loss of the American colonies
in the eighteenth century came the rise of the
British Empire; the voluptuous Edwardian era
was followed by the sacrifices of the World
War. No race is more moral than another;
the only difference is that most races have
their spasms of flightiness at different times.
And in any case the spasms have no effect on
the behavior of succeeding generations.


FOR FLEMINGTON
Essendon Stakes: Capris; next,
Hall Mark.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Homer;
next, Bimilla.
Newmarket: Winooka, 1; Arachne,
2 ; Count Ito, 3.
St. Leger: Farndale; next, Syl-
vandale.
Brunswick Stakes: Topical ; next,
Cueesun.
FOR CANTERBURY
Park Stakes: Frieze; next,
Paragon.
Canterbury Handicap: Irving;
next, Lavington.
Highweight Handicap: Regular
Bachelor; next, Canegrass.
Campsie Handicap: After Money ;
next, Verlina.
SPORTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
The story of the race for the Caulfield
Futurity Stakes is the story of another
“paper certainty” that suffered defeat —to
the confusion of punters and the un-
affected delight of McShortodds. Backed
from 7 to 4 to 5 to 4, Winooka got his
tongue over the bit at the start and then
moved wide. He was fifth as the field
approached the home turn. Pike adopted
what —for him —was the unusual pro-
cedure of drawing the whip after entering
the straight, but Poison’s candidate did
not respond adequately. Heros appeared
to have the race won at the furlong
post; however, Synagogue would not be
denied and made a dead-heat of it. If
he had not tried to savage Heros inside
the half-distance, Synagogue must have
won. Pressmen were amazed when the
judge awarded Winooka third place.
They thought Press Gang had finished in
advance of the Sydney sprint champion.
This Page fancied Synagogue, next to
Winooka. A dark chestnut, sturdily
built, Synagogue is the Maoriland-bred
colt for whom J. A. Phillips, the
bookmaker, paid a considerable sum at
the beginning of the year, having com-
pleted the purchase by radiophone while
on a visit to Sydney. Phillips handed the
horse over to C. T. Godby, who had
won the Caulfield Cup of 1933 for him
CSERT I WA3 AT 'THE. t=ORTUKJE- TELLERS
Vesterpat,"
Bert’. What did she. tell vou * "
GjERt ! 'She said > "was
A, SEA, TRIP vv
Bert,'"Good ~ what about a c>avs
Pishing* J "
with Gaine Carrington, and the Moonee
Valley Cup in the same year with Peter
Jackson. Both those gallopers were of
Maoriland origin, and no doubt Phillips
will continue to draw on the Dominion
for his equine purchases. The original
intention of this sportsman was to give
Synagogue a short let-up in Melbourne,
miss the Victorian autumn meetings and
concentrate on Easter racing in Sydney.
Those plans were changed when it was
found that the chestnut looked none the
worse for rather strenuous service under
silk in the land of his birth.
Cecil Godby has reason to regard the
Futurity Stakes as one of his lucky races.
He made a huge financial haul when his
own horse Wedge vanquished that beauti-
ful mare Desert Gold. The stable did
not forget to back Synagogue on Satur-
day. From double-figure odds he firmed
to 7 to 1, and went out third favorite.
Winooka is quartered at Godby’s stables,
which the late George Davis, of Tim
Swiveller fame, erected at the back of the
Caulfield racecourse and named Cam-
bria Lodge. There is no shrewder judge
of public form than Cecil Godby. He
discovered good material in Synagogue,
and reasoned that, with bare weight-for-
age, the colt should at least make things
difficult for Winooka, who was penalised
151 b. above the scale.
Synagogue was not nominated for the
Newmarket Handicap or the A.J.C. Don-
caster Handicap. He is engaged in the
Essendon Stakes and C. M. Lloyd Stakes
at Flemington, and doubtless will per-
form at weight-for-age in Sydney. As
a rival of Hall Mark the colt from across
the Tasman will take the place of Gaine
Carrington, who broke down recently
and had to be retired. Bookmaker-com-
rades envy J. A. Phillips his success as a
horseowner, but they gave him a cheer
after the Futurity. The colors of Win-
ooka are carried by two Sydney fielders.
We are getting back to the position that
existed in the time of the late Joe Thomp-
son, when many of the best gallopers are
owned by men who call the odds.
Two of the events at Caulfield went
to horses from Sydney. Capris had an
easy task in the Stanley Plate, for three-
year-olds, scoring on the bit from the
fast-finishing Lilirene, who belongs to a
sister-in-law of Bob Lewis, the veteran
jockey. Heavily backed at twos, Capris
firmed to 5 to 4. Closing Time (4 to 1),
a most dependable horse, squeezed home
by a head from Veilantif (also from
Rand wick) in the first division of the
Hawksburn Handicap. Sir John, who
started a hot favorite, came from a long
way back to run a close fourth. His
display suggests a win at Flemington.
Great Legend discounted his New-
market chance by falling badly in the
second division of the Hawksburn. Kay-
lah (10 to 1), trained by Ike Foulsham,
Was a creditable second to Count Ito
(7 to 1); some thought her unlucky to
lose. A feature of this contest was Mani-
toba’s effort in finishing right on top of
the placed horses. It was the English
stallion’s debut in Australia. Probably
he will run in the Newmarket, but after
that Manitoba may be got ready for stud
duty at A. T. Creswick’s stud.
La Trobe became a strong Australian
Cup favorite after his narrow victory—
at twelves —in the Woodcliffe Handicap ;
he pipped Whittingham (15 to 1) on the
post, with Contact (also 15 to 1) a good
third. Topical (8 to 1) ran a fair race;
the favorites, Worthing and Nuit d’Or
did not show up. Neither did Theo nor
Cueesun, but there was no money for
the horse from Perth.
Two years ago Winooka was beaten
out of a place in the Newmarket Handi-
cap, but came out on a succeeding day
of the Flemington fixture and put up a
course record of I.KH for six furlongs.
He had won the Futurity Stakes before
going under in the Newmarket. Will
atonement be made next Saturday for a
Futurity failure? It would not be a
popular happening, but is a possibility to
be faced. The ever-hopeful punter con-
siders that Arachne is assured of victory
over the “straight six.” Holt’s pair, Press
Gang and Heros, and Sir John will have
support.
* * * *
Four old stagers, Tom Pinch, Curtius,
Starlike and Vallage, were successful at
Kensington (Sydney) on Saturday. Tom
Pinch’s race was a division of the Flying
Handicap; backed from 3 to 1 to 6 to
4, and nicely ridden by an apprentice,
Young, the big black hopped out smartly
and had Multigris and Questionnaire
settled in the straight, Norman Conquest
cut it badly after trying to beat Tom
Pinch in the early stages.
Curtius (5 to 1) should have been
favorite for the second division, though he
drew an outside position. Off like a
shot, he had the race won after the first
furlong. Porcia, badly away, was second
and Lady Verlie third.
Stayers racing in Sydney at the present
time are a poor lot. Ten-year-old Star-
like has won a couple of races lately;
he took the Kensington Handicap after
getting a saloon passage round the turn,
where the leaders, Foxhunter, Measure
and Fairoic, went wide. Dandaloo found
the promotion from novice company too
severe, and beat only The Black Cat
home. It was a poor display for a
favorite, but she appeared to be sore.
Vallage is one of the most consistent
geldings racing. Despite recent good
form he went out at 7 to 2 for the Welter
Mile, to lead throughout and win from
Cynical and Ashpan. Bowery, the
favorite, is no miler, and Allugo, from
Wagga, tired. S. Cracknell rode Vallage
in his best style; he slowed the field
down at various stages, and when Cyni-
cal made a forward move at the turn
“Crack” showed he had a bit in hand.
The Magpie mare Queen Avis is bred
to gallop, being by Magpie from Queen
Ingoda, but apparently she can’t. “Odds
on” for the Three- and Four-year-old, she
could only run third to Musician (5 to 1)
and Star Silvius. Moorefield-trained Ver-
lina, a hardy type of gelding by The
Verderer, annexed the Kensington Stakes
at threes after a stirring tussle with
Wawina and Thaddeus. He had made
all the running.
* * * *
“Edwy”: The golfing craze has bitten
many Australian jockeys, Pike most of
all. Every day he is not engaged on
some racecourse or other Pike spends
on the links, and he has been known to
ride at “the ponies” about midday and
play a round or two in the afternoon.
Other keen players are Bartle, Maxwell,
Cook, Coutts and Cracknell. Of an-
other addict the story is told that, com-
ing in after a lost race, he was asked by
the trainer how his horse had shaped.
“Oh, he went all right for the first nine,”
replied the youth, with a far-off look in
his eye.
* * * *
“Red Hots”: A number of Austra-
lians are on the beach at Shanghai—
trotting horses shipped some time ago
for a body calling itself the Shanghai
Trotting Club. After the horses landed
the Chinese declined to grant a license
to the promoters, and the local S.P.C.A.
discovered the poor brutes housed in
mat sheds in a starved and sickly con-
dition, all efforts to trace the owners
having failed. The Shanghai health com-
missioner has promised to see what he
can do, but the outlook for the aban-
doned neddies is pretty blue. Once on
a time there would have been a market
for most of these nags before the motor
ousted the carriages and buggies. Now
reincarnation as sausages seems about
the only alternative to extinction by
starvation.
(i Continued, on next page.)
The Nineteenth Hole
“Amateur Pro.”: Not only are the
professional golfers of N.S.W. thinking
of sending a team over to U.S.A. (B.
20/2/ ’35), but they are throwing their
weight behind a proposal to ship four
amateurs to Britain for the champion-
ships this year. Much depends on how
the cash for expenses rolls in. The
P.G.A. is hoping to get the help of the
N.S.W. Golf Union, and if that happens
the outlook for the double event should
be bright, though past experience of
that body discourages undue optimism.
If it could be managed the scheme might
be extended to take in the other States
to give an Australian imprimatur to the
touring teams. Here again there are
hurdles to be jumped or got round.
* * * *
“Loose Impediment”; Those golfers
who eagerly buy every new gadget for
testing golfing capacity, ignoring the fact
that the average caddie is cheap and as
efficacious as the most elaborate machine
ever invented for the purpose, will wel-
come a device for testing driving in-
doors without smashing the windows or
the vases presented by maiden aunts.
The golfer drives into the open mouth of
a rotating cone, up which the ball is im-
pelled, recording its journey by flash-
lights. When the ball stops it is re-
turned from a chute, and lights register
the yards driven. What happens if you
miss the mouth of the machine isn’t
stated, though it is good betting nine mug
golfers out of ten would do it.
* * * *
“Southport”: The golf world over-
seas is already discussing the British
amateur and open championships. The
amateur will be played this year on the
Lytham and St. Anne’s courses in North
Lancashire; already last year’s winner,
Lawson Little, is rated favorite. The
most fancied of the Britons is Jock Mc-
Lean, recently here. Little, who is
American amateur champion as well did
not stay last year for the open, won in
such sensational fashion by Cotton.* This
time he intends to have a crack at it,
and if the two are in last year’s form
there should be some sparks flying and
new records put up,
“Carnoustie”; British golf scribes are
crawin’ crouse over Britain’s chances of
retaining the open championship won
back by Cotton last year. Of the last
14 championships Yanks have taken 12 ;
the last British winner before Cotton
being Havers in 1923. There will be a
strong American party at Muirfield, how-
ever. Walter Hagen is said to be threat-
ening to rise from the tomb, and most of
the contingent recently in Australia will
be there when the divots are flying.
(Continued on next page.)
Jean Taris suffered defeat in the N.S.W.
440yds. championship at Sydney’s Domain
baths. The Frenchman lost about a
length at the start, but was in the lead
at the end of the first lap. He stayed
there just ahead of Ryan till about 75yds.
from the finish, when the Manly swimmer
went ahead to win by a yard in smin.
Isec. Charlton could do no better
than third, a dozen yards away. Pous-
sard, who is doing the trip along with
Taris, won the diving contest easily
enough from Harry Tickle, though the
board seemed to be troubling him. The
junior 220yds. championship went to 14-
year-old Biddulph,
* H= * *
Frank Maher, refused a permit to
coach Carlton (Vic.) this football season
by his old club Oakleigh, is a remark-
able example of a man mastering a game
comparatively late in life. Maher had
played only schoolboy football until he
reached France with the A.I.F. There
he took up the game seriously in inter-
vals behind the lines, and revealed him-
self a star player. He returned to cap-
tain Essendon to several premierships,
but for the past few years has been asso-
ciated with Oakleigh.


MADE IN ENGLAND
BRIT. RP. NQ.750681
?|Pksk|fo||
Blue
Gillettes
2/- per packet of 5 blades
FIT ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
#**• ■. -
i»
m
HVDRQFFIN
the Active Carbon for
WATER PURIFICATION.
f
Effectively removes unpleasant odors, colors and tastes.
Also oil from steam condensate.
Extensively used for de-chlorinating water.
Supplied in granular and powdered forms in varied qualities.
Technical data and specifications supplied to Waterworks, Filter
Manufacturers, Municipalities, Dairy Factories, Hotels, Sanatoria,
Cafes, etc.; also for Ice Works making crystal ice
Represented by
s. W. PETERSON & CO., LTD.
Australian States and New Zealand.
75 MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
dsf
The Prontac
( Patented)
TENNIS RACKET .
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
Under the Whip
Australian Cue, a three-year-old
brother to the dual Perth Cup winner
Cueesun, won the Maiden Handicap at
the Canterbury Park meeting, held after
two postponements. He struggled on
gamely when tackled and apparently in
difficulties, and he may develop into a
stayer. But he is never likely to be as
good as his big brother, who is doing well
in his preparation for the Australian Cup,
though his appearance when he landed
suggested that he required no great
amount of work.
*l' V 'i' 'l'
Tom Pinch is racing again in Sydney,
where he is the biggest horse in training.
He was a good two-year-old—so good
that his party had visions of his beating
Phar Lap at weight-for-age. Possibly he
was asked to do too much as a young-
ster ; anyway he never emerged from
the sprinting class. Booth gave him every
chance, but was glad to get rid of him
in the end.
**■ •!'
The popularity of the S.A. doubles tote
was justified once more at the last meet-
ing at Cheltenham. The races chosen
were the Bungaree Handicap and the Kid-
man Stakes: Prince Paladin won the
first at 10 to 1 and Tekess the other at
20 to 1. As usual, ss. was the stake, and
the dividends were £137 Bs. Prince
Paladin-Tekess and £4 16s. 9d. Prince
Paladin-Gittern (second to Tekess and
7 to 1 in the ring). As always happens
at Adelaide, several backers of Prince
Paladin failed to take out tickets on the
second leg of the double. There are
some strangely forgetful Australians.
if * * *
In his early days in Sydney, though
recognised as a very good jockey on the
whole, McCarten used to ride an occa-
sional bad race. Since his accident his
exhibitions in a couple of races have
been far from happy, and the Moonee
Valley crowd gave him a rough recep-
tion when he was beaten on Theresa
Gamba in a division of the Warroona
Handicap. The flying filly went out at 2
to 1 on in a field of 13, rushed away
with the lead, and was four lengths to
the good entering the straight. The
weight (9st. 131 b.) began to tell, and an
outsider, Makonnen, caught her, beating
her home by half a neck. The race took
a second longer than the other division,
which was run in Imin. 2sec., and
Theresa Gamba’s backers loudly attri-
bute the defeat of their fancy to the
jockey’s over-confidence.
* * *
Two or three N.S.W. trainers are re-
turning to the old practice of giving a
nag two races on the same day, and are
finding it profitable. A mare called Rosa-
lynde, by Rossendale —Beedivine, won a
double at Newcastle on January 28 and
another at Gosford on Tuesday. Plenty
of racing obviously suits her, for her
record since January 12 is seven starts,
six fifsts. And at Kensington on Wednes-
day Double Dutch (Backwood—Gib-
berish), after failing in a division of the
Flying Welter, 5| furlongs, came out
again and won the Welter Mile. Before
he took the Epsom in 1927 Vaals won
two seven-furlong races at Rosehill on
the same day. He was a five-year-old
stallion inclined to grossness, and the
experience obviously did him good:
nevertheless, it is seldom tried in the case
of high-class horses. Perhaps these
animals are coddled overmuch.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“The bigger they are the harder they
fall.” At Brisbane six months ago Ron
Richards, a very light middleweight,
knocked out Son Tealey, a 14-stoner, in
four rounds ; at Leichhardt on Wednes-
day last he did the trick again in eight
rounds. Boxing almost entirely on the
defensive, Tealey was toppled over by
a left to the short ribs in the fifth round,
and a nicely-timed right cross to the chin
floored him again, for “nine,” in the
whwS’ J he W £! te S TT P I d pu " ches
Wlt h the abo. in the eighth, but a lusty
left .• downstairs .. drop ° ed ’ him for th '
f u ]i count
•
Richards has a notion of going to Eng-
land, and, judging by the success of
Cook and Burke, he should do well there.
* * * *
Jack Read, a dashing lightweight in
his day, has, since his retirement from the
ring, become a writer on the game and
a compiler of records. His “Annual,”
with a foreword by Jim Donald, another
boxer turned journalist, is out again, and
is very good value for the money, Is. 6d.
Xo those whose business jt j to '’ ransack
old files ot newspaperS; Reat p s industry
is a marvel and h g c J riosity about h f s
heroes . birthplaces and , date / is equal , ed
only by that
of war-historian Bean,
J ns gmj Outs
4
* q . A , ? A *. t 0
*us at Adelaide, Victoria put on 102
tor the first wicket, and there were 211
°? * e board before the third went,
U Brien (55), Rigg (50), Darling (53) and
Scaife (56) all did valiantly. The rest
tailed; total, 308; Grimmett, 3 for 98.
ttTT A * ', ,
Hotham : Not since Queensland
en^ th e Sheffield ring in 1926-27 has
State taken evei T match outright.
Now, John, if you make a good drive I’ll let you hit off from the men's tee
with me next time"
This is Victoria’s 15th win; N.S.W. has
succeeded 20 times and South Australia
four. Queensland is still waiting for
Lady Luck to look her way.
The Brisbane match went to N.S.W.
by 28 runs. The Ma Staters’ second try
yielded 337 (Oxenham 3 for 48, Gilbert
3 for 114), leaving Queensland 310 to
w i n . Theak got Christy before he had
scored, and then Chilvers-Oldfield took
three between them. Bensted made a
bright 71, but no one else did much
Gilbert < 34 Total > 281 :
Chilvers 6 for 124, Theak 3 for 54.
Gilbert topped the flrst-class bowling
averages with 14 wickets at 18.21. Fleet-
more trian Grimmett, at 20.94. Darlings
was the best avera g e with the bat;
Fingleton (656) headed the aggregate ,
“Swartboi”: Eddie Gilbert’s success
with the ball has moved one Sydney jour-
nal to expatiate on his chance of catch-
ing the team for South Africa. It
is one with Buckley’s. The Afrikanders
even barred Maoris in the M.L. Rugby
Union team that toured the Union years
ago. No one who has not lived in South
Africa can form the slightest idea of the
antipathy displayed by Afrikanders of
Dutch and British nationality alike
towards colored races attempting to in-
trude on what are fenced off as reserves
for the white man. The White Australia
policy is trifling by comparison.
“Tenth Slip”; The Ma State cricket
heads have appointed B. H. Bicknell, of
Marrickville, manager of the side for
Westralia. The team goes by train,
Oldfield excepted—he has been granted
leave to travel by sea with his wife and
family. Treasurer Tyler announced at
the meeting that the net profit for the
last match of the season between Ma and
Victoria was £l2B8 —a nice little wind-
up to the Sheffield season. Fleetwood-
Smith is to be presented with a mounted
ball for taking 15 wickets in the match.
* Sfc ❖ $
The third Test between England
and the West Indies at Georgetown ended
in a draw. England scored 226 and
closed the second innings with 6 down
for 160 after W.I. had knocked up 184.
W.I. responded with 5 for 104. Wyatt,
criticised in England for taking risks.
this time made a funeral march of it. The
Indies promptly followed suit, and much
regrettable barracking by the piebald
population of British Guiana followed.
De consensus of opinion am dat play-
ing for the draw is not a white man’s
game-the adjective including all British
subjects of whatever hue—and that
future Tests must be extended to at least
four days.
* * * *
“Bowen Park”: Victorian cricket-
writers are making much of the case of
one Pat Dreary, playing in a minor club
. , Hi ,
when the score was 35, and stayed
until the side was out for 76. He
ST" ““d bowling n throu 8 boi “
the innings, and was 0 n.o. It
recalls a Brisbane innings which
ach i e ved the dignity of Lillywhite-
the Wisden of that day. In a senior club
match Stanley C.C. was dismissed for
26. Arthur Coningham, going in first,
carried his bat for 26. The other 10 also
ran—back to the pavilion.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The news that Eng-
land is importing a sample of turf from
Melbourne C.G. with a view to improv-
ing English wickets reminds me that
Queensland once borrowed from Mel-
bourne and Sydney in similar fashion to
make wickets on the Brisbane C.G.
Whether the stuff, brought up by
schooner loads, survives to this day de-
ponent knoweth not. At the B.C.G.
there were two strips, one of black Merri
Creek soil from Vic., the other a red
lot from Bulli. Drying in a hot sun after
a heavy shower the Merri pitch was
generally rated as the nearest thing to the
burning marl Milton tells of in “Paradise
Lost” for general damnableness as far as
the batsmen were concerned. Spin
bowlers, not yet vanished from the earth,
hailed it as manna from heaven.
“Jolimont”: C. H. Ross, who died in
Sydney recently, was for some years
the wicketkeeper for the Victorian Shef-
field side, and was a more than useful
batsman, averaging 24.20 in the eight
Sheffield games he figured in. Captain
for years of Melbourne C.C., he arrived
in the State team in 1895. Hugh
Trumble, Jack Worrall and Bob McLeod
put him in. Another “newey” tried then
was a lanky lad named Warwick Arm-
strong.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Royal Melbourne is
to build itself a lordly pleasure-house.
The new shop was agreed to last year
and plans were prepared and passed, but
the committee hung back, one eye on
the hard times and the other on the cash-
box. However, as a result of an extra-
ordinary general meeting, work on the
new job is to start at once. The structure
will stand on top of the hill near the first
and eighth tees of the east and west
courses; the cost is expected to be
£20,000 or so.
* $ if
“Seaton”: Joe Kirkwood passed
through Adelaide last week on his way
to Perth, whence he will hop to Singa-
pore to start a series of exhibitions.
Sarazen is to join him in Japan, and
after showing there the pair will return
to the U.S.A. ; then Joseph makes for
Britain for the open championships, and
proba Kl v his partner will go with him.
H»
“Brassey”; The annual meeting of the
N.S.W. Suburban and District Associa-
tion threw out the Lakes club’s motion
to reform the constitution of the N.S.W.
Golf Council. The mover stressed the
restiveness of a large number of clubs
and players over the continuation of con-
trol by Royal Sydney and Australian.
Unfortunately, he admitted that the new
constitution had been modelled on that
adopted some time ago by the Victorian
G.A. That was enough. The change
must come some time, so there is nothing
to be done but keep pegging away.
# # s|e
“Susie Swattit”: The N.S.W. women
golfers cleared for action at the annual
meeting last week and confirmed the long
programme for the coming season. The
game is still spreading among the sex,
25 new clubs having hooked up with the
State body in the last 12 months. This
brings the total to 239 organisations,
whose members leave their menfolk to
extract their own meals from tins or else
fly to the nearest fish-and-chips em-
porium. It is a gloomy picture, and
one wonders whither our domestic con-
ventions are tending. July 4 to 15 is
the date set out for the State champion-
ships.
* * * #
“Hoylake”; Ten British women golfers
have been invited to make the tour of
Australia and M.L.: Mesdames Garon,


Tb, MOST
POWERFUL
motor car Battery
of its size ever built!
M
m
i m
a
a
m
Willard's
NEW WST-1-15
To meet the demand for more
starting power for light cars,
Willard has produced the new
WST-1-15 with 15 plates per cell
instead of the usual 13.
This greater reserve power will
protect you against the annoy-
ance of unexpected battery
failures. It means a hotter spark,
better ignition, quicker starts
and more of them.
ITS REASONABLE PRICE and
its outstanding performance
make the new WST-1-15 a real
economy. Be sure to ask your
Willard dealer to show it to you
before you buv ANY battery.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Suppl i©S Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham.
Waymouth Service Co., Adelaide. Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd ~ Sydney, Newcastle and Lismore.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 93rd YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly i
the
“Weekly Courier”
1
Thursday.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Greenlees, Holm, Peel and Walker;
Misses Morgan, Pearson, Pyman, Sher-
lock and Wade. Wanda Morgan’s name
is familiar on this side, but most of the
others are unknowns, unless matrimony
has obscured notable names like Molly
Gourlay and Diana Fish wick. A pity
that the professional obsession has cut
out players like Joyce Wethered and Enid
Wilson. Few Australians have any idea
of the standard reached by these cham-
pionettes.
* * * *
Baffy”: As in the other States, the
N.S.W. annual A.I.F. golf tourney is
becoming an agreeable sort of Franken-
stein monster. When Colonel Murdoch
started it some years ago the first entry
was under the hundred. There were
over 400 in when entries closed last
week with Captain Walker, of the Aus-
tralia club, at Kensington. The sol-
diers events have proved immensely
popular in all the States. How many
erstwhile innocents they have served to
draw into the seething vortex of golf,
from which there is no escape, had best
be left unrecorded.
* * * *
Divot Digger”: One aspect of golf
in this country which is giving club
officials a headache is the tendency of
firms handling golf material on a large
scale to swallow up club professionals.
Soutar and Kelly have both gone over
to Sydney shop jobs. They have just
been followed by Bolger, who has left
the Oatlands club for one of the big
Sydney stores. Victoria is also suffering,
as witness a pathetic advertisement for a
full-time professional to replace Ted
Naismith, who has’left the Heidelberg
club for the bright lights of a city “em-
porium.” It is contended by some that
shop demonstrations, keeping players off
the actual courses as they do for long
periods, tend to put the golfers off their
game. To which it may be said that
Richardson, one of the best and most
consistent players in Australia and expert
to one of Sydney’s leading sporting-goods
firms, has never been attached to a club
as a professional in his golfing life.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Most folk with
a knowledge of things will admit that the
best men in N.S.W. tennis adminis-
tration are the women. They were
allowed to handle only one separate
match against the Englishwomen, and
on two week-days £BOO-odd was taken.
The Ma State girls some years ago gave
the other States a lead by crashing in on
the State Council. They have had a
notable influence in its affairs ever since.
They are sponsoring a move to bring a
strong women’s team to Australia from
abroad, and mean to get it. The English
girls who have just left us were a far
better draw than a big percentage of the
male visitors, and a strong lot of women
players from overseas, Americans in-
cluded, would be an attractive and pay-
ing proposition.
* * * *
“Baseline”: Who started lawn tennis
in Australia? It is claimed that the
Bundocks, of Wyrangarie, on the Upper
Richmond, introduced it in 1876. As
the first Victorian championships were
held in 1880, and the Ma State ones
began in 1885, the game must surely
have been going for some time before
the mid-’seventies. I can vouch it was
being played on the Upper Barcoo early
in the ’eighties. The balls were plain
rubber, and the courts were marked with
pegged-down tapes. The net was higher
at the ends than in the middle, like a royal
tennis net, and the racquets were the
heavy curved affairs used in the ancient
game. Then the great handicap was the
crow family, which pinched the expen-
sive balls as expertly as they now get
away with golf pills.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: On the British tennis
ranking list for 1934 Perry is first and
Austin second; in third place comes
Hughes, who, with all respect, is nearly
at the end of his not-very-extensive
tether as a singles player, solid doubles
man as he still may be. There is mo one
else of note in the dozen ranked save
Wilde, who is sixth. Wilde did not im-
press when here with Perry and Hughes,
and as he had dropped several places
since the previous ranking is evidently
not improving. A surprise is the omis-
sion of Lee and Collins owing to “insuffi-
cient data.”
* * * #
“Cash Amateur”: British amateur
tennis-players have had such a bad time
lately at the hands of their critics that
they have called up their reserves, so to
speak. Mrs. “Bunny” Austin has rushed
to the front with a long letter to the
London press in which she says hubby
invariably turns down all baksheesh offers
of kit and tennis material, and has never
taken fees of any description from cor-
rupters of the lilywhites. She implies
that Peiry marches arm-in-arm with her
spouse in this respect. lam willing to
believe all that, but what I find hard
to understand is how a person with no
particular profession or much money can
tour the world practically continuously.
Granted that travelling and housing are
found, there is the question of spending
money—tips, cabs and so on, leaving
whoopee out of the question. I have
had some experience of athletic tours,
the longest of which was not more than
six weeks or so. Yet in that short time
I found that unavoidable incidentals ran
to quite a lot of money. When it comes
to world tours of practically a couple of
years’ duration, the most economical cuss
must face a heavy petty-cash expendi-
ture.
Miscellaneous
“Stretcher”; The selection of an all-
heavyweight crew to represent N.S.W.
in the King’s Cup is being acclaimed.
Weight counts for a little, but it is the
rowing that tells, and the small man has
shown many times that he has just as
much stamina and usually more skill
than the extra-big fellow. Another plea
is that the selected crew is older and
therefore better able to stand the calls
made on it in a three-mile race. The
average Oxford or Cambridge crew is
just about out of it's teens, and there can-
not be much wrong with youths who can
stick out that punishing 4}-mile spin from
Putney to Mortlake.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: Winston Guest, rated
among the greatest of polo players, will
probably play in the Dudley Cup com-
petition, being mounted by the Ashton
brethren. The American figured in the
last tourney between England and
America, and his handicap of nine goals
is the highest in the world. He should
be visible in Sydney about the beginning
of June.
* * $ - *
“Stand Off”: The 61st annual meet-
ing of the Ma State R.U. revealed that
last season was one of the best since the
war, and the financial side the best since
1926. The cash surplus for the season
was £1863, the visit of an All-Black team
contributing to this, though when the All-
Blacks were here two years previously
the profit was only £485. The Maoris are
sending a team over this year, and the
game is now being regularly played in
every Australian State.
*** ■ *
“Fitzcray”; In spite of a move to
play 16 rounds only the Victorian Foot-
ball League will stage the customary 18
this season. The kick-off will be on
April 27, and the home-and-home games
are to end on September 27. Semi-finals
will be staged on September 14 and 23,
the final on September 28, the grand
final on October 5. Collingwood and
“Sowth” are to invade Sydney and Bris-
bane respectively during King’s Birthday
week. The inter-State season will begin
with a match against Westralia at Perth
on June 22. On the way home South
Australia will be tackled, and the Wheat-
fielders will also play in Melbourne on
August 3.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Ted Hampson, the
N.S.W. amateur sprinter, has furnished
on tremendously in the last 12 months.
At Sydney Sports Ground he put up new
Australian records for the 100 metres
and the 120 yards. With a couple of
pacers, Hampson covered the 100 metres
in 10 3-ssec. —on the same track a fort-
night earlier Tolan took 10 11-16 sec.
Hampson’s run in the 120 occupied
11 3-ssec., a fifth of a second better than
American G. R. Parker’s record, which
has stood for 21 years. Five experts held
the clocks, and the umpire decided there
was no assistance from wind, so the
records will go into the books.
* * :i: *
“Spare Walton”: Year in and out the
writer and others have urged in The
Bulletin the possibilities of big-game
fishing in Eastern Australian waters, both
as a sport and an attraction for tourists.
Maoriland’s well-advertised swordfish-
and shark-fishing has become a national
industry, and a paying one. Last year
the existence of these game fish in quan-
tities off southern N.S.W. was proved
beyond a doubt, and fishing there is al-
ready drawing numbers of sportsmen to
the grounds. These are not very acces-
sible at present, and weather conditions
are often rough. A N.S.W. body has
been organised with its headquarters at
Port Stephens. A clubhouse to accom-
modate 64 members is now ready, and
launches are to be provided for members
of the club, who are not to exceed 300.
Cabins for parties are being erected, and
the grounds, which will later include
tennis courts and a golf course, will be
opened by Chief Secretary Chaffey on
March 2.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Grandad Rudd”
Friday night’s audience at Sydney
State seemed to enjoy it.
Certainly it isn’t quite such a travesty
on Australian country folk as “The
Hayseeds,” but it’s bad enough. The
opening shot in which Dave is branded
instead of a calf is fairly typical of the
humor. The characters are the same,
grown older, and with a new generation
to supply the love-making. Bert Bailey
is Dad again—the same old Dad, slightly
subdued, and to that extent more civil-
ised. The guffaws are inspired mainly
by Fred MacDonald (Dave) and George
Lloyd (Dan).
As before, the producer has endeavored
to introduce a little of everything. There
are scenes at the cowbails, the pigsty,
the wheat paddock (with runaway trac-
tor) ; a drunk sequence (Dad and a
friend), a cricket match and a wedding
which is melodramatically interrupted by
the villainous ’groom’s wife.
“Broken Dreams”
Randolph Scott is a young doctor
whose wife dies in childbirth. He’s so
embittered that he won’t even look at
the child. Then, having settled down
with another wife, he finds that the boy,
aged five, wants nothing to do with him.
Of course, the finish sees the family
happily reunited.
Scott used to make a good cowboy,
but as a doctor he’s hopeless. His second
wife (Martha Sleeper) is pretty and no
more. Buster Phelps presents an unusu-
ally loathsome type of stage infant.
“Wake Up and Dream”
De mortuis —so let us say nothing
about the crooning of the late Russ
Columbo. Otherwise this is as good as
most farces. Roger Pryor is a resource-
ful go-getter in the vaudeville business.
June Knight (whom he loves) and Russ
Joan Crawford in “Chained,” at
Sydney St. James.
Columbo (who loves June, though she
doesn’t suspect it, and is loved by her,
though he doesn’t suspect it) are song-
and-dance artists, and Roger’s buddies.
In the hunt for jahbs they meet Henry
Armetta (comic grand-opera singer) and
Catherine Doucet (comic crystal-gazer).
The ample and emotional Catherine con-
ceives a yen for Henry ; but his hobby is
food, and he evades her till it transpires
that she has money. Gavin Gordon is
also in the picture as a comic police offi-
cial in pursuit of Pryor.
It rushes along at a great pace till the
hero and heroine suddenly discover their
mutual passion owing to the self-sacrific-
ing conduct of Mr. Pryor. A glossary
of the American language would be help-
ful, but it is fairly easy to get the hang
of it without one. At Sydney Civic.
“I’ll Tell the World”
No one outside America’s flannel-night-
gown belt will believe a word of this
romance, but, like most works of the sort,
it is possible to enjoy it without taking
the plot seriously. Lee Tracy is a voluble
newshound with the hide and energy of
a junior reporter and the ravaged
features and thinning thatch of a
managing director. For the purposes
of the film he is young and beauti-
ful, a result being that Gloria Stuart
(exiled Queen of Grau) falls for him at
sight. He is ordered to get the story
of the royalist plot to restore the queen,
and in doing so he careers about a mythi-
cal Europe with Roger Pryor, a rival
newspaper man, as his ineffectual foil.
Tracy gets all the scoops, and the queen
decides to abandon her throne and be
an inspiration to him in his deafening
profession in the capacity of good Ameri-
can wife and democrat.
Gloria Stuart looks opulently lovely,
and Onslow Stevens is picturesque as
the effete young European prince who
compares unfavorably in the heroine’s
eyes with the manly American reporter.
Also at the Civic. '
“Two Hearts In Waltz Time”
At Sydney Mayfair. Featuring Carl
Brisson’s dimple. He sings, plays, com-
poses, dances, loves, quarrels, makes it
up again—and always he .smiles and
dimples in a self-consciously alluring
manner. He is a Viennese musician who,
because a new operetta needs a waltz,
is vamped by the star, Frances Day, into
composing it. She thinks he is in love
with another girl, and stifles her adoration
until understanding dawns. Her sup-
posed rival is none other than his affec-
tionate sister!
Oscar Asche’s Herr Director Green-
baum is a relief. His masses of fat in-
spire affection, whereas Brisson’s dimples
irritate, nauseate.
“Warn London”
A well-acted British thriller, also at
the Mayfair. Edmund Gwenn is a Ger-
man criminal investigator who, de-
frauded of his life-savings, plans the per-
fect crime—the robbery of a British bul-
lion shipment to New York. John Loder,
playing dual roles, keeps the audience
guessing throughout as to whether he is a
thief impersonating York of Scotland
Yard, as Gwenn’s new criminal allies
believe, or York impersonating the thief.
Some First Nights
Bizet’s “Pearl-Fishers,” like Weber’s
“Turandot,” Verdi’s “Aida,” Puccini’s
“Madame Butterfly” and Sullivan’s
“Mikado,” is an attempt by an Occiden-
tal composer to capture some of the
romantic color of the Orient. There is
no evidence that Bizet devoted very much
study to Asiatic tonalities, nor did he
need to. His style, bizarre and vigorous,
could carry a fantasy or a drama in any
geographical setting. “The Pearl-Fishers”
has no such quotable and memorable
numbers as the “Toreador Song” of
“Carmen,” but it is well worth per-
forming, and the Fuller opera co.,
though it took its time in staging
the thing—one interval lasted 25
minutes —demonstrated that the music
gives splendid opportunities to the
singers. Madame Austral was heard at
her best, and Ben Williams and Bernard
Ross showed what tenor and baritone can
do with a background mainly flutes and
harp. Curt Prerauer had rewritten the
libretto for this occasion, abolishing the
happy ending of the original. Apparently
opera-goers demand wallows in gloom
and disaster. Bizet’s librettist, from his
grave, may have felt like quoting: “So
long as the tune has a right good ring
it doesn’t much matter what words you
sing.”
“Samson and Delilah” roused the New
Tivoli audience to the greatest ebullition
of enthusiastic approval educed since the
Fuller company’s Sydney season com-
menced. Saint-Saens, all modern criti-
cal authorities unite in telling us, was
not a great composer. But, as Friday
night’s performance proved, he had ex-
ceptional talent as a scorer of opera, pro-
ducing an eloquence and an elegance of
melodic expression not excelled by
Mozart or Weber at his best. The
second act with its beautifully smooth de-
velopment of emotion, its electrically
effective aria “Softly Awakes My Heart,”
and its dramatic climax carried the audi-
ence off its feet. Muriel Brunskill Delilah
Warren Hymer in “Kid Millions,” at
Sydney Regent.
and Walter Widdop Samson not only
sang their parts admirably, but looked
them. In the final act Widdop, as the
captured Samson, motive power for a
Philistine flour-mill, and later as the
wrecker of the Temple of Dagon, thor-
oughly earned the ovation that rewarded
his efforts. Charles Moor’s staging won
everybody’s admiration.
* « *
“Jolly Roger” (book by Scobie Mac-
Kenzie and V. C. Clinton-Baddeley;
music by Walter Leigh), now flying from
the flagpole of Sydney Cri., is a
Thring importation which burlesques the
pirating days in what may be called the
Gilsullivan-Barrie manner. It is a genial
piece of foolery with something that dis-
tinctly resembles a plot, and it is gar-
nished with songs both sentimental and
sea-doggish. Jolly Roger (Russell Scott),
a beautiful and well-tailored youth, is
thrown into a dungeon on a false charge.
He is seen there by the, tender-hearted
Amelia (Gladys Moncrieff), daughter of
Admiral Rowlocks (Reginald Roberts).
He ogles and she blushes, much to the
displeasure of the wicked Sir Roderick
Vernon (Claude Flemming), Governor
of Jamaica. His Excellency, with the aid
of the Bloody Pirate (Marshall Crosby),
Dirty Dick (Joe Valli) and Long Tom
(Norman Shepherd), who specialise in
“Barratry, Arson, Rape and Slaughter”
(to quote the title of their war song),
abduct the fair Amelia. But the villains
find that they have to reckon with Bold
Ben Blister (Alfred Frith), a valiant ex-
marine, who, supported by the Admiral
and the released Jolly Roger, eventually
bring the wrongdoers to justice.
Gladys Moncrieff was at her best on
the first night, and the show was punc-
tuated by the demands for encores that
followed her every appearance. The
Dudley Glass lyrics, “Love Is Calling”
and “Western Sea,” aroused especial en-
thusiasm. Like Miss Moncrieff, Flem-
ming and Frith gave the competent per-
formances musicomedy audiences ex-
pect of them, and the ballet numbers
were pleasing.
* * *
“Sweet Aloes,” produced at Melbourne
Comedy, is a play much less convincing
and much less clever than most of those
that England has been producing of late.
The story is that of the girl who has an
illegitimate child. Her baby is adopted ;
she marries happily, but love for the lost
child darkens her life, until a friend sets
things right by telling the whole truth
about her past. The dialogue is dull, the
construction of the play is weak, and,
after the first act, it went perilously close
to sinking without a trace. Then Lorna
Dawson, a local girl, went out with the
lifeline and saved the ship. Miss Daw-
son has appeared in Gregan McMahon
shows, and, latterly, in small professional
parts. This is the first time she has had
a chance to show what she could do, and
ic has put her on the theatrical map. The
English importations comprise two or
three actors of ability and finish. Betty
Bowden, the star, is natural, restrained,
capable. She did everything the author
would let her do. Comedy and tragedy
and pathos all came easy to her, and she
scored an unquestioned success. James
Raglan, who played the candid friend,
was also effective.
* * *
“High Jinks,” one of those musi-
comedies that everybody has forgotten,
has been revived at Melbourne His
Majesty’s as a vehicle for Madge Elliott
and Cyril Ritchard. Friml’s music, an
excellent “Heat Wave” ballet and genial
character sketches by Leo Franklyn and
Marie le Varre conspire to make the fare
acceptable.
* * *
Stella Power’s first broadcast recital,
from 2FC Sydney, on Wednesday night,
was not a good advertisement for the
soprano or for the A.B.C. Miss Power’s
upper notes came through as disembodied
squeaks, and she was overpowered (not
intended as a pun) by the flautist who
obbligatoed her first solo, and by Vern
Barnett, who played the pianoforte
accompaniments to all her offerings. By
repute Miss Power is a very accom-
plished and pleasant-voiced singer, and
Mr. Barnett is the last person on earth
who would misjudge balance in such
circumstances. The impression here
recorded was not alone that of the writer,
but of listeners on other receivers which,
like the writer’s, have since given very
very satisfactory renditions of a wide
variety of musical broadcasts.
Miss Power’s recital was sandwiched
between two-piano selections by Frank
Louise Beavers, one of the dark patches
in “Imitation of Life,” at Sydney Plaza.
Hutchens and Lindley Evans. Scarlatti’s
Sonata in A, beloved of many virtuosos,
was not at all impressive. Its piquancy
in the original is almost entirely due to
the Scarlatti habit of making two hands
play three voices by frequent cross-hand
skips. Swinstead’s four-hand two-key-
board version adds nothing of value.
The Brahms variations on a Haydn theme
seemed to gain some richness when de-
livered by 20 fingers, but, interesting as
these experiments are from a recreational
standpoint, there was nothing in the
Hutchens-Evans recital to show that they
add anything to the resources of the
piano.


Government Planned
Economy
Will Prices Hold?
Need for Stable
Currencies
Economic Developments
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments.
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
February Issue Now on Sale.
Your home is . • .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to ■ the Uanaqer for full particulars.
£
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Lodge
Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
UNITER insurance
U ll I 1 C U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United" is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
EYE LOTBOI
For Irrfl am ed E yes and Eyelids
SOLO everywhere
H. A. ROSE &. Co, Ltd. King St. Sydney
*aQ\JS
00*
o#' 5,
sfl#
G
siv\*
nN^ &
sv<v£
Hi
*».«2
eSJi
Ell
CH
ss
6«I
v*«
gtNIS
BUSINESS,ROBBERY ETC.
Trade Tangles
Whatever charges may be levelled at
those who control Australia’s tariffs and
external trade policy, they cannot be
accused ot making a practice of reprisals.
Except for the British preferential tariff,
dumping duties and a trade treaty here
and there, all overseas countries, subject
to their own economic position, are on
an equal footing to compete for Aus-
tralian custom.
And Australia’s custom with the world
by and large is at the moment very gen-
erous. The trade balance in our favor
is scarcely visible to the naked eye. Our
external interest commitments have to be
met out of that and any other accumu-
lated balances we may have in London ;
if these become exhausted we have no
resort except to borrow in order to pay
our way.
The United States is a bad customer
so far as Australia is concerned; its
trade runs heavily one way throughout
the whole Empire. But the U.S. exporter
is not singled out for salutary treatment
when Australian tariff schedules are
drafted. His goods come in under the
same tariff as Japanese, German or
Italian. Japan, in particular, is a good
customer of Australia. Its support at
our wool sales has been a big factor
for many years, ranking second only to
Britain in its purchases. Japan’s excess
of imports from us over its imports to
us is one of the factors which go to
balance the unfavorable gap in our
account with the U.S.A., and helps to
keep our balance sheet with the rest of
the world on an even keel.
Fine wool is a raw material that Japan,
Germany and Italy cannot grow in any
quantity. It is a product that requires
a large amount of manufacture in the
country of import before it can be
turned into clothing. Its cost in the
finished product represents a fraction of
the selling price.
The Australian policy in respect of
essential raw materials not obtainable in
the country is to impose a nominal
revenue-producing tariff. But Italy and
Germany have singled out Australian
wool for what amounts to special treat-
ment of an adverse kind. This may not
always be apparent on the surface,
but when what is virtually an em-
bargo is placed on wool, after which
special treaties are entered into with
wool-producing countries, such as
S’Africa and the Argentine, the effect on
the Australian industry comes to the
same thing.
Continental countries, struggling
against dire commercial poverty, are
adopting desperate measures. The hold-
ing of a pistol to the head of other
nations which are unable, unless through
special preferences, to reciprocate in
trade is in the nature of a last resource.
The trouble is heavy adverse balances
of trade which can’t go on.
In the circumstances the policy may
be justified. Normally, it would not be.
Our favorable trade balance with Japan
is offset by unfavorable balances with
other countries; and so, taking the
balances throughout the world, the whole
system tends to even itself out. Cer-
tainly, those countries with a one-way
trade policy, like the U.S.A., are a fly
in the ointment.
It is plainly not practicable to equate
exports and imports with every country
individually. If buying is done in the
best markets —and Australia is the
world’s best market for merino wool—
the balance should come by a more
roundabout way, through offsets amongst
various countries.
But trade barriers continue to be
raised throughout Europe. Australia is
getting it in the neckf not because its
wool is dear or unsatisfactory in any
other way, but because European foreign
credits are not available to finance im-
ports on the present scale, and Australia,
because it is a “bad” customer, has been
rationed in the matter of orders.
And so the tangle of trade obstruc-
tions grows more and more complicated.
A refreshingly terse and unequivocal
report by L. Louat, mining engineer, on
the property held under option by Arn-
heim Extended, N.L. (Prospecting License
No. 78), at Yemelba, Arnhem Land:
We have thoroughly prospected your
area from end to end, and have opened
up by costeans and pits everything that
looked like reef or lode, in quartz, iron-
stone or conglomerate, but nothing of value
has been revealed. I am positive there is
nothing in this area any good to the com-
pany. In my opinion any further work or
expenditure is not warranted and would
only be a waste of money. If we continued
prospecting here for another 12 months I
am sure we would not find anything that
“Put all y’ got on Monkeynut for the last race, sport. It’s a cert.”
‘‘Hoots, laddie, Ah’ve never put seven and sax pence on a horse in ma life.”
would justify the expenditure of equipment
and establishment of a mine on a large
scale. Before making this statement 1
have been very careful to make sure of
my grounds for doing so.
The directors acted with commendable
promptitude. On receipt of the report
they abandoned the area and returned
the option to the vendors. Because a
minimum of capital has been expended
in testing the show, the co. is strong
enough financially to try its luck else-
where.
* * * *
Gold touched a new record level of
£7 3s. lid. per fine ounce in London
last week. The Australian price is cor-
respondingly higher.
The market’s valuation of all listed
Australian goldmining stocks, worked
out by a person with a mathematical
bent, would conceivably stagger him.
It would indicate an unhealthy optim-
ism in the direction of some un-
proved shows, and while that state of
affairs exists there needs to be only a
puff of general discouragement in the
industry to produce some disastrous col-
lapses in prices paid for “prospects.” A
concern that has a certain amount of
ore in sight, however, and so much more
“probable” ore, should be appraised on
its own merits, irrespective of market
share-price aggregates. Unproved mines
are gambles ; and though the prices paid
for interests in many such gambles are
plainly absurd, where the control is right
and geological conditions are favorable
a punter’s “flutter” may have as many
chances as most gambles.
•I*
Japan is also buying pig-iron from
Australia ; 10,000 tons of the B.H.P. pro-
duct is to be shipped between April and
June.
* * * *
The sugar agreement has been re-
newed without material alteration for five
years from September 1, 1936. The
retail price will continue to be 4d. a
pound, subject to the operr on of the
base price— i.e., if the world prices for
the export surplus improve sufficiently to
raise the average return to the grower and
miller over a certain figure, the margin
will be used to reduce the consumption
price. Wholesale price for refined sugar
in all capitals remains at £33 45., and
£32 10s. 9d. to manufacturers for Austra-
lian consumption. Manufacturers for
export get a rebate on the sugar content
of goods exported equal to the differ-
ence between Australian and world
prices.
* * * *
Raw sugar is worth about £4 ss. a ton
in the world’s markets ; in Britain best
crystallised is priced at about £l9 a ton
wholesale. Londoners, however, probably
enjoy cheaper sugar than any other Euro-
pean capital, the average price for the
principal Continental cities being 3.85 d.
sterling, equal to 4.8 d. (Aust). The pro-
tection granted to the European beet-
sugar industry therefore seems to be on
a higher scale than the Australian
embargo.
* * * »
Melbourne Stock Exchange is altering
its call-room procedure so that brokers
may enter or leave freely during meet-
ings, excepting during the call-over. In-
stead of the old prohibition against news
leaving the call-room before each session
is finished, messages regarding quotations
may be sent outside to clients immediately
business has been done. Some brokers
desire a continuous Exchange, instead of
duly appointed sessions, and the intro-
duction of “ticker-type” machines. A
good deal of reform is needed as regards
Stock Exchange practice. If interest in
investments and goldmining stocks can
only be maintained by six-week dealings
and other forms of excessive gambling,
we would be better off without Stock
Exchanges.
* ;!' * *
In 1932 the four largest English railway
cos., of which the London, Midland and
Scottish is probably the biggest, decided
to cut their third-class return fares from
lid. to Id. a mile. From 1924 to 1932
the average decline in earnings from
passenger traffic had been £2,600,000 a
year. The proposed cut, in the case of
the L.M.S. alone, meant bread thrown
on the waters to the extent of £1,500,000
p.a. It all came back, and more;
amongst the four cos. the increase in
revenue was £788,000 in the first year,
and improvement has continued. There
is something here for our P.M.G. as
well as our railway commissioners to
chew over.
* * * *
The market prices of Australian in-
dustrial shares have shown general weak-
ness since our last overseas trade return
was published. Since December 10
shares in the Commercial of Sydney have
slipped from £l7 19s. to £l6, B.N.S.W.
from £32 10s. to £3O 2s. 6d., North Coast
Steam from 445. to 395., Tooheys from
295. 9d. to 285., Tooth’s from 51s. to
485., Australian Glass from 645. to 595.,"
B.H. Pty. from 545. to 515., British
Tobacco from 425. to 385., Gordon and
Gotch ords. from 50s. to 465., Nestle
prefs. from 40s. to 365. 6d., Associated
News ords. from 255. to 225. 3d. The
slip is not confined to N. S. Wales, where
an election is approaching, but it is more
pronounced there than in Vic. There
was a bit of a rally at the week-end.
%
In wakeful hours the brain of E. T.
Fisk, chairman of Amalgamated Wire-
less, is never idle. Australia’s Beam wire-
less service and the progress of wireless
in this country generally have followed
on exhaustive experiments and investi-
tions by Fisk and A.W.A. Now it’s a
sound-proof window; after some years of
experiment Mr. Fisk has made the board-
room of A.W.A. in Sydney 90 p.c.-free
from street noises, while ventilation is
improved.
* * * *
The British trade balance, a debit of
285 millions sterling, was a slip of 27
millions compared with 1933, though
there was an all-round expansion in
trade. Estimated “invisible exports”—
Britain’s shipping earnings and income
from overseas investments —made up all
but a million of the leeway.
;J: sk Jfc
“Phagocyte”: Cabled that a Harley-
street specialist has perfected an electri-
cal device which is going to wipe out
the common cold. If the claim is well-
founded the world will have to face more
problems. The common cold is respon-
sible to-day for possibly five to ten days
per cent, of lost time in every industry
each year, and with no sufferers produc-
tion will be increased from five to ten
per cent., leaving an unsaleable surplus
of the same dimensions or, alternatively,
a proportionate reduction of staffs.


mi
P.-W'S'
ORfORD
—-
U London
(Sthraltcur
St
3^:
i&T
v?\q
£J\(
Toulon
lle-jvanche
7
v
y
a pies
Cqypt
ClderL
Colom bo
4^i
w 0* /%/
fo/
-
w
. m'
•• •’ \&jkk;


PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Prizes of original “Bulletin” black-
and-white drawings are offered each
week, in addition to the ordinary
rates paid to contributors, for Society
pars., Aboriginalities, Hints for the
Farm and gags for joke-blocks.
V. E. COLLINS, Jindivick, Victoria;
FRED TINSLEY, Charters Towers,
Queensland;
TOM ANDREWS. Quartz Reef
Station, Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
and
MRS. J. A. MACFIE, Pialba, Queens-
land,
receive prizes for contributions pub-
lished B. 20/2/’35.
]
ROSS M HEIGHT/
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
(Client, age X9|, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
•» t* 21 „ 5 „ in 5 mths.
»» «» 20, ~ 3$ „ in 16 days.
#. n 30, „ 2. „in 4 weeks.
„ „ 40, „ U„in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3|ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from cdl over the world.
Pee £2 2a. complete. Details Free. Write now:—
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, J
Scarborough, Eng. (. P.O. Box 13.)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED "
Established 1872.
' T head OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A, Jolly, Esq. CM G ’ ’
_ T , General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also renresentation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Mining Notice.
A PARTY of prospectors with an area of
good tin-bearing ground, together with water
rights, would be pleased to communicate with
mining men and investors.
The ground contains deep lead in ancient bed
to sea of a well-known river which has fed
one of the greatest fin-producing mines in Aus-
tralia. The names and addresses of advertisers
can be obtained at Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney, and charts and full particulars
will be sent to all genuine inquirers. Owners
are prepared to give a prospecting option over
the area.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”; With copra risen to about
£l2 per ton there is great rejoicing in
the Mandated Territory. Since the Saar
plebiscite, Germany has taken a hand
in the market; and the readmission of
Philippine copra into U.S.A., from which
it had been excluded, has freed the Euro-
pean markets of about 300.000 tons. The
Administration rejoices just as much as
the planter. Export duty is not payable
on copra until the price rises above £lO
a ton, so the tax has not been paid since
November, 1933.
*** sj; jJ;
“R.L.’: To convey a water supply to
Queensland’s oft drought-stricken south-
western pastoral lands is the ambitious
scheme conceived by a 14-year-old
Townsville lad. He would condense the
water in the salt lakes near the S.A,
border and pipe it across country, sell-
ing the salt to lower expenses. No half-
measures for this budding Aussie engi-
neer. He sent his plan to the Minister
who has charge of irrigation matters. The
Minister has not raised a new loan to
carry the scheme into effect, but he is
writing the lad a personal letter of en-
couragement. The boy told Pease that
he had devised the scheme while recover-
ing from medsles.
* * * *
“Wodoa”: “E.S.” (B. 9/l/’35), men-
tioning “L trees,” reminds me that they
are also at Taroom, Comet and Tambo.
According to the late Archie Meston the
tree marked at Tambo is some miles
north of the spot where it is alleged
Leichhardt’s party was wined out by the
blacks. Meston also stated that a man
lost in the vicinity some years later found
a cave containing skeletons and brass
instruments. I have not read any
account of a party trying to find the
cavern. Anyhow, it is strange that no
iron tyres have been seen in that locality.
=s= =!=
“C.C.D.”: The medical assistants or
medical patrol officers of the Mandated
Territory are often the pioneers ahead
of the police patrols, though officially
they should not go into uncontrolled
country. They travel with medicine chests,
a large supply of N.A.B. for intravenous
injections, bags of Epsom salts, surgical
instruments and a lot of impedimenta.
The native doctor-boys are trained to
bandage, dress wounds and, if necessity
arises, even to give an anassthetic ; also
to interpret the strange dialects and to act
as personal servants. For three months
or more the patrol may be out of touch
with white people, doing work in the vil-
lages, checking off every man, woman
and child in the village book, inquiring
into the fate of those missing, marking
down for future reference the pregnant
women —so that at a future visit inquiry
may be made for the infants —dressing
wounds and nearly always making a
number of injections for yaws. These
fine men are not fully qualified medicoes,
but are chosen for their tact and ability
to rightly use medicines, grapple with an
emergency and decide which cases
should be sent in to the hospitals. I
have met them away out in the jungle.
Hats off to the lik-lik doctors of the
New Guinea service!
* * * *
“Kalajilik”: Newspaper accounts of
how an old prospector, lost in North
Westralia, fired his gun at his rescuers
in the belief that they were enemies
is strikingly like an incident described
by John McKinlay in his report of
his expedition. The party set out
from Escape Cliffs (N.T.) in 1865, and
one of them, out looking for water, dis-
appeared. After a couple of days’ search
they sighted him, obviously dodging
them. “He was at once approached,”
says McKinlay, “and his pistol taken
out of his firmly-clutched hand, with
two of the chambers exploded. He had
thrown away his boots, and appeared
with his feet cut with the Tocks and
wrapped round with a grass band....
From his wandering conversation there
is not the slightest doubt but that he
saw several of the parties that were out
in search of him, and hid from them,
imagining they were Malays.” McKin-
lay ends with the pious reflection: “If
the interposition of Providence on this
young man’s behalf has not a good effect
upon him and everyone else that wit-
nessed the deliverance, I cannot imagine
what they are composed of.”
* * * $
“Exciseman Gill”: With the incessant
revision of tariffs and the multiplying of
regulations, the work of the Customs
Department must have increased enor-
mously ; indeed, unless staffs have been
increased —and I have never heard of
that happening—the customs officer
must be about the hardest-worked of all
our public servants. This is particularly the
case in Queensland. Yet the public never
hears a murmur from him. Whenever
election-time approaches the members of
almost every other branch of the service
call pointed attention to what they regard
as their inadequate remuneration. But
the customs officer goes stolidly on, check-
ing invoices, hunting smugglers, search-
ing hiding-places for opium and carry-
ing out all the rest of his multifarious
duties without a murmur. Sometimes I
think he ought to be a shining example
“Only one t’ing stop me call you a hareface liar—your whiskers.”
to the clamorous school-teachers, who,
after all, get more holidays in the year
than any other class of worker.
•!« r *1"
“Marra”: In all these heated argu-
ments about staghound and dingo crosses
and such other canine indiscretions,
I’ve not noticed anyone mention the
greyhound-Alsatian cross. In central
coastal parts of Queensland owners have
successfully crossed these two breeds
with the hope of evolving a first-rate
dingo-chaser. The result is a lovely
animal; the greyhound “points” predom-
inate over Alsatian characteristics. I am
the happy possessor of a bitch of the
cross, and have never owned a more
lovable creature. She was bred at Gin
Gin (Q.).
* * $ *
“Light. R.”: Recent downpours in
s.-w. Queensland have given the prickly-
pear in that region a new lease of life.
Pear responds to rain at an alarming
rate, and the new growth along the
Moonie River is rapidly gaining ground.
For the first time for years it is flower-
ing. Pear heavily infested with Cacto-
blastis rarely flowers, but the exception-
ally quick growth has evidently outdis-
tanced the grub for the time being.
* * * *
“Tripod”: No one but a newchum
would suspect a canecutter of effeminacy,
so don’t jump to any rash conclusion if
you see one of the species buying a
lady’s hat. Experience has taught them
that, when loading cane on to trams, a
hat is knocked awry every time a bundle
of cane is swung on to the shoulder,
whereas going hatless, apart from the
risk of sunstroke, generally means that
the ears are cut and scraped by the
rough cane. So now they wear a
woman’s toque (or is it cloche?),
which fits tightly on the head, has no
brim and comes right down over the ears.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: There’s a big field for
discovery in the natural history of the
numerous islands of the Great Barrier
Reef. One man, Mel Ward, who is
chiefly interested in crabs, has confined
his studies to Lindeman Island, one of
the Whitsunday group, and the result
shows that an average island offers study
enough for the thorough investigator. Of
the 650 species of crabs listed in Aus-
tralia, 211 have been discovered by Ward
on Lindeman Island. To him that speck
has been a world, as Dunk Island was
to Banfield. When visiting Sydney re-
cently he said his objective was to have
one island in the Barrier Reef completely
surveyed, from a natural history stand-
point, so that any naturalists who want
to study the reef will have the informa-
tion about it from its museum and
library. There is scope for 100 other
naturalists to continue the work, each
with his own island or section of the reef.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Winifred Ponder, who has been to
Saigon and Angkor, left for England
early this month. Queensland will see
her again this year.
All the art world of Brisbane has been
to the Gainsborough Gallery to see Tom
Garrett’s colored monotypes. Only a
paltry soul after seeing them would have
the hardihood to answer “No! ” if asked:
“Do you believe in fairies?”
Mrs. A. G, M. Earl, who was Meg
Dermer, of Brisbane, has left for India
with her husband, who is in the British-
India Marine Service.
Dr. Joyce Wharton, formerly of the
Brisbane General Hospital, has joined
the staff of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital, Melbourne, in place of Dr. Mar-
garet McCleland.
Brisbane Women’s Club, which goes
into retirement during the two hottest
months of the year, will begin its fort-
nightly meetings again on March 14,
when Mrs. G. L. Byth will give her presi-
dential address.
Mrs. Louisa White, youngest daughter
of F, Manson Bailey, for years Queens-
land’s Government Botanist, and mother
of the present Government Botanist,
Cyril White, died last week. Her brother,
J. F. Bailey, was curator of the Bris-
bane Botanical Gardens and then of the
Adelaide Botanical Gardens.
Thelma Lahey is to marry Willis Chan-
cellor on March 4; so sister Berenice
gave a party for her at Mrs. Isaiah
Lahey’s home, Erica. The hostess will
bridesmaid for sister when the day
arrives.
March 18 has been booked for the
wedding of Kathleen Little, assistant-
secretary of the Queensland Bush Nurs-
ing Association, and daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Little, Normanton.
Her young man is Sam Stansfield, and
St. Stephen’s will hear the Voice. Linda
Hecksher and Martha Stansfield will be
bridesmaids, and Patricia Hayden, of
Wallaville, flowergirl.
Rev. A. C. Plane, who has been a
minister of the Methodist Church for
over 50 years, died last week. He knew
the outback as few parsons do, had
roughed it on the Westralian goldfields
and the furthest parts of Queensland, was
a good horseman, and could make good
play with a pair of six-ounce gloves. One
of the best known' of the war padres,
he was born in Victoria, and after enter-
ing the ministry was transferred to W.A.
He came to Queensland in 1905, and
went to Laidley. He and his two sons
went to the war.
Letters from Eddie Cahill were written
from Allington House, North Devizes,
the home of our late Ex. John and Lady
Goodwin. Eddie left for Rome at the
beginning of February, and intends to
return to London later in the year. He
mentioned that Brisbane girl Bonnie Bell,
whose stage name is Alva Stewart, had
been given a part in “Milestones,” and
was doing good work.
Mrs. Bob Bell, of Brisbane, who is in
London with daughter Bonnie, also is
doing her bit to put Queensland on the
musical map of the Empire. She was
engaged by 8.8. C. to broadcast Alfred
Hill’s Maori songs. The 8.8. C. has called
for a television of the songs, with the
singers in Maori dress.
Three soft panels which broadened to
a short train and a cowled neck adorned
the white angel-skin crepe frock in which
Beverly Wymond said her “I wills” to
Donald Grant. She also wore a Juliet
cap from which flowed her tulle veil, and
carried magnolias. She is the elder of
the Claude Wymonds’ daughters, and
Donald is the youngest son of Brig.-Gen.
and Mrs. W. Grant. The wedding was
at St. John’s Cathedral, and Rev. F. B.
C. Birch tied the knot, while organist
George Sampson pedalled. Ola Wymond
and Betty Douglas, in hydrangea-blue
frocks sashed with a deeper shade of
velvet and blue hats, ’maided, and Wallis
Cadell and Dudley Shadforth stood by
the ’groom.


EASTER in SYDNEY—RoyaI Show —Autumn Races
m
m
r
ip
ml
<■ r
mm
yk
**K
(I 'rT,
f*%
Make your headquarters THE AUSTRALIA
THE HOTEL OF .THE COMMONWEALTH
—truly a gala season that each year attracts visitors from every State
• . . and, of course, “The Australia” is ever the centre of all the
social gaiety.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Our regular patrons should confirm their reservations.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney.
“THE AUSTRALIA”
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
THE
AUSTRALIA
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney welcomed its new Governor
last Thursday. He is Sir Alexander Hore-
Ruthven, and he comes with splendid tes-
timonials from South Aus. He is a V.C.,
and his name trails in clouds of glory
nine letters of the alphabet’s 26. A
wavering riband of southerly linked the
blue of sky and water, and the Nestor,
very self-conscious of all its bunting so
early in the morning, lay off Watson’s
Bay. Shortly before eleven the launch
Premier coo-eed alongside, and the im-
portant one, his chest starred and
medalled, stepped aboard and was duly
landed at the Man-o’-War Steps.
The white plume of his cocked hat was
tossed in the breeze as he stepped on
the red-carpeted landing. Salutes were
fired, aeroplanes whirred. There were
guards of honor and palms rustling in a
carefree manner, though in such an un-
expected place. The Navy came in im-
peccable white ; the Army and the Air
Force added their spots of color; the
Mayor and the Town Clerk contributed
robes and wigs. The Premier, smiling,
took an active part in the scene ; Mrs.
Stevens was there, as were clouds of
Ministers and Parliamentarians and their
wives. Later they all joined the Judges
and their ladies, who mostly waited at
Government House for the swearing-in.
Here were Lieut.-Goyernor Street’s wife
in black-and-white, Molly Street, and the
Chief Justice and Mrs, Jordan. Sadie
and Elise Budge with mother watched
dad help instal still another Excellency.
Captain Holford, the A.D.C., who
accompanied Sir Alexander from Eng-
land, is exactly like his photograph.
The ceremonial lost in interest through
the absence of Lady Hore-Ruthven, who
arrives later on the Manoora, which she
christened some little time ago on the
Clyde.
By the time this screed reaches you
the world will be the poorer by a bunch
of plump chickens. They were immo-
lated on the altar of Dr. Keppell, presi-
dent of the Carnegie Corporation, now
visiting Sydney. Vice-Chancellor of the
Uni. and Mrs. Wallace spitted a few of
them and laid them before a select com-
pany of 20 in the Hotel Australia last
night. To-morrow, at three-thirty, the
academics are rolling up, 200 strong, to
the Uni. This joy-making is restricted
to council and the professorial circle.
Ah, well, most of us prefer to take our
afternoon nap at home!
Having nibbled the olive and the
cherry of many a farewell the Marchese
and Marchesa Ferrante got aboard the
Romolo on Monday. Perhaps they
sighed with relief at getting away before
the cocktail hour; if they had not done
so, so popular are Italy’s Consular couple
that undoubtedly another five-to-seven
party would have gathered them to its
bosom. As far as is known, the Ferrantes
go back to Italy for six months; but, in
the Consular service, who can tell? At
any rate, Italy in Sydney put all the
warmth of good-bye into its au revoir.
Last week was the turn of the Fascio.
The Forum Club massed itself with roses,
and flew the Italian colors for the occa-
sion. The Marchesa, who is tall, wore a
white flat crepe frock with distinction.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly (Mr. Bertie is presi-
dent of the Dante Alighieri Society this
year) was very handsome in black satin
embossed with prize pink roses. Her
small black toque, with its stiffened eye
veil, was every woman’s envy. White
crepes pencilled in black were worn by
Mrs. Francis Anderson. Mrs. Fiaschi
arrived in a neat blue crepe tailor-made,
the coat opening over a blue-and-white-
spotted blouse. Mrs. David Maughan
had a turn-down collar of del blue on
her navy frock. One smart girl brought
sandals and lacquered toe-nails; and
small Margherita Paino was in the spot-
light for a moment when she demurely
presented a sheaf of red roses and a
stuffed kangaroo to the Marchesa.
Soprano Stella Power scarcely ever
walks abroad these days without a spray
of rose or frangipanni on the lapel of
her smart suits. The Australian, just
back after 10 years in America, still mar-
vels at our prodigality with flowers. The
lounges in the big hotels in New York
don’t bloom with bowls of rose and lily ;
they make their appearance at de luxe
parties only. Stella, who began concert
work as Melba’s protegee, probably knows
the insides of more theatres in America
than any Australian. She did the circuit
of the Paramount houses, singing three
and four sessions a day—always the
same song, always in the same dress.
On such engagements you don’t choose
your own frock. It is designed for you.
Stella was almost invariably in period
frocks, fight little bodice and wide,
hooped skirts —froths of lavender and
silver; pinks and blues. Murray Ander-
son, who now designs for Ziegfeld, built
up both her sets and dressing. “Lo!
Here the Gentle Lark” was warbled by
the coloratura for almost a year. The
shows stay one week only in a town, but
that doesn’t mean the artists get a
chance to absorb the make-up of U.S.A.,
for from twelve o’clock they are chained
to the theatre till after the evening ses-
sion. Sydney’s old friends Lauri and
Dorothy Kennedy, John McCormack
and John’s old manager, Denis Mc-
Sweeney, are reported happy and doing
well. Miss Power has returned to tour
Australia under the A.B.C. banner. A
Broothorn photo.
Lorna Madge, younger daughter of the
W. E. Forsyths, of Cooeytong, Centen-
nial Park, was married on Thursday
afternoon to Frank Allan, youngest son
of the William Kelsos, of Randwick,
Silver kid bound the flowing sleeves of
her unusual frock of mist-grey chiffons,
the silver note being repeated in
the kid belt. A halo hat of pearl-
grey tulle stitched with silver and
a bouquet of pink water-lilies and
lily-of-the-valley completed the com-
position. Her sister Mavis, who attended
her, was in organza. This was of palest
pink, and was a ruffle of frills from knee
to hem. Her organza hat was large and
pictorial, the brim thick with tiny field
flowers. Canon Cakebread performed
the ceremony at St. Jude’s, Randwick,
and proposed the toast of the young
couple at the wedding breakfast at Cooey-
tong. That of the bride’s parents was
given by several speakers, among them
knight Allen Taylor, M.L.C. and former
Lord Mayor, a neighbor for many years.
Saturday-morning butterflies, male
and female, fluttered to a pause be-
fore a florist’s shop in Castlereagh-
street. One of the windows was
entirely occupied with a gallant smack
—all deep orange and pale yellow
marigolds. Its stretched sails were
of silver, its prow trailed frangipanni.
It was destined to be an offering to
singer Gladys Moncrieff. To get the
benefit of it over the week-end, she must
have had her meals in the bathroom —
nothing smaller than a bath could have
supplied harborage for the floral triumph.
Italy’s Consul-General and his Mar-
chesa bade farewell to members of the
Dante Alighieri Society last Thursday.
Wyldefel, one of the old Potts Point homes,
is an ideal setting for a party, and the
savories and cocktails were served on the
verandahs. The gardens slope down to
the water’s edge, and in the afternoon
light the swimming pool looked like a
polished mirror. In the distance the
Romolo, the ship in which the Ferrantes
departed, could be glimpsed. Flowered
blue chiffons were worn by the hostess.
Bertie Kelly presented the prizes won at
the society’s examinations. Former presi-
dent Dr. Baccarini was an interested visi-
tor ; so were Chief Justice Jordan and
his wife and Mrs. Waterhouse in flow-
ered crepes. Treasurer Gariglio, secre-
tary Mrs. Fiaschi, very smart in white
and brown, the Walter Burfitts, Miss
Kate Egan and the David Maughans
were others who rapped the curiously
wrought knocker on the door.
The Bulletin camera caught Mrs.
Douglas Duff in one of the intervals
between shark-fishing excursions. She
spends hours off the Heads in one of
Charlie Messenger’s launches waiting for
the monsters to bite —already, under in-
struction from Sydney’s most experienced
shark-fisher, she has accounted for
several. Mrs. Duff is an airwoman with
a workmanlike total of flying hours to
her credit. When not in the air or fish-
ing for grey nurses she goes to the opera,
dances or buys hats.
Pink and silver are the dominant color
notes to be struck in the Irene Anderson-
James Ashton nuptials at St. Mark’s
to-morrow. The bridal frock is of silver-
and-white matelasse —gorgeous material;
the bridesmaids, Jean Anderson, Anne
Gordon, Beatrice Meeks, Dinah and
Mary Hordern, will add palest-pink
chiffon over satin to the procession. Their
flowers will be pink water-lilies, while
lily-of-the-valley and orange-blossom will
be carried by the bride.
The decorations for St. Mark’s are in
a scheme of palest pink belladonna lilies
and brunsvigeas. These will be massed
in basket effects, and the choir stalls will
be an embankment of glossy green foli-
age, pink lilies, roses and carnations.
At Overthorpe, the Anderson home, tall
pedestal baskets will spill over with pink
cactus dahlias, lilies and roses.
The Gustav M. Fausers were arrivals
by the Mariposa. He is a designer (with
a talent for water-colors) and specialises
in hand-painted wallpapers (splendid re-
volt against a mass-production age!). His
studio in New York is a penthouse on
Riverside drive ; and he has studios in
London, Paris and Vienna. She’s a Ken-
tuckian with all the charm of the South,
and one of the foundation members of
the Westchester Biltmore Country Club.
Statistics about its opulence and size are
staggering to the English and Australian
mind that still looks upon a club as a
sort of home from home. To begin with
the subscription runs into hundreds of
pounds ; the clubhouse is 16 storeys high,
surrounded by 28 tennis courts, four polo
fields and three 18-hole golf courses.
There’s a mosaic open-air dancing floor,
for which Lyman’s band supplies the
music ; and, of course, there’s a swim-
ming pool. Mr. Fauser takes his own
color films; and when he and his wife
are not trekking across the far horizons
of the country club they go big-game
hunting.
Seventy-seven King-street' can’t be
happy without a club—not the shillelagh
sort. Before the Women’s Club built its
own premises its members were housed
there. After they left the Feminists (since
moved entirely to the seventh floor) made
it their abode. Now the Lyceum Club
occupies its sixth floor. Last Friday the
tables in the cool dining-room wore pink
and red chrysanthemums and were sur-
rounded by women in summer raiment.
Mary Jay and Margaret Gillespie were
being welcomed, and Mrs. Raven fare-
welled. She and her husband sail by the
Nestor, and will have the suite that
housed the Governor all the way from
England,
Mary Jay told of meeting a traveller
who was bound for Rome —and he was
going there, not to gaze on its ancient
glories, but to attend a hen convention
(nothing to do with women —the feathered
sort). Mussolini had arranged it, and
it took place where Nero had his poultry
markets. Margaret Gillespie, cheeks
rosy above the white frilled collar of her
navy dress, told of three weeks spent in
the Lyceum Club in Berlin. At one
party she met several Australian women
married to German husbands.
A note from London mentions that
Mildred Armstrong’s one-act play
“Drought,” which was awarded third
prize in the one-act play competition
organised by 1.0.A.P. Theatre, London,
last year, had been running for a week
at the Bradford Rep. Theatre. The play-
wright hails from Gunning (N.S.W.), and
was also successful in the recent comp,
for radio plays held by the Broadcasting
Commission.
A popular young pair, married last
week, received bushels of gifts, but the
gaze of the wedding guests lingered
longest on a cheque with three figures
next the “£” sign. Though there was no
clue to the sex of the donor —merely two
initials and the surname—it was from
the bridegroom’s sister, a year or two
older. Now what a thoughtful present
for a girl to give to a brother beginning
married life!
A man strolled into New England Air-
ways the other day and asked to see the
manager. He was directed to a very
efficient and attractive young woman.
She is Miss Gurney —second cousin to
the Miss Gurney who founded the old-
established girls’ school Kambala. Prof.
Gurney, famous in his day for his
mathematical genius, is another second
cousin.


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
T'HE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so safe
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
SfroJiaris cmexicanj
tikdtud Siouun,
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from E. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Harbour panorama, i
Own protected |
beach. Garages.
Wonderful cooking.
REDUCED
TARIFF. Hot
water all bedrooms.
Clifton Gardens Hotel, Mosman, Sydney.
Telephone: Y 3012.
Telegrams: “Clifthotel,” Sydney.
CLIFTON
CARDENS
HOTEL
Personal and Missing Friends.
CLARKE, GEORGE PAUL,
Sydney. Mother worried.
CLARKE, Epping, N.S.W.
of Earlwood,
Write JOHN
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 168 of 1935.
BETWEEN LEWIS LUDVICK CHARLES
SOLBERG Petitioner
And DORIS MARGARET SOLBERG Re-
spondent.
TO DORIS MARGARET SOLBERG.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LEWIS LUD-
VICK CHARLES SOLBERG has a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted him and without any such cause or
excuse left him continuously so deserted for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Seventeenth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED the Twenty-first day of February,
1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ROSCOE G. WOODBRIDGE, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, Baradine, by his agent, AARON
LEVINE, Solicitor. 148 Phillip Street, Sydney.
TO JAMES DENNISTON LOCHORE, father
of ROSE LILY LOCHORE, who died
Intestate in New Zealand on the 28th day
of September, 1934, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under the said
James Denniston Lochore.
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
required to send to me on or before the Ist
day of May, 1935, your claims to share in the
estate of the abovenamed Rose Lily Lochore,
failing which such estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this Bth day of
February, 1935.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court made in the action 1934 No. 735 in
which MARY ANN CHESSELL is plaintiff
and JOHN ALEXANDER ROSS (Curator of
the Estates of deceased persons) defendant the
persons claiming to be next-of-kin to ROBERT
JOSEPH WILLIAM BLYTH who died at
Richmond Victoria Australia in January 1933
and was born at Rotherhithe Surrey England
and who was a son of WILLIAM TRACEY
BLYTH are by their solicitors on or before
the Eleventh day of June 1935 to come in and
prove their claims at the office of the Chief
Clerk Law Courts Melbourne or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said order. The
Twenty-fifth day of June 1935 at eleven o’clock
in the forenoon at the said office is appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims.
DATED the Thirteenth day of February,
1935.
M. M. PHILLIPS,
Chief Clerk.
T. I. A. FORBES, Solicitor, 180 Bridge
Road, Richmond.
Melbourne
Chatter
Summer decided to pay us a fleeting
(farewell?) visit and came along to make
things pleasant at the second autumn
meeting at Caulfield. Particularly becom-
ing were the large floppy hats, bought
with such high hopes, which have been
continually left at home in favor of
something more weather-resisting. Lady
Huntingfield fulfilled dual engagements.
She went to the races as well as (in an
official capacity) to the opening of the new
St. Gabriel’s Home for Babies. The re-
turn of the collar (it comes flat, square,
rolled, scarfed and in all sorts of dis-
guises) makes a radical change from
close, plain necklines. Mrs. Norman
Robinson wore a wide upstanding collar
of speckled blue material upon her knee-
length linen coat. Tall Phyllis Reid had
wide lapels upon the collar of her white
linen suit. Her turned-up hat was of
navy spotted with white. Mrs. Ivan Gut-
mann’s heavy white crepe broke below
the shoulders into voluminous monk’s
sleeves, and her skirt rippled from a nest
of pleats. Others in white were Cecily
Timmins, whose millinery was of black
Manila straw, and Mrs. Arnold Richard-
son, whose white hat was large enough
to carry comfortably a navy-blue bird
in full flight. Nola Purbrick wore cigar-
brown traced with shimmery white lines.
Mrs. Norman Picot was in black and
Mrs. Tom Slaney’s ivory ensemble was
printed with cherry-and-black figurings,
Mrs. Geoff Haggard wore a plainly-cut
dress of sky-blue silk. Mrs. Avalon
Turner grew grey-and-green leaves among
her chiffons, and Mrs. John Davies shel-
tered under a big white hat and floating
chiffons of pink-and-black flowers.
The Women Citizens put their best
foot forward and the Business and Pro-
fessional Women’s Club got itself up in
party clothes in honor of a trio of guests;
Mrs. Lyons, who is leaving her brood
at home to accompany the Priminister
to England, Mrs. Littlejohn, of Sydney,
and Miss A. Kane, of M.L., a brace of
delegates to confer in Turkey on women’s
rights of equal citizenship. Mrs. Julia
Rapke occupied the thrbne of ceremonies.
Tea and chatter took place early in the
afternoon, so that a spirit of friendliness
hovered over the gathering when the time
came for speeches. Miss Kane said that
her effort at a speech would suffer in
comparison with the oratory of Mrs.
Lyons and Mrs. Littlejohn; but she had
no cause to worry, acquitting herself
with flying colors. Mrs, Lyons had
a crisp white bow at the throat of her
navy-blue ensemble, which included a
long cape to the hem of her skirt. Mrs.
Littlejohn was also in navy, with a small
hat, and Miss Kane wrapped herself in
brown, balanced aloft by a large straw
hat trimmed with marguerites.
Champagne flowed at the Knox lady’s
reception for Mrs. Lyons. It was a
women’s party, but a handful of men,
including Priminister Lyons, Fed. Attor-
ney-General Menzies, J. G. Latham and
knights Knox and Raws, arrived for the
last notes on the musical programme.
The hostess wore cream satin buckled
with silver. Mrs. Lyons, whose motherly
smile should make her many friends in
England, was in navy-blue shot with
silver. Mrs. Jack Knox’s black taffeta
gown had an insertion of fine lace in the
back of the corsage. Margaret Finlay
said good-bye on the eve of her trip to
the other side of the world in a hand-
some garment of gold lame. Mrs. Austin
Embling was in black and her daughter
Mollie whisked a tulle-edged cape upon
her pink-lace frock. Toorak College and
St. Margaret’s were represented by the
Misses Hamilton and Miss Gibson. Mrs.
John Manifold wore flower-scattered
chiffons and Mrs. Chris Cowper chalk-
white lace. Mrs. Stuart Murray’s peach-
pink dress dripped into a train of tiers
of fringes. The Argyle lady came with
Mrs. Eric Hill and Mrs. Esmond Lillies.
Mrs. Douglas Carnegie wore rustling
black taffeta and Mrs. Trevor Oldham
was clad in the fluid fall of lilac lace.
The new Bank of N. S. Wales is a
building of which Melbourne can be
justly proud. For months the bronze
doors, so tall that they could have be-
longed to the giant in Jack and the Bean-
stalk, have interested passers-by in
Collins-street. On Monday morning they
swung open for business, and so great
were the crowds in the luncheon interval
that staff men had a legitimate excuse for
being unable to get back to work on
time. In the ground floor banking cham-
ber the hidden lighting is augmented, for
the sake of the staff’s eyesight, by indi-
vidual table lamps; the ventilation is
perfect, and the panel-heating system
operates from the most unexpected
quarter—the ceiling. (This is the second
panel-heating job in Melbourne.) Echoes
are prevented, and all sounds minimised
by “sorb-proof” ceilings and “acoustic
walls,” which commence at the top of
the 7ft. skirting of Lilydale marble. The
strongrooms in the basement won’t pro-
vide easy pickings for crooks. Six men
working night and day for a month
might burrow through the walls of the
safe deposit, but when they got inside
they’d find themselves —if there were a
vase of flowers and a picture or two—in
what looks much more like a drawing-
room than a bank vault. The pile of the
carpet sweeps one’s ankles, and the walls
are glittersome with fireproof steel cabi-
nets. The door, similar in strength to
that of the entrance of the bullion-room,
has the sheen of polished bronze ;
it is an imposing structure of bolts, time-
clocks, wheels, etc., of an undrillable
composition made in Australia and a
secret of Chubb’s. Outside are cubicles
where the owners of jewellery, papers,
etc., may have privacy for their sorting.
The powers that be keep their fingers
on the pulse of things from rooms lus-
ciously carpeted and beautifully panelled
in highly-polished woods. Lounges for
the bank staff are well supplied with
windows, arid their furnishings are com-
parable to those of a well-established and
exclusive club. The staff dining-room is
a long, narrow room with windows run-
ning right down one side, blue curtains
and a. coffee-colored carpet. The kitchen
scintillates in stainless steel, and con-
tains, among other gadgets, an electric
washing-up machine, an electric freezer
and a system of heated trays sunk in
one of the shiny steel counters, whereby
all food can be kept piping hot.
Here is Sheila, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. T. Creswick, whose beauti-
ful home is Yarrien, in Irving-road,
Toorak. Miss Creswick is one of the
hon. secs, of the first big dance of the
year, the Polo Ball, to be held at Earl’s
Court on March 7. Her father is hon.
sec. of the Vic. Polo Association. Jack
Cato made the portrait.
Mrs. Huntley Griffith, who is on a
holiday from Ceylon, was the nucleus of
a party given by her mother, the Robin-
son lady. Tea was poured to an accom-
paniment of bright chatter in the draw-
ing-room of the Alexandra Club filled
with the spoil of early-autumn gardens.
The hostess received her guests in elab-
orately draped lace tinted as the bloom
on a nectarine, with a whisk of fur on
the edge of the cape. Her generous
expanse of hat was in Afghan-brown.
Mrs. Griffith combined the ripening-corn
color of her frock with an expressive
shade of blackberry for her millinery.
Among the guests were Mrs. F. W. Head,
Mrs. Clive Baillieu, Mrs. Arthur Bloom-
field and Mrs. Pat Levi (both in black),
Mrs. J. D. Campbell and Margaret, Mrs.
Euan Littlejohn, Mrs. Colin Gilray, Anne
Willis and Ainslie Williams,
On March 2 there may not be per-
ceptible difference in the taste of food
served in the five city and 56 country
railway restaurants, but from that date
a highly-qualified dietitian will operate
behind the scenes. She is Betty Wilmot,
snapped here by Scott Simmons. While
doing her science course, Miss Wilmot
concentrated on chemistry, bio-chem.
and bacteriology, and lived at the Janet
Clarke Hall, where she held several
executive positions. All big Melbourne
hospitals are gradually employing dieti-
tians (all of whom happen to be women).
Miss Wilmot was appointed a year ago
from a large field of applicants, and since
that time has been doing a course in
dietetics at St. Vincent’s, cookery at the
Emily McPherson and some research
into food costs. Miss Wilmot does not
intend to serve unappetising meals
planned for nutriment alone, but the
right materials will be used; vitamins
will mingle, and the cooking will not
impede digestion. She recognises the
value of posters, and plans some propa-
ganda in that direction. Miss Wilmot,
who is an old girl of Melbourne C. of E.
Grammar School, is the younger daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. A, E. Wilmot, of
Corowa (N.S.W.). Her elder sister is
bacteriologist and dispenser at Wanga-
ratta Base Hospital.
As a good-bye for the Norman
Brookes family, who are leaving for
another trip abroad, Lieut.-Colonel and
Mrs. Harry Bundock gave a late-after-
noon party at their home in South Yarra.
The host and hostess received their guests
against a background of dahlias, ger-
beras, delphiniums and pink, blue and
green hydrangeas, all of which added to
the attractions of the reception-rooms.
This was one of their last big parties,
for the popular couple are preparing to
pack up their household gods and trek
off to a new home in Sydney. Mrs. Bun-
dock wore flower-scattered ivory crepe
and a shallow-crowned hat wreathed with
a trail of blossom. Among the guests
were Mrs. Harold Darling and Eliza-
beth, the Tom Granthams and Deirdre,
Mrs. John Good, Mrs. Leviny, the Louis
Nelkens, Mrs. Louis Smith, Dr. Geoff
Pern, Nancy Hewlett and Paddy Wilkin-
son.
A misty cloud of tulle veil anchored
to a halo band and weighted with a
border of old Limerick lace (part of the
bridal raiment of great-great-grandmother
at her wedding) drifted over Elizabeth
Falkiner’s ivory gown in Sf. John’s,
Toorak. The bride was escorted up the
aisle by her brother Standish, and re-
traced her steps after the ceremony be-
side John Stanley Huege de Serville, son
of the late Arthur Huege de Serville and
Mrs. E. L. Dudfield. Also in the bridal
retinue were Marjorie Baragwanath and
Nan MacMeikan, who wore gowns of
apple-green net sprinkled with wee pink
spots (until they were caught in a shower
of confetti and picked up all the colors
of the rainbow), and girdled with velvet
sashes to match the deep coral tones of
their armfuls of gladioli. Afterwards
the bride’s mother, Mrs. Norman Falk-
iner, entertained at her home in Domain-
road, South Yarra.
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Mitchell were very
fortunate in having perfect weather for
their late-afteraoon party, which was held
on an eyrie high above the city, where
strong winds blow instead of gentle
breezes. But the sun was warm, the
view superb and no one had much
trouble with hats. Cocktails served with
a panorama of the Dandenongs and
You Yangs, an aerial picture of the city
and the blue bay splashing down to
Frankston made a heady combination im-
bibed from the roof garden of Alcaston
House. The hostess’s flowered chiffons
were whisked among tubs of greenery
and small tables topped with multi-
colored cloths. Guests of honor were
Mrs. Heaton Smith, who wore raspberry
chiffon, and Mrs. Denis Goring O’Connel,
wearing black with a white neck ruffle.
Mrs. Smith starts on her journey to
England by the Mariposa. Mrs.
O’Connel, who is daughter of the Harry
Rosenthals, came to Melbourne on a
very brief visit to collect her small daugh-
ter Diane. The pair sailed this week on
the Moldavia.


COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
c
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
The Union Trustee Company ot Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:-
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
r
r: aara
V/
I
For the Kings Jubilee.
Fortnightly Sailings •
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
9.17 dearsp. St.. SVdney: 59 William St., Melbourne.
UNION
ROYAL MAIL LINES
Look what London’s wearing! Creations of famous
designers are most interesting and fully dealt with in
Margot Hill-Manners’s fashions letter from London.
This interesting talk on fashions appears in March 5
issue of the “Australian Woman’s Mirror,” which will
be on sale this week-end.
wm
m
m
mr-
m
m
/ ,■
Left—This black velvet evening gown is a
Jean Patou model, and is really a beautiful
creation. The top is of pink paillettes and
features the new low decolletage back
and front.
Right For autumn evenings what could be more chic, cosy comfort-
able than Schiaparelli’s pyjama-gown of yellow velvet chichi trousers and
blouse of yellow, blue and silver lame?
TWO OUTSTANDING I*SHIONS
The illustrations depict two outstanding fashions from a number
illustrated and described in the “Australian Woman’s Mirror.”
What London is wearing will arouse the interest of every
feminine mind, and the “Mirror” is to the fore with current
fashions.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Kopke-Henn wedding ceremony
was performed at St. Luke’s, Cottesloe,
where Canon Henn is rector. The Arch-
bishop of the North-West, Dr. Frewer,
was assisted by the bride’s brother, Rev,
W. E. Henn, and the Rev. R. W. Hamil-
ton in tying the knot. Mary’s curd-
white satins fell in soft drapings to below
the waist, fitted snugly over the wrists
and rippled lengthily as to train. Jean
Henn, Beryl Kopke, Sylvia Wheatley and
Edith Barrymore trailed in her wake, the
pristine whiteness of their georgettes
splashed with crimson ninon, which
formed yokes, disappeared under the
shoulder treatment and appeared again
as fully-flared sleeves. Crimson feathers
waved on their white picture hats, crim-
son blooms ran riot in their garlands of
flowers and crimsop slippers peeped from
beneath their bustle-frilled, long-trained
skirts.
The Repertory Club forsook its own
theatre and took its audiences and “A
Hundred Years Old,” by the Quintero
brothers, to Anzac House for its open-
ing season of the year. Producer Alex.
Foster had real ivy climbing over the
picturesque patio where his well-balanced
cast philosophised; Noel Nave made a
sympathetic study of Papa Juan, the
Spanish centenarian; Cara Cammilleri
scored a success as the virago Filomena,
and Lesley Everett, Mrs. Atholl Mac-
gregor, Sol Sainken and Allen Ballon
were well in the picture.
Jean Cooke and Justin Walsh came
from Northam to Fremantle to board
the Manunda for a honeymoon trip to
Sydney. A halt was made en route at
the Ross Memorial Church, West Perth,
where padre James Adamson forged the
matrimonial link. Jean’s tailored Patou-
pink marocains were strapped with white,
and her quilled pink velour hat shaded
the rose bouquet. Margaret Walsh stood
by in primrose French voile, pintucked
and embroidered and frilly with Valen-
ciennes lace. After speeding the couple
Mrs. Frank Cooke took her magpie
georgettes to the Karrakatta Club to en-
tertain at luncheon.
The Kylie Music Club commemorated
the 250th anniversary of the birth of
Bach by devoting one half of its pro-
gramme to the works of this master.
President Mrs. W. H. Vincent (her navy
marocains were patterned with white)
welcomed members and friends at the
Karrakatta Club, where Nora Coalstad,
Marcia Hodges, Flora Bunning, E. N.
Moran and Horace Dean provided the
well-received programme arranged by
David Powell.
Dorothy Tagney, who arranged the
University girls’ cruise to Noumea,
pinned a spray of azaleas on her pastel-
blue laces to act as hostess at a reunion
of the returned trippers. Hundreds of
photographic souvenirs of the voyage
were spread around the refectory at the
’Varsity, and, after an inspection, com-
petitions, musical items by Cleo Doscas
and Roma Craze, the girls made a pre-
sentation to Miss Tagney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. H. K. Wendt gave a welcome-
home party at her home, Slieve Bawn,
St. Peters, for her sister-in-law, Mrs. Jule
Wendt, who returned from England last
week, when she entertained about 30
friends. The garden was gay with
flowers, and afternoon-tea was served on
the lawn. Mrs. Wendt was in a smoke-
grey flowered chiffon and a large black
hat. Her daughter Lois was frocked in
dusky-pink marocain, with a hat of white
straw, and the guest of honor was
gowned in a smart black ensemble worn
with a b l '' "k hat. Mrs. H. K. Wendt and
Lois will leave for England on March 14
in the Narkunda.
The Dowager Lady Swaythling, who
has been staying at Marble Hill with
His Ex. and Lady Dugan, covered a lot
of ground during her visit to Adelaide.
Lady Swaythling inspected the Waite In-
stitute and lunched with Prof, and Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson at Urrbrae, Glen
Osmond. Later she drove to Eurilla,
Mount Lofty, the summer residence of
Mr. and Mrs. Lavington Bonython, and
had afternoon-tea with them. Next day
the visitor inspected vineyards, and
lunched with Mr. and Mrs. During, after-
wards attending two at-homes in her
honor.
The first, at the South Australian,
was a Red Cross affair. The guest, who
was welcomed by Justice Angas Parsons,
was frocked in white figured georgette,
and wore a wide brimmed white straw
hat. From this entertainment the visitor
went on to the Queen Adelaide Club,
where members of the E.-S.U. had ar-
ranged a cocktail party in her honor.
Lady Swaythling does not drink cocktails,
but has a great fancy for Australian non-
intoxicating fruit drinks.
That same afternoon, Adelaide’s busy
day socially, Lavington Bonython made
an official presentation of the new Town
Hall clock to the city. After the cere-
mony the Lud Mayor and his daughter,
Mrs. H. Dunstan, entertained the guests
at afternoon tea. Mrs. Dunstan wore a
powder blue frisca frock with cape
sleeves, a touch of pale grey silk round
‘the neck, and a small hat of grey summer
felt. Mrs. Lavington Bonython chose a
black pebble crepe jacket suit with very
wide revers of white silk crepe. She wore
a tarn hat in a fine black straw. With
her was her sister, Mrs. H. Codrington
Forsyth, who arrived from England re-
cently on a visit to her mother, Mrs.
S. B. Rudall, Mount Lofty.
When Gengoult Smith and his lady
spent a day in Adelaide en route for
England in the Taronga they were enter-
tained at morning-tea by Lud Mayor
Cain and his daughter. The Smith lady
wore a smart navy linen tailored suit with
a red and white scarf and a navy straw
hat. Mrs. Dunstan was in a figured
marocain frock in brown, green and
yellow, and wore a hat of brown straw.
TASMANIA.
Controversy rages round our purest
piece of Grecian architecture, Lady
Franklin’s Museum. Some enthusiasts
would like to see it removed from its his-
toric site in Lenah Valley and brought
into town, where it might be better seen
and taken care of, but the Lenah Valley
folk, suddenly realising the value of their
possession (though it had been used as an
apple store and allowed to fall into dis-
repair), won’t let it go. It is a beautiful
structure, and the sensible thing to do
would be to repair it intelligently, let it
stay where it is and give it respect in
future.
Mrs. W. A. Russell, Jimbour (Q.), and
her daughter Eileen are at Hadley’s, and
were given a welcome late-afternoon
party by the D’Arcy Addisons at their
home in Sandy Bay. Mrs. Russell is
Mrs. Addison’s sister-in-law. The hostess
was in black, with leg-o’-mutton sleeves.
Mrs. Flexmore invited a big contin-
gent of women to her tea at the Queen
Mary Club. Great bowls of pink dahlias
and dark prunus foliage made effective
decoration. Bridge was played in the
cardroom, and tea and talk helped to
bring the guests together.
The Edwin Websters lent the beautiful
grounds of Graystanes, Sandy Bay, for
a garden fete in aid of the Seamen’s
Mission. Lady Clark opened the show,
which had a fine afternoon, and a record
crowd patronised the many stalls or went
over the conservatories, where the be-
gonias were a glory.
Nancy McPhee has been handed bou-
quets innumerable on becoming Lassie’s
first woman barrister. She is a daughter
of ex-Premier McPhee.


The Debunkers.
Now we know, since these debunkers
started proving things untrue,
All of Shakspeare’s plays were written by
a chap in Timbuctoo;
And when Sheba went to visit at the
Court of old King Sol,
He came jazzing down the throne-steps
crooning “My Big Baby Doll.”
For his Josephine Napoleon didn’t care
two blanky hoots;
And Godiva wore her scanties to outwit
the local Snoots.
You re a dirty, double-crossing, lousy
guy, you are, by heck!”
That’s what Ccesar said to Brutus when
he got it in the neck.
With that tale of Rome and Nero our
debunkers scored a win
When they proved he played no fiddle
but recited “Gungha Din.”
Here’s the reason Rip Van Winkle just
curled up for years and snored
Pals in Parliament had made him chair-
man of a Censor Board!
Thus our history is mended, but one
item still it lacks —
When Eve turned her back on Eden was
she wearing shorts or slacks ?
N s w -
D. McM.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
A Happy
School of
Art
East Sydney
Tech.’s art de-
partment (the
college lives in
the old gaol at
Darlinghurst) be-
gan to be a well of inspiration when
sculptor G. Rayner Hoff was placed in
charge. Each year since its annual ex-
hibitions of students’ work have been not
only remarkably interesting, but have de-
monstrated that at least one shy bud of
genius has been coaxed to unfold itself in
what must be, despite the prison walls,
a very congenial atmosphere. At first
it was the young sculptors who compelled
attention. Now the leaven has spread,
and the school has become a place in
which genuinely artistic expression of
any sort is welcomed, and in which
talent is given just as much discipline as
it needs and originality, so far from be-
ing snubbed and repressed, is cherished
as a precious jewel.
This year’s show in Farmer’s Blaxland
Gallery is a complete reply to the allega-
tion that Sydney breeds Philistines.
Dominating all else (to this critic’s eye,
anyhow) are the posters of Frank Nor-
ton, a 17-year-old student, who works
tremendously hard to master the details
of his nautical subjects, and produces de-
signs that present their essentials with
masterly simplicity and effectiveness.
In the realms of more ordinary (not
higher) art there are some good drawings
and sculptures from life. The principal
model tor the year under revision wds
evidently no longer young, and the plas-
tic exercises on the theme, technically
full of merit, need just a little more
poetry and imagination than was given
them to warrant their reproduction
in marble or bronze. Outside this,
Reginald Taylor presents a worth-while
water-color study of an aboriginal, and
Sheila Farquharson demonstrates that
she can paint a pound of raw steak and
a just-broken egg.
Decorative art is well represented.
Wallpapers ; book-jackets (a wonderful
show of these) ; a dramatic essay on the
theme of “Flying Dutchman” by Joyce
Wilson; panels by Dorothy Senior, who
achieves something rich in color
harmony, and some effective black-
and-whites by Joan Ellis. There are
designs applied to textiles, to chocolate
boxes, to jewellery, to wallpapers—all
with some spark of joy in their composi-
tion. To enumerate the names of pupils
who “show promise,” as the phrase goes,
would take half a column. It is enough
to say that the school really does teach
art, and has reason to rejoice in the art
it has educed. If all education could
demonstrate its efficiency as effectively
there would be no room for argument as
to its value.
A.D.W.
The Jew On
the Film
What a pro-
Jewish bias some
of the recent film
successes have
had! The latest
of the ilk, based
on reucntwanger s novel, really contains
more propaganda than drama, and it is
only by really excellent performances
that Veidt and the other notables in the
cast are able to coat the pill.
With the moving and talking pictures
now the universal entertainment pabu-
lum of the people, it is not surprising
that certain quarters have realised the
opportunities for propaganda. And it
need not be too skilfully disguised, for
most of the frequenters of the picture
houses only go to see some star or other
in his latest role. Thus if, like Veidt in
this film, the star makes a celluloid ges-
ture, such as dying for being a Jew
rather than living by revealing to his exe-
The four illustrations on this page give an idea of
the form and design of the best work in Sydney’s
most impressive artburst of the moment. Large
posters, in effective color, they appear at East Sydney
Tech.’s show of art students’ work. They were done
by Frank Norton, 17-year-old son of a Sydney
press artist.
cutioners his Christian antecedents, then
quite a large proportion will regard it
as a good and noble thing so to do.
Moreover, the glory will be reflected and
will shine in many quarters. In “Jew
Suss” the producers capped the heroic end
by expressing in large letters, just before
God Save,” the hope that the time was
not far distant when Jew and Gentile
would be one people. A worthy hope,
but in its context very significant.
In a previous film another
great actor, in the part of a
benevolent Jew, lent great
sums of money (at current in-
terest) to enable wars to be
carried out. In the picture
(and consequently in the pic-
ture house) he was regarded as
a savior of the British people.
Of course, these films with
their lavish settings and bevies
of expensive actors must have
required a lot of capital to
produce—but still it has been
said “cast thy bread upon the waters”....
AUNTIE HAY.
Our Fatuous
Film Talkers
After a lather
of discussion as
to whether they
should be termed
“stupid,” “objec-
tiona b 1 e” or
merely “facetious,” a Sydney committee
decided that the remarks of newsreel
commentators in reference to women’s
sports are “fatuous and foolish.”
“One announcer,” it was declared,
“says foolish things in a high falsetto.”
Why limit it to women’s sports? Gener-
ally the Australian newsreelmen appear
to be chosen for their infantile sense of
humor. Some are vaudeville performers
with a dozen or so out-of-date quips and
a few schoolboyish puns which they drag
m at every opportunity; the others (I
can stand them better) are. dull. None
l have heard would last a month as
reporters on a well-subbed daily paper,
though there are out-of-work newspaper-
men who would jump at the chance to
do the work.
JACHRIS.
For a
National
Theatre
There is always
a danger that a
national theatre
may encourage
officialism, and
be beggared
again. We see the claws of the beast in
national broadcasting. A glance at the
theatres of the
nations, however,
will show how
necessary it is to
bolster the
theatre.
Ben Jon s o n
went to prison
twice for his
frankness. Shaks-
peare’s theatre
was so disliked
by the City
Fathers of Lon-
don that, though
it was outside the
wall, the “wooden
O” had to be
razed to the
ground and carted to the other side of
the river. But for the Court protection
their plays could not have appeared at
all.
Moliere, in France, was sponsored by
the young King Louis XIV., though the
work met with ferocious opposition from
the Court and every order of political
intriguer. Moliere was blackballed from
the Academy while he lived ; now there
is a memorial tablet in the portal of
the Academy with the inscription “To
Our Shame!”
In Germany before the war, and for
some time after, there
flourished State, Civic, Re-
pertory Society, “People’s,”
“Folk,” private and com-
mercial theatres in endless
number and variety—nearly
all sponsored or subsidised
—maintaining a quality for
a quarter of a century be-
yond all comparison greater
than that of the English
theatre of the same period.
Just before the war I spent
eight weeks there, seeing the
wonderful achievements, es-
pecially on the technical and
architectural sides. The
Jews, as the intellectual
heads of Germany, were
most conspicuous; now
Germany is Hitlerised;
there is no more theatre—
not even a cinema worthy
of the name, though she led
the world in that field, too.
In Russia, where Art burned so
fiercely that even the picture postcards
put to derision those of all other coun-
tries, the State and rich men subsidised
theatres in and around the great centres.
Stanislawsky himself was a wealthy ama-
teur who used his fortune to found and
to nurse his theatre, famous throughout
the world.
Italian and Spanish theatres have been
scotched momentarily by revolutions,
for theatre art does not thrive in war
international or civil.
The Belgian theatre is an echo of the
Parisian. So was the Dutch theatre be-
fore Holland lost her supply of plays
from Paris during the war, and began to
write her own. Now the Dutch are
creating a national dramatic literature,
with Heijermans
as model. They
half starved him,
and killed him;
but the State gave
him a gorgeous
funeral.
Ibsen’s Nor-
way, Strindberg’s
Sweden and Hans
Andersen’s Den-
mark have en-
dowed the theatre
these many gen-
erations.
America, de-
pressed by a
narrow Puritan-
ism for 300 years,
produced no
drama worthy of
the name. Now,
with the lid off,
she is beginning
to create a
dramatic litera-
ture. She has a world dramatist in
Eugene O’Neill, and a world theatre in
the New York Theatre Guild. O’Neill
is the son of a wealthy actor-manager
and some very powerful patrons were
on the list of the Playwrights’ Theatre,
founded by them. The Guild Theatre
was founded about 17 years ago by an
influential group of young actors,
dramatists, designers and businessmen.
As for ourselves, signs are not want-
ing that we have it in us to shine in
fields other than the athletic. We have
produced great voices, fine players and
painters. Why not a national theatre
for the constant production by our best
actors of the greatest dramatic literature
of the modern world? I mean our own
the literature that Has been slowly
built up during 400 years. We have the
energy. All over Australia and Maori-
land the young people are hungering to
mount out of the bush tangles of the
cinemas into the theatre of art. In their
own way they have made a beginning ;
for there are literally hundreds of Little
Theatres everywhere about us, doing
their best with handy material. This
movement has gone all over the world
and is a protest against the dull narrow
commercial theatre, the cinema and the
radio.
Duncan Macdougall.
Current
Arthursts
Ru b ery Ben-
nett’s gall cries,
Sydney, which
now live over the
corner where
Madame Ze 11 a
gloried and looked deep into her crystal
until Parliament butted her out of busi-
ness, is the locale of a show of entries in
competitions instituted by a London firm
that manufactures artists’ colors. Land-
scape in oils by John Salvana was awarded
first prize in the “Artists’ ” competition. It
shows a fair amount of facility, but its
background persistently barges forward
while its foreground recedes. There is
less to quarrel with in the selection of
Hilda Dreyer’s prettily-painted study of a
nude girl on the seashore for first prize
in the students’ section. The canvas
stands as a corrective and a reproach to
Alan D. Baker’s transcription of the
female form divine, done apparently with
a whitewash brush. Best portrait in the
show is Hilda Dreyer’s “Chrysantheme”
—a girl in a blue kimono, nicely posed
and softly harmonious in its coloring.
Sam Godard, who won a “merit” prize
with “Kurrajong Farm,” shows in that
canvas a very pleasant sense of color.
C. Wilbow (he’s a cripple) has a gentle
touch with oils and a flair for effective
composition, well exemplified in “Red
Roses and Roof-Tops” (no sky in this)
and “Candle Light,” a pleasing still-life
essay. Foremost of the water-colorists is,
L. Solomon, whose “Summer Afternoon”
clicks most emphatically. H. Barron
scores third prize in the open section with
a .cold landscape.


ds
OVER A CENTURY OF BANKING SERVICE
In a spirit fully alive to the public interest, and anxious
to serve and promote the welfare of the country as a whole,
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited has
for over a century prudently transacted all classes of
hanking business to the satisfaction of its customers. To-day
with all its great resources and facilities its policy remains
unaltered .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
O YOU KNOW
?
Tha! the Rural Bank was established in
1899? <| That it has assisted 54,728 per-
sons to establish farms? <J And 33,823
families to acquire homes? <J That the
keynote of its policy is "Service"? <| That
although guaranteed by the State Govern-
ment against loss, it has at no time made
a claim on Consolidated Revenue? That
it has reserves in excess of £1,250,000 in-
vested outside the business? fl That it
offers complete banking facilities to all
sections of the community?
r/te RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Sfc.
IBS
Head Office;
14 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Sydney Branch:
350 George Street
A Golfing Humor Story Entry:-
NUMBER THIRTEEN
By Hugo Freeth
Drawings by Aria.
“Boy, give me my Number 13.
CLOUDS of sand ascending from the
new bunker to the left of our third
green attracted my attention, and I
strolled over. There I discovered Steve
Haddock almost embedded in sand and
hacking at his ball with a look of intent
fury on his usually good-natured face.
“Hullo, what are you doing there?” I
remarked pleasantly, my own ball hav-
ing described a perfect parabola and
stopped four feet from the pin, giving
me every chance of a birdie.
I admit that it was an unnecessary and,
looking back on it, tactless remark, but
I was totally unprepared for the frigid
ferocity of Steve’s reply.
“Can’t you see?” he said, every word
charged with malign bitterness, “I’m
playing nuts-and-may in the back
garden.”
He went on hacking till at last, with
the air full of flying particles, the ball
rose feebly and fell limply into a pot-
hole on the far side of the green. Steve
dragged his feet out of the sand and,
leaving holes in the bunker’s face of
which the greens committee would not
have approved, climbed painfully out.
“Who,” he asked, addressing no one
in particular with a trace of rancor in
his tone —“who but a club unanimously
composed of nitwits would elect a com-
mittee of congenital idiots? And who
but a committee of variegated morons
would dig a yawning canyon in the
“I’m playing nuts-and-may in the
back garden.”
middle of the fairway and half fill it
with iron filings? I don’t care for myself,
but haven’t the other members of this
condemned club any say?”
I am bound to say that I have some-
what bowdlerised Steve’s remarks, but
the general tenor is there, and I think I
have indicated that this was a matter on
which he felt strongly. Personally, I
thought the bunker
was well placed, but
I assumed that this
was not the moment
to say so.
Steve retrieved his
ball and watched
morosely while 1
sank as pretty a putt
as one could wish.
I was prepared to
chat brightly on this
and that as we
strolled back to the
What the hell.
clubhouse, but Steve seemed distrait, and
I respected his feelings.
STEVE, I may tell you, is unanimously
agreed to be the worst golfer in our
club, and, without wishing to disparage
anyone, that is saying something.
I am not a man who will dogma-
tise about anything, but I do remember
remarking, after having Steve for my
alleged partner in a devastating four-
ball, that he was not a golfer’s bootlace.
Several immediately took a diametrically
opposite view. They said he was.
By a series of miracles and an extra-
ordinary succession of forfeits, Steve, to
the amazement of everyone, had reached
the final of the Scroungers’ Bowl, which
is the most popular knock-out event in
our club. The exhibition that he had
just been giving was his idea of a little
concentrated practice the day before the
match.
Everyone would have liked to see Steve
win that pot, but they realised that it was
the sort of thing that could happen only
in a wish-fulfilment dream, his opponent,
Roger Cole, being the club’s only scratch
man. Steve, as well as being the club’s
worst player, also enjoyed the distinction
of being its most popular member. It
was generally held that you could never
tell whether he was winning or losing,
and, as he was usually losing, that was
as good a test as you could make.
IF Steve had one weakness it was a taste
for gaudy haberdashery and startling
patterns in his other habiliments. I had
taken the matter up with him in a tact-
ful way myself without any
tangible result. Steve mantained
that a golfer must dress the part,
and having dressed in what he
believed to be the appropriate
garb he had to be seen to be be-
lieved.
I well remember a thoroughly ghastly
garment affected by my young friend. It
was a pullover in bright green and yellow
checks. Exuberant is the word that most
aptly describes it. Roger Cole, himself
a neat and quiet dresser, remonstrated
with Steve rather forcefully about it. He
swore that playing with Steve in that
atrocity had put him clean off his own
game.
Roger, by a coincidence that I believe
is not unusual, was not only our best
player but also our most unpopular mem-
ber. I don’t think he was consciously
offensive ; he was just built that way. He
had a way of saying cutting and hurtful
things about his partner’s game which
were no doubt truthful enough, but were
the sort of things best left unsaid. Play-
ing a superlative game himself, he was
condescending to everyone who didn’t
measure up to his standard. Moreover,
he was a temperamental player, and, while
we all allow ourselves a certain latitude
in adversity, Roger was inclined to such
extremes as abusing his caddie and
throwing his clubs about to the danger of
all in the vicinity. I think I have said
sufficient to indicate why Roger was
generally considered rather a blot on the
fair name of the club.
At the time I am speaking of Roger
was at the top of his form, so, when
stimulated by a few sherbets, he told the
smoking-room in Steve’s hearing that he
couldn’t help winning the Scroungers’
Bowl for the third time in succession
(which, by the way, would make it his
for keeps), while we deplored his taste,
we had to admit that he spoke no more
than the truth. But even a player of
Steve’s capacity has his pride, and he
was cut to the quick. No golfer likes to
think he is certain to be beaten by a man
who has to concede him a stroke a hole.
WHICH brings me back to the arrival
of Steve and myself at the club-
house. In the locker-room Steve moodily
flung down his bag of shining new steel-
shafters, and I sat beside him in silent
sympathy.
Steve’s locker faced us, and my wan-
dering eye was attracted presently by an
ancient dust-covered club poking out be-
tween a pair of shoes and the odds and
ends of stray garments that seem to col-
lect in lockers. I reached out idly and
picked it up. In its day, say about thirty
years previously, that
club was probably the
apple of someone’s
eye; now it was posi-
tively prehistoric. It
was a hybrid ; if I re-
member rightly, it was
called a mashie-cleek.
Perhaps you’ll recollect
those long-faced, thick-
handled atrocities. This
one had had a hard
life. The shaft was bent
like the back of an old
man, and the rust and dust of years gath-
ered thick upon its head.
“For heaven’s sake, Steve, what do you
keep this antediluvian fossil for?” I
asked.
“Believe me or believe me not,” said
Steve, “I could play golf with that once.
It belonged to my father. He cut it
down and gave it to me to knock about
It was a procession.
with when I was a boy. Dash it all,
I believe I could play a darn sight better
with it now than with these brutes. we
kicked his new bag petulantly,
“By jingo,” he went on thoughtfullyv
“I think I’ll go out and have a crack with
it now.”
To tell the truth, I was ashamed to be
seen with a man carrying such a relic,
but I followed Steve to the practice fair-
way, where he put down half a dozen
balls, rolled one into position and ad-
dressed it. It was a most amazing thing,
but from the start I knew Steve was
Positively prehistoric.
going to swat that pill right off the middle
of the face. Steve normally approaches
the ball with all the assurance of a man
on his dentist’s doormat for an extrac-
tion appointment; but with that old
battler in his hands sure confidence was
written in every line of him.
It was positively uncanny. Certainly
he went through all the usual contor-
tions that he fondly, imagines are a fac-
simile of Bobby Jones’s swing, coming to
the top with the club pointing somewhere
about the middle of his spine, with his
legs twisted like twin corkscrews, and
finishing through with a jerk that must
have shaken him to the very founda-
tions ; but I never heard a ball smack
more sweetly off a club. About 160 yards
it went, and straight down the pretty.
It was no fluke. Steve did exactly the
same with the other five balls. Then he
proceeded to show me that he could do
everything with that club but make it
talk. He ran chip shots to the pin from
thirty yards out, laid it back like a
mashie-niblick and pitched almost dead
from a hundred yards, and finally
straightened the face and putted like a
demon.
Well, I don’t claim to
be a deep and original
thinker, but an idea
came to me then from
the undefiled well of
pure genius.
“Steve,” I said, “why
not play Roger with
that club to-morrow?”
Steve protested
violently. It couldn’t
be done. He would be
making a this and that
idiot of himself play-
ing with a venerable discard like that. I
spared him the obvious reply, and eventu-
ally he listened to reason. Then I hurried
him to the clubhouse and out to his car.
“Now you go home and have a good
rest,” I urged him. “Oh, and to-morrow
wear that natty check pullover of yours.”
Steve drove off, and I hustled into the
smoking-room. When I offered to take


w
TELEPHONE DIRECTORY
is now being Reprinted
Order your Telephone before
15th March so that your name
and number may be included
A telephone is invaluable for business and
domestic affairs. No home is complete without
one . . . the household is in touch with every-
thing and everybody.
The handset illustrated is the latest type of tele-
phone, shapely in form and convenient to use.
And with all its advantages the cost of a tele-
phone is now surprisingly low.
TARIFF
Metropolitan Residence Telephone
Quarterly Rental—
Wall Telephone £l/2/6
Handset Telephone £l/5/8
Even lower in some cities.
Outward Local Calls each
Inward Calls Free
No Installation Fee.
Write to the Superintendent, Telephone Branch, General Post Office, for full
particulars.
25 to 1 in half-crowns about Steve’s
chances for the bowl, it became clear that
they regarded me as a gift from heaven.
There was an almost indecent haste to
accommodate me. Perhaps I was a little
overeager, and the market firmed to
tens, but at the finish I stood to win
about £6O for an outlay of twenty-five
bob —a fairly satisfactory evening’s work,
I thought.
I MUST admit that even I was not pre-
* pared for the shock produced by the
first sight of Steve’s idea of sartorial ele-
gance when he appeared on the tee next
afternoon. Worn over a canary-colored
shirt, the check pullover was there in
all its horror, and Steve had dug up
stockings to match, with purple tassels
peeping coyly from the bottoms of the
baggiest plus-fours I have ever seen. A
snappy pattern in black and white en-
livened his shoes. I was inclined to think
that Steve had overdone the thing, till
a glance at Roger, neatly natty as usual,
convinced me that my staff work had
been inspired. He was what they call
visibly affected.
However, Roger pulled himself to-
gether and, taking the honor, smacked
a beauty a full 230 yards down the
middle.
I was annoyed when Steve selected his
driver and took up his stance for a pro-
longed preliminary waggle. After a
dozen or so overs and backs, Steve
stopped and called to his caddie, “Boy,
give me my Number 13.”
When the boy dug into the bag and
produced the relic the considerable gal-
lery that had been attracted by my over-
night betting gasped aloud. But that
was as nothing to the sensation produced
when Steve, addressing the ball, bent
himself almost double, straightened,
and dispatched it a good 150 yards down
the fairway. His second was as good, but
was still 75 yards from the green. Roger
played a magnificent second that bit
into the green, rolled and stopped fifteen
feet from the pin. Steve’s third, to the
growing amazement of the gallery, was
ten feet from the hole. Roger’s smug
satisfaction when he rattled in his putt
for a beautiful birdie three departed
abruptly when Steve sank his, to halve
with his handicap stroke.
Roger’s easy confidence showed signs
of wilting when Steve, again playing his
Number 13 throughout, found the second
green in two, holed out in two more and
took the lead with a net three.
IT was the third hole that really decided
the match. Steve’s second, fading for
the first time from the straight and nar-
row, slid helplessly into the selfsame
bunker that I had found him excavating
the previous day.
Roger again found the green, and lay
handy for what seemed a certain four
and a possible three. I admit to trem-
bling as Steve went into that bunker, but
I needn’t have worried. A sharp click,
and the ball shot up the face of the
bunker like a frightened rabbit and pro-
ceeded unerringly across the green to
within a foot of the hole, laying Roger
a perfect stymie.
From then on it was a procession. A
lark singing overhead claimed Roger’s
attention after he had sliced out of
bounds at the next hole. He complained
loudly and emphatically that Hagen him-
self could not be expected to play in a
blasted aviary. A hole further on he
missed a two-footer, to halve, and turned
on his caddie. Why, he asked plaintively,
did every caddie come from a family
afflicted with the itch? What the hell
did the boy mean by doing morris
dances all over the crimson green when
he was putting? (As far as I could see
the boy had been standing like a graven
image, but Roger must have noticed
something.) Two holes later he was
heard to remark that he was prepared
to believe that there might be people who
could play against a perambulating cross-
word puzzle armed with an alpenstock,
but he was certainly not one of them.
But need I go on? At the eleventh
hole the match was all over, Steve win-
ning handsomely by eight up and seven
to play.
I’m bound to say that my recollections
of the subsequent celebrations at the
clubhouse are a little hazy, but one thing
stands out clearly. I remember Steve,
swaying slightly as he stood on a polished
tabletop, making a speech. In a voice
thick with emotion and gin, and after
the manner of one presenting a priceless
heirloom to the nation, he offered
Number 13 to the club for an annual
one-club competition. When I in turn
offered to endow it perpetually out of
my takings with a replica of the relic,
the gift was unanimously and riotously
accepted.
So the old battle-axe now has an
honored place in the club’s trophy case.
After a particularly trying day Steve is
sometimes known to sneak away quietly
and commune wistfully with it through
the glass-
Fierce; Strangely Imaginative:—
I'M MATSON,
RIGHT ENOUGH.
BY DON R.
/ shook hands with Fielding.
“Good-bye,” I said. “Good-bye,
Matson.”
Fie smiled.
“Then you do remember me ?”
he said. “Recognise me ? I’m
Matson right enough. Let them
have their way, though.”
44V OU would, would you!”
J Thud!
“You’d do me out of my fifty
quid?”
Thud! Thud! Thud!
The waves smashed themselves against
the long jagged reef a mile out in the
sea. Sent showers and splashes. Great
heavy whitened water flew over the top
and through and above the kelp—well
above both—to fall into the flat, reef-
locked Umpherston’s Bay—the great bay
enclosed by Cape Douglas on the west
and Cape Northumberland on the east;
the reef to the south’ard and a narrow
strip of curved beach backed by low
broken sand-dunes to the nor’ard.
A growling snarl of bubbling gutturals.
Sickening thuds slapped the air and I
heard every one.
“Take that and that and that!”
“Oh, you poor fool.”
This was said through shut teeth, but
there was no anger in it. The anger of
the snarl was gone. There was calm
power in it.
“I’ve stood you, Tom, as long as I can.
I don’t owe it to you. I’ve tried to tell
you. I’ve paid you in full. I’ve got what
you owed me. All that is over I’ve given
you. I’ve”
Thud!
Then came the snarl again.
“So you want it!” came in the snarl.
“Well, here’s to give it to you!”
There was the sound of a crack mixed
with that thud. It seemed to be bone
meeting bone.
I stood behind the sand-dunes. What
could I do? Could I interfere? It was
a quarrel over money, and I knew that
the man who spoke first was hitting as
he liked and the other was taking it be-
cause he knew he was in the right and
not the wrong. If the other did hit surely
there was the end of the matter. No, I
need not interfere, even if I had the
power.
Ough!
The second man had hit.
Ough! Ough! Ough! Ough!
He was hit again—four times.
The wide, shallow bay seethed its little
surges on to the beach.
Sea-snipe sent, out their short sharp
“schrack,” “schrack” and a couple of
ducks played and quacked.
The night was not really dark, for a
plethora of stars sent shafts of glittering
flame far enough to light the night air.
There was an ominous stillness.
Slowly I walked between the heaps of
sand—creeper-grown—until I was on the
flat beach.
ONE of the fighters was stretched on
the sand and the other stood over
him, arms akimbo —waiting.
“Enough?” he said quietly.
There was no answer.
“Enough?” he asked again just as
quietly. But he went on. “I told you,
Tom, that I don’t owe the money. You
had no right to hit me. You- Tom!
Tom! To-o-o-m!”
I ran then.
He was on his knees beside the fallen
foe—foe no longer.
I knelt too.
Tom slowly turned his head, and I
saw that his face was covered with con-
gealing blood.
His eyes opened as far as the lids
could move and I saw that they were full
of blood.
I bent down close to him.
“I,” he faltered, “I —am —done. He —
he—hit me too hard! ”
1 closed those bloody eyes.
But he was not yet gone. They opened,
and Tom essayed to sit up.
He struggled and did sit up. His left
leg quivered rapidly—the sign of death —
and he spoke.
“He—hit—me too hard,” he said “But
there’s one thing yet I can do. It's this.”
He suddenly flung himself to his knees.
He threw his arms around Eric Fielding’s
neck. As Eric rose he was drawn to his
feet.
“Tom,” shouted Eric, “what are you
doing? Tom, let me go! Tom, you’re
choking me! ”
Blood gushed out of Tom’s mouth, but
he wormed his face close to Eric’s. Then
he kissed him full on the lips and
breathed hard.
“Now,” he said, “you’re not Eric
Fielding. You killed me all over the
fifty quid. You owe me fifty quid. You
are me, and the fifty quid is a debt owing
to you. You are —you —are —for all
eternity—/!”
I saw Eric Fielding quiver strangely as
Tom Matson fell from him.
Again I closed the eyes.
“He’s dead,” I said.
“He is not. I am dead.”
So said Eric Fielding.
MY hut was built on the slope of Cape
Douglas. To reach it we had to
walk more than two miles along the
beach.
“Long before we are in your hut the
tide’ll have rolled him back into the bay.”
said Eric. “If you never tell then no
one’ll ever know. It was not the blows —
it was a malady of his.”
(Continued on next page.)


First Aid For
INDIGESTION
1
You cannot afford to miss this
Letter if you suffer from —
No longer need you
suffer the agonies of
faulty digestion. De
Witt's Antacid Powder
brings an entirely new
principle to bear on
your complaint with
amazingly satisfactory
results. Such evidence
as is quoted below (one
letter from thousands
on our files) is testimony
to its complete success.
ACIDITY
FLATULENCE
DYSPEPSIA
HEARTBURN
GASTRITIS
ULCERATED
STOMACH
_ c . Dale Road, Buxton.
Dear Sirs,
Some time ago I was troubled with nasty
bitter fluid arising- from my stomach, and
disliked my food. I went to see my doctor,
but instead of getting better I got worse. I
could get no relief. I was in continual pain
and soon had to cease my work and take to
my bed. I spent any amount of money on
different medicines, but nothing did me any
good. I was sent to hospital, where an opera-
tion for gastric ulcers was performed. Later,
all my troubles returned. At last I heard of
your Antacid Powder. 1 got a sample and
this seemed to stop the sickness, so I decided
to persevere. After three days I was able to
leave ray bed and get out. I kept on with the
treatment, and before the first tin was finished
I was able to enjoy my meals. Pain and sick-
ness were gone and I was able to take long
walks without discomfort. lam now feeling
better every day. ,
(Signed) JOHN HARRIS.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder acts in a
commonsense way. Firstly, it im-
mediately neutralises the excess acidity,
the root of the whole trouble. At the
same time, it coats the stomach walls
with a thin, soothing film of colloidal
kaolin, so that the inflamed tissues are
protected from the burning acid. One
ingredient of De Witt’s Antacid Powder
actually digests a portion of your food
so that the tired stomach is enabled
to “pick up.”
SEND FOR FREE SAMPLE
We make a free offer of a generous
sample of De Witt’s Antacid Powder
to every sufferer from digestive troubles.
When you have tried the sample, we
urge you to continue with the treatment.
Even sufferers from gastritis, dyspepsia
or ulcerated stomach will experience
relief, although, for such serious com-
plaints we strongly recommend the
purchase of a full-size canister, month’s
supply, price 2/6.
DeWITT'S
ANTACID POWDER
For INDIGESTION. Price
2/6
Sold in handsome canisters con-
taining average month’s supply. Be
sure you get the genuine remedy in
sky-blue canister.
FREE GIFT COUPON
To E. C. De Witt & Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
(Dept. CA.9), j P.O. Box 26,
MELBOURNE.
Please send me, free and postage
paid, a sample of De Witt’s Antacid
Powder.
Mr.
Mrs.
Miss
Address
-NOTICE-
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and . your friends.
LONDON'S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY & RESIDENTIAL HOTELS
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger lifts.
Garages. Central heating. Hot and cold
running water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Bridge, Bil-
liards, Table Tennis and Dancing. ■
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, _W.3.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 guineas,
Double from 7 guineas. Bedroom, Bath
and Breakfast from 9/0. Telephone:
Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL
06-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 31 guineas Single.
0i guineas Double. Bedroom. Bath and
Breakfast from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL
89-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W.B.
Telephone; Padd. 8022.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde park, W. 3.
Telephone: Padd: 9712.
Accommodation for 150 guests.
Hotels of refinement (adjacent to each
other), with young and cheerful society.
Delightful rooms arranged as bed-sitting
rooms. Owing to their popularity you
are advised to secure accommodation —if
possible—in advance. Terms; Single from
3 guineas. Double from 5 guineas. Bed-
room, Bath and Breakfast from 7/6.
The above Hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
sa y "69
i
fL
setve “69" .1
Hotels everywhere now have Vat
69, for years favourite whisky of
the connoisseurs abroad. Genuine
Scotch. Matured in wood at least
7 years. Mellow, smooth and
distinctive. Costs no more. Try it.
VAT 69
P ure hiqmur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, heith,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
69.2
ALU LEADING
Local Advertisers
Perth’s Leading Weekly,
because they know it has
and reaches the People
who have the
MONEY TO BUY.
Sydney Representative:
MR. H. J. JOHNSTONE, Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. M. S. ALLAN. 271 Collins Street.
use the
PRESTIGE
CIRCULATION
“But he said you hit him too hard.
There must be marks.”
“No. I can see him now. There are
no marks —no marks —not one. And
here are his camp and his boat.”
The tent was snug in a clump of tea
tree.
NO one knew from where Tom Matson
had come to the Bay. He had made
some agreement with Eric Fielding to
get the tent and its equipment and the
boat and the nets a year before. In pay-
ment he parted with all his catches to
him. We were three fishermen togethef.
By some reasoning Tom Matson came
to the conclusion that, at the time of the
fight, Eric was fifty pounds in his debt.
No one liked Fielding. I had seen
much of him. Though he had spoken
of college and a university and ships and
foreign ports he was generally quiet to
taciturnity. I had had experience of all
of these things and I knew that Eric
Fielding was not idly boasting. There
was the ring of truth and there were
{hose subtle things in the telling that can
only be put there by the man who knows
from actual experience.
Tom Matson was a man of some learn-
ing, too. He talked of the college and
the university ; and once he talked of a
commission. He talked of his life from
his boyish pranks to his peccadilloes of
mature years. Yet he never told of
localities. No man talks of localities
when his stories of pranks and pecca-
dilloes and indiscretions implicate others.
Eric Fielding did not camp. He lived
in a house at Port Macdonnell. When
he fished far from home he drove a
horse and sulky. He did not mind set-
ting a sail and taking the catches round
to the long jetty at the port that way, but
when the weather was too bad he took
them in his gig.
WE passed Tom’s camp without look-
ing in.
We crossed a little creek that came out
of a big swamp at the back of the sand-
dunes and flowed at the foot of the slope
on which I had built my hut.
i Then we began the ascent.
Suddenly Eric Fielding stopped, and I
stopped too and faced him.
He had a strange look.
“I’m funny,” he said. “It is as if I were
only just arrived on earth. No. It is as
if I have been here before and have been
away and have just come back. No. It
is as if I have been a living mistake —
mistaking myself for someone else, say-
ing I was someone else, working all the
time for someone else, living for some-
one else. I am Eric Fielding? Am I?”
He seemed to be on the verge of a
breakdown.
“Well,” I said, “Tve always known you
as Eric Fielding. I’ve no guarantee it is
your name, just as you have no guaran-
tee that I am Charles Mann.”
“Am I to stay for the night in your
hut, Charlie?”
He had never called me Charlie before.
Tom Matson had —but not Fielding.
“Well, I imagined that is why we
walked together here.”
“When do you think he’ll come ashore
for us or someone else to find?” he
asked, still at a standstill.
“Next tide.”
“You’ll keep shut?”
“Oh,” I said, “I’ll keep shut.”
“Your hand,” he said,
i I reached out and he took it.
I HAD seen too much of this sort of
thing to rush anywhere to squeak. In
Rangoon and Singapore and Canton and
Shanghai. In Colombo and Capetown.
Native quarters are full of it.
“Do you know,” he said as he sat on
my bunk while I made up a bed for him
on the floor, “I feel a peculiar urge to
go down to his camp? I really believe
I’d see him there—or I’d stay there.
What do you say to my going—not
camping here with you to-night?”
“You’ll please yourself, Fielding,” I
said. “But if I were you I’d not go there.”
Then a sudden thought struck me.
“We’ve done nothing to cover our
tracks,” I said. “The tide can’t come
right up to the dunes, and for a part of
the way we walked close to them. Sup-
posing someone finds him to-night? Hell
see that we walked away from him to-
gether.”
“Somehow,” said Fielding, “I feel that
we don’t need to take any precautions.
The tide is in full by now. All our tracks
but what are this side of the little creek
are washed out. He is floating away.
God knows where he’ll come ashore.
But all the same I’ll go down to the creek
and break a bush and drag out the
tracks
“Arid,” I said, “I’ll go into the creek
up high with my boots on and wade
down it and come out at the track and
walk over the drag marks to the grass.
Then they’ll find only my tracks, it any.
and my conscience is clear. I saw
thing.”
“They’ll see where you came out of
the dunes,” said Fielding.
“That’ll tell them nothing,” I said. “1
always come that way .when I walk
'home.”
UTHERE are some photographs in a
* box that he thought a lot of,”
said Fielding in the morning. “Family
photos.”
“You know that?” I said in surprise.
He looked strangely at me.
“I seem to have seen them,” he said.
“But it can only be imagination.”
TOM MATSON’S body came ashore in
a corner between the creek and the
slope, and I saw it first. Eric Fielding
was at home in Port Macdonnell then.
“Found drowned,” was the verdict.
I SAW these photographs next time Eric
Fielding came out to my hut.
“I got them,” he said. “I had to. The
police took charge of the rest pending
the finding of relatives. But this lot—l
seemed to know just where to go for
them, and I went; and here they are.”
He went to Portland shortly after that,
and I sold my kit and went to Port Adel-
aide. There I fell in with old Jubilee
Johnson, of the Oscar, and, I shipped
with him to trade-carry in the Gulfs.
We had an argument at Cowell in Spen-
cer’s, and I came across to Wallaroo in
the Investigator—passenger—and then I
met Frank Manners. He and I worked
with the Tickera fishing fleet until I
picked up the paper one day and read of
the Sarajevo incident.
“There’ll be war, Frank,” I said, “as
sure as God made little apples.”
“Oh, well,” said Frank, “it’s not likely
to affect us much.”
“It’ll affect me this much,” I said, “that
if England enters into it I’ll go to it.”
“England enter into it!” Frank ex-
claimed. “What’ll it have to do with
England?”
“Perhaps nothing,” I said. “And
again perhaps a lot.”
Then came the paper of August 4:
Britain at War!
“You wfere right,” Frank said. “I wish
I could go. But this”
He slapped his right leg. It was made
of wood.
I fished on until October and then I
hauled my last net.
“Perhaps they’ll not pass you,” said
Frank —but I knew better. They passed
me right enough, and in Exhibition Park
camp I met Eric Fielding.
“Thought you’d come,” he said.
“Oh,” I said, “I knew the strength of
the enemy.”
Eric Fielding drew the little packet of
photographs that he had got in Tom
Matson’s camp out of the pocket of his
bluey coat.
“See this?” he said.
He parted them, and in the middle
there was the photo, of a man in the
uniform of a British officer —English—
with the stars on the sleeves.
“Why, that is” I began.
“Hush! ” whispered Eric. “Not so fast.
He’s laid long ago, but one never knows.
Walls have ears. Let me lie —I mean
that,” and he pointed to the picture.
“Destroy it,” I whispered.
“Can’t,” he said.
“But,” I said, “it is”
There was no need for me to make
any explanation of this.
“It certainly is,” I went on with con-
viction.
“Yes,” Fielding answered. “Do you
remember what he said? He filled my
mouth with his blood and his breath, and
he said, ‘Now, you’re not Eric Fielding.
You killed me all over the fifty quid.
You are me, and the fifty quid is a debt
owing to you. You are —for all eter-
nity—/.’”
Eric Fielding quoted all this in full,
and I know that it was verbatim— yes,
word for word it was right.
“I’ve been picked out as a man who
has seen service,” he went on. “I tried
to tell the sergeant-major that I was never
a soldier, but he laughed. ‘What are you
in civil life?’ he asked, and I said ‘I am
a fisherman.’ And then I went on and
said, I don’t know why, Tn another life
I may have been an English officer, bifi
not in this.’ He said, ‘Ah, I see. Mum’s
the word,’ and he gave me a squad to
march away to fatigue duty.”
I WENT into a signal school, and I did
not see Eric Fielding again until we
were in Egypt. He was then wearing
three stripes.
“They’re pukka,” he said.
Then he went with the infantry to
France. I remained in Egypt, for I was
an Anzac Mounted Division reinforce-
ment.
Three years of campaigning made me
a different man from that who fished in
Umpherston’s Bay and sailed on the


'uZAu.it of khowlecfae
1
The main purpose and endeavour of active educational effort
must necessarily be the training and equipping of youth to face
and successfully surmount the ’trials and problems of life.
In all things, a habit commenced in childhood, while the
mind and individuality are plastic, is far more likely to prove
lasting than when begun later in life.
It was with a full conception of at least one great purpose
in the pursuit of knowledge that the Commonwealth Savings Bank
planned its service to apply as directly for the benefit of children
as for adults. The depositing of regular weekly sums in a Savings
Bank account is a practical and logical illustration of the thrift
lesson, and the Commonwealth Savings Bank has extended its
facilities throughout all Australia to make that lesson easy and
valuable.
commonweniiH
SAVINGS -BANK
O -F -AUST -R A L I A
'^r
£ type
E
type o °f f°r 9
w °rld’ f en §iti e / tPak
®9 ts
s °ni
Or
of
E
L or i d <2 > off/o. e
kfeitt-' Mar ’ tie f P , e V-
St *Pdj no airs typ OTl ’ the t lals Of
8 GVe nfs oth Wor M’s
S*t. 8 titles p /°*e f S out
r v,> k: f
<*nd ' S T *o fin J*n Syh JPQ
0
°//j
* 0 «*«* 0;7.
‘h a „ ed <
o
°///
Grifflths-Huse
*■
IS
3§ik
M
More Motorists Than Ever
Simoniz Their Cars
The New Kleener makes SIMON/ZING easier than ever.
fds
fd
sf
dsf
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
veara free of charge.
Oscar and fished with Frank Manners in
Spencer’s Gulf.
I had two pips at the end of that time,
and the colonel encouraged me to try
for U.K. leave.
I got it. I entrained at Moascar Siding
for Alexandria, and there I got a ship
for Otranto.
Just before she sailed I saw an Aus-
tralian officer hurrying about on the pier.
He had the colors of the 10th Regiment.
I took up a position against the rails so
that he could see me.
“Are you Mann?” he called out.
“Yes,” I answered. “Why?”
“Oh, I’m Barr,” he said. “I’m sup-
posed to sail with you, according to my
instructions.”
“Well, sail,” I said.
“I was afraid you’d missed the ship,”
he called out as he ran up the gangway.
We had a fine trip across to Otranto,
and there we found that we were ex-
pected. The R.T.O. conducted us to the
train.
We wasted no time, but were in Blighty
before we were properly awake. At
Horseferry-road I inquired about Field-
ing—“ Sergeant Fielding, of the 18th,” I
said.
“Fielding, Eric I.?” inquired the clerk.
“Yes,” I said.
“Captain Fielding, Eric J., of the 18th
—shell-shocked at Messines. In hospital
at Bath.”
I was there before doing any sight-
seeing. I had my father’s people in Nor-
folk to see, and I wanted to go to Oban
in Scotland. I also had an intense desire
to see Stornoway, of the New Hebrides.
But now I knew that Eric Fielding was
a commissioned officer and a shell-
shocked patient at Bath, and I could not
go to the places that intrigued me until
I had seen him. Though I had not liked
him in those fishing days at Umpher-
ston’s Bay, here was a fellow-soldier of
the King and, more, a fellow-officer.
The old likes and dislikes had gone by
the board.
I am glad that Barr came with me.
«|JELLO, Fielding,” I said when I saw
** him.
He stared at me.
“Don’t you know me?” I said. “Surely
you remember Mann.”
“Oh, yes,” he said. “I remember
Charlie Mann. And I remember Eric
Fielding, too. But you surely can’t mis-
take me for Fielding. I’m Matson,”
It was my turn to stare. It was as if
I had never before had any knpwledge.
“You know,” he went on, “I had a
fight with Fielding. It was a money
matter —a matter of fifty quid. Well, he
beat me, but I don’t mind now. I don’t
care about the money at all.”
His tunic was open, and I could see
his disc hanging to its tiny-linked silver
chain. He saw me looking at it.
“Funny thing,” he said, “they gave me
Fielding’s name. Eric J. Fielding is
marked on this meat-ticket.”
He held it out as far as the chain
would allow it to come, I read the
name. It was Eric J. Fielding all right,
and his old number. I never knew be-
fore about the letter J. The C. of E.
designation of his church was plain, too.
“See,” he went on, “the name. Why
they call me after Fielding I don’t know.
But they insist, so I let it go, I don’t
suppose it matters.”
“But,” I said, “I remember you
as”
Then I stopped. How could I talk
about that? It was murder.
The sister came then. She tapped her
head. “They are all like that,” she said.
“And he was such a good soldier, too.
Do you see his Military Cross?”
The ribbon was there all right. How
I longed to tell her what I knew. He
heard what she said.
“So I ought to be a good soldier,” he
said. “I come of a long line of soldiers,
and I was a soldier long before this war.
Where’s that old photo, of me?”
“Never mind the photo., captain,” the
sister said. “We’ve put it away safely
for you.”
To me she said, “It must be one he
picked up. But, as I said, they’re all like
that here in Bath. They tell us that you
Light Horsemen don’t know what war is.
And I’d like a feather out of your hat.”
1 SHOOK hands with Fielding.
“Good-bye,” 1 said. “Good-bye,
Matson.”
He smiled.
“Then you do remember me?” he said.
“Recognise me? I’m Matson right
enough. Let them have their way,
though. I’ll be glad when 1 can go to
my people in Yorkshire. That’s where
the Matsons are. Cook’s birthplace, you
know. Marton. Well, so long. Hope
the war’ll soon be over, and then it
won’t matter about any one thinking I’m
Fielding. Back in Aussie on the bay
or at Portland or where you went, out
to Spencer’s, who cares whether I am
Matson or Black Harry! But I often
wonder where Fielding went after 1
fought him—that is, where—where—was
it murder? You ought to know, Mann.
Was it? And Who”
The sister was not far away. In one
second she was at his side.
“Here, Captain Fielding,” she said,
“what did I tell you? You want to go
back to Australia, don’t you? And you
won’t if you don’t hang on to yourself
and be nice to me, and quiet.”
“Oh, I’ll be quiet—for you,” he said.
“Good-bye, Lieutenant Mann. See you
one day in Aussie.”
“He’s mad, all right,” said Barr to me
as we were in the train on the way back
to London. “Wonder we’re not all mad.
Thinks we did nothing in Palestine,
though—that sister. Anyhow, that chap’s
mad all right!”
“He’s not mad,” I said.
My Political
Life
By W.A. HOLMAN
EXIT McGOWEN:
ENTER HOLMAN
When M c-
Gowen resigned
his leadership of
our party, he had
-been leader not only for an uninter-
rupted 22 years, but from the first for-
mation of the party as a new force up to
its taking office as a majority. This must
be an almost unparalleled record in the
history of the Empire, and the event was
not allowed to pass without ample de-
monstrations both within Parliament and
outside of the feelings of his followers
, about his services.
Sir Gerald Strickland then sent for me.
I was sworn in as Premier, and my long
and laborious term in that office com-
menced on June 30, 1913.
WILLIS
RESIGNS
At the close of
the recess Willis
made up his
mind not to face
another session, and resigned the Speaker-
ship. No one could have ruled an
always disorderly House more firmly and
well, or shown more marked ability in
the chair. Actually a scrupulous and
high-minded man, his decision to accept
it had exposed him to much vilification
on the part of incensed members of the
Opposition, and he had felt for some
time past that he received no counter-
vailing gratitude or esteem from the
Ministerialists. He now accordingly
sought some respite in retirement.
THE NEW
SPEAKER
On the meet-
ing of Parliament
in July H. D.
Morton was
made Speaker, this time without diffi-
culty, and my Government encountered
its first' vote of censure. Wade’s speech
gave me an opportunity for a really
effectual reply. I took the unusual
course of moving for an adjournment
immediately at the close of his speech,
reserving my reply to the next day. It
was thought at the moment that this
was because I funked the ordeal, and
disparaging comments were freely made.
Actually, it was because I was deter-
mined to exploit the opportunity offered
(<Continued on next page)


HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND'S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE;
‘The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W
- Phone: 85241.
■at mm
&
The Ideal Book for Boys
PEARLS OF PAPUA
By Commander H. C. Brewster
A really topnotch book for boys—indeed, for anyone who
retains some boyish love of exciting open-air adventure. Pearls
of Papua takes the reader first pearling on the North Australian
grounds and then into a series of excitements while the. leading
characters are wandering amidst - hostile and friendly tribes
through the heart of Papua. The adventures are not, imaginary:
Commander Brewster bases .them on life experiences, making
of them a lively narrative, touched with humor. Pearls of Papua
can be heartily recommended as a wholesome, stirring tale that
any boy will joy to have as a gift.
Price 5/- (postage 4dL extra)
Obtainable from all booksellers,
or direct from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
252 George Street, Sydney.
THE OLDEST DAILY IN TASMANIA !
“The Examiner”
(Est. 1842), 92
years’" service.
“The Examiner" is the only daily
paper now published in Launceston, in
which city it reaches 90 per cent, of
the homes. It is delivered also in 332
centres throughout Northern Tas-
mania. It is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM THAT REACHES THE HOMES
IN THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier’’ and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
i-.; . - - /
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will.be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all, relevant information to intending
'competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within : two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de. plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
to the uttermost. A day full of tense
emotion and of regrettable incidents
ensued among the departments. The
heads discovered anew certain disturb-
ing differences between me and the old
chief, and the machinery buzzed with
returns and figures in response to my
urgent demands.
In the evening, before a crowded
House, I was able to make a full state-
ment of the actual performances of the
Government. This was the first time it
had been attempted. Up to that moment
supporters and critics alike had known
us almost entirely by our legislative
doings, and for a long period these had
been negligible. But our administra-
tion had been good. We had all worked
with much energy, and by the end of
two and a half years a large number of
thihgs had actually got themselves done.
I owed the success—which was unques-
tionable—of my speech solely to my
willingness to take the trouble to ascer-
tain and group the facts,, or. rather to
bully the departments into doing that
for me.
THE
VACCINATION
BILL
Something quite
fresh in experi-
ences was ' pfo,-
vided by the de-
bates upon the
Vaccination Bill,
when N.S.W. had its first attack of small-
pox for a generation.
Strong objections to vaccination under
compulsion were put forward on many
sides —with almost theological fervor.
The matter was - not a party one, and
much of the best talent of our side was
arrayed against us. Black,. Morrish and
Thrower, three of, our, ablest speakers,
were prominent in the fight, and,every
imaginable kind of objection, supersti-
tious- or other, was trotted out. The
futility of vaccination, its danger, the
ease with which it could become the
vehicle for passing on other and far more
formidable diseases than smallpox—the
whole gamut of arguments employed by
the antis of the world was paraded.
The responsibility of replying on a
strictly professional theme was, of course,
considerable, but I had to accept it. I
got my brief carefully prepared by the
medical staff of the Health Department,
and, as ever, relied entirely on as clear
a statement of the facts as I was
capable of.
I had caused full information to be
obtained of the circumstances surround-
ing one or two deaths which it had been
asserted had occurred as the immediate
consequence of, or, at least, in imme-
diate succession to, vaccination. I satis-
fied myself that there was nothing in
these instances, and did not hesitate to
say so fairly emphatically. Dr. Baton,
our principal medical officer, had seen
to it that I was well posted in all the
classical instances which demonstrate the
efficiency of vaccination, and these, rein-
forced by the statistics which were avail-
able, carried the day.
CHARGES
AGAINST
ARTHUR
GRIFFITH
Towards th.e
end of this ses-
sion a remark-
able attack was
made upon the
administration of
Griffith. The
charges were
puerile, and Griffith had complete and
convincing answers which, given to
us in private, satisfied me that his
action as Minister had been per-
fectly correct in each instance. The
whole thing was so unlike Wade’s
usual methods, both in finesse and
in unscrupulousness, that we almost
unanimously attributed it to some out-
side source.
The rest of the incident can be rapidly
told. We announced, without a prelimi-
nary word, that a Royal Commission had
been:issued,-that Mr. Justice Pring was
commissioner,: that four matters had
been referred to him. The Oppositionists
were taken entirely by surprise. They
had quite concluded, apparently, that we
had made up our minds that inquiry
must be fatal to us, and that we were
going to dodge it. They had no case
on the four matters referred to, and they
knew it. The Judge sat as a commis-
sioner. Wade appeared, and made a
brief public protest against the non-
inclusion of a fifth matter. The Judge
said, as he was bound to say, that this
was nothing to do with him, as he in-
quired into matters that were referred to
him, not into those that were not. Had
Wade any evidence on the four ques-
tions under reference? Wade admitted
that he had none, whereupon, no one
else appearing, his Honor closed the
commission, and reported these occur-
rences iri his driest phrases. The attack
—-in many ways the most serious we had
yet encountered—thus petered out in
less than a quarter of an hour.
THE HIGH COURT
AND GOVERN-
MENT HOUSE
The legal argu-
ment in regard
to the Govern-
ment House
squabble also
took place before
the High Court during this session. The
question to be settled we found was
whether the portion of the public land
of Australia on/ which Government
House is built was controlled from
England or from Australia.
No serious effort was'made to prove
that the Federal authorities had any in-
terest in the matter: Hall, as Solicitor-
General, acted for us. The contentions
advanced' on either side were strictly
technical, and I recollect nothing of
special interest. excepting the fact that
between the date of the hearing in Aus-
tralia and the Privy Council appeal we
decided to widen one of the adjoining
streets and remove certain fig-trees.
This gave rise to further childish con-
troversy, and the appellants applied to
the Privy Council for an injunction to
prevent this being done. The workmen
employed in felling these trees took a
warm personal interest in their jobs,
and after each further day’s delay in
obtaining the Privy Council’s decision
came back at night proudly boasting that
so many more of the “cows” were down.
VISIT OF
BRITISH
PARLIA-
MENTARIANS
Shortly before
the elections of
1913 there oc-
curred the first of
a new series of
efforts on the
part of organised
Im p e rialism to
bring Australia more definitely on to the
map.
A party of members of the House of
Commons, headed by Lord Emmott, who
was then Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, having discovered that Aus-
tralia was a portion of the British Empire
—a fact apparently unknown before to
most Imperialists of the day—decided to
come out and explore it.
It was most interesting to us as Aus-
tralians to hear our guests, all of whom
held prominent positions in the ranks of
the Imperialism of the day, reciting their
personal experiences. One man had been
in India three times and in South Africa
twice, but he had never been to Aus-
tralia before; another had spent the last
15 years in travel through Canada;
others knew the West Indies and others
British East Africa, but none of them
had before seen Australia. The distance
was too great; the shipping too slow.
The visit, however, did great good. It
broke the polar ice of mystery and re-
moteness by which intercourse with Aus-
tralia had been cut off.
PREPARING FOR
THE ELECTIONS
When the elec-
tions loomed we
stood to lose four
of our total of 46
seats as a result of redistribution of
electorate boundaries. In addition,
there were seven others which we sorted
out as doubtful and in danger, leaving
us with a minimum of 35 out of our 46
seats which we believed we could count
upon as certainties.
Of these 35 we won 35, get-
ting unpleasant surprises only in two.
Victory at the election turned upon our
ability to bring this number once again
up to 46 at least, or to a larger number
if we could —that is, to win at least 11
other seats. Eleven or, as it turned out,
13 "was the minimum required in addition
to our certainties. These 13 were j to be
won from-the void and formless infinite
of; the unattached and undeclared mass.
While official Labor refused to make
distinctions between one district and
another, we had Tong ago learned the
distinguishing characteristics of them all,
and lines like barriers of fire divided the
electorates, where we had thought we had
a chance from those where we knew we
had' none.
We marked out a second group of
from 20 to 24 seats which we put into
a special class marked doubtful. This
included all seats which, although held
by our own men, were in danger, and
all the seats among those then held by
opponents which we regarded as capable
of being won by a sufficiently vigorous
attack.
The whole of the rest of the country
we marked otf as definitely held by the
enemy, and for the purpose of that cam-
paign ignored its existence. We concen-
trated our energies first on winning as
many as possible of the doubtfuls and,
secondly, on making our “certainties
actually certain. The enemy’s certainties
we left undisturbed.
We were fortunate in having as chair-
man of the year E. Farrar, who envisaged
the whole situation exactly as I would
have wished, and saw all its problems
with a .keen organising eye.
These efforts would have been of very
little effect, however, if we had not had
control of some funds. Fortunately, we
had some small resources of our own,
and we boldly resolved to spend them
all at this stage. When the battle was
fairly set, I argued, money would flow
in from several official sources. It was
now, in the preliminary stages, that we
needed the wherewithal to direct our pre-
paratory . arrangements. This private
fund was of our own creation. For
three years every Minister had made
some contribution towards it, and this
had been increased by gifts from some
of the more enlightened bodies in the
movement, which understood that £lOO in
the hands of the party would do more in
the way of Labor propaganda than £lOOO
in those of the organisation. The found-
ing of this fund had been a valuable
piece of foresight. So far as I know
it was unique in the movement.
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given in next week’s Bulletin.]


tl 111 111 ’” f ' r ’7'- r " * x- “'
I—- • ■•-■/
'-■■■■■■■ ■ ' ■" '■■'■ .■ M
L ' f* < ' * *.i /* I
}%J - ,
- '/••" * j- '■v** ?' > , „ |/ Ml
wflHHHflli
w
iUUiI
r-
)
Kr
*
jf.
i _^V-
!SS&
sy
m.
wm
w
/■;
■ ■■ 3
w/mm,
wm.
m.
m
mm.
wmmm
■‘>‘r:
mmmmmmm
mmm
m.
M
m
m
M
MR
r
j.
%-v-
-m
: V
-5
■
r
f w 2
ge?
r
ii
4
Wmmmm
VmtMwaMaMM
mm.
m».
m
HBMBi
(T) ( XJailiim , s
Scats (IJKisky
i
*
Sf
ij||i
#
m
; /
-: I.
aBF
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ds
TO ‘‘THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
•sut scriber* living outside Australia and New
Zealona should send <O/-).
&* y .•** <^«VS^


THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE OFFICE
assures Australians.
■lBllllllillllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllM
The death rate is lower in Australia than in other
countries.
THE CITY MUTUAL is the only Old-established
Mutual Millionaire Society that confines its
business to Australia.
Its funds are invested entirely in Australia in
unquestionably sound Australian securities.
It is, therefore, no wonder that the .CITY'MUTUAL
has for years past been able to pay larger bonuses
to its Policyholders than any other Life Assurance
Institution in the Commonwealth.
When taking out your next Policy, TAKE THE
BEST.
Insist on having the CITY MUTUAL Life Assurance
Policy for absolute security and bigger returns.
GEO. E. BRYANT,
Chairman of Directors.
W. BENNETT,
Managing Director.
