

TUf ffi W [■ *
ODAK
f
'JHm
fea
m
m:
**v»- s**** «_,. Jill
IS^S»w-
-. x -V,:. «* ' A-"- 5. ***.
■rtuijP
<; '<v-
" V "<^
-V-U
li
Hi
;; ■ ■:; •■
•|
»
11:1
You can make
“MOVIES”
Think of capturing in life-
like action the moods and
frolics of the children’s
growing-up days . • • think
of being able to have a
vivid movie record of all
your trips and holidays !
THINK OF THE THRILLS,
of the real, lasting pleasure of making and showing
your own movies—
—and remember that the new Cine-Kodak 8 principle
reduces movie-making to a fraction of its former cost
and places it definitely within your reach.
Cine-Kodak 8 is small, light and convenient in use,
but performs with unfailing precision. In use it is
simple as a Box Brownie. In three models prices
from £l3.
Let us arrange a demonstra-
tion or post catalogue of the
complete range of Bmm. and
16mm. Cine - Kodaks and
Kodascopes.
PRICES
Cine-Kodak 8:
Model 20, with ff 3.5
lens, £l3.
Model 25, with f/2.7 Anas-
tigmat lens, £l6.
Model 60, with f/1.9 lens, £3O
(Complete with cose).
Of all kodak dealers c-
KODAK fAUST) PTY LTD
379 Geo'ge .Street. Sydney; 'The Block," 284 Collin* Street. Melbourne, Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
3 7 Rundie Street, Adelaide ; 4 5 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth-; Ruthven Street. Toowoomba ;
East Street. Rockhampton ; Flinders Street. Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND L.tD 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 40 Princes Street, Dunedin:
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 68 1 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Lord Nuffield is Displeased
Vol. 56. —No. 2874.
Wednesday, March 13, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Why Suffer
with Itching, Burning
Eczema
when
Cuticura Soap
and
Cuticura Ointment
so quickly and effectively soothe
and heal. Bathe freely with the
Soap,. dry gently, and anoint
with the Ointment. It is sur-
prising how quickly the irrita-
tion and itching stop and how,
after a few treatments, the
eczema disappears. For more
than half a century, millions
all over the world have found
through Cnticura permanent
relief from skin troubles which
seemed almost hopeless.
Cuticura
Quick Safe Economical
SSLijWti
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135 .
THE AGE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements '
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO., \
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue!
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
f
8
Hi
m.
i
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people* and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Warwick
Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co ,
252 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
The Week’s Best:-
LLOYD GEORGE
HIS OWN
HOMER
Lloyd George’s
War Memoirs —
volumes three
and four (215.)
are to hand from
Ivor Nicholson
and Watson—deal with Ll.G.’s war Prime
Ministership.
There is something more than vaguely
familiar to Australians in Lloyd George:
He is the war-time W. M. Hughes all
over again—only more so in some of his
phases. Indeed, the two were so much
David, talk to him in-
kin that LI.G. can even afford to be
kindly about W.M.H.
....the pugnacious little Welshman
who concentrated the whole of his acute
mind and of his phenomenal energy in
beating down the foe In England in
1916 he did his fiery best to stir things
up.... He and Asquith did not get on too
well Hughes was equipped with a biting
tongue, the consultations between them
were not agreeable to either.
LI.G. publishes, as an illustration, The
Bulletin’s famous “David,-talk-to-him-
in-Welsh-and-pacify-him” cartoon. It is
not acknowledged to The Bulletin, and
Low’s tiny signature appears in one
corner. Next to it, and quite overshadow-
ing it, is the signature of W. M. Hughes.
One feels that LI.G. did not sign it to
overshadow W.M.H. in turn because of
his greater confidence in himself.
The first of the two volumes begins
with the new Prime Minister just in
office wrestling with the perplexities of
forming a national Government and lis-
tening with some satisfaction to the
burst of shrapnel “intended to hit Bal-
four, Curzon, Walter Long and Robert
Cecil” from the guns of people like L.
J. Maxse, of the “National Review,”
whose departed spirit is probably thun-
derstruck by the newfound importance
which he seems to have attained in
national history by reason of his appeal
to a Welsh viewpoint:
Anxious as we are to be quit of the
debris which encumbered the late Prime
Minister, we are hardly less anxious to be
rid of the equally useless rubbish by which
Bonar Law is surrounded... .All you have
to do, if 1 may say so, is to tell Bonar
Law and cb. to go to the devil and they
will come to heel... .The public is expect-
ing something better than a Cabinet of
poltical hacks who have been long
blown up.
In some of which LI.G. seems to
have heartily concurred. He had plenty
of trouble with Labor without being
harassed by wild Conserva-
tives, for Labor insisted on
several pounds of flesh be-
fore it would join. He offered
it, by way of a bribe, the
creation of a new Labor
Ministry and various pre-
texts such as the appointment
of a flood of the bureau-
cratic controllers of food,
shipping, etc., whom demo-
cracy, the sponsor of respon-
sible government, always
loves to enthrone.
However, everything was
settled in the end. A war
Cabinet was formed, two
members of which were part
of the “debris” which the
great Mr. Maxse had desired to see
thrown out—-Bonar Law and Curzon.
Another bit of “useless rubbish” —vide
again Mr. Maxse —was called in from
the Foreign Office when Foreign
affairs were in question—A. J. Balfour ;
and Uncle Arthur Henderson, who
became the great post-war apostle of
disarmament, represented Labor. Bonar
Law himself was appointed leader
of the Commons, and a new era dawned.
Balfour even became “a man of unique
and penetrating intellect,” and the quintet
(Milner being included) were able to
face the problem of Mr. Winston
Churchill, who was “one of the most re-
markable and puzzling enigmas of his
time” and kept out of the War Cabinet
by the influence of the Tories, and parti-
cularly of Bonar Law, who “would
rather have him against us every time,”
to the chagrin of the Prime Minister.
Thence, they turned their attention to
dangers as great as those involved in
politics—the headway which the Ger-
mans were making. Generally speaking,
the enemy was better equipped than the
Allies on all fronts except the Turkish.
LI.G. realised that “sea power was the
key to ultimate victory so long as either
party could manage just to hold their
own on land”:
The sea was the jugular vein of Allied
vitality.
Bethmann-Hollweg, the German Chan-
cellor, was answering Wilson Peace Notes
with glad shouts about the “indestruct-
ible strength and unshakable lines” of
the German Allies, and proclaiming mag-
nanimously that the Central Powers “did
not seek to crush or annihilate their ad-
versaries.” Submarine sinkings had
jumped from 252,000 tons in 1914 to
1.231.000 tons in 1916, and were to be
three times that quantity next year. In
each of seven months of 1917 over
300.000 tons were sunk. Then the con-
voy system was adopted, the loss cut in
halves and launchings virtually replaced
the losses in 1918.
The rest was sick muddle turned into
success by strong Welsh medicine. Every-
thing in which LI.G. had no hand seems
to have failed. The Nivelle offensive
developed from the work of a “cool
and competent planner” into the “gamble
of a crazy plunger.” The Petrograd
conference could not stem the tide of
revolution. The hesitations of Wilson—
“the most agile pussyfooter ever made,”
one British official correspondent in
Washington termed him —kept U.S.A.
out of the war until her entry became un-
avoidable. Arthur Henderson went to
Russia, and,
fresh from the glow of that exaltation
which great revolutions excite... .was out
of tune with the stern but frigid sense of
responsibility and self-control dominant
here. ...He had more than a touch of
revolutionary malaria. His temperature
was high and his mood refractory.
He was found arm in arm with Paci-
fists while still a member of the War
Cabinet. “Ramsay MacDonald, who was
openly opposed to the war, and to all
measures for its effective prosecution, and
who had been organising Pacifist propa-
ganda,” was one of them. There was
the Stockholm conference to which
British sailors refused to carry the
present Prime Minister and there were
Passchendaele and Caporetto before a
turn of the tide toward victory was
assured.
The chapter on Passchendaele has
caused more controversy than any other.
It is impossible to discuss the merits of
the case without Haig’s papers, which are
not available. He is accused of sup-
pression of vital information from the
War Cabinet and of every conceivable
kind of blunder, as the result of which
400,000 men were lost and
The only strategical and tactical result
achieved by the terrible fighting which
very nearly broke the British Army was
the establishment of salients which were
“unsuitable to fight a battle in” and which
“could not be retained if they were attacked
in great force.”
It does, however, occur to one’s mind
that, if Haig was guilty of all LI.G. says
he was guilty of, he should not have been
trusted with the command a moment
longer. It must have been gambling
with the Empire to keep him in control.
Yet LI.G. anticipates this viewpoint with
the lame excuses that “the campaign had
its worshippers” and that “a peremptory
dismissal of the victor would have been
regarded as if Wellington had been dis-
missed after Badajoz.”
Also, that there was “not one amongst
the visible military leaders who would
have been any better.” Competent ob-
servers since the war have told him that
“the only soldier thrown up by the war
on the British side who possessed the
necessary qualities was a Dominion
general”—Monash, it turns out.
But no report of this reached Downing-
street at the time, and LI.G. thinks that
“the fact that he was a civilian soldier
when war broke out may have had some-
thing to do with the tardiness in recog-
nising his exceptional abilities and
—Welsh and pacify him:
achievements.” So the war rolled on
amid bickerings until inter-Allied effort
secured the appointment of Foch as
Commander-In-Chief with an all-Allied
staff under him. At that point the fourth
volume ends.
Lloyd George loses none of his fire
and incisiveness as he proceeds. There
{Continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our policy which knows no deviation
“THE SENIOR STORE ”
Order your Easter Clothing now!
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
There are only six weeks to Easter, and here is the clothing
you will require. Order your suit-to-measure now so that there
will be plenty of time for it to be made up. You can leave your
order, and be confident that our expert cutters will give you the
very best in cut, style and finish. And, remember, at Anthony
Horderns’ you will get all your needs at “Famous Low Prices.
Men’s Suits to Order
of fine English Materials
I—At1 —At left —
These Suits are tailored by expert
craftsmen of fine materials made in
England. Your own ideas will be care-
fully studied, and our expert cutters
will be pleased to give their advice.
Smart new fancy Blues. Greys and
Smart new fancy Blues. Greys and
Browns available. Patterns posted on
~.a. 1 IT J *
application.
Price, per suit
Anthony Horderns
Horderns’
. . £B/6/-
;ssis”
: i II
\
, ft
Wmm\
Mm I
%
: \
Bplil
M
m
"1
ft -
i
X.
\
■I
mm
■ I
li^Si
Hi
'
Mi
.
1188
)S»
f Mi
1 V • .. .. •
BK# >
I
c
Hi I
MW aiiiiii
*_■». .• v ■
Ik.
.v
X
■gp
MWiMi
x- ■,„ ’MI
Til
■' - ; lii 1.
. X>X :
i - '-V-->
. ■ ■ ■■: \-.x
iliir
H<l
% .$§ ■:
J X Wmm
.
> \
■MM
/ \
f A : ‘
WmM.
HHHi
■
" :
IBM
■
■
llili
-
V
: v xBxA
xSB'B
ill :
m
I
f IS
i ■
a
Unillustrated —
“Tigertwist” Trousers
For hard, rough wear, try a pair of 1 I |/l
“Tigertwist” Trousers. You will be Xnr/f)
satisfied with the service they give /
you. \Fe recommend them, and they are un-
shrinkable. Dark Grey, Fawn and Olive
tonings. Sizes 30- to 46-inch waist.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 14/6
A
I, *
m
m
j
IP
4(1
w
■ m
"■■ 4 -
4
I B
mm
2 —Above —
Lounge Suit
Men’s Two- »7 £ /
piece Lounge j O/*"
Suits made /
from the world-renowned
“Slemish” Irish Donegal
Tweeds. They are speci-
ally tailored for outdoor
wear, and are smart, prac-
tic a 1 and serviceable.
Smart patterns. Anthony
Horderns’ Prices, per
suit .... 75/- and 105/-
4—At left —
Golf Jacket
holidays. Expertly cut,
with woollen collars and
cuffs and roomy pockets.
Made of a rain-resisting
Fawn Egyptian cotton.
Price 39/6
Also in English Grenfell
cloth. Price, each, 59/6
Australian Buckskin, 75/-
English Buckskin .. 100/-
Tou must have
a new Golf
Jacket for the
39/6
3 —At right —
Raincoat at
Raincoat now. Smart
woollen Gabardines proofed
against rain. Tailored with
rich art. satin linings in
the popular Raglan slip-on
style. Dark Grey, Fawn,
Olive or Navy Blue.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
It’s sure to
rain before
Easter, so you
will be wise to get your
each
75/-
Q Men’s Clothing
—G rou n d Floor,
George Street.
Freight paid to all
seaports in the Com-
monwealth and rail-
wa y stations in
New South Wales.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. SYDNEY Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


REFRESHING
\ K.B -
the most
yjk refreshing
of air
drinks!
/ V
*e-
\
This sparkling lager with its
refreshing flavour of malt and
hops is unsurpassed as an every-
day drink. After a hard day’s*
work... with meals... when you
are entertaining and on all other
occasions
_ drink Tooth’s
TOOTHS “
IN BOTTLES AND
LAGER
HALF BOTTLES


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(,near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.-
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
Obtainable from all
Booksellers or from
THE
ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
252 George St., Sydney.
Another New Book from the Endeavour Press
NOW ON SALE
u
KARANGI
9f
By F. S. HIBBLE
The novel which shared with Vance Palmer’s the FIRST PRIZE in the Melbourne
Centenary Competition.
Don’t miss reading this arresting, realistic novel.
As sincere and authentic a novel as the
Endeavour has yet published, it has for
setting the rich and in many ways pic-
turesque North Coast of N.S.W., and for
the theme the study of a girl who, though
she loves deeply and despises her parents’
marriage schemes on her behalf, allows
herself to drift into this arranged-marriage
existence with a wealthy farmer obsessed
by a futile ambition to beget a son; ber
temporary escape through a friendship
with the woman-of-the-world wife of the
local doctor, and the relighting of the old
flame of passion during her visit to the
city. The author spent years in the country
lie deals with, and he describes this phase
of its life faithfully and accurately.
PRICE 0/ (postage 3d. extra).
have been few war histories in any age to
compare with this, so copious, so clear,
so literary and at the same time so ex-
pressive of the personality of the central
figure in a gigantic national effort.
Whatever one may think of LI.G., there
seems to be no doubt that he is likely to
take his place beside the Pitts, Welling-
tons, Marlboroughs on the platform o£
history, a figure whose picturesqueness
gets into his writing and whose virility
made itself dominantly felt even in his
most trivial acts. There has been no
such self-confidence since the gods on
Olympus toppled.
M. H. E.
Maoriland
in War
O. E. Burton,
who, in The
Silent Division
(Angus and Rob-
ertson ; 65.), tells
the story of what
the Maorilanders did in the war, did his
own bit in the scrap as an officer, and
wears British and French medals. He
has read all the war books, and appre-
ciated such literary flavor as the best-
written of them possess.
Masefield’s Gallipoli and Remarque’s
Western Front provide him with chapter
preludes, and most of the war-time poets
have been drawn upon for apt allusions.
If the book had been just a trifle less
sincere and authentic such borrowings
might have proved annoying. As it is,
they garnish very attractively a story
that cannot be told entirely in print be-
cause of the laws of libel, but which is
here sketched in a lively, even racy, style.
The human side of the business, outside
the personalities of generals and other
high personages, is given full justice. You
may not believe that on a historic occa-
sion on Gallipoli there came from a
sorely-beleaguered trench a great cry of
“Komate! Komate! Kaora! Kaora!”
but there’s not the slightest doubt that
the Maorilanders were imbued with
.... the healthy Ironside spirit which
gave implicit obedience to the Lord-Gen-
eral on the day of the battle, but on the
day after laid him open to the rebuke of
a trooper who disagreed with him upon
a point of exposition of the Word....
As Burton goes on to say, “A New
Zealand private was, in his own opinion,
fully the equal of an English subaltern
—therefore, why salute him? He got too
much of it from his own men anyway.
The average New Zealander might be
vague about just what he was fighting
for, but he was definite upon the point
that the establishment of a military auto-
cracy was not one of his aims.”
Mr. Burton writes feelingly about lice,
about the girls who pro-
vided Diggers with exotic memories, and
with a touch of acid about chaplains.
He thinks the padres protested against
“two-up” and other gambling games be-
cause, having swallowed the notion of
supporting such a monstrous negation of
their creed as war is, they were anxious
to assert themselves as defenders of the
minor moralities.
Some were popular and most were re-
spected fairly well, but there was always
the barrier of rank which many never
managed to surmount. They always had a
tendency to be obsessed with the fact that
they were army officers and not primarily
“men of God.” Whether as chairman of
the unprintable sex lectures delivered at
Sling by an expert with a mind like a sewer
or as the central figure in the ceremonial
parade, they tended to become ineffective.
They had become part of a machine the
natural operation of which blocked and
thwarted them in their real functions.
Hard words, and they wouldn’t have
been used by one of Cromwell’s troopers.
But the Maorilanders are extremely logi-
cal and apt to hold all professions of
faith to their face value. Burton, who
admits frankly that he is now a “Chris-
tian Pacifist,” makes some observations
at the end of his book concerning what
the lessons of the war should mean to
Maoriland.
In the years of terror men learned
brotherhood. In the years ahead of us
can we practise it in the making of a better
country?
A. D. W.
Encouraging
Aspiring
Writers:
Part 11
If “A.E.” (B.
13/2/’35) wrote
pars, in his young
days the publica-
tion of his work
by papers which
paid little or no-
thing would have
encouraged him more than the rejection
of the same work by The Bulletin.
No individual or institution has given
more encouragement to Australian litera-
ture than The Bulletin, but a writer
who is very young—in literary experi-
ence —needs practice before his work
will attain The Bulletin standard.
Papers which make use of contributions
but don’t pay for them may be guilty
of sharp practice, and the encouragement
given may be of the same order as that
given by Aunt Felicity in the Children’s
Page of the “Daily Blurb,” but it is
encouragement just the same.
“A.E.” complains that he made only
eightpence profit out of one and eight-
pence paid for a par. A writer who is
so mindful of pence as to regard the
purchase of “a well-known Queensland
weekly” as a dead loss of sixpence
should show more initiative. Instead
of using a twopenny stamp for the post-
age of one par. he could have sent half
a dozen pars, in an unsealed envelope for
a penny; another penny stamp would
have sufficed for the claim and some
more pars. If he could not find among
his friends some patron of art willing to
supply a cutting from the magazine he
might easily have pinched it from the
School of Arts library.
I have contributed irregularly to a
“well-known Queensland weekly” which
pays one and eightpence for 18 lines
(possibly the same newspaper as “A.E.”
referred to). It has printed five of my
pars., and paid me fourteen shillings-odd.
Ten shillings of this has been spent on
copies of The Bulletin, which I began
buying when I first found I could turn
out marketable pars. The Bulletin has
not yet published any of my contribu-
tions, but I still have hope, and if this
gets into the Red Page the fact that The
Bulletin has published some of my
work will be more encouraging than the
payment. But at the time of writing I
must say that The Bulletin has given
me less encouragement than a “well-
known Queensland weekly.”
Wah-Wah.
“A.E.” was lucky to have got his
eightpence profit —and, after all, he got
fair treatment from that particular jour-
nal. Here are three of my own experi-
ences :
(1) Short article and photo, accepted
and printed by a Sydney weekly publica-
tion which requests contributors to claim
after a certain date each month. Made
my claim —nothing doing. Wrote again
—stony silence! Sent a third letter, with
stamped envelope for reply. As that was
over 12 months ago, and the veil hasn’t
lifted, I presume I need not maintain my
spirit of optimism. But I’m wondering
how other contributors fare.
(2) Three articles accepted, at a figure,
by a Melbourne syndicating service.
After a lapse, received a wire asking me
to forward duplicate of number one
article, as they’d mislaid it. Same duly
forwarded. Silence. Wrote asking about
payment: editor regretful, but in mov-
ing to new premises my articles mis-
laid ; would communicate later. Since
then’ (over two years ago), articles have
not turned up, and consequently I’ve
lost actual amounts promised and
chance of publication elsewhere;
(3) Sent article to Sydney weekly,
duly returned, with regrets. Following
issue of that paper carried my article,
with one or two slight alterations, and
with a different nom de plume. I learned
later that a fellow-writer had had a simi-
lar experience.
One bright spot, however, was when,
a few years back, a Queensland journal
to which I had submitted several articles
wrote apologising for delay in answering,
explaining that a sub-editor away on
holidays was the cause, and enclosing a
cheque prior to publication. That news-
paper, by the way, has given more than
one Australian author a start towards
the goal, and in that respect has done
something for the development of our
own literature, although it’s the Bully
that leads the way by a good many
lengths.
Swanline.
“A.E.” is the mouthpiece of the free-
lance in regard to the poor-rate pay of
Australian papers, but we must be fair.
The rate of pay of some of the papers is
niggardly compared with such as that of
The Bulletin, but there is, nevertheless,
a compensation—the standard required.
I’m sure of the identity of the Queens-
land weekly “A.E.” refers to, and have
had some considerable dealings with it at
the rate of lOd. per inch for pars, and
articles, and Bd. per inch for stories,
which on the surface sounds very poor.
But this paper is generous with space,
and allows plenty of verbal rope, so that
a par. can be spread out to make its
value almost equal, if not equal, that
of the concise par. of the higher-pay
papers. Similarly with stories ; and, as
the standard of the paper is not the ceil-
ing, it is a dumping-ground for stories
that otherwise would not see print. In
my opinion poor-rate papers are by no
means offenders against the sustenance of
the freelance, which cannot be said of
those papers which hide one’s stuff in a
dungeon for an indefinite period before
putting it into print. One recently-pub-
lished article of mine in a Sydney weekly
was printed 15 months after the date of
acceptance.
Kingsley Temple.
Several schools for the instruction of
aspiring freelances exist in Australia, but
it is obvious from “A.E.’s” lack of know-
ledge of the finance of the profession (he
doesn’t even know MS. postage rates)
that there is room for an instruction
school. As a beginning I give three rules
necessary to the freelance who wishes
to avoid insolvency: (1) Always use
minimum postage (if there’s a cheque
coming the cashier will put full postage
on that—and that’s the only item
that matters); (2) no hardened free-
lance ever buys books or papers (he
can’t do it and buy food as well); (3)
cultivate friendly relations with news-
agents (it is surprising how charitable
they become when they learn that one
belongs to Australia’s hopeless profes-
sion), for, apart from being allowed to
scan likely publications in search of one's
par., it is often possible to stab them for
a supply of paper and ink and even a
typewriter ribbon.
Billy See.
As one who has written in almost
every column of The Bulletin, besides
godfathering three freelance prize-
winners, I might be a little aid towards
encouraging those who would write pars.
First thing is study—study the publi-
cation until saturated with it and its style.
Next, regularity. If a writer would put
himself in the other fellow’s place, he
would see the necessity of this. If a sub-
editor knows he can expect f.a.q. stuff
from a certain man every week, it seems
certain if that sub. is human —and they
mostly are —that he will look for that
fellow’s stuff, knowing what to expect.
The next thing, and this is the greatest,
is an irrepressible spirit which refuses
to be discouraged. Keep at ’em—it’s
dogged as does it.
Various styles suit various publications.
The B. specialises in the direct stuff, no
interludes or ramblings. It’s useless to
try puffing. Some writers imagine the
more they get in the more they draw.
Against that they have to contend with
men who are skilled in the art of de-
tecting puffs, who make it a matter of
pride as well as of business to nip those
things in the bud, and who, if there is
puffing, haven’t the time to waste with
it when other stuff is waiting for them.
Having got through with the thing,
what next? That’s easy. Rule off a
sheet of paper with the headings, date,
page, pen-name, subject, lines; fill in,
and send to accountant.
As a writer who. has several books to
his credit, some serials, short-stories in
U.S.A., England, this country, Canada,
articles, sketches and other writings in
bulk, let me say that the par. is a most
satisfactory medium of expression. A
man can get in what he wants to say;
it’s a relief as well as a pecuniary
advantage.
Of course, there is a tremendous wast-
age. Any man who gets in 50 per cent,
of his pars, can rank himself as a genius.
I’m not a genius.
H. G. L.
Humorous
Story
Results
Having waded
through upwards
of 400 stories
(1,000,000 words),
the judges of the
Humor Story
Competition will give their verdict next
week. _
Meanwhile, these, possibly piffling,
points have struck one who has casually
turned over the entries. So far as he
could see every entrant —including some
of Australia’s best-known names —who
used “all right” spelt it “alright,” as if
it were one word. Not one who used
“disinterested” used it in its right mean-
ing—they all, apparently, thought it
meant lack of interest. Nobody ap-
peared to know the meaning of
“peculiar” or “transpired.” There was
hardly an entry, in handwriting or type-
writing, that did not have in it some
“literal” or grammatical error. One
entrant —who insisted that his entry
should be published as submitted or not
at all—used “in the case” three times,
and spelt “humorous fellow” “humerous
fellow.” Not less than half those who
described the competition their
entries spelt the “humor” with an “e.”
A Satchel of Books
Joseph Hamlet, author of Salmagundi
(Finn Bros.; 2s. 6d.), stands out in a
doubting world as one who knows his
mind, and speaks it with polysyllabic
vehemence. A Paralysing Indictment of
Our Present Civilisation he calls his
latest work ; and if words could para-
lyse—
Hear him on “Noisy Ignorami”;—-
They dislike rich people, not because
they often obtained their money dishon-
orably, but that they got it at all. They
are envious as eunuchs and irresponsible as
apes. Every mother’s. son of them has a
panacea for all industrial ills concealed
about his clothes, but few of them can
properly finance their butcher’s bills.
He speaks, or rather bellows and howls,
a great deal of commonsense on the
evils of “shouting”; on the absurdity
of giving a man “who has not 10 shil-
lings’ interest in the good conduct of the
Government, who can neither read nor
write, who oftentimes cannot speak the
English language” a . vote because he is
21 years of age; and on other social
and political questions. The literary
typhoon rages furiously for 90-odd pages,
and then dies down unexpectedly in the
form of a couple of genial, even senti-
mental, poems by Mr. Hamlet which
appeared originally in “Country Life.”


Skwiotisj^rt
m
SEPPII
W Io£> l 4;
~... V
»r
e|HE old pale
r
* i
> V'
* ' *t
& I a 1
•*
___ IjJaylftSftw
mn
i
i
*
Mill
*>•
isfe
A
v ''l
Hr/V Mk¥
.
M
fe> Mi-:
mm


The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —No. 2874.
March 13, 1935.
INDISPOSED.
“Publication of a British White Paper foreshadowing increased expenditure on defence, and giving German rearmament and ‘the spirit in which the German people
are being organised’ as reasons, led to Herr Hitler indefinitely postponing an arrangement for a discussion with the British Foreign Secretary on the ground that
he was suffering from a cold.”
“I vill not him see. Tell him I a cold haf. Ach, it’s near enoof—der Vite Paper haf given me a pain in der neck.”


TheBulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
LORD NUFFIELD IS ANNOYED.
Australia has managed to offend Lord Nuffield, who
was raised to the peerage for making the Morris
motor-cars and -trucks and spending his money freely.
Paying a hurried visit to the Commonwealth, his lord-
ship arrived at Fremantle in a genial frame of mind,
telling the reporters that “the British motor industry
had never been in a more flourishing condition” ; also,
that the English car had made “most rapid progress
in Australia in the past six years” and would “make
even greater progress in the next six years.” But
geniality deserted him when he left Fremantle. Per-
haps the Bight was to blame.
Adelaide pressmen found the baron in a gloomy
mood. Sales of English cars had fallen in Australia,
and were continuing to fall; from the manufacturer’s
point of view export to Australia was “fast becoming
entirely uneconomic.” Adelaide is the home of the
body-building industry, and his lordship felicitously
declared that the high cost of Adelaide bodies affected
the demand for his cars —that and the Australian
tariff. His “organisation” was, of course, guiltless ;
“the requirements of car-purchasers in the Dominions”
were “being studied” in the Morris factories “with
the object of producing vehicles which will give the
greatest service in the difficult ‘colonial’ conditions.”
This rather suggests that sales would have been
more satisfactory had the “object” been sought
earlier; but the traveller insisted that Australian bodies
and tariffs were responsible. He repeated this story at
Melbourne. There the mild little Minister of Customs
timidly mentioned that an unassembled British chassis
is admitted duty-free, and that the duty on the assembled
article is a mere 5 p.c., whereas an American chassis
is taxed 32£ p.c.—“higher than the duty required under
the Ottawa agreement.” But the information only
started Lord Nuffield on another tack.
He had been studying the trade position as
between Britain and the Commonwealth, and found
it “alarming.” For every Australian pound Britain
spent on Australian goods, Australia bought only
11s. 3d. worth of British goods. This would not and
could not continue, as “the most economical basis
of buying is to buy from those who buy from you.”
Britain has not followed this rule with Argentina or
Denmark, as the “Statesman’s Year-Book” shows.
British Imports from British Exports to
Denmark. Argentina. Denmark. Argentina.
(Thousands omitted.) (Thousands omitted.)
1929 .. £56,177 £82,446 .. £10,670 £29,074
1930 .. 54,117 56,665 .. 10,248 25,234
1931 .. 46,695 52,714 .. 8,656 14,785
1932 .. 40,569 50,885 .. 9,852 10,660
1933 .. 35,424 41,691 .. 11,795 13,082
His lordship’s remarks were cabled to London,
and Mr. Bruce replied. He pointed out that the terms
of trade had “altered enormously in favor of Britain.”
The primary produce exported from Australia has
fallen about 50 p.c. in sterling value, whereas the
values of British exports, chiefly manufactures, have
been been pretty well maintained.
In effect, Australia’s purchases in Britain have
declined from sheer inability to buy more and remain
solvent. While British prices and charges have shown
little alteration, Britain has been getting Australian
wool at 7d. a pound (sterling), butter about the same,
lamb at 3d. to 4d., copper at £2B a ton, wheat and
fruit so cheap that the Australian taxpayer has had
to find millions to keep the growers on their farms.
All this, while a tragedy to Australians, has assisted
the Morris enterprises, or at least the 30,000 people
employed in them. And, though other borrowers have
defaulted, Australia, out of its greatly reduced income,
has kept up its interest payments to Britain, a circum-
stance which has certainly helped Lord Nuffield to
make his millions.
Still harping on the Old Man’s ungrateful
daughter, who doesn’t buy enough Morris cars, Lord
Nuffield went on to Wellington. To Maoriland he
bore compliments and a generous gift of £60,000
for the treatment of crippled children; for Australia
he had still more querulous complaints, accompanied
by ill-informed (and ill-conditioned) comparisons and
a dark prophecy. He “could not help referring to
the great difference between the two Dominions in
regard to buying the products of their best customer,
Britain.” There is no great difference. Australia’s
last “Overseas Trade Bulletin” gives later figures than
the “N.Z. Year-Book, 1935”; but here is how the
countries stood, with regard to their trade with Britain,
for seven years to the end of 1933 (calculations in
sterling, and thousands omitted):
Imports from Britain. Exports to Britain.
Aus. M.L. Aus. M.L.
1927 .. .. £67,795 £21,464 £47,674 £36,877
1928 .. .. 63,098 21,289 .. 52,444 40,510
1929 .. .. 57,028 22,560 .. 52,076 40,957
1930 .. .. 54,254 20,333 .. 66,306 36,015
1931 .. .. 23,291 12,192 .. 53,339 30,940
1932 .. .. 17,409 11,496 .. 57,740 32,449
1933 .. .. 23,542 10,839 .. 67,240 35,571
The expansion of Australian exports in 1930 and
1933 is attributable to the transfer of the gold reserve ;
£22,948,000 worth of gold was sent to London in
1930 and £20,346,700 worth in 1933. Including the
latter item, which was roughly £10,000,000 more than
the value of the gold shipped to London in 1932
and in 1934, Australia’s exports to Britain in 1933
amounted to 55.7 per cent, of its total exports,
whereas Maoriland’s exports to Britain amounted to
86.03 per cent, of its total. Australia has to find
£30,000,000 annually for interest in Britain ; Maori-
land, £8,000,000. When these commitments are met,
Australia’s trade balance with Father Bull is really
less favorable than the sister-Dominion’s. Yet Lord
Nuffield threatens us with “a far-reaching, perhaps
tragic, trade disruption between Australia and Britain,
failing an immediate move to overcome the grave
and increasing lack of reciprocity.” Evidently the
ability to become a motor-millionaire is not incom-
patible with gross ignorance and impudence.
CHAIN STORES AND PLAIN STORES.
There were chain stores before the depression, but
most of them are depression-growths. They began
in the cities, spread to the suburbs and country
towns, and are still spreading. Established
city department stores can stand up against them,
but the chain, with its garish front and its long
counters piled with cheap stuff, is an omen of ruin
to many a suburban and country storekeeper. And
in the struggle against it even the city department
store is handicapped by its predilection for personal
service, adult labor and the preservation of human
relations between seller and buyer.
Chain stores have no such traditions. They give
service which is largely impersonal, and employ labor
which is largely female, being advantaged in this
respect by industrial laws which have not been
modernised. In N. S. Wales 50 p.c. of their staffs
may be juniors, beginning at 9s. 6d. a week and rising
by increments until a girl who has escaped the sack
as a birthday present may, at 20, claim a whole £1
14s. 6d. Every department store has a staff of packers
who are paid good union wages. In chains children
may be seen doing the packing—in paper bags.
A Bulletin man, walking through a chain store,
counted 170 girl and young-women employees and
10 men. No thrilling spectacle in a time of great
unemployment among adults of bofh sexes, and the
feelings it excited were deepened by a study of chain-
store balance sheets. One concern paid 30 p.c. in
1930, 25 p.c. in 1931, 17* p.c. in 1932, 221 p.c. in
1933 and 25 p.c. in 1934. During years which have
been sorrowful for scores of thousands of Australians,
chain-store cos. have done famously.
This has not been the case with the Common-
wealth Traders and Storekeepers, many of whose
members have been as truly pioneers as pastoralists
and farmers. They have signed a petition asking
the Commonwealth Government to check the mono-
polistic tendencies of chains, to oblige them to employ
a greater proportion of adult labor and to see that the
standards of goods are maintained and that manu-
facturers are protected against coercion into unprofit-
able methods of production. They suggest “taking
from the chain store by special taxation the advan-
tages which it secures by special discounts for quantity
purchases.” They propose a turnover tax —\\ p.c.
on concerns with five to ten stores, 2\ p.c. on those
with 10 to 20 stores and 5 p.c. on those with more than
20, £20,000 gross revenue to be reckoned as a store
maximum.
Mr. Casey, the Acting-Treasurer, informed a
deputation that he had investigated the chains on his
own account. Without actually rejecting the proposals
submitted to him, he said he knew of no Government
which had used taxation “as a discriminatory weapon
to adjust economic or business matters.” Mr. Casey
was born in Queensland, but obviously he has not
studied the Queensland income- and relief-tax
schedules. His own Government is a party to taking
so much from Queenslanders receiving income from
property that a man with a nominal £BOOO p.a. is
left with less than a man with a nominal £5OOO
p.a. His own Government, moreover, has not hesi-
tated to use taxation as a means of “adjusting” the
affairs of wheatgrowers and fruitgrowers.
Other countries furnish precedents for tax-regula-
tion of chain stores. France, the mother of chains,
has a rental tax differentiating against them, and a
turnover tax. The U.S.A. has distribution taxes, sales
taxes and turnover taxes. In Canada a Welfare
Commission has recommended legislation, one of the
grounds being that chain-store wages are so low
that recipients of them have to turn to relief
funds for succor. Nova Scotia is trying plans
on all fours with those urged by the Commonwealth
Traders and Storekeepers. It is no easy problem
anywhere, but no Australian Government worthy the
name can stand by and see a useful body of Aus-
tralians sacrificed on the altar of cheapness. The
balance will have to be redressed in the interests of
those who, unlike the chains, have carried heavy
burdens of credit in the bad times.
THE LAW AND THE CAR.
Last year in N. S, Wales 173 persons were killed
and 3738 were injured by motor-cars, -cabs, -cycles,
etc., within the metropolitan traffic area; the figures
for the country were 112 killed and 1129 injured.
The statistics for the other States were about the
same relatively to population.
The holocaust proceeds month by month and
year by year, largely because in Australia the law
treats motor crimes more leniently than other crimes.
America was the first to discover “repeaters” in its
car-driving population. Roughly 75 per cent, of
accidents that have not been caused by the alleged
carelessness of pedestrians (say, three-fifths of the
whole) are the work of 25 per cent, of drivers.
England’s Road Traffic Act contains drastic provi-
sions for the elimination of “repeaters.” A driver who
has been convicted twice of “careless driving” is liable
(1) to be disqualified for three months, (2) to be tested
afterwards for safe driving and rejected. Under
this system, according to recent reports, many out-
standing menaces to life and limb have been
eliminated. In Australia the license of the worst
driver is as safe virtually as that of the best.
“Our main trouble about people who illegally
use cars,” said a police prosecutor in a Sydney
court recently, “is that when chased by the police they
go at such a terrific rate that they are likely to cause
accidents.” The magistrate responded by sentenc-
ing accused, who had “illegally used” (the Law’s
euphemism for “stolen”) two valuable cars, to a
month’s hard labor. On the same day at another
Sydney court a man pleaded guilty to stealing “a
suitcase and clothes valued at £23 25.” Six months!
Apart altogether from the facts that the car,
as a rule, is worth much more than £23-odd, is the
easiest of all valuables to steal, and is the safest to
break up and sell, there is the consideration that an
illegally-used car is, ipso facto, a danger. Even when
the police are not in pursuit the driver is handicapped
by nervousness and ignorance of the car’s capabilities.
In a recent American investigation it was found that
77 per cent, of stolen cars had been in accidents
while in the thieves’ hands.
In N. S. Wales last year only 16 deaths and 240
injuries were attributed to mechanical defects in cars,
but every motorist knows that such figures fail to
reflect the real position. Defective mechanism is at
least partly to blame for many accidents ascribed
wholly to pedestrians. Last year 34 were killed and
675 injured as a result allegedly of “crossing road-
ways without care” ; 16 were killed and 270 injured
while “running across roadways.” A number might
have escaped if the cars concerned hadn’t been more
or less out of order. There are veteran models on
every road in the Commonwealth that a Malcolm
Campbell couldn’t keep out of trouble at a pinch.
One was mentioned in the Glebe Summons Court.
A police witness stated that when he gave defendant
the signal to stop the car travelled 25 yards before it
was pulled up. When both foot and hand brakes were
full on, he found he could push the car.
The magistrate didn’t make an order for the
destruction of the death-trap, as he might have done
in the case of a dangerous animal; this being a car
case, a £2 fine was considered enough.
When it is remembered that the owners of
dilapidated old cars are rarely insured against third-
party risk, and that car thieves are never insured and
are financially incapable of recompensing their victims,
it becomes still more evident that the law with regard
to car offences should be tightened up. The welfare of
the car industry, the reputation of careful motorists
and the safety of the public all clamor for the reform.
AUTHORS’ WEEK.
According to the chroniclers of Babbittry, every
important town in America’s flannel-nightgown belt
has its genius. As poet, painter or story-teller, the
great one is comparable, in the opinion of the faithful,
to Shelley, Leonardo or Balzac, as the case may be.
It is a weakness of remote communities from which
Australia has never been entirely free.
Australians are remarkably level-headed in most
directions. Sport, for example, is a matter that
hundreds of thousands of Australians constantly think
and talk about, and thoroughly understand.
Art and literature are different. Few are suffi-
ciently interested to object passionately when rubbish
is promulgated. “In Alf Pugley,” writes Alfs friend
Snigson, “Australia has given to the world a novelist
of pure genius. No patriotic Australian will deny
that Pugley is among the few indisputably great men
living to-day.” If Pugley possesses a spark of grati-
tude, which he usually does, he reciprocates by pro-
claiming that Snigson is also a genius in the capacity
of artist, poet or whatever Snigson’s line happens to
be; and so it goes on. If a sporting editor wrote that a
third-rate local heavyweight was equal to Max Baer, or
that Gilbert was as good as Larwood, 90 per cent, of
his paper’s readers would protest. Nobody protests at
analogous references to Australian authors and artists.
There have been many overseas attempts to
identify the contemporary great. Melba figured in
some past lists. So did Monash, Samuel Griffith (he
has been compared by British and American lawyers
to Marshall) and Mackennal. Australia is not repre-
sented in the latest compilation, which contains 37
illustrious names. It would be if we had the cultural
equivalents of Bradman or Ponsford, Grimmett or
O’Reilly ; but we haven’t.
The national danger of a celebration like Authors’
Week is its liability to cause truths of this kind to
be drowned in waves of press-created enthusiasm.
It is a great chance for the ballyhoo-merchants. They
talk and write about the country’s geniuses so loudly
and confidently that members of the public who
haven’t bothered to consider the question seriously
begin to repeat their provincialisms.
We have some sound novelists, but none within
many miles of Wells or even Walpole; one or two
poets, but no Masefield; half a dozen admirable
painters, but none of the stature of lohn, much less
Picasso. If those who identify themselves with
Authors’ Week will remember these things in their
writings and speechifyings Australia may get through
with its dignity unimpaired.
HENRI SINGEMOINE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Compulsory” Arbitration.
In the strike at the Government abattoirs Brisbane
has provided a particularly vivid example of the
futility of that vast and costly clutter of industrial
legislation which has been built up for the allegedly
specific purpose of preventing just this sort of thing.
The Industrial Court and the Meat Industry
Board, which between them were supposed to possess
all the requisite powers to put a summary stop to
any such lawless proceeding, have done nothing.
Premier Forgan Smith, on the verge of an election
in which every Labor vote will have to pull its full
weight to secure the return of his Government, has
confined himself to vague generalisations to the effect
that the strikers will have to learn where they stand
in the community. The secretary of the union to
which the strikers belong has announced somewhat
cynically that it will be a matter of who can hold
out the longest.
The board has arranged reasonably well for local
supplies. But this matter of local supplies is not
enough. The abattoirs is an important export centre.
Built by Swifts, it is one of the most modern estab-
lishments of its kind in Australia. Interference with
its effective action strikes a blow at the pastoral
industry, both by interfering with overseas loadings
and the arrangements which have to be made long
ahead for ensuring their regularity, and by destroying'
confidence amongst overseas buyers. The chilled-
beef export trade, from which so much is hoped,
stands in danger of being seriously crippled at its
very outset. Over a large area of Queensland
pastoralists are already in a bad way through drought,
and this additional burden is a serious menace to
the key industry in which they are engaged.
It is a situation which is outside the region of
argument or discussion. If, confronted with an illegal
strike by a few members of a particular union, the
Government, the Industrial Court and the Meat Board
cannot bring about a summary and conclusive settle-
ment, then “compulsory” arbitration is obviously
useless and should be abolished. While it has broken
down in Brisbane, Sydney has witnessed the spectacle
of Federal Arbitration Judge Drake-Brockman, revers-
ing a judgment of his Court, granting the 44-hour
week, together with wage-concessions, to thousands of
N.S.W. railwaymen. His award will add £90,000 a
year to the cost of the insolvent Government railways,
and the N.S.W. taxpayers will have to pay every
penny. It is taken for granted that taxpayers never
go on strike.
— *
A Cricket Ground Monopoly.
Unless the Stevens Government intervenes, Sydney’s
two principal sporting grounds, both held in trust for
the people and reserved in the first place for amateurs,
are to be handed over to a blatant professional organ-
isation, the Rugby Football League.
This concern has for years had full control of
the Sports Ground, and, if its arrangement with the
trustees is permitted, it is to get the Cricket Ground
for 10 winters, with the right of taking it for another
long term. During the week its secretary exultantly
declared that the trustees had “given us the ground.
This year, and for nine more years, it is going to pay
us to play there.”
The League had its origin before the war, when
a pony-racing magnate established it, first buying a
large number of Rugby Union players. It increased
its hold during the war by carrying on its competi-
tions, although the amateur football bodies suspended
theirs. It has had a somewhat chequered career since,
and its finances have given cause for worry, while
its jingling-guinea game has made headway nowhere.
Rugby League football is played only in parts
of N. S. Wales, Queensland and Maoriland (where
its foothold is precarious) and the North of England.
Rugby Union, British Association and the Australian
game are played in all the six Australian States, and
the vogue of Rugby Union and “Soccer” is world-
wide. Yet for club, inter-State and international
matches, these three codes are to have only five
Cricket Ground dates per year among them, and
when their applications clash with those of the profes-
sional crowd that crowd’s interests are to come first.
Professional fftotball is not a thing that any
Government should go out of its way to encourage.
It is a calling that leads nowhere. There is a small
export of footballers to the North of England, but
it is a one-way trade with a shabby history. On
hard Australian groonds the professional doesn’t last
long, and when his brief day of glory is over he
has to look round for a job with little money to
sustain him and an imperfectly-learned trade to go
back to or a new one to be acquired somehow. A
fickle public has no use for a played-out footballer,
and his subsequent career is apt to be unhappy. One
hanged himself the other day.
The experiment of placing the historic Cricket
Ground under Rugby League control was tried in the
1920’5, and was attended by malodorous incidents.
For example, after a match between a North of
England team and a Queensland-N. S. Wales side an
umpire was assaulted in the members’ stand, which
on such occasions was infested with win-tie-or-
wrangle “sports.” There was relief among sports-
men when the League’s winter monopoly expired.
It will be no credit to Sydney or to the Government
if it is renewed. The Government could veto it, and
should ; but the matter is in the hands of Mr. Butten-
shaw, the Minister of Lands. The good Buttenshaw
has no backbone.
*
Santa Claus in the New Hebrides.
Dear Bulletin, —The masters of finance in the New
Hebrides have maintained until recently, for con-
dominium government purposes, that the £1 sterling
is worth 124 francs and the £1 Australian 95 francs.
They have now decided to adopt the daily London-
Paris rate, but not as regards payment of salaries to
the gentlemen in the condominium service. And
small salary cuts are announced. For example, sur-
veyors—there are four, two British and two French —
have nominally been reduced from £5OO to £475.
Actually their £475 becomes £775.
Salaries are fixed on a sterling-franc rate of
124. Half is paid in sterling and half in francs. So a
surveyor on £475 (or 58,900 fr.) will receive £237
10s. sterling and 29,450 fr. But £237 10s. sterling
is worth £296 17s. 6d. Australian, and 29,450 fr. is
worth £478 17s. 3d. Australian —£775 14s. 9d.
There is a large British store in Vila operating
in Australian currency. Conversion of a “cut” salary
into Australian money allows the sufferer to buy nearly
all his requirements without loss. As he also has
the Australian market to draw upon, there is nothing
to prevent him converting the whole of his salary and
putting away for the rainy day more than the average
man in Australia can do.
Naturally there have been deficits. The British
and French Governments have been making them up.
To cut down their contributions new duties have now
been imposed which allow the unfortunate settler to
contribute towards maintaining the staff of Govern-
ment officials.
The surveyors have been shown merely because
they are a department to themselves, and, therefore,
easy to quote as an example. There are a President
of the Court, two Judges, assorted clerks, a Treasurer,
a Collector of Customs, and sundry others all
benefiting from Santa Claus, who has, so far as they
are concerned, become a resident of the New
Hebrides.- Needless to say, there are no vacancies in
this service. — Yours etc., Fan Mara.
:
The Shark “Menace.”
An interesting study in the effect of mob psychology
on politicians and flapper papers is provided by
Sydney’s “shark menace.” There is no need for
anybody to be taken by a shark. By bathing inside
enclosures or keeping in crowds any person can
reduce the risk to nothing.
Since 1918 in N. S. Wales 26 persons have been
attacked by sharks. Twenty-one attacks were made
late in the afternoon, 23 in dull weather. In no case
was anybody attacked on a crowded beach. In 24
cases the victims were bathing alone or isolated ; in
the other two a few bathers were not far away. With
each tragedy the factors are publicly emphasised. Yet
every few months some foolhardy youngster risks
his own life and that of others by swimming under
the conditions which go with shark attack. Even
with this deliberate courting of danger deaths and
injuries through sharks in 15 years have averaged only
about 14 per year. At the first March week-end alone
there were four deaths and nearly 30 injured in
motor-car accidents.
The drunken motorist is infinitely more dangerous
and frequent than the shark. He generally goes
where the victims are, while the sea-raider must wait
for his meat to come to him.
There has just been laid on the table of the N. S.
Wales Legislative Assembly a report of a “Shark
Menace Advisory Committee.” This runs into 35,000
words of type and two full-page photographs of a
shark-proof enclosure at Durban which is about one-
third the size of Sydney’s enclosed pool at Manly.
The subject-matter begins, in the usual way, with an
outline of terms of reference, dissertations on previous
investigations, essays on the species and habits of
sharks, evidence by dozens of witnesses, pages of
recommendations, reams about finance.
Anybody who wants to read this tome can get
it for 3s. from a Government which hasn’t worried
to hold a public inquiry into malnutrition among
children or into losses of life among tramwaymen
through departmental failure to do away with the
deadly footboard.
*
Driving with the Brake On.
In other countries, notably the U.S.A., building
regulations have kept pace with the advance of
science. In Australia they belong to various ages,
some going back to the days of Queen Victoria. The
handicap of this dead hand on the progress of Aus-
tralia was the burden of the address which president
H. G. Jenkinson delivered to the Engineers’ Congress
in Melbourne.
“A dreadful example is provided by frame build-
ings, where we design for a live load of 601 b. to
1001 b. a square foot of space, and have the satisfac-
tion of seeing the building stand up nobly to its actual
impost of 51b. or 61b. to the square foot,” observed
Mr. Jenkinson. The tensile strength of cement has
been improved out of sight. In structural steel
miracles have been accomplished. Yet engineers are
compelled to continue erecting girders of 20 tons
where girders of five tons of modern steel would
carry just as great a burden. In effect, there is lament-
able waste of material, labor, transport and power,
together with danger to life and property.
Capable engineers estimate that with regulations
amended to accord with modern ideas 25 p.c. to 30
p.c. of the cost of the more important buildings—
using the term in the widest sense —-would be saved
to the community. The trouble is that the matter
is in the hands of municipal councils. Years
pass and regulations are unchanged, though during
every day of those years some scientist is working out
fresh inventions for lightening steel, strengthening
cement, designing new forms for safe construction
and devising new methods of efficiency.
Technical questions should be left in the hands
of technicians. Municipal councils should be relieved
of the responsibility that frightens them into incapa-
city. The framing of building regulations should
be remitted to a body composed of skilled engineers,
who would meet periodically and revise them in
accordance with the advance of science.
#
This Oppression.
Democrats whose hearts bleed for the underdog
should read carefully the circumstances under which
Mr. I. W. Williams is going to Russia. Mr. Williams
is a Queensland engine-driver. He has been nomi-
nated by the southern Queensland branch of the
A.R.U. to attend the Moscow May Day celebrations
at the expense of the Russian Government. These
are held annually to enable Stalin and company to
explain the beauties of revolution and Sovietism to
delegates from less-favored nations.
That Mr. Williams is a fit representative of the
Australian underdog may be seen from lengthy and
respectful paragraphs about him which have been
published in the Queensland press. He has had a
steady job for 30 years in the Government railways,
and for at least half the term the taxpayer has fur-
nished part of his wages. He sits on the Appeal
Board which is allowed to mitigate the tyrannies of
capitalism to the railway worker. He is devoting his
“six months’ long service leave” to the journey, to
Lenin’s Elysium. And, scorning trains, he is to be
“motored to Sydney” by a Tnember of his family, who
proposes to “make a holiday tour by road” and see
him again on the Orontes in Melbourne and Adelaide.
Such privations as these reformers suffer would
scarcely be credited in Russia.
♦
Bankruptcy Costs.
C. F. W. Lloyd to The Bulletin:
A contributor (B. 27/2/’35) challenges a statement I made
in court to the effect that in the administration of estates
25 p.c. was a fair estimate to cover forced realisations and
receivership charges. He furnishes you with the receipts
and expenditure in the bankrupt estate of a businessman,
deceased, who carried on a stnallgoods trade. A perusal of
this account discloses that the Official Receiver’s charges
were considerably less than 25 p.c.
The smallness of the dividend paid in this estate was
evidently owing to the fact that there was expensive litigation
for which the Official Receiver is not responsible. Where
there is litigation, only the creditors can authorise it.
This litigation cost £662 11s. lOd.; taxed costs of petition,
£35 4s. lid.; sales tax, £37 Is. lOd. These three items at least
cannot be charged against the Official Receiver’s expenses, as
such charges represent expenses of a compulsory petition and
law costs for some action instituted by creditors.
In the account referred to the expenses of the Official
Receiver were about 12 p.c. on the total realisations,
£1822 3s. 7d.
Remuneration .. .. .. £lOB 17 3
Securing and protecting assets .. 915 4
Postage, stationery, etc. .. 15 10 1
Reserve for advertising, etc. .. 10 0
£216 12 8
It will be seen therefore that the actual expenses of the .
trustee in the estate were considerably less than 25 p.c. I
might add that, in my 27 years’ experience as an official
assignee or trustee, in the great majority of estates where there
were realisations 25 p.c. is a libera! estimate to cover the
trustee’s expenses.
Australian Museums.
A new word is needed to describe Australian
museums. They are, for the most part, dismal vaults,
which smell of decay. Sydney has one staffed by
a set of underpaid scientists —as usual, the lay secre-
tary gets a lot more than the experts. The epitaph
on the staff will probably be that it did its best with
the £15,140 p.a. which the Government spends on
the institution. The whole collection, good, bad and
indifferent, could be quietly lost in one bay of South
Kensington. It is an ancient foundation —Governor
Darling established it in 1827 ; but no real attempt
has been made with it to limn the progress of Aus-
tralian history by (for example) presenting the cos-
tumes and utensils of each generation. It houses
native weapons and dead beasts.
Then there is the Technological Museum, care-
fully hidden in a suburb —a small, sad collection of
static curiosities. Hargrave offered the N. S. Wales
Government his pioneer flying models for this morgue.
The Government turned wearily over in its sleep
and went on snoring. The Munich Technological
and Mechanical Museum sent a special emissary to
get these treasures from Australia. They are dis-
played in a hall about a third of the size of the whole
of Sydney’s mechanical arcana, but are merely a tiny
item in a vast repository of moving machinery,
sectioned and displayed in action and surrounded
every hour of the day by eager students. Sydney,
when it woke up, took Munich’s left-overs. Munich
has about half the population of Sydney.
The first motor-car to make the double crossing
of Australia was offered to N. S. Wales for permanent
display. Somebody put the letter in his pocket—there
was no reply. South Kensington features that car
as a central exhibit of its motoring display. It didn’t
have to be offered.
Lastly, there is the Mines Museum. Very few
miners have ever heard of it, which is just as well.
A couple of rooms of unrepresentative small speci-
mens laid out in glass cases in a gloomy building on
the harborside beyond the morgue and some dirty
models and maps form its staple. There is nothing
to teach the student anything useful about formations.
Specimens from various fields —if they can be called
specimens—lie sadly jumbled together ; the sort of
thing one might find to instruct a junior class in a
public school. A deplorable sight.
Melbourne’s National Museum, with its fine
collection of stone implements, its Curtis British insect
section, the Howitt specimens—44,000 items in this
lot—and its excellent botanical and geological dis-
plays, is different. In other States a little more of the
Education votes might with advantage be spent on
museums.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ray”; In a Vic. village I met him—
the Master Salesman. He was a butcher,
the only one, and the first time I bought
meat he charged me exactly double the
town price. The next time his steak was
only a penny per pound dearer ; and it
was the same on the third day with his
chops. On the fourth his prices soared
again. I thought of telling him that eat-
ing meat like rubber was bad enough
without his figures having the same
elasticity, but instead I puzzled the thing
out, as Sherlock Holmes might have
done, and presently the solution dawned
on me. He charged me double only
when I was alone in the shop ; apparently
his nerve failed when local customers
were present. After I had solved the
puzzle I used to peep through the wire
and flies to make sure there were other
buyers inside, and glance along the street
to see if there were more behind me.
* -e * *
“Paul Pilgrim”: One thing that strikes
the visitor to Maoriland is the crisp and
clear enunciation of the Dominion folk.
You will find it among business and pro-
fessional people, laborers, farm-hands,
shop-workers—in fact, everywhere. Most
Australian visitors are astonished to dis-
cover that to the Maorilander they speak
drawlingly.
* * * *
“A. de G.”: Amongst the trippers by
the Franconia, which visited Sydney the
other day, was a lady described by the
daily press as “widow of the ex-Crown
Prince of Portugal.” The last Crown
Prince of Portugal was shot in Lisbon,
together with his father, over 30 years
ago, and he was certainly unmarried.
Ex-King Manoel, who was younger
brother of the murdered Crown Prince,
left no heir ; so the identity of this ex-
Crown Princess seems a great deal of a
mystery.
* * * *
“McCrimmin”: Sydney Domain was
edified on a recent Sunday by a Punjabi
playing the bagpipes as expertly as if
he hailed from Skye itself. Paid Oman,
as he calls himself, says he is self-
taught, but the pipes are well known in
Hind, where they have long been adopted
by native regiments, especially those of
the North-West. Australians campaign-
ing in Sinai and Palestine will recall
the pipe band of the Gurkhas and such
regiments as Outram’s Sikhs. Pipes of
a sort are the accepted musical instru-
ments of many Indian peoples, especially
those of the hills. Hills, pipes and a
hunger for other folks’ property always
seem to go together.
“Ibn el Issar”: The five leading princes
of India are to take on the title of King
at the Delhi Imperial Durbar to com-
memorate King George’s jubilee. They
will have the right to exchange diplo-
matic envoys with the British Court, and
will be responsible to the King-Emperor
direct. The five are the Gaekwar of
Baroda and the Maharajah of Mysore,
both Mahratta States ; the Moslem Maha-
rajah of Kashmir, who won undying
fame as “Mr. A.” in the great London
blackmail case; the 18-year-old Maha-
rajah of Gwalior and the Nizam of
Hyderabad. The last is the paramount
prince of India, and rated the richest
of living men.
* * * *
“G.W.C.”: 1 can supply “Surafend”
(B. 27/2/’35) with the information he
asks about the Allenby portrait. It was
painted by Cole at a cost of £5OO, and
was presented by General (now Field-
Marshal) Chetwode to Allenby’s mother
on behalf of the officers who served in
the Palestine campaign. I saw the pic-
ture in 1922 on the wall of the dining-
room of the Allenby home at Felixtowe,
Suffolk. A few months later the mother
died, and the picture, in accordance with
the terms of the gift, passed to Allenby
as a family heirloom.
H* 'I I H 5
“O. de V.”: I recall an occasion when
the mangling of a verbal message passed
along a line of troops (B. 6/ 3 / ’35)
deepened the misunderstanding between
ourselves and Fritz, to say nothing of the
repercussions nearer home. We had a
“I don't Want to complain, mum, but the gentleman in fifty-seven's NO
gentleman.”
brigadier who seldom ventured up the
line, but sometimes when things were
quiet he would pay us a flying visit, which
generally added to his unpopularity.
One morning the sergeant got the oil
from the support line and passed the
word along the trench: “Look out! The
General’s coming!” It reached us, three
bays along, as “Stand to! The Germans
are coming!” I never discovered the
form of the message as it reached the
company on our left, but some zealous
n.c.0., abruptly roused from sleep, was
blamed for ordering the sudden out-
burst of rifle and l.g. fire that halted the
brig, and woke Fritz into replying in
kind, with a row of whizz-bangs for
luck. However, the mistake had its com-
pensation ; it caused the Brig, to make
a hurried withdrawal, and enabled the
line to settle back to its morning sleep.
* * * *
“Sydney Cove”: “Tank Stream” (B.
30/l/’35) is a little astray in his grouch
based upon the press reports, necessarily
brief, of those present at the Pioneer
Club’s anniversary luncheon. As a matter
of fact, there were among the gathering
great-grandsons of surgeon Thomas Arn-
dell, Colonel George Johnston and
William Nash —all First Fleeters —and
descendants of somewhat later settlers,
such as George Suttor and James Chis-
holm (1790), William Shelley (1798),
Gregory Blaxland (1805), Richard Brooks
(1806), H. C. Antill (1809), Capt. Thomas
Raine (1816), Rev. L. E. Threlkeld (1817)
and many others.
* * * *
“Wen”: In reply to “Twin Corns” (B.
27/2/’35) the word “scrounge” was used
by Diggers in the sense of “collecting
by fair means or foul,” or “rustling up.”
In camp a man was sent out to scrounge
for wood for the fire or some game for
the pot. A “scrounger” I would say,
then, is a collector of any odds and ends
likely to be useful.
“I cent’occhi”; Many N.Q. inhabitants
are bilingual. Children speak one lan-
guage at home, another at school. But
there’s one little fellow who’ll be more
careful of his school-language in future.
Being punished for some minor offence
he bore the first “cut” stoically and in
silence. But the second was too much.
“Enough! Enough!” he cried in his
native tongue. Poor little chap! How
was he to know that the Italian word for
“enough” is an English word of* insult!
Almost an English word, I should have
said —the English has two extra letters at
the end.
* * * *
“Clinker”: The latest English files
teem with details and pictures of the Saar
voting. And you can’t help noticing that
in one respect European electoral regula-
tions are more humanitarian than ours.
Somebody complained in The Bulletin
lately that one of the disadvantages of
being in gaol was that you lost the right
of voting. Evidently it isn’t so in
Mittel-Europa. One of the illustrations
that struck me most in a London weekly
depicted Saarland convicts being taken
from their cells on election day and shep-
herded to the polling-booth by kindly
warders. It wouldn’t be hard to guess
which way their votes went. Of the three
alternatives the maintenance of the status
quo —printed in bold type on the voting-
papers —would have no appeal to a man
behind the bars. And the chance of being
tacked on to France was too utterly re-
mote to be worth considering. But
should Germany come into its own
again it was only too likely that many
gaolbirds’ sentences would be reduced to
enable them to participate in the general
rejoicings. And that was one of the very
first things that Hitler did.
* * * *
“Denarius”: That yarn about a bar of
gold having by some mischance got into
the copper output of the British Mint
in a certain year (B. 6/3/’35) crops up
periodically. According to “Canny Lad”
the mintage of 1922 is now selling at five
or six times its face value because of the
suspicion that there is gold in it. But
when I was a schoolboy exactly the same
legend or picturesque lie was attached
to the pence and halfpence coined in
1864. We used to look at them—and
even the farthings—with a slightly in-
creased interest on that account, but I
never heard of anyone melting them
down to put the story to the test. Cer-
tainly gold had nothing like its present
value in those days, but that the same
old story should have been resurrected
after all these years makes one suspicious.
* * * *
“Winkers”: The Prince of Wales re-
cently startled the community by appear-
ing in spectacles at a public meeting.
Only in recent years has his father taken
to them, and King Ned never wore
glasses in public. Even in Victoria’s time
rigid etiquette forbade any aid to vision
being used at Court. In the Lyttelton
memoirs it is told how a High Sheriff,
having to read an address to the Queen
and not daring to don his specs., broke
down on the job.
* * * *
“Hoplite”: I doubt whether a study
of the swagman’s load will help the War
Office in designing the modern infantry-
man’s kit (B. 6/2/’35). The problem is
not to enable the soldier to carry his
present burden by better methods, but
to radically reduce the weight of it.
Present service marching order, including
rifle, bayonet, steel helmet, ammunition
and respirator, brings the total on the
man to 561 b. In actual warfare extra
ammunition and ironmongery probably
increase it to 701 b. The pundits con-
sider a man-load to be about one-third
of body weight in ordinary slow work.
For modern soldiers one quarter, or an
average of 351 b., is aimed at. Experi-
ments to this end have been going on in
the British Army for some years, and it
is not improbable that the New Contem-
tibles will sally forth to war with a rifle
of smaller calibre, no bayonet, fibre
waterbottle and greatcoat of the water-
proof-cloak pattern. Few regimental
sergeant-majors could regard recruits
loaded “Matilda”-wise without emotion;
with this new gear it will not be neces-
sary.
* * * - *
“Comic Strip”: St. Kilda (Vic.) council
is in a turmoil because some of the girls
stroll from the beach and consume ice-
creams in their swimming garb, and there
is a demand that prosecutions should be
launched. For the life of me, I cannot
recognise the logic of this attitude. The
honest wowser who objects to bathing-
costumes and mixed bathing on prin-
ciple is logical. But, if a costume com-
plies with standards of decency—any
standard you like to lay down —on the
beach, it is surely just as decent in a
street or a tramcar or at a Government
House garden party. It may not- con-
form to social usages, but decency is a
fixed factor. The council and persons
holding similar views are like the aristo-
crat who declined to shoot at a pheasant
because he was wearing his snipe jacket.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The Mylor (S.A.) case
still remains mysterious. On December
10, the wife and four children of W. A.
Figg, a well-known show axeman, were
found dead in their home. Figg had been
noticed cycling and carrying a shotgun
in scrub country in the hills behind the
city, but has not been seen since. The
coroner has now called it murder, and a
£5O reward is offered for him—dead or
alive. The police, in spite of untiring
search without results, think that his
body is in one of the many old mine-
shafts along the Onkaparinga ; but Figg
may have got clean away to another
State.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: “Scott’s Book,” reviewed on
the Red Page (27 /2 / ’35), mentions the
crash on the hillside above Golden
Grove, near Adelaide. On the morning
after I stood on the scorched grass by
the twisted remains of the ’plane, looked
ac the burst petrol-tins in the ruins of the
cabin and joined in the general chorus
of wonder at the iron courage of a man
who could rip his way into that petrol-
fed furnace to drag poor little George
Nutson out. A man present had seen
Scott on the way to hospital with a
broken upper jaw and the leather gaunt-
lets burnt off his hands through pulling
Nutson’s blazing clothing off. Yet he
had staggered for miles through the fog
over rugged country to get help. Famous
airmen, like some overlanding motorists,
are not always popular with the bush-
men who have met them outback. I
heard one station-owner speak scornfully
of help taken for granted and never as
much as a postcard sent by way of
thanks. But he made exceptions.
“Hinkler was a nice little chap, and 1
liked Keith Anderson. And that big
Pommy bloke Scott who used to pilot
for Qantas —he’s a man.” I heard that
tribute long before Scott became a celeb-
rity.
THE RETURN OF THE EYEBROW.
“Plucked eyebrows have gone out of fashion in
Loudon and Paris, the genuine article having returned
to favor.”
You girls who follow Fashion,
Whate’er she may devise,
And, at her bidding, ration
The charms you most should prize,
“Sing hey! sing ho!” in batches.
Henceforth no need attaches
To thin and prune the thatches
That grow above your eyes.
From ages dim and hoary,
We’re all of us aware,
A woman’s crowning glory
Has been her head of hair;
From Helen’s time, one guesses,
Luxuriant waving tresses
Have done far more than dresses
To witch and thrill and snare.
Gone is the bobbing era.
Fast from our minds it flops,
That hideous chimera
Of shorn and shingled mops!
What summer madness smit you,
What wicked fairy bit you,
To fancy that they’d fit you,
Those freakish Eton crops?
Again enraptured lovers
Upon your heads discern
Their immemorial covers.
Brown manes and black return.
Again one’s vision flitters
From gold that gleams and glitters
To (shades of Titian’s sitters!)
The reds that glow and burn.
And now you needn’t worry
If frontal arches twin
Seem just a bit too furry
A beauty prize to win.
Another care’s unloaded,
Another fad’s exploded,
The plucked affair’s outmoded —
The real eyebrow’s “in.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Fitzwilliam”: We had quite a big
court in our little N.S.W. village
when seven defendants faced the music.
The first prosecution was conducted by
the police inspector. The next six were
in the respective hands of the rabbit
inspector, the stock inspector, the indus-
trial inspector (he had two cases), a rail-
way inspector and a Child Welfare in-
spector. Five of the inspectors claimed
expenses from the defendants, all of
whom pleaded guilty. In addition there
were present in court the police magi-
strate, the deposition clerk, the bailiff
and five constables. I am a little doubt-
ful why one inspector could not have
done the lot —in my younger days I have
seen a senior constable act as prosecuting
officer and conduct every prosecution.
* * * * *
“Como”: When Edward Dyson died
his remains were cremated and, in
accordance with his desires, no headstone
was erected. Recently, a leading horticul-
turist suggested that a couple of flower-
ing gums might be planted to his memory
in the Botanic Gardens at Ballarat,
Dyson’s home town. The curator of the
gardens agreed to find a place for the
trees, which were presented by the horti-
cultural friend. The planting was fixed
for Dyson’s birthday, and several rela-
tives arranged to go from Melbourne 10
Ballarat for the ceremony. At the last
moment Ballarat councillors discovered
that some miscreant was going to plant
trees in “their” gardens without their
consent. Everything had to be cancelled
because the council held that it had been
grossly insulted. The idea of preventing
anybody from planting a decorative tree
in a place which an expert deems suit-
able is inexplicable to persons without
the aldermanic mind.
* * V
“Becks”: The sight of the
French vessel Amiral Charner,
which has twice visited Sydney
in recent months, or even a
glimpse of her name in print
stirs me considerably. Not that
I have any regard for the
memory of her namesake, who
conquered Cochin China or
some such place, but because
she is officially described as a
“sloop.” The word, to my ro-
mantic mind, conjures up
visions (probably quite erro-
neous) of a small rakish-look-
ing sailing-ship swooping down
on a smuggler off the Cornish
coast —a sharp combat, oaths,
horse-pistols, cutlasses, much
blood and many barrels of
rum. Or I see the same daring
craft sneaking up a lee shore
under cover of the darkness,
firing a couple of enemy ships
and escaping in the confusion.
The galleas and galleon, the
corvette and the frigate have
had to make way for the battleship,
cruiser and destroyer. The sloop alone
remains.
Jjs * * *
“Friday Island”: The Navy Book gives
no precise limit for a ship’s “paying-off”
pennant (B. 6/3/’35), but usually it is
made to equal the ship’s length. Some
ships work on the basis of a foot for
every year in commission. Freakishly-
long pennants sometimes need a buoy to
keep the end afloat on the water.
#
“Kwakprak”: Despite “M.G.’s” divert-
ing picture of a free after-life on earth
(B. 27/2/’35) that “dead” man wasn’t
dead. Blood will flow from a cut in
some really-dead people ; it won’t flow
from some of the non-dead. Two simple
tests will show the really dead. Tie a
string tightly round a finger, and if the
digit does not swell at all beyond it one
can be pretty sure. Hold a lighted match
to the skin of a finger, sufficiently to
blister in Ordinary Cire 11 111StaIICeS but not
to destroy the skin. If there is no redden-
j n g and no blister after a few minutes it
means death. There is no need to go to
hospitals to see revivals of the apparently
dead —any well-frequented surfing beach
with an efficient lifesaving crew provides
several each summer .
;J ; ; *j jJj jJ.
f e ,
“Crash : A Maonland drover, feel-
ing sportively inclined after the pubs
“Come now, make your choice! I and our child or your pomeranian
mistress.”
had shut, drifted into a pool parlor and
offered to bet that he could put a bil-
liard-ball into his mouth. He won the
bet all right; the trouble began when it
came to getting the ball out again. After
several fatuous suggestions had been
tried, the victim went blue in the face
and started to choke. He was rushed to
hospital, where four front teeth had to
be extracted before the pill was removed.
* * * *
“Inaha”: Welshmen are taking the
opportunity of the King’s silver jubilee
“ That’sh what We like to shee, me an Billy Hughesh — twins! Goodsh
fer the populashun.”
. . .
to petition for a place in the Royal
Arms. The Scottish Lion rampant and
the Irish harp occupy two quarters ot
the Royal Arms, Britain s Three Lions
being duplicated in the other two quar-
ters. Welshmen ask that their symbolic
Red Dragon be substituted for the
second set of Three Lions in the bottom
right-hand quarter of the Royal Stand-
ard. The request seems reasonable
enough, though change would involve
an alteration in the millions of impres-
sions of the Royal Arms all over the
world. The present design has stood
ever since George I. wiped out its
three fleur-de-lis by renouncing the title
of “King of France,” which for cen-
turies had been claimed by the sovereigns
of England.
* _ * * . * . .
Fiat : The worst traffic obstruction m
Sydney occurs more or less habitually
outside the Water Police Court. It is
always a peak hour for trams there
(Philhp-street North being a bottle-neck
through which trams to the eastern,
southern and western suburbs have to
pass), and there is only room for one
car between tram and pavement on the
near side. Motorists going south from
the Quay are rarely able to pass so
much as one tram ; there are too many
cars parked near the Water Police Court
—and some of them are usually P.D.
cars! I got an invitation recently to
attend the Water Police Court for park-
ing in what “D.” calls (B. 6/3/’35) “a re-
mote back lane.” That evening I tried to
drive along Onslow-avenue in Elizabeth
Bay and had to back out. A furniture-van
was approaching, and there were parked
cars for as far as the eye could reach on
both sides of the street. And in this
street there is a police notice forbid-
ding parking in any circumstances
whatsoever! If I were the Traffic Com-
missioner I would withdraw my signers-
up from city lanes where the traffic
obstructions caused by parked cars are
of a purely technical nature, and set
them to work in places where traffic
obstructions amount to a more or less
chronic public nuisance.
“Ex-Tutor”: Governesses (B. 27/2/’35)
should surely know that the ordinary
duties of a child instructor in Australian
homesteads are by no means limited to
teaching. One is hired ostensibly for edu-
cational purposes, but what is really wanted
is a general servant who will do the tutor-
ing or the governessing in his or her
spare time. In my last tutoring job I
taught four boys, fed the fowls, did the
gardening, washed up, laid the table, cut
wood, cleaned the separator and per-
formed “outside” duties as well. I stuck
it for six months, and then had to go
away for a rest cure —on the track.
*s* ' *
“C.H.F.”; In M.L., where bookies are
illegal, raids are frequently made on sus-
pected haunts, hotels among them. In
one bar a youth, still in his teens, was
drinking when the cops burst in. He
thought they were after him for
being on licensed premises under
age, and bolted, being pursued
by two zealous ’tecs who sus-
pected him of being other than
he was. In the meantime the
barman, correctly diagnosing
the position, was able to rid
himself of highly compromising
evidence which he had had in
his pockets. ?
* * * ;
“Mena”: Dodging the spray
and backwash of a half-tide, I
was getting out to my favorite
rock for an early-morn fish
when giggles and subdued
squeals bore it in upon me that
I had been beaten to it. Women
on the rocks at that hour were a
novelty, so I cautiously peered
around a huge boulder to see
whether my tattered garb would
be likely to offend them. En-
throned on a mossy rock, with
wind-swept hair and fine spray
beating over her, a girleen,
naked as Eve before the Fall,
was protesting to her companion
that she’d squatted there long enough.
“Just one more wave,” pleaded the
other lass, in half-drenched shorts
and sweater. As the spray dashed over
the subject’s shivering form again “click”
went her cobber’s camera. A lot of
others came down to fish next morning,
but returned disappointed.
•h v -!-
“Marsh”: Felt hats (B. 13/2/’35) stick
on better than cooler or lighter headgear.
I well remember the lurid abuse hurled
at “the heads” when in the Sinai the felt
hats of Light Horsemen were called in and
an issue of helmets was handed around.
Some A.M.C. big-gun had decided that
our lids drew the heat and that sunstroke
effects were likely. But the “tiger-
shooters” got short shrift. Kept on, they
gave most of the wearers headaches,
but they were continually blowing off.
The heavy drain on the Q.M.’s
stocks caused by troopers pelting away ■
their helmets when on night duty
finally brought the bosses to their senses.
You might have thought the war had
finished by the wild enthusiasm which
greeted the return of our beloved felt
hats.
“Junius”: Holman’s reminiscences
throw no pleasant light on the politics of
his time and the things that constituted
success in the eyes of that master-
strategist. For instance:
This was a moment of real achieve-
ment —one of the moments of my life.
What had he done? Passed a measure
for the welfare of the country on which
he had staked his political existence?
Rebutted an attack and made mincemeat
of his assailants’ speeches by cold logic
and burning sincerity? Neither., On a
purely technical point, based on an in-
timate knowledge of Parliamentary rules
and precedents, he had turned aside and
rendered nugatory a resolution reflecting
on the Speaker which, if carried, would
have forced that worthy to resign his job,
and almost certainly have deprived Hol-
man of his precarious majority of one!
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It seems to me that this
egregious slush about our British royal-
ties that is featured in print so regularly
defeats its own purpose. King George,
his consort, his sons and daughter and
grandchildren are a royal family of which
any nation might be honestly proud ; but
the picturing of them as demigods and
super-women and angelic children out-
does anything that Thackeray ever wrote
in “The Book of Snobs.” Sydney
“D.T.’s” declension to this sort of stuff
finishes every morning with the quaint
assurance: “An article about the Princess
Elizabeth appears daily.” It reminds me
of the old story about the embittered
theatregoer who was leaving the play-
house in dudgeon when his refusal of a
pass-out check caused the usher to re-
mind him “There’s another act, sir.”
“That’s why I’m going” was the dry re-
tort.
EXIT KISCH.
“Herr Kisch left for Europe by the Orford.”
Bon voyage, Kisch! In whatsoe’er direction
You’re headed, may you reach it, safe and
sound,
That unidentified terrestrial section
Of this distracted world for which you’re
bound.
Czecho-Slovakia? France? Or Ruritania?
Where’er you choose to take your kettle
o’ fish
And spill your anti-war extemporanea,
Bon voyage, Kisch!
Farewell to you in any of the lingoes
You speak! I hardly think that you’ll be
missed,
Who’ve caused more strife than half-a-hundred
jingoes,
For all you dub yourself a pacifist.
In less enlightened lands, my bold reformer,
They’d soon have had your head upon a dish.
We set you free, a wiser man and warmer.
So long, then, Kisch!
Vale ! I leave your waiting friends the Ave !
But here’s a final warning word for you:
Keep clear of Hitlers, if you’ve any savvy,
Of Horthys and of Mussolinis, too.
And thank your stars, while o’er the waves
you’re flying,
In any language—Gaelic, if you wish—
You found “Australia Fair” beyond denying!
Off with you, Kisch!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“I have smoked 44,000 during the past j
years and have never suffered any
throat trouble”
Try Craven “A.” Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour;
their freshness and freedom from all irritation. Carreras con-
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
J1944M/A
1
M
POLITICAL POINTS
The deficit which has taken Canberra
by surprise moved from £411,000 to
£844,000 in the eighth month of the
financial year. More excuses are made,
but it is admitted that expenditure is up
£2,864,000 compared with the corre-
sponding period of last year, the principal
increases being in old-age pensions
(£610,000), special grants to States
(£440,000) and post-office expenditure
(£750,000, “due partly to salary restora-
tions”). Also during the month the Gov-
ernment distributed £5OOO among film-
makers and scenario-writers. The truth is
that it is giving away more than it can
afford.
Continuing an action begun by Baker,
the Nat. Attorney-General, Tasmania’s
Labor Government has successfully ap-
pealed to the High Court against a Vic-
torian embargo on the introduction of
Tas. potatoes alleged to be diseased.
Said Dixon, J.;
Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution withdraws from the Parliament of
a State any power to detract from the
absolute freedom of trade, commerce and
intercourse among the States.
So it does mean what it says. National-
ists will give three hearty Australian
cheers.
Kisch has gone at last, but, as a con-
temporary puts it:
Canberra should lose no time in recast-
ing our defective deportation laws along
lines that will give us the protection to
which we are entitled, for existing measures
are loosely framed.
The extract is from the “Saturday Even-
ing Post,” and only one word, “Con-
gress,” has been altered. Britain has
supreme and unchallengeable power to
reject and expel aliens. Federations are
handicapped in these matters.
The secesh petition is to go before a
joint committee of Lords and Com-
moners, who will report whether it ought
to be received. Obviously, they are going
to take their time about it. Before leav-
ing Perth the leader of the London dele-
gation announced his intention of re-
maining there till secesh was granted. The
gentleman must imagine that he is going
to live as long as Old Parr.
One of the Perth secessionists is a
herbalist from Lebanon. On the ground
that he is an Asiatic, Hale School has re-
fused to accept his son as a pupil. It
is a purely Westralian foundation, so for
once the Federal Octopus can’t be
blamed. Indeed, the aggrieved party
from the place where Hiram rafted
logs to Tyre mentions that, while the
Black Swan pecks at him, as it were, the
Octopus lets him vote.
At one of his election meetings, Argyle
was asked why he was going about the
country in a car, instead of in Govern-
ment trains. His reply was “Because I
can do in three days by car what it would
take me a week to do by rail.” A good
excuse, but it weakens the case for these
Government campaigns against private
motor transport. What right have poli-
ticians to deny the people advantages
which they claim for themselves?
Melbourne’s City Council has re-
duced the rate from 2s. to Is. lid., at
the same time increasing the valuations
by £82,000-odd. So' what it loses on the
swings it makes on the roundabouts.
The Butler Government’s second
attempt to impose a milk-control scheme
on Adelaide crashed in the Assembly.
During the debate one speaker said that,
in the absence of control, people with
small purses were getting milk at 3d. a
quart (the Sydney price is 7d. and Bd.),
and another that control would princi-
pally benefit two companies. It has cer-
tainly benefited two companies in Syd-
ney. One concern reports that its profits
have more than doubled in a year. The
other has added to its plant, and blithely
talks of spending £200,000-odd on bottle-
delivery.
In its great days Labor used to get all
the votes at certain small remote polling
places. It is the Country party that gets
them now. In Victoria on March 2, 208
ballot papers from five Gippsland East
boxes were all for Lind, and 177 from
four Ouyen boxes were all for Bussau,
the experience being shared on a smaller
scale by Allnutt (Mildura), Old (Swan
Hill), Mackrell (Upper Goulburn) and
Minchin (Wonthaggi). Perhaps such
figures should not be published. In a
sense they violate the secrecy of the
ballot, and they certainly make things
awkward for electors who have promised
to support the other s'ie.
Electioneering at
Ballan, ex-Premier
Hogan spoke bit-
terly of the Mel-
bourne A.L.P.
bosses who hound-
ed him out of the
party. He would
perhaps do better
to laugh at them ;
and he has plenty
of food for laugh-
ter. He, at least,
remained in the
Assembly, and
Bailey is back in
it, while Jones,
Williams and Kier-
nan are still in the
Upper House,
Jones being Min-
ister for Works.
Of the Ministers
who obeyed the
Bosses, Webber
and Pollard lost
their seats in 1932
and have failed to
regain them, while
Tiinnecliffe leads a
dejected remnant
of 17.
Eleutherios Veni-
zelos is boss of his
native Crete once
more. Now 71, he
has been in all the
Cretan risings since
the days of Abdul
Hamid, and in sev-
eral more on the
mainland, but in-
surrection is a
game of which he never tires. This
time, however, he will get no backing
from Britain.
High freight-rates by sea and land get
less than their due share of blame for
the plight of inlanders. Budd, the mem-
ber for Byron (N.S.W.), gives an example
of their strangling effect:
In my Northern Rivers district we used
to send a good deal of maize to the Sydney
market. The freight was Is. per four-
bushel bag. It has gone up to 3s. a bag.
So the trade has gone to the bow-wows.
Tunnecliffe, who is member for Col-
lingwood, attended the local council the
other night and smilingly observed that,
now the elections were over, it could
once more take its rightful place on the
front pages of the newspapers. There was
an ordinary meeting the following evening
—ordinary in the sense that it finished
in disorder, with councillors threaten-
ing to punch and kick one another.
If it were true that every place gets the
government it deserves, Collingwood
would deserve to be razed to the ground
and the site strewn with salt.
Prajadhipok, King of Siam, who has
been living in England for two years,
has abdicated. In 1932 there was a very
polite insurrection, and his Majesty, who
had been an absolute monarch, agreed
to continue under a Constitution giving
supreme power to the nation. But he fell
out with his new masters in the follow-
ing year, and left without giving notice.
To the inevitable London reporter he
confided that it irked him to be called
“Brother of the Moon” and “Possessor
of the 24 Umbrellas,” and he “extolled
the rural beauties of England.” Kings in
exile rarely restrict themselves to rural
beauties, but, having had a large and
perhaps cloying experience of Siamese
charmers, little Prajadhipok may be dif-
ferent.
Before the depression period about
the only concrete decision ever come to
at a Premiers’ Conference was that the
politician, Commonwealth or State, who
had completed three years’ service as
Cabinet Minister, Speaker or President
(of the Senate or a Leg. Council) should
be granted a life-pass over the Govern-
“Is it ALWAYS going to be like this? It’s getting mono-
tonous."
ment railways of the continent and Tas-
mania. The Lyons Government has been
in office for upwards of three years, and
Parkhill now joins the favored band.
McPhee’s last “Transport and Com-
munication Bulletin” gave the Govern-
ment railway losses for 11 years as
£52,805,000 ; but possibly the taxpayers
are expected to be as pleased as Park-
hill.
Westralia’s Agricultural Bank is to be
“reorganised” by Alick McCallum, the
“Labor” Minister of Works, Charles
Clarke, a representative of the compara-
tively insignificant dairying industry, and
the Under-Treasurer. McCallum and
Clarke have received seven-year appoint-
ments at £2OOO and £l5OO p.a. respec-
tively—less financial-emergency cuts.
McCallum’s qualifications, apart from
being a Leader of Our Party, are that he
was a union secretary and a Minister (for
seven years) when the bank was drifting.
He is getting out of a Government for
which Westralia is waiting grimly with
an electoral axe.
There are some very stupid persons in
the Ministry at Canberra. While they
are content to let provincial Govern-
ments play ducks and drakes with the
inter-State Freetrade section of the Con-
stitution, they talk of enforcing a dubious
piece of legislation passed in Bruce’s
time by way of compelling South Aus.
to accept the Port Augusta-Redhill rail-
way. South Aus. doesn’t want the thing,
and no other State would be a party to
coercing it; but the Ministry at Can-
berra is minded to act the mule.
Apropos, Professor Shann has been say-
ing that these railway-building projects
are crazy and that the money ought to
be spent on aerodromes and aerial de-
fence. And so it should.
By a charming coincidence a chain-
store concern published its balance sheet
during the very week in which the Com-
monwealth Government was asked to
regulate chain stores. During the finan-
cial twelvemonth reported on, £253,182,
“created by revaluation of the assets,”
was handed out in bonus shares —three
for every two ordinaries previously held.
Profits rose from £125,552 to £150,418.
Even after transferring £50,000 to tax
reserve and paying pref. divs. the bal-
ance was equal to over 20 p.c. on the
enlarged ordinary capital—over 50 p.c.
if the bonus scrip is excluded.
Lang’s party executive has another
row on its hands. Elections for the new
Water Board, which is to have five paid
members instead of 17, are to be held
on March 21, and the unionist employees
have nominated their secretary, Macpher-
son. A Labor alderman had already
been chosen by a meeting of Labor
aldermen, with the Lang executive’s •
approval. Lang Labor, the union says,
has always professed to stand for direct
representation of employees on boards
and the like, and if Macpherson is
“disciplined”—by opposing the execu-
tive’s man he has “automatically placed
himself outside the movement” —the
union will leave the Lang organisation.
Forced to economise somewhere, Presi-
dent Roosevelt is beginning on the ship-
ping interest. He points out that his Gov-
ernment is “paying 30 million dollars a
year for the carriage of mails which
should cost only three million dollars,”
and he proposes to terminate the contracts
and make other arrangements. If he
does, it will make a decided difference to
the shipping position in the Pacific. But
the sanction of Congress will be neces-
sary, and Congress has suddenly become
intractable.
Hume Cook, of Victoria’s Industries’
Preservation League, made a much-
needed observation when he pointed out
that all the trade treaties in the world
won’t make foreigners buy any more
Australian produce than they want.
Some profit may result from reciprocal
arrangements, but people who are per-
suaded that the Commonwealth has only
to make a treaty to restore wheat to
4s. a bushel and wool to Is. 6d. a pound
will be disillusioned.
Perhaps in its new-found zeal for
State socialism, the U.A.P. will estab-
lish Government matrimonial bureaux to
secure a better distribution of the sexes.
In Victoria only three of the twenty-six
metropolitan Assembly electorates—Mel-
bourne itself, Footscray and Williams-
town —have fewer women than men, and
the excess in each case is trifling, whereas
all but five of the thirty-nine country
seats (Ballarat, Barwon, Bendigo, Castle-
maine and Geelong) have more men than
women. The greatest disparity is in Pre-
mier Argyle’s own electorate of Toorak,
where there are 9303 men and 14,504
women.


lw tlh= Stoke Age.
In the Classical Aqe
iNthe Middle Ages
AvN OLD-STYLE
ANAESTHETIST ,
MAvKY BARBERS still retajm some
Q,= THEIR SKIL-U AS BLEEDERS.
MODERM STYLE .
Will it come. to this. ?
" do vou feel mow, old "
" FIME- TH/LMK.S FIME ' "
7 '
SURGERY THROUGH THE AGES.
“We know well of the astonishing and almost painless speed with which a major operation could be performed by the great surgeons of the pre-anaesthetic era.”
—Prof. Wood Jones at the Surgeons' Congress in Melbourne.


QN
BANK
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably
only give as much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), if appointed as your Executor, Trustee or
Agent, will attend to the affairs of your Estate all the time
—your friend can probably only attend to part of them
for part of the time.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK f LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq •
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 91
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
N.Z PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds £3,800,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds £900,000
AREA PLANTED: 156,415 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia; Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London.
Bombay, Singapore. Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dr. Charles Duguid, elected Moderator
of the General Assembly by S. Aus. Pres-
byterians, is said to be the first Austra-
lian layman to hold that exalted office.
He is a distinguished surgeon, aged 51,
who came to Australia from Glasgow.
“Hamer”: M. H. Fitzhardinge, who at
80-odd is still running his legal business
at Parramatta, aims at becoming the oldest
practising solicitor Australia has had.
He was admitted in the early ’seventies,
his certificate bearing the signature of
T. M. Slattery, who was prothonotary at
the time.
Colly Gregson, of Cossack (W.A.),
earns a good living at present by catch-
ing turtles. He stopped an issue on the
Peninsula at the age of 17, and since then
he has been an actor (in Australia and
abroad), a salmon-netter in British
Columbia, a whaler and a gold-pros-
pector.
Captain Malcolm Murchie, the retiring
harbor-master of Maryborough (Q.), first
went to sea as a boy before the mast of
a windjammer. He was an A.B. in 1887,
when fever swept through the East
Indies, and his ship sailed for home with
only two men to each watch. He
reached Australia in 1890, joined the
pilot service 26 years ago, and has,held
his present job since 1933.
“Starboard Quarter” on a naval
pother:
Captain Sawbridge, R.N., dismissed from
Renown over a collision in which England
might have lost her greatest ship, Hood, was
in Australia in 1919 as a commander on the
staff of Jellicoe during that admiral’s tour of
the South Seas. A pleasant and unassuming
specialist, he was well liked by the Australian
officers who met him.
The court-martial elicited very contradictory
evidence as to the distance between the Hood
and Renown. Hood said 1500 yards. Saw-
bridge said 300. I can’t understand the
methodical Sawbridge making a mistake of
1200 yards (especially with infallible instruments
for station-keeping on his bridge); neither can
I see him twisting the truth. However, the
flagship was exonerated, and the Renown
skipper retires on half-pay. Australia would
be the gainer if he and others of his type came
here to spend it.
Hurtle Fisher, the new magistrate for
the Westralian district of Gascoyne, is
a great-grandson of the S. Aus. politician
of that name. He is, however, a Vic-
torian, who has for years been associate
in Perth to Chief Justice Northmore.
“M.G.”: How’s this for altruism?
Gordon Sleight, head of a leading under-
taking firm in Melbourne, and a power-
ful swimmer, has joined the St. Kilda
Lifesaving Club.
“Shep”: The Ist Brigade (A.1.F.) lost
a good friend in R. Llewellyn Scholes.
Preferring a field dental unit to the more
elaborate surgeries further back, the
great-nephew of the late Judge Scholes,
of N. S. Wales, did his work with very
primitive equipment. At Messines he
occupied a Nissen hut which was well
within shell range. He interested him-
self as a civilian in the Dental Associa-
tion, and was assistant-editor of the
“Dental Journal.”
“Aarendskerke”: Raymond Longford
(B. 19/12/’34) should have all the re-
quisite qualifications for a successful
Australian talkie producer. Born and
brought up in prison (his father was gov-
ernor of Darlinghurst Gaol), he went to
sea as an apprentice in sail. After func-
tioning as sailor, actor and soldier in
various parts of the world he broke into
the silents. A large and intensely Aus-
tralian person, he has plenty of brains to
match his first-hand knowledge of men
and the world.
Oliver Wendell Holmes, who died last
week within a few days of his 94th birth-
day, bore one of the best-known names
in American literature ; his father was
the Philosopher and Poet of the Break-
fast-table. The ages of father and son
total 170 years. Holmes, as a member
of a distinguished Massachusetts family,
fought throughout the Civil War, and
was three times wounded. After being
Chief Justice of the Massachusett
Supreme Court he was raised to the
Bench of the U.S.A. Supreme Court, the
equivalent of our High Court. __
W. J. Kessell, who had been Public
Trustee of N. S. Wales for two years
previous to his death last week, was
as widely liked as any member of
the civil service. He was born at
Wallaroo (S.A.) 63 years ago, and went
to school at All Saints’, Bathurst. He
began as a Bathurst police court clerk,
and rose later in the Justice Department
from Chief Clerk to Under-Secretary.
Someone said of Kessell that he never
had so much as a thought that wasn’t
dead straight. He was a prominent
Methodist and a member of the Council
of Wesley (University) College.
A Frith impres-
sion of Creswell
O’Reilly, five times
Mayor of Kuringai
(in which muni-
cipality he was
born), and Chief
C o m m o nwealth
Film Censor. His
movie opponents
regard him as the
Bradman of film-
cutters. When Mae
West’s latest was
bowled up to him
he took a thou-
sand feet off in as
many seconds, and
what he did to
“Strike Me Lucky”
doesn’t bear retell-
ing. A large, im-
perturbably genial
person, O’Reilly
was in the A.I.F.
The barracking of
film-hillites leaves
him unmoved.
Frederick How-
ard and Hermon
Gill, who won the
first prize in the
Comm onwealth
scenario competi-
tion, are Mel-
bourne journalists
on rival papers,
Howard being on
the “Herald,” Gill
on the “S t a r.”
Howard put him-
self on the map a
few years ago with
“The Emigrant,” a
book based on his
experiences when
he left England for
Australia in a Bay
liner. The story of
“The Emigrant” is that of the winning
scenario. Gill was an officer on a Bay
steamer. He settled in Melbourne when
he married artist Esther Paterson, and
drifted into journalism after an appren-
ticeship in advertising work. Howard
leaves shortly for a tour of Russia, where
he will write his observations of the
U.S.S.R. for the “Herald.”
Lionel Lindsay, Melbourne “Herald’s”
new art critic, is a brother of Norman,
Percy and Daryl, and, like them, a jour-
nalist from boyhood’s earliest hour. He
was chief cartoonist of Sydney “Even-
ing News” from' 1903 till he went to
London in the spring of 1926 to stage a
highly successful one-man show of his
paintings. He is almost as versatile as
Norman, but art criticism has always
been one of his ruling passions. Sixty-
one years of age, he married a Dyson
(sister of Ted, Will and the rest) in 1904.
R. C. Bald, who gets the Chair of
Literature at the new Exeter University,
England, did well originally at Scotch
and Ormond in Melbourne. After Cam-
bridge, he was lecturer in his pet subject
at Perth, and then under Archibald
Strong (whose literary executor he be-
came) in Adelaide. Latterly he has been
a Shakspearean researcher in England
and the U.S.A.
“S.T.S.”: Parson Crawford, chaplain
in his day of Cane Hill Asylum in Surrey,
and just dead at close on 86, was father
of some fine cricketers. V.F.S. played
for Leicestershire, and J.N. came here
with an English XI. “England’s very
kind to amateurs,” said a supercilious
colleague. “Jack is stony-broke. But
he gets his expenses every summer; and
every winter there’s a tour for him—
here, the West Indies or somewhere else.”
As captain of Surrey, J.N. fell out with
the county committee —mainly Leveson-
Gower. St. Peter’s, Adelaide, promptly
asked him there as a master. A dashing
all-rounder was just what Hill, Gehrs,
OUR CHIEF FILM CENSOR.
Mayne and Whitty needed in support;
and in the pre-war years S.A. twice won
the Sheffield Shield —which it had never
done all through the palmy days of Dar-
ling, Hill and Jones.
“Deflatus” claims another record:
I nominate Australia as the possessor of
more retired poets per head of the population
than any country in the world. A. B. (“Banjo”)
Paterson hasn’t had his Pegasus out of the
stable for years; neither has Leon Gellert.
Both work as journalists in the “S. M. Herald”
building. Hugh McCrae lives in picturesque
Camden, but it doesn’t inspire him to burst
into song; prose is his medium these days.
Rod Quinn, Arthur Adams and Arthur
Bayldon are on the retired list as regards both
prose and poetry. Of the Victorians, E. J.
Brady no longer produces stirring verses about
the sea, and C. J. Dennis has abandoned
narration in ballad form —the creator of
Ginger Mick and Doreen now devotes most
of his energies to prose humor in Melbourne
“Herald.” Louis Esson and “Gerardy” (Edwin
Gerard) are others whose muses have almost
ceased to function. Oddly enough. Will Ogilvie,
who is older than any of them except Paterson,
is still poetising hard. He has a charming set
of verses in the current London “Punch.”
“Anglo-Aust.”: Anglican bishops came
from all over the Commonwealth to elect
an Australian Primate on Tuesday, but
the average cleric, who is Australian-
born and -trained, wasn’t greatly inter-
ested. The Archbishops of Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Perth and Brisbane were the
only eligibles ; all were born in England ;
two (Sydney and Melbourne) are Cam-
bridge and two (Perth and Brisbane) Ox-
ford products.
Some family gossip:'—
Lieut.-Col. Harry C. Bundock, D. 5.0., the
new guardian of N.S.W.’s coastal defences,
though Queensland born is a descendant of the
pioneer Bundock family, of Wiangarie, Dyraaba,
Wooroowoolgen and Myrtle Creek stations on
the Upper Richmond River. Their connection
with the Northern Rivers dates back to ' 1843.
Francis Forbes Bundock, the Colonel’s father,
was bom at Wiangarie, and graduated at
Sydney Uni. His widow lives at Randwick,
where Bundock’s Dagobert won the Summer
Cup. Colonel Bundock, who was at Sydney
Grammar and Uni., is a brother-in-law of
Harry Chauvel. The Chauvels, of Tabulam
station, were neighbors of the Bundocks in
the early days. The Ogilvies, of Yugilbar
Castle fame, the Murray-Priors, of Maroon
station (Q.), and the Scarvells —an old Sydney
legal family—are related. Kooralbyn, a
Queensland show pastoral property on the
Upper Logan, within sight of Mt. Lindesay;
Natal Downs, a holding of 1000 sq. miles,
within 80 miles of the Towers (N.Q.); and
Glendon, in the same district, have helped to
place the name of Bundock on the maps of
Queensland. At the date of his enlistment in
the A.I.F. in May, 1915, the newly-appointed
O.C. N. S. Wales Coastal Defences was
stationed in Sydney as a company officer of the
R.A.G.A.
W. H, Childs, N.S.W.’s stout, genial,
golf-playing Commissioner of Police,
handed in his resignation last week. He
is within a few days of 63. He will be
remembered chiefly as the Commissioner
who got nearest to stopping Sydneyites
from jay-walking. By a lavish use of
traffic-cops he has almost banished the
popular practice in parts of the city.
Other achievements of his six years’ term
are the police cadet corps and the bal-
listics bureau. Few holders of the job
have been so popular with the force and
so trusted by the public.
George Capes, killed in a Melbourne
train accident last week, was among the
first of the Duntrooners. He was
invalided from Egypt before the Evacua-
tion, and went back to the R.M.C., of
which he was adjutant till the Armistice.
He was in Japan for a couple of years,
and served afterwards as S.O. in the
Intelligence Department, Sydney, and as
Chief Instructor of Modern Languages
and Topography at the R.M.C. between
(928 and ’3l. He left a job as brigade-
major of a N. S. Wales infantry battalion
for journalism. Amongst other things
this versatile young soldier (he was only
42 when he died) was a first-class violin-
ist.
The late Herbert Phillipps, sometime
chairman of the Savings Bank of S.A.,
whose estate was proved at £93,000, left
£250 to each of 10 Adelaide charities.
His will sets out, in case the total should'
be considered small, that for many years
he devoted the Scriptural one-tenth of all
his income to charities.
“Athanasius”: Sir Eric Drummond,
British Ambassador to the Vatican (B.
13/2/’35), will shortly have an interest in
M.L. through his brother, Captain
Drummond, R.N., who is going to the
M.L. naval station. Captain Drum-
mond was on H.M.S. Caroline in the
Battle of Jutland and on H.M.S. Cardiff
when the German warships were handed
over after the Armistice. The Renown,
the Queen Elizabeth and the Delhi are
other ships in which he has seen service.


: Xvft< ; >v^---->--
~,y tfC# x^: :
■>v.<»^w.flH|
.v; : ;«::: : x^x
m?<sK*< : ’
mmzm
f g
: . »:-••>•
BBK
' ” '■■’■'■■’■■'■
«
&;;; ; ;;3;:; ; :>;£x;£ : | ; : ; i
/ "' ■ <v " ‘ v^w > 0xy^.;.;..;...., x .v, ; . : . ; . W ;.x.5 , :5;:‘ :^: : : ' , '" ,:- ‘' : ' , ' : ' , ’'’ - ' , '”' -,, ‘ - ' -; ' ;:;-: ‘'' :-:,:,:: :''‘ : ‘"
r— --1-' ■; .™.. - . _
m.: :
•••■■..•... ..
W.X*.... y
- ; :>xv.v.. v
’■ ,^»xsrw/.x« Wi ...
, ' v * :< ‘:xsv
j
»•*£ <?•• S
' v -> : x>yx::v< : : : ; ; . : . ;;;;;;:^
fif-JM*
more
f # ,fS
1 /. 1 O
,;w ~" '».-.w»-»' : ' ••:••:•.. . .-y : -¥ ■•' •'• •
fm
WM
“ sXv-V
JLy j**
AiAA\ "
/
N^N
'M
. ,^ A >*
/V,
.-v‘V v
7
i
l:igC^
s**
<fStf>o«yiC-3^S!
ss£* y .<?;>
ass
*
9*-*~
y**.
2N
asw
■ --\
Pi
- :■> v
' <:s. -X><V.;.. S
< sss
S®
>. ~.»«■
'■'W
Vj*., <■<*s*&,
■,
v<
* w »s> V
i :■
in
■■■::■:■
z * j a*
DUNLOP
prevents treacherous
Side Skids ....
"What would happen if we side-skidded here?” Most
drivers have had this uneasy thought many a time. At such
times you need Dunlop " Gold Seal ” on your wheels. Then
you’ll be as safe as if a giant’s hand barred the way to danger.
The reason is a grip that holds the road both sideways
and frontways. It is an exclusive Dunlop feature. Right
across its full width, that helical tread grips the road gear-
like and stubbornly! Speeding or breaking, it keeps the
car in a straight line stopping skids before they begin.
FORWARD SKIDS PREVENTED, TOO
As positively as it prevents a side-skid, Dunlop holds you
back from a forward skid. And this dual safety is longer-
lasting—Dunlop "Gold Seal” has a 48% increase in non-skid
life. The local Dunlop dealer has your size at the same low
price as an ordinary tyre!
It’s the
ftILL-WXSTK
hold on the
road that
does it!
t
Jit
Tables
{An M
best i
MK ("Moulded” Kinkless) Tube is the
insurance of extra mileage and safety you
can give a new tyre.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 6.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone, M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper. Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, ■Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company's
offices, viz.;—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.B.W.
Sydney Office; 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange and will settle In full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £22,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,000,000
VV. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director,
The [?]
COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance
Industrial
, —Ordinary Dept.
Income. Claims. Exes. Losses. Funds.*
1924.. 127,788 10,083 73,728 12,886 23,492
1925.. 143,435 9,315 100,958 12,347 44,307
Freehold written up, £34,609 .. .. 78,916
1926.. 155,608 13,922 94,005 6,765 119,832
1927.. 167,993 20,139 101,284 8,144 158,258
1928.. 196,514 22,374 114,111 137 218,150
Surplus.
1929.. 200,012 42,909 98,385 512 277,380
1930.. 195,250 33,922 77,966 6,714 365,456
1931.. 167,941 43,469 59,619 2,766 433,075
Written off, £5894 427,181
1932.. 143,238 50,791 63,839 2,367 458,156
Written off, £4834 453,322
. 1933.. 147,281 47,371 '66,436 1,338 488,134
Written off, £6371 . . . . ■ • 481,763
1934.. 157,314 56,331 62,018 900 521,628
Written off, £7322 . . . . . . 514,306
*Net funds apart from capital.
Considering the help it has received,
and continues to receive, from well-estab-
lished farmers’ co-operative organisations
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, this 14-year-old might have
been expected to be further along the
road than it is. When the actuary made
his second quinquennial overhaul of the
business in 1930, the whole of the
paid-up share capital and £17,816
besides was unrepresented by tangibles
in the books. The trouble lay in the
Industrial branch, where liabilities under
policies exceeded the lay-by by over
£30,000. In the Ordinary department
there was a surplus of £5168, including
£3962 that had been hastily distributed
in bonuses.
Assuming that the assurance funds in
the two departments combined exactly
cover liabilities under policies, and that
the assets are worth their book value,
net tangibles were still £15,748 short of
the liabilities just referred to when the
books last closed:
1931 1933 1934.
Government securities.. £102,980 £126,360 £149,465
Mortgages . . . . 43,455 94,222 122,234
Loans on policies . . 78,390 90,612 89,804
Book debts, call, etc. 144,297 111,983 97,685
Equipment . . . . 18,795 16,646 16,222
Freehold .. . . 156,907 161,578 162,231
Total tangible assets . . £544,824 £601,401 £637,701
Liabilities* . . . . 3,314 4,413 7,163
Net tangibles .; . . £541,510 £596,988 £630,538
Assurance funds . . 559,161 613,743 646,286
Paid capital .. . . 108,475 108,475 108,475
*Apart from premiums paid in advance.
The year’s surplus (£40,000-odd all de-
partments) was invested in Government
securities (up £23,105) and mortgages
(up £28,012). The amount written off
and/or reserved for depreciation was
£7322, making the total £24,421 over the
last four years. The growth in net tan-
gibles was £33,550, or £lOO7 more than
the growth in the assurance funds.
Last year £55,259 less new business was
put on the books in the Ordinary
department:
Ordinary:— 1930. 1933. 1934.
Policies issued .. 2,054 2,329 2,163
Assuring .. . . £802,793 £707,320 £652,061
First premiums . . 22,087 16,039 15,054
Renewal premiums . . 156,429 113,766 118,564
Interest and rent . . 16,733 17,476 23,696
Surrenders (£21,207) were £4661 lighter.
Excluding taxes (£2338) and a contribu-
tion (£600) to the staff fund, exes, took
44.2 p.c. of the net premiums, as against
48.6 p.c. in the previous year. The new
business cost 219 p.c. as against 230 p.c.
in 1933 ; that is on the generally accepted
basis that first premiums are 10 times
more expensive than renewals.
In the Industrial section 5542 policies
(up 121) were written, assuring £238,641
(down £268,668). The average amount
per policy thus fell from £94 to £43. In-
come was £2984 better at £26,856. Claims
(£5444) were £2446 heavier, and exes.
(£20,512) made off with 82.1 p.c. of the
net premiums (£24,972) as against 87.2
p.c. in 1933, leaving the surplus £438
short of the previous year’s at £9OO.
There is room for further substantial re-
duction in costs here.
The actuary is due to make another
overhaul of the business at the close of
next accounts.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
Nominal
To Re— Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ ' £ £ £
1924.. 37,179 12* p.c. = 32,500 4,679 193
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926.. 43,699 17* p.c. = 52,500 ' 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 „ „ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 ~ „ 45,000 16,921
1929.. 62,338 15 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34,259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ „ 30,000 25,003 59,262
1931.. 799 Nil 799 60,061
1932.. 718 Nil 718 60,779
Loss.
1933.. 38,617 Nil 22,162
June.
1934 f. 18,367 Nil 3,795
*l3 months. f!4 months.
The 300,000 fully-paid £1 shares are
largely held in Melbourne, where head-
quarters are and where the co. was
floated 13 years ago. The planta-
tions, mill and refinery are all in Kenya,
East Africa; and some juicy returns
were won while the co. had practically
a monopoly of the local market. As
usually happens in such circumstances,
there was a rush to get into the busi-
ness. Now the local market is heavily
oversupplied, and, for the last couple
of years, losses on the surplus exported
have gobbled the smaller gains from
local sales and more besides.
With the locust pest out of the way,
an extra 28,641 tons of cane, making
70,993 tons in all, were put through the
rollers last year. This was 12,000 tons
short of estimates, due to seasonal con-
ditions. The outturn of fines was 2236
tons better:
1925. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown .. 14,774 50,389 32,011 49,293
Cane purchased .. 5,299 49,042 10,341 21,700
Sugar (white) pro-
duced .. . . 1,385 7,457 2,821 5,057
The loss for the 14 months covered by
the accounts was £20,250 less than the
previous year’s at £18,367, of which
£11,884 was provision for depreciation
and £5393 expenditure during the extra
two months’ off season. That reduced
nominal reserves to £3795 ; the figure is
subject to £53,277 (up £357) of capital-
ised development expenditure.
During the term £11,428 was clipped
off the amount coming to outsiders:
1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . .. 58,863 20,117 8,691
Mill 132,891 122,483 117,263
Land, buildings, etc. . . 03,758 61,309 00,333
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc. . . . . 84,084 05,190 64,182
Plantation development 47,388 52,920 53,277
Sugar stocks . . . . 62,760 710 800
Book debts . . . . 19,782 36,183 15,991
Cash, etc. . . . . 8,259 3,388 619
Debtors’ balances, which include a loan
of £11,055 to East African Coffee, were
reduced by £20,192. The slip in the
more or less liquid surplus (£8719) was
£11,445.
The outlook is obscure. During the
current term the co. expects to crush
80,000 tons of cane for upwards of 5500
tons of fines. A year ago the loss on
exports was figured at approximately £6
a ton with raws at £5 10s. in London ;
the figure is now around £4 10s. Mean-
while, reorganisation of the business, fol-
lowing B. Y. Abel’s visit to the planta-
tions, has resulted in substantial savings
in overhead. The Government ban on
soft canes in the Nyanza Province has
been removed, and the co. now has about
3000 acres of these varieties planted—
they can be crushed at less cost than
Üba. Chief trouble is that production
continues to expand, especially in
Uganda, and those in the industry have
not yet been able to agree upon a scheme
for rationalisation.
The market expresses its opinion by
pricing the fully-paid pound shares at
6s. Bd. as against 14s. a year ago.
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. ills 1600 Nil 1518 2,260
1925.. 7,631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2,891
1926.. 9,706 1600 10 „ „ 6000 2106 4,997
1927.. 10,675 1600 10 „ „ 6000 3075 8,072
1928.. 12,006 1600 124 „ „ 7500 2906 10,978
1929.. 13,172 1600 15 „ „ 9000 2572 13,550
1930.. 5,727 Nil Nil 5727 19,277
Loss.
1931.. 876 Nil Nil 18,401
Profit.
1932.. 4,169 Nil Nil 4169 22,570
1933.. 8,053 5229 7 p.c. = 4200 21,194
Profit sale shares, £12,265 .. . . 33,459
1934.. 12,155 1600 27 p.c. = 16,200 27,814
Assets written up, £79,663 . . .. 107,477
Reserves capitalised, £105,000 .. 2,477
A bold move was the issue of £105,000
of bonus scrip to the ords., seven for
four, after the close of last accounts.
To do it the book value of the freehold
and part of the co.’s other investments
was written up by £79,663 ; the balance
was provided out of a realised surplus of
£12,265 on the sale of shares in another
co. and by transfer of £13,072 from the
small heap of existing reserves. Paid
capital has been thus lifted from £BO,OOO
to £185,000 in 20,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 165,000 ords. ; the latter are all held
by Carlton Investments, Ltd.
Under the N. S. Wales Interest Re-
duction Act the prefs., in which the
public is directly interested, are entitled
to advance with the ords. from 6.2 p.c.
to their original contract rate of 8 p.c.
An all-round 8 p.c. on £185,000 would
call for £2645 more trading profit than
was shown last year. The £12,155 claimed
was enough to pay the prefs. 6.2 p.c. and
then show 6.6 p.c. on ord. capital as it
now stands, and a 6 p.c. div. to the
ords. would now be equal to 16.5 p.c. on
capital as it stood before the gift issue.
For several years after the co. was
formed in 1920 results were disappoint-
ing. But the figures brightened follow-
ing a change in the control, and the div.
was bumped up from 9 p.c. to 15 p.c.
over the five years to the close of
accounts in 1929. In that year £88,610
was added to the outside debt, raising it
to £154,641. The extra money was used to
buy the freehold (£75,000 was the figure
spoken of) and improve the premises.
Then the boom burst, and the weight of
the debt made itself felt. Still, share-
holders got into the picture again after
a three-year wait.
Gross earnings, which fell to £29,583 in
1931, were £43,823 last year, when the
spring was £3840. The net result (up
£4102) was sufficient to give the prefs.
8 p.c. and show 17.5 p.c. on the £60,000
of ord. capital. The div. was lifted from
7 p.c. to 10 p.c. (£6000), and a further
£10,200 from profits other than ordinary
trading was distributed, making 27 p.c.
in all.
Including an unspecified amount of
goodwill, all assets are lumped in one
untidy entry at £217,071, down £33,323,
of which £23,886 was on account of pro-
vision for depreciation, previously shown
separately but now deducted from the
assets concerned. The amount coming
to outsiders was £15,968 lighter at
£102,455.
At 245. 6d. the prefs. return 5 p.C. on
a 6.2 p.c. div. basis, or 6.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. distribution. Including goodwill
and the bonus issue, the book value of
the net asset cover is over £9 per share.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. Writ- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. serves.
1924.. 37,072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 205,435 Nil Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
Profit.
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
This co. was formed in 1915 to take
over some properties in far-western
Queensland which had fallen into the
hands of the Q.N. Bank following the
crash of the ’nineties. The ords. got
their last div. in 1920, and £525,000 was
slashed off their capital three years ago,
reducing it to £75,000 in 2s. shares. The
£250,000 of 7 p.c. cum. prefs. were not
interfered with, but they, too, have not
had a div. since 1925.
The story has been one of lost
markets, drought, falling prices and rigid
costs. When the price of wool began
to soar, sheep offered a way out, and
the co. converted Lucknow and Cork at
a cost of about £BO,OOO. But the hot sun
dried up the watercourses and left the
runs bare for nearly eight years on end,
and the co. lost 73,780 cattle and 168,538
sheep, notwithstanding an expenditure of
over £32,000 on agistment and of more
than £36,000 on fodder. In 1926 cattle
fetched £7 4s. a head ; the figure was
£4 17s. for 1933. Over the same period,
the price of sheep fell from 13s. lid. to
3s. each, and, owing to drought, the co.
had to sell 42,818 head at the lower
figure ; it is a similar story with regard
to wool.
The slip in last year’s sales was
£13,346:
1925. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Sales, etc. ..£187,938 £72,005 £110,826 £97,480
Expenses . . 146,073 86,845 95,154 84,607
Depreciation . . 22,413 14,191 15,317 12,025
Exes, were pulled back £10,548, and the
allowance for depreciation, shown as
written off in the introductory table, was
£3292 lighter, leaving a profit of £B4B.
The extent to which the co. has had
to go into debt to cover drought and
other expenditure, etc., is seen in the
next table:
« 1925. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Capital . . £650,000 £850,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities . . 135,094 241,390 205,926 223,646
Freeholds . . 68,605 68,774 68,774 68,774
Leaseholds . . 325,524 237,070 187,059 177.160
Plant, etc. . . 85,285 70,780 64,070 65,802
Livestock . . 495,513 231,391 177,734 207,433
Wool.. .. 34,490 5,830 2,826 204
Debtors, cash, etc. 8,950 2,027 1,789 1,441
To add £29,699 to the book value of
livestock, the board leant upon outsiders,
mainly the bank, for an extra £17,720 and
reduced the book value of leases by
£9893 last year. The excess of outside
liabilities over more or less liquids was
£14,568, an improvement of £9009.
At the end of the current term, the
board proposes to again review the posi-
tion. The market offers 3s. 9d. for the
pound prefs. It notes the size of the
debt, etc., and remains shy of the ords.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 5892 10 p.c. = 3500 2392 11,418
1925.. 6901 10 „ „ 3500 3401 14,819
1926.. 5663 10 „ „ 3500 2163 16,982
1927.. 2811 10 „ „ 3500 16,293
1928.. 2140 5 „ „ 1750 390 16,683
1929.. 1764 5 „ „ 1750 14 16,697
Loss.
1930.. 883 Nil 15,814
1931.. 263 Nil 15,551
1932.. 458 Nil 15,093
Profit.
1933.. 105 Nil 105 15,198
1934.. 605 Nil 605 15,803
More people from the country, for
whom the co. specially eaters, came to
the Village, unemployment decreased,
and the bar, dining-room and residential
sections of the business all benefited. But
the call for renovations and repairs
(£1250, up £500) left the net result at
1.7 p.c. on capital as against 0.3 p.c. for
1933, and for the fifth year in succession
shareholders were passed by.
Exactly when they are, likely to come
into the picture again it is difficult to say
at the moment. Competition remains
keen, and the board considers it neces-
sary to spend “a fairly considerable sum”
in bringing the hotel up to date. Much
depends upon how it is proposed to
finance the outlay (more than the £2OOO
now reserved for the purpose will be re-
quired, the chairman says), and upon
the extent to which earnings respond.
The goodwill and therefore earnings of a
fashionable hotel depend very largely


i
w
m
»
e sa
; ;
i ■ i
LIMP WORK LOSING
Bui who said Dry Ginger Ale ?
- Schweppes DRY GINGER ALE
* M THE ONLY ORIGINAL
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISOII, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (i.ate Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
upon the attractiveness of its service and
equipment.
Shareholders have never had much out
of the business ; a lone 5 p.c. in the first
eight years and an average of 4| p.c.
since the old Clarendon was taken over
in 1910. There was a short burst of 10
p.c. divs. during the boom; but other
hotels sprang up, the Spit (Middle Har-
bor) bridge failed to bring Manly the
business that was anticipated, and then
slump interfered.
Last year the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids was reduced by
£1856;
1926. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Liabilities.. .. £26,997 £23,568 £23,474 £23,521
Liquid assets .. 12,788 5,664 6,705 7,608
Excess liabilities.. £14,209 £17,904 £17,769 £15,913
Buildings, etc. .. 67,941 68,716 68,716 08,716
Liabilities include £20,000 of p.c. per-
petual debentures, of which £12,000 was
the purchase price of the Clarendon.
The floating debt (£3522) was more than
covered by cash alone (£4990).
On the market the pound shares,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 295., are fairly steady around
12s. 6d. The return at 12s. 6d. would
be 4.8 p.c. on the basis of a 3 p.c. div.
(£1050).
The rise in the price of silver calls
attention to the marked difference in the
grade of ore worked by the three big
mines at the Barrier. Taking last yearly
accounts as a guide, their crude ore and
lead concentrates varied as follows:
i —Crude Concentrate—,
Lead. Silver. Lead. Silver.
North.. .. 15,2 p.c. 9.00 z. 74.8 p.c. 41.20 z.
'South.., .. 15.8 „ 6.7 „ 76.0 „ 30.7 „
jZinc Corp. .. 16,1 „ 3.6 „ 74.6 „ 17.1 „
Taking lead at £l3 a ton and silver at
2s. 9d. a fine ounce, both Australian cur-
rency, the gross value of the lead and
|Silver contents per ton of crude ore in
the three mines compares thus;
Lead. Silver. Total.
North .. .. 39.52/- 24.75/- 64.27/-
South .. 41.08/- 18.42/- 69.50/-
Zinc Corp. .. 39.26/- 9.90/- 49.16/-
Compared with Zinc Corp., stone from
the North is thus worth an extra 15s.
per ton, and that from the South an
extra 10s. Bd. a ton. These figures
explain most of the difference in the
market price of the three cos.’ shares. If
silver continues 4o rise, and lead re-
mains stationary, the discrepancy be-
tween the value of the three mines will
become even greater. The silver content
of Zinc Corp.’s ore is increasing at depth,
but thus far not sufficiently to have any
marked effect upon the value of its
output.
* * * *
For testing purposes only, which
means that the ore was not selected as
a representative parcel so far as values
are concerned, New Cobar (N.S.W.) re-
cently sent five tons of sulphides to
Minerals Separation and De Bavay’s Pro-
cesses Pty. for treatment. This feed,
which assayed 26.9 Idwt. gold and 2.1
p.c. copper, was put through a 9in. stirrer
machine for a concentrate of 19.2 p.c.
by weight of the ore treated. The assay
value of the concentrate was 124.8dwt.
gold and 10.7 p.c. copper per ton. Re-
coveries were 89.1 p.c. of gold originally
present in the crude ore, and 97.7 p.c. of
the copper. Previous small-scale labora-
tory tests showed a recovery of 81.6
p.c. gold. From what section of the
sulphide zone the ore came is not
known; it is believed to be some of the
last raised by the Great Cobar Co. be-
fore it went into liquidation after the
war. Another parcel of 10 tons of
oxidised stuff, taken from a 12ft. face
at a depth of 40ft. in the opencut, aver-
aged lOdwt. gold. A crosscut is being
put out to ascertain whether these values
extend. Some time ago ore reserves were
figured at 316,000 tons, averaging Bdwt. ;
that excluded a lot of sdwt. stone in the
upper levels. A 9000-ton-a-month plant
is being erected.
* * * 4=
Bismarck Range, Lucknow (N.S.W.),
is an exceptionally rich little mine. For
the six weeks to Feb. 16 it crushed 50
tons of firsts and 155 tons of seconds for
a total yield of 21620 z. of retorted gold,
an average of per ton. It is work-
ing specimen stone, blocked to the 80ft.
level, with the formation continuing
underfoot. Some work has been done
on the 100 ft. level, but the board has
not yet announced the results. The
deposit occurs as a replacement or pocket
in a shear zone, with walls of andesite
and serpentine; much depends upon the
depth at which it may pinch out, and
upon whether the richness continues.
* * * *
Zircon Rutile, Ltd., a Melbourne con-
cern which is installing equipment to
treat beach sands at Byron Bay (N.S.W.),
has obtained some short-term contracts
for zircon (used for hardening steel) from
and the U.S.A. The price men-
tioned is £7 a ton f.o.b. Sydney. Plant
capacity is 150 tons weekly; production
is expected to begin next month. Later,
rutile and ilmenite are to be turned out.
Rutile, which contains about 94 p,c.
titanium oxide, and has much greater cov-
ering power than whitelead, is used in the
manufacture of titanium white pigments.
Ilmenite, which is about 50 p.c. titanium
oxide, is the source of most titanium.
Provided markets can be found and costs
are right, the co. has many years’ work
in sight.
* * * *
The Queensland Government has
granted a loan of £l5OO to the Black
Jack, Charters Towers, on a pound-for-
pound basis. Immediately the money
becomes available the co. will erect 10-
head of stamps and a cyaniding plant.
An improvement in the ore in the sink
was noticeable last week.
* * * *
G. Annesley, an American mining en-
gineer, has bought the Warrior, four
miles south of Charters Towers (Q.),
from Messrs. Rule and Dann. The
show has been worked to a depth of
180 feet. The reef is 3ft. thick, and
12dwt. stone is expected to show up
when the water has been got out. A
crushing and cyaniding plant to handle
50 tons a day is spoken of, though it is not
always wise to count the chickens before
they are hatched. Treatment costs are
put at Bs. 6d. a ton, and mining costs £1
a ton.
4 s $
Mt. Lawson Prospecting and Option
Syndicate, Melbourne, has decided to
remain in business as a prospecting and
investment concern. It will, therefore,
cleave to the £8625 cash (= £l2 a
share) received from Upper Watut, its
first float, from which it also received
200.000 fully-paids and prior rights to
187.000 contribs., now selling at about
300 p.c. premium in the market. The
legal manager, A. McEwan, has been
granted an honorarium of 200 guineas,
and the three directors another 200
guineas among them.
* * * *
Maud and Yellow Girl, Glen Wills
(Vic.), is calling another Is. on each of
its 45,000 contribs., making them paid
to 11s. lOd. each; there are 15,000 £1
shares fully-paid. The new money is
wanted to bring plant capacity to 800
tons monthly. The management figures
that there is 23,000 tons of 7dwf. feed
ready to be treated at a profit of 225. 6d.
a ton.
* * * *
The Bird-in-Hand, Woodside (S. Aus.),
has decided to instal a 1500-ton-a-month
treatment plant, and manager C. M.
Harris is on the hunt for some of it in
Sydney. The ore is oxidised down to
about 600 ft., and tests made by Sons of
Gwalia show it to be free from metal-
lurgical difficulties. About 500 tons of
lOdwt. stone has been taken from the
bottom (400 ft.) level, where the lode is
from 6ft. to 12ft. wide. On the surface,
ounce stuff is being got from the Eureka
lode, and payable values are reported
from other makes. Next door the Black-
bird has raised 30 tons, averaging
18dwt., from within 15ft. of the Bird’s
northern boundary. Since June last the co.
has emptied approximately 300,000,000
gallons of good drinking water from the
mine into the Onkaparinga River, which
has delivered most of it into the Happy
Valley Reservoir, thus disposing of the
water difficulty.
* * * Ht
Several Westralian goldmining cos.
have recently installed or are about to
instal new treatment plant. The Lance-
field, at Laverton, and London-controlled
Mt, Magnet, at Magnet, have reached
the production stage, while Rothsay, at
Yalgoo, Lake Austin Eureka, near Cue,
and the Golden West, in the Coolgardie
district, expect to do so in a month or
two, followed by Triton, at Reedy’s,
and Oro Banda Amalgamated, on the
Broad Arrow field. Lady Shenton, Men-
zies, has just ordered a mill. Additions
to Sons of Gwalia’s grinding section
were completed last month, and enlarge-
ment of Norseman’s plant is proceeding.
There is some talk of a change from
bromocyanide to flotation at Boulder
Perseverance, but the yarn lacks official
confirmation.
* * * *
The public, here and in Britain, has
put over £3,000,000 into Westralian
goldmining ventures during the last
few years, and it is estimated vendors
have collared one-sixth. Flotation exes,
have mopped up a considerable
sum, too. Principal public subscrip-
tions were: Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, £450,000; Triton, £275,000;
Murchison Gold, £200,000; Southern
Cross, £165,000 ; Lancefield, £lBO,OOO ;
Westralia Renown, £62,500 ; Central
Yellowdine, £60,000; Golden Valley,
£60,000; Rothsay, £53,125; New Gol-
conda, £50,000.
* $ «
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., expects
to make an early start with production.
The co., recently floated in London by
Gold Exploration, holds about 250
acres on the eastern side of the southern
end of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.). There is sufficient ore in old
workings to furnish 30,000 to 50,000
tons per annum for many years to come,
the board says. The stone is widely
spread, which means that it won’t be
cheap to get out. Still, satisfactory profit
may be won with gold at over £8 an ounce
(Aust.). Arrangements are said to have
made to treat the ore at Lake
View’s plant, and to diamond-drill some
of the co.’s ground from the Lake View
workings.
* sfc sfc sfc
During 1934 Gold Fields Australian
Development, in which the big Wiluna
Co. is largely interested, increased its
issued capital from £115,000 to £285,000.
It bought all the scrip in the Moonlight,
Starlight and Horseshoe Wiluna groups
at Wiluna (W.A.) for £lOO,OOO plus cost
of the options (£23,000). These proper-
ties are opening up nicely, and arrange-
ments have been made to treat the ore
at the Wiluna’s plant. More recently
the co. bought a 20 p.c. interest in Yel-
lowdine Gold Development from Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance. The
year’s outlay on boring was £39,032, and
general exes. £3481. Sale of properties,
etc., turned in £16,065. When the books
closed there was £77,428 in the bank,
and only £lB7l was coming to creditors.
* * * *
. At an extraordinary general meeting
in London last week Commonwealth
Mining and Finance, one of the De Ber-
nales group, decided to increase its capi-
tal to £1,500,000 by the creation of
2,000,000 new ss. shares. Particulars of
the proposed issue will be announced
after March 22. Option-certificate
holders who exercise their rights before
that date will participate in the new
issue on the same terms as registered
shareholders.
* * *
The Kangaroo Co. has lowered the
water in the Last Chance, Kanowna
(W.A.), to 390 ft. The bottom level, re-
ported to contain high values, is another
40ft. down. Sampling results from
upper levels are not to be published until
representative stone from the bottom
level has been put through the assay
office.
* ❖ %
The Lydiate Co. has been launched in
Adelaide to develop Lydiate and Mc-
Namee’s claim at Mt. Monger (W.A.).
Many consider the area, though admit-
tedly rich, a syndicate rather than a com-
pany proposition. Capital is £50,000 in
2s. shares.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. has arranged with Dr.
Wade and party to make a further exami-
nation of its Kimberley areas. The co.
has been on the hunt for the last 13
years, but thus far hasn’t had any luck.
Last balance sheet showed £4069 cash
in hand.
* Hs * *
The Leedhill Co., subscribed for
mostly in Kalgoorlie and Perth, was
formed to develop several properties at
Wombola, north of Leonora, as well as
the Queen Margaret and Gippsland mines
at Gindalbie (W.A.). The Wombola
property is now under option to the
Western Mining Corp.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.B. and H.J.R.: (1) It was part of the
scheme that, if accepted by the requisite majo-
rity, the proposals would be binding on dis-
sentient C bondholders. (2) The share plan
is the best one; still, the venture is very specu-
lative... .8.H.: Co. holds what looks like
best lease on field at the moment, but a lot
more work needs to be done before any reliable
idea of its value can be had 8.G.8.: (1)
Fine grinding, concentration by flotation (5 p.c.
to 6 p.c. of original ore), roasting (concen-
trate itself supplies fuel), cyanidisation and
precipitation by means of zinc dust. For full
description see “Mining Magazine,” July, 1932.
(2) Details of treatment not broadcast, but
similar in principle to (1). (3) Write Tait
Publishing Co., 39 Queen-street, Melbourne,
C.l, for latest textbooks on subject... .8.5.:
(1) No particulars capitalisation; syndicate
shares recently sold for £l4 each. Co. has
6000 acres next to Middle Creek. London
group seeking option. (2) Cannot say. (3) Not
yet out of prospecting stage, but has specu-
lative possibility of developing into fairly large
mine. (4) Mainly to general market setback,
and partly to talk of new evening paper.
Doubt whether latter proposal will come to
anything in its present form A.R.: Par-
ticulars not available in Sydney; write Mel-
bourne paper concerned R.F.: (1) Specu-
lative; everything depends upon how recently-
acquired options at Hope’s Hill, Southern Cross
(W.A.), turn out. (2) Gamble, with fair chance
of success 1.J.: Cannot say; making in-
quiries... .C.E.P.: Main formation of por-
phyry, schistose and gneisses runs n.-w. and s.-e.,
and its existence has been proved at two
points over four miles apart. On Misima Gold
Reef’s leases continuity of lode proved for
about 2500 ft.; average width 12ft., and average
assay 7ydwt., both estimates. It has yet to be
proved how far values go down. If exercised,
Oroville’s option provides for £4OOO cash
plus one-tenth share interest in fully-paids.
Handsome returns at low cost have been won
by G. O. Wilkinson at New Misima F.K.:
(1) It is managing agent for Mt. Charlsted
Wolfram, and is interested in Oil Search, Ltd.,
and other ventures, including Melawi. (2)
Last sales around 3s. 6d.; any broker will sell
for you Anxious (Wondai): (1) Yes. (2)
No open market. (3) Guesses as to what
profits, if any, are likely to be won aren’t
worth much... .H.W.: There is an estimated
4500 tons, averaging loz. lOdwt. fine gold and
lOOoz. silver per ton, ready for treatment.
Average width of reef, 3ft. Before call paid
capital was £22,500, Everything depends upon
recoveries and costs J.S.: Nominal capital
£lO,OOO in £lO shares. For full details Upper
Watut see “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” March, 1935.
E.McC.: (1) Pref. div. four years in arrears.
Unless cancelled, it looks like a long wait for
ords. (2) Fair prospects. (3) Solid as a rock.
J.H.: No investment free from all risks.
Pref. shares in Queensland Brew, and Berlei
worth consideration E.C.C.: Write A. E.
Llewellyn, Legal Manager, 430 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Babes in Toyland”
A screen-pantomime at Sydney St.
James. The villain Barnaby (a superb
fantastic by Henry Kleinbach) holds a
mortgage over the shoe in which the old
woman (Florence Roberts), her innumer-
able children, 80-Peep (Charlotte Henry)
and Laurel and Hardy live. Barnaby
wants to marry 80-Peep, but she abhors
him, and loves Tom, the. Piper’s son
(Felix Holt).
The libretto, which is as involved and
catastrophic as that of an Italian opera,
deals with Barnaby’s plots to win Bo-
Peep and ruin her defenders. Laurel
and Hardy trick him out of the mortgage-
deed in the end, but they have to endure
some painful and humiliating experi-
ences first, for Barnaby is as cunning as
he is vile. In an attempt to steal the
deed from the villain’s coat-pocket, Hardy
gets his hand caught in a mousetrap.
The destruction of the mortgage seems
to be the logical end of the story, but it
begins all over again when Barnaby
leads the Powers of Darkness against
Toyland. Laurel and Hardy have been
sacked from a toyshop, and it is their
George Arliss in “The Lost Gentleman."
at Sydney State.
ability to make wooden soldiers fight and
toy cannons shoot that saves the day for
virtue.
A strong cast helps to emphasise the
beauties and absurdities of this produc-
tion. Charlotte Henry, who has plenty
to do, is perhaps the only movie star
whose face looks intelligent as well as
exquisite in repose. She and Felix Knight
have some tuneful, if strident numbers.
The synthetic animals are more lifelike
than any that have been seen on a stage.
As showing the general interest, the on-
looker doesn’t resent the frequent
absences of Laurel and Hardy. They
are not much more in evidence■ than a
pair of panto, sisters.
“What Every Woman Knows”
Barrie’s tribute to Scottish wives has
been brought up to date by the intro-
duction of a gold-standard theme. Brian
Aherne’s John Shand is suitably pictur-
esque, humorless, self-satisfied and ruth-
less —a predestined political success, no
matter what kind of woman he mar-
ries. Helen Hayes is Maggie, the plain
little girl whom Shand agrees to wed for
“three hoondert poonds,” to be spent
furthering his career. It is the best part
Miss Hayes has been seen in here, and
she doesn’t let it down by one stagy or
oversentimentalised note. The story
takes a long time to start, but the char-
acterisation of Maggie’s father (David
Torrence) and two brothers (Dudley
Digges and Donald Crisp) is so clever
that interest doesn’t wane. The weak
feature is the crudity of John’s narcis-
sism. It robs Maggie’s triumph of a
good deal of its significance. Lady Sybil
would have ditched him sooner than she
did—if, indeed, she had ever felt in-
dined to take up with him—and no
woman but Maggie could have stood
him permanently.
“The Forbidden Territory”
At the Lyceum, One has to be very
young to enjoy this tale of three Eng-
lishmen in Soviet Russia. A devil-may-
care fellow (Anthony Bushell) is im-
prisoned for prying about in Siberia near
a secret aerodrome. His father (Ronald
Squire) and brother (Barry Mackay)
come to the rescue and have lively and
amusing times in Moscow with the Ogpu,
A British secret service agent (Anton
Dolin) masquerades as a cabaret singer,
and a Russian singer (Binnie Barnes)
also renders them invaluable aid. They
burst into the secret aerodrome, set it
on fire, escape in an aeroplane, make a
forced landing, are captured and rescued
on the morning of their execution. Some
of the Russian settings look the real
thing and atone in a measure for the
preposterous story.
“The Camels Are Coming”
Jack Hulbert, of the lantern jaw, long
legs and breezy manner, is leader of an
aeroplane squadron which arrives in
Egypt from England to put down drug-
smuggling. A smuggler’s eloquence pre-
vents him from searching for drugs, and
he finds himself stranded in the desert.
A camel proves a godsend, and his antics
with the animal are among the most
amusing scenes in the film. After inno-
cently providing safe escort for a con-
signment of drugs he pulls himself to-
gether and rounds up the malefactors.
The Egyptian scenes are interesting.
Hulbert doesn’t get much chance to dis-
play his gifts as an eccentric dancer and
comic singer.
“Charlie Chan in Paris”
Earl Derr Bigger’s “Chan in London”
owed something to “Sapper”; the
Parisian Chan enters into the world of
Gaston Leroux. Equipped with a
Japanese son who speaks pure Bowery
and whose presence in the French capi-
tal is not sufficiently explained, the
Chinese sleuth unearths the iniquity of
a leading French banker who, when not
actively engaged in bank-directing, infests
the bank disguised either as a wealthy
black-and-white cartoonist or a crippled
beggar. The hunt for the scoundrels who
inundated Europe with forged bonds
leads the hunters into the sewers of Paris,
where the forgers have set up an
elaborate printing plant. Exactly how
Mr. Chan traces them down is not
divulged, but Warner Gland’s staccato
enunciation of quaint proverbs, such as
John Boles in “The Age of Innocence,"
at Sydney State.
“crow who sits on chimney-pots some-
times falls in soot,” combined with his
complete composure in circumstances of
great peril, carries the job through. At
Sydney Regent.
“The Firebird”
Setting is Vienna, but that doesn’t
matter, since everybody whose enuncia-
tion can be distinguished, speaks pure
American. Ricardo Cortez is a matinee
idol. Anita Louise is a high-born flapper
living in the same pub who comes to his
apartment whenever his gramophone
plays “The Firebird,” a composition
whose musical ancestry is obscure.
Verree Teasdale is the flapper’s momma ;
Lionel Atwill is her poppa. Cortez is
found lying on his bed with a bullet
through his brain, and that courtly old
sleuth C. Aubrey Smith is not deceived
when Miss Teasdale confesses. He
Helen Westley in “The Age of Inno-
cence,” at Sydney State.
makes her reconstruct the crime and
stumble through the rooms of Cortez all
the way from the library to the boudoir,
evincing her unfamiliarity with the sur-
roundings at every step. Tension in the
last quarter of an hour is strong, but the
piece hardly lives up to its reputation as
being an example of the work of
“Europe’s master dramatist.” At Sydney
Capitol.
“The Best Man Wins”
Jack Holt and Edmund Lowe, strong
he-men who have made many a maritime
romance bearable, spend most of their
time in diving-dresses under water in this
fantasia. Lowe, having lost an arm, and
being thereby prejudiced in his chances
of employment, enlists in the service of
a German criminal who dredges pearls
and diamonds out of wrecks about two
miles off the sea-front of a town that
looks like Atlantic City. Holt joins the
Harbor Patrol, and, after vain efforts to
protect his unfortunate former comrade,
takes a leading part in a raid involving
the latter’s suicide. After that Lowe’s
goil recognises Holt’s merits. Superficial
stuff, but the sentiments are unimpeach-
ably. moral, and the story is effectively
presented. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Painted Veil”
“M.G.’s” tribute:
It is questionable whether the film version
of Somerset Maugham’s, work now being
screened at Melb. Metro would have been
improved if it had followed more closely the
text of the original. As it is, the plot is
thin, almost trite. It is the story of a woman
who marries, not in haste but after due
deliberation, a scientist, an efficient, brave and
loving man. Pictured as a woman of con-
siderable strength of character, she falls to a
stranger after a few days’ acquaintance. The
co-respondent quits when he finds her husband
willing to wish her on to him permanently, and
she returns to the husband and true love.
The woman takes a lot of believing, but—
as in many poor films —the acting is so good
that even the hardened scrutineer is apt to
accept the whole thing. Garbo does great,
work —almost as good as that wonderful cameo
she presented in “Anna Christie.” As the joyous,
laughing flapper, as the passionate Messalina,
as the devoted and repentant wife, she scores
every time. Yet it is not her acting that car-
ries the play. It is Herbert Marshall as the
man whose job is greater to him than his life
or his happiness. Marshall makes the audience
think it is looking on the actual man. Broken
by his wife’s infidelity, he has before him the
task of saving a Chinese community from
cholera, and he depicts just the way that
such a man would face such a position. Clever
comic relief is provided by Forester Harvey
as a friendly vulgarian. George Brent is a
typical seducer.
Most of the action takes place in the hinter-
land of Hong Kong during a cholera out-
break, and it is difficult to believe that the
shots were not taken on the spot. The pictures
of native life are most convincing, and the
presence of the principals discounts any sus-
picion that they are gazette interpolations.
“The Gift of the Gab”'
A, burlesque on the worship of broad-
casters. Edmund Lowe is a street spfuiker
who becomes overnight , a popular hero ;
Gloria Stuart, a broadcast director.
The big scene is where .the young man
who has lost his job through swelled
head comes back to do a broadcast search
for a lost ’plane. As there is no landing
place within miles, he rides down to the
wreck on a parachute, telling the world
his story through the mike strapped be-
fore his mouth as he falls.
“Lady by Choice”
Carole Lombard is a fan-dancer with
a minor police-court record, but no past
in the generally-accepted sense. May
Robson is an old-timer who possesses
every sort of record. Poverty drives the
girl to hunt down a rich young man ;
but in the middle of the chase love
obtrudes, and she turns him down. It
is only when his mother cuts him off for
looking beneath him that she falls into
his arms. It is the sort of plot that is
turned out on rubber stamps, but per-
fect presentation and performance enable
it to get across.
“St. Louis Kid”
James Cagney is a truck-driver who
serves in a milk war, fought on the gory
lines that characterised the engagements
between bootleggers and hijackers when
prohibition was in flower. In gaol he
has the singular good fortune to be
placed under the care of a turnkey who
regales the prisoners with bottled beer.
The officer falls into a drunken slumber
so close to Mr. Cagney’s prison bars that
the acquisition of his keys is a simple
matter. Heroine Patricia Ellis gets kid-
napped by “milk gorillas” (vide, the dope
sheet), and Mr. Cagney takes a holiday
from incarceration to rescue her.
Cagney is a cheerful and breezy sort
of ruffian, but if the New Deal has no
more moral effect on Hollywood than is
evidenced in this fantasia it can’t be cut-
ting very deep. •
“Lives of a Bengal Lancer”
Pre-shown in Sydney and reviewed at
the time in The Bulletin, this movie
was later seen at Sydney Prince Edward
and Melbourne Capitol. The following
is a Melbourne critic’s view of it.
Though treated Imperialistically “Lives of
a Bengal Lancer” is one of the deadliest in-
dictments of militarism that any pacifist could
desire. The action turns on the old colonel
whose devotion to duty leads to his refusing to
rescue his son from death because the British
Raj demands duty above all. A brass-hat who
Joey Porter in “New Faces,” the revue
at Sydney New Tiv.
would probably have provoked open mutiny
had he held command in the A.1.F., the
colonel so enrages a Canadian attached to the
regiment that he “tells him off,” remarking that
he would be better to be less of a soldier and
more of a man. Every scene of barracks life,
every skirmish and the final battle are con-
vincing. The details of Indian army life have
undergone the close supervision of two British
officers of high rank.
There is a vicious hill potentate —that is to
say, he is vicious in that he desires to prevent
white foreigners from invading his country—
who may be open to question, seeing that his
graduation at Oxford failed to eliminate his
American accent or his practice of torturing
his captives. There is a beautiful vamp who is
o Continued on page 38.)


THE OTHER
FELLOWS'
MIND.
“Outside the Movement”
If members of the Victorian branch
of the A.L.P. carry out their expressed
intention of supporting Lang candidates
in the N.S.W. State election against en-
dorsed members of the Australian Labor
party they will, according to the rules
and constitution of the organisation,
automatically put themselves outside the
movement. — Arthur Griffith (N.S.W.).
Filling-in Forms
“Australians,” someone has written,
“spend no small part of their lives filling-
in forms.” True, and the Common-
wealth wheat bounty has enabled the
form-planners to achieve fresh triumphs.
This year there are two bounties —one
on acreage, the other 3d. a bushel; but
it doesn’t follow that there are only two
forms. In Victoria, at least, there are
forms for partners, forms for share-
farmers and a form for each buyer to
whom you have sold wheat.
A young Wimmera farmer has a part-
nership agreement with his brother, crops
a few acres of his own and works a
little of his father’s land on shares. The
wheat in which he is interested was
sold to four different companies. Before
the bounties can be got twenty (20) forms
have to be made out; and the grain was
stripped from less than 200 acres. —
E. R. W. (Vic.).
On the ’Phone
Railway Commissioner Clapp has given
instructions that users of his own ’phone
exchange shall no longer call “Hello,”
but come to business at once. The move
is a wise one ; there is much time wasted
in useless ’phoning. Operators have been
known to complain because a user giv-
ing a number did not add “Please.” That
courteous word is frequently distorted on
the wire and is mistaken for a redundant
“three” at the exchange. Both
“Please” and “Hello” should
be cut out by the department.
Revenue might also be im-
proved if all conversations
were limited to the three
minutes allowed on public
’phones. The person who
cannot say all she has to say
by ’phone in three minutes
should be content to pay for
the extra call. — Subscriber
(Vic.).
Let Us Be Thankful!
The reference in Political
Points (B. 20/2/’35) to a
cash loss on the Leeton can-
nery of £100,928 is perhaps
likely to mislead, seeing that
such a loss is more than accounted for by
something which happened 15 years ago.
At that time there was a general col-
lapse in the canning industry, and one
large private Sydney cannery went out of
existence as a result. The Leeton can-
nery, caught, as were other private con-
cerns, with very large stocks, had to
greatly depreciate them, and showed in
the year 1919-1920 a cash loss of
£120,000. In the years which followed,
the cannery improved its position, and
mostly has made profits (sometimes con-
siderable) over working expenses, with
the result that the cash net loss over the
whole period has been reduced by nearly
£20,000.
It is admitted that full interest on
capital is not realised, but it should be
remembered that the cannery had to be
constructed during the Great War at
heavy cost, and is, on that account, over-
capitalised. Despite its financial diffi-
culties it has at least found a
ready market for the settlers’ fruit, pay-
ing since its commencement £502,000 for
that commodity, in addition to £435,000
for wages and £316,000 to the sugar
industry. Its purchases of tinplate from
Great Britain, which in turn buys so
much of our fruit, have reached £360,000.
Shortly, the cannery now shows a vary-
ing surplus over working expenses, but
not sufficient to meet the full interest
burden. As compensation, it provides
the settlers with a necessary market for
their produce.— H. Bevan, secretary,
Water Conservation and Irrigation Com-
mission (N.S.W.).
Motor Accidents
On March 2 and 3 the police reported
11 motor accidents between Bundaberg
(Q.) and Melbourne. They may be thus
summarised;
Killed. Injured.
Four skids 3 8
One skid, resulting in collision 1 2
Five collisions 14
Knocked down by car • 1
4 25
A grim list, but it is paralleled almost
every week-end. Speed is the most dan-
gerous thing on the road. A car travel-
ling at 30 miles an hour covers 44 feet
in a second. The brain of a driver in
perfect health and of quick reaction may
respond to emergency in as little as one-
"What's the matter here?”
“The stuff must ’ave curdled on ’ im , surge.”
fifth of a second, but experiment shows
that it is a good man who can get full
braking in a couple of seconds.
Given modern brakes, any competent,
sober pair of drivers going 20 m.p.h. can
usually avoid a collision even on a corner.
Even at 35 m.p.h., if there is room to
manoeuvre, they have a good chance —
subject to stability of behavior in the
car. With perfect springs and moderate
speeds and good brakes together there
should rarely be a fatal accident, except
through breakage of gear or the human
element.
The things most needed in modern
motoring are a sensible regulation of
speed and a shock-absorber that will
really absorb shocks. —B. S. D. (N.S.W.).
A Graball Department
The N.S.W, Department of Road
Transport does contemptibly mean
things. To save wages .on one particular
suburban bus route with a steep drop
to the harbor it obliges the driver to
collect fares; a conductor doesn’t board
the bus until a mile or so has been
travelled. What would happen if the
driver-conductor collapsed at the wheel
(such things have been known) is best
left to the imagination.
Private buses used to ply from Central
station to Cronulla, charging eighteen-
pence each way. When bus competition
with the Government railways and tram-
ways was “regulated,” as it was called,
the public was deprived of this conveni-
ence, owners of buses running to Cron-
ulla being forbidden to start from the city
or anywhere nearer than Hurstville, 10
miles out. Now the department is
operating buses of its own from the city
to Cronulla and return. It is charging
2s. each way, though since the private
buses were banned the basic wage has
come down 17s. a week and petrol at
least 6d. a gallon, while the private bus-
men paid charges from which the depart-
ment is exempt. Says the Auditor-
General :
Departmentally-owned vehicles are not
subject to the motor-vehicles tax and to
certain of the fees imposed in respect of
privately-owned vehicles. The annual value
of this concession in respect of the de-
partmental vehicles in commission in June,
1934, was approximately £5700.
And, of course, the department doesn’t
pay Federal or State income tax or State
unemployed-relief tax. Since a city-
Cronulla service is an admitted necessity,
surely it should be handed back to the
people who established it before the
Transport Strangulation Act was en-
forced. Instead, we see the department
trying to grab what is left of their busi-
ness by entering into iniquitously unfair
competition with them, in the process
increasing the already inordinate number
of Government employees.— Anti-Sosh
(N.S.W.).
Dentistry Not Stagnant
It is absurd for “Kariah” (B. 20/2/’35).
to state that “practically no advance has
been made [in dentistry] since the war.”
As a practising dentist with 30 years’
experience, I say that in every branch
of dental art and science greater advances
have been made since the war than dur-
ing any other period.
On the surgical side, block anas-
thesia, now routine practice by dental
graduates throughout Australia, is a
wonderful achievement. And it is not 10
years since Professor Gottlieb, of Vienna,
the Einstein of dentistry, published his
discoveries concerning the origin of
pyorrhea, as a consequence of which
was evolved the gum-flap: operation for
pyorrhea. This was demonstrated by
Dr. Lufkin, of California, when he
visited Melbourne and Sydney last year
at the invitation of their Dental Boards.
Thanks to the invention of bite-wing
films by Dr. Howard Raper, X-rays are
now largely used by dentists as a sure
means of early diagnosis of caries and
pyorrhea. Prevention of premature loss
of natural teeth is now as certain as pre-
vention of premature death from cancer
when diagnosed early.
On the mechanical side, I could
fill a page of The Bulletin with
a list of new technical procedures
and materials, but will mention merely
muscle-trimmed impressions, the Roach
partial denture system, Roach bar clasps,
Cummer’s partial denture system,
stress-breaker removable bridges, chrome-
steel dentures, chrome-steel orthodontia,
expanding-inlay investment materials,
and (last but not least) the Australian-
invented and manufactured Dox grinder
and Roebuck articulator.
Four universities in Australia have full-
time Professors of Dentistry, and each
has a well-equipped dental research
department, whose work has already
attracted world-wide attention. — Denti-
cus (Vic.).
Killing No Murder
Still another jury revealed a distinct
disinclination to sending a man to the
gallows when it found Jones, the Tal-
larook (Vic.) killer, guilty of man-
slaughter. According to his own confes-
sion, Jones had been attacked by a jeal-
ous acquaintance, and in “self-defence”
had wounded the man with a gun, shot
him again as he lay helpless, tied him
up and thrown him into a watercourse.
The Judge made it 10 years.
Juries to-day are loth to take a hand
in depriving a human being of his life.
They strain at every point to find some-
thing in a prisoner’s favor or to discount
evidence which may seem conclusive to
an outsider. Better, they argue, that 99
guilty should go free than one innocent
man should be hanged. Retention of
capital punishment is responsible for this
attitude.
All criminologists are agreed that cer-
tainty of punishment, rather than sever-
ity of punishment, is the best deterrent
of crime. Amendment of the criminal
law to provide for degrees of murder—
the first carrying imprisonment for actual
life —would relieve juries of their qualms,
compass the ends of justice and, if any-
thing can do it, deter potential murderers
from practising their craft. — C. Mundus
(Vic.).
Does Persia Hate Us?
This Persian cruelty to Australians (B.
20/2/’35) must be newly-developed.
When I was there in 1927 Australians
had a monopoly of the Kermanshah-
Bagdad pilgrim traffic ; there were Aus-
tralians in carpet and other companies
and Anglo-Persian Oil—many are in it
still —and I never saw any of them
stripped or a Persian foaming at the
mouth over them.
I crossed Persia from end to end by
car, for some part of the way on a little-
used route. The Legation in London
was courteous and helpful. I had no-
thing but help the whole way. In Yezd
I was spoken to in the street by an old
man who had been to the Australian cen-
tenary exhibition in 1888, and on the
strength of being an Australian I was so
thoroughly entertained that I felt like a
sated carpet-snake for days.
Some of the regulations of travel were
irksome, and time is of no moment m
the Land of Omar. Also, the way with
offenders in a place where a few years
ago walling up in gypsum was a minor
punishment are apt to seem rough to a
European. I presume I came through
because I observed instructions rigidly,
and, when the time factor became irk-
some, had a drink and a long sleep in
the good old Irani manner.
As for taking money out of the coun-
try, Persia has so much money and so
many different kinds of it that it should
be glad to get rid of a little. It has a
local note system. The paper money of
one town has to be discounted in the
next and there are no premiums on any
issue, every locality appearing to regard
the money of every other locality as a
sort of Lang note. The standard large
coin in national currency is the toman
(65.), about the size of a nickel medal
issued by a Yankee correspondence col-
lege. No customs officer would need
to strip the departing guest to discover
whether he had these about him. If it
were not evident from a certain sag about
the traveller’s person, a good hard smack
on the seat of the pants would make the
guilty party jingle like a bolting durbar
elephant. Paper money concealed on
any person who normally bathes is even
more self-evident. Not for nothing did
Providence endow the Persian official
with a nose.
-BAD ADAM (N,S,W.).


ABORIGINALITIES
‘ Fore Royal”: Surfers were enjoying
an evening in the breakers at Terrigal
(N.S.W.) when the shark-bell rang. In
a few moments all were on the sands,
and for two hours the progress of an
ominous black fin was marked along
the beach. Then it turned, coming back,
and much closer in. Suddenly a small
figure, heedless of warning cries, raced
across the sands and into the water right
in the path of the oncoming; danger. A
man broke through the tense throng and
dashed in pursuit. The lad dived
through a breaker, and at almost the
same moment the sinister black object
seemed to dive. The leader of the pur-
suit, reaching the spot, grasped at a small
white arm which suddenly reappeared
above the surface. Then a shrill, breath-
less voice was clearly heard: “That
makes up me dozen for the bottle-oh,
dad.”
H* H* * &
“Eureka”: Something new in sport for
the lazy or unlucky fisherman has been
tried at Merimbula Lake, South Coast
(N.S.W.). You can angle to your heart’s
content in a special enclosure which is
kept well stocked with fish, and you pay
sixpence for each one you land. The
world’s worst fisherman is sure of a bite.
* * * *
“Barklee” (Rabaul): New Guinea is
subject to earth tremors, or gourias.
Recently we had one of our best. For a
start, as usual, glasses and crockery
danced around, but when the old bunga-
low began to jazz we made for the open
spaces.
* * * *
“Ex-’Rooer”: “Varanus” (B. 14/11 /’34)
reminds me. I know how at least one
goanna got down a tree. On a thirsty
day in West Kimberley (W.A.) I saw
nigger toemarks up the side of a baobab
which seemed to have a natural water-
basin at the top. As I put my hand over
the rim there was a lightning-like scuttle
and a splash of water. I think, we
reached the ground together, but I was
a bad second in getting to my feet after-
wards.
* * * *
“Jacko”: Tell “Cam Cove” (B.
6/2/’35) that my cobber at Picton
(N.S.W.) has no chance of making our
reputation for chick-killing any worse.
We have been partial to chickens and
other small birds as long as I can
remember, but we are generally so hum-
orous about it that most people forgive
us. Anyway, the chick is always safe if
its mother is about; I’d sooner tackle a
mad tiger-snake than a mother chook on
the defence, and all other kookas are the
same.
j|t v -!• $
“The 0.D.”: Aeroplanes dropping
poison dust might work on Rhodesian
locusts, but “Limpopo” would find it
impossible with Aussie grasshoppers (B.
6/2/’35). The local fliers don’t advance
in any one direction on a face ; they
move in clouds in different routes,
although there is a slight tendency to
travel s.-e. in calm weather. Again,
’planes could not get low enough to do
the job properly where grasshoppers were
moving through the open spaces on
timbered plains. I have seen them cir-
cling madly round in a bend of the Bogan
River hour after hour, and then suddenly
stream in four different directions through
breaks in the timber line. Our pests
seldom fly more than 50ft. above the
ground, and much of the poison dust
would miss them. The only time to get
them is in the ’hopper stage ; once on
the wing they are beyond attack, as any-
one who witnessed the recent plague will
asseverate.
* * * *
“Trebor”: “Quareef’s” flowering gums
(B. 20 /2 / ’35) have a peculiarity in
common with the white-apple and
swamp-box trees in southern Queensland.
The apple exudes a red, gummy sap from
the limbs ; it is a common sight to see
these and the leaves and grass under-
neath stained red with the stuff. The
swamp-box weeps only when rain is
threatening, and the sap is so like water
that the unwary visitor, when passing
under the tree, usually thinks it’s rain-
ing. Another provider of artificial rain-
drops is a small insect which frequents
certain trees around the Glass House
Mountains. He is found with a dozen
or so of his mates in the middle of a
big ball of white froth attached to the
boughs. The ground underneath is
always saturated with the moisture fall-
ing from the froth.
* * * *
“F.A.4.”: In these days of Golden
Briskets, “bingo” and the dole, it did
me good to meet him. His place
was small, and in a dry belt. Stock low
“Hey, Dig., y’r plug’s come out!”
and prospects anything but bright. He
looked old, but except for his legs he
was straight up and down —a bit chesty,
if anything—and his eye was clear as a
child’s. His legs had the unmistakable
bow acquired by a lifetime in the saddle.
He asked me to have lunch, and I shared
a well-built damper and some corned-
beef with him. I could see I would bore
into a miss if I tried to sell him any of
my lines —mostly station machinery—so
we discussed prices, poleys versus
hornies, and the inevitable thoroughbred.
He had many other interests, had read
a lot, was optimistic and always inter-
esting. His only growl was that he had
a mob of young thoroughbreds in the
paddock and it was too dry for him to
break them in. I hadn’t made a sale ;
but I left that old Queenslander feeling
that it wasn’t a bad old world after all.
At the next stop I learnt that he has had
86 birthdays, all celebrated north of 28.
=!= * *
“Splodger”: There’s no need for “32
x 40” to ring up Fitzroy Trotman’s ghost
(B. 6/2/’35). It was blacks’ dogs and
not dingoes which pulled down his
camels; in proof Trottie did a thing
which no other white man in a thousand
could have done; he made the blacks
bring out their dogs while he shot them.
I was with Henry G. Lamond —then
manager of Walgra and later a Bulletin
contributor —when, early in ’2l, he re-
ceived 93 scalps from Jimmy McCaw.
These were all trapped on the MeeTucka
and Illadda country. As there was a
court case pending over these scalps it
can be taken for granted they were
examined. I’m prepared to state on oath
that there wasn’t one staghound-borzois-
Smithfield-dingo cross among ’em —they
were all just plain dawg.
* *
“0.-T.”: Strange hobbies, seldom
known to anyone but themselves, amused
the hatters who tramped down the
’Bidgee in my time. “The Counter”
tallied everything he saw, from fence
posts to white horses. He could tell you
how many sleepers were in a given length
of railway, how many telegraph posts be-
tween Moama and Mathoura, the num-
ber of bridges between Barham and
Moulamein on either track, and how
many planks were in the decks of the
bridges. He carried a multitude of tallies
in his mind, but it toqk several beers to
loosen his memory.
“Norbell”: “Como’s” par. about the
horse at Violet Town (Vic.) that could
sing (B. 28 /II / ’34) reminds me of
Lovely Riley’s musical team of working
bullocks up on the Gibbergunyah Plains,
near Korweinguboora, on the Decollete
River. There were 16 of them, and some
of their concerted numbers were very
fine. Their rendering of “Don’t Throw a
Lighted Lamp at Mother,” from “La
Cuspidor,” was worth going miles to
hear. But their ensemble efforts when
bogged in a gluepot, crossing the Decol-
lete, were most inspiriting, especially
when Lovely Riley used his whip rhyth-
mically as an accompaniment. Wirths
offered Riley a year’s engagement for
the team at a thousand a week, but he
couldn’t take it on at the time, having
a contract for hauling rabbit-proof mos-
quito-netting for the Alice Springs
Noxious Roads Board. The team’s end
as singers came dramatically. One of the
polers—a brindle —tried to sing a duet
on his own, “Yes, Let Me Like a Soldier
Fall.” The result was so electrifying
that none of the bullocks ever attempted
to sing again ; and that’s why Our Dumb
Friends’ League was founded.
* . * *
“Old-timer”: “Quicksilver Ted” and
“Calico Charley” had reached Balranald
(N.S.W.) after a long, dry tramp from
Tolpra Plains. A quick canvass of the
town showed prospects to be poor, and
the pair were disgustedly selecting a camp
site on the ’Bidgee when “Calico”
grabbed a stick and began belaboring a
brown snake that passed that way. A
gleam shot into “Quicksilver’s” eyes.
“Here, ease up on that snake,” he yelled,
pushing “Calico” aside. He picked the
dead reptile up gingerly, smothered it up
in his coat, and departed for the town,
telling his mate to wait. With his
grisly burden “Quicksilver” patrolled one
of the best residential streets until he saw
a child playing alone in a garden. He
hurled the defunct snake over the fence,
pulled a branch from a street sugar-gum,
and hurled himself after the snake. When
the missus of the house came out to see
what the rumpus was about, “Quick-
silver” was soothing a frightened child
alongside a much-battered snake. It was
a, story for which words were unneces-
sary, and the matron came to light with
ten bob. “I’ll take the snake away,
mum,” said “Quicksilver.” He did —and
the pair made another fifteen bob before
the joke was worked out. Thus was
another drought broken.
* * *
“M.G.”: An Irish terrier bitch which
fell into a deserted shaft at Ballarat was
rescued after 23 days without food. Ten
days before her rescue she had given
birth to a litter of six pups, all doing
well. How’s that for an endurance
record? I firmly believe Irish terriers
to be the hardiest animals on earth. I
owned one at Gordon (N.S.W.) which
fought a bulldog to a standstill; Another
I had was run over by a heavily-laden
motor-truck; he simply got up and
walked away. This same dog caught his
foot in the scroll of a wrought-iron gate,
|in. by l-6in. in dimensions. He bent
the iron strap badly, but, for himself,
suffered nothing more serious than a
limp for half a day.
sfc * * *
“Ratty”: N.S.W. is threatened with a
new horror. The Department of Agricul-
ture announces that you can make delici-
ous coffee out of bananas, and invites
coffee merchants to have a go at it. Writer
can recall when his native Queensland
abandoned itself to an orgy of “utilisa-
tion of native products,” as it was called.
The kangaroo was pruned of his tail for
tinned soup, and eke the turtle of the
Barrier —though more than his tail was
used, of course. The dugong was levied
on for bacon and lard, and bananas suf-
fered a change into flour, candied fruits,
coffee and other oddments. The populace
didn’t rush the new foods. There was one
popular success, but its fame was fleeting
—pineapple wine. It was calculated that
a half-bottle gave a 7st. jockey an unfair
advantage over three policemen, and the
lid went on.
* * * *
In Sydney the other day a
man convicted of “no lawful visible”
asked to be given a chance because he
had arranged to leave next day for a
job in a tinmine at Glen Innes. His plea
was unsuccessful, the beak remarking
that there are no tinmines within 30
miles of G.I. Possibly the man got
no more than he deserved ; nevertheless,
the high price of tin has started many
small mines within 15 miles of G. 1.,
and Emmaville —a tinmining centre for
40 years —is' little more than 20 miles
away. On the Mann River, 10 miles
s.-e. of G. 1., there are the remains of
an abandoned dredge, and an old fos-
sicker for the last 15 years has won
enough tin from the locality to supply
all his needs. His modus operandi is to
wade into the water any depth up to
his armpits and shovel silt from the
bottom, washing it as he brings it to the
surface.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When “Yeast Bun”
Paddy won a big prize in a “certain
consultation” and bought the pub at
Euchapivy, every bagman in the Riv-
erina headed that way. Never in
the history of the rivers was there
such a rolling of swags, a calling of
dogs and a marching of bluchers along
the tracks that led south-west. In singles
and twos and threes they converged on
Euchapivy, and all carried a sweet vision
in their hearts, for “Yeast Bun” was
known as one who found it impossible to
refuse a man in need. But the pub was
locked and barred and showed no signs
of life. It was incredible and maddening,
for, on the evidence of the few local in-
habitants, “Yeast Bun” had got in a large
stock and had been in possession for
three days. On the fourth day, they
persuaded a puzzled mounted trooper
to force an entrance. On the bar
floor, amidst all the signs of a glorious
bender, lay “Yeast Bun,” a fatuous
smile on his unconscious face. At
first he resisted all attempts to rouse
him, but at last the cop stirred him
sufficiently to take notice. “Come
on, Paddy,” insisted anxious voices,
“we’ve been waitin’ f’r y’ t’ open y’r
new pub.” “Yeast Bun” sat up very
straight, sent a look of proprietary
menace at the thirsty crowd, and cried,
“You get t’ hell! I bought this pub for
meself!” Then, with a blissful smile, he
sank back on the floor.
AT BECTIVE BY THE RIVER.
At Bective by the river, in the moonlight,
Head pillowed on my saddle as I lie;
A willy-wagtail in the whispering silence
Twitters a lullaby;
And white stars in the river are as lovely
As white stars in the sky.
The horsebells with their distant, drowsy tinkle
The horns of elfland seem, and far away
A mopoke calls his mate; and in the river
The young fish leap at play—
Like shining arrowheads they flash and flicker
In showers of rainbow spray.
A bullfrog to his lady chants his love lay
In raucous tones and harsh; to me it seems
He stresses overmuch his froggy passion.
My little campfire gleams
Wine-red among white ashes, and the silence
Is freighted with old dreams.
White stars prisoned in the river!
White stars gleaming in the sky!
White stars tangled in the treetops!
And a curlew’s keening cry . . .
And a yellow moon, like a Japanese lantern,
Slowly sailing by.
And so, my willy-wagtail, you are singing
In vain your lullaby, your slumber song;
I shall not sleep a long while yet, I cannot,
For magic rare and strong
Has touched my blood to ichor with the
wonder of the hour,
And . . . Life is none so long.
N.S.W.
W. M. B. LAYCOCK.


“Harry Stotle'’; At the New Year
Charters Towers (Q.) harbors many abos.
and their families, in from the surround-
ing cattle-stations to spend their vacation.
They are usually allowed to choose their
own quarters, under the watchful
eye of the local Protector, the sergeant
of police. This year, however, they were
removed to an encampment of tents and
hastily-erected galvanised-iron shacks on
a reserve opposite the Old People’s
Home, on the outskirts of the town.
The complaints of citizens were no-
thing to those of Binghi, whose exodus
began in large numbers much earlier
than usual. One indignant old chap re-
marked, “Next Chrismuss this pfeller not
cornin’ town at all —shoved out alongside
old blokes at Eventide, and treated like
a blasted nigger!”
* * * *
“Meteren”: Talking of the theft of
smellful flounders (B. 20/2/’35), a
traveller with an idea of working up
a sideline brought back from the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers 6ft. of live
carpet snake. Produce merchants along
Sussex-street, Sydney, didn’t want it for
mice-hunting, and curio shops had a
glut of skins; so it was billeted in a
case in his firm’s workshop for a few
days. He was soon requested to get
rid of it. Whilst he talked to an acquaint-
ance on his way home that night, stand-
ing at the back of a tramcar, the lady’s
hatbox (they wore decent-sized hats in
those days) with the serpent inside was
dumped on the floor. At their stop the
two jumped out, only remembering the
snake after the tram was out of sight.
Having chased it to the terminus, they
found that someone had grabbed it at
one of the last few stops. The welcome
any man would get opening up that lot,
after explaining to the missus that he
had hopped on a bargain hat for her, can
be imagined.
-!- JjS }?j
“Copper-top”: “B.O.” writes of his
young days on Maneroo (C.Q.) (B.
30/1 /’35). I also was a youngster on
that station during the early years of
this century. Old George Bran, a boun-
dary-rider, long dead, had some very
good sheep-dogs, and was asking four
pounds each for a litter of pups. There
were only a couple left, and my heart
yearned for one; but four quid was a
lot of money. I
tried guile; gave
him “Yes, Mr.
Bran,” “No, Mr.
Bran,” and “Very
well, Mr. Bran,” till
I thought I had the
old man right for
picking and in , a
good temper. Then,
though I knew the
price, I asked what
he’d take for one.
“Well,” old George snarled out of the
sou’-eastern corner of his mouth, “the
price to th’ others is four quid each.
From a blasted silvertail like you, though,
I want five quid.”
■f * * *
“8.M.8.”: “J.8.J.” (B. 27/2/’35)
couldn’t have heard of the Adelaide
case. In 1932 a cow gave birth to
two calves—a bull with two heads and
a normal heifer. Twenty-five days
later another bull-calf arrived with
three legs and two tails. The heifer
died at six weeks. Eighteen months ago
the two mistakes were still alive and the
Cowbails kids still collecting the browns
for their “three-minute peeps at the
freaks.”
* * * *
“Yangardook”; I turned in my tank
and windmill job on a big station prop-
erty west of the Cooper (S.A.) and turned
dogger. I knew the game from the manu-
facture of smell decoys to the synthetic
warrigal howl, and believed that no
abo. could teach me anything. We
soon reduced the sheep mortality, and
flooded the station with scalps of the
enemy, but sporadic kills continued.
The abos. informed me that “one big
pfeller with two toes off one foot killum
mob sheep every time.” For this parti-
cular dog the bonus rose from 7s. 6d. to
£5, and when no patent howls or
“ Wol's the game? Put that back!”
decoys would bring him to light a £lO
reward was offered. “Whipstick Billy”
got the tip by message stick or smoke
signal, and landed in with his old white
camel and bundle of traps. Locating a
soak after a couple of days’ search he
found the wanted prints, and, binding his
feet and hands in smelly sheepskin, he
placed a row of traps under the water.
At 2 p.m. next day we saw Billy mounted
on the camel making for the station with
his ten pounds’ worth of dog. But for
missing toes the killer would have won
a prize in any Alsatian show.
* * * *
“Reefer”: I agree that divers fear
gropers more than sharks (B. 6/2/’35).
I’ll go further; their fear of sharks isn’t
a fear at all—it’s ordinary caution. But
as to that other fellow ; I was talking
to Robbie Pitt, nephew of the famous
Douglas Pitt. In a vainglorious voice
Robbie was telling me of spearing fish
“Came here thirty years ago without a penny in my pocket , and now I
owe thirty thousand quid.”
among the coral, of seeing this, that and
the other darned thing, and then of how
he looked into a cave in the reef. Though
we were out on dry land, and though
the tide was a hundred yards from us,
Robbie’s eyes shone in the darkness and
his voice sank to an awed whisper as
he told me: “I saw a groper in that
cave!”
* * * *
“V.G.”: Our slaughteryard was a
haunt of crows. To catch them a length
of strong thread was sewn securely
through a 2ft. strip of skirting. One end of
thread was tied to the post on which the
meat was laid. The black gluttons found
it easier to swallow than disgorge, and
their capture was easily effected. We
established beyond all doubt that the
crow cannot count further than four. In
order to man our sniping “possie” it was
necessary for five boys to enter it and
wait for a few minutes while one con-
cealed himself, the remainder retiring in
full’ view of the crows —in neighboring
trees just out of range. When we were
well away they’d come down to the bait.
But let four enter and three leave and
the would-be sniper could wait all day
and never fire a shot.
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: A huge water lizard, sun-
ning himself on a limb overhanging
the creek, unwisely allowed his tail
to rest in the stream. There was a
sudden “chop!” and an eel had a firm
grip on what he evidently thought was a
good thing. The way that reptile
scrabbled and clawed to maintain his
position could have been beaten only by
a politician at election time ; but eventu-
ally the slimy one won. Both dis-
appeared in a flurry of foam.
* * * *
“V.G.”; The patient and efficient vigil
of the sulphur-crested cockatoo ceases at
dusk, when the whole tribe, sentries and
other ranks, retire to a well-chosen roost-
ing place. There, after much noisy argu-
ment, they settle down for the night.
One refurned-soldier farmer near Tanny-
morel (Q.), bereft of a fine crop of maize,
located the marauders roosting on a big
gum high up the range ; and in revenge
organised a punitive expedition. About
10 double-barrelled guns accounted for
hundreds of the big white birds, and
thereafter, for that season at any rate,
cockatoos were scarce round Tanny-
morel.
* * * *
“O. de V.”: Half-way up the paddock
the two hard-case offspring of my North-
ern Rivers (N.S.W.) neighbor hailed me
with the suppressed glee of dark con-
spirators. Elizabeth, aged five, carried a
battered billy with a mysterious air;
Alfred, two years her senior, flaunted
an empty jam-tin and a box of matches.
They guided me to a fair lump of a
boulder and invited me to look under-
neath—at a black snake! The kids
regarded my hasty retreat with great
amusement, then proceeded to initiate
me into their latest game. The jam-
tin was carefully filled with liquid
from the billy, and Alfred spilled
a trail of it around and within a
foot of the snake. The remainder he
suddenly jerked directly at the reptile ;
then, to the accompaniment of squeals of
delight from his fellow-conspirator, he
flicked a lighted match under the rock.
There was an instantaneous burst of
flame—a second later out shot a fiery
streak that broke all existing records for
standing start, flexibility and acceleration.
When the excitement subsided, I got the
details of two days’ sport—five snakes,
including one they had to knock with a
stick to keep it still enough to apply the
petrol; also a big carpet snake that
allowed them to stand over it and anoint
it before they applied the match. “Where
did you get the petrol?” I demanded.
Elizabeth replied serenely: “Oh, out of
that big tin in your garage. I hope you’ll
be getting more soon —it’s nearly all
gone!”
* * * *
“Runa”: Add our old cat to the list
of fishing felines. She used to spend
part of every day on the banks of a tiny
stream that flowed through the house-
paddock, but there was no need for her
to enter the water. At one point the
creek flowed shallowly over a slope, and
beside this she sat patiently hour by
hour. The small fish in the stream
sooner or later passed through the shal-
low, and the old cat, extending her ready
paw, flicked them dexterously out and
on to the bank. When she had a grow-
ing family the kittens used to sit beside
her, eagerly awaiting the catch, but they
never interfered until the fish was landed.
* * * *
“Rindy”; A half-inch spider chose
our drive as the site of its habitation.
The web was broken down by trafiic
every day, but for five consecutive nights
the little engineer rebuilt it. Building
necessitated a horizontal span 12ft. in
length, 7ff. from the ground. How is
that bearer thrown across? That theory
of floating it out on the wind won’t do
—winds would be too unreliable for
this consistent performer. Further, the
proper stretching of the complete web
demands a perpendicular strainer from
the bottom of the web to the ground.
To get that strain a pebble, fully 20-
times the weight of the spider, has been
hoisted and hung, pendulum fashion,
nine inches up from the ground.
* * * t-
“Dr. Mivart”: Since the death of the
last of my cats the family has taken to
keeping budgerigars. When the plan
was unfolded to me I announced uncom-
promising hostility. The keeping of birds
in cages, I said, was wanton cruelty.
My words went unheeded. When we’d
had our first pair a week I was sitting
on the verandah trying to disregard their
twittering, when an extra-frightful kibob-
bery drew my ear and eye. A third bud-
gerigar from the wide open spaces was
doing its best to eat its way into the cage.
“Possibly a relative,” said I to myself, so
I opened the cage door and let the visitor
(a lady) in. Peace was thus restored,
but not for long. Half an hour later still
another budgerigar (a gentleman this
time) came out of the blue and battered
at the portals with wings and beak, so,
for the sake of peace, I gave him lodging
too. Now, prior to this influx of bud-
gerigar population, there had been strife
in the cage. Every now and then, when
I was home, one of the kids would say,
“Come quick, dad, the lovebirds are mur-
dering each other again.” But after the
new arrivals came the proceedings, like
those in the early history of the Society
upon the Stanislau, were beautiful to see.
Reunion of two parted couples, to all
appearances. I got them a much bigger
cage, and it took two hours and an
infinity of resource and patience to
transfer them to better quarters. They
seemed —all four of them —convinced
that I was trying to evict them and hurl
them out into a cold, cruel world. I
admit it. I don’t know anything about
birds.
THE TINTED FINGERNAILS.
“It looks to me,” the drover said, and lowered
his pot upon the bar,
“You’ve done your block and lost your head.
My oath! it gives a chap a jar
To see your fingernails as red as what some
city madams’ are.
“You girls must follow fashion’s ways to some
extent, we all admit.
But this abominable craze, say, what the hell’s
the sense of it?
It doesn’t make you, spare me days! look
prettier, one little bit.
“Your cheeks and lips are rosy enough. You’re
not a jane whose dial pales
So that she needs synthetic stuff to put it over
trustful males.
Then what’s behind this flashy bluff of smear-
ing pigment on your nails?”
She filled his pewter to the brim; she grabbed
a duster by the hem
And wiped the counter clean and trim, and
pulled a flower from its stem.
And then she sort of smiled at him and, shrug-
ging faintly, frowned at them.
“You needn’t think,” she told him low, “it’s
beauty-parlor coloring;
Dad killed a sheep a while ago, the time when
you were breakfasting.
And if you’ve simply gotter know —I helped
him skin and dress the thing.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


HITS
LYS
ft
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
cs>
m
A
|.. i rr- ~ •■;
.:'*>&• %*&
Mmmm
■♦• , J.ffer'. -J
M
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
THE SUCCESS COMPETITION.
PIONEERING.
I *
The following won a Bulletin
drawing for a Karoonda (S.A.)
farmer.
I lived alone for 10 years, batching
in virgin scrub on the Murray Mallee.
I cleared the land, grew wheat and
oats, and added sheep as improvements
warranted. I am now carrying over 1000
sheep and grow an average of 1200 bags
of wheat each year. I employ two mar-
ried men, who have cottages on my land
and do all the cultivation and cropping.
I left my home in Adelaide at the age
of 15 years to get experience. My first
wage was 7s. 6d. per week with keep.
By the time I was 20 I had saved nearly
£lOO. My first harvest was gruelling ; my
employer expected me, at 16, to turn
a hand-winnower from 7 a.m. till 7 p.m.
1 got farming experience in large doses.
I had better luck with my next em-
ployer, with whom I stayed 18 months.
He was fond of reading, had travelled a
bit and took an interest in helping and
advising me. He started me on my first
horse-team work —five horses, each of
which, I think, was several years older
than I was.
I went to work for a farmer at Lam-
eroo, in the heart of the Mallee country.
After I had been with him some time he
allowed me to crop 400 acres of scrub
land in return for clearing.
I bought horses and implements, and
started on my own. My father was not
able to help me, but the amount of credit
and help I was able to get from others
was remarkable.
After putting in my first crop I suc-
ceeded in getting a fairly good block of
virgin scrub Crown land.
Full of hope and enthusiasm at 21, I
started off on my own farm with no-
thing but a few horses and implements,
worth a good deal less than my liabili-
ties. My dwelling for the first year was
an Bft. x 10ft. tent.
There were very few women at first
in this newly-settled district. Many of
the pioneering settlers were bachelors or
married men who left their families to
come out later. Transport was a great
problem. The railway did not arrive
for about a year after the first settlers.
While it was under construction goods
were carried by the contractors at exor-
bitant charges. Bushfires were a very
real source of danger, and many settlers
suffered losses. A settler’s camp was not
safe until quite a lot of clearing had been
done around it.
After the arrival of the railway the
village began to take shape, about seven
miles from my camp.
I did not leave my work any more
than was absolutely necessary. I found
that to live and work alone one must
avoid distractions, and I endeavored to
make my work my main interest. I was
fond of reading, and I decided that I
would not marry until I had a reasonable
prospect of making a decent home. There
were occasional social evenings and
dances at which the competition was
very keen for the few available girls.
The first three years had not shown
any profit, and then came 1914, the hard-
est and worst year of my life. I put
in about 500 acres of crop single-handed.
The year proved to be the dryest
on record. I did not enlist; although
sorely tempted, 1 had financial obliga-
tions to relatives and the Government.
My two brothers enlisted and were killed
in France,
That 1914 year brought me very close
to a complete breakdown with overwork,
poor food and worry. Getting the next
crops in was a struggle in many ways.
Harvest returns improved from now on,
and in 1920 I married a city girl who
shared the lonely life and was happy in
her little cottage. Later on we built a
new house on a different part of the land.
Ido not measure success in cash. I
have valuable assets, a good wife, a good
home, the respect of the district, and an
item which is not unimportant to those
who know how hard such rewards are
to get —a trophy inscribed “District Wheat
Crop Competition, 1928-29.”
FUTURE OF SUPERFINE WOOLS.
“Right Angle”: “Murrawong’s” re-
marks (B. 30/1/’35) about the thought-
less rush which set in some 12 years ago
among woolgrowers for superfine wool
are to the point. When the craze started
anything showing quality, with 70’s-80’s
count, was rushed by foreign buyers, and
the good, highly-bred medium- to fine-
wool 64’s-66’s, grown on plain-bodied
sheep of great stamina, was deserted,
first by the buyers and then by the
growers. The teddybear type of ewe
giving 61b. or under of 70’s-80’s wool,
full of quality, bright, soft, elastic, light-
conditioned and free, became a favorite.
The craze swept the eastern States like
a bushfire. Almost every flock-sheep man
wanted superfine flock rams, which were
often indiscriminately joined with big
plain-bodied ewes, cutting strong-wool
60’s.
Growers were warned not to abandon
hastily the standard merino type, built
up over so many years by Australia’s
great studs, but the useless sacrifice went
on.
Most stud-sheep men to-day agree that
years of breeding to type, as among Wan-
ganellas, has produced a fixed commercial
animal not only filling more bales but
growing a medium-fine wool unexcelled.
This now runs the superfine very close
in price, and beats it for bulk.
EXPORT LAMBS.
“B-gar”: Romney Marsh ewes may be
ideal for producing fat lambs for export
in some districts, vide “W.D.Mc.” (B.
13/2/’35), but all areas adaptable for
fat-lamb raising won’t suit the breed.
The salient features of the Romneys are
their footrot- and fluke-resisting proper-
ties, which make them valuable in marshy
country. Where light rainfalls predomi-
nate I would not advocate the use of
Romney ewes.
Fat-lamb competitions are no guide as
to the most payable cross-types. Tests
in several States and in Maoriland show
that practically every first-cross type,
whether Romney, Corriedale, Southdown,
Ryeland or Dorset Horn on both sides
of the pedigree, has won in its turn.
To breed the most payable lambs for
export a pure-bred or first-cross ewe that
is adaptable to the environment is vital.
The paramount factor in fat-lamb pro-
duction is to remember that the nearer
to purity the sires and dams the more
uniform and satisfactory will be the pro-
geny. Never go past first-cross ewes and
use nothing but pure-bred rams.
BOTFLIES.
“G.H.H.”: Four botflies have been re-
ported as troublesome to stock. The
common one that worries horses lays its
eggs on the fore-body and legs and the
larvae are taken into the mouth by the
horse in licking itself or scratching
with its teeth.
This maggot, Gastrophilus intestinalis,
invariably develops in the stomach and
passes out full grown with the dung.
Any simple contraption that will prevent
the horse biting itself during the botfly
season will defeat it.
G. nasalis may thrive similarly, but
often takes up its lodgings in the
pharynx. The eggs are deposited under
the throat, so a canvas throat-cover,
preferably with a fringe under the chin,
will stop the pest. There is a third
species, but its occurrence in Australia
is doubtful.
Sheep are infested with the nasal-fly,
the lively maggots being deposited in
the nose, thence passing into the frontal
sinuses and reaching even as far as the
horns.
If plentiful they cause “staggers.” The
maggots fall from the nose when full
grown. No protective measures have
been devised, but a leather fringe hang-
ing over the nostrils might be tried on
valuable stud animals.
Fortunately, Australia has been kept
free from the most obnoxious of these
pests, th.e ox bot, which penetrates the
skin of its host and lives between the
tissues. The well-grown maggot forms
nodes that first induced the name “marble
fly.” The holes they made in the hide
when emerging caused the tanners to
apply a name in their dialect, “warrm-
hole” (worm-hole) fly. Subsequently
these names became amalgamated into
“warble-fly,” which name has nothing to
do with “warble,” applied to horse
tumors caused by the saddle.
Almost every vegetable-feeding mam-
mal has its bot, even to the rabbit and
the elephant.
PREPARING SILAGE.
“Stump Jump”; A point not often
considered in making silage is tempera-
ture. Most men keep on carting once
they’ve started. Too much pressure keeps
the temperature low by excluding air. If
it falls below 98deg. Fahr., acetic (sour)
and sometimes butyric (rancid) acids are
formed. These lead to the strong-smell-
ing ensilage often found. Temperatures
of around 122 deg. Fahr. are conducive
to the best ratios of lactic to sour acid,
and give a sweet-smelling silage. Acetic
acid is bad for stock, but lactic is excel-
lent in moderate quantities, especially
for milk production.
For testing the temperatures, sharpened
gaspipe pushed into various parts of the
green stuff will allow a thermometer to
be lowered. It should be read from about
4ft. to sft. below the surface. If the
heat is below 122 deg. Fahr., carting
should be stopped until it rises ; if above
that temperature, more material should
be placed on top.
A disadvantage about silage is that the
best-made stuff has fully half its protein
indigestible, though lactic acid should
help to restore the balance.
“THE GOOD OLD DAYS!”
“1.8.7.”: Old cockies wonder when
the younger generation growls at dairy-
ing prices. They say that prices for
butter were lower in their time, yet they
made a “do” of it; and those who did
happen to have bad luck didn’t squeal
for Government assistance.
There is another side to the question.
One pound in their day went as far as
two to-day. Cream cans once cost 12s. 6d.
against nearly £2 now. Separators cost
£2O, but now over £4O. Most farming
implements show similar increases in
price. Taxation has trebled or more. Ex-
penses of supervision and requirements
of inspectors are a large new item. Mam-
mitis and other complaints were rarer
in the old time.
And the ruling rate for good unskilled
labor once was about ss. to 6s. a day,
against 12s. to 14s. now.
MOTOR FIRE-FIGHTER’S USES.
“Spring”: The motor fire-fighter can
be used, apart from its primary purpose:
(1) For spraying sheepyards before draft-
ing or dipping sheep.
(2) For spraying grasshoppers. Be sure,
however, to cleanse it thoroughly after-
wards, especially the hose and pump.
(3) For carting water to dips or troughs.
The speed of the job more than pays for
the benzine used.
(4) If fitted with a powerful pump, it can
be successfully used for jetting at a pinch.
It is many times better than doing the
job by hand, and one does not run the
risk of arsenical absorption by the skin.
(5) For washing cars it is unequalled,
where no pressure of water is laid on.
(6) For spraying small orchards. But
remember that it is wise not to allow any-
one to drink out of equipment, however
well it has been cleansed. Arsenic is
hard to eradicate.
DEHORNING.
“C. F. Age”; I do not agree with
“M.W.” (B. 6/2/’35) that dehorning is
best done a week after birth. The best
time is weaning time, getting everything
over at one hit —yarding, branding, wean-
ing, dehorning. It saves knocking about
in the long run, and, with men who know
their job and have a properly-constructed
yard, it does very little harm.
“M.W.” has evidently found the caus-
tic treatment satisfactory, but I have seen
some malformed horns and some badly-
burned calves as well when sufficient care
was lacking and wet weather prevalent.
ERADICATING ST. JOHN’S WORT.
“Whalebone”: Methods of eradication
vary with different types of country.
Ploughable land can be freed from
wort by constant cultivation or by plant-
ing sub.-clover. Cheap coarse salt is best
for killing the pest on sparsely-timbered
hilly country.
Almost a 100 p.c. kill will result first
time if the salting is done before the wort
flowers. Break the ground about large
patches with a harrow to obtain a
quicker and surer kill and prevent the
salt being washed away by heavy rains.
On properties where green timber is
plentiful patches of St. John’s can be
smothered by covering them deeply with
bushes. If there is little green but plenty
of dead timber burn it with this to de-
stroy both plant and seed.
JOINT-EVIL IN FOALS.
“Bloane Toobe”: If troubled with
joint-evil in foals fry J. Forshaw’s method
of prevention.
Forshaw, a noted breeder of Shires,
maintains that castor oil and other
aperients cause a liquid bowel move-
ment to pass over the hard foecal
nodules imbedded and accumulated in
the folds of the foal’s intestine during
its uterine life. These nodules remain
to putrefy and poison the system.
Mares are given a tablespoonful of
salts every day for 14 days before foal-
ing. This is probably not necessary
where they are on prime spring grass.
The foal’s navel cord is cut or prefer-
ably broken 4in. from its body, and then
held close to the body with finger and
thumb until bleeding stops, which should
occur in two or three minutes.
Do not tie. There will be a drip, but
that is desirable. When the foal is 12
hours old irrigate the bowel with a pint
of slightly-soapy water at blood-heat.
Repeat the process 12 hours later.
If delay occurs in the healing of the
cord dress twice daily with equal parts
iodoform and boracic-acid powder.
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


HHBBS
iiiiiliiii
V
A
mm
mm
■
. I
.
C//us Is iJu
and
100% PURE VIRGINIA
TO B A C C O
Tins of 14-1/-; 21—1/6;
Also Flat Fifties and Round Airtight
Fifties, One Hundreds, etc.
m
ay
fM
w
77288-1-5


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
iNine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
I* ' V ' . i' < '
m
mxi
M
i
■ ■
FOR RIDING EASE
Light, snug-fitting, supple boots are
real essentials to riding comfort.
These elastic-sided Abbey Boots
. . . old favorites with horsemen
throughout Australia . . . possess all
the strength and pliancy you need.
They’re completely leather lined.
They slip on smoothly. The flexible
soles are made of leather extra
tough. Abbey Riding Boots are
built on exclusive lasts that guaran-
tee perfect fit.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. When
writing, specify width as well as size,
and order a large tin of Dale s
English Dubbin, available in black
and tan, at 2/6. This softens the
leather, makes it waterproof and
increases its wearing qualities.
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF .. 35/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FPL 428.
TTH
ITfiiuvur /
* T-H€ ffcßf€CT
STOCK W-HI-P_
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
‘K’hurra” Stockwhips are kangaroo
right through, and the Zair core gives
the handle “that wonderful feel.”
Mo. 16, with 16-plait handle and Bft. 12-
plait thong. 41/6. Post, 1/- N.S.W.
Our Catalog lists Whips from 8/-.
We
Stand
Alone
for
Cowboy
Saddles
and
Gear.
fsd
Write for our No. 8338 Catalog of Texas
and Australian Saddlery—7o Saddles to
choose from.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\\
;o' v .
So writes the user of an "R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY LTD.
•VALLEY -BRISBANE • • j Xoy
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
■—THINK OF
SCHUTE
BELLcC&
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
A Blade That Lasts Over 25 Years
And that gives silky, smooth shaves all the time. The
Plum Razor and guard are the ideal safely combination.
Men who bought Plum Razors over 25 years ago report
them still in perfect condition for everyday use.
'^rmFrn^
i
THE PLUM RAZOR
Elected Steel, Black Handle. 12/6; with guard,
Extra Quality, Xylo. Handle, 15/6; with guard,
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle, 21/-; with guard,
Strongly-made grained leather case free with each
7-day sets (7 razors in oak case) : Black, 85/—;
100/-; Ivory, 140/-. All post free, guard
16/-.
19/-.
24/6.
razor.
Xylo.,
extra.
Plum Razors are in two widths, fin. and
fin. All are set ready for use, guaranteed,
and kept in order for two years free of
charge.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin.
and Jin. blades, 3/6, post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
FOOT-ROT AND TAKE-ALL.
“The 0.D.”: Severe losses occur
yearly from these troubles in wheat,
barley, rye and native grasses. Oats
are more resistant. Control is difficult,
but burning the stubble helps by destroy-
ing the fungus at the roots and starving
the diseases out by keeping the fallow
bare. Continuous cropping should be
avoided, and resistant crops (oats) should
be used in rotation.
On new land, sow oats as a first crop,
as both diseases are often serious in pad-
docks that have been “out” for a few
years. Make sure the seed wheat is
plump and sound. Any grain showing
a black point at the embryo end should
be rejected, as this is often a sign of
foot-rot. Feeding off of all wheat crops
grown for grain where either disease is
likely to be present should be avoided, as
the check to the plant allows the dis-
ease to make headway.
THOSE MULES.
“The Breaker”: The compact hooves
of mules do not place the loppies at a
disadvantage in soft, boggy country, as
“Cudgerie” (B. 2/l/’35) suggests. Sev-
eral times in Palestine during the wet I
saw horse transport hopelessly bogged.
It was the mules that came through—at
times on country that would bog a duck.
Once in western Queensland I saw mules
bring the mailcoach through mulga
country after 4in. of rain had fallen, and
you won’t get anything more soggy and
yielding than that after a soaking.
WHEATEN BRAN.
“J.8.N.”: A great many stockowners
fail to realise its great value. Bran is
rich in protein and fairly rich in carbo-
hydrates and fat. If is easily digested.
Henry and Morrison give the composi-
tion as: Water 10.1 p.c,, ash or mineral
matter 6.3 p.c., crude protein 16 p.c.,
fibre 9.5 p.c., carbohydrates 53.7 p.c, and
fat 4.4 p.c.
The ash is mainly phosphorus, which
is required in large quantities by grow-
ing animals and milkers, but there is a
deficiency of lime. Thus, where large
amounts of bran are fed, a lime-rich
food should be included. Lucerne hay
is ideal. Or the lime deficiency may be
overcome by giving ground limestone or
wood ashes instead of hay.
Bran is palatable to stock, and, due to
its bulk, is an excellent supplement for
heavy concentrates such as maizemeal.
The mixture forms a loose mass in
the stomach, promoting digestive action.
Bran is a laxative, due to the presence of
a compound known as phytin. It can
be fed to practically all kinds of stock,
but not in the same quantities.
For horses the ration should not con-
tain more than 31b. of bran daily. It
makes the horse chew his food well.
“Bolters” are checked, and colic may be
minimised. If bran is not regularly fed,
it is advisable to give a bran mash once
a week; but, as the immediate effect of
this is somewhat weakening, it is best
given with the last feed on Saturday so
that the horse can rest on the day fol-
lowing. A bran mash is useful for sick
animals. Make it with 21b. to 31b. bran
in a 3gal, bucket with a tablespoon of
fine salt, and pour on boiling water.
Cover the bucket with a bag and allow
the mash to steam. If the horse will not
eat it, put in shredded carrot or molasses.
For dairy cows up to 81b. per day can
be given. It goes well with lucerne chaff.
It is excellent for heavily-fed herds and
also for cows before and after calving.
As with sick animals, feed in the latter
case as a mash.
Bran is not of much value for beef
cattle, except as a laxative.
OILING HARVESTER BEARINGS.
“A.G.T.”: Working at high speed
amid hot ,and dusty conditions these
bearings frequently give trouble.
Only good, free-flowing oil should be
used. Stringy oils are useless for wick-fed
lubricators, as they will not siphon.
Tractor cylinder oil is good and econo-
mical.
Next to quality, the greatest factor to-
wards smooth running is clean wicks in
the lubricators. This ensures that the
bearings' are fed continuously. Four
strands of clean darning-wool will just
siphon the right amount. It is a mistake
to put a lot of wool in the wicks ; the
thick wick feeds more slowly.
Main wheels should be oiled twice
daily. If grease-cups are fitted they
should be given two cupfuls per day of
light-bodied grease. Heavy greases
should not be used, as they are too
soapy to work along the axle.
Excessive wear and heating of the
front-wheel bearing will be eliminated
by fitting a grease-cup and using light-
bodied grease twice a day.
A good test for the bearings is to feel
them occasionally. Their temperature,
if properly oiled, should not be much
higher than that of the atmosphere.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Maurice”: A device to gather fine
seeds can be made from an ordinary fruit
tin, holding about a quart. Cut a V-
shaped slot in the edge of the tin about
Hin. deep. If a large quantity of seed
is to be collected, the bottom should be
cut out of the tin and a bag tied on to
catch the seed as it falls through. To use
the appliance, catch the stalk of the
plant in the slot, with the head inside the
tin and pull outward. The edge of the
slot will detach the head, which will fall
into the tin and thence into the bag. It’s
easy once you have the knack.
“Wodao”: Mix 2oz. copper carbonate
to each bushel of weevily maize. An-
other method is to fumigate each bag of
maize with 2oz. bisulphide in an air-
tight bin for 48 hours. A perforated pipe
should be passed through the maize, and
the bisulphide poured into it. Keep
flames away after treating with the latter.
Maize so treated may be given to animals
48 hours afterwards.
In the Argentine, where
’hoppers are bad, the Government lends
sheets of galvanised-iron to the farmers.
When an invasion threatens, the farmer
gets an issue of the iron, which he re-
turns to the police station after use, and
makes a fence of it in front of the swarm.
This diverts the advance into one direc-
tion, which is well pitted to catch the
visitors.
“Bill R.”: If a heavy post in a post-
hole or a sawn-off log has to be burned,
double a chain around its middle. Hook
the chain so that one looped end reaches
just through the other. Into the free loop
place the point of a crowbar or a sapling,
then lever the log into position.
“E.P,”: A valuable fodder plant, war-
rigal spinach, is plentiful along the
Flinders and Thompson (N.Q.). As it's
leaves assuage thirst, it is esteemed for
both man and beast. Each plant covers
several feet of ground and grows freely
in the hottest and driest weather. Hav-
ing binding roots and favoring sandy
situations, it is suitable for planting
where sand-drifts are common.
“Salmon Gums”: When sowing this
year put in an additional 20 acres for
the stock to run on. A fenced-off patch
judiciously used will effect a big saving
in hay, provide green feed for the horses
and keep them well “medicined” and in
trim for the harvest.
“Billy See”: When the pump-bucket
cuts out take a piece of good sole-leather
and cut to a circle lin. larger in diameter
than that of the old bucket flattened
out. Soak in water for 24 hours. Cut
centre hole for bucket-nut, using old
bucket as pattern. Bolt into position,
keeping skin-side downwards. Grease
well, then work with screwing motion
into the pump-cylinder. Trim off surplus
leather at top. Take off again, reflatten
and trim around circle to a nice chamfer
edge, not too tapered. Work into
cylinder, and, if job has been neatly
done, it will hold water with the best.
“A.G.T.”; To prevent nuts from jar-
ring loose paint the protruding threads
of the bolt with bitumen paint after the
nut has been tightened. When unscrew-
ing soften the bitumen with petrol,
“Tockilly”: Before putting a new
handle in an axe round off the sharp edge
of the eye with a file. This prevents the
sharp edges from being jarred into the
wood,
“Upilio”: To prevent a ewe heavy in
lamb from struggling while on the
crutching-board blindfold her. It’s
simple to do.


EYE LOTIO
Int I
lamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE &. Co. Ltd. Kinq St. Sydney
fe:
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Lodge
Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield. S.E.B. Melbourne.
c
ROSS f° r HEIGHT/
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
Client, age 19J. gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
~ 21 „ 5 in 5 mtlis.
20, .. 0} in 16 days.
„ „ 30, „ 2 „ in 4 weeks.
„ 40. ~ It ~ in 6 „
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3 Jins.
Hundredt «/ Tettimoniaie from dtt over the world.
Fee *2 Si. complete. • Detail! Free. Write now:—
* A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist,
SCARBOROUGH, ENG. ( P.O. Box 15.)
BOSS SYSTEM
NEVEB FAILS
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
VVADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
SMOKE-OH!
“His Warship, the Mayor of Randwick, was
present . ’’ —Maroubra ‘ ‘Messenger. ’ ’
Anchoring to make a speech, no doubt!
* *
“Medical students, however, will have to
follow the usual corse.” — “Sun.”
Well, it’s their funeral.
* *
“After a lifetime of work all he possesses is
a vacant block in a stagnant suburb.” — “Sun.”
Still, he can’t deny that he’s a lot better
off.
* *
“It was suggested at the time that the pilot’s
colorful story of the spin he experienced was a
fabrication.” — “Argus.”
A tale spin.
* *
“An investigation had disclosed the presence
of nearly 21b. of steel filings and emery in the
oil in his engine. Mr. Post said he had
asked for a Federal inquiry, as he felt that
the ’plane had been tampered with.”
—' ‘S. M. Herald.”
What suspicious fellows these aviators
are!
“Mosquitoes Were bad last night."
"Eh?"
“I said the mosquitoes Were bad last night!”
“They don't Worry me. Can't 'ear 'em!"
“Mae West’s annual salary is almost unbe-
lievable.” —Movie note.
It would naturally be a big figure.
* *
“Among the Yaruro Indians of Venezuela a
man cannot speak to his mother-in-law. In
camp, they have to sit facing in opposite
directions.”— News item.
Fully explaining what is meant by “the
white man’s burden.”
* *
“In court recently a man said that he was
proud of the fact that he was the father of
three sets of twins.”
That’s putting on heirs right enough.
GLIMPSES AT THE GLOBE.
II. — Getting into Switzerland,
It’s easy to miss Switzerland. In fact,
the air mail usually misses it altogether.
It happens something like this —you are
zooming up along the backbone of Italy
and a thought strikes you. You shout
to the pilot.
“Tell me when we sight Switzerland.”
“What?” he yells back rudely.
“I said, ‘Tell me when we sight Switzer-
land.’ ”
“Can’t hear you!”
“Switzerland! When do we see Switz-
erland?”
“Oh, Switzerland. Why didn’t you say
so in the first place? You’ve missed it
now.”
Then if you go by train you have to
be careful or you’ll be whisked into the
country through one tunnel and out
again through another before you have
time to say “Swiss Family Robinson,”
while if you try to get there by sea the
task is hopeless.
The only sure way of getting there is
to go to some place near the border and
do the rest of the journey on foot. This
sounds easy, but it isn’t. All sorts of
efforts will be made to keep you out.
People will threaten you with avalanches,
roaring torrents, withered branches and
other dangers ; old men will warn you
against trying the pass, and maidens will
beseech you to tarry. Ignore them all!
With the aid of your indomitable spirit,
good luck and (for the last few miles)
a couple of St. Bernard dogs, you’ll win
through.
Even then the people will try to de-
ceive you. Instead of speaking Swiss,
they’ll talk French, German or Italian to
make you think you are in one of those
countries. If you respond in the selected
tongue, they will at once switch to per-
fect English, and you won’t know where
you are.
The best way to win their hearts is to
pull out a Swiss watch or some Swiss
milk chocolate (several English firms
turn out excellent lines especially for this
purpose).
The Swiss are not very sociable folk.
In fact they are rather aloof. They never
join in any of the wars which their neigh-
bors find so diverting. This is probably
just as well for the neighbors, as there
wouldn’t be much fun fighting in Switzer-
land, with Swiss yodellers snooping
around behind mountains picking you
off like mountain goats. Some of those
ravines are very deep to fall in, and it
isn’t very pleasant when you are up to
your neck in snow, with your mouth full
of edelweiss, to have a husky peasant
batter you on the head with an alpen-
stock.
And you certainly wouldn’t be able to
persuade the Swiss to fight you anywhere
but on their own ground.
In addition to watches and chocolates
the Swiss also make a peculiar kind of
cheese. It is good in spots. They dig
out all the good spots for home con-
sumption, and
export the rest,
holes and all.
Chiefly because
of the efforts of
the Swiss to keep
them out, thou-
sands of tourists
go to Switzerland
every year. There
is very little to
see there except
mountains, snow
and other tour-
ists, all as unin-
teresting and as
uninterested as
oneself.
But it’s just as
well to go there
once, at any rate.
You’ll appreciate
home more then.
Jasby.
PROFESSIONAL
ENTERPRISE.
He fumbled for
the lock, opened
the door and
switched on the
light, starting back
as he did so.
Directly in front
of him stood a
masked man,
complete with
revolver.
“I suppose you know,” the intruder re-
marked, “that I could ransack the house
at my pleasure?”
The frightened householder gulped and
nodded.
“And you understand that you are
wholly at my mercy?”
Another shuddering nod.
“Very well. Observe that I entered
your house without the slightest difficulty.
Had you equipped this place with my
burglar alarm such
a thing would not
have been possible.
Allow me to present
you with a circular,
and explain how it
operates. Complete
with battery,' four
pounds ten.”
Kingsley T.
* *
POETICAL
SLANG.
The great poets
are held up as exem-
plars of beautiful
thought - production
and as lofty ideal-
ists ; yet on analysis
it will be found that
their loveliest stan-
zas are sometimes
shot through with
vulgar vernacular-
isms.
Take, for instance,
Keats’s sonnet ad-
dressed to Haydon,
in which he says:
“Hear ye not the
hum
Of mighty work-
ings ?”
Obviously, Keats must have been in
the malodorous vicinity of a blood-and-
bone factory when he penned those lines.
Milton in “Paradise Lost” refers to
“This punctual spot”
Even if Milton was addicted to a glass
of wine at exactly the same hour daily,
he needn’t have started a slang phrase
which endures to this day.
Shakspeare sometimes found it easier
to say what he wanted to in slang terms.
In “As You Like It” Jaques says:
“And I did laugh sans intermission
An hour by his dial.”
An indelicate way to refer to anybody’s
face, homely though it be.
S. W. K.
LITERARY TASTE.
“These days children read better-class litera-
ture than their parents.”— “Telegraph.”
When the Sunday “Foozle” comes to
the Pothead family, Father immediately
grabs the sporting pages, Mother thrills
at the sight of the social section and
Auntie Alice eagerly scans the screen
news. Grandpa dodders over the thrill-
ing adventures of Wonderman the
Wizard, hero of the “Foozle’s” magni-
ficent illustrated serial, while Uncle
“ Now, Willem! Ah know thee likes to be indepen-
dent, but tha must sing same song as t'other
three."
Henry laps up the news of the latest
murders.
Little Percy Reginald is scornful of his
elders. Showing remarkable literary
appreciation for one so young, he always
picks out “Foozlebeams,” the great Sun-
day paper’s special supplement for
children.
S. Esq.
* H-
“A prospective bride and bridegroom are in
hopes that their partners will be able to reach
Innisfail by Monday, in order to be married,
but there is little chance of this. The under-
taker’s premises have been flooded, and the
hearse and coach are now parked in Innisfail’s
main thoroughfare.”— “Sun.”
In the circumstances surely no one
would object to their using hired cars
instead of a hearse and holding the
ceremonies in a church.
* H-
“A three-cornered house, three iron sheds,
one of which was 45ft. high, and a 6ft. fence
have disappeared from a French railway.”
That’s nothing; Mr. Lang is confident
that, given the chance, he could make a
round dozen banks disappear inside a
week or two.
“Their father was unable to deceive them
with his numerous tricks.” — “Age.”
They were up to pa.
* *
“Meat Strikers Sit in Camera.”
Developments are expected.
ASSOCIATION OF IDEAS.
Rusty strolled into the drawing-room,
instinctively leapt two feet in the air
when he spotted me and then, pulling
himself together, rubbed his nearside ribs
against a Jacobean chair leg. Miss Spin-
sterish leaned forward and stroked his
arched back.
“Percy [that’s me] hates cats,” my wife
told our guest. “Simply loathes them.
Says their yowls at night are worse than
bagpipes—as if anything could be worse
than bagpipes! Rusty is Percy’s pet aver-
sion. He says the animal brings all the
cats in the neighborhood about the place
and accuses me of encouraging Rusty by
feeding them —the cat-visitors, I mean.
“Oh, by the way, Miss Spinsterish,
won’t you stay to tea?”
P. O. M. C.
PROVOCATION.
Felicity we haven’t known
Since love was very young;
And, while contentious you have grown,
I’ve learned to hold my tongue.
You’d argue, dear, from morn till night,
And dare me to dispute
Your points of view if I would “bite” ;
But I’m discreetly mute.
“You make my life a hell.” you sigh
Unhappily. Alack,
This grievous charge I can’t deny.
And herein lies the reason why —
I never answer back !
P. O. M. C.
WELCOME.
Long years to the Empire he’s guthven;
For her welfare he’s earnestly struthven
In peace and in war
On many a shore.
Here’s greeting and luck to More -
Ruthven !
H.


OurSviceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. ,
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover or last
Bulletin to hand. , .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. . . .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, wants typing work;
used to handling manuscripts.—sBl3.
Wanted lady, good plain cook, to assist all
duties small country guest-house, 50 miles from
Sydney, for share of profits. Comfortable
home, every convenience, good climate.—sB2o.
Young educated Scotsman, exp. farm, garden,
counter, can drive car, seeks employment any-
where. —5801.
Queenslander (24), well educated, can type,
speak French, drive car, three years’ nursing
exp., wants position as invalid attendant or
travelling companion.—5782.
New Guinea planter (40), world traveller,
ordered south following fever, wants position
as companion, guide, secretary or valet. Refs.
—5825.
Young married man (Vic.), handy at all
work, also garage exp., wants job as chauffeur
or truck-driver country town or station. Refs.
—5778.
Queensland lady (43), exp. stenographer,
wants position as secretary or companion.
Willing to travel.—sB9l.
Tutor (25), N.S.W., all subjects to L.C.,
language, art, commercial, music, wants en-
gagement.—sB7B.
Lady, Sydney, will exchange lessons in Eng-
lish for lessons in Italian. —5851.
To buy copy of “Bushman and Buccaneer,”
by Harry Morant (“The Breaker”). —5853.
To buy “Motor Vehicles,” Vol. I, by Worby
Beaumont, published about 1902. —5900.
Words of verse entitled “What Matters It?”
—5858.
Information Sought.
What is the grip and what the position of the
wrists when rowing a racing boat ? —5736.
Sidney Raper, ex-inter-State oarsman and
coach of the Mosman (N.S.W.) eight, has
courteously furnished the subjoined answer: To
secure the correct grip and position of the wrists
when rowing a racing boat, I find the follow-
ing method the easiest and simplest. Sitting in a
stationary boat, float the blade upright in the
water square with the boat. Grip the oar with
the inside hand firmly (not tightly), with the
knuckles in a straight line with the wrist
and forearm. The grip of the outside hand
should be in the fingers and thumb. The
hands should be about one hand’s-breadth apart,
with the outside hand right up to the end of
the oar. By gently passing the blade through
the water and round the recovery the action
of the hands and wrists will come naturally.
The deft drop of the hands to clear the water
at the finish and the drop of the wrists to
flick the blade on to the feather should be
blended cleanly by frequent practice. As the
blade clears the water the arms should be
straightened, and as the handle passes the,
knees the inside wrist should start to line up
with the knuckles and forearm to bring the
blade to the square for the next stroke. The
finger-grip of the outside hand should relax
in the recovery to prevent the outside shoulder
being dragged round after the oar. The in-
side wrist should be arched at the finish, and
elbow kept fairly close to the ribs. In sculling,
the action of each hand is much the same as
that of the inside hand as described above,
except that the hands are ripped past the body
to complete the finish, and in the recovery the
blades are carried on the feather until the last
moment.
(1) What is Billy Grime now doing, and
where is he ? (2) Whom did he defeat for the
Australian feather-, light- and welterweight
championships ? —5819.
(1) He is a member of Jimmy Sharman’s
troupe of travelling boxers, and will be in
Sydney for the R.A.S. Easter Show. (2)
Beat Bert Spargo for the featherweight
championship in 1923, and lost it later to
Ern Baxter. Bert Ristuccia outpointed Baxter
the same year, however, and Grime regained
the 9st. title by beating Ristuccia in 1924.
Grime beat Hughie Dwyer for the lightweight
championship in T 924, f and Eddie Butcher for
the welterweight one in 1926.
Was there ever a British Act of Parliament
limiting the speed of motor-cars to four miles
per hour and requiring such vehicles to be pre-
ceded by a man carrying a red flag? —sB4o.
There was an Act, passed in 1865, which
ordained that any mechanically-propelled vehicle
using a highway must be under the care of three
men, must be preceded by a man carrying a
red flag and must not exceed a speed of, four,
miles an hour. This restriction was abolished
in 1896.
Type of insertion used (if any ) when riveting
the plates of steam boilers? —5785.
Nothing is inserted. The joints or seams of
boiler plates are sometimes caulked to render
them tight and free from leakage, but a well-
riveted joint of good proportions, with well-
fitted plates, should not require such attention.
Caulking is liable to injure the edges of the
plates and produce flaws which may later de-
velop into fractures.
(1) Where can I get blueprints for a single-
seater, high-wing monoplane, powered by a
converted car engine? (3) Where can I get
spruce, veneer, bracing wire-and instruments for
a light ’plane ? (3) Must the completed
machine and/or blueprints be passed by the
Civil Aviation Department before I can fly it ?
(4) Must I get a pilot’s license before I can
fly ?— 5568.
(1) As far as is known there are no plans
available in Australia suitable for the construc-
tion of a light aeroplane which would meet the
safety requirements of the Department of De-
fence. (2) From the Hart Aircraft Service,
Aerodrome, Essendon (Vic.); Larkin Aircraft
Co., Melbourne; Matthews Aviation Co., Aero-
drome, Essendon (Vic.); Qantas Empire Air-
ways, Brisbane; De Havillancl Aircraft, Aero-
drome, Mascot (N.S.W.); or Tugan Airciaft
Co., Mascot. (3) In the case of an mrcralt
of a design in respect of which a type Certm-
cate of Airworthiness has not been issued, i
will be necessary for detailed drawings of all
components, with dimensmns, full weight par-
ticuars and stress calculations—as provided m
Air Publication 970 and Air Publication 1208,
issued by the British Air Ministry—to be for-
warded to the Controller of Civil Aviation m
order that investigation may be made into tne
design of the machine. In the case of the con-
struction of an aircraft of approved design,
certifications by a ground engineer licensed in
Division “A” must be submitted to the effect
that the aircraft has been constructed to
approved drawings. Experimental licenses are
not issued in respect of aircraft; an air-
craft of unapproved design is regarded as an
experimental machine until a type Certificate ot
Airworthiness is issued. Air Navigation
Regulations provide that no aircraft shall fly
within the limits of the Commonwealth and
Territories unless it is registered, and unless the
personnel is licensed, in the prescribed manner.
Aircraft built for experiment, however, may be
flown, for experiment or test only, within three
miles from an aerodrome or aircraft factory.
(4) Yes. Buy Air Publication 1208 (on sale at
all leading booksellers), and study the informa-
tion it contains before incurring the expense of
purchasing materials or plans.
(1) Who took the leading male parts in (a)
“Hell Divers,” (b) “Hell’s Angels,” (c) ‘ Hell
Below” ? (2) Was “Hell Divers” a submarine
picture ? (3) Who played Rasputin in “Ras-
putin and the Empress” ? —5695.
(1) (a) Wallace Beery, (6) Clark Gable, (c)
Robert Montgomery. (2) “Hell Below” was
the submarine picture and not “Hell Divers.
The latter film dealt with aviation. (3) Lionel
Barrymore.
What is the nature and origin of the fire-
balls which have been in evidence during recent
thunderstorms ? —5651.
A “fireball” or ball lightning is a rare phe-
nomenon that sometimes occurs in thunder-
storms. The balls are an effect of lightning
rather than lightning itself, and are small
globular masses of incandescent gas. They are
probably caused by the electric discharge
through moist air, but no satisfactory explana-
tion of their formation has yet been deter-
mined. A ball may last a few seconds or
several minutes, but on touching a solid object
usually explodes. The damage caused by fire-
balls is seldom great. A few authentic cases
of fireballs have been reported about Sydney,
but in the great majority of cases the damage
popularly attributed to fireballs is the result
of a direct lightning stroke.
My boy, aged 16, wishes to enter the motor-
engineering trade in Vic. What technical
school should he attend ? Length and scope
of suitable course ? At conclusion of course,
what would be his status as a workman and
prospects of advancement ? —5705.
The Melbourne Technical College supplies a
two years’ day course of training which covers
practical experience in the overhaul, disman-
tling, assembling of chassis and Qf carburation
and electrical work. It includes also oxy-
welding, sheet-metal, blacksnfithing and engi-
neering machine-shop work, mathematics and
engineering drawing. At the conclusion of this
course a student may enter employment with
the status of a second-year apprentice. His
prospects from then on would be dependent
upon his ability and initiative.
Method or methods for increasing stature,
and can these be applied to increase reach ?—•
5668.
There is no certain method of increasing
adult height. Inheritance is the factor that
counts; physical culture, stretching movements,
etc., assist towards maturity by developing the
lines of growth. Junctions of the long bones
are involved in very active changes in , the early
years of life; after the age of 20 or thereabouts
their fusion renders, further growth impossible.
Actual. growth is controlled by the presence of
requisite vitamins in 1 the food; it fails to be
normal when these are deficient or unbalanced
in supply. To some extent it is influenced
by secretions of the ductless glands, especi-
ally the thyroid and pituitary. Any disturbance
of these ; or other glands such as the kidneys
or liver will materially influence the result.
Join a physical culture class.
Suitable diet for oarsmen in hard training ?
—5702.
Food should be nourishing but plain; meals
to be taken at regular intervals —say four times
a day. Lightly-grilled steak and boiled rice,
twice daily at least, with green vegetables and
potatoes at one meal. Discontinue the latter,
also any flatulent foods, a few days before
racing. Fruits in season, apples, oranges, etc.,
allowed, with nuts, raisins and prunes as de-
sired. Milk, tea and light ales are permissible,
but drink no liquids with meals. “Fizzy”
drinks, aerated waters, sugar and sweets of all
kinds, excepting a little chocolate, and any-
thing indigestible or over-rich are items to
be avoided.
Cause and treatment of alopecia, and is the
infection very prevalent ? —5663.
In the absence of parasitic infection, eczema,
etc., the scalp affection, known as alopecia or
baldness- in patches must, be attributed to a
localised nerve disorder. There is usually some
deficiency in the endochrine or, ductless-gland
supply. Stimulation of. nerve centres about
the affected area is the usual treatment; this
must be persisted with until the new hair
growth appears. Add a few drops of lysol to
the shampooing water and wash the scalp
twice weekly; afterwards apply a Simple dress-
ing of olive oil. Dab equal parts dilute acetic
acid and tincture of cantharidin on the bald
spot daily, and rub gently in until a sensation
of tingling is felt. The new hair growth may
be lighter in color than the normal hair tint.
(1) Can permission to perform cremation in a
registered public cemetery be demanded in
Vic. ? (2) In N.S.W. ?— 5636.
Cremation is carried out in Victoria under
the Cemeteries Act, 1928, Section 67 of
which states that “no remains shall be cre-
mated without the permission of an official of
the trustees of the cemetery.” Section 68
goes on to prescribe the necessary forms and
the procedure to be put into effect before per-
mission may be given. It would therefore
seem that cremation could not be demanded;
it is a matter of obtaining the necessary
permission after the regulations have been
complied with. Practically the same conditions
exist in N. S. Wales, where cremation may be
carried out under the Public Health (Cremation)
Act, 1923, as amended. 1932. Authority for
a cremation is governed by a medical referee
appointed by the cremation authority and
approved by the Minister for Health. The Act
provides, among other things, that the medical
referee may decline to grant permission with-
out disclosing any reason. Similarly, cremation
could not be demanded, but authority is not
withheld either in Vic. or N. S. Wales when
the regulations have been adhered to and the
proper forms, in accordance with the Acts and
regulations, completed.
(1) Will the book exhibition shortly to be
held in Sydney comprise Australian publications
only ? (2) Date of exhibition ? (3) Who is
supplying exhibits ? —5897.
(1) It will include the works of all Australian
authors, whether published in this country or
abroad. (2) April 8 to 13. (3) Australian pub-
lishers are supplying copies of all books pro-
duced by them. The Fellowship of Australian
Writers, which is sponsoring Australian Authors’
Week, invites authors of books published over-
seas to lend copies of their works, which will
be returned after the exhibition. Books should
be forwarded at once to T. Inglis Moore,
“S. M. Herald” Office, Sydney.
What are conditions regarding relief work in
the Sydney metropolitan area ? Are there resi-
dential qualifications ? —5551.
Applicants for employment on emergency re-
lief work, excepting track-travellers, are re-
quired to be enrolled on a State electoral roll
for 12 months, and to be residents of the
locality of work for three months or over.
This requirement applies to the whole State.
Applicants for all kinds of relief work are re-
quired to be registered at the State Labor Ex-
changes, and are considered for employment
in the order of their registration.
(1) What is a rift-sawn plank ? (2) Why is a
rift-sawn plank superior to a flat-sawn plank ?
(3) What is a rift-saw, and how is it used ?
—5228.
(1) Rift-sawn is a term applied to the
method of cutting a log in line from the centre
to the circumference, or, as it is generally
known, cut “on the quarter.” The reverse
to this process is known as cutting “on the
back,” which means that the saw-cut is at
right-angles to the radius of the log. (2) Rift-
or quarter-sawn timber shrinks more uniformly
in drying, and keeps its shape. Some timbers
when cut in this way show a better figure
or grain than when cut “on the back.” (3)
There is no saw known as a “rift-saw.” A
“rip-saw” is a large-toothed affair for making
coarse cuts.
I have a blowfly dressing which I wish to
put on the market. It contains an ingredient
which I want barred from any other blowfly
dressing, provided it is not in any other dress-
ing on the market. (1) Can this be done ? (2)
Best method of putting such a preparation on
the market ? (3) Would it be a paying pro-
position ? —5598.
(1) Yes, if the particular ingredient has not
previously been used in a compound for this
purpose. (2) After obtaining patent protection,
submit to a business house dealing in this class
of goods, or, if you have the capital, manu-
facture or have it manufactured for yourself
and market under a registered trade-mark. Ex-
tensive advertising would be necessary. (3)
Depends on the efficacy of the dressing and the
business ability displayed in marketing.
(1) Is pure water tasteless, or do we only
imagine it so ? (2) Is there any truth in the
assertion that tea made from freshly-boiled
water differs from that made from water that
has boiled for some time ? —5829.
(1) Pure distilled water is tasteless, but any
other water, by reason of the air and the
variable quantities of salts in its composition,
is not. (2) Yes. Note the difference in the
tastes of fresh and boiled water. The process
of boiling drives certain gases out, leaving the
water tasteless and flat; this loss of taste affects
the flavor of the tea.
(1) When should gladioli bulbs be lifted ?
How can gladioli be raised from seed, and how
long must elapse before they produce flowers ?
—5831.
(1) Gladioli should be dug up not later than
six weeks after the flowers fade. Dry the
bulbs thoroughly, then store them in a dry
place ready for next season. (2) Sow the seed
taken from the flower-stalk 6in. apart in a
mixture of three parts sand and one of soil.
Don’t disturb the seedlings for two years,
except for cutting off any small flowers which
may show; the third year dig them up and
reset in loamy soil. Retain bulbs only of
the best flowers raised by this method.
I wish to make a striking garden color-
scheme (red and blue —school colors ) in a new
home ready in early spring. (1) How should
I go about the work ? (2) Best way to secure
true colors ? (3) Suitable plants ? —5845.
(1) Get a landscape gardener to give you
ideas regarding novel beds. Dig over the plots
and lime them well; a few weeks later add a
big helping of manure and mix it thoroughly
in the soil. Give a final digging a fortnight
before setting out plants. (2) Seed of separate
colors can be bought from shops, but when
sowing it keep the boxes well apart to avoid
mixing. (3) There is a big range of suitable
plants. Among the blue shades are larkspurs,
cornflowers, salvias, lobelias (for edging), neme-
sias, violas, centaureas, asters, pansies, agera-
tums, delphiniums, myosotis, lupins, nemophila;
suitable reds include phlox drummondii, snap-
dragons, asters, candytuft, clarkias, begonias
(for edging), zinnias, pansies, poppies, godetias,
salvias, geums, gerberas, balsams, nasturtiums,
pentstemons, etc. In any color scheme reserve
plants must be kept to replace losses and gaps
which may occur.
I was told that the music of the Gilbert and
Sullivan operas was written first, after which
Gilbert fitted the words. Is this correct ?
5469.
Gilbert and Sullivan were not very com-
municative about the details of their partner-
ship, but there is abundant internal evidence
in the operas that the book must have been
written first. The nature of the music de-
pends upon the words and theme. In a lew
instances Gilbert may have written a jingle
suggested by a Sullivan air, but not as a rule.
Brief Answers.
M.N.: The painting is of no value M. 8.:
A pamphlet in connection with the rabbit ques-
tion and the method of dealing with the pest
is issued by the Agricultural Department, Syd-
ney. .. .G.W.: Write to the Administrator, Nor-
folk Island J.W.S.: Can find no reference
to him in any of the standard reference books.
. ...C.F.: Chances are remote. Apply to the
various shipping cos H. 8.; The usual com-
mission charge is 10 p.c. of the author’s gross
receipts... .R.S.E.: Where a change in surname
is contemplated in N.S.W. the usual course is
to have such change effected by a deed-poll
drawn up by a solicitor, filed with the Regis-
trar-General, Sydney, and advertised. Cost is
not great C.W.8.: It would be for the
Court to say whether you are entitled to com-
pensation or not. The plea of contributory
negligence would no doubt be raised... .W.L.:
Apparently, though you paid the cost of
obtaining the title, and hold it, the property
still remains in the widow’s name, and would
consequently be part of her estate at death.
Unless you have evidence that cost was
agreed between you to be a charge against
the property you have not much chance of
recovering it M.T.: The cause of mange
is the mange mite. To cure, clip the hair, wash
thoroughly with 2 p.c. lysol solution and then
swab on a solution made by boiling 4oz. sulphur
and 2oz. lime in one gallon water for one
hour. Make quantity up to one gallon. Swab
on each day, preferably heating the solution
first... .P.A.C.: Mineral spring waters that it
might be possible to use as commercial spa
water occur at Amby Springs, near Einas-
leigh; Innot Springs, between Herberton and
Mt. Garnet; and Abercorn, on the Upper Bur-
nett railway. These are all located in Queens-
land, and particulars could be obtained from
the Chief Government Geologist, Brisbane....
I. “Wireless for Beginners,” by C. L.
Boltz, and “The Radio Amateur’s Handbook
.... A.S.: Write A. F. Basset Hull, Box 704 FF,
G. Sydney L.H.8.: Write W. G.
Watson and Co., 279 Clarence-street, Sydney.
M.H.: Can trace no record of this particu-
lar pattern of Coalport china. Such services
were frequently made to order during the
latter half of last century for special dinners,
the plates being distributed as souvenirs to
the guests....C.J.B.: (1) Consult the latest
N.S.W. postal directory. (2) Yes, the “Aus-
tralasian Confectioner and Soda Fountain
Journal,” 29 Alberta-street, Sydney; monthly,
9d R. 8.: Write Officer-in-charge, Metropoli-
tan Meat Industry Board, Homebush Bay
D. 8.: Bull hide makes an inferior leather, and
would be unsuitable for your purpose....
J. (1) and (2) Green hide and white hide
can be prepared by tanning the leather with
alum and salt. (3) Immerse the hat in petrol,
or sponge it with petrol... .H.S.; Write Inter-
national Radio Co., 254 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney....H.G.T.: Try three or four coats ot
white lead well rubbed into the canvas, and
allow each coat a week or two in which to
dry before applying the next. Most students
prime and work on both sides of a
L.J.L.: Pronunciation of “basic” is “baysick,”
with accent on the “bay”... .E.W.P.; “Farm
Accounts,” obtainable from The Bulletin, 252
George-street, Sydney. Price 6d., postage
2d W.B. and J.W.C.: No value A.G.S.;
Not recommended S.M.: Particulars are
obtainable from Sydney Kindergarten and
Preparatory Teachers’ College, Henrietta-street,
Waverley K.F.M.1.: Photographic supply
houses do not know the apparatus... .M.S.:
(1) W. Donaldson has been granted a permit
to ride by the A.J.C., and has been riding
in the country for about two months. (2)
Yes... .A.0.C.: Believe it has been done
occasionally by Amalgamated Textiles,
York and Barrack streets, and John Vicars
and Sons, 34 Victoria-road, Marrickville —both
Sydney N.L.: The next series of Test
matches between England and Australia will
be played in Australia during the 1936-37
season E.A.W.: Write Graziers’ Co-opera-
tive Shearing Co., 23 Macquarie-place, and
R. A. Rooney and Co., 8 Spring-street —both
Sydney P.A.8.: Write Commonwealth Wool
and Produce Co., Phillip-street, Sydney....
W.F.; The numbers quoted are those supplied
by the Customs Department to the factories
concerned... .D.M.S.; (1) Yes. (2) Yes
N.G.M.: Write (1) Japanese Consul, Sydney,
and (2) Customs Department, Sydney
K. : Astrology is not a recognised science,
but comes under the head of “fortune-telling,
and, as such, its practice for hire is a police
offence punished by fine or imprisonment
J. 8.; (1) You are not bound to remain with
him, but can seek employment elsewhere, and
when secured leave him. You are entitled to
wages. (2) Write to the officer asking for the
information, and enclose a stamped envelope
addressed to you for return of his reply. (3)
The cost is 2s. 6d., with postage, if any
H. : There is no law fixing the rate of
commission; it is a matter of arrangement be-
tween the parties H.F.: The Roman Em-
peror Caius Caesar was nicknamed Caligula,
from his soldier’s boots ( caligce) M.J.F.:
Write to the Blind Institution and Braille Lib-
rary, William-street, Sydney L.M.M.; Super-
annuation payments made by the Common-
wealth Government are correctly subject to
tax for each year since the commencement of
the Act. Persons reduced by the Financial
Emergency Act were subject to tax at specially
reduced rates, viz., £1 to £250 at 3d. in the
£1; £251 to £5OO at 4£d. in the £l, etc. But,
since October 26, 1933, when the relevant
sections reducing pensions were repealed, the
pensions automatically became taxable at the
full rates. In respect of the year ended June
30, 1934, tax would be levied on one-third of
the pension at reduced rates, and on the bal-
ance at full rates T.A.K.: You are be-
yond the age for entry as able seaman intc»
the navy. The ages for entry to the Seaman
Branch are 16jr to 18. You are ineligible for
entry to the navy unless you are a tradesman,
when your age might not be a bar. The District
Naval Officer, Edgecliff, N.S.W., is the naval
recruiting officer for N. S. Wales W.M.; Get
in touch with the Hart Aircraft Service, Essen-
don (Vic.); Larkin Aircraft Co., Melbourne;
Qantas Empire Airways, Brisbane; Adastra
Airways, Ltd., Tugan Aircraft Co. and De
Havilland Aircraft —all Mascot (N.S.W.); West
Australian Airways, Ltd., Perth; and Mac-
Robertson Miller Aviation Co., Maylands
(W A.) R.E.H.: Get in touch with C. F.
Laseron, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney 8.J.5.N.;
Neither painter is known in art circles. It is
unlikely that either picture possesses any value.
....(Many others mailed.)


‘‘Expensive’*
IN THE light of comparative prices,
it cannot be said that our charges
are low. We are, according to
present day standards, expensive.
But we would mention, as an
axiom, that we use only the very
finest materials and linings; for
cheap clothes are but poor economy,
they neither tailor well, nor do
they last long.
It would be possible for us to
produce a suit for six or seven
guineas. A machine-sewn suit. Our
Cutters, who are artists, would not
be able to obtain that perfect style
for which handsewing alone is
responsible ; but nicely pressed off,
the suit would fit well and look
well—for a month or two.
It might be argued, except by the
most particular of men, that 4 or
5 guineas extra is a lot to pay for a
little extra touch of style. It is.
But style is not the only quality im-
parted by handsewing. It is in the
retention of shape and style that
the essence of first class tailoring
becomes apparent. For as soon as
the press has worn off a machine-
made suit, it begins to lose its
shape ; before long it will look like
a rag. Whereas a handsewn garment
will, if anything, improve with wear,
retaining its style for decades, until
it becomes a relic.
Only a handful of firms employ
hand-labour, for it is a very costly
item. Were we satisfied that
machine labour were as good,
should we be so foolish as to pay
three times as much for production ?
We employ only the cream of the
West End Log journeymen tailors
because they are worth every penny
of their costly labour.
These items —materials and hand-
labour, together with the fact that
we employ the most skilled cutters
in the trade, make our clothes ex-
pensive. Not extravagantly so, for
our organisation is run on the most
economic lines, and our percentage
of gross profit remarkably small.
One POPE & BRADLEY will out-
last two or three machine-made
suits, which means that this com-
paratively high initial outlay is
eventually an economy.
LOUNGE SUITS FROM 10 GNS. DINNER SUITS
FROM 15 GNS. DRESS SUITS FROM 16 GNS.
POPE & BRADLEY
TAILORS
14 OLD BOND STREET
JL-BL-LIZ: '
wiwi
sgessa
mmmmm
> V
I
(T) c Gulums
Scots COKisky
Distributors tor the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mon & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros, and Co. -
- Fremantle
- - Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany
E.M.S.: A trifle too prosy... .8.E.N.: There
is some sound sense in it, but topical verse
should be less didactical E.F.K.: Even as a
doggerel bard you don’t rise out of the ruck.
... .M.A.M.: Thin thoughts written in
faint pencil 1.K.8.: Far-fetched J.L.C.:
Enough to sour any sub-editor 8.H.: Coup-
lets like
The beaches were thronged and ice-cream galore
Disappeared into the communal maw
almost make us tear our hair 1.W.: It
doesn’t take much to make you optimistic
A.G.M.: Unchivalrous,.. .E.W.N.: Tolerable
album verse, no more... .W.S.P.: Deadly tame,
not to say wishy-washy K.M.: Doesn’t
it occur to you that you can’t rhyme “law”
with “for” unless you sound one as “lor” or
the other as “faw”? J.A.P.: “Bottle Queen”
disqualified for boring A.F.D.: You’ll have
to learn to rhyme before you get any further,
especially if you want to write about mountain
brooks... .E.H.G.: There’s nothing we can do
with them. You need to break in words for
your purpose instead of letting words run away
with you R.M.H.; Promising theme, but
you make heavy going of it E.W.: Don’t
doubt their originality; all they lack is merit.
.... G.A.L.: But there are gipsies here
Pipsquip: The light verse carries too much
weight to have a chance S.R.F.: Put your
own feelings down, and try again V. 8.:
“The Bush” reads like a prospectus for Pater-
son, Paterson, Paterson and Paterson
R.J.M.: Nothing wrong with poem describing
us all as “Bottles,” except, perhaps, that the
“s” should have been a “d”... .T.N.T.: Dud.
....Ex L.: You don’t... .0.C.: Dismiss that.
. ...M.S.E.: No limit to the demand for that
sort of work 1.8. M.; Beg leave to doubt
(on evidence) if that’s original J.8.C.: “He
got the Dough.” Yes; but why express it in
puff-pastry? T.A.O.W.*: “I want a careful
criticism.” The first line is meaningless; the
second is ungrammatical; the third reveals an
ignorance of ordinary law-court procedure. No
space for discussing the other 17 W.A.R.:
Fair; but the theme’s been done to death....
H.P.; All too heavy... .G. 1.: Sorry (in view of
your age), but all that’s been said V.A.C.:
Well enough done; doubt if it was worth doing.
J.T.McM.: If you break off a piece of rock
and regard it as a statue you’ll have an idea
of what we think of that sort of fragment
verse R.R.; No bid for “The Convict
Ship”.... L.F.L.; Idea excellent; execution in-
describable W.A.S.C.; Weak plots, crudely
written.. . .M.R.: Send it to a woman’s paper.
....A.G.M.: On its way home... .E.R.R.: It
could be more skilfully woven D.P.: It
missed, but not by much A.8.G.; Horrible,
and the ending was obvious S.P.; Tale of
lady who lost five stone is too incredible for
us S.K.: Only mildly funny J. 8.: One is
not Australian, and the other is unconvincing
P.M.D.: Drunk who kept his money intact
doesn’t get into our pages J.L.C.; Poorly
constructed H.E.C.: Didn’t like y9ur
modern Scrooge H.E.E.: No dream stories,
please....S.A.W. (U.S.A.): We do not accept
matter already published elsewhere... .P.J.S. ;
“Soldiers’ Prayer Book” is old enough to col-
lect a pension... .R. 8.: “The Bribe” doesn t
tempt us J.K.: “Just Another Golf Story
—but a long way off the fairway M.C.:
Shades of Mrs. Henry Wood! H.H.: Too
flamboyant... .G.G.J.: Well done, but rather
slight J.RJ.: Doesn’t come within a mile
of being convincing... .E.8.G.: Lone prospec-
tors bringing retribution to ancient enemies
have never appealed to us, although they try
very often.. .E.T.; A little too much sentiment.
M.D.: Style all right, but subject uninterest-
ing R. 8.: “Bush Harvests” would fill the
whole of our story space for two weeks
K.W.P.: Not altogether old, but it scratches
old ground C.C.J.: Of very limited interest.
A.C.: .Your abos. seem to hail from the
Congo rather than North Queensland, and your
mines belong to Nevada... J.G.M.: We hoped
we had seen the last of the bad-shilling plot.
It hadn’t turned up for weeks LV.: Racing
swindles aren’t very entertaining J.H.G.: It
doesn’t give the impression of real life
FJ.McL.: Doesn’t land the bacon... .L.E.1.:
A long way off E.McG.: As stilted as a
radio drama... .J.8.A.; Can’t swallow the-
snake yarn J.M.8.: Not suitable J. 8.:
But the twentieth century is here already!
W.J.: Not sufficiently amusing J.P.N. Same
idea has been used before... .F.D. (Canada):
Regret cannot use any of them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C. 8.: Dog-and-boneyard gag has been used
before W.M.H.: The decorative background
doesn’t compensate for the wooden figures
A.S.: No use for curate with gaspipe legs.
R.B.; Linework has an easy sweep, but
you know nothing about perspective....
E.RJ.: A grubby lot 1.M.; Let us hear
from you again; say, in 1940... .N.F.L.; There
are a dozen faults to the square inch, and the
gag came out with the First Fleet.. . .H.R.H:
Don’t care for cartoon based on the size of the
Prime . Minister’s family K.S.: Good idea
ruined by a slapstick drawing A.R.P.: Not
bad for 14, but far below publication standard.
G.G.: Same old Domain dossers, same old
wheeze about their dislike of water... .W.S.:
Where have you seen boundary-riders dressed
in that outlandish garb? A.E.Q.: No, we
cannot recall your rejects of three years ago,
but they can hardly have been worse than your
latest efforts... .T.S.J.: Middlesex joke had
more than its fair share of space during the
war years... .E.D.: Promising; keep your
work more clean and open F. 8.: Charcoal
drawings need a fixative before sending out- —
yours arrived in a wretched state A.M.C.:
Three “plurries,” a “mine tinkit” and a request
for a bottle of rum do not make an abo.
joke C.S.W.; No demand for illustrated
limericks.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Centre Court”: The Wimbledon
people are contributing £5OO towards the
expenses of the Australians who are to
play on their courts. Fifty tickets have
been made available for Australians ; the
t)avis Cup team is taking 15 of ’em. The
balance cost £6 6s. each.
H? $ *
“Brass Addler”: While Australia did
well enough financially from the last Eng-
lish tour, the Marylebone club pouched
a much fatter wad, over £BB,OOO rolling
in from the five Tests. The biggest gate
was £23,225, at Lord’s; the smallest,
£14,569 at Nottingham.
* * * *
An American has invented a gadget
called the polygraph, said to reveal
whether or not a person is speaking the
truth. What a chance he missed by not
sending sets to Australia this State-elec-
tion year! Each side would have bought
sufficient to take to the meetings of all
opposing candidates.
* * * *
A Japanese whaling enterprise has just
returned from the Antarctic, after having
killed 300 whales. As in other trades,
the Japs did not try to perform work in
which they were inexperienced; they
hired a dozen Norwegians to teach
them the job. Next time, or the time
after, the personnel of the ships will
probably be 100 per cent. Jap.
* * * *
British Dyestuffs Corporation has
evolved a new wool-dyeing process at its
Manchester laboratories; the job can
now be done in 15 minutes, as against
several hours hitherto. Formerly a tem-
perature of 100 degrees was necessary
during dyeing, and this was detrimental
to the material; the new process operates
at between 40 and 80 deg., the fibres
“breathing in” the dye.
* * * *
“Grasspan”: Frith depicts Jack Lang
(B. 20/2/’35) as wearing a soft felt hat.
If the artist is right the Great One must
have changed his fashions ; during the
time I lived in Sydney, up to two years
ago, he never appeared save in a black
bowler. Plainclothes policemen invari-
ably wear pea-dodgers, and by setting
one on his highest point Lang completed
a perfect replica of the mufti cop who
strolls around with a pawn list in his
pocket.
“Hoylake”; Does size make any dif-
ference at golf? Harry Rowntree, the
English black-and-white artist, has a
standing challenge at the West Middle-
sex club as the result of an outsize mem-
ber —Rowntree is in the bantam class —
asserting that small men played the game
at a great disadvantage compared with
the big ’uns. Rowntree is a plus- marker
himself, but he has offered to team the
four smallest men in the club, including
himself, and beat the four biggest, play to
be by holes up over 18. So far none of
the giants has picked up the hat.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”: Modern mining engineers
are generally agreed that the golden
wealth of King Solomon, of the
Aztecs and the Mayas came not from
fabulously-rich reefs, but from alluvial
fields worked by slaves. A few thousand
human ants, toiling from dawn to dusk,
could wash a surprisingly large amount of
gold out of by-no-means-rich ground in
the course of a year. Several of these
ancient alluvial workings have been found
of late years in South America; pan
tests revealed that the ground was too
poor in values to pay for modern dredg-
ing. Yet from here came the gold to
make the vessels and ornaments which
the Spaniards looted. The mines which
are supposed to have enriched King
Solomon and the Incas have never been
found, probably because they never
existed.
# $ * #
“Shalimar”: Cricket in India can be
colorful af times. Talking to an old
friend of the Indian custom of hanging
wreaths of marigolds round the necks of
century-makers, I was told of an experi-
ence in Kashmir after the war. Someone
had got up a match, and by some miracle
persuaded the Maharajah—not the
present one —to play. The old gentle-
man came to the wicket escorted by his
Prime Minister and A.D.C., while an
attendant stood at square leg with his
pipe. The Maharajah wore a blue satin
native frock-coat with white muslin
trousers and embroidered slippers on his
bare feet. Only underhand bowling was
permitted, but my friend got him first
ball. H.H. didn’t shift, and an appeal
brought the information from the native
umpire that the potentate always insisted
on scoring 25 runs before consenting to
be given out.


“SILVER
EDGE”
RfuAcdos-
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
YOUR STOPPING DISTANCE REFLECTS THE
EFFICIENCY OF YOUR BRAKES
“RAYBESTOS” Brake Liners fitted
to yoqr car will ensure reliability.
Use a quality lining.
Why not check the performance
of your car against these
figures?
Speed
in miles
per hour
20
30
40
50
60
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep,: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
The Union Trustee Company ol Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885; .
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
(|se The New SIMONIZ KIEENER to
Restore Your Car’s Original Beauty
The Steering Column.
KNOCKING IN MODERN CAR
ENGINES.
PRE-IGNITION AND PINKING INCREASE OPERATING
CHARGES AND LOWER PERFORMANCE.
By FRED BERRY.
IN the early days of motoring, mechanical noises were the rule
* rather than the exception. Intermediate gears “howled” to
such an extent that conversation between driver and passengers
when climbing a steep hill was frequently impossible. Carden
blocks added their quota of rattles, especially when worn, the
differential in every instance generated its particular hum at
various speeds, and brake rods and spring shackles invariably
chattered after a few months’ use. Engines were reliable for the
simple reason that sufficient power was never developed 1 to do
any great harm to the mass of metal used in construction.
Nevertheless, any long, hard pull on full throttle would be suffi-
cient to start an “anvil chorus” under the bonnet, due to
detonation of the gas mixture in the combustion chamber.
To-day, with perfectly-balanced six-
and eight-cyl. motors and modern refine-
ments in transmission mechanism, every
car should run quietly and smoothly for
a considerable period; but knocking
occurs, and there are remarkably few
motorists who fully understand the true
significance of it Even those technically-
minded drivers who endeavor to rectify
the trouble are usually confused as to its
origin.
Faddy Ideas.
Naturally the relatively silent opera-
tion of the modern car leaves a grand
opening for the faddist who complains
of elusive knocks existing only in his
own imagination, and as a consequence
service station managers are liberally be-
sprinkled with grey hairs. Motorists
would save themselves needless. worry,
much waste of time, and,in addition.avoid
Enhanced appearance, greater roominess, longer spring base and improved spring-
ing. together with new-type clutch and racy body lines, are outstanding features
of the 1935 Ford.
—From “Motor.”
making a nuisance of themselves if they
would endeavor to discriminate between
engine knock and combustion-chamber
detonation, commonly termed “pinking.”
Engine knock does not of necessity in-
dicate wear of reciprocating parts, a
characteristic example being that of a
car driven at low speeds up a steep grade
with distinct metallic sounds coming from
the engine.
This knocking is not, as generally sup-
posed, due to the striking together of two
metal surfaces in the motor, as would be
the case in piston slap, gudgeon-pin, big-
end or main-bearing knock.
Cause of Knocking.
To explain the matter one must liken
the cylinders of a car to a series of
pumps. Each cylinder is sealed at one
end and fitted with a movable plug—
the piston. The gas mixture, after pass-
ing through the carburettor, is admitted
by a series of valves to the combustion
chamber; and when these valves are
closed by cam action, sealing the upper
chamber, the piston moves upward, com-
pressing the gaseous mixture into an ex-
tremely small space, and then, at a pre-
determined moment, an electric spark at
the plug point “fires” the charge. So
we have the piston moving and, through
the connecting-rod and crankshaft, im-
parting a circular motion to the flywheel
and transmission mechanism.
Normally this cycle of operation is un-
accompanied by knocking, but when
appropriate conditions are present the
burning of the gaseous mixture does not
proceed in an orderly manner, and in-
stead of burning progressively the mix-
ture bursts into combustion at terrific
speed. Ordinarily the rate of flame pro-
pagation is measurable, but in cases of
“pinking” it becomes, for all practical
purposes, infinitely rapid. The gases in
the combustion chamber do not burn, but
actually .detonate.
Spontaneous Ignition.
Thus, ahead of the flame as it passes
through the mixture is a highly-com-
pressed layer of unburned gas, and when
this pressure rises beyond a definite
limit the remainder of the charge ignites
spontaneously, the tmburned layer being
driven against the cylinder walls with
sufficient velocity to produce the familiar
sound known as “pinking” or “Diesel
knock.”
There are, of course, a number of con-
tributing factors that will influence the
knocking proclivities of any motor.
Fuel used, compression pressure and
cylinder - head de-
sign and firing
point, either separ-
ately or collec-
tively, have a dis-
tinct bearing on
the subject.
Fuel Limitations.
Every fuel, when
vaporised and
mixed with air in
correct proportion,
has a critical tem-
perature at which it
will spontaneously
ignite. Similarly
the critical period
occurs when gases
are compressed be-
yond certain defi-
nite limits —a fac-
tor, by the way, put to practical applica-
tion in Diesel or C.l. engine practice. Tak-
ing “straight” commercial petrol as an
example, when the compression pres-
sure exceeds 1501 b. to the square inch it
will ignite—or, more correctly, burn spon-
taneously—without the stimulus of an
electric spark. Benzol, however, may be
compressed to 2201 b. before this point is
reached, and alcohol fuels are still higher
in the scale. This, by the way, is the
reason why racing motorists, using
engines with extremely high-compression
pressures, fill their tanks with fuel doped
with alcohol or benzine, to which tetra-
ethyl-lead has been added in the nature
of a catalyst (now Ethyl gas in commer-
cial use), or by a special blending of
scientifically selected crudes.
Motorists in this country are particu-
larly fortunate in regard to available
fuels, arid too great praise cannot be
given certain companies for maintaining
quality and at the same time introduc-
ing such features as low volatility and
anti-knock values, the net result being
that motorists are now using the highest
grades of petrol marketed in any part
of the world.
Effect of High Compression.
With regard to compression pressures
and combustion chamber design, factors
closely related to knock rating of fuels,
improvements made during the past few
years have been of an almost revolu-
tionary nature. Hitherto, stock cars,
almost without exception, maintained a
standard compression ratio varying from
4.5 to 5.25 to 1, the higher ratios
usually being coupled to a low back-axle
ratio in order that the motor could gen-
erate its maximum output at high engine
revs.
Ricardo, some years ago, realised that
in any plan of “boosting” standard
engine performance, gas turbulence in
the combustion chamber was of perhaps
greater importance than actual raising
of compression. As a consequence an
entirely new design of cylinder-head was
evolved wherein compression pressures of
6 to 1 could be used to advantage with-
out special fuels, and the Ricardo-type
head—modified perhaps in unimportant
details —is now standard equipment in
almost every modern automobile engine.
So we find stock cars of this year’s
vintage, when tested on the road against
the stop-watch, putting up performance
figures which even four years ago were
seldom equalled by stripped racing
machines, with or without supercharges ;
and even in those few instances where
times were equal it would be found that
the modern car did its job without fuss,
vibration or engine knock using standard
HUDSONS LATEST.
A close-up from the “Motor” of the Hudson “Electric
Hand,” an electric vacuum-operated gear shift located on
the steering column immediately beneath the wheel. Gears
are changed by fingertips without removing the hands from
the steering wheel.
petrol, whilst the racing car, to make a
decent showing, had to be fed with ex-
pensive “doped” fuels.
Ignition Advance.
It must be admitted that, however
efficient combustion design may be, any
engine will knock if in an attempt to
improve speed or acceleration the firing
point is unduly advanced.
It has been accepted practice in past
years for the amateur mechanic and, in
many instances, the service mechanic to
experiment with spark advance until the
motor begins to knock on steep grades
and then to retard slightly in the belief
that this point constituted the ideal set-
ting. In this a gross mistake is made, for,
as almost every modern engine is now
mounted on live rubber supports, careful
experiments with various makes and types
have shown that greatest power is in-
variably developed before the motor
begins to knock. Furthermore, motorists
should realise that apart from lowering of
efficiency, a flexibly-mounted engine, with
spark advanced far enough to induce
“pinking,” will in a remarkably short
space of time so damage the connecting-
rod bearings that a major overhaul will
be essential.
Overheating.
There are, in addition, two further
conditions under which a motor will give
forth sounds as if some imp inside were
hammering the cylinder walls —a sure in-
dication of pinking: First, when for any
reason the engine is overheated to such
an extent that gas pressure in the com-
bustion chamber is raised beyond the
critical point, and, second, when unsuit-
able fuel is used.
Generally, overheating in the modern
car is due to lack of water in the cool-
ing system, broken or slack fan belt, or
ignition point unduly retarded, and when
these defects are located, and rectified
everything will be in order again.
Regarding fuels, motorists should by
now realise that experiments with cheaper
grades invariably result in higher main-


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
NEVERLEEK
HOOD DRESSING
Now in Half-pint Tins
DISTRIBUTORS;
NOLAN, O’ROURKE & CO., LTD.,
Commonwealth Street, Sydney,
BUTTER BROS. (AUST.), LTD.,
Creek Street, Brisbane-
BENNIE, TEARE St CO.,
A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
NOLAN, SHANNON & CO., LTD.,
Hyde Street, Adelaide.
Aluminising Cylinder Heads.
Read “The Bulletin’’ Motor Editor’s article on
Aluminising cylinder heads (B. 26/12/’34).
Metal Coatings, lAd., have the latest
equipment to carry out this class of
work, which they guarantee.
PRICES:
Four (4) cylinder heads, 107-
Six (6) cylinder heads, 15/-
Same day service.
Ail other classes of Metal Spraying.'
Wheels protected against rust for the life
of your car from 5/- to 7/6 per rim.
Same day service.
METAL COATINGS, LTD.,
16 Bridge Road, Stanmore, N.S.W.
Telephone: L 2533.
ALL SUFFERERS FROM
INDIGESTION
are invited to read these
notes, and send for the
FREE SAMPLE. It costs
you nothing, and it must
do you good.
After a meal, a healthy person
feels a sense of contentment and
geniality and forgets that he has
such a thing as a stomach. Un-
fortunately, there are thousands
who, after they have taken food,
usually become conscious that
they have a stomach. A large
portion of their food lies in the
stomach fermenting, causing
flatulence and painful distending
of the stomach. Being right
under the heart, the distended
stomach presses on the heart,
causing palpitation Other symp-
toms are acid stomach and heart-
burn.
If these early symptoms are
neglected or not treated in a
proper manner, the stomach itself
becomes affected. The walls of
the stomach become inflamed and
the unfortunate sufferer has gas-
tritis or dyspepsia. In this con-
dition, every mouthful of food
adds to his distress, and he looks
upon himself as an incurable
dyspeptic in constant agony.
Neglect of early symptoms
may be dangerous I
Unfortunately, the trouble does
not even end here. The inflamed
stomach pours out acid in increas-
ing quantities which lays in the
folds of the stomach and actually
eats into its walls. This con-
dition is ulcerated stomach or
ulcerated duodenum.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder has
been prepared to meet the com-
i plicated nature of indigestion
1 troubles. It acts in a logical
and commonsense way, and if
you persevere it will eventually
relieve you of your trouble.
Firstly, it neutralises the ex-
cess acid which the stomach
continually produces, and allays
the irritation.
Secondly, the stomach is coated
with a film of colloidal-kaolin.
| So finely powdered is this kaolin
that it is easily spread over the
entire surface of the stomach, pro-
tecting it from the burning acid.
Thirdly, it actually digests a
portion of your food, thereby still
further taking the load off the
weakened stomach, and finally,
the ingredients in De Witt’s
Antacid Powder so assist Nature
to build up an alkaline reserve in
the body, that, with ordinary
care, there will be no recurrence
of the trouble.
Read This
Remarkable Testimony
Mr. John Harris, of 2, Dale View,
Dale Rd., Buxton, Derbyshire, writes :
“Some time agro I was troubled with
nasty bitter fluid arising from my
stomach. An operation for gastric
ulcers was performed. Later, all my
troubles returned. I heard of your
Antacid Powder, and after three days
I was able to leave my bed and get
out of doors. Before the first tin was
empty I was able to enjoy my meals.”
De Witt's Antacid Powder is
invaluable for: —
INDIGESTION ACID STOMACH
DYSPEPSIA GRIPING PAINS
GASTRITIS HEARTBURN
PALPITATION FLATULENCE
ULCERATED STOMACH
Sold in handsome canisters
containing month’s supply. Be
sure you get the genuine remedy
in the sky-blue canister.
DEWITTS
ANTACID POWDER
For INDIGESTION. Price 2/6
FREE GIFT COUPON
E. C. DeWitt & Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
(Dept. CAlo) P-O. Box 26,
MELBOURNE.
Please send me, free and postage
■paid, a sample of De Witt’s Antacid
Powder.
Mr.
Mrs
Miss
Address
tenance costs and that a fuel to give
entire satisfaction over summer and
winter use must be based upon scientific
formula and not by guesswork or the
exigencies of the moment.
Before jumping to conclusions in re-
gard to engine knock there is one final
aspect to be considered. After a car has
run some distance —it may be 5000 or
15,000 miles —an elusive knock will some-
times develop. Perhaps gudgeon pins or
bearings are responsible, but it is always
advisable to first look for pre-ignition by
reason of the combustion chamber be-
coming dirty.
Dirty Combustion Chambers.
Pre-ignition means that gas is “fired”
in the cylinders before the correct time,
and, as the piston is then moving upward
within the cylinder, a distinct thump is
felt and the car appears to stagger. When
this occurs it is a good plan to remove
the spark plugs, for they provide a re-
liable index to the internal condition of
the engine. Should they be coated with
a thick brittle layer of carbon, almost
certainly the combustion chamber will be
in a similar condition. So, under the
great heat developed inside the motor
when running, some of these projecting
flakes of carbon become incandescent and
ignite the charge of gas before the spark
appears at the plug points. Removing
cylinder head and “decoking” will rec-
tify this trouble. As a final precaution
against pre-ignition, one should carefully
inspect spark-plug points, as after long
service they may burn away and become
unduly thin. This also will induce pre-
ignition and knocking, particularly when
the car is driven fast over a long journey.
The Trouble Lamp.
S.F.D. (Blayney, N.S.W.). — Have been
troubled by missing in No. 5 and 6 cylinders
of my ’29 model Chrysler. Have tested plugs,
broker points and wiring. Carburettor setting is
correct, and there are no leaks in induction
manifold. Trouble is worse in wet weather.
What’s wrong, and how can it be adjusted ?
Check valve clearances in these two cylinders,
and if there is no improvement after adjustment
remove distributor head and look for a thin
crack in the bakelite extending between No. 5
and 6 terminals. Spark will jump across this
crack, involving erratic firing and complete
shorting if damp. A new distributor block is
the only certain remedy, but a temporary repair ,
can be made by filling the crack with glue,
shellac or sealing-wax.
S.G. — I have a Rugby Four engine fitted in
a hydroplane, and 3-32 in. has been taken off
head. (1) What clearance should be given to
valves ? (2) Carburettor is a Solex, and there
is no adjustment. Can you recommend some
other make ? (3) Would aluminising of the
cylinder head give better performance ?
(1) Six thou, inlet and eight thou, exhaust
when engine is hot. (2) Carburettor should
give good results. Adjustment is made by
using interchangeable jets, choke and float
level. Main jet, idling jet, choke and float level
should be experimented with until maximum
power is obtained. (3) As you have raised
compression by planing the head, spraying in-
ternally with aluminium should prevent knock-
ing and give a higher power output.
E.P. (Rockhampton, Q.). — Disc wheels are
fitted to my ’27 model car, and I have trouble
with excessive road shocks transmitted through
the steering wheel. King pins and bushes have
been renewed. Steering connections have been
tightened up and worm gear in steering box
adjusted. Front wheels are in perfect align-
ment. Can you suggest a remedy ?
Alignment may be correct, but faulty toe-in
and camber will also give rise to these symp-
toms, and these alignments should be checked.
Failing a cure, next examine spring clips on
front springs. Unless these are drawn hard up
road shocks will be transmitted to the steering
wheel.
H.W.F. (Berridale, N.S.W.).—/ have just
bought my first car, a Marquette. I have been
told these cars are made up of parts by
several makers. Is that true, and where can I
get spares, oiling chart, etc. ?
The Marquette was made by Buick (General
Motors) and was the forerunner of the Buick
Light Eight. Local agents for Buick will have
spare parts and any other information.
C.T.S. (Tent Hill, N.S.W.). — My ’26 car has
been giving me a good deal of trouble with the
generator. Have cleaned brushes, brush holders,
commutator and field windings without improve-
ment. After starting up no charge is shown,
but now and again the ammeter cuts in. What’s
the ,trouble ?
Fault must be in the cut-out, and if this has
broken down the contact points will only close
to give charge through ammeter by mechanical*
means —road vibration, etc. Have the cut-out
wiring checked.
R.T.C. (Lurnea Siding, Q.). — Have done
about 70,000 miles in my six-cylinder Chev.
car, but although new rings were fitted about
a year ago a great deal of oil still pumps into
the cylinders, forming carbon, and plugs must
be cleaned each week. Can’t afford cost of
rebore. Can I fit special compression rings to
rectify the trouble ?
After running such a distance a rebore or
reline is the only solution. Fitting special
rings is a waste of money.
P.A.C.P. (Brisbane).—(l) Am not satisfied
with light given by driving lamps of my V 8
roadster. Standard bulbs, double filament,
fixed focus, are 21 c.p. Have changed to 32-
c.p. globes, but driving light is little better,
the fiat-topped beam spreading without giving
greater length. Remedy ? (2) When is a top
overhaul advisable ? Present mileage is 10,000.
(3) What pressure should be used in tyres with
three passengers in front seat ?
General practice in American lighting systems
is to concentrate upon a broad anti-dazzle
beam rather than a brilliant piercing light. If
you require a long beam for fast driving you
can fit plain lamp glasses, but that’s a selfish
business, introducing dazzle and seriousy incon-
veniencing other road-users. (2) First top
overhaul should be conducted between 7000
and 10,000 miles. (3) 24ib. front, 261 b. rear.
C.M. (St. Kilda, Vic.). — I desire to use
colloidal graphite in the lubricating oil of my
Master Six Buick. Will it prevent circulation
of oil and clog the filter ?
True colloidal graphite should pass through
a parchment filter, and consequently will not
in any way affect the efficiency of your present
system.
A.M.T. (Adelaide). — Where can I obtain
instruction book and oiling chart for my 13.9
h.p. ’2B Bean?
Try Dalgety’s, Sydney.
C.S.O’N. (Walcha, N.S.W.).— Who are agents
for the Erskine ?
Sneddons’ Motors, 258 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
W.A.R. (Karara, Q.).—My ’29 Chev. has
done 24,000 miles and is running well. Have
given usual attention such as tappet adjustment,
but as I propose a long holiday trip I would
like your advice as to work necessary to avoid
trouble.
Drop sump, examine and, if necessary, take
up connecting-rod bearings, renew spark plugs
and check condition of battery. Decarbonise
motor and inspect valves and seatings. See fan
belt is in good order, flush out radiator and
change sump oil.
W.E.B. (Wagga, N.S.W.).—My U-h.p. car
is giving trouble by burning out the offside
headlight every week or so. When driven, the
lights occasionally flare up and then die down
to normal. What should I do ?
Check wiring. An intermittent short between
battery and switchboard will cause the generator
to light the lamps direct, so increasing voltage
beyond the safety limit. Bad contact on one
of the battery terminals will give similar
trouble.
MECHANICAL FEATURES OF THE NEW
BLUE BIRD.
Additional details are to hand in re-
spect to Sir Malcolm Campbell’s latest
Blue Bird, with which he is attempting
to reach 300 m.p.h. at Daytona Beach,
Florida (U.S.A.). His existing record
is 272.45 m.p.h. The three most interest-
ing mechanical innovations in this new
super-speed machine are the duplicated
final drive with no differential, the
doubled driving wheels and the wind
flaps to aid in stopping the 5-ton vehicle
after its runs on the 10-mile straight-
away course on Daytona Beach.
The dual final drive, deemed neces-
sary owing to the terrific stress on the
Twin wheels, cockpit and air brake on the redesigned Blue
Bird. The air brakes, formed by sheets of metal pivoted
behind each pair of driving wheels, are actuated by a small
lever in the cockpit.
driving pinion, is of novel design, the
propeller shaft being fitted with two
bevel pinions. One is set some inches
from the second pinion at the end of the
shaft. Each of these pinions will drive
a crownwheel attached to the driving
shaft actuating each of the rear driving
wheels without the intervention of a dif-
ferential gear. Thus one driving wheel
is set slightly farther forward than the
other, probably the first occasion upon
which such a thing has been done in
motor engineering. The top gear ratio
is 1.19 to 1, giving a speed of 300 m.p.h.,
with the 2500-b.h.p. engine turning over
at 3200 r.p.m. Tyres are special smooth-
tread Dunlops, duplicates of which have
been tested at 325 m.p.h. for a period of
15 minutes.
The hinged wind flaps which are to be
used to decrease the speed of machine
when the official mile section of the
course has been covered are positioned
just behind the hubs of the rear wheels.
The two metal flaps are actuated by a
servo-vacuum system which will enable
Campbell to raise the steel flaps, allow-
ing windage to produce a braking effect
and at the same
time exert a
downward pres-
sure on the rear
of car. This
speed - retarding
equipment is sup-
plementary to a
set of vacuum
brakes on all the
wheels. These
brakes will be
used only when
the pace of the
machine has
dropped to well
under 100 m.p.h.
The double
wheels are used
to increase trac-
tion by spreading
the drive and
weight over four
points of tyre
contact instead of
two.
The radiator is
enclosed in the
nose of the whale-
like streamlined
body, the air
being admitted through a slot provided
with a balanced flap. When the measured
mile is approached Campbell will trip a
lever, allowing the flap to close. This
will prevent ingress of air into the
machine, and decrease air resistance. As
only about 12 to 12} seconds will be
occupied in covering the mile, the ab-
sence of cooling air on the radiator will,
it is thought, not be serious.
The dimensions of the Blue Bird are:
Overall length 28ft. 3in., wheelbase 13ft.
Bin., track sft. Including lead ballast the
weight of complete outfit is five tons.
SYDNEY TO MELBOURNE THIRTY
YEARS AGO.
With modern cars and almost perfect
highways, Melbourne to Sydney in a
standard, stock-model sedan is but a
day’s journey, the record drive, officially
timed, standing at 10 hours 15 minutes.
How different, 30 years ago, was travel
over the old coach road, when con-
testants in the Dunlop Reliability Motor
Trial from Sydney to Melbourne, in
February, 1905, were scheduled to nego-
tiate the journey in five days. So rough
was the route between Albury and Mel-
bourne that two days were allowed, the
Stages being Albury to Euroa miles)
and Euroa to Melbourne (96| miles).
This fact will startle those motorists who
now think nothing of driving from the
Vic. capital to Albury in under five
hours, but it will serve to bring home
to present-day motorists the wonderful
advances made in roads and machines
since the early motoring days of this
country.
(Continued on next page .)


detachable wheels obtainable at that time.
How does she run since
we advanced the spark?
"Oh Great
Users of Super Plume
Ethyl everywhere are
asking their garage-
men to advance their
ignition so as to get
the full benefit of its
very high anti-knock
rating. The results
they are getting were
summed up by one
of them as “Simply
Great!” You, too, will
enjoy the extra power
(without harmful
knocks), the swifter
acceleration, and the
increased mileage.
SUPER
:
:: ■;
ETHYL
nHYLGISniNK
The Harmless Red Colour is Your Guarantee of Highest Quality
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA) P 516
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 A (SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
ii posted direct from “The Bulletin.’"
?r>2 Oeorge Street, Sydney. 3d. extra
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
The programme of the trial, a copy
of which has been dug up by the Dunlop-
Perdriau Rubber Co., states that “the
contest is being held with a view to
fostering motoring and of attracting
public attention throughout Australia to
the reliability of the automobile, and its
possibilities for use over rough Aus-
tralian roads and tracks.”
In 1905 there were fewer than 200 cars
in Australia, but the pioneers were a
particularly sporty lot, and 21 of them
tackled the trial, a tough proposition in
those days.
The 30th anniversary of that historic
contest justifies the appended tabulation
of the starters and particulars of cars
driven. The details given also indicate
the wonderful value present-day motor-
ists receive for their outlay on new
machines as compared with what early-
day motorists paid for their cars,
Despite the atrocious roads and tracks
to be negotiated, only four of the com-
petitors failed to reach Melbourne within
schedule time. Fastest driving time was
recorded by H. L. Stevens, covering the
565 miles in 23 hours 42 minutes. Sixty
thousand people witnessed the finish of
the trial at the Melbourne Haymarket.
To decide the winners an eliminating
test over a 140-mile course, under non-
stop conditions, was held, resulting in
a win for H. Tarrant from I. H. Craven
and Syd Day in the general classifica-
tion, while Craven also carried off the
first award in the small-car class (under
12cwt.).
In addition, a motor-cycle section was
decided concurrently with the car con-
test. This event attracted a representa-
tive field of N. S. Wales and Vic. riders.
The result was a dead-heat between B.
James and V. H. Card, both of Victoria.
In the run-off (140 miles) James (l|-h.p.
Minerva) was successful.
The contest well served its purpose of
demonstrating to the Australian people
that the automobile was something more
than a rich man’s plaything. The wide-
spread publicity given the trial awakened
the public to the capabilities and reli-
ability of the automobile for transport
of people and produce on the highways
of the Commonwealth.
Few of those associated with the his-
toric event imagined that 30 years later
there would be 452,000 cars, 142,000
motor-trucks an.d -vans and 75,000
motor-cycles in use on the roads of Aus-
tralia, and that the assembly, mainten-
ance and servicing of those vehicles
would create one of the largest industries
in the Commonwealth, nor that the
motor-owners of Australia would, three
decades hence, be paying into the coffers
of the respective Governments over
£10,000,000 a year in the form of special
taxation.
Motor Oddities.
“C J. 8.”: Saw an overhead-valve
engine with a broken valve spring tem-
porarily repaired with a piece of inner
tube. A piece of wire was fastened
round the valve stem immediately below
the spring-retaining washer. Four or five
thicknesses of tube joined it to another
piece of wire fastened to the rod running
from the radiator to the cowl. The
repair had lasted for 30 miles when I
saw it, and looked good for as many
more.


dfd
WIRELESS
VA LV E
l-
if
I" jfe
r im
r» l
9->
mm
o'”
\ i&»y ..-■ v,. & t
'S|
•IT**
Every Radiotron is
laboratory tested
and guaranteed by
Amalgamated Wire-
less to retain its
tonal quality and
give longer life than
any other valve in
the world.
K
lOTRONS
RADIO NEWS.
HIGH-EFFICIENCY POWER TRANSFORMERS.
Dealing with the main points to be observed in the design and
construction of this all-important source of high- or low-voltage supply.
Power transformers which are to have
their output rectified and filtered should
be designed and constructed with this
in view. A secondary that is balanced
perfectly in regard to its position on the
core and its relative position to the
primary, also balanced in resistance,
shape and size (both electrically and
mechanically), will help to a great
extent. The rectifier and filtering
circuits should be able to do their
jobs in producing a D.C. that is free
from ripple as much as possible. Another
feature of balanced winding is that the
life of the rectifying tubes will be con-
siderably prolonged, due to the load be-
ing equal on each tube, or (in the case of
full-wave rectifiers) on each half of the
tubes.
To obtain the best results, “pie” wind-
ing of the secondary is absolutely neces-
sary. This can be former-wound into
pies, taped, and insulated one from the
other, or layer-wound side by side, mak-
ing each section a replica of the others.
In the first method, of which an example
is pictured, the primary can be layer-
wound first and the secondary pies fitted
over the finished primary, or both
primary and secondary can be wound in
pies and fitted in some regular and
balanced manner.
The second method is to layer-wind
the primary . first, then layer-wind the
secondary section side by side over the
primary, the width of each section being
determined by the number of sections
and the margin between them.
All pies or sections must be so designed
that the peak potential that will be in-
duced in them will be at a safe level to
ensure effective insulation between
primary and secondary, between sections,
between layers or between all windings
and frame. The peak voltage would be
1.414 times the R.M.S. voltage, but will
peak to a much greater extent at the
opening or closing of the primary circuit.
Insulation in a high-tension transformer
is a very important factor.
Transformer regulation is another
feature that must be considered. On this
depends the efficiency of the transformer
and the extent of the variation of the
secondary voltage from no-load to full-
load. To obtain the best regulation a
core of ample cross-sectional area should
be used, and should be built of lamina-
tions cut from silicon steel, known as
Stalloy. These laminations should be
about .014 in. in thickness and insulated
one from the other. For most designs
of power transformers the scale that is
on the steel is sufficient. Of course, the
cross-sectional area of the core is in-
versely proportional to the frequency
and depends on the turns per volt
allowed, no more than 14,000 lines per
sq. cm. being used for calculation pur-
poses. Of all designs, the shell type core,
with all the windings on a centre leg, as
pictured, is the most efficient, reducing
the core losses to a minimum.
Copper losses can be reduced by the
use of wire of ample cross-sectional area
to carry the current without any undue
rise in temperature, and to keep the D.C.
resistance of the windings low. Any rise
in temperature must add to this resist-
ance. In the selection of the gauge of
wire 1000 amperes per sq. in. should be
used for calculation purposes. Whilst
considering regulation, it is always ad-
visable, in the case of transmitting trans-
formers, to have a separate transformer
to that supplying the plate current, for
the filament supply.
In regard to the covering of the wire,
any insulated wire will do in the case of
layer winding, but cotton or silk covered
wire is necessary if the windings are pie-
wound. The finished coils should be
thoroughly impregnated with varnish and
hard-baked to keep them rigid and
moisture-proof. They should be well
wedged after fitting to the core.
In clamping the core, bronze or brass
should be used and should be very rigid.
It is impossible to have mechanical vibra-
tion if this is carried out properly.
In the accompanying picture can be
seen' two transformers, with their covers
removed, and having the following
dimensions: The larger has a 240-250
volts 50-cycle primary, and a secondary
delivering 2140 volts each side of a
centre tap at 250m.a., completely pie-
wound. Each pie is brought to terminals
for tapping purposes. The rated wattage
is 53 sw. This transformer weighs
approx. 521 b. Dimensions are 7in. high,
lOin. long, 6in. over-all, and the regula-
tion (efficiency) 96.5 per cent. The
smaller is the filament supply, which has
a similar primary and secondaries de-
livering 5 volts, 6 volts and 10 volts, all
at 4 amps. It will be noticed that all pies
are varnished and insulated from one
another. The clamping plates are one-
piece, and are in cast bronze. All studs
and nuts are in brass.
These transformers are from the
“Gladstone” (N.S.W.) factory.
K. H. JONES.
By DON B.KNOCK.
FIDELITY OF REPRODUCTION—
A LISTENER’S IDEA OF IT.
The Yankee slogan-maker who hit
upon the word “fidelity” in connection
with the capacity of radio receivers to
reproduce what broadcasting transmitters
send them was on very safe ground. If
he had known how safe it was he
wouldn’t have qualified it by prefixing
“high.” There shouldn’t be degrees in
honesty.
lam not a radio technologist. I have
mastered the bare principles of long-
distance telephony, and that is all. I
do know something of acoustics, of the
physical basis of musical sound and of
the conditions, outside the source of
such sound, that modify its effect on the
human ear. I have followed with some
degree of appreciation the efforts of
gramophone technicians to discover the
essentials of musical-tone recording and
reproduction. In certain instances I
think they have come very near the real
thing, but they only achieve it, so far as
the listener is concerned, when both the
record and the recording instrument
are as fault-free as the engineers can
make them. And in the making of the
record the studio technicians must have
played their part faultlessly; the per-
former or performers must make their
music in an apartment acoustically ad-
justed to the purposes of their particular
kind of performance. There must be
quite a lot of well-considered com-
promise where such two very different
sources of sound (to take a most com-
mon example) as the pianoforte and a
human voice are to be blended and con-
trasted. When a military band, a sym-
phony orchestra, a great organ, with its
tremendous range of octaves, or an ora-
torio choir has to be catered for, such
elementary problems even as the placing
of the microphone become difficult. As
to operatic ensembles —orchestra going
strongly, chorus strong enough to be
heard above orchestra, and a soprano
and a tenor (sometimes a contralto and
a baritone, too) riding the storm—the
gramophone technicians can’t get within
coo-ee of a just effect, and the broad-
casters don’t seem to attempt to.
But the difficulties of correct trans-
mission are not the monopoly of the
acoustic experts. When they have done
their best it remains to be seen whether
the transmitting mechanism can cope
with what is being put over. Some sta-
tions are consistently so much better than
others (to take a Sydney example, 2BL
is almost invariably superior to 2FC on
almost all classes of broadcasting) that
the importance of the efficiency of the
transmitting mechanism need hardly be
emphasised.
But when studio acoustics have been
given attention, and the transmission is
as good as modern science can make it,
there is yet a third factor on the originat-
ing side of the equation—the man on
the control panel. If he were not there
the best-planned acoustics and the most
faultless transmitting mechanism would
be wasted. To use a homely simile, he
has to cram gallons and quarts into pint-
pots and fill up gill-measures till they
qualify at least as half-pints. It has
been a rankle in the minds of many
people ever since broadcasting com-
menced in Australia that the control-
man is a myrmidon of the Postal Depart-
ment. It hasn’t been demonstrated that
he would be any better equipped for
his job if the A.B.C. paid his screw, or
if an A.B.C. manager could fire him.
Personally, I don’t care if he is appointed
by the Chinese Republic so long as he
does his best at the control panel. To
me he is just one of the three human fac-
tors in broadcasting transmission. The
factors are: A, the performer or per-
formers ; 3, the studio acoustics expert;
C, the man on the control panel; D, the
transmitting mechanism ; E, the receiving
set. As a mathematician would put it,
the co-efficients of A, B and C are un-
known —you can’t calculate the human
elements —and advertisements that pre-
tend that factor E, the receiving set, is
the whole box of tricks are misleading.
Undoubtedly some receivers are music-
ally better than others. Variations in
quality of reproduction on comparable
transmissions are surprising, and the
listener with a musical ear is well advised
to make as many comparisons as pos-
sible before purchasing a receiver. But,
even so, the fastidious ear will have to
make compromises. To expect an “all-
wave” set, capable, in favorable circum-
stances, of picking up long-wave stations
in foreign lands and also short-wave
transmissions, to give as good reproduc-
tion on near-by broadcasting stations as
a set built for that particular purpose is
not reasonable. You can’t chop wood
with a razor nor shave with an axe.
If we are to have in Australia the
benefits of this “higher fidelity” the
Americans talk about the A.B.C. will
have to pave the way. There are faults
in plenty in every transmission sent out
from its national stations. The A.B.C.
management would not dream of deny-
ing that such faults exist. It can, if
cornered, always point to the Post Office
as its brother in crime. But listeners are
not interested in alibis. Better transmis-
sion is wanted.
ANGUISHED EAR.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Again a more marked change to winter
conditions must be reported. No stations
in the 25m. band have been strong until
after 11 p.m., and the 31m. stations have
been poor.
The Russian on 70.2 m. has been quite
good recently on several nights. Volume
and quality were excellent and noise level
moderate. NIROM (49m.) was also free
from excessive noise, but on several
nights there were very long talks or lec-
tures —not of interest unless one under-
stood the language.
The last of the special League of
Nations station tests was heard here, but
very weakly, in the 31m. band.
FYA has been good at night in the
19m. band, but almost inaudible in the
early morning. The afternoon trans-
mission has been slightly stronger. Rome
has disappeared at night, but has been
good about 6.30 a.m. on 30.7 m.
The surprising change is the continued
weakness of the Americans in the 31m.
band. According to my log-book, these
stations were consistently good at this
time last year, on Sundays in particular,
but there is difficulty in following them
now.
Neither GSA nor DJC (49m.) have
been heard lately, but on an early-
morning test Bombay was found to be
excellent in the 31m. band at 2.30 a.m.
NIGHTOWL.
{Continued on next page.)


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
—• S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), “
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin" Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney, ’Phone'. 8Z261.
CONVERT «
Your Broadcast Receiver to
ALL-WAVE
with a
vn
EASY installation ,
EASY tuning, ....
EASY band selection
with COLORCODE
selector.
Dial SHORT-WAVE
■ W. CONVERTER
D.W. RADIO CO.
210 Willoughby Bd., Crow's Nest
Amateur Chatter.
The success of experiments with ultra-
short-wave working between Sydney
and Hazelbrook is attracting the
attention of new recruits to the 5-metre
band, and quite a few who have figured
prominently in 80- and 40-metre tele-
phony transmissions during the last three
or four years are preparing for the
plunge to the higher frequencies. Some
amateurs, who have endured long periods
Graph, drawn by E. B. Ferguson, of Hazelbrook, N.S.W., to illustrate the
existing 56mc. channel with Sydney.
of annoyance from inconsiderate B.C.Ls.
using museum-type receivers, look to the
higher frequencies for relief from inter-
ference. Unfortunately, this is not
always the case, and a modulated 5-metre
oscillator can still be responsible for the
usual trouble. Such interference, how-
ever, appears to be present mainly where
“shock excitation” of a 40-metre Zepp
aerial is resorted to. Directive systems
with reflectors seem to be least likely to
cause trouble with near-by B.C.Ls.
P. Levenspiel (VK2TX), of Wyong
(N.S.W.), is almost ready to test with
Sydney stations. Although Wyong is
much nearer to Sydney by airline than
Hazelbrook, the problem will be more
difficult owing to the intervening ranges.
Obstacles were made for experimenters
to overcome. VK2TX’s aerial is a bi-
directional type, and should be equally
effective with Sydney and Newcastle. By
the time this is in print it is anticipated
that Sydney and Wyong will be linked
on 56mc. Chapman (VK2OC), also of
Wyong, is planning for a station at his
week-end cottage at The Entrance.
With stations springing up in various
directions from Sydney, rotating beams
would be a decided advantage. Fergu-
son, of VK2BP, Hazelbrook, conducted
an interesting test on the writer’s trans-
mission. He has two beams: one facing
Sydney and one facing west (for Bath-
urst). The western beam was used to
relay the transmission from VK2NO, via
VK2BP’s transmitter. The Hazelbrook
station will be a most useful relay point
for ultra-short waves, being at 2000 ft.
elevation, with a clear view in most direc-
tions. It is hoped to secure permission
Illustrating the contour of terrain to be covered in a proposed 56mc. link
with Newcastle, N.S.W., using Hazelbrook as a relay point.
from the P.M.G.’s department to con-
duct tests at frequencies higher than
56mc. in the near future. Owing to the
constant reliability of the Sydney-Hazel-
brook 56mc. link, this route should be
a certainty even for centimetre waves.
A popular event of the year in Aus-
tralian amateur radio was the second
A.R.A. (N.S.W.) dinner at the Dungowan
Cafe, Sydney, on 21/2/’35. The occa-
sion was all the more popular because
of the shifting of the Federal H.Q. of
the W.I.A. to N.S.W. All the usual toasts
were indulged in, and a pleasant surprise
was the presence of, and an interesting
chat by, Rev. John Flynn (Flynn of the
Inland). He paid a fine tribute to the
work of Australian amateurs in helping
to establish the Australian Inland Mis-
sion medical air services. The action
of record manufacturers was referred to
briefly at this meeting, and will be taken
up forthwith by the Federal executive.
The spokesman for Newcastle district,
VK2ZC, promised co-operation with
Sydney 50mc. men, so the Sydney-New-
castle tie-up looms nearer. Throughout
the evening an atmosphere eloquent of
a firmer welding together of amateurs
in N.S.W. was present, and all partici-
pants voted it a very happy occasion.
Many amateurs find uses for portable
stations, particularly on holidays and
club field days; also, a portable is an
asset in checking up on ultra-short-wave
tests. For such work the excellent little
power unit marketed as the “Carter
Genemotor” is particularly useful. These
are available in various models, one
supplying 250 volts filtered D.C. at 50ma.
from a 6-volt accumulator. Higher volt-
age and current types from 12- or 32-
volt supplies can also be obtained, and
these are ideal for country amateurs with
home-lighting plants.
Without raising any objection to the
everlasting craze for DX, the point is
brought home occasionally that many
amateurs place DX before all else. The
desire for contact with fellow-amateurs
in remote parts of the world is a natural
one, and all keen amateurs pass through
the phase. Many in so doing become
first-class keyhandlers, and as such are
valuable men for navy, military or air
force work. Others never get beyond
the QSL collecting stage, and their ever-
lasting “CQ DX” serves no purpose other
than to sadly overpopulate already
heavily burdened frequencies.' DX will
be with us always, but there are count-
less thrills still in the experimental side
of amateur radio. The higher frequen-
cies are packed with them, and experi-
mentation is the very lifeblood of the
true radio amateur.
VK2NO.
New Transmitter and Studio
Equipment for 2SM Sydney.
The new 2SM studio equipment is
representative of the most modern ideas
in broadcasting technique.
Each microphone works direcily into
its own amplifier. There are three of
these amplifiers, any of which may be
quickly plugged to any of the eight
microphone points installed in three
studios. From the mixing control the
amplified microphone output is taken to
the input of the main or B amplifier,
and the output of this amplifier goes
directly to the transmitting station at
Pennant Hills. In addition to the B
amplifier’s own particular level indicator,
there is another volume indicator which
may be said to have a roving commis-
sion, as it is capable of being joined to
any incoming or outgoing line for the
purpose of measuring precisely the
strength of the signals on that line.
A duplicate of the B amplifier is pro-
vided for cases of emergency. In addi-
tion there is a splitting amplifier, used
when it is necessary to transmit the pro-
gramme to other stations.
The most important feature of 2SM's
new equipment is its ability faithfully to
amplify all the useful frequencies in the
audio range. In addition to the studio type,
2SM is equipped with the Lapel velocity
microphone, which is a small unit about
half the size of an ordinary matchbox,
and designed to wear in the coat lapel
buttonhole. It is particularly useful for
commentaries from outside points, where
it might be impracticable or undesirable
to instal a microphone of the studio type.
It is extraordinarily sensitive and has a
frequency range of from 80 to 7000
cycles per second.
The most recently developed method
of modulation, known as the series sys-
tem, is employed. This method of modu-
lation eliminates all chances of the dis-
tortion that can arise due to the presence
of the choke coils and such used in the
older systems. The frequency of the
carrier wave is maintained perfectly con-
stant by means of a temperature-con-
trolled crystal oscillator, and any possi-
bility of irregularity that might be caused
in the carrier frequency due to the modu-
lation interfering with it is prevented by
a series of buffer amplifiers between the
56mc. beam aerials in use at VK2BP,
Hazelbrook, N.S.W.
modulated stages of the transmitter and
the crystal which generates the carrier
frequency,
A most interesting feature of the
transmitter is the mast. This is 450 feet
in height and is the highest in Aus-
tralia, being unique in so far that it
acts as the aerial as well. It is an
example of the radiating type of mast
erected at the most recently established
high-power stations in America and
Europe. 2SM’s radiating mast, the base
of which is 375 feet above sea level, is
so proportioned that maximum trans-
mission will take place in a substantially
horizontal plane, and so more efficiently
utilise the radio energy that, in the case
of most wireless transmitters heretofore,
is propagated at high angles, and gives
rise to very undesirable fading effects at
varying distances from the station.
The new 2SM will be quite as up-to-
date as any broadcasting station in
America or Europe.
Using Headphones with Speaker
Receivers.
The following ideas from “R 9”
(U.S.A.) will be useful to people who
would like to use headphones with re-
ceivers having an output pentode which
normally works into a dynamic speaker.
In diagram 1 there is the usual output
transformer TRI, which works as usual
when there is no ping in the jack, the
only change being that the plate current
arrives via a jack contact. When the
plug P is inserted in the jack J the
primary of the new transformer TR2 is
cut into the screen (not plate) circuit
while the plate supply is swapped to the
“low” side of the transformer TRI, which
thus is made inactive. Thus the result
is a sort of freak triode (with a suppres-
sor grid!) whose plate is split in two
portions, the smallest supplying the trans-
former TR2 with enough power so its
secondary can drive headphones or a
small magnetic speaker. TR2 may be
an ordinary interstage transformer or one
meant to feed headphones from a small
valve. The current through the trans-
former primary is never as much as sma.
If there is no objection to 250 volts D.C.
on the ’phones, omit TR2.
Diagram 2 is the same thing done with
another type of jack.
Diagram 3 uses another plan. The
screen is left alone. When a plug is put
into the jack the plate supply is inter-
rupted, and instead B+ is fed in through
the resistor, of about 1000 ohms. Audio
is taken off via the jack and plug, re-
turning to chassis via the O.lufd. conden-
ser. This keeps D.C. from flowing
through the jack, and, as long as the jack
isn’t grounded on the chassis (directly
or via you!), this is 0.K., and TR2 is
needless. This arrangement, works very
nicely indeed.
What’s What in Radio.
New direction-finding apparatus for
marine application is at present being
investigated by the Radio Research
Board (England). It is particularly
capable of coping with the menace of
collision in fog. Flashing green lines
on a fluorescent screen represent near-
by ships. If a line increases in length it
indicates that the particular ship is get-
ting nearer, and if it points continually
in the same direction it means that the
two ships are heading for a crash. The
apparatus is compact enough to fit in
the average suitcase.
Harmonic suppression is an important
feature of a new Philadelphia (U.S.At)
broadcasting station, KYW. A static
shield consisting of a sheet of vertical
wires is suspended between the two coils
which connect the output of the radio
frequency amplifier to the aerial system.
This shield is earthed, and thus prevents
the transmission of harmonic frequencies
by capacity reaction between these two
coils. The idea could be well applied
to many Australian stations guilty of
radiating harmonics which put in an
appearance at many points on the dials
of all-wave or dual-wave receivers.
* * * $
“Amateur Radio,” the official organ
of the W.1.A., appeared for February this
year with some technical articles of value
to experimenters. F. Brandon, of South
Australia, goes into some intimate de-
tails of the construction of lattice masts,
and the illustrations of his own efforts
are enough to make those who like high
sky-wires scrap the old 30ft. poles.
VK3ZX describes the use of the 77 valvd
mu


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
. RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357,
f
»
“A I r zone's Tone is Air zone's Own
m
cm s h
MODEL. 625
6-Valve All Electric
Console
Superb e t erodyne
Here is a splendid set emin-
ently suited to either city or
country, reception. It incor-
porates the highest ideals of
modern radio construction
and gives ideal reception
under any and all conditions.
Fully
Guaranteed
EASIEST
TERMS
RICH TONAL QUALITY. SENSITIVE. HIGH DEGREE OF
SELECTIVITY. FULLY DELAYED AUTOMATIC VOLUME
CONTROL. NEW CLEAR VISION DIAL adjusted to meet the new
wave lengths. IMPROVED AUDIO SYSTEM, 10 INCH MAGNA VOX
DYNAMIC SPEAKER, NEW STYLE TONE CONTROL, 6 NEWEST
TYPE VALVES, CABINET WORK is of highest quality and
acceptable design.
An altogether high quality radio.
EASIEST TERMS ARE AVAILABLE
WE ENDORSE THEM WE SELL THEM!
AIRZONE FINE RADIO RECEIVERS ARE
OBTAINABLE FROM THE LEADING
MUSICAL HOUSES, RADIO DEALERS AND
DEPARTMENTAL STORES OF AUSTRALIA.
Dealers in country districts apply direct to Airzone for particulars of franchise.
Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Limited, Camperdotcn, Sydney. 5.35-84
m a high-fidelity speech amplifier, and
R. H. Cunningham, C. 0., R.A.A.F. Wire-
less Reserve, gives the inside information
on his own well-modelled station,
VK3ML. Articles on monitoring, elec-
tron-coupled detectors and aerials, and
all the news of amateur activity complete
a good sixpenny worth.
* * * *
•The German short-wave station at
Zeesen, at present working on power of
Bkw., is to have a new transmitting in-
stallation on 20kw.
* * * *
Post Office reports the number of
radio receiving licenses in force in the
Commonwealth at 31/1/135 to be
685,003. Experimental licenses number
1262, and free licenses for blind persons
1500, the grand total being 687,765, an
increase of 6131 over the previous total.
H* # %
The Ever Ready Co. (Britain), maker
of batteries, has entered the radio-set-
manufacturing field, the first model
being a five-valve battery superhet sell-
ing at 12 guineas. Several well-known
component manufacturers are now estab-
lished in the receiver market, and high-
grade receivers bearing such names as
Ferranti and Cossor are very popular.
* * * *
The cold cathode tube developed by
P. T. Farnsworth, and described briefly
(B. 19/12/’34), was recently given a con-
clusive test at San Francisco (U.S.A.).
It was used as an oscillator to drive two
150-watt valves in a short-wave trans-
mitter, the transmitter maintaining con-
tact on 35 metres with a station in Hono-
lulu. The tube was supplied with 1100
volts on the plate, and drew a current
of 30ma.
* * * *
Occasionally one sees or hears of a
“millionaire’s” radio receiver, complete
with everything that the radio engineer
Only a very small tuning capacity is used in an ultra-short-
wave receiver. The condenser illustrated is a Wetless short-
wave midget type.
and the cabinetmaker can put into it.
U.S.A. caps such creations with the
“Radiobar,” a belated legacy from
bootlegging days. When opened the
cabinet reveals eight “highball” glasses,
four whisky-glasses, four decanters, an
ice-container, a cocktail-shaker and an
electric light. Why worry about the
radio side of it?
Casual Comment.
Ande”. Those listeners who do not
turn off their favorite broadcasting
station as soon as the first flash of a
near-by thunderstorm sends statics crack-
ling through the speaker might care to
join in the little
game of locating
the whereabouts of
the offending
storm. Each flash
is marked by a
healthy crash of
static, and later the
rumble of thunder
is! heard, first
through the studio
mike and then a
few seconds later
booming over the
roof outside. Count
the seconds between the original flash and
the first rumble (jot it down), count on
until the crash is heard outside ; dividing
each number by five gives the approximate
distance in miles that the storm is from
the studio and from the home roof. Now
for a local map and a pair of compasses
and the rest is easy. Playing for half an
hour will give you surprises concerning
the extent of a storm and the quickness
with which it travels.
*-s*)!■
“Alpha”: The DX winner at Timaru
(M.L.) (B. 20/2/’35), who secured 90
Australian stations between 200 and 550
metres, must have scratched around a bit.
There are 64 A- and B-class stations regis-
tered in this band, many of which use the
same wave-channel, owing to their wide
separation geographically. Owing to
variations in standard time some of the
western double-banked stations can be
picked up when the channel is clear, and
a few amateurs have the run of the
medium-wave band on Sunday morning.
On the whole 90 cards seems a record
score, even for a local receiver. Is there
a N. S. Wales log showing similar results?
I’ve never been able to come within
coo-ee of that score with an eight-valver
and four directional aerials.
* * * *
“Querex”: “Should we have ‘traded-
in’ the 160-metre band?” asks R. S. Kruse
in the amateur transmitters’ monthly
“R 9” (U.S.A.). Not a bad idea! Why
not at the next international radio blah-
party offer it to the broadcasters in ex-
change for some wider territory in the
higher frequencies? One hundred and
sixty metres may be coveted over-
seas, but it is little more than useless in
Australia. If it is ever decided to extend
the broadcast range to cover 160 metres,
there will be headaches over suppressing
harmonics from some stations between
200 and 550 metres.
* * * *
“Enno”: German short-wave listeners
sending QSL cards to Australian amateur
transmitters believe in advertising the
attractions of Naziland. Cards with illus-
trations of cities or country scenes and
frauleins with tubs full of grapes bear in-
scriptions such as:
“Come to beautiful
Silesia; mountain
ranges of 125
miles, 2900-5200
feet altitude, cura-
tive spas, health re-
sorts, ancient
towns, monasteries,
castles, ruins.” An-
other bears the
plea: “Make sure
you don’t omit a
visit to Hamburg.
See the Alster with
its gardens, the
Town Park, Hagen-
beck’s Zoo and the
Museum s.” I f
these leave you
cold there is:
“Rheinland —Wein-
land! The fine de-
licacy of Mosel,
Saar and Ruwer,
the mild old wines of Mittelrhein,
the warming red Burgundy from the
Ahr, and the Edelweines from Rheingau.”
Tourist bureaus and vineyards ought to
subsidise the German short-wave QSL
card merchants!
Latest in the Trade.
Amateurs or experimenters requiring
power transformers for transmitter,
modulator or audio amplifiers now have
available particularly robust types in the
“Gladstone” make illustrated. This is
a 500-volt 200 ma. model with attractively
finished cover case. The manufacturer
of “Gladstone” equipment is K. H.
Jones, 5 Gladstone-street, Bexley, N.S.W.
’Phone LW4187.
Briton Electrical and Radio Co., manu-
facturers of the high-grade Dual-Wave
Superhet reviewed B. 27/2/’35, announce
improvements in this model. In place of
the E 447 valves, Philips new AF2 R.F.
pentodes are used; also the type 1867
indirectly-heated rectifier instead of the
previous directly-heated 1561 type. The
indirectly-heated rectifier results in all
valves in the circuit receiving a gradual
instead of a sudden plate load, and will
prolong the valve life considerably.
“Querex”: Says an American radio
magazine, in a review of world-wide
short-wave publications: “Some years
ago, a circuit appeared which operated
without a B battery. The Solodyne, as
this receiver was named, did not achieve
any great popularity.” Somebody has
blundered. The Solodyne was a neutra-
lised T.R.F. receiver, and in 1927 and
1928 took England and Australia by
storm. Several are still in use outback.
The no-B battery receiver to which the
overseas commentary intended to refer
was dubbed the Unidyne, a horse of a
very different breed.
The Q. and A. Column.
I have a two-valve Lake’s battery set and
want to convert it into a three-valve set.
Please illustrate a suitable circuit. —240.
The brand of set you mention is not known.
If you supply a list of the components used,
a circuit for a three-valve receiver can be
suggested.
What is the address of the Keogh Radio
Co. ?— 239.
This firm has been out of business for at
least five years.
1 have had the Regenerative Reflex Superhet
(B. 21/11/’34) built by a reputable firm.
Volume on A-class and some B-class stations
is all that could be desired, and audio quality
is very pleasant after listening to some multi-
valve sets. Selectivity is only fair. (1) Can
selectivity be improved by attaching some form
of pre-selector? (2) Could A.V.C. be fitted?
(3) I am at present using 60 feet of aerial,
with 50 feet of lead-in. This appears to be
directional. How can this aerial be improved
in this respect? —24l.
(1) A tuned R.F. stage could be fitted, but
normally there is not enough room to include
this on the chassis. The pre-selector described
in B. 19/9/’34 would improve selectivity materi-
ally if there is no objection to an external con-
trol. (2) A.V.C. can be included if a tuned
R.F. stage is used, but a measure of control
can be obtained by employing a different
method of reflexing. In this case the A.V.C.
action would be present in the 687, but the
present scheme of regeneration could not be
used. (3) The aerial can be made less direc-
tive by taking the lead-in from the exact centre
instead of from the end. The 60ft. top length
is ample.


■<®>’
OVER A CENTURY OF BANKING SERVICE
In a spirit fully alive to the public interest, and anxious
to serve and promote the welfare of the country as a whole,
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited has
for over a century prudently transacted all classes of
banking business to the satisfaction of its customers. To-day
with all its great resources and facilities its policy remains
unaltered.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
WELLINGTON,
the capital city of New Zealand,
offers a unique testing ground
for manufacturers and others
■ seeking fresh , markets for
nationally advertised products,
and this rich territory can be
completely covered by one
medium—
“ The Evening Post”
The “Evening Post” circulates
throughout the southern ex-
tremity of the North Island and
the northern portion of the
South Island, and in the
Wellington city and urban area
provides a 95% coverage.
Guaranteed larger net paid cir-
culation than any other daily
paper published within a radius
of 400 miles of Wellington.
Advertising rates and all infor-
mation may be obtained from
F. L. Wilson, Warwick Building,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
BLUNDELL BROS., LTD.,
Proprietors.
London Office:
N.Z. Assoc. Press, 85 Fleet Street.
DONT DELAY
PROVE IT YOURSELF-
SC-ND 5 DAY TEST COUPON
Have you these symptoms of
SELF-POISONING ?
,
‘Over 40 Ailments
are caused by dOQCJGd
intestines ”
explains Dr. J. BRUENAUR
—-noted European Specialist
Constipation, indigestion, stomach
troubles, gastritis rheumatism,
neuritis, sciatica bladder weak-
ness, catarrh, frequent colds, head-
aches—lassitude and poor appetite
—all these arid more can be caused
by the clogging of the intestines
which: gives rise to Self-poisoning
(Autoxima). >
NEARLY EVERYONE SUFFERS
Self-poisoning is caused through
incomplete evacuation of the
bowels. Nearly everyone suffers,
even people of regular habits.
Modern foods and lack of exercise
give rise to a flabbiness of the ab-
dominal organs which makes com-
plete elimination almost impos-
sible. Fragments of food waste
cling to the intestinal walls and
there* decay, breeding germs and
poisons which enter the blood-
stream. Self-poisoning is all the
more to be dreaded because it is
hidden and often unsuspected. The
symptoms of self-poisoning are
always apparent, however. Skin
blemishes, those frequent head-
aches, fits of ‘ blues,’ the strange
lassitude and weakness which pre-
vent you from entering fully into
the enjoyment of life all point to
you being a victim.
COLOSEPTIC BRINGS BACK
HEALTH
Before you can regain the spark-
ling health that is your birthright,
you must sweep away the poison-
ous intestinal accumulations. Drink
Poisons from sluggish intestines
spread throughout the body and
undermine health, physicians
explain. Coloseptic combats ill-
health by activating the entire
intestinal tract.
v
Ll_
(left) Here’s
where 95 % °f
present - day
ill-health be-
gins. Keep
clean intern-
ally by drink-
ing COLO-
SEPTIC.
EQUAL TO IS YEARS OF LIFE
I have been using COLOSEPTIC for over
three years. I have felt very grateful to it
as it effected a wonderful difference in
health and strength, equal to a recovery of
15 years of life. I became absolutely free
of any physical complaint whatever. I am
83 years of age and my health continues
perfect and free from any trouble. I now
find it only expedient to take COLOSEP-
TIC occasionally of a morning.
H. A. C., Auckland E.l
COLOSEPTIC in hot water every
morning. Coloseptic first loosens
the fermenting matter encrusted on
the walls of the intestines and then
gently sweeps it right out of the
body. Coloseptic activates the kid-
neys, the pores of the skin, the
respiratory apparatus, thereby rid-
ding the blood-stream of all im-
purities.
DRINK COLOSEPTIC EVERY
MORNING
COLOSEPTIC gives you the in-
ternal cleanness which is the first
step to perfect health. And with
the body internally clean how well
you feel. Gone are the aches and
pains, the feeling of being old be-
fore your time. You regain the
vim and vigour of youth, your step
is firm, eyes sparkle, you are a new
being alive to all the pleasures that
life can offer,
TEST COLOSEPTIC FOR
YOURSELF
Don’t let the ill-health, so sympto-
matic of self-poisoning, drag at
yop any longer. COLOSEPTIC in
regular full-size jars is obtainable
at all chemists. For a convinc-
ing test, fill in the coupon below
and post with 6d. stamps for a special
5-Day Demonstration Package and
interesting book, “Autoxima”.
Drink
COLOSEPTIC
p ' : ° / "■
for Internal Cleanness
DONT DELAY
CLIP OUT
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.) LTD.,
Laboratories,
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 6d.
Please send me one special Test Package of
and booklet entitled “Autoxima”.
Name
M 3,
in stamps.
Coloseptic
Address.
PROVE IT YOURSELF *
SEND 5 DAY TEST COUPON
A MIXED GRILL.
“Grasspan”: When Bernard Hall died
he was assembling a committee of English
judges, with sculptor Reid Dick at their
head, to choose a design for the Monash
statue. Probably none of the judges
ever saw Monash or Australia. Why
the choice wasn’t left to Australians is
a mystery. The only hope now is that
the thing will be a symbolical and not a
portrait statue. Bertram Mackennal told
the writer that one of the worries of his
life was fighting battles against Babbitts
who desired to commemorate prominent
men by full-length figures fondling
scrolls, swords or what not.
$ * * *
“D.”: Touching “wildly conflicting
statements” in newspapers (B. 27/2/’35),
it isn’t often that they appear in the same
newspaper, side by side. “John o’ Lon-
don’s Weekly” provided this phenomenon
on the sth of last month, when two Irish-
men tried to explain the origin of the
place-name Ballybunion. T. Shea (Ennis-
keen, Co. Cork) wrote: “It clearly
means Baile-bun-abaine, the town at the
end of the river” ; “R.V.S.” (Listowel)
wrote: “[Ballybunion] means Baile-Ua-
Bhuinneain, the place or town of the
Bunyans.” Can it be that the Gaels
know no more of Gaelic than Herr
Kisch?
* * * *
“G.M.”: The best bit of business tactics
I know was worked by an acquaintance
who owned a luxury costume shop. His
clientele consisted largely of ladies who
were good marks and bad bad
that, at last, he found himself in difficul-
ties with his bank and the wholesale
houses. They called a meeting of creditors.
A severe-faced accountant was made re-
ceiver, and he lost no time in telling Mrs.
Longwool that unless she came to light
a summons would issue. Meanwhile,
the supposed insolvent was carrying on
business as usual, and Mrs. Longwool
and the rest sympathised with him tear-
fully on his being under the control of
that horrid man who had made them pay
their bills. It was his only way of col-
lecting. He took care that it was years
before he got out of the receiver’s hands.
*
“Scribe”: 1 didn’t see a note of the
old Provincial and Suburban Bank in the
collection of notes at the Melb. National
Gallery, but it is probably there. The
P. and S. went out of action in the
’seventies, and its assets, including a big tin
case filled with unissued one-pound notes,
passed into the hands of a liquidator.
The liquidation was completed ’ and the
box shunted into a shed in the yard be-
hind the liquidator’s office, where it lay
and rusted for 20 or 30 years. Then one
day a minor criminal got into the yard
and, looking about for negotiable
property, happened across this box, the
lid of which had by this time rusted off.
As his gaze fell on those notes he felt
as Aladdin felt in the cave. He filled
his pockets, and that night came back
with a bag. The tin box was emptied,
and a month later Provincial and Subur-
ban notes, bleached out with acid and
the name of some live bank inserted,
commenced to circulate. Warning after
warning was issued, but the swindle con-
tinued right up to the date when private
banknotes went out of circulation.
* * * *
“Oxmead”; Does anybody read “Ras-
selas” nowadays? Dr. Johnson wrote it
in a week to defray the cost of his
mother’s funeral. The scene is laid in
Abyssinia, and the intrusion of that coun-
try into the cables has led to a
flicker of interest in anything connected
with the land where the Queen of Sheba
came from. Not that Johnson knew any-
thing about Abyssinia, but the fact re-
mains that some much more modern
celebrities knew even less about the book.
It was recalled for years against Dis-
raeli that, when Britain was about to
discipline King Theodore in the ’sixties,
he made a speech predicting that the
standard of St. George would soon be
“planted upon the mountains of Ras-
selas”—although the very word was a
Johnsonian creation. I have met but one
man who claimed to be even on nodding
terms with “Rasselas.” He was a West-
ralian Governor who went up in an aero-
plane in the days when such a thing was
a novelty in this country, and after the
artless fashion of the time sent down a
pencilled message from cloudland to
Jimmy Mitchell, then Premier; he said
his experience recalled to him a certain
passage in “Rasselas,” and gave instruc-
tions where to find the extract. I don’t
know whether Jimmy ever found it; I
suspect he would have had to send to
the Public Library for a cony.


FOR MOOREFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Maiden Handicap: Rogerio;
next, Aramac.
Juvenile Handicap (Fillies’ Divi-
sion) : White Lilac ; next, Rummage.
Trainers’ Cup: Closing Time;
next, Ranchero.
Moorefield Handicap: After
Money ; next, Dango.
Welter Handicap: Sweet Bint;
next, Curtius.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sylvandale proved himself the best
three-year-old in Australia by taking the
V.R.C. St. Leger, and his Australian Cup
triumph a week later demonstrated that
“Miss Lorna Doone” owns a colt whose
stamina and courage are beyond ques-
tion. Sylvandale had 31b. more than
weight-for-age in the Cup. The heaviest
impost carried to victory by a three-year-
old in the miles event was Bst. 71b.,
by Trident in 1887. Three seasons later
Dreadnought scored for the same owner,
James White, with Bst. 61b. The most
wonderful feat by a three-year-old was
that of Aurum, who ran third with 9st.
31b.
Excuses are being offered for La Trobe,
who started a 6-to-4 favorite and lost by
a length and a half ; but the merit of
Sylvandale’s performance cannot be dis-
counted. Always handy to the leaders,
he ran past Dark Chief after entering
the straight. From that point the issue
was never in doubt. La Trobe put in
a belated run, and for a few moments
raised the hopes of his backers; but
the little black gelding began to hang out
over the last 50yds. Interviewed after
the race Cox stated that La Trobe
staggered when he passed the post. “If
you go along to the birdcage,” added
Bert; never take a good
proto , v '
Gedt; *\ THWV: THEVGE splendid V '
BEPT "\ JM_W*kYS LOOK SUCH
AsM A=,s '7
K
GiERT You LOOK perfectly
kiwural* ,
Cox, “I think you will find that he has
broken down.”. The jockey was under a
complete misapprehension. On cooling
down La Trobe showed no ill-effects of
his race.
Cox received orders to ride a waiting
race, just as, he had done in the Bruns-
wick Stakes. The jockey fulfilled in-
structions too well. Smedley, the trainer,
was mortified at the slow pace set in the
early stages. It took Imin. 21 sec. to
cover the first six furlongs, whereas the
concluding six occupied only Imin.
13isec. and the final mile Imin. 39|sec.
The time for the full journey was 3min.
51sec., only half a second slower than
the course record, established by Nadean
in the Australian Cup of 1930. Admit-
ting that the race was not run to suit
La Trobe, it is probable that Sylvan-
dale would have proved his master in
any circumstances. The Silvius colt has
struck a purple patch of form, and is
certain to be a star actor in the Easter
drama at Randwick. La Trobe will
have an opportunity of turning the tables
on Sylvandale in the Sydney Cup. So
will Topical, who was just beaten by Flail
for third place after having had rather
a rough passage.
If N. S. Wales has the champion three-
year-old, Victoria certainly possesses the
best juvenile of the season. Bimilla
eclipsed her rivals in the Ascot Vale
Stakes. Like Young Idea, Homer and
Lady Primrose, she carried a 101 b. pen-
alty. Sent out a pronounced favorite,
she led from start to finish. The speed
of the filly was so superior that she
reached the judge a length in advance
of Carnarvon, after veering from the
extreme outside of the course to the
inner rails in the last furlong.. For allow-
ing Arachne to move only the distance
of four horses to the outer rails in the
Newmarket Handicap, Darby Munro
was suspended for a month; but the
V.R.C. stewards exonerated Harold
Badger, who had done his utmost to
straighten Bimilla.
Imported by P. H. Osborne in 1928,
Bimilla’s sire. Excitement (son of Hurry
On), now is in the N. S. Wales
stud of L. R. and T. B, Payten.
Because he was not one of the stallions
whose owners had subscribed to the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, Bimilla
could not be nominated for that event.
Bought for 300gns. as a yearling, Bimilla
is out of Coucal, by Magpie from Fad-
elma, by Bobadil from Celerity, with
whom Eric Connolly landed the Oak-
leigh Plate of 1910.
Followers of Holt’s stable suffered
severely when Press Gang (6 to 4), con-
ceding only a pound, was defeated by the
Newmarket Handicap hero, Count Ito
(7 to 2), in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes. Count
Ito was sold for export to India, but he
may now be kept for the spring racing at
Caulfield andsFlemington. He is a greatly
improved horse.
La Scala (20 to 1) did the bookmakers
a good turn by defeating all the fancied
horses in the Bourke Handicap. Again
Whittingham (5 to 2) came to the rescue
of punters in the last race. Had he
struck his present form last spring—
he was a great tip for the Epsom—Whit-
tingham might have made an exhibition
of one or two of the fields he met then.
He seems to require heaps of racing to
bring him to his top.
The Rosehill people did a wise
thing when they decided to pay freight
charges on horses competing at their
meetings. The attendance on Saturday
was excellent, and there were only six
course scratchings out of nine races.
Many backers had a good day. Stan
Jones rode three winners.
Heroic Faith (9 to 4), a speedy-looking
brother to Gloriole and Captivation,
made no mistake in the first heat of the
Maiden Juvenile. He was never off the
bit, and should have a profitable turf
career. The second division went to
Gleaming (5 to 2), owned by Bathurst
pastoralist A. W, Terry, and trained at
Moorefield by R. W. Mackinnon. She
also romped home.
Pavarti (5 to 2) had too much toe for
Regular Bachelor in the first division of
the Three-year-old. Favored by a run
on the rails at the furlong post, she
worried the Queenslander out of the
prize. Artful Clare finished fast to run
third. She needs a longer distance. El
Senorita, related to Silver King, won the
second division, at fours, from Belgravia
and Rombeon—the last-named was ham-
pered in the straight.
A.J.C. committeeman Pat Osborne
took the first heat of the Maiden with
The Raider, a good stamp of colt by
Night Raid from Valicare. He started
at 7 to 4. The second division gave the
ring the only satisfactory race it wit-
nessed. Tommy Boy (12 to 1) led
throughout. The favorite, Dawson, a
plain-looking brother to Nord, had to be
checked in the first furlong, and was
never going comfortably afterwards.
Celebrate is not a good horse in a
big field, and the support for him in the
Flying Handicap was ill-timed. He com-
menced well, but was hemmed in on the
rails until the race was nearly over; then he
was travelling fast in sixth place, Cercello
(8 to 1), looking better than ever before
in Sydney, showed great dash in the early
stages, and hit the front turning for
home. The race was in his keeping from
that point, and in the end he beat Legis-
lator and Multigris, with Golden Gate
fourth. There was no money for Jacko.
He looked nice, and will be cherry-ripe
for suitable races at Easter.
Though she had done little work since
she was beaten at Warwick Farm by
Love Song, Limyris (7 to 2) proved too
good for the opposition in the Rosehill
Handicap. Nord was the popular pick ;
he moved up fast at the turn, where
Fame carried him wide. Limyris, who
had been ridden patiently by the appren-
tice Kirkwood, shot through on the rails,
and won easily from Fame and Nord.
Roxburgh and First Balloon were next.
Some of the money lost on Celebrate
was recovered when Foxhunter, backed
from sixes to threes, won the Carling-
ford Handicap. A good performance,
as he was disappointed more than once
in the straight when going for a run on
the rails. Coutts pulled him round Spear
Belle and Tatyoon after passing the
Leger; thus he got a clear run, and the
rest was easy. The favorite, Nachara,
tired from the distance, but the pony Air
Pageant battled on gamely to run fourth.
* * * *
Moorefield will be the scene next
Saturday of the race for the first
Trainers’ Cup, of . £5OO. . It is to be
an annual event, and the innovation is
popular. Journal, Silver King and
Closing Time are among the nomina-
tions, and maybe Jamieson had his eye
on this race when he withdrew Closing
Time from his engagement at Fleming-
ton on Saturday. Ranchero, Buonarroti
and Multigris, all Moorefield winners,
are also in the Trainers’ Cup.
* * * *
Is Winooka as good as he was this
time two years ago? If he is (his three
Melbourne races left the question un-
settled) he has an unquestionable chance
in the Doncaster with the weight (9st.
131 b.) which he carried to a sterling vic-
tory in the 1933 Doncaster. On that
occasion he gave Jacko 241 b. and beat
him by a length and a half (in Imin.
35|sec.); and Jacko would have got
more than Bst. 31b. had the handicapper
had to fix his weight this time. Nearest
to the Windbag stallion are Hall Mark
(9st. 81b.), Silver Ring (9st. 81b.), Closing
Time (9st. 71b.), Whittingham (9st. 11b.),
Kuvera (9st.) and Count Ito (Bst. 131 b.),
Winooka looks the best of that lot.
His greatest danger may come from
the three-year-olds. Sylvandale has re-
habilitated their reputation, and Sir
John and Capris (7st. 131 b. apiece) are a
“warm” pair. Capris didn’t run out a
mile very well in her last couple of races,
but she is a really good filly, and the
handsome Sir John is coming on. The
best has yet to be seen of this fellow.
Hall Mark tops the Sydney Cup list
with 9st. 71b. A bit too much for him,
perhaps, though he can stay and is all
grit. Rogilla has 9st. 51b,, Topical 9st.,
Sylvandale Bst. 121 b. Journal (Bst. 71b.)
and Broad Arrow (Bst. 61b.) will be a
well-backed pair, while La Trobe (8st.
41b.) and Sarcherie (7st. 111b.) attract —
the mare especially.
At the moment this Page likes Sir John
and Sarcherie.
* * •* *
S.A. Jockey Club has increased by
£325 the stakes for the three-day Adel-
aide Cup meeting, May 4, 6 and 11.
The Cup itself (1 mile 5 furlongs) car-
ries £1300, £1000 to the winner; the
Goodwood Handicap, £500 ; the local St.
Leger, £400.
(Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
Jack Bromwich, of Sydney, has set the
whole lawn-tennis world talking by de-
feating Quist and Turnbull at Adelaide
in strenuous five-set matches and be-
coming champion of S.A. And he is
only 16!
* * st *
“Centre Court”: British tennis fol-
lowers fancy they have a woman star
in Susan Noel. The damsel has carried
all before her in squash rackets, and has
now resolved to shoulder into the open-
air game. She is described as a power-
ful player with fine strokes, but at pres-
ent too prone to go all out from the start.
The lady sounds promising. Perry rose
from the ping-pong table to his present
eminence, and squash is a more exacting
game than the parlor stuff.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: With Australian,
Spanish, French, American and Japanese
women and ladies of other nationalities
appearing at Wimbledon, the 48th All-
England singles for the sex promises this
year to be a record. Six women have
won the event 35 times, the record stand-
ing to the credit of Mrs. Lambert
Chambers with seven wins. . Suzanne
Lenglen won six championships, and
was going for the seventh when she de-
cided to turn professional. ' Mrs. Hill-
yard was also on the six mark when she
became a paid coach. Helen Wills-
Moody, with six to her credit, is out to
tie with Mrs. Chambers this season.
(i Continued on page 37.)
“Derry”: Ulster golferettes may bow
to overbearing bans, as in the recent Bel-
fast golf-club instance referred to in
The Bulletin, but the hockey lasses are
made of different metal. The North of
Ireland women’s hockey heads resolved
that affiliated clubs must wear uniform
stockings, and foolishly went further
by choosing the color —red. The Black
North rose in its wrath, and many of the
clubs defied the edict and appeared in
black shin-covers. They were suspended.
In the long ago, it is said, bare-
footed Irish of the south used to be con-
tumeliously referred to in Ulster as “red
legs,” and this is supposed to be the cause
of the latest rebellion.
As preliminary trials suggested, Tolan
proved far too good for his opponents
in the shorter races of the series for the
“world’s” championships at Melbourne.
He won the 75 in evens and the 100 in
9|sec. Robertson (Vic.) was second in
the first race and third to Roberts
(N.S.W.) in the second.
* * * *
Driving his reconstructed Blue Bird at
Daytona Beach, Florida, Malcolm
Campbell cut his land-speed record from
272.108 m.p.h. to 276.816 m.p.h. The
beach was bumpy, and the tyres were
torn to shreds. Campbell says he will
wait till conditions improve and then try
to hit 300 m.p.h.
* * * *
A. Frauenfelder won the play-off for
the A.I.F. Cup, which is battled for every
autumn by N. S. Wales golfers. Frauen-
felder’s handicap at Moore Park is 18,
and his chief asset is an occasional drive
that Ferrier might be proud of.


AUSTRALIA’S
BEST BATTERY
RADIO RECEIVER
B
R
E
V
I
L
L
E
If wide popularity and record-breaking
sales are any indication, the
BREVILLE 46 Superheterodyne C-
Valve Battery Receiver stands
supreme. Special features eliminate
fading, give better tone and greater
volume, and ensure perfect long-
distance daylight reception. The most
outstanding feature is its Battery
Consumption, which is More Econo-
mical than any set produced in this
size. In a handsome rj / iff I
Oxford Cabinet at |j/ “
Write to Desk S.B. for full particulars.
Queensland Distributors:
PIKE BROTHERS
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Lismore.
MADE. IN ENGLAND
BRIT. RD.N0.750681
Ask for
Bide
Itllliiies:
2/- per packet of 5 blades
FIT ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
The Prontac
C Patented)
dsf
sdf
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
Quiet,
Exclusive,
__ Convenient —
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
'Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Under the Whip
Capris was so unfavorably, treated in
the Elms Handicap at Flemington on
Wednesday that it was rather surprising
to find her a starter. She had the same
weight, 9st. 41b., as Synagogue, whose
performances were certainly superior—
that indeed might be said if his dead-heat
with Heros in the Futurity Stakes were
left out of the reckoning. Synagogue
was naturally favorite, and the closing
price, 11 to 8, was good, considering that
he had Pike to assist him. Capris ran
a good race for seven furlongs; then
Synagogue came through. He had a
comfortable margin from Marabou and
Lilirene at the finish of the eight fur-
longs, run in Imin. 38isec., Capris being
fourth. Synagogue has now earned in
Australian stake-money practically what
Phillips gave for him on the other side
of the Tasman. Substantial wagers have
been landed besides.
In his chagrin at the defeat of Arachne
in the Newmarket, Donohue insinuated
that Munro had thrown the race away
by making too much of the filly. This
outburst was made to look ridiculous
in the Leonard Stakes, in which Arachne,
with Pike substituted for the suspended
one, was done to a turn at the Oakleigh
Plate distance. Dark Sky (8 to 1), who
is evidently much better at sprinting than
staying, got the better of Great Legend
(11 to 2), after a spirited tussle, Sir John
(favorite at 7 to 2) being a fast-finishing
third and Arachne fourth. Perhaps a
mile is Sir John’s best distance ; anyway,
the effort to make a six-furlong horse of
him has not succeeded.
The race for the King’s Plate was
soundly run, thanks to Rogilla (7 to 1).
He was in front nearly all the way, but
was cut down at the finish by Hall Mark
(evens), who had loafed a bit on Skid-
more. A neck separated them, and Topi-
cal (7 to 2) was only a head away, with
King March and Farndale next. The
electric timepiece made it 2min. 3Hsec.
Then Sydney punters, who had had a
bad meeting, regained some of their
losses by backing Whittingham (3 to 1)
for the River Handicap. The black has
furnished into quite a good middle-dis-
tance horse.
* * * *
Evidently the prejudice against Aus-
tralian-bred stock still lingers. Though
Windbag has been second to Heroic in
the sires’ list for two seasons, 280 guineas
was the best price realised by a Windbag
yearling at Newmarket last week (Robert
Miller, owner of Topical, gave it for a bay
colt by Windbag—Lys Rouge). A batch
of 11 Windbags from A. G. Hunter’s
Seymour stud averaged 163 guineas.
Buyers went much higher for yearlings
by Gay Lothario —“English, you know. 5 ’
A bay colt by Gay Lothario —Balkan
Rose brought 850 guineas, and 700
guineas each was given for colts out of
Beneficiary and Gypsy Love,
* * * *
“Edwy”; “Little Tich” Weiss re-
turned from Melbourne on Tuesday
morning, checked his baggage at “Cen-
tral” and ran across the station to catch
the special to Kembla Grange. He was
just in time, and at the Grange he piloted
Lucky Charm to a five lengths’ victory in
the 14.2 Handicap. “Tich’s” memories
of that meeting will be pleasant; but the
day brought death to three men who
saw him ride his winner. Two book-
makers, Peter White and Alick Williams,
were driving home when a tyre blew out
and their car crashed into a cutting.
They were killed instantly. That same
evening Jack Crowley, the jockey, who
had had two mounts at Kembla, hit a
taxi-cab with his car, which fetched up
against a telegraph post. He was hur-
ried to hospital, but was dead within an
hour.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There was £2200 in the house when
Jack Carroll stopped the greatly-overrated
Willard Brown in 12 rounds. A good
beginning for another boxing boom.
And then the Sydney Stadium manage-
ment straightway returned to its idiotic
policy of matching American with
American.
* sN * *
Like most American ringmen, Charlie
Miller can “take it,” and he had to “take”
a lot when he met Mickey Miller at
Leichhardt. For five rounds the Aus-
tralian hit the Miller from Cali-
fornia with many weighty wallops, but
they incommoded him so little that he
forced from start to finish of the sixth.
Mickey’s boxing was too much for
Charlie in most of the remaining rounds,
and a points decision for him at the end
of the fifteenth was the only one possible.
He came in at Bst. 101 b., conceding the
tough Californian 6|lb.
* * * *
“G.M.”: At the inquest on the foot-
baller-pug Shepherd, who died after a
fight at Brisbane in January, Dr. Taylor,
one of- the Q. Government pathologists,
said that superficial ringside examination
of pugs was “of no value at all.” Poor
Shepherd had an enlarged heart, but this
was not discovered till it was too late.
Apropos, one of the best lightweights this
country has ever seen was rejected when
"Come, now—surely you weren't christened Pedro Gonzales for
nothing?"
he volunteered for the A.I.F. “Heart”
was the verdict. More fortunate than
Shepherd, he went through a hundred
hot ring fights without trouble ; all the
same, he was not fit to be a soldier.
Footbrawl
“G.M.”: Once more comes the 30-
year-old suggestion that a cross-bar
should be added to the goalposts in the
Australian game. Advocates lack both
memory and vision. They recollect the
lucky goals which dribble along the
ground and overlook the clever, dexter-
ous, lightning kicks a yard or two long
which make a wonderful and exciting
feature of the game. Moriarty, of Fitz-
roy, the smartest goalkicker of modern
times, would have his records cut 50 p.c.
if a cross-bar were obtruded. There is
often just as much good play in securing
a goal from three yards as from 50 yards.
* * * *
A Yankee device which might well be
introduced into ail codes of Australian
football is a huge dial which notifies the
crowd how much playing-time there is left.
Every U.S. ground of any importance is
provided with one of these. The clock-
face is divided into four parts, each of
which represents a minute, while the fifth
minute is ticked off in seconds round the
full dial, rousing the crowd to delirious
excitement in a close-finishing game. It
would apply equally to Rugby, Soccer
and Australian Rules.
* * *
“Fitzcray”: Victoria has lost one of
its finest R.U. footballers by the transfer
of Alan Ward to Sydney, where he will
play with Randwick. A Sydneyite, he
showed no particular promise until he
returned with the Victorian team of 1933
and dazzled Sydney barrackers with his
running on the wing. He is a player of
a type not often seen nowadays, fast,
with the genuine swerve and side-step
which were characteristic of the older
school of wingers in days when indi-
vidualism was encouraged.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: After weeks of manoeuvr-
ing, Sydney Rugby League has persuaded
the trustees of the Cricket Ground to
grant it a lease of the arena for 10 years
during the football season, to the almost
total exclusion of other winter sports.
Only five days a season are to be per-
mitted to bodies other than the League,
and these only when the League has fixed
its programme to its own satisfaction. The
deed of trust under which the Cricket
Ground was founded enjoins that cricket
should have the first call, and that all
other sports should have equal oppor-
tunities to use it when cricket was not
being played. If the trustees are allowed
to hand the ground over to a profes-
sional sport which is played only by
some 30 clubs in Lancashire and York-
shire and by a section of footballers in
N. S. Wales, Queensland and Auckland,
the amateur sporting world will have
something to say to Minister Buttenshaw,
with whom the final decision rests. Once
before they were permitted to tie the
ground up to the same people. Then
Labor” ruled the political roost, and
at least two “Labor” Ministers were rabid
supporters of the League.
* * * *
“Gate”; Though £1445 was pouched
as the N.S.W. Rugby League’s share of
the Kangaroos’ tour of Lancashire and
Yorkshire, the League finished the year
with income only £535 ahead of expendi-
ture. The annual meeting on March 18
will have some important matters to chew
over, including the proposed “mission-
ary” tour of M.L. in the hope of reviving
the dry bones of the professional code
there. Country Week has been found too
expensive, and in future a match between
the champion country side and the metro-
politan champions will be substituted.
* * *
“Bob Sawyer”: J. E. Lovelock, the
Oxford miler, turned out this season with
the London St. Mary’s Hospital Rugby
team, for which Owen Smith, the South
African cricketer and English fullback,
also plays. Lovelock has had fair suc-
cess at outside centre. It is his first season
in serious football —remarkable, consid-
ering that he is a Maorilander.
* * * *
“Stoush”: Certain misguided persons,
including Australians, are still playing
with the idea of establishing the Rugby
League game in France. When the
French R.U. put its house in order after
protests from the British it threw out
numbers of rough-house merchants. It
was hoped to build up the
game in France from this dis-
carded material, just as it is
maintained in England by
deserters from the Rugby
Union and by hiring Austra-
lian players. A French team
made a tentative tour of the
North of England last year
with indifferent success. One
or two teams from the North
of England have figured in
Paris without setting the
Seine on fire. The hard-
heads of the English North-
ern Union have been very
dubious about the innova-
tion, while their friends on
the Australian Board of Con-
trol have thrown out with
contumely a proposition that
a French side be invited to
Australia. In any case
France is as set against pro-
fessional sport as South Africa, and
that’s saying something.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Second Divvy”: I am beginning to
resent these A.T.F. golf tournaments.
Every year the tabloids send exuberantly
boyish reporters along, and readers have
buckets of machine-made japes emptied
over them. “The Hop-over at Dawn,”
“Launching the Offensive on the White
Pill (box),” “Sniping from Hill 60,” “In
Action in a Trench” —how forced it all
is! Who is amused by this lamentable
stuff? Certainly not former members of
the A.I.F. The only jocosities of the
kind that I encountered in over three
years’ service appeared in a paper issued
on a transport, and were the occasion of
gloom and bitterness to practically all
aboard. They emanated from the edi-
tor —an earnest but completely humor-
less parson.
* Hj * sfc
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. officially
starts the golf season on April 27, with
inter-club matches. A new rule or two
has been produced, the most important
of which enjoins that if a team isn’t on
the spot by a fixed starting time it has
to take its chance. Players of other clubs
wishing to practise on the match course
can have one day during the week of the
match and a go on the morning of the
match provided the secretary of the home
club is duly notified. Of the bigger
events, the State amateur championship


that’s the limit bag in
N. S. Wales on any day.
You’ll get them, too, if you
Use'OUXBACVICIL SPECIAL
WATERPROOF
CARTRIDGE S
Loaded with Neoflak Powder —the latest
and most successful shot gun propellant—
these cartridges are of high velocity and
hard hitting at long range.
A 2W r Load in a 2*4" Shell
Get YOUR
Supplies
SOW
&
S 2
sv
c
o
fjfSzasm
#olreadq
rOpen in
Vic. S.Aui
W. Aost. 6.
h^tas.
9
8
Obtainable
Everywhere
At i
Popular /
Prices /
<5
$
k
V
Si
m
m
M
N
k
y
o
*
O
V
dr
%
ICI
M
Si
>
m
m
r
sr
u
m
Wfit TV*
Legal Notice. I
IN THE COURT
OF QUEENSLAND.
TO DAVID MONTEITH GALBRAITH J
formerly of 90 Abbotsford Road Bowen |
Hills Brisbane (but whose present where-
abouts are unknown) Motor Mechanic.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action has by Writ
of Summons No. 580 of 1934 been commenced
against you in the Supreme Court of Queens- ;
land at Brisbane by CHARLES BANKS
BARSTOW trading as C. B. Barstow and Co.
in which he claims £63 ss. 7d. being for princi-
pal and interest due on five Promissory Notes
drawn by you payable to P. A. Evers and
Son Limited or Order and by it endorsed to
the said Charles Banks Barstow and it has
been ordered that service of the Writ of Sum-
mons in this action upon you by publishing
this Notice once in the “Courier-Mail” a news-
paper published at Brisbane aforesaid and once
in the Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published
at Sydney in the State of New South Wales I
and by filing and sticking up on the Notice
Board in the Registry of the said Court a
copy of such Writ of Summons and by the
service of a copy of the said Writ of Summons
on JOHN GALBRAITH at Abbotsford Road
Bowen Hills Brisbane aforesaid your father
shall be deemed to be good and effective ser-
vice of the said Writ of Summons on you.
If you desire to defend the said action you i
must within forty days from the last act done
in compliance with the said Order enter an
appearance at the said Registry and in default
thereof Judgment may be given against you.
DATED at Brisbane this Second day of
March, 1935.
(L.s.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar,
N. K. FOSTER, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
ERNEST STEWART, born at Barkly, Victoria,
in 1891, and last heard of at Euston, N.S.W.,
about 1912, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with
ALEXANDER STEWART at Barkly, Victoria.
TAR TAR
Product of Horizontal Retorts.
Inquiries are invited for the purchase of
approximately
20,000 GALLONS OF CRUDE TAR,
horizontal retort product.
In purchasers’ own drums on trucks Crystal
Street Station, Broken Hill; or arrangements
may he made for drums to be supplied by
consignor.
The Broken Hill and Suburban Gas Company,
Limited,
210 ARGENT STREET, BROKEN HILL.
P.O. Box 1458.
Legal Noticei
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1673 of 1934.
BETWEEN WINIFRED SWEENEY Petitioner
And LIONEL WILFRED SWEENEY
Respondent.
TO LIONEL WILFRED SWEENEY late of
Pomona Road Pennant Hills.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WINIFRED
SWEENEY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years without just cause or ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-eighth day of
May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of March, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 42 Hunter Street, Sydney.
When Planning an
Extensive Selling
Campaign
in
Western Australia
use the
Westralia’s Leading Weekly
Paper with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
MR. H. J. JOHNSTONE, Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. M. S. ALLAN. 271 Collins Street.
begins on the Royal Sydney course on
June 29 with the foursomes. The State
champion of champions event is down
for La Perouse on October 26.
* * * *
“Springwood”: Don Spence, who has
been professional at Leura (N.S.W.) for
some years, replaces Tommy Howard at
the Concord club. Spence began as a
caddie, and was early taken into Fred
Popplewell’s shop at the Australian club,
where a box had to be found for him to
stand on while working, so small was he.
Spence has been a bit out of the golfing
world at Leura, but has managed to nail
an Australian professional title in spite
of that. N. Johnson, assistant to C. Gray
at Pennant Hills club, takes Spence’s
place at Leura.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”; All the golfing gir-
leens are in a dither over the release of
the itinerary of the English women
golfers who will cast up in Westralia on
August 13. The quintet will play a one-
day match in Westralia, and then have
three days of play in Adelaide, be-
ginning on August 18. One of the
items will be a match between the
tourists and combined South Aus.-Vic.
The team lands in Melbourne on August
21, five days before the opening of the
women’s Australian championships. The
one Test match between England and
Australia is set down for September 5.
The team shows at Canberra before
going to Sydney and then on to Brisbane
on September 20, sailing for Maoriland
immediately on its return to Sydney.
Poor old Tassie has been cut out of the
picture, time not permitting a visit.
* * * H=
“Card”: Some of the Victorian golf
clubs, notably Albert Park, have been
experimenting with the Stapleford sys-
tem of scoring, which is finding favor
among overseas golfers. The Stapleford
is a point system. A player taking two
or more over Bogey gets no points. For
a hole one stroke over he gets a point,
and two for Bogey. For a hole a stroke
below Bogey three points are allotted ;
for two below, four points ; for three
less, five points. The net result is arrived
at by adding three-quarters of the play-
er’s stroke handicap to his total points
for the 18 holes.
% * * >!'•
“Shore”: Sydney’s new municipal golf
course at Northbridge was to have been
available for players on April 6 ; but the
grass on the fairways has not grown as
expected, and to rush matters might ruin
what promises to be one of the most
beautiful courses in Australia. So post-
ponement is recommended. At present
nine holes have been laid out over 3000
yards ; nine others will follow.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Wallis Myers
astonished his country on his return from
Australia by saying that Australian bar-
racking of players, of which he had heard
so much, was non-existent. He is also
full of praise for the behavior of players
on the courts, none of the big men per-
mitting himself the antics which we
have learned on this side to expect from
“temperamental” overseas stars. Myers
spreads himself especially on the juniors,
both as regards the high standard of their
play and their conduct before large
crowds.
ij: sfc sfc
“Amateur Pro.”: The meeting of the
International Tennis Federation which is
to determine whether amateurs may
appear in films for pay without loss of
status comes off on March 15. Those
openly backing the change are now
Czecho-Slovakia, Britain, South Africa
and Australia; they command 19 votes
out of a total of 69. America and France,
with six votes each, have openly declined
to endorse the suggested amendment,
while Belgium, Spain and Austria, among
the lesser fry, have also turned a glassy
eye on the proposal.
* * * *
“Roland Garros”: The French singles
ranking list does not include Borotra for
the first time in a blue moon ; the ex-
planation is that the Basque has confined
himself to doubles. Boussus and Merlin
head the list; Brugnon is ranked fifth
with Feret —who went over to the pro-
fessionals, but was subsequently white-
washed and Leseur, both second-
raters. France will rely on Boussus,
Merlin and Bernard for the Davis Cup.
After Merlin defeated Crawford and
McGrath in Paris he was styled “the
Australian-beater,” a label he still carries.
* * * *
“Baseline”: For years it has been
necessary to regard the American team
as one of the most formidable challengers
for the Davis Cup, and the Yanks have
generally proved a stumbling-block to
Australia. Last year this country lost
the inter-zone final to them after our
players had established a good lead on
the first day. This year, with Stoeffen
and Lott turned professional and Shields
making pictures as an “amateur,”
America’s strength has been heavily
reduced. Allison and Wood will prob-
ably be supported by Mako and Budge—
or perhaps McGrath’s one-time rival as
an infant phenomenon, Parker. Mako
and Budge will have a hard job filling
the places of Lott and Stoeffen in the
doubles, and Allison may have to take a
place, besides playing in the singles. If
Australia gets as far as the inter-zone
final it will meet a weaker team than
that encountered last year, and should
win, unless one or other of our players
suffers that sudden loss of form we have
learned from past experience to dread.
Miscellaneous
“Whitecoat”: What all hope is the last
dying kick of the “direct-attack” bowl-
ing rumpus came when the annual meet-
ing of English umpires laid down regu-
lations for dealing with infringements
which will probably be endorsed by the
M.C.C. Two suspect deliveries will be
passed by the ump., but if a third offence
is committed he will call “dead ball” and
notify the skipper, who must put the
bowler on the peg for the rest of the
innings. The Australian rule passed last
season gives the umpire the power of
preventing an offender bowling again for
that innings after he has been warned. It
is a good bet that by the end of next
season no umpire will have had occasion
to deal with a bowler, and that in a year
or two everyone, save a few pedants, will
have forgotten that such a rule exists.
* * %
“Glenelg”; The exodus of cricketers
to the Lancashire League (B. 20/2/’35)
continues ; B. I. Tobin (S.A.) is to re-
place Hunt (N.S.W.) in the Rishton club.
Tobin has been a useful all-rounder for
the Croweaters for several seasons, and
as he is always after runs or wickets
should suit the one-day League matches,
while his style of bowling should come
off on the heavy Lancashire turf. He
will have the choice of signing for as
long as five years when he gets to Eng-
land, and will coach during the week,
with the match on Saturday.
H*
“Van Winkle”; At last Sydney Harbor
Trust has awakened to the dangers atten-
dant on the overcrowded G.P.S. rowing
races on the Parramatta River and has
taken safety-first measures. For the
finals on May 4 a boom of chained logs
will be put down at the Abbotsford neck.
This will block the course and the upper
reaches, and no boats arriving after 2
p.m. will be able to pass. Gladesville
bridge will be closed at 1.45 p.m. ; this
will mean that ferries and other big
boats must leave Circular Quay by 1 p.m.
Mooring positions must be applied for,
and Harbor Trust officials will see that
all craft have adequate anchors to pre-
vent the drifting which has been so
dangerous in the past. Letters on the
bank will mark the sections of the river
allocated to different types of craft, which
have hitherto mixed up at their own
sweet will, to the infinite danger of H.M.
lieges.
“Shrewsbury”: In its search for a crew
to beat Cambridge, Oxford has dug up
a giant by the name of Bankes, who has
smashed every oar handed to him so con-
sistently that a special one has had to be
made for him. This suggests a chance
for Oxford to depart from the rut and
confound Cambridge. The rest of the
crew should be deprived of their oars
and Bankes placed in the cox’s place.
With the aid of a special rowlock fixed
in the stern, the giant could “scull” the
craft from Putney to Mortlake on his
own, as yachtsmen “scull” dinghies. I
have been studying the rules, and, pro-
vided the rest of the crew are in the boat,
can find no reason for objection. Cam-
bridge would probably be too paralysed
to row, which would make matters
easier for Bankes.
V H'
“Third Base”: Attempts continue to
be made to get a couple of American
professional baseball teams to Australia,
but local bodies are notably lacking in
enthusiasm. Victoria is the latest to turn
down the blandishments, of the promoter
of the proposed tour, which is definitely
off. The Australian tourney will be held
in Melbourne from August 3 to 10.
While the teams from other States are in
Melbourne, rules for the competition for
the H. M. Ward cup will be drawn up.
H= * *
“Bamboo”: There was a curious end-
ing to a polo match in India. The 13th-
18th Hussars were playing the Ist Royal
Dragoons in the final of the Ezra Cup,
and won the pot, though their oppo-
nents scored two goals to their nil. The
explanation was that the Hussars had a
2\ goals handicap.


"ALEMITE”
never just grease
these parts
"JLLEMITE"
JEjHk*MO£ C/ t£Ct4-<Z-l
©Marks the important
lubrication centres of
modern motor vehicles.
Alemite high pressure lubrica-
tion and lubricants developed
for individual requirements
give assurance of protection
and efficiency impossible by
haphazard " greasing” methods
IJjztversatJoirils
Some types of this essen-
tial duty unit need a fluid,
others a fibrous lubricant.
cm
Alemite Service provides the one best suited to increase resist-
ance to wear and thus prolongs useful life of universal joints*
Alemite roi*nnfad«H chicago.jillinois. u. s. a.
XXICUIUC vorpor aiIOXI Cabte Address: ALMIT .. . Chicago
FnU particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
WOOD > Ltd - 284 Pi « Street, Sydney
MOTOR SLPPLIES\Lt d., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 132 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—s-33
SPARE
THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE
MOTOR
Sir Malcolm Campbell
used '
ETHYL
ANTI-KNOCK
COMPOUND
ETHYL GASOLINE
CORPORATION
ETHYL
in his
176 M.P.H.
RECORD BREAKING DRIVE
Ethyl petrol is now avail-
able to all Australian mot-
orists from pumps bearing
the Ethyl trade mark.
INSERTED ON BEHALF OF THE ETHYL EXPORT CORPORATION, LONDON AND NEW YORK
E7/37/35
the favorite of his harem and who tricks amor-
ous British subalterns. But these are the only
two of the whole cast who fail to convince.
The colonel (Sir Guy Standing) is a splendid
picture of the man who forces himself to sup-
press all sentiment and put duty first. Gary
Cooper gives a natural study of the rebellious
Canadian, and Franchot Tone supplies whimsi-
cal humor as one of the subalterns, in contrast
to the tragic pathos of Richard Cromwell as
the son of the old colonel —the boy who gives
way under torture and reveals his father’s plans
to the enemy.
Altogether a splendid action picture.
Some First Nights
Save perhaps on the occasion when the
rank and fashion of Sydney crowded to
see Governor Macquarie’s new and
magnificent stables there has never been
such a rally to the N.S.W. Con. as there
was on Wednesday night. Director
Bainton and his reorganised Con.
orchestra were commencing their 1935
season with Grainger as solo pianist. The
fare was large and splendid—Mozart’s
“Jupiter”; Brahms’s “Academic Over-
ture” ; the Good Friday music from
“Parsifal” and the Delius Concerto. Most
successful was the concerto, in which
Grainger, who loves Delius, loves play-
ing with orchestra and above all desires
to impart his enthusiasms to his col-
leagues (among whom he includes the
audience), seemed to thoroughly enjoy
himself, and carried orchestra and listen-
ers with him. He is the ideal modern
concerto soloist, never in . fear of being
overlaid by the band, sure of his effects
and always maintaining balance of tone.
In the Wagner, Mozart and Brahms
numbers there were points both of inter-
pretation and performance upon which
exception could be taken, but the or-
chestra is a good one and it shows im-
provement every time it appears. Titbits
were Grainger’s “Handel in the Strand,”
“Blithe Bells,” “Spoon River” and “To a
Nordic Princess,” the orchestration of
which includes all sorts of xylophones
and glockenspiels. The audience liked
“Spoon River” best.
* * *
After a masterly performance by the
professional orchestra of Beethoven’s
“Leonora” overture. No. 3, the Vic. Postal
Institute choir settled down to the job of
making the centenary committee’s second
invitation concert at the Town Hall an
important event by its rendering of
Verdi’s “Requiem.” The operatic com-
poser’s lament over the death of his
friend Manzoni is a somewhat long
affair, and here and there it is curiously
reminiscent of “Aida” and even of “11
Trovatore.” In fact, in places it is diffi-
cult for the listener to imagine the gaping
jaws of hell except in terms of an Italian
bass-baritone, but, besides the dramatic,
there is real beauty in the work, especi-
ally in the Lux ceterna section, sung by
mezzo, tenor and baritone. The thunder-
ing entrance of the chorus in the Dies irce
was impressive in the extreme, and solo-
ists Isolde Hill, Elizabeth Galbraith, A.
C. Bartleman and John Dudley could be
listened to without regret. The manage-
ment showed its respect for George
English’s conductorship by leaving the
doors open throughout, thus enabling
latecomers to find their seats without
delay, while a number of people left
before the finale to catch their last
trams. Otherwise the arrangements were
excellent.
* * *
Benjamin Fuller’s Royal Grand Opera
troupe turned up under J.C.W. auspices
on its return to Melbourne on Saturday,
and in the more resplendent environment
of the new His Majesty’s (packed to the
doors with beauty and fashion for the
occasion) the Flying Dutchman’s drogher
looked like a coracle that has wandered
into a review of the Grand Fleet by
accident. Nor were the proceedings in
the first act particularly intelligent. The
sea appeared to rage upside down, and
Dame Nature displayed little originality
in the matter of clouds, having appar-
ently only three shapes at her disposal.
These turned up over and over again
with monotonous regularity throughout
the 40 minutes, two rushing downwards
and one upwards in a way that might
be ordinary to a North Queenslander
but merely appeared demented to Vic-
torians. The overture lacked snap and
sparkle, but Norman Daland Allin and
Dutchman Horace Stevens gave fine
deep tone to the melody of the initial
scene, whose sombreness needed a con-
trast which it got in the second scene —
brightly staged and adequately sung by
the knitting chorus. Florence Austral,
Senta and Walter Widdop, the huntsman,
duetted enchantingly. The evening ended
in an undimmed blaze of vocal splendor,
Austral leapt into the foaming billows,
sailors and maidens sang a solemn re-
quiem, and, stage hands having split the
sky from top to bottom, the Dutchman’s
frigate sailed clean out into infinity and
fell off the end of the universe. The
music in this early opera is not all un-
alloyed beauty. Much of it is merely
musical barnstorming. But the premoni-
tions of the late Wagner were, on the
whole, well treated by the orchestra,
especially the opening of the third act,
* * *
“Anne Pedersdotter” (English title,
“The Witch” ; translation by John Mase-
field) is a Norwegian tragedy by Hans
Weirs-Jenssen, in four acts. Sydney’s
Independent Theatre group presented it
at the Savoy. Like most Scandinavian
dramas the play is gloomy, and is charged
with lengthy theological discussions.
Action takes place in Bergen in the six-
teenth century. The central character is
the daughter of a witch who had been
protected until her death by a
middle-aged Lutheran priest, whose
second wife Anne becomes. The play
begins on the day Absolon’s son Martin,
destined for the priesthood, returns from
theological studies abroad. He meets his
stepmother and finds her pleasing. He
also witnesses the capture of a witch in
his father’s garden by a mob ; Absolon
tells Anne in Martin’s presence that she
is a witch’s daughter and that he had
been untrue to his faith in not sending
both to the stake. Anne falls in love
with Martin. In a scene with her hus-
band she wills his death ; and the elderly
gentleman turns up his toes. At the
funeral Martin defends Anne, but Abso-
lon’s aged mother, who had seen a lot
more than was intended for her eyes,
exposes her, and down comes the curtain.
Doris Fitton played Anne, and excelled
herself in the last scene with the husband
and in the climax at the cathedral. Sub-
sidiary parts were more or less success-
fully portrayed by Arthur S. Reardon,
William Gates, William Rees and Mary
Hosking. Dorothy Whiteley made a
brief but very effective appearance as the
older witch in the first act. Scenery by
Don Finley and costumes by Ethel
Gabriel were attractive features.


Should the Exchange
Rate Be Lifted?
Are Trade Statistics
Reliable?
Influence of Credit Upon
Interest Rates.
Outlook for Share
Prices.
These and other problems vital to the
investor are discussed in the
MARCH issue of
THE
“ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal.
Now on Sale.
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s’’ criticism (10/l/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC Assurance
CO„ LTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
m
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £> Son Ltd
• SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne,*,.Adelaide,. Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane. _
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
in sterling and Australian pounds has
touched new records.
Basically the high price of gold in
Britain is due to the depreciation of
sterling and the prevailing uncertainty.
Low commodity prices have so far tended
to produce still lower commodity prices
and a higher rate for the yellow metal.
Far from indicating any kind of real
world “boom” the high gold price re-
flects sluggish trade conditions and
debilitated finances. Gold, in other
words, is the measuring rod ; its “price”
is only high when compared with de-
preciated currency and depressed values.
To overvalue sterling by bringing the
price of the metal back to £4 ss. an
ounce would be ruinous to British indus-
try. It is doubtful whether it will ever
go below £6 or £6 10s. an ounce in
Britain again.
Importers who do not like the look of
the Australian trade balance have, in
many cases, been sending money abroad
in advance to meet their external obliga-
tions. Opinion has been pretty evenly
divided as to the possibilities of a higher
Australia-London exchange rate, and the
effect has been noticeable in transfers
abroad. The Commonwealth Bank chair-
Gold and Other Things
“Gold is up again to-day. Don’t you
think it’s too high? Do you consider
there’s likely to be a collapse?”
That is the sort of thing thousands of
goldmining speculators are troubled
about at the moment. The high price of
gold looks to be a bit gilded and unreal.
There is a strange, artificial feeling
about the whole business. The judgment
of the man in the street, if he takes in-
terest in the question at all, is strained
and confused.
It is a new kind of problem to most
Australians. Though in Australia during
the ’nineties prices collapsed and en-
abled cheap goldmining, there was no
currency depreciation as we know it
to-day. England remained on the gold
standard, and gold in the Commonwealth
remained at £4 ss. per fine ounce.
The British pound was unpegged from
1920 to 1925 ; Britain was off gold, and
sterling fluctuated a bit in the exchanges.
But the U.S. dollar was still a gold coin,
and, as there was no
competitive devalua-
tion, and world com-
modity prices kept on
rising, if anything,
there was no great
fillip to goldmining.
Britain followed a
policy of deflation after
the war —an attempt to
bring the prices of
manufactured goods,
etc., back to pre-war
levels, and to increase
the purchasing - power
of the sovereign. It
was the last thing in
the world most indus-
tries desired, because
they had bought and
borrowed largely when
the purchasing - power
of sovereigns or their
naper equivalent was
low.
Depression brought involuntary de-
flation to every country, including
Britain. English prices fell steadily dur-
ing the whole gold-standard period 1925-
31. From 1931, however, they have kept
remarkably stable (in sterling) at about
pre-war level. But on a gold basis they
are far below that, and still falling.
The sovereign, if in circulation, could
now buy roughly 70 p.c. more in Britain
than in 1913! Such has been the great
deflation from 1924, when it would buy
40 p.c. less than pre-war. The British
pound note over the last four years has
had an almost unchanged internal pur-
chasing power—unchanged except for the
amount of gold it would buy. Four
years ago it took only pound notes
to buy an ounce of fine gold ; last week
it took nearer I\.
Britain was forced to leave the gold
standard owing to withdrawals of capital
—which went largely to France and
U.S.A. The U.S.A. left the gold standard
and deliberately devalued its dollar. The
ratio of so many dollars to the pound
sterling showed little alteration, but, as
the dollar sank in terms of gold, ster-
ling’s gold value went down with it. Just
recently sterling has been falling on its
own account —again owing to with-
drawals of capital—and the price of gold
“ That's the grazing paddock over THERE, mister. This is the crop."
man has come forth with a statement,
describing the rumors as “irresponsible,”
and declaring that London funds are
ample to meet Government obligations
and all legitimate requirements. The
policy of the Bank Board is to “main-
tain a steady exchange.” Still, the board
doesn’t control the tariff.
* * * *
Australia’s entry to the London chilled
meat market started promisingly, but a
heap of trouble has developed lately.
First of all there was talk—and action —
by Britain in the matter of beef-import
restrictions in order to protect the British
farmer. Now workers at Brisbane
abattoirs, from which a large propor-
tion of the meat is shipped, have per-
mitted themselves the luxury of a strike,
estimated to have cost £lOO,OOO to date.
Strikes were responsible for the loss of
a large proportion of our overseas coal
trade and the jobs of hundreds of Mait-
land coalminers. There are some indus-
tries which just can’t afford this kind of
pigheadedness, nor can the employees
themselves. •
* * * *
A buoyant price for gold—nearly £9
ss, an ounce in Australia —has left
the gold-share market strangely un-
excited. Numbers of people bought
scrip for a market rise, not to hold, and
many such speculators are waiting for
the other fellow to get excited, so that
he’ll buy their scrip at an enhanced price.
But that other fellow may have just the
same idea ; and so the market, compared
with a few months back, is anxious and
uneasy, waiting for something to turn up.
Many people have plunged heavily in
gold. It looked so easy some few months
ago; buy practically anything to-day,
and in a week or two’s time it would be
a couple of shillings higher—that was
the general outlook. It worked to plan
very temptingly, too, for a few months,
and some punters borrowed money to
finance their transactions. Stock Ex-
change dealings were often pure gam-
bling ; but those whose aim was to “get
in and get out” quickly have not had
much chance of getting out with a profit
recently. The “woolly” type of mine
has fallen heavily in favor; this table
shows that even the better-known scrip
has weakened considerably:
, Share Prices ,
Sept. 29. Feb. 15. Mar. 6.
Wiluna .. .. 84/6 73/- 78/-
Lake View .. .. 34/6 30/6 32/-
North Kalgurli .. 23/6 22/- 22/3
Sons of Gwalia .. 53/6 48/11 52/-
Boulder Perseverance 4/7 5/6 5/9
South Kalgurli .. 30/- 32/- 32/6
Norseman .. .. 39/6 36/- 35/-
Ora Banda Amalg. 17/6 26/3 19/-
Lancefield .. .. 18/- 18/3' 17/6
Triton .. .. 14/6 17/- 15/9
Rothsay .. .. 10/4 11/9 10/6
Mt. Morgan .. 33/- 40/6 38/6
Since September 29 the Australian price
of fine gold has improved over 10s. an
ounce.
* * Sj£ *
“H.W.M.”: The chairman of a Vic.
mining company complained the other
day that there were too many small
under-capitalised mining shows, which
were detrimental to mining interests gen-
erally. The Stock Exchanges seemed
powerless to do anything in the matter,
but it might be a wise thing for the
mining industry if the Government took
a hand as it did during the war, when
all proposed companies had to submit
their prospectuses and obtain approval
before registration. This would put an
effective check upon mushroom gold
concerns. H. McConaghy, chairman of
the Tariff Board, now on his way to Eng-
land with Lyons, had charge of this
branch of war-time activities, and did
very effective work.
* ❖ * *
Despite Roosevelt’s New Dealings and
other financial manoeuvres, Americans
seem content with low interest on U.S.
securities. U.S. p.cs. have lately beep
around 105, and since the Supreme
Court’s decision of the gold-clause case
the Treasury has been going ahead with
a scheme to convert £370,000,000 worth
of p.c. fourth Liberty bonds into 2\
p.cs. But whether investors will willingly
come at that is a trifle doubtful; the
low rate offered —the lowest for years—
according to the Treasury, reflects “the
willingness of the banks to co-operate.”
At the same time “baby bonds” ranging
from £5 to £2OOO are to be sold to the
public to “relieve some of the pressure
from the banks which have taken large
quantities of Government securities.”
Bought now at $18.75 a “baby bond”
will return $25 ten years hence. Treated
as interest the discount averages below
3 p.c. p.a.
Silver, like gold, has been rising in
London as sterling depreciated, the white
metal touching 2s. sd. an ounce last
week, the highest price since 1928. But
lead and zinc are weaker, if anything.
The higher price for silver is in part due
to Roosevelt’s silver-buying plan, which
resulted in China virtually leaving the
silver-standard. Chinese coinage was ex-
ported as bullion by dealers and sold at
a high price to the U.S.A., and, as silver
is the only reliable currency in China,
trade began to suffer. Hence the Chinese
export tax on the metal and the unpeg-
ging of the silver exchange.
■V * if; &
The average Sydney price of wool
for the last three months has stuck
around the 9.8 d. mark. N. S. Wales
sales for the first eight months of ihe
season totalled 812,084 bales, as against
982,068 bales in the same period of 1933-
34, and the return was £10,120,614, as
against £20,290,670 —about half. The
N.S.W. wool cheque for the first eight
months of 1934-35 is, in fact, slightly less
than that for the same period of 1932-33.
* -i' * *
Yarra Falls, the big spinning and
weaving concern at Abbotsford (Vic.),
estimates its loss caused by the Mel-
bourne floods of last year at £60,000. A
knock like that would have been enough
to put shareholders of any two Austra-
lian textile cos. off the dividend list for
a couple of years in 1920. But Yarra
Falls is paying an interim to shareholders
at the rate of 8 p.c. (as against 10 p.c.
last term) out of “a special reserve,” so
there are apparently few worries about
the future. Yarra Falls’s paid capital is
£900,000, with visible reserves of
£263,429 ; Australian Knitting Mills, an
affiliated concern, has a capital of
£550,000.
* * * &
“Como”; Those French robbers who
got away with a complete house over-
night only accomplished what a Sydney
crook did more profitably by tact
and psycho-analysis. He sold a house,
received a deposit, signed a receipt
and a sale contract and departed. The
purchaser the following Monday waited
at the front door of the house and asked
for the rent. “Why, this house is mine,”
retorted the indignant resident. “I’ve
owned it for the last 15 years.” Within
the day he had proved his ownership,
and the victim was left lamenting his
£lOO deposit.


"You mightn't believe
it, but I'M AN
IMPATIENT MOTORIST
"MY ENGINE
MUST SPRING TO IT
I I iL Jim 11
on r
oj the 4 1a rl pr:
I
I
perj
NO EXTRA COST
par
orwucun.ce cIL
"I don't wont to hove to drive a car. I want instant
response and that satisfying feeling of getting there effort-
lessly and quickly.
"That's why I stick to Power Chief. It gives me something
extra in power and speed, a little greater mileage. And
show me the hill that will make my car pink or falter in its
stride."
The only Motor Spirit, with all the advantages of CONTROLLED
COMBUSTION, sold at the price of ordinary first grades
throughout Australia.
TEXACO
POWER ■ CHIEF
ORANGE TINTED FOR EASY RECOGNITION
P.C. 2-485


PRIZE DRAWINGS.
H. W. L. SCHUCHARD, Nicholas
Buildings, Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l;
WESLEY G. MOORE, 66 Burke-
streel, Kalgooriie, Westralia;
F. M. WILLIAMS, P.O. Box 20, Ulver-
stone, Tasmania; and
R. FLETCHER, 5.5.120, Campbell’s
Creek, Victoria,
share them for contributions to B.
6/3/’35. The prizes, original
“Bulle! ‘in black-and-white drawings,
are offered each week, in addition to
the ordinary rates, for Society pars.,
Aboriginalities, Hints for the Farm
and gags for joke-blocks.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Quali”: There is a fine chance for
young men with a bit of farming know-
ledge and a little capital going at Clump
Pt. (Innisfail district, N.Q.), where 89
dairying and mixed-farming blocks of
perpetual-lease land are being opened to
ballot for landless men with experience
only. An approved applicant will be
allowed to ballot for up to six blocks.
The conditions include personal residence
for five years and the clearing during
each of the first three years of 25 acres of
scrub, which must be grassed or put
under cultivation. Timber from this land
may be removed under royalty, which
will be refunded under certain conditions.
The land is typical rich Johnstone River
country, but no sugarcane permits will
be granted— at least, for the present.
.*[: * * *
“Nagheer”: Three incidents reported
in the same week illustrate some of the
difficulties yet in the way of Australia’s
tropic northland. The first was the award
of the first annual Cilento Medal for the
best practical work done for hygiene
and native welfare in tropic Australasia.
Its expressed purpose is to remind Aus-
tralia that failure to attack adequately
Australia’s tropical health problems
means national death. The second was
an expression of apprehension from the
Atherton Chamber of Commerce at the
advent of new settlers —the chamber fears
they may complicate the marketing prob-
lems of the plateau dairying industry.
The third was a protest from the Ing-
ham council against contributing further
to the campaign against Weil’s disease
amongst sugar workers. The prospects
of the medal look blue if Bumbles don't
want more population and won’t help
in protecting what they have.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The new air-mail service is
certainly not popular In the N.T. A
passenger from the south for Pine Creek
must fly over his destination, and sit down
in Darwin for a week till the next train
goes and he is able to retrace his steps
150 miles. The Westralian ’plane has its
terminus at Daly Waters, but it doesn’t
connect with the north-bound mail, so
“passengers westward” from the south
are able to spend a week admiring the
telegraph station. The railhead is 50
miles away. All air mail to be delivered
between Birdum and Darwin waits six
days for a train. Before the service was
“modernised,” outbackers could get The
Bulletin by air mail for Is., inclusive
of price. Now it costs them 2s. from
Camooweal to Newcastle Waters.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Many an old Torres
Straiter will heave a sigh and sink a spot
to the memory of Capt. George Kerr,
dead in Brisbane at a ripe old age. After
years of windjamming over the deep seas
from 1862 onward he fetched up in the
Australian coastal trade in 1874. The
lure of the tropics and of “Tamate”
Chalmers, most human of missionaries,
led him to the Straits and New Guinea
when the Papuan cannibal was still in
the full swing of his “earlies.” The cap-
tain’s stories of those days, had he
written them, would have left Aloysius
Horn at the post; but Kerr’s were all
true. After Chalmers’s death, Kerr was
by turns pearler, shipmaster (under Mac-
Gregor) and skipper of the Queensland
Government’s Straits vessels Albatross,
White Star and John Douglas. Every-
body from Bowen Strait to the China
Passage knew George Kerr, and every-
one liked the quiet, purposeful Scot.
H* ❖ Jk %
“Vic”: The first Diesel engine to be
installed on an Australian railway has
been bought by the Queensland Govern-
ment. It is 130 h.p., and runs on fuel
costing 4d. a gallon. It will draw trains
on the Kilcoy branch, and seems to
promise a solution of traction problems
of lines with only a little traffic. In
about 10 years’ time the department will
probably wake to the fact that the Diesel-
electric engines have been in use for long-
distance heavy haulage in Canada for
seven years and that the system has been
applied to high-speed passenger trains in
Germany, U.S.A. and Japan. Our grand-
sons may have actual experience of this
form of traction.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Exit “Ah Chee’s,” in
Rabaul, and with it one of the last ves-
tiges of the old time in mandated New
Guinea. “Ah Chee’s” was more than a
hotel. It was home to dozens of officials
in the days when expropriation was
young. It was a theatre to the student
of human nature, who, at any hour of the
day or night, could hear every sound re-
leased within its airy walls. It was bank
to the hard-up, for Ah Chee rarely re-
fused to take a chit. And it sounded
like Noah’s Ark of a night. Then the
German musical box played “When Irish
Eyes Are Smiling” over and over again
and the shout “Ludwig, two bottle beer
he come” resounded down the street and
the wail of the dispossessed German
mingled with the interminable argument
about whether “Pompey” Elliott fell into
the Canal or whether “Matey” Cameron
was a greater pugilist than “Weary”
Hammond. The background to “Ah
Chee’s” was all the noise of Chinatown.
Ah Chee died a year or so ago. The
hotel now goes into European hands.
sj« & Sfc
“Gain”: One Darnley Island woman,
Mauara Lifu, has just been remembered
belatedly in Thursday Island cemetery.
Thirty-five years ago the girl was on a
lugger in the Cape Melville cyclone which
sent 73 vessels to the bottom and
drowned seven whites and 295 natives.
She swam with two white men on her
back two miles through raging seas, and
landed them safely on the beach. The
journey took seven hours, and she well
earned the gold medal of the Royal
Humane Society, which she was the first
native woman in Australasia to win. Her
“ That's ole Farmer Dobson. ’E always takes ’is ’orse in case of a breakdown."
memorial, of ground coral and shells,
has been made entirely by her Darnley
compatriots.
'fc •!»
“M. Turlutu”: A Brisbane man is
seriously wondering whether chivalry
pays. He was about to enter a shop for
the purpose of buying a Casket ticket,
when a girl came through the door at
the same time. Remarking politely,
“Ladies first,” he stood aside from the
counter while she was attended to. The
ticket she bought, which would have
been his but for his chivalry, won the
second prize of £lOOO. It is a lot to pay
for being chivalrous, but, after all, in
old days blokes used to get their blocks
knocked entirely off for the sake of
chivalry, and even the first prize would
have been no use to them then. Don't
see the reasoning? Neither do I, but the
girl will if she reads this. It’s what my
missus said.
- * 3?
“loma”: The murder of New Guinea
official E. C. MacDonald by one of his
native policemen at Ambunti on the
Sepik River reminds me that crimes of
the kind have been extraordinarily rare.
As far as I recall there has been only
one in the 50 years of Papuan history,
though opportunities in the rough days of
MacGregor and Le Hunte were numer-
ous, and in many cases could have been
taken with little or no risk. The Papuan
victim was Giulianetti, A.R.M. at Mekeo
in the central-west of Papua. Giulian-
etti had been a henchman of D’Alberti
and had been trained in his school. As
in the New Guinea case, the official was
shot with a service rifle while asleep in
the early morning. The N.G. boy is
stated to have attempted suicide, which
has quite the modern touch. The Papuan
just walked back to the barracks, put
his rifle in the rack and had breakfast.
* * * *
“Drift”: In 1913 Captain Henry Wil-
liam Allison, M.A. (Cantab.), a barrister,
lured by the books of E. J. Banfield, left
England with his wife to buy a tropic
isle. He settled on Bedarra, three miles
south of Dunk. There he built a bun-
galow, the stumps of which still stand.
Three years later he joined the East
Surrey Regiment, and was taken prisoner
of war. Allison’s swimming feats are
legend. Through these shark-infested
waters he thought nothing of swim-
ming to Dunk for mail, or out to
the Innisfail as she passed. In 1918 his
fertile island of 212 acres was made free-
hold, the purchase price being £26 10s.
Lying about eight miles off- the mouth
of the Hull River it is now a popular
picnic spot. It is not coral, but volcanic in
formation and covered with thick vine
scrub, with good timber (mahogany,
beach, oak and bloodwood) and watered
by crystal springs. The island teems with
game, the fishing is splendid. To Alli-
son Island (Richards on the chart) is
coming London comedian Ivan Men-
zies to form a colony. He may succeed,
but not all are fitted for a Thoreau-like
existence in the tropics.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Forty-two lasses were welcomed at the
Freshers’ tea by the University Women’s
Club. In March the Women’s College
celebrates its 21st birthday. Mrs. D. H.
Herbert (patroness), Miss J. Antill
(club president) and Miss L. Archibald
(Sports Union president) said the usual
welcoming things.
Hugo Brassey, recently so much in the
limelight because of his rumored en-
gagement to Lily Damita, has bought a
nine-ton motor-launch and is setting off
on a leisurely cruise to England.
“Married in May, rue it for aye.”
Doubtless it is to escape this fate that
many girls have fixed their marriage days
for March and April. Kathleen Little,
who is to be a March bride, was the
guest of honor at a party given at
Rowe’s Cafe, with Linda Heckscher as
hostess. Nere Schnieder, who marries
Ralph Eden this month, also had her
last tea in Rowe’s banquet hall. Molly
Nelson, Jean Joyce and Molly Broe were
hostesses. Barbara Nott, whose wedding
to lan Whitehead was on Saturday,
March 9, also had a round of teas, the
final one hostessed by her bridesmaid
Louie Silcock.
Much of the early history of Brisbane
mingles with the family tree of Phyllis
Bottger, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
M. Bottger, of Lytton-road, Hemmant,
who was married recently to Stanley
Snowden at St. John’s Cathedral. He.
great-grandfather, Dr. W. Smith, was
one of the first four physicians to prac-
tise in Brisbane Town. Her grandfathei
was the late Pilot H. Bottger. Dean
Barrett officiated, and Joyce Bennison
and Rita Smith (another great-grand-
daughter of the old doctor) ’maided. Mr.
Bottger gave his daughter away, and J,
Kimlin and E. Hargreaves supported the
’groom.
The Y.W.C.A. is pledged to acquire
by all honorable, means 1000 aprons and
sell them for the association funds.
Children’s play aprons, cooks’ aprons,
farm aprons—every known variety of the
useful garment can be had. The apron-
ing will take the place of the usual fete,
so that supporters won’t get it both ways.
The refreshment stall at the Boy Scouts
and Girl Guides’ fete, to be held at
Government House in April, got a fillip
from the swimming carnival held at
Booroodabin. Girl Guides and Brownies
were there in full force. E. H. Macart-
ney’s lady presented the senior cup, won
by the Brisbane High School for Girls
(Somerville House), and the junior cup,
which Hamilton annexed. Sandgate won
the Brownie Cup, which Mrs. A. P. W.
Tregear, Divisional Commissioner for
North Brisbane, handed over.
Mrs. Spencer Day (Cape Town) is
staying with her sister, Mrs. E. M. Ralph,
at Victoria Barracks. There is a report
that Brig. E. M. Ralph is to be trans-
ferred to N. S. Wales.
Poppy Irving gave an unusual bride-
party for Margaret O’Connor, who mar-
ries Reg Rees on March 16. Instead of
the conventional bridge or supper dance
Poppy staged a swimming-party at the
Pine River. About 25 guests motored out
clad in shorts and blouses, lunched, and
dipped. A good idea for a hot Queens-
land day.
Douglas Cotton, son of A. J. Cotton,
of Hidden Vale, was married quietly to
Rosemary Forbes Mackay at St. Mark’s,
Darling Point, Sydney. The bride wore
an afternoon frock and a wide-brimmed
hat, and her father, H. R. Forbes Mac-
kay, gave her away. Alison Forbes
Mackay, in lettuce green crepe, ’maided,
and Lieut.-Comrrtarkler Crowther was
best man. Queensland is to be the
future home of the newlyweds.
The Maltese Farmers and Settlers’
Association held a shivoo to welcome
Mr. R. E. Hamilton, formerly Minister
for Labor, Malta, who arrived in Bris-
bane by the Barrabool. Mr. Hamilton
was a member of Lord Strickland’s party
in the Maltese Parliament.
Captain F. J. Smith and the officers of
the Karoola were at home aboard their
ship, which was brilliantly lit and gay
with flags. The party was arranged so
that Brisbane people might have an
opportunity to inspect the ship, which
berthed at a Brisbane wharf for the first
time last week. Administrator James
Blair and lady went along, and Captain
Smith and Lettie Keyes (ship’s hostess)
met them on the gangway and said it
with flowers.
Mary Luya has decided on an even-
ing wedding when she marries Geoff
Gregory on April 26. " St. John’s Cathe-
dral will provide the setting, and Ray
Moni, Kath Macgregor and Beatrice
Hart are to be the bridesmaids.
The Town and Country Women’s Club
opened the year’s work on March 6,
when president Mrs. Harry Cameron de-
livered her address. The syllabus for the
year ranges from an address on the fruit
industry by B. Flewell-Smith to a talk
on Drama and Realism by George
Dann, preceded by his one-act play,
“Days of Roses.” Thorsten Gedda is to
tell about the old and the modern
Sweden, and the Hand That Rocks has
not been forgotten—Miss E. Barron will
explain the work of the Baby Clinics.


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
J'HE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so saft
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
S&CULvrCs (.MEXICAN)
KkunuiS’tu in,
Position Wanted.
Nurse, reliable, care child or adult to U.S.A.
or England. Excellent references. Write
“Veritas,” Bulletin, Melbourne.
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
Tbe delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/G per day
Inclusive tariff - from 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Franconia, glittering with white
paint and wreathed in bunting, was con-
sciously the belle of the harbor front
last week. And indeed the glad ship can
toss her head, for even when the argosies
of Greece set sail the object was war or
gain. But the Franconia loiters around
the seven seas for the joy of it. Maybe
some of her human freight seek health ;
none of them seemed in search of happi-
ness —they seemed to bring reserves of
that if smiles and banter and the spirit
of gay comradeship with which they
gripped the hand of Sydney is any testi-
mony. For three days this Letter
drifted against Franconians everywhere,
and never saw the beginning of a frown
among them.
Now is the time of year when pro-
fessors come home to roost. Whether they
have been in Europe, Asia, Africa or
Tasmania, they flock back with the bud-
ding of the lecture season. The H. S.
Dettmanns sprinkled the salt of invita-
tion and captured the whole academic
aviary for their party in the Queen’s
Club last week. This was in honor of
J. V. Wilson and his serene-eyed wife.
J.V. is a top-grade scholar himself. He’s
a Maorilander who went to Cambridge,
and not only became an M.A. but car-
ried off first prize for the Greek poem
of his year, thereby invading a preserve
considered sacred to products of Eng-
lish public schools. Now he is head of
the Secretariat of the League of Nations,
and lives with his wife and small son in
a house on Lake Geneva in the shadow
of the Alps.
Mrs. Wilson was smart in black-and-
white, the same shades being allied in
the hostess’s handsome frocking. Daugh-
ter Ellis, very slim in turquoise crepes,
and a good-looking Dettmann junior
helped to keep the guests shuffled and
unbored. There was tea-tree in a bowl
in a high alcove, and everywhere were
dahlias and roses. Lavender hues were
worn by Philip Street’s lady. Professor
Charteris, of the mellow chuckle, and
Sydney Grammar’s head looked like each
other, and both a bit like G. K. Chester-
ton. The Professorial Osbornes talked to
the newly-returned psycho-analytical
Tasman Lovells —Mrs. Lovell wore a
frock of black-and-gold that had no in-
feriority complex. Prof. Waterhouse
came with his wife and talked Paris to
Mrs. David Maughan, who looked
streamline in black laces, Enid Riddle’s
red velvets had a cape and an opulent
air; Mrs. MacTaggart, who came from
Glasgow on the Franconia, brought a
complexion as fresh as the morning
above black moire, and a silver-fox scarf.
Put a playwright in a city for half a
day and ten to one he’ll spend most of
if in the bosom of some Repertory
Society. Moss Hart, who arrived in the
Franconia with Carl Werntz, was no ex-
ception. He spent an -afternoon with
Doris Fitton and her players, and went
off talking about a second visit in the
evening to watch a rehearsal. Mr. Hart,
whose latest sensation was a visit to the
Hauptmann trial, is young and as good-
looking as he is successful. He is in the
comfortable position of leaving his latest
play, “Merrily We Roll Along,” roll-
ing in the dollars for him on Broadway.
He has practically no American accent,
and is addicted to wearing dark-brown
skin shoes. Doris Fitton did the honors,
her caramel-brown crepes scrolled in
white and fitted with a deep white ruffled
collar and cavalier cuffs. Gertrude Johns
was there, very tailor-made in tan color-
ings. Norah Cazabon, Dick Parry, pretty
Ailsa Sutherland and “Tug” Mason
were others who gazed over their teacups
and wondered how one snared the wings
of success.
“Bill” Teeling came from London as
Overseas League representative to the
centenary celebrations. These must have
seemed almost pallid compared with his
own farewell celebrations in Sydney. So
many five-to-sevens were thrust on the
tall, dark young man that he must have
thought Australia’s chief industry was
the making of cocktail picks, and that
we were all patriotically keeping up the
home market. Bill has buzzed about
Sydney in a honeyed atmosphere of
popularity, but in his flutterings the word
Overseas has been imprinted on his heart,
and he has induced many fashionables,
even Mrs. Sep Levy, to sign up as mem-
bers. The Sydney branch of the League
went festive and threw an outsize party
of farewell. At this Charlie Lloyd
Jones spoke soothly, and secretary Arline
Waddy, newly returned from a world
tour, wore a brown baku hat, its brim
cunningly pleated. The sleeves of her
frock invited a second glance. They
were bell-like and lace-inset.
The Rotary and the Millions Clubs,
disdaining kickshaws, invited the visitor
from England to solid food. They each
gave him a good lunch, and he gave
them a good speech. His own parties
were quite worth while ; the last (at the
Australia), given on the wing, as it were
(he was rushing to catch the Brisbane ex-
press), drew into its wide-flung net Sir
Edward Campbell, of the British Air
Delegation. Airman Keith Smith was
another of those present. Sir Edward
has a laugh that begins quietly—then
seems to think “My word, that was
good! ” —and then rolls along to a hearty
outburst. His brother is Vice-Admiral
Gordon Campbell, V.C., author of “My
.Mystery Ships.”
Sydney’s gain is Dubbo’s loss when
Phyllis Nelson comes to town. Phyllis is
hovering between Sydney and Austinmer
at the moment, so father R. H. Nelson,
a long-established Dubbo solicitor, has to
do without his articled clerk. Besides the
law which she intends to follow, Phyllis
is interested in politics, and knows as
much about the platforms of the various
parties as any M.L.A. Golf, tennis, danc-
ing and bridge beguile her leisure hours.
A Monteith camera is responsible for
the portrait.
Winifred Guy’s poster exhibition fills
the Blaxland Galleries with color and
movement, and has the compelling
appeal of being absolutely free. Walk
in, walk out, nothing to buy. The Vic-
toria League is sponsoring the show, and
midway through last week Philip Street’s
lady sped it on its way. The English
cathedrals are handsomely done by, even
to the stained-glass windows. How
grim and uncentral-heated-looking is
Holyrood ; how gay and Edwardian the
picture of Hyde Park! Brighton by night,
dizzy and giddy with lights. Travel by
rail! Travel by rail! clamor the posters.
Here’s a picture of a highwayman, cloak
streaming, gallant horse galloping clop,
clop, clop, clop along the road to York.
Near by is a train speeding across Eng-
land, devouring the miles (quicker, of
course, but, in spite of poster art, not
so pictorial). There’s fun in the group
at Harrogate, and the romance of com-
merce in The Pool of London. Doris
Zinkeisen, known to Sydney, who helps
design for Cochrane revues, is repre-
sented by some dashing and amusing
posters.
Pretty Marie Brown (in private Mrs.
Harold Bott) went off in the Nestor, her
arms filled with roses. She goes to London
to study with Dorothy Helmrich and
Elena Gerhardt. The Sydney girl has a
lyric soprano of limpid quality and a range
that includes the top C. Dorothy Helm-
rich, a personality in London’s music
world, lives in the Tower of London, not
because of misdeeds, but because she’s a
friend of its governor and his wife. Miss
Brown has been feted publicly and pri-
vately for the last month, and she car-
ries away a bewildering assortment of
farewell gifts, among them a handsome
crocodile-skin bag (with special pocket
for passport) given to her by the Waley
lady.
For years it had been the custom for
the meetings of the St. Vincent’s Ball
committee to be held within the insti-
tution itself. This year, however, the
workers meet at the Australia to discuss
their plans. Once again Mrs. George
Flannery is president, and the publicity
is in the capable hands of Dr. John
Tansey’s wife. Other wives of medical
men helping build up the yearly success
are Mrs. Donovan Foy and Mrs. Stuart
Studdy. David Jones’s ballroom on
May 7 will be the centre of the
fun, and Cyril Ritchard and Madge
Elliott are being booked to look in to
hand out the medals to prize-winners in
dances ancient and modern.
Last Thursday the pleasant gardens of
the old Yacht Club at Kirribilli might
have proudly proclaimed “Here English
is spoken,” for the English-Speaking
Unionists were staging their first party
of the year on the breeze-swept lawns.
There was a great roll-up, and organising-
secretary Mrs. Wallace Turner, not long
back from her travels, and singer Marie
Brown, who commenced hers last Satur-
day, were the centre of animated groups.
Mrs. Turner was in crisp green linen,
while Marie’s tiny white sailor of chip
straw was worn above chiffons flower-
scattered on lavender grounds. The tea-
tables on the verandah were gay with
pink belladonna-lilies. The lounge was
massed with golden flowers and enriched
by the music of Mrs. Harry Twigden,
Miss Brown and Jean Watson.
St. John’s, Parramatta, beamed a
special blessing on the matrimonial gyves
of Grace Johnstone and Trevor Gibson,
of Hobart, for Grace’s, father has been
archdeacon of the old church for many
years. Father, of course, had a hand in
the ceremony, but was only an offsider,
so to speak, for Archbishop Mowll
journeyed up to weld the twain into one,
and Bishop Kirkby gave his assistance.
Also helping was padre F, W. Tug well.
The bride’s magnolia satins had the train
decked with posies of real frangipanni
and orange-blossom. Her veil was of
embroidered net; her flowers were cream
water-lilies and frangipanni. Two ’maids
in apple-green muslin and crinoline hats
were in the procession.
Musicianly Sydney heard with sorrow
last week of the death of Joseph Bradley.
For over 20 years Mr. Bradley had
been conductor of the Philarmonic
Society, and in that time had led 25
performances of the “Messiah.” Before
coming to Australia he had been con-
ductor of the Glasgow Choral Union, in
which Verbrugghen, later to be director
of Sydney Con., was a prominent musi-
cian. He and Mrs. Bradley (she was a
member of the Queen Victoria and other
music clubs) had the distinction of being
perhaps the last Sydney householders to
own their own hansom cab. The de-
voted couple’s return to England was
clouded by an affliction to Mr. Bradley’s
sight, which many of his friends and
admirers have just lately heard deepened
to complete blindness.
Doctors preach the dangers of slim-
ming, but dress designers continue to
create their triumphs for figures that
would almost make a dieting snake look
obese. The Greek sculptor’s notion of
“the female form divine” would have
hard work to wriggle into fashionable
ready-mades, and even the popularity of
Mae West has failed to popularise
curves. So chew your lettuce-leaf, and
leave the hammer handy overnight for
the breakfast toast. By this means you
will be able to wear the slinky white
satin frock of heart’s desire. A girl just
back from London and Paris tells that
the vogue for them is widespread. You
sow them with silver stars, knot them
with silver ribbon, or anchor them by
means of silver and diamente necklaces.
Metal cloths of black-and-silver make
handsome evening wear, and sequins
dazzle at every razzle. If you are blonde
try the effect of a pink crepe frock with
red satin bcydering its off-the-shoulder
line. The halo hat so attractive on the
stand is only for the face unlined by
speed or time. Women with other varie-
ties of top-piece will wisely wait for the
halos earmarked for them in the celes-
tial choirs. The bonnet shape, too, if
the soothsayers say wisely, will be a pit-
fall except to the demure of face. Still,
all is not lost. The long, canoe-shaped
hat which has been threatened has not
yet appeared.
At the pretty little church of St. James
at Turramurra on a recent evening,
Winifred, eldest daughter of the J. R.
Kellys, of Booroomugga station, Boppy
Mount, was married to Norman Stephen-
son, of Nullawarra station, Cobar. The
reception was held at Petty’s, where
about 60 guests were entertained, includ-
ing Mrs. Kelly, sen., the grandmother of
the bride (she and her husband were the
original settlers on Booroomugga). The
attendants were bride’s sister Margaret
and ’groom’s sister Dorothy.
Laurie McGarrity, masseuse of Wol-
longong Hospital, who left Australia
some months since for London with her
brother, Dr. Kelvin McGarrity, of Prince
Alfred Hospital, writes to her mother
that she is temporarily at Guy’s Hos-
pital, and hopes to obtain a permanent
position there. Her brother has been
appointed R.M.O. at Southend Hospital.
Mrs. Florence Taylor’s farewell to her
sister Annis and the Dean of Sydney and
Mrs. Talbot had a real bouquet about
it. If you were too sedate for the red
roses, cocktails and dancing, there was
a choice of tea and conversation decked
about with the stately gladiolus. The tall
hostess received her guests in the ball-
room of the Arts Club wearing a wide
river hat of ivory chiffon and lace and a
trailing frock of lotus-blue chiffons, Mrs.
Talbot’s pretty red hair waved under a
Lido-blue hat and Miss Parsons mixed
black chiffons and velvet with good effect.
Artistic as well as social Sydney fluttered
about the clubrooms, among them the
Allen Taylors, the Hugh Poynters, Gladys
Verona, Gladys Moncrieff, Mrs. A. Vert
(Mrs. Talbot’s mother), Carrie Lanceley,
Harry Thomas, Mrs. E. Wunderlich and
Mrs. Crawford Robertson.
Women members and friends of the
R.S.P.C.A. have for some time past been
working hard to secure stock for their
shop. This is a yearly venture, and opens
in “Animals’ Week,” which this year will
be from March 31 to April 6. The shop
Will be open for three weeks, each of
the various branches running the busi-
ness for one day. Apart from the bar-
gains, the shop attracts many visitors
because of the beautiful dogs to be seen
there. Some of these animals are of un-
usual breeds, while others are expert col-
lectors, and would give points to the tax-
gatherer in this direction.
After the curtain was rung down for
the last time on “The Witch” (the
Lieutenant-Governor Streets were loud
applauders) the Independents locked the
powers of darkness in make-up box and
wardrobe and rushed back to the club-
rooms. Here the tea urns bubbled with
high wassail in honor of Betty Ward, who
so skilfully produced the play. Two
highly decorative tomes on stage lore
were handed to Miss Ward, who sails for
London in April.
Workers at the recent jumble sale for
the funds of Furlough House still
chuckle over one customer. She was a
big woman with a large smile, and she
arrived at the sale early. “Could you
show me a nice dress, dear? Not expen-
sive. I’ve just buried me husband and
I’m broke,” Rather breathless, the
assistant unhooked a black frock.
“Black? Not me, dear! I’ve put me
troubles behind me. Gimme something
bright!”


Try This For
Rheumatic
Pains
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheumatism,
backache, groin pains, painful urination, depleted
vitality due to uric acid disorders, genito-urinary
and bladder troubles. No matter how many things
have failed you, Harrison’s Pills will do you good,
for they remove the cause of the trouble. A Hospital
Nurse says : “ You might be interested to know
that the success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney
and Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such
that I have recommended this remedy to scores of
patients and I can testify definitely to their unusual
efficacy and great value for use in these painful
troubles .” If you want to get rid of your ageing
aches and pains quickly—get a package of Harrison’s
Pills from the nearest chemist to-day. 2/- Trial
Size; 3/ Standard Size, and 5/- Large Size.
If not deliglttsi Wttb resets bijckJ
Books, Publications, etc.
THE following Maps, up to date and in colors,
are for sale at prices shown hereunder at
Department of the Interior, Fourth Floor,
Customs House, Sydney. ’Phone, B 1081:^-
Price.
Australia, 30in. x 40in 2/- each
Australian Air Service Routes .. 2/6 each
Northern Territory 2/- each
Canberra City Area 1/- each
Canberra District and Coast 1/- each
Burleigh House Hotel
173 Cromwell Bead, London, 5.W.5.
Lift, 50 Bedrooms, each fitted H. and C.
Inc. Terms: 3 Gns. Single; 23* Gns. Dble.
Excellent cuisine. Beautifully appointed
Public Booms,
riaxman 3371. Scotch Proprietress.
Melbourne
Chatter
Summer frocks came to the second
autumn race-meeting, but hats were not
all large and shady. Some were the
breath of autumn, with tip-tilted brims,
rakish high crowns and feathers poised
like daggers. One green-and-brown en-
semble, deceptively cool in texture, was
appropriate to the in-between season. The
nut-brown hat with its turned-up brim
matched the skirt, which was worn with
a lime-green jacket. Many country
people were noticed in the stands. Mrs.
Beau Fairbairn wore beige-and-green
chiffon with a green haf. Mrs. Neville
Armytage was in white scattered with
blue leaves. Mrs. Hunter Patterson
(Deniliquin) had a white flower abloom
upon her shoulder and a patent-leather
band around her hat. Lawrie Falkiner’s
nettle-green crepe had a collar suggestion
in white above her shoulder cape. Mrs.
Geoff Thornley was in pale-green loosely-
woven cotton tweed, and Nancy Grant
balanced a large white hat above her
sprigged pique. A black-and-white design
was the inspiration of Mrs. Adrian Bow-
man (Tas.). Sue Parker wore a brown
frock sprinkled with white and a split in
the upturned brim of her matching felt
hat. Col. Carstairs, in cream trousers,
was one of the few men present who put
comfort before convention.
Coats and umbrellas came to the Aus-
tralian Cup, but were treated like un-
wanted orphans by their owners, for an
uncertain midday turned into a bright hot
afternoon. The Flemington lawns showed
no signs of wear after three March meet-
ings, gardens bloomed joyously and the
flower-beds running the length of the
members’ stand were gay as the women’s
frocks. Dressing was guarded ; materials
that are apt to shrink above the knee in
a shower of rain were left at home in
favor of more serviceable silks, linen-
tweeds, string-linen suits and light-weight
woollen fabrics. With her frock of bull-
frog-green, Mrs. Alec Cato wore a brown
berette dipped rakishly over one ear. A
shooting-stick was carried by Mrs.
Neville Frazer, who wore a coffee-colored
suit and an autumn scarf. Joan Black’s
cream suit went with a brown blouse and
a little brown hat, a distant cousin of the
halo family. Valerie Palmer wore pale-
blue with breakers of pleats round the
hem. Claudia Palmer’s blue-and-whife
design could be used to goad a geometri-
cal brain to further problems. The dusty-
pink of Mrs. Owen Allen’s suit was
echoed in the conspiracy of colors upon
the georgette gown worn by her mother,
Mrs. Mather. Dorothy Moran’s white
hat rose above a forest of blue leaves on
a white ground, and Gwenda Boyd’s dress
was a garden of blue and white daisies.
Enid Murdoch wore cocoa traceries on
creamy silk; her sandals were just a
strap or two of white kid.
One afternoon at the polo strange
sounds issuing from the shady side of a
car parked near the field seemed to a
shortsighted spectator to come from a
prostrate polo pony. Closer investigation
disclosed the discordant snoring of a
chauffeur who had succumbed to heat,
fatigue and his lack of interest in a
game for men of means and leisure. It
was a week of excellent polo weather for
players and spectators at Moonee Valley.
Mary Sewell and many of her girl friends
wore jodhpurs and worked every day in
the ponies’ paddock. Jocelyn Priestley,
the new Uni. Vice-Chancellor’s daughter,
had her first glimpse of Australian polo
from under a big white hat worn with a
sea-green frock. Pat Little was among
the many who wore dark glasses and
occasionally removed her haf. Mrs.
Gordon Knott divided her time between
watching the play and attending to her
husband’s ponies. Visible through the
windows of a big sedan was a large
white hat bound with brown ribbons
which belonged to Mrs. C. S. A. Mans-
bridge.
Betty Thompson and Sylvia Syme
watched together, both in green. Kath-
erine Hiskens wore blue with white hat
and shoes, and Nancy Dean was in lily-
leaf-green with a serrated edge to the
skirt. Mrs. William Hargrave wore a
tailored linen suit and long topaz ear-
rings. In one of the earlier matches C.
F. Syme, playing for Peninsula B, col-
lected a lot of dust through a collision
with a goal post, but sustained no serious
injuries. The bough-shed bar was kept
busy, for, though many people brought
hampers, ice-boxes and vacuum flasks
filled with clinking cocktail don’t last
long on a warm day with so many of
one’s friends in the vicinity. Among
those who had entree to the v -r. and
official shelter shed were the Harry Cres-
wick couple, various Clarks, Winter-
Irvings and Fairbairns, Daphne Alston
and equally blonde Pat Mein.
Lady Huntingfield and the Stradbroke
Cup are now well acquainted, for they
came face to face three times on one
day last week. The Governor’s lady,
after presenting the trophy to C. T. Bray,
captain of the Adelaide scratch polo
team, performed the difficult but cus-
tomary feat of quaffing champagne from
its bucket-like proportions. At the Polo
Ball, she found her old friend glistening
opposite her place at the official supper-
table. The dance, the first big social
function held for many years at Earl’s
Court, was a great success financially,
socially and pictorially. Mrs. Harry Cres-
wick wore blue crepe merging into silver
lame, and Sheila twisted a narrow brown
velvet ribbon round the waist of her
blossom-pink, wind-rippled satin gown.
Patricia Clegg was in pink taffeta, and
Cara Holmes Hunt, in white with a foam-
ing hemline, affixed a camellia upon the
parting of her hair just above one eye-
brow. A diamond bracelet hovered
about a keg of ale when Barbara Bayles
did her duty among the committee “bar-
maids” on the buffet balcony. There the
pale gold lighting over the dancing floor
was reflected in the glittering punch-
bowls, translucent with fruity drinks,
which were spaced among sandwiches
and savories.
Beth Paxton wore twinkly earrings
and dewdrop studs upon her white satin
gown. Joan Outhwaite had white mar-
guerites in her hair and green roses upon
her white taffetas. Pat Wenzel’s ivory
crepe skirt was attached to a corsage
striped diagonally in brown, green and
white. Mrs. Pat Fairbairn was in mid-
night-blue. Kathleen Rhys Jones had her
sleek hair coiled in rolls and her
shoulders emerging from a thunder-
storm of black tulle. Ruth Rogers was
quite unconcerned at the risk incurred
by the propinquity of her partners’ feet
and her elaborate gown, which swept the
floor with a yard of magnolia satin train.
Tom Guest and Jack Edgar did some fast
work at the midnight polo match. One
goal was scored, but even the umpire,
Col. Clegg, was hazy as to who should
get most credit for the master stroke.
The ball was of the soft beach variety.
Although Deniliquin is in N, S. Wales
people from that district are often
tempted by the good road and come to
Melbourne for a taste of city life. Here
is Mrs. Lindsay Field, of Warbreccan,
Deniliquin, who manages frequent trips
south for big race meetings, polo and
visits to the shops. Mrs. Field, who has
a good eye for the condition of a sheep
and the value of a bale of wool, is just as
interested in the management of a station
as in the running of her house. She is
expecting a houseful of young people for
the Deniliquin picnic races next month.
A Broothorn camera caught this glimpse
of the lady.
Against a ceremonial background of
academic robes spread around College
Gardens, Sir Holburt Waring turned the
key to open the tall, impressive door of
the new College of Surgeons. Queues of
invited guests filed into the library, thence
to the hall for the unveiling of the stone
memorial. In the evening the Wilson
Hall could not accommodate the enor-
mous crowd of medicoes, their wives and
other guests who came to witness the
opening of the Surgeons’ Congress. A
few of the younger sawbones balanced
themselves on limbs of the Moreton Bay
fig to get a better view of proceedings.
The procession, wearing all the colors
of a kaleidoscope, moved like a great
shimmering dragon up the aisle behind
the ornamental mace which was held
aloft. Prof. Wood Jones, who is en-
dowed with a strong personality, a flash-
ing eye (well known by students of ana-
tomy) and a feeling for oratory, delivered
the George Adlington Syme address,
which was as enthralling to the laymen
present as to the professionals. At the
close of the official function very few
guests went home hungry or thirsty, for
many doctors’ wives had arranged small
informal supper-parties.
Visiting surgeons and their wives have
been profusely entertained during the
week. One afternoon the H. B. Devines
scattered tables and chairs among their
flower-beds and put up beach umbrellas
on both tennis courts at their home in
honor of the overseas celebrities. Among
the guests were the president of the
Royal College of Surgeons in England,
Sir Holburt Waring ; the president of the
Australasian College of Surgeons, knight
Newland (who, like his charming
lady, is a South Australian); Dr. and
Mrs. Donald Balfour from the U.S.A. ;
octogenarian Sir D’Arcy Power, who has
brought his granddaughter Angela on a
trip from London, and a bunch of other
bright lights. Mrs. Devine performed
introductions in a navy-blue frock and
hat. Daughter Mary, who has just grown
up, and schoolgirl Joan assisted in direct-
ing the traffic towards the dining-room
for tea. Mrs. John Shaw looked cool
in white flat crepe with a white hat. Mrs.
Harold Clapp wore black matelasse with
a swathe of cherry about the neck. Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, in her striking black-
and-gold gown, caused a temporary lull
in the chatter as she stepped right out
of the pages of “Vogue.”
Here is a Broothorn portrait of Helen,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles E.
Bright, of Frankston. Horses are the
principal interest in work and play of
the Bright family. Under the critical eye
of eldest sister Mary, all the children
learnt to ride almost as soon as they
could walk. Mary plays polo with the
Peninsula Women’s team. Helen, who
never misses polo practice, is the team’s
emergency. Outside horses her chief
delights are hockey, tennis and studying
birds in their natural environment.
Dr. and Mrs. John Shaw showed their
inventive faculties at their party in honor
of the visiting surgeons. As early arri-
vals entered the gates of Pateley, South
Yarra, they were astonished to see among
the shrubs a very long clothes-prop
jabbed with nails and suspended hori-
zontally over the lawn. Late arrivals
noticed little of the device, for it had
completely disappeared under rows of
men’s hats. The host and hostess re-
ceived the guests just inside the entrance
hall, after which everybody drifted out
of doors to enjoy the bright sunshine
and a vivid scene of flower-beds and
canopies of beach umbrellas. Small
tables spread with bright linen cloths
were the base of operations for the dis-
tribution of cocktails, pigs-in-blankets,
savories like crescent moons and all sorts
of tempting pitfalls which prevent even
medicoes from applying their knowledge
of dietetics. Mrs. Shaw wore a peach-
blossom-pink hat above her swaying
chiffon draperies.
Poles apart in their professions are the
engineers and the surgeons who came to
their conferences in Melbourne last week.
The social element is a useful factor to
the medico, who becomes a species of
deity to his patients. But the engineer,
as a rule, isn’t a social bird. He’s lived
most of his life in rough workshops or
under canvas ; his work is impersonal,
and his finished achievement is for the
use of humanity in general. In between
lectures, papers and excursions, the Insti-
tute of Engineers wedged only two frivol-
ous gatherings. One was a reception in
the National Gallery, opened for the
second time this year for such a func-
tion. “Such goings on!” grumbles the
spirit of the mummy who eyery midnight
whispers to the ancient Chinese shawl,
and the ghost of the lady on the lovely
sixteenth-century fan has a word about
it with Rembrandt, who gazes mourn-
fully out of his self-portrait.
The second social gathering held by
the Institute of Engineers was a dance
at the Palais among seductive lights,
geometrical splits of color in walls and
ceiling, thousands of colored globules
and a covey of balloon baubles. Mem-
bers were requested to decorate their
lapels with their small, neatly-printed
name-cards affixed to narrow gilt frames.
Most of them commenced the evening
thus labelled, for engineers are trained
to appreciate good organisation. Among
those who reserved tables were Mr. and
Mrs. E. S. Maclean, she in black
taffetas with glittersome gold linings to
her wing sleeves and bronze clips upon
her shoulders, and W. E. Maclean, whose
better-half was clad in periwinkle-blue
satin with a spray of flowers at her waist.
The chairman of the State Electricity
Commission, F. W. Clements, who has
just been awarded the high honor of the
Peter Nicol Russell Memorial Medal,
escorted his better-half, who wore plum-
bago-blue satin. Mrs. M. H. Harper,
Mrs. A. C. Leith and Mrs. F. S. Wright
were among the many wearers of black.
Mrs. R. V. F. Eldridge was in shrimp-
pink, and Dorothy McEvitt had a gar-
land of blue leaves fastened to the curls
at the nape of her neck. Sky-blue satin
found favor with Mrs. E. G. Thompson
and with Mrs. D. E. Balwyn, whose
gown was buckled with silver.
Melbourne took a cue (apparently
over the radio) from Sydney on the
appreciation of grand opera and yelled
its approval of “The Flying Dutchman.”
During the season at the Apollo a
few months ago there was no such
wild enthusiasm. On this latest oc-
casion the artists took curtain after
curtain with their usual make-believe
show of reticence and the help of a
couple of flunkeys, whose actions didn’t
always coincide with those of the man
who worked the pulleys controlling the
acreage of velvet. Florence Austral, who
threw herself into the ocean wearing
matrimonial headdress with her Nor-
wegian peasant’s costume, came up smil-
ing for her final ovation.
One of the loveliest dresses in the
theatre was Mrs. Henry Rosenthal’s
white moire, with its fringed cape and
two narrow waterfalls of fringe cascad-
ing on to the floor. Mrs. Phil Finkel-
stein wore apple-green taffeta sprayed
with blossom and a little gauze scarf ;
daughter Peggy’s blue dress was protected
by a coat of apricot taffeta. Mrs. Bernard
Heinze wore pink chiffon and a leaf-
green cape, and Mrs. Norman Welsh’s
protection was an ermine cape over a
lime gown. Mrs. Rod Tate Sutherland
sat with her father-in-law, Dr. Tate
Sutherland. The Ken Hadleys were there,
she in misty-pink; also Mrs. Maurice Belz,
who was surrounded by green ospreys.
Mrs. Officer Brown’s decorative garment
had tucks running in divers directions,
and an Eastern Europe influence about
its shoulder line. Among the Riverina
people present was Mrs. Keith White-
head in cornflower-blue. Crowds of
people drifted out to the footpath during
the intervals. It was a hot night, but the
ventilation of His Majesty’s proved ex-
cellent.
(Continued on next page.)


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 88 of 1935.
BETWEEN ROSE FLORENCE POLLOCK
Petitioner „ _ _ ,
And JAMES KEVIN POLLOCK Respond-
en t.
TO the said JAMES KEVIN POLLOCK.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ROSE
FLORENCE POLLOCK has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Seventh day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-five and in the event
of 'your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of March, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. IVAN ALLEN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
34 Martin Place, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
THE BEST WOMAN’S MAGAZINE IN AUSTRALASIA.
64 PAGES OF INTERESTING READING FOR 3d.
ALSO FREE PATTERN AND THE
SPECIAL PATTERN SERVICE
Illustrated are two of a series of fourteen
patterns offered in the issue of March 19.
The free pattern is for a Taffeta Bridge
Coat
ON
SALE
EVERY
FRIDAY,
w
I
\r
KM
W
/
m,
\v
*
-2 5
o
\
¥
v»<n 952.5
¥>
I jvvMBs--25t
«a
-a
rrr
s_J
W.M. 8522. —A black flat crepe
suit gains distinction with a
pleated cape and wrap-over skirt,
and is well suited to the outsize
figure. Allow 5f yards of 36in.
material. Pattern in sizes 38, 40,
42 and 44. Pattern complete,
1/- to any address.
For the races or afternoon in
town this suit is indispensable.
The fashionable new split feature
in the skirt is fastened with
buttons and buttonholes at the
front and back. Our suggestion
for a vest in this suit is supplied
in W.M. 8524. It looks well worn
under a silk suit, and is always
comfortably adjusted without fear
of twisting.
W.M. 8523.—A cape
ensemble is the last-
minute mode for Autumn.
We design this in Angora
tweed. Allow for the 36-
inch bust 2j yards of
tweed 54 inches wide.
Pattern in sizes 32, 34
and 36. Pattern complete,
1/- to any address.
This ensemble is also
most interesting when the
cape is detached from the
pinafore frock. The buttons
fastening the cape are
delightfully intriguing in
their emplacement on the
frock. The pouched pocket
on the hip-line is most
unusual, having that same
buttoned-on appearance
shown in the cape. If
the cape is lined out with
a complimentary colored
crepe de Chine it will show
a surprising loveli-
ness when the cape
blows back and gives
an extra finish to the
costume.
S
S E. UVE DO’
SELv/E O b£
L
Sj f
»ta &
2l£l£
Se uv e o^e
s£L\/£D & fc
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR” IS A “BULLETIN” PUBLICATION!
Sir D’Arcy Power, one of the greatest
authorities in the world on the history of
medicine and surgery —he came to Mel-
bourne for the surgeon’s conference —has
had a long lifetime? to watch the growth
of these sciences. Great discoveries have
been made during his memory. Only 70
years ago a butcher was permitted to
remove a limb from a human victim. He
may not have used the chopping-block in
his shop as an operating table, but he did
the job with the same tools which he
used for cutting up sheep and bullocks.
Dr. Ethel Provis and Flying-Officer G.
M. Robinson have planned a matri-
monial flight with dual controls. Dr.
Provis, who is now at the Austin, was
for several years a resident at Melbourne
Hospital. Her airman is stationed at
Point Cook.
New ships for the Australian coastal
service don’t carry paying passengers on
the journey from England, for passenger
ships pay very heavy canal dues. The
Taroona, the new motor-ship for the
Melbourne - Launceston trip, had on
board five supercargoes, each one draw-
ing his or her pay of Is. per month.
Among them was a small girl of three
whose job was to take the captain his
cap every morning. The S. Wheeler
couple were also signed on as crew.
Mrs. Wheeler earned her 4s. 6d. for the
voyage from England by sewing tabs on
towels, and her husband has the price of
two or three haircuts for his industry
with a paintbrush.
It’s a coincidence that General Evan-
geline Booth arrives in Australia at the
same time as her bonnet, for Dame
Fashion has at last smiled upon the head-
covering of the Salvarmy lass. . Rows
of curls and fringes crimped over the
brow are endeavoring to usurp the sweep-
ing waves which leave foreheads bare.
As portrayed in the newspapers. Miss
Booth’s curled fringe is in the height of
fashion.
Mrs. Alec Stewart is making the most
of her early-autumn garden, for she won’t
be here to enjoy the blooms of winter
which she has nursed through their
tender stages. She is off to England to
keep an eye on good-looking son Jimmy-
while he swots for his final exams, in
medicine.
What with the races, the polo and the
conferences of surgeons and engineers
Melbourne hotels have been packed to
the roof. The polo players came to
breakfast in their riding-boots and white
breeches, and were not seen again until
late at cocktail parties. Then they had
yet another change of raiment for dinner
and dances.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WES RALIA.
With indoor ar usements out of favor
the “trots” have ome in for a run of
popularity on the hot summer evenings.
Sartorial efforts of the men range from
open-necked shirts —or collarless neck-
bands —to the conventional magpie out-
fits of those coming from a dinner. The
women appear in slacks, washing frocks,
afternoon and evening gowns, but as yet
shorts haven’t made their appearance at
Brennan Park. The goodly sprinkling
of women trainers who foster the sport
generally don riding kit to prepare their
gee-gees for the fray.
Christ Church, Claremont, had a
crowded congregation for the Pearce-
Woodhouse wedding. The bride’s frock
of white satin was pricked and girdled
with silver, and its self-stripe glistened
with a thread of the same ore ; Honiton
lace edged the filmy net of her veil, which
cascaded along the length of her train.
Freda Lunt and Dorothy Royce followed
in her wake, their powder-blue Chantilly
laces girdled with silver and topped with
velvet-trimmed, tulle-edged blue picture
hats. Mrs. Woodhouse’s black lace and
georgette stood at the portals of the Em-
bassy, where 200 guests honored the
toasts.
The Pleiades Club’s opening social for
the season was highly successful as re-
gards both audience and entertainment.
Heather Coalstad had charge of the musi-
cal numbers, which were given by Nancy
Osborne, Sheila Slattery and Winsome
Pamment, and the dramatic programme
was in the capable hands of Nancy
Rogers. Her monologue, “The Yarn of
the Nancy Bell,” was illustrated puppet
fashion, with the horrors of the ship-
wreck lavishly depicted. Ruth Robinson
produced the short farce, “Hotel Bath-
room,” and Mrs. Karl Knapp introduced
the “Hollywood Party.” President Flor-
ence Armstrong, becomingly girt with
floral red-and-white georgettes, wel-
comed the guests and ushered them into
the dining-room for supper.
Margaret Leckie, who left in the
Moldavia to continue her musical studies
abroad, found little time for practice
during her final week at home, for a
round of leave-takings kept her busy.
Lesley Vincent gave a dance at her home
Minnewarra; Verna Broadfoot and
Stephanie Feldtman hostessed a morning-
tea party at the Green Gate ; Joy Ford-
ham’s five o’clock shivoo was at the
Pleiades Club, and Dorothy Fleming and
Theone Couch rallied friends to a beach-
tea at Cottesloe.
When Beryl Randell becomes Mrs. E.
Williams at Trinity Congregational
Church on Wednesday, two old Austra-
lian families will be united. Miss Randell
is a great-granddaughter of the George
Randell who arrived in the Swan River
Settlement in 1839 and became Mayor
of Perth and Forrest’s Chief Secretary
and Minister of Education. Her
maternal grandparents were natives of
W.A., both born in 1832. The ’groom
belongs to a family which has been asso-
ciated with N. S. Wales for upwards of
a century.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
We’ve been gasping in a belated heat-
wave. Having decided that summer was
over, and put away thin frocks, we are
rushing to the shops for summer bargains,
only to find furs. In the thick of the heat
Mrs. A. C. Cutten gave a cocktail party
at her home, Marryatville, as a farewell
for Mrs. R. L. Butler and her daughter
Jean prior to their departure to England
with the Premier. Drawing-room, smok-
ing-room and dining-room were deco-
rated with dahlias and roses. The hostess
was gowned in black lace, Mrs. Butler
chose a navy-and-white fine-check silk
ensemble and a navy hat, and Jean wore
a grey-and-blue figured chiffon with a
small navy hat. The Bruce lady looked
well in black chiffon and a large hat in
black crin. straw. About 50 guests were
present.
Three theatrical performances were
given at St. Corantyn, the Lavington
Bonythons’ home, as a benefit for two
lads, Alan Harkness and Kester Barouch,
who are going to London to study stage
art. A stand was built in the ballroom
with tiers of seats. The programme in-
cluded “The Curious Herbal” and “Arch-
way Motif.”
The Seymour Hawkers’ daughter Joan
married her cousin John, second son of
the Walter Hawkers, of Clare, at the
Church of the Epiphany, Crafers, early
in the afternoon, only the family being
present. Afterwards over 200 guests
were entertained. The bride looked
charming in heavy cream satin cut on
long lines with a train. The Limerick
lace veil, lent by Mrs. Richard Hawker,
was arranged with one end stiffened to
form a lace coronet, and was caught at
the back with orange-blossom. Bride’s
sister Suzanne and a cousin, Naomi
Hawker, attended in aquamarine chiffon
with long sleeves and square-cut neck.
Mothers and debutante daughters are
still flocking to London for the King’s
jubilee. Helen Bullock, Monica Jessop,
Barbara Forwood, Jean Butler and Mary
Kyffin Thomas are among the lucky
maidens.
Lady Dugan came to town from
Marble Hill to open Titania’s Palace.
In spite of the hot weather this wonder-
ful doll’s house is attracting thousands.
The Governor’s wife, who contrived to
look cool in a temperature over 100,
wearing a white chiffon frock with black
pinspot and a wide-brimmed black straw
hat, was received by A. E. W. Short
(representing the Rotary Club, which
sponsored the scheme for bringing the
palace to Adelaide), lan Hayward and
Dr. Harry Gilbert. Lady Dugan in her
speech expressed the regret of His Ex.
that owing to illness he was unable to be
present. Sir Nevile Wilkinson, she said,
was a personal friend of theirs, and they
had seen the fairy palace before coming
to Australia.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark has weather luck. No
matter what tricks the barometer plays
for other functions, G.H. garden parties
always have a fine day. For the latest
entertainment of the sort everybody who
had a diaphanous frock wore it. The
Governor’s wife was in black georgette,
with her favorite fuchsia colors in her
hat. Her small dog looked self-conscious
in pink ribbon. The grounds are charm-
ing, and the throng was swelled by dele-
gates to the Masonic Conference and
numerous northern and country visitors.
Masons in flocks, with their wives and
daughters in tow, filled Hobart for the
centenary celebration of the Tas. Opera-
tive Lodge. His Ex. was installed as
first Worshipful Master. Parties, sight-
seeing and meetings kept everybody on
the go, and the weather smiled on all the
proceedings.
The womenfolk of the Masonic Con-
ference delegates were invited to a morn-
ing gathering at the Lyceum Club, where
Mrs. Colin Kennedey (vice-president) did
the honors. The Mayoresses of Hobart
and Launceston were among the guests.
His Ex. and Lady Clark were at the
Masons’ Centenary Ball, held in Hobart
City Hall. About a thousand dancers
took the floor, and the galleries were
crowded with onlookers. Decorations
were chiefly in a scheme of pink. Repre-
sentatives from every State in the Com-
monwealth, most of them with wives or
daughters (or both) attached, were in
the throng.
Lady Clark went in the Orford as far
as the mainland. Mrs. D. Cheyne, who
has been a guest' at Government House
for some time, left in the same ship for
her home in Ireland.
Joan Chandler’s twenty-first birthday
was celebrated with a cheery little young
folks’ dance at the Imperial, at which
mother and daughter were hostesses.
Joan’s frock of floral crepe had a high-
in-front neckline and low back. Yellow
candles and yellow flowers decked the
supper-table, where a scrumptious birth-
day cake had place of honor.


D.Ts., with Bells On.
Elephants mooch eerily along the doss-
house dormitory; ■
Antelopes squat brazenly across the
doss-house door.
Green and pimpled pumas with some
physical deformity —
I see these in. my delirium, and often
plenty more.
I see turgid toads and tomtits, and
animals fantastical
Prance a queer corroboree around my
dizzy head.
Chimpanzees chant litanies in tone
ecclesiastical
In the shadowy procession that winds
about my bed.
And armadillos imitate the antics ani-
mated
Of energetic eagles and acrobatic dogs.
As my spirits rise inflated by the spirits
methylated
I see scorpions fly skywards with
mesolithic wogs.
A vague and spineless creature of the
genus hippopotamus —
A dreadful, nameless something with
big protruding eyes —
Makes hideous grimaces at the omni-
genous lot of us.
Then turns into a jellyfish of unex-
ampled size.
Tapirs tickle tadpoles who are strumming
ukuleles
To drunken dromedaries with undulat-
ing humps;
And futuristic dodos, wearing waistcoats
like Disraeli’s,
Are gambolling with stingarees and
spiders with the mumps.
My addled brain’s imaginings bring
secrets of biology.
Life’s a vest menagerie of things 1
think I see.
Why want to go a-visiting Taronga for
zoology ?
Just drink the worthy metho. and see
animals with me.
N.S.W.
RIP.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
New Gods
for Old
One by one the
giants of the con-
cert platform are
dying or being
supplanted.
Paderewski, the
one-time master of them all. is as good
as retired; Melba and Caruso have
joined the great majority, and the great
names of the Edwardian and early-
Georgian eras are becoming merely
myths to modern minds.
In London during the last year or two
we have seen new prophets arising or
being confirmed in their respective posi-
tions. The greatest sensation of them
all is Menuhin, now no longer the boy
miracle, but the best violinist in the
world. At the age of 17 he has gained
all the praise the world can offer. Old
men come and sit at his feet, and even
Elgar was moved to write to him as he
had written to no other. He may not
have the luscious emotionalism of
Kreisler, nor the academic exactitude of
Carl Flesch, but he has a combination
of all qualities mixed in so excellent a
manner that he is incomparable.
The new god of the piano is Horowitz,
Who has staggered London with his
colossal technique this year. The rest of
the world accepted him some years ago,
but London is still making up its mind.
One critic calls him “the greatest pianist
dead or alive,” another scolds his defi-
ance of tradition. Horowitz has opened
up a new technique in piano-playing. I
heard him do a concerto with the 8.8. C.
orchestra in company with a musician
of some eminence; we sat more stag-
gered than spellbound by his sensational
achievements. Tone gradation, digital
efficiency and other technical virtues
seem to assume a new aspect with Horo-
witz.
It is true that the instrumental effi-
ciency of the modern performer is greater
than ever before, but it is sadly true that
the vocal art has declined. There is an
incredible amount of bad singing in
London. Dulness of delivery, simpering
instead of singing, crooning instead of
open vocalism find most favor with the
critics.
This is the day of derision in regard
to Italian singing. The refined and
closed-throated intellectualism of the
cathedral chorister is preferred. It is
no longer possible to regard a song as
a passionate, emotional outburst.
We see no new conductors. Toscanini
still remains unchallenged; Weingartner,
with his 71 years undimmed by age, still
ranks in the first half-dozen. The
bearded Beecham and Wood get most of
the English engagements. The middle-
aged Furtwangler has fallen foul of the
politicians of his country. The world
is waiting for the young conductor genius
to lead it on to further orchestral heights.
At the moment no one shows signs of
supplanting the tried and trustworthy
leaders. Of the youngsters, Malcolm Ser-
geant is Public Conductor Number One.
Composers pour forth the labors of
their hand each week, but x we still await
someone to compare with the eighteenth
and nineteenth century. We have Sibe-
lius, Strauss and Arnold Bax ; but, how-
ever admirable their respective virtues
“Wings of the Morning” (Edward Wadsworth). An English artist’s way of
expressing glad, confident morning. The model aeroplane is the dominant;
the paper serviettes fluttered by the wind sing in sweet harmony ; an evening tie
suggests the horrible sadness of the morning after; the shell represents the
hollowness of life. and the fishing-line float adjures the beholder to bob up
serenely notwithstanding. The lighthouses on the horizon also embody some deep
moral lesson. —From Anthony Horderns’ exhibition of prints.
may be, we cannot see in them the
divinity of Bach, the splendor of Beet-
hoven or the mightiness of Brahms.
Musical composition is at present in a
transitional stage. We are suffering the
labor pains incumbent upon the birth
of a fresh era. But, as yet, the spokes-
man of the period is without a name.
London.
KEITE BARRY.
A Grand
Opera
Subsidy
Prominence has
been given to a
proposal that the
Gov eminent
should subsidise
grand opera on a
permanent basis.
My association has no comment to
offer at the moment on this question of
a Government subsidy, but it does
strongly protest against the suggestion
that the subsidy should be provided from
the revenue account of the Australian
Broadcasting Commission.
There can be no question that only
a small percentage of the listening-in
public is interested in broadcast grand
opera, and it would mean, if the Commis-
sion were called upon to meet a subsidy
which, obviously, would run into many
thousands of pounds per annum, that
popular tastes in entertainment would
suffer accordingly. It has been rightly
contended that grand opera loses a great
deal of its charm and effect as a broad-
cast entertainment owing to the absence
of atmosphere, scenery, etc., and that
true appreciation can only be found in
the theatre.
As broadcast and not theatre entertain-
ment is the function of the Australian
Broadcasting Commission, the question of
the Commission being called upon to meet
a subsidy is entirely out of place. Un-
questionably, it is obligatory on the Com-
mission to maintain and improve present
programmes and to cater as far as pos-
sible for the broadcast entertainment de-
sired by the majority of listeners. Con-
sequently, the whole of its revenue should
be devoted to these objects without any
question of a substantial portion being
earmarked for the benefit of a small
minority. It would be to greater advan-
tage, were the Commission to have more
revenue than required, that the surplus
be used to reduce existing license fees,
rather than a diversion towards subsidis-
ing grand opera on any basis of per-
manency.—Andrew F. O. Brown, sec-
retary, Electrical Radio Development
Association.
B-class Blah
When will the
authorities wake
up to the B-class
broadcast ing
racket? Does the Federal Government
imagine that because the B’s don’t
come in for a slice of the public’s license
fees it is not in any way responsible for
the stuff which is let loose at a volume
per hour 30 times greater than the noise
emanations from A-class stations?
Censorship in any form is almost
anathema to Australians, but there is
one form of censorship which is not
only natural to Australians, but to the
whole civilised world, and has been so
since history began. It is the parental
censorship of children’s reading matter.
Children’s sessions from the B-class
radio stations have made heavy inroads
upon child literature, and have thus
usurped to a dangerous extent parental
censorship of child-mind development.
Let us commend that point to the con-
sideration of parents, the Child Welfare
Department or the Education Depart-
ment and to the Minister-in-charge of
the P.M.G.’s Department.
Next, a whole nest of faults which
might conveniently be placed under one
heading B-class blah. Pronunciation
and enunciation of what was once the
English language are generally deplorable
and offensive. “Blah” describes it well.
Here is where advertisers—they have a
powerful say in what B-class broadcasts
—could make radio advertising a reason-
ably profitable expenditure and also do
a national service by demanding that
their “copy” be capably written and
properly pronounced. G. B. Shaw re-
cently criticised the 8.8.C.’s English, but
if Shaw ever had the misfortune to hear
most of our announcers he would write
a sequel to “The Black Girl in Search
of God” —that is, if he survived the
attack of apoplexy.
The usual type of B-class programme,
day and night, cannot escape the most
damning criticism from every thought-
ful listener, although the listeners do not
pay directly for the privilege of hearing
them as in the case of the A-class pro-
grammes. This criticism does not arise
from any conception of the programmes
as entertainment, but from the fact that
radio to-day is such a power; it is a
persistent voice drumming in the ears
of every man, woman and child, mould-
ing tastes in literature, music, drama,
politics and family relationships.
Surely these are questions for the
authorities: Does the man behind the
mike realise his responsibility? Do the
promoters of B-class stations realise
their obligations to the people? Have
any of them experience or qualifications
in such matters of speaking to the
people? They are entering the same
field as the press; how do they com-
pare with the high ideals and whole-
some traditions of the newspapers?
ALEXANDER LIPPMANN.
Steele
Rudd
Explains
Re Harold
M e r c e r (B.
20/2/’35), permit
me to say that
neither Alex.
Montgomery nor
anyone else cut my early writings down
to the farce.” My work appeared in
The Bulletin pretty well as I wrote it,
and as I meant it. I knew Alex. Mont-
gomery, who was not only an excellent
story-writer, but a gentleman good to
know. He was not, however, sub-editor
of The B. James Edmond was. J. F.
Archibald was in the chair, and J.F.A.
handled my “On Our Selection”
contributions. Rarely did he make
any alterations in them worth men-
tion, beyond throwing in a word
here and there or knocking one
out. If the original MSS, still
exist in the office they will show
this to be so. Fortunately, I still
hold a number of my original
copies. J.F.A. never in any way in-
terfered with my dialogue. When
it didn’t please he would return it
for alteration, and always with a
kindly note. In one of these notes
he says: “I don’t like making
material alterations to a writer’s
work without referring to him.” In
another: “See if you can improve
the ending. It’s not so good as
some of your others —and we’ve
now got to look after your repu-
tation.” In another: “He’s repeat-
ing himself, isn’t he? Suggest he
rewrite, leaving out that parson
joke.” This was an intimation to
A.G.S., then associate editor, who
sent it to me with a few friendly
hints of his own.
Most of my stuff in the “On Our
Selection” play came out of my
books “Back at Our Selection” and
“Sandy’s Selection,” neither of
which went through The Bulletin.
1 am sorry if the sending of the
Rudds to places overseas should
strain the tender threads of patriot-
ism in Harold Mercer and other noble-
browed Australian citizens of high degree
and give them pain ; but it is at least a
consummation I little dreamed of when
writing “On Our Selection,” etc., and
certainly never devoutly wished it.
STEELE RUDD.
Current
Artbursts
Daryl Lindsay’s
exhibition
of sketches of the
Russian Ballet at
Cynthia Reed’s,
Melbourne, sug-
gests a collection of studies by Degas.
It is difficult to draw ballet girls in
action and ballet girls in repose without
causing the shade of the capable
Frenchman to materialise ; but Lindsay’s
pictures indicate more than a study of
his work. That study has yielded results.
The sketches are, on the whole, excellent,
and there is not one which offends the
lover of dexterous line or correct anat-
omy. Those revealing action—some of it
violent—are splendidly poised and grace-
ful in form. The colored pictures are
brilliant and harmonious. Lindsay has
made big strides in his mastery of the
human form, and it is long since he has
exhibited any examples. For years he
has contented himself with landscape and
horses. His successful essay may lead
to something bigger. If he possesses the
family imagination, a composition as
earnestly produced as these sketches
should win him a place in Australian art
which he has not hitherto aspired to.


F or Genuine
SATISFACTION
It seems that only Scotsmen know
the secret of making whisky.
Tasting Vat 69 proves it. Glori-
ously mellow and smooth. Try it.
At all hotels. It costs no more.
It’s genuine Scotch. Say 69
in town. Serve 69 at home.
VAT 69
Pure \itqueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, Leith.
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
WNERSHIP !
Homes and farms, objects of
national pride and symbols of
progress. What a valuable, help-
ful part the Rural Bank . . . your
Bank ... is playing in their
development! Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that
by so doing they are enabling it
to increase its useful services.
Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all
sections of the community.
7he RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office;
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ds
c e
Now in its 93rd Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Obtainable from
, Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. O. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
-NOTICE-
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
LONDON'S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY & RESiDENTIAL HOTELS
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger lifts
Garages. Central heating. Hot and cold
running water. Exchange telephone and
gas Ares in all bedrooms. Bridge, Bil-
liards, Table Tennis and Dancing.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 guineas,
Double from 7 guineas. Bedroom, Bath
and Breakfast from 9/6. Telephone:
Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 31 guineas Single,
61 guineas Double. Bedroom. Bath and
Breakfast from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL
39-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, AV.2.
Telephone: Padd. 8022.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL
35-38 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Telephone; Padd : 9712.
Accommodation for 150 guests.
Hotels of refinement (adjacent to each
other), with young and cheerful society.
Delightful rooms arranged as bed-sitting
rooms. Owing to their popularity you
are advised to secure accommodation —if
possible —in advance. Terms: Single from
3 guineas. Double from 5 guineas. Bed-
room, Bath and Breakfast from 7/6.
The above Hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
* /
■y
fy
Monarch
Cigars
Craig sAitken
k Wholesale
Y Distributors
w Sydney N.SW
DIARY OF AN UNKNOWN
GRASSHOPPER
By
C.R.J.LAVERY
/AN. 1. —Our training is finished, and
so is most of the surrounding coun-
try. All the outlying squadrons
have assembled, and are busily en-
gaged fighting each other to pass away
the time.
A few of us slipped into Bourke yester-
day for an informal garden party. I
flew back with a piece of green pyjama
trailing from the undercarriage as a
souvenir.
Old Bottle Nose, who has been in every
stunt since 1930, is to be G.O.C. He
addressed the boys to-day and told us
we were to take the offensive to-morrow
—and that the more offensive we were
the better. He is a bit too heavy for
stunt flying, but has a reputation for
organisation and strategy.
Jan. 2. —Our mess to-night is a few
miles outside of Bourke, and what a mess
it is! We cleaned up a few grass pad-
docks to-day and drove the enemy to
cover. They weren’t prepared, and ex-
cept for a barrage of language we met
with little opposition.
I was in on the best stunt of the day—
an attack on a homestead with green
verandah posts. Six squadrons dived on
it at full throttle, and in about half a
minute had the verandah tottering. We
zoomed clear just as it fell in on the
owner, who was sitting at
a table writing. One of
the boys who took a
swipe at him said he was
writing to the “Sydney
Morning Herald” to ask
what the Government
was going to do about
the grasshopper menace.
To-morrow we will
attack Bourke. Old
Bottle Nose says it is an
Irish name, and that, con-
sequently, it should be full
of good green targets.
Made for the creek.
Jan. 5. —Well, we fixed Bourke. We
started on a few market gardens on the
outskirts at dawn, and mopped them up
systematically. Three Chinese took one
look at the result, and, despite their pre-
judice against dying in a foreign country,
jumped into the Darling. I suppose we d
left them no alternative. The only oppo-
sition came from an old Chow with a
muzzle-loading anti-aircraft gun. Some
of the boys got caught in an Archie
burst before we took the gun off him
and chased him into a wombat hole.
The citizens of Bourke were standing
to arms in the hotels when we arrived,
but they lacked organisation, and we had
the streets cleared in an hour. By 3 p.m.
the town was bereft of everything in the
way of green shutters, awnings, etc., and
we had made a start on the interior
fittings. -1 , . , , ,
I had a great go with an old bloke
wearing a green necktie. Whether it was
green by intent or age I am unable to
say, but I suspect the latter. I got him
cornered behind the courthouse, but
he had the tie protected by an apron of
whiskers, which he kept wagging to spoil
my aim. However, I nose-dived finally
at the sparse thatching on top of his
attic, and when he jerked back in self-
defence I did a half-roll and a loop, and
jerked off the tie. I left
him sobbing bitterly. He
must have thought a lot
of that tie, which was a
family heirloom by the
taste of it.
We bivouacked for
the night in the Botani-
cal Gardens, and took
the air next morning be-
fore dawn, our night in-
terceptor squadrons hav-
ing reported preparations
for an early-morning
raid by the fire brigade.
Some of the boys were a bit slow in
taking off and were annihilated, but
most of us got clear.
It was hot even at that hour, and
the fire brigade chief had turned out
without a coat. His green braces
were a conspicuous mark, and I led
my squadron down on him at full
pelt. We had his braces in a trice,
his pants slipped down over his under-
carriage, and he had to jump for it.
He got tangled in his harness and
landed in a pond. When we left he
was still there, waiting for the police
to clear the streets of women and
children so that he could get home. As
a result of his trousers falling down in
public he’ll never again be able to hold
up his head in the town.
Jan. 7. —Getting into better country
but the opposition is stiffening. One
farmer turned out his forces to-day with
shotguns, rifles and shanghais, but we
made a job of the place, and
left him with nothing but the
mortgage. There is talk of
the Government taking dras-
tic action against us, and it
is rumored that the New
Guard and the Labor De-
fence Army will take the field as allies.
The only thing holding up the alliance
is the question of leadership.
Jan. 8.— We attacked Nevertire to-day
in force, and if the inhabitants have never
been tired before I’ll bet they are to-
night. We haven’t even left them their
bedding.
Jan. 10. —Had my first real taste of
Behind closed blinds.
gas warfare to-
day, and don’t
like it. We’ve
struck patches of
the Government
stuff before, but
it was a tonic
compared with
to-day’s issue.
We struck a
little township
during the morn-
ing, but I don’t
know its name,
as the advance
guard had eaten
all the signposts
before we
arrived. Things
were going well until we reached the
cheese factory. We tried it from all
angles, but couldn’t break through in
any numbers. Those who did get through
the gas barrage were attacked by the
cheeses and never had a chance. The
cheeses fight on the least provocation,
even without a rum issue, and the
greener they get the more savage they
become.
Jan. 12. —The Government has decided
on drastic action at last, and is mobilis-
ing a Royal Commission to deal with
us on the spot. We’ll give them all the
evidence they want.
The high command is planning a big
stunt for Monday next. Details are being
kept very secret, only old Bottle Nose’s
lady friends and the camp followers
being in the know. Everybody is buzz-
ing with excitement, and our front is
being extended over three or four hun-
dred miles.
Jan. 13— It being Sunday we rested.
One of the boys who picked up a bit of
theology during the raid on the parson-
age at Nevertire volunteered to conduct a
service, which concluded with us all
rendering our favorite hymn “There Is a
Green Hill Far Away.”
Afterwards old Bottle Nose disclosed
his plan for to-morrow. It is a master
stroke. Being Monday it will be washing-
day throughout the State, and we should
make a proper clean-up. Zero hour will
be a bit later than usual to make sure
everything is on the lines before we
attack.
Jan. 14.— What a day! As a result of
our operations there is a belt of coun-
try 300 miles by 10 in which belts are
about the only wearing apparel intact.
Few of the inhabitants are sleeping
between sheets to-night, and many are
using chaff bags. Hundreds of them in
this sector haven’t even what they stood
up in this morning, having been foolish
enough to try to save their washing,
and been stripped themselves.
We succeeded in disorganising the re-
ligious, social and business life of this
district, and I doubt if there is a decent
surplice, shirt or frock within a radius
of five miles. The women are shelter-
ing behind drawn blinds, while the men
are out scouting for clothes, attired for
the most part in cornsacks. A pair of
pants even with the seat patched is
worth a fiver. (I heard the local bank
manager bargaining for a pair not long
ago so that he could open up the busi-
ness again in the morning.) The parson
paid ten bob to a small boy for a cellu-
loid collar (which the urchin had planted
after Sunday school yesterday) so that
he might be recognised by his flock when
he went abroad. Reports from some
localities state that the entire population


£
' f
%
I
ms
!i3
M
■..
AND
UNION
For the King s Jubilee.
Fortnightly Sailings •
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne
ROYAL MAIL LINES
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., Nortli
Terrace, Adelaide.
THE BOOKS OF THE DAY—
serious, humorous, descriptive, biographical—
are reviewed by experts in the Literary Pages
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
See “The Australasian” also for Short Stories,
Literary Notes and an Interesting Literary
Questionnaire.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
V
L
.sCbtiy
4- -«»"A - "A "y
MCI
SJedricf^ange,
✓
VITH THE WONDERFUL OVEN" C
-"s* the "Max Power'Switch
and
McCIARY’S NEW ELECTBIC COOKERS
Embody Latest in Electrical Practice
These new models are electrically right. The boiling top has
the new enclosed “Max Speed Elements” which heat up
quickly and are safe and economical. The boiling plate is
generous in size and has ample room for pots, kettle, frying-
pan, etc.
The oven has two inches of insulation to keep heat in and
cold out. It is lined with porcelain enamel for easy cleaning.
Finish is grey and white enamel with white or black enamel
furnishings,
Footcups on legs save linoleum; and vapor arrester helps to
keep walls clean.
Rapid Dependable Smart Economical
For homes or flats Cali and inspect
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY., LTD
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
has adopted nude culture as the only
way out, though the missionary societies
are diverting supplies of old clothes from
the Pacific Islands to the distressed areas.
I had great sport with my squadron
taking a green bathing-costume off the
Mayor. He had lost everything else try-
ing to save the family wash, and he
fought hard. He made a break for the
creek, but we headed him off, and cor-
nered him finally in the Council Cham-
bers. He tried to read the Riot Act to
us, but we overwhelmed and stripped
him. We left him moaning pitifully and
trying to make himself respectable with
the rabbit-skin mayoral robes, which
were too impregnated with moth-balls
for us to tackle.
Jan. 19. —Our victory last Monday has
stirred the Government up. It has
declared us noxious animals, and the sit-
tings of the Royal Commission are being
speeded up in the hope that it may be
able to hatch out a plan of counter-
attack before Easter.
Have been doing a bit of lone flying
the last day or so, things being quiet, and
got into a decent dogfight at a station
Attacked by the cheeses.
near here yesterday. I spotted the
station-owner’s wife out with her pet
poodle, and, after manoeuvring a bit, sat
on his tail and gave him a go for the
pretty ribbon around his neck. He kept
twisting and turning, but I hung on to
him, and got what I wanted finally by
doing an Immelmann turn. His escort
attacked me, but I lifted her fabric with
a few well-directed bursts and sent her
home in disorder.
Jan. 21. —Appeared before the Royal
Commission on Grasshoppers to-day, but
was immediately treated as a hostile , wit-
ness. We had left the Commission alone
purposely for a day or two, and caught
it unprepared. I’ve still got the taste of
horse-hair in my mouth.
I led my crowd down on a collection
of green-backed volumes piled in front
of an old gent, sitting on a perch at one
end of the room. In two minutes we
had digested the whole range of British
law from the Gout Act of Alfred
the Great to the Statute of Westminster.
Everything was in our favor. A big
K.C. went down out of control in the
doorway, and the rest of the Commis-
sion piled up on him, which gave us a
splendid chance to riddle them from the
rear. After hurriedly chewing over the
typescript of the evidence given before
the Commission we chased its members
off the premises.
They endeavored to carry on in a dug-
out under the local pub, but we waited
until the door was opened to admit an
orderly with spare clothes and rushed
them. Most of them were in tatters,
but we showed no mercy. We routed
the chairman out of an empty cask and
stripped him of the last vestiges of dig-
nity and decency. To-night the Commis-
sioners left in cars with drawn blinds for
Sydney. I suppose they’ll be court-
martialled and lose their commissions.
Jan. 26. —Things have taken a disas-
trous turn. Old Bottle Nose, the G.0.C.,
browsed through a Life of Napoleon in
one of the Schools of Art we looted out
west, and got carried away by ideas of
world conquest. There’s a rumor also
that he polished off a bottle of green
Chartreuse which he found in the dug-
out where the Royal Commission made
its last stand.'
Anyway, he has succeeded in smash-
ing the corps. Yesterday morning he
issued orders for an attack in force east-
ward, and we were in the air before
dawn. We hit our objective at full speed
—to discover that it was the Blue Moun-
tains we were up against. Old Bottle
Nose, full of megalomsfnia and green
Chartreuse, had mistaken the color,
I managed to zoom up in time, but
most of the boys went smash. I tried
to reorganise the remnants, but all my
signals in Morse got distorted through
bouncing off Echo Point, and I had to
content myself with a bit of ground
strafing among the tourists. I partly
stripped one old chap in front of the
Three Sisters, who must have complained
to the police, because I saw him being
led away shortly afterwards. I’ll have
to lie low for a while. It’s a case now
of the survival of the flittest
Jan. 31. —Things have worked out
better than I expected. I slipped down
to Sydney a couple of days ago, and am
staying with some very nice people at
Potts Point. They’ve got no prejudice
against grasshoppers. In fact, they think
I’m “just too cute.” They gave me let-
tuce for tea last night, but to avoid un-
pleasantness I’m having most of my meals
out.
I devour all the news about the doings
of the boys out west, and as soon as
things are reorganised there I’ll rejoin
them.
I see that the Minister of Agriculture
is talking of visiting the devastated areas
by special trains. Maybe I’ll sneak a j
lift with him.
A Drama of Early Australia:-
THE MARBLE BATH
By-J.H.M. ABBOTT.
“Oh, my God!” she gasped — “ George! Oh,
my God!” when she saw the profile of the
man with the torn and lacerated bloody back
from the point of view into which her husband
had conducted the party of sightseers. She
pulled a lace handkerchief from her pocket,
hid her face in it and, with a little choking
sob, fled out of the shed.
THE tall, good-looking young man
who stood before Captain Duclos’s
table had gone a little pale. He
touched his brow sullenly with a horny
forefinger, and turned towards the door.
Then he suddenly wheeled about, and
faced his master again.
“Sir” —he spoke rapidly and nervously
—“l’ve never been flogged before. Tis
but spite on Mr. Delaney’s part.”
“Sergeant-major! ” bellowed Captain
Duclos, all his suavity vanished—“l mean,
Mr. Delaney. What the devil is this?
March this fellow out immediately. As
for you, prisoner, I will request the
Bench to give you a hundred lashes. That
will teach you not to answer back.”
He sat back in his chair, and glared
malevolently at the disappearing back of
both of them as Mr. Overseer Delaney
hustled the convict servant through the
door.
“Y’ see what ye’ve done,” growled
Delaney as the two walked down the
garden path. “By Jasus, I’ll larn ye, too.
Ye’ll go to th’ mill.”
The mill was an intelligent anticipa-
tion of that future plaything of the Eng-
fish penal system, the treadmill, which
Captain Duclos had invented himself,
by means of which the maize for the
prisoners’ rations was ground daily by
two of the hundred and twenty
assigned servants whom an indulgent
Government allotted to its owner for the
efficient management of that model
station on the Hunter River known to
authority as St. Michael’s Hill. From
(Continued on next page .)


'4*^
m
v
m
m
Q
4
■
0
■/
icf
' /:
OE
vA
\/°
SiA
.15
o
A
$
|P-
o
3
y
03
•>s
A ■■
A,/
o
0
o
m
a
■
o
Hi
-A
o
m
<0
o
I
H
A
o
n
4
D.
:
sunrise to sunset, the pair trod the re-
volving boards of the wooden wheel that
moved the heavy stone ponderously
round in the circular groove worn in a
huge flat block of sandstone wherein
were crushed the golden grains.
Stripped to the waist, the two convicts
who supplied the motive power were
handcuffed to and gripped a wooden bar
above it, and stepped on each turning
stair as it passed downward. The in-
genious provision of a protruding peg on
the circumference of the wheel jangled a
cowbell suspended over it, once for evsry
revolution, and behind the men stood an
acting-sub-overseer, who was chosen for
the position because he was, for his sins
of commission and omission, reckoned
the next worst man on the station. It
was his duty to keep the men up to a
set standard of revolutions per minute.
This he checked by means of a three-
minute hour glass, of the pattern patron-
ised by Father Time, and the periodic
ringing of the cowbell. In his right hand
he gripped a short whip, with which, if
the machine slowed down, it was his duty
to stimulate the prancing convicts to
further effort. The most devilishly in-
genious thing about the business was the
fact that, if he turned out a certain quan-
tity of meal in a fortnight, he might
escape the mill himself. If he did not
do so, he took the place of one of the
men, who then assumed the office of
“driver,” as it was called —with, inevit-
ably, disastrous results to the hide of the
recent occupant of that comparatively
easy billet.
ACCOMPANIED by his efficient adju-
tant, Mr. Delaney, and his hand-
some wife. Captain Duclos was showing
Mr. Humphrey Tregellis, of Hobart
Town, and his lady oyer such of the
enterprises of his establishment as were
carried on near the homestead. Mrs.
Tregellis, a dainty little woman of the
pink-and-white-with-golden-hair species
of refined femininity, had been charmed
with all the arrangements for its economi-
cal working, which had earned for St.
Michael’s a reputation that even ex-
tended to Van Diemen’s Land. Her hus-
band was quite enthusiastic.
“A perfect model of a station, my dear
Duclos,” he was saying as they walked
back from the tannery through the
orchard. “I have never seen anything
quite so good. Is it not splendid, my
dear?” he asked his wife.
“Oh, truly perfect, James, my love.
Utterly charming. Do you know, Mrs.
Duclos, it quite reminds me of the way
things are done on Tasman’s Peninsula.
At Port Arthur, you know. Quite. Such
useful things you make your servants
do! And such system. I am sure that
even dear Colonel Arthur himself could
not have devised anything better. And
it must be so good for the prisoners to be
employed so usefully! We have to keep
their welfare in view, haven’t we? Really,
Mrs. Duclos, you must be proud of your
husband’s excellent arrangements!”
“Oh, very,” responded that resplendent
beauty languidly. “William is noted for
his administrative capacity. You should
have seen the Buffs whilst he was adju-
tant. Never so well turned out, before or
since, I believe. Everybody used to
say so.” (She did not mention that the
Buffs knew him as “Bloody Bill.”)
‘Well —now I’ll show you the mill,
Mrs. Tregellis,” announced the proud
proprietor of all this perfection as they
came through the gate leading from the
big orchard into the homestead garden.
“One of the best things I’ve been able to
devise here. Quite a useful institution.
We grind all our own corn for the
prisoners’ rations, and make quite a tidy
little income out of it beside. Although
I say so myself, I don’t think that any-
thing quite so useful or economic is em-
ployed on any other run in New South
Wales. The mill really pays every penny
of the cost of feeding these brutes even
allowing for the meat ration. Oh, I beg
your pardon, Mrs. Tregellis, perhaps 1
shouldn’t have alluded to ’em as brutes
though, indeed, many of ’em are far
more brutal, and deserve less considera-
tion, than beasts.”
“Pray, why does that cattle-bell ring
so continuously, Captain Duclos?” asked
Mrs. Tregellis as they passed round the
end of the house. “I’ve been hearing
it ever since I woke this morning. It
never seems to cease.”
“Only for half an hour at noon, my
dear madam,” Captain Duclos laughed
genially. “But you will see what it is in
a moment or two. ’Tis part of the mill.
Another little notion of my own for
keeping the work up to the mark. That’s
the mill. Delaney, I needn’t detain you
any longer. See about that hay.”
He pointed to a slab shed, roofed with
sheets o’f bark, that lay some fifty yards
behind the walled-in back premises of
the homestead.
Presently they came to the door of
the shed. Captain Duclos led the way
inside.
“Carry on, men —carry on!” he com-
manded good-humoredly. “Pray come
over here, Mrs, Duclos —all of you. A
better view. You can see how it works
from over here.”
Mrs. Duclos’s sudden exclamation of
shocked astonishment was most unex-
pected.
“Oh, my God! ” she gasped— “ George!
Oh, my God! ” when she saw the profile
of the man with the torn and lacerated
bloody back from the point of view into
which her husband had conducted the
party of sightseers. She pulled a lace
handkerchief from her pocket, hid her
face in it and, with a little choking sob,
fled out of the shed.
Alarmed for her sudden weakness, they
followed her quickly outside, and saw
her hurrying to the house.
“A moment, pray. Excuse me for a
moment, Mrs. Tregellis—Tregellis, pray,”
cried the astonished Captain Duclos as
he ran after her.
They saw him catch her up, and speak
with her briefly and solicitously. Then
she hurried on to the verandah of the
house, and he came back to them. Very
much relieved he seemed to be to dainty
little Mrs. Tregellis as he rejoined them.
“How fond he is of her!” she re-
marked sweetly to Mr. Tregellis. “What
a devoted husband! Quite idyllic! But,
James—l wonder why she called out
George. Captain Duclos’s name is Wil-
liam, isn’t if?”
All apologies, the owner of St.
Michael’s rejoined them.
“I’m so sorry,” he gasped. “I think
the heat has somewhat upset my wife.
Dear me —most unfortunate!”
“Perhaps the sight of that man’s
back?” observed Mr. Tregellis.
Captain Duclos scouted the idea.
“Pooh, pooh—no! Why, when she
came here first she insisted on accom-
panying me one day to see a man
flogged. Two hundred lashes—and she
never turned a hair. No —’tis the heat
has overcome her. In a delicate state
of health, you know.” He smiled slyly
at blushing Mrs. Tregellis. “We are all
married people—we understand these
things, don’t we? She’s gone to lie down.
She’ll be all right. I’ve advised her to
have a hot bath. I must show you the
bath afterwards. Quite a curiosity in
these parts. Well, now, let’s get back
to the mill —I want to explain it to you
both. Most useful thing on the place.”
“Perhaps I had better go to Mrs.
Duclos!” suggested pretty Fanny Tre-
gellis.
“No, no —not at all, dear lady. Phyllis
herself insists that you will take no notice
of her temporary indisposition. Quite
incidental, you know —you understand?
Yes. She told me to tell you to be sure
to see everything —and not to hurry over
it. Come —we’ll go back to the mill.
Then I’ll show you the piggeries and the
bacon factory. And one or two other
things afterwards. No hurry —not the
least necessity for hurry. Come along—
do!”
ii VOU see,” said Captain Duclos, an
1 hour and a half later, as they took
a glass of sherry and a biscuit in his
study, “I was a little puzzled as to what
I’d give Phyllis for a wedding present. I
didn’t want to do the hackneyed thing,
you know —jewellery or dresses, or any-
thing commonplace and ordinary. Wanted
something that’d suit her—er—more in-
timate personal tastes, you know. And
then, one day, I had a bright idea—a
devil of a bright idea. I beg your pardon,
Mrs. Tregellis. Bad army habit, swear-
ing. Apologies, I’m sure. You know,
my dear wife has a perfect mania for
bathing—always was like that, from when
she was a little girl, her mother told me
once. So I conceived the notion of pro-
viding her, here, with the best possible
sort of bath procurable. I travelled
through Italy once, before I came to
New South Wales, and noted how those
old Roman fellows used to specialise in
bathing arrangements —the most notable
of all their luxuries, you know. Well,
there was plenty of time, as we were
not to be married until this place was
completed. It took eighteen months to
build, you know. So I sent to Carrara
for a solid block of white marble-
twelve feet by eight, and five feet thick
and had it shipped to Sydney. There I
had it carved out into what. I’m sure
you’ll agree, must be one of the finest
baths to be seen anywhere. Nothing in
Australia like it, at any rate. A beauti-
ful piece of work. By George, you
should have seen her face when she saw
it! Nothing in the way of a wedding
present could have pleased her better,.'
Simply enraptured with it. She is still
Enraptured.”
“Oh you must be a nice husband to
have!” laughed Mrs. Tregellis. “But how
is she now, Captain Duclos? Better, I
hope. Hadn’t I better go and see her.
“Oh, no—not at all. Best left undis-
turbed. I’ll look into her room presently,
after I’ve shown you the bath. Well,
now —do you know what she does with
it? You’ll never guess —never?”
“Pray tell us,” murmured Mr. Tre-
gellis with interest. ..
“Oh, do —dear Captain Duclos,
echoed his little wife.
“Well, once a month—you know, wc
have plenty of cows here, and oceans of
milk. You’ve seen the cheese factory
Once a month she has it filled with milk-
and has a bath in milk, fresh from tie
dairy. Extravagant, eh? Oh, weiu
perhaps. But there is only one Phyllis
you know. Nothing too good tor net.
and all that. Nothing but the best. ThanK


Hyd
Park
m
Barracks
w
HACQuaric
m
"V
"'IB
e®
nf"
m
if®
5S5=5V
pr!?n|
7^
The old Hyde Park Barracks, situated at
the top of King Street, Sydney, and now
occupied by the District Court, is one of
the few surviving buildings of early
Sydney.
This building was erected in 1817 during
the term of Governor Macquarie, and the
same year saw the establishment of the
Bank of New South Wales as a result
of a meeting of citizens called by the
Governor.
In the 118 years since its establishment,
the Bank has played an important part in
the development of all the Australian
States, New Zealand and the Pacific
Islands, and in these territories has estab-
lished over 720 branches.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of
Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 8.
111c
iii
S 5?
si
m
mmm
vtvSA-Xv?
mmmm
wmmm
mmmmm
mm**
mm
mmmm
»SS*
"The
Battery is flat-
you should fit
a Willard!”
So*
Sound advice! He knows that Willards
are uniformly dependable—that, fitting
a Willard means months and miles of
uninterrupted satisfaction!
Outside, Willard looks like any other
battery it’s very different inside!
Willard quality is hidden in the case
—in plates, oxides, separators, there’s
flawless material and workmanship.
Willard
SEE
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
God, I can afford it. She may have it.
Every week, if she wishes to. But she
won’t do that. Too much, she says—
too costly.”
Mrs. Tregellis positively squealed with
delight.
“Oh—but you are a perfect dear, Cap-
tain Dados. You needn’t be jealous,
James. I say he is! Perfectly charming.
Oh, exquisite! Fancy! Bathing in milk.
It must be delightful.”
“Oh, rather,” agreed Mr. Tregellis.
“But a bit wasteful—hey, Duclos? To
throw all that milk away—what?”
“Oh, no —not at all,” Captain Duclos
replied triumphantly. “Not at all. We
give it to the prisoners. Nothing’s ever
wasted on St. Michael’s. They’re quite
glad to have it, you know. Drink it?
Rather. And use it with their hominy.
And their cook mixes it up in the bread.
Oh, they’re glad to have it, I can tell
you. Rather! ”
“Of course—l should think they would.
Quite a luxury,” murmured Mrs. Tre-
gellis, a little dubiously.
“Tell you what, Mrs. Tregellis,” said
Captain Duclos gallantly and generously,
beaming upon the pretty little lady. “I’ll
tell you what. You shall have one, too—
before you go. Oh, not at all. No
thanks, please. Pleasure. Delighted.
What about you, Tregellis?”
“Oh ; you’re a perfect angel, Captain
Duclos. But I don’t think James would
appreciate such a luxury. Perhaps if
you were to offer him a bath in beer, he
might.”
Ha, ha! Very good, Mrs. Tregellis.
Well, come along—we’ll go and see it.
This way, please.”
He led them out into a corridor.
Half way along it, he paused outside
a closed door. “I think, p’raps, I’d better
look in and see how my wife is. Her
bedroom, you know. Just a moment, if
you’ll excuse me. Just a moment.”
All her long life Mrs. Tregellis remem-
bered that minute in the passage—its
silence haunted her as the grimmest recol-
lection that ever came into her placid
existence. She and her husband stood
there waiting, and did not speak. And
then she remembered the door opening
slowly, and Captain Duclos standing
there, gasping, and deadly white. He
held a crumpled sheet of notepaper in
his hand. Afterwards they knew what
was written on it, in Mrs. Duclos’s fine,
angular caligraphy.
For long, tense moments he glared at
his two visitors, with a face that was
like a madman’s. Then he walked
stumblingly past them, without a word,
down the corridor to another door. He
tried the handle of it clumsily, and, find-
ing it unlocked, went in.
There was another awful silence—for
ten seconds that seemed like ten minutes.
Then, shrieking and raving, Captain
Duclos staggered out of the bathroom,
started towards them, gesticulating wildly
and crumpled up unconscious on the
floor. The paper fluttered out of his
hand as it unclenched itself.
“Great heavens!” gasped Mr. Tre-
gellis, picking up the paper and reading
it, mechanically, aloud. “What can have
happened!”
This is what Mrs. Duclos had written:
You infernal devil—to flog that man.
You have beaten me when you lashed
him. He was worth a dozen of you, and
I loved him. I have been unfaithful with
him—and I glory in it. I believe you
flogged him partly because I told you he
had not saluted me the other day. That
was but to blind you. But look in the
bath, and see what you will find. My poor
George Carmichael. It was my fault.
Oh, God forgive me. Look in the bath,
you devil. —P. Duclos.
Fearfully, Mr. Tregellis tiptoed to the
bathroom and peeped in. In a crimson
tide of blood and water floated the
beautiful body of Mrs. William Duclos
—her throat cut from ear to ear. On
the side of the great block of marble lay
one of her husband’s razors—open.
THE marble bath is still to be seen in
* the old homestead at St. Michael’s. It
is back in the bathroom now, and the
present owners of the farm—the wide
run has long been “closer settled”—bathe
in it daily. But for fifty years—old Cap-
tain Duclos died in 1887—it was used as
a trough in the piggery.
My Political
Life
By W. A. HOLMAN
PREMIERS’
CONFERENCE
I m m e d i a t ely
upon the close of
this session we
had a Premiers’
Conference in Melbourne. Watt pre-
sided, and made a marked impression on
us all.
We managed to work in a conference
of the three States interested concerning
conserving the Murray waters.
The meeting at which this matter was
to be dealt with was held on a Saturday
afternoon. The majority of the delegates
had fled to the mountains, and those who
remained, including Watt and myself,
were wearied beyond expression by the
experiences of the week —much more by
the social than by the political stresses
to which we had been subjected. I found
myself suffering from a rending head-
ache.
Under these conditions we were sub-
jected to nearly three hours of reitera-
tion of the claims of South Australia by
ohe of her leading citizens, Glynn, till
recently the Attorney-General of the
Commonwealth, a man of most eloquent
and comprehensive mind, but not always
entirely alive to the appropriateness of
moments. At five o’clock the tension
became too great. I managed to lose
my temper.
JOSEPH COOK
INTERVENES
My outburst,
however indefens-
ible in itself, had
result, that it dried up the spring of
Glynn’s oratory, and gave a chance
for the intervention of the Prime
Minister. He offered to contribute
a million out of Commonwealth funds
to make up the bulk of the cost
of the South Australian locks if New
South Wales and Victoria would share
the remaining cost between them. Thanks
to this we managed to wind up in com-
plete unanimity, and with the unsolvable
of 20 years solved. This feat of con-
structive statesmanship owed more, I am
convinced, to my nervous headache and
consequent offensiveness than to any
other factor.
. I mention it now without compunc-
tion ; I know that I have long since been
forgiven.
MAWSON
I had about
the same time
some interesting
dealings with another distinguished citi-
zen of South Australia. Sir Douglas
Mawson was at this time completing his
arrangements for his visit to the Antarc-
tic. He had been given a certain measure
ot support from his own State, and the
Commonwealth had done something fur-
ther to eke out his resources and those of
his friends who were backing the venture,
but he was still short by a substantial
amount of the sum considered necessary.
In these circumstances he called on me
and made the suggestion that N.S.W.
should provide the balance needed in
return for the copyright in the scientific
memoirs which he was to produce and
the natural history and other specimens
which he was to bring back. It took
me less than five minutes to determine
to accede to these proposals.
I agreed to find the sum still needed
and to arrange for the printing and pro-
duction of the records. The expedition,
which even at the moment was hanging
fire, became a certainty, and later
proved highly successful. The State
secured an enormous accession of valu-
able scientific material, including all the
original journals of the expedition, a
most valuable group of its relics, and’the
whole of the biological and geological
collections.
THE CHINNERY
CASE
An incident
affecting police
discipline which
happened at this
time put the organisation of our party
to a severe test.
The facts as proved at the trial were
these: A man named Chinnery was
o Continued on next page)


f
THE GREAT
AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
By
BRIAN FENTON
Third Edition Now in Print.
Brian Penton, one of Australia’s'best known feature-writers and a journalist
of international repute, has written something entirely new in Australian
literature something different. 'ln “Landtakers the author achieves wha
others have attempted but never attained—the tracing up from its roots of
that hitherto elusive thing, the Australian national character.
“Landtakers” grips the imagination from the very first page. Its literary
quality is maintained throughout—beautiful prose is characteristic of the
book, no matter what scene or mood is being portrayed. In fierce or
violent action and in gentle passages the language - is always appropriate
and never ceases to reflect true literary craftsmanship.
This brilliant novel deals with the tyranny of the past and the hope of the
future It takes a man whose character is sensitive to environment, an
Englishman who hates this new country, and who fights irritably against
its gradual possessing hold. Here is Australian tradition in the making,
graphic description of what the country had the power to do to those from
whom we have sprung. “Landtakers” is the outstanding Australian novel
it will be talked about, written about and argued about. Lodge your
order now with your nearest bookseller and enjoy this splendid book.
“Landtakers,” by Brian Penton. A novel of 500 pages, on sale at all
booksellers, or direct from the publishers, The Endeavour Press, 252 George
Street, Sydney, price 7/6 (postage, 6d. extra).
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin”' for 18 years, his son. H. K Prior*
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the b H. fnox
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months .thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together wi
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by'the trustees.
Any bona-fide-Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand o, British South Pacific i.l.nd. will be eligible to enter, lor
the competition, novel, which must be the original work of the entr.n and
previously uupubli.hed, either wholly or in part, m book or .er.al form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a non, de plume, and the true name a
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed enve ope.
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections ,will : be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other, matters arising out of the contest.
Tho trustee, whose address i 5,252 George-.tre.t, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold tho prize if no novel submitted is, m the op.mon of
judges, worthy of an award.
arrested for some form of disorderly
conduct and conveyed to one of the
Sydney lock-ups. He had been accom-
panied by a friend, who left him there
for the purpose of obtaining bail. Both
of these men were of respectable stand-
ing, though Chinnery was apparently
somewhat given to displays of violence.
The friend returned to the lock-up
after a short period to report the result
of his efforts to obtain bail, was admitted
to see Chinnery and found him altered
almost beyond recognition. He was
badly bruised, his face was streaming
with blood, and it was apparent that he
had in the interval been the subject of
violent handling. His own story was
that during his brief incarceration he
had been assaulted by certain constables,
and these men were afterwards put on
trial for this offence and convicted.
So far the whole matter seemed quite
free from any risk of political conse-
quences. Apparently, however, the con-
victed men had some mysterious political
influence. After the jury trial a meeting
to protest against the conviction was held
by police officers and presided over by
one of the senior detectives. The two
convicted men had been dismissed from
the force.
Pressure was now brought to bear
upon the Government, much of it by men
who should have known better, to obtain
reinstatement for these men and the re-
opening of the question of their guilt.
POLICE
TREATMENT OF
PRISONERS
I do not deny
that the incident
filled me with un-
easiness. That in-
dividuals among
the police should
occasionally handle with some sever-
ity a person who resists, and particu-
larly a prisoner who has a reputation as
a fighter, is, of course, not to' be ‘ won-
dered at, and, although such incidents
would have been severely dealt with on
proof, no police force, I imagine, can
hope to be entirely immune from them.
But the assaulting of men after they
have been successfully landed in the .cells
and the backing of the assaulters by the
police at an organised meeting were
new and alarming things which I was
not prepared to stand by.
I made it clear to the various members
that waited upon me, all supporters, that
there would be absolutely no interven-
tion by the Government on the part of
the convicted men. .
“This country,” I said, “wants a Labor
Government very badly, but it wants an
honest police force still more, and if
the only way. to maintain a Labor Gov-
ernment in power is at the expense of
getting a corrupt police force, then the
Labor Government had better go. If
you want a force which clubs citizens
over the head when they are in the lock-
up because it relies on political protec-
tion afterwards you will have to get rid
of this Government first. This Govern-
ment will not interfere in their favor.”
I was much attacked for this, and, as
I have said, by some men who ought to
have known much better, but I adhered
to it.
I called up the chairman and other
ringleaders of the meeting. At an inter-
view at which the newly-appointed Chief
was present I told them quietly that,
criticising the decision of the Courts was
beyond the scope of police activity ; that
where men were convicted of offences
they ceased to be police officers, and that
the claims of comradeship had then to
cease also. I made it clear that I should
consider any repetition of these steps as
an act of definite insubordination to be
followed by immediate dismissal with
disgrace.
I think these measures nipped in the
bud certain dangerous tendencies, as did
also Mitchell’s permanent appointment
somewhat later; and the comparatively
high level of efficiency and discipline
which the force has achieved in N.S.W,
may be in some degree attributed
to the steady stand taken by the Gov-
ernment on these occasions.
WORK IN THE
PREMIER'S OFFICE
I made every
effort to start my
day punctually at;
nine. It was not
always possible to do this — e.g., after*
an all-night sitting—but it was a rule
which I achieved nine times out of ten.
The first hour, I insisted, is the all-
important one. There were many things*
which if not decided then could not be
decided until the same hour next day
—there is no breathing-space after 10
o’clock. • ' ' !
On arrival I would find extracts from
the morning papers'awaiting me. These
often called, for some comment in the;
evening, press. This was generally the
first business in time (though not neces-
sarily hr importance), and would be met
by either- arranging for reply by the:
proper officers or by dictation to a short-
hand writer. ■ '
There would be almost immediately,
calls from colleagues who wanted
interviews on urgent matters, and I
almost always had arrangements to initi-;
ate with them.. My private secretaries
would have prepared a programme of
engagements, for the day and a selection
from my correspondence (which neces-.
sarily went straight to them) of matters
needing personal direction,
I found it essential to keep one of the
precis writers on *my r staff engaged in
reducing * to manageable proportions the*
flood of information \yhich came roll-'
ing in upon me. This gentleman was
known, I discovered, as “The Boiler.” ;
INTERVIEWS
To get these
things attended to;
before 10 meant
very intense hard-driving, and my. per-;
sohal staff always greeted with relief the
arrival of official business. This iwould;
include interviews with the evening press,;
with members of Parliament (a few),
with colleagues and officers over matters!
which had been set down for discussion
during the working day, and the reading!
■of<papers and reports which were in the;
same category. The Cabinet agenda
sheet had to be drawn up. (This was a,
matter of almost daily consideration.)
I found that it was essential that I should
get some preliminary understanding of
every matter which colleagues wished to
submit to Cabinet, and this involved a
large amount of reading and confer-
ence. The preparation of bills, too, was
a matter which went on continually,
though this was not a daily task.
IN CABINET
Apart from all
these things, how-
ever, Cabinet is
the Premier’s principal official field of
duty. Theoretically, his presidency there
is , a more important and critical part of
his work than the actual leadership of
Parliament. In fact, if work is to be
done in Parliament successful handling
of its Cabinet stages is essential.
His main function here 1 is to determine
what questions shall be discussed in Cabi-
net at any given sitting. This seems a
serious understatement. The choice, of
subjects would appear a simple matter.
But this is by no means so. The, stating
of the questions is really a far more im-
portant matter than the answering of
them.
Once stated, questions will to some
extent answer themselves — i.e., any-body
of intelligent men will come to a
fairly reasonable decision upon them.
Nothing is easier, for a competent mind
than to contribute to the solution of a
problem which has once been fairly
posed upon the business table. But
nothing is more difficult than out of the
ten thousand matters that might be so
posed for discussion to pick the six or
eight that must be discussed and settled
at once.
Unless the Premier is continually upon
the alert important questions will never
be stated to Cabinet at all. The
ease with which a dozen hardened public
men will - eat nip a morning in the dis-
cussion of the first item on the business-
sheet has to be experienced, to be under-
stood. One crisis after another . will
arrive without Ministers having ex-
changed ideas or reached any ■ collective
conclusion unless the Premier continu-
ally warns them of their approach.
This, I may fairly claim, happened rarely
during my time. No doubt we frequently
went wrong, but we were hardly ever
caught napping. I took as my motto:
“Let me write the country’s agenda
papers and I care not who makes the
country’s laws,” and I made it part of
my business almost every day to con-
sider what was to be dealt with at next
Cabinet.
A TOUCH OF
RED-TAPE
When I shifted
over into the
Premier’s office I
found that letters
addressed by the Government to the
Governments of other. States would re-
ceive an answer after ' a reasonable
amount of official* delay, but letters
addressed to the Commonwealth were,
broadly speaking, never answered at all.
As against this,’ every now and again
some bolder spirit in one of the Federal
departments would wake up and com-
mence a correspondence with us about
some subject in which the Common-
wealth had, or was supposed to have, an
interest. In a certain number of cases
this correspondence had been neglected
at our end.' The result was that, although
we had a vast number of grievances
against the Commonwealth, it could
adduce a few on our part of neglect to
deal with correspondence.
I called for a list of the whole of the
matters which were at that time the sub-
ject of current correspondence between
the Commonwealth and ourselves, and
found that in eight or ten cases we were
in default. I had those cases looked into
■at once, our position defined and an
appropriate letter written. We were then
in default nowhere, and I took care that
we did not become so again.
This having been achieved, I began a
.systematic bombardment on all the
matters on which we had not heard from
the Commonwealth. One of the officers
of my department, with the soul of an
American correspondence clerk, devised
a follow-up system by which the unfor-
tunate wretches in the Melbourne office
were reminded once a month that we were
still awaiting a reply to our letter of so-
and-so upon the matter above indicated.
.These reminders had no effect; but their
appeal at some of the inter-State con-
ferences at which Commonwealth and
other Ministers were present was quite
electrical.
Hay, my indefatigable chief-of-staff,
would produce the file of correspondence
and solemnly read it to the assembled
delegates:- “The Commonwealth was
written to on this subject in January
last year, 15 months ago. On February 1
we received a letter acknowledging
receipt, stating that the matter would
be dealt with shortly. On March 3we
wrote stating that no reply had yet
come to hand. On April 3 we wrote
again to the same effect. On May 4
we wrote again. In June, July, August,
September, October, November and
December we wrote to the same effect.
No reply was received to those letters,
and this year we wrote again in January,
February, March and April. There are
now 15 letters waiting reply.”
Even the chilled-steel contempt for
all ordinary amenities of a Federal
Minister or the still-more-hardened
effrontery of Federal officialdom hardly
bore up against efficiency of this kind.
NORFOLK ISLAND
An interesting
incident was the
handing over of
the administration of Norfolk Island to
the Commonwealth.
Few of the minor episodes in Imperial
history border so closely upon the in-
credible as the Bounty mutiny and its
consequences. Whether one takes as the
central feature of the narrative the un-
rivalled hardihood of the deposed cap-
tain and his associates or the fantastic
experiences of the mutinous crew on
Pitcairn Island with their Tahitian brides
and their Sunday-school atmosphere the
story reeks of the marvellous.
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given m next week’s Bulletin.]


. • ..
• ■
;
1
i
*35
■:••• V-
S/.
w
-s>
m
If
y
Ife
&
&J
/
///
/h
Life is splendid fun when you
are fit. You fee I happy and want
others to be happy also. On the
other hand, the person with a
sluggish liver and a system
poisoned through constipation is
generally sick and tired of every-
thing, thus showing how the condi-
tion of the liver, which plays an
important part in regulating the
bowels, influences one’s outlook on
life.
As a medicine for stirring the liver and regulating
the bowels, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are held in
the highest regard by thousands who have used them
with the utmost satisfaction.
Dr. Morse's
1)1(1
i
tmLiver
dsf
They Make You Feel Brighter
dsf
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms.
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness,
and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing is done to alleviate the
distress. The symptoms of this disease are
somewhat variable, but generally they are
so characteristic that no mother need have
any doubt. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the
child is such as to cause the .slightest
suspicion, a careful watch will give ample
proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents of
the bowels, generally occasion pain or
uneasiness in the abdomen, sometimes
spasmodic, sometimes gnawing and bit-
ing, and not infrequently of a vague,
indescribable character, and yet very dis-
tressing. Sympathetic with this is a
sensation of itching at the nostrils, pro-
ducing a disposition to pick the nose,
which is characteristic of the affection.
The bowels are often disordered, some-
times relaxed, as in dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable ; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving
or depraved, one condition not infre-
quently alternating with another. The
abdomen is often hard, swollen and tym-
panetic, the breath heavy or foetid, and
tongue furred, with disagreeable taste,
and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils,
and disposition to grind the teeth during
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
NEW PACK
4°c
m
2/.
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms, which
infest the intestines. They contain specific
properties which destroy the worms but
cause no injury to the stomach or bowels,
and do not weaken the system. The
pellets are prepared in the form of a
confection, or lolly, have no disagree-
able taste or smell, but, on the contrary,
inspire children to take them as they
would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Syd-
ney. Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6),
post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dsf
TO "THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
X 0
x vo
A V \P
u^ 6 ’
►V* .-••• •■•■•■■ .■
-■ .. -..-•
»^
O 1 ~*' .*■ V,-j
tA’- .•••■ ..••■ c^WV’’


Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
'
S'
:
:;N
4 WARATAH” FENCING WIRE . ..
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS will not burn
“WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc .
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING ..
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands hav
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doub
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World*s Best
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD.,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers'
Handbook
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
Hi
