

=i-!rr±j
m
■r^
it'
“sgr:
IK-.
.4
BS**
3^Lmiu
*«^4
4
> tv-
A
r-
—iiL
5Ar
&
J&
fe
k=
£
Hpa
-J^
1
m
SIL^.
m
ESSfe
->3^
£&
ii
£SS&
sss
/V,
jV" :
m
m
*
y#
4=
t
\
JS-1
7Z.
M
m
mXS<£>
*-v~SQ
PROTECTION
Through more than twenty centuries the
Great Wall has stretched its protecting arm
across Northern China. Policed by the
soldiers of the Empire newly unified by
Shi Hwang Ti, “First Universal Emperor,”
it was the main bulwark against the
Hunnish races. For hundreds of years
after 210 b.c. it herded the Huns westward.
And to-day it stands, 2000 years old and
more—the symbol of Protection.
Protection —the main bulwark in the
Cranwell policy of sound investment. In
Cranwells’ principle of offering share-
holdings in ESTABLISHED companies
only is Protection for the investing public.
Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd., believes,
further, that balance sheets and full infor-
mation about an investment should always
be available to the investor, and so offers
its free service to clients covering such
information. This policy has earned for
Cranwells its outstanding reputation for
stability, integrity and probity.
Inquiries are invited to
CRANWELLS (Australasia) LTD.
Authorised Capital: £250,000.
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers.
’Phones: 87888, 87889.
Head Office:
Barrack House.
Barrack Street,
Sydney.
Branch Offices at
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane,
Auckland, N.Z.
The Bulletin
What Hitler Didn't Mention
Vol. 56.—N0. 2885.
Wednesday, May 29, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE
tSlmiff
is absolutely essential for the
success of any advertising
campaign in Western Australia.
PERTH'S LEADING WEEKLY,
the journal with the home
circulation.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
WingelJo House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
The Block, 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Tml
ifiOiQß
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL -------
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
ibpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing,
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
i Name %
My Address
S.B. 435 .
The “WEEKLY COURIER”
The
National
Weekly of
nia.
(EST. 1901).
Famed throughout Australia for its illus-
Wh,Ch i cover every part of beautiful
W ee klv of iht uT J igGd J° be the Sociaf
It « a * nd; and rec °9 n| sed as the
of. tJ ?e Man on the Land. The
W ekly Courier, with its Tasmanian circu-
lation, is
™ E national a 0 Medium' o°f'Tasmania”
PrW‘ietor s P \lSo S of S ‘ “w” 7 1 1 " 75 Paterson St., Launceston.
.Proprietors also of The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening
W S r AI S;l ati v al Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St, Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
“THE *
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
VIEW VIA
SOAPBOX
F o r e b o d ing
though it is, the
title of Dmitri
Mirsky’s The In-
t ell i gentsia of
Great Britain
should not be accepted as indicating a
dull or weighty work. True, it is a work
performed largely in polysyllables, but,
being all from the Soapbox Dictionary,
these are even more familiar than the
mammoths that crash out of the movie
ads. Intelligentsia” wins in frequency,
but ‘proletariat,” “capitalist” and “bour-
geoisie run it close. “The liberalistic
individualistic chekhovian psychology”
is possibly coming* it a bit thick, but any
book of “popular science” can knock
that into a cocked hat. Anyway, it can
present no difficulty to anyone brought
up within decent distance of a soapbox.
Neither should any other aspect of
Mirsky’s polemical discourse. It is, quite
rightly and naturally, a fairytale. The
villain is a tremendous and terrible ogre
called Capitalism, who lives in a castle
surrounded by a big moat called Ignor-
ance, at the drawbridge of which stands
his faithful bodyguard, the “Caucus of
Dictators” (in other words, the British
Government), determined to protect the
monster from the dashing young hero,
Communism. That is really where the
story ends, but a supplementary ending
is provided to be tacked on when the
hero can no longer be “smoke-blinded
by demagogic lies.” This other ending
introduces the “Iron Rod of Fascist
Rule.” The moral, therefore, is that
there is only one hope for the British
proletariat-—to say Communism soon
and mean it. Otherwise England will
turn Fascist, and the prol. will just have
to go on drinking the “corpse-poisons”
of the “putrescent capitalist class” until
it dies or goes the way of those poor
fools in Germany who think they are
happy, a very funny mistake on their
part.
Of course, in a fairytale literal accu-
racy would be a trifle disconcerting, so
it is only proper that Wells’s Outline of
History “rapidly sold in millions of
copies and became the most read book
in the English-speaking world,” that
Brooke was “killed at Gallipoli,” that
The Ballad of Reading Gaol” is Oscar
Wilde’s “sole surviving work,” and so
on; and it is also right and proper to
give that traditional English conserva-
tism which opposed suffragism this in-
spired interpretation: “ the Govern-
ment fought against it with an obstinacy
which at first glance may seem very
strange. Of course the truth is that it
suited the Government’s plans very well
to make as much pother as possible
about that perfectly frivolous, typically
intellectual movement, in order for the
time being to keep people’s attention off
the proletarian movement, which was
temporarily at a lull.”
An interpreter capable of such a fan-
tastic reading of English' character might
be dismissed as worthless on that dis-
play alone, and little more might be
thought of a professed literary critic who
can polish off Wyndham Lewis and The
Apes of God together in the phrase “a
series of books which, though most
erratic and disordered, are not devoid
of smartness.” But Mirsky is really not
as disingenuous as all that. His glances
at Wells, Shaw, Chesterton and other of
the “intelligentsia” are shrewd, and his
book is extraordinarily interesting as a
vigorous example of the Soviet intelli-
gentsia outlook on Britain and what that
outlook produces for Soviet consump-
tion. While such versions of the English
character are retained on the Continent,
Britain will continue to hold at least one
trump that has hitherto stood her in
good stead—that of most surprising be-
havior.
Captains,
Kings and
Coves
That misjudg-
ment of the Eng-
lish character—it
is common in
Europe: it pre-
fixed the “ex” to
Kaiser—is a re-
suit of the very thing with which Mirsky
confronts Wells and Aldous Huxley: an
inability to understand history. That is
the great disadvantage of the soapbox—
the view from it is severely limited.
Thus, a Mirsky would read such a
book as The Great Tudors and utterly
miss its historical significance. In the
soapbox view it would be an attempt to
shift the focal point of the English from
the threatening present to the glorious
past. This would not be merely acci-
dental, a publisher sensing a demand for
such a book and supplying it. No. It
would be a capitalist-inspired conspiracy.
Those petit bourgeoisie Ivor Nicholson
and Watson see the proletarian ferment
mounting around them, and divert its
interest from their ill-gotten hoards by
hoaxing it with a belief that England’s
past is a reality. In the Mirsky calendar
the past altogether is a fantasy, and only
the present is real —Marx, of course,
excepted.
In a sense that is right. The past is
a fantasy. But that is not to say it can
be dismissed as insignificant. In this
instance, this book of 40 essays on per-
sonalities of one of the critical periods
of English history—from Henry VII. to
Ben Jonson—we have pretty well all
the essential characteristics of the Eng-
lish ; and they are seen not only in the
performance of those written about, but
in the mingled outlook of the writers,
who are alive, present enough for any
calendar. The writers were chosen “to
interpret characters whom they would
most thoroughly understand, and with
whom they could sympathise, although the
sympathy need not always be an amiable
or sentimental one,” which itself postu-
lates prevailing consistency in the Eng-
lish character that is as significant as it
is true.
Apart from what is to be gathered
from them in that respect, these essays
are admirable things. With few excep-
tions—among which has to be numbered
Philip Lindsay’s sketchy “Sir John
Hawkins” —each essay contains in about
5000 words the distilled essence of a life-
time of study. Each writer—-it takes
two, both professors, to deal with Shak-
speare—is an expert. They are not idola-
ters ; they debunk freely, and they de-
bunk one another’s gods. It is not a
book of praise but of appreciation—an
eminently English distinction. Consider-
ing its nature, it is an astonishingly read-
able book, the essays ranging in method
of attack from that scholarly simplicity
which gives us the excellent Shakspeare
to the uproarious flippancy of Peter
Fleming on Sir Humphrey Gilbert. The
two martyrs lately canonised —John
Fisher and Sir Thomas More —stand in
this company of Greats as now in the
lists of saints, side by side.
Black
Africa
Dances
One leading
c h a r a c teristic
which seems to
emerge from that
combination of
past and present
—one that seems
to baffle the penetration of the Mirskys
completely—is that, by and large, the
English are romantic sentimentalists.
We meet this characteristic again—this
time in action—in the glimpse of the
English rule in West Africa which
Geoffrey Gorer gives in Africa Dances.
In a sense it is more by accident than
design that Africa Dances is as good as
it is. Gorer accompanied the Parisian
negro dancer Feral Benga to Benga’s
native West Africa, where Benga pro-
posed collecting a negro ballet for the
Parisian stage. For his part Gorer had
no particular intention. His urge was
the fairly common English fancy fpr
romantic adventure, plus an interest, in-
spired by Benga’s beautiful performance,
in seeing the negroes dancing in their
own land. He encountered, however, just
enough petty official resistance to divert
his pretty vigorous powers of observa-
tion on to the Administration, and he
shortly discovered that the viciousness
of the French side of this was
of such overwhelming importance in
the negroes’ outlook on life that any
account of the negroes in which it was
ignored would be intolerably falsified.
The result is a travel book admirable
enough as such, but spiced with criti-
cism of things of such a scandalous
nature that they should smell to high
heaven. Floggings, imprisonm'ent,
forced- and prison-labor, a military sys-
tem which has changed the sound-
background of the country from the tom-
tom to the bugle and kills with disease
50 per cent, of those it conscripts, and
the fact of millions emigrating from the
purgatory of this French system to the
paradise of the adjoining sentimental
English system—these and other savage
details are the staple of it Beside it
Australia’s treatment of her blacks, for
which we get such full publicity, is
beneficent.
Gorer’s book is too episodic, too much
a casual incident in the author’s experi-
ence, too lacking in completeness or
finality of statement to be more than
uncommonly good travel reading. The
author is no Doughty, dawdling, as it
were for ever, among the people he
vould write about. Like so many of us,
le is slave to Time. To go somewhere,
to look, to get back, to tell about it:
that is it —the common inspiration of the
work of all the time slaves. He stands.
however, distinct from the writers of
those pretty and so popular current
works on travel, the recipe for writing
which is to take a talent for light gos-
sipry and spread it irregularly over a
sufficient expanse of romanticised
geography.
CECIL MANN.
[The Intelligentsia of Great Britain, by
Dmitri Mirsky (Gollancz; Angus and Robert-
son; 95.); The Great Tudors (Ivor Nicholson
and Watson; 10s. 6d. net): Africa Dances, by
Geoffrey Gorer (Faber and Faber; Angus and
Robertson; 225. 6d.).]
The Poet
and the
Public
Again we hear
the wail of the
Australian poet
over the public’s
scant apprecia-
t i o n of his
volumes of verse.
An irresistible creative impulse may
produce poems; but it is desire for gain
or fame that gathers them into a book
for publication. This, then, is a com-
mercial proposition, and one in which
our poets fail to show keen business
sense. Prospective buyers of Australian
poetry are few; it is the number of
“repeat orders” that determines success
or failure. The best book agent is a
pleased buyer who publicly praises the
book or sends copies to his friends.
A true poem is an exquisite thing, and
worthy of an exquisite setting. The pub-
lisher may decide the kind of paper,
type and binding of the volume; but the
poet alone selects the contents. A gem-
setter matches jewels with jewels of equal
lustre. Our poets cast pearls, • rock
pebbles and clay pellets into the same
volume, and await our admiration. Why?
Because they think each drip of their
pen is a jewel? Or is it a cheap vanity
urging them to show their versatility?
A thin volume of only the choicest
poems, in an aesthetic setting, published
at a fairly high price, would, I am con-
vinced, bring the poet more profit and
greater fame than the usual haphazard
huddle of verses. Such poems as Joyce
Kilmer’s “Trees” and T. E. Brown’s “My
Garden” are widely known to unliterarv
people because art shops display mounted
decorative copies. These command a
ready sale—often as. presents—at a price
equal to that of a whole volume of
Australian verse. There are finer Aus-
tralian poems unknown and unnoticed
amide the mass of dull verbiage between
the covers of a writer’s collected verses.
A few years ago, in a patriotic spasm,
1 began to buy each newly-published
book of Australian poetry. As I look at
them upon my shelf, the effect is of irri-
tation rather than pleasure. Always I
am conscious of the flaw in the jewel.
Ihe presence of so much inferior stuff
spoils my appreciation of the best. Here
is my experience of a few ventures:
I bought White Magic (Myra Morris)
for the delicate faery of the name-poem,
md found it accompanied by some com-
monplace verses on the squalid home of
a brawling stevedore. I bought Marie
Pitt’s book of poems to enjoy “Spider
Orchids” and To a Pallid Cuckoo,” and
got also many dead verses hung with
drapings from dead altars. I bought The
Wild Swan (Mary Gilmore); but the
splendid music of “the swans in their
going” was dulled by the confused
murmur from 150 varied poems. I
bought The Collected Poems of John
Shaw Neilson. What a treasure for my
bookshelf had I got but the first poem,
{Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —*he conscience of business. “THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O
a
Better and Cleaner” Bedding
Let us put a match to your
old mattress, and you wi
save on
n ew one
0 Bedding Department —Third Floor.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
Country residents, please write for
further particulars.
7:
TICKIMG
PURE
WHITE FLOCK
CURLED
STOUT CANVAS! ‘
SPIRAL SPRINGS’
CALICO CASIAIo'
“Hordernian” Spring-filled Mattress
The "Hordernian” Spring-filled Mattress represents the
last word in Mattress construction, the full-size Mattress
containing 408 spiral springs. Each spring is encased in
a separate calico pocket. Layers of fleecy felted cotton
and hair are placed on each side of the springs, thereby
ensuring perfect comfort and complete relaxation. The
covering is of best quality Blue and White Belgian
Linen Ticking. Various colours.
Sizes: 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. bin.
Prices: £5/17/6 £6/15/- £7/12/6 £B/10/- £B/19/6
In Belgian Damask Ticking, 6/- extra.
r ■ r:
Mull
ArtTH
qNT/
horde"
B&i
M
wr
\
u.
)ZT)
v
A,
VI
IT'
'\
-rz
Again! We will
give you up to
for your old Mattress!
fl
WE SHALL BURN IT!
What an offer! £1 for the privilege of making
a bonfire of that old Mattress of yours—however
dilapidated its condition!
In repeating this campaign, Anthony Horderns
are mindful of the immensely important bearing
that Bedding has on health. They know how
easily Bedding might become unhygienic. It is
this fact that prompted the Government to prac-
tically forbid the remaking of Bedding (Kapok)
under the Public Health (Amendment) Act i92|.
Your old Mattresses are a liability. You cannot
have them remade; you cannot sell them; you
would probably have to pay for them to be
removed. Take advantage of Anthony Horderns
Hygiene Campaign to secure Better and
Cleaner” Bedding.
what we do & what yon do
1. —You select your fresh bedding from our
unrivalled assortment, the prices being, as always
at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest possible, quality
considered. But—note this! From our Famous
Low Prices” you receive a generous rebate on
your old bedding.
WE WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD
MATTRESS IF YOU PURCHASE A NEW
FULL-SIZE ONE.
If you decide on a Mattress smaller than 4ft. bin.
wide, WE WILL ALLOW YOU 10/- off the
price of a new one. This, of course, is off our
standard prices, as quoted in our regular price
list. We do not include Flock or Fibre Bedding
in this offer, as we do not recommend them as
‘‘Better Bedding.”
2. —We will deliver your new Bedding without
charge (if you live in the Metropolitan area),
and special vans will pick up your old Mattresses
and remove them.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE '
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Here Is a Book You Will Really Enjoy!
•At4w.cA ST£^
A BEST-SELLER IN
ENGLAND, AMERICA and
AUSTRALASIA.
Selected as the Book-of-the-Month by
the Literary Societies of England and
America and now in its third Australian
Edition. Pageant is aptly named. A
delightful story of Tasmania’s early
settlers from the days of convicts and
bushrangers, right through the pioneer-
ing and civilising days. It describes the
spectacle of life in the days of Queen
Victoria, in the stage-setting of Colonial
Tasmania. The characters have all the
glamor of actors in a brilliant mas-
querade. The pages are packed with
dramatic incidents, told in a masterly
style. Here is History in the making,
told as a dramatic story of individuals.
A book to read and keep, to discuss
and recommend.
6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
Obtainable at all newsagents and book-
sellers, or direct from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET - SYDNEY
the last one and half a dozen in between!
But the treasure was cheapened by the
inclusion of so many dimly-perceived
visions, like “undelivered lovers, half
awake,” and by a preface impertinently
telling me what poems I should admire.
I bought The Gully (Furnley Maurice)
for the satisfying beauty of “To a Tele-
graph Pole”; and, on opening it, my
gaze fell upon this atrocious couplet;
Fishes moustached, spotted and spiky-
finned,
Flash terror-struck and burst upon the
sands I
I agree with Lowell:
But I don't like your cat’log style, do
yew ?
As if to sell off Nature by vendoo.
I turned to anthologies. Surely they
would enshrine but the gems! I bought
An Anthology of Australasian Verse
(Serle). Alas! It, too, contained “Fishes
moustached....!”
I sternly resisted the temptation to
buy The Wide Brown Land (Mackaness).
For I feared that I would open it to
find “Fishes moustached.... burst upon
the sand! ”
CLUAN.
More
Bloodshed
The hero of
Two O'clock
C our age, b y
Gel e 11 Burgess
(Nicholson and
Watson ; 7s. 6d.),
regains consciousness on a Boston side-
walk to find that he has been hit on the
head and robbed of his memory. Cir-
cumstances suggest that he is the man in
the brown suit whom the police are after
for murdering John Saxon. Saxon’s
brother offers 10,000 dollars’ reward, and
here the story gets very hard to swallow.
Among the multitudes after the reward
is a journalist who has picked up with
the bedevilled hero. It takes the journal-
ist—also his policemen friends —an un-
conscionable time to decide that there
is something odd about the stranger who
has arrived out of the blue and is living
on new 100-dollar bills of the same series
as one that was found in the murdered
man’s pocket.
The journalist is the eccentric who
figures in so many American crime yarns,
his stereotypy being to apply fragments
of historical gossip to every situation.
Half-way through the hero finds a preter-
naturally astute waif starving in a park.
“I gobbed anything from kitchen slush
to old banana peels. Sure, didn’t you
know that’s where the vitamins hang
out —in the skins? ... .Then somehow
I couldn’t chase round so good, and I
took a lower five on that bench there. T
been sleepin’ there three nights now. t
guess I’d be sleepin’ there for good if
you hadn’t come along.”
Her woman’s wit saves him for the other
girl. The derelict is quite a creation, and
her experiences cast a lurid light on the
ruthless social scene of present-day
America.
For the Hangman, by John Stephen
Strange (Collins 4 7s. 6d.), might have
been more marrow-freezing if the author
hadn’t worked so hard to make it so.
Mordaunt Peel, who had been in the
Secret Service with the narrator during
the war, finds a clue.
He broke off and sat staring, his mouth
still open, his eyes starting out of
his head, his breath caught in his throat.
The skin at the back of my neck
crawled.
The characters cower in abject misery,
become stiff-lipped through terror, meet
one another’s eyes with visible effort and
so on, but we are not appalled. The
horror isn’t implicit in the story. There
is some bright American dialogue, and
the taking of the murderer in the pen-
ultimate chapter is well done.
A Question of Proof (Collins ; 7s. 6d.).
About life in a prep, school. Sudeley
Hall may be encountered on the out-
skirts of almost any English health
resort. The author, Nicholas Blake,
knows his masters and future Etonians,
Harrovians, etc., intimately, and he soon
makes the reader know them. Such boys
are astonishingly sensitive to word-values,
and, like their parents, they are ready
despisers. The police superintendent who
investigates the death of young Wemyss
finds this out when he questions them.
They are impressed till he asks: “Did
any of you notice whether your play-
mate was at lunch?”
An invisible shudder passes over the
assembly, starting from the veteran critics
of the fifth form at the back, and com-
municating itself like a ground-swell to
the small boys at the superintendent’s feet.
Yes, he has put his foot in it all right.
One word has changed him from a poten-
tial hero to a figure of fun. For some
weeks now the word “playmate” is to be
a stock joke and a great weapon of
offence.
The charm and chief merit of the novel
lie in innumerable revealing touches like
that, but the mystery is so mysterious as
to be insoluble by any deductive pro-
cess. The author has adopted the unfair
device of making his killer a maniac.
Nevertheless, this is a thriller to be read ;
the humor and authentic atmosphere
atone for everything.
Bars of Gold, by Geoffrey Ellinger
(Heritage; 7s. 6d.). Every schoolboy
knows the adventure-strips of the tabloids
in which representatives of virtue arc
captured, tied up, threatened with hideous
deaths, and then, owing to unimaginable
carelessness on the part of forces of evil,
are allowed to escape. Owing to unbe-
lievable imbecility on their part they are
immediately re-captured, and so it goes
on interminably. Bars of Gold is like
that. It also caters for the mechanically-
minded. Dalgety, who makes a hobby
of rescuing Margaret, is the handsome
young chairman and chief designer of
Fastnett Motors, Ltd. From the moment
Margaret inherits the vast wealth of
Morton Hambledon, of Berkeley-square,
and ceases to be a city typist she knows
no peace.
She was gripped by blind fear. She was
afraid of the unknown future. She had
not seen her captors’ faces. She did not
know who they were.... She was not
free. (P. 39.)
“Are you going to be quiet?” he whis-
pered in her ear. One of her wrists was
pushed up behind her back and gently
twisted. “I don’t want to have to do
this.” He knotted a fine cord round
one of her wrists and tied the other to
it behind her back. (P. 83.)
She peered eagerly forward. Before she
could see who came into the room she
was twisted sharply away. A hand covered
her mouth and pressed her back. An-
other hand held her at the waist. Her
wrists were gripped. (P. 222.)
The perpetrator of these outrages is
one Compton, head of a gang. His
Napoleonic abilities are repeatedly
stressed—“ Compton was clever; his
downfall had not taken his cunning from
him” (p. 308). “It’s Compton, of course ;
it couldn’t be anyone else. He’s lost
none of his cunning” (p. 313) —but in
the nature of things he creates an im-
pression of utter futility. The climax is
pure lunacy. For Speed Gordon fans
only.
D. J.
A Writer
of Genius
The Polyglots,
by William Ger-
hardi, was first
published in 1925.
A second impres-
sion was called
for the same year. Fine though it is, it
might have gone out of print and have
been lost to a wider public had not the
publishers, in 1928, reproduced it in
Duckworth’s Readers’ Library, in which
it may now be obtained.
The book is a work of genius. It
has style, original and individual;
which, after all, is tautology; for are
not these the qualities which constitute
style? The characterisation is worthy
of Balzac. “My Aunt Theresa,” a vale-
tudinarian lady who completely rules the
roost. “If you think the situation impos-
sible you do not know my Aunt
Theresa.” And Uncle Emmanuel, about
whose amorous adventures the author
says “I blush for my Uncle Emmanuel.
A veil over my uncle’s doings.” ■
The behaviorism and talk of children
must have been lovingly and closely
observed, for nothing can be more de-
lightful and truer than his portraiture.
Natasha, the little Russian girl who,
when confronted with anything pleasing,
would exclaim “Oh! how beauty! What
a lovely!” Could anything be more
naive and charming? Nowhere except
in A High Wind in Jamaica has such
keen observation been brought to bear
on the psychology of children, or such
a delicate picture been drawn of their
charming ways and talk, and this with-
out sentimentality. The illness, death
and burial at sea of Natasha are beauti-
fully done, but without the least mawk-
ishness.
The episode of his hero’s love en-
counter with his cousin Sylvia, which
extends over more than 20 pages, is
probably the best description of physi-
cal love in all literature. And, while it
is perfectly satisfying alike to the amor-
ist and the artist, it would not bring a
blush to the cheek of a maiden aunt.
What art, what consummate art—to be
able to do so much with words!
As Gerhardi tells us in his autobio-
graphy Memoirs of a Polyglot (one of the
best autobiographies of recent years), the
novel was built up from slices of his
life, transported in time and place. The
alchemy of his genius has transmuted
these experiences into a work of art.
The scene is laid in the hinterland of
Russia during the revolution, of which
the author has personal knowledge. It
is, incidentally, a satiric comment on the
bureaucracy of those days. It does not,
as in the Russian method, give a photo-
graphic record of life in all its detail:
on the contrary, the author selects with
the skill of the artist such episodes as
will best illuminate his canvas in an im-
pressionistic manner. He touches many
chords of human emotion—childhood,
love and death ; and, though published
10 years ago, the book is as modern in
style and treatment as if written yester-
day.
When the “best-sellers” and the “books
of the month” have gone to their
appointed end, the pulping mill, I believe
that The Polyglots will be taken down
from its shelf and read and re-read by
the discerning for its picture of life and
for its art.
E. T. S.
A Satchel of Books
The Forefront of the Battle, by
Andrew Loring (Angus and Robertson ;
4s. 6d.). Adaptation, with English pre-
war setting, of the Biblical plot concern-
ing the man sent to the forefront of the
battle that he might be slain and the
sender secure the woman. Had a rair
hearing when first published 30 or so
years ago, and can be recommended as
light romance above the average ot its
kind. .
Regency Furniture, by M. Jourdam
(Country Life; 21s. net). Story, with
160 large and beautiful illustrations, of
England’s classical decorative designing
in the day of the Prince Regent, the prin-
cipal note in which was the transforming
of Roman forms in bronze and marble
to wooden furniture. Expert and
thorough ; many of the pieces pictured
are exquisite.
The Unpossessed, by Tess Slesinger
(Barker; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). New York’s
pseudo-intelligentsia depicted as the un-
possessed ; playing with Communism, but
stranded between it and orthodox
authority ; in morals as free and noisy as
cats ; out of. touch with life and trying
to create a substitute for it in sex-talk
and cocktail parties. Hothouse charac-
ters, but finely done ; parties’ atmosphere
brilliantly conveyed. One chapter, a re-
trospect of the shooting of a dog, so ad-
mirable as to indicate that the author’s
true medium is the short story.
When Britain Goes to War, by Liddell
Hart (Faber and Faber; Angus and
Robertson; 135.). The author’s The
British Way in Warfare so revised and
rewritten as to be, save for theme and
argument, a new book, to which is added
a chapter on air warfare. The theme is
that in the last war Britain mistakenly
departed from her historic practice in
the conduct of wars, and in that critical
spirit the writer surveys her past martial
procedure, and lays down a plan for
future war based on that study. The
cold, calculated, mathematical aspect of
war to contrast with the sentimentalities
of pacifists and jingo-militarists alikq.
A notable contribution to the study of
war science.
For England and Yorkshire, by Her-
bert Sutcliffe (Arnold ; ss. net). Good
reading for cricket enthusiasts. Dodges
the bitter controversy, but includes a
chapter on fast leg-theory and doped
wickets, remarks being restricted to Eng-
land, with a glance at the new l.b.w. rule.
Fast leg-theory, even by Larwood, has
no terrors for Sutcliffe, and he has
always found that bowler fair. He
doubts beneficial results from the new
rule; thinks the only solution is a return
to natural wickets.
Great Democrats (Ivor Nicholson and
Watson; 10s. 6d. net). Uniform with
The Great Tudors, and quite as fine a
thing. Takes some stretching to embrace
Carlyle and Marx, Disraeli and Ruskin,
Galsworthy and Whitman and many
more pairs of the 40 personalities under
shadow of the title, but the studies, bio-
graphical and critical, are mostly ex-
cellent. Writers include Henry Nevin-
son, G. D. H. Cole, St. John Ervine,
Bertrand Russell, Murry, Bulled and
many other good ones. Easy and reliable
method of becoming acquainted with a
great range of interesting personalities
—Bentham, Bright, Carpenter, Cobbett,
Gladstone, Jaures, Mazzini, and so on—
and, as a whole, presenting the varie-
gated pattern of the movement towards
democracy.
At the Sign of the Wheatsheaf, by
S. L. Bensusan (Unicorn Press ; 12s. 6d.
net). Vignettes of the Essex country-
side, racy with rustic character, sym-
pathetically but realistically conveyed
through excellent description and quaint
dialogue. Chapters represent months,
with eight or more little sketches to each,
so that a year of the country life is pre-
sented. Throughout a quietly chuckle-
some humor.


THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery
BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
has the largest and most representative collection
of Australian art in any privately-owned gallery in
Australia.
The pictures are all moderately priced, and afford
buyers an excellent opportunity to secure high-class
works of art at prices within their reach.
m iiißiinßiiniii
■■■ mm
HI
.
IB
■MB
m
mm
i
i ■
4 # J
Lfl WaP *
TfllMniiirryrT.mi i "..
it
:
■ ■
M :
* ♦*■“ ' 7 W . <i£\
£ iHI i
■m
.I
■Mi
Cosmos
R. W. Phillips. (Oil painting, 18in. x 16in. canvas.)
m
Strand on the Green
Sydney Long, A.R.E. (Etching, 124-in. x 7^in.)
/
&
I
m
m ■-
■
H
m
Mary’s Toilet
Cumbrae Stewart. (Pastel, 13in. x lOin.)
I
HBS
m
m
. ■
mOM
■ m
m
mm
ram
rai
Macquarie River,
James R.‘ Jackson. (Oil painting, 17+in. x
Wellington
canvas.)
Latest works by the principal Australian Artists,
including:—
NORMAN LINDSAY
WILL ASHTON, R. 0.1.
JAMES R. JACKSON
ARTHUR STREETON
E. GRUNER
ROBERT JOHNSON
HANS HEYSEN
BLAMIRE YOUNG
TOM ROBERTS
E. PHILLIPS FOX
PERCY LINDSAY
HERBERT GALLOP
SYDNEY LONG, A.R.E.
DOUGLAS PRATT
J. MUIR AULD
FRED LEIST
E. A. HARVEY
JOHN ROWELL
G. K. TOWNSHEND
etc., etc.
mm
■■■■ - **** . # •..*—*«. *--»,* .jC», JW-W '!** |<?
I
m
m
i 9.
I
'smM
m
iiii
■
H
■
i
I
■H
mm
! -
IH
ii
ms
m
; IS
‘
Mi
9ml
■ '■ .
91
% m
I
HI
ililiiiiil
188
sS«i
I
Hi
HB
MS
w$S Wi&MzSB
.
H
MM
"**■! I S
■
Hh
■: .
Burragorang Pastures
Robert Johnson. (Oil painting, 18in. x Min. canvas.)
Every assistance given to country and inter-State buyers who desire to purchase paintings or etchings for their
own home or for presents. Descriptions and photographs of pictures to the approximate value of the amount they
specify will be sent to buyers unable to view the originals.
The Gallery is open to the public on week days from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., on Saturdays from 10 a.m. to noon.
Admission free. Director, G. V. F. MANN (late Director National Art Gallery, Sydney).


9
c^ia?‘/i/^y(vc£
11
, I *
.
Si
uanv
Mm
■ g ■
,4
!Vi
HB
4
m
■3l
i ,„■-■■
HHi :
■ ,5* j-\
’■ A 2 - «>K.
« I ’l# **
■ jw SAMt
<■ :
■
nm
:•
■
:? : 1
M Hi
■S-JVI
2£ m
A
1
H
,4|
■
1
PWP
m
Pi*
pi
At
4- ":
g«S
11
, j-.-j
. * >
i
mm
I ■
5:4
sag
RHfi
.
dsf


The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —No. 2885.
May 29, 1935.
UNCERTAIN QUANTITY.
“He can’t be going to let a fellow down!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘ All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
HITLER DIDN’T MENTION IT.
Every day it becomes more manifest that the question
of the former German colonies will have to be faced.
Though Hitler didn’t mention it in his broadcast
address to the world on May 21, and though he
declared that his Germany “honestly intends to do
everything to bring about and maintain relations with
the British State and people such as will for ever
prevent a repetition of the only war there has ever
been between our nations,” his newspapers never
let the subject drop.
When Australia took German New Guinea only
the roughest pioneering had been done. The oldest
planters within 20 miles of Rabaul had spear wounds
to show. Mission massacres within 50 miles of
Rabaul were recent history. Gold had just been
discovered on the mainland. Roads were beginning
to be built. The initial plans had been made to turn
Blanche Bay, the harbor of Rabaul, into one of the
finest havens in the world, ringed with an electrically-
lighted drive, equipped with facilities which would
bring thousands of tourists in N.D.L. ships.
Naval and military development had not been
neglected. One of the best wireless stations in the
world functioned at Bita Paka. More and more
natives were drilled into the finest colored troops in
the Pacific. Their guns laid low the first Australians
that fell in the World War,
When Australian government was established in
New Guinea the German inhabitants not deported
for subversive activities or because they were officials
or soldiers were notified that, as long as they remained
law-abiding, private-property rights would be respected.
Respected they were —with qualifications. The Ver-
sailles Treaty provided for expropriation and com-
pensation, which was to be paid by the German
Government in Reichsmarks credited to reparations.
The colonists were dispossessed at the height of
the German inflation. They suffered no more than
millions of Germans in the homeland suffered, but
they chose to believe that Australia had selected
the moment. Most of them—a good type of settler
mainly, specially trained in a. tropical school in
Germany—were, as the local German song put it:
Bundled out like Adam at the fall of man,
With only a figleaf and a load of care.
One man who had seen his wife speared in a
raid, and had himself been wounded, was paid for
a £30,000 plantation in German paper worth 3d.
Others saw the properties which they had lost buried
in undergrowth under inexperienced management
while Australian officialdom decided what to do with
them. Most of them remained in New Guinea for
want of somewhere better to go. Those lucky enough
to have been born in parts of Germany transferred
to Poland, Czecho-Slovakia, Lithuania and the rest
succeeded in retaining their “stations.” A few became
prospectors.
Twenty years of Australian government have
worked vast changes. English place-names have been
substituted for German. Rabaul has a Council like
an Australian Upper House. Australian law runs.
Goldmining has been developed with Australian,
British and American capital; the aeroplane has
greatly assisted the process. A vast tract of high
country, three-fourths the size of present-day Germany,
fertile, well watered, temperate enough for European
settlement, has been discovered above Finisterre. And
Germans remain, not only as planters and miners,
but as missionaries.
Alexishafen, the biggest mission, is still German.
German also is Vunapope, a few miles from the
capital in the Bismarcks. And no German in the
territory has forgotten the glories of the “old time”
or forgotten that, had the war begun in 1912 before
H.M.A.S. Australia lay in Sydney Harbor, cruisers
based on Rabaul might have strangled Australia’s and
Maoriland’s overseas trade, and shelled all their
defended seaboard cities —for there were then no ’
British ships in the Pacific which could have beaten
the Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau. They remember
also that Blanche Bay, Madang (Kaiser Wilhelms-
hafen) and Witu are one of the finest groups of naval
harbors in the world. And they recruit their men,
whether for missions or for commerce, from
Germany.
In Africa it is the same. The Union Government
has had to take severe measures to curb the Nazi
movement in South-west Africa. J. H. Curie found
many Germans established in what used to be
German East Africa. He declares that sooner or
later they will demand the return of the Tanganyika
colony “as something expedient.” That territory
alone is a big thing to surrender —it carries over
5,000,000 cattle. Like interior New Guinea, it has
a climate suitable for European colonisation and the
makings of native armies as good as those which
serve the French.
Hitler’s latest speech sounds eminently pacific*' But
it cannot be forgotten that Germany rearmed while
denying that it was rearming—established a huge air
force in breach of the Versailles Treaty, built strategic
roads on a scale never before known, and created
the nucleus of the second-biggest army in Europe.
The mild Baldwin protests that in his conversations
with the British Foreign Secretary Hitler said his
country had achieved parity in aircraft with Britain.
Subsequent examination in Berlin with those author-
ised to speak for him revealed that he had at that time
from 800 to 850 first-line aircraft.
Britain has only 580; and, partly because it was “com-
pletely misled as to the rate at which production could
be and actually was speeded up in Germany,” it plans
to increase the number to 1500, and the personnel
by 22,500, within 22 months. In all the Hitler offers
the other fellow is asked to trust his future to
Germany’s good faith. Hitler may be sincere, but
to-morrow there may be no Hitler.
Australia and Maoriland do not want Germany
back in the Pacific. They will not surrender their
mandates. But it is far from being their wish that
Germany should be encircled or starved of raw
materials. If the Leader has any proposals to make
for peaceful German settlement in the territories under
their control, and for drawing from them com-
modities which his country requires, they will be
considered in a friendly spirit.
“THANK GOD FOR LANG!”
At the N.S.W. general election the U.A.P. won 38
seats, the allied Country party 23 and Lang Labor 29.
Although the U.A.P. lost three seats (Canterbury,
Arncliffe and Goulburn) to Lang Labor and the Coun-
try party lost two (Mudgee and Bathurst), Mr Stevens’s
party did better than Mr. Bruxner’s relatively to the
1932 figures, which were believed to represent high-
water mark for both. It was a tougher contract to
hold former Labor strongholds like suburban Gran-
ville, Kogarah and Hurstville than it was to retain
any of the 25 Country-party electorates, which were
nearly all non-Labor in the 1927-30 Assembly. Not
only did the U.A.P. members for Granville, Kogarah
and Hurstville hang on, but, despite the exertions of
Mr. Lang and Mr, Gosling, his Minister for Tin
Hares, the Kogarah man increased his 1932 majority
over the latter gentleman from 1692 to 2644. The
U.A.P, members for Ryde, Dulwich Hill and Albury,
all three former Labor electorates, also increased their
majorities.
This was done by Country-party members in
Barwon and Lachlan, but almost everywhere else C.P.
majorities were substantially reduced. They declined
from 1638 to 270 in Murray, from 2408 to 1044 in
Young, from 1780 to 728 in Namoi, from 1687 to 657
in Murrumbidgee, from 1757 to 758 in Ashburnham,
and also in Cootamundra, Castlereagh and Dubbo,
reckoning in preferences not counted in 19‘32, And in
Bathurst and Mudgee majorities of 310 and 664 were
converted into minorities of 449 and 765 respectively.
The defeated members were called “Unity” men, but
they sat with the U.C.P.
The North Coast is still solid for the Agrarians,
but their slump in other districts cannot be ignored.
Part of the explanation seems to be that many
farmers object to being deprived of the Common-
wealth “rehabilitation” money unless they take out Mr.
Spooner’s “stay orders.” The odd belief that farmers
as a class, particularly those who have bought or are
buying land from the Crown, are entitled to have their
mortgage principal and interest reduced, even in
breach of contracts, and also to have part of their
debts paid or waived and to be provided with export
bounties and home-consumption prices, all at the
expense of the community, has also made considerable
headway, and Mr. Lang and his followers pandered
to it for all they were worth.
With far greater reason country electors were
nettled at the form of pre-selection foisted on
them. They were ordered to vote for sitting members,
and they resented it, especially in electorates where
the sitting members had not distinguished them-
selves. Had their party stuck to the “open go,” a
younger man might have retained Mudgee for it,
though it would have been a stiff fight. The
elderly and uninspiring Mr. Spring was beaten when
nominations closed.
The restriction of party nominations to sitting
members also told against the U.A.P. A Country-
party man stood for Goulburn in 1932, and his prefer-
ences (2329) gave Mr. Loughlin, the U.A.P. member,
a lead of 910. There was no Country-party man this
time, and Mr. Loughlin lost by 133.
And the U.A.P. blundered badly in other electo-
rates. It neglected a great opportunity of exploiting the
hostility of the coalminers to Mr. Lang’s A.L.P. execu-
tive, and particularly of playing on feelings naturally
aroused by the lavish expenditure on Mr. Lang’s radio
addresses and newspaper advertisements, in one of
which his photograph appeared nine times, while re-
payment of £3250 borrowed from the miners to
finance a wretched libel action was withheld on the
ground of poverty. The U.A.P. might also have fairly
claimed that Newcastle has benefited more from its
policy—Commonwealth and State, positive and nega-
tive —than any other part of Australia. Yet it con-
tested just one of the three Newcastle electorates,
Hamilton, though in Waratah three years ago a
U.A.P. man polled 7183 primary votes, only 1792
fewer than the State Labor member’s total, and in
Newcastle another received 6904 as against 9470. This
time the lone U.A.P. candidate in Hamilton was
beaten by 1059 votes, his aggregate being 9563 and the
State Labor man’s 10,622. It is only reasonable to
suppose that a corresponding U.A.P. improvement
would have been shown in Waratah and Newcastle
had they been contested.
In four industrial electorates the U.A.P. bosses
actually instructed their supporters to vote for Com-
munists, pretending to regard them as Independents.
In two the direction was withdrawn at the eleventh
hour, Bligh-street discovering that there were Fed.
Labs, in the field ; but in the result hundreds of U.A.P.
people deliberately invalidated their ballot-papers,
many penning indignant remarks on them.
Hamilton, Newcastle and Waratah (with strong
industrial neighborhoods omitted) are subdivisions of
the Federal electorate of Newcastle, in which there is
a vacancy. All the evidence indicates that a good
local U.A.P. candidate, preferably a returned soldier,
like the man who held Kogarah, would have at least
a 6-to-4 chance of winning. And whether he won or
not, his party could be sure of making a better
showing in Newcastle than the Nationalists have made
since the conscription year 1917, a circumstance which
would be useful to it at the general election, in the
process answering from the platform the attacks of
its opponents on U.A.P. policy and administration.
But in the fatuous belief that it can keep the
Labor faction fight alive by supporting Federal
Labor candidates, the U.A.P. is leaving Newcastle to
the factionists —in effect telling the 24,000 or 25,000
electors who would vote U.A.P. if they had the chance
to support the Fed. Lab., who would lose his deposit
if he were one of three. It is Mr. Parkhill’s doing,
no doubt. How will Mr. Parkhill and his friends get
on when they no longer have Mr. Lang to win general
elections for them?
THE JUBILEE AIR-MAIL FLIGHT
Charles Kingsford Smith in reply:
The Bulletin (22/5/’35) gave prominence, on leader
page and placard, to an article headed “ ‘Overloaded’ and Out
of Date.” I may be forgiven if I insist that this title was
more truly descriptive of the criticism levelled than of the
aircraft against which it was directed.
The article embodies two inferences, which, in justice,
should be immediately corrected. The first, your main theme,
is the alleged responsibility of the postal authorities for the
jubilee air-mail flight of the Southern Cross; the second,
the inference that the flight was unsuccessful because the
Southern Cross has passed her first youth.
May I point out that the Post Office was in no way
responsible for the conception of the jubilee air-mail idea;
nor did it suggest in any way that I should put such an idea
into effect. To charge “constituted authority” with the
fostering of foolhardy enterprise in this instance is not only
inaccurate and unfair, but calculated to retard developments
which will be to the benefit of every Australian. For the
undertaking in question I had two motives, both obvious,
and both made fully public. The primary reason was
personal and economic—the necessity of earning money
by my own profession. Secondly, and in no subsidiary way,
came my sincere desire to create a stronger wave of public
opinion in favor of retaining the trans-Tasman air route
for Australian and New Zealand interests.
The achievement of both these objects, neither of which,
I submit, is unworthy, would have been doubly difficult, if
not impossible, without the cooperation of the postal authori-
ties. 1 sought that co-operation, and received a courteous
assent, which I accepted as a tribute to our fundamental
aim—not only personal, but on behalf of Australian aviation.
The creation of favorable public opinion in the Com-
monwealth and the Dominion is essential to any great
development in trans-Tasman air-mail plans. I had, and still
have, only one major medium for the stimulation of such
opinion—that is, the actual and personal carriage of mails by
air between the two countries. On the occasion of the King’s
jubilee I logically and naturally adopted this medium—at my
own wish, and entirely at my own suggestion.
The flight was in no sense foolhardy. The mishap which
prevented its completion was one which could have occurred
to any aircraft —even a new and modern type. It was in no
sense due to the fact that the Southern Cross is a veteran
machine. The age of the old bus had nothing to do with our
misadventure. The component part of the machine’s con-
struction which was the root cause of our trouble was an
entirely new part. What is more, my aircraft surely proved
her stamina during the return flight to Australia.
This statement is Tnade because I feel it to be a duty
to protest against the unjust insinuation that any persons or
authority, other than myself, were responsible for an enter-
prise which, in any case, was undertaken for a purpose cal-
culated not only to serve my own legitimate purposes but
those of this generation of Australians as well as the next.
T he Bulletin did not say or even suggest that
“the flight was unsuccessful because the Southern
Cross has passed her first youth.” It did say that
“she was out of date according to long-distance mail-
carrying standards.” On this phase of the subject,
and others, here are the distinguished pilot’s own
words, as published in the “Daily Telegraph” of
May 16, and not repudiated by him or by the Post
Office:
The Southern Cross is eight years old, and has
flown more than 400,000 miles.... The Southern Cross
is not a modern aircraft, or the type with which a
regular Tasman service could be operated. Before she
set out to fly the Tasman Sea she was overloaded with
mails and freight. A modern British-built Douglas
airliner could have taken six times the load, and we
would have flown to New Zealand in seven hours. '
Nor did The Bulletin say or suggest that the Post
Office was “responsible for the conception of the
jubilee air-mail idea.” But it was responsible for the
mail, and it fell down on its job, nor will its ineptitude
be forgotten. It can in no circumstances be permitted
to have any part, save as customer, in the permanent
service between Australia and Maoriland.
That service must, of course, be established, and
the sooner the better. And it will have to be planned
with a view to the carriage of passengers as well as
mails and to extensions, to other parts of the Pacific.
The Bulletin suggests a public company on the
model of Amalgamated Wireless, with 26 p.c. of
the shares held by the Commonwealth Government,
26 p.c. by the Maoriland Government, 24 p.c. by
citizens of Australia and 24 p.c. by citizens of Maori-
land ; directors, administrative and operating staffs
to be half Australians and half Maorilanders. Such
an enterprise would appeal to both countries, especi-
ally as it would assuredly avail itself of the peerless
knowledge and skill of Kingsford Smith.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Snubbed.
Swanland’s petition for secession is not to go to
Westminster. The joint Parliamentary committee set
up to consider whether it might properly be received
has unanimously reported in the negative, because the
petitioners “ask for legislative action which it is
constitutionally incompetent for the Parliament of the
United Kingdom to take, except upon the definite
request of the Commonwealth, conveying the clearly-
expressed wish of the Australian people (is ci whole.
The Commonwealth of Australia Constitution
Act is, of course, an Act of the Imperial Parliament,
and in theory that Parliament may pronounce the
dissolution of the Commonwealth or authorise the
secession of any of its parts. But the report makes
it clear that this position has been abandoned.
It is a well-established convention of constitutional
practice governing the relations between the Parliament
practice that interference in the affairs of a Dominion
or self-governing State or colony should only take place
at the request of such Dominion, State or colony
speaking with the voice which represents it as a whole,
and not merely at the request of a minority.
The secessionists are such a minority. They cannot
even be held to speak for “a self-governing State or
colony.”
Westralia in joining the Commonwealth surrendered
all those powers previously enjoyed by it as a self-
governing c010ny.... which under the Commonwealth
Constitution Act were vested in the Commonwealth.
Since the coming into operation of that Act it has
continued to exist as a political entity in respect only of
the powers which remain vested in the States. The
State, as such, has no locus standi in asking for legis-
lation from the Parliament of the U.K. in regard to
the Constitution of the Commonwealth any more than
it would have in asking for legislation to alter the
Constitution of another Australian State or of the State
of Westralia. That distinction is recognised and en-
forced in the Statute of Westminster.
The report is a crusher for the Westralian Labor
Government, but Premier Collier professes to be
undismayed. “It’s not the end of the matter,” he
said at Melbourne on his way to Canberra in quest of
more Commonwealth loan money —“unless great
changes are made the Federation, as we know it
to-day, will not last 10 years.” This bluster means
nothing and can lead to nothing.
Dropping the forcible-feeble stuff, Mr. Collier
said: “Serious consideration will have to be given to
the making of amendments to the Constitution.”
Agreed, but why hasn’t the Collier Government been
active in that direction, instead of supporting a
mischievous agitation wholly inconsistent with Labor
policy and financing a wild-goose chase?
— ♦
The Great Canberra Cadge.
State Premiers approached the Loan Council meeting
on Monday in a condition of cheerful acquisitiveness
tempered by concern as to the attitude of the Com-
monwealth Bank.
They budgeted last year to reduce their six
annual deficits to a mere £5,880,000. The actual
discrepancy—on paper, and without considering loan
expenditure—is now expected to be £4,000,000. The
Commonwealth paid them £20,500,000, according to
Acting-Treasurer Casey. Of this £9,000,000 was due
under the financial agreement —contributions towards
interest and sinking funds ; the balance was repre-
sented by road grants, bounties and benevolences.
Grants amounting to £2,400,000 were handed to
Westralia, South Aus. and Tasmania. Those States
also shared in £2,000,000 distributed in “non-recurring
grants,” of which £750,000 went to N.S.W., £550,000
to Victoria and £286,000 to Queensland. Twenty-two
per cent, of the revenues of the three small States
comes from the Commonwealth, bounties and allow-
ances to producers being additional.
Additional also is loan money. N. S. Wales alone
got £10,000,000 this year, plus £2,500,000 for water
and sewerage works. Victoria had £3,427,000, and
its 'Government demands a lot more. After Mr.
Stevens and Mr. Dunstan had had a private discus-
sion, the latter decided to ask for £5,500,000, of which
£3,500,000 is to be used “for productive and develop-
mental plans, including a full-time work scheme for
the unemployed.” Other States are no less expansive
in their requirements.
The views of the Premiers were copiously
expressed in interviews and inspired communications
before they reached Canberra. None of them
suggested a redistribution of functions designed to
put the States in the way of making ends meet without
leaning on the Commonwealth —transfer of the six
education departments to the national authority, for
example. None of them hinted at initiating a discus-
sion as to whether, if borrowing must be continued,
reduction of taxes, made conditional on the giving
of employment in callings with which the unemployed
are familiar, might not be substituted, to a large
extent, for “reproductive” works which reproduce
only debts and taxes. Nor did any one of them men-
tion the very unpleasant question of drought. Yet
drought has appeared in Queensland, North Westralia
and parts of N. S. Wales ; and an old-man drought
would upset all their calculations.
♦
An Income-tax Story.
A Sydney resident who arrived from another State
towards the end of the last financial year called at
the N.S.W. Taxation Office to query a small amount
he had been billed with for “special” income tax. He
had been assessed on an item extracted from his
Commonwealth return, which included a few pounds
earned and received while he was living in the
other State, on which, of course, no N.S.W. tax
was chargeable.
From the taxpayer’s return the department had
had no option but to assume that the amount was all
N.S.W. income, but it seemed one of those cases that
only needed to be pointed out to be rectified.
However, the official to whom the new arrival
was directed thought otherwise. He regretted that
nothing could be done. The complainant argued the
point, and discoursed learnedly on the basis of taxa-
tion, sources of income and so on. No good.
It was unfortunate, the official said, that the
taxpayer had come to Sydney before the end of the
year, but he should consider himself lucky that the
amount was only a small one. “Suppose you’d arrived
on lune 30, and your income in the other State was
£3OOO. We’d have taxed you on the lot.”
Then the complainant played his trump card.
“Very well,” he said ; “I want to be reassessed. You’ve
undertaxed me. I want you to assess me on the eight
months’ salary I received from my old firm and
included in my Federal return. On the basis of what
you have just told me, it must have been inadvertently
omitted from my assessment.”
The official was rather taken aback. The idea
of anyone complaining about an wi/der-assessment
was so novel that he began to doubt himself. Then
he murmured something about getting “your file”
sent up. When the file arrived the taxpayer was passed
on to higher authority. Higher authority admitted the
claim, and had the assessment adjusted.
The man from the other State left wondering
how many taxpayers with legitimate grievances have
their complaints summarily dismissed, and how much
longer Australians will submit to being plagued with
about 15 income taxes when one would be enough.
$
The Forty-hour Week.
The Commonwealth Government, it was revealed
last week, has instructed its delegate to the Inter-
national Labor Conference at Geneva to vote for the
adoption of a 40-hour week. Like sympathetic
Australian businessmen, it seems to be of the opinion
that if every nation accepted the 40-hour week a
multitude of the world’s unemployed would get work.
But even a superficial analysis of the position shows
that any relief would be of a temporary nature.
Is the worker to be paid by the hour or by the day?
Believers in the “reform” are not express on the point,
but it is important. If a man is to be paid by the hour he
immediately suffers a reduction of his weekly wage ;
if previously working 48 hours he is to be unem-
ployed for eight hours at his own expense. His
purchasing power is thus curtailed, and the consump-
tion of commodities is reduced. The result will be
that those who have secured jobs because of the
reduced hours of labor will be once more thrown
out of work by the overproduction of goods.
On the other hand, if the nations of the world
agree to adopt the suggestion of Vic. ex-Minister
Macfarlan and pay 48-hour wages for 40 hours’ work,
the cost of commodities will rise, for the producer
must necessarily either reimburse himself for the
added cost or go out of business. Once more the
purchasing power of the worker will be reduced, and
once more unfortunates who have been signed on on
Monday will be signed off on Saturday.
There may be other reasons for the adoption
of the 40-hour week. It is easy to think of many
occupations so laborious or so dangerous that such a
period constitutes a fair week’s work. But there is no-
thing to be gained economically by this or any reduc-
tion ; it merely makes another revolution of the vicious
circle. The remedy for unemployment, if remedy
there is, short of the creation of “subsistence farms”
on a vast scale, must come from a scrutiny of the
causes. To-day the world is full of altruistic theorists
who are endeavoring to set broken legs by the abo.
method of smearing them with red clay.
• ♦
Binghi on the Bench.
Methodists in conference in Melbourne have recom-
mended the establishment of a separate Court for
administering justice among the aboriginals, and
suggested that the chairman should be a man with
adequate knowledge of abo. laws and customs and
a grasp of the abo. mentality.
If a white magistrate is meant, the difficulty
would be to secure one. There are few whites with
the requisite qualifications. On the other hand,
Binghi himself has produced men of the right men-
tality and education. Some of these have become
interested in the welfare of their own people. They
have not aimed at becoming white men with black faces
or absorbing the white psychology. There are instances
of educated abos. who have devoted themselves
enthusiastically to the study of the race to which they
belong, and, so far from forgetting tribal lore and
custom, have gone out of their way to accumulate
it more widely than their brother who still roams
the unknown North-west.
It is from this little bunch of men that the
chairman of the Bench should be chosen. The presence
of one of their own people on the tribunal would make
for confidence among the tribesmen, and lead to more
truthful evidence being tendered. The abo. magis-
trate, moreover, would regard the facts of the cases
from the abo. standpoint. He would know, on the
instant, whether the prisoner, according to tribal
custom, was a murderer who deserved death or
whether his victim was really the guilty one who had
forfeited his life by his anti-social actions.
It is not possible to secure any native who can
speak the multitudinous languages of the tribes, but
it would not be hard to secure one with sufficient
knowledge of the root languages to check the asser-
tions of interpreters and judge variants in the behavior
of witnesses which would be unnoticed by a white
magistrate.
The Methodists have made an interesting sugges-
tion, and the experiment is worth trying.
4
Co-ops. Can Do It.
The efficient co-operative concern known as West-
ralian Farmers has done what no Government has
done or is perhaps capable of doing. It has introduced
bulkhandling of wheat, with great benefit to the
farmers, and made it pay —shown a profit of £20,600
in 19 months. It has achieved this substantial result
without any assistance from the “Labor” Government,
which has, on the contrary, vetoed extensions of the
plant and put obstacles in the company’s way.
The Government railways charge it extra for
conveying bulk wheat—9d. a ton more than the
charge for bagged wheat. The company had to “bear
the expense of fitting trucks to make them wheat-
proof and capable of carrying a full load.” It offered
to provide the Government or the Harbor Trust
with £150,000 to £200,000 for a shipping terminal
at Fremantle. The offer was refused.
So the company has been obliged to carry out
terminal storage and shipping with makeshifts. The
Harbor Trust refused to allow it to store wheat
on the wharf in bulk, and a woolshed was converted.
On export wheat going into this shed, extra railage
costs amounting to 3s. 6d. a ton are paid. For loading
wheat into vessels with equipment supplied by the
company, the Harbor Trust charges cost plus 20 p.c.
Says a Westralian farmer, writing to The Bulletin:
We have had bulkhandling in our district for the
last live years. The plant was installed without Govern-
ment aid at a fraction of the cost of a corresponding
section of the Government scheme in N. S. Wales, with
its huge concrete silos. Annual saving on bags, twine
and sewing is in our district equivalent to a man’s fair
share of the capital cost of a local silo, and he need
buy no more bags or twine. But in districts which are
crying out for bulkhandling, the Government refused
to make railway sites available.
Driven to do something, the Government had recourse
to the only expedient which occurs to Governments
in these cases —a royal commission. The commission
has taken a bit of evidence, though not from any
representative of the trading banks or the State
Agricultural Bank, and has set out on travels which
are to be extended to N. S. Wales. The farmers have
so little confidence in the commission or the Govern-
ment, and are so appreciative of the advantages which
the co-operative bulkhandling scheme, limited as it is,
has brought them, that they are organising leagues to
protect it.
Manana; also Nitchevo.
In Victoria last week a deputation asked that “some-
thing be done” to combat floodwaters in the Carrum
area. One of the speakers told the Minister that it
was the twentieth time he had attended deputations
of the sort. Each time he had been received with
courtesy, and a sympathetic reply had been given;
nothing had been done. In the result, he had a huge
crop of oats lying under water, with no prospect
of recovering his costs, and his plight was only one
of many.
Carrum is between Frankston and Melbourne.
Low-lying, with the Carrum Creek running through it,
it receives all the waters of the Dandenongs’ western
watershed, and when heavy rain falls the place is a
vast lake. Early Governments made the mistake of
opening up the land for settlement without
protecting it.
Tempted by the quality of the soil, unfortunates
started farming, and since that time there has been a
succession of floods alternating with seasons in which
Melbourne was astounded by exhibitions of giant
vegetables and other products. But the receipts of a
good season were swallowed up by the floodwaters
of the next, and so the farmers have just scratched
along—such of them as have not got out for less
untrustworthy holdings. Governments of the past
did something. They endeavored to drain the land,
and erected a low levee to hold back floodwaters.
But the work was half-hearted. Carrum needs
adequate draining and levees of such height and
strength that no ordinary floods can burst through.
Recommendations have been made that in the
suburban area of Kensington a levee should be built
sufficient to control the floods which beset Kensing-
ton every time there is heavy rain. Kensingtonians,
who have been busy building arks and gondolas in
their backyards, may some day find that levee
erected. Certain municipal minds in the south seem
sceptical about the efficiency of levees, and believe
that the rains will demolish them and let the water
in as before. They might be informed that New
Orleans is built six feet below the level of the Missis-
sippi and that the vast weight of the Mississippi flood-
waters has never once burst through to cause any
serious damage.
4 -
Cheapening the Services.
“King’s Regs.” : A phenomenon which was notice-
able during the jubilee celebrations in every State
is the growing tendency of retired militia and ex-
temporary officers to assume military titles. In
Australia, as in Britain and other parts of the
Empire, militia officers on retirement and t.os. on
demobilisation were granted certain ranks. But on
the clear understanding that they would use them
only on specific occasions, such as military and royal
or vice-regal functions. The same with those who
held temporary naval rank.
Every admirer of valor and military skill is
tempted to call some ex-Diggers by their war-time
titles, thought it isn’t fair to Australia ; and, to do
the heroes justice (and this applies particularly to
V.Cs.), they are the first to discourage the wrongful
practice. There was profound wisdom behind the
regulation which made commissions granted to non-
regulars temporary. Without it the Empire would
have become as ridiculous after the Armistice as
one of those South American republics where every
other adult male is el capitan, or better. As
showing the importance attached to this principle
by the War Office, it is known that Smuts himself
was made an honorary general only after long dis-
cussion. The only other military honoraries are
members of the royal family.
In one sense, of course, anybody in Australia
can describe himself as major, colonel, general, or
whatever else appeals to his vanity; in fact, the
only persons entitled to do it on a \Vhole-time basis
are members of the permanent forces and serving or
retired members of the regular British army.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
‘Tuart”; If I were a celebrity I would
never pose for any sort of photo, with-
out an undertaking that the negative
would be smashed if results were unsatis-
factory. Our revered Prime Minister
consented to enact the star part in a
talkie “short.” The flies were particu-
larly bad in Canberra that day, and they
would roost on the orator’s beaming
countenance. I can’t tell you what he
said ; after the introductory sentences his
words were drowned in the shouts and
shrieks of mirth that greeted his vain
efforts to beat the insects off. The audi-
ence voted it funnier than Chaplin. And
now the papers have come out with “an
exclusive radio-picturegram of the P.M.
and Mrs. Lyons in Court dress at the
banquet in Buckingham Palace.” Mrs.
Lyons carries it off well, as that admir-
able woman does always, but her lord
looks as if enemies had crammed his
legs into those calico bags they use for
oatmeal and pelted his upper region with
snow and soof.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo” (Canada); Let me add a
belated postscript to the Gaelic ques-
tion. More, than 31,000 Canadians speak
Gaelic as their mother tongue—2.3o p.c.
of the people of Scottish origin in
Canada, whereas there are only 2.82 p.c.
of Gaelic speakers in Scotland itself.
About 25,000 have the Gaelic in Nova
Scotia, which has more Macdonalds to
the square inch than any other place out-
side the Land of the Thistle ; what is
more, a Gaelic newspaper is published
regularly in Cape Breton. Nova Scotians
are still chuckling over Ramsay Mac-
Donald’s holiday visit there last year.
The Premier of Nova Scotia, another
Macdonald, greeted his namesake with
a fluent Gaelic address ; but it might
have been Yiddish for all Ramsay under-
stood of it.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Ever watched
a professional rat-catcher at work? I
was on hand when a member of the
ancient craft was called in to rid a public
hospital of rats. He walked about the
buildings for two days, accompanied
by a smart little terrier. On the
second evening he sat on a box before
the heating furnace and waited.
Presently he made a swift snatch near
his feet, grabbed up a live rat and flung
it into the flames. A minute later he
grabbed up another ; he caught dozens
that evening. Next day he enlisted my
aid to take off skirting boards and other
fittings to uncover rat runways ; in these
recesses he sprinkled a white powder,
and I replaced the fittings. Next morn-
ing he walked around the outside of
the buildings with his terrier ; the dog
located dead rats. Once more he made
a tour of the buildings with his dog ;
then he reported that there were no live
rats left. The super, was sceptical, but
when a few weeks went by with no
sign of rats he paid up. I tried hard to
pump that rat-catcher, but he refused
to give his trade secrets away—he told
me they had been handed down in his
family for generations. I have since
learned that the white powder contained
caustic soda, but the decoy he used to
make rats come to his feet as he sat
before the furnace is still a mystery to
me.
* * * *
“G.H.M.”: Bush Brothers from Eng-
land soon accustom themselves to the
ways of the country. When I was living
in a far-out Queensland township a
Brother arrived and held evensong in
the shire hall. The afternoon was wet,
so I sallied forth in my raincoat and
“ Dammit, who's hangin this picture, anyway P”
oldest hat —to find I was the only male in
a congregation of eight. When it was
time for the offertory the parson tic-
tacked, as it were, and asked me to take
the plate round. I informed him there
was no plate. “Well, get your hat,” he
said briskly. So hat it was, and my old
lid, with the collection inside, reposed
on the temporary altar till the close of
the service.
* * * *
“Shopper”: Melbourne University
students held a big debate the other night
to decide whether dancing was a first
aid to damnation, and decided that it
was. The gathering appeared strongly
biased the other way until one clever
logician pointed out that dancing at func-
tions interfered with drinking. That
swung a huge body of voters over to his
side.
v A' »I*
“Fisher”: “Horrible Hobo’s” kid who
dreaded the children’s court (B. 15/5/’35)
reminds me. As undergrads., three of us
were run in for obstructing traffic and
belting cans. We were rather pleased on
the whole, as we’d managed to salve a
policeman’s helmet at a time when sou-
venirs of this description meant distinc-
tion. Inadvertently, we gave our cor-
rect ages, and were intensely disgusted
to figure as exhibits A, B and C before
the kiddies’ beak. All the helmets in
the depot would have failed to take the
edge off the ragging we received after
release.
* * X
“General Prac.”: Since veterinary
medicines, sheep-dips, insecticides and
spraying solutions are on sale every-
where, it’s strange that so few people
die of nicotine poisoning, for this alka-
loid is just as deadly as prussic acid.
Toxic symptoms have followed the rub-
bing of the skin with juice from a fruity
old pipe, and there was once a smuggler
who died after hiding from the pursuing
revenue officers under a pile of moist
tobacco leaves. Many are the Customs
officials who have been doped with an
infusion of tobacco or snuff. Some
people think that smoking destroys nico-
tine —burns it to nothing. Actually, 80
to 90 p.c. of the alkaloid passes un-
changed into the smoke (a warning to in-
halers) or remains in the butt. Cigar-
ettes from England and America contain
more nicotine than the Egyptian brand ;
the weakest come from Macedonia.
Roughly, one cigar (“mild” or “heavy”
—there’s no difference) has about the
same nicotine content as five cigarettes.
Much has been said and written about
the effect of tobacco on employees in
cigar and cigarette factories —they are
said to suffer from high blood pressure,
among other things. Yet it’s curious
that in S. America, where everybody
smokes green, strong tobacco, high blood
pressure is practically unknown.
“Aunt Prim”: When the late Rev.
W. M. Wilkinson was doing his three
years’ house-to-house mission in the
Northern Territory (1912-1915) he
ordered some goods from a city firm,
heading his letter “On the Track, North-
ern Territory.” He added a request that
the ordered parcel should be sent, for
a starting-off place, to Alice Springs.
The old man kept the card with which
the parcel was addressed. Beaming with
laughter through his gold-rimmed specs.,
and with his old speaking-tube draped
about his shoulders in readiness to catch
any witticism, he would pull it out and
hand it over. It was addressed; “Miss
Alice Springs, C/o the Rev. W. M. Wil-
kinson, On the Track, Northern Terri-
tory.”
* s= # *
“Grasspan”: Touching the “architec-
tural triumphs of Melbourne,” “G.M.”
(B. 22/5/’35) mustn’t forget the State
Parliament House, which Melbourne
regards with some justice as one of the
finest buildings of its kind in the world.
It is as yet unfinished, lacking a big
dome and two wings ; but the fafade,
which looks down Bourke-street, would
adorn any city in civilisation. But the
interior is a horror. When it was designed
nobody considered convenience or com-
fort : there were conventions to be fol-
lowed, and, though architects might
protest, they were forced to plan as
people in Europe had been planning for
centuries. The result was that in Parlia-
ment House space was shockingly wasted,
and nothing was where it was wanted.
Now the place is beginning to crumble
internally, and the Public Works Depart-
ment has recommended that the Govern-
ment spend £lO,OOO in repairs. They
might go further and remodel as much
of the interior as will make it at least
as comfortable as, say, a cheap block
of up-to-date office buildings in the city.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: “Jeviel” (B. 15 /5/ ’35)
misses my point, but obligingly con-
firms it by his allusion to the “cold
sobriety which has followed many a
tipsy take-olf” to great heights without
oxygen. One proof of tipsiness is the
tipsy one’s unswerving belief in his own
sobriety. No question of courage, normal
mental balance or anything else comes into
this present matter except certain proven
reactions of the human mechanism to
diminished oxygen supply. Air scraps
were recorded at well over “Jeviel’s”
22,000 ft., but none of the contestants
was normal, or even sane, at the time.
No human being could be without
oxygen apparatus. If “Jeviel” wants
definite information, not guesswork or
personal impression, he should read up
some of the published work of R.A.F.
medical officers. Nobody has more
admiration for birdmen than I, but they
aren’t physiological miracles.
H 4 •¥
“Major Monsoon”: It is like old times
to read that a Melbourne firm is ship-
ping whisky to London with the proviso
that it goes the long voyage round the
Horn. The idea is that the shaking up
helps the wood to absorb deleterious
esters and objectionable flavorings,
though the two months or so to London
seems a trifling time to do the job prop-
erly. In the long ago Madeira —a noble
wine, coming into favor again, I am
glad to hear —was regularly shipped in
the same way to the West Indies and
India. Half a dozen trips were neces-
sary between the W.I. and Liverpool, and
at least one to India and back, before
shippers worthy of the name of wine
merchants dreamed of putting the stuff
on the market with its guarantee of so
many voyages to the West or East. This
is one instance, overlooked by Kipling,
where West and East met.
* * * *
“Shep”: Some of those people classed
as “dodging the firing line in field offi-
cers’ uniforms” (B. 15/5/’35) roundly
cursed the fates that kept them out of the
stoush. One I know qualified so well in
his O.T.C. final that he was earmarked
for instructional duty on the Plains. He
cursed every day of monotonous routine
for 18 months or so till in France he could
practise what he preached. Slightly
wounded, he was shipped back to the
base at a time when hospitals were be-
ing cleared out to make room for streams
of unexpected casualties. He pleaded
not to be sent across the Channel, be-
lieving he would be again snared to
teach his lessons to reinforcements, in-
stead of striving to drum them into
Fritz. Eventually he ended up in an
officers’ rest home down on the French
coast. It was packed with a crew of real
dodgers of all ranks. Most of them eyed
him suspiciously when, after a few days,
he reckoned it time he got back to the
guns in preference to lounging around in
luxury as a war-worn hero for an in-
definite period.
“Ex-Cavalryman”: Viewing the matter
dispassionately, I think it was a wise
War Office that circumscribed the activi-
ties of dugouts to the home front. The
regiment I served with at Aldershot was
commanded by one of these warriors. He
had served in South Africa, but had re-
tired soon after to the Stock Exchange.
He had approximately the same amount
of knowledge as the average “loot,” and
would have been a positive danger on
any front more active than the Aider-
shot one. Most of the senior officers in
that regiment were men of similar capa-
bilities. A few had been captains in a
previous generation, and had got stuck
beyond hope of promotion in that rank
until the war transformed them into
majors.
* * 51= *
“Becks”: If Adelaide’s centenary
decoration schemes mature, the city’s
streets will present a colorful sight next
year. Instead of the “lollypoles” which
were a glory by night and an eyesore
by day in Melbourne, the S.A. authori-
ties are turning to nature for inspiration,
and propose to have the streets bedecked
with flowers. Shops and business
houses in main thoroughfares are being
asked to co-operate in a scheme involv-
ing large-scale use of window-boxes and
other means of providing, flowers in full
bloom. Co-ordinated effort will ensure
that those flowers will be used which are
at their best in October, the month fixed
for the flower festival, and these will be
supplemented by fresh supplies of blooms
from suburban and country gardens. It’s
a good idea, and at least a refreshing
one in this age of concrete and speed.
The nursery gardeners are unanimous in
voting it the brainwave of the century.
NO WORSE THAN DARLINGHURST.
“There is an utterly wrong- impression that
Chicago is a place of abnormal crime. It is as
safe to walk about the streets at night as it is in
Darlinghurst, about which we hear so much in the
U.S.A. from a criminal point of view.” —American
visitor.
We’ve pictured Chi. a loose and lawless village,
A regular Alsatia of our time;
A happy hunting-ground for fraud and pillage,
Murder and ev’ry other sort of crime,
\yhere thugs and crooks about the streets
" cavorted
And slimy grafters had a rare old fling
While Big Bill Thompson impudently snorted
Disparaging remarks about the King.
A most unfortunate impression truly;
But now the truth is out, the bubble’s burst.
The former habitat of Mr. Dooley
Is just as orderly as Darlinghurst.
We’ve featured it —ns well we might from
hearing
The tales the talkies and the cables spin—
A hell of violence and racketeering,
A hive of bribery, a sink of sin.
We’ve glimpsed bank brigands with their
barkers making
Short work of tellers, and of cops beside;
We’ve watched inexorable gangsters taking
Their luckless ex-associates “for a ride.”
Such calumnies, it seems, are past endurance,
And, coming from the horse’s mouth, who
durst
Reject the unequivocal assurance
That Chi.’s as dinky-di as Darlinghurst?
We deemed it once an ultra-wicked city;
Our preachers would envisage it with groans
The home of half of Hollywood’s banditti,
The haunt of Dillingers and A 1 Capones.
We’ve wronged unwittingly, it seems, Chicago;
Its size alone accounts for all the fuss
That’s made about it. In the Yankee argot
It hasn’t anything, for crime, on us.
And scolding mothers there find this a threat
you
Can never beat, when childish pranks are
worst:
“Watch out, or else the ‘gobbleins’ ’ll get you,
And whisk you right away to Darlinghurst!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Shep”: In 1917 I followed a stout
Digger over grassy hills into the Lag-
nicourt stunt. We were strung out about
five yards between, warned that Fritz
would have a go at us with whizzbangs
as we traversed one flat stretch. Came
the expected salVo, and the hefty one
ahead swung in front of his face a roll
of blankets he had been humping
Matilda-wise. With his next step he
tripped into a shellhole that had not
been there a second or so before. If
that shell hadn’t been a dud Gus Kelly,
who these days is stouter still, would not
have won the long argument for the
Bathurst Assembly seat.
* * * *
“Unity”: An elderly Sydney woman
can add her personal tribute to the
advantages of polygamy. As a child she
lived with a grandmother in Utah who
remembered her mother saying that in the
grand old days of Brigham Young no
Utah woman was a slave to husband,
home or infants. All the wives shared in
household tasks, sewing, outdoor work
and the upbringing of the children;
there was no dearth of companionship,
and a sick mother never had to worry
as to who would look after husband and
family. But the system had its disadvan-
tages. One of them was political: Utah
was Federal territory, and Washington
would not admit it to Statehood until
polygamy was officially scrapped. Offici-
ally scrapped it was.
% % sfc
“Selma”: It’s old, I suppose, but a
friend of a rising young Australian archi-
tect swears it uappened to him. To him —
or, anyway, to someone —came a lady
whose husband had struck it rich on the
sharemarket. She requested the architect
to design her a large and sumptuous
dwelling, and when she appeared a few
days later he proudly displayed his idea
of a residence suitable to an opulent
family. “But I don’t like the thing at
the door,” the lady objected. “That’s the
very latest style of porch,” the archi-
tect assured her. “Porch ?” said the lady
contemptuously ; “I don’t want a porch.
I want a house with one of them port-
folios.”
:fs sjc
“Pont Noyelles”; “Mac Ah” (B.
15/5/’35) realises now what 1 discov-
ered at first: Bairnsfather’s “Fragments
from France” were destitute of real
humor, and the subjects were as false
as the mind’s-eye picture of a battalion
of Tommies marching into the line sing-
ing “It’s a Long, Long Trail,” or some
such popular tune of the time. I was in
France for two years and a half. The
only time I heard singing was when Dig-
gers gathered together in an esfaminet
and, stimulated with “penny beer” or (if
they were “cashed-up”) bock or vin
hlanc, lustily sang ditties which I have
never since heard in drawing-rooms.
♦ % -f *
“Becks”: What is news? I read in
“S. M. Herald” that “Darwin aborigines
gazed in wonderment at elephants from
a circus ; dozens sat on a fence and
stared at them in admiration.”
Apparently the qualities
of wonder and admira-
tion, when evidenced in
a black man, are alto-
gether distinct from
those same qualities in
a white. Every day of
the week hundreds, or
on Sundays and holidays
thousands, of people
visit Taronga Park and
other zoos throughout
the Commonwealth and
gaze with a certain amount
“wonder and admiration” at the
elephants and other animals, yet
newspapers see nothing remarkable
in it. The quoted paragraph gives
a suggestion of amused superiority
on the part of the writer towards
the abos. Yet he’d probably feel
quite at one with the open-
mouthed, blank-faced crowds who
spend hours watching the excava-
tions for a new building, a dogman at
work, or, if nothing better is offering, a
couple of men with picks digging up a
water main.
* * * *
“McGilp”: Another priceless picture,
“a Reynolds,” has turned up in Perth.
Possibly it is genuine; probably it is
not. There are no aged oil-paintings in
any Australian household which some-
body doesn’t veritably believe were
painted by Rembrandt or Velasquez or
Apelles. It is only necessary for a
canvas to be very dirty and browned
and to be set in a frame of ancient de-
sign for somebody to come along and
advise the astounded possessor that any
American millionaire collector will give
him 100,000 dollars for it. I recall a
man who was told that he had a genuine
Old Master in his parlor. He took it
to the Melbourne National Gallery and
there submitted it to McCubbin. Mac
was unimpressed, and when the vendor
indignantly protested he carefully lifted
the picture from the frame and showed
that the Old Master was a “block” from
the “Illustrated London News,” colored
by some amateur and made an antique
by dust, smoke and effluxion of time.
* * $ *
“Exdig”: The printed word came into
use for cigarette-papers pretty often in
France. Red Hussars, Ruby Queens and
other of the issue fags having been gener-
ally condemned, the practice began of
rolling your own smokes from the
tobacco provided by a benevolent War
Office. My Y. Emma pocket diary fur-
nished ideal cigarette-papers with little
“ When you re in town buy me some
face cream and powder
“What for?”
“y’r pipes gone oot, too, Sandy."
“Ah'm aweer o' that, Jock, but 1 strook the last match.”
printing upon them ; but I knew a man
who used the leaves of a small Bible
printed on very thin paper. He was half-
way through the Psalms when first I met
him, and when I left was burning up the
end of the prophet Micah—still unscathed
in spite of frequently-expressed opinions
that the worst was likely to happen to a
man who treated Holy Writ in that
fashion. Incidentally, as he always read
his cigarette-paper before using it, he was
acquiring a great deal more Biblical
knowledge than most of his critics.
* * * *
“Senescent”: I am not impressed with
the cuttlefish tactics of “Senex” in
attempting to escape the consequences of
his assertion (B. 15/5/’35) that good per-
formance in sport handicaps a man in
the professions. He says now that he
referred to practising professional men,
not undergraduates. Several of those I
mentioned were well out of the under-
graduate class —Wade, for instance—
while still playing. What of the hun-
dreds of prominent lawyers and medicoes
who are notable in Britain and elsewhere
on the golf links? What of Balfour?
Grey’s obsession with fly-fishing per-
sisted throughout his political career, and,
like the Lyttletons, he was an ardent
votary of tennis. Judges like Hawkins
and Darling have been notorious racing
fiends. The King himself, head presum-
ably of all the professions, was until late
years one of the best shots in England.
Lloyd George’s dictum about hairbrush-
ing is interesting, but how would “S.”
make it apply to baldheaded men?
* * * *
“Como”: “Only the unknown is ter-
rible,” as the Frenchman said. I had
an experience during the last smallpox
scare in Sydney. Coming from Vic-
toria, where vaccination is compulsory,
I regarded the operation as much less
severe than having a bad tooth out, but
I found Sydney men more courageous
than myself shivering at the prospect of
a scratched arm. I was one of half a
dozen awaiting their turn, and as the
nurse called them out one by one it
reminded me of that picture of the last
hours of the Girondins. One middle-
aged golfer, his face working convul-
sively, cracked hardy and skipped out
with a jocular air. An old lady drew
herself up proudly, and with a firm step
showed the canaille • how an aristocrat
could die. A third tottered towards the
execution-room. Another dropped his
bundle absolutely, and after a wild
glance around jumped up and rushed out
of the house. For myself, 1 didn’t “take,”
and was vaccinated every Monday morn-
ing for about six weeks. In fact, I
got the habit, and every subsequent
Monday morning I felt an almost irre-
sistible urge to go along and have an-
other shot. One morning I was drying
my arm before a radiator, with a flapper
doing likewise at my side. Suddenly the
flapper flopped. She had lain awake all
night worrying over the shocking ordeal
of vaccination, and when the time came
her nerve had broken.
* =;■ * *
“Box 106”: I agree with “Spare
Corp.” (B. 15/5/’35). On the football
field I have often played against
“bloods,” “half-bloods” and “near-
whites.” My captain once instructed me
to concentrate on an abo. three-quartei'.
I gave him a rather hot time for the
first half ; in the second round he “din-
goed,” letting us through repeatedly,
much to his team-mates’ disgust. No; they
won’t stand up to continued punishment.
* * * *
“Jumpinpin”: Folk who bought land
at Amity Point in Moreton Bay (B.
8/5/’35) have only themselves to blame
if it vanishes seaward. Within the
memory of living men there was a
channel there through which shipping
from Sydney came to Brisbane, thus
avoiding the long reach round Cape
Moreton. The South Passage has been
silted up for years, but that’s not saying
it won’t wash out again some day, though
it will never be practicable for modern
shipping.
SHELTERING.
“Della: Love you still. Will see you in spring.
Let you know. R..D.” — “S.M.H." agony ad.
When come the warming days of, spring.
And all the world is wattle-gold,
We will resume our wandering—
These winter days are far too cold.
I love you still; but when the air
Is bitter with the tempest’s ire,
Much more I love the cosy chair,
The purring cat beside the fire.
Your bright eyes gleam; but brighter yet
The home’s warm-lighted windows glow.
In slippered ease and comfort, set,
I shelter from the winds that blow.
Forgive me if I will not stray;
It’s not a thing to wonder at
That 1 prefer, pro tem., to stay
Beside the coals and eke the cat.
Kisses will keep, and, Della mine,
You also; and, although to hold
You in my arms would be divine,
I don’t intend to risk a cold.
If dances should be your desire,
With someone else please take your fling;
Meantime I’ll sit beside the fire
And muse upon the fire of spring.
N.S.W.
THE LAGGARD.


CRAVENS
CELLOPHANE
• Moisture-proof “CELLOPHANE” keeps the moisture-content of
CRAVEN “A” Cigarettes UNIFORM, ensuring fine smoking under all
conditions of weather and stock-keeping. CRAVEN “A” reach you
FACTORY-FRESH, wherever and whenever you buy them.
H1037M/A
9 d
10
or
1/6
20
or
3/9
50 jo
mm
Wii
mm
m
vm& m
m
m
TO
OPEN
just a touch
with the
right thumb
breaks the
Freshn.es*
seal.
POLITICAK POINTS
By pronouncing the Westralian secesh
petition inadmissible, a committee of
Lords and Commoners has, all unwit-
tingly, occasioned a difference of opinion
between Premier Collier and Col. Sec.
Drew, his deputy while Collier is away
on Loan Council business. “It’s not the
end of the matter,” barked the Premier
when told that the petition would be
rejected. The Acting-Premier said, in
effect, that it was the end of the matter
—“no further obligation devolves upon
the State Government.” Drew, it should
be said, is a native of Westralia, and
was against its coming into the Com-
monwealth. Collier hails from Victoria,
and was a Federalist.
Victorians who are U.A.P. warmed to
Macfarlan when he said that the party
needed gingering up. The reformer felt
the temperature drop when it was sug-
gested that ex-Premier Lawson, who has
taken his farewell of the Senate, might
be induced to come back and succeed
Argyle. The notion is that Lawson, a
countryman, would make a far greater
appeal to country electors than the man
from Brighton. Perhaps he would ;
before the Federal Cockies canie to
terms with Lyons they were inclined to
favor a composite Ministry with Lawson
as P.M. Still the man has been out of
State politics for seven years, and has
turned 60. Rather old to begin another
political career.
Tasmanians smiled in a wintry fashion
at Premier Ogilvie’s confession, cabled
from London, that the N.S.W. election
results were “disappointing.” They are
not amused when they compare the
recent Langist outbursts of Ogilvie’s
brother E.J., the Attorney-General, and
his deputy, Dwyer-Gray, with the Pre-
mier’s denial last year “that the Labor
party in Tasmania is in some way con-
nected with Mr. Lang.”
Our Labor party is neither directly nor
indirectly affiliated with his party. We
have no arrangement or understanding
with him whatever.
The joke was on the electors then.
Ogilvie, like Lyons, has had talks with
De Valera, and is going to tell Australia
“the truth about Ireland.” He saw Mus-
solini in Rome, and he is going to see
Hitler and Stalin, so presumably Aus-
tralia may expect the straight griffin
about Italy, Germany and Russia as well.
The difficulty will be to induce Austra-
lians to accept Mr. Ogilvie as a com-
petent and unprejudiced judge.
Exulting over Forgan Smith’s victory,
a Labor paper says it means that “Labor
should win at least eight of the ten
Queensland seats in the House of Reps,
next time and the three Senate seats.”
But appearances are very deceptive in
these cases. Though Labor was in power
at Brisbane for 14 years (1915-29) it did
not win a Senate seat all that time; nor
did it capture one last year, though the
Forgan Smiths had been in office for
upwards of two years. And from 1917
till now it has never had more than half
the seats in the Reps.; most of the time
it has had only one to three.
Opening the campaign for the Lang-
ster standing for the Newcastle Federal
seat, Beasley yelled that the “low-tariff
policy of the Lyons Government is im-
perilling the industrial and commercial
life of Newcastle.” Protectionists are not
pleased with some features of the Lyons
tariff, but this deserved to excite shouts
of derision in the steelworks city, which,
since Lang was sent about his business,
has seen Broken Hill Prop, add enor-
mously to its plant, output and staff, and
its £1 shares rise from 11s. 9d. in Lang’s
time to 58s. 6d. But the U.A.P. can’t
reply to the rubbish from the platform.
It’s backing another Labor factionist.
Sydney tramwaymen’s loyalty to Lang
is proof against defeats and disappoint-
ments. After the recent rout their union
came out with a resolution expressing un-
faltering faith in him, and of 22,5995.
contributed to his shilling fighting fund
(he must have spent 10 times that amount'
on newspaper advertisements and radio
blah) it provided 4915. Yet its hero,
though three times Premier and four
times Treasurer, never spent as much as
a pound on the removal of the deadly
footboard. That v/as one of the multi-
tudinous jobs he left to “the Tories.”
The Lang-Beasley idea is that Aus-
tralia should strive to be self-sufficient,
producing only enough for its own needs
excent in the one field in which self-
“Mr. J. MacCallum Smith, M.L.A., leader of the secesh delegation to London, whose
petition has been rejected by a Parliamentary committee, said he would not return to Perth till
Westralia had been ‘freed.’ ”
‘No, it's not Rip Van Winkle, Willie. The guide-book says he's a great
West Australian patriot, the chief of the clan McSmith. Born in
Morayshire, and that's a petition under his arm, and he hasn't had
a Swan beer for thirty years."
sufficiency is necessary—defence (the
L.-Bs. don’t believe in defence). De
Valera is trying it, even to the extent of
raising wheat (bounty-fed, of course) in
rainy, boggy Erin. Results are incon-
siderable. Unemployment is fierce, cow-
farmers are on the rocks and the Treas-
urer has just announced that the annual
deficit was £3,000,000, though he had
prophesied a surplus. Income tax is
4s. 6d. in the £, and is sure to go higher,
like the petrol tax, now Bd. a gallon.
The country seems to be living on sweeps
and speeches.
There are notable omissions from the
list of donors to Lang’s war chest as pub-
lished in his newspaper. More than half
the amount acknowledged was subscribed
by five unions. Not a cent came from
the Bricklayers, the Builders’ Laborers,
the Stonemasons, the Plumbers, the
Painters, the Fire Brigades, the Boot
Trades, the Shop-assistants, the Engine-
drivers (plain or loco.), the Postal, Timber
or Tobacco Workers, The A.R.U. which
boasts 20,000 members, has sent 375. ; the
Miners, asked for 5000 shillings, re-
sponded with 10s.. and the Moulders
have weighed in with the price of four
pints.
Queensland Labor made no Ministerial
changes, appointing Pease, Hanlon,
Hynes, Mullan, Cooper, Stopford, Bruce,
Dash and Bulcock to serve under Forgan
Smith. Hanlon excepted, they are all
A.W.U. men, and the proportion is
almost as great among the rank and file.
Things are different in N. S. Wales,
where the once-big union can claim only
Davidson, of Cobar, among the 29
Langsters.
The A.W.U.’s attitude to the N.S.W.
faction fight is a sort of disarmed
neutrality. Its bosses can’t support Lang
without embarrassing all the branches in
other States. Yet to champion Fed. Lab.
would be to share its insignificance, so
they refer to it scornfully as “another
organisation claiming to be the A.L.P.”
“.What’s the matter with N. S. Wales?”
asked the “Worker,” shaking all over.
“If disunity was the cause of Labor’s
defeat, what was the cause of disunity?”
And so on for a couple of columns.
Branch president Dalton contributes an-
other column which is one prolonged
“Why?” A million electors could give
them the answer in a word of four letters.
Neither once mentioned it.
The belated enforcement of returned-
soldier preference in N.S.W. municipali-
tis is being furiously opposed. There
were “scenes” at Bankstown when a
Digger was named deputy town clerk —
he was town clerk at Dungog, and he
has decided to stay there —but the Banks-
town Council is addicted to “scenes.” Its
recent history has been largely “scenes.”
Stewart, M.H.R., who is Director of
Employment or something, has been
looking over London’s transport ser-
vices, and considers it “amusing, in view
of the magnificent efficiency of the
London buses,” that the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Road Transport should persist
in asserting that buses could not handle
Sydney traffic.
Buses are increasingly displacing trams
in London, yet in Sydney they are con-
structing new trams!
Stewart was a Government railwayman
till he escaped. He may not be much of
a politician, but no jack-in-office can
teach him anything about road transport.
The amalgamation of the United and
Reform parties in M.L. wipes out of
existence the Liberal party, of which
Grey, Stout, Ballance and Seddon were
the shining lights. The beginning of the
end happened as far back as 1906, when
Seddon called a halt in his semi-socialistic
programme and his more radical ad-
herents hived off into a separate Labor
party. For many years after that the
main distinction between Liberals and
Reformers was that the Liberals stood
for city interests and the Reformers for
broad acres. But the Liberal party in
late years has had as many farmers in
its ranks as the other group, and if there
is any difference between the political
principles of Farmer Coates and Farmer
Forbes nothing has been heard about it
for a long time.
If Dunstan gets his way, Victoria will
have a Parliamentary Public Works Com-
mittee thrust upon it. Tasmania has one
which is associated with another blow at
Parliamentary control of the public
purse ; under a law passed last session,
the Government may spend—from loans,
of course —£180,000 on undertakings
recommended by it and ignore Parlia-
ment. N. S. Wales has another, though
Stevens has consigned it to cold storage.
It recommended practically all the white
elephants on the N.S.W. Government
railway list and got extra pay for it. A
late example was Glenreagh-Dorrigo, 43
miles chains, on which £72,880 was
lost in 1933 and £82,700 in 1932—nearly
£2OOO a mile.
People who attended the declaration of
the poll at Petersham (N.S.W.) had the
pleasure of hearing the defeated Labor
candidates strafe one another. The ad-
vantage lay with the Fed. Lab., who
genially suggested that the other person
would “never have any seat but the seat
of his pants” so long as he supported
Lang. For himself,
I never stoop to invective or personali-
ties. These people, however, put up buck-
toothed yahoos to go through the electorate
and say all manner of things about me.
The audience dispersed convinced that
the gentleman who never stooped to per-
sonalities was a brisk learner.
Friends and supporters continue to
embarrass Westralian Labor. A member
of Caucus who was in the last Labor
Ministry has been fined £5O for persistent
refusal to send in income-tax returns.
Another worthy who was a delegate to
a Federal A.L.P. Conference has
been publicly charged with having com-
bined membership of the Licensing
Bench with partnership in a pub and
having helped to grant its first license.
Not only Macfarlan is talking reduc-
tion of members in Victoria. Dillon, the
U.A.P. member for Essendon, says the
work of the Assembly could be done
with 55 members instead of 65. It could
be done with 35.
Stevens claims that the U.A.P.-U.C.P.
got upwards of 200,000 more votes than
“the two Labor parties combined.” Con-
sidering that there were no contests in
11 electorates (nine U.A.P.-U.C.P. and
two Lang Labor) and no direct Ministry-
Opposition tussles in 24 others, it is diffi-
cult to be precise, but Stevens’s estimate
is much nearer the mark than Dwyer-
Gray’s. That fatuous politician asserts
that “the Labor party polled about 51
p.c. of the total number of votes and
the Government side 49 p.c.,” and that
under proportional representation—which
Lang scrapped—Lang would be Premier.
Really it is time the meddlesome old
gentleman left N.S.W. politics to the
N.S.W. people and concentrated on his
job. For 10 months of the financial year,
though £615,380 of a revenue of
£2,275,500 came from the Common-
wealth, Tas. expenditure exceeded in-
come by £199,100, compared with
£99,100 for ten months of 1933-34.
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


// |
YOU PROMISED f
lb meet a wealthy
Squ<VTTEIS"
" Doht bash'im-
SUE s \M ,' s
!>
All rig,ht ( them -
IT'LL. MEA.N Ak COURT
C-AS.ES F-OTR vou, t
You promised Youo see
ME S/\FELV HOME. v '
It
‘BEKIO por me UwiVER,
PROMISED' t' let _
ME C,O PMP'TEEKI
Rounds.''
/ AMVHOW y itLu cost the
Weather MM s>omethin<; for
NEW FPtOC.K.S., HE PROMISED
US. A. FINE OAV. NN
K ,
V/OT A BOOT that RISE VOU PROMISED
\AS 1 i'll HWE the. LAW OKI VoJ ' N
Woouu HEMZ. PROM
MV Soi_\c.ito(? , /
Vou PROM'SED VOuO v s
ME LOOK LUCE CRA.WPOISO .
n >
HR
PR-OniiSED ME
Seveu aw'si*. a.
&USHE.L for ME.
i'NHEfr.T VN
BREACH OF PROMISE.
“The suggested reform of the breach-of-promise law in England has interesting possibilities. While speculative actions are to be discouraged, it is proposed to enable
victims of spurious promises to recover where specific damage is proved.”


/S'. .JXA
L
VKSIA
Shell has pleasure in announcing
—an entirely new range of motor oils giving easier starting when
cold . . . better running when hot . . . less oil consumption . . . less
carbon formation . . . less “sludge.”
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR WINTER
Use ZERO SHELL in winter for your 1934-35 Chevrolet or Pontiac.
Use SINGLE SHELL in winter for your 1934-35 Armstrong Slddeley, Buick, Cadillac, Chrysler. De Soto, Dodge, Graham, HucT-
son, Hupmobile, Nash, Oldsmobile, Plymouth, Reo, Studebaker, Terraplane or Willys 77.
Use DOUBLE SHELL Motor Oil in winter for your 1934-35 Alvis, Auburn, Citroen, Crossley, Daimler, Fiat, Ford V-8, Ford
Y-8, Hillman, Humber, Morris, Riley, Singer, Triumph, Yauxhall or Wolseley.
Use TRIPLE SHELL in winter for your 1934-35 Austin.
For full list of recommendations for ALL MODELS OF ALL CARS, see the new Shell Recommendation Chart at your garage.
■ __ L.O 15-C
PERSONAL ITEMS
Back in Australia after nearly 20
years is R. O. Clack, to preach in Adel-
aide for a few months. His stages have
been; 1, N. S. Wales public service; 2,
Melbourne Y.M.C.A, secretary; 3, simi-
lar job in Egypt, France and then Eng-
land ; 4, became a parson and holds a
Congregational Church in North
London.
Mrs. Mary Church Palmer, a Queens-
land pioneer who has died in Auchen-
flower (Q.) at 85, was the mother of
Vance Palmer, novelist, and Emily Bul-
cock, poetess. Her husband was one
of the North’s first schoolmasters, and
she was a noble helpmate.
“Barn”; Room for some charity-
workers who don’t advertise! The Vic.
Association of Braille Writers consists of
volunteers who transcribe books for the
blind. During the past year Miss M.
Lawrey transcribed 108 volumes, Mrs.
Whitehead 105, Mrs. Routley 101 and
Mrs. Halley Knight 100. And they
didn’t score a jubilee medal among
them!
Lord Galway, G.-G. of M.L., here
shown in his country clothes, is a pro-
duct of Eton and Oxford and a pukka
lieut.-colonel—he commanded the Life
Governor-General of M.L.
Guards between ’25 and ’29. He is a
northern landowner, and amongst other
decorations holds France’s Order of
Agricultural Merit. Lord Galway’s most
interesting ancestress was the famous
Jewess Villa Real, who married the
second viscount in the eighteenth cen-
tury.
Nobody in N.S.W. did more to put
t.-p. on the map than R. H. Gordon, who
died in Sydney last week at 72. When he
arrived front Ireland half a century ago
he realised that there was money in
offering easy terms to thousands who
were accustomed to furnish from second-
hand shops. As soon as he could afford
it he opened a small shop. Buyers liked
the idea of getting new stuff, and it made
Gordon.
About some talented girls:
At Sydney Uni. the other day Patricia Little-
john, a willowy young daughter of Mrs. Albert
Littlejohn, was made a Doctor of Veterinary
Science. Two others, Myrie Evans and Fanny
Powers, became Bachelors of Science in Agri-
culture. Five girls secured the Bachelor of
Economics degree. Amongst them was Portia
Hickey, a granddaughter of the late John
Rowland Dacey, founder of Daceyville garden
suburb and Treasurer in N.S.W.’s first Labor
Government.
Dr. J. E. Blewett, the new chief
radiologist at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary
and lecturer at Aberdeen Uni., is a Mel-
bourne Uni. graduate. He has distin-
guished himself in Melbourne, W.A. (he
was radiologist at Perth Hospital), and
at England’s Holt Radium Institute and
Christie Hospital.
The late Professor E. O. G. Shann was
a Tasmanian who in his life of 50 years
had been associated with half a dozen
universities —Melbourne, where he took
a brilliant degree ; London, where he was
engaged in research work at the School
of Economics; Queensland, W.A. and
Adelaide. During the depression he was
economic adviser to the Bank of N.S.W.
He had a share in the framing of the
Premiers’ Plan, and was on the delega-
tion to Ottawa. Last year he broke an
association of 18 years with the West-
ralian University to become Economics
Professor at Adelaide. His death was
accidental; subject to attacks of dizzi-
ness, he fell from a second-floor room
at the Uni. building, and when picked
up was beyond human aid.
Shann predicted the depression in one
of his books, and his Economic History
will live. He had a sense of humor
which was apt to annoy some of his
colleagues. To a scandalised committee
he once remarked “What a pity Jonah
wasn’t an economist. Inside the whale
he had a perfect environment —no per-
verse humans and politicians to interfere
with the working out of his theory.”
“Jeames”: The Duke of Atholl, who,
according to a cable, is '“selling his
historic estate in Perthshire,” has been
in deep financial waters for some years.
No large fortune has been brought into
the family for over a century. The
Duke was M.P, for a Perthshire division
before he succeeded to the title in 1917,
and the Duchess won the seat in 1923.
He recently started a lottery for the bene-
fit of British charities, but much to
his annoyance the Director of Public
Prosecutions intervened, and the Duke
was fined £25.
The late Edmund Body, of Inverell
(N.S.W.), arrived from England with
his parents at the age of seven 75
years ago, went on the land in his early
twenties and after a reverse or two suc-
ceeded with properties in the Warren,
Jindabyne and Inverell districts. He was
a good Anglican, a good sportsman
(picnic racing being his specialty), a good
friend and neighbor, and something
more than a good judge of a merino
sheep. He married a Campbdl of In-
vereil, and four of his five sons served in
the A.L.F.
“J. Roo” (Canada): Since John
Buchan became G.-G.-elect of this
Dominion sales of his books have in-
creased'' by thousands. Booksellers are
still cabling to England for more sup-
plies. It creates a queer situation. Gov-
ernors-General have to give up business
connections during their term of office,
but an author can’t withdraw his books
from circulation. To make the position
more delicate, Buchan’s first talkie, “The
Thirty-nine Steps,” is to be shown here
shortly, and of course the movie mag-
nates are booming its vice-regal associa-
tions for all they are worth.
Dr. C. C. Fleck, who retained Gran-
ville (N.S.W.) for the U.A.P., is a Sydney-
sider in his middle forties. As a young
man he opened a chemist’s shop in Gran-
He won by a short head.
ville, and at the same time studied medi-
cine at wSydney University. He graduated
12 years ago, and has been practising at
Granville ever since. He is immensely
popular in the electorate, owing partly to
his cheery ways and partly to his many
philanthropic works. He won the Gran-
ville seat from W, T. Ely in 1932.
The Most Rev. Dr. Clune, first Catho-
lic Archbishop of Perth (W.A.), is dead.
Born in Ireland 71
years ago, and or-
dained by a special
Papal dispensation at
the age of 22, he was
one of the most notable
scholars turned out by
All Hallows’, Dublin.
Physical energy and a
resolute will were his
outstanding characteris-
tics. Few have toiled
in so many vineyards.
Beginning in Goulburn
(N.S.W,), he joined the
Redemptorists after a
world tour, and , then
conducted retreats, etc.,
for five years in Eng-
land. He left England
for Perth at the end of
last century, passed on
to M.L. as superior of
the Dominion’s first
Redemptorist Founda-
tion, returned to Perth,
became its Archbishop
in 1913, and served in
France with the A.I.F.
as a chaplain-general. Diggers of all
denominations liked him; he was the
sort of man who might have been a first-
class general if he hadn’t been an arch-
bishop. Very eloquent, he was a good
businessman and a great builder, and
Anglican Archbishops Riley and Le
Fanu were among his legion of friends.
Dr. Prendiville, the new R.C. Arch-
bishop of Perth, is the first to attain the
dignity at 35 since mediaeval times. Born,
educated and ordained in Ireland, he has
spent the whole of his ecclesiastical
career in Australia, and was appointed
Administrator in Perth six years ago.
v He was in Sydney for the Eucharistic
Congress in ’2B, is keenly interested in
Scouting, and was a notable athlete at
college. He played football for Kerry,
his birthplace, in 1924, the year before
his ordination, and in that year Kerry
won the Irish championship.
Some June birthdays:
W. B. Propsting (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.),
74, medico-knight David Hardie (Bns.), 79,
on 4th; Bishop Radford (formerly of Goul-
burn), 66, Kenneth Mackay (Ex-M.L.C.), 76,
Prof. A. B. Taylor (Hobart), 39, and Mrs.
Gunn (We of the Never Never), on
5 th; ex-Defence Minister and knight Wil-
liam Glasgow, 59, Justice Inglis Clark
(Speck), 53, Arthur H. Adams, 63, Justice
Boyce (N.S.W. Supreme Court), 63,
Walter Marks, former M.H.R. for Wentworth,
60, and film censor O’Reilly, 58, on 6th;
F. W. Mole (former Q. Public Curator), 70,
and Prof. G. V. Portus, M.A. (Adel.), 52, on
7th; Dr. Prescott (Newington Coll., Syd.),
78, S. L. Gardiner, M.H.R. (Robertson), 51,
and author Charles Rodda, 44, on 9th; art
critic William Moore (Syd.), 67, Geo. Steer
(gen. man. Brisbane Tramways), 62, on 11th;
J. Lane Mullins (N.S.W.), 78, Kent Hughes,
M.L.A. (Vic.), 40, and Canon Hammond
(Syd.), 65, on 12th; entomologist Walter Frog-
gatt (Syd.), 77, on 13th; Tas. Railway Commis-
sioner F. P. St. Hill, 61, on 15th; J. H.
Prowse, M.H.R. (Forrest), 64, and Bishop Halse
(Riverina), 54, on 16th; Justice Cantor
(N.S.W. Industrial Commission), 48, on 17th;
R.C. Bishop Barry (Goulburn), 60, Frank Tate
(Vic.’s former Director of Education), 72, and
T. L. Axford, V.C. (W.A.), 40, on 18th; Dr.
J. H. Cumpston (Director-Gen. of Quarantine),
55, R. A. Crouch (former M.H.R. for
Corangamite), 67, R. C. Grieve, V.C. (Vic.),
46, and J. W. Kitto (P.M.G.’s Dept.,
Syd.), 64, on 19th; J. M. Fowler (former
M.H.R. for Perth), 70, on 20th; N.S.W. Govt.
Printer Alfred Kent, 63, on 21st; Major-Gen.
Coxen, 65, and Prof. J. B. Cleland (Adel.),
57, on 22nd; knight Gilbert Dyett (pres.
R.5.5.1.L.), 44, on 23rd; R. O. Blackwood
(Vic.), 74, and Heber Longman, Director
Q’land Museum, 55, on 24th; T. J. Roseby
(long of Syd. Water Board), 69, knight Harold
Luxton (former Lord Mayor of Melb.), 47, and
Errol G. Knox (editor of Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia)i, 46, on 25th; author C. L. Barrett
(Melb.), 56, and Melb.-born Prof. W. K. Han-
cock (Birmingham Uni.), 37, on 26th; geologist
Dr. Frank Stillwell (Vic.), 47, Dr. Fred Watson
(editor of Historical Records'), 57, Speaker
George Pollock, M.L.A. (Q.), 45, on 27th;
ex-Speck Senator J. H. Keating, 63, on 28th;
Tas. Solicitor-Gen. Griffiths, 54, knight Victor
Wilson (ex-S.A. Senator), 58, and painter
Norman Carter, 60, on 30th.
Colonel Rene Gouzy, formerly staff
major of division in his native Switzer-
land’s efficient, little army, is a well-
known traveller in the Sahara, over
A Travelling Frenchman.
which he was one of the flying pioneers.
He has written widely on North Africa,
and is in Sydney on his way to New
Guinea. He is writing a series of articles
about us for “Le Temps” and a group
of Swiss newspapers.


YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF!
When considering that New Assurance
Contract obtain a quotation from
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Established 1869
THE PIONEER OF LIBERAL ASSURANCE CONTRACTS
AND
ORIGINATOR OF THE NOW WORLD-FAMOUS NON-
FORFEITURE PRINCIPLE
“The NATIONAL MUTUAL” is a purely
Mutual Institution which was founded for
the benefit of its policyholders and their
dependents only. It has no shareholders
whatever, and no one has any monetary
interest in the Association except its policy-
holders, by whom the whole of the Funds
are owned and amongst whom the whole
of the profits are divided.
%
BECOME A MEMBER OF "THE NATIONAL MUTUAL”
Write and ask for any quotation.
Offices; 350 George Street, Sydney. Oswald St. Clair, Manager.
Assurance Fund .. . . £37,851,000
Income for Year 1933-4 .. £4,902,113
Amount paid in claims .. £32,532,000
The Association has Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, South Africa,
India, Ceylon and the Straits Settlements.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re—
Feb., Profit.* 1\ p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,519 20.283
Nominal
Reserves.
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 40,697 20,414
1929. .200,404 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 44,154 64.568
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107,867
1931.. 56,280 56,250 2 „ ~ 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82,532
1935.. 84,387 87,187 Nil 79,732
*Attcr deducting debenture interest.
Owing to the universal nature of the
business and the wide area it covers —
country trade accounts for a large slice of
the turnover —the readjustment of this big
organisation to altered trading conditions
has involved a larger crop of problems
than most other retailers have had to
wrestle with. The management’s success
in dealing with its difficulties is illustrated
by the improvement in the figures over
the last three years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a steady in-
crease in turnover in all sections of the
business, thanks to the growth of employ-
ment and improvement generally and to
the greater attractiveness of the store, to
which the new show windows, better
displays and lift services and reorganised
departments contributed. After paying
all exes., and making allowance for taxa-
tion and depreciation, the spring in the
declared profit was £27,553:
Debenture Available for
Feb., Profit. Interest, etc. Shareholders,
1927.. 41262,922 41112,602 £150,320
1928.. 267,714 70,767 196,947
1929.. 270,404 70,000 200,404
1930.. 257,049 70,000 187,049
1931.. 125,280 70,000 55,280
1932.. 46,530 63,437 16,907*
1933.. 66,727 49,910 16,817
1934.. 100,689 , 48,825 51,864
1935.. 128,242 43,855 84,387
■*Loss.
The redemption of £llO,OOO of debenture
stock lightened the interest charge by
£4970, leaving £84,387 (up £32,523) avail-
able for shareholders. The lot, and £2BOO
besides, was handed to the prefs., who
have received payment for the half-year
to August, 1934, since the close of ac-
counts, leaving the div. only six months
( = £21,797) in arrears.
With a little further improvement in
earnings, which seems likely, prospects of
the ords. getting into the picture during
the current term are encouraging. After
allowing for debenture interest and a
year’s pref. div., the balance of last
year’s profit was 3.2 p.c. on ord. capital.
On the debenture and share capital com-
bined there was enough to show approxi-
mately 4.6 p.c. Since the debenture and
pref. money together calls for 5.6 p.c., it
is still a drag so far as the ords. are
concerned.
On ’Change the prefs. fetch 245. as
against 9s. two years ago. Allowing for
the statutory cut, the return at the higher
price is 4.8 p.c. The ords. at 173. lOd.
(15s. 3d. a year ago) would return 3.3
p.c. on a 3 p.c. distribution. Including
intangibles (the co. . originally paid
£272,373 for goodwill, etc.), lumped with
fixed assets in the sheet, the net asset
backing is £2 15s. sd. prefs. and 21s. 3d.
ords.
Finances are snug:
1927. 1934. 1935.
Ord. capital .. £1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,600
Pref. capital . . 750,000 , 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures.. 1,000,000 900,000 790,000
Sundry creditors.. 249,210 128,209 137,658
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant,
goodwill, etc... 1,750,237 ' 1,799,150 1,838,330
Stocks .. . . 1,130,878 641,285 704,811
Book debts, cash,
etc 441,777 670,306 464,249
To carry an extra £63,526 of stocks, add
£39,180 to the book value of fixed assets
and lower the debenture item by
£llO,OOO, the co. drew upon book debts
and cash for £206,057, and increased the
amount coming to trade creditors, etc.,
by £9449—-the etcetera includes provision
for taxation.
The present co. took over in 1926 for
£2,900,000, paying partly in cash and
partly with 20-year 7 p.c. debentures.
The public contributed £2,000,000 of
share capital. The old co.’s properties
in Sydney were taken over on the basis
of 1920 figures, less whatever had been
written off since, while those in London
were paid for on the basis of a valuation
made in 1912.
West’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 8,488 7* p.c. = 7,233 1255 22,460
1924.. 13,009 10'„ 9,644 3365 25,825
1925.. 12,068 10 „ „ 9,644 2424 28,249
1926.. 3,863 10 „ ~ 9,644 219 28,468
1927.. 16,112 124 „ „ 12,055 4057 32,525
1928.. 16,417 124,, ~ 12,055 4362 36,887
1929.. 17,929 124., ~ 16,402 1527 38,414
1930.. 27.042 10 ~ ~ 24.017 3025 41.430
1931.. 7,047 24 „ „ 6,750 297 41,736
1932.. 3,606 ” Nil 3606 45,342
1933.. 3.867 1J p.c. = 3,375 492 45,834
1934.. 3,904 1-i „ „ 3,375 529 46,363
1935.. 3,680 24 „ „ 6,750 43,293
This is one of the holding cos. through
which the public is interested in the
Union group of picture theatres, etc.
Paid capital is £270,009. Besides the
reserves shown in the table, there is a
capital reserve of £37,888, as well as
£2600 set aside for taxation and £53
coming to sundry creditors. At the end
of March the lot was represented by
shares in other cos., £293,338 ; Consols,
£26,092; cash, £3562; book debts,
£1706; freehold, £35,893. The share-
holdings were in the General Film Co.
(in Jiq.), Greater Union Theatres, Ltd.,
and Australasian Films (Holdings), Ltd.
The year’s profits came from interest and
rents. No divs. were received, and it
is difficult to say when any are likely
to be.
A clear view of the position is blotted
out by a network of interlocking cos.,
over whose figures a curtain is kept
drawn. When Union Theatres went into
liquidation the four holding cos. in which
the public is interested (Greater J. D.
Williams, West’s, Spencer’s and Amal-
gamated) formed another group, chief of
which was Greater Union, to take over
the assets. Greater Union’s original paid
capital was £lB,OOO ; it issued another
£70,000 for debts taken over, and put
put a further 312,000 bonus shares, thus
raising paid capital to £400,000. Now
it is proposed to issue yet another
1,118,000 new pound shares—2oo,ooo
5 p.c. non-cum. prefs. for loans from
the holding cos., and the balance ords.
—thus inflating paid capital to £1,518,000.
The idea is to make the holdings of the
four cos. whose scrip is listed approxi-
mately equal to the original amounts
subscribed in Union Theatres and Aus-
tralasian Films, both of which are now
in liquidation. The alternative was for
the four holding cos. to jettison some of
their capital. This juggling with book
entries makes no difference whatever to
the actual earning power of the group..
The new shares are to be issued to
Greater Union (Holdings), Ltd., which
will then issue its own paper to the four
other holding cos. in proportion to their
interests in Greater Union. One effect
of this is to curb the power of the share-
holding public so far as effective control
of the organisation is concerned. When
the new issues are complete the holdings
of the public cos. will be approximately
as follows;
Greater Union
Greater ( Holdings).
Union , K
Ords. Prefs. Ords. Total.
£ £ £ £
Amalgamated; . . 58,400 29’,200 134,042 221,542
Grt. J.D.W. . . 130,000 65,00'0 298,382 493,382
West’s .. .. 3 04,800 52,400 240,542 397.742
Spencer’s . . . . 106,800 53,400 245,134 405,334
What prospects Greater Union has of
paying a div. on £1,318,000 of ord. as
well as £200,000 of pref. capital the
“Wild Cat” cannot say.
At the beginning of 1933 Union and
Hoyts linked up their city interests
through General Theatres Corp. There-
upon Australasian Films (formed in 1913
to do the hiring, etc., for the old Union
Co.) went into liquidation, and three
new cos. —British Empire Films, Cine-
sound Productions and General Theatres
Supplies—took over the business. The
shares in the three are held by Films
(Holdings), Ltd.
The market sums up the whole posi-
tion by paying 9s. 4d. for West’s fully-
paid pound shares. At that price the
return is 5.3 p.c. on a 2\ p.c. div. basis,
and it is doubtful whether anything better
need be looked for.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
v. Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
.g £ £ £ £
1925.. 10,983 10 p.c. = 3750 6,972 32,023
1926.. 16,387 10 „ „ 6823 7,864 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ „ 7500 10,578 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 „ „ 7500 11,251 41,030
1929.. 24,146 10 „ ~ 9981 10,548 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ „ 7000 Nil . 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 „ „ 7000 1,233 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 „ „ 5000 1,056 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 „ „ 5000 2,300 49,977
1934.. 16,611 6 „ „ 6000 4,583 56,005
1935.. 6,772 5 „ „ 5000 2,731 55,046
For the nine months to the end of
March, wool auctioned in Sydney
fetched £11,778,000, or £9,532,000 less
than for the corresponding period of
the previous season; the average per
bale was £8 2s. 9d. lighter at £l2
Bs. 4d. Since then the price has shot
up to £l3 14s. a bale, and more of the
staple is being taken. Foreseeing some
such possibility, many growers decided
to delay offering their clips. Thus this
co. put 8551 fewer bales under the
hammer during the 12 months covered
by its latest accounts:
W 00l Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1930 . . 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1931 .. 87,232 389,065 14,286 70,132
1932 .. 85,703 391,183 15.466 65,451
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 65,825
1934 . . 82,514 340,801 10,938 78,750
1935 . . 73,963 341,480 13,862 05,921
Gross earnings were down £12,829, de-
spite a slightly better turnover in the
livestock department. Exes. (£59,149)
were £2990 lower ; but no allowance was
made for taxation, whereas £5lOO was
so set aside in the previous term. After
refunding 20 p.c. of the wool and 10 p.c.
of the livestock commissions, shown as
bonuses to clients in the table, the net
result was £7987 lighter at 4 p.c. on
capital as against 12.1, 5.7, 6.7, 9.5,
7.4, 13.6 and 14.8 p.c. back to 1928,
when wool averaged £25 4s. 9d. a bale.
But the outlook has brightened, so only
a point was knocked off the div., reduc-
ing it to 5 p.c. again, reserves being
tapped for £959 to pay it. The current
year’s results will largely depend upon
the course of wool prices.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1927. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £75,124 £100,124 £100,124 £lOO,OOO
Mortgages . . 42,974 . —.—
Sundry creditors 63,506 103,283 45,920 94,932
Freeholds . . 93,884 146,523 146,523 146,523
Plant, shares in
other oos„ etc. 10,150 12,372 6,074 13,743
Debtors & cash 125,704 102,488 00,558 94,712
The growth of £49,006 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors, which in-
cludes something for taxation, and of
£34,154 in debtors’ balances, etc., reflects
the carry-over of 15,863 bales.
The pound shares, covered by 31s. in
net tangibles, are not listed.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends.
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 74 p.c. Ord. serves, Deficit.
1929.. 25,211 9375 8J p.c. = 10,625 5211 00,874
1930.. 14,436 9375 Nil 5061 55,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 43,936
1931.. 13.106 9375 Nil 3731 40,205
Added reserves, £12,938 .. .. 27,267
1932.. 6,166 9375 Nil 30,476
Added reserves, £11,087 .. .. 19.389
1933.. 4,100 4688* Nil 19,977
Reserves disappear, £15,592 . . 35,569
1934.. 2,405 4688* Nil 37,852
Depreciation reserve disappears, £28,280.. 66,132
1935.. 5,606 4688* Nil 918 65,214
*Half year, 3J p.c.
Considering the difficulties with which
slump and the tea-growers’ restriction
scheme littered the path of distributors,
this Robur Co. did well to come through
the last few difficult years without show-
ing a loss. Australian annual consump-
tion, which averaged nearly 81b. per head
in 1926, was less than 71b. last year.
Still, it is on the up-grade again, the
debts problem is less acute than it was
a couple of years and more ago, the co.’s
activities have been extended by the pur-
chase of the Oriental Tea Co. in N. S.
Wales, by the manufacture of table pot-
tery, etc., and by entry into the refresh-
ment-room business; also, costs have
been got on to a lower basis.
Nevertheless, severe competition, which
means price-cutting, continues, and it
has been difficult to squeeze much in the
way of profit out of the business. After
providing for depreciation, taxation and
other charges, last year’s net result,
though more than double the 1934 figure,
was not much in excess of half a full
year’s pref. div. So the prefs. had to be
content with 3| p.c. again, leaving £14,062
(=2s. 3d. per share) to come when the
books closed.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
compare as follows:
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250',000
Liabilities .. 57,551 92,029 104,724 94,438
Property, shares,
etc 53,491 149,140 148,416 117,804
Stocks . . 156,076 91,232 78,954 65,844
Book debts .. 41,800 44,431 51,142 25,860
Cash .. .. 9,623 31,435 38,361 74,399
The contraction of £30,612 in the book
value of property, shares, etc., was due
mainly to an alteration in the method of
book-keeping—the reserve for deprecia-
tion (£28,280 at the previous balance)
has now been deducted from the assets
concerned. For the first time freehold
(£24,137), leasehold (£1632), plant
(£23,133) and shares in other cos.
(£68,901) are shown separately. A reduc-
tion of £25,276 in debtors’ balances and
£13,110 in stocks enabled £10,286 to be
clipped off the amount coming to out-
siders and the. cash holding to be
strengthened by £36,038. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£71,671) was £7938.
At 17s. (19s. a year ago) the prefs.
have speculative possibilities. The return
is 4.4 p.c. on a 3| p.c. distribution, or
8.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, plus arrears.
The cover is 295. 7d. in net tangibles.
The ords. are not listed.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 25,062 10 p.c. = 19,282 5880 20,138
1926.. 26,141 10 „ „ 21,123 5018 25,156
1927.. 26,117 10 „ „ 21,912 3205 28,361
1928.. 21,633 9 „ „ 19,720 1913 30,274
1929.. 16,149 7 „ „ 15,338 811 31,085
1930.. 7,746 2*„ ~ 5,478 2268 33,353
Provision for bad debts. £15,000 .. 18,353
Loss.
1931.. 4,881 Nil 13,472
1932.. 1,034 Nil 12,438
Bad debts reserve included, £15,500 .. 27,938
Visible unexplained additions, £44,439.. 72,377
Written off, £7403 .• 64,974
Loss on old business, £4263 . . . . 60,711
1933.. 1,108 Nil 59,603
Written off, £3840 55,757
Loss on old business, £4389 .. .. 51,368
1934.. 2,499 Nil 48,869
Loss on old business, £3988 . . . . 44,881
1935.. 2,861 Nil 42,020
The outlook is much less uncertain
than it was; yet it is difficult to say
exactly what the future holds for this co.,
which trades in musical instruments, etc,,
largely on a t.-p. basis. The rapid
growth in the popularity of radio—the
number of listeners’ licenses in N. S.
Wales advanced from 100,798 at the end
of June, 1929, to 274,364 at the end of
last month—has narrowed the market
for other instruments, especially pianos.
Moreover, many traders sell radios as
a sideline, which means that profit mar-
gins are very narrow, and they seem
likely to remain so.
The co. has not balanced on the right
side since 1930. Including £3988 charged
to reserves on account of old business,
the loss for the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts was £6849, making
total losses from all sources over the last
five years £36,272, and reducing reserves
to £42,020 at the end of March.
Before the close of accounts in 1930
the co. sold its Pitt-street freehold at a
profit of £75,689, which was sent to inner
reserves. Three years later a new item,
“reserve in respect of real property,
£43,728,” appeared, and £61,189 was
added to the book value of freeholds
and mortgages combined. At the same
time an unspecified amount was written
off stocks and hire agreements, etc.,
down £49,864. The cut was apparently
not deep enough.
Here is the position as the published
accounts disclose it:
1929. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £219,114 £219,114 £219,114 £219,114
Mortgage . . 99,500 79,500 74,500 74,500
Overdraft . . 73,298 20,281 4,745
Other liabilities 117,660 27,003 32,859 10,720
Stocks, hire
agreements,
book debts. 312,458 153,382 133,053 116,892
Plant, etc. . . 1,888 559 393 883
Freeholds and
mortgages. . 219,017 244,915 244,915 223,967
Sundry assets 14,367 6,644 1,726 4,612
Last year £14,052 was added to the book
value of freeholds (£188,967) in order to
extend and improve the letting space,
now mostly taken. To meet the outlay,
lop £22,139 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors and wipe out the over-
draft, stocks and hire agreements, etc.,
were reduced by £16,161, and the
amount out on mortgage (now £35,000)
was reduced by half. The contraction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£71,284) was £21,391.
The fully-paid pound shares, covered
by 235. lOd. (book value) in net tangibles,
have a speculative interest at 6s. as
against 9s. a year ago. At 6s. the return
would be 6.6 p.c. on the basis of a 2 p.c.
div., which would call for £4382.
Carlton Investments, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
, Dividends———, Re- ■ De-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 10,203 7 p.c. 6 p.c. = 9,082« 1121 185
1930.. 4,723 34 „ 4 „ „ 5,239 701
Loss.
1931.. 754 Nil Nil 1455
1932.. 387 Nil Nil 1792
1933.. 119 5.4 p.c. Nil 3,790 5701
* Profit.
1934.. 13,657 21.2 „ Nil 14,824 6868
This holding co., formed in 1928, has
£139,735 of capital to feed in £1 shares,
of which 69,864 are fully-paid 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 139,735 are ords. paid to 10s.
each. One pref. and two ords. were
handed out for each of 59,846 ords. in
Carlton Hotel and 10,000 ords. in the
Eneber Investment Co., which is also
interested in hotel properties. The
operating cos.’ shares thus appear in this
holding co.’s books at £139,728, or
double their face value. The only other
tangible assets when the books last closed
were cash and debtors’ balances, £B2l.
Sundry creditors figured for £796. Since
the close of accounts, the holding in
Carlton Hotel has been increased to
164,626 £1 ords. by the issue of bonus
scrip in the proportion of one for seven.
In the first year there was £ll2l more
profit than the pref. div. and 6 p.c. to the
ords. called for. Then the storm burst,
the two operating cos. failed to con-
tribute to the pool, and the market threw
this investment co.’s scrip into the dis-
card. The recent extraordinary recovery
in the earnings of Carlton Hotel, how-
ever, has revived interest in the paper,
and the prefs. fetch 21s. 3d. and the ords.
13s. as against 10s. and 6s. Bd. respec-
tively 18 months ago. At the higher
o Continued on page 18.)


WOOL GROWERS
THE “HUNTER” PATENT
DOUBLE LEVEE RAM DE-
HORNER. Length overall, 30in.
Very strong and handmade.
Price £4/4/-
Postage: N.S.W., 3/9; Interstate, 5/6.
293—BAKER’S DAIRYMAN. Good
plain finish. Stag Halt.
Price, each 10/6
With Picker and Tweezer, ea., 13/6.
185—BAKER’S EIVE, specially
designed for use among stock: 5
blades, finest quality and finish.
Stag Haft. Size, 3Jin.
Price, each 18/-
Larger size, 4in. haft, each, 19/6.
HUUSEWJFEIS: SCISSORS'OUIEIT
BA
BJB
UNG
RADIES’ SCISSOR CASE, made of
fancy leather, containing 1 • pairs
Nickel-plated Scissors.
Prict. 37/6
Containing 3 pairs Nickel-plated
Scissors. Price 25/-
THE IMPROVED “V” BLADE
CATTEE DEHORNER. These
“V” Shaped Blades cut all
around the horn. The handles
have powerful leverage. No. 4
for medium to large size horns—
will also do small work —opening
3 inches x 3 inches; length, 3
feet.
Price, each . . . . 50/-
N.S.W. Postage, 5/6; Interstate,
about double. Extra Blades, 12/6
per set; 6/6 each. Postage, 9d.
“MIDGET” SCOOP DEHORNER.
For scooping out the buds of
calf horns.
Price 15/-
Postage, 1/-.
No. 40—VV. ,JNO. BAKER
BAGGING AND BOTTLE OCX-
FIT. This Outfit contains Bin.
Bed Tang Double Hollow-ground
Bagging Shears, 2-pt. Tin Bottle
and large Oil Stone, 6x2xl.
The Sheath is made of the very
best leather and riveted through-
out. Has loops for attaching to
saddle; also double-handed girth
strap
Price, complete 32/6
Postage, 1/6.
Fitted with Copper Bottle, 4/-
extra.
Ill —w. JNO. BAKER CAMP KNIFE, good grip, rosewood
handle, extra fine steel.
Prices, each: sin. blade, 5/6; blade, eZ-
Plain Riveted Sheath, 2/- extra.
wm&SSBi
P 20 —W. JNO. BAKER DOUBUE EDGE FOOT ROT
SECATEURS, Solid Metal Handles. lOin. overall.
Price, each 11/6
30—W. JNO. BAKER EXTRA GOOD DOUBLE SHEAR STEED BUTCHERS’ SHOP
KNIVES. Beech Handles.
Prices, each; 6in. blade, 3/-; 7in., 3/9; Bin., 4/3; 9in., 5/-.
Postage, 6d. extra.
33 —WORKING KNIFE, straight blade, same price.
svsas t
-'SS’brSSS
57^22
NICKEU-PEATED SPEVING SCISSORS.. Length overall, IGin. Price
Postage, 1/-
79/6
NICKEL-PLATED DISTENDER. Length overall, 28in. Price 25/-
Postage, l/-.
Cattle Swallow
and Hole,
457-
Calf,
37/6.
All W. Jno. Baker Cattle and Sheep
Earmarks are hand forged of the
best steel.
Sheep
Fork,
I
Sheep
Age,
16/-.
A
Sheep
Swallow,
18/6.
tl
202 —Compound Note
and Slit.
Price 45/-
SEND FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
BAKER’S TATTOO PLIEK,
handmade with 1 set_ of _ 10
figures and 1 stick Indian ink,
with 3-slot Plier.
Price 55/-
4-slot Plier. Price 69/6
THE W. JNO. BAKER
NEW IMPROVED LAMB
CLAM.
435 —The position of the
blade enables the user to
complete the operation
without moving his grip
on the Clam, the result
being a cleaner job,
quicker healing and saving
time. About S inches
overall. Black Horn
Handle Grip, Brass Guard.
Width across jaw, Ifin.
Price, each .... 13/6
LATEST DKENCH-
I N G FUNNEL.—
Swanneck Copper
Sheep Drench, with
mouthpiece made
of strong copper
tubing. Made in
different sizes. To
hold 1, IJ, 2, 2 1 3,
ounce drench.
Price, each, 6/6.
Postage, 9d.
S
JNO. BAKER,
HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
'
&
m
i
HAPPY DAYS I
LI OW can a young couple be sure that their happy
days will continue as long as they live? Let a
bridegroom of 1 889 give his recipe:—
“I had been a member of the A.M.P- since I was 22.
I had a policy for £250. In 1 889, when I was 34, and
a small country storekeeper, I married and took out a
second policy for £3OO. That policy was taken out to
protect my bride. In 1894 I took out another policy of
the same size. In 1898 I began to feel that the protec-
tion was not enough, and I invested in a fourth policy,
this time for £l,OOO. In 1906 I repeated the thousand, so that
my wife would have had £3,250, plus bonuses, if 1 had died
at that time.
“But I didn’t die. Nor did my wife. We were happily
engaged in earning a living and in rearing a family, and we
ran along merrily until I was due for retirement. Then came
the depression, and my sons, who had taken over the busi-
ness, were hard hit. My A.M.P. membership enabled me
to steer them clear of money troubles. My policies had
grown so greatly with bonuses that I was able to borrow
£4,000 from the Society. Not only was I able to see them
through their difficulties, but, taking advantage of low prices,
I bought a sheep property, where my wife and I are happily
spending the evening of our lives, free of all anxiety. We could never
have done this but for our early faith in A.M.P. policies. When we
took out those policies we invested in happiness without a doubt.”
If you, who read this, would like to learn all the advantages of A.M.P.
membership, write to the nearest A.M.P. office and say so. Don’t
delay. Next month—even to-morrow—may be too late. Life is full of
risks. But, through the A.M.P., those risks can be faced cheerfully
and without anxiety. Write to-day.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, WELLINGTON.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR''
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— -Advt.’
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Meib.). — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALAS'IAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. Write
NORMAN HILL & CO.. LTD.,
Cathcart House. Sydney.
figure the prefs. return 5.1 p.c., after
allowing for the statutory cut, and the
ords. would yield 5.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis.
Last year the prefs.’ slate was cleaned,
though the deficit was' temporarily in-
creased by £1167 to do it; a final 10 p.c.
(£5986) was received on the hotel co.’s
scrip after the close of accounts. The
p e M f ,
way is thus clear for payment of ord.
divs., which are expected to begin in
To get the earning power of the busi-
ness into proper perspective, it is neces-
sary to remember that, although Carlton
Hotel paid £16,200 in ord. divs. last year,
£6OOO of it came from trading profit
and £10,200 from profits from other
sources. The £12,155 of trading profit
claimed by the hotel co. was enough to
pay 6.2 p.c. on its pref. capital and show
6.6 p.c. on its ord. capital as it now stands,
A 6 p.c. div. (= £9877) would be equal
to a shade over 7 p.c. on the whole of
the investment co.’s £139,728 of capital.
That leaves out of the reckoning a pos-
sible increase in the earnings of the hotel
co. and any div. that may be received
from the Eneber Co.
Subject to a satisfactory report from
its own engineer, a strong London mining
group has offered to finance more exten-
ve prospecting of Eleanor Goldfiel s
Northern Territory leases. The same
S rou P i ll includes Orovi e, a P. ’
Commonwealth Mining and Finance
and ib , Gold F |. lds Australian
Development) recently made a similar
offer in connection with the Enterprise,
at Pine Creek. The idea is to form a
new co., to be registered in Sydney ;
London to put up £lO,OOO and have
control. Both the Eleanor and Enter-
prise are headed by T. G. Murray (now
in London), who has been responsible
for the negotiations. Development of
adequate ore reserves and a proper
metallurgical examination of the stone
prior to designing and erection of plant
are definitely in the best interests of
shareholders and mining generally.
* * * *
For some weeks the market has been
waiting for a public invitation to be-
come interested in the Emperor, on the
Tavua field, Fiji. The name of Austra-
lian Gold Development has been linked
with the prospective float, but not much
worth-while information has yet been
made available. The mine, reputed to
be rich, is owned by a syndicate (John
Wren, E. G. Theodore, P. F. Cody and
F. Packer), which* has spent about
£BO,OOO on plant and development. P. F.
Cody, who returned from Fiji a couple
of weeks ago, says he is opposed to sell-
ing the mine ; but the syndicate has con-
sidered several offers, though it has not
yet reached a decision.
* * * *
Avoca (Vic.) alluvial ground continues
to attract attention from overseas. Anglo-
Oriental Mining Corp. (paid capital
£1,750,000), a London holding co. which
controls some 174 dredges in Malaya and
elsewhere, is nibbling at the Lamplough,
Frenchman’s and Redbank areas. Inci-
dentally, the Redbank ground is not that
held by Redbank Alluvials. Gerald
Hutton, Anglo-Oriental’s chief engineer,
and Tom Owen, the co.’s Australian
representative, both consider the areas
worth testing, and the formation of a
co. with a capital of £lOO,OOO (Austra-
lian) is spoken of. Also, Oroville (paid
capital £740,000), New Consolidated
Goldfields (paid capital £6,500,000) and
possibly Placer Development may be-
come interested. Placer is running the
rule over the Middle Creek and New
Pyrenees areas near by, and is on very
friendly terms with the other organisa-
tions mentioned.
* * * *
Buninyong Rand Mines, at Buninyong,
near Ballarat (Vic.), is expected to reach
the dividend list before long. Since
April 25 three crushings, totalling 1208
tons, have been put through for an
average of 15.4dwt. The last (450
tons, averaging 16dwt.) was worth
approximately £BOOO, of which about
£6500 was profit. The stone came from
between the 230 ft. and 370 ft. levels, and
it is estimated that there is 14,000 tons
to be taken out. Interest now centres
in a crosscut east at the 470 ft. level
which is expected to pick up the down-
ward continuation of the lode, A 15-
head battery has been installed, and will
shortly handle 1000 tons a month.
* H* . H= H*
Greenbushes, Westralia’s one and only
tin-producer with a past worth mention-
ing, is pressing the State Government to
spend money in boring for deep alluvial.
In its palmy days, the field produced
metal to the value of over a million
sterling, but very little has been obtained
of recent years. Battlers are still potter-
ing about the old workings; and they are
convinced that there is great wealth
awaiting extraction in deeper ground.
The Government Geologist says indica-
tions are promising, and has recom-
mended that some boring be done.
* * * H*
A London group has taken up 192 acres
at Laverton (W.A.), known as the Lance-
field North. In a report on the property,
M. Weatherall says there is no doubt
that the Lancefield ore channel continues
through the leases ; he recommends that
the area should be first diamond-drilled
to cut the lode at 150 ft. and 250 ft. on
the underlay.
H= * * *
At Ora Banda United’s roll-up in
London recently, chairman Parker re-
ferred to a million tons of ore
and a mine that would be known as one
of the most important gold producers
in Westralia, If he is right a lot of
wealth was missed in the past. One of
the directors is at present in the West
arranging the layout of a plant.
* * H= *
Lake View South Extended, a Sydney-
controlled concern bogging in at the
south end of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile, is doing its best to find some-
thing worth having. The property, which
in some quarters is regarded as a good
gamble, adjoins the Lake View South
and Imperial, two other ventures
struggling for a golden crust.
He * * *
Lake Austin Eureka, one of a number
of smaller Westralian goldmining ven-
tures which don’t stand high in the esti-
mation of the market, is erecting a 10-
head mill. There doesn’t appear to be
much ore developed, but as the lode is
“so wide and easily mined” the co.
reckons it is doing the right thing.
* * *
North Kalgurli Central hopefully car-
ries on. A lot of money has been spent
on the co.’s blocks at Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
but on the whole values have not come
up to expectations. The co. reckons
there is a chance of getting something
good by further boring. Though there
may be doubts about its prospects, its
chances are far from hopeless.
H= H= * *
Yellowdine Gold Options, which re-
cently abandoned the Yellowdine field,
has acquired the Three Boys and one or
two other areas at Southern Cross
(W.A.). The price is £17,000 cash and
a wad of paid shares. “Well-known
mining engineers” are said to have favor-
ably reported on the property. Prior to
the purchase the co. had £28,762 in the
bank.
H= * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas, which holds
ground south of the De Bernales group
at Yellowdine (W.A.), has £20,000 on
fixed deposit and a further £7976 on
current account. Shareholders are not
likely to be asked for more for some
time. An account of developmental
operations is to be sent out later.
* * * H=
At Yilgangie Queen, Yilgangie (W.A.),
140 ft. of driving has been completed on
the lode at the 95ft. level, and all stone
passed through ranged in value from
2oz. to 4oz. a ton. Next month 300 tons
is to be crushed and the class of bat-
tery required decided upon. The reef
has widened to 2ft. at the deepest level.
* H= H= H=
During April Golden Horseshoe
(W.A.) treated 38,960 tons of tailings for
an estimated yield of £10,157 (Austra-
lian currency), of which £5253 was
figured to be working profit.
* * * *
During April Norseman , (W.A.)
crushed 2669 tons of ore and cyanided
1850 tons of tailings for 19450 z. of bul-
lion. The estimated gross proceeds in
Australian currency were £9BOO, and
working expenses £4117.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Any chance of a white miner obtaining
work in Fiji ? (2) Is income tax clearance all
that is necessary before one can leave Australia
for Fiji ? (3) Rates of pay for miners in Fiji ?
(4) Any serious diseases prevalent there among
whites or blacks ? (5) Type of ground being
worked, and is sandstone present ? —6569.
(1) White miners can obtain work in Fiji,
but engagement must be entered into before
leaving Australia, so that employer can enter
into necessary guarantees with the Government
regarding return passage if the employee be-
comes a destitute person and a charge upon the
colony. (2) At present passports are also
necessary. (3) £5 per week. (4) There are
no serious tropical diseases such as malaria,
etc. There is leprosy among the natives, but
it is seldom encountered. (5) Andesite is the
typical class of country in which the mines are
working. Sandstone is not present.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Mudlark: (1) In 1912 the Federal Treasurer
had to hold in gold coin a reserve of not less
than one-fourth of the amount of Australian
notes issued. (2) An embedded lode has a
foot wall and a hanging wall the same as a
fissure lode. (3) A fold in rocks in which
the strata dip inwards from both sides toward
the axis. (4) Pug seams often occur on one
or other of the walls of a lode. They may
or may not carry values A.8.C.: (1) Sell.
(2) Yes, though there is always the risk that
some or all of the arrears may be cancelled.
... .R.A.M.: Unless its articles say that it must,
a co. is not legally bound to post a copy of
its balance sheet to shareholders. Ask the
secretary for a copy, or for permission to in-
spect one L.F.H.: Care J. B. Were and
Son, 349 Collins-street, Melbourne, C.l
E.J.: (1) Provided the price of lead does not
fall, yes. (2) Upper Watut.


CHEVROLET
The Worlds Most Popular Truck
Why Chevrolet uses the
Famous Six Cylinder
Valve-in-Head Engine
Experience proves that the best type
of truck engine is a low revving "six.”
High-speed multi-cylinder power units
—which are really intended for pas-
senger cars—cannot stand up to the
severe strain of heavy haulage, and
only develop maximum power at
abnormally high road speeds.
The Chevrolet engine uses Cast Iron
Pistons—an assurance of long life
and freedom from maintenance. Its
pulling power is greatest at normal
running speeds, and is maintained over
t wide range.
Accessible Rear Axle .. 4 Semi-Elliptic Springs . •
6 Cylinder Valve-in-Head Engine . . Cast Iron Pistons
Low Engine Revolutions . .
These are but a few of the many features which have
made Chevrolet the World's MOST POPULAR TRUCK
Why does Chevrolet lead in world truck sales? . . . Why do more than 2 million
truck owners use Chevrolet today?
Because Chevrolet is a REAL TRUCK in the true sense of the word! . . .
Every detail ol its rugged chassis, engine and frame has been designed to meet
a specific condition of service. The engine—a low revving "six'* with cast iron
pistons—develops maximum power at normal running speeds. The full-length
frame is rigidly braced, while four sturdy springs of finest alloy steel protect
chassis and load from strain and vibration.
Valves are placed to permit quick firing and exhaust . . . Temperature of the inlet
manifold is thermostatically controlled. Exhaust valve seats ore spray cooled . . .
The drive pinion is straddle-mounted . . . The back axle is the sturdiest built, and
the most accessible . . . The 16" brakes are fully enclosed and the clutch—although
remarkably powerful in engagement—responds instantly to light pedal pressure.
But the best way to prove Chevrolet value is to test it. See your local Authorised
dealer and arrange for a demonstration.
GENERAL MOTORS—HOLDEN'S LTD.
CHEVROLET TRUCKS
BUILT ‘ON SOUND ENGINEERING PRINCIPLES FOR LASTING EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMY
Consult Your Local Authorised Chevrolet Truck Dealer.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Carnoustie”: Golf is being rent with
heresy these days. There has been a hot
controversy in Britain over the once-
sacred matter of replacing divots. The
new school avers that replacement is use-
less, since the replaced grass will not
grow again and the fairway can only
be treated with returfing, which, takes
time. Old hands, much to their sur-
prise, have found themselves in the
minority in most clubs. Some of these
days we shall all be playing on concreted
fairways, and the question of divots will
be banished.
* * * *
“Bramham Moor”: The House of
Commons is indignant at a circular from
the League for the Abolition of Blood
Sports demanding a definite announce-
ment that members are not in favor of
the gory recreations aforesaid. Failure
to reply will result in constituents being
told of their members’ bloodthirstiness.
As far as country members are con-
cerned there is no need to worry. Hunt-
ing, with its huge annual consumption
of fodder, is a prop of English farming,
while the breeding of hunters is a profit-
able sideline to many. Then there arc
the saddlers and others who Jive by the
game, to say nothing of the many hunt
servants. Shooting finds employment for
hosts of gamekeepers, beaters and em-
ployees in the gun and cartridge trades.
A lot of good jobs would vanish into
thin air if the League had its way.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Here in Aus-
tralia, where devotees of hardcourts and
grass tennis are for ever snarling at each
other’s heels, there is interest in the
report of the committee appointed by
the Yankee L.T.A. to decide on the best
surface for a standard court for cham-
pionship events. The committee finds
that for playing purposes a good grass
court is the ideal. Many types were
investigated, including clay, brickdust —
equivalent probably to our excellent ant-
hill —cement, patent substances, cork,
rubber and wood ; and about 5000 courts
in different parts of the country were
tested. Clay courts were in the great
majority, grass coming next.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Cashed up, wearing a
pointed beard and clipped moustache,
dapper in a khaki suit, a little man blew
into our township about a month
before Christmas and started to spend.
The transhippers and railwaymen who
kept the two pubs going promptly dubbed
him “Captain Kettle,” and took him to
their collective bosoms. The publicans
developed keen rivalry for his favors;
for days he passed from one to the other
with a cohort of followers, and for
nights was carried to his bed (in one
pub or the other) while happy men sank
down under trees, or were removed
from the station, or sang in the street,
or were lumbered and slept with visions
of the morrow to cheer them. The oldest
inhabitant could not remember such a
spender, nor such a general bender.
Through it all “Captain Kettle” remained
dapper, irreproachably clean and “gen-
tlemanly” drunk. On Boxing Day he
was gone. Two days later a couple of
frantic publicans rushed from the bank
to- the police station. “The Cap.” had
borrowed a cheque form from one, filled
it in, cashed it with the other, and then
returned to the first to drink out the
change with the mob. He had repeated
the process by reversing the pubs.
-H H*
“Scribe”: One of the biggest scoops
in journalism was accomplished by an
Australian pressman in London many
years ago, and it would have been world-
shaking had it been true. This pressman
used to rush the editions of the London
papers, search for items about Australia
and then do a round of the newspaper
offices to earn a few shillings writing
footnotes explanatory of some cable. He
was having a thin time. One day he told
his hard-luck story to another Aussie
newspaperman, who had been there for
years and worked up to a big job. “You
fellows,” said the experienced one, “make
the mistake of giving them the truth.
Give them what they expect.” The
indigent one went away pondering. Next
day the great opportunity came. A
cable arrived telling about the exploits
of limmy and loe Governor, who had
killed half a dozen people and were head-
ing west with hundreds in pursuit. He
sat down and wrote some fearsome melo-
drama, with the advice that England
should remain calm. in the face of this
serious affair in an important outpost of
Empire, and concluding with the warn-,
ing that the only real danger lay in
the fact that the Governors might arouse
the hostile tribes of the interior to rise
and march on Sydney. The story, a
column long, was starred on the front
page of one of London’s leading dailies.
It thrilled Surbiton and Upper Tooting
and was such a success that the control-
ling geniuses of the paper gave the visitor
a staff job.
* :K * *
From Rome comes the story that Mar-
coni has perfected a radio wave capable
of interfering with electrical power, and
that already he has stopped a number
of motor-cars, to the mystification of the
drivers. An English writer asserts that
the same thing has occurred in Austria.
If there really is such a device it will
throw on the scrapheap aeroplanes and
most other mechanical devices using
electricity for warlike purposes.
* * * *
“Scannty”: No sooner had television
got on the air in Berlin than studio
officials had their first “imaginitis” visi-
tor. The lady stated that she had learnt
that the television transmitter was
directed towards her apartment, and she
was consequently apprehensive about
undressing for the night. An official set
her mind at rest by informing her that
in future the instrument would be turned
toward another part of the city.
# * =H *
From “Anglo-Ind.”:
In Australian picture theatres these days an
American named Schenk is “presenting Zanuck’s
‘Clive of India,’ ” directed by Boleslawski. No
Hollywood hyphenates have produced a more
fantastic distortion of history. The English trial
of Clive is represented, to quote from the blurb,
as due to “a vicious campaign of slander by
corrupt East Indian officials,” who “point to
the gift of Mir Jafar as a bribe.” Actually
Clive was charged with taking many bribes, and
nobody doubted his guilt. The Commons didn’t
acquit him of, bribe-taking; it excused his
venality because of his “meritorious services to
his country.” In this preposterous romance
Clive’s English wife (whom he treated none
too well) is shown as a loving, helpful little
American flapper who doesn’t age a day in
twenty : odd years; and Lawrence, by far the
most important human factor in Clive’s career,
is ignored altogether. Such rubbish may be
entertainment, in the sense that the adventures of
Ginger Meggs or Speed Gordon are entertain-
ing, but it must cause educationists to despair.
The Saving Grace,
(BY “ KEO.”)
At breakfast Gawkins, when he didn't
actually ignore his wife’s conversation
and questions, replied in monosyllables
or just plain grunts. With head buried
in the paper that he had propped against
the coffee pot, he was totally oblivious
of the fact that she was compelled to
stretch across the table to get things for
herself. If he heard her requests he
didn’t heed them. When she brushed his
coat and helped him on with it and
handed him his hat, the slightest recog-
nition of these thoughtful and loving
little acts never even occurred to him.
When the 8.20 tram pulled in to his
stop he succeeded in shouldering aside
an elderly woman and “palming” off a
couple of business girls to get the corner
seat facing the way he was going. In
savagely slamming the door he nearly
jambed a woman’s hand.
When alighting he trod right on a
girl’s white shoes, leaving a black mark
on them. No word of apology came
from him.
As he entered the building where his
office was, he was just in time to hear
the liftman saying: “Room for two more
only.” He made certain of being one
of them by cleaving his way through the
crowd of waiting typists, using his elbows
freely.
Then, as the crowded lift soared
upwards, almost involuntarily his right
arm came up. It was a struggle in that
confined space, and it wasn’t before he
had dug two girls in the ribs that he
could raise it sufficiently to doff his hat.
Responsibility.
(BY “H.M.”)
“A Sydney,, speaker declares that the mis-
takes which really affect any man’s life are
mainly his own- fault.”
Humbly I admit my responsibility. I
should not have been born; my only
excuse for that fatal error must be my
early youth and experience. Amongst
the things that happened to me in child-
hood, the wall of a house fell on me.
On my own behalf I must protest that
at that time I knew nothing about jerry-
builders. Still, ignorance is no excuse ;
and there is no doubt I should not have
coughed.
My parents had often checked me in
that coughing habit. I acquired it when
a bigger boy threw me into a pond.
Still, I shouldn’t have annoyed that
bigger boy by making the mistake of
having red hair.
All my troubles over employment were
my own fault. Before I was bom I
should have made sure of grabbing a
silver spoon somewhere to stick in my
mouth.
I protest that I did-my best to avoid
the worst thing that can happen to any
man. Of course, I should not have flirted
with the girls, but —have a heart! I
made a point of telling how poor I was,
and even pretended that I was already
married. Possibly I blundered in trying
to get away by train instead of
bolting by car. But I didn’t have a car.
That was another mistake of mine.
And then my great mistake was in
imagining that I might be master of my
own house.
In the ensuing litigation my lawyer
told me that I would be all right as long
as I held back nothing. All I did hold
back was about half a crown. My mis-
take!
This morning there was a sewer-gas
explosion which blew up a street. I
made the mistake of being right on the
spot. I am just turning back now from
my interview with St. Peter about get-
ting into heaven.
My mistake again!


ABORIGINALITIES
Hop In”; Like the A.1.F., the boys
of Lismore (N.S.W.) are swift to size up
a situation and exploit it. There was a
Junior Farmers’ Show, and the girls came
along with cakes, scones and sweets, for
exhibition in the first place and later for
public refreshment. It was noticed that
very few boy-exhibitors followed the
judging. Just as this was finished a
frenzied small girl arrived with the news
that the boys had eaten all the dainties.
It was only too true, and the public, when
admitted, saw nothing but the crumbs,
though in the other sections there were
whips of oats, pumpkins, lucerne and
similar articles of fodder for those who
felt really hungry.
*-* / * *
“Williami”: At Leeton (N.S.W.) the
other day I met an old swaggie in from
Bourke. He had a long pole and was
prodding the banks of a muddy pool
about 100 yards from his camp. “There’s
a blasted frog in here ; it kept me awake
all night,” was his explanation.
* * * .t
“Tom Willie”; What is the biggest
handout known among the bagmen?
I nominate that from a station near Hol-
brook (N.S.W.). It consisted of a hind-
quarter of mutton, four loaves of bread,
101 b. of flour, four of sugar, half of tea,
a dozen scones and small cakes, a plug
of tobacco and a box of matches. The
finishing touch was a hot dinner at the
family table. The bagman had to camp
in the woolshed for three days to get
his handout down to' carrying size.
He’d broken a period of isolation for the
squatter, being the first traveller to call
for two years.
* * * He
“Wang”; Dragged along the other
day to view the wedding presents of a
girl friend of the family (a brave dis-
play of glittering and in some case use-
less articles), I recalled times when I was
one of the guests —and present-givers—at
bush weddings. In this matter the bucolic
mind ran on very conservative lines.
Tea-cosies held pride of place, with
breadboards and knives close up. Next
in favor were butter-and-jam dishes,
biscuit-barrels and revolving cruets.
Carving sets (in cases) had strong sup-
port, with fish slices and forks (also in
satin-lined cases) running them close.
The whippers-in were mostly toast racks.
And when guests came to tea on Sun-
days nearly every one of the articles,
loaded up to the Plimsoll mark, even to
the toast rack, would be found decorat-
ing the festive board. At times the
happy couple received presents less deco-
rative, but more utilitarian, such as milk
buckets, hurricane-lamps and rabbit-
traps. The most useful wedding present
I remember was a bag of seed potatoes,
and the most novel a cattle-dog bitch
with six pups.
* * * *
“Mother Slipperslop”; Brisbane once
boasted a Hunt Club, and by all accounts
could do with another. For a long time
a poultry-keeper in Vulture-street, which
runs through the most populous part of
South Brisbane, has been losing chooks.
The losses began about Christmas. Traps
and baits were requisitioned, but not
until the casualty list totalled 53 fowls
and ducks was the criminal nabbed. It
was a big dog-fox in prime condition.
The mystery is where the beast lived in
the daytime, though the adjacent railway
yards are blamed on the old principle of
when in doubt rock it into the Govern-
ment.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: After an interval of years
Bluey met his old cobber Dutch in Went-
worth (N.S.W.). Bluey had to look twice,
because Dutch wore a tailored morning
coat and a shiny top-hat. He seemed
embarrassed when Bluey, swag up and
dusty, pushed through the little crowd
and made himself known. “Blime,” said
Bluey in admiration, “what are y’, Dutch?
‘The Mare’?” “Er,” replied the resplen-
dent one, “er —can’t see y’ now, Blue, too
busy. These people must be attended
to.” Loftily he pushed past his dumb-
founded old cobber and disappeared
into a large house, before which had
gathered a number of motor-cars. Bluey
“Ar'ncha gointa help y'r mate ?”
“Wot, in SANDSHOES?”
stared after him a moment, then made his
way to the river and camped. The more
he thought about the metamorphosis the
more pleasing becarne the prospect.
Dutch would have to come across, either
for old sake’s sake or to keep his old
mate quiet. Whichever way he looked
at Dutch’s rise to 1 prosperity and dignity
Bluey saw a future full of flowing beer,
tobacco and easy tucker. Later on
Dutch, minus his finery, came down to
the river, dropped a swag and began to
make camp. “Just got in this mornin,
meself,” he told the amazed Bluey, “The
undertaker had t’ go away for the day.
He gave me half a quid f do his job.
They was his togs y’ saw me in.” It
took four long-sleevers to reconcile
Bluey to the loss of his future.
* * *
“H.V.H.”: A decrepit figure emerged
from a stable adjoining the hotel garage.
Anxious to know which way I was head-
ing, I told him I was in for the night.
He was a sleeper-cutter, and had ridden
a pushbike 17 miles to town three days
before for a booze. Now sober, he
wanted to get back that night, but
owing to the “shakes” wouldn’t risk him-
self on the bike. His desertion of
“Dolly” seemed to be troubling him
badly. He offered me a pound to run
him out to his camp, but I refused. He
assured me if he could not secure trans-
port that night he would walk, so
anxious was he about “Dolly.” At break-
fast next morning I learned that a co-
traveller had accepted the pound and
obliged him, after our friend had first
secured three pounds of steak in the town.
“Dolly” was a kelpie, and had remained
tied up at the camp for three days with-
out food. The quid was handed back.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: Henare complained that
he felt anything but well. “1 kot te
eddick,” he moped. “I no work. I want
te wissiky make me petter.” But instead
of whisky Henare received a strong dose
of unpleasant taste, and departed with
much murmuring. He told us about his
subsequent progress next day. “Efery-
pody ferry unkind,” said he. “I ko te
pub and say I have te measle, and t’ey
tell me to ko away. T’en I ko to te par-
son and I say I ferry sick, and te missis
say get away quick an’ ton’t touch te
children. An’ te parson say orra people
keep away, and terra me go way quick.”
This unusual behavior in our esteemed
clergyman and his wife roused our
curiosity. “And what did you tell them
was the matter with you?” someone in-
quired. “Werra,” said Henare, “nobody
rike te measle, so I terra t’em I kot te
scarret fefer.”
* * * *
“The Ringer”: Standing near a bore-
head on Toorak station, Julia, Creek
(N.Q-.), I noticed a number of almost-
round leaves, much like those of small
water-lilies, come out of the discharge
pipe. They were about 2in. in diameter,
of a dark-brownish-green color, and had
a waxy appearance. The water was
around boiling-point. I had previously
heard of such things, and ridiculed them,
though I have seen vegetable matter
grow in cold sub-artesian water. In 1930
a sub-bore was put down on Plainby,
Richmond, and equipped with mill and
large earth tank. After a few days water
plants started to grow in the bottom.
and within a fortnight some were nearly
a foot high. Many of them resembled
miniature pine- and fir-trees, and were
covered with little bubbles of air or gas
—a real fairyland to the eye.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; In the afternoon of a
burning day I took shelter from a thun-
derstorm under a shop verandah in
Langtree-avenue, Mildura (Vic.). When
the shower passed the street was literally
alive with small grey-and-brown frogs,
each about as big as a sixpence. I could
only conclude they came down in the
rain—they certainly did not come up out
of the , asphalt on the footpath and
street. Old Gifford Hall, pushing a pen
on the “Cultivator” at the time, suggested
that the spawn arrived in the rain,
struck the hot asphalt and was immedi-
ately hatched into frogs. “Giff,” you see,
came from Amurrica.
* * * *
“Varanus”: Let me commend those
eel connoisseurs to try snake at the same
time —they look and taste alike. From
snake it’s only one course further on to
goanna. Put him on the bill of fare also.
Properly cooked, his flesh is white and
appetising; it has a melting delight in
the mouth; it’s as tender as any fish
and as white as a chicken. Don’t skin
him or anything of that sort, and it’s not
necessary to bleed him. After he’s been
knocked on the head open his belly at
the tail end. A round hole about as big
as half a crown is the thing in the best
abo. culinary circles. Draw everything
out through that opening. Put him in
the ashes, covering him well with live
coals. Leave him till he’s done —this
may be noted by steam holes through the
ash. Take him out. Peel him as you
would a banana. Eat him or throw him
to the dogs, whichever fancy takes you.
If the former, chew cloves before you
go courting.
* * * *
“Kwa”: “Murlonga” (B. 3/4/’35)
should try the N.T. if he thinks that
modern bush nicknames are insipid.
Here are a few from the tropics: The
Busted Oven, Kelly the Nip, The Black
Snake, The Spotted Wonder, The White
Rat, Basher Bob and Frying-pan Annie
—a female “babbler.”
* * * *
“Alpha”; Pidgin English? It was
strained to the utmost when the Com-
monwealth Bank opened a branch in
Rabaul (N.G.). The Treasury had
always been known as the “house
money.” To the native mind there
were now two Treasuries, with the
possibility of endless confusion when
they were told to go to the “house
money.” They thought it out this way.
Notes, silver and tangible wealth were
to be found at the bank, which promptly
became “the house money true.” Their
contempt for book-keeping and clerks
was pithily summarised in the new name
for the Treasury—“house money gam-
mon.”
* * * *
“Check Reel”: Evidently the tunny
(B. 22/5/’35) is not as rare in Austra-
lian waters as was supposed. Of late
there has been evidence that he is plenti-
ful in certain seasons, though the fact
that he likes deep water, like the sword-
fish (also declared to be unknown in
Australian waters until some enthusiasts
discovered his feeding ground off Mon-
tague Island), kept
him out of the
news. The out-
standing example
of taking things
for granted in such
matters comes
from England. For
many years wealthy
big-game fisher-
men who could
afford it travelled
across the world to
Catalina Island on
the Californian
coast for the tunny
fishing. Then about
two years ago it
was discovered that
the North Sea off
the Yorkshire
coast teemed with
tunny in the
summer, and the
men and money
that used to go to America now stay
in England.
* * * *
“Halicore Australis”: The dugong is
almost as paradoxical as the platypus.
Half hippopotamus and half seal, as it
were, and yet something between a
pachyderm and a cetacean. It has pectoral
mammae, and, like the whale, is unable to
turn its head. It uses its flippers not so
much for locomotion as for grasping its
young. Traces of elementary hind legs
are to be found in some small bones
lying loosely in the flesh. Some of the
teeth are like those of an elephant. The
males have ivory tusks, and their bones
are made of the same substance. The
affection of the dugong for its young and
its love for the companionship of its
fellows ought at least to implore the
passing tribute of a tear from the eyes
of those who hunger after its flesh. But
if you must kill it, the nose is the vulner-
able part, as was discovered by the
blacks long ago.
* * * *
“Mimrac”: Which way does the
Strzelecki River flow? The few inhabi-
tants of Innamincka (S.A.) are positive
that it flows into Cooper’s Creek just
below the township ; the populace at the
Mt. Hopeless end of the river, that it
flows into Lakes Blanche and, Calla-
bonna. Who is right? Probably neither
—it hasn’t flowed since 1912, There is a
bar in the river bed not far from Inna-
mincka, and Cooper’s Creek must reach
a very high level to force the waters
over. If the Strzelecki ever does flow
again, I think it will flow into the lakes.
* ♦ * sfc
“Glen Hare”; A last-minute entry for
the Queer Accident Stakes. At a sports
gathering held at Millicent (S.A.) a com-
petitor in the vertical log-chop stuck
his axe lightly in the top of his 4ft. log.
While he was stooping to mark out his
cut his hat brim caught the handle, dis-
lodging the axe, which fell across his
neck, inflicting a gash that called for
four stitches.
ON THE BANK OF THE
HOMESTEAD CREEK.
Down on the banks of a stream that roams
In a wattle-lined course, as kids we would
sneak
To play bushrangers and then to cool
Our skins with prohibited swims in the pool
Where the waterhens hid and the yabbies made
homes;
Apd its only name was the Homestead
Creek.
On Sundays dad and some friend from the
mines,
Or a neighbor rigged in his off-day dress,
After dinner would crook their knees,
With lighted pipes, or stretch at their ease,
And yarn by the hour of their deeds and
designs
In the face of hardship or pride of success.
i here was repeated the “tender tale”
With the subtle eloquence soft eyes speak,
Mother would come from the house and
shout “Nell”!
And, getting no answer, would sigh, “Ah,
well!
There’s Bob Brown’s horse at the cowyard rail;
1 suppose they’re down on the bank of the
creek.”
For sport or for rest, high purposes stern,
Or pledges demanding a “place in the sun,”
Proclamations and secrets, revised all too
soon
When reflection prompted a different tune,
that happy old bank of the creek was in turn
Confessional, playground and platform in
one.
Who smiles at our visions or ventures to chaff
The avowals that summoned the blood to the
cheek.
Or the vaulting ambition that lit its fire
In the bosom of youth as of venturous
sire?
Ihe reply always there is the water’s sweet
laugh
On the stones in the bed of the Homestead
Creek.
Life’s compensations have opportune wings.
Is it solace or sentiment you would seek?
Is there love to unburden or grief to
assuage?
There are glamor and refuge for Youth
as for Age
And the memories cherished of all these things
On the bank of every homestead creek.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


“Oo, what's that, tnummie? A moo-moo?"
'No, dearie—the noo schoolmistress."
“Overcoat”: Another Russian plan
has gone wrong. A couple of years ago
a professor in Muscovy announced that
he had invented a method of making
sheep shed their fleeces in one piece and
immediately start growing another. This
was to be worked by putting the animals
under a course of drug-taking, the drug
being a deadly secret. The Soviet
granted the prof, a million roubles for
the first year and sat down to await
results. These have shown that, while
the fleece comes unstuck, so does the
sheep, and now the experiments have
been abandoned. The true solution would
seem to be breeding sheep with buttons
down the front, enabling the fleece to
be gently pulled off each year. Even
then there would be a catch somewhere.
The Jumbuck Valets’ Union would strike
for a maximum of 10 buttons per sheep
and zip-fasteners for rams, while York-
shire, which can always dig up a griev-
ance, would complain that the buttons
injured the combing machinery.
* H: ;i;
“Cadi”; Tell “Wonga Berry” (B.
17/4/ 35) that the old felt hat is a
darned handy thing to teach a touchy
colt to drink from a bucket or basin.
When on a dry camp that colt won’t
look at the bucket held to his nostrils,
but dish the crown of the old felt, pour
water in it, and nine times out of ten
the colt will dip his mouth in and drink.
From there, it’s easy to lead him to
the bigger supply in the bucket.
Surprisingly enough, Strat-
ford (Vic.), which stands on the Avon
River, did not take its name from Shaks-
peare’s birthplace. Bernard Cronin, the
Melbourne author, who has been insti-
tuting researches into the history of the
town, has discovered that the Avon was
named first and that two settlements
sprang up in the early days—one at the
“Slanting Ford” across the stream, the
other at the “Straight Ford.” As the
latter place developed, the Sydney Lands
Office mapped out a township and simply
modified its bush name into Stratford.
All the same, the connection with the
Avon River may have had considerable
weight in the mind of the official respon-
sible for the change. Further, the Eng-
lish Stratford may also be a form of
Straight Ford, Philologists, please con-
tradict.
“Gidya George”: As to flies on the
Georgina (W.Q.) (B. 10/4/’35), “Buzzer”
doesn’t go far enough. It’s the only
place I know where horses make
fly-rings. About daylight the bush
horses string in to a place previ-
ously selected on some claypan flat,
and gather in a ring. By continuous
stamping and ringing they churn up a
circle about 20 yards in diameter and
about a foot deep in flour-fine dust. An
occasional foot moving and an odd action
or two keep a fine haze of dust float-
ing above the ring. That dust means
suffocation to any fly venturing into it.
The stuff inconveniences the horses only
a little —in any case, it’s miles ahead of
having flies eat them alive. About sun-
down, when the buzzers ease off a bit,
the nags string out to feed all night,
ready to return to the sanctuary of the
fly-ring at the first streak of dawn.
* * * *
“Piscator”; “Western” (B. 15/5/’35)
evidently likes his fish as the Cockney
liked his eggs —“wiv a bit of flavor in
’em.” The mullet of which he writes is
a fine food fish, but to many is impos-
sible because of the oil-bearing layer
under the skin, which gives the tang that
“W.” extols. When fried, and especially
when grilled, this oil develops a taste
which hangs on the palate for hours, and
brings on nauseating indigestion in many.
Boiled, this drawback is not so apparent,
and the oil seems to vanish entirely when
the fish is smoked.
“Caw”: According to a member of the
Yass (N.S.W.) Pastures Protection Board,
the crows out that way are perfecting a
fine technique in their dealings with
sheep. Recently he saw a crow select a
fat sheep, and, mounting on its back,
proceed to gallop it round the pad-
dock, flogging it with its wings. At last
the jumbuck collapsed. As its rider
was about to dine the watcher inter-
vened.
“Croajing”: Victoria, which has
evolved old-men kangaroos that chase
people up trees (B. 15/5/’35), steps to
the front with another natural-history
curiosity. Farmers hunting dingoes cor-
nered four in a netted-fence corner.
Three escaped, but when the party got
up it was found that the fourth was
bailed up by a giant wombat, which
assisted in the capture. That story ought
to round off with the gallant ’bat being
given the free run of the local potato
paddocks for the term of his natural, but
it doesn’t.
'l' * * *
“Poniard”: “J.BJ.” fB. 15/5//35) asks
in a pained manner why certain squids
he impaled on a knife immediately
changed color, though obviously not
dead. I am prepared to bet that if
anyone stuck a knife in “J.8.J,” the
roses in his cheeks would instantly
change to something resembling the
“pale dirty-grey color” of the hapless
mollusc, while his language would
assume a chromatic color scheme which
would cause the spectrum to turn blue
with envy—a solace denied the squid.
♦ * * $
■‘Spare Walton”: As “J.N.” says (B.
15/5/35), the trout is not a confirmed
cannibal and a danger to
native fishes. The real de-
stroyers of these, are carp and
perch. Both are quite uneat-
able, and the perch in parti-
cular is regarded in Britain
as a menace equal to the pike
in preserved waters. The
lean, slabby trout referred to
by “J.N.” are spawned males
—salmon in like cases are
known as “kelts” —which are
unfit to eat, and are hungry
enough to tackle anything.
* * *
“Centurion”: That par. about boxing
stallions (B. 15/5/’35) reminds me that
mares are also pretty handy with the
mitts on occasion. In his memoirs Baron
de Marbot, a French cavalry officer who
served against Wellington in the Penin-
sula and in the campaigns against Russia
and its allies, tells of a mare that would
let no one but himself come near and
killed more than one groom. In the
mass battle of Eylau, Marbot became
jambed in a huge block of cavalry after
one of the many mounted charges
of the conflict. He could do no-
thing to help himself, but his mare
fought the way out for him with
teeth and forefeet, like the wild
beast she was, picking dismounted
men up in her teeth and “shaking them
like rats,” as her rider puts it.
sjs
“Fodgie”; Some birds in the drier
parts of S. Aus. find handy little reser-
voirs in “water malices.” My young
brothers and sisters on the way home
from school one night noticed a little
fowl about 18in. from the ground on a
tree drinking from a cavity full of cool
water. To call at the tree for a drink
was a Mede-and-Persian custom after
that.
* * * *
“Tripod”; “El V.” (R.P. l/5/’35) is
entitled to his opinion that the north-
south lie of “magnetic” termite nests is
due to the influence of an Antarctic
wind. Without laboring a question
which belongs to the “Do snakes swal-
low their young?” class, I can tell “El
V.” that he is in for an argument if ever
he mentions his theory in the hearing of
an old Cloncurry (N.Q.) resident. The
latter, an amateur naturalist of sorts, has
lost many an hour of sleep iri satisfying
himself that termites dislike working in
the direct light of the sun (as witness the
tunnels they build when working across
open spaces). Apart from their noctur-
nal activity, they are always to be found
early in the morning and late in the
afternoon working on the side of the nest
which happens to be in shadow.
V :'j
“T. Essbie”: That “continuous occu-
pation” condition of selection (B.
8/5/’35) once caused Henry Lawson’s
father much annoyance and nearly the
loss of his holding at Eurun-
deree. During the “Log Pad-
dock” rush a miner decided
to build a pub, and obtained
Lawson’s permission to erect
a shanty on the road front
age of his selection. As soon
as Jhis was done and the
man had entered into occu-
pation, he persuaded the
miners that Lawson had no
right to the property, as he
hadn’t lived on it. This was
true, as the Lawson family
camped on an adjoining two-
acre lot. The miners peti-
tioned for forfeiture, describ-
ing the selec-
tor as “P. H.
Lawson —a
German”
(Lands Depart-
ment records,
July, 1874).
In an endeavor
to retrieve the
situation, Law-
son built him-
self a hut on
the land and
lived in it,
whilst his
family resided
a tew yards
away in the
house on the
other side of
the fence.
Then the
shanty - keeper
sold out to
another man who wouldn’t pay Lawson
any rent. It took 12 months, a court
case and an “inquiry” to sort the mess
out. Lawson won in the end, but had
to buy the shanty.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”; But is the eucalyptus a
slow-grower? One in my backyard,
planted about 10 years ago, has been
lopped twice to make it spread; about
6ft. was taken out each time. It is now
30ft. high.
“Moke”: I’ll bet “H.A.L.’s” starling
(B. 8/5/’3s} had its tongue slit. Swaggie
Jim performed this operation, and kept
the victim caged near a whistling canary
for a day or so ; then if could give the
yellow fowl an octave start and beat it.
Jim painted it canary-color and sold
it to the publican as an outsize
and champion whistler. The paint killed
the fowl before the color wore off, and
Bung lost his bar exhibit without finding
out the deception.
“Tom Willie”; The statement by “De
Bee” (B. 8/5/’35) that he drove his
goanna team up stringybarks to lop the
branches for sheep-feed can’t be right.
No sheepbreeder would attempt to lop
stringybarks for his sheep. In the first
place, woollies and stringybarks never
grow together, and if they did the sheep
wouldn’t eat the leaves. In the second
place, the goanna team would slip back
as the bark gave way to the tearing claws.
It must be kurrajong or oak. Most oak-
trees can be lopped from a light ladder,
and a block and tackle is good to pull
yourself up a kurrajong-tree. In some
drought areas the trees are being trained
to grow like watermelon vines along
the ground, so as to save the trouble of
lopping. The bottle-tree, too, is being
cultivated largely to supply water. The
sheep suck the taproot when they wish
to quench their thirst.
* * * *
“Dhrimin Dhu”: Binghi and his ilk
have a profound respect for anyone
mentally afflicted. Out Charleville (Q.)
way we were treated to the rare sight of
a gaunt, taciturn 6ft. abo. singing to the
order of a white man who had gone
(temporarily) off his head. It was the
only sound or thing he seemed to appre-
ciate, and the black did it solely to
humor the evil spirit.
* =i= * *
“Kingsley Temple”: Binghi isn't the
only one without sense of values (B.
l/5/’35). I worked for a C.Q. cocky,
who after I had felled 50 acres of tough
softwood scrub came to me and told me
he was broke. “Never mind,” he added,
“I can still get tucker. I’ll tucker you for
a couple of months and we’ll call it
nuits! ”
"Stand back, for 'eavens sake! ’E thinks
you’re a passenger!”
“OUR VAST GOLD-BEARING
AREAS.”
“Though I’m a pretty busy bloke, as you chaps
know,” said Bill,
“And haven’t got the time to waste on bed-
time stories, still
There’s one thing always gets me —yes, I stop
and listen when
‘Our vast gold-bearing areas’ is on the air
again.
‘Somehow I seem to like to hear these chappies
spend their breath
About their blessed ‘areas,’ where they would
starve to death;
And, though I never like to scoff or run a
feller down,
I notice those who sing the song stick pretty
close to town.
“They’ll burble that these ‘areas’ are scarcely
scratched as yet—
They’re right, of course; they’ve not been
scratched so much as soaked in sweat.
And, as I’ve said, I always like to hear them
give it lip
In hopes that they will find some mug to buy
their worthless scrip.
“ ‘Our vast gold-bearing areas s ' —it has a
pleasing sound;
And, after all, who’s there can say what’s
underneath the ground?
But, all the same, I think it’s time, or some-
where just about,
They gave up singing songs of gold and tried
to dig it out.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


TO MEN ON THE LAND:
TO enable you to compile your own income-tax returns for the year
closing June 30 next and subsequent years, the Endeavour Press is
publishing an inexpensive, up-to-date, simple and authoritative handbook —
INCOME-TAX RETURNS’
by H. RAWSON STEVENSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
covering the Federal and N. S. Wales Acts as at present in force.
The Acts are explained in simple language, and there is a comprehensive
index of income and expenditure items. This will be the first notable work
on the subject published during the past five years, and the price will be only
FIVE SHILLINGS.
No person liable to Federal or N. S. Wales taxation—farmer,
businessman or salary-earner—who handles his own affairs can afford to
be without this book. He will find Income-Tax Returns a simple and
comprehensive guide and money-saver. Accountants themselves will find
this book indispensable for all types of income-tax returns.
To be published shortly by THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “GraneentraV
SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Is the Corriedale a Craze?
“Valerin”: Many Riverina merino-
breeders are introducing Corriedale
blood into their flocks.
The first cross Corriedale-merino gives
a useful dual-purpose sheep, with a
fleece from 56’s to 64’s, according to en-
vironment. The lambs are well-shaped,
and mature quickly. If it is necessary
to carry them over, they make excellent
wool-cutters and mutton sheep.
The difficulty, it seems to me, will be
to maintain a standard for both wool
and mutton.. If breeders must buy
merino ewes to keep up their ewe flocks
profits must be reduced. To put Corrie-
dale rams on first-cross ewes means a
coarser and less-profitable wool. To use
merino rams will result in a mixed type
of wool, which must be avoided, and
a slab-sided, narrow-shouldered lamb.
Where are we then?
And my experience is that in hard
limes, or when the fly is bad, the crosses
are less resistant than merinos.
There will always be a strong demand
for good-quality merino wool, of which
Australia has a monopoly. Almost all
other countries can grow crossbred-type
wool.
Spring Lambing.
“Granova”: Spring lambing, as sug-
gested by “Valerin” (B. 8/5/’35), is not
a success in south-western N.S.W.
Spring lambs must be dropped just
before or after shearing. Very young
lambs have a sorry time during shearing.
Lambs dropped after shearing have only
two months’ green feed ahead of them.
In nine seasons out of ten the effects of
grass-seeds in the late spring and dry
heat during summer will stunt them.
Early-autumn lambing has proved
much more successful in our district
(Temora). There is always good dry feed
in the late summer. At lambing-time
the ewes are in good condition, and have
the advantage of warm, mild weather.
Ewes will Jamb safely on dry feed. It
is when the lambs are three to four weeks
old that they must have green grass. In
most seasons green feed is available in
April and May, and early-autumn lambs
take full advantage of it.
In drought lambing is over before the
worst of the pinch. A ration of grain
and silage will keep the ewes’ milk supply
going until grass arrives.
Superfine Wools.
“Liss”: Undoubtedly, as “Sheepo”
says (B. 15/5/’35), it is true that the finer
the wool the higher the spinning quality,
but not always the greater the value.
I refer solely to the Australian auction
greasy-wool price. Like most growers,
I know little or nothing about top-
making.
“Sheepo” says that he has yet to read
of any comeback clip fetching more for
its top line than either Langi Kal Kal
or Carngham, both topnotch Western
District (Vic.) merino clips.
It may not have happened in 1910, but
I can assure him that it happened no
longer ago than last season.
Not only the two clips mentioned
but-all others were licked by a come-
back clip branded “Woolongoon/WW,”
which made 34^d.
The best price for his fancies was
29Jd. in each case. Also, a comeback
clip, not specified, made 33Jd. in the
eighth sale, and at least three other times
the Geelong sales were topped by come-
back wools.
Wool Serrations and Crimp.
“Square”: Many growers confuse
crimp with serrations when assessing
wool quality.
Crimp gives the wool its “character.”
Plain fibre lacks breeding. Crimps, or
waves, may vary from two or three in
an inch on strong Lincoln (long wool) to
36 in very fine merino fleece. Serration
consists of minute hooks on the surface
of the fibre. They are really pressed out
or flattened cells, and cannot be detected
with the naked eye. A microscope re-
veals them quite plainly. On fine, well-
crimped wool there are thousands to the
inch. Also, on the serrations are other
little hooks. The actual process of
crimp formation and its subsequent de-
velopment has not been plotted, although
the form of minute serrations can be
accounted for.
Generally, merino fibre is l-1300th
inch diameter in coarser quality to
l-3000th inch in the finest quality.
Exhaustive tests, however, show that
wool is not always circular, but more or
less flattened. The naked eye and tem-
perament play a big part in deciding
fineness.
Walk-in Dips.
“W.D.Mc.”: A walk-in, walk-out
dip, costing £lOO, will serve 30 years
with next to nothing for repairs. Writing
off £lO per annum, it works out at 4s.
per week. It is a poor sheep property
that will not stand that.
I can visualise “Albarmount’s” £3O
“in-again, out-again” affair (B. l/5/’35).
No wonder he gets fly-strikes! He states
that he does 600 before 11 o’clock. If
he starts at seven o’clock it works out
at 24 seconds to the sheep—no time
allowed for stoppages.
A sheepman who spends his money on
a 25ft. dip deserves all that comes to
him, and anyone who says that catching
a 501 b. merino wether, newly shorn, and
lifting him into a dip is not hard work
ought to make a sturdy recruit for the
Wharfies’ Union.
“Albarmount” never can have seen an
up-to-date walk-in dip in actual opera-
tion or he would change his views.
Culls—Young or Old?
“Corriedale”: Whether ewes are culls
or not is a matter of degree. Some men’s
surplus young sheep are worth getting.
Others are not.
I knew a greenhorn who wanted to
buy a line of cast-for-age good-style Cor-
riedale ewes. An old butcher-dealer
forced a lot of young culls from a good
flock on him. He took them home con-
vinced he’d been swindled, as they cost
twice the price of the old ones.
A month later he had a profit of 15s.
per head on half the mob. The portion
he kept clipped a pound’s worth of wool
that winter, and next year lambed
155 p.c. crossbred lambs. In July,
1929, one of Riverina’s worst drought
periods, he found out that most of the
old ewes he wished to buy had failed
to stay the distance. Moral: Don’t trust
the old ones. They won’t stand up to
disease or drought.
Footrot or Not?
“Nostain”: “Corriedale” (B. 24/4/’35)
suggests copper sulphate for footrot. This
treatment is good, but formalin is to be
preferred, as it does not stain the wool,
and, besides being a germicide, hardens
the hoof.
Formalin should be used in the foot-
bath —I gal. to 40gal. of water —and the
sheep stood in it for at least an hour.
A stronger solution, 1 in 15 of water,
may be used, and the sheep walked
slowly through the bath. It takes at least
10 minutes to get the best results by this
method.
Weevils in Silos.
“Valerin”: A few hints for keeping
silo grain free from weevils:
(1) Silos should be made as airtight
as possible—all joints closed.
(2) When the silo is emptied wash out
thoroughly with strong disinfectant and
paint all inside joints with a lime mixture.
(3) Grain in the paddock should be
pul in new sacks and transferred
promptly to the silo.
(4) As soon as practicable fumigate the
contents. Although no weevils are dis-
cernible, it must be remembered that
infestation takes place during the ripen-
ing stage. The young weevils eat their
way later out of the grain, and increase
very rapidly.
The most effective fumigant is carbon
disulphide, and it should be used when
the temperature runs from 80deg. to
95deg. At lower than 65deg. it is useless.
In U.S.A. the cheap and non-inflam-
mable ethylene oxide, combined with
carbon dioxide is used extensively.
Careless Branding.
The Federated Master Tanners' Asso-
ciation settles an argument:
Tanners are prepared to pay higher
prices for unbranded or neck-branded
hides.
The main difficulty the tanner has to
face is that hides branded on the neck
or cheek are not sold separately.
Butchers are indifferent to the enhanced
value of the hide thus branded, and will
not take steps to protect their own in-
terests. The method of selling hides
could be improved.
A tanner buying hides has to con-
sider weight, condition and flaying—fac-
tors which go a long way in determining
value.
It is rarely that unbranded hides are
offered. Recently a small parcel of them
was auctioned in Melbourne for fully
Id. per pound, or 2s. 6d. per hide, more
than similar branded hides.
Yet, in the face of opposition such as
that of the recent N.S.W. Graziers’ Con-
ference, which favored branding cattle
on both sides, nothing can be done.
The 1933 Chief Veterinary Officers'
conference suggested branding on one
side of the neck, hindquarter or
shoulder, with a size limitation. Tanners
support this proposal.
At the recent Sydney Royal Show, the
chilled-beef cattle judge gave points for
the hide. It seems strange that the R.A.S.
recognises the economic value of the hide,
which the Graziers’ Association treats
with indifference.
Indiscriminate branding loses the
Commonwealth at least £250,000 per
annum.
Which Is the Bigger?
“W.D.McC.”; I must “agree to differ”
with the writer of “Sydney Show” (B.
7/ 5 / ’35) when he states that it is the
greatest on earth. Measured by atten-
dances he may be right, but his claim
ends there. Let us compare it with Mel-
bourne’s Royal.
Draught Horses: This is the first year
that Sydney has had a good show of
heavy horses, many with “imp.” after
their names —and none the better for it.
Melbourne has had a good draught
show for the last 45 years. If the
camera cannot lie Sydney’s champion
mare would not be 1, 2 or 3 at Mel-
bourne.
Light Horses: They were no better
than Melbourne, and more of them per-
haps were cut out for circus prads. There
were not many good hunters in Sydney,
while Melbourne shows scores ridden by
amateur owners.
Beef Cattle: There were greater
numbers in Sydney, but quality is no
better than Melbourne.
Dairy Cattle: There is no comparison
—when you consider the immense area
Sydney has to draw*on compared with
Vic. . . . 0 J
Swine are simply not in it in Sydney
with the southern State.
Sheep: Here there is a big blank.
Fancy claiming to be the best show in
the Commonwealth and not a single ex-
hibit of Australia’s mainstay to be seen!
In addition to an annual Sheep Show in
Melbourne, the Royal Society there
stages a wonderful display of British
breeds and Corriedales at the R.A.S.
District Exhibits: Melbourne has
just as good a display of produce and
products, but, of course, no tropical or
sub-tropical fruits and plants.
Sydney Show has an enormous ad-
vantage in being held at Eastertime.
That has a great deal to do with its suc-
cess, since hundreds of thousands of
people are released from work for the
holidays. Hence the crowds which go to
see the “circus” items —the utility of
which is open to a deal of argument.
Melbourne has no seasonal advan-
tages, only one optional half-holiday,
and no night performances, and it has to
compete with the football'finals as well.
Sydney Show has improved, but it has
a long way to go to beat Melbourne
Royal.
Sowing Lucerne.
“Stump Jump”: “Winfield” has mis-
read me (B. 8/5/’35), I advocated sur-
face sowing when the soil was dry and no
rain in sight.
In some clayey soils it is impossible
to secure a strike. If the seed is sown
lin. deep in moist soil, and within two
or three days, a heavy storm flattens the
fine cultivation, an unbreakable crust de-
velops, and, unless a further fall lets
them through, the seedlings will be found
curled back under this crust.
“Upilio’s” method (B. 8/5/’35) is
sound and economical, but is confined
to the looser variety of soils. Hard-
setting types found in Riverina and
further south would not give the same
result, as lucerne must root directly
downwards.
In any case, sufficient dust for a seed
cover would be hard to work up, and,
except with prolonged rainfall, the
method would fail. It is suited more to
pasture establishment, as grasses and
clovers don’t need a deep root to start
with.
There is a new type of harrow-
cultivator on the market that is very
efficient for surface cultivation. Two or
three strokes may produce quite a good
layer of fine soil on medium to loose
ground.
“Granova”; “F.L.R.’s” statements (B.
24/4/’35) about sowing lucerne in spring
apply only to south-east N.S.W. where
rainfall is good.
Further north and west, the rainfall
peters out after September, and the hot
weather comes early. Thus, spring sow-
ing is risky.
Sowing in early autumn allows the
plants to become well rooted during
winter in preparation for a hot summer.
Autumn sowing on cape-weed land is
seldom successful, and it is better to
risk a spring sowing.
Tests made at Temora Experiment
Farm showed that lucerne stands natur-
ally thin out to suit soil and rainfall.
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.')


W//"'
m
or Summer Starts
this Winter -
m
m
GE
ATI
7
jp
\
Q ESPITE the severest drop in engine temperature you will still start instantly
on Atlantic Ethyl 1
The superior volatility of this modern fuel more than copes with sluggish winter-
bound engines ... it permanently wipes out starting fuss and delay. Add to this
the fact that Atlantic Ethyl's high anti-knock content guarantees increased speed
and more miles per gallon without knock or engine strain, and you will clearly
realise why Atlantic Ethyl gives you all the power your car was built to give.
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD E 12.48.35


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
ffi^&'alZelz/TL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Rugged, flexible and
smart!
This good-looking Abbey
Brogue is an extra-strong, all-
weather shoe that is comfortable
over the roughest going. It’s
splendid for golf. In this shoe,
the foot muscles are free to exer-
cise naturally. You will appreci-
ate its special qualities after a
hard round or two. The exclu-
sive Abbey-designed upper fits
with ease from the first time on.
Three widths per size.
Ensuring exact fit . , . you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size, and ask also for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin) or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 43/6
WRITE FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS;
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 439.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
J* • • »
Interest Begins
tmih■
CL Shirt
J
1\
Care for your skin dally with
Cnlirura Soap. Made of the
purest ingredients, delicately per-
fumed, it contains, in a modi-
fied form, the soothing, healing
Caticnra properties which pre-
vent irritation, protect the skin and
keep it clear, smooth and healthy.
Cuticura
For Skin Health and Beauty
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage Included—is just Id.
an hour.”
(Extract from “R-an-D” Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details front any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE; Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Etd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers,
' MAOH lAJ QUEJE,NSL AAI-O BY
RAPSON d DUTTON PTY LTD
m .•••V t A h LEY
PASTORAL & FARMING NEWS
Reports of Shows, Descriptions of Leading
Properties, Special Articles and Pictures of
Rural Interest are given in
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly for the Man on the Land.
On Sale All States. Price, fid.
ir» irir i
Jl jk iw •
A copy of our 250-page book, “Tools and
Hardware for Farm and Home,” just published.
TOOLS AND' HARDWARE FOR FARM AND HOME
m
P
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
It has been brought right up to date. Hundreds of lines are
described, illustrated, and priced. A new feature is a section giving
illustrations and particulars of numerous useful ideas for the Home,
Farm, and Workshop. Farmers, Carpenters,- all Tool Users,
Motorists, etc,, should make sure of their copy.
Please send me, POST FREE, your new Catalogue
for Farm, Home and Workshop.
Name
Address
ersons
Proprietary limited
51 BATHURST ST SYDNEY
582 COLLINS ST. . . MELBOURNE
116 WAYMOUTH ST. . .ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY ST PERTH
Under local conditions it is therefore
unnecessary to sow more than 31b. per
acre.
Successful sowings have been made
with cereal cover crops, but in dry sea-
sons thin, patchy stands result.
N.S.W. Wheats.
“Granova”: To improve milling
quality, the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment has made many changes in its
wheat variety lists this season.
Growers are urged to cut down popular
varieties of poor flour strength, includ-
ing high-yielders—Bobin, Penny, Nab-
awa, Yandilla King and Marshall’s No. 3.
Beringa, Dundee and Ford are recom-
mended for early, mid-season and late
sowing respectively. All are of high
milling quality, and their yields com-
pare favorably with those they are to
replace.
The department does not advise sow-
ing very strong flour wheats, such as
Pusa No. 4, Comeback and Florence, as
their yield would not be profitable.
Bait-poisoning.
“Alpha”; “Upilio” (B. 8/5/’35) may
be able to use a poison-cart on N.S.W.
tablelands, but he’d never drive it over
range country.
Instead of dragging a trench, it is usual
there to turn a clod over. With jam, the
bait is left on top of the clod. Thistles
give best results in the hollow, but it is
advisable to see if the rabbits are digging
for thistle-roots before using them as
bait. They usually forage for them dur-
ing a dry spell.
In wet weather jam yields better re-
sults, although it has a tendency to melt
in rain. On rough country pollard is
often laid along the clods from a device
like a grease-gun. It was, easy and safe
to use in the days when beef-cattle
reigned, but has become, dangerous with
the advent of hand-fed Jerseys, who like
pollard better than the rabbits do.
Kikuyu Grass.
"Pick”: In the Sydney Domain, along-
side lustily-growing fields of paspalum,
Kikuyu grass was sown. The experiment
has provided a lesson for farmers.
Near the Kikuyu the paspalum—
notoriously a hardy grower—wilts and
dies, while its healthy opponent continues
to spread and flourish.
As a dairy or sheep fodder Kikuyu
has everything to recommend it. And
its matted spread will choke out all
bracken patches, ink-weed, stinking
Roger and other noxious plants.
Skeleton Weed Again.
“Demeter”: Sodium chlorate, recom-
mended by the N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment to destroy skeleton weed, gives
many farmers disappointing results in
late summer and autumn.
Then the weed has scarcely any foliage
to absorb the poison. Further, high
temperatures and dryness, particularly in
southern wheat areas, prevent the sodium
chlorate from being fully efficient.
The best time to spray is in early
spring, when the leaves are abundant and
lie flat on the ground.
After the flower has set complete de-
struction with sodium chlorate is un-
likely.
Flowering plants will not seed if cut
3in. below ground with a mattock and if
a, double handful of coarse salt is placed
in the hole above the root. If the
weather is dry the salt should be
moistened.
The destruction of the pest becomes
more urgent with the discovery that it
harbors the Rutherglen bug, which has
little effect on the plant itself, but is a
serious pest among field crops and vege-
tables.
Hints for the Farm.
"Wrash”: Build a fence intended for
palings with a long two-panel rail and a
shorter one spanning one panel only.
Pass the long rail with a neat fit through
the mortise of the middle post —long and
short rails alternately top and bottom.
Mitre all rail-ends with a 45deg. angle,
and nail them when fitted inside the
mortises. There will then be a single
joint for each post, and the fence will
be more rigid.
“G.F.A.”; Don’t send wool exhibits to
shows in unbleached calico, which makes
the wool look a bad color. Always boil
the calico and bleach well before making
UP-
“Upilio”: A ration of 31b. oats with
lib. bran, night and morning, keeps our
two Jerseys in full milk on dry feed.
To prevent waste when feeding, nose-
bags made from a canvas 2ft. x Isin.,
folded in halves, the corners at the fold
cut round, and the sides sewn up and
attached to a greenhide strap to go over
the horns are used.
“F.L.8.”: When sucker lambs do no
good on their mothers, in spite of a good
paddock, wean them. A trial will prove
the value of the system. The lambs must
be kept on the best feed afterwards. One
of our mobs thus treated fattened within
five weeks. Two weeks afterwards they
were fit for the saleyards.
“Horsey”: Shoot sparrows or rosellas.
Insert strychnine into the breast, and
handle as little as possible. Next drag a
trail with roasted rabbits and sheep offal
in a wire-netting bag. In the centre of the
trail dig a shallow hole and insert a bird,
head first, leaving the tail feathers show-
ing. Straddle the trail whilst laying the
baits. In our experience you get a9O p.c.
kill if foxes are plentiful.
“Whalebone”; When lopping white-
box for sheep select trees with broad,
blue leaves and black-streaked bark.
Sheep prefer these to the plain-bark
variety with narrow green leaves.
“A.E.L.”: Seed maize, kept from one
season to another, may suffer deteriora-
tion from moths or weevils. A simple
yet effective idea is to empty the seed
into a tub or vat, and mix it with lime —
about Boz. per bushel. It can then be
safely bagged.
“Gumblegubbin”; Pine resin, dis-
solved with alcohol and methylated
spirit, is better than most gums for
sticking purposes, as it is not easily
affected by water when once set. To add
turpentine converts it into an ex-
cellent varnish. Adhesives are also made
with the gum of white-wood and leopard-
wood, dissolved in water with q little
alcohol added to prevent fermentation.
“Karaway”: The flowers of the red
cedar produce a beautiful yellow dye,
whilst other shades of yellow come from
the cockspur-bush, fever-bark, yellow-
wood and bungaby. Musk gives a pretty
sap green, and red and shades of pink
are got from the mangrove. Blue-gum
bark produces a dark dye, also a black
ink. So does passionfruit-vine in flower.
“33”: The best remedy for bee-stings
is honey, which not only stops the pain
but prevents swelling.
“Stump Jump”: Rivet the centres of
all sewn joints in heavy saddlery. It is
good insurance for the best stitching.
Copper rivets (washer type) and punches
can be bought anywhere.
“Mulgo”: A handy preservative for
any bush home is a box of sand. Car-
rots, parsnips and swede turnips buried
in it will keep fresh for weeks. The
tops of shallots, with the roots cov-
ered, will remain green. Oranges and
lemons may be buried green, and will
ripen there and be good for six months.
Sun and rain on the covering do not
appear to affect the fruit.
“Werrimee”; A lump of charcoal in
the pot in which doubtful meat is boiled
will improve the flavor. It’s a dodge
which every station housewife used to
practise in hot weather.
“Korumburra”; Take a piece of hard-
wood 9in. by 3in. Bore a 5-16 in.
hole near each end and a lin. hole at
an angle in the middle. Fit a broom-
handle in the middle hole, bolt on a
scrubbing-brush and you have the ideal
dairy scrubber. When the brush wears
out you simply bolt another on.
“Granova”: “Upilio’s” suggestion (B.
8/5/’35) that Dorset Horn-cross-merino
ewes be used as fat-lamb breeders is
dangerous. The wool of D.H.-cross
lambs is fair, but as two-tooths it is
short, light and harsh. Wool of this
type on our show-floors will damage our
reputation as the premier wool-producing
country.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
p‘ f
i f
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“The Director of Postal Services was pre-
sented with a. piece of the propeller of the
Southern Cross as a souvenir of the Tasman
flight in which 27,000 letters were lost.”
A lemon would have been more
appropriate.
•b *b *b *2-
“He had expected to make good progress,
but the ground was far’ too wet.”
— “S. M. Herald "
So that’s where he slipped.
*l* *l*
A Municipal Tragedy.
“A street repair worker in Toorak was dis-
covered to have lacquered nails.”
—“Sunday Sim.”
Trevor de Vere was trembling with
rage.
He was a picture of which any Toorak
alderman might well be proud. His cor-
duroys had a knife-edge crease, and his
heavy Cossacks glistened. A flannel shirt,
cut away in a Lord Byron collar, was
in the sweetest shade of duck-egg blue.
He had an immaculate sweat-rag around
his neck, and a pair of lilac bowyangs,
finished in a dinky little true lover’s
knot, showed just below the knees. He
carried his newest-shaped bowler hat so
as not to disturb his perfect marcel.
“You look positively ill, Trevor,” said
his mate, Plantagenet Postlethwaite.
“What troubles you?”
Trevor gave the Toorakian equivalent
of a snort.
“That beastly ganger has humiliated
me,” he said. “‘Knowing that we would
be working on that drain outside the
Smythe-Smythe mansion this morning I
went to the expense of a manicure, and
then the fellow insisted that we don our
lavender gloves. It was frightfully dis-
appointing!”
Keo.
b -I- -I* *l*
“Bats will prevent damage to rafters and
other woodwork by boring beetles and grubs.”
— “Sun.”
Presumably the bat relies on the
monotonous flapping of its wings to bore,
the beetles and grubs.
*2* *2* -I* *b
“It is a peculiar thing that the fossicker
who makes a lucky strike is usually more
serious than wildly overjoyed.”
— “World’s News.”
From the cradle to the grave!
•b *b *b *b
Oversight.
Yesterday, I got rid of my baby road-
ster as part-payment on a Superbia
straight-eight, de luxe coach. I doubt if
the price the salesman allowed on the
midget so much as paid for the Superbia’s
grease-gun, but what do I care? What
odds if the Superbia’s wheelbase does
cover about a quarter of a block, or that
she swallows more juice per mile than a
parched wharf-laborer does beer per
week. I’m sick and tired of those insig-
nificant gnats of cars; they get one into
all .sorts of bother, and one never knows
where one is with them.
Last week, for instance, I was obliged
to meet my wife under the railway arch.
Right on time I parked at the appointed
spot. Then, after cursing with impatience
for 30 minutes, I found I was not only
beneath the arch, but that I had inad-
vertently stopped under a disabled
omnibus!
P. O. M. C.
“Freezing Rates.” — “Telegraph” heading.
Well, that’s a start. Now let’s get the
taxes down to zero, too.
-I- *1- 4*
More Quintuplets.
“Five of them! The little darlings!”
Women surged in to gaze upon the little
mother lying beside her babies.
“Aren’t they sweet?” “And so alike.”
“You can’t tell one from the other.” The
buzz of feminine voices rose and fell.
The mother passed a superior eye over
the visitors, but said nothing.
“I wonder if they intend to keep them
all?” murmured one woman.
“Don’t see how they can afford to on
their income,” whispered another.
“Hush! Here comes Mr. Jones.”
Mr. Jones entered, smiling proudly.
“Hullo, Joy! Hullo, Mabel! Well,
what do you think of-’em?”
A chorus of praise and congratulations
greeted him.
Then one of the women timidly voiced
the question that was on the tips of all
their tongues.
“I say, Tom, you may think it rather
early to ask, but are you going to keep
all of them? I mean —well, you know —
er-—l’d like”
Tom broke in with a laugh.
“Good heavens, no! You’re welcome
to one for five guineas. And you’re get-
“So the manager wont see me! Why not?”
“ P'raps you're not his type, ma'am.”
ting him cheap at that. Don’t forget
Gyo’s one of the best-bred spaniels in
Australia.”
Uco.
•b 4*
The Drinkers.
“No, old man. I know when I’ve had
enough.”
“Aw, come on.. You can do another.”
“Not one more, I tell you. I’m not
the kind of bloke to make a pig of
myself.”
“That’s all right; but it won’t do you
any harm.”
“But I couldn't hold another spoon-
ful.”
“Come on, Dig.”
“Oh, all right, then. Just this once.
Two more chocolate malteds, miss.”
D. S.
Although of a
somewhat miserly
nature, old Tight-
wad possessed one
rather surprising
streak of kindness.
Whenever he gave
a blind man six-
pence he always
took the fivepence
change himself so
as to prevent the
afflicted one from
giving him back
too much.
•!* 'l*
A Sad Case.
The case of
“H.M.’s” friend
who met his doom
through gambling
with himself re-
minds me of the
sad affair of my
young friend
Egbert.
Every payday he
would put half his
wages in his right-
hand pocket and
half in the left,
and carry on a
series of bets
between the two
sides.
He found this
quite exciting for a time, especially when
the pockets would bet each other in beer
instead of money, for then, the pockets
being unable to drink, he would consume
the winnings himself.
But even this left him cold eventually,
and the craving for a more exciting form
of betting urged
him to new fields.
He went to the
Stadium the night
Knockout Sm u d
fought Basher Pete,
and laid an even
pound on Smud. A
little later he was
more than de-
lighted to accept
an even pound on
Pete. Here was
something new!
He would be able
to experience
simultaneously the
exultation of win-
ning and the de-
spondence of los-
ing. Between these
con flicting emo-
tions he became
terrificaly excited
as the fight pro-
gressed.
Knockout Smud
was knocked out
in the eighth
round. It was too
much for poor
Egbert. A brain-
storm, I would call
it. Striving to cheer and hoot at the
same time, he fell dead on the spot.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4*
“Cigarette ends were scattered all over the
hotel counter.”
That’s what they call a bumper bar.
•I* *l* •!• *l*
“U.K. Flour in Jamaica. Competition in
Cement Trade.” — “Times” Trade Supplement.
Hard tack!
►l* •}* 4* 'i*
“My wife seldom asks me for money; then
she only wants a few shillings.”— “Sun.”
This paragon is one apart;
The brain, dazed by her virtues, reels.
In wifely conduct, as in art.
It is the light touch that appeals.
H. M.
'l* *l* *l* *!-
“She was a woman of few words.”
But her repetition was marvellous.
*l* *l-
- 1955.
“Some day, cars will run by wireless waves
broadcast from a central station.”
—Scientific Hem.
Their car was the very latest in the
new wireless machines, and the youth and
the maiden sped merrily along the lonely
highway. But suddenly, miles away, the
broadcasting power-station was struck
by lightning, and the car stopped. The
youth said to the maiden: “We’re out
of impulses.” And the maiden replied:
“Oh, yeah?”
J. B. J.
Glimpses at the Globe.
XIII. —Joyriding in Chicago.
They’re very hospitable in Chicago, but
the language is rather difficult to under-
stand. I was strolling along Michigan-
avenue when two men suddenly ranged
up alongside me. One dug me playfully
in the ribs.
“Get in,” said the other, nodding
towards a car standing by the kerb. Sur-
prised and pleased at such spontaneous
“Y' know. Aim awf'lly fond of horseflesh .”
“Well, y' Won't get any here, young feller, so you'd
better get used t' mutton."
hospitality, I stepped in. They followed.
The car started off.
“Well, thanks very much,” 1 began.
“Shall we introduce ourselves?”
“Pipe down!” said the bigger man,
rather rudely I thought, but as it was his
car I knocked the ash out of my pipe
and thrust it' into my pocket.
“This is really very decent of you,” I
began again.
“Can that!” retorted my new-found
friend, who was apparently one of the
bluff, honest type that feels uncomfort-
able when being thanked for a kindness.
“We’re gonna take you for a ride,” he
added.
“So I see,” I replied, “and I’m very
grateful, too.”
“Stow it. We don’t want none of y’
wisecracking here. We’re gonna put
you on the spot.”
“Good-oh,” said I, “that’ll do me. I’ve
been drinking with the flies all day. But
I insist on your having one with me first.”
“Pipe down,” he repeated, and this time
he said it so savagely that I could see I’d
made a mistake. “We’re gonna bump
you off.”
“Bump me off? Can’t you stop the
car and let me step off? Or just slow
her down and I’ll jump off. After all, I
didn’t ask you for a lift.”
“You big gazebo. Don’t you onner-
stand? I said ‘bump you off.’ We’re
gonna shoot ya. See this?”
I saw it all right. It was a heavy re-
volver. All too late I realised my plight.
/ was in the hands of gangsters.
“But,” I protested, “you can’t shoot
me. I’m from Australia.”
“I don’t care if you’re from as far off
as Noo York. You’re goin’ on the spot.
Orstralia! There ain’t no such town.
You’re from Cincinnati, Cyrus T. Hoote,
and y’ can’t deny it.”
I could, and I did. Further, I produced
a couple of maintenance orders to prove
my identity. There was a short con-
ference.
The tall man was for letting me go,
but the short chap thought they’d better
bump me off just the same. I was in-
clined to side with the tall man.
“Anyhow, it’ll be good practice,”
argued Shorty.
This was my chance. I seized it.
“Surely, boys,” I said, “you’re not
going to tell me that America’s Number
One pair of bumpers-off need practice?”
He blushed.
“Well, boss,” he said coyly. “ ’Course
we’re not really the Number One pair.
There’s heaps better’n us.”
“Nonsense,” I told him. “They may
have the reputation, but you’ve got it all
over them for skill, for delicacy, for that
little indefinable something that makes
all the difference.”
“Aw, pipe down, boss.” His tone was
friendly and deprecating now. “Hey,
stop her, Joe.”
We pulled up at a wayside saloon.
“Well,”' I said, “what about that
spot?”
“It’s on us, boss,” said Shorty, and we
went inside.
Jasby.
Discretion.
When you in self-styled judgment sit
And anger makes you indiscreet,
You air your vitriolic wit
And call me names I daren’t repeat.
Assuredly, my sweet, it pays
To meet your gibes with careless
shrug —
I’d rather “stop” a stinging phrase
Than kettle, saucepan, plate or jug.
P. O. M. C.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING HOOMS.
Imncb from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Pinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.15 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone. M4OOl.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Dove, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Hanking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Hi,nk offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. ' .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wanted draughtsman, young and capable, to
operate as equal partner with journalist of
wide experience in advertising, who can supply
ideas for advertisements, cartoons, etc. —6900.
Englishman (60), Sydney, unemployed nearly
five years, having hard struggle to carry on,
wants job as lift-driver or cleaner. —6980.
To buy old Bulletin containing a skit on
the treatment of rheumatism by bee stings. —
6979.
Maorilander, interested in formation of civil
air defence league, wishes to correspond with
an ex-active service Australian Air Force officer
who is a good speaker.—6886.
To buy book by Douglas Rennie concerning
labor recruiting in the Islands.—6626.
To buy Sampling, by Richards, Geology as
Applied to Mining, by T. A. Rickard, Sampling
and H)re Handling, by James Park, and
Mineralogy, by Rutley.—6613.
Words of verse beginning: —
And every common bush afire with God!
But only he who sees takes off his shoes.
—6899.
Information Sought.
What did the term “emancipist” signify in
early New South Wales ? —6700.
It was applied to men who had been con-
victs but had regained their freedom, either
by pardon or expiration of sentence. Phillip
was instructed to grant 30 acres of land to each
emancipist, with a further grant if he were
married, but as the results of this munificence
often proved unsatisfactory it was later only
made applicable to men who had accumulated
a little capital. Macquarie encouraged the
emancipists’ social ambitions by , appointing
them to official positions, and extending an
invitation to his private table and society.
This antagonised the military officers, who were
the centre of social life in the .colony, _and for
a number of years feeling was very high over
the matter. Those who opposed the admis-
sion of the emancipists to full civic rights
were termed “exclusionists” or “free settlers.”
* * * *
What was the “dump” in early Australian
coinage, and how did the term originate ?—
6991.
In order to prevent the re-export of Spanish
dollars (the usual currency of the colony),
which, owing to their continually rising value,
were in much demand throughout the world,
Governor Macquarie in 1813 issued a procla-
mation directing that “a small circulating piece
of silver shall be struck out of the centre of
each such dollar, which, together with the
remaining such dollar, is intended to be issued
and circulated at the value and under the
regulations hereinafter described.” The piece
cut out, the “dump,” was given the value of
Is. 3d., the outer ring being currency for 5s.
$ * .**S *
On the shore of Encounter Bay (S./L),
between the Inman River and Rosetta Head
(locally known as the Bluff), there are the
ruins of an old windmill. Who built it, was the
mill ever worked, and for how long ? Also,
who were the subsequent owners of the pro-
perty as a mill ? —6695.
The windmill was built by Peter Hilmore,
who owned a farm just west of the Inman
River in 1850-51. It is not known how long
it was working. There is a short description,
with picture, in Charles Hodge’s Encounter
Bay (1932).
* ♦ * *
Does Australia export t manufactured articles,
such as footwear, to any extent ? —6772.
During the year ended June 30, 1934, exports
of manufactures totalled in value £4,773,355
(Australian currency).
* * * *
(1) Highest shade temperature ever recorded
in Darwin ? (2) In the world ? (3) Average
difference, per cent., between sun and shade
readings ? —-6606.
(1) 104.9deg. F., October 17, 1892. (2)
136deg. F. was recorded at Azizia, Tripoli-
tana, on September 13, 1922. The Encyclo-
pcedia Britannica states that a temperature of
167deg. F. has been observed in the Gobi
Desert. (3) The percentage difference between
shade and solar radiation temperatures gener-
ally has not been definitely established, but the
maximum solar radiation temperature should
not exceed 198deg. F.
* * * *
What economies have been effected in the
Commonwealth’s external interest, etc., through
Mr. Bruce’s activities in London ? —6920.
The economies effected by conversion loans
undertaken during Mr. Bruce’s term as High
Commissioner ' include interest reduction,
£2,320,000 p.a., and a saving in exchange on
remitting interest of £589,000 p.a.
* * * *
Has the pituri plant, which the natives
of Centralia use as tobacco, any commercial
value 3—6803.
It is not of commercial value, and, in fact,
is poisonous to stock, like its relative Duboisia
myoporoides, the cork-tree.
* * * *
(1) What is the regulation length of ribbon
for the Queen’s South Africa Medal ? (2) Are
nearest relatives entitled to wear the medals
belonging to deceased soldiers ? —6658.
(1) One inch from the top of the riband to
the uppermost clasp. (2) A female relative may
wear the military decoration of a dead soldier,
but any other person wearing a decoration to
which he or she is not lawfully entitled is
liable to a penalty of £2O.
* * * *
(1) Addresses of sandalwood buyers in
Sydney? (2) How should the wood be pre-
pared ? Should it be barked, into what lengths
should it be cut, and what is the smallest
diameter tree accepted ? —6812.
(1) No recognised buyers of sandalwood m
Sydney. The only recognised exporting firms
dealing with sandalwood in the Common-
wealth are the Australian Sandalwood Co.,
Perth, and the Co-operative 'Sandalwood Co.
(S.A.). (2) Sandalwood-trees are not felled,
■but are pulled out by the roots, the root stock,
and all roots down to Him diameter being of
value; even a limited quantity of dead
wood is used. Sandalwood is graded, and logs
of first- and, second-grade are cut not less than
4ft. 6in. and not more than 7ft. in length.
Wood is to be cleaned of all sapwood, shelly
and brittle wood, and centre pipe or unsound
heartwood is not .to exceed a diameter of 2m.
at the butt end. Wood not conforming to
first-or second-grade is enclosed in bags, and
no piece must be of less weight than 21b.
First-grade logs are not to exceed 140 to the
ton, and second-grade 250 to the ton. At
present sandalwood is not allowed to be pulled
in N.S.W. In other States where operations
are permitted no living tree of less girth than
13in. measured over baA -vt 6in. from ground
level is allowed to be pulled.
A person who is well known to a bank
presents a cheque payable to himself or bearer.
The cheque is uncrossed and good, being
signed by another person well known to the
bank and having an account there. Can the
bank, in this case, require that the cheque be
endorsed by the payee bearer ? —6905.
It would not be justified in withholding
payment of such a cheque without endorsement.
If it were to refuse payment, such refusal
would render it liable to an action for
damages by the drawer. If a payee signs
such a cheque at the insistent request of the
banker, it has been held that such signature
amounts to a receipt and not an endorsement.
* * * *
How to kill marine worms which are attack-
ing a small punt, and how to prevent further
attacks ? —6598.
To kill the existing worms, allow the boat
to dry for several weeks at least, and give
its outer surface three coats of creosote, with
sufficient time between coats to dry them. To
protect boat from further damage, Muntz metal
or copper sheathing should be applied. Finns
radiata boards lin. in thickness, impregnated
with creosote, would form a protective sheath,
but after a few years leaching of the creosote
would expose the wood to attack. For details
of this treatment, write to Division of Forest
Products, 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne.
* * * *
Method of dwarfing plants in pots ? —6849.
Dwarfing of hard-wooded plants is brought
about by keeping the roots confined to a small
area in a pot or other receptacle where they
have very little soil to feed on. Water is
always necessary to keep the plant alive.
Occasionally the plant is taken out of the pot
and some of the bigger roots pruned hard
back.
* * * *
Is Cestrum nocturnum poisonous ? —6656.
Several species of the genus Cestrum are said
to be poisonous, but nothing definite has been
published concerning Cestrum nocturnum in
particular; and there is no evidence that the
heavy Cestrum scent is harmful. The matter
is worthy of investigation.
* * * .t
(1) When was Medlow Bath hydro opened ?
(2) Was -it originally run on sanitarium lines,
with prescribed hour for bed, etc., and liquor
prohibited; if so, for how 10ng? —6651.
(1) July 4, 1904. (2) It was run as a hydro-
pathic establishment for two or three years.
It has been run as a hotel ever since.
* * * *
What is the jejunum ? Does it serve any
special purpose in the intestinal tract ?— 6910.
Jejunum (Latin for empty) is the term
applied to the middle portion of the small
intestine for the reason that it is usually found
empty after death. The other two segments
are the duodenum and the ileum. As it is
traced towards the colon the small intes-
tine narrows to some extent; hence the je-
junum is a fairly capacious portion of the in-
testinal tube. In other respects, it also differs
from the ileum; its mucous membrane is
thrown into folds whereby the active surface
of the intestine is greatly increased to serve
the purpose of digestion and assimilation.
While the duodenum is often attacked by
chronic ulcer, and the ileum by ulceration fol-
lowing upon infective fevers, the jejunum is
practically immune from such diseases.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of excessive perspira-
tion under the armpits ? —6903.
Excessive perspiration is not unusual in
nervous conditions. Apart from attention to
the latter, cleanliness and hygiene are essentials.
Bathe night and morning with a mild germicidal
soap and hot water; after drying, dab affected
parts with liquid witch-hazel, and dust freely
with powdered starch. Two teaspoons of alum
dissolved in a pint of water make a useful
astringent for occasional application. Moderate
exercise and outdoor sport assist in restoring
the normal eliminatory functions of the system.
* * * *
I have been advised to use camomile and
henna for my dark-brown hair. What would
the result be as to color and effect on the
scalp, and how should the stuff be used ?
6797.
The combined henna and camomile rinse
gives color and life to faded hair; the light
shades in brown hair are enhanced by its use.
Vegetable tinting mediums of the kind have
no harmful effect on the scalp. To a mixture
of loz. henna and 4oz. camomile (each in
powder) add one quart of boiling water.
Simmer for a few minutes to infuse the color;
then stand it aside until moderately cool.
Finally, strain off the liquid through two layers
of muslin. Having shampooed the hair with
soap and hot water to remove grease, dry
lightly and rinse well with the solution.
Dry the hair without further rinsing. For
pronounced coloration, mix the powders with
sufficient hot water to make a thin paste, and
apply as a pack for five to ten minutes.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Dr. Thomas
Young, who deciphered the Rosetta Stone ?
—6977.
Born in Somerset in 1773, Young graduated
M.D. of Gottingen at 23. He held important
medical posts in London, but showed such
mathematical ability that he became Superin-
tendent of the Nautical Almanac and Inspector
of Calculations to a leading insurance com-
pany. But Young’s fame chiefly rests upon his
discoveries in human optics; he first proved
that accommodation for vision at different dis-
tances is due to changes in lens-curvature, and
that our perception of primary colors depends
on the presence of three kinds of nerve-
fibres (one for each primary color) in the
retina. His work in physics included researches
into the hydraulics of the circulation and
measurements in elasticity. He first introduced
the term “energy” for the product of the
mass of a body into the square of its velocity.
In 1814 Young deciphered the Egyptian hiero-
glyphics on the Rosetta Stone, and recognised
a phonetic principle in the symbols. He de-
voted his spare time to music and horseman-
ship and to the study of languages.
* * # *
(1) Information regarding the Count de Las
Cases and his book dealing with the life, exile
and conversations of Napoleon. (2) Where can
the book be obtained ? —6646.
(1) He was a member of the suite chosen to
accompany Bonaparte to St. Helena, and, as he
was the only one who understood English,
acted as the exile’s mouthpiece. In November,
1816, he was arrested for having attempted to
communicate with the outside world; was
banished to South Africa, and later wrote
Memorial de Sainte Helene. After Napoleon’s
death, Las Cases was permitted to return to
France, and in 1831 was elected to the Chamber
of Deputies ; he died in 1842. (2) The book
is out of print, and the second volume is very
rare.
* * * *
Are there any superstitions about magpies ?
—6407.
The chattering of magpies was in olden
times considered to be of ill omen. It was
also believed unlucky to see a magpie alone,
but to see two denoted marriage or merriment;
three, a successful journey; four, an unexpected
piece of good news; five, that the spectator
would shortly be in great company. Turning
thrice or spitting three times was considered
effectual in combating the ill-luck engendered
by the bird’s appearance. In Lancashire, two
was considered the unlucky number.
* * * *
What is the meaning, with derivation and
pronunciation, of the word “gigolo” ?— 6718.
Signifies a fancy man or professional dancing
partner. The word is French slang which has
travelled to us via South America, and appears
to have acquired a measure of respectability in
the process. It is pronounced with the accent
on the first syllable, and with the soft French
g—zheegolo.
# * * *
(1) Easy method of nickel-plating small
articles in the home? (2) Apparatus required?
(3) Procedure ? —6359.
(1) Might try electroplating, though any
electroplating firm will nickel-plate small
articles for a shilling or so. (2) A low-voltage
supply such as a large accumulator, an earthen-
ware tank of suitable size for the articles to
be plated, a nickel plate for the anode, suitable
vessels for an alkali, an acid, soft water for
cleaning purposes, and polishing equipment.
The nickel solution may consist of: Water,
Igal.; nickel ammonium sulphate, 140 z.; boric
acid, 2oz. (3) The article to be plated is first
cleaned and then connected to the negative
terminal of the accumulator and suspended in
the plating solution. The positive terminal of
the accumulator is connected to the nickel
anode, which is also placed in the solution.
The current is then left on until the article is
coated to the required thickness. Get a book
on electroplating.
* * * *
Would a strong wind blowing rain at a
sharp angle lessen or affect to any extent the
correct registration of a rainfall by the usual
galvanised-iron gauge, and, if so, in what way ?
—6238.
Strong and gusty winds to a certain extent
affect, and in some cases slightly lessen, the
registration of rain by blowing raindrops across
the catchment area of the gauge. A few drops
that might have fallen short of the gauge
could for the same reason be blown into it.
The action of the wind at the mouth of the
gauge and the region surrounding any two
gauges is so irregular and variable that it is
hardly possible to make accurate allowances
for it. The height above ground also comes
into the question. For practical recording pur-
poses a standard gauge (Bin.-diameter catch-
ment area) is used, with the rim of the gauge
horizontal and Ift. above the ground. The
ground site should be as level as possible, and
not overshadowed by trees, buildings, etc.
Brief Answers.
F.L.C.: (1) Nothing has been published by
the inventor. There was a fairly lengthy
article on the subject in the “Lone Hand” of
July, 1913. (2) Have posted the cutting
B. : A small copper coin of Constantine the
Great would, if in very good condition, have a
collector value of 6d. All the small bronzes
of the Constantines are common and of low
collector value... .H.C.M.: As far as can be
ascertained, there is no circulating library foi
gramophone records in Melbourne... .R.A.S..
Cannot trace, but the American Trade Commis-
sioner, Yorkshire House, Pitt and Spring streets,
Sydney, may be able to help if you can
furnish further particulars N.A.B.: (1)
Advisable to consult a registered patent attor-
ney (see advertisements at end of Wild Cat
section), or you can apply direct to Patent
Office, Canberra. (2) Cost, including attor-
ney’s fees: provisional protection tor nine
months £5 5s., full patent rights about £24....
E.F.: Warped gramophone records can be
straightened by warming them gently, placing
them between two firm and entirely flat sur-
faces with a weight on top, and leaving them
until cold... .P.M.D.: (1) Drake’s Radio
Cyclopcedia, early editions, 17s. 6d.; present
edition, 39s. The better-known wireless terms
will also be found in The Concise Radio Hand-
book, by R. C. V. Humphery, price* 3s. 6d.
(2) Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (3) Radio
serviceman’s course, £10, from Marconi School
of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney. You
might also try International Correspondence
Schools, Ltd., 140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (4)
Depends upon the course you take up
A.M.I.: You may be able to make arrange-
ments by canvassing Sydney shipping offices.
M.B.: Details too lengthy to print here.
Consult a book such as How to Make Good
Pictures, available at most photographic stores.
E.H.: (1) Foxtrot and waltz songs have
been published in Australia in past years, but
prospects to-day are poor. (2) The value of
a composition depends upon the arrangement
made between the composer and the publisher,
and whether the publisher uses it as a separate
composition or includes it in a bopk. The
usual royalty paid on single songs is 10 p.c.
of published price, the music printed at ex-
pense of publisher... .J.W.C.: There are hun-
dreds of sellers of gladioli in Sydney, including
many of the departmental stores, but all the big
firms have their own raisers. Exhibit your
bloom in the local show, and if it ppssesses out-
standing qualities you should have inquiries for
it W.K.M.L.: Write to A. Yates and Co.,
184 Sussex-street, Sydney, for pamphlet on
cultivation of tuberous begonias A.L.: See
current issue of The Statesman’s Year Book.
A.E.A.: The following are some of the
rations (per head, per week) imposed in Eng-
land during the last year of the war: Sugar
8oz., butter and margarine 5oz. or 6oz., lard
2oz., meat Is. worth, jam 4oz., cheese 2oz.,
tea 2oz J.B.: Country lending branch of
the Public Library of N. S. Wales, Bent and
Macquarie streets, Sydney, may be able to
help you G.N.M.: Areas are: National
Park 33,800 acres, Centennial Park 552 acres,
Moore Park 354 acres, the Domain 86 acres,
Botanic Gardens and Garden Palace grounds
65 acres, and Hyde Park 37 acres A.L.L.:
The cartoon was entitled “In Pharaoh Land,”
and was by Norman Lindsay. It appeared in The
Bulletin of January 14, 1915 L.T.L.: (1)
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, London,
W.C.2, and at 18 East 48th-street, New York.
(2) The Australian Authors and Artists’ Hand-
book (2s. 6d.) and The Writers and Artists’
Year Book (Sydney price 5s. 3d.)... .F.W.:
Death adder is correct, though from its dis-
inclination to move when approached it is
sometimes called “deaf adder”... .L.L.: Bones
of the dingo have been found along with
those of various extinct marsupials (such as
Diprotodon and Nototherium), and, as far as
present evidence goes, its arrival in Australia
considerably antedated that of aboriginal man.
M.L.B.: (1) No, Dan Kelly’s body was
found in the ruins of the Glenrowan Hotel
after the building had been burnt. (2) His
brother Ned was hanged at Melbourne on
November 11, 1880. (3) See Charles White’s
History of Australian Bushranging or Boxall’s
History of the Australian Bushrangers
....H.M.D.: (1) Moorilla is a N.S.W. abo.
place-name meaning “stone.” (2) The number is
given in this office T.M.: Write Under-
secretary, Department of Mines, Sydney....
R.A.K.: (1) Shirley Temple is six. (2) She
has been acting for three years. (3) Her first
picture for Fox was “Stand Up and Cheer.”
She appeared in very small parts in comedies
prior to this A.S.H.: Silver amalgam can
be obtained from dental supply houses in
Sydney or Brisbane. Ask for a quotation
C. and B.: “None” implies “no one,” and
should be followed by “was” C.F.F.: A
time-honored way of scraping acquaintance....
K.J.M.: To clean oil-paintings, use plain warm
water and clean, old linen rags. Dip rags in
water and sponge the paintings. Continue,
changing both rags and water until both come
away clean. Dry pictures lightly with a soft
cloth, and hang in a warm spot for an hour
or two. If the surfaces are very dirty, try
rubbing them very lightly with a rag dipped in
petrol J.R.C.: No sleight of hand in the
weight-lifting process. When pressure on head
is removed the subject instinctively relaxes,
and inhales deeply; the movement proceeds
with minimum of physical and atmospheric re-
sistance. With conscious muscular tension and
deflation of the lungs, the reverse effect is
obtained. Many feats of the kind depend on
this principle R.T.: The N.S.W. law relat-
ing to the licensing of electricians was altered
by the passage of recent legislation, and it is
now embodied in the Local Government Act.
Applications for the examination to be held
on June 11 should be addressed to the Secre-
tary, Electrical Contractors and Electricians’
Licensing Committee, Raphael-street, Sydney,
and should be accompanied by detailed infor-
mation as to the applicant’s practical experi-
ence in electrical-wiring work X.Y.: The
approximate value of Lockhart’s Life of Burns,
first edition, is £1. Master of Ballantrae en-
dorsed “fourteenth thousand” would be con-
sidered as the 14th edition, and is of no
special value... .(Many others mailed.)


COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
CLERK EMBARKS ON WORLD TOUR
•V,
One of the many thousands of happy Travel-
lers journeying to England for the King’s
Jubilee celebrations is a Colonial Mutual Life
Policy holder, who, after the celebrations will
continue on a world tour.
Employed as a Clerk in a City Office, he had
taken out a policy providing for the payment
of £5OO at the age of 45, which enabled him
to make the trip.
Full information regarding such a policy may be obtained from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
The Society that is wholly mutual.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE : MELBOURNE. BRANCHES IN : SYDNEY, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON
C. B. Hearn, A.C.I.S. Manager and Secretary 2 ,65
'OU C 044 dy .
so co*i
if* Film on Teeth!
• Film must be removed from teeth . . .
for beauty and for health.
Film is that slippery coating on your
teeth. Film contains the germs associated
with tooth decay. Film invites tooth and
gum disorders. Stains from food and
smoking lodge in film—make teeth look
yellow when they’re really not.
Film sticks like glue. To remove it you
must use a special film-removing agent.
Pepsodent is known throughout the world
to-day as the special film-removing tooth
paste.
Due to scientific formula
Pepsodent’s unique power to remove film
from teeth is due to the formula. A new
cleansing and polishing material has been
developed. This material is far safer than
any leading toqth powder—far softer than
polishing materials used in any other lead-
ing tooth paste. Yet it removes film with
striking effectiveness.
This special film-removing material is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively—and in
no other dentifrice whatsoever. That’s why
Pepsodent gives results not possible with
other kinds.
Dentists use Pepsodent
That is why thousands of dentists have
told us that they make Pepsodent their
personal tooth paste.
That is why millions of people will
not risk their own teeth or their
children’s teeth with harsh, abrasive
pastes or powders.
Don’t take chances on cheap
dentifrices, when Pepsodent leaves
teeth brighter, gives higher
polish. Use Pepsodent twice
a day — see your dentist «
at least twice a year.
P Ef 5 0 I) t NT
j
| FREE —10-Day Supply
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. (Dept. S.B.),
Box 48 8G, G.P.O., Melbourne.
! Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
[ Tube of Pepsodent.
N ante
I Address
1 k2054m/a Only one tube to a family.
a
Stop and consider these facts . . «
Your own judgment should tell you that ordinary
non-medicated confections and gum drops are quite
useless in dealing with the germs that attack the throat,
chest and lungs—whereas
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
because of their high medicinal value, have been pro-
tecting the health of millions of people for over 40
years, and to day enjoy the largest sale of any prepara-
tion of their kind in the world.
It is a fact worth knowing too, that a Hudson s
Eumenthol Jujube, taken after meals, prevents indiges-
A. —The Larynx or Organ of Voice, tiou.
B. The Trachea or Windpipe. OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes ot ■
dissected Lung.
D. —The lobe of one of the Lungs.
FOR POCKET
OK PURSE,
ttd.tin
FOR HOME
OR OFFICE,
16 tin
BUY BOTH SIZES—USE LARGE TIN AS REFILL FOR SMALL ONE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS will be returned unless stamps accompany.
V.W.: The point is too obvious... .A.S.:
Not with that one G.T.: No room for
Hoppy or Joe 0.F.: Yarn too slight; draw-
ings crude Rip: The atmosphere of the yarn
is quite good, but the tidal wave of fortune
at the finish washes out any chance it might
have had M.J.: Oft our beat K.L.S.:
Wouldn’t have stood a chance even if you
hadn’t attempted to frighten us off by a list
of 19 other “compositions” you intended to
follow it up with Propalong: It has some
merit; keep trying H.W.: Not suitable
L.F.McG.: It was a narrow escape
E. : None of the sketches submitted rings
the bell D.W.: It goes on and on, and
there doesn’t seem to be any point in it. You
give the impression of working up to a climax
and then leave the reader flat C.L.: Yarns
on the same theme crop up regularly, but yours
is the first one submitted on tissue paper.
Hope it’s the last... .E.A.S.: Doesn’t make the
grade... .H.W.0.: The first treads beaten
tracks, the second makes no appeal and the
third is a condensed novel S.A.H.: A plot
that the talkies use every second week....
Z.V.W.: Doesn’t give the impression of being
written from first-hand knowledge E.M.L.;
Not up to standard J.W.R.: Reminiscent
of “Llewellyn and His Dog” C.T.: If true,
it might be worth a par. As fiction, it misses
by streets S.L.R.: Came fairly close
F. : “Have I delivered the goods?” Not
this time J.Y.: “Love Among the Rissoles”
has enough meat in it for a three-decker
volume (which is probably. more than could
be said for the rissoles) W.D.McC.; True
spirit of brotherly help in reply to “Bellerive’s”
plaint of “Flea and the Bug”:
Said “McC.” to old “Bellerive,”
“You struck a hot spot
To cop fleas and bugs in one little lot.
A good dose of ‘pulvex’ will act like a charm.
It will stiffen the vermin
And do your blankets no harm.
Take an old cove’s advice,
Camp out in the clear
And you won’t have the blighters
Biting your ear.”
... .D.K.E.K.; Great country this, judged by
the poets—spring all the year round M.H.:
Like most sonnets written, it reads more like
a verse exercise than an expression of any-
thing really felt. Otherwise fair F.St.A.L.:
Not quite., . .E.K.F.: True; but the rhymes
don’t make it anything but prose... .T.E.McC.;
“Love’s Old Sweet Song” is once again o’er
—or, rather, ashes A.M.: Neat enough,
but a personal statement of no general inter-
est makes thin verse reading... .X.X.X.: You
haven’t yet learned to make metre behave >
itself Philop: Singularly depressing even for |
a humorous sonnet... .L. 8.: “The swallows;
swooped across the sward unseen” reveals re-
markable observing powers... .8.H.R.: Don’t j
click M.S.J.; Descriptive in spots, but not i
much as a whole L.J.H.: “In the psycho-1
pathological sphere, detersion sometimes occurs
through the accretive obsession dropping off, as
it were, of its own weight.” Precisely!....
Henriette: The plot is far too melodramatic. |
Revenge yarns usually are....E.W.; You’re j
getting a bit closer Telopea: Doesn’t hold j
the interest... .H.H.: Babbling water and 1
soughing winds are not welcomed in this
paper T.W.N.; Very slender, and not very
funny 1.V.: At any rate, it shows there is
something to be said for street photographers.
....Von K.: It gives the impression of being
founded on films rather than fact.... j
F. : No room for dogs’ dreams....)
E.R.M.: “For Beauty Seeking” hasn’t enough
of finding G.W.W.: No bid for “The
Pearl”.... Michael: Sincere, but not enough
to overcome a distaste for the old-fashioned
air Manti; Idea, but verse lame J.R.:
“The Choice” isn’t ours... .I.M.McC.: Not a
very wonderful discovery F.R.P.: Worst
fault is that it’s neither good nor bad, but
just ordinary.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.W.K.: Two lopsided deadbeats and one
of the oldest dosser jokes 8.D.: You draw
in a hurry. Take time and attend to details.
. ...C.W.: Gag about the poisoned damper
saw print when we were very young....
L.M.J.: Instead of easy flowing lines you put,
down something resembling barbed wire.....
J.H.: Neat and tidy, but otherwise uninterest-
ing R.K.; It doesn’t look a scrap like
Billy T.M.; Admired the shearers’ cook’s
corporation, but not his attempt to be humor-
ous A.N.S.: Everything about them sug-
gests copies C.P.: Art is not your line.... j
G. : We’ve chased that tramp away many
times R.M.; Has some merit. Strive for
sharper tone effects... .W.E.; Work is improv-
ing, though still scratchy J.RJ.; An ink>
mess and an undernourished joke.... P.L.: |
Appears to have been drawn with “a thumb-
nail dipped in tar”... .V.C.: Easily this week’s
worst.
A MIXED GRILL.
“M.”: In a Melbourne court. Bond,
P.M., rebuked a witness for fixing the
location of an incident in his evidence as
“Young and Jackson’s,” and directed
that the statement must be amended to
“the corner of Flinders and Swanston
streets.” This recalls the Vic. Supreme
Court Judge who once demanded of
a witness who had remembered a cer-
tain date through a race event, “And
what, pray, is the Melbourne Cup?” The
first to posture in this manner is said to
have been an English Judge who asked
“Who is Connie Gilchrist?” at a time
when the actress was as well known by
name and sight to the lieges of London
as St. Paul’s Cathedral.
* ♦ * *
“F.Y.7”; Patent-medicine addicts (B,
8/ 5/ ”35)? I’ll back the outback Aus-
tralian bushman against the world—un-
less he has changed greatly in the past
few years. In my time in western
Queensland every station store stocked
many proprietary brands of “tonics,”
while the varieties of pills were as be-
wildering as the brands of whisky in a
Sydney private bar. Consumption was
heavy and consistent, and many a
chemist would have been glad of the
station profit under the medicine head-
ing. Consumers must have watched the
market closely, for no sooner did a new
brand of pill appear on the advertising
pages of the press —patent medicine and
pill ads. are a standby with country
papers, as they are with their metropoli-
tan contemporaries—than a strong de-
mand for the latest panacea set in, and
had to be met with a hasty order to town
agents.
H< * A' A'
A Tas. wages board has made indus-
trial history by ruling that girls and
women employed in shops—grocers’,
fruiterers’, greengrocers’, tobacconists’
and confectionery— must receive the same
wage-rates as lads and men. Hitherto
there have been differences ranging from
2s. 3d. a week in the case of juniors to
295. 3d. in the case of seniors ; now adult
women with two or more years’ experi-
ence are to go up 30s. a week. The
award applies to Hobart and Launces-
ton; it comes into force on May 31.
Chain stores are not affected, but the
example may prove infectious.
* * * *
“Regular”: Arthur Lassetter, who has
died in Monaco at 66, was a younger
brother of “the Colonel” who turned the
family hardware business in George-street,
Sydney, into a general store. (Harry Las-
setter, by the way, though not a pukka
colonel, was entitled to call himself cap-
tain. He retired with that rank from a
British regular regiment in the ’eighties.)
Arthur Lassetter was a mild, nale A tidi-
cised little man who was married to
an English clergyman’s daughter, and
yearned constantly for Europe. “Las-
setters” began to go downhill after the
death of old Frederick, father of Harry
and Arthur. The brothers once asked the
late Mick Meagher for his expert opinion
on what was wrong with the concern.
“If you must have the truth,” said M.M.,
“you are.” Though hard-working, culti-
vated and brainy, the brothers were poor
businessmen.
* * H: *
That old-world courtier Thomas
Brentnall, who glides through Mel-
bourne’s cultural life with a gallant grace,
has become a great-grandfather. Early
this month in Edinburgh Capt. David
Nicholl, R.A., and his young wife, for-
merly Phyllis Mary Dunne, fondled their
first-born, a son. Phyllis Mary is the
daughter of Mrs. Walter Dunne, for-
merly Vera Brentnall. The Dunnes are
station folk, but always have a town flat
in readiness should they tire of green
pastures. Their daughter met her young I
man when he was A.D.C. to Lord Stone- 1
haven, and the marriage took place in
London about two years ago.
* * * *
“The Essential”: The connection
between the repeal of prohibition in
America and tennis does not seem
obvious, but racquet-makers are cursing
the day. Open bars brought back the
Yankee desire for free lunches, and the
chief feature of these are tiny saus-
ages which are encased in the same
material as that which used to go to
make racquet strings. The result is that
in America and Yurrup a synthetic gut
evolved from rubber latex and silk has j
to be used. There ought to be a market I
here for the Australian makers of gut, ■
who should be able to supply any
demand.
He ❖ * sjc
From “Brolos”:
Maclean of Duart, 26th chief of Clan [
Gillean, who has just reached his century, has j
many connections with Australia. He comes I
from the same blood as Lachlan Macquarie,
who was wholly Maclean on the female side,
and probably inherits his longevity from j
the Macquaries, through the aged last chief of
Ulva, Lachlan’s second cousin, who was the |
British Empire’s champion long-distance pen- j
sioner. (The old gentleman went to the Ameri- :
can Civil War as a second-lieutenant at the
age of 58, did two years’ service, and then j
settled down to draw a pension for 43 years j
and complete his family of 16. He lived to be j
103.) The Macleans were one of the greatest I
of Scottish fighting lines. They were strong
Jacobites after King Jamie “tamed” them, and
have been soldiers from father to son without
a break for nearly 600 years, after the fashion j
of their ancestor Gillean na Tauidh (Gillean |
of the Battle-axe). The reigning ancient fought 1
in the Crimea with the 13th Dragoons, and
afterwards in the Canadian rebellion. He has
a strong facial likeness to Opie's portrait of
Macauaric which ban as in the Mitchell Lihrarv.


a
aboVt
'e a
ET '““.GAUGE
Representative: JoJin Arnold, 38fi Post Office Place, Melbourne.
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru-
ment that cannot tell a lie. It gives immediate,
, truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures,
lo use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the flat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unequalled accuracy and legibility the KISMET
I reesureGauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
BRITISH
Complete in Wallet.
Price
8/6
MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER LTD
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
"SILVER
EDGE'*
MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
brake
LINING
MOTORISTS!
SAVE MONEY!
PHERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
A does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For ovfr twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for vour brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS."
RA YBES TOS-3FLOCO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHV ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, V C.
The Steering Column.
TESTING THE NEW STANDARD
GRAHAM SIX.
By FRED BERRY.
LOW-PRICED CAR WITH MANY GOOD POINTS.
RAHAM cars have an enviable reputation in regard to
service and reliability, particularly in the higher-priced
groups, and the new Model 74, a standard product, tested
recently over the “Bulletin” course, bids fair to carry the family
traditions into the lower-priced' held.
Body design is in keeping with modern
aerodynamic principles, and although
wheelbase is but 112 in. the car has
almost the same appearance as the larger
model. Performance is extraordinarily
good, whilst fuel economy and running
costs are in keeping with light-car prac-
tice. In short, the new Graham Six pro-
Clean, sweeping lines of the new Light Six Series 74 Graham standard
sedan. Luggage carrier is located in boot.
vides motorists with a car of high stand-
ard at a modest outlay.
Mechanically, the new model is a fine
example of modern engineering practice,
and, while the bore is Sin. and stroke
4in. and the R.A.C. horse-power 21.6,
the maximum output at 3500 r.p.m. is
60 h.p.
Save in very special cases one would
expect a very moderate road perform-
ance with an engine of 169.6 cub. in.
capacity, but in this case acceleration is
up to “big-car” standards, a high aver-
age speed is possible without fuss or
vibration, steeringus finger-light yet posi-
tive, and, despite all this, petrol consump-
tion is very low.
The motor is fitted with a special non-
detonating type of detachable cylinder
head, and compression ratio is 5.8 to 1.
The crankshaft is housed in four main
Sturdy KX-type frame. Rear axle is mounted through
openings in side members.
bearings, and is balanced statically and
dynamically.
D ~ .
„ . u , r Mountings,
Deep lateral ribs support the mam
bearings in the crankcase, and, as the
engine is susoended in the chassis on
three live rubber supports, the motor will
rev, throughout its entire speed range
without semblance of vibration. Main
and connecting-rod bearings are inter-
changeable type, permitting replacement
without removing engine from chassis or
reaming or scraping to obtain a proper
fit.
Cylinder block is cast from special
metal, and cylinder bores are honed to
provide a mirror-like finish, so reducing
the time and care necessary for running-
in a new motor. Side-by-side valves are
fitted, exhaust valves being stainless steel,.
holding off warping or pitting for long
periods.
Pistons are carefully matched in weight
in order to ensure perfect balance, and
are each fitted with three rings above
the gudgeon pin.
Fuel is drawn from a lOgal. tank sus-.
pended between rear dumb-irons by
means of a mechanical pump, driven
from the camshaft and fed through a
series of filters tb a down-draught car-
burettor provided with accelerating pump
and economiser.
An air-cleaner and silencer is fitted to
the intake side of the carburettor, and
an automatic heat
control operates on
the inlet manifold.
Automatic Controls.
Coil-a n d-baftery
ignition system is
incorporated, the
distributor being
mounted in an
accessible position
above the cylinder block, Vacuum-
operated spark advance, together with a
governor on the distributor head, pro-
vides for ideal ignition point under any
conditions of load or speed,
Starter motor is manually engaged,
obviating the clashing or sticking of
gears. The generator is of the heavy-
duty, air-cooled type, designed to accom-
modate the demands of radio and other
electrical accessories.
The lubrication system supplies oil at
high pressure to main, connecting-rod
and camshaft bearings, valve gear and
timing chain ; spray and jet to cylinder
walls and gudgeon pins. The oil pump
is gear type, submerged in sump and self-
priming. Oil temperature is controlled
automatically, and an efficient system of
crankcase ventilation is provided.
Particular attention has been given to
the cooling system, the cylinder block
being cored to provide a generous cir-
culation of water around the valve seats
and the full length of cylinder bores.
The water pump is located midway along
the cylinder block, and is of the centri-
fugal type, driven in tandem with the
generator.
Silent Gears.
Transmission is through a single-plate,
dry-disc clutch, with cushioned driven
member and moulded facings, to a three-
speed-and-reverse central-change gear-
box. Synchro-silent helical gears are
fitted to countershaft and second-speed
drives, and a gear synchroniser ensures
quiet operation at all speeds. Final
drive is transmitted through a balanced
tubular propeller shaft equipped with
needle roller bearing at front and rear
to a banjo-type rear-axle assembly.
There is a spiral bevel drive in the differ-
ential gear ; ratio, 4.545 to 1.
The frame is extremely rigid, of
pressed steel, the centre cross bracing
member being of X type, whilst front
cross member is K design. Springs are
semi-elliptic front and rear, front 38in.,
rear 50in. long. All spring eyes are
rubber-cushioned. The springs are
mounted outside the frame to improve
roadholding and prevent swaying on
corners. Spring bolts require no lubrica-
tion. Fully adjustable cam and lever
type of steering is fitted, steering and
knuckle arms being drop-forged, whilst
tie-rod connections are bushed with
rubber insets.
Service brakes are operated hydrauli-
cally, shoes internal expanding on all
four wheels. There ’ is
emergency equipment, in-
dependently controlled by
hand lever, to rear wheels.
Road Performance.
The car tested over
the Bulletin course was
a standard four - door
sedan driven by A. W.
Turner, of Garratt’s, Ltd.,
N.S.W. distributors. Ready
for the test, with driver
and observer, the machine
weighed and
speedometer reading stood
at 1427 miles.
Passing through city
traffic, the car behaved in
a gratifying manner, accel-
eration in top gear being
an outstanding feature
when the engine size was
taken into consideration.
Leaving Parramatta, and passing
through open country roads, the speed-
ometer reading was held round the 50
mark without fuss or vibration, while all
main-road hills were surmounted in top
gear with ease. Approaching Windsor,
the rolling test was conducted, and, com-
mencing at 15 m.p.h. in neutral, the car
coasted 704 yards before coming to a
standstill, indicating that all bearings and
transmission details were running freely
and in correct alignment.
Through Windsor and approaching
Richmond, a test of maximum speed was
conducted over a measured mile, and
here the Graham clocked 52sec. for the
distance, averaging 69,2 m.p.h. During
'this test the car held the road well, and
steered easily and positively. There was
a distinct absence of vibration from the
motor despite the fact that bearings and
Cylinder block is cored to provide water-
jacketing the full length of cylinder bores.
pistons were still tight and required
further running in.
Through Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong Heights, the by-pass road
through Grose Vale was taken, and over
this loose and difficult section the car
held the road well. Cornering at speed
on the treacherous surface appeared at
once to be simple and safe.
From a standing start the speed hill-
climb of 2 1-5 miles over the steepest
portion of Kurrajong Mountain was next
essayed, the time taken, 3min. 45sec.,
proving conclusively the car’s road-
worthiness, power and stability.
Returning down the mountain a test
of independent emergency-braking equip-
ment was made with satisfactory results.
Approaching Richmond the cross-coun-
try route via Castlereagh to Penrith was
Graham outboard springs are mounted outside the
frame and not immediately beneath, as in conventional
practice.
taken, and here further tests were con-
ducted, first that of determining the in-
herent flexibility of the motor by cover-
ing 350 yards in top gear as slowly as pos-
sible, followed immediately by a similar
distance on, full throttle. It was evident
that the slow-running adjustment could,
w'ith advantage, have been given more
attention, as the time taken, 2min. 30sec.,
averaging 4.8 m.p.h., could easily be im-


USEFUL DATA ON GRAHAM STANDARD
SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.H. in 15 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 1-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 25ft.
Maximum speed, 69.2 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 24.6 m.p.g.
Use The New SIMONIZ KLEENER to
Restore Your Gar’s Original Beauty
ami
v 5.................
m i
IF
gsasssss^
NINE" "TEN" "TWELVE-FORTY" & TWENTY"
This traditionally famous English car is the masterpiece of 1935. Arrange for a
demonstration and learn what its fine mechanical features mean to performance, com-
fort and safety. Silent Synchro-mesh Gears in 2nd, 3rd and top; Free Wheel;
X-hraced chassis frame; Buoyant Power Engine Mounting; Automatic Spark Control;
Powerful Brakes; and smartly-styled, nicely appointed Coachwork. You will be
amazed at the value you get for so little expense.
Four proven models, the “Nine” “Ten” “Twelve” and “Twenty”
—all in smart Roadster, Tourer, Coupe and Saloon body styles
Distributors:
BUCKLE & HARDEN LIMITED,
119-129 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: FL 2688
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD.
131 Collins Street, HOBART, Tas.
Telephones'. 30G1, 30G2
Factory Representative:
ROBERT F. LEE,
58-60 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Distributors:
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
81 Franklin St., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Telephone : C 2136
Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, PERTH, W.A.
Telephone: B 5174 (4 lines)
TALBOT & STANDARD MOTORS
PTY. LTD.,
568-574 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Telephone: F 2154 (3 lines )
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD., COVENTRY,
ENCLAND
THE CAR IT PAYS TO PAY A LI TT L E MO R E EO H
proved on. On the accelerated section,
however, better results were secured,
for, crossing the finishing line at 55
m.p.h., the time taken, 17sec., gave an
average speed of 42.3 m.p.h. Further
traffic tests were then conducted, 10 to
30 m.p.h. in top being clocked in
8 3-ssec., 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in
5 l-ssec., while from a standing start to
50 m.p.h. occupied 15 2-ssec., each re-
sult indicative of
the high efficiency
of the small
motor.
Braking equip-
ment was then
tested, and from
a steady speed of
Diagrammatic illustration of cam and
lever steering box on Graham Six.
25 m.p.h. the car pulled up without
swerving in 25ft.
The time taken for the journey of 120
miles, inclusive of all tests, was 3hr.
25min., an average of 35 m.p.h, and
petrol consumption, 4gal. 7pt., worked
out at 24.6 m.p.g. (35 ton miles).
Turning circle on both left and right
locks was 42ft. Minimum ground clear-
ance under differential housing measured
B*in.
PETROL VERSUS POWER
ALCOHOL.
The Case for Alcohol.
The Australian National Power Alco-
hol Co., Sarina (N.Q.), writes:
Since 1926 we have been battling to
establish a power-alcohol industry in
Queensland, and naturally we are greatly
concerned at the nature of your criticism
(B. 1/5/’35).
Practically every assertion made in the
article in question is the negation of
present-day practice and experience. We
believe that the arguments advanced
against alcohol blends have been culled
from textbooks long out of date. Had
you taken the trouble to make your-
selves acquainted with the world-wide
swing to alcohol blends of motor spirit
you would at least have been put on your
guard. Last year Germany, for example,
was able to produce 40 p.c. of its total
motor-fuel requirements from home re-
sources, and used 48,000,000 gallons of
alcohol for alcohol blends. France,
Poland, Italy, Czecho-Slovakia, Sweden,
Austria, Great Britain, Argentina and
South Africa are other countries where
alcohol blends are extensively used.
Recent press reports show that even in
the U.S.A. the blending of alcohol with
petrol is being made compulsory in
several States. Queensland has had an
alcohol-petrol fuel on the market since
1929, and to remove any misconceptions
that may have arisen as to the efficiency
of the Queensland blend, and alcohol
blends in general, we quote the result of
a test recently carried out by the Queens-
land branch of the R.A.C.Q.:
“I wish to report that in accordance
with your request I have carried out in-
vestigations on the use of Shellkol with
the following results: Engines examined
after four years’ exclusive use of Shell-
kol were found to be in excellent order,
the original valves were in good condi-
tion, carbon deposit low, and wear in
cylinder bores satisfactory. Petrol con-
sumption tests against a recognised first-
grade petrol have shown increases in
economy of from 1.3 p.c. to 5.7 p.c. in
cars, 2.7 p.c. in a heavy truck and 14.3
p.c. in our own motor-cycle outfit. No
adjustments whatsoever were made to
vehicles before or during these tests. In
a car with ignition well advanced, Shell-
kol showed a better anti-knock value
than four other recognised first-grade
petrols obtainable in Brisbane. An
analysis of a sample taken from the
Shellkol used during the tests, which was
obtained from a kerbside pump, shows
that starting is easy and crankcase dilu-
tion exceptionally low.”
In discussing the calorific value of
petrol as compared with alcohol blends,
you entirely disregard
the higher thermal and
volumetric efficiency
of alcohol mixtures
due to more complete
combustion and
higher latent heat
-values —factors which
more than counteract
the apparent disparity
in B.T. units.
Regarding your
comments upon the
recent Queensland law
enforcing the pur-,
chase of alcohol by
vendors of motor spirits, you say that
supplies of alcohol are “hopelessly in-
adequate.” This is not so. With our
existing small distillery at Sarina, work-
ing for only half of the year, there is
enough alcohol available to convert
nearly a quarter of Queensland’s total
petrol consumption into a 15 p.c.
alcohol blend. You assert that alcohol
mixtures are extremely difficult to
market, handle and use. No such diffi-
culties have been experienced in Queens-
land during the last six years. ou state
also that alcohol-petrol blends require the
addition of a third substance, otherwise
they cannot function successfully. We
reply that if anhydrous alcohol and
petrol are blended in the proper proper-
tions the blend will function as well as,
if not better than “straight” netrnl
u nut oeuer man, siraigm petrol.
You are right in saying that alcohol
blends have a scouring action, and as a
result there is a nnssihilitv nf scale beina
resuu mere is a possiDility ot scale oemg
carried along the fuel line. But the petrol
tank would have to be a very old one
and in a filthy condition for it to contain
. , , ~ r.., ,
enough scale to choke the filters anfi,
after all, is it not an advantage if there
is scale there to have it removed? If
cork floats arc coated with shellac
, afe • )I COate + d Wl j. h “Cllac,
alcohol blends will in time dissolve the
shellac coat for obvious reasons. But
there are few carburettors nowadays
fitted with cork floats, and the use of
shellac as a covering medium has been
discontinued for some years.
There is no difficulty whatever in ser-
vicing alcohol blends through kerbside
pumps. An alcohol blend has been ser-
viced through standard kerbside pumps
all over Queensland for the past six
years.
[The article in question was not written with
lhe ob J ect °? odenn § destructive, criticism, but
rather to stimulate experiment in evolving a
satisfactory nationally-produced substitute for
P e . tr °l as a fuel. The tact that other countries,
usm £ considerably greater quantities of alcohol-
benzjne mixtures than we do, blend in varying
percentages, sometimes as high as 35 p.c.,
shows clearly that wide differences of opinion
stdl , exi f • Argu , me i l nL:mlm Ut w^i ie tnV^ t fmm
result of personal experiment, were taken from
reports of recent origin issued by recognised
authorities.
Comparative performance tests, such as the
one quoted, when made in a general way,
are prone to give misleading data. To be of
an y value, such tests should be conducted under
precise conditions, supplying at the same time
information as to speeds, loading, temperatures,
road and weather conditions.-Motor Ed.]
(“Steering Column” continued on
page 30.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
inquiries should be set out briellyv
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivevs
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
Greater Reserve Power
in the new
o
\
am
■
Willard
WST-1-15
WILL PROTECT
YOU AGAINST
UNEXPECTED
BATTERY
FAILURES.
Willard's New WST-I-I5 for light
cars has 15 plates per cell instead of
the usual 13, making it the most
powerful motor car battery for its
size ever built.
115 Amperes! That's engineering
language for a new triumph in bat-
tery building. Installed in your car it
means better performance better
lights—and Extra Power Reserve for
a hard starting motor.
See your nearest Willard dealer.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham.
Waymouth Service Co., Adelaide. A.tkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and Lismore.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
-
mi
PHONE L 3101
F MULLER Ltd
~X
■
m
X
*•
Our manufactured lines—tilt “Coolahoorm’ Motor
Radiator Core and “Coolahcoil” Refrigeration
Units —are now distributed throughout tiie Com-
monwealth by Interstate representatives.
At our Camperdown factories, we operate one of
the largest PANEL BEATING PLANTS in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Information and quotations gladly sent on request.
Xcllalk'iXtd
n.na
'Juujthoiu L 3201 (.3 LINES)
Hawkins P.O
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
•fl OIA (SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do It.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
2»2 Ueunje stm-t Sydney. 3d. extra.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
W.R.H. (Warwick).—See answer in last issue.
He # *
H. McE. (West Tamar, Tas.).—/ have fitted
a h.t. magneto on my T model Ford, and
taken off the flywheel magnets, which weigh
16 lb. The engine runs remarkably well except
in loose sand, when engine stalls too readily.
Is this due to the lightened flywheel ?
Partly, since the heavy flywheel tended to
carry the crankshaft over centres at low engine
revs. But the chief trouble is that the ignition
point on the magneto has been set with too
great an advance. A few degrees of retard
should overcome stalling difficulties.
* * * *
R.A. (Canberra, F.C.T.) (1) My 1932 model
saloon vibrates noticeably at 20 m.p.h., badly
at 45 m.p.h. and violently at 60 m.p.h. Vibra-
tion becomes worse if the car is thrown into
neutral and the engine switched off. Cause
and cure ? (2) Best way to prevent freezing up
of (a) Wolseley Hornet, (b) Baby Austin ?
(1) Symptoms point to either faulty adjust-
ment of propeller shaft or to worn or badly-
adjusted universal joints. Have back-end
assembly checked for alignment and balance,
and the trouble should disappear. (2) Best
methods of avoiding freezing up in each case
are to drain the water from circulating system
each evening, to keep the car in an artificially-
heated garage or to fill the cooling system with
one of the following mixtures: Water 70 parts,
glycerine 30 parts; water 50 parts, methylated
spirit 50 parts; or water 50 parts, glycerine
30 parts, methylated spirit 20 parts.
* * -Y
H.J.K. (Mt. Cavanagh, S.A.). —The battery
on my four-cylinder car, equipped with magneto
ignition, is now dead, and, as I do not wish to
use the self-starter, please advise what I would
have to do to fit the cheaper six-volt battery ?
Also, would the 12 -volt generator charge the
six-volt battery, or would it be cheaper to fit
a' 12 -volt unit ?
Provided you do not use starter motor, a
six-volt battery would serve, your purpose. You
must substitute six-volt globes in head- and
tail-lights in order to provide reasonable light-
ing. The 12-volt generator will charge the six-
volt battery, but it would be advisable to fit a
simple resistance in the circuit in order to avoid
overheating.
A.H.C. (Tweed Heads, N.S.W.).— Where can
I get a ’2B Pontiac Six instruction hook ?
Try Stack and Co., York-street, Sydney.
% *
N.J.S. (Launceston, Tas.).— Name of a stan-
dard textbook dealing with the theoretical side
of internal-combustion motors ? Where can
alcohol for use in motors be obtained, and can
tetra-ethyl lead be obtained locally ?
High-speed Internal Combustion Engines, by
Ricardo; from Angus and Robertson or
Gordon and Gotch. Apply to Australian
National Power Alcohol Co., Sarma, North
Queensland, for particulars of power alcohol.
Tetra-ethyl lead cannot be obtained unless
mixed with petrol under technical supervision.
Super Plume, Atlantic Ethyl, C.O.R. Plus and
Texas Power Chief contain this compound.
* * =l= *
C.W. (Gordon, N.S.W.).—Ai> 24/70 o.h.v.
Sunbeam was recently overhauled, but the
motor pops back in the carburettor. Valve
adjustments, carburettor settings and valve-
spring tensions have been checked without
curing the trouble. Closing the butterfly va/ve
on the choke control appears to cure the trouble
temporarily. What is wrong ?
Indications point to weak mixture. Intake
assembly and valve guides should be inspected.
Worn valve guides will permit air to dilute
mixture in the induction manifold, and faulty
gaskets in any part of the intake system will
similarly dilute the mixture and cause popping
in the carburettor and falling off in power.
Should adjustments mentioned be in order, look
for a bent or sticking valve.
* * * *
A.M. (Athunga, N.S.W.).—(I) Is hood polish
{named) suitable for my sedan ? (2) Can you
suggest any better polish for lacquer than that
I am using at present ? (3) What would you
advise to use in clearing and preserving tan
chrome leather upholstery in my car ? (4)
Have tried several garages, but they cannot
prevent my rear springs from squeaking.
Would you recommend gaiters ? (5) Car has
now done 9800 miles; when should I have
my valves ground in and the motor decarbon-
ised ? (6) Is there any advantage in using
colloidal graphite during the first 5000 miles,
and should this material be added to gearbox
and diff. oil ? (7) Using free-wheeling on this
car, when might I expect brakes to require
relining ?
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) Any good shoe polish
with a turpentine base. (4) Application of a
mixture of engine oil and turpentine, half and
half, every 500 miles should prevent squeaking.
Gaiters of suitable design capable of holding
light lubricating greases should permanently
cure the trouble. (5) Advisable to have motor
top overhauled at this stage in order to avoid
any potential defect assuming serious pro-
portions. There then should be no further
worry for at least 15,000 miles. (6) Yes, advis-
able both in motor and transmission. (7)
Approximately 15,000 miles.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“S.T.S.”: Talking of “motor oddities,”
what about myself? In 10 years or so
I have driven well over 100,000 miles —
Buick, Hudson, Armstrong-Siddeley, Essex
(2) and Plymouth. Seen most of South-
ern Australia, from Sydney to Port
Lincoln —Coorong, Otway Ranges, Gram-
pians, Eden, Blue Mountains, Canberra,
Adelaide ranges —and all about England,
Scotland and Wales, and never had a
mishap worth tell-
ing an insurance co.
about. Nothing odd
in all that? The
odd points are
these: (1) At the
age of 60 I had
never handled a
steering - wheel. (2)
Owing to some
omission in mental
capacity, everything
under the bonnet is
still a dark mystery,
and not to be pried
into. Like the
bachelor with the
baby, can handle it while it’s well; when
it gets sick, yell for the nurse. It all
seems to show that the modern car
really is foolproof.
* * * *
“Coobong”: Will back an Austin
Seven of my acquaintance for something
new in the way of squeals. The rubber
connection between the intake manifold
and the windscreen wiper was broken
under the dash, and had flattened where
it passes through the partition between
the engine and the front seat till it re-
sembled the throat of a tin whistle. The
air passing through did the rest, blowing
a flute-like note with a delicate tremolo.
* * * *
“Fordor”: In drought time out west
of Goodiwindi (s.w. Queensland) sjtud
sheep were fed per medium of an ancient
Ford truck. One day the truck was
loaded up, and when cranked slipped
into gear of its own accord. The boss
jumped aside to save his skin, and then
raced after Lizzie. Lizzie won. She
careered madly through timber and
stumps as though guided by an unseen
hand, disappeared down a gully, but
crawled up the other side and charged
off again. Down a second and
gully she charged before finally butting
into a netting fence which put a stop to
her mad flight. Boss came up, took
charge and drove an undamaged Lizzie
away. Distance, six furlongs, time,
3min. 59sec.
“Larrapinta”: I came to a bad piece
of boggy back track and stopped to put
on the wheel chains. While I was get-
ting them into place an old boy came
along in an ancient buckboard. He
stopped and took out a dozen pieces of
half-inch diameter rope, two feet in
length, and some six-inch bits of garden
hose. He threaded a bit of hose on each
length of rope and then tied them on his
back wheels. He had the lot in place
while I was fitting one chain. “No chains
for me,” he said as he watched me. “I
can get my jiggers on anywhere, even in
a deep boghole. Those bits of hose pre-
vent the rope from chafing through, give
a far better grip than chains, and cost
next to nothing.” He then cranked up
his bus and went off through the mud.
Remembering the horrible job of trying
to put on chains when stuck in a bog, I
invested in a rope and hose outfit myself
when the set of chains I owned had worn
out. I have not been stuck since. The
old boy’s idea is the best anti-skid and
bog-defying device I’ve seen.


Lay of the Petulant Punter.
I’m holding on with a bet both ways,
itching to hear the race ;
Feeding my punter’s threadbare faith
with “This can’t miss a place!”
Going over the handicaps for the forty-
seventh time,
When the “sponsored session” spruiher
embarks on his hourly crime.
“Take some Wobbledick’s Pills to-night,
or you’re certain to wake up crook.”
And me with not a thought in me mind
but a name in a racecourse book.
Waiting to hear: “Pike’s now flat out!
He’ll land it! He can’t be beat !”
While some blighter who lazily mouths
his vowels burbles of things to eat.
“Your steak won’t taste as it ought to
taste if you don’t use Gutrot’s
Sauce!”
This, when the only stake I own’s on a
horse on Randwick course !
“Buy some Pong, to slaughter the bugs.”
I wish he could hear me hiss.
And if Catsmeat wins me some money
to-day, it’ll go for a year of this !
QUEENSLAND.
L. A. S.
RADIO NEWS.
Radio and
the Spoken
Word
All this radio
stir about English
and correct pro-
nunciation must
be puzzling to
many Australians
who like to think
they speak well, but who have made no
serious study of spoken English since they
left school. The man who continues to
pronounce as he was first taught is like
one who still has his suits cut to a pre-
war pattern and who wears stand-up
collars for all occasions. He is old-
fashioned, and he shows it. On the other
hand, it would be foolish to try to emu-
late imported broadcast announcers.
Their Southern English is not for us.
In a place stocked by men from all
parts of the British Isles there must be a
levelling out of the dialects, and it should
be possible to attain that standard of
cosmopolitan English recognised by and
satisfying to all who speak the language.
Most of the recent changes in pro-
nunciation are concerned with the plac-
ing of the accent in words of several syl-
lables, and the tendency is towards what
Fowler ( Modern English Usage ) calls re-
cessive accent (concentrating on an early
syllable and letting the others take care
of themselves). This fashion is often car-
ried to absurdity: I shall continue to
hold out against disputable, not through
inability to pronounce it, but because of
its complete lack of euphony.
One of the worst sins committed by
broadcast announcers is the stressing of
unimportant words in a sentence. To
announce “We are too have a play en-
titled ‘Thee fall of thee House of Usher’ ”
is to allow pedantry or overzeal to rob
the language of its rhythmic beauty.
Our difficulties with the vowels can be
overcome if we train our ears to distin-
guish between the pure sounds and the
atrocities due to carelessness, ignorance
or affectation. I suggest that if all who
use the language were perfectly honest
with themselves there would be a con-
siderable agreement in their pronuncia-
tions of the dictionary key words mate,
mete, mite, mote, mute, moot; bah,
bawl, boil, boor, brow, etc. We offend
chiefly against the first and last of these
sounds, but an occasional repetition of
them all would be a useful corrective
exercise.
We can ignore the freakish distortions
used in some circles to denote a gentility
otherwise unapparent. When the vulgar
herd has learned the tricks of these
cliques, the cliques give a new twist to a
vowel, and the discarded pronunciation
becomes, to them, a vulgarism. The
“naicest people” become the “noicest
people.” There is a definite trend
towards this distortion of the “i” among
a certain class in England, where a well-
known actress has put it on record in a
song from “Private Lives,”
Some, day Oil foind you ,
Moonloight behoind you.
It can all be reduced to this: That
which offends in London may be proper
-in Australia where usage has made it so.
Australians are not likely to make
Southern English their standard of
speech. Our aim should be for a natural,
unaffected language, colored perhaps by
certain national characteristics, but
acceptable everywhere as “good Eng-
lish.” The A.B.C. can help by choosing
announcers free from English provincial-
isms, and we by being less diffident in
regard to the spoken word.
VAL.
Talk: “How I
Write My
Poems”
and gives
just the right
touch of pi-
quancy to tripe-
and-onions, saus-
ages-and-mashed-
potatoes, liver-
O awful sight!
Who egged her on ?
O eggs!
and - bacon, corned - beef - and - carrots*
boiled-fish, pickled-pork, saveloys and
soused-mutton.
Station OIC. Continuing the Sludgers’
Sauce Session, we are to have a talk on
poetry: “My Poems, and How I Write
Them,” by Miss Zephyr Stones. Lis-
teners, we have much pleasure in intro-
ducing Miss Zephyr Stones.
Good evening, poetry-lovers. Just
before I begin 1 should like to make a
slight correcton. My name is not Miss
Zephyr Stones, as you have just been
told, but Miss
Zephyrs Tones. I
am sure you will
appreciate the dif-
ference.
Well, now,
poetry-lovers, the
inspiration of the
address I am about
to give you comes
in the shape of a
letter from an ad-
mirer in New
Zealand. I think it
a very wonderful letter, so sensitive in
its approach to Poetry, so vibrant in its
poignant appeal, so simple and yet so
sensuous, that I am sure its writer is
one who, if I may quote my own poetry,
I have already envisaged in the lines:
Stands looking up,
Like Nobody’s pup.
The letter is as follows; “Dear Miss
Tones,” he writes, “I have read the en-
closed poem of yours fifteen times, and
as far as I can make out it means that
sunset in Sydney resembles a grilled egg.
What I should like you to tell me is:
Why a grilled egg? I could understand
a fried egg— i.e., the sun resembling the
yolk and the surrounding white of the
egg represent-
ing the clouds.
Again, dear
Miss Tones, I
turn to the
lines:
O awful sight
The sun
A grilLed egg
Goes down,
and again I
ask: Why
grilled? I
understand, I
think, the sig-
nificance of the capital ‘L’ in the beauti-
ful line,
A grilLed egg.
I am right, am I not, in ascribing it
to a desire to compress the works of
Dante into one letter? And, of course,
I appreciate the gastronomical allusion
in the two lines,
A grilLed egg
Goes down.
But I am right, am I not, in feeling that
there is something extra —something
especially significant in that mystic
word ‘grilLed’?
Yours, in admiration,
Perc Tinker.
P.S. —Why don’t you write a poem
about an eclipse?”
Well, I am sure, poetry-lovers, you
have enjoyed that. The poem, of course,
was written one afternoon when I was
crossing the harbor in a ferry-boat, and,
casting about me, as usual, for inspira-
tion, 1 happened to look up and see the
sun through the grill-like structure of
the Great
Bridge. I
trust, Percy
—I hope you
do not mind
my calling
you Percy—l
trust, Percy,
that that is
low perfectly
;lear. And
now, if you
are listening-
in away over
there in
Wackapu-
acka, Percy,
I have written the poem you asked for
about an eclipse, and I shall read it to
you. I have called it, simply, “Eclipse”:
ECLIPSE.
Diana!
Something has come between
Us.
Is it a rat
Nibbling,
Or do I behold
The white air space
In a hard-boiled egg ?
Now, lovers of poetry, I am going to
ask you a question: What, in that poem.
Gastronomical allusion.
strikes you as most significant? If you
can answer that question correctly, you
have in your hands the magic key to the
title of this talk; “My Poems, and How
I Write”
Just a moment, please.
Oh, yes. Yes. Er —thank you. Well,
now, that is most amazing! Most ex-
traordinary! A listener has rung up
the studio here with the following mes-
sage. I will read it to you:
“Aw, rats! Who
egged her on?”
Isn’t that won-
derful? While
there is such per-
ception in our
midst there is hope
for Culture, I am
sure. With the
most unerring
touch, this poetry-
lover has reached
to the very heart
of what I was just
about to explain. I am assuming, of
course, that you are advanced poetry
readers when I say that 1 know
you have noticed how the egg theme per-
sists in my poetry. In the one you had
grilled egg, in the next boiled egg, and
one of you has just asked the important
question: “Who egged her on?” Why,
dear lovers of poetry, it is a poem in
itself. Yes, I have it:
0 eggs,
1 fondle
You.
Strung as
A necklet
A bout
My throat.
Eggs
On
A string.
Ah, listeners, do you understand now,
I wonder? I won
Oh, is it? Already? Oh, dear. Well
Perc Tinker.
On a stump near the fowlhouse.
poetry-lovers I’ll have to bid you adieu
I’m told my time’s up so I won’t be
able to explain any further about how
I write my poetry except that I write it
on blue paper in green ink on a stump
near the fowlhouse good night.
Station OIC. You’ve been listening
to a talk on Poultry by Miss Zebra’s
Tones, sponsored by Sludgers’ Sauce.
Try if with seasoned chicken. It retards
flatulence. We’ll now have a recorded
item, “We’ll Come Up—from Somer-
set” ....
SIZZLE AND A.
All Round
the Dial
“ Greenhide ” :
Broadcasters, in-
cluding 4BC, 2BL,
and 2UE, are
given to dragging
Napoleon from
his tomb. His relations with Josephine
constitute the backbone of these efforts.
A hundred years ago British propaganda
was very effective, and the Man of Des-
tiny was a model of everything a good
phlegmatic shopkeeper should not be.
The broadcasters still feed this pap to
their listeners, oblivious of the fact that
historical research has long since shown
that Napoleon was a much better man
than he was painted. In the Josephine
affair he was only to blame for undue
delay—he had good grounds for divorce
10 years before he took action. Before
Napoleon appears on the air again may
I suggest that his promoters read up a
little about him? Apart from the ele-
mentary history they have probably read
and forgotten, R. McNair Wilson has a
few interesting and instructive books on
the subject, to mention one name only,
which would give them a little idea of
what they are talking about.
“McClick”: There are a few original
advertising men on the air. I remember
one gag where the announcer repeated a
sentence five times, stressing each word
in turn, “ ’s sale starts Monday.”
Another recommends his product in the
sepulchral tones of an undertaker. It
ought to work all right for clerical col-
lars, but at present he is doing a line of
cough mixture. None of the humorous
papers has yet broadcast a laughing
record, followed by “Let me read .”
Banging a gong has developed to such an
extent that a conscientious listener is
never sure when to go to dinner. Poli-
tical speakers missed an excellent oppor-
tunity for sound effect during the elec-
tions. The side that talked about the
country going to the dogs never used
a bark. The one that was going to bor-
row missed its theme song: “A Hun-
dred Fathoms Deep in Debt.” Let us
hope the income-tax reminder over the
air will be preceded by a characteristic
off-stage revolver shot.
“A.R.W.”: “Can you come and look
at the set?” asked old Hayseed the other
day as I was passing. “A buzz comes
through every now and then, and I want
to know if it will do the batteries any
harm.” The set was an old-timer, and was
surmounted by a mighty horn speaker.
As soon as it was switched on a peculiar
buzz came'through ; not steady, but inter-
mittent. Strangely enough, it persisted
after switching off. Stranger still, it con-
tinued after the batteries were discon-
nected. When I took the speaker to pieces
the blowfly flew away.
“Alpha”: The A.B.C. school broad-
casts are being hindered by the N. S.
Wales Education Department. Of neces-
sity, much of the matter has to be
delivered by teachers. Further, the job
has to be done in school time. The de-
partment demands from the teacher
four-fifths of the fee paid by the A.B.C.
Regulations require a smaller cut from
addresses given in the teacher’s own
time. This cannot apply to school broad-
casts, so must aim at wireless perform-
ance of any kind in spare time. Prepara-
tion of an address occupies private time,
the department reaps the benefit, the
A.B.C. pays for it, and the teacher con-
cerned gets virtually nothing. It is hardly *
to be expected that a continued series
of firstrdass lectures can be expected
under these conditions. There is some
old-fashioned idea that a civil servant
should have no outside income, but there
is not much danger of corruption when
he works for another department to help
his own.
“Top Rail”: Among its freelance staff
broadcasting numbers some thorough-
going enthusiasts, and none more so than
Harold Durant, who talks on flying for
2UW. Durant, a war-time pilot of the
R.F.C., and now a flying officer with the
A.A.F. reserve, has been aloft as often
as not for the past 18 years. He runs
a business in Sydney, but likes flying so
much that he makes a habit of getting
to Mascot, doing two joy-flights and
returning to business within his lunch
hour. Performances include winning the
Vyner Trophy for 1933.
“Eh”: The voice of Australian Mar-
jorie Stedeford (B. 22/5/’35) is sur-
prising London. Ordinarily her voice
cannot be heard beyond a few yards, but
it is a rich contralto of attractive quality
before the mike. Most cultivation of
singing is based upon amplification of the
vibrations that leave the throat. Radio
engineers have compensated for what is
the singer’s lack of natural or trained
amplification. Their machine can mag-
nify the human voice 1,000,000 times,
and can make a sound 1000 times as
loud as the water roar at the foot of
the Niagara Falls.


BUILD THE D.C. MULTIMETER
DESCRIBED IN THIS ISSUE.
The whole of the parts necessary, including Non-inductive Wire-wound Resistors.
PRICE - - - £.5
Or completely wired ready for use, £5/5/- net cash.
Slade Calston
0-1 Ma. Meter.
High Standard of
Calibration.
n
K
it-
Meters fitted with
staggered face.
Suitable for A.C. or
D.C. Voltages.
CALSTON METERS.
This exceptional high-grade meter is equal to the world’s best. It is entirely Australian-
made, the only imported parts being the jewels and springs. Features: Oversize
Tungsten Magnets (artificially aged), Dead-beat Movement of the Knife-edge Pointer.
Sapphire Jewel Bearings (approximate resistance, <l2 ohms), Metal Universal Multirange
Scale Dial (with staggered markings for A.C. readings, ohms, etc.), Standard 0 1 Ma.
Complete in polished bakelite case. PRICE. £l/18/c not. Can he supplied with any
range of sensitivity from 200 micro-amps at small extra cost.
Obtainable Sydney all Leading Wholesalers, David Jones, Ltd., Murdochs. Ltd.;
Melbourne, A.G.E. Industries. Ltd. ; Brisbane, Chandler, and Co.
"rite for Free Booklet, ‘‘l3 Uses for an K.F. Oscillator,” an invaluable guide to the
Serviceman.
SLADE S Radio, and Radio Lang St., Croydon, N.S.W.
TEL. UJ6381 and UJ5383.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
■ S. y. Colville, M.lnst.U.E. (Aust.), —-
4 Rowe Street, Sydney,
Specialist in Battery-operate
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con»
structionai Articles
j Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney, ’Phone: 822G1
=AMFIIOH=
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands ofi homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
“ A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your
new Radio, and enfoy the best
possible reproduction.”
“Fitted in all quality Re*
ceivers.”
“ Publication forward'
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
7(i CLARENCE STREET SYDNEY
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
HOW TO MAKE AN EFFICIENT D.C.
MULTIMETER.
(By C. W. SLADE, Engineer Slade’s Radio, makers of precision instruments.)
Radio dealers and servicemen must
have at their disposal sufficient testing
equipment to enable them to carry out
any test quickly and efficiently. At the
same time the equipment must be
thoroughly reliable, have a low initial
cost and be portable.
The unit described here is a combina-
tion volt-, ohm- and milliamp.-meter. It
has four ranges of milliamps. and three
ranges of volts, and measures resistances
up to 100,000 ohms.
No expensive components are neces-
sary. Instead of the usual type of rotary
switch for changing from one range to
another a small three-point selector
switch automatically changes the ex-
ternal connections, making the meter a
voltmeter, ohmmeter, or milliamp.-meter.
When this switch is placed in the left-
hand position the ohmmeter circuit is
completed. A simple change of the
switch to the centre or right-hand posi-
tions makes all the necessary connec-
tions for the milliamp.-meter or volt-
meter respectively.
A 0-1 milliamp.-meter is necessary,
and for preference the dial should be
fitted with a multi-range scale.
Series Resistances, A, B and C. r
The voltage readings are obtained by
using series resistances marked A, B and
C. For preference they should be of
the wire-wound non-inductive type. Good
quality carbon resistors with a slight
alteration of connections may, however,
be used. Quite often, accuracy within
2 p.c. can be obtained by careful choice
of a number of carbon resistors. For
accuracy within 1 p.c., however, wire-
wound resistors are recommended. The
value of these series resistors should be
A, 400,000 ohms; B, 90,000 ohms; C,
10,000 ohms.
Ohmmeter.
The series resistance marked D in the
diagram is a 4300-ohm wire-wound type,
which is wired in series with a 400 poten-
tiometer, as shown. This is necessary to
take care of the drop in voltage as the
battery gets old with constant use. The
only other resistances necessary are the
shunt resistors for the milliamp. scales
marked F, G and H, together with the
series resistor marked E. It is not pos-
sible to give the value of these, as they
vary according to the internal resistance
of the meter.
The construction is particularly simple.
The diagram illustrates the view from the
back of the panel, with all connections.
It should be built into some form of
carrying-case with a small partition to
take the test leads, which may be red and
black leads at least 3ft. in length, fitted
with good insulated prongs on one end
and two banana plugs on the other end.
Operation,
The operation of this multimeter is
simplicity itself, being 100 p.c. safe. To
read milliamps. place selector switch to
position marked MA and plug the
banana plugs into the required range of
milliamps. To read volts place selector
switch to position marked V. It is ad-
visable to use the 500-volt range, unless
one is sure that the voltage about to be
read is below 100 volts, when the banana
plug can be changed into the pup jack
marked 100. To use as ohmmeter place
the selector switch in position marked
O, place both banana plugs into the pup
jacks marked ohms, next touch the two
test prods together and adjust the 400-
ohm potentiometer until the needle of
the meter advances to, the end of the
scale. The ohmmeter is then ready to
test any resistance up to 100,000 ohms.
A future article will give full construc-
tional details for building an efficient
output meter.
Short-wave News.
Programmes for PHOHI, operated by
Philips Radio, Eindhoven, Holland;
wave-length 16.88 m.; 17,775kc./sec.;
hours expressed in E.vS.T.:
May 31: 10.30 p.m., Dutch National
Anthem and opening announcement;
11.30 p.m., latest news from Holland;
11.45 p.m., electrical transcriptions;
12.5 a.m., station orchestra conducted by
Loe Cohen ; 12.25 a.m., closing down—
Dutch National Anthem.
June 1: 10.30 p.m., opening announce-
ment; 10.40 p.m., organ recital; 11.10
p.m,, South American music ; 11.20 p.m.,
latest news from Holland; 11.50 p.m.,
microphone debutantes; 12.40 a.m.,
broadcast from the Carlton Hotel at
Amsterdam ; 1.25 a.m., close.
June 2: 10.30 p.m., opening announce-
ment ; 10.40 p.m., Phohi Vienna and
gipsy ensemble, conducted by Loe
Cohen; 11.30 p.m., latest news from
Holland; 11.45 p.m., Phohi Vienna and
gipsy ensemble; 12.10 a.m., broadcast
by the Roman Catholic Broadcasting
Association ; 1.25 a.m., close.
June 3: 10.30 p.m., opening an-
nouncement ; 10.55 p.m., meeting of the
Phohi Club, announcer answers listeners’
reports; 11.30 p.m., latest news from
Holland; 12.15 a.m., dance records;
12.30 a.m., close.
June 6: 10.30 p.m., opening announce-
ment; 11.15 p.m.., children’s chorus, con-
ducted by Jacob Hamel; 11.30 p.m.,
latest news from Holland ; 12.10 a.m.,
dance records; 12.25 a.m., close.
June 7; 10.30 p.m., opening announce-
ment ; 10.40 p.m., Roland Ricardo plays
“Smoke Gets in Your Eyes,” fantasy
“Ninon,” English fantasy, “Two Cigar-
ettes in the Dark” ; 10.55 p.m., Talk on
Literature by Joh. Koning; 11.30 p.m.,
latest news from Holland ; 12.15 a.m.,
dance records ; 12.30 a.m., close.
June 8: 10.30 p.m., opening announce-
ment; 11.30 p.m., latest news from Hol-
land ; 12.20 a.m., station orchestra;
12.50 a.m., dance music by Juan de
Casas; 1.20 a.m., close.
Amateur Chatter.
Certain careless VKs should sit up and
take notice of the warning issued to
Maorilanders by their Postal Depart-
ment. “Break-In” for May, 1935, pub-
lishes a letter from the department to
N.Z.A.R.T., stating that complaints had
been received from U.S.A. army radio
stations of serious interference outside
the 7000-7300 kc. band. The letter says
it may be necessary to reduce the band
limits, and that the operation of stations
on the limits of any frequency band will
not be permitted. N.Z.A.R.T. is appeal-
mg to its members to use their station
frequency meters and to check calibra-
tions with the S.F. stations.
Out-of-band operation has been in-
creasingly prevalent with some VK2
stations lately, and it is obvious that here
is another practice which calls for a swift
nipping in the bud. Some operators have
even blithely been heard to remark that
they go “just outside the band to get
away from the Q.R.M.” One Sydney
’phone exponent has for the last three
weeks been running for hours on end at
around the 6900 kc. mark. The operator
is not apparently interested in radio ex-
perimentally, for QSOs are few and far
between, and “stand-by for another re-
cording” is the sum total of the trans-
mission. It is also reported from a com-
mercial-operator source that a VK3
seriously interfered with the 44-metre
communication from the ’plane Southern
Cross during the recent mid-Tasman
crisis. Off-band operation is little short
of criminal in these days of frequency
consciousness, and such possibilities
would be avoided by the appointment of
reliable and ruthless vigilantes. A stage
has been reached when something must
be done about these blatant offences on
the part of irresponsibles.
In Sydney five metres is booming, and
a whole host of stations can be heard
nightly and at the week-end. Up in
Hazelbrook (Blue Mountains) VK2BP
has completed tests on a new and most
satisfactory matched-impedance radiat-
ing system, and his voice covers the 50-
mile path to Sydney like a lOkw. broad-
caster. 2MW is established in Parra-
matta and works easily with 2BP, but is
experiencing trouble with Sydney sta-
tions. 2XK and 2WJ at Maroubra are
using directive aerials with marked suc-
cess. 2UG has installed both 5- and 21-
metre beams, and is almost ready to test
on the higher frequency. No long-dis-
tance tests are in progress at present, but
2XK will shortly take mobile equipment
south.
The trend of aerial development is
toward the most suitable and compact
system for effective coverage of medium
distances, and consequently the big
multi-wire beams are in the discard. In
view of this trend, the 24-metre band
should prove attractive, there being ample
space in the average garden for an array
with highly-directive properties but with-
out a monopoly of space.
VK2NO.
Latest in the Trade.
Diamond batteries need no introduc-
tion to the radio trader or consumer,
these Australian-made products having
earned a reputation for reliability and
consistency from their inception. Reg
Rose, managing director of Reg Rose
and Co., Sydney, has taken over the fac-
tory representation for N.S.W. of
Diamond radio and torch batteries. Pre-
vious to his departure on a business tour
of U.S.A. and Europe, Mr. Rose estab-
lished the Diamond name in every corner
of the State, and his reappointment
comes at a time when an entirely new
Diamond radio battery is made avail-
able for the country consumer. The
manufacturers have introduced this new


Still
keep _
Working when
others have Stopped,
Obtainable NOW Everywhere
rHE Diamond P 5 delivers efficient current at
lowest voltage. There is no overnight collapse,
and their very gradual decline will give ample
warning before new Ps’s are required.
Thus P 5 carries on after others have stopped,
and guarantees increased service, absolute
dependability and unvarying consistency.
See your dealer to-day!
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY., LTD.,
119 Hawke Street, West Melbourne, C. 3. FI 175.
Or. Dalgety Road and Towns Place, Miller’s Point,
Sydney, N.S.W.
■1
This Receiver, Model 644, was fully
reviewed by the Radio Editor. Mr. I).
It. Knock, in “Bulletin” 37/3/’B6.
means
DUAL WAVE
at its best
The Model 644 (illustrated) uses the
new range of
Philips Valves
including the famous
OCTODE AKI
E 447, AKI, E 447, E 454, E 463,1867 Reel.
and incorporates Automatic Volume
Control, Pre-selector, one stage radio
frequency on short wave and broadcast,
Special Vernier Dial, “Colacode”
tuning (wave-band changing by means
of coloured lights). The receiver is
housed in a specially selected cabinet
of beautiful design.
Only first-class components are used
in the construction of this magnificent
receiver, which has excellent selectivity
and sensitivity of .5 micro-volt.
D. W. RADIO COMPANY
210 Willoughby Road, Crow’s Nest, N.S.W. X 5019 and X5OlO.
line, distinct from the previous types,
under a new process, as the P 5 type.
Henceforth, all Diamond batteries, radio
or otherwise, are produced in this P 5
series. The main features are:
(1) The capacity of the cells is materi-
ally increased.
(2) Owing to a continuously low in-
ternal resistance, the P 5 radio batteries
are able to operate a radio receiver effi-
ciently to an unusually low voltage point.
As a result, there is an absence of the
usual audio instability, and undis-
torted current will continue to flow freely
and adequately at a low voltage, where
other batteries may have to be discarded.
(3) Because of this gradual but ser-
viceable discharge there is ample warn-
ing of the batteries reaching a low volt-
age after the normal high voltage dis-
charge period. Quick collapse is thus
avoided, and the Ps’s will continue to
function right to the last stage of useful-
ness.
(4) These advantages involve an ob-
vious increase in the length of service.
Mr. Rose is enthusiastic about the
capabilities of these new batteries, and is
losing no time in introducing them to
traders and public. The whole output
of the N.S.W. Widdis Diamond factory
will be handled by Reg Rose and Co.
Something exceptional in refrigerators
is also to be seen at the offices of the co..
Apex model DTL-8 de luxe refrigerator.
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret-street,
Sydney. This is the Apex de luxe, made
by the Apex Electric Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, and is a refrigerator for
the home with outstanding features. A
pedal door control solves the problem
of opening when the hands are fully
occupied with dishes.
A slight pressure of the foot on this
conveniently-placed control and the door
swings open. There are nine different
freezing speeds, and “de-frost” and
“quick-freeze” adjustments that return
automatically to normal when the cycle
is completed. The interior of the Apex
refrigerator is automatically illuminated.
Reg Rose and Co., Ltd., are appointed
distributors for Australia for these high-
quality home refrigerators.
* * * *
The constructional article by Chas. W.
Slade in this issue should be of particular
interest to experimenters ,and radio ser-
vicemen requiring an easily constructed
and inexpensive D.C. multimeter. Mr.
Slade has had many years of experience
in the design and marketing of test and
analyser equipment. The Calston meter
referred to in the article is an Australian-
made product by Slade’s Radio Co., and
is a high-grade instrument. Mr. Slade
would appreciate letters concerning test
equipment from any dealer requiring
special information. Slade’s Radio, Lang-
street, Croydon, is the address. ’Phone
UJ4576.
**t * *
During the latter part of 1934, and so
far this year, many, if not a majority, of
radio manufacturers in Australia have
considered the radio hobbyist or home-
constructor to be practically non-existent.
Consequently only a limited number of
manufacturers have studied the require-
ments of those who like “rolling their
own.” Technical Editor A. G. Hull, of
“Wireless Weekly,” has given the direct
lie to this fallacy about home-construc-
tional radio by staging a competition in
conjunction with an exhibition on the
12th floor of the “Sun” building. The
night of opening proved amply that ama-
teur applications of ideas other than the
dictates of the manufacturer’s laboratory
are something to be taken seriously. The
room was packed with constructors and
prominent members of the radio trade,
and in addition to the competitive ex-
hibits elaborate trade displays were much
in evidence. Mr. Hull is to be congratu-
lated on the success of his effort. He
has produced proof positive that the
radio manufacturer cannot afford to lose
sight of the requirements of the genera-
tion which likes to try its own ideas.
What’s What in Radio.
There is talk in the U.S.A. of a Fed-
eral broadcasting system on the lines
of the 8.8. C., with President Roosevelt
as managing director.
* * * *
Tottenham Court-road (London) is to
have a television theatre in a new enter-
tainment centre, at a cost of £500,000.
* * f *
It is reported from Norway that a
London banking co. has undertaken to
raise £300,000 for the establishment of a
Jewish international broadcasting station.
* * *
America’s “Public Enemy No. 1” is,
in the eyes of the U.S.A. radio trade, that
old scoundrel Electrical Interference. At
least half the noises that mar home re-
ception, it is claimed, can be traced to
electrical circuits and appliances within
a few feet of the listener’s receiver. The
popularity of all-wave reception during
the last three years has intensified the
problem. Australia could also do with
a big campaign in this respect.
% H* * *
Not having seen an Australian kooka-
burra, a group of radio enthusiasts at
Paprotnia (Poland) have mistaken the
laugh of Australia’s national bird for
the screeching of parrots. This is revealed
in a letter to A.W.A. from H. S. Walc-
zynski, who says that on a recent cold,
snowy Sunday afternoon he and others
spent the time ‘listening to VK2ME.
“We started to listen, and suddenly we
hear parrots’ voices. Our time was
3.33 Sunday afternoon; yours 12.33
Monday morning,” Mr. Walczynski paid
a tribute to the quality of VK2ME, and
expressed a wish to hear Paderewski’s
FREQUENCY-WAVELENGTH CONVERSION AT A GLANCE.
No calculation or ruler is needed to determine frequency or wave-length
from this graph. The values are alongside each other.
Minuet on a Sunday in the near future.
He enclosed a sketch of two parrots
sitting on a microphone.
* % * *
The automatic wireless-distress sender,
produced by A.W.A., is designed for
small ships which do not carry a wire-
less operator. It works with a steel disc
resembling a phonograph record upon
which is engraved in Morse the name of
the ship and the distress signal. When
the instrument is brought into action the
position of the vessel can be added, and
the signals are transmitted until the
machine is stopped or the vessel foun-
ders. The apparatus is started by press-
ing a switch. The equipment includes a
receiver which enables the ship’s com-
pany to listen-in for messages regarding
rescue operations. If it is found that
assistance is no longer required, the
transmitter can be used to send out a
second signal—“l no longer need assist-
ance.” The instrument is compact, and
can be housed in the chartroom close
to the bridge.
* * * *
“Brassex”: Empire broadcasting has
given a good account of itself in Aus-
tralia during the last 12 months, via the
Daventry short-wave transmitters. At
this time of the year England’s pro-
grammes romp into Sydney, unheeding
the expanses of ocean and desert. Even
so, the German and French international
mouthpieces are often a few lengths
ahead in signal strength. The 8.8. C. is
not taking it lying down, for an an-
nouncement of two new 60kw. trans-
mitters for England’s short-wave pro-
grammes indicates that Empire broad-
casting is no longer an experiment but
a service of importance.
o Continued on next page.)


i
/
mm
YOUR CAR
/
m
m
H
•v
w
>&9;
%
m
m
Sor EASY STARTING and
PROTECTION firm WINTER WEAR
Cold, wet weather is not
good to cars. Hard starting;
stiff, sluggish operation; and
greater wear of engine and
chassis parts are common
winter-time driving troub-
les. . . Avoid them have
your car winterproofed in
the MOBILOIL 4-POINT
WAY,
1. YOUR ENGINE: Drain and refill
with correct Winter grade of
Mobiloil.* This specially processed
double-range oil gives easy starting,
with full protection.
2. YOUR GEARS: If your gears are
stiff use the winter Mobiloil gear oil,
and change gears with summer-
time ease.
3. YOUR CHASSIS: Regular Moh\-
lubrication with correct grades of
Mobilgrease and Mobilubricant
gives comfortable riding and pro-
tects parts from rain and mud.
4. YOUR PETROL: Use Super
Plume Ethyl for a split-second start.
♦Consult the Mobiloil Directory at
your Service Station.
03 «
:
-a
Lruil
eleD
a
<a*
pB
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
M 519
FT Y.
LTD.
THOUSANDS of real
* RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Why this
STOMACH
REMEDY
g/ways succeeds
In order to make a complete recovery
from Indigestion, Gastritis or Stomach
Ulcer your treatment must reach the
root cause of the mischief. It is because
'Bisurated’ Magnesia does this with
amazing efficacy that it has held the field
for over 20 years as the supreme remedy
for stomach troubles. There arethousands
of men and women who have enjoyed
good digestion for years simply through
the restorative power of ‘ Bisurated ’
Magnesia.
GASTRITIS ended after
29 years.
Mr. H. P. Martin, Corn &
Sc-ed Stores, High Street,
Kelvedon, Essex, writes
“ I have suffered with gas-
tritis for the last 29 years
and have had two opera-
tions and been in 5 hospitals
. . . Seeing your advertise-
mont for ‘Jiisurated’
Magnesia I bought a bottle
and am pleased to tell you
I got free from pain almost
at once ... I can eat my
food without fear of pain
and am better in health
than I have been since I frotn
was 20 years of age.”
recent photo
of Mr, Martin
from a recent
of Mrs. Bn!man.
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia
BROUGHT INSTANT RELIEFI
Mr. Bulman, of Hull writes;—
“My wife suffered stomach
trouble for fifteen years, tried
nearly everything possible
without relief until she tried
‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia wlnch
worked wonders, -there is
nothing to beat it, and after
what I have seen her suffer,
absolutely prostrated with
pain, I think it my duty to
sufferers to let them know
of your wonderful remedy.
Advice to Sufferers.
Perhaps you are even now dreading
your next meal. Then why not make it
the occasion for putting ‘ Bisurated
Magnesia to the test ? Get a bottle of
'Bisurated' Magnesia, powder or tablets,
from your chemist and take a little after
your meal. Eat what you fancy. The
result will be a revelation to you. The
customary pain and wind will not occur
and digestion will be completed with
ease and comfort.
BISURATED’
M MAGNESIA
The Stomach Remedy with over 20
years’ Proof of Efficacy and is very
economical in use.
Every package hears the
oval ( Bismag’ Trade Mark —►
f
Licenses issued to radio listeners by the
Commonwealth as at 30/4/’35 total
708,701. Experimental licenses totalled
1292.
* * * *
Moscow radio engineers are apparently
not content with power in their short-
wave stations comparable with other
European stations. A new station under
construction for the Comintern combine
will flaunt 120 kw. in the radiating sys-
tem. There should be no doubt about
the signal penetrating to all parts of the
world. Radio transmission in Europe is
on a par with the armanent race ; every-
body wants to be equal to and just a little
better than the other man.
The Q. and A. Column.
I hare an all-wave superhet using 6.47, 78,
37, 37 and 38 valves, with heater supply from
a 32-volt home-lighting plant. Plate voltage
is from a rotary converter. I wish to remodel
the receiver, using a 687 as a combined inter-
mediate amplifier and detector, and possibly
first audio. (1) Please supply a circuit. (2)
How much current does the 681 take ? —268.
(1) A most suitable arrangement would be
to redesign the receiver on the lines of the
Regenerative Reflex Superhet, described B.
21/11/’34. A copy may be obtained from
this office. In this receiver the 687 is used
in the manner desired, and is particularly effec-
tive. (2) Heater, 6.3 volts at .3 ampere; plate
current, .65ma.; screen current, ,15ma.
* * * *
(1) How can I make my superhet oscillate
in order to receive short-wave C.W. signals ?
I am using a short-wave converter, and the
valves in the B.C. set are 58 R.F., 57 auto-
dyne, 58 1.F., 55 detector ( A.V.C .) and 2A5.
(2) To what portion of the set is the visual
tuning meter connected ? (3) Name of a book
containing information on the building of a
ID-watt five-metre transmitter ? (/ am fully
conversant with the regulations governing the
operation of transmitting apparatus by un-
authorised persons.) —269.
(1) A simple beat frequency oscillator using
a 56 can be made. This must be designed to
cover the frequency of the intermediate, and
is easily made with a coil and trimmer con-
denser from an I.F. transformer. This will
comprise the grid circuit, and a feedback coil
with about 50 turns of the same gauge wire
must be coupled to the grid coil. Use about
180 volts on the plate of the 56, and connect
a very small condenser between the grid of the
8.F.0. and control grid of the 55. This con-
denser can be made up from two wires in-
sulated in sleeving and tied together. A switcn
in the plate supply to the oscillator will cut
the beat off when modulated reception is de-
sired. If oscillation does not occur when first
testing, reverse the connections to the oscil-
lator feedback coil. (2) In series with the B
positive side of the primary of the 1.r.1.
feeding the I.F. valve plate. (3) The Radio
Amateur’s Handbook, by the A.R.R-L-, oj"
Five-metre Radiotelephony, by Frank Jones,
Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
;Jc :fc H*
I am interested in the ultra-short-wave equip-
ment described B. 6/3/’35. The receiver using
the 6C6 R.F. pentode should be very sensitive,
but what would be the best way to use head-
phones instead of speaker output ? —266.
This can be done in a number of ways, but
the most satisfactory is as follows: As the
field of a 2500-ohm dynamic speaker is used
in this circuit as an extra filter choke, this
can be dispensed with without any introduc-
tion of hum. A speaker plug is arranged
with the primary of a one-to-one ratio output
transformer in place of the primary of the
speaker transformer, and the field pins are
connected together. This is simply plugged in
in place of the speaker, and headphones are
connected across the secondary of the trans-
former. If volume is too much for the ears,
as it is certain to be with this receiver, a 0- to
250,000-ohm resistor should be connected across
the ’phones and secondary, and this resistance
adjusted to the required volume level. A Fer-
ranti-type OPI transformer will be suitable.
* * * *
(1) I have built the Wide-World Two, with
extra audio gain, and when the volume control
is advanced fully the set goes into a roar.
Maximum volume does not appear to be pos-
sible. The audio transformer is an old Emmco
ftve-to-one ratio for coupling the 76 to the 38,
but I have removed the transformer casing to
permit fitting it under the chassis. What is
wrong ? (2) Would resistance coupling be
better than transformer ? (3) Do permagnetic
speakers equal dynamic speakers in tone and
quality of reproduction ? (4) Is the S.S. Super-
het (“ A.R.N.” 30/3/’34) designed to cover from
15 to 100 metres or just the amateur bands ?
Would this receiver give better results than the
Wide-World Two ? (5) Would the 6C6 valve
be better than the 77 as detector ? (6) Could
I use a 38-type valve in the output of the
Communicator Three, and how would this com-
pare with the type 42 ? —267.
(1) The audio transformer is now unshielded,
and this may be contributing largely to the
audio instability; also, five-to-one ratio is too
high. A fixed resistor of about .25-meg. across
the secondary may effect a cure. Vibration in
the tuning condenser plates can also be re-
sponsible. It is always advisable to use a con-
denser for short waves with fairly thick plates.
(2) It would certainly be free from audio in-
stability, and would give only slightly less
amplification than the transformer coupling.
(3) Naturally, because they are dynamic
speakers, with a permanent magnetic instead
of an excited field. (4) The amateur bands
only. Yes, being an efficient superhet, against
two valves. (5) Yes. (6) Yes, but the 42 is
the better valve of the two. The 38 was the
first audio pentode produced in the 6.3-volt
series, and the 42 is equal to a 2A5.


FOR RANDWICK ON MONDAY.
June Stakes: Dermid; next,
Cabalist.
Maiden Handicap: Magnus.
Ellesmere Handicap: Touchit;
next, Foxhunter.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Keith Voitre and the M.L.-owned
Takakua experienced an undesired
change of luck at Moonee Valley on
Saturday. Punters backed Takakua down
to 5 to 2, with 7 to 1 bar one on offer in
a field of ten. Three furlongs from home
Takakua was last. When pulled out from
the rails to make a decisive effort, the
gelding galloped on the heels of Galli-
brook and fell. Spectators could see
that all was well with Voitre when he
drove back to the enclosure on the front
seat of the casualty van; he had
suffered no worse injury than a sprained
thumb. However, the lad was forbidden
to ride in the concluding event.
Sordino (7 to 1) annexed the race in
which Voitre was tossed. A brother to
Cellist (Violoncello —Kyeema), who was
raced over fences by J. A. MacLeod, of
the V.R.C. committee, he belongs to
Dr. R. L. Fulton and Flemington trainer
R. Bradfield. When in the right mood
—a rare occurrence with this stallion —
Sordino can gallop with the best of
them. He led throughout on Saturday
and fought on gamely enough to van-
quish Gallibrook by a head, with Kitty
O’Shea only half a head further away.
If Gallibrook had come on the scene a
trifle earlier he must have won. Enter-
ing the straight Eastern Chief looked
Bert; ''Whms ms weiqht? "
! That must BE WRONQ
&BRT * /7 Why ? ss
//
QeRT : SuRECf HE MUST BE
HEAVIER THA.M. thact 1 "
like accounting for Sordino, but he tired,
and narrowly missed a place. Kyeema,
the dam of Sordino, is out of Apple
Pie, who was second in the Caulfield
Cup and third in the Melbourne Cup in
1910.
Jumping contests at the Valley meet-
ing did not throw much light on Grand
National prospects. Ras Kassa put in
a fine finishing effort to wrest victory
from Nyerimilang in the Federal Hurdle,
but he is somewhat undersized, and may
not see out a journey of three miles.
Etymology would have been nearer than
third if he had not banged several
jumps. This gelding demonstrated his
stamina last year by being runner-up to
Laniroi in the Australian Hurdle. He
belongs to H. E. Connolly, who won a
Grand National with Jackstaff.
The Commonwealth Steeple finish was
fought out by Philax, Actaeon and Haz-
ward, all candidates for the G. N.
Steeple. Cleverly handled by Howson,
Philax managed to score by a neck from
the Terang horse Actaeon, who lost
leeway by galloping through the last
obstacle —a brush fence. Actaeon is to
given an outing over the Flemington
country next Monday, and a definite
line then may be obtained as to his
cross-country qualifications. So far he
has started only twice in steeplechases.
J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. committee,
saw his colors carried prominently by
Studio (Manfred —Lucina) in the Picca-
ninny Handicap, for juveniles. The filly
was making her first public appearance,
but she had galloped brilliantly on the
Mentone tracks and commanded sub-
stantial support. Air Race—bred in
Victoria, but owned by W. R. Kemball,
of Maoriland —shared favoritism with
Quasimodo, the latter having been
backed from 4 to 1 to 5 to 2. At her
only previous start, Air Race had run
away with a race at the Valley. She
did not find her legs at all smartly on
Saturday, and never was in the hunt.
Studio set up a lead of five lengths, and
it looked as if she never would be
caught; but Quasimodo wore her down,
scoring in the last stride by a neck.
There is no handsomer two-year-old
than Quasimodo racing. Bred in N.S.W.
by L. A. Haley, he is by Bullhead from
Esmeralda, by Woorak.
Ringmen were gleeful when Preston
Day strolled home in advance of the
favorite, Vital, in the Headwind High-
weight Handicap. This was the first
appearance of Preston Day since he
came over from Adelaide about six
weeks ago, and Roy Shaw, the owner-
trainer, allowed him to run loose. A
tote div. of £24 for ss. was returned ;
ring odds were nominally 33 to 1.
Geyser, in the colors of Lou Robertson,
gave the ring another turn-up at the end
of the day. She went out at 10 to 1.
* * * *
Touchit, for two seasons a heart-
breaking proposition for punters, has
suddenly become Sydney’s most consis-
tent galloper. The plain-looking little
mare —she is by Legionnaire or Magpie
out of Berengaria—won the Moorefield
Handicap in the easiest possible manner,
thus recording the hat trick; and she
went out at 7 to 2. Bill Wedgewood
darted away with the lead, and six fur-
longs from home was seven lengths in
front. Touchit began her run ascending
the hill, and gathered up the pacemaker
so quickly that she led into the straight.
In the end she scored by three lengths
from Juliet Glass, with Wallace Mimi
half a head away. Measure was fourth;
then came Lingo and Bill Wedgewood,
who straggled in a tired little horse.
Cid was considered invincible in the
first heat of the Flying Welter ; but he
was in one of his sour moods. He moved
off well, but would not stretch out, and
beat only three home. The locally-
trained Povertdale, backed from sixteens
to eights, came at the right end to beat
Assai and Paddera. Bim Boy looked a
winner when he got to the front at the
Leger, but showed no determination
when asked to do his best.
The second division went to Sov, a
typical welter performer. Visage having
been scratched, Sov was favorite at 9
to 4. Darby Munro gave the Heroic
gelding no peace, riding him hard
throughout; when Sov wanted to go
slow he was given the whip. In the
result the uncertain customer won by
two lengths from Head Boy and Glory
Girl. Morse, having his first run for
some time, showed that he has not lost
his pace.'
A.J.C. committeeman Walter Brunton
has a smart youngster in the High Art
gelding Rubens. Rubens had been gal-
loping well on the tracks, and bookies
fielding on the Maiden Juvenile did not
forget his recent run at Randwick ; they
would not lay better than 5 to 2. At
the finish Rubens was running away
from Sailor Prince and Diatter. Diatter
was bad at the barrier, and after draw-
ing the rails was sent to the outside.
King Pyrrhus did best of the others. The
fillies’ division proved a soft snap for
The Darter (4 to 1), another Heroic.
Setting up a good lead in the early
stages, she romped home from Blue
Sapphire and Sybella. The favorite, Joy
Ride, was fourth, and will do better on
a bigger track.
Former jockey A. Kuhn took the
Three- and Four-year-old Maiden with
Snow Glare (2 to 1), Robber, slow to
leave the barrier, was rushed to the
front, and tired in the last furlong, but
battled on gamely to run second. Con-
stant Lady was third.
Trainer Peter Riddle started Celebrate
and Watson in the Hurstville Mile. Cele-
brate had run third to Bouyeo at Rand-
wick, and it was generally agreed that
the stiff Moorefield journey would suit
him. He was backed from twos to 5 to
4, while Watson eased from 10 to 1 to
20 to 1. Celebrate was unlucky in more
senses than one. The jockey, Jim Munro,
lost an iron at the jump-off, and the
horse was interfered with after passing
the seven furlongs. However, Celebrate
made a fine run on the outside coming
to the turn, and led into the straight
with Assertive and After Money. He
was clear at the Leger, but Watson came
like a flash and beat his stable-mate by
a head, with Assertive a close third.
Very tough luck for Riddle,
* * * *
His job rendered much less diffi-
cult by the withdrawal of Braeburn
and Foxhunter, Milantheon, ridden by
Browne, won the Newcastle Cup, for
which he was joint favorite, at fives, with
Volwood and Tremayne—second, but
three lengths behind Milantheon, Recog-
nition (33 to 1) being the same distance
away. Milantheon is locally-owned but
Randwick-trained. About the first of
the Pantheons to show any galloping
ability, he is pretty good on his day, but
a bit in and out, being a stallion that has
served a season at the stud.
* * * * «
An impression that Lough Neagh had
been unlucky in the Doomben New-
market led to the lathy chestnut’s being
sent out favorite, at twos, for the Doom-
ber Cup, and at the finish there were
only heads between Serlodi (5 to 1),
Lough Neagh and Moorenbar (6 to 1).
Serlodi got in the last' run on Lough
Neagh, whose rider always wanted to be
at or near the front.
0Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Good even fighting characterised
Saturday’s football in Melbourne. There
were no surprises. Fit'zroy had improved
so greatly that its supporters expected it
to lower the colors of the mighty Rich--
mond. But Richmond led by a small
margin for three quarters, and came with
a rush during the last session, winning by
14-14 to 8-9. South Melbourne was ex-
pected to defeat Geelong, and did it, but
not without a bitter contest, the game
veering to each in turn and finishing
South 17-12 to Geelong 15-10. Haw-
thorn played fine football against the
much-improved Essendon; Essendon
13-20, Hawthorn 12-14. St. Kilda over-
whelmed Carlton for the first quarter,
but better combination and more con-
sistent play saw Carlton end with 20-9
to 16-14. Collingwood got 13-20 against
Melbourne’s 9-15, leading throughout.
Footscray, 13-12, and North Melbourne,
12-16, fought out the closest tussle of
the day.
* * * *
“W.R.C.”: It has been asserted that
Vic.’s Governor saw his first Australian
Rules match at Footscray. It was his
fourth —he saw three last year: at South
Melbourne, Carlton and Melbourne.
Another scribe states that M.C.C.
authorities put the time-clock in cold
storage except at final matches. He
must have been in cold storage himself.
The clock operates at every senior
League game on the M.C.G.
* * * *
Manly is no longer at the bottom of
Sydney Rugby Union premiership table.
It beat the leaders, University, in every
department of the game, scoring 29
points (six tries, four of them converted,
and a penalty goal) to 14 (three tries,
one converted, and a p.g.). Wansey, a
youngster who played for “Shore” last
year, was the Villagers’ star. A hard-
running centre, he has been chosen for
Saturday’s match against Victoria. Drum-
moyne had another win, 22-6 (four tries,
two converted, and two p.gs. to a try
and a p.g.), against East, and goes up
level with University. In the other
matches Randwick downed Parramatta
13-3 and St. George ran Northern
Suburbs to 13-15 —three tries each; an
extra goal by Leach made up the dif-
ference.
* * * *
The Country Leaguers’ first thirteen
was trounced by City (20-5) at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday. Wetness on
the best Bulli made the field look like a
green plate of black soup, but City
backs, given a monotonous share of the
ball by hooker Fairall, handled surpris-
ingly cleanly in the conditions, kept their
feet like mountain goats from Yorkshire
and made fine-weather football of it.
Ridley scored four tries, but Brown, who
skippers N.S.W. against Q. on Saturday,
played the game of the day. Of the
Countrymen Prigg and Gibb, forwards,
and fullback Ward get into the N.S.W.
team. Country seconds defeated City
seconds, 12-3.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: A writer on foot-
ball, backing up the N.S.W. Union’s
adoption of League rules, twitters of
“the venerable rules of Rugby—laws
which the home countries have preserved
jealously.” Since the Union’s inception
in the early ’seventies the rules have been
changed so much that no international of
the early days in Britain would recognise
his game in the modern version. From
the cutting of sides down from 20 and
18 to 15, new or changed rules have
made their appearance nearly every
year. Scoring in particular has suffered
bewildering changes since the not-so-far-
distant day when nothing counted but a
goal, though 50 tries might have been
scored.
* * s|e s|e
“Flop”: According to a speaker at the
welcome to N.S.W. country League foot-
ballers in Sydney, League Rugby is to
be introduced into Victoria by the coun-
try leagues adjacent to the Victorian
border. So far the only penetration by
rival footballers thereabout has been in
reverse ; the Australian game has eaten
deeply into N.S.W. southern districts.
The Ma State Leaguers made a disastrous
attempt to establish the professional code
in Melbourne some years ago. The
Union code was revived in Melbourne
soon after the League crash, and is now
permanently established.
0 Continued on next page.)
Crawford and Quist are tennis cham-
pions of France, and Turnbull and
McGrath were their opponents in the
final. It was over in straight sets: 6-1,
6-4, 6-2.
* * * *
When entries for the British amateur
golf championship were published the
sages announced that the issue lay be-
tween McLean and Lawson Little.
McLean crashed in the first round, his
conqueror being a 22-year-old unknown
from Worcester, and Britain’s hopes be-
came one with Nineveh and J. T. Lang.
Little won again ; in the final he beat
Dr. W. Tweddell, who won the title in
’27, 1 up.


THE NEW
WINCHESTER
MODEL 65
REPEATING RIFLE.
m m
ZJ
LIGHT
FAST
BEAUTY
LEVER ACTION 8-SHOT REPEATING RIFLE.
In calibres .25/20 and .32, N.R.A.-type pistol-grip stock, 221 n. round
tapered barrel having ramp front sight base, Lyman gold bead front sight.
Rocky Mountain adjustable rear sight. Half magazine only. jQ All I
Weight, about A v" “
CARRIAGE PAID.
ADAPTED FOR SUPER-SPEED CARTRIDGES, FOR WHICH A HIGH
FORESIGHT IS FITTED.
25/20 AND .32 BLACK OR SUPER-SPEED STAYNLESS.
25/20 and .32 Centre-fire Super-speed Staytiless Cartridges. Per 100, 21'/-
25/20 and .32 Black Powder Cartridges. Per 100 17/-
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St.,Sydney
’Phone: M 3388.
< /■
it «"
.V
w
sM
!
10904-
Be PrepSJ^
The
“ICIL
SPECIAL”
Will Stop Him.
Put in your supplies of am-
munition NOW, and be sure
i you get the right brand—
mrm
Unsurpassed for BIG GAME
The hardest hitting cartridge and
longest range killer ever offered to the
Australian shooter.
In 2 2 in. and 2| in. Waterproof Cases
Loaded with “Neoflak” Smokeless
Powder and lioz. Chilled Shot.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Popular Prices.
c
it any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Under the Whip
“S.G.”: In Queensland and Westralian
journals from time to time you can see
the betting quotations on the English
Derby. All the Australian morning
newspapers get them, but in Sydney and
Melbourne they are served up this way:
The order of favoritism for the Derby,
to be run on June 5, is as follows: Bahram,
Bobsleigh, Hairan, Theft, Sea Bequest.
An extension of the statutory ban on the
publication of ante-post odds which must
make Englishmen visiting these parts
double up with mirth, especially if they
notice what a large part of the popula-
tion goes to the races or hangs around
pubs listening to racing broadcasts and
betting in between. The idea of our
queer legislators is that this embargo
promotes morality or something.
* * * *
W. G. Fitzgerald got a cheap horse when
he bought Ramadan for 110 guineas a
few weeks ago. His money was returned
to him with interest when Ramadan won
a division of the Flying Handicap at Vic-
toria Park, Sydney. Certainly the prize
was trifling—all three were worth only
£66 13s. 4d. —but the price was 7 to 1.
Though a disappointment for the most
part, Ramadan has shown a good turn
of speed now and again. It is inherited ;
he is a son of Rampion and Galtee
Queen, dam of several good winners, and
as he is only a four-year-old he has still
time to improve.
• • v
Those who stuck to Cercello in spite
of his failures at six furlongs were re-
warded when the chestnut from New-
castle, going out at 7 to 4, beat a pretty
good field —it included Dermid, Golden
Gate and Prince Pombal, who ran third
—in his division of the Flying Handi-
cap at Victoria Park. He had not much
to spare at the finish, Regal Star (10 to
1) flashing up in a fashion that sur-
prised those who had considered him
merely a third-rate middle-distance horse,
but Cercello won, and that was all that
mattered. The distance was 6y furlongs.
The half furlong made all the difference.
* * * *
Racegoers will have to struggle along
for a time without the services of Pratt,
who has ridden 70 winners in Sydney
alone this season. Suspended for a month
after the A.J.C. Cumberland Plate, in
which he rode Rogilla, and since car-
peted on a “non-proven” charge of bet-
ting, the youth was informed on Thurs-
day that his permit to ride had been
withdrawn during the A.J.C. committee’s
pleasure. He is still an apprentice.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Pusher”: Black gloves are now used
by the amateurs who box in Melbourne.
They wear white knickers and blue
singlets; ring and mats are white. Syd
Sherrin, of Collingwood, supplies the
gloves ; he has found that the main prob-
lem is to obtain black horsehide of good
quality without a blemish, otherwise the
gloves have a short life. Although the
Sherrins have been making boxing-gloves
for more than 50 years, they had never
before had an order for black ones. In-
cidentally, Syd Sherrin refereed nearly
6000 bouts for the V.A.B.W.A.
Footbrawl
Williamstown, one of Melbourne’s
oldest football clubs, is talking about
disbanding owing to lack of local in-
terest. A generation back, when the
population was much smaller, Williams-
town was year after year a club to be
feared, and at one time dissensions led
to the formation of a new team, South
Williamstown, which contrived to finish
fourth in the Association premiership
list the first year of its existence. The
rise of live clubs in adjacent suburbs
is probably the reason for Williamstown’s
slump.
* * * *
“Magpie”; The V.F.C. has selected a
strong side for the tour of S.A. and
Westralia next month, though the curious
local custom of giving each of the clubs
two men in the side prevents it from
being absolutely the League’s best.
Hickey, of Geelong, will be skipper and
Collier, of Collingwood, his offsider. A
record selection is that of Spargo, from
Footscray, in his first season of League
football.
“Tenakoe”; Trial matches for the
Maoriland team to leave for England on
July 31 are now raging in M.L. It is
“Can't stand that skipper of theirs—can you, Hapi?”
“If I get near him t'is half I stand him orright—on his head."
satisfactory to note there is no question
of omitting Maori players, as had to be
the case for the South African tour—a
happening fiercely resented by Horo-
whenua and his mates. The games wilU
also be used to sort out the Maori team
which will tour Australia under the
management of Kingi Tahiwi. M.L.’s
R.U. *balance sheet shows a loss of £777
on last season, but most of this repre-
sents special grants to associated bodies
and schools. As the Union’s accumulated
funds amount to £37,400 it is not
worrying.
sK # s * *
“Stand Off”: The R.U. code continues
to regain strength in its one-time strong-
hold the Western Districts of N.S.W. The
W.D. Union’s team will meet Newcastle
in the game preceding the Ma State-
Victorian fixture at North Sydney Oval
on June 1. A combined side from the
two country unions will engage the Cab-
bage Gardeners at Manly Oval on June
3. A team from the Far West Union is
also to show in Sydney in August, when
the Maoris are there.
* # * *
“Tenakoe”: The Maori R.U. foot-
ballers leave Wellington on July 4.
From Sydney they will be whipped to
Queensland to play Warwick on July
10 ; then they tackle Queensland in Bris-
bane on July 13 and July 20, with a
game against Toowoomba in between.
Maoris v. Western Districts of N.S.W. at
Dubbo is for July 24, and the first
N.S.W. match at Sydney on July 27. An
appearance at Bathurst may follow, and
then Victoria, for whose benefit the tour
was originally intended by the M.L.
railway and R.U. potentate who initiated
it, will get a game on August 3, the
remaining three matches, of course,
being played in Sydney and Newcastle.
After the last Ma State game in Sydney
on August 10 the team walks on to the
boat for home. Thirty-three days in
Australia and 11 matches, with some
thousands of miles to travel in between!
* * * *
“Gladiator”: How small a thing is
fame was seen when Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) League football club incon-
tinently sacked six of its professional
footballers, international and State
players among them, because it couldn’t
afford to keep them after the Maher
Cup had been lost to hated Tumut.
Attendances at these cup matches have
been falling off, and to lose the pot
means losing the money of men who
like to side with the winners. At this
stage of the season the discards will find
it hard to get football employment, and
the impression that professional sport
isn’t all it is cracked up to be is strong
in Coota.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Team-work counts for more
in the Rugby game than individual bril-
liance, and it’s no uncommon thing for
a side overloaded with star men to finish
well down the competition table. Bal-
main League supporters set up a howl
because the locals, only once beaten this
season, and that by last year’s premiers,
had no representatives in the side chosen
to meet the countrymen. It’s the same
in Union. The Ma State team in
Queensland has five men from Manly,
last on the premiership list, and five:
from Randwick, somewhere about the
middle. The leaders, University and
Drummoyne, have four between them.
* * * *
“Davies Park”: The Rugby League
Board of Control meets in Sydney when
the Queensland team is down at the end
of the month to discuss the proposed
tour of M.L. by an Australian side. In
spite of bickerings, this board has been
an influence for good, though it controls
professional football only in two States
and it effectively wiped out the domina-
tion of the game by N.S.W., which
threatened to become as unsatisfactory as
that exercised by the N.S.W. Rugby
Union.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Preparations for the
dispatch of a team of professionals to
America go steadily if slowly on.
Manager Campbell, who is a country
golf king, says the men from the open
spaces are to be counted on for a good
throw-in. The P.G.A. is announcing the
team as soon as possible. Don Spence,
who was originally talked of as Bolger’s
partner after his fine showing against the
Americans, cannot go, his new job as
professional at Concord having the first
claim.
* * *
“Philm”: Perth can claim its sixth
championship course now that Mt. Law-
ley has opened eight new holes to com-
plete the regulation circuit. As an
answer to the criticism that Westralian
courses aren’t sufficiently bunkered, the
new holes are full of traps: the Com-
monwealth (120 yards) is an island green
in an ocean of sand ; the Redan (194
yards) is perched on a hill, with picketed
bunkers to guard it. Another novel fea-
ture is a canal running through one of
the greens.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Sydney’s Lakes golf
club, whose enterprise made possible the
visit of the American professionals, has
received a pat on the back from their asso-
ciation —a letter thanking the club for its
hospitality and generous treatment of the
tourists. Those young men seem to
cherish the pleasantest recollections of
their visit to Australia, which is all to
the good.
“Aardvark”: A rare distinction has
come the way of Brews, the Afrikander
who did so well in the British open last
year. He has been asked to compete in
the American open without bothering
about qualifying rounds. The privilege
is permitted only to national title-holders
and very distinguished players from
abroad,
* * * *
“Hesketh Park”: The British profes-
sional golf tourney for the Southport
“1000” was played this year on the Birk-
dale and Hillside courses, which are prac-


Rent, age 19 J, gains 5 ins. In 6 weeks.
« •» 21 „ 5 „ in 5 mths. I
.. m 20, „ 3J in 16 days.
«, ». 30, „ 2 „in 4 weeks. I
„ .. .. 40, U,.ln 6 „ ROSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3 Jins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee £2 2s. j
►Malcolm l os
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Busy. (P.O. Dox 15.)
ROSS M HEIGHT/
(No Appliance)
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
Champion
V *- # SPARKING PLUGS
WINDSOR,
CANADA
give better
performance
in every
engine
Obtainable at
all leading garages
W
mz
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
lit
ill
' ... • ; '--,
'
liillliilll
Mi&sSSi
COMING
SOON/
FT. 5
THERE'S
SOMETHING
NEW ,
HERE TOO/
WAIT FOR THE
FOH 19 3 3
tically parts of Southport, The weather
was deadly cold and windy, and snow
stopped play for a time on the third
day, the morning scores being cancelled
in consequence. C. A. Whitcombe won
by a stroke from Cotton, with an aggre-
gate of 295. At the last hole Cotton had
a 10ft. putt to tie. The ball ran true to
the hole, but rimmed the cup. '
Racquet and Bawl
“Stade”; The British tennis world got
a shock when France won the inter-
national tennis match by eight to four.
The British side included Crawford and
Brookes, both playing in the doubles.
Crawford and Austin won their match,
but Brookes and his partner were wal-
loped. The real disaster came when
Austin went down in the singles to
Boussus, though he has had any amount
of match play on English hard courts
this season.
He He * *
“Centre Court”: The Cup hori-
zon is beginning to clear. U.S.A. ended
its easy trot by beating Mexico in the
American zone final, and has nothing
to do now but to build up until the
American-European zone final is played.
The Czechs beat the Yugos in their
round of the European circus, while the
Japanese put Holland to bed. Aus-
tralia has to meet France just after the
French championships, and will have had
plenty of hardcourt practice by then.
“Top Spin”: The second round of the
European zone of the Davis Cup has to
be settled by June 12. Many of the
representatives are playing in the French
championships, and dates are uncertain.
Poland and South Africa, for instance,
were to start their clash, but nothing is
reported to date, while Farquharson, at
least, is playing in Paris. Japan and
Czecho-Slovakia, Australia and France
and Germany and Italy are the others,
and all have players at Paris. The French
championship finals are down for June 2.
* * t- *
“Hotham”; The Australian L.T.A. has
at last decided that the Australian Davis
Cup team may play in South Africa on
its way back. Also, it has told the
Indian association that its invitation to
the coral strand from December to
March, 1936, will be considered. What
needs considering also is the long-
promised return visit to Japan, which put
a lot of shekels in Australian tennis
coffers when its fine team was here some
years ago. Year after year the return
visit has been put off with one fatuous
excuse or another. An Indian tour be-
fore returning the Nipponese visit would
be discourteous to a fine lot of sports-
men.
* * * *
“Spare Gabbett”: When Menzel
wasn’t calling Australians cannibals he
referred to their courts in Czecho-Slav.
language that could not be translated
without bringing a blush to the cheek
of even the flapper-barracker. Perry has
countered this in his book My Story
with the assertion that the Australian
courts, especially those at Sydney, rank
with the best in the world, and are the
fastest grass courts he has ever played
on. It must be recalled, though, that
poor old Menzy had to turn out on the
Melbourne courts just after the floods
had covered them. He yelpefe so loudly
about them that no one thought of ask-
ing other players what they were really
like.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth . Slip”: N.S.W. cricket heads
are pulling long faces over the poor
appeal of club cricket in Sydney. They
attribute it to the absence of crack
players in almost continuous inter-State
tours, either in the Sheffield competition
or under private management, and the
presence of too many clubs in the grade
competition. As it is, the association
depends for its funds on inter-State and
international visits, and finds the grade
competition has the grasshopper beaten
down the course as a burden. Mel-
bourne does better. There club rivalry is
keen, and the pennant matches draw good
crowds. Doubtless, the cricket is more
interesting. I was present at the Pad-
dington-Western Suburbs match which
decided the Sydney premiership. Nothing
could have been deadlier than the batting.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: It has become
commonplace for juvenile swimmers and
runners to apply for reinstatement as
amateurs when they have been dis-
covered competing in professional events.
Their plea invariably is that they
thought that as long as they were under
16 they were not offending the amateur
laws by taking money. Investigation has
convinced the Ma State A.S.A. that un-
sophisticated juveniles have been work-
ing this joke on them for years. Am-
bitious youngsters are now notified that
no whitewashing applications will be
entertained after October next on any
account.
❖ * *
Arthur Griffith; The result of the
inter-State boatrace (B. 15/5/’35) does
not disprove my contention that in the
case of boys of similar age, everything
else being equal, a light crew will beat
a heavy one. Take the recent Head-of-
the-River race on the Parramatta. Of the
three leading crews, the lightest came first,
the next-lightest second and the heaviest
lengths behind. Scots outweighed the
winners by just on an average of a stone
per man, coxes excluded. The heaviest
of the Shore eight weighed 12st. 101 b.,
whereas the Scots boat carried one of
over 13st. and two of 14st. and over.
I was for years in charge of the football
at the Sydney Grammar School, and my
experience was that in the case of boys
of similar age lads of 1 Ost. to list, in-
variably outlasted those of 13st. to 14st.
in a strenuous match. With grown
men the position is different, and weight
is often the determining factor; with
boys of 17 or 18 a lad of 13st. or over
is likely to have outgrown his strength,
so far as staying power is concerned.
I*: Jji sk
“G.M.”: As usual, some of the head-
masters of Melbourne public schools are
deploring the publicity given to the boat-
race. These good men always remind me
of Dooley’s alleged interview with Lip-
ton, who told the reporters that they must
say nothing and gave them every possible
particular. As a matter of fact, the boat-
race is the biggest advertising medium in
Melbourne. The fact that schools can-
not accommodate prospective pupils
is almost wholly due to the publicity they
get once a year. In other days the num-
bers were about half what they are to-
da Y- • # #
“Stroke”: Charlie Donald, for years
“sergeant” and rowing coach of Wesley
College, Melb., is retiring from his job,
though he will continue to look after the
boating interest of the boys. Donald
came originally from Warrnambool,
where he was stroke of the local eight,
surprising Melbourne oarsmen when he
brought his men up to metropolitan com-
pany. Up to that time it had been the
custom to regard country crews, except
those from Geelong and Ballarat, as
second-grade, but Donald’s eight made
them all sit up. It was not long before
he was persuaded to come to Melbourne,
where he led Victoria to victory in the
inter-State contests. He looks fit to
coach Wesley for many a year yet.
“Third Base”: N.S.W. baseballers open
their inter-State season with a clash with
Victoria at Petersham this week, and sev-
eral matc hes will be played in addition
to the inter-State fixture. Ponsford, who
was expected to skipper the Victorians
as dropped out, and has ie P*a)p e
as skipper by Quinn, of Melbourne City,
The match, with other fixtuies against
Metropolitan and Colt teams, should
prove a useful trial for the inter-State
tourney in Melbourne later in the season,
*** . *
“Spiel”: Hitler does not intend to
allow his athletes to waste their energies
on trifles, and they have been warned that
no one is to enter for sporting competi-
tions outside Germany until the Olympic
Games are over. Even the swanky Ber-
lin Sports Club has been ordered to can-
cel its entry for the international club
match at the British Games next month,
and has done so meekly.


Sunali
Commences
AUGUST 25th.
Comprising
General Samples,
Building, House-
hold and Indus-
trial Equipment
Fair.
Leipzig Fair, the World’s most
popular and largest market, offers un-
excelled opportunities for profitable
buying.
V-
y .
r A
Information gladly sup-
plied by Lars G. Brun-
dahl, Commissioner in
Australia for the Leipzig
Trade Fair, 121 Pitt
Street, Sydney, ’phone
840G6; L. Mess e y,
Technical Adviser, 29
Bligh Street, Sydney;
C. N. Keppel, Box
1658,G.P.0., Melbourne;
H. C. Ittershagen, West
Subiaco, Perth.
Australian Primary
Products find a ready
market in Germany.
ym‘"nmm,g a
onmM
Is Your Money
Earning Enough?
The June issue of this valuable journal
for investors will help you to decide
this question.
ON SALE SATURDAY, Ist JUNE.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Bank of Adelaide
A.M.P. Society
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd.
Australian Distillery Co., Ltd.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.
Younghusband, Ltd.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Garratt’s, Ltd.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd.
Colonial Mutual Life Ass. Soc., Ltd.
Standard Trust, Ltd.
National Bank of Australasia, Ltd.
Elder’s Trustee & Executor Co., Ltd.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
a “BULLETIN ” PUBLICATION
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“Skin ’Em Alive!”
Retired from the Vic. Railway Depart-
ment 10 years ago because of an acci-
dent, and advised by doctors to come to
Sydney for the sake of my health and
that of my elder boy, a hospital patient,
I duly returned particulars of income for
1933-1934 to the Vic. and N.S.W. Taxa-
tion Departments. Victoria taxed me
£1 15s. 6d., N. S. Wales £3 6s. Bd. In-
come was £125, superannuation allow-
ance, wholly derived from Victoria. The
exchange on my fortnightly cheque is
Bd., 17s. 4d. a year —£5 19s. 6d. out
of £125, and the balance all spent in
N. S. Wales.
I couldn’t take a job if I were able to
work; if I did superannuation would
stop. It would likewise stop if I went
to gaol in default of paying the N.S.W.
tax. So I have to submit to this merci-
less fleecing.—Ex-Railwayman (N.S.W.).
Plans
I am a warm advocate of the Fitz-
william Plan (B. 1/5/’35), but I don’t
think it goes deep enough. Why not
apply it to the whole of Australia and
declare all positions vacant? Many of
us are prepared to be a bank manager,
an editor of a successful paper or g.m.
of a big firm at two-thirds of present
salaries. “The rush back to the jobs”
would be much more spectacular, and
deficits would disappear if we made all
employers pay the salaries saved into
consolidated revenue. — Keg (N.S.W.),
War-pension Certificates
The new issue, while an improvement
on the old forms, which were too large
and easily broken, has a fault that may
cause trouble. On the former certificate
the pensioner placed his simple signature.
On the new form this is omitted, making
it possible for an unauthorised person
to fill in an order and sign it with the
pensioner’s name. The cashier in a busy
post office might easily pay out on such
an order, having no signature available
for comparison.— Plankton (Q.).
“The Nazi Spirit”
Of German parentage, I was brought
up in a German community. Although
fathers and mothers spoke in German
and read German newspapers, their sons
and daughters spoke English, even to
their parents, and behaved in every way
as did the children of the English, Scotch
and Irish scattered around them. Parents
who desired their children to learn Ger-
man had to drive the youngsters to their
lessons, handed out once a week by a
German pastor. Friday, the day of the
lessons, was a day to be dreaded. All
manner of subterfuge was resorted to in
order to dodge those hateful lessons.
At the present time 1 live on the out-
skirts of a small German settlement, one
of the last to be established in Queens-
land. The original settlers still speak
German and have their German pastor;
but while they take a lively interest in
the doings of the Fatherland there is no
hankering to be back there. They are con-
tent to be Australian citizens and to see
their sons and daughters grow up to be
Australians. Professor Mannhardt (B.
12/5/’35) is sadly out of his reckoning
if he thinks he is going to “imbue” the
Germans in Australia with the “Nazi
spirit.”— Deutscher (Q.).
Thanks to the Depression!
Many young Australians who have
secured their foreign-going certificates
have the depression to thank in no small
degree. The coast used to be a happy
hunting-ground for overseas officers, at-
tracted to Australia by pay and condi-
tions far above those obtaining in lime-
juicers and by the preference they got
from coastal cos. This led to young Aus-
“Dropped a stitch, mate ?”
tralian officers finding their way by
fo’c’sle or stokehold to the Old Dart to
try their luck in the limies. . It was often
a wearisome quest; the writer had the
enthusiasm which comes with a brand-
new second mate’s certificate chilled
when he was informed by two Inchcape
lines, one of which does a roaring trade
with Australia, that “We do not take
Australians.”
When the depression laid up so much
tonnage on the coast, and the barometer
seemed so slow in rising, unemployed
Englishmen made for their homeland.
The revival in shipping found coastal
cos, short of certificated men. Local
lads have filled the gaps —so satisfactorily
that several cos. are trying to absorb
more of them in preference to the old
school. Also, where previously officers
from the other side brought out new
ships and kept the jobs on arrival, young
Aussie mariners now apply for the jobs
whilst the vessels are building, working
their passages to the Cold Country.
The Commonwealth line trained a
large number of young Australians in its
half decks (incidentally, an Australian-
born officer in the A.C.L. was a rarity),
and a fair sprinkling of these now have
masters’ certificates. One ex-Common-
wealth line apprentice recently com-
manded a large passenger liner running
to Asia for a couple of voyages. Another,
who served as junior officer, is now
marine superintendent of a well-known
coastal co. — Garboard Strake (N.S.W.).
Danish v. Australian Butter
Mathematics and nutritional value
don’t count in the butter business or
any other (B. 22/5/’35). If they did,
cod-liver oil would probably be a better
proposition for the British housewife than
either Danish or Australian cow-fat.
British merchants pay 88s. for prime
Danish butter because the public taste
calls for the Prime Danish type. They pay
765. for Australian, not because it is a
poorer butter, but because the Britons
have not been educated to like it as
well. British demand has been bred
through ages of consumption of farm-
made butter. The housewife, accus-
tomed to a pale, creamy, unsalted
species, doesn’t care for rich, yellowish,
highly-flavored butter.
Moreover, there is the question of sup-
plies. Two years ago Glasgow was offer-
ing to popularise our product if we would
only supply it. Australia House issued
a vainglorious announcement that 600
shops in Glasgow were selling it. The
commercial manager of the Clyde Trust
failed to find them.
With other commodities it is the same.
We send them prime meat —but not of
the texture and flavor which the British
buyer demands. We export big apples,
with much fulsome propaganda about
their size, while other countries in the
business give the buyers what they want
—a medium-sized apple. Our wheat is
too much of a kind, high as its quality is ;
we would do better if our shipments were
made up of a selection of blending
varieties. The first step in getting the
British market is to find out what the
British want. Then supply the best
grades of goods standardised to their
needs, and there will be less talk about
discrimination in favor of foreigners and
less disparity in prices. There is never
any difficulty in getting the highest prices
in the world for Australian wool. —
El V. (N.S.W.).
Why Geologists Leave Home
Coming out of the mine office on a
camp in the so-called Frozen North, be-
tween North Bay and Hudson Bay, I was
surprised to find that my companion had
some Bulletins tucked under his arm.
I myself received in the mail several
Bulletins which had been redirected
from India. It is amusing to note the
geographical and climatic extremes over
which one finds the paper. But that isn’t
what I want to write about.
A recent remark in The Bulletin on
Australia’s reluctance to pay for geolo-
gical work in Northern Australia hits the
nail on the head. Travelling in different
countries visiting mines, I am positive
Australia could make better use of trained
geologists with a practical mining bent.
Australian geologists may be met in most
countries, particularly in Colonial Office
appointments. Their country imports
men less competent to give technical
advice, a habit especially noticeable in
Westralia.
In Canada and the U.S.A. I have been
impressed by the manner in which geolo-
gists have “sold” their ability to the
mines. Almost everywhere the geologist
is an important member of the mine staff
—in fact, he actually controls develop-
ment. The mine superintendent of the
biggest gold-producer in Canada was a
geologist. The International Nickel Co.
has a staff of 12 geologists for its two
mines at Sudbury.
The geologist has (a) to see that no ore is
left behind in sloping, and ( h ) to control
exploration. On the former job alone
he may easily, on a large mine, save his
company a thousand times his pay per
annum. On the second job the time
factor is obvious. The Australian mine-
owner wants results at once ; the Ameri-
can and Canadian owner has learnt that
the geologist can only produce results
often after several years’ work has built
up solid facts on which to base his plans
and specifications. These can be gath-
ered only during the life of a mine. Too
often in Australia mines are almost
defunct before the geologist is called in.
It must be emphasised, however, that this
type of work can only be entrusted to a
geologist with mining acquaintance —pre-
ferably one with a degree or diploma in
mining as well as in geology.
Perhaps Australian universities are not
altogether blameless for the attitude of
mining to geology. But as a rule they
are so starved of money that no truly
scientific investigation of ore deposits can
be done. Stillwell’s work is the one oasis
in the desert. However, economic geology
in academic circles is a trifle further
ahead in Australia than in Britain, where
even at the Royal School of Mines it is
pitifully backward.
It is time Australia emerged from the
rough-and-ready Cousin Jack-“ Captain”
stage to the stage of practical scientific
management. —J. A. D. (Ont., Canada).


11
m.
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY
C- Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
*1
cPHERSONS PTV LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth*
E.S.C.A. BnrSane.
I 7 ®UN® Vonrr lumi/iy f
F owitMne NOW I
"C 1 STABLISH that safest, surest kind of fortune, and one that
•"- J never stints. Found it on the solid rock of life assurance.
There is no substitute for life assurance. Only through life
assurance can you get immediate and complete protection to the
full amount of your policy. And because the P. & C., through
its co-operative principles, provides the utmost in return and
benefits, increasing thousands of thinking people are taking
advantage of the remarkable P. & C. opportunity. The wide range
of P. & C. policies is designed to take care of your every need.
Let us advise YOU; no obligation whatever would be incurred.
IF rite now tvhile you are thinking about it.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director; Chairman of Director*:
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAiN, M.L.C.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
$
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and \
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; J
Double Room at i
Double Rates) 1
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager. A
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Small Investors and Industry
The investment of savings of the less
wealthy, like their spending, is a big
factor in any country’s industrial and
commercial expansion. The large com-
panies listed on the Australian Stock
Exchanges, if an investigation were
made, would probably be found to be
controlled by shareholders with an aver-
age holding of £5OO nominal value or
less. The average holding in some of the
banks is around £7OO, which seems to
be above the general run. Bank shares
are approved investments for many pur-
poses.
The investing capacity of the lesser
capitalists—and everyone bar the utterly
destitute is a capitalist of some sort —
when taken collectively is rather amaz-
ing. For example, N.Z. Perpetual
Forests has sold bonds with a nomi-
nal value of nearly £4,000,000. Timber-
lands Woodpulp (now Whakatane Paper
Mills) placed in the vicinity of
33,000 bonds at prices
ranging from £2O to £4O.
The amount invested in
Maoriland forestry specu-
lations altogether comes
very close to £10,000,000
—mostly put up by people
with small savings.
Apart from the direct
labor employed in estab-
lishing these thousands of
acres of Pinus insignis,
there has been very little
secondary benefit even to
Maoriland from this
money. Timber-growing
is a long-term process,
and whether the timber
will ever warrant large
pulping mills, lengthy
payrolls, and ensure satis-
factory returns to bond-
holders has yet to be
proved.
The bond-selling era
seems to have passed.
Savings banks, life-insur-
ance policies and fixed
deposits with trading banks (until dis-
couraged by low-interest rates) became
more popular in recent years. Then,
following the disastrous collapse of 1931
in the investment-share market, the re-
covery in security prices of the last two
years has attracted some millions of
pounds of idle capital to the Stock
Exchanges. The gold-share boom drew
in a few more millions.
Recently there have been new share
issues by several industrial and financial
concerns. Cash Orders (Amalgamated),
Caldwell’s Wines, Tooheys Securities,
Castlemaine Perkins, Newbold Firebrick
and some gas cos. have been or are at
present seeking new capital. Adelaide
Steam, Melbourne Steam, Huddart
Parker and other shipping cos. which
have recently added fine new liners
to their fleet—the cost in each case
would be anything between a quarter-
million and a half-million —have done so
out of cash reserves or credit, share-
holders not being asked to contribute.
In the absence of bigger dividends in
the near future, prices higher than those
prevailing for most popular shares are
not justified. Some companies are doing
better, but until wool recovers further
the improvement will not be general.
When the top of the market is reached,
and capital profits on share-dealings be-
come less likely, there. will be lessened
interest in listed shares for the small
investor.
A greater impetus to the establish-
ment of new industries may follow. A
further revival in the real-estate market
is probable. At present several film-
producing cos. are in the course of flota-
tion in Sydney, and the small investor
will figure prominently in the share-
registers if they eventually go to satisfac-
tory allotment.
American interests, in view of the
N. S. Wales film quota, may set up sub-
sidiaries here. The possibilities of estab-
lishing new industries and making new
outlets for investment in Australia are
not yet exhausted ; they call for careful
investigation and sound development.
And as far as picture films are con-
cerned, if they can be successfully pro-
duced in the Commonwealth —and they
should be —we will not be antagonising
“Your meat isn't as good as it used to be, butcher."
“ W'en it comes to that, you ain't Wearin' too well y'self, missus .”
a good customer as far as U.S.A. is con-
cerned.
Resolute Gold Mine, N.L., was floated
late in 1934 to take over the Resolute
mine and adjacent prospecting areas at
Chadwin, Coolgardie goldfield (W.A.).
The vendors’ consideration was to be
35,000 fully-paid ss. shares and £15,000
in cash; the public took 200,000 con-
tribs., which were paid to Is. A report
in February, 1935, said that the mine
had been twice check-sampled, and in
the opinion of the mine-manager there
was “considerably more ore in sight on
present development than is necessary to
meet the purchase price.” Average
values of 4|oz. over widths of 3ft. were
also spoken of. In February the shilling-
paids sold at 3s. and over. Now, “acting
on a report received from the company’s
consulting engineer, the directors have
decided to abandon the option at Chad-
win” ; an option over a property between
Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie, “near Spar-
ges,” has been secured. Some share-
holders were accepting 3d. for their scrip
last week. Is it any wonder, considering
the disappointments they and others of
their kind have been subjected to follow-
ing highly favorable reports?
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Companies Bill, hur-
riedly introduced while the inquiry into
the McArthur companies was progress-
ing, may be altered considerably.
There is some sort of arrangement be-
tween the Commonwealth and States to
aim at making the seven different com-
pany codes (there is a Federal ordin-
ance) as uniform as possible. The intro-
duction of the present bill was more of
a gesture than anything else; discussion
had scarcely begun when Parliament
closed down. Commercial legislation
usually brings up controversy, but no
Government should shirk the job of
protecting the investing public, so vital
to the restoration of employment.
Minister for Justice Martin seems to be
keenly interested, but he needs more
backing-up.
* * * *
Sydney wool-price index was up to 122
on May 15, and rates have improved
since. The index for March was 101.
Wheat is slightly lower at 3s. 4d. to
3s. sd. Employment in 98 larger N.S.W.
factories rose to 48,687 in March, com-
pared with 44,019 12 months earlier and
35,435 in March, 1932. Though a higher
yield on Consols is still asked for by
investors, mortgage interest rates remain
low, half the registrations in April carry-
ing 44 p.c. or less.
* * ♦ *
Britain’s export trade is up; France’s
is down, and has been steadily declining
for some time. The Budget is heavily
off balance, and the political situation
is nervy, especially as regards industrial
matters. Devaluation of the franc seems
inevitable, though Switzerland and Hol-
land may leave gold first. The Bank of
France has raised its discount rate in
order to check the flow of gold to
London. Meantime sterling is strong
and the price of gold weak compared
with a few months back. But it is still
highly profitable to real mines.
* * * *
Australia’s public debt now amounts
to 1233 millions, a rise of 133 millions
since 1930. The internal debt is 641 mil-
lions ; the rest is owing in London and
New York, The next loan, to be
attempted some time in June, will prob-
ably be between 10 and 15 millions. The
rate of interest offered on it is at present
a matter for speculation ; but it won’t
be below 34 p.c., and might be £3 7s, 6d.
p.c. at a discount.
*.* * *
Melbourne’s centeenary celebration
wasn’t the money-bringer that business
people expected it to be. The Hotel
Windsor recently got judgment for £1338,
in respect of accommodation reserved by
the Centenary Council for “distinguished
visitors” but not used. By “satisfactory
arrangements” the council has been re-
lieved of other obligations amounting to
£6OOO.
% * *
The Commonwealth Statistician’s
figures show that bank deposits at cur-
rent account (free of interest) have in-
creased from 31.5 p.c. of the total
deposits in March, 1932, to 34 p.c. at
the end of March last. Idle cash balances
have been reduced considerably over the
same period.
# * * *
The N.S.W. Stevens Government
proposes to establish a committee to
open the way for co-operative dis-
cussions by mortgagees and mort-
gagors, with the object of readjust-
ing loans and equities in bad cases.
A bill is to be brought in “whereby the
written contracts, subject to the consent
of the parties concerned, may be varied.”
Such transactions are to be exempt from
stamp duty, registration fees and other
Government charges.
* * * *
Australian Glass surprised most of its
ord. shareholders by paying a dividend
of 14 p.c. for the year to March 31. Not
until shortly before the announcement
did the market make its spectacular 10s.
rise, to 70s. The nearest approach to
the present div. since the amalgamation
of 1922 was 124 p.c. in 1929. Of the
latest handout, 4 p.c. comes from “invest-
ment income”—some of it presumably
from Crown Crystal Glass or Australian
Window Glass, hitherto regarded as the
company’s “poor relations.” But exactly
to what extent these subsidiary indus-
tries have contributed to earnings—if at
all —is not clear. Certainly they appear
to be more firmly established these days.
* * * *
British exports for April were up 10
p.c. compared with the same month of
last year, while imports were only 6 p.c.
higher. The rise in exports is represented
wholly by manufactured goods, and
therefore represents increased employ-
ment in Britain. The Empire was the
chief market; the Old Country is now
getting some deferred benefits from the
Ottawa agreement.
* * * *
Cathcart House, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, changed hands the other day
for more than £150,000 cash. Common-
wealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances
was the buyer; it intends to use part
of the premises as its head office. There
are a basement, ground and eight upper
floors —largely office suites.
# * * ♦
Rabbit-skins have been selling at over
6s. a pound in Sydney. The supply has
been falling off, one reason assigned
being that the dole has greater attractions
than trapping. In a thickly-infested area
the present prices would be highly
remunerative to trappers. Six to eight
pelts go to the pound, and catches of
60 to 100 bunnies a night are not un-
usual.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Old* Curiosity Shop”
After seeing the bellowdramatic mess
made by a semi-American cast of “Great
Expectations” the writer concluded that
Dickens couldn’t be filmed. On Satur-
day he saw “The Old Curiosity Shop,”
and changed his mind. Evidently
Dickens can be filmed —by a knowiedg-
able English director with an all-English
cast. Whoever made this picture—the
programme doesn’t give his name —
knows all about his subject.
Take—among half a dozen original
touches which go to create the necessary
atmosphere—the horses. In all previous
period films the horses have been ridicu-
lously harnessed and driven screws. The
wheelers of the typical film coach sagged
away from each other, the leaders were
rarely up to their traces and the driver
held a rein in each hand and a couple
in his teeth, as the saying goes. In the
coachers of “The Old Curiosity Shop”
you see the kind of animals that were on
English roads in the nineteenth century,
and they are bitted, harnessed, driven
and changed according to ritual; a
Ward or a Fownes might be in charge.
If you want to know what “whips” were
a century ago watch these drivers handle
theirs.
The rest of the picture is in keeping.
Cruickshank’s drawings, which are as in-
separable from a Dickens novel as Ten-
niel’s are from “Alice,” have been fol-
lowed, and the sets, though cardboard-
ish at times, look right on the whole.
Anybody who gets out of the home
counties and off the concrete highways
will see such houses and lanes in Eng-
land to this day.
Of course, Quilp no more existed than
Caliban did ; he is an intensification of
comic malevolence, and Hay Petrie
makes him astonishingly vital on those
lines. Sampson Brass, by Gibb Mc-
Laughlin, is a triumph of manner and
make-up, and Dick Swiveller (Reginald
Purdell), Codlin and Short (Dick Tubb
and Roddy Hughes), the schoolmaster
(J. Fisher-White) and most of the others
look and talk like the fantastics we know
so much better than our own acquaint-
ances. Mrs. Jarley (Ann Veness) is
rather too handsome and brushed-up, and
Little Nell (Elaine Benson) and her
grandfather (Ben Webster) are inevitably
trying. Still, take it for all in all, this
is Old English at last; something the
artiest of German-Americans couldn’t
do if he had the gold of Washington to
play with.
“Lilies of the Field”
At Sydney Mayfair. Winifred Shotter
and Judy Gunn are the charming twin
daughters of the vicar of an obscure
English village, their romantic dreams
centring in a London season with them-
selves “the rage.” Then comes the
opportunity ; grandmother Ellis Jeffreys
offers one of them a month with her,
and the sisters overhear that she who
most impresses an unknown antiquarian
expected to dinner will be chosen. Wini-
fred makes her appearance in mid-Vic-
torian regalia belonging to her mother,
and blossoms forth as the demurest of
the demure. To quote grandmother, “it’s
a walk-over.” Transferred to London,
circumstances, represented by the young
and attractive antiquarian, force her to
continue the deceit till the smart set
adopts it as the -latest “craze.”
It’s amusing, and, except for the hurry
to bring things back to normal at the
finish, skilfully handled. Winifred Shotter
not only looks “sweet and pure” but
manages to suggest the contrast with
what she’d like to be. Judy Gunn is a
capable newcomer, and the others fit into
the picture without sign of a join.
“The Queen’s Affair”
Another one about a comic-opera
kingdom somewhere in Europe. A
couple of deaths and a case of insanity
make an American shopgirl the queen.
The night of her coronation she’s exiled
in favor of a bloodthirsty young Presi-
dent whose stirring speeches—“ The streets
must run with blood. There must be
oceans of blood” —and his discovery of
a novel salute have, for the moment,
given him complete control of “the
party.” Towards the end his execution
has been ordered and she’s queen once
again, but meantime they’ve met on the
Riviera —room here for operatic fisher-
men —so he’s reprieved to wed her ; she
to be queen, he President, according to
the prevailing fashion.
Anna Neagle is the queen and Fer-
nand Graavey the man, but a fair pro-
portion of the laughs comes from lady-
in-waiting Muriel Aked. Also at the
Mayfair.
“Devil Dogs of the Air”
That remarkable organisation the U.S.
Marines, which, according to all the
Adrian Morris, Francis Lederer, Joan Bennett, Walter Kingsford and Cfiarlie Ruggles in “The
Pursuit of Happiness." at the Prince Edward, Sydney.
talkies ever made about it, is peopled
mostly with slapstick comedians who
delight in making wisecracks at their
officers, now has an air branch. Life
in the unit is depicted by Lieut. Pat
O’Brien and Cadet James Cagney. They
have the same goil, Margaret Lindsay,
who, as soon as Lieut. O’Brien has
demonstrated that he is a better flyer
and a braver man than his cocky little
junior, falls for the younger man. The
opus is evidently meant to stimulate re-
cruiting and increase air-mindedness in
the U.S.A.
“Grand Old Girl”
A confused and incredible set of inci-
dents devised to enable May Robson to
wander around desolately to slow music.
She is sacked from the small-town high
school of which she had been principal
for 38 years, because she exposed the
town’s worst racket —a room back of a
sundae shop where boys and girls of col-
legiate age drank highballs and played
craps. But her plight has softened the
heart of the racketeer, an old pupil (Alan
Hale), who sends word to the President
of the U.S.A. (also an old pupil) that
their schoolmarm is in trouble. The
President arrives in a motor-car accom-
panied by many other cars and motor-
cycles, all blowing their horns like mad,
and takes his seat at his old desk in a
classroom where Miss Robson, believing
herself alone, is bowed in grief. He un-
bows her, takes her to the door, and tells
the world that he owes his success in life
to her early guidance. The old girl
doesn’t get her job back, but then the
tiling is meant to be heart-breaking.
,
len Dollar Raise
Quiet humor in the Edward Everett
Horton manner at Sydney Regent,
Horton is book-keeper in a small office ;
quiet, nervous, painfully punctual, he’s
been there 18 years, the last five waiting
for the ten-dollar-per-week salary in-
crease he considers necessary before he
can propose to the typist. He’s always
intending to ask for the rise, and the
excuse is always the same: “The oppor-
tunity didn’t present itself.” A stroke of
luck towards the finish gives him con-
trol of the business, and he lays comical
stress on his authority.
The other characters are equally well
done. Berton Churchill is a pompous,
self-satisfied employer; Alan Dinehart
an ingratiating salesman with a no-good
block of land. Karen Morley looks nice
as the typist.
, „
Gay Love
A _ Hollywood confection which is
“British” only in so far as it was photo-
graphed on British soil. Plot, characters.
situations, lyrics, music are 100 p.c.
. .
American. The action is supposed to
take place in England, but it is an Eng-
andpiovided with whoopee, petting par-
ics and even crooners The story is
built round the good actress who has a
ctan/if 8 er ’ T? th u°- n l e + ? Uent * ™ lsund ® r ‘
Jt 18 bngbtl J a cted on the
nf h n ° w the hr . ld *
a f- ack ’. ta kmg tbe principal
o? r a Sf S ! eS i” t her 7 P xT on ™z 01 l S
SonhiV Tnrifpr e esb
fmfih v I g t aS f £ U J h ’
tough, essentially Yankee type of middle-
aged sophisticate.
“TKo cu., 1 1 u t
1 Inumph or Sherlock Hotmes
Arthur Wontner as Sherlock Holmes
in the film at Melbourne Athenaeum is
an infinitely bettei conception of Conan
oyle s hero than was given by Clive
Brook, though Brook, m appearance,
manner and movement, would appear to
be ideal for the part, Lynn Harding is
the Moriarty that the public wants,
though it is doubtful if he is the per-
verted scientist that Doyle drew. lan
Fleming is just the sort of silly ass that
the scenarist made Dr. Watson, and Ben
Walden is efficiently brutal and repul-
o Continued on page 44.)
sive as the small-town gangster. The
minor parts are also well cast. British
producers are at last learning to cast
their actors properly.
“Living on Velvet”
At the State. George Brent as pilot
of a ’plane containing three members of
his family crashes. The tragedy preys
on his mind, and he wanders about in-
dulging in mad escapades. Warren Wil-
liam introduces him to Kay Francis, a
young lady of fashion, with whom Wil-
liam is in love. Miss Francis marries
the vagrant with a hazy idea of bringing
him back to normalcy. But he is an
irresponsible fool. Misunderstandings
and reunions alternate, with Kay Francis
husky-voiced and misty about the eyes
and George Brent with an air of glum
cheerfulness. It takes a motor accident
to do what the lady couldn’t. A sad,
sad waste of three good actors.
“Gridiron Flash”
Another collegiate fantasia. The
prowess on the football field of the
gangster hero (Eddie Quinlan), who is
inside for robbery and murder, is dis-
covered by the wealthy backer (Grant
Mitchell) of an old-established college,
who sees the lad in action at a prison
farm. The murderer is paroled as a
result of the plutocrat’s influence, and to
keep him happy and contented the re-
sourceful Mr. Mitchell joins him in a
jewel robbery plot and bribes him to
throw away a vitally important match.
But the uplifting influence of college life
has done its work. The thug finds that
he can’t double-cross
his dear old Alma
Mater. Neither can
he double-cross his
pal Mitchell; so he
runs away, gets
gaoled because an
amateur de t e ctive
deemed his de-
meanor suspicious,
and is retrieved from
clink just in time to
win the great game.
Betty Furness has
something to do
with it.
“Black Fury”
Previewed in Syd-
ney, this film, deal-
ing with a coal-
miners’ strike in
Pennsylvania, is in-
teresting in the con-
trast it presents be-
tween trade - union
conditions in Aus-
tralia and U.S.A.
Miners in the
States are loosely or-
ganised in compari-
son with our men,
and include large
numbers of illiterate
foreigners. Further,
in the event of a
strike, there is always plenty of “scab”
labor available to take their places.
The film shows a strike engineered by
a racketeering, strike-breaking agency
for its own ends. The idle miners, the
evictions and, in particular, the rioting
scenes will probably recall unpleasant
memories when exhibited in the New-
castle district, but the picture deals sym-
pathetically with the owners and the
men, both sides being shown as the un-
witting dupes of a criminal organisation.
Paul Muni plays the principal part —
that of a big, simple, good-natured miner
who is tricked into leading the strike,
only to find that through him all his
mates are faced with starvation.
Apart from the splendid acting of
Muni, the outstanding feature of the
film is the realism of the mob scenes.
“Folies Bergeres”
One of the naughtiest talkies that ever
got past the O’Reilly. Theme is the
well-worn one of the actor who was en-
gaged to impersonate a grandee and did


BRANDAUERrS
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
C. BRANDAUER & CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
hHijl?;
For 100 years, Petty's Hotel has given service
to guests. Visitors to Sydney still stay at Petty's
you should stay at Petty's. Comfort; service; con-
venience. Tariff; Room and breakfast, 11/6;
Inclusive. 1 8/-.
V
PETTYS
Hotel
York Street, Sydney • R. J. Langley. Manager
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20.000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
'The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; R. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Moon Not Allowed.
Ach! in the black place where waters
seethe
The moon is not allowed by the huge
hills
To silver-tinge the bush or pools beneath
Or gleam on leaves and let their eager
quills
Write with a softer ink what now they
grind.
Be angry, Mind!
Ere moon can climb the walls that move
and breathe,
Dark-chocolate-hued from blackness on
dark green,
And glint on stones, make sheep with
jewels burn,
Spark eyes of wild pigs rooting in the
fern.
I’ll wrench a bough from what is darkest
seen,
And hurl it like a curse in the world’s
teeth.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
More Ancient
Vulgarity
“M.G,” did not
go far enough
when he applied
the bastinado to
the vice - master
of Ormond Col-
lege for his exaltation of the restrained
and decent ancient Greek over the
breezy modern vulgarian (B. 22/5/’35).
Was Socrates ever called “Soc.” by his
associates? Could a Digger-hoplite
with a face which looked as if it had
been sat on by a mastodon, a set of
whiskers like a Dutch mop, ,a record for
gallantry in action —he saved the hard-
drinking Alcibiades, to his sorrow, in a
scrap at Potidasa —have escaped without
a nickname, especially as he was in the
habit of mixing with the convivial? And
would the Greeks have adorned their
temples with neon lights? Their temple
paintings—there are plenty of authori-
ties—almost exactly followed the neon
color schemes.
The Greek -in most ages was highly
modern. He (and she) went bathing at
the ancient equivalent of Bondi and ran
a hundred metres in a costume which
consisted of a good coat of human skin.
Socrates belonged to a boosters’ club—
if he had not boosted himself when he
came to trial he probably would have
escaped drinking hemlock. After his
death, Plato boosted him, and his school
continued to do it for hundreds of years.
The boosting of Greece by its inhabi-
tants made it a temptation to every
marauder within a thousand miles.
Greek literature of the day of Socrates
was just as ribald and improper as that
of the novelists of the younger American
school —I am willing to bet Mr. Allen
that he is not game to read, say, the un-
expurgated Lysistrata to his first-year
girl undergrads. And it did not im-
prove as it went on. Mr. Creswell
O’Reilly would be in bed for a fort-
night if they showed him a faithful film
of some of Aristophanes’ comedies, and
if Sappho arrived in Australia undoc-
tored she would be quarantined imme-
diately for halitosis. (We had to go to
the Greek for that vulgar word, by the
way.)
To Greek influence later Rome owed
everything that was modern and vulgar
according to Mr. Allen’s standards. Latin
even acquired a verb grcecari, to become
sozzled, pickled, to go on a bender,
Greek luxury was a byword. Greek
lightness proverbial. One of the most
awful things which Cicero could say
about Verres was that he drank like a
Greek, and in Shakspeare we find Cres-
sida punning over Helen and her loves:
“Then she’s a merry Greek, indeed,”
meaning that she was Grecianly light
even for a Greek. And was it not a
later Greek State, Byzantium, which in
time became governed by a couple of
sporting clubs?
I should hate to show Mr, Allen some
of the Greek inscriptions which have
been found in Asia Minor and elsewhere,
and I think he would be the first to
protest to the Faculty Board if his Vice-
Chancellor turned up in the Great Hall
in the garb in which Socrates was
accustomed to bring sweetness and light
to the undergrads, of Athens —he had
neither shirt nor tunic, and he would
have shown no consideration to pro-
fessors asking for a rise in salary, since
he believed that payment for educational
"Big Gums,” a John Eldershaw landscape at Melbourne Athenceum.
services was a species of prostitution. A
very vulgar fellow, indeed, according to
modern university ideals.
OIKE OKAY.
Epstein ,
Symbolism
and Art
A word to A.
M. Ritchie (B.
1/ 5 / *35). He says
that G. Dillon
seems to have
the impression
that an artist can
portray in stone his emotional impres-
sions. That is almost exact. The only
difficulty arises out of the fact that it
is,so hard for an artist to convey any
real impression to the dull brute who is
his fellow-man. Some day art will have
passed out of the “geographical” stage
altogether, and the artist will be able to
convey his impressions in that form
which the mentally sightless call sym-
bolism, and be readily understood.
Epstein is a pioneer in this respect.
As to Mr. McMahon s retort that the
Epstein uproar was caused because this
Christ figure was expressed in perverted
symbolism —this may explain the uproar,
but it does not clarify the argument. Per-
verted, or otherwise, it is still symbolism.
But let us get away from this word alto-
gether. Epstein is portraying something
that he sees in his mind. That is the
only reality. All else is pure illusion.
To paraphrase a saying of Wilde —the
twentieth-century dislike of realism is
the rage of Caliban seeing his own face
in a glass. Epstein’s figure is Christ —in
all the vulgarity and hypocrisy with
which we have clothed Him, and our
very souls are mirrored in that brutish
,ace * Gerald Dillon.
J. T. McMahon (B. 1/5/’35) suggests
that “J.C.C.” (B. 10/4/’35) satisfactorily
answered my opinion that symbolism is
not art. I dissent; in fact, I regard
“J.C.C.’s” reference to the “Mona Lisa’s”
supposed symbolic smile and his allu-
sion to imagery in poetry as being utterly
irrelevant.
Imagery in poetry is definitely not sym-
bolism. A poem is embellished rather
than deteriorated by creative imagina-
tion ; and, if the image-forming faculty
of a poet’s mind is symbolism, then I
withdraw humiliated and defeated.
Symbolism in art, religion or anything
is the summary of an idea, creed, faith,
doctrine or cult; it is an emblem, sign,
mark or character used as an abbrevia-
tion. Thus, if one abbreviates a thing,
one shortens, distorts, reduces or con-
tracts it. Sculptors, painters, writers and
priests are as securely bound by this law
as are meteorologists who use the letter
(or symbol) “R” to briefly signify rain.
Gerald Dillon joined the controversy
with the ridiculous statement that a
symbol is not an abbreviation, but the
thing itself. Surely Mr. Dillon requires
strong spectacles to see such an absurd
argument. In religion, of course, sym-
bolism plays the major part; indeed, re-
ligion is symbolism, and vice versa.
Symbolism in art has always been
counterfeit. Symbolism is not art, and
symbolic art is retrogressive art. On the
other hand, orthodox or established art
is the power or quality in an artist of
perceiving and transcribing nature (as in
painting, sculpture or writing); certainly
not a vulgar dexterity for distorting it.
An impressionist artist like Epstein
does not portray nature faithfully. To
borrow the words of Gerald Dillon, the
impressionist merely “tries to convey”
(per medium of such monstrosities as
“Ecce Homo”) “to the dull living crea-
ture who is his brother man” the con-
ceptions of his own wildly extravagant
brain. That is not art; it is fanaticism.
P. O. MacCabe.
[Close season hereby declared on Mr,
Epstein and statue. —B.]
Current
Arthursts
The current
show at S.A.
Society of Arts
is by Max Rag-
less, greatly im-
proved of late,
and largely self-taught. His landscapes
are so sound that the State Gallery buys
one, of a northern mountain. He is fond
of water seen through trees, and has dis-
covered the blue lake of Bonney, near
the Murray. Already known as an
etcher —and not disdaining a dash of
aquatint—he produces powerful and
individualistic gum-trees which recall
those of Van Raalte.
Unlike most artists who go to Sydney
Harbor for their inspiration, Robert
Campbell, who exhibits at Fisher’s Gal-
lery, Melbourne, is not tempted by the
brilliant color which develops under the
sunlight. He chooses winter, autumn,
spring for his work, and, if he does
transmit summer to canvas, it is early-
morning summer. Atmosphere haze
envelops most of the pictures, but Camp-
bell never permits it to become mere fog.
Of the 43 pictures, the harbor scenes are
the most attractive —a panorama from
Berry’s Bay the most notable of the col-
lection, well-composed, full of light and
with the spread of water deftly handled.
“The Spit” and “The Blue Bay” are
delightful canvases. “Magnetic Island”
is the model of two of the paint-
ings accomplished during Campbell’s
visit to the Barrier Reef, equal in
technique with the rest and charged with
a suggestion of the tropics.
At the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, Sydney, two south-
erners, Harold Herbert
and Charles Wheeler, show
a score of pictures apiece.
Herbert in water-color and
Wheeler in oil are the sort
of painters who present
Nature in her pleasantest
and most refined aspects,
and are not above giving
her a manicure, a sham-
poo and a spot of lipstick.
They belong to what
sterner realists call the
magazine - cover school,
preferring to decorate
rather than to preach.
Herbert has been experi-
menting with beach scenes
—surely the gayest Aus-
tralia affords —with vary-
ing degrees of success.
“Surfing Beach” and
“Southern Ocean
Breakers” capture that
sunny gaiety. Wheeler,
most of whose oils are
framed like water-colors
with wide white mounts,
has been finding the
quieter effects in which he
excels in Maoriland and
Tasmania. A couple of
misty impressions, “Sea
Fog” and “Low Tide,”
pleased this critic better than most of the
others, but they are all very neat.
“J.”; Charles T. Rufus, E., S. and A.
Bank manager in Samford (Q.), has
loaned for an indefinite period a collec-
tion of 12 gems of oil-paintings and
water-colors to the Queensland Art Gal-
lery, including a Corot and a Constable.
The Corot is a picture of an old French
inn, with white donkeys reposing in the
foreground. The Constable is entitled
“View of the Sloane.” There is a roman-
tic story behind the collection. C. H.
Rufus, sen., who died recently in Johan-
nesburg, left the finest art collection in
the Southern Hemisphere. C.H., after
some time in the British Navy, came to
Australia, pioneering all over. Then he
went to South Africa, where fortune
shined on him ; and he adorned his home
in Johannesburg with rare Persian
carpets, figures carved from ivory and
inlaid with precious jewels and gold.
Greek and Italian sculpture and fine
paintings were gathered. He dreamt of
settling down to spend his remaining
days on the Isle of Jersey ; and his
treasures were packed ready for ship-
ment when he died. The art collection
was then sent to his only son.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-,
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
WyMf :
V
Kf'Jrij i'; !
Sifi <> !> 35 !i>)
! ®«wUUS ; f
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from .. 12/6
'Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE; 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised . . £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in Smith Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E. 0.3.
Agencies in all Australian -States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
sdf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Lilst Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Flags flying in Martin-place and a
big stand, very positively red, white and
blue, marked still another Empire Day.
The ships on the harbor were dressed
and tossed their heads in the cold breeze
that blew through the clear day, flags
streamed or flapped on all public build-
ings and the Victoria Leaguers toasted
King and cpuntry, mostly in water or
fruit-cup. This is not because the V.L. is
prohibitionist, but probably because David
Jones’s auditorium sported only eight
men amid the assemblage, round its
forest of tables. Captain Bonharri-Carter
was the chief spokesman. His speech
was as easy as a ship lifting to the
wave. Empire was its theme, its ending
epigrammatic: “To our past, our present
and our future! ” The affair was a
triumph both for president Miss Mac-
arthur Onslow and secretary Beulah
Bolton. Dame Mary Cook, in rich
browns, was as nice to look at as any.
The Forum Club was as active and as
excited as a hive over the installation of
the Queen Bee last Friday, when Lady
Hore-Ruthven, the club’s new patroness,
paid her first visit. The Storey lady, the
club’s president, received the vice-regal
guest in the lounge, she having been
escorted thither from the lift by a four-
some of vice-presidents. Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s smart suit was navy, and a
bunch of violets snuggled against her
sable necklet. The flowers in the hall and
every turning of the club were imperial
in their coloring. Poinsettia was a flame
against the panelling; orange poppies,
and chrysanthemums, deep red in tone,
were among the garden beauties. There
was a tremendous roll-up of members,
all in their choicest raiment.
Only the Palais at Moore Park could
contain the Undergrads.’ Ball ; and
over 1000 dancers, strong in wind and
limb, massaged its wide dancing area
vigorously on a nice zero-bent night last
week. Tied up with the University’s
blue-and-gold and set about with stan-
dard baskets of zinnias and maple-leaves
was the loge in which the official party
sat. Here president of the Students’
Representative Council G. P. Campbell
entertained. Marjorie Booth, another
councillor, and secretary P. J. Kenny
helped him pass around the glad hand,
the word of welcome.
Marjorie’s black velvets fell in the
sculped folds of the moment, and also
wore the fashionable cowl back which
is as prevalent as colds but much more
lovable. Mrs. Stewart, who came
with her professor, wore stiffened lace
in wine-reds. Jennifer Maughan was a
nice young thing in blue satin, and Betty
Higgins was admired in green. Mrs.
Laverty’s blue-and-silver frock was
sashed in satin. Pamela McPhillamy was
gaily flowered in red and green. Tall
Joan Tyler flamed poinsettia-red in her
shoulder cape, but was ice-blue as to
frock. So another commem. dance lived
its night.
At a P.E.N. Club dinner Richard
Coke, who joined the staff of the Bagdad
“Times” immediately after the war,-
gave a most illuminating account of the
situation in Iraq, Palestine, Turkey and
Persia, with vivid thumbnail sketches of
the amazing Gertrude Bell, archce-
ologist, Arabian and Persian scholar,
who became such a force in the making
of the kingdom of Iraq. “Lawrence of
Arabia,” too, glowed impressive and
human through Mr. Coke’s vivid de-
scription. Don Finley, who goes off to
study the theatre in Russia, was the
P.E.N.’s other guest.
Men wore tonsures, women wore
coronets at the Royal Empire Society’s
dinner last Friday night. The R.E.S.
stalwarts are most solidly established
citizens, and while they, so to speak, sit
down to eat with the British lion, the
lambs of their own family go gambol-
ling elsewhere. But there was dazzle
about the Empire night six-course dinner
(seven if you reckon the water ice). The
Governor came, and there was a long,
long table where the importants sat face
on to the open or covert regard of the
“and others” seated at the round tables,
where there were red roses and sweet-
peas, with the friendly gypsophila nod-
ding over both.
President Hugh Denison and his lady
stood near the head of the stairs to greet
the arrivals. The diamonds in her coronet
were of extra voltage, and her pearls of
great price looked more so than ever
against the deep blues and silver of her
frock. Acting-Prime Minister Earle
Page came with his Mary, fair of hair
and lily-leaf-green of frock. The Pre-
mier and Mrs. Stevens dined to the glory
of Empire ; so did Archbishop and Mrs.
Mowll, who had been among the Vic-
toria League’s lunchers. She wore black
satin, while not far olf the Mayoral
lady’s black velvets burned with sequins.
Gold lace, rich and heavy, glittered
on Miss Macarthur Onslow. Mrs.
Michael King’s ivory-corded silk was
effective with her neat dark head. The
David Maughans, the Kelso Kings and
the Crutchleys, from Canberra, were
notables among the 200 who toasted
King and country, applauded the
speeches (how that Hugh Denispn can
turn a compliment!) and gazed at the
film of the jubilee procession, new in
Sydney that very day.
Primitive Madonnas of the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries, true in every
respect to statues in old French churches,
will be the unusual in the programme of
Don Finley’s farewell testimonial. Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland, in the Russell Roberts
photograph, is one of the group. Her
sister, Sheila Anderson, Mimi Healey,
Barbara Robeson and Mrs. Oscar Paul
are others chosen for regular features
and slimness. Marcia Collins, looking
like the frontispiece to a Morris poem,
will draw back the curtains before the
living statues.
Don, who has stage-managed, made
sets, looked after the lighting and made
props for innumerable Sydney shows,
goes off to Russia at the end of June
with tfie intention of studying it's theatre.
The ninth of June’s (it’s a Sunday) offer-
ing is made by the theatre groups he has
helped. Jeanie Ranken (expert pageant
hand) will pose the Madonnas, Ethel-
wyn Kirk, of Maoriland, is organiser-
in-chief, and the fare includes “The
Constant Nymph” film.
Under an illuminated crown draped
with flags sat the Governor and Lady
Hore-Ruthven at the Silver Jubilee Ball.
They were heralded by a fanfare of
trumpets and received by committee
members, led by the ball’s president,
Mrs. Randle Ford, whose Admiral, like
his Ex., came on from the Empire
Society’s dinner. Lady Hore-Ruthven’s
pink-and-gold brocades were sprayed on
the shoulder with the green orchids given
to her that afternoon at the Forum Club
reception. Green as watercress were
Mrs. Randle Ford’s spreading taffetas.
This ball, which brought nearly 500 to
the Blaxland Galleries, was the “head-
quarters” dance of 150 organised
throughout the State for the benefit of
the t.b. soldier and sailor.
Sydney’s new repertory soc. is attract-
ing the players of the Gregan McMahon
regime. One of them is Mrs. Heath
Green, whose attractive voice is often
heard through the A.B.C. stations. She
will appear in “The Shining Hour,”
Gladys Cooper’s latest London success.
There were some who cavilled at the
Cavalcade of Empire, saying: Why clothe
India in a few bolts of colored muslin
and sing lyrics such as “Less Than the
Dust” and “Pale Hands I Loved”? But
there’s no pleasing some; they seemed
to think that Canada shouldn’t be dis-
missed with a Redskin dance, a back-
woodsman singing “There’s a Long, Long
Trail,” and a bunch of sweet little girls
in white satin skating dresses and
cotton-wool muffs doing a sort of skat-
ing dance.
Still, this Cavalcade had its moments,
as when Elizabeth spoke against a back-
ground of jewelled collar, “England
may have had a better Prince, but never
one who loved her people more!” and
when Charles 11. (represented by the
dulcet-toned Clive Coppard) spoke of
building up the navy. Also there was the
singing of such lovely old things as “The
Lass with the Delicate Air” and “Drink to
Me Only with Thine Eyes.” Ireland was
indissolubly united, as usual, to colleens.
But one has heard of such glories as
the Book of Kells and of Patrick, who,
not being politically-minded, drove the
snakes both from the North and the South
of Ireland. Still, the whole was glitter-
ing and pretty-girlful. The pages in the
marriage scene of Helen of Provence
to her Henry were a treat to the eye ; so
were the shapely-limbed beefeaters, de-
spite outcrops of black face fungus.
There were over 600 actors in suave
satins and glinting gems. The finale
was the grand entry by Australia, in her
train, among many others, Mrs. Sterling
Levis as the wife of the explorer Lawson.
Such is fame, though, that whenever
she was wanted during rehearsal she
would hear the murmur, “Mrs. Lawson,
Mrs. Lawson” ; then as it went along the
line and gathered emphasis, “Mrs. Henry
Lawson.” The Cavalcade packed the
Town Hall for four nights, and, if that
is not success, what is ?
The Pagans had a party ; but it was
quite orthodox, because, though pagan in
name, they are Christian in spirit and what
Mr. Michael Arlen would undoubtedly
call “charming people.” The “do” was
at No. 11 Onslow-avenue, and marked
the coming-of-age of John, eldest son of
Mrs. David Pagan, of Hay. Uncle P.
Rowe, whose warehouse John is now
about to help run, with mother, skip-
pered the fun ship. The reason for the
party is one of the city’s clever amateur
actors. Like young Peter Osborn, and
with him, he was educated at St. Peter’s
in Adelaide.
If all was well with your liver you
couldn’t help enjoying the undergrads.’
day out. For instance, there was a stal-
wart peach inspector no mermaid could
be afraid of, and, as for jubilee medals,
they were showered about with a liber-
ality that even exceeded that of the Mac-
quarie-street distributors, Mr. Lyons
in London was not so much lying down
with the lamb as dressing the calf for
State occasions. An ancient steed pot-
tered up Martin-place with a buggy-load
of mortar-boards who had apparently
taken the wrong turning. The proces-
sion proper (or improper) meandered
around the Uni. confines.
In the nature of things all balls must
be movie, but the Movie Ball at the
Palais the other - night based its name,
not on mere motion alone, but on the
cinema business. A newly decorated
and glittering Palais was the setting for
characters as remote as to period and
country as Henry VIII., Jew Suss,
Gandhi, Mae West and Grandad Rudd.
This last was a prizewinner. One sus-
pected the beginning of a humorist in
the small girl who, thus dressed, entered
the lists of male-star impersonations.
The Bengal Lancers, besides running off
with a prize, snared the softest glances;
the dancing girls in their set proved that
harem skirts and demurely veiled heads
can be as alluring as the most modern
Western dress.
The Movie Ball of another year or
two will resemble a kindergarten let
loose if the vogue for child heroines con-
tinues. Shirley Temples cropped up all
over the place, though of course the
envied of all the rest was she who, hav-
ing won a recent competition, appeared
on a rosy throne drawn by two small
Shetland ponies. Maurice Chevalier
dipped his lid to the “Roberta” set, an
array of young beauty dressed in the
very latest line and design of the dress-
maker’s art. There was an attendance
of 2000.
A girl lately returned from England is
responsible for these advance spring
fashion tips: Swagger coats swagger
more than ever. Hats are more angle
than angel (the halo is a bit on the wane).
Veils are in, and white cuffs and tie
accompany almost every suit. Organdie
refuses to die. It vies with pique for
first favorite in ties and cuffs. It appears
on evening frocks in immense multiple
frills, while layers of it, mostly in white,
form capes of evening coats. It is often
embroidered, too, in intricate fashion.
The wise virgin will \order supplies
of linen (the uncrushable kind), for linen
is turned into every sort of wear. The
linen tweeds look particularly well in
the long capes without which no smart
damsel will face the summer.
This Letter cannot close without say-
ing a last farewell to Jane Addams, that
splendid American woman whose ex-
ample has done much to raise social-wel-
fare work to its present efficiency. Many
Sydney women met her at Pan-Pacific
conferences and in Chicago, and their
feeling when the news of her death
reached the city was one of deep regret.
Hull House, in Chicago, is the greatest
monument to her memory.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA
—1935 No. 299. BETWEEN MARGARET
LOUISA DUNCAN Petitioner and THOMAS
DUNCAN Respondent.
TO THOMAS DUNCAN formerly of 8 How-
son Street Malvern in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown TAKE NOTICE that
your wife MARGARET LOUISA DUNCAN
has commenced proceedings in the State of
Victoria for a divorce on the ground that you
have without any just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted your wife and without any just cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne within thirty days from the date of the
appearance of this advertisement the case may
proceed in your absence AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that if you intend to
defend this suit of your said wife you must
cause an answer to be filed in the said office
within forty days from the date of the appear-
ance of this advertisement.
This advertisement is inserted by LYNCH
& MACDONALD, of 360 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, in the State of Victoria, Proctors for
the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Matrimonial Causes Juris-
diction. No. 371 of 1935. BETWEEN MAR-
GARET EMILY SORENSEN (formerly Mar-
garet Emily Barber) ' Petitioner and SVEND
SORENSEN Respondent.
TO SVEND SORENSEN late of Broken Hill
in the State of New South Wales Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET
EMILY SORENSEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and has
applied for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-third day of August 1935
and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of May, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
HARRY R. ANDREWS & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 92 Pitt Street. Sydney, Agents
for ELLIOTT & ELLIOTT, Solicitors, Adel-
aide.
Melbourne
Chatter
Unless Empire-minded one had to
take a back seat last week. Most of the
social life fluttered round the Union
Jack. The patriotic outburst blazed with
fierce fervor. Luckily the lupins came
out just in time to put the dash of blue
into the three-cheer-color-blend for the
Royal Empire Society dinner party,
where ex-Attorney-General Latham let
himself go on the ideals of a United
Empire. Having had a jubilee medal
thrust upon her, Mrs. Latham took
the appropriate opportunity of pinning
the decoration on a background of her
favorite brown, this time shot with gold.
The Herbert Smiths were in their ele-
ment in the imperial setting. Dr. Bob
Strong gave himself the pleasant task of
escorting a good-looking pair: his sister,
Mrs. Stuart Brunton, and niece Gladys.
Mrs. Sachse, whose husband was Minis-
ter for Education long years ago, had
her small feet tucked under the banquet
table. Another familiar figure of politi-
cal life in other days was Grace Turner,
a member of the family of George
Turner, a doughty fighter for Federation.
Pageantry, in a League of Nations
pattern, made a spectacular gesture last
week, imparting a carnival spirit to the
formality of the Town Hall. Posing as
the wife of the founder of Quebec was
the attractive Mrs. Cosgrave, whose
husband recently took hold here as
Canadian Commissioner. Her daughter
Gloria, fair and pretty, was also in the
picture, but as a show figure Mrs.
Walter Cass more than held her own
in fur-trimmed flame-colored draperies,
wreathed with maple and clasping a sheaf
of wheat. Another striking brunette in
a dazzling metal robe, Mrs. Furze Mor-
rish (Joy Rolls that was), was attached
for the time being to the Latin republics
of South America. The Dutch South
African group presented the genuine
article with Christina Nel (Mrs. Victor
Wood), who was born Dutch and married
the son of a pioneer colonist. Spain
made a place for Christopher Columbus,
and cast Consul Garringa for the part.
Sarita Gras-y-fort was one of the bright
figures among the pseudo-historic figures
of Spain. Mary Lamb, a direct descen-
dant of Lord Melbourne (William Lamb),
of whom there are an oil-painting and a
bust in the Melbourne Public Library,
marched with the Canadian contingent.
The flag of Yugoslavia was carried
draped in memory of King Alexander,
assassinated last year, but the bright cos-
tumes of Bosnian peasants suggested that
the country was bearing up. Conforming
to the Scriptures, the Syrians brought
forth cedars as part of the Lebanon
equipment. Melbourne not only mus-
tered pure-bred Arabs but also a hand-
some warlike chief to march behind
the Arabian flag. Characters from the
days of Abraham walked out of history
books to bring the people of Palestine
into the procession. Over Valkyri Ul-
stergren’s shoulders tumbled masses of
golden hair, all her own. The bride of
1935 was able to contrast her wedding-
day plans with those followed in ancient
Norway, when the red-robed, gold-
crowned bride was played to church by
fiddler, piper and drummer.
Every dog has its day. The Refuge
for Lost Dogs, opened at North Mel-
bourne more than 20 years ago, has
come into money after having passed
through many hard times. A fresh lease
of life has been given with the opening
of its Animal Hospital, costing about
£3OOO.
The place was given a festive air
on Monday, when the Governor-
General, mainly through his brother
John’s interest in the institution, per-
formed the opening ceremony and un-
veiled a tablet inscribed with the names
of those whose legacies had provided the
building fund. Padre Lansdell Clarke,
of Melbourne Grammar, had a word or
two to say. He has helped with the pro-
ceeds of lectures on his conducted school-
boy tours through the Khyber Pass.
Cassie Fanning, Pat Clegg and other
attractive young things handed round the
party refreshments. The operating-
theatre, pharmacy and isolation section
have been established for the treatment
of sick or wounded animals whose
owners are not in a position to pay a vet.
Dogs, cats, birds and horses will be ad-
mitted as patients for a bob or there-
abouts. .Mrs. Frank Stogdale, aided by
her pretty blonde daughter Mrs. Charles
Osborn, is already casting nets to catch
good helpers for the scheme she intends
to run for the dogs on the same lines as
some of her friends conduct hospital
auxiliaries for the humans.
All roads led to Essendon aerodrome
on Saturday afternoon, where the pro-
gramme, intended as an Empire Day
celebration though a day late, included
parachute - jumping, balloon - bursting,
aerobatics, formation-flying and an auto-
gyro demonstration. The big event of
the afternoon, however, was the first
unfurling of the Australian civil aviation
flag- -pale blue, with a small Union Jack
in the corner and yellow stars.
On Sunday came tragedy. G. P. Fair-
bairn, who flew from England to Aus-
tralia three years ago, was being flown
back to Lara from the city by his wife,
only daughter of the Stuart Murrays, of
East Melbourne, when the engine of
their Spartan ’plane stalled, A sharp turn
to avoid trees sent the ’plane into a spin,
and it hit the ground with terrific
violence. Husband and wife were killed.
Mrs. Fairbairn wa-s an accomplished air-
woman and had won many trophies in
competition. She was only 26, as also
was her husband, who was a brother of
J. V. Fairbairn, M.P.
Romance is rushing its fences. Since the
first fox of the season was run to earth,
not a month ago, two weddings have
been celebrated in the hunting set. Mary
Sewell, who owns a couple of steeple-
chasers and has taken part in many
exciting point-to-point races, slipped into
a country church last week, and emerged
as the wife of that very fine horseman
Denis Branigan, of Glenroy, who has
won dozens of trophies as an amateur
steeplechase rider. No orange-blossom
or bridesmaids garnished the ceremony,
but a festive tea was served to relatives
and a few old friends at Road’s End,
Berwick, the home of the bride. There
had been another wedding tea-party a few
days before, when Mr. and Mrs. Hugh
Pennefather invited those hunting with
the Melbourne pack to finish the day at
Ardsley and drink a stirrup cup to son
Geoffrey and his bride Jess. Never were
refreshments more relished. That day
the riders three times had crossed a creek
with water up to their horses’ girths.
Delysia, sitting at her writing-desk in
the Savoy, London, writes that she will
never forget her friends in Australia, and
is looking forward to coming back next
year. She will be playing opposite
George Robey next month in “Acci-
dentally Yours.” Delysia is the greatest
booster Australia has ever had, accord-
ing to a businessman who heard the
lady holding forth in London a few
weeks ago, but Gay cast a
wrathful eye when Delysia went so far
as to say that every actress should make
a point of playing one season at least in
Australia.
Since Bill Mclnnes painted the Duke
of York he has dropped some of his
Bohemian ways. Friends invited to his
birthday party last week received formal
cards, while for a party that is to be
held at The Wilderness, Mrs. Charlie
Armytage’s homestead, on June 1 the
invitations were scrawled on oddments
of brown wrapping-paper. The party is
to cheer up Paddy Gaussen before he
gets married. Confetti will be scattered
outside St. Paul’s, Camperdown, on
June 22 at the wedding of Paddy, whose
parents live in France, and the petite
blue-eyed Vera Thornley, daughter of
the Edmund Thornleys, of Gnotuk.
Gwenda Manifold, a granddaughter of
the Harold Grimwades, whose landscape
garden at Frankston is one of Victoria’s
showplaces, will be in the bridal pro-
cession, with Marion Kettlewell, daughter
of Mrs. George Kettlewell, Toorak, and
Rosemary Bell following. Last week
Vera paid a flying visit to town, most
of the time being spent flitting between
dress salons. Sister Judy, Mrs. Roger
Henderson, whose flat in South Yarra is
furnished very much in the modern
manner, was on hand to exercise a re-
straining influence in case Vera lost her
pretty head in the shopping bout. This
is Vera as seen by Broothorn’s camera-
man*
Rae Phillips, wife of the Master in
Equity, is out to break a record as a
campaign organiser, having taken on the
job of collecting funds for the proposed
Women’s University College. Activities
have been held up for a while so as not
to clash with the getting of subscriptions
to build a students’ clubhouse. Mrs.
Phillips has organised many collection
campaigns and netted thousands of
pounds for her pet charity, the D.N.S.
She' is the mother of barrister P. D.
Phillips, chairman of the Transport
Board, and of Arthur Phillips, who is
on the Wesley College staff.
Sound judgment is displayed by leaders
of the Victoria League in holding a big
ball> this year, when imperial sentiment
is on the crest of the wave, By call-
ing the event a Silver Jubilee Ball
two birds will be killed with the one
stone, as it were, for the league’s own
silver jubilee is only a few years off.
Lady Huntingfield gave the event a
social kick-off by holding the first meet-
ing in the State drawing-room, so the
dance committee is carrying the right
social tonnage. If coming events cast
their shadows before, this should be the
ball of the year. The dancing of the
Scottish reels, as done at merry gather-
ings of the clans on their native heath,
should put a bit of dash into the affair.
Mrs. Ronald McDonald, wife of a former
A.D.C., pictured here by Broothorn, is
sharing secretarial duties with Joan Hill.
As Mellis Falconer, Mrs. Ronald was a
tower of strength at headquarters when
comforts were being dispatched to sol-
diers on active service. Mary Chomley,
daughter of the late Judge Chomley, Im-
perial to her unlacquered fingertips, who
was secretary to the league in its early
days, is on deck again doing her bit for
the cause. Mrs. Harold Brookes, of
Flinthill, Woodend, whose personality
radiates goodfellowship, is the leader of
the ball.
With a few culinary utensils and a glib
tongue domestic-science graduate Gwen
Hughes has visited all the English pro-
vincial cities of any importance, foster-
ing interest in new sorts of cooking appli-
ances and being well paid for her ser-
vices. Now a London ironmongery firm
has let her loose in Scotland. At latest
Gwen was mixing her dough with play-
acting in Ayr. The quips and sallies
which Gwen throws into her baking are
appreciated, Scotswomen being quick
on the uptake. The Australian home-
coming is timed for September, before
which the young domestic demon-
strator will enjoy a few weeks of leisure
in Italy. In the two years she
has been abroad, Gwen has separated
herself from the stove long enough to
don a Court train and feathers for
presentation at Buckingham Palace and
to take a Continental trip.
Girls who were educated at The Her-
mitage, a swagger college at Geelong,
during Elsie Morres’s reign of 25 years
as headmistress gave her a cheery rally
last week on her return from a holiday
abroad. Looking more youthful than in
the days when she was compelled to
hide her bright personality under the
mask of a stern disciplinarian, Miss
Morres was an-easy-to-look-at figure in
soft-grey lace. Of all the travel tales
she had to tell, her account of Princess
Marina’s wedding, for which she cap-
tured a front seat on the procession
route, was the one that intrigued her
former pupils most. Now that she has
left off being a working woman Elsie
Morres will spend her time between a
shack in the Sherbrook Forest, where
the lyrebirds dance, and a flat in Cam-
berwell, our Conservative stronghold.
Painter, potter and Grand Inspector-
General of a co-Masonic organisation,
Theodora St. John, a South of England
matron no longer young but still comely,
was invited to air her views on “Women
and Masonry” in many places last week.
She is not an ardent feminist, but when
it is a question of Freemasonry she is
all for sex equality. Her fellow-women
listened politely to the origin of inter-
national co-Freemasonry, which was
started in Pecq, near Paris, 42 years ago
by a humanitarian with literary leanings,
Marie Desraines, how the movement
had spread to England in 1902 and was
flourishing in Australia nine years later.
Listeners ceased trying to merely look
intelligent and displayed real interest
when Mrs. St. John mentioned the
daughter of an Irish peer who, so the
story runs, was made a Freemason after
having been caught eavesdropping. "‘lf
that was the sole reason for making the
17-year-old daughter of Viscount Don-
eraille a Mason, why was she elected
Ruler of the Lodge and raised to the
Chair of Regalia?” asks Mrs. St. John,
with the light of battle in' her bright
blue eyes. There are nearly 4000 co-
Masonic lodges in the British Empire.
More expense for father. At one of
Melbourne’s high-toned schools for girls
riding is considered an essential part
of the polishing-off now, and the head-
mistress insists upon her girls being well-
mounted and outfitted in correct conven-
tional style. When these girls in their
tailored habits and black hard-hitters ride
forth in a group of nine to take their
lessons in horsemanship, one feels sorry
for the well-groomed hired hacks canter-
ing along the tan by the Yarra carrying
pupils who don’t care how they look on
the back of a gee-gee.
Mickie Woolcott is developing into a
regular little match-maker. Following
quickly on the marriage of Lieut, and
Mrs. Robin Hearder (Billy Wischer),
whom she introduced to each other, comes
news of the engagement of another pair
who met for the first time in. Mickie’s
home. Good-looking Flying-Officer Wil-
liam Donald Anderson, who came from
Peshawar to act as best man at his pal
Hearder’s wedding, is returning an en-
gaged man. Before he left the other day
young Anderson slipped a diamond soli-
taire on the ring finger o*f Muff Cantelo.
The youthful officer intends resigning
from the service to settle down in Aus-
tralia, and hopes to be able to come
back and claim his bride in about four
months’ time.
Lynda Byron Moore is moving more
slowly than of yore. She has been be-
tween hospital sheets for many weeks
at Mount St. Evins, but crawled out a
few days ago and pulled herself together
for a journey to Deniliquin. There she
will get through the first stage of con-
valescence in the health-giving atmo-
sphere of station life at Mrs. Percy
Landale’s homestead. She will not see
her flat at Melbourne Mansions for
many weeks, for when the Landale visit
is over the Hunter Pattersons will pick
her up and whirl her off to the guest-
room at Hartwood in the same district.


Missing Friends.
SMITH, JOHN THOMAS, formerly of Melton
Grove, via Balranald, New South Wales. Any-
body knowing the whereabouts of the above-
named please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Adelaide. S.A.
THE next-of-kin of ROBERT DRYDEN
JOHNSTONE, late of 268 Brisbane Street,
Launceston, in Tasmania, retired Tailor, de-
ceased, are requested to immediately communi-
cate with
WILFRED HUTCHINS, DERHAM GREEN
& CO.,
Solicitors, 59 Brisbane Street,
Launceston, in Tasmania.
THE undersigned requests information as to
the whereabouts of the descendants of CHRIS-
TINE SOPHIE ELIZABETH WAGNER, who
was born on July 1, 1839, at Dietzenbach,
Germany. She is said to have left for Aus-
tralia on May 24, 1870, to have married, first
Philip Hottes, Jnr., and subsequently another
person. She is stated to have left children of
both marriages, and to have died in Sydney in
the year 1906.
E. A. LEASK,
Solicitor, 17 Martin Place, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Missing Relatives.
MARGARET QUIRK (believed to have mar-
ried one Matheson), sister of John Quirk, late
of Ward, Marlborough, New Zealand, or any
person claiming through her, please communi-
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Blenheim, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
IN THE WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
COMMISSION OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
No. 306 of 1935.
In the Matter of the Workers’
Compensation Act 1926-29.
IN the matter of a determination between
JAMES BRACK of Boston Street Moree
Applicant
NORMAN TATTAM of Mungindi Respondent.
TO NORMAN TATTAM of Mungindi.
TAKE NOTICE that an application for
determination of compensation payable by you
in terms of the. above Act wherein JAMES
BRACK is the Applicant was on the First day
of April One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five filed in the office of the Workers’
Compensation Commission of New South
Wales AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that on application to the undersigned Solicitors
for the Applicant you will be supplied with
a sealed copy of the said application AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that on the
Second day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-five the said Commission
ordered that publication once in the Sydney
Bulletin and once in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” and once in a local paper circulating
in the Mungindi District of a notice of the
filing of such application should be deemed to
be service of the said application upon you
and that the matter should be restored to the
list not earlier than one month after publi-
cation of the last of such publications AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the said
matter will be restored to the list on the First
day of August One thousand nine hundred and
' thirty-five and that any answer which you
desire to make must with two copies thereof
for the said Commission and a copy for the
Applicant be filed with the Registrar of the
said Commission seven (7) clear days at least
before the said date failing which the said
Commission will make such order as it may
deem fit in your absence.
DATED this Twentieth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
H. LEAROYD,
Asst. Registrar of the Commission.
WEBB & BOLAND, Solicitors for the
Applicant, Moree, by their City Agents,
WHITEHEAD & FERRANTI, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
S 3
i
1
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
it so successfully that the grandee’s wife
was deceived. Maurice Chevalier doubles
as a songandance comedian at the Folies
and the Baron Cassini. Merle Oberon
is the baron’s' slant-eyed lady. Ann
Southern is the Folies dancer Mimi who
flirts with Chevalier in both his guises.
The humor of the situations is cleverly
exploited, and the morning-after dia-
logues rather outdo the outspoken vigor
of the modern stage in such matters.
Of course, it is a comedy of errors ; the
baroness, on this occasion at any rate,
was not unfaithful. The stage scenes are
elaborate, battalions of pretty girls figure
in ballets and the trick photography is
clever. Seen at a United Artists pre-
view, Sydney.
Some First Nights
When Yehudi Menuhin stepped on
the platform at Melbourne Town Hall
on Saturday there was hardly standing-
room reserved for him; but the resolute
young man might have been alone in
the middle of a howling wilderness. He
plunged into the “Devil’s Trill” of Tar-
tini Kreisler with as complete absorp-
tion as if he were in the practice-room.
A few nods, a momentary departure, and
he was back again weaving his bow with
the same assurance through the con-
volutions of the Bach Chaconne. He
then descended a few flights down the
musical staircase and greeted with the
same solemnity the Paganini Concerto in
D Major. Presently the Bumble-bee of
Korsakoff-Hartmann was buzzing about
the auditorium.
The remainder of the programme was
composed of similar popular items. They
contained even more difficult technical
problems than the pieces played in the
first part, but, being musically valueless,
it didn’t really matter how they were
played. In that respect they resembled
the frescoes on the Town Hall walls,
which could be copied anyhow without
their artistic worth being affected either
way; whereas the slightest error in a
copy of the Rembrandt self-portrait at
the National Gallery would damage its
reputation. Nevertheless, the brilliant
Menuhin bestowed an equal care on
everything, and as a result received a
final ovation such as has not been
accorded a virtuoso in Melbourne for
a long time.
Fritz Hart whispered to this critic
that, compared with the Princess Theatre,
Honolulu, where he recently conducted,
Melbourne’s premier concert hall has
very indifferent acoustic properties.
* # *
One of the reasons why “The Tempest”
is seldopi played nowadays is that, apart
from the short opening scene, there is little
of action and nothing of surprise. It is
certain from the beginning that Prospero,
aided by his spirits, will have things his
own way. Dr, Cardamatis, in his pro-
duction of the comedy at Sydney Savoy
last Wednesday, attempted valiantly,
though not quite successfully, to over-
come this obstacle. The settings were
colorful; the lighting and mechanical
effects —scurrying clouds and the thunder
and lightning of the storm—cleverly con-
ceived ; and Albert Cazabon’s music
helped to create a fantastic atmosphere.
But the players were too often merely
elocutionary. Phyllis Scully did best as
Ariel, filling the part with a graceful
lightness. Bertie Wright, too, was a
lively and assured Trinculo, and Stephano
(Richard Dowse) and Caliban (Edward
Cavil) were little less comfortable ; the
first meeting of these three was the
smoothest-flowing passage in the piece.
As Prospero, Montgomery Stuart recited
his lines with the minimum of gesture,
leaving an impression of a quiet and
saddened oldster rather than a Prospero
excited by the success of his arts. Norah
Cazabon (Miranda) was capable, with-
out giving any significance to her work,
and none of the others had anything to
offer.
# * *
The new Gilsullivan co. chose Adel-
aide for its first showing, the Royal
awaking from its picture-dope, so to
speak, for the occasion. The old back-
bone is there in Ivan Menzies, Gregory
Stroud and Evelyn Gardiner, also Minnie
Everett behind the scenes ; to them the
familiar “Gondoliers” humor is matter
of course. Godfrey Stirling, the new
tenor from Europe, paired well with
Stroud, and gave “Sparkling Eyes” with
delicacy and finish. Richard Watson,
who belonged to Adelaide originally,
comes home from London with a big
reputation as a bass, and his quietly
humorous Inquisitor was most effective.
Winifred Lawson brought a well-trained
soprano to the part of Cassilda. The
opera, however, is mainly a man’s show.
Gilbert, trebling his heroines here, gave
producers a problem, and the distaff side
seems to need strengthening.
* * *
The spectacular part of Melb. Tiv.’s
revue “Women of the World” is re-
markably effective, “The Cushion of
Blue,” “Honolulu Ladies” and “Cuban
Knights” particularly so. The Kiraku
Brothers, Japanese acrobats, perform
evolutions new and old without fault,
the Three Loose Screws gyrate in some
novel comedy dancing. And scattered
through the performance are short
sketches with a few jokes and situations
which are amusing, and many which are
merely vulgar.
* * *
Joe Lawman and Stella Lamond, top-
liners on the Sydney Civic’s vaudeville
programme, are a good team; Joe’s face
can raise a smile, and he can develop it
into a guffaw. Stella is happy in her
choice of songs and bright in repartee —
often she steals the laughs. When they’re
on the stage the show sparkles. It’s a
good old-time song-dance-and-patter
show, the one fault the baldness —
a vulgar-schoolboyish baldness —of its
humor. A shapely ballet, well-trained
and well-dressed, plays a large part.
Tom Dale sings, dances and helps in the
fun, and Hal Cooper lends his smile and
his voice.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
With the berthing of the cruiser Bris-
bane at Fremantle and the Moresby
dropping its anchor there a couple of
days later, Perth has had a spasm of
nautical jollifications. The Naval and
Military Club gave a ball in its hall,
decked with balloons, lanterns and
streamers. Col. Robertson-Smith had his
better-half’s cloud of blush-pink chiffon
beside him while receiving the guests,
whose medley of colorful uniforms and
gay gowns provided a cheerful mixture.
Mrs. Cam Milne glittered from head to toe
with a mesh of gold sequins ; Lieut. Wal-
ton’s blonde bride had a cowl draped
round the decollete back of her aqua-
marine crepes, and Rosemary Sander-
son tossed fluffy black-and-white net
frills on azure blue.
The Cottesloe Golf Club Ball was
one of the season’s cheeriest dance fix-
tures. Arrangements made by the small
committee fulfilled the promise of the
merry twinkle of lights which illuminated
the grounds and verandahs. President
Wingrove’s lady was girt with finest
black Mechlin lace; the club’s captain,
A. W. Jacoby, squired his other half’s
oriflamme matt crepes; Betty Merry-
weather’s black taffetas were designed
with a quaint puff-sleeved tunic and a
sweeping trained skirt; layers of shrimp-
pink ninon fell in cascades over Mrs.
Ken Cameron’s lissome lines; Jean
Smith’s aquarelle blues were threaded
with silver and finished with a collar
at the square back ; the fluted frills of
Mrs. Harry Vincent’s black nets were
edged with lace, and Molly Manning’s
liquid-honey taffetas were moulded into
a flared basque.
The Rev. John Bell gave the blessing
at the White-Nunn wedding in Christ
Church, Claremont. Tess’s bridal gown
was a picturesque creation of ivory
brocade wrought with embroidered
flowers of palest pink; a bow at the
back of the waist extended its tails some
distance along the lengthy train which
shimmered through the mist of her Brus-
sels net veil. Matron of honor Mrs.
Gordon Blythe spilled the petals of deli-
cate pink roses on her snowy georgettes
and tied a pink velvet sash around her
waist; her halo of rose velvet caught its
color from the flowers held close to the
end of her wide bell sleeves. Mrs. G.
M. Nunn bowed welcomes at the after-
math over the ivory Mechlin lace jabot
of her black chiffon velvets.
For the Elocution Teachers’ Assoc.’s
guest evening, president Mrs. A. S. Mc-
Clintock popped a scarlet coat over her
white satins, and extended greetings
alongside secretary Ethel Gordon’s
flower-splashed tomato georgettes; Mrs.
Phil Masel, Nancy Osborne and Dorothy
Flemming gave individual items, Anita
Fitz Gerald and Sylvia George staged
one-act plays, and Mrs. Hugh Torrance
read a paper.
Students of architecture drafted the
plans for the T Square Ball which were
carried out at the Embassy. During an
interlude a group of embryo architects
in the garb of simpering debutantes were
“presented” and danced a minuet. Feli-
city Sands. Heather Sharpe, Dorothy Hep-
pingstone, Sylvia Cox, Helen Dobson and
Pam Haywood were a few of the young
things who danced under the galaxy of
Chinese lanterns in the ballroom.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The final of the bathing-girl contest
has at last been reached, the prize going
to Marjorie Allan, sponsored by the
Licensed Victuallers, who secured twice
as many votes as went to any other com-
petitor. Everyone was delighted at the
financial result, but nobody wants to see
the picture of a damsel in bathing undress
again for some time. At the ball at the
Palais Royal when the voting closed some
amazing toilettes made their appearance.
A wreath of roses round- the waist and
a skirt of ninon over none-on —at least
it looked like that —was one.
In the past no one went to the seaside
in the winter, but this vacation has seen
quite a number of mothers depart for
Victor Harbor with their young people.
Mrs. Edgar Hughes, of Athelney, has
taken her family .down there, and Mrs.
Harry Thomson is another who finds
boys enjoy a holiday boating and fishing.
Mrs. C. R. Cudmore, with her family, is
staying at their house at Victor. Kan-
garoo Island also is becoming a very
popular holiday resort.
At the Sporting Car Club Ball, to be
held at the Embassy on May 31, a
comedy circus act will be staged. An
outstanding feature is to be racing of
cars round the ballroom for four laps,
the prize going to the survivor.
Adelaide Repertory’s latest short-play
evening—now fully as popular as the
full-time drama —brought out a variety
of talent among (mostly) the less-known
members. Prominent were Nellie Kerr
and Ruby Skinner as mother and
daughter in a gloomy Yiddish “Eternal
Song”; Meta McCaffrey as a French
girl, temperamental without being farci-
cal ; Thelma Seaman as sympathiser in
an all-women school scene ; and Marion
Hardy as a rebellious fiancee in
“Sequel,” a jolly trifle. It was ladies’
night mostly. But at the end that
finished actor Frank Johnston, with four
clever women in support, gave a brilliant
Guitry rendering of the French idea
of a Frenchman —polite, but above all
businesslike.
TASMANIA.
The commem. proceedings of Tas.
Uni. were marked by profound decorum,
undergrads, being barred except by
special pass. However, the mock com-
mem. with the usual procession and the
burlesque that followed gave the
exuberant element plenty of play, and
the man in the street looked on with
tolerance.
The 86 Club, with youth at the prow,
ran a modern comedy at Hobart
Memorial Hall under the management
and production of Mrs. Beryl Brett and
Robert Montgomery. Figuring in the
cast were Jack Mitchell, Roy Richard,
W. E. Fuller, J. Bowden, Peggy Bowden,
L. Donelly, P. Harbottle, B. Lane, M.
Andrewartha, D. Griffin and Joy Cox.
The show deserved better patronage than
it got.
The Jones lady’s house was the scene
of the first meeting of the Apex Club,
formed for social service. The first
object in view is the purchase of a motor-
truck for the Inland Medical Mission and
the installation of wireless sets for the
use of folk living in the Never Never.
Bridge and competitions helped to raise
funds.
His Ex. and Lady Clark, who are air-
minded to a degree that would suit even
that enthusiast Basil Jones, recently flew
to King Island and back. They stayed
at the Brisbane, in Launceston, on their
way there and back.
Stella Power’s voice over the air and
at her recital in Hobart Town Hall gave
music-lovers a treat. At the recital the
singer wore black taffeta with a full skirt
embroidered in steel and silver. Mary
Corran accompanied her, and Fay Cox
(pianist) and Signor Checucci, with flute,
contributed to the programme.
Mrs. H. Moore (one of Hobart’s most
popular girls in past days), who has
lived in London for many years, is stay-
ing with her sister, Mrs. Edwin Webster,
Graystanes, Sandy Bay.


• Go/fers! The Carubo “Niblick” golf
soles are as flexible as elastic and unbreak-
able. Specially designed to be non-clogging,
it is impossible for the feet to slip.
“Niblick” Golf Shoes will definitely improve
your game. At all better-class stores in
various styles, full and half-sizes.
Carubo
Golf Shoe
MANY OUTSTANDING FEATURES NEVER
BEFORE IN A LOW-PRICED RIFLE
Remington Model 33
Single Shot , Bolt Action Rifle .22
It has the velocity and killing power of many greater
calibre rifles. Chambered for .22 Short, Long, /
and Longrifle cartridges - Price OU/"
For best results, use Remington KLEANBORE cartridges.
Ask your dealer for them. Write for particulars to
sars,"*PAUL & CRAY LTD., 82-84 Sussex St, Sydney
D. D. BRYANT, Aust. Representative, Box 686 E, G.P.0., Melbourne
COME to Sydney
and STAY
$
at
\0
<9
*
m
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Viti”: A small dust-up is going on
1 behind the scenes over primage charged
on imports into Australia from the Man-
date and Papua. When traders com-
plained at being treated as foreigners
by the Government to which many of
them pay heavy taxes at Canberra they
were told that they would be placed
on the same level with British importers
—but only in respect of “similar articles
the produce or manufacture of Great
Britain.” As G.B. doesn’t produce any
desiccated cocoanut, coffee, rubber, etc.,
it isn’t much help. But it is a great com-
fort to know that motor-cars, farm
machinery, silk materials, perfumes and
turbo-generators when made on Sepik
will be exempt.
%
“Laetitia”; “Alligator,” a church-
warden of Torres Strait, discourses on
t the text of the camel finding it easier to
go through the eye of a needle than for
the proverbial rich man to enter heaven:
“You savee camel? That one pickshur
belong cigret, he stop long trading
station. That camel he wonderful. You
savee needle with small hole? Cow he
no go through that small hole, dog he
no go through, pig he no go through,
white man he go—go through if he got
plenty money. But camel, he number
one pfeller—he go through ee-a-sie!”
* :j: * $
“Vic”; This is from Darwin “Standard”:
This morning a well-known gentleman
(?) entered the office of the Victoria Hotel
between 11 a.m. and 11.45 and appro-
priated unto himself a gold-mounted
fountain pen. The gentleman (?) in ques-
tion is notified that the pen was part of
a presentation set, and, rather than break
the set, if he will call at the hotel office
he may have the gold-mounted pencil
in addition.
Even politicians could learn something
from a display of courtesy like that.
* « * -t
“X.T.”: Other parts of Australia may
be able to teach Darwin something, but
not in motoring. We have streets as
wide as an art student’s sense of tolera-
tion, withv. plenty of grass growing in
some of them. They are mostly straight.
We are a sober community, and there
are no traffic police with white gloves.
We have several motor-cars and some
trucks. And we have just acquired some
new motor regulations. Engine exhausts
must not be noisy, and the speed limit
has been fixed at 25 miles an hour—five
miles lower than in London. Nature
fixes it even lower in some parts of the
town, of course, so the limit apparently
has been set on the democratic principle
of “equal rights for all.” Moreover, we
have to live up to our facilities. We
have a silent cop.
* * * *
“Gain”: The surprise of the Box Hill
(Vic.) resident who woke in the morning
to discover that his garden had been
pegged info alluvial claims and his sub-
sequent remarks show how uninured
modern population is to this sort of
thing. After the Dee deposits had been
discovered at Mt. Morgan in 1903
I was a witness to a housewife argu-
ing with a party who was commenc-
ing to sink a shaft in her front garden.
The sergeant was soothing her. “You
got to put up with it, missus,” he said.
“The whole street’s pegged out.” “I
kn-now,” sobbed the anguished lady; “I
p-pegged out me own backyard. But he
n-needn’t haw taken me only clothes-
props for p-pegs.”
Jji Jjc *
“U 12”: When John Newman died at
the Pigeon Box (N.T.) lately another old
’un passed whom the back country
could ill spare. Few knew him as New-
man. He was “Cooko Jack” to most.
Not many came level with him as a
camp cook. I saw old “Cooko” during
the T 5 flood, up to his neck in water,
with a portable forge on a waggon as
his stove, hand out hot meals on the
"By cri, me tired, boss. Me bin ride fifty mile along tell y'."
“Tell me what?”
“ There's a telegram along you at the post office."
tick of the clock and with a joke and a
laugh. He, like many other old-timers,
was always “going south” —but he never
got there. As with most of his mates
Urandangie was his southern limit,
though some of the more determined
ones have at odd times got as far as
Boulia.
v ❖ ♦ *
New Guinea has lost one of the old
guard in H. C. Cardew, just dead. His
service with the Papuan Government
dated back to 1909. While an R.M., he
was seconded to the Mandated Territory,
and was D.O. at Kieta (old German
Solomons) during the war. Afterwards
he became Native Affairs Commissioner,
and drafted the first native labor ordi-
nance put into force by the League
administration.
* * * *
“Vic”: Have we Australians a bad in-
feriority complex? I find in my Brisbane
paper an advertisement in which a Manly
(N.S.W.) hotel proclaims itself to be
“right on Australia’s Waikiki.” Beside
Manly, Waikiki is second-rate, and to
consider it in the same light with Queens-
land beaches like Southport, Maroochy,
and Coolum would make a dugong
laugh. It is no wonder that tourist traffic
languishes in Australia.
* * H= *
“Casey”; If Queensland Parliament
House and contents ever get washed
away there should be enough talent on
their island to start a new community.
Among the members are two house-
painters, a blacksmith, a furniture
manufacturer, an ambulance man, a
couple of barristers, a dentist, two
tobacconists, a shop-assistant or so,
two indentors, a motor mechanic, a
plumber, an “organiser,” an account-
ant, one ex-postman, a hospital secre-
tary, three journalists, several people
who describe themselves as Parliamen-
tarians and 13 farmers. Seems that what
the community will stand most in need
of is a good butcher.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mrs. Carrick, who was Evangeline
Booth’s hostess during the Brisbane visit,
is going to England and Scotland later in
the year. She is to be Evangeline’s guest
in London.
With barely a fortnight to go, and
about £2OOO to raise, workers for the
Darnell Art Fund have had something
doing every afternoon and evening—a
violet party at Mrs. Eric Taylor’s, a
bridge party at Finneys’ arranged by Mrs.
Forgan Smith, a Poster Exhibition, a lec-
ture by Dailey Scarlett, a concert and an
all-day tennis tournament were a few
of the week’s activities.
Kath Dodwell and Judith Avery are
off to England in September—both to
train as nurses at the Great Ormond-
street Hospital, London. Kath is a State
school teacher at Mt. Crosby.
Captain and Mrs. R. L. Maxwell, who
have been staying at Atcherley House
since their return from Asia, went on to
Sydney, where they intend to spend at
least a year. Mrs. Maxwell was a daugh-
ter of the late Mrs. Malcolm Cameron.
Lord and Lady Forteviot, who have
been visiting relatives in the North, spent
a few days at Coochin Coochin, and then
caught the train for Sydney.
June is to be busy for parsons. Peggy
Menzies weds Colin Dight, of Yetman,
at St. John’s on June 5, and on June 8
Mary Littledike is to marry T. W. Lynn,
of Perth, at the Albert-street Methodist
Church. Mrs. S. H. Knowles (she was
Mary’s sister) and her husband are com-
ing from Sydney, and will stay with Mr.
and Mrs. A. J. Littledike for the wed-
ding, and Mrs. R. J. Lynn, Mr. and Mrs.
R. G. Lynn, all of Perth, will be, among
the guests.
Mrs. Maguire, whose daughter Peggy
is the heroine of “Heritage,” was ill in
the Mater Hospital when the film came
to Brisbane. As she was desperately
anxious to see it, Charles Chauvel gave
a private screening in the hospital.
The two Macnish girls, Lyn Graham,
Margaret Robertson and several other
Brisbane girls are among the tourists on
Day Dream Island, a lovely lazy spot
within easy reach of Gladstone. Nell
Catherwood, sister of the lessees of the
island, is a wonder with the rod and line.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Cleveland (late
St. Louis, U.S.A.) and two small sons
are late additions to the Brisbane popu-
lation. The head of the family is with
Swift’s, the meat people.
Colored electric lights among the
shady trees and festoons of green and
white beautified St. Leo’s College when
the students held their annual at-home.
Dr. R. O’Donoghue, the rector, with P.
L. Tully, president, received the guests,
and the College Students’ Club com-
mittee looked after the organising.
Pat O’Shea had his 70th birthday a
few days ago, and all day long he was
answering the telephone or tearing open
telegrams of congratulation. In the even-
ing sister Ella gave a dance at their
lovely old home at Toowong. Golden
marigolds and jonquils and masses of
sweet-peas beautified the rooms.
Patricia Little, who has been a guest
at Sydney Government House, is coming
on to Brisbane to pay a round of visits
here before returning to Rugby, England.
Dorothy Stevenson, who is going to
London to study dancing, was entertained
at a round of farewell visits. Rona
Brown and Peggy Chauncey were among
the finalists in the Hostess Stakes.
The marriage of Desmond Power,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Power, of
New Farm, to Pat Lindsay, who is well
known on the air in London, was cele-
brated in that old grey city on May 25.
Everybody is wondering whether those
three big social events of former years
the Matrons’, Spinsters’ and Bachelors’
Balls will take place in August this year.
During the depression, they were
dropped ; but last year the Matrons gave
a big dance.
Les Burstall, who manages the Com-
mercial Bank at Quilpie, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Burstall, of Burwood, Sydney, was
married to Kathleen Isobel Pegler,
daughter of the Harry Peglers,
Comongin, Quilpie, by Canon Edwards.
The wedding took place in the drawing-
room of the old station. Dr. C. K.
Haskard was best man.
Betty Watson, fourth daughter of Mrs.
G. W. Watson, of Tandawanna North,
Bungunya, wears a new ring, which was
placed on her finger by Walker David-
son, third son of Commissioner for Rail-
ways Davidson.
Roy Parkinson’s water-colors are
attracting more than the usual number
of visitors to the Gainsborough Gallery.
The pictures are the’ harvest of a trip
through N. S. Wales and Victoria. In
spite of the tightness of money, small
red spots shout “sold” on many exhibits.


AtCCTvCcclt's Call
#l-CT *■.«. IfVCKIS
Wsmm
Famous visitors from all parts cf the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares .
ffi
wmi
&
m
ERVICE
Since 1839 the Rural Bank has assisted 54,728
persons to establish farms and 33,823 families
to acquire homes on easy terms. It will be
seen, therefore, that the Bank has played an
important part in providing employment and
increasing rural production. Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that by so doing
they are enabling it to increase its useful
services. Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all sections of the
community.
7ke RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - - 350 George Street
(Opp. Wynyard Street)
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted teat THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
‘The Dominion'' Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 84038.
Out of Australia’s Past:-
1820
J.H.M.ABBPTT.
“Ye’ll never, in all y’r life, have
sich an experience as’ll be yours in
th’ next week.”
WHEN Mr. Maurice Fitzmaurice, of
the Honorable East India Com-
pany —he ruled a province in
India larger than the New South Wales
that could then be termed “settled” —
came to Sydney for his health towards
the end of Governor Macquarie’s regime,
he professed himself as being charmed
with all that he found in Australia. To
Macquarie, smarting under the fault-
finding of Mr. Commissioner Bigge dur-
ing his recent visit to these shores, there
was no little consolation in the flatter-
ing admiration of his guest.
A somewhat fulsome gentleman, per-
haps, this Mr. Fitzmaurice —a little dic-
tatorial, a little shortsighted and narrow-
minded, a little pompous and a very able
ruler of subject races. It was as a fellow-
dictator that he regarded Macquarie. His
native princes and aristocrats were repre-
sented here by Macquarie’s merchants,
free landholders and the military class.
The large prison population might very
well stand for the lower orders and castes
of the dusky people over whom he held
sway.
“In the scheme of things, my dear
Governor,” he once enunciated porten-
tously, “I conceive that your functions
and mine are analogous, and —er —our
value identical.”
Macquarie did not see eye to eye with
him in this respect., Mrs. Macquarie
laughed when her husband told her of it.
“You know, Elizabeth,” he said, “I
don’t quite agree. Fitzmaurice, as a ser-
vant of John Company, can hardly—ah
—take rank with the Captain-General
and Governor-in-Chief in and over his
Majesty’s territory of N. S. Wales —now,
can he, my dear?”
“Of course not, dear Lachlan. But
if it pleases him to think so, why, let
him be pleased.”
ONE morning early in October, Mr.
Hutchinson, the Principal Superin-
tendent of Convicts, having undertaken
at the Governor’s behest to show the
distinguished visitor something of the
working of the System of which he had
control, the two gentlemen visited the
Lumber Yard—that strange factory
where “Government” tradesmen plied
their multiplicity of callings.
In the sheds surrounding the Yard all
manner of industries were carried on,
and a great deal of rougher work was
done in the square about which the sheds
were built. Blacksmiths, locksmiths,
nail-makers, iron- and brassfounders,
bellows-makers, coopers, sawyers, paint-
ers, lead-casters, harness- and collar-
makers, saddlers, tailors, shoemakers,
carpenters, joiners, cabinet-makers and
sundry others of the more skilled convict
workers were employed in it. Each morn-
ing they were marched down from the
Hyde Park barracks —many of them in
chains —and each evening taken back to
be locked up for the night in the in-
famous wards and dormitories where
now the Industrial Courts —curiously
enough—are established at the top of
King-street. At any hour of the day
passers-by in Pitt- or Bridge-street might
hear the moans and curses of men under-
going punishment at the triangles.
As they passed through the gateway
Mr. Hutchinson extolled the charms and
merits of the delightful place.
“You will see here, sir, the very per-
fection of our system —a system which
I make bold to describe as unique.
Unique, sir. Pray, step across to the
sheds. I should like to show you some
of our best examples of skilled industry.
The joinery, for example.”
Moving across the square they passed
through a motley throng of yellow-and-
black-clad prisoners who were chopping,
adzing, sawing and otherwise dealing
with logs of cedar and ironbark. Some-
times they saluted the Principal Super-
intendent sometimes they scowled
hatred at him. Always they had the
aspect of driven cattle. Their overseers
sprang to punctilious attention as their
superior officer passed by. A very great
man was Mr. William Hutchinson to his
overseers of labor. A nod of approba-
tion from him, and they might dream
of even more exalted stations. A frown,
and they might be in fear of their lives
lest they should return to an equality
with the slaves they drove, and from
whose ranks they had come,
“Exquisite, exquisite,” murmured Mr.
Fitzmaurice as they examined some of
those finely-worked red cedar doors and
window frames which you may admire
to-day in some of Macquarie’s buildings.
“Truly excellent. My dear sir, the place
is a studio of the arts! A credit —a very
great credit to your department.”
“Oh, passable, passable,” murmured
Mr. Hutchinson with almost too elabor-
ate modesty. “Very good of you to say
so, sir. We do our best —as well as we
can. But please to come and see the
foundry, Mr. Fitzmaurice. We are cast-
ing a bell there for these people’s bar-
racks at Hyde Park. Pray, follow me,
This way, sir—this way.”
HUMMING a little tune light-heartedly,
the Principal Superintendent led the
way out of the joinery, and they emerged
again into the sunlit yard. Here some-
thing obviously untoward was taking
place.
Cries and shouts and curses came from
a little struggling group outside the door
of the blacksmith’s shop, towards which
overseers were running from all quarters
of the yard, whose occupants had
knocked off work, and were gazing with
sullen interest and muttered malediction
at the affray that was in progress.
A tall, muscular, hairy-chested man —
stripped naked to the waist —was fight-
ing with four or five overseers. One of
them lay stretched unconscious upon the
ground.
“Take that, ye red-headed !” he
roared, as with the mighty blow of a huge
fist he sent another reeling broken-
jawed out of the fast-increasing pack
that sought to bear him down.
For nearly a minute the unequal and
uproarious contest continued—the big
man bellowing hke a bull and howling
curses, whilst the overseers and constables
surged about him in strenuous endeavor
to secure him. At last he went down —
with a heaving heap of ten or a dozen
of his captors piled upon his mighty car-
cass.
Mr. Fitzmaurice and his cicerone stood
fascinated whilst the brief struggle lasted.
When it was over, the Principal Super-
intendent called to a white-faced official
who had been hovering fearfully on the
outskirts of the battle.
“Hardiman! I say, Hardiman, come
here at once!”
The scared-looking man came running
up, halted and saluted. “Good gad, I
say, Hardiman, what’s all this d d
business?”
“If ye please, y’r honor, ’tis that man
Noatley. Insolent, y’r honor. Ordered
him to th’ whippin’ post. Broke away
when he was stripped for th’ cat —afore
he was tied up. Fought like a devil,
sir—savin y’r honor’s presence. If ye
please, Mr. Hutchinson, sir, I’d no notion
ye was in th’ Yard —elst I’d ha’ brung
him afore ye, sir.”
“Well, bring him here now, Hardi-
man. I’m thinking the Yard would be
the better of another superintendent —if
you can’t keep your men in better order.
A d d disgraceful spectacle!”
“Beggin’ y’r honor’s pardon”
“Silence, sir! Don’t answer me back.
See that the man is handcuffed and
secured, and bring him here. Mr. Fitz-
maurice, sir, pray do not be alarmed.
A little domestic trouble—ha, ha —a
mere trifle. These episodes will occur.
A desperate man, sir. But, by God,
we’ll tame him!” Mr. Hutchinson con-
cluded with grim apology.
HANDCUFFED, and with four con-
stables, beside and behind him.
gripping him apprehensively, the hero of
the brief battle presently confronted the
two gentlemen.
His face was smothered in blood from
a cut in the scalp, and across his mighty
and heaving torso it ran down in little
trickles through the matted hair on his
chest and over his white, lean abdomen
into his breeches. A pair of fierce eyes
gleamed out through the wreck of his
face as they thrust him panting to within
a couple of yards of where the outraged
Mr. Hutchinson stood. Presently the
latter spoke, a little sardonically.
“Ah, Mr. Noatley, so we’re in trouble
again, eh? You’ve had occasion to
knock my men about, have you? Well,
well! Their manners do not quite accord
with your notions of what they should
be —so that you feel you cannot extend
to them that courtesy which should exist
between gentlemen. Is that it?”
“Aw, to hell with you, Bill Hutchin-
son. Keep y’r jaw to y’self. Flog me
an’ be damned to ye.”
Mr. Hutchinson turned to his com-
panion with a deprecating smile.
“My dear sir, what can you think of
this gentle creature? But you see the
sort we have to deal with here at times.
Indeed, I do not know that I am alto-
gether sorry you have witnessed this
little episode. It will give you an idea
of the occasional disadvantages under
which we labor in carrying on what you
have been pleased to term our artistic
endeavors in this —ah —studio. This man
comes from your part of the world. He
was once a soldier in India.”
It would have been better for Mr.
Fitzmaurice had he held his peace. But
he could not do so. The improvement
of the occasion was a very strong point
of his. He addressed himself to it now.
“My good fellow,” he loftily exhorted
the enraged and bleeding captive, “such
violence as you have just displayed is
quite out of place in these days —quite
out of place. We are not dwelling in
rude and barbarous times nowadays. We
are in a modern age. You should re-
member that. Such behavior is not
seemly in the year of our Lord eighteen
hundred and twenty. It really is not.”
The captive stared at him in silence
for a few moments, a red mask with
two burning lamps for eyes. It was as
if the mind behind the mask could not
at first grasp the fact that this trim and,
dapper gentleman who had seen his
passion, and was witness to his present
misery, was pointing out to him that this
year of his suffering, 1820, marked an
era of peace and gentleness in which it
was unbelievable that such a thing as,
hideous oppression and equally hideous'
resentment of it could be co-existent.
When it did grasp that, the result was
rude and surprising. Noatley gave a sort
of hoarse gasp, and turned all his wrath
upon the unfortunate visitor to Sydney.
“Eighteen-twenty, ye yaller-faced little
! ’Tis eighteen-twenty, is it—an’
these ’ere things like this out o’ place?
Be th’ livin’ God, ye pot-bellied liar, ’tis)
no more eighteen-twenty than ye’re a|
man. Tis afore th’ year one, an’ here’sj
hell before th’ devils was let loose. Hell!!
Hell! Hell —I tell ye! Could not be!
elsewhere an’ such happen as has hap-i
pened to me this morning. Could it!
happen in eighteen-twenty that a man’dj
be sent to th’ whippin’-post for)
sayin’ ‘Good mornin’ ’ to one o’ these!
overseers —him callin’ it insolence?!
By God, ye little pimple, if ever li
catch ye out o’ this I’ll choke ye with!
y’r silly words. Eighteen-twenty! Christ’s'
mercy—’tis before th’ world was 1
born!”
Here followed a storm of blasphemy,
profanity and obscenity that almost made
Mr. Hutchinson shiver, and beneath
which Mr. Fitzmaurice wilted.
“Take him away!” yelled the Princi-
pal Superintendent. “Take him to the!
gaol. Twill be a trial matter for you,,
Mr. Noatley. Seven years on the roads!
will cool your temper, my man. Oh,,
dammit, Hardiman, keep him quiet, Can’t l
you? Gag him, man —gag him.”
TOWARDS the decline of a hot day!
in December, Major Antill and Mr.
Fitzmaurice rode up to the stockade at’
Springwood, on the Blue Mountains,
where an iron-gang was stationed, with
a detachment of some thirty men of
H.M. 3rd Foot —the famous “Buffs” —to


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
hire , Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
UNTOUCHED
IE .
UNTOU C
Before you take a blue Gillette Blade from its final wrapping,
hold it up to the light. You Will see that the blade is 'anchored'
just a fraction of an inch within the folds of the paper, thus removing
all possibility of the perfect edges being damaged. An ingenious
machine picks up each blade, wraps it and puts it in its packet.
Yours is the first hand to touch the blade. This is just one example
of the meticulous care taken to protect the keen cutting edges
provided by Gillette's new electrical tempering process. It you
haven’t tried blue Gillettes, get a packet to-day.
FIVE FOR 2/-
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
MADE IN ENGLAND
“The scenic route”
Fortnightly Set ilings.
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
royal mail lines
guard them. A youthful subaltern —one
Ensign Cahors —was commandant of the
post, and exercised his monotonous
duties with an entire distaste for them,
languid boredom and merciless severity
towards the wretched creatures of whom,
being a magistrate of the Territory, he
was judge as well as gaoler.
“Demme,” he would say, “if I am to
be made unhappy by being stuck in this
hole with these infernal scoundrels, I’ll
see to it that they are not too happy!”
And he did. None of the somewhat
experienced road-makers who were im-
proving Captain William Cox’s four-
year-old highway across the Mountains
had anything of an exuberant affection
for their young ruler. They killed him
later on at Blackheath.
His Excellency the Governor—possibly
a little tired of the pompous exuberance
of Mr. Fitzmaurice’s praise of all that
he saw in Sydney and at Parramatta —
had suggested that that gentleman’s view
of the colony would be incomplete with-
out a visit to the new settlement at
Bathurst Plains. The brigade-major,
Major Antill, was about to journey
thither on official business. Perhaps Mr.
Fitzmaurice would care to accompany
him? Mr. Fitzmaurice was delighted,
and thanked the Governor effusively. It
is not so certain that Major Antill was
delighted, but he continued to impress
Mr. Fitzmaurice that he was.
They had ridden away from Govern-
ment House at Parramatta soon after
sunrise, had lunched at Emu Plains, and
now, at four o’clock, were arrived at the
end of their first day’s stage. Two
troopers of the semi-military mounted
police accompanied them as an escort,
and two convict servants rode behind
leading packhorses carrying their per-
sonal baggage.
With profuse delight Mr. Cahors made
them welcome to his quarters. Visitors
were his sole relaxation, he assured them
as he saw to it that they refreshed them-
selves after their day’s ride. He had
a haunch of kangaroo for dinner and a
brace of wild duck which Captain
Smithers had sent up from Emu Plains
that morning. He was charmed that
Major Antill and Mr. Fitzmaurice, of
whom he had heard from his brother-
officers in Sydney, should have arrived
at such a propitious moment for his
larder, which usually was not so well
stocked. He raised his glass of sherry
and bowed to the visitor from India.
“I’ve some business with you,
Cahors,” said Major Antill; “we may
as well get it over at once. Mr. Fitz-
mauripe, pray, will you excuse us? It
will not take more than an hour. Can
you amuse yourself until dinner-time?”
“Oh, certainly, certainly, my dear
Major. I think I will take a little stroll
in the woods and take stock of your
charming retreat, Mr. Cahors. It must
be perfectly delightful up here. I shall
easily fill in the time. I am a little —-ah
—cramped from the saddle. A little
walk wijl relieve the stiffness. A delight-
ful spot, indeed. Charmed with the
opportunity of seeing something of it.
Delightful! ”
Ensign Cahors looked a little dis-
gusted.
“Well, I don’t know about the charms'
of Springwood, sir,” he said. “They
have begun to pall on me after five
months of them. But if you take a
walk I should advise you to go in a
northerly direction. One of these d d
wretches escaped last night, Major, and
we think he’s gone into the bush to the
southward. One of my corporals and a
couple of men are out after him now,
but of course he may be lurking any-
where close at hand in this dense bush.
However, his tracks led to the south,
and as he’s a pretty desperate fellow I’d
take my stroll in the other direction if
I were you, Mr. Fitzmaurice.”
“Thank you, thank you. I shall take
your advice, Mr. Cahors. I shall not go
far. I trust your men will recapture the
rascal. Some of these fellows should
never be off the chain. Mad dogs, sir ;
mad dogs. I saw one of them suffering
from an attack of—ah —rabies in the
Lumber Yard in Sydney a month or so
ago. Thank you. I will go now, and
leave you and the Major to your busi-
ness. Au revoir.”
WITH a jauntiness that was creditable
to him after his day’s exertions,
Mr. Fitzmaurice wandered away into the
dense forest to the northward of the
Bathurst-road. The tall, silent bush sur-
rounded the little clearing where the huts
of the convicts and the soldiers stood,
and not a soul was visible about the
place, save the red-coated sentry over
the store, which was opposite to the
Commandant’s quarters. Sunrise to
sunset were the working hours of the
road gangs, and they would not slouch
into camp for an hour or more, whilst
those of the guard who were not out
with them in the daytime were resting
in preparation for their turn of duty at
night.
He was not quite sure how long he
strolled down the slope that stretched
apparently into some hidden gorge or
abyss, such as he had been informed by
Major Antill bordered each side of the
ridge by which it was only possible to
cross the ranges to the westward. He
had been lost in contemplation of this
desert of solitude —with its appalling and
almost audible silence, so unlike the (
Indian jungle—and hardly noticed that
the underwood was all in shadow, and
only the tops of the tallest trees green
and gold in the last level rays of the
setting sun.
Just as a sensation of hunger had
begun to warn him that it was time to
turn back he was amazed at finding
himself in the grip of a pair of power-
ful hands from behind, and in a moment
lying on his face in the grass. No sound
had come to warn him. The thing had
just happened. What was unmistakably
a knee pressed forcibly into his back.
Then a hoarse voice:
“By God —’tis Eighteen-twenty !”
Grunts of laughter sounded for a few
moments, behind and above him. Then
his wrists were dexterously knotted to-
gether by some sort of leathern thong, a
hand fumbled into his breast pocket, and
he was presently gagged with his own
bandana handkerchief. The weight rose
from his back, he was jerked by the
collar of his coat into a sitting posture,
and was able to see his captor.
THERE he stood, grinning down at
him, his arms folded across his great
chest, and Mr. Fitzmaurice’s own beaver
top-hat cocked rakishly on his head.
It was undoubtedly the man Noatley.
He must be the escapee from the stock-
ade. Oh, why had his evil genius
prompted him to take this stroll?
Heavens, what a position to be in! And
the fellow was shaking with laughter!
Yet Mr. Fitzmaurice shivered when he
remembered the rage the man had mani-
fested towards himself in the Lumber
Yard, and the strangely prophetic threat
he had uttered as to choking him with
his own words.
Presently the man spoke—but banter-
ingly rather than threateningly.
“Aw, me little dandy bucko, and how
are ye? Ye remembers me, I can see
that. Well, now, ain’t it a rum go?
Here’s me, an’ there’s you, in a manner
o’ sayin’, jest as I said it’d be! An’ now
’tis for me to prove to ye that this really
ain’t th’ year 1820. In th’ nex’ few days,
wi’ God’s blessin’, ye’ll find ’tis as I said
it was —a day or two afore th’ year
one.”
He paused for another gust of convul-
sive laughter, swept the top-hat from his
shaggy head and bowed elaborately at
his goggle-eyed captive. Then he went
on.
“Last night I made a getaway. Twas
not so hard to do, for th’ whole detach-
ment’s in it —them hatin’ that young
devil Cahors, an’ bein’ sorry for me as
a old soldier. They won’t trouble for
to catch me. To-night I’m to rob th’
stores an’ collar th’ sentry’s musket an’
ammynition from him —after a-trussin’
him up an’ gaggin’ him, same as you’re
done by. I’ll leave ye tied up in th’ gully
down there, same as ye are now, me
bucko. When I’ve got me equipment an'
me supplies we’ll go a-rovin’ back to-
wards th’ settlements. Ho, ho, ho —ain’t
it a fine joke, Eighteen-twenty? I could
scarce believe me heyes when I seen ye
a-comin’ through th’ trees : —so dreamy-
like an’ quiet. ‘Gawd’s good to ye, Bill
Noatley,’ says I to meself. By h 1 He
has bin!”
He stopped to laugh again.
“Listen,” hewvent on. “Ye’ll soon be
startin’ on y’r travels. When we gets out
o’ these ’ere wild mountains, down on
to th’ Oxberry, I’ll let ye go—if so be
as ye’re good an’ dootiful. But, mind —
on’y if ye’re good. Ye’ll never in all y’r
life have had sich an experience as’ll be
yours in th’ next week. I won’t treat ye 1
bad —if ye’re good, mind ye. If ye’re
not —well, a bullet in th’ guts. ’Twill be
all I can do, so I ’opes y’r own good
sense’ll make ye behave y’self. An’ d’ye
know why I’m a-goin’ for to treat ye so
kind like? ’Tis because I ain’t never
forgot wot ye said to me in th’ Lumber
Yard —about 1820 bein’ no time for sich
rampagin’ as I was a-doin’ of —an’ me
a-tellin’ ye that ye was wrong, an’ that
this weren’t no 1820 at all. Afore this
day week’s over, mister, ye’ll see I spoke
true words. Ye’ll be a-longin’ for th’ |
year one to get a-goin’.”
THIS was precisely the way Mr.
Maurice Fitzmaurice felt about it
before, a dishevelled and tattered vaga-
bond, he parted from Bushranger Noatley
at the mouth of the Grose Valley and
made his weary way to Windsor. He
had lived through eight days that were as
far removed from the modernity of 1820
as was the very birth of Creation.


RHEUMATISM
PAIN IN THE JOINTS
Decide that you must and you will get rid of
that pain in your joints and you have taken the
first big step along the road to recovery.
The remainder of the way is easy. No pur-
gative salts, no harmful drugs, no embrocations
or rubbing oils. Just an inexpensive box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from your
chemist. Two pills taken with a drink of water
at night, and then, freedom from pain.
When you think of all you have suffered you
may find it hard to believe that such a simple
method of treatment can accomplish so much in
such a short space of time. Here is the reason.
De Witt’s Pills Cleanse, Heal
and Strengthen your Kidneys
and thus rid your body of the harmful uric acid
that has been causing the pain in your joints.
You cannot obtain results like this by any other
means, and you cannot get rid of the pain in your
joints whilst that harmful uric acid remains.
That is why De Witt’s Pills
are recommended to jrou. If you
will give them a fair trial pain
will quickly
disappear and
your health
will improve in
many ways.
The most
convincing
proof of the
efficacy of De
Witt’s Pills is
that afforded
by the un-
solicited testi-
monials of men
and women
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
who have actually used the remedy and by so
doing have banished the joint pains which tor*
tured them.
You, too, can be freed from your pain. Your
nearest chemist sells and recommends De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and if only you will
take tnem as directed you will quickly get rid of
the swellfng, the stiffness and the pains that
make walking difficult and torture you every
time you move. Your health will benefit in many
ways when you get rid of the uric acid from
your system.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills, discolouration of the urine will
prove that they have commenced their good work.
You will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients have passed
through your kidneys and bladder. No other
medicine furnishes proof like this, and when once
you have tried De Witt’s Pills, your one regret
will be that you did not do so before.
Take them for Scalding Pains, Gravel,
Stone, Painful Joints, Stiffness, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica. Give them
to children subject to Bed-wetting and to aged
persons afflicted by Urinary Disorders, and in
every case they will give prompt relief and
lasting benefit
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold
by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger,
more economical size, 6/6. Sold only in the
blue, white and gold boxes.
Beware of imitations. Be sure you ask for,
and see you obtain, the genuine De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills.
Si
Writing from C/o. Birchup P. 0., Victoria.
Mrs. W. Sinclair says :
" Owing to a very bad attack of rheu-
matism I had to stay in bed for over three
months. During that time I completely
lost the use of my limbs. I tried all sorts
of remedies, without result, until I was
recommended to try De Witt’s Pills.
Then to my surprise and joy I found 1
could move my limbs after taking the
first bottle of pills. Continuing with the
treatment I completely regained my
health."
De Witt’
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
Breezy Yarn of the Sporting Fraternity:-
BUCKLED.
By CON DREW.
IT was after I’d got rid of that dud
wrestler Gozo that the thing I’m
tellin’ you fellers of came about. I’d
gone into smoke for a while and was
tryin’ to build up me bank roll by
backin’ horses. Bah! You ain’t got the
chance of a cockroach in a turkey-farm
at that game. I couldn’t back a winner.
Just as I was thinkin’ of qualifyin’ as
one of the deservin’ poor I hitched up
with a heavyweight bruiser > called
Slugger Murphy.
Slugger wasn’t what you’d call a
champ, by any means. Up agen a real
fast man he looked about as active as
a pair of firetongs. But he was game
and could punch. What’s more, he re-
spected his profession, and was content
to fight a schlenter every third battle or
so.
Well, I won a couple of fights with
Slugger, and then I matched him to fight
the local champ, in an outback town
called Lignall. We lobbed there one
evening about a week before the affray,
and was met at the railway station by
a crowd of local sports who navigated
us to our pub.
They must have put the potatoes on
when they seen us cornin’, for there was
a bang-up feed waitin’ for us. And we
didn’t shy at anything on the bill of fare,
let me tell you. It’s a wise general
who provides hisself with ammunition.
After tea me and Slugger drifted
into the bar and was introduced to some
more of the local sports. They were
tickled to death at havin’ a Sydney
scrapper and his manager in their midst,
and all the talk was about the cornin’
fight. They were nuts on Smiles, the
local champion, too. He’d bumped off
a few third-raters, it seemed, and was
looked upon as a cornin’ world-beater.
One horny-handed plough-pusher led
off with a round of drinks, and I made
them a bit of a speech. More drinks
follered. I enjoyed their company
immense.
I was talkin’ to a bewhiskered gent,
about the cornin’ battle when I hap-
pened to turn my head and got the
shock of me life.
Cornin’ through the door from the
street was Melbourne Harry, who I
thought was workin’ the rattler in Syd-
ney, or maybe doin’ time for some faux
pas or other.
You’ve heard of Melbourne Harry?
His long suit was makin’ a pack of cards
behave, and he was always upholstered
like a millionaire. Whenever he saw a
shillin’ in another man’s hand he looked
on it as a personal affront, but he
couldn’t altogether be blamed for that.
It’s a common fault with lawyers and
the like.
THE bloke I’d been talkin’ to done a
duck just then, and over comes
Harry to me.
“Hello, me noble,” says I, “What are
you doin’ so far from the city? You’re
a bit out of your depth, ain’t you?”
“I’ve been in this mosquito-haunted
swamp they call a town about a week,”
says Harry, “and it’s a week too long.”
“Is that so?” says I. “I thought it was
a slap-up joint.”
“Well, I don’t,” he come back. “I
wouldn’t be here at all only that the dice
ain’t rollin’ too well at present,” And
then he gives me an earful of how he’d
been attendin’ a race meetin’ at one of
the neighboring towns and his bank roll
had got scuttled.
“And the worst of it,” he winds up,
“is that everyone in this dump seems to
know what to do with the money they’ve
got without any assistance from me.
You couldn’t sell them the Russian
Crown jewels for a brace of lead two
bobs.”
“You don’t look broke,” says I, throw-
in’ me lamps on his tailor-made clobber.
“Where are you stayin’?”
“Up at the other pub,” he come back.
“They ain’t woke up to me bank bein’
light.”
“That’s one thing in your favor,” says
I, handin’ him a couple of quid. “Now,
don’t let me detain yer if you’re anxious
to get away. I’ve got some business to
do -
“Thanks,” says Harry unabashed, and
off he breezes.
No sooner does Harry go than the
barman beckons me over.
“That swell-lookin’ bloke you’ve just
been talkin’ to,” says the barman. “We
were wonderin’ what’s the strong of him.
Has he got any money, do you know?”
“Tons of it ” said I
“Oh,” says the barman, kind of
thnnohtfnl
, ’ . . f ., „ ~ T tiT . ,
He s got a mint ot it, said 1. If he
ook to walkm on his hands he d sprinkle
the town with cash.
S TTT , ’ , .
TUGCER and me turned in soon
after tnat, We had work to do in
n ® morn . m * . .
Next day we started on our trainin’
stunts. The fight was billed for the fol-
lowing Saturday night, and we had four
clear days in which to work up extra
interest in the go. The locals turned up
in rorce to see Slugger doin’ his work-
outs, but I never let him go his hardest
when he was boxm’. _ I thought there
might dc ci chance oJt pickin up a bet or
two on the night of the affray.
The barman at our pub was a real
fight fan, and never missed seein’ a spar
when he wasn’t working. He got real
pally with us, and kept us posted as to
how Smiles, the local champ., was pro-
gressing in his trainin’. By all accounts
Mr. Smiles was doin’ well. I knew what
Slugger would do to him when the pair
met in the ring, but I kep’ that under me
haf-
Well, at the hall that night the men
peeled down for business, and I had a
good screw at Smiles. He was a strong-
lookin’ gent, with an egg-shaped dome
and enough hair on his chest to fill a
mattress. I summed him up to weigh
about twelve stone ten, or maybe a little
more. His legs were a wee bit heavy for
a fighter, but otherwise he looked O.K.
He waved to some of his friends at
the back, and they set up a yell that
could have been heard in Taronga Park,
It was easy to see that he was the local
lad. Slugger and me got hardly a hand.
Our barman friend was sittin’ at the
ringside, and just before the bruisers
went into bat I beckoned him over.
“Put them on Slugger,” says I, handin’
him twenty quid, “but don’t do nothin’
until a couple of rounds have gone.”
“How will I know when to bet?” he
asks.
“Keep your eye on me, and when I
give you the signal wallop the lot on at
the best price you can get. But don’t
tell no one whose money it is.”
“0.K.,” says the barman, and ambles
back to his seat,
IX7 ELL, after a while the debate gets
" under way. Before it had been
g°in’ a minute I seen that Smiles njust
have learnt his boxm by post, as they
say. His footwork was bad, and his work
] ac k ed the polish that you see in a
seasoned scr apper.
i’ d drummed Slugger what to do, and
he acted up to instructions. Instead of
forcin > the fight as he usually did, he
went through a lot of fancy motions
which didn’t mean nothin’. Every time
Smiles sent in a punch it landed on his
g i ove or on the side of his head. Once
j n a w hile he’d shoot in a punch to make
d look good, and when Smiles became
too intimate he’d pump in a jolt or two.
The crowd swallowed it up to the
sinker. They thought that Smiles was
winning. Every time he landed a punch
they yelled the roof off.
This went on for a couple of rounds,
and when I thought it was time to spring
the trap I signalled the barman to stick
on the money.
Half-way through the next round he
slipped me word that the sugar was on
at evens.
“Right,” says I, and I gave Slugger the
signal to commence hostilities,
Whew I You never seen such a quick
change of front. He galloped into action
like Drake at the Battle of Waterloo,
Stabbing a left to Smiles’s chin he fol-
lowed it up with a sledge-hammer right
which missed the jaw by a whisker. He
unloosed another almost immediate, and,
lookin’ mighty serious, Smiles back-
pedalled out of reach. Slugger went


mon€y-/7JM0/
i
i
◄
Qk
&
Thrift is not a mean vice, as
has occasionally been said.
Rather is it a mean between
two vices the vice of
luxurious wastefulness and
the vice of stingy hoarding,
for the full meaning of the
word as a virtue comprises
not only the saving of
money, but the wise spend -
ing of money.
We have learned that money is not an end in itself—but
stands for many worthwhile things. Mostly, we earn money,
but sometimes it is the symbol of a gift of love and interest.
On the other side, money gives us what we require for three
things—the necessities of life, the amenities of life and the
emergencies of life. Perhaps it is the last two which chiefly
justify the existence of Savings Banks.
The money earned, or given, having provided the necessities,
the convenient interest-producing Savings Bank account makes
easier provision for the others.
Commealtb Savinas JBankof Unstrap
think of yourself for
a change Mother
r-p
1
r
fi-
./7,
9Z):
J
1
%
What you need
i$ a cup of
good XIA
T-Ha2-35
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET EXPANSION BUREAU
Domestic days are harassing days.
Nerves become frayed . . . energy
fades . . . little matters become big
burdens.
Pause occasionally . . . give a thought
to your own well-being . . . make your-
self a cup of GOOD tea. It is the one
thing you can always depend on . . .
to revive you . . . steady you . . . make
tasks lighter.
Enjoy GOOD tea whenever you feel
the need . . . GOOD tea because it
gives you more in flavour . . . benefit
. . . cups.
How to Make GOOD Tea.
Select a GOOD quality tea. Boil fresh water.
Warm up a clean earthenware teapot. Put in one
teaspoonlul of tea for each cup and one for the
pot. The moment the water comes to the boil,
pour it on the tea. Let the tea brew five minutes.
after him hotfoot and bottled him up in
a corner.
“Dive under his arm,” yelled Smiles’s
friends, but they might as well have
asked him to bail out Sydney Harbor
with a peanut shell. Under, over and
under and over agen whizzed Slugger’s
right to Smiles’s ribs and head. All of
a sudden Smiles slightly lowered his
guard, and Slugger seen a chance of a
sitting shot at his chin.
Bing! In a flash he whipped over a
terrific right hook, and Smiles hit the
floor and was counted out.
“A great bit of work,” says I to meself.
“Now we’ll do some collectin’,” and 1
beckons the barman over.
“You’d better go and collect,” 1 says,
“while I take Slugger to the dressin’-
rdom.”
“0.K.,” says he, and turned towards
the chairs. “Hello,” he grunts kind of
puzzled. “The bloke I bet with must
have shifted his seat.”
“Must have what ?” I says, a cold
doubt creepin’ in on me.
“He must have shifted his seat,” says
the barman. “He was sittin’ in that third
row there. It’s O.K. though,” he said.
“You needn’t be frightened of gettin’
scaled. It’s that swell gent. I seen you
talkin’ to the first night you
You said he had plenty of money.”
I never said nothin’. I hadn’t seen
Melbourne Harry in the joint. But he
muster been there, all right.
That night I broke a ten-year-old
drought with whisky. Previous to that
I’d been content with drinkin’ beer.
Comedy Out of the Bush:-
THE ELOPEMENT.
MARGARET was the ewe lamb of
Mrs. Brady’s flock. For her sake
she had scrimped and saved,
almost starved; and with pennies and
shillings which had been counted one at
a time and put away Margaret had been
sent to one of the bigger towns of the
interior for a couple of years to com-
plete her education.
Margaret returned to Uradourie, that
collection of dust, haze, shimmering re-
flections from iron roofs and goatyards
which comprised the western Queensland
town where her mother made her home.
She stepped from the coach, and the
townspeople gazed at her in wonder. She
was tall, graceful, fresh as the morning
dew, big-eyed and with rich lips which
smiled readily.
Mrs. Brady knew the value of money.
She knew there were fourteen pennies
to a shilling and twenty-five shillings to
a pound with her careful management.
She looked at Margaret, stripping her
with her eyes and mentally weighing the
balance. She made a hasty computation,
and considered the bargain good, the
money well spent and the return of
value.
“That schoolin’s done you good,
Maggie,” she commented. “It wasn’t
wasted on you. There’s th’ polish about
you what makes you look a lady. An’
you got th’ looks to back it up, too!
You’re nineteen come th’ fifteenth of
next month. It’s time you was doin’
somethin’ for yourself. Most of your
sisters was married before they was that
old, an’ two of ’em had babies. I can’t
afford to keep you doin’ nothin’, though
you can have about a week’s spell before
you starts work. I got a job for you.
Lougherty wants a coffee-room waitress
at th’ pub, an’ you’re just th’ one to fill
it. That eddication won’t be wasted on
you then.” ' .
MARGARET was depressed by the
return to the depravity of her home
town. She was nervous in the presence
of this gauche woman who had mothered
her. But she was a dutiful daughter:
she expressed her consent.
“An’ you look out none of them there
men gets runnin’ after you,” Mrs. Brady
continued sternly. “I didn’t spend all
that money on you for none of these
bush rats. You got th’ looks, Maggie ;
you got th’ manner ; you got th’ possi-
bility of doin’ somethin’ for yourself if
you’re careful. There’s not a girl in th’
whole district can hold a candle to you.
You’ll have th’ pick of th’ country. Now,
mind what I’m tellin’ you: you be care-
ful an’ play your cards right.”
Margaret assented again, subdued by
the virago who towered over her. She
took her suitcase to her room to unpack.
Mrs. Brady watched her daughter go.
She noted the graceful carriage of youth
and health ; she admired the way Maggie
moved ; she felt a glowing pride well up
in her that she should mother such a
being; and then she held communion
with herself.
“That girl’s goin’ to make me for-
tune. With her looks an’ th’ style of
her she’s got all th’ other girls in th’
district in a bag. Her name’s goin’ to
spread after she’s been at th’ pub a
month or two. All th’ men in th’ coun-
try’s goin’ to be runnin’ after her. Let’s
see. There’s Owens, th’ manager of
Poolpootra. He’s a widower with a
grown-up family. But they says he’s
pretty well in. He’s a skirt-chaser, too.
She might land him if she’s careful, an’
with me to help her. There’s Powletts,
th’ manager of Yalbungra. He’s a young
fellow with a good job, an’ they says he’s
likely to go further an’ better. He’s got
a girl down south. Maggie could cut
her out, bein’ here on th’ spot. His girl,
though, is a relation of th’ owners. I
think we can scratch him off, an’ I’ll tell
Maggie to keep clear of him. I don’t
want no more unemployed in th’ family.
He’ll get th’ sack if he marries Maggie,
or, at least, if he don’t marry that other
girl.
“There’s McKenzie, Bowen, Hedlot,
Naigh and Keens. All of them is comers.
They’ve all got good jobs, and they’ve
all got money. Any one of them would
do. There’s Sharkey, Matkin, Knowles
an’ Rowland. Each of them’s got pros-
pects in life, besides bein’ young and
worth while. Oh, me expenditure on that
girl ain’t goin’ to be wasted! I’ve lived
a rough life, a hard life, an’ I held me
head up an’ kept straight when any
other woman wouldn’t been able to face
th’ music. Now I got easy days cornin’
to me, an’ I deserves it.”
MAGGIE went to her work at the pub.
She was the lamp which lured the
moths, the honey which attracted the
flies, the magnet which drew the men.
Her fame spread ; her beauty, her grace
of movement, her wit, her charm brought
men to town on false errands, and
prompted them to stay and hang about
Lougherty’s pub that they might see and
have word with Maggie.
A couple of months after Maggie
started work young Ted Daveney came
through Uradourie, bringing loading with
his team from the railhead. for Yal-
bungra station. He pulled up outside the
pub with a grinding of wheels, a screech-
ing of brakes and loud exhortations to
his horses. As a man of the world he
strolled into the bar to have a drink and
to hear the news of his home town.
Particularly he wanted confirmation of
rumors.
He left the bar. With the arrogance
of an auctioneer, and with all the rights
of a king in his own kingdom, he went
swinging through the hotel, leading to
the coffee-room, and calling for Maggie
as soon as he stepped on the verandah
beside the pantry. He was unshaven,
dusty, with an old handkerchief knotted
about his neck, and with a battered felt
hat on his head. But he was a man —
and he knew it. He was straight and
supple, six feet of raw-boned flesh, and
he feared neither man nor beast.
Ted stopped short, and his lower jaw
hung limp and slack. He felt as nerve-
less as a jellyfish, and his hands fumbled
awkwardly when Maggie stepped out on
the verandah in answer to his call. He
remembered her: he had gone to school
with her when she was a little thing and
he was one of the bigger boys. When
last he had seen her she was a gawky
schoolgirl, all legs and long plaits,
powdered with freckles and shrill of
voice. What magic wand had trans-
formed her into the radiant vision which
stood before him —which came to him
coolly, with her hand outstretched and
with calm assurance in her eyes!
“Hullo, Ted,” Maggie’s soft voice
sounded. “What are you doing here?”
“I think I’ll go an’ have a drink,” Ted
mumbled, bereft of clear speech and
wordless in such a presence.
TED unyoked his team and turned
them out on the common. He lay
on his bunk under his waggon, and he
thought many and deep thoughts. He
went up to the pub. Though he had no
right there, he went round to the coffee-
room pantry. He dispersed those who
were gathered there, and those spineless
courtiers knew that a man had come
among them. He gathered up his cour-
age, which feared nothing that lived, and,
(Continued on next page.)


The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In W ellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“ The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply .to
any accredited advertising agency.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice ansi
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: B. Jackson. 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: B. 1). Flshei 4 , Newspaper House. Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—ali over the State, in Town
and Country —this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modem lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
' literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Warwick
Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
greatly daring, he entered the pantry and
helped Maggie wash up.
Courted by all, her whim a law to be
obeyed, Maggie laughed at the awkward
advances of the man who would woo
her. She teased him ; she flaunted him ;
she took joy in his discomfiture. Then
something of the animal masculinity of
the man beside her struck a responsive
chord, and she it was who grew nervous,
silent, shy.
A week went by, and the Yalbungra
loading lay in Ted’s waggon while he
haunted Lougherty’s and washed up after
every meal. He brought her a box of
chocolates, and with an assumed gruff-
ness he offered it to her. Maggie was
a dutiful daughter. She did not wish
to distress her mother. She hid the
chocolates in the pantry and did not
take them home with her when her day’s
work at the pub was finished.
“Do you remember the time you gave
me a bull’s-eye at school, Ted?” she
asked softly. “I kept that bull’s-eye a
long time before I ate it.”
“You was on’y a little girl then,” Ted
advised. “Now we’re both grown up,
Maggie, we’ve got to think of other
things. I been thinkin’ a lot lately, ah’
I was wonderin’ ”
“When are you shifting that Yalbungra
loading?” Maggie asked quickly.
“Oh, I’ll shift it when I’m ready.”
“You ought to take it out, Ted. They
might be waiting for it.”
“Let ’em wait. I’m helpin’ you now.”
“Look, Ted Daveney, if you don’t take
that loading out straight away I’ll never
speak to you again!”
“You will! ”
“I won’t.”
“An’ if I take it out t’-morrow will
you talk to me when I come back?”
“I might.”
“Will you?”
“I might, I tell you.”
“Will you?” Ted asked again. Alert,
masterful, he demanded an answer. He
took the girl’s arm in his hand, swing-
ing her to him, and through his mind
there darted the wonder of the mystery
and softness of its texture.
“Will you?” he demanded again, draw-
ing her nearer to him, bending back her
head and looking into her laughing eyes.
“Will you?” he muttered fiercely, and,
with a gasp as realisation came to him,
he lowered his lips to hers.
“Let me go now, quick, Ted,” Maggie
whispered. “Of course I will. You must
go now. I won’t talk to you again till
you come back from Yalbungra.”
Ted yoked his team in the morning.
He whistled and he sang, and the black-
boy offsider he had with him wondered
what queer whim saw pleasure and fun
at which to laugh in driving a team.
A WEEK later Ted returned after
delivering his Yalbungra loading.
He, let his horses go on the common, and
for the best part of a week he haunted
the pub and assisted Maggie with the
washing-up.
“I’m takin’ you home to-night,” he
told the girl at the end of the week.
“I’m goin’ to have a pitch with your
mother.”
“Ted!” Maggie gasped, slow color
mantling her cheeks. “What for?”
“I’m goin’ to tell her I want you. She
can’t object to me: she’s known me all
me life. You’re goin’ to be my woman
the same’s as I’m your man.”
Ted escorted Maggie home after her
washing-up was completed. He had on
a pair of snowy moleskin trousers, a
mercerised silk shirt which rippled rays
of light, a silk handkerchief tied about
his neck, a waistcoat tightly buttoned, a
new hat, and, wonder of wonders, his
boots were polished till they glinted.
“So it’s Mister Daveney payin’ his
respec’s,” Mrs. Brady commenced with
biting sarcasm. “He’s ac’ually clean for
a wonder! Look at his boots! Take
a twig of his han’kercher! Have a look
at his strides! Are you sure, Mister
Daveney, that you’ve brushed your teeth
an’ cleaned your fingernails? He fnust
think he’s walkin’-out with some girl.”
Ted was lost before that-gentle satire.
He fumbled awkwardly with his hat,
and when the barb about his fingernails
struck home he suddenly remembered
they had been neglected and tried
hastily to hide them behind his back.
, ■ “Courtin’ ■ a girl, are you, - Mister
Daveney? Ain’t black gins more in
your line? He’s loafin’ on th’ common,
lettin’ his half-starved horses eat out all
th’ goat feed.”
“Th’ law gives me th’ right to stay
a week on th’ common,” Ted argued,
sure of his rights and gaining courage
by being on safe ground.
, “Th’ law don’t give you no right to be
bangin’ after respectable girls,” Mrs.
Brady lashed him in sudden temper.
“You mulga-bred rat, you! Don’t think
1 reared no daughter for to amuse scum
like you. I belted you often when you
was a kid. I can do it again now. S’elp
me God, I’ll skin you alive if I finds you
bangin’ about Maggie!”
That was language Ted understood.
He had been reared among that kind of
talk. He could counter effectively in
words of that sort. He waited for Mrs.
Brady to pause to catch her breath so
that he could release a telling truth.
Mrs. Brady did not pause to catch her
breath. She knew her advantage. She
retained it. She rolled up the sleeves
of her scraggy arms and advanced to the
man, who retired before her.
“Get!” she screamed. “Go, an’ keep
goin’!”
NEXT day at the pub Maggie told
Ted: “You’d better go, Ted. Mother
won’t stand you at all. You’d better go.”
“I’ll go when you come with me,”
Ted, made bold by desperation, stated
firmly.
“I can’t do that, Ted. Mother’s a
wake-up to you now. She’s coming
down for me herself to-night after I’ve
finished washing up. She’s going to
walk home with me every night till you
go away. She’s got another job for me,
too. She’s sending me out to Mrs. Pond,
at Armenia Downs, as a companion
help. I won’t be able to see you there.”
“When you goin’?”
“The day after to-morrow. Mother’s
packing my case now.”
“I’m leavin’ town to-morrow,” Ted
stated calmly, though his.nerves tingled.
“You come with me, Maggie.”
“O-o-oh, Ted! I couldn’t.”
“We’ll be passin’ straight through to
the railhead for loadin’ for Poolpootra.
We’ll get a parson there an’ we’ll get
married. Nobody can’t take you from
me then.”
“I couldn’t, Ted. Mother wouldn’t
let me.”
“Listen, Maggie. You an’ me was
made for one another. We belongs to
each other. You’re over eighteen. Your
mother can’t stop you goin’ nowhere.
She mightn’t let you get married to me.
After you’ve been with me on th’ roads
she won’t objec’ then.”
“Ted!” Maggie breathed in an awe-
struck whisper. “Oh, Ted!”
“When she’s finished packin’ that box
for Armenia,” Ted continued, knowing
he was winning and gaining courage
from that conviction, “you leave it down
th’ backyard, to-night. I’ll get it an’ put
it on me waggon. T’-morrow I’ll harness
up an’ go. I’ll make me first stage at
Garidgy Hole —that’s ten-mile out. I’ll
see Bobby Frew. He’s a mate of mine,
besides bein’ scared of me. I’ll tell him
to get his buggy an’ a pair of good
horses ready. I’ll tell him to pick up
a lady friend of mine here at th’ pub
about nine o’clock an’ bring her straight
out to Garidgy. Well?”
Maggie, nervously twitching the end
of a cloth, remained silent.
T won’t tell him who it is,” Ted con-
tinued. “If he don’t know, then he
can’t talk. An’ while your mother’s
sittin’ here waitin’ to take you home
you’ll be cornin’ to me!”
Maggie lifted her eyes and looked at
Ted. Waves of color spread over her
cheeks, and, nervous with a delightful
dread, she asked the question which Eye
asked of Adam when the gates of the
Garden were opened for her entrance,
and which every woman has asked her
man right down through the ages ever
since: “You’ll be good to me, Ted?”
“I will,” said Ted.
TED was busy for the rest of the day.
He went to the local stores and he
laid in a supply of tinned delicacies
compared with which the fabled nectar
and ambrosia would have ranked as in-
sipid fare at the nuptials of a god. He
overhauled his gear and his cooking
utensils at the waggon, and he whistled
as he worked.
He drove his team away next morn-
ing. He swung Ranger to him and he
hooted Toby off for the pleasure of
showing his mastery and for the joy of
being alive. On top of his waggon,
hidden from the vulgar gaze by the tar-
paulin carelessly draped, was Margaret
Brady’s trunk all packed in readiness for
her stay at Armenia Downs.
Darby, Ted’s blackboy offsider, en-
joyed that day’s work. His boss had
never been more pleasant. He sang. He
whistled. He laughed and cracked
jokes. When Darby inadvertently
dropped a parcel from the top of the
waggon he cowered in fear of the wrath
he knew was to come. Instead, Ted
roared at the humor of the situation,
and even helped the blackboy pick up
the scattered contents.
Ted unyoked at Garidgy Hole about
sundown. He cooked supper, eating but
little himself. He hunted Darby away
from the waggon, to unroll his swag a
quarter of a mile distant. He opened
a parcel he had bought at the stores,
and with hesitant hands, uncouth in
their roughness, he unfolded a pair of
sheets to put on his bunk. He arranged
the bed, stroking the sheets with un-
accustomed hands, and in a sudden fit
of modesty he draped the tarpaulin over
the end of the waggon so that the bunk
swinging under it was hidden in its own
little chamber.
He sat at the fire, seated on an up-
turned box, and waited. He walked up
the road, kicking pebbles in his im-
patience, and he thought of the remote
possibility of a snake biting him. He
paled in fear of being robbed of his
girl by the chance of a snake-bite, and
he returned to the fire and sat there,
looking carefully about him. He took
out his watch and looked at it. He
shook it, incredulous that time should
lag in such a manner. He took out his
pipe and slowly he cut some tobacco.
He put the pipe back in his pocket.
“She mightn’t like th’ smell of tobacco
in me breath,” he muttered. “There’s
nothin’ too good for that girl. May I
be struck dead if ever I make her sorry
for what she’s doin’!”
Ted’s thoughts wandered. He com-
pared himself with the Prince of Wales.
“I’m better than him,” he told himself.
“I go in an’ get me woman like a man.
Him! He don’t have to battle for his
rights: women runs after him. I’m a
better man nor him.”
A thousand times he thought he heard
the buggy coming; a thousand fears
assailed him. Then, unmistakably, there
came to him the “clip-clop” of trotting
horses and the crushing grind of tyres
spurning gravel and pebbles on the road.
Ted sprang to his feet. In the dim
light he saw the buggy coming to him.
He could note there were two figures,
and, as he watched, the wind picked up
the loose ends of a woman’s scarf and
swung them in the air.
Ted went to meet the buggy. In his
heart he prayed to a nameless God, to a
Supreme Being with whom his whole
spirit and body was in communion, and
in a paean of praise and a wealth of
thanks he offered tribute to his Maker.
He stood beside the buggy as it stopped,
panting in his eagerness to greet his
bride.
She came to him. She leapt from the
buggy, and, rolling up her sleeves,
advanced on the man who would rob
her of her daughter!


THE BERNARD
CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE
10 LESSONS.
Mr. Cronin’s course is a masterpiece of
expert practicality. The components of
a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description the
very names of which excite the imagina-
tion, and the awe, of literary aspirants,
are considered in detail with a wealth of
illustration and practical advice that at
once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons
and three supplements. Mr. Cronin’s
own enthusiasm is so great, his sympathy
so large and his of the practice
work sent in so competently confident
that the interest of his pupils never flags.
Those who have a real flair for writing
very soon make a good job of every
piece of work they send in. They are
helped the more inasmuch as they are
never kept waiting for their revised work.
It is true that ■ pupils have to work.
Mr. Cronin not content with less than
the best they can do ; and neither are
they allowed to rest content until he has,
by instruction and illustrative revision
of parts, trained them to polish and re-
polish until the whole is a finished piece
of work truly expressive of the writer’s
intention and individuality.
Later, in the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier story, and in the light of his—
and frequently her —added experience
and increased knowledge improve it to
publication standard. Mr. Cronin is
most insistent, however, on his pupils
submitting to editors none but good
work. Not, of course, the best they ulti-
mately will do, but work of such a stan-
dard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as per-
manent mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Some are given in detail in
“Friendships,” copies of which can be
had on request.
In addition to teaching story-writing,
Mr. Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of great
value to many whose work, through
minor faults of construction or presenta-
tion, has just failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is
fully described in an illustrated pamph-
let, “Writing to Win.” Copies will be
sent post free to any reader of The
Bulletin who would like one.
Newspaper Articles and Paragraphs.
Those specially interested in the criti-
cism of MSS. or in the writing of news-
paper articles and paragraphs are
requested to mention the fact.
Letters can be addressed to Mr. Ber-
nard Cronin, c/o E. H. Welford, 398
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
to a Man’s Career.
DR. NORWOOD says that “A Proper Grasp of
Pelmanism would save any life from Futility .”
Amongst the many Australians who have achieved distinction in Great
Britain, none is regarded more highly, either there or in Australia, than Dr.
Norwood. Dr. Norwood is the Minister of the City Temple, London. He
has travelled much, has had a wide experience of men and of life, is a keen
observer and a great thinker.
mm
& 1 H
1 %W£T * v
m
§£*>
Dr. JF. W. Norwood, D.D
Of the City Temple,
London.
"Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood says, "is
sound Psychology and an admirable
system of Mind-training. It is more
than mere Memory training. There is
no co-ordination of knowledge without
a retentive memory, but the mind is
more than memory. It involves the
whole man.
"Pelmanism reduces to a coherent
system what every person who lives
intelligently and strongly must at least
partly carve out for himself. A proper
grasp of it would save any life from
futility and would cause many to dis-
cover powers latent within themselves
of the existence of which they had not
dreamed. It teaches that man has the
key to his own career and enables
many to find the key itself which, for
want of self-knowledge, had lain un-
discovered.”
Amongst other well-known Pelmanists
m
.
Lord Bidden.
Sir Arthur Quillet-
Couch.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
Lady Keeble.
Lord Baden-
Powell.
Sir Herbert
Barker.
Sir Herbert
Austin.
And many other*.
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
does, indeed, bring out
the mind’s latent powers and develops
them to the highest point of efficiency.
It strengthens Will-Power; it develops
Personality; it gives Courage, Initiative,
Forcefulness and Determination. It
banishes the defects which interfere
with the efficient working of the mind,
and in their place it develops such
attributes and qualities as:
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will-Power
Initiative
Self-confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
Cheerfulness
and a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong,
positive, vital qualities contributes to
one’s earning capacity and makes it
possible to live intelligently in the
present and build strongly for the
future. What is of equal importance
is that there is increased happiness
and a keener appreciation of the
beauties of Nature, the Arts and Life
generally.
In a sentence, Pelmanists live a
fuller, happier and more successful
existence.
This is borne out by the letters re-
ceived from those who have taken the
Course, some extracts from which are
given here;
AN ACCOUNTANT states that Pelmanism
has shown him “how to overcome that
paralysing feeling of inferiority.”
A STUDENT writes: “I have now' an aim
in life. I have become more Observant. My
Concentration is more developed. My
Imagination has increased/'
A SHOP ASSISTANT reports that he has
secured a better position, and attributes
.this to Pelmanism.
A FARMWORKER writes; “Thanks to
Pelmanism, I am feeling more confident
and more alive.”
A MANAGER reports an Increase in self-
confidence. “which has brought me the
respect of my colleagues.”
AN ENGINEER writes: “I feel especially
an increase in Self-confidence, “ T hich gives
professional status.”
A TYPIST says that she has abolished
groundless fears, and now' leads a much
happier life.
A CEERK wwites that he has improved
in memory, concentration and will-power,
and that his mind is quicker and more
alert.
A DOCTOR writes that he has improved
his powers of Observation, Concentration
and Memory, and has increased his Self
confidence.
AN INSURANCE CEERK writes:
“Financially I am over 30 per cent, better
off than before; mentally and physically I
am hundreds per cent, better off.”
A WOMAN CEERK writes; “1 can con-
centrate for quite a long period wdthout my
mind wandering. I obsetve things far more
quickly, and have ever so much more con-
fidence in myself and my abilities. My
thoughts are far more orderly.”
A TEACHER writes; “This Course has
had a remarkable effect on my physical
and mental health. What pleases me most
is the certainty that I have lost my fear.
My self-confidence has returned and my
whole outlook on life seems to be recon-
structed.”
A CARPENTER says Pelmanism has
helped him both physically and mentally.
A CLERGYMAN writes: “I have experi-
enced much benefit, and wish I had under-
taken the Course earlier in life. Had I
known at the age of SO certain things
which I know now —largely through the
Pelman lessons—l think I could have
avoided one or two painful, nervous break-
downs ... To summarise (and employ a
fashionable word), I think I have gained a
better orientation towards life.”
A BANK CLERK writes: “This Course
has enabled me to see clearly what I want
in life and how to get it. It has taken me
out of the rut. It has shown me that,
whatever the circumstances may be, life
holds infinite possibilities of enjoyment and
improvement.”
Thousands of similar letters could be
printed did space permit.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
TO THE
PELMAN INSTITUTE.
Liege, 1930;
Diploma and Medal.
Nancy, 1932:
Diploma and Medal.
Geneva, 1933:
Diploma and Medal.
Paris, 1933 :
Diploma, Gold Medal
and Cross.
In "The Efficient Mind," you will
find a full explanation of the Pelman
Course and much interesting informa-
f'fICICNT MINO
[THE
fiISS
r *&&M
tion on the subject
of Mental Training.
This book will be
sent you free on
application to the
Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Write for it to-day,
and it will be in your hands by return
of post.
All correspondence is regarded as
confidential. We have no outdoor
representatives.
CUT OUT OR COPY AND POST TO-DAY
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME ,
ADDRESS
Pelmanism is scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality.
The Pelman Institute is a World-wide organisation
of 30 years ’ standing. Its headquarters are in Londoii.
There are 650,000 World Pelmanists; 31,000 are in Australia and New Zealand,
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
z
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
e
6*
o°/
3*
ejcf
>TxP
O
c°
<v
*■>
r C 4 e ™ .••• ••
. " v»
►'V°
»
5’
sw
*\
\o
0*
a" 6 >
6
VV <S ‘
tjv*
a
■•-■ .■■•\a$ c vf*
■' ~ 'SV^*ceu t<t, °


~y -V.VX
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferer*.
World's Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
COMES TO AUSTRALIA
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. R MACLEAN-
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL. LONDON
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY IT!
More Stomach Pain
Frof. H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiologic*!
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison' - Maclean Stomach Powder Is \
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most ' (
effective ever devised as a remedy for J
Indigestion,
Dyspepsia,
Palpitation,
tion, etc.
Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Flatulence, Heartburn,
Nausea, Stomach Ulcera -
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100%
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS -NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE
• • »
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief—the most worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Fails! You may be offered
something said to be “just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this |
“H.M.” device on the package. Take
accept no substitute.
no excuse
Hitt
Genuine Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder is sold only in White Pack-
ages with Black - and - Red Printing.
Every doctor, the World over recognises tie
pre-eminence of Prof. Maclean, In modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest Ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions Is now avail-
able to \Ol. In future, eat what yon fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights are claimed to the
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what*
ever in connection with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON-MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for any form of Digestive and
Stomach upset accompanied by Acid, Gas or Nausea.
If supplies of Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder not available locally, post order (adding 4d,
postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney .
