

NEWCMTIC STEEL WORKS
AUSTRALIA
as**®
r^-i
m
, •
MiiL
J —Loading Iron Ore by Electric
Shovel, Iron Knob, S.A.
2 —Wilputte Coke Ovens Plant.
3—Blast Furnace Plant capa-
city 12.740 tons per week.
.NT
4—Plate Mill.
s—Merchant5 —Merchant Bars and Sections
in Stock Yard.
Hill pnceua
MINE OWNERS, SHIP OWNERS, IRON AND STEEL
MANUFACTURERS AND COLLIERY PROPRIETORS
Offices
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London
Brisbane—Steel Products (Queensland) Pty., Ltd.
Works; Newcastle (N.S.W). Iron Knob (S.A.), Bevonport (Tasmania), Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
List of Manufactures
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANCLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIC IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
"QUALITY PRODUCTS"
ALL MADE IN AUSTRALIA
AN INVITATION
IS EXTENDED TO
CUSTOMERS TO VISIT
OUR WORKS
AT NEWCASTLE
The Bulletin
The Crime of Cemtty
Vol. 56. —No. 2912.
Wednesday, December 4, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s New Illustrated 64-page
Christmas Catalogue for 1935 is now
ready, and will be sent Free and Post
Free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL —*
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
The Red Page
HAIG,
TOGO,
PEPYS
One of this
trio, Togo, left
less on paper
than perhaps any
other important
figure of history.
He personified
that tamous silence of great men
of action which such gentlemen have
on many occasions notoriously flouted.
Haig, the very picture of the traditional
silent British soldier, used pen and ink
with almost reckless freedom ; was
known—a little notoriously—throughout
his career for his frank criticisms on his
superiors ; began the diary-keeping habit
young; wrote regular letters full of
opinions to his sister ; and during the
1914-18 turmoil kept accounts of occur-
rences running to two or three typewrit-
ten foolscap pages a day, which, with
reports, letters and other records, alone
swell out 36 folio volumes.
Working on this huge mass of material.
Duff Cooper, in his bluntly titled Haig,
writes what might be well described as
a good soldierly biography, from which
emerges a stiff, upright, purposeful
unbending figure—“a great, simple, un-
self-seeking soldier,” the biographer calls
him, having no doubts at all about the
personal or military qualities.
In this view, Haig, had he been earlier
in a position to do so, might well have
won the war promptly and decisively.
In support of this his biographer in-
stances such disastrous vital moves as
that of Joffre ordering the wheeling of
the British force on September 11, 1914,
and Haig’s comment thereon: “Per-
sonally, 1 think it is a mistake to have
changed direction now, because the
enemy on our front was close to us last
night and was much exhausted.” “All
the evidence that has subsequently come
to light,” comments his biographer, “con-
firms the view that Haig’s appreciation
of the position was the correct one. We
know now....that an opportunity was
missed which might have brought the
war to a sudden and dramatic conclu-
sion.”
Haig never at any time got on well
with Joffre, thought little of French, a
great deal less of Lloyd George, and ex-
pressed his opinions on these and many
others with a frankness wholly in keep-
ing with his straight character. More
revealing of that character than perhaps
any other incident in his career was a
question he asked when a sister keenly
interested in spiritualism had inveigled
him into attending a seance. Haig asked
the medium which would be the better
system for the expansion of the Terri-
torial Army—a company or a battalion
basis. The spirits favored a company
basis, and Haig “gravely set down in his
diary what occurred, without comment.”
Haig had two slight contacts with Aus-
tralia before he had the Diggers under
him in France. He was here in 1892,
“and thoroughly enjoyed the visit,” and
ten years later, after the Boer War, he
was writing to a nephew from South
Africa: “Meantime do your best to be-
come a worthy citizen of the Empire.
Apropos of this, I see rather a good book
called Tommy Cornstalk by a man in
the Ist Australian Horse (Abbott). They
were attached to the Greys at the begin-
ning of the war.” And he goes on to
quote about a page from that early book
of J. H. M. Abbott’s.
The biographer does not, in this
volume, give any of Haig’s direct com-
ment on the Diggers, but gives a eulogy
on his own account which may be in-
ferred as representing Haig’s opinion:
It was during these days of constant
lighting at the Somme that Haig learnt
to appreciate the splendid qualities of the
Australian troops that were serving under
him. Although the fighting and the shell
lire were far more severe than anything
they had experienced at Gallipoli, and
although they found the German a very
much more formidable foe than the
lurk, their high courage and their high
spirits remained indomitable. Difficulty
was found in estimating their casualties
owing to their reluctance to leave the
front line. When a battalion was relieved
many of them would remain with the
relieving force, and on one occasion
a regiment began an action with nine
hundred men and ended it with one thou-
sand three hundred owing to the addi-
tion of volunteers from the units which
had been ordered to retire for a rest. On
another occasion it was reported that “the
Australians had at the last moment said
they would attack without artillery sup-
port and that they did not believe machine
gun fire could do them much harm.”
A tendency to underestimate dangers was
their only failing.
Maybe that is all as true in fact as it
certainly is true in spirit, though it might
be thought that by then the Digger was
grown a little longer in the tooth than
that would seem to indicate.
1 his first volume of the biography, giv-
ing account of Haig’s steady career by
way of Oxford, Sandhurst, India, the
Sudan, South Africa, closes with the
end of the Somme, the first great battle
fought under his supreme command. By
it “Verdun was saved, the maintenance
of Anglo-French co-operation was as-
sured, the British were taught to fight
and the heart of the German Army was
broken.”
The Story
of Togo
The biographer
of Togo, R. V. C.
Bodley, has ap-
proached his task
in a lighter spirit.
He has recognised
that there is, after all, very little com-
plexity in the character of a man who,
very early in life, determines upon a
career and how he will pursue it, and
thereafter goes silently towards a fairly
definite objective, speaking only under
almost extreme pressure, never having,
apparently, a single confidant, and be-
having in public and private as a model
of decorum and an example of conscien-
tious gallantry; one whose leadership,
courage and fearlessness were of so
absolute a kind as to be virtually expres-
sionless and chastely undramatic.
All this being so, the biographer has
followed the only course left to him —
told the story of the Japanese Navy and
its rise to power, with Adrqiral Togo as
its inspiration and, in the outlook of his
countrymen, its divine hero. Like the
biographer of Haig, he has no doubts
about the quality of his man. “The maker
of modern Japan,” he calls him ; “the
greatest hero in the history of Japan” ;
victor in “the most decisive naval battle
in the history of the world” ; the man
who built up the Japanese fleet from “a
few wooden ships of antiquated design
to one of the finest naval units in the
world” ; one who, “although he always
kept himself in the background,” has
place in the history of Asia “on a level
with that of Kublai Khan.”
And if nothing much can be made of
the character of Togo, save that it was
as typical of the Japanese as Haig’s of
the British soldier, his career, topped off
with the smoke and thunder and clash
of sea-fighting, graphically described,
offers plenty of material for the making
of a very readable story. It stretches
back—almost incredibly when the
present fleet is thought of —to Togo,
then a boy of fifteen, as one of the
defenders of Kagoshima, firing stone
shot at (or towards) the British ships
that had called intent upon teaching
Japan to leave passing shipping alone.
Eight years after the “young Samurai
had waited impatiently on the beach to
try his Japanese sword against a British
cutlass,” this still-youthful Togo was
going “to the land of those very ‘bar-
barians’ who had burned down his
native town.” One of a picked lot of
naval students, he then trained on the
Worcester, had his gunnery course
aboard the Victory, and continued his
training aboard the Hampshire on a
voyage which touched at Melbourne,
from where he “made some excursions
into the interior of Australia, and was
astonished to find a country compara-
tively close to Japan so developed and
so beautiful but of which he had never
heard a word spoken before he came to
England.”
That was in 1875. Subsequently Togo
came to know the Pacific and all
it contains very thoroughly indeed. The
stories of his sea-fights make reading
as informative —and edifying, perhaps—
as they are graphically engaging. After
telling them, with so much as it is pos-
sible to tell of so idol-like a figure, the
biographer closes his vivid outline of
Pacific history with a little specula-
tion : —-
If war were declared and Holland and
Australia were involved, neither of these
countries would have a chance of defend-
ing themselves. The Dutch have no army
or navy to speak of, which is, I suppose,
quite natural for so small a country ; but
it is impossible to understand the apathy
of Australia with regard to her naval and
military forces. There is no party in the
whole Commonwealth which would dare
to suggest appropriating large public
funds for the army or the navy.
He adds, in this “authorised Life” of
Japan’s great admiral, that if Japan
wanted to occupy Australia “she could
do so to-morrow with her present fleet
without anyone being able to stop her,”
Men seem to have been put out of
Cabinets here for saying less.
The Great
Pepys
In their different
ways, both those
biographies are
good. They serve
the main pur-
pose of biog-
raphy—to give an understanding, sym-
pathetic portrayal of a worthy figure—
and they contrive as well to depict a
background of history and battle giving
color and tenseness to the story. Both,
however, for variety of action, quality
and quantity of detail, complexity of the
character portrayed, engaging suspense
of the narrative, and for literary merit
all round, must be rated below Arthur
Bryant’s Samuel Pepys: The Years of
Peril, though it should be said that the
Haig shares with it the quality of sober
and careful work.
Like the Haig, it is incomplete, leav-
ing the reader even more abruptly in
mid-air, to await, with such patience as
he may think the occasion warrants, for
the concluding volume, in this instance,
of a trilogy. The first volume was the
brilliant Samuel Pepys: The Man in the
Making, covering the period to the con-
clusion of the great Diary. The present
volume carries the story, with equal
brilliance, on through the fourteen fol-
lowing years, a time highly perilous to
the squat little man ; crowded, as it was,
with repeated attempts by very power-
ful forces to destroy him ; a term in the
Tower ; his neck almost literally in the
noose for years at a stretch ; his life for
a long time dependent on the Puritan
truthfulness of his clerk Atkins, who,
in spite of incredible trials and what
would nowadays be called extreme
mental torture, refused time after time to
tell the lie which would have sent Pepys
promptly to the gallows—a noble and,
in this text, nobly told story in itself.
How little had hitherto been known
of Pepys is evident in the fact that the
greater part of this present volume, every
bit as crowded in detail as the first
volume covering the already familiar
period of the Diary, is based upon
“manuscript material till now un-
known.” From this material is con-
structed the figure of a man immeasur-
ably greater than the thrusting busybody
of previous misinterpretations—one of
the greatest administrative brains in
English history ; the man who “created
the English naval machine which ulti-
mately gave his country the dominion
of the seas and the empire of more than
a quarter of the world,” which country
“still lives by the service he did her.”
The picture is drawn against a back-
ground of London and the colorful
Court of Charles LI., political and sec-
tarian intrigue, Pepys taking his place in
Parliament, fearlessly defending the
Navy Office and desperately saving him-
sell from the plotting of as nice a nest
of scoundrels as ever decorated a bio-
graphy. There is more good color in
the finely described sea-fights of the
times, and in Pepys’s lighter private life
breaking through the generally darkly-
dramatic atmosphere.
Red Page.
1 Haig, by Duti' Cooper (Faber and Faber) ;
Admiral logo, by R. V. C. Bodley (Jarrolds);
Samuel Pepys'. The Years of Peril, by Arthur
Bryant (Cambridge University Press) —from
Angus and Robertson.l
Young
Literatures
At a meeting
of young Indian
writers in Lon-
don I listened to
a declaration of
their literary out-
look in comparison with that of Ireland.
Like Scandinavia since its split into
separate languages about 30 years ago,
Ireland has been producing a new litera-
ture ; so is India to-day. Comparing
Ireland and India, the speaker found
a parallel in parts very close, though with
a few bulging divergences.
Irish literature, in the modern sense,
began in the ’nineties. Before that, it
had been imitative, Anglo-Irish, West
British, avoiding its own life. Return-
ing to its deeper origins, it began at
last to express the inarticulate and
hidden Ireland. Instead of the stage
Irishman, you got the characters of
Synge and Lady -Gregory. Instead of
imitation Tennysons came Yeats, with
Padraic Colum and others like him.
The Gaelic League not only revived the
old language of Ireland, but through the
work of translators like Douglas Hyde
began to infect writers in English with
the rhythms of the originals: a result
still carrying its weight, and even to-day
releasing the rhythms of English poets
like W. H. Auden. As for the Irish
novel, it became sure of itself, rooted
in the soil, distinct and distinguished.
The Gaelic League from its modest nest
was even to hatch that extraordinary
phcenix James Joyce. The new move-
ment has been profoundly creative,
drawing sometimes on Ireland’s rich
legendary past, sometimes on her inti-
mate present.
As to modern India and its literary
development, the writers gathered at that
meeting represented a contemporary
movement at first sight much harsher
than the Irish literary revival of the
’nineties (yet who knows what it felt
like to be among the Anglo-Irish writers
whose ideas were swept away by that
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways. “THE SENIOR STORE." “THE HOME OF SANTA CLAUS.'
Anthony Horderns’
ALL KINDS OF TOYS
FOR GIRLS AND BOYS
Shock-
Absorbing
“Peerless” Scooter
The "Peerless” Patent Shock-absorbing Scooter
No. 29. This model has the shock-absorber
where it ought to be, right over the front wheel.
No more rough riding. Finished in Green, with
9in. reinforced disc wheels, rubber foot mat,
brake, stand, and cycle handle bars. Length,
40in.; height, 36in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 16/6
Special Features:—
A—New hardened steel spring.
B—Bolt for adjusting to weight of child.
C—Special strong steel bearing.
D—Note reinforced riveted wheel.
Model No. 30 is a larger size, with roller-bearing
wheels, nickel-plated handle bars and bell.
Length, 42in.; height, 35in. Price 26/6
126
m
m
Two-way Rockaway
Two-way Rockaway, can be used as an ordinary
Rockaway, and when turned upside down forms
chair with food tray. With seats padded and
the whole strongly constructed. Price . . . 12/6
Also Three-way Rockaway. This forms, in addi-
tion, a high chair. Price, each 18/6
0
■byaqfcj
CtNTTHm-mK
m
“Centenary Flyer”
The Cyclops ‘‘Centenary Flyer,” for children 3
to 7 years. Length, 46in.; height, 24in.; width
across wings, 2 Steel framework with sheet-
metal body, carved wooden propeller driven by
leather belt off front axle, revolving as ’plane
moves along. 9in. front wheels, 7in. back wheels.
Price, each 48/6
• • • and Santa Claus is waiting in
his castle in Santaland to greet his
small friends once more. He has a
special surprise parcel containing the
very gift that each Boy and Girl wants
most.
TAKE THE
MAGIC CARPET I
TO
SANTA’S CASTLE
And do you know how to get to Santa's
castle? Take the Magic Carpet and you
will be lifted high above the clouds on a
swift journey over the ancient Eastern cities.
It’s a thrilling experience!
39/11
“Hillman” Motor Car
The “Hillman” Motor Car, for children 3
to 7 years. Length, 42in.; height, 16in.
All-steel chassis, 9in. disc wheels, bumper
bar and all accessories. A smart racing
model. Price 39/11
<im
S',.
Baby Doll
Natural Baby Dolls,
strongly made. An-
other great favourite.
Prices, each: 3/6,
4/6, 5/9, 6/9, 8/9,
10/6, 12/9 and 18/6.
Celluloid Doll
Celluloid Baby Dolls. Heavy
first quality.
Sizes, inches ... 12 14
Prices, each ... 1/9 2/3
Sizes, inches ... 16 18
Prices, each 2/9 3/6
Sizes, inches ... 20 22
Prices, each .. . 4/9 5/6
Sizes, inches 24
Price, each . 11/6
Fur Dogs, 3/6
Fur Dogs, similar to illustra-
tion. Prices, each: 9/6, 11/6.
Others—
Prices: 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6.
; <JT 0 \lp I
S>ronq-lil-e
Teasel’
Aluminium Tea Set
“Slronglite” Aluminium Tea
Sets. Prices, set; 3/9, 5/6.
9Toys—Second Floor. Free delivery
City and Suburbs only.
T) .v.V'
%v 1 I
- >
- f
A j 1>
• I
••>’- ‘ -X/
V
K-
*
k rtj* 1
r^r-j
L . r *'.»!* ' , *'
Ur
,1* ;
’ \Ji
v ...•■ ;.-•
■'-V..,'
swniiti*
\«»c>v
Wti*6' -.
“•v
n-A*
8/11
Steel Express Waggon
All-steel Express Waggon. Length, 18|in.;
width, 9^in.; depth, Steel handle
and undercarriage, 5 in. rubber-tyred disc
wheels. Price 8/11
A 2
FROM
, .
Rocking Horses
Safety Rocking Horse on Swing Rockers.
Beautifully modelled and finished.
Nos 1 2 3
Height .... 2ft. 6in. 2ft. 9in. 3ft. 2m.
Prices 42/- 55/- 67/6
Nos 4 5 6
Height .... 3ft. 6in. 3ft. 9in. 4ft. 4in.
Prices 87/6 £6/10/- £7/10/-
Glevum Bagatelle
To-day’s most popular game
of Pin Bagatelle, complete
with cue and twenty steel
balls. Price, set .... 12/6
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ


About Your Indigestion..
INTESTINES
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE
Painful distension of the
stomach by gases from fer-
meriting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE
Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
I or HERE
Duodenal ulcers. Excess
outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles. It acts in a
logical and commpn«
sense way, and if you
persevere it will even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain of
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests s portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITTS ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6
new tidal-wave?). The recent Indian
literary manifesto declares:
Indian literature.... .has become anaemic
in body and mind and produced a rigid
formalism and a banal and perverse
ideology... .While claiming to be the in-
heritors of the best traditions of Indian
civilisation we shall foster through
interpretative and creative work (with
both native and foreign resources) every-
thing that will lead our country to the
new life for which it is striving.
They desire —this band of writers —to
preserve at least the common Indian lan-
guage, Hindustani. To preserve—not to
revive; for, unlike Ireland, India has
no problem of a language that has fallen
info disuse. Hindustani is there, in use,
with its literary form of Urdu ; it is a
question of using it for a new literature.
Some of the writers, for the sake of
naturalness, preferred to use other Indian
languages native to themselves, such as
Gujerali, with another potential audi-
ence of millions. As for a Western audi-
ence, that must, of course, be gained by
translations ; the important point is that
the first audience addressed by each
writer would be that of his own people.
Here one man present insisted that a
writer’s first duty was to be cosmopoli-
tan, super-national—that is, un-Indian.
He cited, as his ideal in this matter, of
all people, James Joyce. But that was
too easy a heresy, and Joyce was a case
for destroying it. With all his inter-
national status —which from various
reasons, good and bad, is immensely
high—Joyce always reveals his roots,
which are intimately Irish, from the
streets in his Dubliners to the polyglot
yet broguey rhythms of the latest-pub-
lished fragment of Work in Progress.
The Indian group as a whole seemed
aware of their opportunities, seeing their
country, like our own, as virgin soil.
Some of their work will undoubtedly be
written in English, which many of them
handle extremely well, though with a
slight pervading nostalgia for the mother
tongue. (The notorious, florid Babu
English seems to have died on its stalk.)
A striking small novel, Untouchable,
written by their president, Dr. M. R.
Anand, recently appeared here. Anand,
like most of the others, looks forward to
writing in his own language ; others have
been writing plays in Gujerati and Urdu.
It may be that the dramatic side of this
neiw literature will be the first to take
shape. This will become clearer at a
literary congress to be held at Delhi next
year.
This Indian literary movement with all
its eagerness makes our own look almost
old. Yet it is a question whether ours
has not something to learn from it. Our
problems are partly parallel with those
of modern Scandinavia, Ireland and
India. We are no younger than any of
these. Do our authors hold conferences
on their genuine and pressing problems?
Authors’ Week last April, one gathers,
was a healthy, hearty jamboree ; not an
occasion of painful stocktaking or action-
planning. By the size of our continent
—which in this is like India, not Ireland
• —it is not easy for our authors to meet.
Most of them have had to endure much
wasteful loneliness and misunderstand-
ing. If not younger than those other
recent literatures, ours is still new enough
for planning and the pooling of ideas
to be fruitful. We need to set standards
clearly, publishing magazines and pam-
phlets as a regular thing. It is necessary
for all of us to become aware of what
foothold has been painfully and bravely
gained hitherto. With this well in mind,
we could refute the pseudo-amiability of
all who suggest we are too young for our
few authentic books to be more vital
than our mere seasonal crop of machine-
mades.
London.
NETTIE PALMER.
The Essay,
Deceased
There was ' a
time when the
struggling writer
knew that a
couple of hours
down by Paddy’s
Markets, or a few shillings spent to get
to the flat on Cup Day, and he could
turn out an article that would give him
bacon with his eggs for a week. If one
editor didn’t want it there were two
others who did. And, provided he could
put down what he saw with a certain
easiness of style—adding a touch of
humor about the flapper and her boy
friend, and a sympathetic reference to
the little old lady selling roses on the
corner —there were publishers eager to
put his essays between boards. But
those days are no more. Essays aren’t
read now, or they’re not supposed to
be ; and so the struggling writer strings
all his descriptions together, the one
about the markets and the one about
the flat on Cup day, and that other one
about the crowd at the Quay at half-past
twelve on Saturday, and he puts one
character in all of them and other
characters for his hero to meet in a
number of them, and thus he writes a
novel.
If Victor Canning was a struggling
writer, or if his most recent novel, Poly-
carp’s Progress (Hodder and Stoughton ;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), was a poor novel,
instead of, for the greater part, a very
fine one, it might easily be included in
that classification. Polycarp himself, a
high-spirited youngster who can’t stomach
having to go to the office on his twenty-
first birthday, and who gives up his job
because he doesn’t go and the boss in-
tends to sack him, is a delightful com-
panion to set out with in search of
fortune. He varies from the norm in
that he does find it, and some of his
exploits—such as when, proprietor of
a London weekly newspaper, he goes to
the office drunk, overrules the assistant
editor and has published an editorial
castigating the advertisements as “false, 1
misleading and dangerous” —smack of
the highly improbable, but that does not
make his fellowship any the less delight-
ful. If some of the other characters
are rather shadowy it is often because
Polycarp is so much one with us, his
interests so much our own interests, that
no one else matters. But more import-
ant than Polycarp, and infinitely more
important than anybody else in the book,
are the occasions when the writer for-
gets his people altogether to describe
something he has really seen—a small-
town carnival, a Sunday morning in
Petticoat-lane.
Not that these occasions are many. A
half-dozen perhaps in the whole book.
It is the manner in which they are done,
the certainty of the observation, the
crisp, bright method of the telling, which
make them linger. This from the de-
scription of the carnival; —
Balloons floated about the street, de-
tached from their owners and meeting
death and deflation beneath wheel and
before pin and cigarette-end. Confetti lit-
tered the pavements, spouting in whirlpools
from the promenade gratings as the
draught caught at it, and worked with
growing eagerness and irritation between
vest and skin. Dogs lost their masters
and ran bewildered in a' forest of legs,
each emanating a different smell. , At the
bathing-lake girls walked along a. thin
planking before the critical eyes of the
judges....
Canning, in short, has a flair for chatty
descriptiveness which in the past would
have found expression in bright little
essays tucked away in odd corners in the
daily papers. More will probably be
heard of Polycarp—it would be unjust
to deny him the right at least to contest
an election—and, provided there are
more of these glimpses of things as we
all really know them, he will be assured
of a welcome.
J. C. B.
Knights of
Papua
The publicity
given to the
Papuan adven-
tur e s of Jack
Hides and his
mates has served
to turn Australia's attention to the terri-
tory which she has owned for over 30
years and has been paying for almost
twice as long. Knights-Errant of Papua,
by Lewis Lett (Blackwood ; 12s. 6d. net),
may help to further instruct this country
in what has happened and is happening
in that dark and, on occasion, bloody
ground. Mr. Lett is not a Government
official, as most writers on Papua have
been ; he was for many years a trader-
planter in the Central Division, which
includes the official capital, Port Moresby.
Like most white men in Papua, he has
the sincerest regard for the officials and
the famous Armed Native Constabulary,
and he writes particularly of the patrol
officers which were instituted when the
Commonwealth took over. Nearly all
the expeditions he tells of have taken
place, like that of Hides, in the back
country of the Central Division or of
the Gulf and Western Divisions con-
tiguous to it.
Not the least valuable part of his ex-
cellent book is the introductory portion
giving the history of the Possession’s be-
ginnings and the founding of a civil
service and a police force. These par-
ticulars are taken from the annual
reports of Sir William—then Doctor —
MacGregor, who did most of his own
patrolling and pacification for the good
reason that there was no one else to
do it.
With its easy, unpretentious style, the
book would be a capital Christmas
present for the young Australian. It
would help him to realise one of his
hitherto-unknown responsibilities and to
discover that his native land is capable of
producing numbers of men and youths
“whose work has been quite exceptional
even in the history of British colonial
expansion,” to quote a phrase from the
foreword by Hubert Murray.
KEREMA.
A Satchel of Books
Fools of the Legion, by J. D. Newsom
(Master Thriller Library; 7s. 6d.).
Dwells overmuch on the unspeakably
brutal non-coms, of the Legion, but is as
good as most stories on this theme, mix-
mg romance with blood, sun and sand in
satisfying measure.
Penny Foolish, by Osbert Sitwell
(Macmillan ; Angus and Robertson ;
18s. 6d.). A collection of brightly-
written brevities originally contributed
to English and American journals:
essays of the light and bright variety,
delightful to come onto many paper,
but leaving an impression of faintness or
thinness when read in any number to-
gether However, thin as they may seem
when taken m this way they are. still a
fair flight above at least nine such col-
lections out of any ten, if for nothing
else but the swift point of the Sitwell wit.
Low’s Russian Sketchbook (Gollancz :
ss. 3d.). Among the 20,000 tourists to
visit Russia in the past year went David
Low and Kingsley Martin, pencil- and
pen-wielder respectively, and the out-
come is a book which does credit to the
ability and the good sense of both ol
them. It is all the better because they
make a happily odd team—Low seeing
his Russia and drawing it in his incom-
parable spirit of fun-poking, and Martin
taking a friendly view of the place and
writing of it in a decently generous spirit.
Together they make a nice antidote to
the reports of Solemnity—fulsome variety
and narrow-minded variety alike. As a
team, they work like this:
Martin’s Account: In the foundry 1
stood watching a young girl with her face
Jft wjth a fie * e ' )ow b as the huge steam
hammer came down on the red metal,
Our engineer guide turned to me beaming
with enthusiasm. “That girl,” he said,
: T.i-
tory Gir , dreaming of peasant days,
absent-mindedly trying to milk a steam-
hammer.
jf je Wherefore o' the Why, by Lady
Helen Graham (Blackwoods ; 7s. 6d.).
A better writer of Lowland Scottish
stories than Lady Helen Graham this
commentator cannot recollect since J. J.
B e | b and her ladyship has a touch of
pa thos, too, that sinks fathoms deeper
tban Bell. Here she chronicles the hap-
penings of a small town somewhere near
Glasgow. The first story, from which
t h e book takes its name, does for the
Scottish villagers what Neil Lyons did
for the Cockneys in Sixpenny Pieces—
and that ’ s high praise. One little sketch
with an Australian interest records the
return P f a “Queensland Minister of
R a ijways” to his native village and the
re buke he gave to the local snobs. Most
of the stories have an unexpected twirl
at the tail> and j n a n t h e Doric is most
heantifnllv handled
by Alexander Hen-
(Chatlo Angus and
„ f , . Mo a„ nl,; rG i,in
Rob e|lson > . • -
critical appreciation of one of the most
outstanding of contemporary English
» rl e "> , based generally on the ground
that “There is no living author better
worth re-reading ; that there is no one
“ who can better inspire one with the
courage of Europe in the face °f the
American big-shpts, Dos
Passes and Faulkner , and that ew
writers have more important things o
sa y I* l3o Huxley, and none has a hnei
style, a politer malice, deeper culture
or a more secure artistry. All of which
ma y explain why, in what is widely re-
garded as one of the most backward o
literary countries, we ban him and keep
him banned. Or maybe the explanation
is that “Born in the ages of Faith,
Huxley would have been one of the
most famous of divineS) famoU s for his
learning and his eloquence.” Mr. Hen-
dersoll) a f ter a brief biographical sketch
( he having no pedantic regard for the im-
portance of a writer’s life as compared
with the work), parades first the novels
and then the ot h e r writings, examining
t h em w jth notable commonsense, as far
rerno ved from the school of analytical
chemistry criticism as this sort of writing
can be and as one of the clearest-headed
of wr iters certainly deserves,
g . f Pleasure, by Mark Spade
(Hamilton / 3s . 6 d.). Having previously
helped with his wise advice on
£ ow y to r £ n bassoon factories, Mark
s de now proce eds to wring laughs out
f board m £ t ings, mergers, sales promo-
ti etc Behind the camouflage of
his nonsen sicalities he does some shrewd
sn ; p i ng at many cherished business
stu £ idities . A chapter on business lunches
and interviews is a gem. Comical illus-
trations by W. M. Hendy help the little
uproar.


Christmas
060.—Specially made for the
motorist. Two blades, screwdriver,
bottle opener, tin opener, wrench,
testers, corkscrew, gimlet and
leather punch.
Price, 22/6 each.
1 I 6.—A Real Boys’ Knife. Two
blades, screwdriver, corkscrew,
rhymer, hoof pick and nutcracker,
picker and tweezer.
Price, 9/6 each.
11
I] jrer- ® ,
292.—Four-bladed Knife with
picker and tweezer.
Price, 13/6 each.
6006.—Stock Knife for the
countryman.
Price, 8/6 each.
C3.—Two Best Hollow-ground
Razors, xylonite handles, in flat
leatherette case.
Price, 31/6.
961.—Hand-made Leather Sewing Case,
9x6x3 inches, containing finest quality
fittings. Steel crochet needle, tape
threader, stiletto, two bodkins, embroidery
scissors, pearl-handle crochet needle, four
knitting needles, thimble, four reels Sylko,
two packets of needles.
Price, 39/6 each.
Stropp mq B 1 o ck' Blade Carrier
r with blade
OMMS
iiB'AKER3 HUNTERSTSYDNEY
The Allegro Honing and Stropping Machine, for
Gillette-type blades. Black finish.
Price, 25/-.
—— •' „ i •
-
An extremely useful gift for a lover of flowers.
This Flower Scissor cuts and holds stem of flower.
Price, 9/6 each.
A useful gift for home use, Stainless Saw Bread Knife.
Price, 5/- each.
fin. blade,
Price, 9/6 each.
?/•—W. Jno. Baker Standard Razor is suitable for
all men.
o
m
i
Ml
Pinking Shears for home use; save
time and material.
Price, 42/- pair.
Smaller size, similar to scissor.
Price, 36/“ pair.
Young man’s Shaving Outfit, in
leather case. Razor strop, razor,
brush, soap and comb.
Price, 32/6 each.
No. s.—For the Housewife. Three
best quality Scissors in leather case,
velvet lined.
Price, 25/- case.
No. I —Larger case, with seven
scissors and one pocket knife.
Price, 62/6 case.
103.—Velvet Shoe with embroidery
scissor for girls.
Price, 8/6 each.
t/>w
oca
S7O. Best Quality Horsehide Leather Razor Strop, to go with above razor. Length, 25in.
overall: width, 2in.
Price, 15/- each.
All the above articles POST FREE for Cash with Order.
Catalogue of Cutlery Post Free on request.
W. Jno. BAKER, ltd.
3 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
yy ■
.
i
m
••*1
mm
= ■
*
m
w
m
:
m
m
4
;?;v. •
iSS
■
*
i
. v
v->
■
■
tAr.
m*
sf
m.
r
l
£/
*r
M
'
y
r‘; -* f ~:.♦ J J c • £<? f £ £5“
•- . ... •-. z
, w, ■ ■ <v --. ;, **- v, -*. -* .** ■* *
'•l * T
r «
...... ■ -»
.
m,
Aerial View Seppelt’s Field—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over H Million Gallons.
‘Wm -cfwie melimme&TmulJmuj/uet


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2912.
December 4, 1935.
BUSINESS AS USUAL.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ws.;
6 months, 15 s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
- Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE CRIME OF CERUTTY.
Publication of the Auditor-General’s report, follow-
ing the violence of the political protest against it,
provides the twist of anticlimax to a wild tale of
monsters and horror.
Certainly the report criticises such things as trust-
fund and pensions accounts and the Commonwealth’s
book-keeping methods in language stronger and
blunter than is usual in official documents. But if
these activities are as they are represented to be, then
the terms used for describing them must be called, if
anything, too polite.
The qualifications of its author, Mr. Cerutty,
include 47 years in the public service, nine of them
as Auditor-General. This post he has now relin-
quished, being followed into his retirement by a stream
of abuse from people whose works, as specifically
appointed protector of the public’s interests, he had
dared to criticise, and by a threat. The threat was
that he should be deprived of £1538 leave-money for
an unnamed offence.
As to this threatened punishment, if it was not
illegal it was clearly shameful. The inference to be
drawn was that the money would have been voted
without a word if Mr. Cerutty had praised or had
refrained from blaming. Thus it must either have
been payment legally due, in which case it would be
open robbery to take it from him, or it must have been
some other sort of emolument, in which case taking it
from him in such circumstances would brand it as a
brake on his criticism, this being describable only with
one of the most shameful words in the dictionary.
As to the assumed crime, this was possibly buried
somewhere in the general charges against him of
making “loose and irresponsible statements” inspired
by “malice,” and basing his criticisms “largely upon
hearsay and prejudice.” A reading of the report does
not bear out these charges, unless we dismiss Mr.
Cerutty’s declaration that his criticisms have been
“influenced by the desire that Parliament and others
should not be deceived,” and believe instead that all
these concrete statements, and the documentary evi-
dence in support, arise only from Mr. Cerutty’s
horrible imagination.
If Mr. Casey, or any other offended gentleman,
has private evidence to support such an idea, he should
out with it. It would throw a light glamor of scandal
over what is urgently needed —a dispassionate inquiry
into such charges as that the “present distorted
accounts,” for which the Auditor-General could
“find no parallel,” are deluding the public and Parlia-
ment alike; that “the present methods would be
unanimously condemned by any outside body of
qualified and impartial accountants” ; and that “when
accounts are thus manipulated so as to misrepresent
the true position, they can only be described as mis-
leading—indeed, a much stronger word may be used.”
These and like charges Mr. Cerutty supports with
instance, example and tables of accounts, and hot
generalisations, feeble insults and foolish threats are
no reply to him.
Similarly with the pensions charges, over which
Ministerialists and Oppositionists united in a chorus
which convinced nobody of anything but that there
must be a nigger somewhere in such a voluble wood-
heap. The “unwarranted statements,” in which, as it
was said, the Auditor-General “traduces the character
and habits of old-age and invalid pensioners,” and to
which “the Government takes very strong exception”
—these statements make grim reading.
They include charges that, “as usual, very
numerous cases of overpayments of both invalid and
old-age pensions were reported during the year”; that
“a large proportion was caused by fraud and mis-
representation” ; that, “although in the majority of
cases the individual overpayments did not exceed
£lOO, there were many cases amounfing to over £2OO,
one special case exceeding £600” ; that “in Victoria
alone, 403 invalid pensions were cancelled by reason
of the recipients being found, on medical re-examina-
tion, to be not permanently incapacitated” ; and that
"many thousands of cases of invalid pensions are
being improperly paid.”
If those and a host of suchlike specific state-
ments are “wholly unwarranted,” “loose and irrespon-
sible,” made purposely to “traduce” pensioners, then
Mr. Cerutty is an imaginative writer of the highest
class and a person of the lowest class. On
the other hand, a strong impression remains that, far
from possessing that dual title to greatness, he is no
more than an unusually plain-spoken public servant,
who would have escaped threat and indignity if, for
example, he had refrained from such services as
recommending the removal of pensions administration
from "political control and patronage” to the control
of a board, with the biting addendum: "This would
not only relieve members of Parliament of much of
the work which falls upon them to-day, but would
also eliminate the mutual bribery which is one of the
outstanding features of Parliamentary elections.”
“The cost of pensions,” Mr. Cerutty further
asserts, “has grown to such serious proportions and
is so rapidly increasing by periodical liberalising of
the laws —largely from political considerations —that
it is evident that the present system of pensions will
break down under its own weight in a very few years.”
These costs amount to an estimated £12,770,000
for this year, an increase of 142 per cent, since 1921,
when the figure was £5,263,000. Against such figures,
and the reiterated charges of fraud and misrepresen-
tation, no amount of hot resentment, voiced in such
obviously loaded terms as “traduces the character and
habits of old-age and invalid pensioners,” can carry
conviction as a reply. .
The cold fact of the whole matter is that, it it
were acted upon, this ex-Auditor-General’s report
would be the most signal public service performed by
any individual in the Commonwealth. His successor,
to fit the Cerutty shoes, will need to be a man of
superhuman courage. He takes over in an inimical,
if not an impossible, atmosphere of threat, created, it
would seem protectively, by the very people whose
activities he will be employed to report upon to his
employer, the public. To be honest in these circum-
stances he will need to be capable of rising superior
to the most notable example we have so far had of
autocratic attempt to deprive the public of an
appointed guardian official's service by bludgeoning
him into silence.
WANTED—A NEW PARTY.
This country needs a new party. None of the parties
now before the public—United Australia, Country and
Labor parties, as they call themselves —fairly repre-
sents the average Australian.
They all stand for machine politics, for the selec-
tion of *candidates by contemptible minorities, and for
rank intolerance not only of criticism but of honest
opinions uncongenial to the party bosses —witness the
dismissal of Mr. Hughes, the expulsion of Mr. Black-
burn and the threats to Mr. Cerutty. They are all iden-
tified with the maintenance of seven Parliaments and
seven Governments and seven public services, each
overmanned ; with Government transport tyrannies
and government by regulation ; with insensate borrow-
ing for public works which hardly ever yield interest
on the incessant loans ; with a multitude of taxes
which take nearly a third of the national income ;
and with trying to allay discontent in the three small
States —some of it real, much of it bogus —by means
of excessive grants, handed over unconditionally. And
they have all starved the national defences because
“defence costs too much,” and are for depriving the
individual farmer of the right to sell his produce where
and when and to whom he pleases, and for turning a
blind eye on the proved defects of the Commonwealth
Constitution, and for rendering it almost worthless as
a nation-making instrument of government by blotting
the inter-State freetrade section out of it.
In other words, all these parties are doing or
suffering things which are against the best interests
of the nation and contrary to the genius of the race.
With unemployment still rife, all they can think
of is finding temporary relief work for the men on
things like sewerage schemes and swimming-pools—
generally in financially-embarrassed municipalities—
and making part-time navvies of the boys. In a coun-
try of vast distances where settlers lead lonely lives
and isolation involves risks, and here and there social
perils, they have set their faces against the develop-
ment of road transport because the seven Govern-
ments own railways, some hopelessly insolvent and all
in a measure obsolescent, where not actually obsolete.
Though Australians are resourceful fellows who take
to all forms of transport based on the internal-
combustion engine as ducks # to water, all our parties
are trying to force them to use slow trains or nerve-
shattering trams. By means of Commonwealth
revenue duties, sales tax and all sorts of State imposts,
they have contrived to make motor vehicles and
motoring dearer than anywhere else in the world ;
the petrol tax alone is 7i-d. a gallon, and last year
it yielded £7,024,400, of which £2,000,000 may
have been applied to road construction and main-
tenance. These measures having failed to wipe out
motor competition, others have been adopted, such as
a 50-mile limit; carriage of goods at less than cost;
v/ithdrawal of licenses from private bus services found
to be making profits ; even the seizure of motor-lorries
on the King’s highway.
In ten years to June 30, 1934 (disregarding the
book-keeping jugglery practised in Queensland since
1931), the controllers of the Government railway
systems accumulated losses amounting to £63,500,000.
Nevertheless, Australia, as ruled by these parties, is
still busy with plans for more railways. The Common-
wealth Government announces that it has arranged
for the construction of a standard-gauge line from
Port Augusta to Port Pirie, and for a sft. 3in.
extension from Red Hill to Port Pirie; arranged also
to allow South Australia another £20,000 a year for
twenty years to meet the anticipated losses, and to
pay more if the losses are greater. At the same time,
the Queensland Government has reconstituted the
superfluous Parliamentary Public Works Committee —
six members at two guineas a sitting—and asked it to
report on a 3ft. 6in. line from Mt. Isa to Camooweal.
Three new projects on three different gauges in one
week! In the same week the Americans inaugurated
an air service from ’Frisco to Manila. They are not
building railways that can never pay. .
When the Americans were extending their
frontiers settlement grew up about U.S. army posts
—in places like Minnesota, soldiers were actually
the first settlers. Australia might usefully adopt this
system, with modern improvements, and thousands
of adventurous young fellows, now unemployed, would
jump at the chance of serving at military posts in -the
north, or in R.A.N. auxiliary services—motor-boat
patrols and fisher-fleets, convertible into mine-
sweeping squadrons in time of war —but the politicians
are not interested. Constructive ideas never occur to
them, and when thrust into their noddles—as, for
example, when Dr. Rivett suggested enlisting scientific
brains and idle hands in a nation-wide search for
gold—are soon expelled and forgotten.
A late lieutenant of Mr. Lyons pleaded lor
support at the general election on the ground that
the U.A.P. Prime Minister was an anti-conscriptionist
and would never reintroduce compulsory military
training. The leader of the Labor party questions
whether nearly seven million Australians occupying
an isolated continent in perilous times can afford
£7,352,000 for defence (“such a large expenditure!”
he moans), though he is sure they can afford
£12,770,000 for old-age pensions and rails because
the amount isn’t £15,000,000. And some of his wild
friends at the T.U. congress “made a vigorous appeal
for opposition to any form of Australian defence,”
while demanding that “Australian workers should go
to the defence of socialist countries” i.e., the
U.S.S.R. As for the Country party, its interest in
defence is faint compared with its interest in plans for
giving wheat-farmers at least 25 per cent, more than
the current market price and saddling (he community
with a substantial part of their debts. Other parties
champion these measures and protest their devotion to
“producer-control” (which means crushing the indepen-
dent farmer and socking the consumer in the neck) —
not because they care much for the wheat-farmers
but because the wheat-farmers control key seats.
These parties are dying at the top. A new party
that will protect Australia and defend its threatened
liberties and take up the neglected cause of youth
and prevent vote-catchers and bureaucrats from stifling
talent and enterprise and continue the arrested move-
ment towards Union, with one supreme Parliament,
as in Britain, and no legalised border brigandage,
whether in the way of transport or taxation—such a
party has become a national necessity.
MAORILAND GOES LABOR.
Though nobody foresaw that Maoriland’s political
pendulum would swing as far to the left as it has
done, the movement was in many ways inevitable.
The Forbes Government had retrenchment forced
upon it by the depression. To spread the onus of
unpopularity it took the Reformers, under Mr.
Coates, into partnership, giving Labor the oppor-
tunity to say that the Liberal-Reform battle had
always been a sham affair. Denouncing monetary infla-
tion, Mr. Forbes initiated and the coalition continued a
25 per cent, disparity in the exchange rate on London
to advantage the farmers, and tided over financial
vicissitudes by such measures as the issue of Treasury
bills and the commandeering of gold. “See how easily
money can be made!” .yelled the Laborites and the
Douglas Credit cranks. Roosevelt’s Father Christmas
policy in the U.S.A. and, to a minor degree, the
capture of Alberta by Douglasites also impressed a
disgruntled and heavily taxed electorate.
Faced with an election (after having staved it off
for a year by abrogating the Triennial Parliaments Act,
another unpopular move), the coalitionists were suffi-
ciently financial realists to know that they had very
little further to offer. They had weathered the depres-
sion and more or less balanced the Budget. They
devoted most of their time on the hustings to ridicul-
ing the Labor programme. The Laborites offered to
make everybody wealthy by giving Parliament control
of credit and currency, restoring all wages and salary
cuts, establishing a relatively high minimum wage
for all workers (the farming industry is at present
largely outside the scope of the Arbitration Court),
providing pensions on a yet more liberal scale than
that which exists, improving education facilities, giving
more assistance to manufacturers and guaranteeing
profitable prices to farmers.
The electorate may not have swallowed the bait,
line, hook and sinker. But it had been told by Labor’s
opponents that the must dubious and visionary features
of the programme were impracticable. It recalled that
Britain had survived without very serious damage a
Labor Administration that made similar pretty
promises, and, being very tired of the devil it did
know, it has given a mandate to the devil it didn’t. In
the process it wiped out the Democratic party led by
Mr. Hislop, the Mayor of Wellington, which split the
anti-Labor vote.
The Labor majority is 24 in a House of 80.
Ballance, in 1890, had a majority of six; possibly
neither he nor Mr. Savage would have gained a
majority at all but for the first-past-the-post system, to
which Maoriland has reverted after some years of
experiment with the second ballot, though Australia
has long abandoned it. Ballance was faced with an
Opposition which in the matter of debating ability
and political experience was considerably superior to
that which will sit in the coming Parliament. There
is no obstacle (save Carlyle’s “chiels that winna ding”)
to the putting into practice of the whole of Labor s
programme. But it may be noted that the written
programme does not commit the party to anything
very revolutionary. In respect of State control of
currency and credit,” for instance, all that is definitely
proposed is to “acquire at market rates the shares held
by private persons in the Reserve Bank. As to
“guaranteed prices to farmers, ’ experiments on those
lines have already been made both in Australia and
Maoriland, not to mention countries further afield.
An essay on wider lines, whatever its effect on the
Dominion, will be interesting and possibly instructive
to the rest of the world.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Howls at the Guillotine.
It looks like airing a public scandal to say that
estimates involving expenditure of £22,000,000 were
guillotined through Canberra last week at the rate
of £41,377 a minute.
At the mention of the guillotine the Opposition
broke into the familiar howls of protest, and a pair
of Government members, snarling disapproval, crossed
to vote with Mr. Curtin’s extraordinary troupe. A
hackneyed performance, and one that could not delude
even the actors.
All knew throughout their time-wasting antics
over the last two months that the instrument would
have to be brought in to make this shambles of busi-
ness at the end. They knew what a mass of business
was ahead ; that all the real legislation of the sitting
waited there. Yet right up to the very minute that
the guillotine was wheeled creakily on they were col-
lectively engaged in the specialised industry of doing
nothing.
These gentlemen can be very earnest about how
they are misunderstood. They can be judged only by
their acts. These, in a two-month sitting, have included
the enactment of “sanctions,” the sacking of Mr.
Hughes, and some routine matters of grants, taxes and
financial relief. Against this, when they met last
week with 10, or fewer, sitting days to finish in, they
still had to get through all the large matters with
which the sitting was really concerned—the estimates,
dairy-produce export-control, sales tax, assistance to
wheatgrowers, increasing repatriation provisions, and
a stack of other measures ranging from sugar agree-
ment to women’s rights and from crimes to whaling.
Even as late as last Wednesday, knowing that all
this business waited ahead, the House could give a
whole afternoon to hearing a grievance aired against
a Chairman of Committees whose only offence, as all
very well knew, was a slight disability inflicted on him
by Providence —the lack of a sense of humor. No-
body who spoke in this silly debate gave any indica-
tion that he was sincere, except, of course, the attacked
Chairman, who would have put up a similarly heart-
felt and solemnly statistical defence if he had been
accused of pinching copies of “Hansard.”
As a result of two months of this sort of thing
the estimates were passed without discussion, and the
other important measures are now being rushed
through in the same way. The method of doing this
is described as an outrage. It is nothing of the sort.
What is outrageous is that there is not more of it, as
there will have to be if party Parliamentary procedure
is to last as a respected, or even a workable, institution.
All these yelps at the guillotine are, in fact, for
no other purpose than creating an impression in the
individual yelper’s electorate. The instrument is a
clean-working thing which, if it were properly used,
would abolish most of the time-wasting and undigni-
fied conduct from Parliament, enable debate to serve
its only useful purpose—mutually helpful and con-
structive consideration of measures —and save govern-
ment in Australia from the threat, on the one hand,
of adopting Fascist and, on the other hand, of adopt-
ing Communist methods in place of democratic.
All that is wrong with the guillotine, as used, is
the time of its application. It should be applied,
instead, at the beginning of each sitting, fixing the
whole proposed business to an equitable timetable,
with the most time allotted for the most important
measures, and simple allowances for unforeseen
business.
The instrument is an outrage only when it is
applied, as it is now being applied, not to get Govern-
ment business done, not to frustrate the worthy lads
of the Opposition, but, with the hypocritical con-
nivance of all parties, to ensure inflicting ill-considered
legislation upon the country.
4
A Lost Cause.
In Maoriland, as in Australia, “national” prohibition
has become a lost cause since the Americans repealed
it, after more than a fair trial. Again and again while
the experiment was raging on the other side of the
Pacific, the Maorilanders gave a majority for total
drouth, though not, as required, over continuance and
State purchase combined. Slump set in when accounts
of the bootlegger war, together with chilling details
of the cost, appeared in books, magazines and news-
papers, and the process was accelerated by the arrival
in Maoriland cities of the knut with the flask in his
hip-pocket and the sozzled jazz-flapper—regrettable
imitations of the heroes and heroines of a hundred
Hollywood films of the prohibition epoch. So at last
week’s referendum the Drys suffered the most dread-
ful doing in local history.
The referendum is held in conjunction with the
general election. Three issues are submitted:
national continuance, State purchase and control and
national prohibition. With the proviso that a few
small parcels may still have to be counted, this is
how the people voted at the last five polls (the one
to have been held in 1931 was solemnly postponed by
enactment, “until the second general election after
the passing of the Act,” on “grounds of economy”):
1919. 1922. 1925. 1928. 1935.
Continuance .. 241,251 282,669 299,590 373,692 483,628
State purchase .. 32,261 35,727 56,037 64,276 53,134
Prohibition .. 270,250 300,791 319,450 294,453 226,517
Presumably the Drys will demand more polls
and the politicians will oblige them; but it will be
a sinful waste of money.
4 -
“Sanctions” and the Trade-Union Congress.
The “All-Australian Trade-union Congress” split, as
was anticipated, over “sanctions.” The very unpacific
proceedings were held in Melbourne, and the voting
was 78 against, 41 for.
In effect, when the sheep and the goats were
divided representatives of Red International unions,
one of whose objectives is to “carry on a decisive
battle against the International Bureau of Labor
attached to the League of Nations,” decided to lie
down with the League, Mr. Lyons and the “S. M.
Herald.”
The first qualification of membership of the
R.I.L.U. is that the applicant must be “a revolutionary
class organisation, prepared to overthrow capitalism
through the social revolution and the establishment
of a dictatorship of the proletariat,” to “submit to
the decisions of the Executive Bureau” —overseas, of
course —and to take
(7) United action with all the revolutionary organisa-
tions and the Communist Party of the country in all
defensive and offensive activities against the bourgeoisie.
Old ladies who love Geneva must rub their eyes
when they read the objectives of their new allies and
feel as if they had taken a death-adder to bed with
them. At least they can console themselves with the
reflection that their newspapers may be sent through
the post. The “Red Leader,” official organ of their
allies of the R.1.L.U., is refused transmission by the
P.M.G.
4
The Shipping Strike.
Having chewed over (he 34 main clauses of the new
award, the so-called management committee of the
Seamen’s Union strongly advised acceptance. As
well it might, seeing that only four of the new condi-
tions could be classed as losses, while all the rest are
gains. The chief loss is 3d. in overtime rates, much
more than offset by wage increases of from £1 ss. to
£3 2s. a month, an arrangement which one shipping
company alone estimates will cost it £4OOO to £5OOO
extra a year.
To give the advice weight, the president and the
general and State secretaries published a com-
parative statement showing how much it was in the
seamen’s interest to accept, winding up with the
emphatic declaration that, “after weighing the pros
and cons,” they had “no hesitation in recommending
the adoption of the new award from the point of
appreciable improvement in the total result.”
Three days after that was published, before it
could reach the working members of the union, a
strike against the thus-strongly-recommended award
was on, and the week-end saw Australian shipping
being unmanned and handed over to the barnacles as
fast as it tried to leave port.
First, the crew of the Burns, Philp steamer
Mangola gave the thing a start. Until her last voyage
the Mangola had employed a Chinese crew, this hav-
ing just been changed for an experiment with the
Australian variety! Another cause for jollity is the
sheeplike docility with which all these Australian
crews have been brought out by command of a
clique of pavement sailors whom officials of the
union are powerless to control and the Government
of the country is incompetent to subdue.
Again, it is hilariously amusing that the whole
of the Australian shipping industry is given into the
control of this casual soviet, which, in the soviet
manner, strikes at the time when freight and passenger
traffic can be most seriously damaged and incon-
venienced ; at a time, too, when the British —including
the Australian —hold on a share of Pacific shipping be-
comes daily more precarious in the face of heavily sub-
sidised and firmly controlled competition. This soviet
will continue in control so long as it is permitted to
ignore and break the law.
There are signs, however, that public opinion, at
least, is getting a bit tired of these jocular people.
One sign is the prompt use made of this year’s amend-
ment to the Navigation Act permitting overseas ships
to carry passengers stranded by the action of strikers.
This can be improved—and may have to be —with a
further measure making such permit immediately and
automatically operative on the beginning of any strike
similar to the present one.
Another sign is the embodiment in the new award
of penal clauses fixing fines for incitements to strike.
These penalty clauses are copied almost exactly
from the Arbitration Act, through which they could
be enforced just as competently as through the award.
The Sussex-street soviet names them as one of the
reasons for striking, because, as it is well aware, the
Act is not enforced, whereas penalties embodied in
awards sometimes are. No better proof that such
penalties are needed could be had than the strike
itself. It can be described as nothing else but a vicious
and callous piece of lawbreaking, another move in
heading Australian shipping on the way the coal
industry went.
-
Transport Strangulation in Queensland.
After providing against any repetition of previous
setbacks in the courts, Queensland’s Transport
Strangulation Board seems to find itself all set for
running commercial motor traffic off roads which have
been paid for from taxation of motor-owners. One
victim after another is being mulcted of fantastic
fines, or else told to get out of business by the less
troublesome method of refusing him a license. No
notice is taken of petitions from the residents of
districts (miles from railways in some cases) asking
for restoration of, or non-interference with, passenger
and carrying services which have become essential.
The board consists of the Commissioner of Rail-
ways, the Commissioner of Main Roads and the
Commissioner of Police. For the operation of the
strangulation machinery it has available the Traffic
Act and Regulations, the Main Roads Act and
Regulations, the Heavy Vehicles Act and Regula-
tions, the State Transport Act and Regulations and
several other assorted statutes and regulations. These
have been “amended” as the result of legal reverses,
so that no defendant can now have any possible
chance. There is no right of anneal for him. The
commercial user of motor vehicles is, in fact, put
in the position of Public Enemy No. 1. In addition
to its formidable statutory armament, the board has
its own special legal staff and its own police.
The Postal Department has found itself obliged
to use. road service for mail delivery to Toowoomba
and adjoining districts in order to maintain even the
easygoing standards of promptness and convenience
with which it considers the public should be satis-
fied. Railway passenger service, as undergone by
the ordinary country-dweller, is little better than com-
mercial service, despite high fares.
Nevertheless, the Queensland country-dweller is
evidently doomed to watch the systematic suppression
of road services which he wants and appreciates, and
to put up once more with delays, inconveniences,
extortionate charges and neglect, which are features of
Railway Department administration. If he doesn’t
like the prospect, he can always chuck the farm, join
a union and get a job on the Kangaroo Point Bridge.
Or go on the dole.
— 4
More “Essential” Railways.
“A most friendly discussion” has taken place in
Adelaide between Mr. Lyons, supported by other
Commonwealth Ministers, and Mr. Butler, backed up
by his lieutenants. As a consequence, the country is
to lose a lot more on the construction and operation
of unnecessary railways, one of which will filch most
of its revenue from an existing line that doesn’t pay.
There are to be two new lines; one from Red
Hill to Port Pirie (26 miles) of sft. 3in. gauge, and
one from Port Pirie to Port Augusta (68 miles) on
the 4ft. B|in. gauge.
The Commonwealth has been hankering after a
link between Port Augusta and Adelaide for years. A
royal commission headed by a competent transport
engineer condemned the project in contemptuous
terms in 1931, and S.A. objected on the ground of
loss of revenue on the already-existing route via
Peterborough. The State Government has bargained
well, and as a result of the “friendly discussion”:
(1) Commonwealth will get its railway.
(2) S.A. will receive from (he Commonwealth £400,000
(£20,000 per year lor 20 years), together with the
right to ask for more.
(3) The taxpayers will have another £1,000,000 (at
least) added to the railway debt, and £50,000 or
so added to annual railway losses, which in 1933-34
(the latest year for which (he Commonwealth
Statistician gives particulars) amounted to £116,700
on the Kalgoorlic-Port Augusta line and £714,000
on the S.A. railways.
When the royal commission referred scornfully to
the proposed “line of convenience for east-west pas-
senger traffic,” it had before it the 1930 figures show-
ing 25,650 through passengers between Kalgoorlie and
Pt. Augusta. The total for the year to June 30, 1934,
was only 13,820, and, although the twelve months to
last June probably showed a slight increase—the Duke
of Gloucester’s party and a few other centenary-
trippers made the crossing—there is no reason at all
to suspect that the increase will be maintained.
Since 1930 three “luxury” mail steamers have
replaced older vessels in the Australian trade (another
is building), and up-to-date boats have also been
placed on the Fremantle-Sydney’ run, all of which
have cut into, and will continue to cut into, the rail
traffic. And there has for years been a Commonwealth-
subsidised air service between Perth and Adelaide.
The sponsors of the Red Hill line speak of
“increased livestock traffic” and other minor benefits,
but pin their faith mostly to the “convenience-of-
passengers” argument, claiming that the journey from
Perth to Adelaide will be speeded up by 24 hours.
Six of these hours will be saved between Pt. Augusta
and Adelaide, and the other 18 between Kalgoorlie
and Pt. Augusta. Why it should be necessary to
wait for the construction of the new line to speed-up
on the existing one is not explained.
Actually the expenditure of the million will save
only six hours, and when speed is a consideration
the passenger will travel by ’plane. The amount of
extra traffic attracted to the railway will certainly be
nowhere near enough to pay S.A.’s £20,000 p.a. hush-
money, let alone the interest on the rest of the bill.
4
Melbourne’s Buck-passers.
When Chesterton wrote his Napoleon of Notting
Hill, wherein one London suburb engages in war-
fare with an adjoining one, the story was regarded
as an amusing fantasy. The various public bodies of
Victoria have not yet reached a stage involving blood-
shed, but they badly need a local League of Nations
to keep them in order.
Flood damage of the past year has resulted in
an astounding amount of passing the buck. Each
public body involved declares that the other fellow
ought to pay for the restoration. At the end of
Toorak-road is presented the remarkable spectacle of
the whole of the vehicle traffic to the hills having to
make a detour of a mile because a bridge a few feet
long was swept away in the floods of fifteen months
ago. It was six months before the Prahran Council
and the Metropolitan Board could decide which was
responsible for repairing the damage to the boulevard
beside the Yarra. The responsibility of keeping
Kensington safe for democracy is still holding up
any protection against future flooding.
But it is not only the damage resultant on natural
phenomena which sabotages Melbourne’s organisa-
tion. For a period no trains ran on Port Melbourne
pier, because neither the Railway Department nor
the Harbor Trust would erect the electric gear. At
the same spot, all vehicles travelling northward along
the waterfront are still forced to make a detour of
-nearly a couple of miles round railway station and
yards because a short road remains unopened. Once
more the Railways and the Harbor if rust are at
loggerheads. Meanwhile, interest continues to mount
up without the public receiving any value for the
taxation which pays that interest.
Apart from the larger issues, the buck-passers are
well to the fore in all suburban councils. It is a
calamity to live in a border street or to drive a car
along it. Other streets may be perfectly made; the
border streets constitute a sort of No Man’s Land,
because neither municipality will spend its money on
something which may benefit the foreigner on the
other side of the road.


Society
"AND US PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS"
“Dinkumeer”: Elocutionists who in-
dulge in strictures on Australian pronun-
ciation are being subjected to counter-
attacks touching the use of “el-owe-cu-
shonn” in the delivery of verses.
Apropos, I remember a poet of repu-
tation who one wet night strolled into a
church festival at Albert Park, Mel-
bourne, Passing the pyramid of vege-
tables which stood at the doorway for
some symbolic purpose, he sat down just
in time to hear a most aggravating elocu-
tionist start on one of his own composi-
tions. The poet, who had been having
“few” with the boys, endured
it for two verses. Then he
arose in frenzy, seized a
bunch of carrots from ' the
pyramid and hurled it at the
elocutionist. As he beat a
hasty retreat, he had the
satisfaction of hearing the
murderer of his lines burst
into tears.
♦ * *
“Graaf Reinet”: Africa
has its Dan Kellys. A per-
son who says he is Com-
mandant Scheepers, allegedly
executed by the*British in the
Boer War, is going round
with a tale that he was
secretly rescued by a British
officer to whom he had done
a good turn and spirited away after a
mock execution. What he hopes to
gain by it is not clear. Scheepers was
a Cape rebel who specialised in
ambushing British patrols from farm-
houses flying the white flag.
jjc :Jc sb sjc
“Borgia”: Of course, it had to happen,
and I, for one, expected it sooner. Lij
Yassu, the rightful Emperor of Abyssinia,
had been put away safely in a castle in
the mountains since his cousin succeeded
to the throne. The Italians having ex-
pressed their intention of restoring his
rights, the unfortunate Yassu has oblig-
ingly passed out from paralysis. When
the Empress-Regent died suddenly one
night, thus leaving the road to the throne
open to the present incumbent, it was
from apoplexy after a hearty meal. No
wonder Haile Silassie, King of Kings
and all the rest of it, keeps a taster to
sample his food for him.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: The recent case of
mass hysteria among 80 girls in a Syd-
ney factory, because one became sud-
denly scared at the caretaker when he
cut a hole in the workroom ceiling with
a dust-mask over his face, represents a
common enough happening. Religious
revivals, with plenty of fire and brim-
stone in the preaching, often give rise
to the same thing. Fire-scares in
theatres operate similarly. The pheno-
menon is taking place on a large scale
in Italy, under the Mussolini system. It
occurred on a greater scale during the
Crusades of the Middle Ages; on a vaster
one still during the war. And men are
just as susceptible as women, provided
the right kind of scare is used.
;|c %
“S.T.S.”: A young friend of mine, now
visiting Germany, astonished her family
in her last letter home by roundly abus-
ing grandpa—“getting most unreason-
able ; curtails all our liberties; wants to
dictate what we shall say and do.” Now,
Germany has recently imposed a regular
war-time censorship again, and the letter
was opened, approved, and officially re-
sealed. But the girl hasn’t the ghost of
a real grandpapa anywhere ; the inescap-
able inference is that she is being impolite
to Hitler, and yet managed to pull the
censor’s leg successfully.
* * * ♦
“Ishe Naga”: The first journal I
picked up on board ship after four
months in Abyssinia as sole Australian
correspondent was The Bulletin, and in
it I read the comment of “Magdala” (B.
23/10/’35) that “even pressmen in Addis
Ababa are dithery.” The writer goes on
to discount my dispatch in which 1 said
that among the victims of the Emperor’s
escaped lions were two £lOOO Australian
horses, pointing out that another corre-
spondent said they were Arabs. “This
is more likely to be the case,” he con-
cludes. He is wrong. There are 150
Australian horses in Addis Ababa, most
of them being, used by the Emperor’s
personal lancers. The two killed by
lions were two of six blood horses im-
ported specially from Bombay (they had
been sent there from Australia) and
landed in Addis Ababa at a cost of £lOOO
each —the freight rates from ship to shore
at Djibouti (by lighter) and from Djibouti
to Addis Ababa by rail are the highest
in the world. My colleague who ’ said
the horses killed were Arabs did so in
all good faith ; he was told they were by
a Government official who should have
known better, but didn’t. As to press-
men who covered Abyssinia being
“Great idea of yours. Bill—setting out the lunch on an ants' nest."
“dithery,” need I point out that each and
every one of them went there at the risk
of his life, and worse —permanent dis-
ablement through sickness and disease?
* Hc * *
“Bo”: The alleged improvement to
the feminine physiognomy by the pluck-
ing out of superfluous eyebrows to attain
the coveted “pencil line” has cost one
woman in England her life. The wonder
is that deaths haven’t been more fre-
quent. The minor operation (for that’s
what it is) is generally carried out under
non-aseptic conditions. And even if both
the skin and instrument be sterilised
danger of infection exists. No doctor
would think of lancing a boil on the
eyebrow, owing to its proximity to the
brain; septicaemia is the menace, and
that disease is a quick killer. Pulling
hairs out by the roots creates a hiding-
place for bacilli.
“Burglar’s Typiste”: I think these
doctors are going a lot too far with their
nonsense about it being dangerous to have
your eyebrows plucked, even if they do
say that a girl in Birmingham died after
having hers done. Anyhow, some girls
have eyebrows that look like garden
borders, like that girl in the office oppo-
site ours; and if the roots go down so
deep that they kill the girl when they
are pulled up —well, all I can say is that
I’d sooner be dead myself than have eye-
brows like that, and my boy friend says
yes, me too. Anyhow, I don’t believe
it, and it’s just another of the things
doctors say to frighten people and make
them come along to their surgeries
because they aren’t allowed to advertise
in any other way. See the way they
talk all the time about slimming—why,
there's a girl in our office that’s been
slimming for years, and she’s still alive.
1 don't need to slim because I've a
natural slim figure, and she's skinny
anyhow.
* * * ♦
“Exdig”: The Digger who regarded
boots as unnecessary (B. 27/11 / ’35) re-
minds me of another who told me he
had never worn socks in his life, and
refused to do so as a soldier. Because
care of the feet was considered an essen-
tial, he carried the socks handed to him
to satisfy inspections, but they were use-
less dead weight as far as he was con-
cerned. He boasted, apparently with
truth, that he never, even in the coldest
weather, felt the discomfort that affected
most of us when the snow was on the
ground.
* « • *
“Findy”: It happened in a Sydney
hotel lounge. A young man three sheets
in the wind unsteadily approached a
table at which two military-looking
gentlemen and a young lady were seated,
and attempted to remove a chair which
a fourth member of the party had tem-
porarily vacated. “Pardon me,” said
one of the m.l.gs., “but that chair belongs
to my party.” The intruder, still with a
hand on the chair, drew himself up de-
fiantly. “Look here,” he said, “I’m ash
goodsh you. When we were fightin’ the
blanky Huns you might've been a
colonclsh and me only a private, but I’m
ash goodsh you now.” The obvious
amusement of the m.l.gs. appeared to con-
fuse him, and he departed chairless. A
little later one of the victors in the chair
controversy crossed over to the defeated
one’s party, and explained matters.
“When your friend is sober,” he said,
“I’m sure he’ll appreciate the joke. Tell
him we were in the war all right. We’re
a couple of blanky Huns.”
* * * *
The wages of sin are skimpier
in Victoria than elsewhere. The Vic.
Year-Book reveals that only 7.5 p.c. of
“ex-nuptial” children are legitimised by
subsequent marriage of the parents. In
N. S. Wales Bertie makes Gertie an
honest woman to the extent of 20.4 p.c.,
and in Maoriland he is such a perfect
gentleman that he does the right thing
in 36 cases out of every hundred.
* * *
“Selma”; “Floral tributes” (B.
27/11 / ’35)? An ambitious damsel was
sued for the value of six such tokens of
admiration she had ordered. They were
handed up at her one and only recital;
it failed to yield expenses, and the florist
had no other course open. After listen-
ing to a few caustic remarks by the beak
to the aspiring singer, the flower-man
sportily offered to throw in three of the
tributes, and dad unwillingly parted up
for the balance. Daughter was taken
home and introduced to housework as
a career.
* * * *
“Auntie”: “Smells are surer than
sounds or sights,” etc., but it isn’t always
“hers” who think of them (B. 13/11/ ’35).
We were making a cake for our boy in
France when uncle, who was roaming
around the kitchen, remarked “Remem-
ber how the kid always loved nutmeg?”
We looked at each other guiltily as we
hastily put the vanilla back on the shelf
and lifted down the nutmegs and grater,
Later, uncle said: “Remember how,
when he was a young shaver, he used to
pinch your mother’s raisins and lemon-
peel?” which sent a packet of seeded
raisins and one of peel into the parcel.
The family still cherish the letter ac-
knowledging it: “When I cut the cake
and smelled the nutmeg 1 was back in
granny’s warm kitchen getting my ears
clouted for pinching her raisins and can-
died peel. Nothing has ever brought
home so close as the nutmeg in that
cake.” I hate to say it, but deep down
in their hearts men are more sentimental
than women.
* * ♦ *
“Exdig”; That recent case in Sydney
where the Court granted probate of a
vanished Digger’s unproducible will on
the strength of a letter referring to it
(B. 27/11 /’35) is a reminder that there
are many other missing men whose
estates, such as they were, have never
been wound up, and are never likely to
be. Soldiers without dependants were
urged to make allotments of their money
to the Commonwealth Bank, and that in-
stitution must still hold a large number
of balances due to those posted as “miss-
ing.” Sometimes there is no one to care
or to put in a claim ; more pathetic is
the firm faith of some parents that the
missing soldiers are still alive and
will yet reappear. Naturally such people
would not belie their faith by applying
for a presumption of death. 1 know
personally of one old lady, to whom her
son’s bank balance would be a godsend,
who definitely declines to take the steps
by which she might secure it.
# * * *
“Derrick”; It’s quite a common thing
for the skipper of a steamer visiting Aus-
tralian ports to receive an SOS from the
local police station. Bill
Smith, A. 8., has made a
good day of it and is
now cooling his heels in
the lockup—will the cap-
tain pay the fine to get
him back aboard before
the steamer leaves? A
master mariner recently
called upon to perform
this charitable deed at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) paid
the 10s. Next morning
the delinquent appeared
on board, thanked his
liberator, and sportingly
offered to put in ten
bobs’ worth of toil. He
didn’t belong to that
ship (or any other), but
the fact that the skipper
had signed on three new
men only the day before
and was a trifle hazy
about their, names had enabled his ruse
to succeed.
« * * *
“Morita”: The lot of the two Digger
prisoners the Turks let loose in Damas-
cus to greet their cobbers (B. 27/11/’35)
was vastly different from that of many we
encountered in Belgium. When the
Armistice was confirmed prison camps
were thrown open, and the inmates were
invited to get back to their own armies
as best they could. Crowds of them did
it solely per boot. Some we saw had
been prisoners for years, and their fight-
ing clothes were replaced by anything
available. We fed Diggers with grimy
tunics on top of baggy Flemish strides,
topped off with civvie caps ; lots of them
looked wholly civilian. I still picture
one pair we passed, with matildas slung
over their shoulders and everything but
their language camouflaged. “Compree
woolly dog” (an endearing form of Dig-
gers’ greeting that only the newest new-
comer replied to) they bawled at us in
response to our cheerful welcome.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: 1 get prospectuses of
companies and advertisements of trad-
ing and banking concerns in which there
is a growing tendency to display the
names of some directors with impressive
swank: e.g., “The Lord Sempill,” “The
Lord Forster of Lepe,” and “The Lord
Luke of Pavenham.” These three (taken
at random) are all barons. Sempill is a
fifteenth-century creation. Forster is
Australia’s old sporting G.-G. (cr. 1919)
and Luke is still newer (cr. 1929). Now
in ordinary descriptive matter a duke
is always referred to by his full title ;
marquises, earls and viscounts are
named by their titles or as “Lord ”
indifferently, and barons (except in
official documents) get only the courtesy
designation of “Lord.” I used to think
that only a few Scottish and Irish aristo-
crats might flourish kilts and shillelaghs
as “The Macintosh,” “The McNab,”
“The Macgillicuddy of the Reeks,” “The
O’Conor Don” and so on. Certainly
the tacking of the definite article on to
the barons is something new. What do
the gentlemen’s gentlemen say about it?
Is it “done” in Mayfair, Jeames?
VALE!
Is all hope gone? Who knows? Yet it
would seem,
As when the sun sinks low in leaden skies,
The longest lingering ray, the last faint gleam,
Flickers and fades and dies.
Ever and anon the virgin realms of space
Woke to his wings and saw his flag
unfurled.
Hither and yon he cleft the clouds to place
A girdle round the world.
Past dreary desert, over mountain chain,
Above interminable wastes of sea,
He rode the winds, again and yet again,
As none might do but he.
In trackless, tangled jungle does he sleep,
The lord of the illimitable air ?
Or ’neath the whelming waters, fathoms
deep?
Ah I who may tell us where!
Sleep sound, if sleep it be! What though no
stone
Acclaim your record or attest your worth,
What though your grave should stay unmarked,
unknown.
Unguessed—you made the whole wide world
your own
And linked the ends of earth!
N.S.W.
I FORD.


“Comic Strip”: Speaking of artists’
models, there was a lady known in Syd-
ney studios who combined artistic liberal-
ism in this matter with mid-Victorian
propriety. She had no qualms about per-
mitting her shapely 18-year-old daughter
to pose in the altogether, but insisted
on chaperoning her on every occasion.
There was really no necessity, for the
damsel was a rigid Puritan herself—in
fact, more so than the old lady, who
became quite genial after a few sittings.
But the strangest associate of a model in
my experience was the girl’s fiance, who
sometimes even acted as commercial
traveller in getting his inamorata sittings
with new artists, but who invariably
turned up and took his seat beside the
dais while the class worked. He was
quite a good sort, and when the nuptials
were eventually celebrated the happy
couple were presented with a large nude
painting of the bride, which her lord
proudly bore off in triumph—presum-
ably to hang over the drawing-room
mantel.
* * * *
“Monty”: Melbourne’s abandoned
quarries are not such a problem or a
menace as “J.G.” (B. 20/11 /’35) argues.
Some years ago there was a huge hole
adjoining the Yarra at Alphington (Vic.),
a danger to every youngster in the locality.
Then somebody with brains happened
along and a lot of people with energy
got behind him, and in a few weeks it
was turned into a first-class swimming-
pool. Some of the smaller quarry holes
are unfit for such use, but the larger
ones —of which there are many—might
well be treated as Alphington solved its
“problem.”
.** * *
“Farleigh”: N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioner Hartigan, criticised for arriving
home in an American luxury liner in
preference to a British passenger steamer,
gave the excuse that he “wanted to get in
touch with tourists” (B. 27/11 /’35). It
recalls the case of Ned Harney, K.C.,
one of Westralia’s original contributions
to the Senate. Harney had a lucra-
tive practice in Perth and fat briefs
always waiting for him as a pleader.
Consequently, most of his time was
spent in dashing to and fro between
Melbourne and Fremantle by steamer —
this was years before the Trans, railway
was constructed. His constituents grew
annoyed, and it was suggested that he
should resign. Harney demurred, con-
tending that nothing kept a man
in closer touch with world affairs,
as well as Australian problems, than con-
stant mixing with the passengers on mail
steamers and exchanging views with
them. Somebody drily pointed out that,
if this were so, the stewards should be
exceptionally well equipped for political
careers ; somebody else satirically chris-
tened Harney “the member for the Great
Australian Bight.” Very wisely he de-
cided not to seek a second term.
* * * *
“Shep”: The making of wills (B.
27/11 / ’35.) was a sore point with many
a C.O. Though there was space pro-
vided in paybooks waiting to be filled
stacks of warriors took no advantage
of it. So many blanks were among
paybooks brought back from the line in
deceased soldiers' effects that H.Q. put
“Now, let me show you the PROPER way!”
the responsibility of making wills on unit
C.Os. Then we were given 24 hours to
produce our books with witnessed wills
There was no recognised form of word-
ing, and they could be as brief as pos-
sible. Even one I saw —“Every bean I’ve
got to the missus”—passed through.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Recent Bulletin talk about
barrel-organs recalls one formerly in
my family. A relative found it in
Geneva, a massive affair which would
tinkle gently or could at will be amplified
with drums and bells. There were
separate barrels for operatic airs, hymns,
popular melodies, dance music or
national anthems. I only wish I knew
what became of it. The patriotic buyer
demanded our S.A. anthem, “The Song
of Australia” (which it is quite time
the Commonwealth adopted officially).
Naturally, Geneva had never heard of
it; but a copy was, with some difficulty,
obtained from London, and the local
mechanicians did what was necessary.
It must be somewhere still—the world’s
only barrel to serve out that rousing
tune.
•l' v V
“P.M.”: Touching Victorian police-
men’s helmets (B. 30/10/’35), the rule
for the past 25 years or more has been
that the cop gets a uniform allowance
and buys his own clothing and white
helmet. The department issues an over-
coat and a black helmet, which remain
Government property. In summer the
white helmet is worn in daytime only.
Regarding shape there is a vast difference:
“ Shorry, my dear; didn' know I wash home.”
the white helmet is wide and flat; the
black one is high, with'a much narrower
brim. If the helmet of the London bobby
(B. 6/11/ ’25) is the same shape as worn
in 1919, there is little difference between
it and the Victorian black helmet. The
only thing I noticed when in London
was that the brim at the back projected
further. “It makes a good handle,
Digger,” a London bobby told me once.
“If you lose your baton in a fight it’s a
useful emergency.” As for the shiny
helmet warning evildoers, 95 p.c. of the
work where real criminals are concerned
is done in plain clothes.
* * * *
“G. de Sleuth”: Government depart-
ments which administer unemployed
relief are deluged with anonymous
letters charging named persons with im-
position. More often than not official
inquiry substantiates the charges ; some-
times queer domestic complications are
revealed. In one case the writer said it
was scandalous for members of a certain
family to be receiving the dole, since their
grandmother had come into £20,000.
Under the Maintenance Act of the State
concerned both parents and grandparents
can be called upon to maintain children
and grandchildren, so an officer started to
look into the matter. He learned that
grandma had certainly inherited the sum
named. “The old lady would pay some-
thing towards keeping these people,” It
was added, “but she has married again
since she received the legacy, and her
husband objects.” The officer obtained
the lady’s address and called upon her, a
bent and wrinkled old woman. While he
was explaining his mission the husband
came into the room. He looked 19. The
youthful bridegroom frankly admitted
that he objected to his wife paying any-
thing towards maintaining her grand-
children. He was induced to change his
mind.
j|c * * *
“Lokohu”: As a returned man who
carries rebutting evidence on his left
thigh, I beg to differ from the assertion
of “Double Express” (B. 30/10/’35) that
explosive bullets are unknown in war-
fare. I got my souvenir from a machine-
gun. Two previous bullets merely burnt
the skin but left their imprint distinctly.
The third made a hit. The hole of
entry was 2yin. wide ; portions of the
bullet were extracted in a German hos-
pital. Small pieces entered the left wrist;
some of them are in the arm still, if
the bullets were not explosive, why did
they burst?
“Ex-P.8.1.”: On a hectic afternoon
in July, ’l7, three of Richthofen’s
“circus” chased a party of us down
the Vierstraat-Hallebast road. Judging
from their grins and hand-wavings, the
German pilots seemed to be thor-
oughly enjoying our continual nose-
dives for the shelter of the shallow ditch
alongside the pave. A tracer bullet hit
a corporal in the back, penetrating to
his stomach. He suffered agonies, and
said he could distinctly feel the burning
of the phosphorus compound. Later on,
a badly-wounded R.A.F. pilot told me (in
hospital) that the pain from two tracer
bullets embedded in the fleshy part of his
thigh had been almost unendurable.
Apparently the German tracer contained
considerably more yellow phosphorus
than the British article. Incidentally, the
Germans did use an explosive bullet
( Luft-Einschiess ) for aerial work. It
had a round nose and was slightly longer
than the ordinary bullet. The explosion
was caused by an igniting device actuated
by the shock of discharge, and took place
less than one second after firing, at a
range of about 300 yards. It was subse-
quently discarded.
* ... * *
“Jungor”: Our G.-G.-elect being
marked for ennoblement, it has been sug-
gested by a patriotic press that it would
be a graceful act on his part to choose an
Australian title for his peerage, preferably
Canberra. It doesn’t seem to matter
much, but only one small Westralian sea-
port has so far been singled out for such
a distinction, and “Baron Forrest of Bun-
bury” died without issue, the title be-
coming extinct withn a few months of
its creation. Forrest and Bunbury were
inseparably associated, but L still retain
the memory of a libel action in Perth
when the Prince of Wales was in this
country and the then Mayor of the
western city had been accused of making
an exuberant ass of himself on the
station platform by hurling his belltopper
aloft and calling for three cheers for the
“Prince of West Australia.” His Wor-
ship was aggrieved at the sneer, and
brought an action against the offending
newspaper for damages. “Prince of
West Australia”! commented Dicky
Haynes, who appeared for the defence ;
“he might as well have called him the
Duke of Subiaco!” There was such an
outburst of mirth in the jury-box at this
sally that the verdict was a foregone
conclusion.
* * • * ■*
“Hod el Usbeg”: I agree about the
value of swift surprise bombing attacks
(B. 20/II /’35). The Anzac Mounted
Division had its first experience of the
kind at Romani. Flying low in the rising
sun, a Taube got right over the First
Brigade before it was spotted. One of
the several bombs dropped killed 20
horses and several men in the lines
of the Third L.H. before Jerry sauntered
off homewards, unmolested. All the
brigade mokes stampeded before they
could be taken out of the lines, and took
to the wide open spaces of Sinai with en-
thusiasm. We got most of them back
after several days, but after that always
kept an eye cocked.
* * * #
“Oxmead”: Having read quite a lot
about Mussolini these last few months,
I have formed a theory that his Christian
name must have had a
lot of influence on his
destiny. His father, a
b 1 a c ksmith, christened
him after Benito Juarez.
Juarez first emerged into
the limelight to become
President of Mexico in
1858, and ever afterwards
he was always “first
when the trouble began.”
He fought impartially
with rival Mexican
notables and with people
who wanted to impose a
foreign figurehead on his
country. Congress once
made him a dictator, and
at another time he was
head of a so-called Re-
publican Government.
Once he had to bolt to Texas. And
he had most to do with the deposi-
tion and execution of the Emperor Maxi-
milian. After that, he was elected and
re-elected President several times, on
one occasion refusing to retire though
another man beat him in the voting and
suppressing his rival in the field. He died
of apoplexy, when nearly 70, and Mexico
settled down to a term of comparative
placidity.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The half-finished Mount
Bold reservoir, which is to double Adel-
aide’s water supply, has suddenly proved
its powers —about which there had been
idle rumors —by making its first contri-
bution. It is on the Onkaparinga, above
the old Happy Valley storage, and even
at its present stage it holds up 30 feet
of water. It has taken just two years
so far, and completion is promised in
one more.
ANOTHER ILLUSION.
“Mr. I jamb, K.C.: ‘How many bookmakers are
there in Sydney ?’
“Witness: ‘About 500.’
“Counsel: ‘Putting their incomes at £2OOO a
‘‘Witness: ‘Mr. Lamb! Why, half of them are
stone-motherless!’”
—Supreme Court riute.
Pity the pencillers, the metallicians.
The men who regularly roar the odds!
And to the devil with the old traditions
About their having cash to burn in wads!
You thought their lots were cast in pleasant
places? . .
You reckoned that they lived like lighting
cocks?
It may have been so once. Eheu fngaces
Ami, But circumstances alter cases.
Now, scores are on the rocks.
You deemed their calling was all beer and
skittles;
You pictured them returning from the lines
To fill their ventral voids with fancy viltles
And wet their whistles with the wildest
wines.
All wrong! Quite half of them are just as
grateful
For cheap and frugal fare as you or 1.
They’ll dine on Irish stew, a steaming plateful,
And find a dish that’s anything but hateful
In steak-and-kidney pic.
What though their sense cesthetic seeks ex-
pression
In rings and tie-pins and in clobber gay.
Such things are merely part of their profession.
Essential tools of trade, as one might say.
To lilies of the field, for quiet displayment.
The Psalmist ruled that Solomon must yield.
And, even it be a bit more clamant.
There’s something iilylike about the raiment
Of chaps who lay the field.
You cannot tell a book, a proverb musty
Reminds us, by the way its covers look;
But, still, there’s not infrequently a trusty
Guide in the covers of the human "book.”
Yet can it, can it be the trim and tony
And cheerfully accommodating bloke
Who wagers you a “monkey” to a “pony”
Is, like as not, pathetically stony
And lamentably broke?
They used to reckon that a mug a minute
Was born, but in these days so drab and
dour
Compared with those, it seems there’s nothing
in it —■
The tally must be nearer one an hour.
Ah, well! Tis time they pricked these airy
bubbles;
And when some Ikey Moses next you touch
For one of those remunerative doubles
Bethink, your debtor, too, may have his
troubles —
Being stiff as any crutch.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


20M6
9
10/
or
1 QtiA
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
m^rnm
W&mim m
jm
CORK
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
G E N E R A T
POLITICAL POINTS
“Sanctions” continue to produce con-
sequences unforeseen by the able law-
yers who drew up the Covenant and the
able lawyers who forced on the appli-
cation of Article XVI. There is no civilian
class to which Britain owes more than
it does to its fishermen, yet even Australia’s
pro-sanctions cable service mentions
that British fishermen have had to dump
huge catches of pilchards because their
one market—the Italian —has been closed
to them. If the boycott endures the Aus-
tralian rabbiter will suffer, Italy having
been a substantial buyer of rabbitskins.
But Italian purchases of Anglo-Persian
oil, in which the British Government has
a substantial interest, are not affected.
State Premiers now propose to meet
in caucus before the next Premiers’ con-
ference so that they may present a united
front against the hated Commonwealth,
which represents precisely the same
people. Gilbert thought he was funny
when he made Pooh Bah, as the
Attorney-General, walk across the stage
so that he could not hear what Pooh
Bah, the Chief of Police, was saying.
But Gilbert had never been in Australia.
Preferential voting might have saved
the Forbes-Coates Government in Maori-
land ; at the worst it would have deprived
the Labor party of a working majority.
As it is, Labor gets 52 seats out of 80,
though it polled only 357,620 votes out of
772,129 cast. Thanks to the first-past-
the-post system, 17 Labor members were
elected by minorities. Savage, the new
Prime Minister, has promised to restore
the Triennial Act, but preferential voting
is not on his list of reforms.
Victoria now estimates its unemployed
at between 13 p.c. and 14 p.c. of the
working population—a reduction from
15 p.c. at the beginning of the year. At
the height of the depression the figure
reached 26.5 p.c. In 1927 there were 7.4
p.c. of workpeople unemployed: in
1911, 4.7 p.c.
MacCallum Smith, M.L.A., who re-
ceived £1022 as travelling expenses (his
salary went on also) for his services in
carrying the secesh petition to London,
is to have two Nat. opponents for North
Perth. One of them is a brother of
Arbitration Judge Drake-Brockman. The
cruel part is that he also is a secession-
ist—or was, or thought he was.
Our Glorious Press again. In the
Macquarie-street talking shop Lang had
a go at Goldfinch, the C.S.R. man, now
M.L.A. for Gordon ; and, according to
Lang’s newspaper, “an obviously ner-
vous Goldfinch, after a very weak be-
ginning, disappointed the House with a
pitiful reply.” But “S. M. Herald” said:
The new member leapt crisply into the
fray. In a brief, telling speech, delivered
without a trace of nervousness, he refuted
Mr. Lang’s charges.
You pay your three-ha’pence and take
your choice—or you can pay threepence
and wonder whether the Truth in Adver-
tising movement shouldn’t be extended.
Forgan Smith has been driven to admit
that the Queensland method of taxing
banks and life-assurance cos. is “quite
arbitrary,” and they are now to be
assessed on actual profits. But the
“arbitrary” system is to be continued
in respect of manufacturers, F. Smith
declaring that “the manufacturing
States are too grasping in asking for such
a huge percentage of profits arising from
their sales in Queensland.” No proof
of this assertion has been furnished, nor
has Foggy explained why Queensland
is not among the manufacturing States.
It could be but for excessive taxation,
nor would there be any shred of excuse
for “arbitrary” taxation if income tax
were transferred to the Commonwealth,
as it should be.
Now that Thomas has been dropped
from the Dominions Office, another effort
is to be made to arrive at terms with
the Government of the Free State.
Apropos, bad as the relations between
Dublin and London have been during
these last three years, De Valera has
scrupulously respected an agreement by
virtue of which each Government re-
frains from taxing income drawn by its
citizens from the territory of the other.
Presumably the smug Stevens Govern-
ment has no use for De Valera, but in
this matter he is streets ahead of it.
The queer statement was made that
Sydney Water Boarcf had “approved” of
the loan works programme presented to
it by the Government. In consideration
of this “approval” the Government
may “write down the board’s capi-
tal indebtedness to the State.” There
may have to be more writing-down
(and off), for many small house-
holders are in no position to pay
“Italy has banned the works of all British playwrights except Shakspeare and Shaw.
G.B.S. has protested against a suggestion that he is anti-British.”
“Have Bill if you like, Benito, but you can’t have me. I’m John Boll's jester.”
for costly sewerage connections, and are
pretty sure to get behind with their rates,
as many have done already. Such finan-
cial operations seem grossly unfair to
taxpayers beyond the County of Cum-
berland, but their “approval” will be
taken for granted.
Mr. Garside, who was N.S.W. Rail-
way Commissioner for nine months
while Mr. Hartigan was studying abroad,
is reported to have said that railwaymen
will have to prepare for a great deal more
leisure, since the 40-hour-week is bound
to come. Now, will Mr. Garside oblige
by explaining who is going to pay for it?
Mr. Garside’s department did a great
slide towards bankruptcy when a twelfth
of the working week was abolished by
law, and if reduction of effort becomes
a sixth of the old rate worse may be
in store. It will be difficult to induce
land men who work harder (in many
cases, for less reward) than the “upwards
of 1000 officers” to be housed in the
bewchus new green building in York-
street, Sydney, to be “the mugs.”
Still trying to interest politicians in
something more important than sewerage
schemes, C.S.I.R. chief Rivett proposes
a full-dress survey of the Commonwealth
for the discovery of mineral wealth. Dr.
Rivett pays a tribute to the prospectors,
who are doing their best under severe
handicaps, but says that their work con-
stitutes only a mere drop in the ocean
compared with what might be accom-
plished by the systematic efforts of skilled
geologists.
It is reported in Westralia that 2741
farmers who sowed 940,000 acres with
wheat will have poor crops or none at
all. Their orators are claiming a pound
an acre for them “as a free grant.” Few
of them paid a pound an acre for their
land in the first place ; in many cases
the price was 10s. an acre, payable
(except in distressful years) at 6d. per
acre per year. Most of these farmers
voted for secession, so naturally they are
claiming the pound an acre from the
Commonwealth. Westralian Labor is
supporting them, having found the Com-
monwealth a good mug.
Melbourne suburban municipalities
complain because they have insufficient
power to control advertisements on walls
and hoardings. As the law stands, a
council may blot out a sign which it
regards as offensive, but there is nothing
to stop the advertiser having it repainted
next day. Said a councillor at a meeting
of the Municipal Association: “There is
qn increasing number of unsightly and
objectionable paintings.” The adver-
tisers will doubtless retort that there is
an increasing number of unsightly and
objectionable town halls.
A dazed Opposition pointed out that
Queensland’s land and super land tax,
imposed ostensibly for the purpose of
allowing the yeoman to be freed from
the grasping squire (but mostly paid on
properties within municipal limits), re-
turns £22 3s. per taxpayer. Victoria
comes a very poor second at £3 35., and
the other States dwindle down to W.A.’s
£1 15s. However, with a good majority-
fatigue squad always on hand, the Gov-
ernment doesn’t need to worry about
little things like that. Has not Mr. Pease
pointed out that he is the best Minister
of Lands it has ever had?
Applying on behalf of the Furnishing
Trades for a uniform 44-hour week,
Otto Schreiber, the union secretary (he
is also secretary to the N.S.W. trade-
union secretaries), made a striking state-
ment :
Furniture is now cheaper than for the
last 10 or 15 years. The working man
to-day can furnish his home at half of what
it would have cost him a few years ago.
Nevertheless, there are still troglodytes
who declare that “Protection always
raises prices.”
One of the things that made people
sick of Lang was the parrot-cry of wor-
shippers that he was “the greatest
Premier N.S.W. ever had.” Now it is
being applied to his successor; even
Thompson, the Cocky M.H.R., intro-
duced Stevens at Tamworth as “the
greatest Premier N.S.W. ever had.” If he
goes on much longer as he is doing he
will be the greatest borrower N.S.W.
ever had.
Like the U.A.P., the Sydney Anglicans
have a kind of “electoral college,” only
they call it “the Standing Committee of
the Diocese.” The S.C.O.D. is sending
to Toronto for a coadjutor-bishop and
to Dublin for a principal of Moore Col-
lege. Wouldn’t it be as well to hang a
sign outside the hall in which these things
are decided: “No Australians Need
Apply”?
Unusual expedition and success at-
tended the decision of the Full Court of
Arbitration to go “into conference” —for
the first time in its history—when deal-
ing with the Chemical Workers’ case in
Melbourne. Difficulties which might
have led to debates lasting for days, per-
haps weeks, were speedily disposed of,
and decisions satisfactory to the parties
resulted. A precedent which, among
other things, should render the appoint-
ment of another conciliation commis-
sioner unnecessary. It has been stated
that Lyons and co. might offer the sine-
cure to ex-Premier Hill, and strong ob-
jections were voiced at the Diggers’ con-
ference in Sydney.
One of those “anomalies” which are
as common in laws botched by seven
Parliaments as weevils in wheat was
revealed at Geelong when a lad was con-
victed of an offence against a little girl
and consigned to a reformatory. It was
discovered that, as the boy was not 17 but
15, he could not be given reformatory
treatment, but must be sent to gaol. A
law which prescribes gaol for young
offenders and reformatories for older
ones looks so ludicrous as to suggest that
the Parliamentary stewards hoisted the
wrong number after the division was
taken.
The Queensland Government so rarely
gets a word of praise in respect of taxa-
tion matters that an appreciation penned
by secretary White, of the N.S.W. Tax-
payers’ Association, deserves to be quoted.
He points out that Queensland does not
charge relief tax on income drawn by
Queenslanders from N.S.W., though
N.S.W. charges relief tax on income
drawn by N. S. Welshmen from Queens-
land. That income is, of course, subject
to the ordinary Queensland income tax
and to Commonwealth property . tax —
two perhaps; but the Sydney Govern-
ment takes no notice of these legitimate
imposts—legitimate, at least, in principle
—when practising its immoral extortion.


“PLEASED TO MEET YOU!”
"The newly-arrived giraffes and elephants have made themselves quite at home at Sydney Zoo.”


!* '
Ti
rfffi
Australia
mif
tel
ah
nil
SYDNEY
N.S.W. A
if fll
fn'daap
wmm
HI ID
TO
til Cl
i\m
oil
Telegraphic Address: " Austraotel, Sydney.
K
9
k Stfdney its tiit
Opening shortly—the new Martin Place Extension
CHRISTMAS IN SYDNEY!
Make “The Australia” Your Headquarters.
Make ‘‘The Australia” your headquarters in Sydney—and be assured of luxurious
comfort and flawless attention to your personal preferences.
When you can enjoy “Australia” excellence at moderate cost . . . why be satisfied
with any accommodation of lesser quality?
NEW TARIFF—“ROOM ONLY” RATES.
Single Room 10/6 per day. Double Room ----- 20/- per day
PERSONAL ITEMS
Maoriland’s ex-Priminister George
Forbes, who has been in Parliament for
27 years, showed by the way he took his
defeat that he hasn’t forgotten the lessons
learned on the football field when he was
Canterbury’s nippiest halfback. “The
referee has given his verdict,” said
George when the numbers went up, “and
it’s crystal clear. We’.H get out this
week.”
R. W. T. Cowan is the ninth old boy
of St. Mark’s to win the S.A. Rhodes
scholarship in succession. He will take
the modern greats course at Oxford-
philosophy, politics and economics.
David Faulkner, of Singleton, was one
of the most active men around the
Hunter (N.S.W.) till last year, when he
was still playing tennis at 80, but he
failed rapidly recently, and died last
week. He will always be remembered in
the district as a pioneer of co-operation.
For several years he was chairman of
the Singleton Co-operative Dairy Co.
One of the oldest citizens of the
Richmond (N.S.W.) is Francis Fred-
eridks, who, at 96, is a patriarch of
a family known as dairymen and
horsemen from Atherton to Eden.
Seventy-two years among the North
Coast scrubs have not dimmed his
faculties; he can still remember men
who were in their best youth when Mac-
quarie ruled and tell tales of the pastoral
age before the district saw a dairy cow,
when Lismore was a few huts and cedar
was an ordinary building timber. He
has only one grievance—the North Coast
Show Society refused to stage a ring
event for riders over 70 this year. He
won it two years ago.
Rabbi A. D. Wolinski, who died at 89,
was a wise, gentle, dignified Jew of the
old school, full of experience and com-
monsense. A Pole, he came to Australia
52 years ago, and for a long time was
associated with the Sydney Great Syna-
gogue ; then he took charge of the pros-
perous Hebrew community in East Mel-
bourne. He was back in Sydney before
his retirement eight years ago, and after-
wards made two trips to Palestine. He
had an extensive knowledge of rabbinical
music, and his soaring tenor was a great
asset to his synagogues. Among his three
sons is Joseph Wolinski, the artist, whose
work is represented in the N.S.W.
National Gallery.
A. W. Pearse, just back from England
—he represents the Port of London here,
apart from owning the “Pastoral Review”
—must surely win in the Australian Tour-
ist Stakes. He began travelling in 1875
as an 18-year-old apprentice in the Royal
Mail Packet Line, and, although he left
the sea 12 years afterwards with a
master’s certificate and a gift of elo-
quence, he has been on the move ever
since, visiting every continent a number
of times. He has attended half a dozen
overseas meat conferences, and for a
time was Chief Comforts Fund Commis-
sioner in Egypt during the war.
“Jamwood”: Bill Hedges’s exit from
politics (B. 27 /11 / ’35) was stormy.
R. J. Burchell beat him for Fremantle
in 1913. Hedges, who had thought him-
self a certainty, hearkened to a story
that his downfall had been wrought by
impersonation on a large scale. He sent
it along to friendly newspapers, and daily
the number of bogus votes grew from
hundreds to thousands. Inquiry revealed
that the yarn was 99 per cent, imagina-
tion and false arithmetic, and Bill re-
tired hurt to his model farm at Bruce
Rock. In 1922 he made another attempt
on Fremantle, and came third in a field
of three. Burchell retired in that year,
having in the meantime turned conscrip-
tionist and been to the war —he returned
a Nationalist. In later years he became
connected with the Sydney “.Sunday
Times,” now defunct.
Michael Joseph Savage, who is to be
Maoriland’s new Prime Minister, is Aus-
tralian-born and Irish by ancestry. He
had experience in this country as a
counterjumper, a miner and manager
of a co-operative bakery, and ever since
his arrival in M.L., 33 years ago, he has
been a pillar of the Labor party. Like
Maoriland's new Premier.
most Fernland politicians, he served an
apprenticeship as a member of local
bodies before attempting to enter Parlia-
ment. Auckland West gave him a seat
in 1919, and he has held it continuously
since. A much better mixer than, though
not as good a speaker as, Harry Holland,
whom he succeeded as leader of the Par-
liamentary Laborites on Holland’s death
a couple of years ago, Savage, who is
63, rules his party by kindness and tact,
and is liked as much as he is respected.
In Opposition he has proved himself
watchful and adroit.
“X.T.”: Just-dead H. M. Stevens,
Queensland M.L.A. for the German dis-
tricts of Rosewood for several years, had
something the look of the traditional pic-
tures of Don Quixote when I first knew
him, and, although he had a sober com-
monsense and force of character, he
could espouse a cause as ardently as
Cervantes’s kindly old hero. When T. J.
Ryan commandeered butter during the
war, Stevens took up his lance of reason
and smote the commandeerers, com-
pelling them to modify some of their
measures and drop others. Originally a
schoolmaster who lost his job through
ill-health, H.M.S. was always grateful to
the land for giving him a long, new lease
of life and comparative prosperity.
Peter Fraser is sure to be given one
of the plumpest portfolios in Maori-
land’s new Cabinet. He hails from Ross-
shire in the Scottish Highlands. A
crofter’s son, he took the side of his
class against the lairds and delivered in-
flammatory speeches while in his teens.
After a few years in London, where he
joined the 1.L.P., he migrated to M.L.
at the age of 26, and worked on the
wharves. The M.L. Socialist party and
later the Social Democratic party had
the benefit of his fiery oratory, and in
1919 Wellington Central sent him to Par-
liament, where he has stayed, gaining a
bigger majority at each election. When
Jimmy McCombs died Peter took the
Lyttelton member’s place as his party’s
fount of knowledge of Parliamentary
procedure. Fraser holds his convictions
as deeply as did Jock McKenzie. Like
Jock, he’s a canny chiel, not likely to
bite off more than he can comfortably
chew.
Dr. Ramsay Mailer, of Melbourne,
who has put forward a scheme of slum
abolition and improved housing, was
formerly a frequent occupant of front
pages by reason of his cricketing ability.
He first attracted attention as a univer-
sity player, became one of Vic.’s leading
cricketers, and, but for putting his profes-
sion before his pleasure, might have
been in at least one Australian XI.
“J.M.”: High Commissioner Bruce’s
story of how he gained his first election
by telling an anecdote about an Irish-
man recalls that his forebears were
Ulstermen. His father, John Munroe
Bruce, and his uncle, George Bruce, who
spent the greater part of their lives as
well-known Melburnians, saw the light
in Ulster, and a few years back George
Bruce was an office-bearer in the North
of Ireland Men’s Association, which
flourished in Victoria.
“El V.” on a centenary:
Historic names have appeared in the board
lists of Tooths’, now 100 years old. The
firm was founded in Sydney by John Tooth,
of Kent, who gave it its trade-mark —Kent’s
white horse which Hcngist and Horsa brought
over on their standard, and which still appears
in the insignia of all Kentish regiments. His
partner was Charles Newnham. In 1843 the
brewery was leased to relatives from London
—Robert and Edwin —and the prolific family
not only built up their own concern for 50
years, but had a finger in most big develop-
ments. They were represented in the chair
and on the board of the ’Wales for half a
century; they helped to found the C.S.R. Their
stations and farms ranged from Hobart to
Queensland; Bagdad (Tas.), Kameruka and
Kirkham (N.S.W.), Widgee (Q.)— Gympie was
on the estate, but they missed it—Goomburra,
Jondaryan and other properties were theirs.
They acquired a baronetcy; they represented
both Queensland and N. S. Wales seats in the
first N.S.W. Parliaments. All the three sons
of the first baronet were killed in the war, and
the baronetcy was re-created for a grandson
of the female line. Since 1888 the business
has been in the hands of a public company,
on the board of which, apart from members
Tooths’ chairman.
of the Tooth family, George Judah Cohen,
J. R. Hill, H. E. Russell, Richard Jones,
Norman Shelley and F. L. Partridge figured
among a picture gallery of well-known men.
The present chairman, Francis Bligh, filled the
place of J. B. Christian, an original director,
who died in 1918. He is a Melburnian,
educated in England (at Marlborough), who,
after many years' experience abroad and with
his father’s Victorian firm, became managing
director of Harbottle Brown. He formed
the Wine and Spirit Merchants’ Association
in the ’nineties, and was for 16 years chairman
of the N.S.W. Liquor Trades Defence Union.
A. F. M. Feez—Fehts, not Fees, please!
—has celebrated his fiftieth year in Bris-
bane law. Rockhampton-born, educated
at The King’s School, Parramatta, he
practised as a solicitor with several part-
ners until 1911, when he joined his name
to the Ruthnings, who had substantial
connections —including the Brisbane
Newspaper Co. He was a great sporting
man in his day, founded the Queensland
Polo Association and the now-extinct
Hunt Club, and played Rugby Union
football for Queensland.
From “T.H.”; —
Dr. Schuschnigg, the Austrian Chancellor, is,
at 38, the youngest Dictator or Prime Minister
in Europe. The Germans like to claim that
Herr Hitler has this distinction, but he is'
46. If, however, only Great Powers are con-
sidered, then Hitler is the youngest leader.
M. Flandin, a former Premier of France, was
born only eight days before the Fiihrer. Other
under-fifty bosses are General Goemboes,
Hungary’s Prime Minister, and Professor An-
tonio Salazar, Dictator of Portugal. Britain
has had only two under-fifty Prime Minis-
ters since 1800 —Pitt, who succeeded at 23
and held the job for 19 years, and Lord
Rosebery, who was in office for less than 18
months in 1894-95.
The late Frank Wilkinsoa was a
human library of sporting lore. Trained
in the Illawarra among De Mestres and
other old hands, he knew everything there
was to know about racing history, and
from the time he went to the “Town and
Country Journal” half a century ago
until he died at 86 he kept records.
If the signature “Martindale” was not
seen latterly so often as of yore in the
sporting press, it was mainly because its
owner was compiling his History of the
Turf in Australia, which he finished not
long before he died.
. The Religious Editor farewells a col-
league;—
Bishop Crotty, who goes to St. Pancras,
London, as rector, is English-born—his father
was a parson, too —but he was educated at
Melbourne Grammar and University, where
he won enough prizes to fill Westminster
cloisters. After filling a headmastership at a
Melbourne school and a couple of church
charges and spending two years at the war,
he astonished Newcastle (N.S.W.) 16 years ago
when he arrived in character as the Coal
City’s new dean. His ecclesiastical garments
were so impeccably black and well fitting—
he sported gaiters and all the other things
which deans used to wear—that a native
ejaculated: “Good Gandhi, are them clothes
or is they a skin?” a remark which the dean
repeated with gusto. In 1928 he became
Bathurst’s bishop. His new church is an
ornate and well-endowed structure facing
Euston-road and Endsleigh Gardens in a
neighborhood handy to every part of central
London. Across the road are three large
railway stations —Euston, Pancras and King’s
Cross —gasworks and other amenities. On
the other side is Bloomsbury, which provides
the nucleus of the parish—rather incongruously,
since St. Pancras is a patron saint of children
and everybody in Bloomsbury seems to have
beeft born at 30.
Lord Barnby, who is visiting us, is the
second baron. He should have been a
Cornstalk. He is about the size of Robert
Garran, and when he visited Japan and
a year or so ago on a com-
mercial mission he towered above small
Oriental hosts like a pine-tree over an
azalea. There is none of the “big man’s
customary sloth” about him. His charac-
ter is written on a keen, hatchet-type of
face which is younger than his 51 years.
And an Eton-Magdalen education did
not cure him of being Yorkshire. His
shrewdness and industry have put him on
the Central Electricity Board and on
the boards of Lloyds Bank and Commer-
cial Union Assurance. He is a partner in
the Bradford wool firm of Francis Willey
and Co., and was recalled from Gallipoli
during the war to fill several big official
jobs. He was Wool Controller in 1916,
and organised the purchase and distri-
bution of Empire clips during the Bawra
period. He is a bachelor; polo and
tennis are his spare-time hobbies, and he
belongs to a record number of select
clubs—Carlton, Cavalry and Bath among
them.


• <
•V/ ' J r ♦
-a '
S4i¥
: : ■ . : ■, .
W'.-i.
181
mm
mm
wm
w
wmmm
'
ill;
Wwm
MiMC
■■l
■
Sh
m
■m
*
sm
Ji
H
:: •
m
v
ii
mm
Jm
m
m
m
....
m m
mm
m
¥¥:■
A*'!
pc'
\o9
o°^
do
su°
::::
O'-*
o'
do
p«o
F, 107
Weftless cord tyres
A wise precaution for a happy
motoring holiday
DUNLOP TYRES outwear and outlast all
others because they are the only tyres in
Australia made with WEFTLESS CORD


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors-,
0. E. FKIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 3.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3,45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
T/icensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and -of all materials containing Gold,. Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold.-Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formula or Buyers own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers Metals
to Standard Formula; or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company s
offices, viz.: — . %tcTIT
sim pit In jr Works aiul Refineries; PORT KE3IBLA» N.S.M,
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office iSCOCoUms Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or f ®*t Kembla.
GOLDMINERS send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sjdney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company wiU effect prompt realisation on your Xot
plus exchange, and will settle in fuU within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port ivemDla.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The T, and G.
These are the initials by which the
Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is
known throughout Australia and Maori-
land, where it has been writing policies
for more than half a century:
Ordinary Lifu Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
'2O 1,007,21!) 109,010 886,016 503,193 4,715,235
'3O 1,619,550 262,580 003,373 753,597 7,558,827
Written off premises, £49,036.. .. 7,509,791
To contingency fund, £36,777.. .. 7,473,014
’3l 1,701,929 281,880 759,152 060,897 8,133,911
Written off promises, £49,327.. .. 8,084,584
To contingency fund, £29,597.. .. 8,054,987
’32 1,052,870 300.850 784,224 501,790 8,010,777
Written off premises, £24,770.. .. 8,592,001
To contingency fund, £24,770.. .. 8,507,225
’33 1,710,881 304,708 759.425 052,688 9,219,913
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,194,913
To contingency fund, £5OOO .. .. 9,189,913
'34 1,855,750 284,403 789,667 781,720 9,971,033
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 9,976,033
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 9,904,13.3
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 9,951,633
’36 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,019
Industrial Likk Dbpartmknt.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’2O 1,033,937 521,034 443,510 069,393 5,187,752
’SO 2,224,907 080,186 901,607 643,174 7,922,941
Written off premises, £50,868.. .. 7,872,073
To contingency fund, £113,151 .. 7,758,922
’3l 2,188,137 001,797 929,514 596,826 8,355,748
Written off premises, £50,673.. .. 8,305,075
To contingency fund, £70,403.. .. 8,234,072
’32 2,108,142 077,110 893,413 537,613 8,772,285
Written off premises, £25,224., .. 8,747,061
To contingency fund, £25,224.. .. 8,721,837
'33 2,135,912 079,270 743,108 713,468 9,435,305
Written off premises, £25.000.. ~ 9,410,305
To contingency fund, £45,000.. .. 9,365,305
’34 2,257,022 077,400 632,513 947,109 10,312,414
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 10,317,414
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 10,304,914
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 10,292,414
’36 2,436,215 709,995 555,123 1,171,097 11,463,511
The business continues to step along
nicely, and the figures exhibit a healthy
condition in all those matters upon
which the prosperity of a life office de-
pends. A record amount of new busi-
ness was put on the books (£13,790,402,
up £973,588 in the Ordinary and Indus-
trial departments combined), and costs
were reduced. Excluding Accident poli-
cies, the business in force (£66,288,353)
was £5,197,396 more than at the previ-
ous balance. The spring in income from
all sources (£4,567,932) was £395,198, of
which £330,402 came from premiums,
etc. (£3,597,783), and £64,796 from in-
terest, rents, etc. (£970,149). After writ-
ing £25,000 off the book value of
premises, and adding £35,624 to the
fidelity and contingency account
(£562,075), £2,094,141, the biggest
amount yet, was sent to the life and acci-
dent fund, raising the figure to
£22,432,507.
These funds, together with £61,790 of
deposits and £113,989 earmarked for
claims and other outstanding accounts
awaiting settlement, were invested in this
way;
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Public
securities ..£13,247,821 62.8 £15,116,452 65.2
bogus. . . . 5,308,427 25.2 5,686,969 24.5
Freeholds . . 1,932,545 9.2 1,960,999 8.5
Cash, book debts,
etc 593,664 2.8 405,940' 1.8
Most of the year’s surplus earnings was
invested in public securities (up
£1,868,631), of which £4,649,489 is Com-
monwealth and Maoriland Government
slock, and the balance local-govern-
ment and other public-body securities.
Over the last six years £335,000 has
been written off the book value of free-
holds.
The sum available for division among
policy-holders (there are no shareholders)
is the amount by which the funds exceed
liabilities under policies. Last year’s
surplus increased by £18,624 in the Ordi-
nary and by £15,680 in the Industrial
department:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Net surplus;—
Ordinary .. £398,612 £393,592 £418,552 £437,176
Industrial .. 190,059 286,5148 301,519 317,199
Total .. £588.671 £680,140 £720,071 £754,875
Bonuses to policy-holders, although re-
duced slightly in 1931, have continued
on the same liberal scale since. The
relief from Government bleeding and the
drop in the expense rate make the out-
look encouraging—last year’s taxes, etc.
(£61,950, down £6624), were little more
than one-third of what they were for the
1932 term.
In the Ordinary department an extra
£980,983 of new business was written:
1932. 1934. 1935.
Policies .. .. 22,179 25,706 29,122
Amount .. .. £5,181,522 £7,034,665 £8,015,648
First premiums ~ 169,344 238,368 272,416
Renewals .. ~ 1,070,162 1,155,619 1,236,209
Interest, etc. ~ 407,564 445,192 473,502
Excluding taxes, exes, took 17.2 p.c. of
the year’s net premiums, including con-
sideration for annuities, as against 17.5
p.c. in the previous term and 19 p.c.
five years ago.
In the Industrial branch £5,774,754
(down £7395) of new business was writ-
ten. Excluding taxes, exes, took 35,2
p.c. of the net premiums (£1,942,283, up
£143,355), compared with 35.9 p.c. in
1934.
In the Accident branch premium in-
come (£80,963) sprang £23,067, or 39.8
p.c.
The office assumes that its funds will
turn in 3 p.c. After deducting rates and
taxes, the net rate on mean funds last
year was £4 10s. 9d. compared with £4
12s. 9d. for the previous term,
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 104,560 12$ p.c. = 62,500 42,060 427,992
1926.. 144,529 12$ „ „ 62,500 82,029 510,021
1927.. 140,526 12* „ „ 62,500 78,026 588,047
1928.. 125,869 12$ „ „ 62,500 63,369 651,416
1929.. 102,608 12$ „ „ 62,500 40,008 691,424
1930.. 62,299 10 „ „ 50,000 12,299 703,723
Payment to reinsure American
risks, £75,000 628,723
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,190
1932.. 89,353 10 „ „ 50,000 39,353 693,543
1933.. 103,358 10 „ „ 50,000 53,858 746,901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ „ 50,000 55,067 801,968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 „ ~60,000 42,837 644,805
In Dec. last £250,000 of reserves, one
for two, was capitalised, lifting paid capi-
tal to £750,000, of which £675,000 has
come from surplus earnings; the
last previous gift (£150,000) was in
1919. The cautious board lowered
the div. from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c.; but the
8 p.c. called for £lO,OOO more than 10
p.c. did a year ago, being equal to 12
p.c. on capital as it stood at the close
of accounts in 1934. Though the year’s
net return from all sources was £2230
lighter, owing to a drop in the underwrit-
ing surplus, it was 13.7 p.c. on capital
as it now stands, so the 8 p.c. was a com-
fortable matter.
The £42,837 that .visibly remained
lifted the lay-by to £644,805 ; that in-
cludes £50,000 brought from inner re-
serves and put in the window—it was
part of an unspecified provision for con-
tingencies, lumped with sundry creditors-
(together now £74,666, down £9961), in
the sheet. Total funds (capital and re-
serves combined) need therefore turn in
only 4.3 p.c. net to cover 8 p.c. on capi-
tal alone. Actually, the gross return
from investments was £1595 better at
£64,655, of which rates and taxes took
£10,577, leaving £54,078 net, or £5922
less than the div. called for.
In 1932 net premiums had fallen to
less than half the 1928 figure, owing partly
to slump, partly to closure of the New
York and Montreal offices, and partly
to curtailment of the unsatisfactory
London marine business. But the board
knew what it was about, as a glance at
the loss ratios in the following table
shows:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1906.. 74,118 43,129 26.020 68.2 „ 35.1 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 83.6 „
1925.. 556,191 289,791 219,851 52.1 „ 39.5 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 300,804 02.6 „ 39.8 „
1931.. 516,897 295,828 217,492 57.3 „ 42.1 „
1932.. 435,649 223,587 190,021 51.3 „ 43.6 „
1933.. 435,079 208,207 188,643 47.8 „ 43.3 „
1934.. 458,718 221,893 189,818 48.9 „ 41.8 „
1935.. 497,893 245,325 203,809* 49.2 „ 40.9 „
♦Excludes taxes, etc. (£10,577), on returns from
investments.
Of every £lOO of last year’s net pre-
miums (up £44,175) losses made off with
an extra 6s. The drop of 18s. per cent,
in the expense rate was more apparent
than real; it was due to deduction (for
the first time) of £10,577 of rates and
taxes from the gross of investments.
Including the £10,577 with exes., the
underwriting surplus was £3825 lighter
at £38,182.
Policy-holders are strongly protected,
as they always have been. When the
books closed they could see net tan-
gibles equal to 280 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. The nature of the
assets is pleasing, too:
, 1934——v 1935 ~
p.c. p.c.
Govtcmmcnt securities.. £849,932 51.1 £938,648 53.6
Municipal securities .. 94,542 . 5.7 94,542 5.4
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. .. 554,425 33.3 549,331 81.4
Premises .. ~ 165,361 9.9 167,332 9.6
Nearly all the spare money that became
available last year was invested in Gov-
ernment securities, up £88,716.
The market heavily discounts the
future by pricing the fully-paid pound
shares at 565. The return at that figure
is 2.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 4.3 p.c. on his
money counts on a 12 p.c. distribution.
The cover is 375. 2d. in net tangibles.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 7i p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
£>£>£, £, £> £>
1925.. 70.496 12,000 13,125 25,000 4,980 186,349
1926.. 67,826 12,000 13,125 25.000 5,126 198,924
1927.. 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5.668 210,287
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930.. 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,888
1933.. 29,071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000* Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
•Half-year ended 15/2/’3l.
This co. has made a good recovery.
Slump caught it with well over half a
million of book debts, mainly on a t.-p.
basis ; and it had just built new head-
quarters in Railway-square. It went a bit
further into debt for the purpose, and
for some time the old premises (now
mostly let) brought in next to nothing,
while rates, taxes and interest pressed
heavily ; also, the subsidiaries (sharehold-
ings figure at £312,900) ceased to contri-
bute, and it is difficult to say when and
to what extent they are likely to become
a help again. It all showed up in losses
aggregating £138,232 for the three years
to the close of accounts in 1933,
Sales have since increased by over
£200,000. Last term a record number
of customers was served. Gross earn-
ings (£92,681) were £32,526 better, mak-
ing the spring £78,442 over the last two
years. A tight hold was kept upon exes.
(£48,310, including the allowance for
depreciation, shown as written off in the
table), and the net result benefited by
£32,590, reaching £44,371. Most of the
money was used to finance further exten-
sion of the t.-p. section of the business
—£35,561 net was added to debtors’
balances —and £9OOO (covering the six
months to 15/2/’3l) was handed to the
first prefs.
The £1,035,401 of capital is in 300,000
first 6 p.c. and 297,848 second 1\ p.c.
cum. prefs. (both subject to p.c.
statutory cut from Oct. 1, 1931) and
439,580 ords. At next balance there will
be £84,000-odd (twice last year’s
net profit) coming to the firsts and
£ 106,000-odd to the seconds in accrued
divs. The firsts and seconds together
now call for £32,180 p.a.; so last year’s
net earnings provided a margin of
£12,191. On that basis it would take
over five years to clean the firsts’ slate,
and it would be more than another seven
before arrears to the seconds were out
of the way. Further improvement in
earnings, however, can be expected.
Subject to payment of arrears in full
(the board has not yet given hint
that adjustment of pref. div. rights is
contemplated), the firsts at par or there-
abouts appear to be worth consideration.
The seconds are priced at 13s. lid. and
the more speculative ords. at Bs. 4d. The
book value of the net asset cover is £3
15s. lOd. firsts, £2 16s. 7d. seconds and
245. Bd. ords.
The position so far as balance-sheet
figures show it is as follows:
1921. 1930. 1934. 193 f..
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 525,000 1,035,077 1,035,386 1,035,401
Mortgages .. 57,500 287,500 497,005 480,831
Other debts.. 311,874 304,195 117,513 128,782
Freeholds .. 154,758 500,889 600,575 599.194
Leaseholds .. 65,077 59,970 30,025 28,853
Plant, etc. . . 24,080 91,418 75,513 74,272
Stocks .. 320,325 240.584 155,396 101,035
Book debts.. 337,177 565,325 537,778 573,339
Shares in
other cos... 119,689 310,519 312,900 312,900
, Cash. etc. .. 35,234 6,447 0,213 7.689
To carry an extra £35,561 of book debts,
add £5639 to stocks, and clip £16,774
off mortgages, £11,269 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£132,450) was £48,181. Share-
holdings, not worth their book value on
the market, consist mostly of the ords.
in Bon Marche and Marcus Clark (Vic.)
—the last-named controls Craig William-
son (Melb.) and Miller Anderson (Adel-
aide) —and carry a contingent liability of
£35,000 in respect of uncalled capital.
Walkerville Co-op. Brewing Co. (S.A.)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £ £ £
1925.. 21,470 10.8 p.c. = 15,470 6000 33,369
1926.. 21,470 10.8 „ „ 15,470 6000 39,369
Premiums on shares, £10,720 .. 50,095
1927.. 21,472 10.8 p.c. = 15,857 5615 55,710
1928.. 10,018 9.1 „ „ 16,154 49,574
Loss.
1929.. 3,953 2.5 „ „ 5,415 40,206
Sent to depreciation reserve, £37,272.. 2,934
Deficit.
1930.. 16,498 Nil 13,564
1931.. 18,721 Nil 32,285
1932.. 1,338 Nil 33,623
Profit.
1933.. 8,664 - Nil 8664 24,959
From depreciation reserve, £24,614.. 345
Reserves.
1934.. 23,754 5 p.c. = 11,424 12,330 11,985
1935.. 13,599 5 „ „ 11,424 2,175 14,160
The percentage of trade-unionists un-
employed in S. Aus. fell from 25.4
for the second quarter of 1934 to 18.9
for the corresponding period of 1935 ;
during that term this co. added £33,139
net to book value of freeholds, plant,
etc. The suggestion is that trade was
better, though until recently little of it
appears to have been anchored. Yet
there was a sharp contraction of £10,155
in the year’s net profit, concerning which
the board says nothing. Gross earnings
were figured £8703 lighter at £46,273 ;
ordinary trading exes. (£19,349) were up
£9l, and an extra £1361 was set aside
(Continued from page 18.)


CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
as well as City Interests.
1 nvestments carry greatest possible security.
X he Society that imposes no restrictions on aeroplane travel,
Yearly Bonus additions to all participating policies.
M utual —owned and controlled by the Policy-holders.
U ndoubtedly the most Liberal and Progressive Life Office.
Xhe Office to assure with for Bigger Bonuses.
U nique advantages by assuring with the City Mutual Life.
Australia’s Security is the City Mutual Policy-holders’ Security.
Liberality to Members unexcelled.
Lowest Expense Rate, 10.7% 1934.
I nvestment yield the greatest available.
Free Accident Conditions on all Policies with Death Risk.
Empire’s Soundest and Best Assurance Institution.
Strongest Reserves of any Society in the Empire.
Only one Board of Directors in the whole of Australia.
Oarefu' selection of Risks, Low Mortality, High Interest Yield,
build Bonuses.
I nvestment in Life Assurance never depreciates.
Efficient and Economical Management
X he Millionaire Society that operates only in the Commonwealth.
Young Australians will positively secure their future by
becoming Policy-holders of this Society.
I
n
«
t
mm
mm WM
»i. -t ft
iii i
It M H
mm*
£ik ylMuranee the Balance Wheel of Life
The one Investment that did not depreciate during the World-Wide Depression
Life Assurance is the only Business Certainty
In October, 1934, a Member, 23 next
birthday, effected a Policy on his life for
£3OOO, and paid a quarter’s premium of
£l5/15/-.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for 1934
was £B6/5/- 1
All Policies effected NOW participate
fully in the Bonus Distribution for 1935.
Full particulars will be forwarded on
application.
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE OR
BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORTGAGE
ASSURE WITH
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES OF FHB COMMONWEALTH
HEAD OFFICE; SYDNEY.
Wm, BENNETT* Managing Director


Said a bandmaster, “Wilson, you’re sacked 1
Since you took to Schweppes Tonic you’ve cracked
Twenty drumsticks, and split
Seven drums. I submit
That such force should be tempered with tact ”
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- cifrCA yVU
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
for depreciation, etc. (£13,325). The
£13,599 netted was 5.9 p.c. on capital
as against 10.3 p.c. for the previous
term. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.
The market expected better. The
price of the fully-paid pound shares,
which dropped from 275. a year ago to
245. sd, in Sept., fell sharply to 21s. fol-
lowing publication of the accounts, and
later recovered to 235. sd. The return
at 235. sd. is 4.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. Visibly the cover is 21s. 2d. in
net tangibles.
When the public became interested 11
years ago it was a 10.8 p.c. proposition.
Later a new Nathan brewing plaht was
installed. Then slump brought a run
of losses, and the ords. went without
for the four years to the close of accounts
in 1933. The losses were due largely to
provision for depreciation and bad and
doubtful debts. In the following term
£106,758 of the total provision for depre-
ciation (£131,372) was used to write
down the book value of fixed assets, and
the balance to rub out the p. and 1.
debit. Also, the reserve against book
debts, etc. (£23,193, equal to 14s. 7d. in
the £ of debtors’ balances at July 30,
1933), disappeared.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1920. 1933. 1934. 193. r .,
Paid capital. . £142,800 £228,480 £228,480 £228,480
Sundry creditors 35,512 21,224 14,004 42,183
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. 181,000 301,301 202,302 230,441
Stock .. 18,030 10,572 17,194 14,103
Book debts . . 10,877 31,840 29,390 29,872
Investments, cash 13,843 17,028 17,608 10,772
Last year’s net addition of £33,139 to the
book value of fixed assets, which in-
clude an unspecified amount of hotel
freeholds, is encouraging. To help meet
the outlay £23,567 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£38,171) and £4012 was raised on mort-
gage. Stocks were down £3031 ; there
was little change in other items. The
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£18,624, including stocks) was
£30,964, owing to the outlay on fixed
assets.
Hopes of resumption at B.H.P.’s old
property, Broken Hill, have been con-
firmed by the co. calling for about 100
men to recondition the mine, which has
been idle for the last five years, at a cost
of something like £20,000 p.a., plus un-
avoidable deterioration. Refusal of the
Warden to grant further suspension of
the labor conditions hastened resump-
tion, which was forecast by the chairman
about three months ago. Hal Sheppard’s
optimistic remarks at North Broken Hill’s
annual roll-up—it happened while
B.H.P.’s application for suspension was
before the warden—probably had some-
thing to do with the refusal. Unless
metal prices hold, it is doubtful whether
anything more than reconditioning will
be undertaken before another applica-
tion is made. Incidentally, over 1000
men registered for employment in two
days in response to the co.’s invitation ;
so it is no use saying Broken Hill un-
employed “don’t want work.”
♦ * * *
B. H. Prop. has taken an option over
Krautz Treasure, near Bungawannah, 17
miles from Albury (N.S.W.). A large
dyke formation, 35ft. wide, is reported
to be carrying gold throughout. To the
82ft. level, there is estimated to be 40,000
tons, averaging 7dwt.
* * + ♦
With things as they are, South B.H.
shares look like returning the investor’s
capital and a higher rate of interest over
the next 20 years than Norths. Still, there
is a deeply-rooted feeling among those
who follow Barriers that long-term pros-
pects justify a higher price for Norths. At
present, both cos. could pay higher divs.
Like their companion, Zinc Corp, they
are great mines. If the metal market jus-
tified it, output could be greatly increased.
There was a time when these proper-
ties were looked upon as coldly as the
neighboring leases to the north and south
are to-day.
* * * *
Electrolytic Zinc has planned to begin
production at its Rosebery and Hercules
mines, West Coast of Tas., early in the
New Year, when electric power will
be made available. Ore from the Her-
cules, Mt. Reid, will be delivered to
Rosebery by an aerial ropeway five miles
long. The mill has a capacity of 3500
tons of ore weekly. It will produce, by
flotation, zinc concentrates for Risdon
and lead concentrates for shipment to
Port Pirie. The feed is expected to
assay 21 p.c. zinc and 6 p.c. lead. At
the end of June the co. had over
£457,000 invested in its West Coast prop-
erties, bought in 1920, and from which
it has not yet had any return. Since
the concentrates are to be railed to
Burnie, the earnings of the Emu Bay
Railway Co. should get a nice lift.
*.* * *
The Misima Island property of Gold
Mines of Papua is opening up nicely, and
g.m. Leo Gibbons recommends installa-
tion of plant to treat 3000 tons of ore
monthly, to be stepped up to 6000 tons
as development proceeds. Subject to
further tests, fine grinding, followed by
flotation, is expected to give satisfactory
recoveries. Erection of a hydro-electric
power plant on the Gulewa River is also
under consideration. It is estimated that
over 400,000 tons of 495. 6d. ore (Aus-
tralian currency, with gold at £7 an
ounce sterling) is available above water
level, and further extension of the lodes
is expected in the northern section. Ore
below drainage level is to be proved by
diamond-drilling later. On Woodlark
Island, the cyaniding plant is in full
swing, and a first clean-up will be made
any day now. Here 77,000 tons of 775.
ore has been proved in the opencut on
the Kulumadau lease, and scout-boring
on Rilev’s dredging area is in progress.
* * * *
Adtnuons to plant at Mt. Isa (Q.) arc
nearing completion. The co. aims at
production of 7000 tons of concentrates,
containing about 3500 tons of spelter,
monthly. Thus far, the feed has con-
sisted of a mixture of carbonate and sul-
phide ores, which precluded recovery of
their small zinc content. At June 30,
1934, there was 14,316,000 tons of sul-
phide ore measured up; 14,070,600 tons,
assaying 5.3 oz. silver, 8.1 p.c. lead and
9.1 p.c zinc, was in the Rlack S to ' - lode.
«= * * *
On the recommendation of E. 1. Lewis,
Gympie Gold Dredging (Q.) is consider-
ing installation of a Diesel electric-bucket
dredge, capacity a million cubic yards
annually, with a digging depth of 30ft.
and stacking height of 45ft. The prop-
erty, on the Mary River, Gympie, is esti-
mated to contain about 11,500,000 c.y. of
15.5 d. dirt (gold at £8 an ounce). Costs
are put at 3d. Over a working life of 11
years, that would mean an average
annual profit of more than £54,000.
There are 79,044 ss. shares issued, of
which 27,294 are fully paid.
# 3 * »
Mercury has been discovered in Tas-
mania at the new Jane River diggings in
the south-west. Government tests show
that the cinnabar (sulphide of mercury)
assays mercury 84 p.c., sulphur 13 p.c.,
non-volatile matter 2 p.c. What was
regarded by some prospectors as cinna-
bar had been found in alluvial drifts on
parts of the West Coast, and difficulty
was experienced in separating the stuff
from gold, but this is the first occasion
on which the existence of mercury in
the Speck has been proved by assay.
* * * *
A Launceston syndicate has struck
what looks like a promising gold find at
Middleton Creek, a tributary of the
Savage River on the West Coast of Tas.
The area covers a mineral lease of 80
acres and prospecting rights over 2980
acres. About 2500 c.y. gave a gold re-
covery of 440 z., followed by 21oz. from
the sluicing of 850 yards. At present, the
working face is from 10ft. to 20ft., and
the ground ahead has been tested by
costeaning for over 20 chains with good
results. Water is brought in by a race
nearly 12 miles in length.
, + * * *
No wonder Rothsay (W.A.) is anxious
to try flotation in place of its present
method of treatment. Owing to copper
in the ore, October crushings averaged
only 18s. lOd. a ton, while the residues
were estimated to contain 455. 9d. per
ton. Considering the presence of copper
in Rothsay auriferous ore has been
long known, it is surprising that an ex-
traction plant of the type now on the
property was ever put there.
* * * *
Pumping is proceeding at Edna May
Amalgamated (W.A.), and the board in-
fers that it won’t be long before the co.
is home and dry in this respect. How-
ever, the recently-installed treatment
plant is idle for want of ore supplies,
and, until the 385 ft. level has been
drained and inspected, the accuracy or
otherwise of the rumor that the old
co. extracted the ore too near the shaft
to enable permanent pumps to be in-
stalled at that point can’t be proved. If
the co. succeeds in getting the water out
of the mine, it will take several months
to recondition the workings and see what
payable ore may have been left.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop, is reported to
have sold its tailings dumps (nearly
3,000,000 tons) to Golden Horseshoe for
£64,000 cash plus half the profits from
retreatment, which are expected to be
£BOOO a month. Boulder tailings are the
residues of dry-crushed and roasted ore,
whereas the old Horseshoe dumps came
from wet-crushed and unroasted rock,
making them more amenable to re-
treatment.
* * * *
Hopeful of a change of luck, the so
far unsuccessful Coolgardie Brilliant has
taken an option on the old Zoroastrian
goldmine at Bardock, on the Broad
Arrow field (W.A.). A few hundred
pounds is to be spent in sampling and
prospecting. The co. has a lot of plant,
and is reputed to have £7OOO in the till.
* * ♦ ♦
Early this year Lake Austin Eureka
(W.A.) inferred that it would soon be
wealthy. It has since been overwhelmed
with misfortunes, the last being two or
three miserable crushings. The mine has
closed down, and, since funds are ex-
hausted, a small committee of share-
holders has been appointed to co-operate
with the board in the “best interests of
the co,”
♦ * * *
Another Westralian resurrection, the
old Mararoa, at Norseman, is expected
to join the list of gold-producers about
March. During its option over the prop-
erty, Western Mining Corp. spent money
freely on development and boring, and
later formed Central Norseman Gold
Corp. to take over the area. The work-
ing co. has ample funds.
>!< * *
After wandering here and there in
Centralia, Michael Terry has settled in
the Cosmo Newberry dabs-and-patches
district, beyond Lavcrton (W.A.). Several
small crushings through one of the State
'mills have given good returns, and more
ore is being gouged out for treatment.
It does not seem like a place where a
co. should venture.
* * * ♦
The Premier G.M. Co., of British
Columbia (a pawn on the American
Smelting and Refining Co.’s chessboard),
takes little risk in sampling. Ore from
the lodes of the Big Bell (W.A.), over
which the co. holds an option, is put into
a 30-ton bin, and from this is
extracted a representative sample of 31 b.
This is divided into four parts, one of
which goes to the co.’s headquarters in
Vancouver for assay, another to an inde-
pendent assayer in New York, the third
is handled on the mine, and the remain-
ing one is put away as an umpire parcel.
The co. has spent a lot of money on
development down to 250 ft., and if it
decides to exercise the option it will have
perhaps the biggest low-grade goldmining
proposition in Australia.
* * * *
Rebirth of Coolgardie is promised by
a co. just floated in London by Herman
Mandelstam; J. MacCallum Smith is local
director. A big area, including Tindals
and most of the old claims other than
Bayleys, has been acquired, and elec-
trical equipment and large-scale produc-
tion are spoken of. A former State Min-
ing Engineer, the late A. Montgomery,
reported favorably on Tindals some years
ago, and some successful diamond-
drilling was done afterwards by the State
Government.
* * * *
The Mining Handbook of Australia,
1936, put out by the Tait Publishing Co.,
Melbourne (price 205.), is the most com-
plete and comprehensive directory of
mines yet published here. > In addition
to essential information concerning over
800 gold and base-metal mining cos.,
the volume contains a summary of the
mining laws of the Commonwealth, Fiji
and New Guinea, statistics relating to
Australian metal production and prices,
wage awards, cost data and a chapter
relating to the valuation of goldmining
shares. ■
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.W.: At the present stage it is a gamble;
if you cannot afford to lose, keep out
A.J.R.; (1) A fair spec. (2) No
M.I.McP.: Mark Foy’s ords., Morris Hed-
strom and Direct Cash Orders are worth
consideration G.G.: Write secretary,
Stock Exchange, Sydney, for complete list;
too numerous to print here... .A.C.: A
suicide clause is included in some policies, but
it is not general; it is nearly always limited
to a short period from date of issue.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* r * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
° * * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hvdraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. \\ rite
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy. — Advt.


O'
a
m
wm
m
■
%
Gifts
foP
as
THE thousand Ideas for Xmas gifts simply bewilder one until the
moment you see "EVER-READY" GIFTS . . . then all other ideas
fade.. . . Here is the ideal gift... a friendly "light in the darkness"
that will be at once a reminder and an expression of yourself.
Which of these EVER-READY gifts shall it be?
No. 1283
Electric
Hand Lamps
)
This is a handsome lamp
in its case of old pol-
ished oak and flashing
nickel fittings It
takes a long-life EVER-
READV battery, and
will throw a clear white
beam iof ' light at the
snap of a switch —size
3| x 2i x 5", and ■ its
price makes .it quite
worthy of a _ m
valued friend. *
Cycle Lamps Front &
Rear Front No. 2036; Rear No. 2338
These lamps hove won popularity over all Australia...
they are for cyclists... Sturdy looking in their heavy
stove-baked enamelled cases.
To make the front lamp generally useful a carrying handle
has been fitted in addition to the spring bracket and there
is a positive screw action switch. It throws a good beam of
white light from an EVER-READY No. 800 long-life A /O
Battery . . . and its price with batteries */
ẃ
The rear lamp takes on
READV unit cell and its
gives exceptionally long
each refill. Complete witt
bracket to attach to the
e U. 2 EVER-
special bulb
service from
i battery and
re !' 3/-
ẅ
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BATTERIES
Emim
n
TORCHESrREFtUS & RADIO BATTERIES
Focussing
Searchlights
Here is an EVER-READY search-
light— you can focus it to a single
intense beam or spread its clear
light over a wide area. Its hand-
some body is bright chromium
plate, ribbed to give you a firm
grip . . . You will like the new
switch which is positive and can
be locked or used for intermittent
flashes. It takes 3 EVER-READY
U 2 Unit Cells, and its cost com-
plete and ready fr ' r
service, is
No. 3863
w
No. 2563
This is the little brother of the
EVER-READY Searchlight. Tho'
not so big—nor so powerful—lt
is quite as useful and equally
good looking, and it also has
the new type safety switch,
and focuses by screwing the
bottom cap. This size takes 2
EVER-READY U 2 Unit Cells
and is only __
Electric Candle
No. 1654
And this is the EVER-READ/ Electric Candle.
Just pick it up and it is alight —can't you
imagine how useful it will be in a sick-
room or a nursery I The case is dull nickel
surmounted by opaque glass reflection dome.
It has luminous spots at the base, so you
can find it in the dark. When you place it
on the table it extinguishes itself.
It takes 2 EVER-READV U 4 Unit Cells, which
give a long period of life.
Its price is
its usefulness
modest compared with
and appear- 10/-
ŵ
MANUFACTURED BY THE EVER-READY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
SYDNEY


ABORIGINALITIES
“Nagheer”: Best bait for barramundi
(B. 13/11/’35) is a 4in. to Bin. sprat or
“beakie” on live-bait
tackle, spun or trailed
past his haunts under
logs or undercut banks.
And that reminds me of
Barramundi Joe, who
was commissioned to
take Lord Lamington,
then Governor of
Queensland, a-fishing
for barramundi in the
Burdekin. “Wodjer
call the bloke?” in-
quired Joe. “Oh, call
him your Excellency or
your Lordship,” advised
the man entrusted with the hire.
Arrived on his best spot with his vice-
regal passenger, Joe suggested paying out
more line. “Likely get one ’ere, yer
Hexcellency. ’Ere ’e comes —oh, a
snodger, yer Lordship! Give ’im the
bait now —you’ve got ’im—more line, yer
Wuship —more line —mind that there
snag, yer ’Oliness —now, yer Tghness,
careful, yer ’lghness—’old ’im ’ard, yer
’lgh ’Oliness —there, yer b y fool, y’ve
lorst ’im! ” It was Lamington’s pet story
for years after.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; Since better roads and
faster cars have come to N.S.W. rural
districts, magpie mortality is becoming a
serious thing. Travel along any good
country road and you find the fowls’
corpses at an average rate of one a mile.
The tally must now be thousands a year.
It’s worst on gravelled roads, v/here
maggie, evidently filling its craw with grit,
misjudges the speed of the approaching
car and five times out of eight flies up too
late. Very rarely some other bird gets
caught. It’s peculiar that magpies are
about the only birds encountered feed-
ing (or fighting) on the roads. Remedy
might lie in a special klaxon with a
shocking blast to warn the bird suffi-
ciently early.
“Fracteur”: Bulletin readers are
familiar with the faithful hound which
retrieves the dynamite thrown into the
water by his boss to kill fish and chases
him in the endeavor to return it to him.
The tale was re-enacted with fresh trim-
mings near Cessnock (N.S.W.) the other
day. A woman reported that two naked
lunatics had burst upon her out of the
bush yelling like fiends from the Pit, and
that she had saved herself only by taking
refuge with a neighbor. What hap-
pened was that the men had first un-
dressed. so as to be ready to catch the
fish, and then thrown in the “shot.”
Their hound plunged in and then went
after his masters, now making even time
for safety, regardless of decency. No
mention is made of whether or not the
shot proved a dud or went off, and took
the bow-wow into the Ewigkeit with it,
this most interesting part of the yarn
being omitted.
* * * *
“H.H.”: At Winter’s Tank, Kynuna
(n.-w. Q.), a female cuckoo had selected
a crow’s nest as a suitable home for her
egg. The foster parents worked overtime
trying to assuage the youngster’s appetite,
and his squawking filled the air day and
night. At last, cither in sheer despera-
tion or in admiration of such an infant,
a whole community of crows lent a
hand in feeding the fledgling. When
baby made his first attempts to fly, all (he
crows accompanied him along the road,
uttering noisy encouragement and praise.
* ♦ * *
“Oran": A dweller on the banks of the
Wollondilly, Goulburn (N.S.W.), fre-
quently sets a night line for perch (and.
however some Aboliars may scorn perch,
they grow ’em worth while in the Wol-
londilly). He goes down in the early
morn to investigate the catch. He had
no need to (he other day, because the
catch —to wit, one favorite cat —was sit-
ting on the doorstep in the morning with
the bait and hook somewhere in his
interior and yards of line trailing into
“How do I gel this out?"
“Run over to the house and ask the missus for a corkscrew."
the paddock behind him. The line was
cut, Tom was fed at intervals with
cotton-wool sandwiches, and apparently
responded successfully to the treatment.
Anyway, he’s still alive and still deeply
interested in perch.
“Oont P.”: The camel’s ability to
go without water isn’t entirely a matter
of training, and if you trained the
hardiest brumby you’d never get him
within coo-ee of the oont. The differ-
ence is anatomical, the camel being pos-
sessed of deep pockets in its stomach-
lining which close like one of those old-
fashioned jug purses and actually bottle
up water, to be released when required.
But even a camel must be trained to do
this, while too frequent watering tem-
porarily robs it of the faculty. In old
Coolgardie, Tagh Mahomet’s camels
never drank oftener than once in every
four days, not even if they were camped
at a condenser. Thus they were always
in training for the long trek.
* * * *
“Corvus”: Contrary to recent men-
tion, I have seen both crows and ravens
in large numbers on the central-western
(Q.) plains. To anyone who has made a
bit of a study of them the difference is
unmistakable; also the difference in the
damage done by each. When ravens
were about the lambs needed extra care-
ful protection ; with crows comparatively
little damage was done. The crows were
anywhere and everywhere; the ravens
usually arrived in big mobs and kept
together. Incidentally, on my last stay
there (from ’29 to ’33) I didn’t see a
solitary raven on our place, though
I saw one or two on others. A third
species arrived on very rare occasions.
A harmless little blighter, much smaller
than either of the others, and with a
different voice. About two or three a
year was all we saw of him.
* * ♦ ♦
“Gilbulla”: Those “animated twigs'
which interest “Samarai” (B. 20/11 / ’35)
contain the aquatic larvie of some kind
of caddis-fly. The family includes
many species, and exhibits a variety of
architectural ideas. According to their
kind, many small pieces ol twig, leaves,
grains of sand, arc utilised; and in at
least one instance a decorative effect is
produced by covering the protective case
with empty snail-shells.
“Oloc”: In the fresh-water Colo (a
Hawkcsbury, N.S.W.. tributary) I netted
what I mistook by lamplight for a perch.
The mistake cost me a poisoned hand,
the pain nearly driving me dotty.
Strangely enough, it abated when the tide
turned. I can’t explain why. The fish
was a fortescue, a salt-water denizen,
which had apparently become “acclima-
tised.” It was similar in shape to a perch,
but was dark-yellow in color, lacked
scales and had a dorsal fin—a row ol
poisoned spikes—running nearly the full
Icnuth of its back.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was comfortable
in a window seat, and beside him on
the seat was a large suitcase. The rest
of the compartment was full. There
came a choleric individual who eyed
Mat and the suitcase, and demanded the
removal of the latter. Mat ignored him.
The C.I. fetched a porter, who also
ordered the removal of the case. Mat
gave him a bleak look and refusal.
Porter and C.I. departed, and returned
with a head porter. Mat remained ob-
durate. Then they brought a policeman,
who threatened to put Mat and case off
the train. “You touch me and y’ll never
forget it,” warned Mat. “But this pas-
senger should have a seat,” said the cop,
after studying Mat’s big frame; “why
not put the case under the seat?” Mat
thought this out, then replied: “Well, I
s’pose that’d be all right; but y’ better
ask this bloke coming along the plat-
form. He owns the case! ”
« If * *
“Speewaa”; “Morita's” reference to the
smell of burning gumleaves bucking up the
Diggers tB. 20/11 /’35) recalls Lawson’s
line of the homecoming Australian: “I
smelt the gums a hundred miles before we
reached King George’s Sound.” I al-
ways regarded this as poetic hyper-
bole until I was myself returning from
Europe ; sure enough I smelt them fully
100 miles off the Westralian coast. Bush-
fires and a favorable wind were respon-
sible.
“Der Jong”: I doubt if the aasvogel
would be a bigger menace to drought-
stricken sheep (B. 20/11/’35) than crows
or other pests we have with us. The bird
is one of the greatest curs living, and a
dying beast has to be very near dead
before he will risk it. Not so Kelly,
who often expedites the dying process
while the poor old jumbuck is still on
its legs. And as for bogged sheep, 1
don't think any aasvogel can equal the
horrible record of the goanna in this
respect.
‘‘Mug Pirate”: Near Holbrook
(N.S.W.), a mother emu and her chicks
ambled over to watch our stock special
wheeze past, and a holidaying school-
teacher, riding the footplate, voiced a
craving to adopt one of the youngsters.
The driver obligingly slowed down and
teacher sooled the birds over a fair bit of
landscape before he became unstuck from
his straw hat. The loose headgear peeved
the emu dame, and she charged back
and kicked it into something resembling
a bunch of spaghetti. We had to assist
the nerve-wrecked pedagogue back into
the cabin.
.n * >;> *
“Goluen Mile": And why shouldn’t
Unk White's lumpers have juggled those
cases of dynamite (B. 16/10/’35)? I’ve
juggled them many a lime. On one big
W.A. mine we used to unload the stud
into the underground magazine by sliding
the cases down a 20ft. plank. And I’ve
seen a plug laid on an anvil and belted
with a sledge-hammer—with no more
result than if it had been putty. Gelignite
usually requires a detonator to set it off.
though a spark from a steel drill whilst
lamping a hole will sometimes do the
job—occasional idiots achieve results by
overheating the stuff in an oven. But as
tor mere dropping or bumping—b-rrr!
True, 30 years ago, a whole train-load
did go off in Jo’burg, S’Africa, but it’s
odds-on that some goal had stowed a
case or two of detonators somewhere
among the trucks and the bump sent
them off first.
* * * *
"Pisces”: If “Plankton” and others
have slopped eating such disgusting de-
licacies as sea-urchins, let me commend
them to the ink-fish. This fellow, a squid
of sorts, is supposed to resemble cray-
fish when properly cooked. He might
be. I’d put Inky’s breeding as being by
an octopus from a dissolute jellyfish. I
don't eat things bred that way. If
“Bonne Bouche” and one or two others
like to give it a fly, let me say for a start
that Inky has to be boiled for not less
than a couple of hours. By that lime
all the jelly of his mother is boiled away
and only the india-rubber of his octopus
father remains.
* * * *
“Billy Sec”: Where did “Pagewood”
get that yarn (B, 30/10/’35) about inland
abos. having teeth
worn to the gums
through too much sand
in their tucker —“and
often dinner was no
a more than sand flavored
with meat juice”? Docs
he picture Binghi cut-
ting off a steak and
plunging it into hot
sand to grill? Binghi.
when he cooks, does it
with the skin still on,
whether the joint be a
Too, a rabbit or the sec-
tion of a bullock. He
then eats from the
baked skin and dodges
the sand just as care-
fully as a white man
would, i'vc seen hundreds of Westra-
lian spinifex blacks, and, except for the
very aged, whose teeth did occasionally
show signs of wear, all had wonderful
white ivories.
"Remora”: Am afraid “Laetitia” (B.
20/11/ ’35) has got his pilot and sucker
fishes a bit mixed. Once the sucker
fastens to a shark, boat or whatever his
fancy suggests, there is no getting him
off, save by very considerable force ; he
just sticks, head to the front, and mops
up whatever food the gods send him as
his host moves forward. He would see
a shark in Gehenna before he left one to
investigate a possible food supply and
return to report. The chaps who do
this are the pretty little striped pilot
fishes, which mostly hunt in couples
with a shark, though they don’t fasten
on to him ; they notify the boss when
dinner is ready and snavel any scraps
that may be going. North Queensland
blacks tie a line to the sucker’s tail and
use him for catching turtle. The sucker is
detached from the bottom of the canoe
and shooed off, until in disgust he looks
for a kinder reception. He gets it from
the turtle. After that it is merely a
matter of hauling in the turtle, for, no
matter how furiously the latter fights, the
'sucker hangs on while the line is hauled
in and the prey bagged. If the sucker
breaks under the strain, as sometimes
haooens, Binghi gets , a new one and
carries on.
FORTY MILES TO STAWELL.
The dominant note of the speed-mad world,
the city traffic’s roar,
Has jangled the song of the Wimmera wheat,
and quiet is no more;
The fevered rush of the loaded truck, the
clash of the grinding gears,
Have shattered the peace that lingered on
through fifty changing years.
To-day the bags are hurried in, and the lumpers
curse and strain,
For the short-trip trucks arc queued from the
’bridge with their freight of golden grain.
Above the road the dust is stirred to a yellow,
clinging shawl —
While the Bearded man on the platform thinks
of the long, rough road to Stawcll;
Of (he long bush track that (he waggons took
in those far-off early days
When life was calm and a man content with
easy-going ways,
When he plodded along at his horses’ pace,
with a feed and a sleep at noon,
And (he team unyoked and the nosebags on,
beside the old lagoon.
As evening fell on the darkening bush and he
heard the curlews call,
He looked for a camp—for camp he must —
on that forty miles to Stawell.
A lonely sleep beneath the stars, and up before
the light
Of summer dawn suffused the sky and the
gum-tips glistened bright;
And on past the heaps of dull, white clay,
and steadily over the hills,
Till he comes in sight of the township’s roofs
and the gleaming flourmills,
And the white-scarred slopes where the hand
of man, with a clumsy, ugly scrawl,
Has written his greed for the yellow gold on
the virgin bush near Stawcll.
When his wheat is stacked as wheat should be.
by stolid, slow-moving men,
He turns to the town for a beer and stores,
and back to the road again.
As the waggon merrily clatters along, he pulfs
at his pipe and dreams
Of one who waits on the lonely plains where
(he petulant plover screams,
Where the bulokc droops to the sun-cracked
earth, and the twisted box-trees sprawl
On the reed-strewn swamp by the rough log
shack, full forty miles from Stawcll.
The trucks speed in and the trucks speed
out, but ghostly waggons crawl.
And the old man sees through the thickening
dust that long bush track to Stawcll.
VICTORIA.
M. L. BREEN.


“C.H.S.”; Motoring on a nor’-west
N.vS.W. road, we encountered a rabbit.
Bunny left the road in two jumps and
raced away up a slope into the scrub.
He knew that the motor was fast, mobile
and a symbol of progress. Later we
travelled by train down the tablelands
and encountered another rabbit. He
ambled off the rails and sat up to watch
the train go by, knowing it to be slow,
ponderous and fixed to one line of direc-
tion. There was nothing alarming in its
progress. Bunny regarded the train
benevolently, then resumed his nibbling.
It seemed a pity to see him eating grass
when he could have earned a big income
in a State transport department.
* * * ♦
“Ah Joe”; Half a mile off Port Hack-
ing Heads (N.S.W.) a motor-launch
picked up a deer in an exhausted condi-
tion. Put ashore at Gibbon, it wanted
to follow the launch, but was persuaded
to trot off into the bush of National
Park. In a more populous area we may
have been treated to the spectacle of a
bellman rescuing and resuscitating the
animilc.
* * * *
“Sailor”; The majority of croc.-
hunters do use .44 bores for dispatching
the “big fellas” (B. 13/11 /’35); but
that’s because they haven’t discovered the
qualities of a shotgun. One barrel of
heavy slugshot aimed just abaft the fore-
leg will drop any croc, on his belly. A
favorite method used by us who knew
the advantages of a shotgun was to sneak
along the mudbanks in a canoe. If one
barrel didn’t stop his nibs, the second
rarely failed. At close quarters the
charge didn’t do much damage to the
skin once one caught the knack of the
game. In shallow water a shotgun has it
all over the .44 or .303, for slugshot will
go deep before it slides.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”; Recent news on bomb-
ing by aeroplane reminds me of a camp-
fire chat in 1916. Atrocities attributed to
the enemy were under discussion, and
various reprisals were suggested. The
meeting broke up when Bill gave birth to
the bright idea of dropping a ton or two
of black snakes in the German trenches.
A week later, a serious-minded bullocky
stopped me. “I don’t think that idea of
your mate’s’d work,” he said. “I reckon
dropping snakes from that height would
kill ’em.”
* * * *
“Tommo”; There used to be an old
saying on the Westralian goldfields that
Laverton was beery, but Lancefield (B.
27/11 / ’35) was beerier. When Westralia
was having an earlier gold boom a
mining official came to the district and
was instructed to find a new name for
Lancefield. He asked his hotelkeeper to
suggest one. Bung plumped for Beerier.
And Beria it is to-day.
* * * *
“H.-t.”: Brown snakes’ fangs too short
to bite through clothes (B. 6/11/’35)?
Here, near Dimbula (N.Q.), we have
the giant brown snake (Oxyuranus scutel-
latus). I killed one Bft. 4in. long, and
his fangs measured close on three-
quarters of an inch. No more aggressive
than a tiger until worried, this fellow can
strike swinging his head around like a
left hook, and his fangs can pass through
a boot. The abos. give the wriggler a
wide berth, and call it taipan. One got
my dog. In less than a minute Towser
had the staggers; in 15 minutes he was
dead.
“Panic”: A nightmare come true!
Poking about a disintegrated haystack
I discovered some 6ft. of thick, grey
wriggler coiled on a truss of straw. Gave
him a wallop with a handy pitchfork
and rapidly discovered three things: (!)
You can’t hurt a snake on springy straw,
(2) you can make him very angry, (3)
you can’t run —not to get anywhere.
After running about 25 yards in a dis-
tance of 4ft., I slipped and fell. For-
tunately the wriggler gave up the chase
just then, but the sensations so exactly
resembled those of the most horrid kind
of nightmare that I still shudder when
I think of it.
* * * *
“Berry”: Bulk wheat makes a com-
fortable bed ( Tiburon , B .13/11 /’35);
“Hey, where's y'r skirt?"
“Out there on one of them breakers!"
but the dust stirred up from it in transit
is suffocating, especially when harvested
from light soils. The rare truck from
black soil is equal to a sleeper for com-
fort. But I was cured of jumping the
rattler when sidetracked in Goulburn
yards for three hours at midday, A boil-
ing sun frying the tied-down tarpaulin
within a foot of my nose was torture.
* * * *
“Groper”: If “Kellick” (B. 30/10/’35)
ever saw fishermen getting three snapper
on the one cast they must have been dif-
ferent fish from those we capture on the
western side of the continent —or his
men must have been using a winch. One
snapper at a time is enough for me,
and even then, when we strike a school,
we don’t bother about trying to lake out
the hook—just cut it and the fish off, tie
on another, rebait and over again. Fool-
ing around trying to get the big barb
out means waste of time. If the line
carried three such hooks there would
be a big chance of a man getting one
through his hand every time he failed to
hook his three fish ; the way a 15- or 20-
pound snapper flops and plunges would
be dangerous with free barbs whipping
around. Anyone who has had a big
hook well driven in, and with no other
“You 'ad a lovely figger in them days, Emma.”
“An Wot a lover you was, Albert!”
surgical instrument at hand than a pair
of rusty pliers—pushing the barb through
until it is clear on the outside, nipping
off the shank, and then pulling right
through—never hankers for the second
experience.
“Plankton”; “P.R.M.” (B. 20/11/’35)
may be interested to know that his
variety of hibiscus, which produces bios-
soms of a different color under inland
conditions, has a cobber in the plumbago
bush. On the islands of the Great Barrier
Reef it has blue flowers, but in West-
ralia they are yellow.
* * * *
“Trochus”: I gazed, fascinated, at a
mob of island boys diving from a
lugger. A duck’s a fool to those
fellows. A couple of minutes or so below
was common —and 120 seconds is a
devil of a time when you count every
tick of the watch. Odd ones went the
full three minutes, and I consigned one
coon’s soul to the other side before he
broke the surface after being from
sight for a couple of ticks short of four
minutes. When tired they rest in the
water, sitting in exactly the same attitude
that a man takes in a chair. They all
do the same peculiar exhalation when
breaking the surface —a whistling breath,
something like that of a brumby stallion
when alarmed; and every boy’s hair
stands out —a mop of frizzy stuff a couple
of inches in length. When they come up
after a dive they give the head a bit of
a shake, twirling miniature rainbows
about them, and that hair is so oily
with natural grease that, like unto a
duck’s feathers, it’s as dry after a four-
minute immersion as if they’d been
walking hatless in the sun for an hour.
♦ * * *
“K.1.N.”: Let me into this queer
waterhole stakes, and I won’t argue with
that fellow who goes bald from dipping
his head in a bore which doesn’t flow
(B. 6/11/’35). My nomination is the
Devil’s Hole, on Warbreccan station
(s.-w. Q.). This thing is in the Chaunsit
country, on the creek of that name, but
there really isn’t any creek until after
the hole begins it. It’s all flat top-rock
country—the stuff that rings like a bell
when a man rides over it —which runs
nearly as readily as an iron roof when
a few points of rain fall. The hole is
just below an Bft. fall. At the bottom
end a sandbar shows as soon as it stops
running. And what a fish-trap that hole
is! It is a weird affair, always well
stocked with fish, with caves running in
20 yards or so on each side under
overhanging cliffs, with echoes which
sound from the surface of the water
when a man rides over the country a
mile or more distant, and with its own
“lap-lap” in dark recesses adding to its
uncanniness. The hole rarely goes dry,
though I saw its bottom during 1905, and
then the thing lived up to its name.
There’s a dripping spring oozing from a
rock in the middle of it. Thirsty as I
was, I tried that spring. If that stuff
didn’t come straight from Hades, and if
Old Nick himself didn’t brew it, then
my early training has been wasted and
I don’t know brimstone when I taste it.
* * * *
“Mick the Preacher”: 1 have been
employed in sugargrowing for the last
21 years; but I have never yet met
“Crane’s” woggy (B. 6/11 /’35). He says
that this fowl has a sweet tooth because
it eats young cane 6in. to 12in. high.
Cane at that stage is about as sweet as
Epsom salts. I wonder if the woggy is
identical with the red-bill. That chap used
to break the mature cane down and
hollow it out till it was like a string of
miniature pig troughs. But he is gone
now, because no bird, whether it is a
pest or not, can exist where Italians
pitch their tents.
* * * *
“Bob Sawyer”; That young lady who
fell out of the swing on her sitting-down
part might have broken her neck (B.
20/11/’35). A cracked neck or spinal
column can be achieved by landing on
one’s feet from a height, and basal skull
fractures from this cause are not un-
common. People have been known to
break their necks during a violent sneez-
ing fit.
3je * * *
“A.E.K.”: He came from Hillgrove
(N.S.W.), the home of good hammers-
men, to our coalmining district, where
methods were rough and ready. He
was shocked when offered a pair of
tongs to hold a gad which his mate was
about to strike; in Hillgrove they hold
the. gad with their hands. After a few
blows the hammer slipped off the gad
along the tongs and damaged his
knuckles. “Don’t y’ include a pair of
boxin’ gloves t’ hold the tongs with ?”
was his contemptuous remark.
* * * *
“C. G. Salis”; One of our neighbors
married a city girl and brought her
home to his North Coast (N.S.W,) cow-
farm. My missus found the young
wife in tears. Greatly concerned, she
inquired the reason for the grief, and
was told, between sobs, “Dave said we’d
be dependent on the money from the
potato crop to tide us over and to buy
a few things for the house,” “Yes,” said
the missus ; “what’s wrong with that?”
“Well,” said the distressful bride, “I’ve
just been for a walk through the potato-
patch. The plants are all dying off, and
there’s not a potato to be seen —not even
a little one.”
H* * * *
“Old-timer”: A South Coast (N.S.W.)
cow-farmer became indignant when he
discovered a man erecting a telephone
pole in the middle of one of his pad-
docks. The man turned a deaf ear to
the cocky’s protests and threats, and
when the latter became definite as to
physical violence he pulled an official
form from his pocket and snapped.
“Mister, that’s my authority, and y’ can’t
do nothin’!” The cocky retired. Next
day he found the pole-erector treed on
his own pole by an aggressive A.I.S. bull.
“You take this so-and-so animal out o’
this,” roared the treed one. “The such-
and-such has had me up f’r hours.” “Why
don’t y’ show him your authority?” sug-
gested the cocky blandly.
* * * *
“Fowl Play”: The ravening hordes
of emus have seceded from Westralia
and are attacking the north-west Mallee
areas of Victoria. Wheat is being eaten
wholesale, and driving off the birds only
shifts them to someone else, who takes
the first chance of returning them to
their original host. Settlers are handi-
capped by a fool Victorian law forbid-
ding them to kill more than 10 of the
devastating fowls, and a permit has to
be obtained for that. Also, permit-
holders may not band together so as to
kill en masse —each man must do in his
10 emus on his own. The only remedy
would appear to be the introduction of
something to eat the emus. Queensland
has done well by introducing Cactoblastis
for the pear and super-bullfrogs for the
sugar beetles. If anyone knows of a
beastie which battens on emus, let him
at once declare it or for ever hold his
peace.
“CROAKER JOE.”
Said Mudgee Mick, “I useter know a bloke
they nicknamed ‘Croaker Joe’;
He ’ad a long an’ dismal dile an’ from it
drooped a scraggy mo.
Year after year ’e reckoned we’d get droughts,
an’ when they didn’t come
To spoil his crops along with ours ’e useter
get a bit more glum.
“The on’y time that ‘Croaker Joe’ was
abserlootly satisfied
Was when a drought did ’it these parts; and,
as ’is crops turned brown an’ died,
I’ll swear that Joe enjoyed ’imself, because ’is
neighbors, Jack and Jim,
. And other cockies roundabout were grousin’
near as bad as ’im.
“One day some gee-erlogic cove ’oo ’appened
to be snoopin’ round
Told Joe a rich aurif’rous reef was running
underneath ’is ground.
But ‘Croaker’ wouldn’t take it on—’e knew
that it’d be a dud.
’ls farm was bad enough, ’e said; ’e wouldn’t
come another thud.
“An' so ’e kept on moanin’ hard, and all ’is
life give Joy a clout,
And, in the end, like all of us, ’e just curls
up an’ wriggles out.
A nephew got the farm —an’ reef, with minin’
experts to assist:
An’ now ’e lives in Easy-street, ’cause Joe was
sich a pessimist.”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


JOOHd
ST
SAI
S.UH
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
IBS*
«cs
A*
mmm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFFTO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEES MEAL.
New England Wools.
“Uralcha”: Although a large decrease
in the number of bales comprising this
year’s clip has been forecast, it is
doubtful whether the impending short-
age of superfine spinners’ wools has yet
been realised.
Yass and Barraba (N.S.W.) wools are
reaching the market in good order, but
New England, just recovering from one
of the severest winters in its history, is
not only short in sheep numbers, with
a much reduced cut per sheep, but the
wool itself has suffered in those charac-
teristics on which spinners depend.
In spite of handfeeding, sheep losses
ranged from 5 p.c. to 30 p.c. of flocks.
Sheep that survived to be shorn showed
a decreased cut per head amounting to
25 p.c. on last year's weight. The im-
poverished condition of the clip, how-
ever. is the most serious factor.
The staple is much reduced in length,
(he fibre is thin, undernourished and
hunger-line, and the bulk of the clip is
wasty and tender—a serious drawback in
spinning. On a rough average. New Eng-
land clips will have to show an advance
in price of at least 75 p.c. to equal last
year’s wool cheque—and 1934 sales were
on a particularly low level.
One heartening feature is the manner
in which Phalaris (especially P. steno-
phila) proved itself as a standby. In
spite of the rigorous, bleak, dry winter,
Phalaris paddocks carried their stock
through when native and other imported
grasses were at a standstill, and there is
little room for doubt that the future suc-
cess of grazing in New England is going
to be closely linked with Phalaris.
The Speckled-faced Rentpayer.
“Sheep o”: Like “Sambo” (B.
20/11/’35), 1 wasn’t impressed with the
possibilities of the black-head Persian
sheep of S’Africa for fat-lamb produc-
tion in Australia. Its poor pelt value is
too much for it and its crossbred
progeny to carry.
A breed that appeared to me to have
possibilities for crossbreeding purposes
was the Kerry Hill sheep of Wales, locally
known as “the speckled-faced rent-
payer.” Although essentially a hill
sheep, the wool of the Kerry is on a par
with the best produced by the Down
breeds, being pure white, of good staple
length and of from 54’s-56’s spinning
capacity, with density a feature.
“Speckled-faced” is applied to the
breed because of its distinctive black-and-
white splashes about the nose, eyes and
muzzle—markings found on no other
breed.
Early-maturers, the Kerry Hill sheep
should do well on elevated and exposed
country near the coast, either as a pure
breed or for crossing with breeds apt to
contract footrot. The breed is in favor
at Smithfield.
Crossbred Mating.
“Granova”: If my experience means
anything, “Winfield” (B. 13/11/’35) will
be disappointed with the results of join-
ing merino rams to his ewes after the
main mating to longwools. He will find
that the strong, vigorous ewes will all
have mated early with the longwools,
and the merino portion of the drop will
be a poor lot.
In good fat-lamb districts it pays to
buy longwool or Corriedale cross ewes
from the drier districts for breeding fats,
as, except on very big properties, more
than one line of breeding means too
many distinct flocks and types of wool.
The ewes that do not breed will be
fat when the lambs are being sold. Truck
them as well. By doing this many
breeders are getting regular lambings of
100 p.c. and over.
For best results use 3 p.c. of young
rams. During mating inspect the ewes
each day and drive the flock slowly
across the paddock, making sure that all
the rams arc with the mob. This will
save knocking the ewes about yarding
them.
“Upilio”: I agree that “sluggishness in
longwool rams will cause the waste for a
whole period of as many as 30 p.c. in
a flock of good-breeding ewes” but
only if the rams are used out of season.
I would even put the percentage higher.
The trouble is that longwools have
been bred for centuries in England to
mate in autumn for spring lambs.
Breeders will find, if English longwools
are mated in Australia in April-May, the
percentage of lambs dropped will equal
that of any other breed. If fat-lamb-
raisers here want a big percentage of
autumn crossbred lambs, join Dorset
Horn rams with merino ewes in Novem-
ber. Dorsets arc used for the sole pur-
pose of supplying the English Christmas
trade with prime 12-week-old suckers.
Thus they were bred to mate in early
summer months. They arc splendid
quick-maturers.
“Winfield” is , wrong in advising
farmers with country that can produce
fat sucker-lambs to join merino rams.
No profit in sheep can equal prime
sucker-lambs at four months old bring-
ing 20s. to 255. per head—a common
price at this season.
“Corriedale” stresses the points that
wool (skin value) is the thing, and that
“most fat-lamb-breeders fail to realise
that their lamb is not bought on carcass
alone. The skin can be worth anything
from Is. to 55.” 1 hold that the fat-
sucker-producer is wasting his time and
profit if intent on a ss. skin. Only slow-
maturing breeds can do this, and at an
age when they will be no longer suckers.
My advice to farmers with suitable coun-
try is to go bald-headed for the weighty
carcass of the early-maturer and give the
skin in if need be.
Pustular Dermatitis.
“Currum”: Thistle-heads, dry grass
and stubble left after the binder fre-
quently cause an outbreak of infectious
P.D. (or scabby-mouth) at this time of
the year.
Lambs are the chief sufferers, though
they may sometimes carry the disease to
the udder of the ewe. As a result, gan-
grenous mastitis may develop, when
mortality will be high and death painful.
Pimples form on the lips and nose of
the lamb, which suffers pain when it
sucks—it will feed only reluctantly.
There is generally a frothing at the
mouth.
As the pimples enlarge, the contents
become purulent and rupture, allowing
a watery fluid to exude. This forms a
yellowish-brown crust which falls off
about the twenty-fourth day.
Though death rarely occurs, there will
be a loss of condition and a severe
check to growth.
P.D. is infectious and contagious, and
affected lambs should be isolated, to-
gether with their mothers.
Dip the noses of patients in a 5 p.c.
solution of copper sulphate. If in an
advanced stage, paint the sores with tinc-
ture of iodine.
Pink-eye Prevalent.
“Valerin” Two main causes of infec-
tion are flies and dust; the former can-
not be controlled, but dust can be mini-
mised by disturbing sheep as little as
possible. On no account yard them.
A careful man can collect the worst
cases, which should be put in a small
well-watered paddock and treated.
An excellent remedy is a 10 p.c. solu-
tion of sulphate of zinc—2oz. will make
a pint-bottleful. Do not mix in a metal
vessel. Use an ordinary eye-dropper, and
make sure the liquid gets into the eyes.
Then draw the eyelids together to ensure
thorough penetration.
Dags.
“Lion”: In large sheds my methods
might not be as workable as “Murra-
wong's” (B. 6/11/*35), but 70 p.c. of
the Australian clips arc 100 bales or less.
The pickers-up arc instructed what to
do, and an extra hand or two put on
if a fast team is shearing. This avoids
the obvious troubles that “Murrawong”
cites. (Some pickers-up can do without
extra labor all the same.) The addi-
tional wages will be nothing when offset
against the additional profits from the
cleaner lower lines.
A good boy can have his fleece ready
to pick up as the shearer is finishing, and
the heap of dags which he has already
removed are swept away by the extra
hand. There need be no delay ; neither
need the boy remove good wool with
the dags. If he does it can still be
rescued.
I have profitably employed my method
for many seasons. 1 contend the pickers-
up can remove (he dags as quickly and
as wool-free as any wool-roller.
So many owners run (heir sheds with
the minimum of labor, which, in my
opinion, is always false economy.
Looks and the Beast.
“El V.”: Judging by some of the
animals I have seen about lately, there
is a distinct prejudice operating against
the good-looking beast. Some of the
dairies which fringe the roads around
Sydney apparently make a practice, both
with horses and cattle, of keeping only
stock which have at least one feature that
a man can hang an eye on. With dairy
cattle the favorite excrescence seems to
be the hip and with mares the lower lip.
Actually, good looks go a long way
in all stock. Every animal should fill
the eye evenly. The handsome animal
—I do not mean the showy, flash, snaky
one, but the one with evenly-moulded
conformation, glossy, healthy skin and
bright, alert eye—usually has its feet
evenly planted on the ground, good
sound bone, a roomy interior and a
sound digestive system.
Symmetry always seems to me par-
ticularly important in a dam, because it
generally goes with soundness and an
even temperament. Kipling’s rule to
“observe the mother ere you take the
daughter” holds good with all kinds of
stock.
A bull or a stallion spreads his faults
more widely because he produces dozens
of offspring to every one produced by
a female ; for that reason breeders are
apt to pay more attention to him than
the dams he mates with. But the fact
remains that a cow without the poten-
tialities of a milk-producer or a mare with
spavin or some other transmittabie un-
soundness can render the best stallion in
the land useless if her faults are marked
enough.
Clydesdale Progress.
“Ghanam”: The draught horse is
gradually coming into its own again in
Australia, but its usage is still far behind
that in many other countries. Canada
is actually able to export stud horses on
a fairly large scale to U.S.A. And it is
recorded that the demand for draughts
there is expanding, and “thousands of
farmers are turning back to horses for
farm work, thereby adding to employ-
ment and consuming fuel, which they
grow on the farm profitably.”
In Australia the demand for tractor
stock has improved, and many fine sires
have been imported from overseas to
help provide it. The new volume of the
Commonwealth Clydesdale Stud Book
gives the pedigrees of 677 stallions, 1374
numbered mares with progeny, together
with 708 appendix females and details
of the offspring of 1375 mares recorded
in previous books. In a preface, the
Federal president, Mr. P. Connell, of
Yarrawonga, remarks;
There is an imperative need for the
improvement in standard of horses
generally. t urge breeders to eliminate
unsound stallions... .and to redouble their
efforts to obtain uniform legislation
governing horse-breeding in all States of
the Commonwealth.
Meanwhile, prices have now been pay-
able for good stock for a long time —
good draught geldings in (he Riverina
are worth £4O or a bit more at from
three to four years old and a little less
at five to eight years. The best foals
bring £l5 to £l7.
Soy and Velvet Beans.
“Julius Want”: N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department is experimenting on
the North Coast with soy and velvet
beans as a substitute for lucerne, which
does not thrive on the Richmond. A
simpler plan for providing the district
with cheap fodder might be to develop
the lucerne industry at Inverell, which
is only 120 miles or so from consump-
tion point as the crow flies. However,
the crow is not allowed to fly on a large
scale —except by a 1000-mile rail route
via Sydney.
In some of the trials, soy beans were
row-planted, with rows 3ft. apart. Velvet
beans were put in every 18in., with maize
at the rate of three grains to every 30in.
So far, the job has not been a brilliant
success. There is considerable difficulty
in harvesting the tangle which results
from the joint velvet bean and maize sow-
ings, but the silage, once made, is good
and keeps well.
It should be worth while to try Towns-
ville lucerne under cultivated conditions
on the Richmond. It will flourish where
true alfalfa will not grow. Even in the
Northern Territory it is taking posses-
sion of the railway embankments and
spreading on poor ridge country.
Farming Success.
“M 8”; Frank Jones went to Hillston
(N.S.W.) from Morwell (Vic.) five years
ago with nothing but his strength. He
took on wheatgrowing on shares. He has
bought and paid for a £lBOO farming
plant, owns a few hundred merinos, and
has no fears for the future.
Seven years ago Noakes Bros, paid a
big price for wheatland near Thuddungra
(N.S.W.). They are clear of debt, and
expect a 10-bag average from 340 acres
this year.
Four years ago A. F. Dowdle arrived
in the Binnaway (N.S.W.) district broke,
and took on share-farming. To-day he
owns 850 acres, 400 of which he cleared
himself, and is doing well with wheat
and sheep.
Beeching, share-farming at Attunga
(N.S.W.), came from Kent (Eng.) a few
years ago. Now he has a tractor plant
and a bank balance. There are others —
you find them all through the wheat belt
—and the point is that they have suc-


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
TTie'^-aZlelz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
ŵ
DURABILITY BUILT IN!
It’s the quality of the leather used,
and the expert craftsmanship that
goes into their making, which endow
Abbey Hand-sewn Shoes with dura-
bility unsurpassed. They are resi-
lient and springy . . . comfortable
from the first time on. Enjoy the
ease and firmness . . . the lasting
good appearance ... of Abbey
Hand-made Shoes. They save
money because they are extra
serviceable.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 707-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FTD 460.
APPL’D
FOR
A CLOCK WITHOUT
A DIAL IS LIKE...
A PEN WITHOUT A
.WORD
GAUGE
The CONKLIN
Nozac W ord
Gauge Pen
Tells the writer at a
glance about how
many words he has
written and how many
more he can write
without refilling the
pen.
It is the only sackless
pen that is filled by
the positive mechanical
action of a new filling
device that Winds
Like a Watch.”
Regular Size 30/-
Models write over
5000 words and the
large size, 40/-, over
7000 words.
Available in Black,
Red Pearl and Green
Pearl.
Pencils to Match at
25/-
From all Stationers,
Jewellers and Depart-
mental Stores.
Molhersills
STOPS TRAVEL
SICKNESS
SEA, AIR and
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTE
ESI
BELL
c
sc.
%
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Hlack Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19 •
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24 0
Stronglv-made. grained leather case free with each taznr.
THE PLCM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., Jin. and |in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG it AIT KfcES, «54 oeorge Street. Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
years tree of charge.
a-*
■
MARE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Supply Seventy Household
Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as vour own business. Full information posted
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOCR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge 1* Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
ceeded in the worst five years experi-
enced by the wheat industry as regards
prices.
Facts worth noting are that most are —
or were —share-farmers who practised
long fallows and got consistently heavy
yields. As such they escaped Federal
land tax and high interest on fictitious
values.
White-ants and Pastures.
“Bates”: The C.S.I.R. is now on the
trail of the white termite —incidentally,
it is not an ant —which seems to have
taken to eating grass-seeds in n.-w. Q.
G. F. Hill has recently made a trip
into the Gulf country to look into
this problem. The theory is that, through
seed destruction by white-ants, the pas-
tures have gradually receded until ifi
many places nothing but a mass of ant-
hills remains.
In much of far n.-w. and c.-w. Q.
the anthills are restricted to the poorer
“desert” type of country. Never are they
found on the open country, where vege-
tation grows actively.
Are the ants there because they thrive
under hard, dry conditions, or are con-
ditions hard as a result of their depreda-
tions? It seems like a case of the chicken
and the egg, and J would be inclined to
back the ants liking dry, hard, well-
drained soils.
The research should not be restricted
to the white-ant. On practically any por-
tion of the ironstone downs, where
grasses grow vigorously, the red-ants are
to be found consuming their share of the
seeds. They, too, may materially affect
the permanency of the pastures.
However, while it does no harm to
investigate, my opinion is that, if you
give us the rains at the right time, you
can bring out all the ants you have got—
so long as they stick to grass-seeds.
Why Not More Fallow?
“Hortus”: Fallowing pays.
In a recent experiment, fallowed and
unfallowed plots were carefully studied
and analysed. Nine months after plough-
ing, the fallowed plot, which received
five cultivations, contained the equiva-
lent of 5501 b. more ammonium sulph.
or 7101 b. soda nitrate than did the cor-
responding unfallowed plots.
The soils were analysed for moisture
also. The fallowed plot held a greater
amount of moisture than (he others —
equivalent to nearly l-}in. of rain
distributed through the soil to a depth
of three feet.
The crop yield on the unfallowed plot
was only 73 p.c. of that on the fallow,
or 16 bushels 61b. as compared with 22
bushels 131 b.
When should fallowing begin? It
depends on the incidence of the rainfall.
The reason of this is that the essence
of the system is the storage of moisture
dropped before sowing operations take
place. Watch the rainfall. If the
greater part of the year’s rain falls
normally in the winter, fallow then, so
as to carry the rainfall of one winter
through the following summer to make
it available to the soil in autumn.
In some districts, the summer rainfall is
normally greater than in others. Fallow
as soon as possible after sowing.
Some farmers think that fallowing
means merely leaving the land idle with
no crop in it. Weeds spring up, and
use up both food and moisture. The
surface becomes hard and crusted, and
moisture is again lost through evapora-
tion. Work your fallow according to
the time at your leisure. The more you
work it the better the result will be.
Try to keep a loose mulch on the sur-
face.
From analyses of soil moisture, it was
found that, while uncultivated land had
equal to 86 tons of moisture per acre
at the first foot, 88 tons at the second,
100 tons at the fourth and 90 tons at
the sixth, in the fallowed (well-worked)
area there was equal to 128 tons at the
first foot, 116 tons at the second, 130
tons at the fourth and 120 at the sixth.
This means there was an advantage,
where cultivation was carried out, of 30
to 40 per cent, more moisture down to
six feet
Hints for the Farm.
“Glentronie”: To remove pulleys from
a shaft, windwheels from a head or any
keyed wheel or collar from an axle,
knock the wheel back along the axle,
remove the key and then slip the wheel
off. Do not try to knock out the key
first, as you are liable to spoil it, the
casting or your hands. Get a piece ol
piping that fits nicely over the axle and
clout it hard. This pushes the wheel
back without injury to the casting. The
key will then be loose, and can be taken
out and the wheel slipped off.
“Wrash”: The propensity of a ram
that has taken to butting can often be
cured simply. To one of his horns hang
a light pole that will drag on the ground
a foot or two behind him. Propping rear-
ward, it prevents his drawing back to
charge. Thus baulked a few times, he
will abandon the habit.
“D.A.”: Avoid using “hard” water to
dissolve copper sulphate for worm
drenches. The calcium carbonate in the
water works an “exchange” decomposi-
tion with the sulphate, forming car-
bonate of copper and calcium sulphate —
both useless as drenches.
“Granova”: In districts where timber
for haystack foundations is scarce, use
a tank-sinking plough to tear the stack
site up as deeply and roughly as possible.
Build the stack on the loose dirt, which
will absorb all the ground moisture and
enable the sheaves from the very bottom
layer to be used.
“Mattocky”: Can any M.O.L. tell me
whether he has found stomach and in-
testine linings of sheep injured by
frequent dosing with bluestone? My
theory is that bluestone straight, blue-
stone and mustard, or bluestone and nico-
tine must corrode the digestive organs. If
so, why use anything as caustic as blue-
stone for drenching if the worms can
be shifted by a drench that is less Harm-
ful? Some veterinary professors say
bluestone in drench dilution does no
injury. Others, as well as some medicoes,
disagree. Who is right?
“The 0.D,”: Many wheatgrowcrs fail
to recognise footrot, mistaking the
whitened ears of the ripening wheat for
wind or frost damage. Pull up such
plants and examine the roots, which will
be found stunted and slightly wilted. To
rid the paddock of the disease, sow oats,
graze them off, and then give the pad-
dock a good stubble-burn. Plough it
early for a good, long fallow, keeping
the sheep on it and working it to keep
clean for as long as possible before the
next wheat is sown. Remember that
barley grass on headlands will carry the
spores of footrot and distribute them in
the growing crop by wind action.
“J.W.”: The discovery of skeleton-
weed seed at Windsor (N.S.W.) in a
truckload of fowl-feed wheat which came
from the Henty districts shows how great
are the possibilities of extending the con-
ditions which now apply in the southern
districts of N. S. Wales. If once the
weed were to get a hold in the Hawkes-
bury flats and in the fertile regions of
the North Coast, where there are large
acreages of virgin land, it might spread
like wildfire once it acclimatised itself.
Until the seed has been eradicated there
is urgent need to regulate the disposal of
fowl-feed outside the affected wheat
districts.
“XT.”: A bushfire brigade conference
at Rutherglen (Vic.) suggests a State
scheme for bushfire accident insurance.
It is calculated that for a contribution of
Is. p.a. per member benefits beginning
at 30s. per week for the first three-weeks,
rates afterwards falling gradually to
a minimum of 10s. per week in 26 weeks,
could be given, with special provision
for loss of limbs or sight. It is a good
idea. Many a fire-fighter is a volunteer
on a neighbor’s property, with no status
allowing him to claim compensation in
case of accident. And insurance is al-
ways cheap, even for a burnt-out owner.


The Pleasure’s
YOURS
as well as theirs!
mmWJJ
tOYHm**
J
item
25/-
Made in England
The finest gift for
everybody is a
LEVERLESS
m PEN
Prices; The New LEVERLESS ‘ Swan ’ costs 25/- (black or
colours, mounted) or 21/- (black only, unmounted). Other
Swans’ from 15/-. * Blackbirds’ from 10/-. ‘ Jackdaws’
from 6/6.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings,
255 A George Street, SYDNEY.
ALWAYS
*SWAN* INK
FROM 6d.
A BOTTLE
r
L
Giver as well as receiver gets a
pleasant thrill out of this new kind
of pen — it's the gift for anybody at
any time.
The LEVERLESS 1 Swan * makes it easy
now to give a gift that really c rings
the bell ’. Whatever the occasion
Christmas, Weddings, Anniversaries, etc.
—whoever it is for, you simply can’t go
wrong in giving it! That’s because this
wonderful pen is different from any made
before—because it fills quicker and is so
simple and strong that it can’t go wrong!
There’s a style and a price Tor everyone.
Nibs can be changed to suit any hand
if they don’t suit. Look them over for
yourself at any good Stationers or
Jewellers.
V!e\\ y tolce/ <xcWccc^
uvvj dovl" I'oXcG/ , *
Cjcvo cw Cj UleTTe^
is a sensible gift, if you like. Something
a man will really appreciate. And with every
perfect shave he has with those new Blue Gillette
electrically-tempered blades, he’ll be reminded anew
of the charming giver of this ideal Christmas gift.
Complete Shaving Outfits from 2/6 to 35/-.
No. 77 Set. An entirely new
and improved razor—the guard
and handle are combined
in one piece. Complete
in walnut coloured hy-
gienic moulded case, with
three of the new Gillette
slotted blades, and two $$
mm
blade
holders
6/-
* tor the man
who already has a
Gillette Razor, there
is the Blue Gillette
Special Christmas
Box containing 2 5H||
electrically tempered £|||
Gillette Blades —lo/- '
G 4.205
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“G. Trotter” : As a means of fighting
the sand-drift in the Vic. Mallee, Rev.
G, L. Owens, an enthusiast in agricultural
matters, advocates the use of pipelines
for irrigation instead of the open ditches
which Australia favors. Some years back
I travelled through the irrigated districts
of California, and was surprised to find
that practically the whole area is reticu-
lated by pipes. The advantages are enor-
mous: irrigation is not dependent on
gravitation—the pipes run over hill and
valley irrespective of levels —and the ex-
cavation is so small compared with ditch
irrigation that the cost cannot be greater.
Pipes were introduced into California not
to prevent sand-drift, but to conserve
water. There is not a pint to spare in
that progressive State, though it does not
broadcast the fact. Every natural water-
course is so dry that a car might be driven
along the bed, and to extend the irriga-
tion schemes it has already been found
necessary to go beyond the confines of
the State. With pipes there is no loss
by evaporation or seepage. These two
factors must account for at least 50 per
cent, of the water which Australian irri-
gation schemes turn into their channels.
* * * *
“Redshirt”: The three Yankee lads
who were roughly handled by Fascists
for not treating a funeral with suffi-
cient respect were probably as inno-
cent as babes. An Italian funeral is in
bright colors—yellow and pink predomi-
nate —and any foreigner seeing one for
the first time would mistake it for a car-
nival procession. I saw a funeral in
Naples some years back, and, rushing
forward to ascertain what it was, just
realised its sombre significance in time.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: London’s Lord Mayor
struck a note of originality this year by
introducing a pack of hounds. 1 had a
dress-circle seat for the show of 1920
from a window of the “Times” office. It
was almost the worst procession I had
ever seen, both in quantity and quality —
a band, a few moth-eaten uniforms and
four or five carriages and it was all over.
The Oodnadatta Fire Brigade probably
stages a more spectacular display every
Foundation Day. The public evidently
knew its Lord Mayor’s Show, too ; none
had gathered, and the passing pedestrians
just raised their eyes to glance at it con-
temptuously for a moment. After all,
there is only one nation which knows
how to make a procession something
worth looking at —the Chinese, When
there were enough of them at Bendigo
they were wont to put on a march which
was a glory of color and diversity beside
which even the floral revelations of Nice
look false and artificial.
* ♦ * *
“Uramao”: In the Pope’s prayer for
peace, quoted by Bulletin writers,
occurred the passage: “Scatter the
nations that delight in wars.” It
was reserved for a London editor to dig
up the original reference (Psalms Ixvii,
30) and to discover that the very next
verse runs, curiously enough: “Princes
shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall
soon stretch out her hands unto God.”
♦ * * *
German newspapers are admiring the
British foreign policy which has com-
pelled France to declare against Italy,
revived an anti-Italian monarchy in
Greece and bound 49 countries, many
reluctant, to the chariot-wheel of the
League. They are certainly impressive
political achievements, but the economic
consequences are on trial. And even
considered politically, the policy is more
successful from the point of view of the
British as islanders and rulers of black
races than from the point of view of this
Dominion —it really has one, although
the Lyons Ministry seems unaware of it.
It cannot possibly promote Australia s
material welfare to lose its Italian trade
to Argentina, or its security to have Italy
for an enemy—even an Italy beaten to
its knees.
* * * *
“Vert et Jaune”: Connoisseurs in rare
tipples will be distressed to learn that
the distillery of the Grande Chartreuse
at Grenoble has been destroyed by a land-
slide which also deprived the world of
some thousands of gallons of a liqueur
which many esteem peerless. For more
than three centuries the secret of the
liqueur has been jealously guarded by
the monks who make it, and as the
nectar takes quarter of a century to
mature there will presumably be a long
wait until fresh supplies are available.
Among the ingredients there are said to
be carnations, absinthium and young
buds of pine-trees, but no analyst has yet
succeeded in determining the exact pro-
portions and other details. Holders of
stocks of the genuine article will doubt-
less raise their prices, and in this regard
it is well to be careful. Some years ago
in one of its attacks upon the religious
orders the French Government can-
celled the right of the monks to sole
manufacture and, having announced that
it had come into possession of the
famous recipe, proceeded to make a pule
imitation. If any restaurateur tries to
charge you outrageous prices for Char-
treuse, ask for the bottle. If it is Gov-
ernment stuff the fact will be stated on
the label.


SMOKE-OH!
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
Admonition.
ẃ
T.W.N.
A. Tragedy of Love.
ŵ
ẁ
QUAYEAU.
New Navigation.
w
"Try not to fall on the 'orse, Cedrie-'e might boll with Y'."
ẁ
S.W.K.
Unemployment.
w
P.P.


«'SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE (/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS I SAVE MONEY!
npHERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
a does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Bep.i JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
m
IB
mm
wm
liV
S*r?c!
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
WORN PLUCf
WASTE YOUR
MONEY
Replace them with
k CHAMPIONS
Champion
CANADA
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
The Steering Column.
WHAT TO EXPECT IN NEW MODELS.
PASSENGER COMFORT A GENERAL FEATURE.
BY FRES BERRY.
t 7 XCEPT in isolated cases, motorists in this country have been
' accustomed to waiting from four to six months after first
release in the country of manufacture before taking delivery of
their new model car. Although it is understood that closer
co-operation between home factories and local assembly plants
will improve this position in the future, it will be of interest to
likely buyers to learn what differences may be expected in the
’36 series.
During the depression period trade
rivalry and intensive sales efforts, par-
ticularly in America, resulted in the pro-
duction of many new models which,
when compared with those of the pre-
vious series, incorporated drastic and
revolutionary changes in design, in some
instances seriously affecting the resale
value of the older type, even though it
had been driven only a few thousand
miles.
Happily, this position no longer exists.
Owing to rapid increase in new-car sales
throughout the world and a general
stabilisation of the industry, the larger
manufacturers appear to have agreed for
the coming year on a principle of refine-
ment in detail rather than of radical
alteration in design. As might be ex-
pected, results of last year’s research and
experiment will be reflected in the new
power plants, as, generally, the ’36
engines will have a greater output and
improved flexibility for a given piston
displacement; petrol consumption will be
better, and certain inherent small faults,
located as the result of data supplied by
thousands of owner-drivers, will be elimi-
nated. Outward appearance of engine
and transmission will show little altera-
tion, although the almost general adop-
tion of synchromesh gears in transmis-
sion, together with rubber mounting of
the engine in the chassis, will provide a
smoother-running and more silent as-
sembly. A marked trend is also shown
in the wider use of alloy iron in cylinder
castings, new-type bearings and plated or
hardened pistons, each in its own sphere
tending to increase the effective life, re-
move petty service troubles and greatly
Enhanced appearance and improved
streamlining secured by housing spare
wheel and luggage behind pivoted seats
in coupe models.
increase the potential mileage between
major overhauls.
Outstanding departure in most new
models is the endeavor on the part of
designers to provide maximum passenger
comfort—a feature sadly lacking in some
older types. Sedan bodies are built
into the chassis as an integral part of
assembly
. y ‘
This new style not only eliminates
squeaks and rattles so common in the
past after several thousand miles’ run-
ning ; it gives the car as a whole far
Four abreast in the ultra-streamlined special Hudson shown at Olympia (Eng.).
Many stock models provide seating space for three front and rear.
(Illustration from the “Motor.”)
greater strength to resist shocks due to
road inequalities and minimises damage
in cases of accidental impact. Further-
more, the “built-in” body provides a
lower centre of gravity without sacrificing
head or leg room. It also provides better
stability and roadworthiness.
All-steel body construction has ap-
parently come to stay. The majority of
quantity-production cars will next year
be fitted with all-steel coachwork.
Considerable attention has been given
to the width and shape of seating accom-
modation. In a number of instances pro-
vision is made to seat six adults comfort-
ably in the standard-track sedans —three
in the front and three in the rear seats.
The squabs of seats are now built to con-
form more with the shape of the sitting
figure, and so eliminate strain on long
journeys. They also give the driver maxi"
mum control of steering-wheel and
pedals.
Ventilation of closed types will be
more efficient than hitherto ; eddy cur-
rents and draughts will be reduced by
allowing a free current of air to pass
under the front seats, balancing the air-
flow in front and rear compartments ;
and the mechanism fitted to operate “no-
draught” window types, once a constant
source of trouble, will be of robust con-
struction and soundly designed in the
new models. They will possess the addi-
tional benefit of being water- and dust-
proof.
As speeds between 60 and 90 m.p.h
will be possible with ’36 models,
suspension systems will have a definite
influence upon both passenger com-
fort and road safety. Specifications
reveal that very careful attention has
been given to this subject, and where
Jong, flexible springs are fitted to provide
“soft” riding properties at low speeds the
shock-absorber equipment has been im-
proved in order to avoid excessive recoil
when driving fast over rough roads.
Independent front-wheel suspension of
different types is still fitted to a number
of the popular makes. Several new cars,
most prominent being the Rolls-Royce,
have adopted the principle. Ride-
stabilisers to prevent swaying when cor-
nering are now universal, the general
tendency, however, being to fit the
stabilising gear on the front axle, not
the rear.
Since the wider use of streamlined
bodies and fenders, the problem of jack-
ing up the car to effect a tyre-change
without inconvenience or discomfort has
been given close attention. Country
drivers carrying only a standard jack in
the tool-kit are frequently obliged to seek
No need to stoop or crawl under the
car when using the Marquette jack sup-
plied with Buick.
assistance before the car can be raised
high enough to remove a wheel, particu-
larly when the trouble happens on a
wet or dusty road. Even in the cities
the job is one calling for skill and
Automatic hydraulic jack unit as adopted
by Morris Motors.
patience. Efforts have been made in a
number of instances to overcome this dif-
ficulty by fitting “built-in” jacks, at-
tached to chassis members or running-
boards and actuated either mechanically
or by engine power. Hydraulic types are
mainly attached to spring anchorages,
front and rear, and take the form of a
two-stage ram, thereby conserving space
and providing maximum road clearance.
Passenger comfort has been greatly
enhanced by the more common use of
“built-in” luggage-lockers, replacing the
old-style metal grids. In beavertail
style of coachwork the streamlined rear
is used for stowing luggage, access to
this compartment being through a pivoted
rear-seat squab. In the larger sedans a
spacious locker forms an integral part
of the coachwork, conforming in many
cases to the streamline profile.
Demand for New Cars.
While the demand for cars and trucks
throughout the Commonwealth has in-
creased greatly over the last decade, the
number purchased annually is still far
short of the number required to replace
obsolete material on a basis of a 10-year
life.
The total number of cars and trucks
registered is 606,141, comprising 459,258
cars and 146,883 trucks. During 1934
only 39,320 similar vehicles were put into
commission.
It is comforting, however, to observe
that 1935 figures are far more promising.
The July-September purchases—39,l32
vehicles (27,156 cars; 11,976 trucks) —
show an average improvement of almost
50 p.c. over sales for the corresponding
period in ’34.
There is still a great deal to be done
to put our motor house in order and to
rid it of obsolete junk. Although the
modern motor vehicle will, no doubt,
last longer than older types, this poten-
tial loss in new-car purchases will be
compensated for in the natural increase
in demand due to normal expansion of
business, more and better roads and the
general acceptance of motorised trans-
port as an economic necessity rather than
a luxury.


advt
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7j hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOB LDXUBV, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., DTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
(Second Edition,)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM "THE BULLETIN," t% /t% POST
252 George St., Sydney, O/O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
ŵ
SIMONIZ
YOUR
CAR
it Will Sparkle Like New Again!
*
AFTER
SOIA) BY ALL, C.OOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/«; LARGE, 5/-.
UNIFORMITY
and
'AvCCURAC Y
2
(iiiinif
UFOR
P/iosp/orl/rone Bushings
-IP
THE Dufor standard oi manufacture is one of unvarying excel-
lence. This is assured by the installation of the very latest
mass production machines, together with scientific testing of pro-
ducts, at every stage of manufacture.
You cannot, for example, buy a better bush anywhere than those
bearing the famous Dufor brand.
There are over 700 sizes in the genuine Dufor range of bushes,
each one unvarying in its quality and accuracy.
Always insist on genuine Dufor Phosphor Bronze Bushings,
sold by leading wholesale houses throughout the Southern
Hemisphere.
flosmufln AUTOMOTIVE REPLfICEIMfIT PARIS
DULV ui H H H S FORD LTD
HAWUNS li
New-type Aerial for Cars.
Despite the great improvement made
in automobile radio equipment during
the last year, problems arising from elec-
trical interference in cities and of limita-
tion of range in country districts leave
room for further experiment and research
before ideal conditions are secured.
The Philips di-pole aerial.
Owing, perhaps, to lack of co-operation
between radio- and car-designers, unfore-
seen complications appear to arise shortly
after any satisfactory equipment is
placed on the market. The most recent
is the more general use of all-steel bodies,
which strictly limits the efficiency of the
hitherto highly satisfactory capacity-type
roof aerial. To overcome this difficulty
Philips Lamps, Ltd. (Eng.), has evolved
a new-type di-pole aerial, suspended on
rubber brackets from the frame mem-
bers of the chassis (see sketch), one side
being coupled to aerial lead, the other
to earth. It is claimed that this design
functions as a trap on frequencies at
which interference occurs, and that effi-
ciency, when compared with older-type
roof aerials, is increased in some cases by
80 p.c.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
M.C.D. (Spring Ridge, Qld.).- —(1) Is there a
Jap. car on the market ? (2) What firms do re-
boring ? (3) What would a Ford or Chev. cost
in America ?
(1) No. (2) Look up ad. columns in papers.
(3) Sedans, according to the type, between
640 and 675 dollars.
* * * *
D.H.K. (Manilla, N.S.W.).—(I) Which of
the cars named would give me best results,
having regard also to value for money? (2)
What are the prices of 10 -h.p. saloon models
of cars named ?
(1) Any one should serve
your purpose. (2) Austin,
£335 ; Morris, £350; Stan-
dard, £339; Hillman Minx,
£3lB. Each plus tax.
* *
J.O.J. (Mossman, Qld.).—
I am having trouble with
a ’34 model car. The
engine misses when idling,
either on Nos. 4 and 2, and
sometimes 1, 2 and 4. Mile-
age 10,000, valves ground,
compression good, new
plugs, ignition and coil
tested, new distributor cap
fitted, liming 0.K., cleaned carburettor. Cause
and cure ?
When cleaning carburettor and replacing top
of float chamber the metering pin may not
have been fitted into its slot. Condenser may
be faulty. Check up fit of manifold gasket.
Also check lappet clearance, which should be
13 thou, exhaust and 8 thou, inlet with motor
hot. Plug points should be set at 25 thou,
gap; breaker points, 18 thou. Also inspect
tension of contact breaker spring.
* * * *
K.F. (Murwillumbah, N.S.W.). — When was
the final comparison table of cars tested by
The Bulletin published?
See B. 20/11 /’35.
* * * *
S.L.H. (Perth, W.A.).—(l) In the slx-cyl.
Oldsmobile ’35 where is the windscreen wiper
placed, top or bottom ? (2) I have an Olds-
mobile — chassis, No. F 355109 ; engine No.
FR5529, Is it a ’34 or ’35 model ?
(1) Top of windscreen in roadster, bottom
in sedan. (2) ’35 series.
* * * *
D.H.C. (Eulo, Qld.).— My ’34 model utility
truck has done 10,000 miles without overhaul.
, (1) What should be done to give another 12
months' trouble-free motoring ? (2) What
grade of petrol is most suitable? (3) Would
it be safe to use engine oil in diff. and gear-
box ? (4) What is most economical speed to
run this truck ?
(1) Except for cleaning and adjusting plug
points and distributor gap, cleaning filters and
adjusting brakes, the vehicle should not require
attention for a further 10,000 miles. (2) Any
standard fuel. Slightly better results with first
grades. (3) Yes. Consult instruction book. (4)
30 m.p.h.
* * * *
K.C.P. (St. Arnaud, Vic.). —/ have a
’24 model car, 50,000 miles. (1) What is
average petrol consumption, and can it be
improved ? (2) Head has never been lifted ;
should this be done now ? (3) Is there any
way to prevent rear wheels coming off ? (4)
Although clutch pedal is depressed fully, there
is a slight grating noise when engaging gear.
Can this be slopped ?
(1) Normal consumption, 16 m.p.g. If lower,
repack flange below jet, using candle wick as
packing. (2) Much better performance will be
secured by giving the car a complete top over-
haul and valve grind, new plugs and adjust
tappets and contact breaker points. (3) Wheels
should not come olf. Hubs are left- and right-
hand threads. If they are on the wrong sides
they will tend to work loose and come adrift.
(4) Check up pedal adjustment, which should
have only iin. play ; any greater will prevent
clutch plates separating. Also give clutch
assembly flushing with kerosene, and after-
wards refill with half-pint of a 50-50 mixture
of light engine oil and kerosene.
(Continued on page 28.)


ẁ
in SUPER PLUME ETHYL are 5 types of
»
POWER* THAT MEAN SUPER PERFORMANCE
*2 POWER to flash from 5 to 50
sm.
in a matter of moments
When you step on it in traffic or in
emergency you should get a flashing
response. You get it when you use
Super Plume Ethyl and 5 types of
POWER —all so perfectly blended
that every atom of POWER goes into
action—every cylinder gets its proper
share—an unfaltering stream of
knockless POWER that is exhilarating
in any car, old or new!
1. POWER to swing your cold engine to a
split-second start —and keep it
revving.
3. POWER to sustain your highest speed—
with a COOLER engine.
4. POWER to take steep hills in top gear—
and without a knock.
5. POWER to travel further—miles further
—on less petrol.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY Pry. Ltd.
Super Plume %/
THE 5-POWER PETROL /
ẃ
WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZORS
H'/c
6
POSITIVE
V
©
SCIENTIFIC
o
Q
O
SIMPLICITY
MADE IN ENGLAND.
E. 7 Razor, com-
plete with two Hollow-ground
Blades and Strop, in oak case, 14/6
E. 13. —An E. 7 with heavier frame, ,
in nickel-plated case IH/b
E.lO. —Same as E. 7 with six
Hollow-ground Blades 18/6
E. 21. —Highly-finished Silver-plated
Self-stropping Razor. Special
Oxidised Grip Handle, with six
Hollow-ground Blades and Shell
Horsehide Strop, in chased Chro-
mium Case, oak lined 35 -
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORKS.
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street. Melbourne, *
and 103 York Street. Sydney.
A.C. (N.S.W.). —Laden weight of roadster is
2 lot'/. Tyres are 30 x 4.50. (1) What tyre
pressure front and rear ? (2) What is cone :t
inlet and exhaust tappet clearance; also adjust-
ment of breaker points ? (3) Although battery
is fully charged the headlights are dim when
switched on, and do not brighten till car has
reached 25 m.p.h. They dim when slowing
down. Can you suggest remedy?
(1) Front, 281 b.; rear, 301 b. (2) Inlet 12
thou., exhaust 12 thou, engine hot; breaker
points, 22 thou. (3) Indications of a bad or
dirty earth connection from battery to chassis
or a high resistance in lighting circuit, due to
frayed or damaged insulation.
■'f « ff
A.H. (Warren, N.S.W.). —Please advise the
correct tappet adjustment of a ’26 Whippet
and Model T Ford, and whether it should be
done with motor hot or cold.
Whippet inlet 4 thou., exhaust 6 thou. hot.
Ford inlet 15 thou., exhaust 15 thou. hot.
R.W. (Rosewood, Qld.). —/ have been asked
to trade in my old standard-track tourer for a
new car 4 in. narrower between wheels. The
new car performs extremely well, but I am
afraid it might give me trouble when driven
over rough black-soil roads. Any suggestions ?
No practical proof that narrow track offers
disadvantages when driven over bad roads.
Advantages of new car would be larger tyres,
lighter weight and generally better per-
formance.
CJ.B. (Stonehenge, N.S.W.).— Recently pur-
chased a ’25 Morris Oxford, and now find
excess play in steering box. (1) Can this be
adjusted ? (2) Front lyres are wearing on outer
edge of tread; king pins are good fit; toe is
3-16;//., and camber about 2 in. Is this setting
correct ?
(1) No adjustment provided; play is due to
wear between worm and sector. (2) Front-end
geometry requires careful checking. Camber
should be only H degrees from vertical. Pos-
sibly axle is dished in centre.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Kotuku”: Maoriland’s first car, a
single cylinder 1898 Benz, with a guar-
anteed speed of 16 miles an hour, is still
going strong, and is occasionally seen
on the streets -of Christchurch. Mr.
Oates, a previous owner, was the first
Maoriland motorist to be fined for break-
ing the motor regulations. He drove
past a stationary horse-drawn vehicle at
more than six m.p.h. and failed to dis-
play the red flag required by the by-
laws.
* * «
“H.A.L.’’: Back in pre-depression days
a Big-City firm advertised that £4O would
be allowed on any car traded in. It had
to be driven to the showroom. A friend
remembered an ancient Talbot in a shed
near by. The owner told him he could
have it for driving it away. As soon
as he had signed for a new car the crock
was driven into the garage, where a
mechanic with a sledge-hammer made
sure it would never be used to work the
same joke again. My friend found a
tin of “Pratt’s Spirit for Motor Cars” in
the back seat, and it was on a brand
of petrol which hasn’t been on the market
for over 20 years that the bus made her
last run. It had been owned by a young
Digger, one of the first to fall. During
her lifetime his mother kept the garage
locked, refusing to let anyone enter. For
15 years the car stood as her son had
left it. Among things found in it were
a copy of a daily paper dated September,
1914, and a receipt for £l2 for two steel-
studded tyres. I doubt if one in a thou-
sand present-day motorists know (ha!
tyres with steel studs were the popular
anti-skid device of the pre-war years.
Why Headlights Fail.
When headlight bulbs burn out it
will usually be found that they arc-
being supplied with excess current.
If the battery is not overcharged,
it is almost sure to be due to
a high-resistance connection at some-
point between the generator and the bat-
tery. This may be at the generator cut-
out, at the ammeter, at the starting-motor
switch, at the battery connections, or
where the battery is grounded to the
frame. It might be due to rust on the
frame, corrosion on the battery termi-
nals or some of the wires being im-
properly soldered in the terminals. As
the resistance of the circuit increases,
the current flowing through that circuit
will also increase, and in some cases be-
come so great as to burn out (he lights.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Active young Maorilander, reporting and
advertising exp., versatile, wants position
newspaper office. —9469.
Young man (31), England, wants position
on land in Australia,, mixed farm, tobacco
farm or sheep station. (To C. J. Lowe, 80
Baron-road, Dagenham, Essex, England.)
Young woman (24), Sydney, B.A., wants
experience in a pharmacy for few weeks at
Christmas. —9464.
Young lady, N.S.W., with teaching exp.
wants position as private teacher to young
children; able commence duties early next year.
Refs.—9385.
Former member Overseas League would
much appreciate old copies of "Overseas
Magazine. ’ ’ —9462.
Whereabouts of William Stuart Clark, last
heard of at Urana (N.S.W.) in 1909, or of any
of his relations. —9481.
To buy Riders of the Plains, dealing with
N.-W. Mounted Police of Canada. —9209.
Words of “The Wild Colonial Boy.”—9416.
Words of song “Hats Off to the Stoker.”
—9424.
Information Sought.
Some particulars concerning the Gunnel
’plqne designed by Wing-Commander L. J.
Wackett and owned by W.A.S.P. Airlines,
Ltd. ?— 9420.
It was constructed by Tugan Aircraft, Ltd.,
at Mascot, Sydney, is equipped with two D.H.
Gipsy six-cylinder engines, each developing
200 h.p., and has accommodation for seven
passengers. It has a top speed of 162 and a
cruising speed of 135 m.p.h. It was tested
with one engine working and a full load, and
climbed to 6000 ft. Its maximum altitude on
both engines is said to be 19,000 ft.
* * * *
Names of regular Australian aerial-mail ser-
vices subsidised during 1933-34, with length
and particulars of routes ? —9429.
West Australian Airways. Ltd., Perth: 3520
miles—Perth to Derby, 1467 miles; Derby to
Wyndham, 600 miles; and Perth to Adelaide,
1453 miles. Q.A.N.T.A.S., Ltd., Brisbane:
1534 miles —Brisbane to Camooweal, 1269
miles; Cloncurry to Normanton, 215 miles;
and Daly Waters to Birdum, 50 miles. Lasco,
Ltd., Melbourne: 475 miles —Camooweal to
Daly Waters. Aircraft Pty., Ltd., Brisbane:
250 miles —Brisbane to Cracow. Rockhampton
Aerial Services, Ltd., Rockhampton: 330 miles
—Rockhampton to Mount Coolon. Adastra
Airways, Ltd., Sydney: 205 miles —Sydney to
Bega. Commercial Aviation, Ltd., Adelaide:
475 miles —Adelaide to Kimba (Eyre’s Penin-
sula).
H* Sfc ttf. $
What were the first newspapers published in
Melbourne ? —9422.
The first newspaper, the Melbourne “Adver-
tiser,” was issued in March, 1838, numbers
one to nine being published in manuscript.
Each issue was probably limited to about a
dozen copies, and very few of these are extant.
Number 10 and a few later numbers were
printed, but as the paper was not licensed it
was suppressed by order of the Commandant.
The first authorised newspaper printed in Vic-
toria was “Port Phillip Gazette,” which Arzen
and Strode began to publish on October 27,
1838. Early in 1839 John Pascoe Fawkner
obtained a license, and on February 6 re-
issued the “Advertiser” under the title of the
“Port Phillip Patriot and Melbourne Adver-
tiser.”
* * * *
Australian import and export figures for the
years 1932-33, 1933-34 and 1934-35 ? Slate
whether Australian or British currency. —B9s4.
1932-33: Imports, £50,013,860 British cur-
rency; exports, £120,943,317 Australian cur-
rency, £96,597,225 British currency. 1933-34:
Imports, £60,712,926 British currency; ex-
ports, £123,441,299 Australian currency,
£98,572,632 British currency. 1934-35: Im-
ports, £74,119,496 British currency; exports,
£112,986,037 Australian currency, £90,225,168
British currency.
* * * *
To what countries did Australia export coal
(exclusive of bunker coal) in 1933-34, and
value of such exports ? —9399.
Fiji, £16,769; India, £8177; British Malaya,
£13,147; Maoriland, £104,763; other British
countries, £10,595; Netherlands East Indies,
£24,318; New Caledonia, £50,601; Philippine
Islands, £38,032; other foreign countries,
£2894; total, £269,296.
* * * ♦
(1) Quantity and value of sandalwood ex-
ported from Australia to Asiatic countries, last
five years. (2) Total (quantity and value) of
exports of sandalwood for the same periods ?
—9413.
(1) Hong Kong: 1929-30, 2482 tons, valued
at £57,688; 1930-31, 2510 tons (£62,741);
1931-32, 1286 tons (£38,068); 1932-33, 3481
tons (£95,575); 1933-34, 2309 tons (£64,735).
India: 1929-30, 287 tons (£9437); 1930-31, 81
tons (£2585); 1931-32, 209 tons (£6270); 1932-
33, 144 tons (£4311); 1933-34, 203 tons
(£6216). British Malaya: 1929-30, 63 tons
(£1716); 1930-31, 26 tons (£770); 1931-32, 115
tons (£3370); 1932-33, 99 tons (£2623); 1933-34,
168 tons (£5115). China: 1929-30, 737 tons
(£19,521); 1930-31, 330 tons (£6363); 1931-32,
649 tons (£12,651); 1932-33, 715 tons
(£20,413); 1933-34, 1212 tons (£36,358). Other
countries: 1929-30, 52 tons (£1065); 1930-31,
17 tons (£510): 1931-32, 85 tons (£2555); 1932-
33, 415 tons (£9735); 1933-34, 61 tons (£1877).
(2) 1929-30, 3621 tons (£89,427); 1930-31,
2964 tons (£72,969); 1931-32, 2344 tons
(£62,914); 1932-33. 4854 tons (£132,657); 1933-
34. 3953 tons (£114,301).
* * * *
Did Mary Reibey (Haydock), after whose
husband Reiby-lane (official spelling). Sydney,
is named, have any children ? Did they achieve
any fame ? Are there any members of the
Reibey family alive in Australia ? —9395.
Her eldest son, Thomas Reibey, after a
short term as master of one of his father’s
vessels, settled in Tasmania about 1820, farm-
ing land near Westbury and owning a store
in Launceston; his brother James obtained an
adjoining land-grant, but settled in Hobart,
and became a prominent merchant there.
Thomas’s son, a third Thomas, had a varie-
gated career. Educated for the Church of
England, he rose to be an archdeacon, but
in 1873 abandoned this profession and entered
Tasmanian politics, becoming Premier in
1876-77. He died in 1912, and with him the
family name died out.
* * * *
What areas in N.S.W. do the following
agencies causing rainfall —Antarctic depres-
sions, monsoonal depressions and anticyclonic
systems —chiefly affect ? —9435.
Antarctic depressions are the main cause
of the good winter rains in the Riverina and
on the south-western slopes. A seasonal preva-
lence of this type of weather would cause a
low rainfall on the coast and tablelands, and
over that portion of the inland district north
of the Lachlan River. A monsoonal pre-
valence ensures a good season inland north
of the Lachlan, but not necessarily in eastern
and southern areas. An anticyclonic prevalence
results in good rains over coastal and table-
land districts, but causes dryness west of the
mountains.
* * * *
Were medals issued to the members of the
sth Australian Commonwealth Horse enrolled
and in transport for the South African War
before peace was declared, but landed at
Durban after the declaration of peace ? —9214.
No. Service in South Africa during the
period October 11, 1899, to May 31, 1902, was
a condition precedent to the award of the
Queen’s South Africa Medal, and the sth
Battalion, Australian Commonwealth Horse,
did not disembark at Durban until June 18,
1902.
* # * *
Names of Australian recipients of the Air
Force Cross? —9417.
Who’s Who in Australia for 1935 gives them
as follows: L. J. Brain, Major N. Brearley,
Wing-Commander R. S. Brown, Flight-Lieut.
A. M. Charlesworth, Lieut. L. P. Chase, Flight-
Lieut. C. Eaton, Capt. G. F. Hughes, Air-
Commodore Sir Charles Kingsford Smith,
Flight-Lieut. H. K. Love, Capt. G. C.
Matthews, Flight-Lieut. S. J. Moir, Lieut.
R. J. P. Parer, Lieut. L. T. M. L. Ray, Flight-
Lieut. C. T. P. Ulm, Wing-Commander L. J.
Wackett, Capt. E. S. Walker and Wing-Com-
mander H. N. Wrigley.
* * * *
Some details concerning Australian fruit-
pigeons ? —9437.
Fruit-pigeons are specially characteristic of
the forests and jungles of southern Asia and
the Malay Archipelago, but eight species occur
in the coastal scrubs of northern and eastern
Australia. Most are birds of brilliant plumage,
vying with parrots in splendor. The best
known is the nutmeg or Torres Strait pigeon
{Myrislicivora spilorrhoa ), which annually
reaches Northern Queensland in enormous
numbers, breeding principally on islands off
the coast, and flying daily in great flocks to
the mainland to feed in the scrubs. Its white
plumage, relieved only by some black in the
wings and tail, and its habit of flying low over
the water give it a great resemblance to a sea-
bird. Another Australian fruit-pigeon is the
topknot pigeon (Lopholaimus antarcticus ),
which derives its name from a curious double
crest on the head. It occurs all along the east
coast, and was first met with on the Endeavour
River during Captain Cook’s first voyage, when
many were shot for food.
* * * *
Is it true that certain species of spiders have
been known to capture small fish and devour
them ? —9440.
Yes. Several specimens of fish, together
with their spider destroyers, are preserved in
the Australian Museum, Sydney. One is a
gold carp which measures 3£in. in length and
has been partially eaten by the spider, which
was forwarded to the Museum with it. See
article “Spiders and Fish,” by Keith C.
McKeown, in the “Australian Museum
Magazine” for Oct. 16, 1935.
* * * *
Is it probable that a player-piano or ordinary
piano, of medium class, after years of use,
would hold concert pitch after being “pulled
up” approximately a major second, for three
months, without attention ? How often should
the ordinary householder’s piano be tuned and
otherwise attended to ? —9335.
Depends entirely on the instrument and the
amount of usage it receives. It is easily pos-
sible for a first-class piano to remain at con-
cert pitch for a substantially longer period
than three months, but pianists in the virtuoso
class have their pianos tuned before each re-
cital. For the purposes of the average home,
two tunings a year at least should be obtained.
* * * *
In solo whist, my book of reference says
that the abandonee call is higher than the
misere call. Many players make the misere
call the higher. Is my book correct or out of
date ? —9405.
Solo whist, as usually played nowadays,
adopts the auction principle in which no trump
is turned up, but a player can make a sail
from solo upwards in any suit, not naming it
till play starts. In all varieties of the game,
however, highest call is abondance declaree, an
undertaking to take all 13 tricks; next is
misere ouverte, to lose all tricks, the declarer
laying his cards face up on the table after the
first trick is taken; next, abondance, to take
nine tricks, and next misere, to lose all tricks.
♦ * * *
I have been taking a heart tonic for the last
10 years; also aspirin tablets for arthritis. I
take two aspirin tablets before meals and two
after meals, and find they give me great relief
from the arthritis trouble. Should I continue
to take aspirin ? —9297.
Like salicylic acid and its salts, aspirin
(or aceto-salicylic acid) is useful in acute
and other forms of rheumatism. It affords
relief from most types of pain, including neu-
ralgia, lumbago and sciatica. In combination
with quinine, it may be prescribed in the
initial stages of malaria, and also simple cold.
Subsequent chill must be avoided. For the
majority of subjects, aspirin in ordinary dosage
is harmless as a drug, but it has a tendency
when taken over a period, or in excessive
doses, to depress heart action and upset the
stomach. Twelve tablets (60 grains approx.)
per day is excessive dosage in ordinary cases.
A combined mixture may be prescribed to
minimise any detrimental effect.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of catarrh of the
throat ? —9260.
Inflammation of the mucous membrane ol
throat, nose, etc., may be diagnosed as a
catarrh; an increased secretion occurs in most
cases. Mucous surfaces of many organs
(stomach, bladder, etc.) may be affected by
the catarrhal process, but only that ot the
post-nasal area commonly comes within scope
of home treatment. There is no specific
remedy. In chronic, well-established cases
medical supervision is essential. For relict
of post-nasal congestion, irrigate the nose pas-
sages and gargle twice daily with a wash of
salt, borax and bicarbonate of soda (1 teaspoon
of the mixed powders dissolved in a pint ol
tepid water). Mentholated vaseline may be
smeared within the nostrils at night. With
the throat trouble, health conditions demand
attention; an inherited bronchial congestion is
possible.
♦ * * ♦
Does smoking affect a weak heart ? —9309.
It would in certain cases. Tobacco-smok-
ing has a definite value in the wear and
tear of modern life. In moderation, its effect
is sedative and mildly antiseptic. But exces-
sive smoking, by its action on the nervous
mechanism of the heart, is apt to cause palpi-
tation and irregular cardiac action; heart pain
resembling angina may develop. The condi-
tion known as irritable heart is frequently due
to excess in this respect. More severe cases
exhibit depression, nerve tremors and loss of
memory. Individual susceptibility to some
extent fixes the margin of normal tolerance.
* * * *
What is the history of the Scottish name
Dickson ? To what clan did the Dicksons
belong, and in what part of Scotland did they
originate ? —9345.
The Dicksons are traditionally descended
from Richard Keith, the name being assumed
from that of their progenitor; Richard is com-
monly rendered Dick in the south country.
The Keiths, hereditary Great Marischals of
Scotland, were included in the Clan Mac-
Pherson, which in turn was a powerful sept
of the Clan Chattan, inhabiting of old the
whole of Caithness.
* * * *
(1) Suitable soil for growing cacti ? (2) Best
situation ? (3) Is it a fact that cacti do not
need watering? —942s.
(1) Looseness of soil is essential. A soil
made up of one-third each of good garden
loam, well-rotted leaf mould and sharp, coarse
sand will make an excellent compost. To this
should be added a little ground-up old
mortar, as most cacti require a certain amount
of lime. A little ground-up charcoal will help
to keep the soil sweet. (2) The best way to
grow cacti and other succulents is on a rockery
built in some sunny position, and not under
large trees. (3) It is a mistaken idea that
cacti do not need watering. Only in winter
should watering cease, and a little water will
not harm most kinds even then. In hot weather
the soil should be kept at an even dampness.
Should the soil become dry for any lengthy
period in hot weather the roots will be almost
certain to suffer, and growth will be retarded
until a new root system forms.
* * * *
Simple test whereby an amateur gardener can
determine whether soil is acid and needs lime ?
—9433.
Place some soil in a cup or glass with a
trowel, not with the hand. Add water till
the mixture can be stirred with a stick. Open
a slit in the soil with a case-knife blade, and
insert a piece of blue litmus paper, obtained
from a chemist. Press the soil against the
paper. In an hour remove the paper. If it is
distinctly pink, the soil is extremely acid. If it
is faintly pink, the soil is slightly acid.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the blueprint process ? (2)
Materials required ? (3) Where obtainable ?
(4) Any books dealing with the subject ? —9193.
(1) Commonly called the ferro-prussiate pro-
cess, it is suitable for engineering drawings,
electrical circuits, etc. The drawing is done
on tracing-paper or linen with India ink, and
is placed over the sensitised paper in a frame
and exposed to the sun. The print is then
developed in water in subdued light. (2)
Transparent paper or linen, sensitised paper,
printing frame and developing dish. (3) From
Harding and Halden Sensitising Co., 9 Bar-
rack-street, Sydney. (4) Full instructions will
be forwarded on request.
* * * *
Would you kindly furnish me with names
of authors and any particulars concerning the
following: (a) "Cupid and Campaspe played
at cards for kisses”; (b) "A sweet, attractive
kind of face, A full assurance given by
looks” ?— 9202.
(a) It is the first line of a song from Act
111, Scene 5, of the play “Alexander and Cam-
paspe,” by John Lyly (1553-1606). The first
stanza correctly runs: —
Cupid and my Campaspe play’d
At cards for kisses; Cupid paid;
He staked his quiver, bow and arrows,
His mother’s doves, and team of sparrows.
(b) From “Elegie: or a Friend's Passion for
his Astrophill,” by Matthew Roydon (1580-
1622).
Information Supplied.
8932.—The word “station” in its special
Australian sense originally meant the home-
stead of a sheep-run, but now signifies the
whole of a grazing property. Its usage in both
forms is derived from the idea that a “station”
(in the Spanish, estanza) is where sheep (or
cattle) are permanently pastured. It is not a
nomadic grazing outfit. A building at which
travellers halt in crossing a desert was for-
merly called “a stationhouse”—not like a tent,
which may be folded up and removed. The
earliest Australian reference I can find is in
Sturt’s South Australia (1883). Vol. I, intro-
duction : “They will only be occupied as
distant stock stations.” —G.D.
Brief Answers.
A.C.: (1) Commonwealth £lOOO, State £5OO.
(2) It would be necessary to take out letters
of administration. Write to the Public Trustee,
109 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, for instructions
and forms. You should state the nature of the
property, real and personal, and give full in-
formation E.G.: The polar diameter of the
earth is 7899 English miles. The mean equa-
torial diameter is 7926 miles. The circumfer-
ence at the Equator is 24,902 miles
M. : The work of a nurseryman's laborer
is not provided for under a Vic. Wages Board
determination. Unless the work of an em-
ployee in Vic. is covered by a Wages Board
determination or an Arbitration Court award,
his wages and conditions are a matter of agree-
ment between the parties concerned... .H.M.:
Boat Supplies, Ltd., 7 Barrack-street, Sydney,
and A. C. Barber, Naval Architect, Lavender
Bay, Sydney... .E.H.: As your husband lived
and died in Victoria, you are not eligible to
receive a pension under the N.S.W. Widows’
Pension Act... .G.M.R.: Pinnocks, 72 Druitt-*
street, Sydney... .P.R.: Write E. A. Crome,
secretary, Air Mail Society of N. S. Wales,
32 Cavendish-street, Stanmore, Sydney....
R.H.G.: There is no available record
of the speed of a Port Jackson skill
Jogged over a set short distance. _ln
favorable circumstances about 10 knots might
be maintained for i-milc in a fresh breeze with
extras set. These craft have been known to
pass vessels doing 10 knots in sudden bursts of
speed... .A. 8.: Correct version is Mortem
uhi contemnas viceris omnes molus; trans-
lated it reads, “When you can despise death
you have conquered all fears”... .H.M.: The
A.W.U. has a N.S.W. membership of 5008
males and 430 females... .J.M.; Line-
breeding is the mating of animals rather
closely related and having the same
characteristics. It discourages variation.
There are limits to the extent to which line-
breeding can be successfully carried J.M.:
(1) Objain copy of regulations under the
Queensland Local Authorities Act, and copy
of recent test papers for overseer of works
exam., from the Home Department, Brisbane.
(2) Salaries paid for this work vary in different
parts of the State, and in some cases reach
£4OO p.a. No guarantee of appointment can
be given to persons who pass the examination.
. ...E.F.: The National Art Gallery of N.S.W.
paid £262 10s. for George Lambert’s “The Red
Shawl”... .F.S.C.: The mixture would not be
effective P.D.: There is no award applying
to radio announcers or studio managers in
N. S. Wales J.A.: Write Agricultural De-
partment, Brisbane, for leaflet entitled “Timber
Borers”... .H.C.H.: The outside of a tank
could be treated to prevent rust, but a paint
film in constant contact with water would dis-
integrate A.G.: There are 1350 aeroplanes
and seaplanes attached to the Japanese Navy
and Army, and six aeroplane-carriers....
C. : (1) Yes, by contact. (2) The quantity
of pennyroyal is immaterial. (3) Baits are
unsatisfactory. Kerosene is the best contact
poison, and is also objectionable to the in-
sects in cupboards, etc R.E.; Laxative
confection is ilb. each seeded dates, sultanas,
prunes and figs. Chop fine and put through
mincer, then add loz. senna powder mixed
with 14 fl. oz. glycerine. Incorporate well
together, and store in screw-cap jar. Adult
dose is one teaspoonful or more at night....
D. ConneWarre is a Vic. abo. place-name
meaning “black swan”; Nundah is a Queens-
land abo. place-name meaning “the North.”
. ...H.R.L.: Sylvia Sidney, the screen actress,
is 25, and made her first stage appear-
ance at Poli’s Theatre, Washington, in 1926 in
“The Challenge of Youth”... .L.E.; Grace
Darling was born at Bamborough in 1815,
and was the daughter of William Darling,
lighthouse-keeper on Longstone, one of the
Fame Islands. With her father on Septem-
ber 7, 1838, she rescued the survivors of the
Forfarshire, bound from Hull to Dundee.
She died of consumption in 1842... .A.C.:
Canada was discovered by Cabot in 1497, but
its history dates only from 1534, when the
French took possession of the country. The
first permanent settlement at Port Royal (now
Annapolis), Nova Scotia, was founded in 1605,
and Quebec was founded in 1608... .H.D.:
(1) and (2) Write Clerk of the Parliaments,
Parliament House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
A.C.: (1) No. (2) Yes. (3) It is a matter
for the umpire to decide. (4) No. (5) Yes,
but he should give the batsman an oppor-
tunity of taking a fresh guard. (6) Yes, in
Vic. and S.A J.G.: Crude petroleum is
usually applied to the butts of logs to exclude
air, and would have a similar effect on small
pieces of wood cut from seasoned timber....
G.P.8.: Write to Department of Labor, Pre-
toria, Transvaal, South Africa... .H.L.W.:
Ingredients of these preparations are generally
trade secrets. There are various brands on
the market that can be bought from fishing-
tackle supply stores... .E.M. and W.M.: Write
Secretary, Air Board, Defence Department,
Melbourne... .G. 8.: You should apply per-
sonally for the information to the Department
of the Registrar of Commonwealth Inscribed
Stock and Bonds at the Commonwealth Bank,
Collins-street, Melbourne. To trace them, you
would have to supply the name in full of the
alleged bondholder and, if you know it, the
amount purchased. Also inquire if any con-
version has been made. As bonds, like cur-
rency, pass from hand to hand without regis-
tration you may have difficulty in tracing them,
but the department will help you if it can....
K.T.: Number of Representatives; N.S.W.
28, Vic. 20, Q’land 10, S.A. 6 (having lost one
seat), W.A. 5, Tas. 5; N.T. I—the N.T. man
hasn’t the right to vote C.H.T.: Amy Sher-
win, the Tasmanian soprano, married Hugo
Gorlitz, for some years concert manager for
Paderewski and Kubelik... .N.C.: Andrew
Fisher was three times Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia—Nov. 12, 1908, to June 2, 1909; April
29, 1910, to June 24. 1913; and Sept. 17,
1914, to Oct. 27, 1915 J.S.P.: Flora of
Victoria, by A. J. Ewart (305.), obtainable
leading booksellers J.H.: (1) One-third
to wife and two-thirds among children in
equal portions. (2) Where there is no issue
surviving, if the net value of the property
does not exceed £5OO the widow is entitled
to the whole; but where it does exceed that
sum then to £5OO absolutely and in addition
a half-share of the residue, the remainder of
the residue being divided equally among the
next-of-kin (Many others mailed.)


The H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Authors Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, hut
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XIX. —( Continued .)
SHE led the horse doubtfully down the dark lane
behind the rectory, because she was still a little
afraid of that horse and much preferred her own
feet. vShe did not know how to put in the remainder
of the evening, but she was determined not to go back
to Warning Hill so early. Perhaps the picture show
was on. As she turned into Atkinson-street, she
encountered Scorby, who immediately came to the
centre of the road to meet her.
“What are you doing leading an unlicensed
horse?” he inquired sternly ; and for a moment she
was disconcerted until he gleamed his gold teeth
in a smile Her own smile was somewhat relieved.
“I don’t suppose you know whether there are any
pictures on to-night, Mr. Scorby?” she asked.
“I believe not. I understand they started those
much-needed repairs to-day,” he said in his formal
way. Scorby was doing his best to be affable, or
perhaps it was only that he was bored with walking
round the same blocks of this utterly lawful town.
“Don’t tell me you rode in to go to the pictures at
this time of the night?”
“Oh, no,” she replied, with that little upward
lilt of the chin that Scorby thought both charm-
ing and affected. “I was promising myself an evening
with Mr. Sorrell and his wife, but their drawing-room
was all cluttered up with a Charity Committee or
something.”
Scorby laughed loudly and merrily. It sounded
strange. “Charity!” he said. “What weakness! What
stupidity! ”
She agreed with him. “They certainly are a
stupid lot of women. Like cows grazing on sweet
biscuits and plum cake. And they’re fat.” She could
not help a little self-approval to think how far from
fat she was herself.
Scorby shook his head impatiently. “No, 1
didn’t mean the women themselves. I meant this
stupid idea called charity. An invention for keeping
alive the unfit, the diseased and the undesirable.”
He shook his head in tolerant amusement. “The
playground of frustrated old maids and busybodies.”
“I think you are too sweeping altogether,” Jessica
flared. “When I was at the university I had a pack
of Wolf Cubs”
“Yes,” he said gently, “you went slumming. I
know. It is always a sop to one’s vanity to be charit-
able. Charity is the refuge of those who need to
bolster up their feeling of superiority,”
Jessica decided to be crushing. “Your sergeant
would not approve, Constable Scorby,” she said, “if
he could see you wasting your time talking to young
women when you should be arresting thugs and
desperadoes.”
“That, again,” he said calmly, “is just another
way of trying to assert your superiority, or rather it
is an admission that you are getting the worst of a
conversation. And as for the sergeant, Miss Daunt,
/ give the orders in Tiburon.”
Jessica felt the best way out was to laugh. She
would have liked to go away, because she was a little
afraid of Scorby. Obviously he wanted to talk to her.
He had not just stopped her to fill in time. But no
one could expect Scorby to discard his habitual
arrogance just because he was trying to be ingratiating.
She turned and patted the horse.
“And how are your charities at Warning Hill?”
Scorby asked, also patting the horse.
“I beg your pardon?”
“Your charities. You must remember that it is
quite some time since I spoke to you, and then, if
I remember, you were interested in the Brennicks
and the Whites and the rest, and you promised me
another little lecture on my harsh behavior to the
poor and friendless.”
He flashed his gold teeth at her again, and his
hand brushed hers on the horse’s mane. To withdraw
it, she felt, would be embarrassing. She continued
the half-real warfare.
“Oh, my charities,” she said lightly. “I don’t
need to bolster my superiority.”
He was sjlent for a moment; then he said: “Had
I not the misfortune to be on duty 1 should endeavor
to provide what entertainment 1 could.” She knew
from the tone that he meant more than the words.
“You see, I know what it is to be lonely.”
“1 don’t think I have admitted yet that 1 am
lonely, Mr. Scorby.”
“You don’t need to admit it. A girl of your
intelligence, placed in the environment of Warning
Hill, sooner or later grows disgusted with common-
place minds.”
“The people of Warning Hill are not common-
place,” Jessica said. “I like them—most of the lime.
I find them very interesting.”
“Some of them —yes. I have heard rumors that
you were wasting yourself on the undeserving, I
classed all such gossip as arising from your charities.”
“Gossip?”
“You see. Miss Daunt”—he was very earnest —
"I feel 1 should tell you, since no one else seems to
have done so, that you are exposing yourself to
scandal —to the risk of being talked about by vulgar
people,”
“Thank you, Mr. Scorby,” she said drily with
an exaggerated formalism. “The matter has already
been brought to my notice, and 1 shall give it my
earliest attention.”
“Be serious,” he said urgently. “I’m —I’m not
being” He broke off like a small boy.
“You’re not being interfering, I know. Thank
you for your solicitude.”
He stayed silent for a minute. “You’re rather
unjust, Miss Daunt.”
“And what right,” she flared at him, “have you
more than any other spy to watch my movements?”
She stuttered with anger. “This situation is impos-
sible.”
“You are unjust,” .Scorby said with his old im-
passivity. “You must realise that your charily—in
view of the way people misinterpret things—must be
stopped.”
Jessica assumed her best icy manner. “Thank
you for the advice,” she said scornfully.
Scorby was very quiet. “I do wish you would
not misunderstand,” he said. “1 feel I have a”
“You were about to say ‘right,’ ” Jessica broke
in. She knew she was being mean, but the oppor-
tunity of venting her stored-up rage on Scorby was
Jessica decided to be crushing.
too templing. Scorby was respectability—he, the
established order of things —and his calm, dictatorial
manner, so reminiscent of her father, made her speak
in a manner she knew to be petty and spiteful.
“Do you think 1 am a relief-worker? Do you
think you can hand me a form with thirty-two ques-
tions on it and I must answer them just because you
happen to hand out a higher form of charity called
the dole? You talk about charity! You are only
the dispenser of other people’s pennies. It’s the
beggarly Government pittance you hand out that
bolsters your superiority!”
“An interesting tirade,” Scorby said calmly, and
she realised that he knew he had her at a disadvantage
when he could make her angry. “Jt shows that you
have profited by your association with”
He stopped.
“Yes?”
“The Whites and their friends.”
“Well, good night, Mr. Scorby,” she said un-
pleasantly ; but he helped her up on the horse when
he found that she was so awkward with the stirrup.
“You are making a mistake,” he said. “1 really
do want to be friendly.”
No reply.
“Can’t you realise, Miss Daunt, that there might
be intelligent men in this town, worth-while men, who
would be interested in you —that they’ve no way of
being introduced, meeting you socially? They must
admire you from a distance and never have a chance
to talk to you. It is the same in every town. Take
my own case. In Tiburon I have no friends. I have
a room, a barracks tacked on to the gaol. I have
nowhere to go except that room, and I sit there
alone night after night and study. What do you
think your loneliness is to mine? Don’t you think
a man could become interested in people who—well,
have nothing to do with him—people who don’t know
he exists?”
Jessica wondered how she could feel sorry for
a man who had so deeply insulted her.
“There are more policemen taken to the asylum,
I suppose,” Scorby went on —and now he was speak-
ing bitterly —“than from almost any other job. We are
spied upon as much as you. We see the worst ol
everything. An unmarried policeman has no friends.
If there is a dirty job, a rotten job. give it to him.
But 1 won't be a policeman all my life.”
“What will you be?” Jessica asked in spite of
herself. .She knew he was laying his prospects indirectly
at her feet, and she could not control her curiosity.
“1 am studying to be an aviation engineer.” He
said it with almost a boyish pride. “And, let me tell
you, I can thank Tiburon for that. When 1 was sent
here 1 decided I must get out or go mad.”
“I'm glad to hear it.” She did not add that there
would be others in Tiburon who would also be glad.
Scorby’s look was a queer mixture of insolence
and humility. “It is a pity I could not find an excuse
to know you. We could have been lonely in com-
pany.”
Jessica felt she had him at a disadvantage now ;
and she used it meanly.
“I haven’t been in the least lonely, as I told you
before. My friends at Warning Hill”
“Your charities.”
They looked at each other silently for a minute.
“I also am among the poor,” Scorby said in his
strange way. “And you might throw a morse! of
comfort to me rather than to those I hate.”
Jessica Daunt was exasperated. Why must this
man talk on such a stilled, artificial plane? Why
couldn’t he be human and say straight out that he
thought he was a better liian than Paul, whom he
believed to be her sweetheart, and he wanted her
to give him a trial?
The conversation might have gone on in its
ambiguous undercurrent for a long time had it no)
been for the appearance of Standforth Roman march-
ing round the corner with a soldierly swing and a
bulge in each hip-pocket. The Royal Hotel did not
usually deliver orders, but this was a special one.
Roman stopped short to see Miss Daunt, whom he
admired tremendously, conversing with Scorby, whom
he didn’t. He went past them with a grunt of greet-
ing and jerk of his head to Jessica.
“There you are,” said Jessica mock-reproachfully.
“All my friends are cutting me when they see the
company 1 keep.”
Scorby smiled. “You could keep worse com-
pany,” he said. “I only sleep next to the gaol—
never inside.”
But he freed the reins and stepped back to the
footpath. He had no desire to have his interest in
Miss Daunt made too obvious to the general public.
“Au revoir,” he said formally, and then, with
rather a more human tone, “I shall endeavor to make
another chance to talk to you.”
“Good night,” she said, and, as the old horse
jogged off, thought how ridiculous she must look
perched on its broad back. Scorby always made her
feel slightly ridiculous and artificial, and she resented
it. Alter all, what compulsion was there that she
should pity the man, to be angry with him, to feel
that he had an emotional link with her, simply because
his insolence struck sparks from her pride? He wasn’t
fair. He broke right through the little bars she placed
between herself and casual men. In future she would
avoid him.
Little did she realise that Scorby, looking after
her until she disappeared in the dark, was resolving
that, come what might, he would pay out the Whites,
and particularly Paul, for imposing on Jessica Daunt,
lor ruining her reputation, for planning to entangle
her into some vileness, as he was sure they must be.
I his gave him one more motive for his preformed
determination to drive the Whites from Tiburon
before he left the force. It was a queer, warped
desire, but understandable ; and, though he would
never have admitted it, it may have been connected
with the feeling that Dave White reminded him of
his own father.
Chapter XX.
IF Mr. Jeffery Harper had not caught a nasty cold
which made him snappy to customers and sorry
for himself, it is doubtful whether he would, in
his seventy-second year, have had a son weighing
eight pounds nine ounces.
Since the death of his first wife and the gradual
break-up of his family into businesses and homes of
their own, he had carried on his dusty, choked-up
shop with the help of Jack Keyne and a small, tow-
headed boy to run errands and deliver parcels.
Jeffery Harper, however, steadfastly refused to have
anyone come and look after him, instancing the fact
“that if he’d got along well enough all these years
he supposed he could manage now. Wasn’t exactly
falling to pieces, was he?”
He was as self-sufficient as a spider in its web.
and he hopped about with the same slow, jerky pur-
posefulness. At six he got up and watered the foot-
path in front of his shop. He had done this ever
since the footpath was dusty red soil, and he still did
it now that it was concrete. He then cleaned the
windows in a rheumatic fashion, hobbled inside and
made his bed, boiled an egg and brewed a cup of
tea, fed the parrot its morning crust of toast, talked
to the cat, swept out the shop and was ready to open
at eight, when his two assistants arrived. Occasion-
ally, he swept the three rooms above the shop in which
he had lived for forty years and in which he intended
to die, as he cheerfully informed everyone who com-
mented on his rather cramped quarters and suggested
he could afford a house. That, he said, was only a
woman’s notion. Always wanting houses. No good
to anyone.
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
The White family, the chief of Tiburon’s
"unwanteds,” live in humpies on Warning Hill.
Paul White works for the Dwyers, with
whom Jessica lives. Uneducated, in the usual
.sense of the word, he has an intense love of
poetry.
Others of the colony are the Mulvers.
the Willoughbys and Gran. Staines.
Bill Sorrell, Anglican parson, and "one
of the best.’’ Polly, his wife, plump and
good-tempered.
Mrs. Claufield (‘ 7 feel a little liny, tiny
hit hurt by the selfishness, one might almost
say the sordidness, of Tiburon”), Mrs. Ilford
(the bank manager’s wife), Mrs. Darch and
Mrs. Blakeley (small, timid and a minor
poetess).
Sergeant Moore and Constable Scorby
are the Law in Tiburon.
At the close of last instalment Jessica had
just called on Polly Sorrell, to find her in the
midst of a charity meeting with Mrs. Claufield’s
set. At the first opportunity Jessica slipped
away.


His daughters had given him up in despair long
ago. They regarded the jumble of the upstairs rooms
as absolutely horrible. He refused to have them
touched.
But one morning Jeffery Harper woke with a
cold in his head which he attributed to sitting up
late to watch the disgraceful behavior of the young
men and women returning from some fool-play or
other.
He snuffled round, being depressed and snappy
(o his two assistants, and complaining about their
faults of omission and commission, running over a
long list extending back into the dim past when Jack
Keyne had broken a lamp glass on the first day he
came to work for Jeffery.
As he sunned himself outside the shop, working
his false teeth backwards and forwards because his
gums were itchy, the old White sulky creaked into the
kerb, and Lizzie descended heavily to the footpath.
Good solid girl, Lizzie. None of them high heels and
thin waists. Plenty of her.
“Mornin’, Mr. Harper.”
“Mornin’, Lizzie.”
Harper followed her into the shop like an old
dog which has lost its owner.
“An’ what can we do for you this mornin',
Lizzie?”
“Baga Hour, pounds salt, fourteen pounds pota-
toes. Don't suppose you could lake some fresh eggs
an’ knock it off the bill?”
That was the sorb of girl Jeficry liked. Eggs
were scarce.
“How many?”
“Coupla dozen. Hens arc layin’ pretty fair."
“Orright, Lizzie. Don’t mind doing y’ a favor.
Ninepence a dozen.”
“Tenpence.” Shrewd girl. Jeffery would sell
them for two shillings.
“Orright, Lizzie, seein’ it’s you. An’ how’s y’r
dad’s leg these days?”
“Looks a bit pussy. But ’e don’t do much walkin',
an’ when it starts to ooze ’e just blots it with a bit
of old sock. Always been ’ealthy.”
“Ar,” said Jeffery, shaking his head sadly and
sniffing, “there’s a lot of sickness goin’ about. A lot
o’ sickness.”
Lizzie grunted agreement.
“Here’s me. Hearty an’ well till yesterday. No
one as well as I am at my age. And 1 got a cold
last night. First cold in six years.”
“1 know what’ll fix it. Dad used to get them
colds,” Lizzie said capably. She planted her sugarbag
on the counter, and tramped deliberately out of the
shop. Jeffery sniffed. It wouldn’t be bad having a
decent, solid woman to look after you. Always
needed a woman like Lizzie. Not one of these little
fools like his first wife, always wanting clothes and
houses.
At that minute Lizzie came back. She had
tramped through the street with the glass of hot rum
held out in front of her like a chalice.
“Now, what you want,” she said practically, “is
to get to bed. Drink this quick an’ go upstairs."
She almost pushed him up the narrow, twisted
staircase. She tossed the blankets off his bed energeti-
cally and unscientifically, and covered him up, clothes
and all.
“Nice sorta place,” she commented sincerely,
looking round on the dusty litter.
Jeffery Harper regarded her in astonishment. She
was the first woman who had not sniffed and started
to straighten things out.
“You wouldn’t think it needs tidy in’ up?” he
queried anxiously.
“Not a bit. Gimme a place where you can reach
everythin’ without stretchin’. Where's y’r washin’?
Jeffery’s mind was made up. He pointed weakly
to a pile of soiled clothes under the washstand. One
of his married daughters usually carried it off. Lizzie
scooped up the clothes, casually wrapped them in a
sheet and tied the ends of the sheet in a knot.
“Well, good-bye, Mr. Harper. I’ll let y’ ’ave
’em back day after to-morrer. You can take it off
the bill. The rum cost ninepence.”
She tramped heavily to the door.
“Lizzie,” he called weakly, “I been thinking.”
She paused.
“Say you come here an’ did a bit of washing
for me. Swept the shop and cleaned the windows.
Cooked me a bit o’ dinner an’ that. Sort of house-
keeper. We could wipe it off the bill as you earnt it.”
“ ‘Ow much?” Solid girl, Lizzie.
“Say seven-an’-six a week.” She moved. “Ten
bob. Come on. How’s that? You can see how it
is, Lizzie. I’m an old man. Need lookin’ after.
Nobody cares about an old man. Children all grown
up. Leave me to die on me lonesome.”
This last speech seemed to strike a familiar chord
with Lizzie. Her manner softened.
“Well, I’ll come in an’ get you a bit o’ dinner,
anyway. An’ I’ll let y’ know what Jim thinks.”
When Jeffery Harper’s eldest daughter came to
collect his washing that evening she found him at
tea with Lizzie, breathing heavily of rum and wheez-
ing with laughter at Lizzie’s account of Ella’s rela-
tions with her husband. It was one of those whirl-
wind courtships.
“1 shouldn’t like people to talk, Lizzie,” Jeffery
Harper explained. “I’m not one to ruin a girl's
character.”
With Lizzie Jeffery acquired the habit of drink-
ing hot rum going to bed, but it didn’t seem to do
him any harm, and, apart from that and a certain
loss due to Lizzie’s habit of giving “tick” to her
family, she was decidedly cheap.
She never tidied the house, she fried onions every
third night, and she got more and more solid as time
went on, until she got very solid indeed. Her only
worry was what they would do at home without her.
and she could scarcely believe that Mary was doing
the washing without complaint.
Chapter XXI.
THE white heat of anger had died down in Jessica
into a mood of gloomy generalisation. After
all, she told herself sardonically, she had been
wrong to believe that the native ill-nature of the
human race could at any time be more than modified
into a temporary loving-kindness.
Mischief and malice were a large part of the
average person’s make-up, and the only thing to do
was to accept the fact.
Her mind turned almost incuriously to review
Tiburon. Perhaps dear, funny old Mrs. Blakely was
right and Tiburon was an illusion, an objectionable
illusion which had nothing to do with her astral or
spiritual self, which, according to Mrs. Blakely’s
muddled occultism, must dwell somewhere in a kind
of glowing void minus such necessities as food or
a sense of humor. Or was Tiburon, everyone in it,
their hopes and fears and homes, a great, quivering,
whirling vortex in which her electric vibrations
mingled with those of the streets and trees and people?
In that case, she and Dave White were both part of
Warning Hill, and Warning Hill was part of them,
just as a sheep is made up of the grass it eats. Warn-
ing Hill was part of her vitality, her sense impres-
sions. Or perhaps Warning Hill had a separate
personality of its own and she was an illusion to
Warning Hill? She went off into a half-dream, pon-
dering the soaring theories of the light-year school
of philosophers.
“If your food doesn’t agree with you, Miss
Daunt,” Mrs. Dwyer said anxiously, “you just let me
know an’ I'll cook you something that you really
like" (“Homesick,” she thought in her own mind —
“the poor girl's homesick.”)
“How about them barley cakes of mine?” she
asked solicitously. “Mr. Barnes always liked my
barley cakes.
:,/■/ //
Flung himself down.
A rush of gratitude for the great, kindly woman
overwhelmed Jessica.
“I’d love them,” she said. “You're a darling.
And I wish you’d call me Jessica.”
All her theorising vanished in shame as she
remembered all those little occasions when she had
snubbed Mrs. Dwyer.
“Well, then” Mrs. Dwyer was enormously
pleased—“l’ll make ’em straight away. Don’t I know
what it is to be homesick! Why, when I was in
Sydney —don’t tell Mick, ’cause he’ll laugh at me—
but I near died of homesickness.”
Jessica eyed her curiously. “And were the people
in Sydney —did they seem very strange? Different
from the people you knew at home?”
“Not a bit.” Mrs. Dwyer bustled around the
great, clean kitchen. “They was all as nice as could
be. Took me places and all that. But it’s just a
feeling that it isn’t your own place. Until you’re
back in your own place nothing suits you.”
“Perhaps that’s it,” Jessica thought. “Perhaps
it’s only that I am the round peg in the square hole.”
Mrs. Dwyer’s kindliness brought her back to earth.
She must discuss the situation with Paul. It was his
problem as well as hers ; but she felt he would only
be scornful. He would not realise how the thought
that people were talking about her simply took away
her appetite and sleep.
She looked at Paul cautiously over the barley
cakes at tea-time, and he caught her glance and
grinned back. He had realised that she was avoid-
ing him for some reason or other, but to-night was
their set night for going running, and if she were
not going she would have told him so in advance.
He went on with his tea heartily, not realising how
cheered she had been by that smile, that tacit con-
spiratorship of her partner in scandal. After all, he
was such a dependable, decent lad, she thought
affectionately. Poor old Paul, who hadn’t had a
chance!
At half-past nine, when he tapped at her window,
she slipped out silently to join him. The night was
beautiful with the scents and stirrings of early
November.
They tramped in silence through the cut lucerne
of the river flats and crossed the creek by the willows
into Mac Leary’s land.
“Come on,” he said, and they began to run,
grimly and purposefully, although there was no
reason why they should, except Jessica’s hallucina-
tion that she would get fat if she did not.
“Where to?” she panted as they reached the dry
channel that the creek had made and then abandoned.
“Round the foot of the Hill an’ double back’
down the track.”
They set out again. Paul ran better than Jessica
did—lightly—with a steady, untiring stride. He made
her feel weak and slow, although she knew there was
not a girl in Tiburon could run as well, unless, as
Paul said, the half-caste girls, who could run twice as
fast and twice as far as a man.
They rested when they turned into the main track,
sitting side by side in a silver mosaic of leaf shadows
and moonlight.
“This is perfectly heavenly,” Jessica said with a
little sigh. “You know, Paul, I have been worrying
myself all the week about something that I realise
now is absolutely trivial.”
“J thought you’d got something on your chest.”
“It was just—oh, just that the fools in this town
have been spreading scandal about the two of us.”
“Well, 1 told y’ what to expect. Wherc’d it come
from in the lirst place?”
“A lot of places, apparently. I’m afraid it’s
reached Mr, Carfrae somehow, but Phil Alwin says
the rector happened to say some harmless thing
about my teaching you, and it’s been magnified out
of all sense.”
“Bill Sorrell? Not on your life.” Paul's lazy
scorn had given way to indignation. “If there’s a
person who doesn't have nothing to say in the gossip
line, it’s him.”
“1 know. I only said that’s where some of it
began. Some perfectly harmless remark.”
They both sat busy with their own thoughts for
a while.
“Well,” he said abruptly, “what arc you going
to do? Chuck me out?”
That was exactly what she was intending to do,
but he put it so crudely.
“Of course not, Paul. Good Lord! It would be
stupid to think that we couldn’t go reading and walk-
ing together without you falling in love with me or I
with you. It never occurred to either of us.”
Paul sat looking at her rather curiously in the
moonlight. “You shouldn't fool yourself,” he said.
“You know I’m in love with you, that I’ve loved you
ever since I first saw you.” His arms were round
her and he was kissing her. “Oh, Jess, you don’t
know how wonderful you are.”
Perhaps had it not been for Tiburon she might
have kissed him back finely and fairly like any lass
in a silver flicker of moonlight when the November
air is quivering with the returning summer. But some-
thing in her drew back and shuddered
because of Tiburon. Something flashed
the leering faces of the sports outside
Olgy’s barber’s saloon across the face ol
Paul, and his eyes, so dark in the moon-
light, made her remember Brian Scorby.
“Don’t, Paful,” she said awkwardly.
If she had hit him she could not
have hurt him more. He flung himself
down among the dead leaves in the tree
shadow with his face in his hands. The
pain that wrung him was not passion but
a queer mixture of hale; because she
had let him think that perhaps he
might love her and she might allow it
some time. She had laughed with him, she had
walked with him at night, she had quarrelled with
him, and he had teased her about being so high and
mighty, and she had scolded him for being so horribly
unambitious. And she didn’t want him! She had
just been lonely. She would not “lower” herself to
love him.
He lay there while the thoughts went over him
like so many separate pains. It came to him that he
had not been in love before. He knew all about girls.
He was used to them. But he just hadn't known what
it was to be hurt like this, to be weak at the thought
of a girl, to suffer so that he could cry because she
would not kiss him. He could have laughed at him-
self for a fool.
“Let’s go back,” he said in a dry, strained voice.
They walked in silence to the gate, where, a little
alarmed by the queer way he had taken it, Jessica
stammered some words: “But, Paul —I do . . . truly
. . . truly like you”
“Don't say nothing,” he said wearily. “I know.
One of the Whites of Warnin’ Hill. His father an’
his brothers an’ sisters an’ him—none of them any
good—and I couldn't possibly marry him. He
couldn’t give me anything I want, anyway. An' I’m
too wise to fall in love with him. Far too wise.
Right-oh, Miss Daunt.” He laughed. “Let me know
if you ever change y’r mind.”
“You mustn’t let this interfere with your read-
ing,” Jessica said. “But”
She hesitated.
“No. We won’t go walking again," he said.
He turned and went away, leaving her standing
at the gate. He walked to his bunk in the shed at
the end of the yard and flung himself on it and cried
because he loved a lady of poetry and quicksilver and
she did not exist. She had never existed. She was
only a school-teacher who did not like gossip.
((Continued on page 50.)


i
j
T\ o? lE| 3s
Stromberg
-Carlson 9
Chromo -phonic RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C 2
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing .Id. in stamps) for tlie 30 x 20
inch J.avislily Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
RADIO
ENGINEER
to
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO COLLEGE
CORNER BROADWAY & CITY RD. SYDNEY.
RADIO NEWS
THE FREEMASONRY OF AMATEUR RADIO.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Although the Australian experimental
license granted to private individuals to
conduct radio transmission and reception
experiments is primarily intended for re-
search or purposes likely to be bene-
ficial technically to radio science, the
very issuing of such a license has a bear-
ing upon the development of radio
communication. The sole object of radio
in dot-and-dash or phonetic form is to
communicate something from one point
to another, or to several others at the
same time. The amateur license exam-
ination includes proficiency in the inter-
national Morse code, and the applicant
must handle successfully at least 12 words
a minute, both ways.
Probably the Morse code is the
stumbling-block for most; but there are
many with a distinct flair for mastery
over telegraphic symbols, and in the
amateur license lies for many the begin-
ning of a career as a first-class telegraphic
operator. There are hundreds of them
among the 1370 licensed amateurs in
Australia. These men, young and old,
think nothing of rapid-fire exchange of
ideas and virtual “radio handshakes”
with thousands devoted to the art of
handling a key in practically every part
of the world. In ’22, this was a dream ;
in ’35, it is a daily and nightly “taken-
for-granted” act.
Radio amateurs everywhere to-day
possess an international weapon for
world peace, but few realise it. Ama-
teurs pioneered the short-wave communi-
cation channels of the world, and estab-
lished a remarkable kind of freemasonry.
The result is that the sons of, say, a
British officer and of a Nazi Storm Troop
leader are on more than speaking terms ;
they are genuinely friendly. Radio
apparatus and a Morse key would enable
these two men, meeting in the flesh, to
chat over their radio experiences, ex-
change ideas and probably form a firm
friendship. They would certainly be
appalled at the idea of facing each other
over barbed wire behind chattering
machine-guns. This feeling is general
among radio amateurs of all nations.
Yet, instead of fostering amateur radio,
commercial communications delegates at
International Radio Conferences do their
utmost to take away from the amateur
the few privileges he holds. Instead of
wisely extending his frequency territory
for better international working, he is
cramped and forced to work under
almost hopeless conditions. Despite this,
amateur international communication
goes on.
In some countries amateurs are totally
suppressed. If they operate they are law-
breakers, subject to severe penalty. Mus-
solini’s Italy is such a country. Still, one
or two brave souls take a chance, and,
under cover, exchange a word or two
with amateurs elsewhere. Because of
this, Italians are rarely heard in Aus-
tralia ; but recently one was heard calling
strongly, and was immediately answered
by numbers of Australians and Maori-
landers. It might be asked by some, as
Italy is the “bad boy” of Europe in the
sanctions business, should not amateurs,
as members of a sanctionist nation, ex-
tend a “frozen ear” to an Italian station.
The answer is that an amateur is an
OM to all and sundry, dictators and
politicians notwithstanding. If youth
were drilled in amateur radio instead of
in various colored shirts, the world per-
haps would be more peaceful. In the
hands of the right kind of youth, ama-
teur radio could be a wider influence for
better understanding among different
peoples.
There is unfortunately the other aspect.
If some amateurs are compelled to apply
their training and pound keys in warlike
strain, then the time would appear to
be approaching when Australian ama-
teurs should give serious thought to pro-
ficiency in emergency operating—key
traffic handling under naval, military or
air-force procedure.
The three Australian services have
their individual schemes, all at present
of a voluntary nature. In these reserve
schemes are to be found a small number
of amateurs, keen to adapt their skill
with a Morse key to tactical message
handling ; but more amateurs are needed.
They may never be called upon to apply
their services in war, and certainly will
never serve under British command as
members of an aggressor nation. Pre-
paredness involves the establishment of
efficient communications, for a defence
force without speedy and reliable radio,
line or visual inter-contact is like a deaf,
dumb and blind boxer in the ring. Pro-
ficient amateur operators could be valu-
able men for defence work in Australia.
D. B. K.
Superhet for U.S.Ws.
Although the super-regenerator is a
convenient type of receiver for five- to
ten-metre reception, it has serious limita-
tions which have often been referred to.
Apart from the desirability of using a
receiver possessing obvious advantages
over the super-regenerative for even
ordinary communication purposes, the
advent of television must be considered.
The superhet will be found essential for
good reception of high-definition tele-
vision programmes where a wide fre-
quency response is desired. Such a
receiver need not be at all complicated.
The circuit illustrated (from “Practical
Wireless”) shows a simple and suitable
type. Here the first valve functions as an
autodyne frequency changer, with the
grid coil tuned by a 35mmfd. variable
condenser and regeneration controlled
by a lOOmmfd. variable condenser. The
condensers should have a good slow-
motion drive. VI and V 3 may be plain
screen-grid valves, and the LF. valve,
V 2, of the R.F. pentode type. The LF.
transformers should be designed for
5000 kc. for best results. Other compon-
ents are standard.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Rome’s 2RO, though still heard on
25.4 metres in the late evenings, appears
to have been moved back for early-
morning sessions to its former location
on 31.13 metres —with a renewal of the
Morse signal interference that exas-
perated listeners a few months ago. An-
other station no longer regularly heard
in the early mornings is RNE; occa-
sionally, however, at about 5 a.m., I
have heard it in a musical programme.
With these defections, and with the re-
placement of GSD by GSF in the 6 p.m.
to 8 p.m. sessions, the 25-metre band has
lost much of its interest. It is now at its
best about midnight, the star per-
formers being PHI (opening at 11.30)
and GSE (opening at 12). The latter
station comes through with wonderful
clearness and strength.
The German “letter box” of DIB con-
tained a budget of cordial greetings to
Australian and Maoriland correspondents
on November 15. Unfortunately, the
hour chosen (8 p.m., Sydney time) was
when signal strength was still very low,
and in the bad weather conditions pre-
vailing the messages were barely audible
against a noisy background. A more
suitable time for such a transmission
would be 9.45 p.m.
With temporarily improved reception
on November 19 one searched the dial
eagerly for anything fresh, and to log
two new German stations before 5.30
a.m. was not a bad start! 1 think they
were the pair (DJR and DIP) I heard
announced on November 1 as about to
operate on 15,340 kc. and 10,055 kc. re-
spectively. The first has a wave-length
of 19.55 metres, the second of about 29.8
metres. Both came through rather
faintly, and so far are of little interest
save as novelties. Another compara-
tively new German station, previously
heard referred to as DIE on 15,170 kc.,
was also logged. Error, however, is pos-
sible owing to the fact that announcers
(like most of us) sometimes say one
thing and mean another. On Novem-
ber 20, for example, at 10 p.m. the
announcer of DIB said: “We are now
taking leave of DJL on 11,795kc.”
meaning, apparently, the 25-metre station
DJO, which regularly goes off the air
at that hour.
P. R. W.
Amateur Chatter.
ẁ
success. If anybody can do it, VK2BP
can, and the attempt is to be continued
when the writer has new gear in opera-
tion. Not enough credit has been given
to VK2BP in over-enthusiastic writings
of “wonderful” Blue Mountains-Sydney
five - metre contacts, for it was the
presence of the Hazelbrook station in
the first place that proved such contact
possible and reliable.
VK2HM, chief engineer of 2UW
(Sydney), has three useful transmitting
valves for disposal. These are Telefunken
RV24’s, being 50-watters. Rating is 13.5
volts filament at 4 amperes; plate
voltage, 600 to 1000; plate resistance,
2500 ohms ; plate current, 20ma. to 70ma.
These are new valves at £5 each, as
against (he maker’s price of £lB.
At the general meeting of the W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Division) on 21/11/’35 an
interesting lecture on “Army Signals as
Applied to W.T. and R.T.” was de-
livered by Lieut. R. C. V. Humphery,
2nd. Div. Sigs. (also of A.W.A.). Mem-
bers were able to realise why military
radio communication is of necessity
restricted to limited range, even though
the apparatus used is capable of long-
range working. An insight was also given
into the communication system as estab-
lished by signals for a division with
brigades and battalions. After the lec-
ture general business centred mainly on
a discussion regarding the pending ballot
on amateur band division for key and
Years ago, amateur transmitters
farewelled "spark” operation,
hut some of the signals heard
to-day are little better!
telephony, as suggested by the P.M.G.
These are as follows. The 28mc. band
remains open for A - and A 1-type waves.
I4mc. A 3 .. .. 14,250-14,150 kc.
A 1 (14,400-14,250 kc.
” •• ) 14,150-14,000 kc.
7mc. A 3 .. .. 7,300-7,200 kc.
A 1 .. .. 7,200-7,000 kc.
3.stnc. A 3 ~ .. 3,700-4,000 kc.
A 1 .. .. 3,500-3,700 kc.
The stalwarts keep at 28mc., and it is
reported by VK2LZ that LUIEP was
heard calling VK4EI. If contact was
effected (at present unknown), VK4EI
will have the first Australian W.A.C. on
10 metres.
VK2NO.
All Round the Dial.
The most successful A.B.C. opera
broadcast to date was “La Boheme.”
Puccini’s music is above all things vocal;
it sings itself, and Mimi Phillips, Musetta
Lorimer, Rudolph Williams, Marcel de
Vries, Collins Collier, Schaunard Beatty
and Benoit Nicis evidently thoroughly
enjoyed themselves. Joseph Post’s con-
ducting and the orchestral backing were
congenial, and the absence of strain and
anxiety all round made for pleasurable
listening.
* * * *
“Shark”: Apropos of these discussions
as to whether the surf patrol of Sydney
beaches each week-end from Palm Beach
to Maroubra is of value (B. 27/11 / ’35) a
daily publishes an account of a 7ft. shark
which visited Bondi beach. It approached
within three yards and swam parallel
with the beach before returning to deep
water. About 200 people were splashing
about, and the pilot of a ’plane (not the
2UW ’plane) cruising in the vicinity sig-
nalled “Leave.” This surely demon-
strates that aeroplanes are of assistance
in making surf-bathing safe.


GREATER ECONOMY IN OPERATION
ẅ
w
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited
“Tonnerre”: 8.8. C.-minded England
doesn’t like overdoses of crooning. The
headmaster of Rugby school adminis-
tered the following flagellation, says
“Thermion” in “Practical Wireless”: “It
is a queer world when a sleek, silky-
voiced lounge-lizard can perpetrate a few
quatrains of noxious slush and be forth-
with accepted by the toleration of the
whole of a manly generation while the
great spirits of the world, building im-
mortal verse out of their hearts’ stuff in
poverty, in blindness and in despair, sing
to them in vain.”
* * >•: sjt
There are 10 Londons in the world,
according to a speaker over the Empire
network, six Birminghams, five Leedses
and 18 Abcrdeens. There are 84 places
named Victoria, 126 towns and villages
named Newton or Newtown, 64 Alex-
andria, 45 Douglas, 38 Newcastle, 37
Preston and 35 Kingston.
A South Australian experimental station, designed with an eye for
neatness — VKSBJ, of Glenelg.
Casual Comment
“Alpha”: “D.B.K.’s” pioneering work
through The Bulletin is bearing fruit,
and ullra-short-wave radio is coming
into its own round Sydney on the better-
late-than-never principle. “VK2ZU call-
ing VK2ZU mobile” indicates the central
district ambulance on the job, with the
saving of an endless number of contacts
with headquarters before locating the
next “job.” Field engineers of the Water
and Sewerage Board are also to be
equipped with ’phone jobs on outlying
works, with a consequent saving in highly
paid time. Rather off the beaten track
are the quasi-geophysical instruments
which are to be employed for locating
pipes in the ground. It is to be hoped
that these new aids will prevent such
accidents as the recent case of an unfor-
tunate workman poking his pick in 6000
volts high tension, with only the acci-
dental insulation of his pick-handle to
save him from more than a nasty scare.
* * * *
“Bloxon”: In Great Britain the nega-
tive attitude of the 8.8. C. towards Terri-
torial Army recruiting in particular, and
recruiting in general, has been the sub-
ject of grievance in military circles. In
order to bring Britain into line with most
of the other Great Powers, recruitment
for the armed forces of the Crown is now
to receive carefully planned stimulus
from broadcasting. The same assistance
should apply to Australia, for every sane-
thinking member of the public realises
that adequate defence is of increasingly
vital importance. There could be no
more potent factor in a defence recruit-
ing scheme than the use of the micro-
phone.
“Eh”: Brisbane has the Empire’s
oldest and youngest radio operators.
Phillip Hardgrave (VK4PH), aged 78
years, of S. Brisbane, was granted his
license three years ago, and can tap out
29 words a minute. For years he prac-
tised as a solicitor, retiring about 20
years ago. Seven years ago he became
interested in radio work, and subse-
quently passed all exams. Miss Madeline
McKenzie (VK4YL), of Wynnum Central,
began operating at 11 years, and gained
231 points in the junior B.E.R.U. con-
tests. This year she gained 98 p.c. in
the exam, for A.O.P.C. She usually
works on the 20-40-metre band, but her
logbook registers many contacts on the
10-metre band.
\s* * *
The radio school of domestic science
broadcast from 2GB daily at 2.45 p.m.
has been a unique experiment. For the
first time in Australian radio history, the
woman listener was provided with a com-
plete course of training under Mrs. D.
State, the only Bachelor of Domestic
Science to have qualified at Sydney Uni.
She is busy issuing examination papers
to her listeners, and those who qualify
will be awarded a diploma of domestic
science. Subjects: Laundry work, elemen-
tary cooking, home management, ad-
vanced cooking and dietetics.
* * * *
“4X”: There is nothing to prevent
anybody from making extravagant state-
ments with regard to long-distance recep-
tion, and sometimes these statements arc
made in the best of faith. It would be
wise not to accept a claim unless the
person concerned is willing and able to
demonstrate his ability to do it again.
While this might eliminate some freak
performances, no harm would be done,
as consistency is essential before any real
value can attach to such experiments.
Genalex Performance.
British General Electric Co., Ltd.,
recently received at its Sydney office
the following letter from N. Whiffen,
a Kogarah (N.S.W.) user of a Genalex
Model 185 all-wave:
Allowing for three weeks when unoperated
during vacation and one week owing to speaker
repairs, I have had this set now for approxi-
mately a year.
f am not a radio crank. With the excep-
tions of week-ends, all the listening-in is done
between about 6 p.m. and 12 p.m. I am an
ordinary listener-in, being quite a busy person,
and cannot devote all my time to this inter-
esting hobby. I have kept a log-book of all
reception conditions, and have had several
good confirmations from London, Paris,
Moscow, America, Hong Kong, Suva and
elsewhere. Here is an analysis of my log:
Up till, and including, 29/9/’35, stations
received, excluding telegraph stations, were
757, which, I feel, is very creditable. An
analysis shows: Long wave 84 (including over-
seas and Australian), foreign amateurs (chiefly
U.S.A.) 33, Manila 14, France 9, Russia 8,
miscellaneous overseas (s.w.) from all countries
37, England 11, Germany 8, U.S.A. commercial
stations 21, Japan 31, Java 29, Maoriland
95, Australian amateurs 336, unidentified over-
seas stations 41.
Experimental Iron-cored Coils.
ẃ
Odd Items.
The resistance of an ordinary bell-
battery carbon rod of approximately 6in.
in length is between 50 and 60 ohms.
>;< >;■ * *
If microphonic noises arc troublesome,
it is probable that the fault lies in the
detector rather than in one of the audio
or R.F. stages.
>l< >l*. *
A counterpoise earth will often help
to eliminate interference from power
mains, electric motors. X-ray apparatus
and the like.
* * !> *
Where interference is troublesome :t
is a good plan to try a different earth.
If you arc using a water main at present
change over to a buried plate, or vice
versa.
Small fixed condensers connected in
the earth lead, in the aerial lead, or both,
will often tend to overcome interference
owing to outside sources, such as electric
railways and tramways.
It has been found that after a short-
wave signal has been received from a
distant station it is followed about one-
seventh of a second later by an “echo,”
a similar but very much weaker signal,
which is apparently due to the original
impulse having travelled right round the
world and back again to the reception
point.
The resistance of No. 36 Eureka wire
is 14.8 ohms per yard, so that, for an
ordinary potentiometer such as is used
in a short-wave set, about 30 yards of
this wire will be required for a resistance
of approximately 450-500 ohms.
• ♦ * ♦
Since the discovery that a short-wave
signal is frequently followed by an
“echo” it has been noticed that occa-
sionally there is yet another echo fol-
lowing this at an interval of three to
fifteen seconds.
The Q. and A. Column.
I wish to connect a phono, pickup in the
detector instead of the audio side of my
battery receiver, which has S.G. R.F. triode
detector and two resistance-coupled audio
stages. Please explain the most convenient
way of doing this. —345.
The diagram illustrated is explanatory. It
is safe to assume a peak value of one vojt for
the output of the average pickup. It will be
appreciated, bearing in mind the amplification
factor ol' valves and couplings, that the output
valve must be capable of handling quite a
large input if no distortion is to be experi-
enced. The dotted portion in the diagram is
a potentiometer acting as volume control, and,
if not already incorporated in the pickup unit,
should be arranged for accessibility. Note
that one side of the pickup is taken to
negative grid bias, the actual value depending
here upon the associated valve and pickup.
The switch should be of a low-capacity type;
otherwise it is quite possible that radio trans-
missions will be heard when not wanted.
* ♦ * *
Am holder of experimental license VKIDC,
and wish to make a radio-frequency choke
suitable for use in a transmitter. What size
former, number of turns and gauge of wire ? —•
341.
As, no doubt, multi-band operation is de-
sired, the choke must be designed for effi-
ciency at the frequencies concerned. The
writer makes up chokes for such work as fol-
lows: Turn, or get turned, a hardwood
bobbin, Ijin. diameter, with three slots {in.
wide, and separated by £in. spacing. This
bobbin should be boiled in paraffin-wax to
remove all moisture and improve insulation.
The slots arc then filled, and connected in
scries with No. 36-gauge D.S.C. copper wire.
Avoid crossover of the wire from the begin-
ning and layers of each section by cutting a
groove inside each slot to take the start of
the winding.. Jf this is not done, the choke
is likely to break down if any power is used.
Hence the advantage of the commercially-de-
signed honeycomb-type chokes on a glass or
isolantite former. The choke described is
effective at 80, 40 and 20 metres.
4> * * *
For some years I have been using a simple
Reinartz-type receiver for short waves, and am
now considering a superhet. Having on hand
some old iron-cored intermediate-frequency
transformers (from the days of the earlier
superhets), I am wondering if these could be
employed, with the existing receiver parts, to
make up an effective arrangement. How could
this he done ? Battery operation is required.
—339.
Although these old intermediates are not by
any means selective (they are probably of the
iron-wire-corc type), they can be put into ser-
vice quite effectively, as the diagram illus-
trates. The detector valve (shown as a 201 A,
but which can be any two-, four- or six-volt
triode) is now an autodyne frequency changer.
(Continued on next page.)


CO
CnKl
Se)
SB?
*
*
LrurJ
E 3
(=] #
o
M|
as
Ktmm
Cool in the midst of heat. Warm in the
midst of cold. Climate yours to command!
The fast, luxurious trains which link
America’s many fascinating cities and
superb scenic objectives —at a minimum
in cost achieve a maximum in travel-
comfort. They are now air-conditioned.
"Conditioned” air is simply controlled
temperature . . . The atmosphere you
breathe is cleansed—cooled or heated
(as occasion demands)—and balanced
at correct humidity. Fresh as an ocean
breeze, it precludes the need for open
windows, permitting quiet; it banishes
dust and smoke, allowing restful travel
in summer clothing.
All cars are air-conditioned: the famous
Pullman sleepers and equally renowned
diners —the smart club cars, in which you
lounge, read or play —the observation cars,
from which you view the parade of won-
ders. In addition, complete valet service,
barber, shower baths. Schedules are fre-
quent; stopovers at no extra charge; fares
and incidental costs unusually low*
ẁ
The circuit constants here remain as before,
and the primary of the first I.F. transformer
(or filter) connects where the headphones
would be in the old Reinartz circuit (for a
single-valver). Two I.F. stages are shown, and
the valves should, be of the same filament
voltage rating as the frequency-changer. If
beat-note control for C.W. reception is wanted,
an external oscillator at the intermediate fre-
quency can be coupled to the second detector
as indicated.
* * * *
(1) Dates of Bulletin issues containing
articles on signal generator and output meter ?
(2) What is an electron-coupled detector ? (3)
What times of transmission are in force for
the Brisbane experiments from the Observa-
tory ? —344.
(1) 12/9/*34 and 25/7/’34. (2) Feedback- is
obtained independently of the plate circuit, as
in the usual plate-coil “tickler” method, by
placing the cathode or filament slightly above
earth potential. A more stable oscillator
results, and thus a more stable detector. This
permits a higher ratio of inductance to
capacity, with increased signal voltage at the
control grid. (3) As the service is experi-
mental and subject to changes, the information
should be sought from the station concerned.
Write to Mr. T. Elliott, Observatory Tower,
Wickham Terrace, Brisbane (Q.).
Particulars of a short-wave set of a port-
able nature which would be of use 1000 miles
north of Brisbane ? —340.
The Improved Wide-World Two type of re-
ceiver (B. 21/8/’35), modified to use two-volt
instead of 6.3-volt valves, would be particularly
suitable. The type-15 valve could be employed
without alteration in the electron-coupled de-
tector circuit (suppressor is connected to
cathode in this valve), and another of the same
type could be used, triode connected, as the
single audio stage.
Humless Power Supply for Short
Waves.
ŵ
densers are Cl .Imfd., C 2 and C 3 4mfd.
(not electrolytic here), C 4, C 5 and C 6
Bmfd. electrolytic. The R.F. chokes are
Hammarlund or National triple-section
honeycombs, and the filter chokes 30h.
each. The leads from the filament wind-
ing of the transformer are braided and
earthed, and all connections made in
earthed lead-covered cable. The R.F.
chokes before and after the rectifier clear
up any vestige of A.C. hum. This is a
voltage-doubling rectifier system, and will
give 250 volts at 50ma ample for most
receiver requirements.
D. B. K.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.A.: Too much repetition in it, and far
too little of the stuff that stirs and sticks....
J. : Nothing wrong with the rhymes, but
your effort doesn’t yank a postal note from
its lair M.: We never read a drearier
picture of a Melbourne Sunday... .R.W.V.:
Putting aside your indifferent spelling and
poor rhyming, do you really think any paper
would print that sort of stuff?... .E.R.M.:
It doesn’t measure up to the subject 8.V.;
Too much of it, and too little in U....E.H.:
The type of yarn doesn’t appeal, even if it were
better written... .L.D.: Condensed, it might
make a Smoke-oh par F.R.: Heather
“orates” instead of conversing; the old man’s
story seems rather pointless F.P.F.: To the
reader, who knows there must be a flaw in
the alibi, the explanation is obvious from the
start... .H.P.S.: If the sketches were as life-
less as the verses we doubt whether they could
exist even in that world W.M.M.: Good
light verse, but says old things... .F.A.8.:
Cannot discern the faintest glimmerings of
poetic fire.., .T.R.; Not without merit, but
“Awake, My Heart,” is an old refrain....
Stranger: Perhaps some day the River Murray
will have an immortal ode written to it. Yours
was very earthy.... V.W.: Overstocked with
that kind of yarn... .V.A.C.:
Like a lost soul in pain
A doleful, lone curlew
Wailing as though he knew
t The moon was dying.
Don’t agree that a curlew, however doleful,
would necessarily wail merely because he knew
the moon was dying E.F.F.; Most of
them might be suitable for setting to music,
but not for setting in type LA.: “Judas”
banished R.G.; “To a Posy”:— \
I love thee for the eager feet that sped
To pluck thee, gleaming, from thy dewy stem.
An acrobat, presumably... .V.S.C.: It’s no
use; when you’re /Jiree-and-twenty you’ll prob-
ably be caught again A.N.L.; Atmosphere
all right, but yarn doesn’t appeal C.H.F.:
The characters are story-book people; and
there is no law to force a maiden aunt to
leave any of her money to her only surviving
nephew... .W.W.A.: Article on “The New
Caesar” unsuitable V.H.G.: Do rats drink
whisky?... .A.C.: A snap ending is often the
making of a yarn, but it must be consistent
with the body of the story. Yours merely
leaves the reader with a sense of being tricked.
Mars; Refuse to believe that prospectors
are like that J.C.: Dealer sketch doesn’t
get past; atmosphere right, but not enough in
it... .E. 0.5.: You set yourself a stiff grade
with that theme, and the vehicle didn’t quite
make it T.P.C.: We prefer something with
body in it....N.C.: The whiskers on that
coincidence and on the Neanderthal man grew
contemporaneously... .H.S.: It is an idea, but
you don’t seem to have made the best of it.
... .Tonlmo; Rather late in the day for writ-
ing verses about Kisch... .J.D.: The conclud-
ing line was a delightful surprise, but the rest
of it is so dolefully serious that few readers
would get that far....A.M.; No ring of sin-
cerity in your song for summer D.McF.:
Morning has been described so often that
nowadays most people recognise one when
they see it... .E.W.8.: “The Bushman’s Re-
venge” starts with a swing, but runs off into a
sea of drivel Koala: That measure needs
careful handling to keep it from growing
monotonous J.E.H.: Not much in it
Lyrebird; If fact, worth a par.; if fiction, no-
thing doing W.E.8.: None suitable....
P.P. (M.L.): Nicely told up to the point
where the yarn petered out A.M.M.:
Don’t care for stories based on physical or
mental deficiencies.. . .F.C.F.: The coating of
sentiment is a bit too thick A.J.K.: Try it
on Mr. Bruce; on his head be it for initiating
the campaign... .R.G.H.: Send it to a psy-
chology journal.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.W.D.: The lines wander over the paper
without apparent purpose R.C.: Figures
in the wash-drawings are quite presentable,
but you should get more contrast in your
tones T.M.: Hebrew-and-kerosene-in-the
fire-extinquisher gag has had its day..-. .H.L.:
You have years of hard work ahead of you.
E.J.P.: So that’s Lyons! P.D.: Parlor-
maid’s Christmas-stocking gag is moth-eaten.
N.M.F.: Dreary drawings and outworn
jokes A.8.L.: We generally find that the
person who submits silhouettes does so to con-
ceal his artistic deficiencies W.H.N.: Dwarf
abusing outsize lady clinging to lamp-post was
ordered off S.D.: No market for jokes
about mental cases and physical deformities.
A.W.T.: They won’t reach the printer....
K. : Can’t recall the drawing of the Kaiser
which you sent 20 years ago, and would like
to forget that of Hitler which you sent last
week H.S.F.: Whatever they are they are
not Australian abos L.J.; The only thing
right is the parting in the gent.’s hair C.P.:
You’re a hit-or-miss artist, and your gags
lack nourishment F.G.: As far as you can,
let the picture tell the story V.A.; Nothing
to get excited about —most schoolchildren can
do better H.T.: Get more punch into your
jests... .E.M.: Has a certain rough-and-ready
merit. Polish up your work... .M.K.; Poses
stiff and jokes tame... .W.J.; The eye-goug-
ing wrestler is an amazingly distorted physical
specimen.. .-.R.A.A.: Last time we heard the
remark it was passed about strawberries
C.F.J.: . Another example from the scratchers’
school... .H.C.8.: Shows promise; see that
your lines flow more smoothly J.D.;
Slightly better than previous submissions, but
still far below the mark... .8.T.; Can’t quite
make out what all the little chaps with pitch-
forks are up to L.S.: Try again when you
have learned to master your pen C.8.H.:
Fair as a first effort, nothing more W.D.:
Well, there’s one thing about drawing pre-
historic animals —no one can contradict you
as to likeness.


w
ŵ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Race-club members were required to
pay for admission at Moonee Valley on
the occasion of the V.R.C. Benevolent
Fund fixture ; so there were half-empty
benches in the privileged part of the
stand. But common people attended in
such numbers that the cause of disabled
jockeys and trainers who have become
old and impoverished will not suffer;
the receipts satisfied A. V. Kewney and
W. S. Cox, the joint hon, secretaries.
And some excellent racing was wit-
nessed. Pooley Bridge, from the stable
of Bert Foulsham, a son of the veteran
Randwick trainer, put up a new course
record for two miles and a furlong over
hurdles (3min. 49sec.), and Belle Sil-
houette equalled the course record for
six furlongs (Imin. 12sec.) in the Welter
Plate. Under the influence of warm
weather the track was in great galloping
order.
There were seven events, and only two
favorites caught the eye of the judge.
Belle Silhouette (15 to 1) and Last Corn
(12 to 1) brought joy to the heart of
the odds-layer, but that personage, as
usual, hid his elation under a sorrowful
mask. When will the average book-
maker ever cease to declare that the
winner was his “absolute worst”?
Gert.‘ v 1m going, home now, see you
TOMORROW ,"
vv /
Bert’. 1 dont think. so,
n ~L "
GvERT: VjMV not •
sert ; " We've been seeing, too much
OF EivCH OTHER, ,
There has been talk lately of a match
over hurdles between Greensea and
Sarokos. Negotiations are doomed to
fail because of insuperable difficulties
that have cropped up. Meanwhile the
standard of hurdling in the Victorian
capital is poor, so far as horses in com-
mission are concerned. Pooley Bridge,
who only recently emerged from the
novice class, was topweight among the
acceptors for the race over hurdles at
Moonee Valley. Punters made Ety-
mology equal favorite with Revision, a
mare that has joined Akanree in the
powerful jumping stable of P. K. Pad
field: neither got a place. Tailing off
at the start through apparent soreness.
Etymology was beaten at the half-way
stage, and Revision knocked up four
furlongs from home. She is to be spelled.
Pooley Bridge is thriving on racing. He
romped home in advance of Gay King
and W. R. Kemball’s mare, Cape Morn.
The colors carried by Gay King are
those which the late W. S. Hickenr
botham, of Carbine fame, handed down
to his son, W.S., junior.
Gay Brunette (Gay Shield —Lady
Marie), who was brought across from
Maoriland by Pope for the spring meet-
ings and won in great style among the
two-year-old fillies on Moonee Valley
Cup day, is now in the Caulfield stable
of S. W. Reid. Gay Brunette is partial to
the Valley; she scored there again on
Saturday, but had to be ridden right out
by Ashley Reed to stall off a determined
challenge from Dempsey’s mount, Scotch
Lassie, making her first public appear-
ance. Scotch Lassie (Great Star —Ellen
Douglas) is trained by F. W. Hoysted,
and should be well worth following. The
hot favorite, Dame Chatter, was knocked
from pillar to post in one of the rough-
est contests seen in Melbourne for some
time.
The two favorites that scored were
Warlaby (Devonshire —Mercian Queen)
in the first division of the Welter Purse
and Art in the Fund Handicap. Warlaby
won with a little in hand from Akanree,
who may prove as useful on the flat as he
has been over hurdles ; it often happens
that jumping experience brings a horse
along as a galloper. At the outset of his
career Akanree looked like developing
into a Cup-winner. He is one of the last
of the Comedy King tribe to sport silk.
Art, as in the Moonee Valley Cup, led
all the way in the Fund Handicap.
Ruach joined issue in the straight, and
Art had to be shoved along in grim
earnest by Skidmore to register a half-
neck victory. After the death of Adam
Skirving a few months ago “S. A.
Rawdon” sold several of the horses that
Skirving had trained for him. Ruach
was included in the draft. He has since
built up a lot in condition. The same
may be said of Royal Barb, whose
brother, The Dimmer, anexed the Sydney
Cup of 1931. G. L. Scott tired of Royal
Barb, who had a period of racing in Tas-
mania with beneficial results. Royal
Barb finished only the proverbial eye-
brow behind the third horse, Chrysonna,
in the Fund Handicap.
Last Corn, winner of the second divi-
sion of the Welter Purse, is trained by
Jerry Tie, who rode Combat (Carnage —
Maid of Honor) to victory in weight-for-
age events more than 30 years ago.
Evening Mist, a Beau Fils mare, nar-
rowly vanquished Robemond (Sere-
mond —Molly’s Robe) in the Highweighi
Handicap. Warwickeye, a stable-mate of
Robemond, had previously finished third
in the Welter Plate. These two horses
hail from Queensland. They seem to be
on the verge of paying their way in the
Yarra River city.
* * * *
Well-backed horses won six of the 10
races at Moorefield on Saturday. Peter
Riddle trained two, Windbird and Cele-
brate ; Fred Shean rode two, Fernacre
and Windbird. Shean’s services are now
in great demand in Sydney, and Holt
wants him to go to Melbourne.
Fernacre made his opponents in the
first division of the Welter look like a
tired mob of outback brumbies. Laid
early at sixes, he started at 5 to 2, hopped
out smartly, and that was the end of it.
Second was Short Wave, 20 to 1 in the
ring and £ll Is. 6d. for 10s. on the tote ;
Norman Conquest, after going wide at
the turn, ran third. Orient Orb dis-
appointed despite his well-trained appear-
ance ; he could not go the pace set by
Fernacre.
Trainer McGee saddled up Frieze and
Cool Spell in the second division. The
former blew to an outside quote ; Cool
Spell was solidly backed to 5 to 2. Cer-
ton essayed to lead all the way,. but Cool
Spell put in his claim in the straight,
and beat Belgravia and Hathalie easily.
Palm, carrying the Poison colors, was
voted a good thing, but appears to be
only a moderate."
Wild Dove’s victory in the Kogarah
Stakes, at 15 to 1, brought a little com-
fort to the bookies. The Maoriland-bred
mare was lucky to score, as Sir Belford’s
pilot was of no use to the chestnut, who
went wide at the top of the straight and
finished under the judge’s box. The
jumper Gaystock was third,' after show-
ing out in front with Flamari for most
of the way.
Royal King (2 to 1), who was bred
by his owner, Trautwein, took the first
heat of the Maiden Juvenile from Gang-
way and Hedonic. His jockey had
drawn a bad marble, but with many of
the youngsters on their toes the favorite
started closer to the rails. Dameitta (10
to 1) scored in the second division, but
Real Joy, one of Hugh Denison’s team,
would have made a race of it but for
running green in the early part. She
came home like an old stager, aS did
Lady Eleanor, who ran third. Neon
went fast, but stopped, as is her habit.
Pastoralist A. G. White saw his colors
carried to victory when Not So Bad (6
to 1) finished too strongly for the oppo-
sition in the first division of the Maiden
Handicap. Olis Tor (12 to 1) had an
easy task in the second division, and
Asilvan won the third, at 9 to 4 ; a big
Silvius three-year-old from Goota-
mundra, he looks a real welter type.
Celebrate (3 to 1), who had been out
of the winning list for a long time, re-
turned to it by taking the Moorefield
Handicap after overcoming many ob-
stacles. He was frequently checked on
the rails, but when he got clear in the
straight soon put the issue beyond doubt.
Bonnie Royal came home well, and cut
Cockpen down after the latter was in
charge at the Leger. Both covered a
lot of extra ground. The pacemaker,
Ashpan, was fourth, and then the heavily-
backed Lancaster King ; it was scarcely
that fellow’s form. Sarsign was promi-
nent-for a mile, and is in line for an
early victory.
Windbird’s class prevailed in the Hurst -
ville Mile. After opening at 6 to 4 he
eased mysteriously to 7 to 2, coming
back to 5 to 2. He donkeylicked his field ;
showing surprising pace in the early stages,
he shook off Rose Gem at the turn, to beat
her by four lengths—it could have been
six. Buonarroti was third. Windbird is
in the Villiers, and the son of Magpie is
so fit that he will take beating in the
Randwick mile.
* * * *
Bachian (Bst. 21b.) and Curator (7st.
81b.) is an attractive Villiers-Summer Cup
double. Bachian won the Villiers last
year with 7st. 91b., and Curator finished
fourth in the Metrbp. after leading into
the. straight. He has come back from
a spell lookjng an improved, horse, but
may not be thoroughly wound up till
Tatt.’s Cup race,.in which he has 7st. 91b.
* * * *
Under the Commonwealth and N. S.
Wales income-tax laws, money made at
punfing is not taxable “unless the tax-
payer represents that he is carrying on a
business in respect of such transactions”
(Baldwin and Gunn). Hence a lot of the
evidence called by the Sydney publican-
sport Trautwein, M.L.C., who is appeal-
ing against Commonwealth assessments
stinging him for £162,826. A retired
grazier said he had got £9OOO to £9O
Quinologist for Trautwein in respect of
the 1916 Metropolitan ; and details of
still more successful transactions were
given by bookmaker-witnesses: £20,000
Rostrum and Speciality, Epsom and
Metrop., 1922 (the outlay wasn’t re-
ported); £15,000 to £45 and £IO,OOO to
£4O, The Epicure and David, Doncaster
and Sydney Cup, 1923 ; £IO,OOO Fujisan
and Lilypond, Doncaster and Sydney
Cup, 1925 (outlay unreported). Quinolo-
gist, it was recalled, was bought in Eng-
land by A. E. Cockram, of Perth, for
£3O, and sold at auction, on account of
Cockram and Trautwein, for £4O. After
that the English nag won the A.J.C.
Trial Stakes, the Metrop. and the Waver-
ley Handicap for Trautwein at the same
meeting. Questioned on this subject,
Trautwein maintained that it was a
genuine sale of a horse that had shown
no form.
♦ * * *
Frank Wilkinson, doyen of Australian
horse-reporters, died at Toowoomba
(Q.) last week, at 86. Born in London,
fie came to Sydney in childhood, and
after his schooldays served his time in
the printing trade as apprentice to the
father of Tom Garrett, the cricketer. He
wrote for “Bell’s Life in Sydney,” the
“Sportsman and L.V. Gazette” and,
when those publications turned up their
toes, for the “Town and Country Jour-
nal” and the “Evening News,” outliving
those papers, too. As “Martindale,” he
instructed and interested the racegoers of
two generations; and he was a handi-
capper and steward for a time. Wilkin-
son was a mine of information on rac-
ẅ


Men’s
Comfy
SLIPPERS
advt
“Albert” Tan Calf
Leather, Pump
Roles, Low Heels.
Prices 10/6 & 14/6
Also in Soft Tan
Calf, with water-
proof soft soles.
Silk-lined .. 14/6
Men’s Dark Tan Calf, Grecian Slippers, with
ornamental collar; comfortable fitting.
In full and half-sizes. Price, 17/6 pair.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
Of Queen Street, Brisbane.
//
i
UNDERWEAR
Heat to- yytu4eSf-
b.v.d u3t:
Cfol as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
the
for
mm
RlW
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
the b.v.d. co. inc.. new york.
SCOTLAND'S
BEST
S&anA
; 1 Q UEU«
t
GRANT'S
LIQUEUR
WHIShY
in mm h-h i HW4IIIII m-f-H-f-H-
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Roy de Cans, one of the colored pugs
invading Sydney, won a fight at Leich-
hardt on Wednesday—he beat Pietro
Georgi in a ten-rounder. A rare occur-
rence for De Cans, but Georgi is used
to hearing that the other bruiser’s the
winner. Welterweights Jimmy Day and
Wally Hogg put on a more interesting
scrap. There wasn’t much between them
until Hogg’s right eyebrow was cut in the
sixth. Day then paid particular atten-
tion to the wound, and by the end of the
seventh the eyebrow was so badly gashed
that the referee wouldn’t let Hogg come
up again.
* * * *
Sydney “Labor Daily” is publishing
the reminiscences of Bill Lang. The old
heavyweight champion holds that had he
followed natural inclinations and fought
right hand forward he would have been
a 10 per cent, better pug. That means
that he might have been world champion:
he had Burns down for a long count in
their Melbourne mill. When Lang was a
youngster, the “southpaw” was regarded
as heretical and not to be countenanced.
To-day the aspiring lad is permitted to
develop his natural movements.
* * <! *
“Wodgil”: In Sydney the other day
the Workers’ Compensation Commission
refused a claim lodged by Jim Flett, who
used to fight in the heavyweight class,
against a showman for whom he had
swung gloves “against all-comers.” As
the law report puts it:
Flett declared that he had developed a
condition of “punch-drunkenness” as a
result of heavy blows received. He said
his speech had thickened and his gait was
affected. He claimed £4 a week from
November 19, 1932, till certified “fit.”
Apparently the commission decided that
the poor devil had not proved his case
against the particular defendant cited.
In any case, the law on the subject is
defective. The present Act was the work
of a “Labor” Government, which made
no provision for pugilists, though point-
edly reminded — by The Bulletin, as I
remember—that they were all “working-
class” youths, and that their trade is
distinctly dangerous. The result is when
a boxer is killed or disabled or punched
so silly that he can’t earn a living all
that is done in the wav of compensation
—and that only in cases which, for some
reason or other, become conspicuous—is
to arrange a “benefit” that costs the
employer little or nothing. There was one
of these affairs at the Rushcutter Bay
Stadium the other night in aid of “Red”
Affinito, an American, who was knocked
unconscious on October 14, and has been
in hospital ever since. It was fairly suc-
cessful, thanks to the antics of Lurich—
who must be a big-hearted fellow as well
as an uncommonly good showman —and
Leo Kelly, who engaged in a comic
wrestler v. boxer turn (Lurich “won”);
but the compensation law should be such
as to make these performances unneces-
sary. It is not as if promoters and show-
men are too poor to insure boxers. Rich
men are connected with the Stadium. And
of one of the showmen (not the one sued
by Flett) the Commonwealth Taxation
Department records that it fined him
£959 in respect of £8554 of “omitted”
N. S. Wales income for the years 1926-
27 to 1931-32, and imposed another
penalty of £977 in respect of £8597 of
“omitted” Vic. income for the years
1925-26 to 1931-32 —part of the depres-
sion period, in fact.
Ins and Outs
“Umgeni”: Closing with 5 for 522,
the Australians dismissed Natal for 242
and 254, winning by an innings and 26.
Nourse, with a fine 124, was the only
first-innings batsman to resist Grim-
mett (7-83). Harvey, an unknown, as far
as Australia is concerned, put up a
rattling knock of 104 in the second try,
in which Nourse went for a duck.
Grimmett took 2 for S 2 this time, fast
bowler McCormick 2-38 and Chipper-
field 4-53. O'Reilly got no wickets, and
did not play in the second innings.
*'* * *
In Sydney the Maryleboners made
their worst showing of the tour to
date, going down to N. S. Wales
by 10 wickets. Facing a Ma State
lead of 115, the tourists shut up
like a lot of Barrier Reef clams just off
a long droving trip, and were extirpated
for 163. Lonergan and Mudge knocked
off the 39 needed. So far only Hard-
staff, Parks and Sims look like visiting
Australia again.
* « * *
“Newlands”; H. F. Wade, skipper of
the Springboks in England and leader
of the Natal side against the Australians
in Durban, has been chosen to captain
South Africa in the first Test with
Richardson’s men at Durban on Decem-
ber 14. The Natal match has given him
plenty of opportunity to study the bat-
ting and bowling of the tourists.
* • * *
“Shabash”: A curious fact about the
Australian cricketers in India to date is
that they have won their matches, not
by good batting—indeed, with one or two
exceptions, this has been very mediocre
-—but by the superlative bowling of one
man. At the end of the match with Sind
Oxenham had taken 52 wickets at a
fraction over 4 each. In the first
Henry, nobody Would think YOU rowed for Grammar in nineteen
hundred and two!”
innings of Sind he shared the wickets
with Nagel, each taking five. In Sind’s
second innings the Queenslander took
5 for 7, making his tally for the match
10 for 35. If he can keep this up. Oxen-
ham will put up a world’s record in
bowling performance. No ; the selectors
never considered him good enough for
England.
* * * *
“The Bluff”; There was mild excite-
ment in Durban when the wicket pre-
pared for the Australians’ opening match
“subsided” and another pitch had to be
prepared. No reason is given, but the
matter ought to be investigated. Perhaps
the lost treasure of Paul Kruger or Loben-
guela is buried there, though this seems
improbable so far south. But it may
be a grave with a gruesome skeleton or,
perhaps, nothing but a broken drainpipe ;
anyway, the public ought to be let
into the mystery.
“Hotham”; Victoria is to stage a testi-
monial cricket match to Jack Worrall, in
his day a mighty batsman and footballer
and in later times a leading writer on
cricket and football. It will be played
on Christmas Day —a queer date —and
the V.F.L. will co-operate in raising
funds outside. Worrall went to England
with the 1888 and 1899 teams. The first
time he did little with the bat, though
he collected 24 wickets. In ’99 he was
fourth in the averages, just ahead of
Trumper, with 35 and an h.s. of 128.
In II tests he averaged 28.15. He was
a hard-hitting batsman, and excelled on
sticky wickets, especially against off-
break bowling.
♦ Jfc % *
“Sturt”; "Abolish the idiotic tea-
interval in grade cricket,” eh (B.
6/11 /’35)? Why, Adelaide has just intro-
duced if. It just gives time for a quick
one and for a visit to one of the count-
less new betting shops. “Tea” covers a
multitude of activities.
# >!> »!c
“Tenth Slip": The team to represent
“Australia” against the Maryleboners. in
Sydney will consist of Ma Staters plus-
Ebeling (who will be skipper), Rigg and
Bensted. The choice of Bensted is prob-
ably a reward for long service in Sheffield
matches ; otherwise promising youngsters
in States beyond N.S.W. might have been
given a chance. No one deserved selec-
tion more than 21-year-old Mudge, of
Sydney, who did so well with bat and
ball against Marylebone at the S.C.G.
* * if 1 *
“Hamar Dyal”: The first of the
matches between Tarrant’s team and
India (camouflaged as “The Yuvraj of
Patiala’s team”) begins at Bombay on
Dec. 5. The Y., who skippers his side, is
the next in line, to Patiala. Our Board
of Control went to all sorts of trouble
to avoid Tests between the Tarrantulas
and All India, but they are happening ail
the same.
* * * *
“Huzoor”: At Karachi Tarrant’s men
were made honorary members of the two
leading British clubs, which do not admit
Indian members or visitors, any more
than Indian clubs admit Europeans. The
Tarantulas declined the gift, making
matters worse by issuing some flapdoodle
about Australians refusing to draw the
color line or to accept club facilities not
accorded to Brown Brother. The inci-
dent will do the team no good in the eyes
of Europeans in India, and will induce
only amused contempt on the part of
those for whom it thought it was making
a noble gesture.
* * * *
“Aigburth”; India is sending a team
to Britain next year, and the Marylebone
club has asked the Indian Board of Con-
trol whether it has any objection to play-
ing under the “new” l.b.w. law, Maori-
landers are to hop along in 1937, and
have been allotted three Tests —at
Lord’s, Old Trafford and the Oval. They
will be three-day matches, but if a de-
cision is necessary the final game will be
extended to four days. How well
South Africa caught the public fancy is
seen in the profits for their tour, £16,000.
In 1929 the total was £7546.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Holmes, skipper of the
Marylebone team in Australia, is one of
those wise young athletes who realise that
it is a good thing to get out of the
gladiatorial arena while the going is
good. After next season he will resign
the captaincy of Surrey and set forth
to round up the nimble sixpence. Holmes
says amateur cricket is an expensive
pastime, which shows that he has old-
fashioned ideas about amateurism. Asked
about his chances for the next Austra-
lian trip, he added that there was no
money in a Test tour for an English
amateur.
* * * ♦
“Moore Par* : N.S.W.C.A. dreams of
a regular Bradman gate for the Australia
v. M.C.C. match, which starts in Sydney
on December 6, have been donged by
Don’s announcement that he cannot
come over to Sydney, some silly excuse
about slicking to his work being given.
Mark my words, this young feller is
showing all the signs of getting out of
the noble game early in order to earn a
living by the ink of his fountain-pen or
whatever it i£ stockbrokers wield. This
will shatter all the traditions. Bradman
will, however, come east with the South
Australians on the Sheffield tour, making
his bow in Sydney on January 17.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane ’: Some of the English
papers are already seeing spooks in con-
nection with the next English cricket
tour of Australia. Even the usually
level-headed “Observer” protests that
two different games will be evolved if
cricket legislation continues on its
present course. Australia, it says, has
been permitted to adopt an eight-ball
over and a different follow-on rule —for
domestic use only, though the “Observer”
does not say so —and the size of the
wicket is different from that outside
county cricket. The old journal thinks
it lamentable that Marylebone should be
forced to legislate for a small corner—
Australia presumably— at the expense of
the greater world of cricket which is the
game’s “lifeblood.” Better the brutal
truth should out. If it wasn’t for that
“small corner” half the English counties
would have to put the shutters up. The
visit of an Australian Eleven is their
lifeblood.
* * * ■ *
“Schuit”: Australian athletes touring
South Africa seem to have a knack of
doing unusual things. When the Wal-
labies were over there we were all thrilled
to hear that a forward with no end of
an opinion of his sprinting powers had
tried to run down on the veld an Oribi
gazelle, one of the swiftest things on four
legs. The latest is of one of a party of
our cricketers who were taken out for
some quail shooting. Several did well,
but Providence was very merciful to the


IRON HORSE
A Dependable,
Compact Engine
A 5/8-h.p. single-
cylinder, four-cycle, air-
cooled, self-contained
petrol engine, weighing
only 341 b. Suitable for
driving lighting plants,
circular saws, lathes,
power tools, washing
machines, separators, etc.
Outstanding Features:
Four-cycle . . . Air-cooled
. . . Quick, easy starting
. . . Smooth running , . .
Meehan ically-operated
valves . . . Lubrication by
automatic-metered splash
system . . . Low fuel and
oil consumption...
Mechanical governor
(fully enclosed, running in
oil) ... New design built-
in highly efficient flywheel
magneto . . . Fuel-lift car-
burettor, new design,
accurately calibrated . . .
Attractive finish . ; . Sym-
metrical design . . . Light
weight; 341 b. . . Vacuum-
sealed crankcase. A
Johnson Product.
Cash Price,
£l 9'l9'-
NOCKCr
KIRBY)
417-421, also 188-194 a,
George St, Sydney.
/ MOTOR OIL
in handy Gallon
;sssa
*c 0
* Or.
0/?
oil
s *t.fr
'SM
>o
leJ
Co
m.
CO
TE
COMPANY lAUSTPALASIA. LIMITED INCORPORATED IN N. S. W.
BIJY a TWO GALLON can now
and insure your own trip free
from worry It holds enough
for a crank case full with a
little extra for topping up.
birds one marksman shot at. Finally,
he leaped forward with a cry of “Got
him! ” —and retrieved an extra-large
locust which had flown into his field of
vision.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian L:T.A. has decided to
challenge in the American zone for next
Davis Cup, “provided a suitable team is
available.”
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The eliminating-
rounds system having been cut out, the
Davis Cup will this year be rushed by
all and sundry, European nations with
no earthly putting their names down
for the sake of seeing them in the
papers for a fleeting hour as losers of
their tie. As a consequence, the European-
zone draw kicks off on February 3, with
May 5 marked for the end of the first
round. May 17, June 9, June 19 and
July 13 are the closing dates of the other
rounds, save the challenge, which must
be completed by July 25.
* * * *
“Bulimba”: Cochet’s opening match
in Brisbane was to have been held at
night, but a storm washed it out, and
it was played next day. Cummings won
by three sets to one, though the visitor,
in partnership with Baker, won the
doubles from Cummings and Cameron.
The second match, played under electric
light, saw the Frenchman sweep Cum-
mings off the court in three straight sets.
He and Baker then downed Cummings
and Cameron by three sets to one. Night
tennis on the grass has definitely arrived
in Brisbane. It is cooler, and “gates”
are larger.
* * * *
“Mari-ja”: Cochet bucked against a
suggestion that he appear in two two-set
matches against different players in Syd-
ney, but said he didn’t mind a five-set
match, nor being down two sets to no-
thing. In fact, he’s got rather a reputa-
tion as a slow beginner. When he took
the Wimbledon title in 1927 he dropped
the first two sets in his quarter-final
match and was behind 2-love and 5-1
against Tilden in the semi. And Borotra
cleared away from him in the final, to
put up a two-set lead.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Some time ago
a Bulletin writer forecast that Norman
Brookes would be “for it” when he
faced the Australian L.T.A. to explain
his stewardship in connection with the
Davis Cup tour and associated matters.
So it proved, a critical note being intro-
duced in some of the questions asked at
the first meeting after his return. Was
it true, someone inquired, that the
skipper stayed in London to watch a
member of his family play when he
should have been in Paris supervising the
play of his charges? How many matches
did he, the selector, see the Cup players
perform in? And so on and so forth.
As president, Norman postponed his
replies until he had considered the ques-
tions ; then he came along with answers
that satisfied everybody but the insati-
able. In tennis administration, as
formerly in tennis, there are no flies on
Norman Brookes.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis
heads having approved of Brookes’s
Pacific zone scheme, nothing remains
but to get I.T.F. ratification at its meeting
in May next year. Then the countries
which it is proposed to include in the
zone will have to be sounded —a matter
that should have been adjusted first.
South Africa may prefer to play in Eng-
land ; Maoriland, too. Of the others,
only Japan is of any tennis importance.
Even if all goes smoothly the thing will
not begin until 1937.
The Nineteenth Hole
This year’s N.S.W. professional golf
championship went to Booth, the Moore
Park professional. He finished with a
total of 288, five better than F. Bolger.
Exceptionally sound putting brought the
winner home on the bit, his last round
of 70 including only 27 pokes at the tin,
W. Bolger, still on the convalescent list,
was an absentee, but most of the other
cracks played —some of them finished
well back.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland golfers are
thinking of shortening the duration of
their championship meeting from 10 days
to a week. The idea is that southern
players in many cases cannot find time
for a ten-day meeting. It is suggested
that all the title events —at least, the
open, amateur and foursomes —be in-
cluded in the first week. A start for the
1936 meeting will probably be made on
Monday, May 18.
Miscellaneous
“Murrayfield”: The All-Blacks added
to their prestige by giving Scotland a
handsome beating—l B-8. The 1905
team won 12-7. The 1935 tourists, by
the way, have achieved a distinction
never before reached by a party of visit-
ing athletes. London “Punch” published
a full-portrait page of them. In the past
there have been cricket and football car-
toons, but this is a radical departure on
the part of the crusted jester, Ireland
supplies the next international clash.
♦ * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W.R.U. has
admitted another club —Roseville —to the
senior competition. Roseville’s country
contains secondary schools which have
proved a splendid recruiting ground for
the club when in the Kentwell Cup com-
petition ; it has a great record as a non-
district combination, and should be an
asset to the senior ranks. North was
the only objector, Parramatta’s success-
ful first season on its return to senior
football argues well for Roseville.
“Birkenhead Park”: Argument in Eng-
land has resulted in the discovery that the
oldest Rugby team, outside the school
itself, is Guy’s Hospital. Blackheath has
long claimed the honor, but a research
has dug up an 1871 photograph show-
ing Guy’s as one of the foundation
members of the Rugby Union. The hos-
pital was playing regular matches in
1843 ; Blackheath was not formed untii
1862.
* * * *
“Flop”: The decision that N.S.W.
swimmerettes will have to appear at car-
nival and other contests wearing the
Spooner costume instead of the sketchy
garment hitherto in favor has aroused a
storm of miaowling and spitting. The
costumes hamper freedom of action, and
a protest is to be lodged. While he is at it,
Mr. Spooner might insist on the costume
Fanny Burney tells us she wore at her
first experience of sea bathing at Wey-
mouth—a flannel gown from neck to
toe. A race between our leading mer-
maids decked out in these garments
would “go big.”
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Berlin Olympic
authorities will use an electrically-oper-
ated camera to record the finishes of
sprints and other races in slow motion
so that there can be no doubt about the
first man past the post. The camera is
synchronised with a chronometer whose
six dials record times up to a thousandth
of a second.
* * * *
“Bermuda”: C. E. Fairey recently
challenged for the America’s Cup. He sug-
gested altered conditions whereby less ex-
pensive boats could be entered ; Ameri-
cans invariably competed with yachts
built by syndicates, whereas British
craft were privately-built and -owned.
In reply he was informed that his chal-
lenge was not in accordance with the
rules. Britons may now wipe the Cup
off as a dead loss.


ED
AG
UR
ft**
Australia Is Your
Security
For This Loan
Closing Date Not Later Than December 10, 1935.
Applications may be lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office, or any Member of a Recognised
Stock Exchange. Subscriptions may be paid in full, or by
instalments up to Ist May, 1936.
INTEREST, 3J% PRICE OF ISSUE, £99/15/-
ANNUAL YIELD, £3/15/5%
Commonwealth
& States
INVEST TO DAY
Commonwealth Treasury, R. G. CASEY,
Canberra. Treasurer.
pAXJVf
/
for
MOTOR
CARS
N
00*
\
.4 Product of British Aus-
tralian Lead Manufac-
turers, makers of famous
‘ Duco ” Lacquers.
"Dulux" is the finest, hardest,
glossiest car-finish in the world.
It's impossible to crack or chip
"Dulux." "Dulux" dries quickly,
with a tough film that retains its
brilliant lustre, and has greater
wear-resistance than ordinary
finishes.
Ask your re-finisher about
"Dulux."
ẁ
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
“TRITON”
Vertical Plunger Pump
This pump has' been
specially built for ser-
vices where only a small
unit is needed.
Arranged for lin. suction
and delivery pipes.
Normal speed approx.
300 r.p.m., and at this
speed capacity is 6 gal-
lons per minute. Pump
can be operated slower
or slightly faster if re-
quired—capacity varying
accordingly. Can be
supplied for belt, chain
or gear drive.
Requires little attention;
practically noiseless.
Normal power required
to drive, up to \ h.p.
SgSKgJ55v
m
Piping and Fit-
tings Supplied at
Lowest Current
Rates.
A NEAT, COMPACT PUMP
Overall Height, 1 inches.
Large
Pump
Catalogue
Free on
Request
k
*
ẃ
c
Proprietary Limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
554-566 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
582 Murray Street, Perth.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
One Big Language
Senator Abbott’s advocacy of a univer-
sal language and his suggestion that the
League of Nations might impress on
everybody the value of teaching it in all
schools are not to be dismissed as
visionary.
Esperanto, still the cult of a handful
of people in Australia, has for years taken
an important place in the business world
of Europe. London mercantile firms do-
ing business with half a dozen foreign
countries have scrapped the old system
of getting letters translated by different
foreigners. To-day letters are typed in
Esperanto, whether addressed to Paris,
Berlin, Buenos Ayres, Moscow or
Angora, and recipients simply hand
them over to their own Esperantist to
transcribe.
Most people imagine that the learning
of Esperanto is attended by the same
concentration as the learning of French
or German. In fact, any intelligent per-
son ought to be able to read it after
three weeks’ study. Everything is regu-
larised ; there are no exceptions, and
the termination of every word so fixes its
grammatical place that it is practically
impossible to speak or write ungram-
matically. But, though I am with Senator
Abbott to 100 per cent., I haven’t much
faith in his belief that a universal
language would prevent international mis-
understandings. English and South Irish
have spoken the same language for cen-
turies.-—Leprechaun (Vic.).
In Other Days
In the beginnings of this country thou-
sands came from not merely good, but
rich, homes overseas, to live in camps
and huts and build up an independence
for themselves. Nearly the whole of
southern Queensland, beginning with the
Darling Downs, was colonised by almost
moneyless boys fresh from British public
schools. And Russell's Genesis and
other books show how hard their lives
were, isolated from everything which
modernism calls comfort.
They were certainly a happier crew,
living an outdoor rural life, than some
of the youngsters of to-day, who feel they
are suffering hardship if they cannot see
a weekly picture-show or hear the thun-
der of the surf on city beaches.
The new outlook, of course, is not all
the fault of the young. The pioneers
had only Nature to struggle against. They
did not have to fight against the bank-
ruptcy which high rents and taxes and
oppressive regulations now keep waiting
always just round the corner. If these
menaces to getting on were removed and
cost of living were brought down to the
outback people, many a young man who
is unemployed in the cities might find
occupation for himself in the outback
or the North.
I know a station about 200 miles from
Wyndham, where there are meatworks,
that turns off 400 bullocks p.a. ; but it
costs £5 per head to mature a bullock.
Even though the manager and the staff
have built most of the improvements and
the manager breaks in the horses, does
fencing, deepens and sinks wells, speys
cows and is station mechanic and saddler,
the wages and stores account works out
at £2 10s. per head of stock sold, though
the wages bill is only £450 p.a. Flour
is 3j times the Sydney price. Over
£14.000 was invested in this property, but
there is no living to be made out of it,
because the price of every foundation
animal bought is half taxation and trans-
port costs. — Malcolm (Q.).
Transport Strangulation
Queensland transport strangulators
sneaked a new piece of oppression into
the Dairy Produce Act Amendment Bill.
Cream-carriers are to be licensed and
their routes declared. Licenses will be
issued at the absolute discretion of the
Minister, who can make any sort of
regulations. The Government says feebly
that the scheme is designed to prevent
overlapping and redundant services—
which, of course, competition is perfectly
able to take care of.— Molasses (Q.).


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS;
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
THE
lIMITCn insurance
U 11 1 I CII COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON.
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
and
£ak*
St’div’
- GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
GERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Machines— Wire-Seal Strapping— Flat Band Strapping
Corrugated Fasteners Fountain Stencil Brushes - Fountpencil
Address Markers Automatic Label Tackers —Tack Strip for Automatic
Label Tackers— Conveyors Packing Equipment
Sydney. Brisbane. Townsville. Perth, Adelaide, Hcbarf
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Banks and Saturday Afternoons
N. S. Wales bank employees are to
lose the August holiday. Not many
are complaining ; there were few good
grounds for the continuance of a
custom inherited from Britain like the
snow and holly on Christmas cards. The
holiday was availed of by civil servants,
shipping, insurance, woolbroking and
wholesale houses; retailers and most
other offices remained open. Now, when
the bill goes through, all will be more
or less alike—except for one thing.
Bank employees have a grievance of
which the public knows very little.
Though the front door is closed at 3 p.m.
on week-days and 12 o’clock on Satur-
days, deposits come in after hours. Dur-
ing the week this is taken as a matter
of course. On Saturdays it is different.
Some banks and their branches in the
city and suburbs experience such a rush
of business between eleven and one
o’clock that the staff of tellers, ledger-
keepers and clerks handling and record-
ing ceposits is kept back so long that
the lunch-hour is past and the afternoon,
from a recreation viewpoint, utterly
spoilt before the business is cleared.
The Bank Officers’ Association has
asked for united action by the banks
themselves. The late Saturday-afternoon
deposit is a growing custom, and owing
to keen competition between the insti-
tutions no single bank is likely to de-
mand earlier deposits from its customers
for fear of driving business away. But
dozens of branches, as well as head
offices, are seriously inconvenienced
every week-end by late deposits.
The suggested remedy is an alteration
in banking hours —instead of 10 to 12,
9.30 to 11.30 is proposed. The largest
Australian bank, the ’Wales, with 2000
employees in the State, does not stand
in the way of the proposal; several
others are also agreeable, but four banks
object.
Maoriland banks have had the 9.30-
11.30 Saturday morning for over 15
years, and it appears to have worked
smoothly. Hours of banking and em-
ployment would not be reduced under
the N.S.W. proposal; it would merely
operate against unnecessary overtime,
and a custom which virtually deprives
these indoor workers of a Saturday
afternoon’s recreation.
Bank employees—there are 7000 of
them in N. S. Wales —have a real griev-
ance which should be remedied. But
co-operation between banks and public
does not appear attainable; without
earlier closing there will always be the
late customer who must be obliged.
Legislation is necessary, and it seems that
the opportunity offers in the bill for
abolishing the August holiday.
The Zinc Corporation’s handout on
January 1 will be an all-round 2s. (stg.)
a share. Previous ord. distribution was
Is., in July, while the one in January
last was 6d. The sharemarket was sur-
prised and pleased when the announce-
ment was published on Friday ; the 10s.-
paid ord. scrip shot up from 71s. 6d.
to 775. 6d. On a4O p.c. div. basis the
gross yield at the higher price is a little
over 6 p.c. The co.’s mine has the
longest probable life of any at the
Barrier, and recent prospecting work sug-
gests higher-grade ore will be available
later on.
All Barrier stocks went to record prices
last week. Broken Hill South (B.
6/11 /’35) is to distribute a jubilee bonus
of 2s. 6d. a share with its next dividend.
Finances are so comfortable and de-
velopment so well in hand, Colin Fraser
says, that all profits earned are to be dis-
tributed. The mine is thoroughly
equipped to produce efficiently.
* * * *
The tariff on mining machinery has
been slashed, in the case of stamper bat-
teries, jaw-crushers, ball-mills, rod-, tube-
and Huntingdon-mills, classifiers and
many other items, from 20-30 p.c. to
p.c., under the British preferential scale.
The Minister’s explanation is that the
lower cost of importing mining machin-
ery will encourage goldmining and in-
crease employment. That is all very
well; but several Australian manufac-
turers, including Ruwolts in Victoria and
Goninans at Newcastle, are turning out
highly satisfactory mining machinery and
“Shall I rub out the price-mark, sir ?”
“Alter it, laddie, alter it. Juist put a two in front of the sax an eleven-
pence
already giving a good deal of employ-
ment. These industries must be consid-
ered ; given a chance, their activities may
extend to the making of many other
types of machinery and iron and steel
products. Mines which are mines can
well afford to support Australian fac-
tories.
The British preferential duty (formerly
20s. a ion) has been cut right out on
Portland cement. The one thing in Aus-
tralian manufacturers’ favor is that
freight on such a bulky product is heavy.
But if it is brought out as back-loading
freight concessions may make British
cement a serious competitor in an already
overcapitalised industry. Kandos shares
fell Is. 3d. in Sydney following the an-
nouncement, though the Melbourne
sharemarket was firmer.
♦ + * *
S. R. Hummerston, who went looking
for Lasseter’s “lost reef,” has arrived in
Sydney from Westralia, and last week
addressed shareholders in the follow-
ing companies:
Border Gold Reefs, Ltd.
North Border G. R., Ltd.
South Border G. R., Ltd.
North and South Extended
Border G. R., Ltd. *
He told them that' the reef the cos. were
interested in was approximately six miles
long, 3ft. wide and outcropped 15 inches.
Lasseter’s “reef” was reputed to be
similarly long and skinny. The mining
world awaits developments.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Companies Bill, as it
stands at present, debars a canvasser
going, whether by appointment or other-
wise, from house to house or from place
to place offering shares for purchase.
But it will be legal, presumably, to make
offers by post, provided certain specific
information is included in the terms of
the offer. Most people are able to read
and write, and should be able to make
up their minds one way or the other
without the importunities of a profes-
sional salesman. If the avenue of postal
contact is left open, the danger of a
Stock Exchange monopoly of capital-
raising should be avoided. N. S. Wales
may now find room for more under-
writing houses of repute.
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co.,
now 14 years old, has increased its bonus
distributions \2\ p.c. to 16 p.c. on last
last year’s rates. In the Ordinary depart-
ment whole-life bonuses of £2 12s. 6d.
per cent, are being declared, and £1 15s.
per cent, on endowments. E. J. Mooney,
the chairman, at' last week’s annual meet-
ing said that bonus rates were now in line
with those of many offices in existence
for 50 years. They are certainly excel-
lent resufts —an example to the post-
war stragglers.
* * * *
Golden Plateau shares are still slip-
ping. There has been heavy selling
(and bearing) in Sydney, Adelaide, Mel-
bourne and, to a lesser extent, Brisbane.
The scrip sold down to 21s. 3d. last
week. This show differs from most of
those to which the bears have given
much attention in the past; it has
been a rich producer within a compara-
tively limited area. The market seems
to think that further rich shoots won’t
be so easy to find. The discovery of the
high-value oxides from which share-
holders have drawn about £300,000 to
date confounded at least one critic in
the show’s early stages.
* * * *
Natural Gas and Oil Corp., Bal-
main (Sydney), has bored to 29ft.
below the bottom of the casing, so
that the drill is now about 22ft. under
the point where operations were sus-
pended when the first strong gas-flow
was brought in, “Successive strata of
porous material, shale and sandstone
have been penetrated.” At 23ft. be-
low the casing, which terminates above
the soft layer previously penetrated by
the drill to a depth of 7ft., the forma-
tion changed from dark shale to “sticky
black shale” ; from that point the bore
is in sandstone. Gas exudes in bubbles
from the bore material. Bailing out of
the bore has started, and a more
accurate measure of gas-pressure should
shortly be possible.
* * * *
Sulphide Corporation, the British-
controlled Barrier show which is think-
ing about returning its pref. capital
(£600,000) and which has been one of
the less profitable propositions at Broken
Hill, has returned to the ord. div. list
with a distribution of 1\ p.c,, the first
since January, 1930. The co. has cement
and fertiliser interests at Cockle Creek
(N.S.W.), but without the Barrier mine,
which has a limited life ahead of it, the
outlook for shareholders (capital is
£1,050,000) would be glum.
* * * *
“G.A.L.”: Here’s tipping that inside
12 months amateur gardeners will be
using hoes and cultivators instead of
spades and digging forks, Sales-tax regs.
exempt hoes and cultivators, though why
they should be selected out of the list of
garden tools is beyond this citizen. And
have to be handled ; other-
wise they lose their status!
“Freelance”: Hot- water fittings (taps,
brackets, etc.) are exempt from sales tax ;
those for cold- water service are taxable.
Elbow main-cocks, horse-rasps (for teeth),
are free; path-cocks, horse-rasps (for
hooves), are plus 5 p.c. In these matters
do they draw from a hat?
* * % *
S.A. wheat harvest is confidently fore-
cast at about 31| million bushels, with
an average of over 10 to the acre. (For
once the Government Statist and the
“Advertiser’s” 300 country correspon-
dents practically agree.) Last year’s
actual result was 21\ million, average
8i —pulled down a lot by unsuitable
“outside” sowings. The State’s best aver-
age was 16| in 1916-17 ; its best aggre-
gate 48 millions in 1931-32.
* * * *
“K.D.”: The Morgan process of oil-
from-coal extraction (B. 2 /10 / ’35) has
moved a further step. Extraction is
guaranteed by the patentees; from a ton
of pre-treated medium gas coal 6gal. of
petrol, 14gal. Diesel oil and 6000 cubic
feet of town gas are obtainable. Average
treatment period is put at 10 minutes. A
£50,000 plant (used, say, as an adjunct
to an existing power plant) will, it is
claimed, treat 106,000 tons of coal a year
and produce, in commercial qualities,
640,000ga1. petrol, 1,480,000ga1. Diesel
oil and 600 million cubic feet of town
gas—all at an economic price. The
method is that of mixing coal (cold)
with hot coke, the latter giving up its
heat to the former until a common
temperature is obtained and gases are
expelled. The residue, sweetened if
necessary with a proportion of fresh
coal, may be then used as fuel. If the
process will do all that is claimed for it
—a guarantee and the services of a
specially-trained chemist go with each
plant (costing £50,000 erected in Aus-
tralia) —it has great possibilities. The
comparatively low capital cost of one
plant unit makes the proposition especi-
ally interesting.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHO Ws
“The Three Musketeers”
No caricature of Dumas’s rousing
classic this, but an intelligent summary.
Where alteration has been necessary to
compass the general theme it has been
done cleverly and plausibly. Walter Abel
makes a better job of the role of D’Artag-
nan than did the elder Fairbanks in the
silent version, presenting a gallant young
gentleman and not merely a swashbuck-
ling braggart. The immortal trio, Athos
(Paul Lukas), Porthos (Moroni Olsen)
and Aramis (Onslow Stevens), are finely
portrayed: the blend of gallantry, cour-
age and honor is achieved in the first
few flashes. The danger of making these
soldiers of fortune larrikins rather than
clever gentlemen has been wholly
avoided. Margot Grahame, so delight-
ful to look at, fuses charm and cruelty
in her study of the unmoral Lady de
Winter, so that when she dies the audi-
ence is glad that a murderess is justly
rewarded and sorry that so beautiful
a woman should disappear from view.
Heather Angel gives a pretty picture of
Constance, with whom D’Artagnan falls
in love, Nigel de Brulier is adequate as
Cardinal Richelieu, lan Keith very
determined as the Cardinal’s agent, and
Miles Mander (now in Australia to make
films) gives a pale portrait of the King
of France; the Queen is played by
Rosamond Pinchot, who makes her very
regal. Ralph Forbes passes muster as
the Prime Minister of England. Scenery,
settings and costumes are excellent.
Photography achieves at times marvel-
lous depth, especially in the racing-coach
scenes. At Sydney State.
“Bright Lights”
Nature gave Joe E. Brown a face that
was equally well designed for two things
—stopping trains and making people
laugh. Fortunately for the railway in-
dustry and also for film audiences, he
chose the latter alternative, “Bright
Lights” has a plot that has been, used
Ian Keith as De Rochefort in “The
Three Musketeers,” at Sydney State.
scores of times, and seldom* successfully
—the husband - and - wife provincial
vaudeville team gets its chance on Broad-
way ; husband is led away by glamorous
blonde; wife returns to country show;
husband follows ; reconciliation —yet
from this unpromising material Brown
gets not merely smiles and chuckles but
real laughs.
Everything about him is funny—-his
enormous mouth, which he exploits to
its full advantage, his clumsy swagger,
his amusing voice and his cow-like bel-
low —but in addition to these he has a
stock-in-trade of dancing, tumbling and
olher eccentricities, and all through the
show one gets the impression that his
lun is not the result of studied effort, but
that he is funny because he can’t help it.
At Sydney Regent.
“I Live for Love”
This one, also at the Regent, apart
from the funny stuff of Guy Kibbee and
his team, is mainly a vehicle for the
Rosamond Pinchot as the Queen of
France in “The Three Musketeers
voice of Everett Marshall. The voice is
all right, but it is accompanied by too
many close-ups of the Marshall mouth,
which, unlike that of Joe E. Brown, is
not- amusing.
“Here’s to Romance”
Given a nice-looking tenor a talkie,
or rather singie, of this type doesn’t need
much plot. Nino Martino, round whom
the scenario is written, has a delivery
of the gusty Caruso sort, and his voice
has been so formidably amplified that
it sounds heavy where it should be as
light as gossamer. He is the poor
student “taken up” by a rich American
lady as a counterblast to her husband’s
patronage of various pretty young
students of dancing. Nino, of course, loves
one of the husband's protegees, and,
inspired by a fierce independence, sacri-
fices his career rather than increase his
indebtedness to his patroness, whose in-
terest has become more than platonic.
He sinks lower and lower, and comes to
rest in a New York “5 and 10” store,
where lie tries over songs for customers,
his voice issuing from an amplifier in
the street, ft is heard by a cfireclor of
the Metropolitan Opera House, and the
rest is happiness. Martino is very self-
consciously beautiful, and sings with a
smirk. Of more musical interest is the
appearance of Schumann-Heink, who
sings Schubert’s “Wiegenlied” very beauti-
fully. Genevieve Tobin and Anita Louise
are the pretty ladies of the piece, and
Reginald Denny represents the philan-
dering husband. At Sydney Plaza.
“She Gets Her Man”
Also at the Plaza. Zasu Pitts is half
the staff in a small-town restaurant, en-
gaged to the proprietor (Lucien Little-
field). Entering a bank which is being
robbed by gunmen, she swoons —and
falls on a push-button which sets alarms
ringing and releases billows of tear-gas.
An impresario (Hugh O’Connell) puts
her on the lecture stage as “The Bravest
Woman in America.” She recites a care-
fully-memorised oration calling on the
mothers of the nation to arise and crush
crime, and women’s clubs named after
her are formed everywhere she goes.
Captured by gangsters she says her piece
and induces them all to surrender at
the nearest police depot. O’Connell’s
whirlwind energy and Zasu's agonised
expression are the best assets of a not
very bright comedy. Helen Twelvetrees
has a colorless part.
“The Murder of Dr. Harrigan”
Ricardo Cortez is a hospital interne
and Ray Linakcr and Mary Aster are
nurses in this thriller, the setting of which
is hospital wards and a city morgue. As
several of the nurses look very much
alike in uniform, as the plot is excep-
tionally complicated, and as some im-
portant parts of the action are conducted
in semi-darkness, it is difficult to follow
the proceedings, and this critic had to
give it up as a hopeless job. The patiems
include a dipsomaniac who after a fort-
night in residence is still completely
blotto, and a mentally deranged person
who calls for his “mummie” when upset.
Eventually the crime is brought home by
the resourceful Cortez to a fellow-interne,
but it takes an awful long time to explain
matters, and the explanation isn’t in the
least convincing. At Sydney Capitol.
“Bad Boy”
In this slow-moving and rather depress-
ing attempt to present a New York
lower-class love idyll James Dunn is a
pool-room habitutS, living by his clever-
ness with the cue. He meets beautiful
Dorothy Wilson, marries her secretly be-
cause of her parents’ opposition, and then
sets out to find honest work. His saddest
of many sad experiences is his ddbut as
a radio crooner. Eventually he distin-
guishes himself in a gunfight with some
Public Enemies, gets on the front pages
of the tabloids, and is rewarded with a
steady job as a pool-table salesman.
Dunn and Miss Wilson do their best with
the material, but it’s poor stuff. Also
at the Capitol.
“The Healer”
Robert Herrick’s novel talkied. Dr.
Holden, locally called The Healer (Ralph
Bellamy), is assisted by his nurse Evelyn
(Karen Morley), who silently loves him,
in the cure of crippled children at his
own hospital in the Canadian back-
woods. Joan Bradshaw (Judith Allen),
visitor to the district, falls from her
horse, and Holden successfully operates.
On recovery she persuades him to take
charge of a fashionable sanitarium which
she inveigles her wealthy father into
building. In a disastrous forest fire—
done with remarkable realism —he real-
ises at last his mistake, abandoning the
Walter Abel as D’Artagnan.
sanitarium and saving his own hospital
and Evelyn, who has remained in charge.
Bellamy is well cast, Miss Morley brings
intelligence to her role, and Miss Allen
is beautiful but catty as the rich goil.
Mickey Rooney as a crippled-boy uses
his incredibly deep voice and whimsical
grin to good effect. A word of praise
is due to J. Farrell McDonald as a philo-
sophical handyman. Good light enter-
tainment. At Sydney Lyceum.
“The Right Age to Marry"
Also at Sydney Lyceum. At 50 Lomas
Ramsden, a rich Lancashire mill-owner,
decides to retire and live a life of ease at
fashionable Hove. He falls into the
hands of a gold-digging widow, who pro-
Paul Lukas us Athos.
ceeds to mulct him of his pelf and splash
it among her snobbish friends. His
nephew, whom he has left to run the
mill, forgets to pay the fire premium, and
half the mill is burned down. Ramsden
sees the folly of his ways, and, glad to
get back into harness again, takes over
the factory once more. Incidentally, his
eyes are at last opened to the sincere
affection of his faithful housekeeper. An
unusual note is struck by the principals
all speaking Lancashire dialect; surpris-
ingly, the accent doesn’t pall. There is
some excellent humor. Frank Pettingell
is convincing as Lomas. Joyce Bland
is a bit wooden as the housekeeper.
“Man on the Flying Trapeze"
In his leisurely, thoroughgoing way
W. C. Fields gives a complete picture of
Ambrose Wolfinger, a Babbittish person
whose lot in life is to be oppressed, and
whose little subterfuges to escape oppres-
sion recoil on his head with venomous
inevitability. Oppressors-in-chief are his
wife (second), his mother-in-law, his em-
ployer and the police, who are for ever
harrying him for small offences. His
daughter by his first wife is his only
friend and comforter. Mary Brian plays
this part sympathetically. Though the
whole structure of the piece is comic
and fantastic it derives from Greek
tragedy. Casting is excellent throughout.
Minor parts such as patrolmen, traffic
cops and truck-drivers are represented to
the life. The mother-in-law (Vera Lewis)
recalls in some aspects Sybil Thorndike’s
Medea. Office people are natural and
convincing. After all his vicissitudes
Wolfinger comes out on top in some
miraculous fashion. At Sydney Prince
Edward.
“Smart Girl"
The yarn about the dud oilfield, shares
in which were sold copiously by go-
getters, and which eventually turned out
to be an immensely valuable property,
provides most of the skeleton of this
society drama. Kent Taylor is a young
bond salesman married to Gail Patrick.
His wife elopes with his employer, leav-
ing him to face a Federal prosecution
for selling worthless stock. Comes to
the rescue Joseph Cawthorn, an eccen-
tric manufacturer of ladies’ hats, who
has in his employ Ida Lupino, predestined
to be the bond salesman’s second bride.
Staleness of plot is atoned for by bright
acting. Cawthorn, representing an alien
who has difficulties with the American
tongue, emits a flood of Spoonerisms and
plays his part with tremendous vigor.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS in refined vege-
table PRODUCT AND PROCESS OF
MAKING SAME.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
5489/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting of
a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Designer and holder of Provisional Patent
Specifications of an improved simple Filtering
device for the rapid filtration of Sludges, Cyanide
Pulps, partial drying of Flotation Concen-
trates, etc., wishes to dispose of same. Apply
to V. T. O’Connell, Metallurgist, Cargo,
N.S.W.
% NEW POWER
m the.
MOTION PICTURE INDUJTRY
the screen will indeed be
/ enriched by this unforget-
/ table £150.000 picturisation
/ of the most glorious of all
musical comedy romances!
w
B*l*P
PRESENT
o
*
o'*
\\\v\ng
©
TVC®
l»
o m a
//
?
at'
ettt s
W er
◄
S \C»
\au?
rat*
lb
m
/y ,„4
◄
NO*
◄
m
%
kS
<
K
I
◄
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
7>
m
y//
WORLD fmnDRRD PRODUCTIONS
Taylor is a new type of hero, and the
ladies in the cast are clever actresses.
Also at Sydney Prince Edward.
Some First Nights
In “I Lived with You,” produced at
Melb. Comedy by the Gregan McMahon
Players, Ivor Novello takes a young Rus-
sian prince and tosses him as a refugee
from the Reds into a stodgy London
suburban household, there to play old
Harry with everything by reason of his
self-sacrificing good nature and his in-
ability to understand conventional British
morality. “That is my mother,” he ex-
plains, describing a photograph. “That
is my mother’s husband and that is my
father—he was my mother’s lover.” He
is just as incapable of understanding
why they should be shocked as he is that
they should be grateful because he dis-
posed of some diamonds to enable the
family to have a good time. But he is
not all simplicity; by pretending to fall
for a blackmailing vamp, he lures her
to sign a paper which releases his host
from her clutches, and the final curtain
leaves him in’ the arms of a daughter of
the house. Production was up to the
best McMahon standard, and the acting
was, on the whole, adequate. Outstand-
ing was Lloyd Lamble as the prince, and
H. N. Gregory gave a good character
“Thoughts,” by Betty Paterson, from her show at Mar-
garet McLean’s gallery, Melbourne.
study of a respectable householder gone
astray. Phoebe Marks as the house-
holder’s wife, Effie Edwards as a poor re-
lation and Betty Diamond and Joan
Burke as the daughters were well cast.
•J*
No diminution in the popularity of
“The Desert Song” was discernible when
the tuneful piece was revived at Melb.
His Majesty’s. Sidney Burchall and
Marie Bremner appeared in the principal
part; Bluett played the “society” corre-
spondent ; Hilton Porter was Paul Fon-
taine and Cecil Kellaway General Bira-
beau. The choruses and ballets were
both excellent, and the- orchestra could
not be faulted.
+ •J’ + 4*
Concertos for the ’cello are rare, not-
withstanding that in the estimation of
many musicians the instrument stands
higher than the violin as a medium of
emotional expression. Elgar’s work in
E minor, played by Gladstone Bell and
the Con. orchestra at Sydney Con. Hall
last week, was performed in a manner
that revived respect and admiration both
for the composer and the big fiddle for
which he wrote. The originality, rich
harmonisation and mastery of form that
characterise Elgar’s finest work are well
exemplified in this composition. An-
other British composer, Gustave Holst
(he and Elgar died last year), was repre-
sented by “The Hymn of Jesus,” an
orchestral-choral work of great suavity
which contains some very dignified pas-
sages. In this the orchestra was more
at home than the choir, which seemed
insufficiently rehearsed. Dr. Bainton’s
conducting was, as usual, thoroughly
acceptable.
Current Artbursts
Lionel Lindsay, eldest of the talented
clan, has been roaming in Spain, Italy,
Northern Africa and India, and has gar-
nered a large harvest of water-colors and
etchings that get under the skin of the
scenes represented and interpret atmo-
sphere and light in a convincing and de-
lightful manner. At David Jones’s new
store in Sydney a collection of 120 of
the artist’s recent achievements occupies
a well-lit gallery on the top floor. The
water-colors, though some of them show
strong traces of the influence of the
French impressionists, are all sanely seen.
This critic liked best the Indian draw-
ings—“ Gardens of the Taj Mahal,” “Taj
Mahal, Distant View,” “Village near
Madras” and “The
Palace Courtyard,
Udaipur.” Among
the etchings, all of
remarkably high
quality, the Span-
ish impressions are
notable full of
sunshine. 'ln a
series of five plates
dealing with Aus-
tralian scenes the
artist shows that
he shares the gift
of humor so
strongly evident in
th e black - and-
white work of
brothers Norman
and Percy. But it
is the woodcuts
that constitute the
cream of the show.
The N.S.W. Gal-
lery has acquired
11 of these prints,
and also some of
the water - colors
and etchings.
•J* »
The Julian Ash-
ton Art School,
dislodged from its
eyrie in Queen Vic-
toria Markets, Syd-
ney, has taken its
young eagles to
roost in the Mines
Museum, under the
shadow of the
Harbor Bridge.
A show of pupils’
work in the new studios demon-
strates that there is plenty of talent
coming forward. Water-colors are
most numerous, and in this section
John T. Gray stands out with a land-
scape, “Megalong Valley,” that shows a
pretty taste in color and composition.
A clean, vigorous style is in process of
being attained by R. H. Steuart, whose
harborside studies show great promise.
Bim Hilder follows in his father’s foot-
steps with a couple of landscape sketches
in which color is very nicely handled.
R. V. Hill is another landscapist who
seems to be headed in the right direc-
tion. Shirley Morris Edwards has a flair
for drawing birds, and her study of a
parrakeet is pleasing. Best practitioner
of the new art of making designs with
inlays of colored felt is Mabel Corbett,
who achieves a remarkably good effect.
There’s one etcher, Leonard Beck, whose
“Outside Track” is a very sympathetic-
study of swagmen. A water-color draw-
ing by Alf Clint, “The Spinet,” is well
drafted and harmonious in color, but the
instrument is about twice a’s large as
any on record. In oils the most notable
offerings are those by well-advanced
students. William Dobell leads the way
in nude life studies, and there are meri-
torious portraits by Arthur Freeman and
Joshua Smith. A head in chalk by G.
Kingsley also catches the eye.
Betty Paterson, no stranger to The
Bulletin’s pages, devotes nearly the
whole of her drawings shown at Mar-
garet Maclean’s gallery, Melbourne, to
babies. There are lifelike babies and
whimsical babies, pretty babies and ugly
babies, blank-looking babies and babies
which seem to be weighed down with
the wisdom of the ages. Each and every
one is a real baby, limned by a woman
who loves ’em and just as obviously loves
her art.


>t "I
iH
up"
SS
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
sTS
£3 THE
Wf IDEAL
iX- XMAS
M GIFT
The Perfect Gift.
California (Ihornlatrs
BY POST
WONDERFUL CALIFORNIA
Chocolates;
Made in Australia.
PACKED N REDWOOD BOXES.
PREPAID POSTAGE RATES.
Please remit Postal Notes.
California Chocolate Shop Itb.
NEW ADDRESS:
J 748 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
EYE LOTION
H A
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
ROSE &. Ce, Ltd. Ki nq Si Sydney
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ẅ
English fields and the glories of the Aus-
trian Tyrol are blown about this holiday-
mood china.
In Paddington there is a French
school, open not only for children, by
day, but also at night for young men
and women who are in business, and
who desire to learn the language. It is
just a little school. To help it and the
United French Charities the wife of
acting French Consul-General Meyer is
planning a Christmas sale at Elizabeth
Bay House. Belgian Consul Segaert will
give his unique French version of Punch
and Judy, Santa Claus will have his
gunyah at the foot of a most glittering
Christmas-tree. Exquisite embroideries
will furnish the gift stalls.
Last Saturday the Kamo Maru sailed,
carrying happy Elaine Moffitt, of
Gordon, to Hong Kong and to her wed-
ding to Lionel Le Gay Brereton. The
knot will be tied in St. John’s Cathedral,
Hong Kong, on December 19. Mrs.
Brereton is travelling with Elaine to
give support to her son and his bride.
The Lionel Le Gay Breretons will then
make their home in the city of the
harbor without sharks.
Elaine is the daughter of Herbert
W. Moffitt, “bushman, barrister and
black-and-white artist,” who has con-
tributed many sketches and cartoons to
The Bulletin. Mr. Moffitt and the late
Le Gay Brereton formed a friendship in
early youth that continued unbroken to
the death of the profe.ssor-poet. Now
it is cause of rejoicing in both families
that they are to be linked by matrimony.
Drama Week is now rolling along
through country fertile with the thoughts
of the famed of other lands —many of
the authors are dead, many are hoary.
But on Monday night the Australian
playwright held the boards of the Emer-
son Hall. And the audience was large —
surprisingly so (for is not the gospel that
the public wants only overseas successes
eternally dinned into our ears?) —and
very distinguished. Minister for Education
Drummond sped the week on its season
of laughter and tears. So did A.B.C.
Commissioner Cleary, A.B.C. g.m.
Moses, Alexander Gordon’s lady and
knight Harry Budge and his wife.
The McKelvey lady was there with a
party; so were the C. L. Joneses.
Mrs. Norman Lowe and Mrs. David
Knox represented the north side of the
water. Barrister John Gould, chairman
of the Junior Theatre League, which
sponsored the week, Fay Hornby and
Jeanie Ranken were on the active list of
importants. The youngest of the writers
whose plays were produced was Sumner
Locke Elliott. He is in his very early
teens, so his vehicle was, of course,
tragedy.
The Leslie Board collection of ancient
and modern paintings at Anthony Hor-
derns’ gallery has set every family that
has pictures blackened by age rooting
them out of the storeroom or taking
them down from the wall for a domestic
vetting. Many of the works in the
Board collection are attributed to painters
such as Rubens, Titian and Rembrandt.
If proved genuine any one of them is
liable to fetch its owner a sum that would
have made the Old Master dizzy with
amazement. One portrait of a young
woman is arresting, not only for
the beauty of the line of throat, but for
the head of a spirit babe painted on the
bodice of the mother’s dress.
Apart from Longstaff’s portraits of
Edward Knox, founder of that money-
spinner the C.S.R., and the grace-
ful Mrs. Scantlebury and the Rae-
burnish-looking sixth Earl of Jersey
(Wilkie painted that), the portraits
haven’t Australian interest. But some-
thing that will interest every woman is
the handsome buhl cabinet, said to have
been given by George 11. to one of
his favorites, and thereupon removed by
her from Windsor Castle. Just as well,
with the present cost of cartage, that men
say it with diamonds now, not with suites
of furniture. There’s a cherry-tree in
fruit on the front of another cabinet.
The cherries arc of cornelian, the leaves
of jade or green marble; the jar in
which the tree grows is of lapis lazuli. A
reminder of the ’nineties, when .Sydney
counted as a centre of the drama, is in a
neat note in the ledger-like book in
which Mr. Board kept record of his
treasures. It says that when Sarah Bern-
hardt was in Sydney she wanted to buy
“The Village Dance,” by Pater, and
made-an offer of several hundred guineas.
Joan Collins, a daughter of artist
Albert Collins, is responsible for some
of the drawings in All the Way to Bar-
celona, a book for children, written by
H. S. Blake. The three Collinses, Albert,
Kathleen and Joan, have joined forces
to design the decorations, and the result
is very entertaining. The principal in-
gredients in the story are a small Lap-
lander called Olga, a reindeer, and a
squirrel with a magic nut from Bar-
celona. When Joan isn’t busy with black-
and-white work she paints a good deal.
She and sister Kathleen are keenly in-
terested in stage lighting and effects.
Photo, by Rembrandt.
Colored lights sprayed the dancers in
the Manoora last Thursday night, and in
the bright light that beats upon a throne
Anne Gordon and Claude Healy served
sea food across an oyster-bar. Sadie
Budge and Captain Holford ran an
“eloquent eye” competition by means of a
pashometer which, fastened on the wrist,
registered the voltage of your sex appeal.
The prize for man or woman with most
“it” was a sea trip. A mannequin show
by more or less elegant young men who
wore the fripperies of a recent fashion
parade was a midnight fillip to the fun,
which, truth to tell, had languished in
the beginning of the evening. This was
because the ball started rather late and
hostesses gave dinner-parties beforehand,
so arriving with their guests even later.
The Governor and Lady Hore-
Ruthven were among the late arrivals.
They had been to the Scots Ball in the
Auburn Town Hall. Through the pink
of Lady Hore-Ruthven’s frock ran thin
diagonal stripes of gold thread. A
plumy pink boa waved about her shoul-
ders. The Lieutenant-Governor Streets
were there ; her black laces were made
with long sleeves. Mayoress McElhone
trailed black-and-white chiffons. Mrs.
Wynward, of Adelaide, and Mrs. Fred
Payne, of Melbourne, were with the
Government House party. Captain Pon-
sonby won another decoration for ami-
ability. Mrs. David Knox with her black
crepes wore a coronet of tiny blue
hydrangea-blossom and a wristlet of gar-
denias. The Charlie Lloyd Jones couple
brought a party; her chiffons were flower-
patterned. Helen Drummond came with
her Educational father, and was one of
the belles of the night,- Mary Hordern,
in bronze laces, graceful Mimi Healy,
Norecn Dangar, in green, and Mrs. F.
Bridgman, wife of the manager of the
Adelaide S.S. Co., who lent the
ship in the cause of the kindergartens,
helped to make the night a pleasant one.
Mrs. Ivy Moore, of Mosman, has
received official word from former
French Consul Dussap, now in Paris,
that the Academy has conferred on
her its Academic Palms. This deco-
ration is of silver, its ribbon violet. Mrs.
Moore is a member of the Fellowship
of Australian Writers and of the Society
of Women Writers, and her home in
Mosman is a meeting-place for people
interested in the arts.
Tennis-star Cochet’s wife can speak
English almost as well as her husband
plays tennis. Vivid and dark, the lady
talks quickly and expressively, and seems
to hold that one star in the family is
enough, for she herself plays tennis very
little. Swimming and bathing are her
relaxations, so the two are staying at
the Oceanic Hotel at Coogee. Before
her marriage Madame was an inter-
national hockey player. Acting French
Consul-General Meyers proffered a lunch
of welcome at Romano’s on Friday, and
there was a dinner at Elizabeth Bay
House in the Cochets’ honor at the week-
end.
A regal, or rather vice-regal, flagon of
eau-de-Cologne (it was Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s offering) stood pridefully on a
stall in the Kindergarten Week shop.
This filled the vestibule of the Theatre
Royal with gaudy coat-hangers, milk-jug
covers, powder boxes, blotters and such-
like impedimenta necessary to the home,
or more or less suitable for Christmas
gifts. Lady Hore-Ruthven was one of
the first buyers ; knight Philip Street’s
wife another. Mrs. J. L. Ruthven and
Mrs. Edmund Playfair proved adept
saleswomen, and had a willing crew.
What wasn’t sold by Thursday was
disposed of at auction on Friday
morning.
As though answering the call of the
pibroch, members of the Highland
Society strode, mentally, about the opera
houses of the world under the guidance
of Lute Drummond. The atmosphere of
the Carlton drawing-room was tense with
interest as Lute started, introducing them
to Covent Garden, with Nellie Melba
in “Boheme,” down to Naples to see
“Traviata,” to Rome for “Manon,” to
Paris for “Louise,” to Russia for
“Eugene Onegin.” Constance Pickworth
and Ruth Pierce-Jones illustrated with
soprano arias, Charles Nicis was the
tenor, and Eunice Hurst was the violinist.
If things had happened according to
programme, this Letter would have borne
news of the arrival of Helen Twelvetrees,
of her triumphal entry to the city, and
of a gilt-edged reception. But the lady
with the name like a young plantation
lost —no, not her trunks, but two or three
hours in Maoriland, so the Monterey
didn’t arrive as early as expected. The
civic reception was postponed, but the
star scintillated at the big party for the
kindergartens that packed David Jones’s
on Monday afternoon. The Millions
Club and the Arts Club spread lunches
For her, and to-night she is the luminary
around which revels in the State ball-
room will revolve. Helen’s hair is red
gold. She rides, swims and golfs. Christ-
mas Day is her birthday. Dorothy
Dunkley will be her personal secretary,
and Mimi Healy will bear her company
at most of the public functions.


HNlKimi
■■ iwwm s
8000 EXHIBITORS
From 25 different countries (including Great
Britain) will help YOU to make 1936 a record
trading year. Why not join the 200,000
Trade Buyers from 76 countries and combine
pleasure with business?
Commences MARCH 1
Comprising General Samples, Textiles, Office
Equipment, Furniture, Sports Goods, Engineer-
ing and Building, and Photographic Fairs.
All information, including Barter Arrangements, from:
JARS G BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the
Teipzig Trade Fair; L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser,
Leipzig Trade Fair Bureau, Challis House. Martin Place,
G.P.O. Box No. 3127 P, Sydney. 'Phone: 84006.
C X. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard & Co., 360 Post Office
Place, G.P.O. Box 1658, Melbourne.
11 C. ITTEBSHAGEX, Sheuton Park, West Australia.
CATEWAYnf SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all.
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes' walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
Melbourne
Chatter
The announcement that the judges ot
the best-dressed Henley girl would
favor precision of cut rather than trill s
and flounces did not prevent the
organdie brigade from descending upon
the lawns. The trailing muslins came
in droves, and in startling bursts ot
colors. One girl wore a giddy garment
of latticed organdie pipings 'which,
placed end to end, would have stretched
over Prince’s Bridge and back again.
By some mysterious method the wearer
moulded the strands on to herself so
that she was as snug as a soda-syphon
inside its wire sheath.
Canoes, each filled with cushions, a
girl with a parasol and a swain
with a paddle, drifted up and down
the river; there were races which
no one seemed to watch, swarms of
launches and four houseboats, paper
flowers by daylight and twinkling lights
by night. Knight George Fairbairn
(who was prominent in organising the
first Henley in 1904), with his lady,
received guests on the president’s boat.
On the Lord Mayor’s craft Mr. and
Mrs. Wales had a full passenger list
both afternoon and evening. Among
the visitors were Gengoult Smith and
his lady, who wore deep burgundy, a
shade which suits her beautifully, a halo
hat and a pair of the newest sun-glasses
with mauve rims. Mrs. R. G. Wales
had a flyway bow of navy organdie
upon the neck of her sand-dune suit.
E. J. Gravestock wore cream yachting
trousers, but more exciting were those
belonging to E. A. Callanan, cream with
narrow brown stripes. Mrs. Raymond
Priestley, in beige, was accompanied by
her pale-green-clad daughter Jocelyn.
Cruising also were Cr. and Mrs. Beaure-
paire, she in sky-blue linen, Macpherson
Robertson and his lady, who had seats
amidships, and the mayoral couple 1 rom
Launceston, the Eric von Bibras.
Mrs. Sidney Anderson’s party at the
Wentworth commenced with an hour of
music, after which the folding-doors of
the lounge were opened to disclose long
tables arranged in the form of a pagoda
decorated with pink carnations and the
accompaniment of tea. Mrs. Anderson,
wearing sand-dune lace girdled with nut-
brown velvet, presided at the head of
the top table. Her niece, Lesley Vincent,
released temporarily from first-year med.
exams., was in black with a shiny black
halo hat. General Jess’s lady wore a
threequarter-length black coat over a
floral dress, and Mrs. Jim Monteath’s
black dress was covered with a scrolled
design in white. A bright spot was pro-
vided by Mrs. C. R. Duncan’s scarlet
gauntlets. Mrs. Bennett Perry was in
black with a wide black hat, Mrs. Har-
vard Wilkinson wore brown and a pep-
pering of dots, and Mrs. Hylton allied a
white chiffon tunic to a black skirt.
The Vic. Institute for the Blind uses
a lighthouse to symbolise the help given
to blind people, and on very rare occa-
sions a miniature model of a lighthouse
is presented to an individual in apprecia-
tion of services rendered. As the queen
of primroses Barbara Syme received such
an emblem at the Blind Association’s
dance in the Ormond Hall. Miss Syme,
who wore pale water-lily green taffeta
with primroses pinned upon her shoulder,
made a brief but audible speech ; all the
queens have learnt a spot of oratory
during their campaign. President of the
combined auxiliaries Mrs. J. Frost wore
dusky-pink over which fell a little cape
of ruby velvet. Among the bevy of
youth—some of whom came in a char-
a-banc from Doncaster —J. A. Heyman
was noticeable. His complexion is as
flawless as a lad’s, he danced vigorously
all night, and no one would guess that
he’s had his eightieth birthday.
For the first time in its existence the
Commercial Travellers’ Club entertained
a woman as its guest of honor. She was
Lady Huntingfield, and the reason for
the sanctum sanctorum being opened for
luncheon to feminine guests was the Rose
Day appeal for the Free Kindergartens.
Club president W. R. Julian made a
speech of welcome, and at the end of the
party levied special “fines” upon mem-
bers to augment the funds of the charity.
The vice-president of the Kindergarten
Union, the Spencer lady, proposed a
vote of thanks. The dining-room of the
club was lavishly decorated with hydran-
geas, roses, white St. Joseph lilies and
loads of pink carnations. The men mem-
bers present were so amazed at the trans-
formation that they scarcely recognised
their favorite haunts.
Thirty-four years ago, with 12 pupils
to answer the roll-call, Margaret and
Lilian Irving founded Lauriston, which
to-day is one of Melbourne’s leading
girls’ colleges. The Misses Irving are
retiring from active life, and were fare-
welled by Old Lauristonians at the
Wattle. In their own words, the couple
have educated two generations, and it’s
time for another generation to get a
turn in the role of dominie. The party
also served as a welcome to the school’s
new head, Miss E. Kirkhope, a former
pupil. Kathleen Walter shouldered re-
sponsibilities on behalf of the old girls,
and Mrs. W. H. Tompson represented
the Parents’ Assoc. In the gathering
were Miss E. K. Broadbent, for many
years matron of the school; Margot
Cowan, the Old Lauristonians’ hon. sec.;
Margaret and Gwyneth Fox, Win
Temple Smith, Enid Joske, Valerie Hen-
derson and, in the p///.y-husbands group,
Mr. and Mrs. G. Fethers, Mr. and Mrs.
Wettenhall and Mr. and Mrs. F. Welling-
ton.
Vere Wylie, whose portrait is by
Broothorn, is to, marry (he Dean of
Trinity, L. C. Wilcher, early in Decem-
ber in Trinity College chapel. Miss
Wylie is a graduate, and for 18 months
has been classics mistress at The Abbey,
Reading. Sir Francis and Lady Wylie,
who accompanied their daughter from
England, are the friends of several
hundred Rhodes scholars. Sir Francis
was secretary to the Rhodes Scholarship
Trustees from 1903 to 1931.
What the policemen of Melbourne
think of the general public worked up
to mob hysteria can be expressed only
in deep-sea oaths. The Duke of
Gloucester, C. W. A. Scott and Campbell
Black and the other air-race competitors,
the Grenadier Guards Band and Jean
Batten all had their share of street ap-
plause, but the crowd which struggled
outside the Town Hall on Friday night
was the largest and least intelligent which
has ever stormed the civic fortress. It
waited for hours, it shouted and sang
and did its best to commit suicide and
send the drivers of cars up for man-
slaughter. Finally, after getting a glimpse
of the hood of the car which mowed
a path through seething humanity for
Miss Victoria, it went home with its
Friday-night shopping bundles or else
settled down to wait until after midnight
for another look at the young girl who
has in a few days been turned by a news-
paper into the equivalent of a national
heroine.
Waiting on the stage were the Lord
Mayor, the Lady Mayoress and the seven
carnival queens. Gallery seats were sold
to onlookers, who hung over the railing
and clapped Miss Gamble whenever she
came near, and Miss Titus, who is treated
as a sort of semi-demi-royalty. Supper
was served, official and sitting down, up-
stairs, and standing up and continuous
buffet downstairs. Smoking was general
in the main hall. Profits went through
the Queen Carnival to the Lord Mayor’s
fund.
Biddy Tallis and Keith Carnegie, who
became engaged a few weeks ago, entered
into a conspiracy with the Rev. Gason,
so that only a mere handful of people
knew that the padre had an early-morn-
ing engagement to keep at the little
church of St. Peter’s at Mornington. No
’maids were present to assist with the
bridal glove, which went with a tamarisk-
pink ensemble, fox furs and a cocoa-
brown hat. The ’groom, who was
attended by Dr. R. Crisp, is the elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. J. Lewis Carnegie.
Afterwards knight George Tallis enter-
tained a few intimate friends and rela-
tives in the country house setting of
Beleura.
Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Wilson saw their
younger daughter Mollie become Mis.
David Elder in the Toorak kirk. The
bride's ivory satin gown was made with
the wide bateau neckline which is so
charming around a youthful neck and
shoulders. The tulle veil was worn over
the face, and the bridal flowers were a
sheaf and trail of elegant white St.
Joseph lilies, which are the very breath
of the Christmas season. Three all-
white 'maids attended in ninon frocks,
wide-brimmed tulle hats and carried
white lacquered baskets filled with white
roses. The ’groom is the eldest son ol
the late M. B. Elder and Mrs. Elder, of
Wentworth Falls (N.S.W.). Mrs. Elder
and her daughter Mary, who came to
Melbourne for the wedding, have con-
tinued their journey to Adelaide, where
they expect to remain for a few weeks.
A bride from Gippsland who was
claimed at Scots Church by Geoffrey,
only son of Lennon Raws and his lady,
was Jean, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. C. Macmillan. A feature of the
all-white bridal attire was a Juliet cap
of latticed seed-pearls which prevented
the featherweight veil of tulle from float-
ing away in a misty cloud. Afterwards,
at the invitation of the bride’s parents,
friends and relations gravitated towards
Menzies.
Herewith Eve Ray pictures Eve
Wynne, one of the most versatile of
the Gregan McMahon Players. Miss
Wynne’s part in last week’s season of
Ivor Novello’s “I Lived with You” was
as hardboiled as was the character
allotted to her in “Sheppey.” In “The
Simpleton of the Unexpected Isles” she
was (he strong-minded priestess Prola.
For the four nights’ season of “I
Lived with You,” Lloyd Lamble dyed
his hair an inky, shiny and matinee-
idolish black. As Felix, an indolent
Russian prince, Mr. Lamble has to do
unnatural things like twining himself
over a table to carry on a conversation,
jumping about on a sofa with his legs
tucked under him, lying flat on his chest
to nibble chocolates (a revolting way to
treat ’em), and wearing sandals, bare
toes and vivid green tunics with lounge
suits. Details deserving a word were
the voluminous white sleeves in the
shapeless black garment worn by Eileen
Watt in the part of Mrs. Freemantle;
the effect of vodka upon the virginal
nitwit Miss Breeze (Phyllis Bones), the
prominent red ears of overgrown
schoolboy brother Robert Rowbotham,
and Joan Eeles, with her head jutting
forward like a lizard, as Maggie, a
parlormaid.
There was a packed house on the open-
ing night. Noel Boyd was there, blonde
and beautiful, with Russell Gourlay.
Marie Balfour came along like an Indian
widow in a black sari, and John Parry s
head was seen in the stalls. Ruth I im-
mins added a cream lace tunic to a black
skirt, Maisie Middleton was in pink, and
Mrs. Le Mairc carried cocoa foxes upon
her shoulders.
There are lots of things which we
calmly take for granted and never think
about unless something goes wrong with
(hem. Water, for instance —we remem-
ber the stuff when there is some pipe-
cleaning going on and the fluid that
comes out of the tap is full of rust; gas
—when the pressure is too weak to cook
(he dinner; electric light—when a tuse
goes pop. At eight o’clock one night last
week an oil-switch explosion plunged
Melbourne and some of the suburbs into
darkness. Girls getting dressed for dances
lost their tempers trying to make up by
candlelight, and men lost their collar-
studs and knocked their shins trying to
recover them on the floor. But those
things were trifles compared with hospital
handicaps. At the Women’s two babies
came along to the flicker of candles; at
the Alfred a surgeon completed a suc-
cessful major operation with the aid of
torches; the Children’s was lit by hurri-
cane lanterns, and the Queen Vic. by gas
jets. Candidates who liked the paper set
for the Federal Institute of Accountants’
exam, are disconsolate about the black-
out, but those who hadn’t enjoyed the
questions gave three war-whoops for the
defective switch, for the paper had to
be cancelled. At the Tech. Coll. exam,
candidates left their papers and went
dancing in the basement.
Prof. Fraenkel, who occupies the chair
of gynaecology and obstetrics at Breslau
University, is in Melbourne on a world-
tour. Mrs. Fraenkel, who accompanies
her bearded husband, is a Viennese and
an accomplished linguist. As a girl she
studied arts.
Incoming ships are crowded with
homing birds getting out of the cold
Northern Hemisphere before winter
closes its icy grip. Mrs. James Russell
and her daughter Anne are once again
breathing the gumtree-scented air of
their home at Ringwood. The Andrew
McHargs have returned to Melbourne,
and so has Mrs. E. P. Bevan, who is un-
packing at Cliveden. Only after her
arrival in Australia did she hear that her
son-in-law had been returned as member
for Gloucester. Mrs. Leslie Boyce seems
to be the ideal wife for a politician. She
canvasses hard, and, as she took a course
of public speaking, mounting the plat-
form is all in her day’s work.
Bettine Fisken, who was the first
person in Melbourne to adorn her beret
with criss-crossed knitting needles, has re-
turned from her holiday abroad with
some news of the latest fashions —braid
on suits, frogs in the military manner,
violent color contrasts and hoods on
capes and coats are to be features.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1126 of 1935.
BETWEEN ROSA LAURA SWEBECK Peti-
tioner
And JOHN WILLIAM SWEBECK
Respondent.
TO JOHN WILLIAM SWEBECK late of
Raymond Terrace via Hexham in the
State of New South Wales and late of 93
Cambridge Street Stanmore near Sydney
in the said State.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ROSA
LAURA SWEBECK has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of wilful desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-first day of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in the
event of you not doing so in the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
uetitioner filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ABRAM LANDA & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 148 Phillip Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1738 of 1935.
BETWEEN FRANK REGINALD COX
Petitioner
And GEORGINA EVELYN COX
Respondent.
TO GEORGINA EVELYN COX of Vulture
Street South Brisbane.
TAKE NOTICE that FRANK REGINALD
COX has commenced a suit against you in this
Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to this suit in the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
first day of February One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this Twenty-fifth day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
VIVIAN PENDER PHILLOTT.—Last heard
of about nine (9) years ago in Queensland
working for an Indian horsebuyer; before that
in 1923 at “Colane,” Winton, Queensland.
The above is requested to communicate with
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED, of
395 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, when
he will hear of something to his advantage.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts or whether
he is dead is requested to communicate with
the above company.
Re Trust for Sadie Muriel Bruce.
WILL SADIE MURIEL BRUCE, a daughter
of James Bruce, of Holbrook and Surry Hills,
or any person knowing her whereabouts,
please communicate with the Public Trustee,
St. James Building, 107 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney. Miss Bruce was last heard of at Potts
Point, Sydney, about 1929, when she was
employed as a nurse.
UNCLAIMED MONEY-MISSING HEIRS
NEXT-OF-KIN.
BROWN. —Louisa Alice Brown (Edna), of
Toowoomba, 1916.
BUCKBY. —Arthur Grey Hesilrige Buckby,
born 1885. ,
COALBRAN (or COLBRAN).—William
Coalbran (or Colbran), believed born in
Hastings, England, in 1845.
DIXON. —Joseph Henry Tyson Dixon, born
in 1857.
EVERETT.—Ebenezer Everett, formerly of
Geelong West.
KENNEDY. —Alfred Lindsay Kennedy, of
Junee, N.S.W., 1933.
KING. —Thomas King, formerly of Ardlona,
Killaraght, County Sligo, Ireland.
KENNEY.—Mrs Elizabeth Frances Kenny,
born about 1870.
KIRKWOOD-REID. —Janet Kirkwood (nee
Reid), born in Kilwinning, Scotland,
about 1830.
KAVANAGH. —Patrick Arthur Kavanagh,
born at New Ross, County of Wexford,
Ireland, about 1850.
JONES. —Charles or John Jones; went to
Bendigo, Victoria, about 1860; sons of
John and Henrietta Jones.
JONES. —Herbert Archibald Jones, formerly
of 40 Holmes-road, Moonee Ponds, Vic-
toria.
LOWANCE. —Henry Lowance, brother of
Richard Lowance, deceased.
McNICOL. —Daniel McNicol, formerly of
America.
PATISON.—John Patison; arrived in Aus-
tralia between 1840-50. He had a sister
Christiana.
ROUTES. —Vera Johanna, daughter of
Thomas Rootes.
RENDALL.—Magnus Rendall and James
Strong Arcus Rendall.
SCHUMACHER. —Walter Schumacher (Fen-
nell), late of Kuitpo, S.A.
TOBIN. —Denis Tobin, formerly of Co.
Kerry, Ireland.
VAUGHAN. —Edward Charles, son of
Stephen Vaughan.
The abovenamed persons or their descendants,
write Mr. Telfer, 16 Pirie-street, Adelaide,
immediately,
mim
srdiui\ ddiman
s
“Tea steadies
and invigorates”
says Mr. Stan McCabe
“EVERYONE who plays cricket or
"any other sport knows the strain
of playing and remaining alert and
watchful for critical moments. You for-
get all about it in the excitement of the
game, but when the interval comes,
one is always ready for a good cup of
tea. It bucks you up and renews your
energy.
"Some people, I know, prefer Iced Tea
when they need a thirst quencher, and
this should become a very popular
drink this Summer."
Interesting ways of making Iced
Tea will be found in a new
FREE RECIPE BOOK
Write to the Tea Market Expansion
Bureau, Kyle House, Macquarie
Place, Sydney, enclosing one penny
stamp to cover postage.
tlot Of
v Ice«f
(Q\
%!\
-■
_J/7
-T '1
V
1 !
/
V
m m
mm
TS2H.
w
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Members of the Women's Economic
Council, with Mrs. E. B. Sinclair’s floral-
pink phantom crepes in the presidential
chair, purred their approval of the roll-
up at the Peter Pan Ball held in the Dun-
troon. Colored lights, flags and bunt-
ing adorned the decks, flowers in bowls,
glass cases and ice were massed in the
lounge, and in the dining-room mural
decorations illustrated the story of
Barrie’s immortal boy. Captain Lloyd,
Mr. and Mrs. Munro (the belt of her
maize matelasse bore a brilliant buckle)
and the E. B. Sinclairs were on deck for
the arrival of the v.-r. party and other
guests. Maisie Collier’s pink confection
gleamed with silver lame; Vyvyan Guy
flung a scarlet velvet cape over creamy
flat crepe ; Pat Sadlier’s aquamarine moss
crepe glittered with silver sequins, and
Peggy Gollan piled tiers of silk net over
black taffeta.
Christ Church, Claremont, was fra-
grant with the scent of pink and white
roses and Christmas-lilies when the Rev.
John Bell forged the matrimonial link
between the J. M. Cliftons’ younger
daughter Ruth and Langlois D’Arcy, of
Lyndon station, Carnarvon. The bride’s
soft-pink blistered crepe glistened with
silver threads to within a foot of the
ground ; the full, slit sleeves were caught
into tight-fitting cuffs, the inverted V of
the front panel was held in place by three
glittering ornaments, and the whole was
surmounted by a two-foot wheel of pink
straw on which bloomed a single rose.
Mrs. Charles Merry did matron-of-honor
duties in porridge cellophane crepe,
shirred and cowled, topped with a brown-
crowned matching hat and shielded with
a sheaf of gold roses.
Recent brides at Christ Church, Clare-
mont, have eschewed traditional white
and flowing veils. The G. C. Roses’
third daughter Grace wore pale-pink
cloque georgette and a powder-blue hat
for her marriage to William Henwood,
with sister Thelma ’maiding in trim blue
linen. Margaret, only daughter of Lieut.-
Col. Cotton, R.A.M.C., and Mrs. Cotton,
whose marriage to Staunton Monger
took place in the same church, was an
all-blue bride in sheer crepe, picture hat
and sheaf of delphiniums.
Dr. E. M. Stang, officer in charge of
the Infant Health and Child Welfare
departments, was given a valedictory tea
at the Palace Hofei by nursing sisters,
on whose behalf Sister Cole presented her
with a terra-cotta marble-and-silver
writing-stand. Dr. Stang leaves in the
Norwegian ship Tarn for England, first
stopping place on a lengthy tour of in-
spection.
The Pleiades Club wound up the musi-
cal side of its season with a well-balanced
programme given in the club hall. Joy
Fordham read a paper on “The Life and
Works of Brahms,” which she illustrated
by duets with Mrs. Rogers, songs by
Doris Horrigan and violin solos by Miss
E. Shotter. Items by Joyce Glasson,
Sheila Slattery and Mrs. Fells completed
the entertainment.
The Angus Campbells, of Billabalong
station, Mullewa, have promised to give
cider daughter Jean Mary into the safe
keeping of James, son of the late Dr. E.
A. Officer and Mrs. Officer.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At Cheltenham races Dr. A. V, Benson's
wife looked well in honey-toned wool
marocain made with cape effect, showing
a vest of while-and-amber taffeta ; she
wore a stone-marten fur. Mrs. A. C.
Cutten wore with her black marocain
ensemble a black straw hat with a touch
of white. .The Moulden lady’s beige-
toned linen suit went with a wide-
brimmed black hat. Mrs. S. J. Jacobs
sported a black-and-white ostrich-feather
boa with her black silk costume, and her
hat also was a black straw. Mrs. F. A.
Tennant chose an ensemble of biscuit
georgette and lace in the same tone;
a band of fox fur in the same shade
edged the cape sleeves. Her wide-
brimmed hat of black stitched taffeta was
lined with biscuit georgette.
Scarcely a woman racegoer who hadn’t
to chase her hat. Straw or felt, hats sailed
away just the same. The problem of
effectively tethering wide brims has yet
to be solved.
Mrs. Lionel Hayward and her daugh-
ter Marjorie, after having spent some
months in England, are returning to
Adelaide via America.
Mrs. Jefferson Walker returned to
Adelaide recently, and is the guest of
her mother, Mrs. A. S. Cheadle, at
Walkerville. Mrs. Walker, who left Aus-
tralia last January, visited England and
also Malta, where her husband was
stationed. He left in H.M.A.S. Australia.
Decorations for the Uni. swimming
club’s dance in the refectory were
strictly aquatic, fishes, lifebelts, buckets
and spades and stuffed figures in bath-
ing-costumes of early-Victorian style being
distributed round the walls. President
R. R. P. Barbour and his wife received
the guests, Mrs. Barbour in a period
frock of Wedgwood-blue taffeta with
wide, flat collar and cuffs of silver lame
at the elbow.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Sharrad, of Pros-
pect, celebrated their golden wedding at
Yankalilla, where both were scholars at
the Christ Church day school. The party
was held in Mrs. Sharrad’s old home,
now occupied by her sister, Clara Roads.
At a meeting of the recently-formed
Cabra branch of the Dominican Old
Scholars’ Assoc., Biddy Cummins, who
spent five years travelling on the Con-
tinent, gave a travel talk. In Belgium
Miss Cummins was the guest of the
Comptesse de Hemptinne, mother of
Mile. Christine de Hemptinne, inter-
national president of the J.C.L., who will
visit Adelaide next year during the cen-
tenary celebrations.
TASMANIA.
Presbyterians commemorated their
church's centenary in the Speck by,
among other things, a garden party in the
Royal Park, Launceston. Notabilities
present were the Rev. Dr. John White
(Commissioner from the United Church
of Scotland) and Mrs. White, the Right
Rev. W. Huey Steele (Vic.) and Mrs.
Steele, and Moderator McQueen (Tas.)
and Mrs. McQueen. Tea was served under
the trees to the skirling of pipes. A
pageant featuring Charles ll.’s promise
to uphold Presbyterianism was staged in
the Albert Hall in the evening.
Wet weather made tennis literally a
washout at Miss Leake’s welcome-
home party for Mrs. Roy O’Connor at
The Grange, Campbell Town. Other-
wise the party was a cheery affair,
though all indoors. The hostess was in
a beige turnout, and her niece, Dorothy
Foster, who helped her entertain, wore
green. Guests included people from both
Hobart and Launceston.
When Enid Brownell became Mrs.
Quentin McDougall at St. Stephen’s,
Sandy Bay, her dress of heavy rose-pat
terned lace, in deep cream over magnolia
satin, was cut on tailored lines, with long
train. The veil of magnolia tulle was
finished round the head with flat tulle
and diamente roses edged with silver.
Kathleen Loney and Margaret Rex
’maided in apple-green French moss
crepe with long, pleated skirts. Crown-
less hats with turned-back brims made
of the same material as the frocks were
novel and effective. Guests were received
at El Mirasol, the bride]s mother’s charm-
ing home, where the big hall was ablaze
with flowers.
Betty Giblin was one of the many
young hostesses to give parties in honor
of Helen Gray before her wedding with
Geoffry Clerk. Others were Lilia Clive
and her sister Joan, Mrs. Alec McGregor
and Mrs, C. N. Atkins, Sybil Lyons and
R. M. Clarke.
Mrs. Spencer Brownell’s farewell enter-
tainment to daughter Enid before her
linking-up with Quentin McDougall took
the form of a dance at El Mirasol, Sandy
Bay. The hostess looked dignified in
black lace, and Enid’s dress of reversible
green and tawny satin with cape sleeves
was most effective.
The Bush Nursing Association raised
£2OO to help outback settlers by its
Queen Carnival, which necessitated a lot
of work, willingly done. The coronation
ceremony took place at the Town Hall,
the Ouse queen being crowned by
the Lady Mayoress in the midst of all
the other little competitors.
Barbara Ellis, Battery Point, and Noe!
Davis, Sandy Bay, announce their en-
gagement.


BY
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
Representatives: McFHERSONS FTV. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth —• E.S.C.A., Brisbane
cwr-ZOui-P*
Sr
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
December Issue, on sale next Saturday, discusses—
THE SEARCH FOR GOOD YIELDS.
TRADE BALANCE AND SHARE PRICES.
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITIES.
BASE METALS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2J6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
55
<:•
%
*
m
Runs Li£htin£ .seven-valve Radio
Elec. Iron for Fb week
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH. —Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSON 6, DUTTON PTY LTD
VALLEY BRISBANE •
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Nowadays one
doesn’t hear so much from those melan-
choly pessimists who were wont to de-
clare that Queensland was unfit for the
white race on account of its Awful Cli-
mate. A little more than a century ago
a navy surgeon wrote exactly the same
thing about Sydney, with the same de-
nunciation of the climatic effects which
wore women out at 30 and caused their
children to grow up lank and de-
generate, and the same prediction that
the race would die out within three
generations. Now a Queensland mother,
herself Queensland-born, has contributed
her 18th child towards rounding off a
family life of 22 years—l 7 are living.
Except for one boy who was stricken
with infantile paralysis, none of them
has ever had any serious illness, and
their mother has not a grey hair in her
head. The father bears up well, and
expresses the view that there is no finer
sight than a healthy, happy family.
Australia needs more Thomas Lawrence
families —lots more.
* * * ♦
“Moongan”: There is one man in
Central Queensland who is a firm
believer in luck —especially bad luck. As
he admitted to the police after the event,
he had a few drinks before he wandered
into a house which was not his own.
There are a lot of houses in Rock-
hampton, but he chose one inhabited
by a pugilist—and there are not many
pugs camped along the Fitzroy. When
he recovered from the shock, after try-
ing to leave hurriedly, he had a broken
rib and a few other injuries so grave
that the Crown felt bound to prosecute
the pugilist. But he got off without
calling evidence for the defence.
5k * * *
“X.T.”; Reg Murray, of Yarrum, near
Burketown, for 12 years chairman of the
Burke Shire Council, has been waxing
indignant about the way his native Gulf
country is neglected. He says—accurately
—that there are tens of thousands of
acres of Mitchell and Flinders country
there which could be opened under
proper conditions. He himself has
7000 sheep, which cut an average of 71b.
of wool last season. Isolation and
freights from Brisbane of £6 per ton —
plus lighterage—make the cost of living
beyond all reason. There is artesian
water and a better river supply than in
most of the s.-e. of Australia, where
populations are big, but Carpentaria
still continues to carry only one white
man to 1000 sq. miles. The Gulf is a
different proposition from the Territory
—something is radically wrong with the
colonising method we have applied to it.
*£* * ■
“Sambio”; 1 used to wonder for years
atter I left the North whether sub-tropic
and tropic fruit would taste as good if
it could be delivered in Sydney fresh off
the tree. The other day a friend at
Buderim (Q.) settled it by railing me a
mixed case of delectability by express.
It reached Sydney as quickly as his
letter advising its dispatch. And it made
“prime, fresh fruit” which we buy
here out of baskets and over counters
taste like newspaper boiled with sugar.
If Mr. Hartigan and Mr. Davidson in
their search for projects to make the
railways pay were to do a little judicious
advertising and work up enough traffic
for a fruit express it should be payable.
Orders could be taken by the railway
and delivered by ’phone to grower, and
the fruit could be in Sydney homes
within 30 hours after picking. There
is plenty of variety—from the one Black-
all Range-Buderim district, north of
Brisbane, oranges, pines, passion-fruit
and several varieties of bananas are
available, including the delicious ladies’
finger, which Sydney never sees. And,
in the stone-fruit season, a train could
run from Stanthorpe on the Q.-N.S.W.
border. The only difficulty is that this
fruit would have to come from one State
to another, and railway departments
would rather see the parish pump go dry
than develop the markets of another
State.
* * * , *
“Vic”; The only two cats I know
which draw a wage are a couple in
Thursday Island, where B.P. provides
their weekly stipend in cat's-meat. Time
was when the wharf ratting was done
free of charge by a couple of large
carpel-snakes which slept in the rafters
“ Don't take any notice of her, Hector. She Was too good for US before
the spring came."
by day and chased rodents by night.
They were so effective that the field of
operations 'became too sparse for high-
power hunting, so the cats were engaged.
Where the original operators have gone,
no man knoweth. But if they are the
dyed-in-the-scale “Thirstians” which
they appeared to be, they will turn up
one day —most likely under some pledge-
breaker’s bed in one of the island’s
several pubs.
♦ * « *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: There is a fine
old-style, no-dam’-nonsense military
touch about the clerical gentleman who
deputy-directs postal affairs in Queens-
land. A Somerset, member of a pioneer
family and a relative of the Duke of
Beaufort, was for many years an M.L.A.
bitterly opposed to Labor, so it was a
nice gesture which inspired the Gov-
ernment to give his name to the Stanley
River dam site. Mr. Corbett, the post-
man, however, said that they mustn’t,
since there already was a town in Tas-
mania called Somerset. His office at the
Stanley Dam would be called Stanley
Dam, and if letters were addressed
Somerset they would be sent to Somer-
set in Tasmania. If addressed Somerset,
Queensland, he admitted handsomely,
they would not be sent to Tasmania. But,
there would be no obligation on the de-
partment to send them to Stanley Dam.
As an admirer of this fine old dam’-your-
eyes official attitude, I would suggest to
Mr. Corbett that he go into reverse for
half a century further, and send the
blightah’s lettahs to Somerset, Cape York,
which (he Jardines founded and which
still exists as an attenuated settlement.
* * * *
“Vic” on a North Australian township;
Granny “Herald” and other enemies have
no doubt rejoiced at the report from Darwin
that a “wedding is to take place shortly be-
tween a well-known member of the Com-
munist party and a Rumjungle district girl.”
In the breasts of leader-writers there may
arise thoughts of the fate which awaits
Communists lured by the dissipation in a
district with such a name. But, alas! there is
no rum in Rumjungle. I doubt if there is
even a bottle. I spent a night there, many
years ago, trying to find a Chinaman who
had discovered a tinmine. There was a
thunderstorm, but there was no Chinaman. It
rained, and the lightning flashed continuously.
Then the ram stopped, and the mosquitoes
came out in millions. They raised so many
lumps on me that when the morning sun rose
and the flies arrived they fell off the emi-
nences on my face, on which they tried to
perch in dozens. Sitting down to try to
brush off the flies, we discovered that there
were ants in Rumjungle. And, leaving them,
we found the Chinaman. He had no teeth,
but a wonderful swallow, and when he had
imbibed our medicine chest we discovered that
hq had no tin either. That night, as I steered
our car over the bumps into Brock’s Creek, a
weary companion murmured philosophically;
“Well, we didn’t get much out of Rumjungle,
did we?” But I had my doubts, owing to
peculiar sensations on the left shinbone. They
were resolved a few minutes later when I
left the car with a yell—the sensation-monger
was a lOin. centipede which I had picked up
while talking to the Chinaman.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
It has been a cultured week. Reper-
tory put on “The Late Christopher
Bean,” with Barbara Sisley as producer.
On the second night all the Arts and
Grafters and their other halves were in
the audience, and their applause was
vigorous. Rhoda Felgate and Ludo
Gordon, as Gwenny and the Doctor,
eclipsed their own records. The general
opinion is that it was the best-produced
and best-acted Repertory show to date.
All Hallows’ Orchestra, with Berenice
Montgomery as conductor, supplied the
incidental music when Una Vowles
staged “The Patsy” in aid of the funds
of the Mater Hospital. Una was the
Patsy herself, and a very nice one, too.
The Creche and Kindergarten Asso-
ciation is having one large combined
party for all (he centres this year in the
City Hall. This will allow visitors to
see the kiddies at work and play and
to admire the six large Christmas-trees
which will blaze and blossom in the hall.
Lady Mayoress Jones did a very grace-
ful thing when she arranged a tea-party
at which the press sisters of Brisbane
are to be the guests, and she herself,
assisted by the wives of the aldermen,
the hostess. The party is to be held on
Thursday, December 5, and the Inky-
wayfarers to a woman have decided to
down typewriter lids on that day.
The Vanderbilts, very cheerful and
sunburned after their trip to the Barrier,
left for the south to pursue their travels
further afield. They hope to bag a
tiger in India. However, they liked
Queensland, and have promised to return
next time in their own yacht.
The tragically sudden death of Mrs.
Neil McDermott came as a shock to her
many friends. She was killed in a motor
accident on the Razorbaek at Coolan-
gatta. Clever, charming and a fine
musician, she lent a helping hand to
many a good cause. She was one of
the two musical De Vesey sisters ; Mrs.
Toby McSwaine is the other. The
Diggers, especially the New Farm
branch, of which her husband is a foun-
dation member, have lost a good friend.
It is on the cards that Christmas will
see the Wanderers cricket team in Syd-
ney, and Roger Hartigan is waiting a
reply from the Fleet to learn if a match
can be arranged between the sailors and
his team. Mrs. Hartigan and Patricia
also will go to Sydney, and will stay at
Cremorne for about three months.
Anyone who likes to be able to sit
quietly at home should not take on a
bush nurse’s job. The sister at Übobo
travelled 572 miles in October, visited 81
homes and treated 18 patients in the sur-
gery. Injune is runner-up as to distance,
218 miles in the month; but Bollon
seems to be an accidental sort of place
—the sister there had 535 visits to the
surgery, and at Jericho the visits went
over the 600 mark.
Mrs. Firmin McKinnon read the
report at the annual meeting of the Bush
Book Club. Flynn of the Inland was in
the chair, and there was a big attend-
ance. Some of the letters that reach the
club are pitiful—one woman had had
nothing to read for ages except the
labels on the tins in her storeroom or
passionately exciting passages about pigs
in her husband’s farm journal. Our out-
back men are good souls, but lots of
them don’t realise that an existence en-
tirely cut off from the printed word is
harder to bear than a term in prison
for many women.


r
4iU Ccck'$ Cal
Y ikm
All ICVRKIS
aag
ISC
>jr
Famous visitors from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderlaua,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and M otor Fares.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published, by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
dii Maurier Cigarettes
WITH THE FILTER TIP
Here are the seven reasons why Du Maurier are fast becoming the most popular
cigarettes:—
1. They retain irritant "acrids" and prevent "Cigarette throat."
2. Protect the lips, teeth and fingers from stain.
3. Collect tobacco tar, thus guarding physical fitness.
4. Stop bits of tobacco getting into the mouth.
5. Avoid burning the tongue.
6. Make the smoke delightfully sweet and cool, accentuating the flavour.
7. Give a cleaner, more healthful and satisfying smoke.
Give Du Mauriers at Christmas.
Packed in attractive Christmas cartons, 50 for 5/-, 100 lor 10/*.
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
EUROPE
via
CHINA
JAPAN
HONOLULU
CANADA
Sec the mysterious
Orient on your way
to Europe via Canada. Age-
old China . . . romantic Japan . . .
delightful Honolulu .... Canadian
Pacific comfort . . . luxury . . . per-
sonal service ~. cuisine .. . rates
very moderate.
Any Tourist Hooking Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
217 George Street, Sidney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World's
Tales of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d.
Tale of a Polite Crime:—
A VERY GENTLEMANLY
MURDER
BY Harold
Mercer
YEN if a man commits a murder,”
£* said Mrs. Parsley, pausing with
a duster in her hand, “he can at
least behave like a gentleman. For a
man to hit his wife on the head with an
axe is not quite the thing.”
My landlady, who, when I am too
busy to leave it, “does” my room her-
self, either in fear of what would happen
if the girl was allowed to be there with
me or in hope for herself, is liable to
speak with scorn of people “who lack
conversational debility.” The reproach
she intends could never be levelled
against herself. My early attempts to
discourage her discussion of the latest
murder sensation had been grunted re-
plies ; but this statement of Mrs. Pars-
ley’s was provocative.
“Not quite the thing.”
“I don’t suppose a murderer worries
about being a gentleman,” I commented.
It was fatal.
“At one time I was connected with
a murder,” said Mrs. Parsley, much as
if she were boasting of her relations.
The hand with the duster was now lean-
ing on my table, a definite sign of work-
cessation.
“It happened in these very fiats,” she
continued impressively. “When they told
me Mr. Fosdick had murdered his wife
you could have knocked me down with
a feather. But, as I pointed out to the
people who made nasty remarks —there’s
always people who will be nasty over
those things—it was a very gentlemanly
murder, if he had done it. There was
no vulgar noise, no screams, and no
body, for that matter, for a time. It was
most respectable.
“Mr. Fosdick came to live in Number
Ten before he was married, and if he
didn’t pay his rent regularly his ex-
cuses were most gentlemanly. There was
no sneaking out of the place to avoid
me when he owed a week’s rent. No!
Mr. Fosdick owed several weeks’ rent;
but he was very nice about it.
“ T hope the small amount I owe does
not inconvenience you, Mrs, Parsley,’ he
says. ‘There is a little hitch about my
estates which will be settled any day,
and then I’ll reward you for your
trouble.’
“Always well dressed, Mr. Fosdick
was; and at night he’d go out in his
evening dress looking like a welted earl.
It was an advertisement for the establish-
ment, the way he looked.
“Hope referred, as they say, makes
the heart sick ; and my hopes had been
referred so often about that rent that I
wa§ beginning to feel sick about it, and
I was beginning to suspect that those
estates were not all that they should be,
as the saying goes—if they ever was.
“It was just when I was beginning to
think that, gentleman as he was, I would
have to ask Mr. Fosdick to go, that he
told me about the rich marriage he was
going to make. Pleased as Punch, he
was, which everybody knows is an intoxi-
cated liquor that goes quickly to the
head ;> and I was as pleased as he was,
not only because he said the rent would
be fixed, though that was a relief.
«UE brought the lady to the flat one
** night to tea, which, under the cir-
cumstances, I had arranged to get for
him and put down to the account. ‘Make
it as slap-up as possible, Mrs. Parsley,’
he had said. ‘She’s used to such things.’
It was a case of in for a penny in for
a pound with me. There
was nothing to complain
about about that tea.
“She was all he said she
was; beautiful and charm-
ing and looking as if she
owned all the money in
Darlinghurst.
“ ‘This is my humble
home, Maud. It may be
poor, but it suits my simple
needs,’ he said when he
brought her in. ‘lt’ll be
different, of course, when
we’re married.’
“For a moment the ‘humble home’
business got me hot, seeing how things
wcre\ I was putting the finishing touches
on the table.
“ ‘This tea cost a bit of money ; it isn’t
so humble,’ I put in.
“ ‘Money?’ he laughed. ‘We never talk
about such a commonplace thing as
money!’
“ ‘lt’s not commonplace with some
people,’ I answered, still a bit hot; but,
of course, I cooled off, and 1 wasn’t
going to give him away when, while he
was out of the room for a moment, she
asked me what I thought at the time was
a queer question.
“ ‘Mr. Fosdick is well-to-do, isn’t he?’
she asked.
“ ‘He’s got estates. I’ve heard a lot
about his estates,’ I said ; which was
Gospel truth, for every time he spoke
about the rent he mentioned them.
“Mr. Fosdick paid up like a gentle-
man on the day he was going to get mar-
ried, and, of course, leaving me. T think
we’ll add another pound for your kind-
ness in waiting,’ he said. But, as he ex-
plained, which sounded quite reasonable,
I am sure, he wouldn’t come into his
wife’s money for at least a few days, so
he’d have to give me a P.N.
“Imagine my surprise, me thinking
they was well away on their honeymoon,
when he came back —her with him.
“ ‘We had to postpone our honeymoon,
Mrs. Parsley,’ he said. ‘There is some
business about my wife’s estate that will
have to be fixed up first. Until it’s settled
we’d like to stay here —Number Ten will
do. My wife has taken such a fancy
to you!’
“I let them have it before I knew what
I was doing. They both looked flustered,
and she looked angry ; and when they
were in the flat I heard them having a
Mr. Fosdick.
ding-dong go. Not that I’m a Peeping
Tom which hears no good of themselves,
but it came plain through the door.
“ You don’t expect me to live in this
hovel!’ she said.
“ ‘My dear Maudie,’ he answered, T
thought we were going to make the best
of things together. This is the best we
can do at present.’
“ ‘Money was too commonplace a
thing for you to discuss!’ she said, with
aspirations in her voice.
“ ‘Didn’t you take the same attitude?
Come, Maudie; we were both after
money, and we’ve both
been had. It’s rather a
joke.’
“ ‘l’m not laughing,’ she
says.
“ ‘What about me?’ he
said, ‘it’s knocked me sky-
high to find we were both
in the same boat. I’m not
holding you, Maudie, but
I’m rather fond of you ;
and 1 think if we work
“1 was that flabber-
together we’ll do all
right.’
gasted that, when he came to me
and asked me in his cool, gentle-
manly way to give him back the
extra pound he had pul on (he P.N., and
he would give it back to me in the morn-
ing, I let him have it. I hadn’t intended
to do it; in fact, I had been worrying
whether I didn’t ought to tell them to go
at once. But, then, there was what he
said about them working together and
doing all right.
“I was sorry for him, too ; being so
basely deceived, and him such a gentle-
man, and taking it in the cool fashion he
did!
«THEY went out that night together,
* jazzed up as if they were going to
see the Lord Mayor; and when he paid
me back in
the morning
I real ised
that he was
a man of his
word. In
fact, he
handed me
three pounds
and took
back the
P.N., which
he said didn’t
matter now
that they
were going
on living
with me, and
he’d square matters in a few weeks.
“I didn’t care much for her, although
she could be nice enough when she wasn’t
in her tempers. She never seemed to
think of how basely she’d deceived him ;
and her habit of talking about hovels—
Maudie.


ŵ
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love,, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, -!• ; ■
F. E. Tivrfnn Eso ■ Win. A. Jolly, Esq., E.ai.u.
Loxton, Esq.; IVm. A. Jolly, EsQ-.
With offices at
Dame offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geneial Banning ous
She always thought
dull teeth were natural
. twfc/she ~Au£
FILM mars the loveliness bf
teeth. It is the greatest single
cause of tooth decay. And, it you
use ordinary brushing methods,
you may not escape this danger-
ous film, which forms constantly
on everyone’s teeth.
There is now one best way to
keep your teeth free of film.
Laboratory tests and scientific facts
indicate that way is Pepsodent —
knownas the special film-removing
tooth paste. For, ofall other leading
methods, none other equally safe,
removes film so thoroughly. The
cleansing and polishing material
in Pcpsodent is alone responsible.
This film-removing material is twice
as soft as the polishing materials
used in other leading tooth pastes
—many times as soft as that in
leading tooth powders. Yet the way
it removes film and cleans teeth is
indeed impressive.
This polishing agent is contained
exclusively in Pepsodent. That s
why Pepsodent is really different.
It works in a different way to give
different results. When Pepsodent
is so safe, so certain, how can you
afford to entrust the care of your
teeth to “hit or miss” methods or
bargain tooth pastes? Just try
Pepsodent Tooth Paste once.
We believe you will want to use
Pepsodent regularly twice a day
thereafter. And be sure to see
your dentist at least twice a year.
m mm.
M
mm
; ——
I
&
Ho
A
UNION
“ The scenic route
Fortnightly Sailings.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
quite loud so that people in other flats
could hear—was something I didn t like.
Constant dripping will wear away stone,
they say, though why anyone should
waste good dripping I don’t know. My
place has never been a hovel, and never
will be ; and, as I say, people who live
in grass houses shouldn’t throw their
weight about.
“They used to have little card-parties
in their flat; and I don’t think much of
some of the friends they had there. In
“Very nice about it.”
spite of her tempers, he was always
gentlemanly. Even when he was cross
—as he was one night when they came
home —he was quiet about it.
“ ‘For a woman who has to live on
her wits, you’ve got mighty little to live
on,’ he was saying as they climbed the
stairs. ‘A simple system, and you slip
like that!’
“The next day they owed me for the
rent again.
“Like a bolt from the flue it all hap-
pened: Mrs. Fosdick disappeared, and
then, a lot later, poor Mr, Fosdick, who
had seemed extracted over it, looking for
her everywhere, was arrested for murder.
“That was after the body was found.
Mr. Fosdick, very pale in the face, poor
feller, asked me to go to the morgue.
“If he hadn’t told me that it would be
hard to identify her, 1 don’t think I would
have. 1 forgave her all she had said
about hovels, poor
thing; and I did
identify her, and so
did he. I felt really
sorry for them
both, it always
being so terrible
for a young thing
like that, with all
her faults, going to
a happier land.
“As for poor Mr.
Fosdick, I told him
that the rent didn’t
matter for a week
or two; but he
said there was a
little insurance,
and directly that
was paid he’d fix
me up.
“I began to
think, secret-like,
that, after all, the
poor feller would
be better off with-
out her, especially with that insurance.
But it was that that made all the
trouble. Them insurance companies.
You see, we had thought that the poor
thing was just drownded, which she had
done herself. But the Government
Ananias must find poison in her. Them
insurance companies must have got him
to interfere.
“It was a thunderclap to Mr. Fosdick
as well as me when the detectives came.
He could only say, pale-faced, that he
didn’t do it; but they took him away.
Everybody seemed to turn against him.
They said the big insurance —he had told
me it was small ; but he was always a
gentleman —upon his wife’s life supplied
a motor for the crime. Though what a
motor had to do with it I don’t see.
U k LL I could say was that I didn’t
A believe it, but, if it was a murder,
it was a very gentlemanly murder: no
fuss about it —everything done so nice
and quiet. But you couldn’t imagine Mr.
Fosdick doing anything that wasn’t
gentlemanly.
“It made me angry to think of them
insurance companies bringing up the
matter of that policy just to save their
dirty money. I never did trust them
insurance companies, with all their
special promises and their agents taking
up your time at the door and refusing
“Took him away.”
to go away. Even if Mr. Fosdick had |
murdered his wife to get the insurance, it
must have been because he wanted the
money very bad.
“ ‘I do hope,’ I said to Mr. Davis,who.
not being a gentleman himself, didn t like
Mr. Fosdick, ‘that that poor woman
doesn’t call the heavenly mansions
“hovels.” ’ You see, what Davis said
about Mr. Fosdick deserving to be hung
got my back up. It made me angry with
The poor thing for getting such a gentle-
man into trouble, pretending she had
money. But for her he might some day |
have married a millionairess and made a
name for philandering and benevolence, |
giving away his wife’s money. I’m sure
he would have, him being of a kindly |
nature.
“According to everybody, Mr. Fosdick
was going to be hung. But one day they
sent for me at the police department, and
I got the shock of my life.
“For there was Mrs. Fosdick!
“She was crying something awful, and
was saying that she couldn’t stand the
strain of keeping dark, and knowing her
husband was charged with murder. Mr.
Fosdick, who was there, 100, looks at
her in that queer, cool way of his and
said she was foolish ; they’d never have
been able to prove the murder against
him.
“Of course, they couldn’t hang Mr.
Fosdick for killing his wife when she
was alive ; but were those police satis-
fied? No! Instead of letting lying dogs
sleep, as the Bible says you should, they
had charged them both with aspiring to
defraud the insurance company. Oh.
those insurance companies! Sons ot
Mammals, they are —always out to pro-
tect their money!
“One of the detectives told me I was
lucky not to be charged, too; but Mr.
Fosdick had admitted something that let
me out.
“Before 1 knew what I was doing 1
had gone bail for them; L was that
flurried 1 would have gone anything.
And there was Mr. Fosdick, in his same
gentlemanly way, telling me all the lies
about their estates being settled next
week, and everything being fixed up with
me, who was a brick.
“It was only natural, after all they had
eone through, that they should need a
holiday. I didn’t
know anything
about their going
away being a re-
spo n s i bility ot
mine, although 1
believe in what
Shakspeare says
about a man being
his brother’s keep-
sake; but the
police made a lot
of fuss about it
when they didn’t
turn up at the
court. They talked
about cheating my
bail, which, no
doubt, they would
if they got a
chance ; but I went
to the M.P. of the
district and he
settled it with the
Department of In-
justice which is
only what an M.P.
should do, even if you do vote for the |
other side.
“Although 1 never got my rent, I got
a lovely letter from Mr. Fosdick so
gentlemanly ; just like himself. He said
that they had to go away to get their
estates fixed up, but they would come
back and settle with me—which they
have never done to my knowledge and
consent, although I’m sure I don't blame |
them for keeping away, with them police
always on the lookout.
“So you see it wasn’t a murder after
all ; but I’m sure it would have been a
very gentlemanly murder if Mr. Fosdick
had done it. Always such a gentleman,
he was.”


ẁ
No. 144
Tur
“YOUNG
STOCKMAN”
POLEY
SADDLE,
£6/6/-
(.MOUNTED)
A high-grade Saddle suitable
for boys or girls from 7 to
10 years of age. Made of
best-quality kip leather.
No. 142—THE "BURRADOO" Boy
or Girl Saddle, £6/4/6 (Mounted).
No. 141—THE ‘•BOWRAL” Boy or
Girl Saddle, £5/2/6 (Mounted).
For Cash with Order we pay rail freight in
N.S.W.
PONY SADDLE CLOTHS: Check,
6/-; Kersey, 7/-; Kersey Square, 8/-.
Post I /-.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insurance
and
Prosperity
The first deposit of an Assurance
Policy creates an immediate
Estate for the full amount
of the policy selected. You
purchase a lump sum of money
for future delivery—an unfail-
ing protection to your depend-
ents, and a comfort to you
during life.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T .°
Head Office—37l-37J Queen St.. Brisbane
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Travellers' Cheques
For TVorld JVide and Local Use
The Bank of New South Wales issues Travellers’
Cheques as follows: —
IN ENGLISH CURRENCY—
For visitors to Great Britain, Europe, America,
Asia, etc.
IN AUSTRALIAN CURRENCY—
For travellers within Australia, New Zealand,
Fiji, New Guinea and Papua.
IN NEW ZEALAND CURRENCY—
For visitors to the Dominion of New Zealand.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers' Cheques are
especially convenient, as they are accepted by the
principal shipping and railway companies, hotels,
stores, tourist bureaux, etc., throughout the world.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers' Cheques can be
cashed at any of the Bank's 747 branches in Australia,
New Zealand, the Pacific Islands and London and at
its 7,500 agents and correspondents throughout the
world.
Travellers’ Cheques are obtainable through any branch oj the Bank.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
185A.1935
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is , !a„d of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
a
1
V Jfe-
> -==
j3lmm^
Z3l
2*e
A
A Boxing Yarn by the Author of “Crucible”:-
COMEBACK
AND THROWBACK
BY J.P.MCKINNEY.
WHEN once a pug drops out of the
game he’s out for good. You can’t
tell me about comebacks. I’ve seen
a few staged, and I never saw one that
was Well, yes, one —Larry Slattery,
though I don’t know that you’d rightly
say he came back either.
When he slipped into the old joint and
put the proposition to me I just stared
at him,
“I mean it. Berry,” he said. “I can
do it. I’m half-fit now.”
That’s what he said—the same as they
all say. And me that had been like a
father to, him, you can think how I felt.
Father and mother, that’s what I’d been,
ever since the time I’d seen him lap
up three kids, one after the other, behind
the old “Herald” office one afternoon, I
just happened along as the scrap started.
Don’t ask me what it was about. A
dozen or so youngsters with time hangin’
heavy on their hands till the evening
edition came out, and more devil than
doctrine in their carcasses—that’s good
enough grounds for a box-on amongst
kids like that.
A bit of a red-headed, long-armed,
scrawny-lookin’ youngster he was then,
with freckles as big as half-crowns. That
kid loved fight. You’ve heard ’em say
of a man he’d rather have a fight than
a feed. The chap who first said that
must’ve been thinking of Slattery. He
had the tucked-up look of a kid that
had seen more dinner-times than dinners,
but he scrapped as willing on an empty
stomach as he did on a full one.
I adopted that kid, and I educated
him. I taught him that a straight left
was the shortest distance between two
points. Father and mother to him I was,
I tell you. I was just getting him up
amongst the big guns when the war broke
out. Well, you couldn’t keep him out
of a scrap.
And here he was now, talkin’ about
a comeback—after six years—as if it
was only a matter of tying on the gloves.
I knew it was no use arguing, but it came
hard not to tell him. And I wasn’t think-
ing of his wound or his four months in
Caulfield, though he went through
enough then to make any ordinary man
want to crawl into his corner; but Larry
scrapped as game on his back as he did
on his feet. No, I was thinking of the
two years since that he’d been living soft.
And that wasn’t all I was thinking of
either.
“I can come back with the best of
’em, Berry,” he said. “But it’s be-
tween you and me, Berry. I’ve got to do
it cunning. I can’t let her know.”
And that’s the other thing I was think-
ing of, too.
THERE’S some women you can put a
* schlenter over on, and it comes sort of
natural. Then, again, there’s others . . .
Well, I picked her as soon as I seen her
that day she lined up alongside Larry’s
bed in Caulfield and he gave me the
intro. I’m a keen judge of a woman —
that’s why I’m single—and I’ll say she
was the daddy of ’em all. Eyes! But
that ain’t my line. I can’t tell you what
she was like, but she was pure-bred from
the floor up. Five-foot-four without the
high heels, and every inch of it quality.
And —d’y’ know? —something told me
as soon as she drew alongside that there
was sparks in the air. It wasn’t only that
Larry toned down on the “Gor’blimes.”
It wasn’t so much him I noticed at first.
It was her. There was something—well,
I don’t know,
“Well,” she says, “how is Private Slat-
tery, M.M. and bar, to-day? I always
give him his full title, Mr. Berry
remembered my name and mistered me
and all! A little thoroughbred, I tell
you. “After that, if he’s in a good mood,
he lets me call him Larry.”
Well, I think it was that that gave me
the clue. And she’d heard all about me
from him. And she thought it must be
wonderful to be always “in trim” —the
funny little way she put her mouth when
she said it! She’d picked that one up
from Larry. But fighting!—wasn’t it a
horrible sort of sport?
She was there every afternoon when I
went along. I began to cut my visits
short. Mind you, I couldn’t figure it
out proper—red-headed Larry Slattery,
the scrapping paper-boy, and her. But
I’d felt the sparks in the air the first
day I saw her. And there was no doubt
about it. It was only the opening rounds,
but I could see which way the verdict
was going. “Good-bye to the game,
Larry,” I said to myself.
And it happened. A war-time
romance, it said in the papers. Larry’s
wedding might have got a mention on
its merits in the sporting sheets. He’d
been up amongst the best of them in his
day, and he’d performed pretty well in the
army till he got his knock. But it was
her name got it into the society papers.
Big hits, they were, with the cash as well
as the pedigree.
That’s why her people howled so hard.
Red-headed Slattery, the ex-pug! You
can fancy! 6ut she was a scrapper, too,
in her pure-bred, five-foot-four way. She
married him, whether or not. And the
old people made the best of it, and got
busy to trim the rough edges off him.
AND now here he was back at the old
joint, with me busy putting the rough
edges back on him, and whipping myself
whenever I thought how I should have
told him straight at the start he couldn’t
come back.
And when I thought of her! She’d
said to me, “You’ll forgive me, Mr.
Berry, won’t you, for taking your fight-
ing boy away from you?” That was
her way of making me promise to help
her keep him clear of the ring. And I’d
promised, though she never said “Will
you?” and I never said “Yes.”
Well, you see, it wasn’t only him—
and I knew well enough he was just pull-
ing his own leg, and me helping him to
do it—but it was her. When I’d be rub-
bing him down of an afternoon I’d be
trying to think out ways I could tell him
the deal was off. But I always squibbed
at the line-up. He was that sure of him-
self, that pleased to be back in the
game again.
And then one afternoon, while I was
giving him a final run-over on the table,
the bell rang and I hopped out —and she
was there. Yes, on the doormat, pure-
bred from the floor up, and me right in
the act of double-crossing her.
Well, I’ve taken a few hidings and I
haven’t whimpered. But when she looked
at me! If.l’d wanted to lie it out it was
too late. She’d caught me out as soon
as our eyes clinched. I could feel that
silly please-I-never-meant-to-do-it look
creeping over my dial.
But she never even threw it up at me
—thoroughbred, I tell you! And she
knew he was there. But that’s where
breeding comes in. Never a word about
that. I could have laid down to a good
tongue flogging and felt that every word
was doing me good. But that wasn’t her
style.
“1 know this is an intrusion, Mr.
Berry,” she said. An intrusion!—with
the smell of hot man coming out through
the door! I’d never noticed the smell
before —breathed it since I was a kid.
But with her there in the doorway!
“I had to come and have a talk to
you ... I was wrong and Larry was
right. He’s a fighting man by nature.
It was foolish to try to put his instincts
in a strait-jacket. I married him be-
cause he was a good ‘scrapper,’ as you
used to say. And then I wanted my hus-
band to forget how to scrap. I was
young and foolish . . . But I had to come
and talk to you—to ask you Tell me,
Mr. Berry, is he only training to keep
‘in trim’ or is he really going to”


V*v
rr
vi\ A i
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These . high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking '
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
IBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
66
99
m
9
a*
&
MAPS IN
MSSfIMM
VC D If
jyr ly JllLjh^ ? I ■ ?
. -•■ ;■ v •;.;■■ ■•' ••;■•;
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
You couldn’t tell her a lie if you
wanted to. I gave her the full strength
0 f it—barring what I thought of his
chance. I wanted to sidestep that.
“And now I want you to make me
two promises,” she said—“both very
solemn ones. You must keep them
faithfully. Don’t tell Larry I know, and
do fell me as soon as his fight : s
arranged.”
I had to put the promises in words this
time! That was the nearest she got to
telling me what I knew she must think
of me.
Larry was in his togs when 1 got back
to the dressing-room. And 1 had to lie to
him now. That’s what comes of stag-
ing comebacks. I had to keep those
promises. I’d have taken myself for a
walk off the end of St. Kilda pier if I’d
thought I was going to go back on her
again.
WHEN 1 rang her to tell her the date,
she said, “What is the price of a
scat right alongside the ring?”
Well, I had to tell her.
“Where will you be?” she said.
“Near his corner,” said I.
“Very well. Now, I want you to book
a seat for me as near to you as pos-
sible. I want”
“But,” I said, “you can’t—it isn’t—l
don’t”
“You’ll please be a good man and
do just as I tell you. As close to the
ring and as close to you as possible.
You arc to be my tower of strength . . .
And another ‘don’t’—a very solemn one
again—don’t let Larry suspect that I’ll
be there.”
“But he’ll see you,” I told her.
“And won’t know me,” she said. “Now,
no more evasions. You’ve promised.”
D’y’ fancy how I felt!
Well, I’ve been to a fair few fights
in my day, and sometimes I’ve had my
life’s savings swinging on the verdict,
but I never felt as anxious about a fight
as I did about that one—well, no, not
anxious. There was nothing to be
anxious about. 1 knew what the result
would be —and she was going to be there
to see it happen!
They’d booked Larry against a good
lad, a new light, but clever. Larry’s pre-
war rep. wasn’t forgotten. They knew
he’d draw a good house. And I knew
—damn it! —I knew he wasn’t amateur
class. He’d gone soft in the body. That
was only natural after two years living
on cushions. I’d managed to build a
bit of form over the flabbiness. But he d
gone soft inside the body, too. 1 hat s
what worried me. He wasn’t the same
Larry Slattery. He only thought he was.
His nature had changed. There wasn’t
the fight in him. The strait-jacket had
warped him. That gentleman business
had found a weak spot in him. The
kid that had lapped up three of them
behind the “Herald” office was only a
relation of his. It was the same red-
headed, grinning good chap, but minus
the scrapping instinct. Funny! 1 can’t
explain it. Just something that was
lying asleep inside him waiting for the
soft cushions to bring it out.
And there she was, her little body
quivering, clinging to my arm as I led
her to her seat. Frightened as hell, but
game as they make ’em, and rigged out
that way her own father wouldn’t have
spotted her ten feet away.
“Have you backed him?” she asked.
“To the limit,” I said, without blink-
ing an eyelid. But you couldn’t tell her
a lie and sit on it, even though it was
for her own good. I had to slip away
and make a present to the books. But,
anyway, I wanted to stand to lose some-
thing. He did, and she did.
“Could you manage?” she said, and
slipped a fiver into my hand. “I haven’t
any idea how such things are arranged.”
Game! That was her way of swap-
ping punches with the fact. But it was
going to be a gift distribution for the
books.
Well, they shook. It was a great re-
ception Larry got. The fans had always
liked him, and the “war-romance” touch
had added a bit of embroidery to his
name. Her hand slipped out and fastened
on to my sleeve as the house rose up
and shouted “Good old Larry!” She
seemed to be trembling, but it may have
been only me. Yes, I had the shakes.
Then the gong went and they were
into it. Larry was always an open
fighter. It had been punch from gong
to gong with him in the old days. He
could stand the racket then. But I’d
tried to warn him that he’d have to
study himself now. You couldn't give
him the hint, though. He thought he
was the same old Larry.
The other lad was a toe-to-toe special- .
ist, too, once he found the game was on. !
And as clever as Larry with his defence.
Barring a few body blows, it was mostly
glove to glove. But the gloves made a
lot of noise, and I could feel her quiver
every time they met.
A horrible sport! I’d been brought
up to it, and lived on it, and liked it— :
till now. Somehow, with her beside me,
1 seemed to see that it was plain brutality.
Funny! I felt as if every blow was aimed
at her. 1 took her by the hand, and she I
squeezed me with her little fingers.
And every blow was aimed at her. 1
could feel her flinch every time they
connected. When the first blood was
tapped she covered her eyes with her
hand. I was wishing she'd stay like
that.
By the second round 1 could see the
verdict coming. Larry was well marked
—he had one of those lilywhite skins
that kept on telling tales. The other
man was sticking to the body—and get-
ting most of them there. Larry’s de-
fence was failing him. The pace—and
that scrapping instinct that had gone
missing—was telling on him.
Lord! I wanted to pick her up in my
arms and run outside with her. Two
rounds! It seemed like twenty! And
then the other chap crossed to the point
—very pretty it was —and Larry was
down.
ALL over! 1 knew it. If he did man-
age to beat the count it was only
prolonging the agony. There wasn t the
old instinct to get him on to his pins 1
and keep him there. At seven the house j
was in an uproar. / didn’t want him to
get up. I wanted the thing to come to
an end. I was in misery. And as for
her—well, her hand was tugging at my
sleeve.
“Why doesn’t he get up?” she said.
It was damned near impossible to tel!
her —you can imagine!
“I don’t think he can,” I said, “1 think
he’s”-
She was on her feet. I tried to puil
her back—l don’t know why. She flung
my arm off.
“Larry! Larry!” she called. You
could hear her above the crowd. There j
was a sort of shrill tremble in her voice
that made it carry. “Larry! Larry! |
You can beat him!”
I know he heard her. He turned over.
“Larry!” she called again.
He was half-stupid and groggy, but he
was on his pins.
“You can beat him!” she called.
The other man was on him. He was
out to finish it. But Larry, somehow,
found his old defence. It was instinct
more than judgment. He was too groggy
to think. But the defence and the foot-
work carried him through to the gong.
1 sneaked a glance at her while they
were in corners —and she wasn t there.
Not her, anyway. It was the same five-
foot-four, the same eyes and mouth and
f ace —but all different. 1 can’t tell you
how. She’d just jumped back to the
times when a man did his wooing with
a waddy and dragged home his fancy
woman by the hair of the head. And
that’s how she was for the rest of the
fight.
She was on her feet when the gong
went. Her little hands were clenched.
She was calling to him and urging him
on. Her voice But, I don’t know,
somehow it don’t seem right to talk
about it.
And Larry? Well, it was Larry, the old
Larry, with the same old scrapping gift
in full play. It was grand to watch him.
He beat through his man’s defence. He
fought him with both hands and his
head. And her there beside me, with
her little fists clenched and her eyes— —
Well, anyway, it was a fight that kept
the house on its feet from gong to gong
—and in the fifth Larry did what he
always used to do, and the other chap
went down.
“Larry! Good old Larry!” the house I
yelled.
And above it all you could hear her
voice, “Larry! Larry! ”
The other chap hadn’t moved when
the count came. She was white and
trembling. As the ref. put his hand on j
Larry’s shoulder she crumpled up and
flopped back on her seat, done.
It was Larry’s verdict—but it was her \
fight. _, • = 1


“THE AGE'
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Ago” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
•within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advei Using Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address; MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Tell Your Story
to REAL Buyers
“'THE NEWS,” even-
ins daily, plays a
~big part in Adelaide’s
evening home life . . .
It’s the family circle
which buys your goods
. . . get your story in
there,
Advertise in Adelaide’s
Only Evening Paper •
“THE NEWS”
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace.
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House. Collins
street.
SYDNEY—P A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE , QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agenev.
National
Advertisers;
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
*‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
/
The Centre of Tas-
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
! "THE EXAMINER’’ is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial, and Tourist Centre of Tasmania,
“THE EXAMINER’' has been published in Launceston
for 93 years, and is the Newspaper read by Northern
Tasmania to-day.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner’’ and
“Saturday’ Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
THE POWER
TO DO THE JOB..
The position that enables us to
reach every corner of the West.
We have them both!
Broadcasting from the top of
the ranges on our new power of
1000 watts, 6AM is a sure money-
getter for the man who has any-
thing to sell to country folk.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Chapter XXII.
MRS. CLAUFIELD had missed Tiburon. She had
missed the little paragraphs in the paper about
her presidency of the Country Women’s
Association, her reception of the Premier when he
was passing through Tiburon, and occasionally her
photograph with a note to the effect that Mrs., Clau-
neld, president of the Tiburon branch of the Country
omen s Association, was on a visit to Sydney,
where she would be the Country Women’s delegate
o the All-Australian Empire Builders’ Conference.
It was probably this more than anything else
that prevented her permanent departure from the
residence her late husband had built in Traves-street
after the boom when lucerne soared owing to the
tour years’ drought in the far west.
It was in the drawing-room of Mantana that
all the public charitable functions were planned.
There were the afternoon-tea parties to which the
farmers wives, beaming with pride, would drive in
their sulkies, an umbrella held over them to keep off
the sun and a coat oyer their best dress to keep off
the dust. The chemists’ wives, the bankers’ wives,
the rabbit inspector’s wife and the wife of a would-
be member of Parliament, of a stock and station
agent, a garage-owner or what not would add a cos-
mopolitan flavor to the gathering. The subject of
rendering assistance to this or that society, to the
local hospital or a home for incurables or cripples
would be brought up tactfully, and a ball would be
suggested as the best means of rendering assistance.
The farmers’ wives would naturally promise provi-
sions in large quantities, the wives of the business
people would find themselves reluctantly cast in the
rdle of canvassers, a secretary would be appointed,
and Mrs. Claufield, thanks to her undoubted powers
of keeping to the main issue, would find herself pro-
testing faintly at yet another presidency.
In due time the ball would take place, and would
be a grand success, although the wives of the farmers,
sweating over the sandwiches and rushing round
serving supper, had possibly one dance all night. Mrs.
Claufield, in black velvet and carrying a bouquet of
white roses, received the guests very charmingly with
the help of the secretary, and the whole thing went
off without a hitch. After the twenty pounds for
decorations and other expenses had been paid over,
there would still be a very fair sum to hand over to
a gratified home ; and Mrs. Claufield’s photograph in
the Sunday papers as “President of the Tiburon
District Committee for Assisting the Home for
Incurables” would make the whole town feel proud
of her.
It was a pity Mrs. Claufield had missed the
beginning of the strike. And she felt it was merciful,
almost providential, that she had returned in time to
point out to the members of the Church of England
in Tiburon how terribly, terribly astray their shepherd
had been led by his rash impartiality towards black
sheep. She did not speak directly to him on the
matter, for she felt that would be beneath her dignity.
She listened with a faint, sad smile while Jane Darch
told the terrible story of how the Reverend William
Sorrell had opened a church especially to preach
inflammatory sermons to the strikers.
“They say he had the Red Flag hung over the
altar,” Jane cried in a horrified tone. “Wouldn’t
doubt it for a minute. You remember the time when
the Red Cross almost decided to do something for
old Peter, the mad old man who had cancer—wasn't
any good sending him away, as Henry Westly said
he’d only die, anyway—that was just before we had
the Ball for Incurables”
“You were talking about Mr. Sorrell,” Mrs.
Ilford reminded her.
“You remember how he went round being
unpleasant about us not sending old Mad Peter away?”
“Yes, yes,” Mrs. Claufield said a little wearily.
“Well, he said it would be easier to get the Red
Cross branch in this town to help the sick than it
would be to see that strike without prejudice.”
The gathering looked grave.
“What a thing to say!” Mrs. Ilford exclaimed.
“Like his blessed hide,” Jane agreed.
Mrs. Claufield said nothing. She merely shut her
eyes and shook her head slowly to and fro. There
was a little pause, and then Mrs. Claufield rang for
tea.
“I am afraid,” she said with a faint smile, “that
while I have been away I’ve rather lost touch.
Perhaps it might be a rather excellent thing if just a
few of us —very quietly—tried to find out the opinions
of the congregation ; just tried to find out what they
feel about it. After all, the bishop really should”
They nodded their heads. There was always the
bishop. But, unfortunately, the bishop was a man
with a personality like a southerly gale. It was very
hard to make him see anything but eye to eye with
his clergy over their private opinions being their
private opinions. Complaints from parishioners he
blew aside as a southerly would blow the washing on
the line.
“Pooh! ” would say the bishop ; “lot of fuss about
nothing. Good old Bill.”
11.
It was about that time that Ackie Willoughby
was put off the dole. He gave the police plenty of
excuse. He had been drunk every Saturday for a
month, and they had warned him twice. One night
the sergeant, prowling round O’Brien’s Hotel,
caught Willoughby coming out of the yard. It was
true he had only left his horse there and that he had
not had a drink, but the sergeant would not listen.
“I told you the next time I caught you hanging
about the hotel would be the last,” he said. “You
needn’t bother to come to the station on Thursday
morning.”
On Thursday, when the chastened Ackie slunk
into the line, the sergeant drew him aside. “You
needn’t wait,” he said impersonally.
“Sergeant, I got a wife an’ kid, an’ there ain’t no
work 1 can get. Now, look ’ere, sergeant. I may ’ave
been a bit full once or twice, but if y’ gimme a
chance”
“You needn’t wait.”
“What am I to do?”
“Work.”
“Sergeant, I told y’ I can’t get no work ; I’ve
tried. You know there ain’t no work.”
The sergeant motioned towards the strip of red
dust that stretched towards the bridge.
“Get out on the track.”
“An’ ’ow about me wife an’ kid?”
The sergeant shrugged. “We don’t want your sort
in the town.” He hardened his naturally kindly heart.
“I’ve warned you, Willoughby. There’s plenty of
work elsewhere.”
“Where?” said Willoughby, with a spark of
truculence.
“If you look for it, you can always find it. Now,
don't stand here wasting my time.”
Willoughby slouched to his sulky and climbed
in. He whipped up the lean horse, went down to
the hotel and got drunk. He had been put off the
dole once before; but the missus had gone down
to the station and told the police how she was placed,
and he had been granted his relief back as a favor.
Perhaps it might happen again, but he did not think
so. He boasted loudly of his grievances, collected a
few “shouts,” and went home to break the news.
They were depending on Willoughby’s money
from the relief work to buy food for the week, and
their credit was simply discredit. Mrs. Willoughby
did not mind the fair deal of supply and demand -as
exemplified in her trading with many men, but she
hated the thought of begging. The following day
saw her nervously ringing the bell beneath the con-
crete portico of Mantana. She had come to ask some
help from Mrs, Claufield. She held Wilfrid tightly
clutched by the hand to give her courage, and she
rehearsed her statement of her case with a beating
heart.
“It’s like this, Mrs. Claufield. Me husban’s been
put off the dole—not that he didn’t deserve it —but if
we could hang on here until harvest he’d have the
chance of a job. He’s a good worker when he’s sober,
and always makes money at harvest. I was wonderin’
if there was anything like washin’ I could do or
somethin’ ”
She broke off, gazing hopelessly at the door,
behind which a light footstep betokened the approach
of the maid.
“Is the missus at ’omc?” she asked in her timid,
soft voice.
“I’ll see.” The girl cast a pitying glance at the
pair. She walked back down the hall.
“What is it, Elsa?” they heard Mrs. Claufield’s
clear, delicate voice inquire. Elsa’s reply was
inaudible. They caught the words “begging half-caste”
in the delicate voice, and the girl returned.
“Mrs. Claufield is not at home,” she said loudly,
and then, in a whisper, “If you go round to the back
door I’ll see what I can find in the kitchen.”
Mrs. Willoughby drew herself up in her ill-fitting
clothes.
“It’s all right,” she said proudly, “I wanted to
see Mrs. Claufield about somethin’.”
They went dejectedly to the gate. The girl shook
her head after them, picked up a copy of the “Illus-
trated London News” from the hallstand and
straightened the bag of golf clubs.
Mrs. Willoughby hesitated for a minute on the
footpath, and then decided to go home. She would
not —no, she would not ask for things like that. It
was horrible, degrading. On Saturday night she would
make a bit of money, anyway, and they would last
out somehow. Mrs. Claufield, looking out of the
sitting-room window, caught a glimpse of her as she
passed along. “Mrs. Willoughby,” she thought, and
shuddered. She rang for the maid.
“Elsa,” she said, “leave whatever you are doing
and go outside and clean the doorbell. Please!”
She turned again to the lists of subscriptions she
was making out for the Christmas Hamper Fund for
the unemployed.
{To be continued next week)


[III
iii
?w;
Wm
• :■ ■ .
llBllilli
:
.
V. 1
UJhtkf
liiii
Wmmmm
m
mm
iliwsig
j * ;
m
liiiili
■
4SS
liih
V
- -
X
m
D
A
mm
wm.
m
m.
wm
m
m
w
Wk
mm
zm
y*.
■
m
m
m
a
f
WM
m
Wa
#
i
m
m.
I m
(TKiillum-s
Scots (tlhisky
■
i
m*
m
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON. Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
advt
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
v e
►.» <,e '
.o
,i’
,o
*<** ••-
K#*' ,.•■•■,••■
►* o»t* >•>■•>
,-C aV
A - C vv' C V V
o' xt S e j*.
\° -V^V
O 1 '? A^ b .\V' ,* C c I A s>°
o'v S'


Jlu Jjdml Ckmtmm Sitt
,
.
m
■ iifi
>*•'
V-,5
w
m
fi V" ' ’■■ > ,: T'
fH M
mm
a***?
-
■ ■ , J-v
a i
ROUS
The World’s Best Safety
To the happy Recipient a Rolls Razor will give Shaving
Comfort for Life. You will have the satisfaction of
knowing that your Gift is the Best the World has to Offer.
Models from 501-
Rolls Razors are obtainable at all the Best Retail Stores, Chemists , Tobacconists,
Hardware Merchants, Jewellers, Booksellers and Stationers throughout the Com -
monwealth of Australia.
The Head Office in Sydney is part of a World-wide Organi-
sation to give service and to substantiate the Guarantee with
which every Razor is Sold.
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: Rolls Razor Co. of Victoria, 486 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros., Aust. (Pty.), Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA; Harris, Scarfe & Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
