

T
H
SJk 0 If
% "/ S, V> 5?.
VVvV'm
/' V,Vv 7 v.
■ 't't 'C '/ /t
MMt
m
V
xjx, /<vv
t l(l l
nj>-.
*V
::;•■/
v,
\ , v
MAKING
X
KJr
\
M. , «r
Sfc w
’.®f|
ROS
■'■‘(iv
• J9llltt.a„l,///,!•
»»-ii.>iiin»iMi u umliii
;;«imiHiuiuiiU(iiMi min 111 i
y
uV
/r
k**
jy* y.
V,
i
vW- _/
s~~ S
7/,
m
t
ALM, inscrutable, austere, steeped in the
mighty traditions of a code which is age
old, the Judge—symbol of British Justice and
impartiality—stands for public service at its
Service to the investing public is the mainspring
that actuates the organisation of HAMILTONS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD,... a service calling for
highly specialised knowledge of the financial
and investment markets, a knowledge which
ensures safety and security.
The principle of offering share - holdings in
ESTABLISHED companies only results In
best.
dividends which secure investment; further-
more, the critical examination and analysis of
all evidence before summing-up and passing
judgment on propositions, and consideration of
technical and administrative ability of those
controlling the destiny of companies in relation
it the financial aspects, is a primary service of
Hamiltons.
Free advice on all investments may be had on
application to
HAMILTONS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED.
Send for a copy of the monthly review,
“PROFITS,” which will be forwarded post free.
Mamiltom (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
•Phones: BWI 146 and 1 147. (G.P.O. Box: 375255)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 101 7N,
j
♦ .1 ]•
Chamber of Manufacturers Building,
14 Pirie Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Our Glorious Press
Vol. 56.—N0. 2911.
Wednesday, November 27, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dyinock s New Illustrated 64-page
Christmas Catalogue for 1935 is now
ready, and will be sent Free and Post
hree to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
[Handwiuna
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL
irSJ. ea 'ni S V >d : , w i{ haut obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus exvlainina
your Muscular Movement System of Writing £
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘
My Name
My Address
S.B. 436 ..
H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
Carr,,X ecogn js e , services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his <on
H. K. Pnor, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature. y
. ,T£ e , trustee j’ h£ *ve decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year's
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted •
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.) 1 v
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
as f ° th ° Se governing the first year’s competition.
Entries for the second competition wilt close on June 6 1936
and results will be announced within two months thereafter’ The
trustees, who wt'll supply ail relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.’
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize..
The Red Page
A BATCH
OF BRIEFS
The books in
this small batch
are not to be
compared, per-
haps, with any
magnum ap u s
weighing 5 7 1 b., twice circumnavigating
me globe, possuming a family-tree to
the last twigs of 27 branches, or reduc-
ing the gamut ol human emotions or the
whole story of mankind to be a handy
doorstopper. But, in their modest way,
they are at least likeable little fellows.
One ol them, Hugh McCrae’s My
rather and My Father’s Friends, should
already be tamiliar to some, since parts
ot it decorated the Red Page a year or
two ago. In view of that, the book
makes an excellent example of the se
vice of craftsmanship, for, though thos
parts were very good as originally pub-
lished, they have been greatly improver
m the process ot lilting them togethe •
to make a book. As printed here, the
were happy fugitive impressions of th
bright lights of Melbourne’s past literar
generation, seen by Hugh McCrae per
sonally when a boy, or known to him
through his father’s memory anc
mimicry. Now, by cutting and additioi
and with the help of a gift for fittin
literary mosaic, they have been put to
gcther to be a valuable and divertin
icconslruction of all (hose engaging per
sonalities and also the scene in whief
not on!y figuratively, they flourished.
• Inglis Moore, who provides a nicelv
turned foreword to the book, makes
point of the curious difference between
McCrae s poetry and prose. This seem
a strange point to make, because, if i
could ever be said of prose and poetry
from the same pen that it clearly came
iTora the same pen, this surely could be
said of McCrae’s. What really is remark
able about the McCrae phenomenon i
that, in spite of this extraordinary in
heient resemblance, his poetry remains
just as truly poetry as his prose is prose
And in both again begging to differ
from Mr. Moore—the dominant note ap
P ear s to be one of almost boisterous, anc
certainly robust, masculinity. This is
not altered, either, by the truth in
Mr Moore’s excellent definition, that
Met rae s prose style is “as whimsical as
memory itself,” unless, of course, we
allow that whimsicality of mind and
phrase is a feminine prerogative, and that
would rule masculinity out of McCrae’s
poetry also, since this is as whimsical on
most occasions as the spirit is ever
bottled.
it seems, too, to be almost a contradic-
tion in terms to say, as Mr. Moore does:
His prose, however, is feminine and
discursive ; it tacks and veers with wav-
ward gusts,” the first clause of which
conjures up an idea of charming chat-
ter oyer delicate teacups, while the
second clause fairly roars of buccaneers.
McCrae himself speaks of one who “sang
hke a sailor with a top-chain in his
throat, and of another who “made a
whispering-gallery of his beard, so that
he seemed to instruct assassins while he
ordered biscuits and a glass of milk,”
and of another, again, who, because he
was without teeth, “carried in his pocket
a mincing-machine, which, ‘By your
leave, madame!’ he fastened to the table,
m order to chop up his meat.” There is
a quality in all such McCraeisms to which
“tacks and veers with wayward gusts”
seems to apply with fine exactness, be-
cause of the tang of salt, rope, tar, cut
lasses and other boyishly masculine
heartiness that belongs to it.
Boyish,” perhaps, is the real word to
describe it. Anyway, however the quality
of the style is defined, there can be no
differences about the result. The book
is a brimmingly joyous little chap, to
be appreciated for being a piece of
McCrae as much as for its reconstruc-
tion of such people and such scenes as
this: “My father calling upon Horne
one evening, his housekeeper pointed the
way to a paddock, about half a mile off
where he saw him in his shirt anc
trousers, revolving like a couple of Kil-
kenny cats round a horizontal bar. It
was a bright moonlight night, very silent ;
and my father stood there waiting for
him to stop. He performed for fifteen
minutes , and, at last, came off as fresh
as a daisy , . . ceigt seventy!”
lhat was “Orion” Horne; and the
temptation here is to filch a dozen such
glimpses of Marcus Clarke, Kendall
Gordon, and some lesser-known others’
I he excuse (or falling to such temptation
might be- twofold: the good deed of
sharing good things immediately with
others, and the tact lhat no amount of
telling beforehand could spoil a McCrae
story.
The publishers, for their part, have
made a noble little book of it.
Doctors:
Praised and
Blamed
Like McCrae’s,
a happy book,
For and Against
Doctors is a com-
pilation of witty,
appreciative, and
downright nasty
comments upon these people who have
heroically sustained the role of cock-
shies from the days of darkness to these
times of enlightenment, or vice versa.
That the blame very heavily outweighs
the praise, in volume and effect alike, is
only in the nature of those beings upon
whom, as the questionable phrase has it
doctors practise.
Thus, when the Chinese proverb ad-
vises “In a dangerous illness call in three
doctors,” the applause can hardly be ex-
pected to drown that which might greet
the downright German dictum that “No
physician is better than three,” or the
other which declares that “One physician
is better than two, but three are fatal,”
Similarly, the advice of Ecclesiasticus:
Honor a physician with the honor due
unto him for the_ uses which ye may
have of him: for the Lord hath created
him” might stir up a faint “Hear, hear!”
or two, even though the reason might
appear hardly appropriate; but there
are all soils of low people about who
might be relied on to cheer loudly if
told that “Between robbers and physi-
cians is this difference only—that the
former s misdeeds are done in the moun-
tains, oi such wild libels as that doc-
tors are “guilty of 36 main defects and
countless subsidiary ones.” have
perhaps, outgrown the feeling that
Medicine is one of the nine low trades,”
that the physician is “no risible animal ”
and that “A lucky physician is better
than a learned one”; but some may
feel, in Australia at any rate, that there
may have been fair reason for the ancient
ruling “Do not dwell in a city whose
governor is a physician,” especially as
the governor of that time was treasurer
as well!
There is a contemporaneous note in
the majority of these findings, as in this
of the second century: “The skilful doc-
tor knows by observation, the mediocre
doctor by interrogation, the ordinary
doctor by palpitation,” and surely in this
of one century later: “Men worry over
the great number of diseases, while doc-
tors worry over the scarcity of effective
remedies,” while, on the other side, there
is a clear enough link between the find-
ing of Johnson : “They [doctors] do more
good to mankind without a prospect of
reward than any profession of men what-
ever,” and that of Stephen Paget; “If a
doctor’s life may not be a divine voca-
tion, then no life is a vocation, and
nothing is divine.” Sentiments which, of
course, every reasonable person who has
had an agony lifted out of his body will
applaud, even though he might, for that
very same reason, enjoy more than ever
the terse Biblical story; “And Asa in the
thirty and ninth year of his reign was
diseased in his feet, until his disease was
exceeding great: yet in his disease he
sought not to the Lord, but to the
physicians. And Asa slept with his
fathers.”
A Little Tale
of Lunacy
Doctors, at any
rate, can avail
little against one
of the saddest of
all forms of ill-
ness, lunacy,
which David Garnett, in his contribution
to this small batch of briefs, represents
as sympathetically and possibly as under-
standingly as it has ever been repre-
sented. C Carrying the title Beany-eye—
apparently a colloquialism in the part of
England where it is set —it is a superbly
realised study of a simple-minded man
of roughly noble physique, given to out-
bursts of violence. Sympathy and extra-
ordinary understanding are in every line
of it, especially in the depicting of the
turmoil of emotional processes through
winch Beany-eye, christened Joe, Joses
his control of the fury that possesses him,
and turns from taciturn man-about-the-
place to a wild, strange, demoniac figure,
haunting the grounds with an axe.
. leading, it has the quality of excit-
ing experience. Most of the time there
is no consciousness of reading at all.
There is not even the sense of being told
of something that has happened. The
actual happenings seem to be taking
place directly under the eye. When it
is finished the little story of Beany-eye,
how he came and asked for a job about
the place, was engaged, worked like a
Irojan for a while, gathering a fantastic
armory of strange weapons in the shed
where he slept, and finally more than
justified the intuitive fears of the woman
of the household by a series of terrific
outbreaks all these things, and how the
fearlessness of one man could prevail
against him, appear in the reading and
afterwards to have been much more seen
than read about.
Yet the little book has one curious
technical defect which would seem to
make the getting of any such effect im-
possible. It is a defect into which tyros
commonly fall, and in a writer of Gar-
nett s experience and excellence can only
be put down to a perverse determination
to succeed in spite of it. That defect is
to set up a narrator to tell the story in
the first person, and have him narrate
happenings and other matters of which
he was not a witness and could not pos-
sibly have any knowledge. There is great
vaJue °f course, in the first-person
method of narration: there is no better
means of giving verisimilitude to a
strange story. But the author cannot
have it both ways: he cannot mix that
method with the ordinary omniscient
method, whereby the author himself
stands ofl as an invisible but all-seeing
onlooker, aware of all that is going on
on both sides of a wall at the one time.
he fact that this is a defect is obvious
m that even in a writer of Garnett’s
calibre it is at once felt to be one. When
a reader has to stop and ask of the
narrator “Now, how on earth could he
possibly know that ?” then there is cer-
tainly something technically wrong with
the craftsmanship.
Garnett, doubtless, would be well
aware of this, and would be just having
the difficulty on to see what he could do
to it. He does to it as well as could
be expected, and a bit more. His story
hauntingly convinces in spite of that
defect in it. What more can a story do?
Red Page.
[My Father and My Father’s Friends, by
Hugh McCrae (Angus and Robertson; 7s. 6d.);
For and Against Doctors, compiled by Robert
Hutchison and G. M. Wauchope (Arnold;
7s. 6d. net); Beany-eye, by David Garnett
(Chatto and Windus; 65.).]
“Robbery
Under Arms”
Robbery Under
Arms first ran
through the Syd-
ney “Mail,” was
then published in
England, and was
reprinted 44 times up to 1927 ; is still
going strong, and is as popular in Eng-
land as in Australia.
Why?
There is no plot; the whole story
merely the narrative of a bush boy anti
his brother turned bushrangers ; with th
inevitable wiping out of the gang (excep
the narrator, of course) at the finis
Apparently a dull, sordid history
crime and its fitting punishment. Wha
magic is there in a picture with such a
unprepossessing setting to hold its pul
lie so largely and so long?
firstly, the story is alive, from its firs
word to its last. The interest never flag
for a second till the survivor is left mai
ried to a girl too good for him and read
to begin life anew in far-away Queens
land. Though one scene so rapidly sue
ceeds another, the thrill is always there
The second reason is its truth. Thos
of us who have run brumbies and wile
cattle in the mountains know that in the
bad places where we have been—in Bur
ragorang Valley, Monaro, (he Weddin
the eastern range from Eden to the
I weed Jim and Dick Marston migh
have been riding knee to knee with us
ihe Ways of gully-rakers and cattle
duffers after “cleanskins” are set out true
to a hair. The descriptions of the bush
the diggings and their people are as accu
rate as it they had been photographed
ft takes a good while to wear out a
track in a dry country”—in that one
small detail you have the truth of it as a
whole.
Thirdly, the happenings take place in
the most romantic time of Australia’s
the goldrushes
When ' gold was being dug out of the
ground like potatoes” Australians livec
in a dream. The precious metal was so
easdy got, and apparently so inex-
haustible. Bushrangers merely gave the
variety which spiced the life of those
go i geo us, opulent times, when money
lip wed like water and no one knew lack.
It a gold-coach was robbed now and
again (and a few of its escort killed) —
well, there s plenty more where that
came from,” and the diggers forgot it a
week alter it happened in their haste to
dig another fortune.
As to the characters. The best is, of
course, the gentleman turned rogue. Star-
light. It is probably the fact that he is
the dominant character in the book
which makes it so popular with English
readers. It fits in with the “British
spirit which Kipling has exploited so
profitably and so well. Miss Falkland
is (he best woman and Jim Marston the
best man in the book. Aileen Marston
is fine ; so is Maddie Barnes ; George
Storefield and his sister are well drawn,
and so is Warrigal.
The scene is difficult to localise. It is
set somewhere on the Southern-road,
sou -west from Moss Vale. I know only
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the conscience of business,
‘THE SENIOR STORE.'
Anthony Horderns
Postal Address: Box 2 712C, G.P .O.
, Day and Night." PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Phone: M2401
Christmas Gifts to please the most fastidious male
U
■
soic
I
46^
plastic top
X
'S-,
m
As practical as it is novel and attrac-
tive! A compact little gift box that
is a most convenient size for post-
ing, containing one pair of “Hole
proof” Silk and Lisle Hose. Newest ;
tonings. Price, box 4/0 .
ft
- - •/
Ife.
' m
m
,
\,
< / v v
m
m
m
B
22
/
/
Just the gift he would choose for himself! Superior
quality Crepe de Chine Pyjamas with sports or plain collais.
Our own make, which is a guarantee of comfort, fit and
wear. All sizes. At Anthony Horderns’. Price . . 25/-
In Striped Fuji Silk. Price 21 /■
Men’s well-fitting British Broadcloth Pyjamas
with a rich silken sheen. A good range of
colourful striped designs. Small, Medium and
Out'sizes. At Anthony Horderns’. Price, 22/6.
In Horrockses’ Broadcloth. Price .... 18/6
He plays Tennis? Well, here is the ideal gift. A
smart Tennis Shirt in natural Fuji Silk with collar
attached and pocket. At Anthony Horderns’. Price, 10/6.
Better qualities in double weave. Prices . . 12/6, 14/6
XWiS,
rr iv j
■
Ns
immmt
v/* x
ff ‘,'.r..' * «,*W. ■'
h, . I
- vr
bn
126
m
m
* ’ - v , * *
• *' '*
AM& < > v ~ - **
*'*, ;, •
■
,
'. ' '
86
.
mm
;
These smart Art. Silk Tennis Shirts are made to give
reliable wear. In good quality White Spun Art. Silk with
lustrous sheen. Smart shape collar attached and pocket.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price 6/11
This is the kind of gift he will appreciate, especi-
ally during hot weather. A smart Aertex
Cellular Sports Shirt in cool style with short
sleeves. Snappy Check designs. Sizes Ito
17 inch neck. Price 12/6
Also in White. Price 6/9
To please the most particular man. Golf Shirts of soft
pure Silk Crepe de Chine, made in a comfortable style
with two matching collars and double cuffs. Exclusive
stripes of Grey, Blue or Fawn. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 18 / 6
■-?J
/
Men’s Belts made from Grey Suede Calf
Hide and finished with Nickel Silver
Buckle. 1 in. wide. Attractively boxed.
Price 6/6
tm
sssi
Fashionable Silk
Ties in every new
and attractive
design and colour-
ing. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price,
ĵ
At right —
You can’t go wrong if you give him a pair of half hose; and "Stylryte”
make would-be, particularly pleasing because they are renowned for
wear. All-wool in many smart colour combinations. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price 4/6
INITIALLED
Handkerchiefs
Initialled Pyramid Hand-
kerchiefs with Blue or
White letter. Price, 1/6.
Half dozen. Price, 8/9.
Also in Irish Linen with
White letter.
Price, each 1/11
Twill Silk. Price, ea., 3/6.
© Men’s Mercery—Ground
Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.


m
( *
tv
i vi
THE IDEAL CHRISTMAS PRESENT
ALL-ABOUT
The Story of a Black Community on Argyle Station, Kimberley,
Nor’-west Western Australia.
By MARY and ELIZABETH DURACK.
Here, indeed, is the happy book for Christmas, full of good cheer, excellent fun and
a splendid tale of station life in the vast nor’-west of Western Australia. The writers
are daughters of that splendid pioneer of the Kimberleys, Mr. M. P. Durack, and in
collaboration they have written a tale of station life, of intensely interesting natives
who, the writers profoundly realise, are gifted with the joy of laughter, human kind-
liness and true philosophy,
LET “ ALL-ABOUT ” BE YOUR CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
JUST PUBLISHED PRICE 3/6 (Postage 3 d )
All Newsagents or Booksellers throughout Australasia or from the Publishers,
"The, Bulletin," 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
one place in N.S.W. likely to be “Terrible
Hollow.” That is Ringwood Valley,
about half-way between Exeter and Bun-
danoon, due east, near the head of the
Shoalhaven Gullies. There is an aban-
doned coalmine on the western edge. I
tried fruitlessly to explore this sunk
valley with some mates when I was a
boy ; could find no way into it, though
we penetrated to the rocky river below
the coal-shaft, and have not been able to
make the time to try it since. So far as
I know, no white man has ever been
in it.
In a book so good a few slips are
allowaole. The first one is the peculiar
mental attitude of Aileen, George and
Gracey Storefield and others towards the
plunder that the outlaws had ravished
It seemed perfectly right to them that
the ravishers should escape with it to
another country to enjoy it. The idea
that restitution of it to its rightful owners
was the only right way never seems to
have entered their minds!
i * s 9 ld Marston’s dog, the
lurcher Crib. He is mentioned as an old
dog at the beginning of the story, and
dies at his master’s feet at the end-
thirty years or so later. He must have
been a very Methuselah of dogs. The
old mare, with her timber-legs and goose-
rump, is somewhat the same.
bo , ok ™ ns 80 easi, y and con-
nectedly that it seems to have written
itseit. t here is not a superfluous word
m it; and by its polish must actually
have taken years to write. Its author
must have had two minds—a primitive
one which caught the story from the
people concerned in it, and dashed it into
writing; and a cultivated one which took
the rough stone and polished it into the
jewel.
ROBERT KALESKL
Japan and
Australian
Defence
In a strongly
argued pamphlet,
Japan and the
Defence of Aus-
tralia (Robertson
and Mullens;
2s. 6d.), a writer
using the pseudonym “Albatross” briefly
but with thoroughness and unusual frank-
ness examines the large question: “What
justification is there for our concern
about Japanese policy and armaments?”
Australia, he asserts, “should not be
misled into thinking there is no more
behind Japanese policy” of expansion
than appears in the quite rational ex-
planations of her fear of Russia and her
need of supplies and markets and find-
ing employment for her people. “There
is much more behind it” ; chiefly that
“The policy of the services is not solely
one of markets, raw materials and de-
fence, but is also largely one of imperial-
ism and military glory.”
It is in line with (he imperialisms of the
past that conquered other countries not
for the profit of it but for (he glory of it.
Many of the leaders of Japan, in fact,
want_ her to follow the course of other
Empires—to conquer other countries not
for safety or profit but for glory. Or, if
not for glory, at least to satisfy a mission
that we can readily understand if we think
of it as like “the white man’s burden” that
was for long the justification we gave of
our annexation of the lands of colored
peoples.
In pursuit of this policy, the “interests
of the navy lie to the south of Japan.”
It was on the advice of the naval leaders
(hat Japan took possession in 1914 of the
Marshall, Caroline and Pclew islands,
which, but for their urgency, would have
passed to the keeping of Australia. Much
opinion in the navy favors the establish-
ment of Japanese influence, and ultimately
of Japanese control, in other groups to the
south.
The expansion policy can be, and is,
pursued independently of “the policy and
pronouncements of the civil Govern-
ment,” which, for example, had no prior
knowledge of the sudden attack loosed
in Manchuria in 1931, or of other simi-
lar expansion moves. This is possible
because “under the constitutional ar-
rangements of Japan the army and navy
chiefs each have direct access to the
Emperor,” and are therefore in the posi-
tion of “sovereign independent powers,”
so that “the foreign policy of Japan is
not always controlled by the civil Gov-
ernment and is not always to be found
in the statements of the Foreign Office.”
Also “the Japanese Christians, merchants,
journalists and officials who come to
Australia do not voice the views or the
policy of the fighting services or the
patriotic societies.”
There is “scarcely any evidence” that
such views approach “the annexation of
Australia.”
But to leave the answer in uncertainty,
even with a very strong leaning against
the probability of any attempt to conquer
Australia, does not settle what should be
our preparations for defence. For there
have been questions between Japan and
Australia; they may become more press-
ing than they are; and if they do we may
expect to come badly out of their dis-
cussion unless there is some force —ours
or Britain's—behind our diplomacy.
The writer’s view is that of these ques-
tions perhaps only the White Australia
policy might give rise to trouble, though
in normal times that policy “excites little
interest in Japan.”
But anyone who thinks that we can rely
on its never doing so should read the
summaries in newspapers in the English
language published in Japan of articles in
the Japanese press....
in particular, those written on the racial
equality discussions at the 1919 Peace
Conference and during the first assembly
of the League in 1920.
These glimpses of Japanese opinion can
leave no doubt (hat it would only need
some untoward incident, in a time of stress,
to raise a storm of fury in Japan against
Australia —as indeed Mr. W. M. Hughes
went near to doing by his opposition to
the racial equality amendment in Paris in
1919.
Or, it is suggested, trouble might occur
at a time when the Japanese Navy wished
to follow a forward policy—in which case
we might expect the use of force against
us or our trade, with general popular sup-
port in Japan; or the question might only
be with the civil Government, but with
sufficient insistence on their part to show
that we must consider well before we re-
fused their demands.
It is at this point, the writer argues,
that the need of armaments on our part
becomes apparent.
Even if we were convinced that there
was no plan to invade or annex Australia,
there would still be need for armaments
to deter any foreign country from lightly
threatening us in any diplomatic question.
In case we were threatened, we ought, to
have the most effective sort of armaments
to enable us to repel invasion or raids or
threats to trade.
His conclusion on this question of “the
most effective sort of armaments” favors
land forces and aircraft: “....our re-
liance should be on land forces and air-
craft, supplemented by small naval craft
such as submarines and destroyers, and
not on a fleet of cruisers and larger
ships.” He suggests the possibility of an
attack being launched at a time when the
British Navy was elsewhere engaged, and
in view of this argues for radical revi-
sion of the doctrine underlying the plans
for the defence of Australia. “Our plans
should be made in the expectation, not
that the British Navy will be available
after local means of defence have served
us for a few months, but that we shall
have to rely solely and finally on our own
resources and preparations.”
A Satchel of Books
Dead Man Inside, by Vincent Starrett
(Master Thriller Library; 7s. 6d.\
Chicago as setting ; naturally, therefore,
a plurality of murders. But no gore
flows —the murderer’s method ensures
that The weakness is the theme —r-r-re-
venge bottled up by a cultured gentle-
man for 20 years over a college prank.
F.a.q. thriller.
Down the Dark Alley, by Bertrand
W. Sinclair (Hodder and Stoughton :
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), is a novel by a
Canadian, and as a Canuck is a 100 p.c.
American it may be gathered that the
style is racy. But Sinclair, whose
romance has its setting in Vancouver
and its period in the days when rum-
running was British Columbia’s most
profitable industry, can draw character,
describe scenery and put many ingenious
quirks into a fast-moving adventure yarn.
The sort of book that impels you to read
it at a sitting.
Ships and How They Sailed the Seven
Seas, by Hendrik Willem van Loon
(Harrap ; 10s. 6d. net). A determination
to be confidentially breezy at all costs
and a proneness to sermonise on all occa-
sions here, as elsewhere, detract from
this author’s presentation of the infor-
mation he industriously amasses. Those
who do not mind his manner —some
really enjoy it —will find in this volume
a good running story of the development
of ships, from the crudest dugouts to
the beginnings of the present-day liners.
Van Loon lays himself out to debunk
all romantic notions about the glorious
days of sailing. “The improvement in
the life of the average sailor during my
own space of life has been much greater
than that which took place during the
previous forty thousand years.” Hither-
to, all ships were “floating gaols.”
Whisky and Scotland, by Neil M.
Gunn (Routledge ; 5s. net). As well as
being a good outline story of the de-
velopment of whisky, from the time
when a mythical man in skins dis-
covered it and was amazed, this small
book is also part of the expression of
the strong national sentiment that has
been building very freely in Scotland
over the last two decades.
The Highlander—the Scot—does not
want to be a bcggiir. He docs not like
to be told that he is not paying his way
like an Englishman. He is beginning to
feel that the exploitation of his whisky is
a parable for the exploitation of much else.
One day he may wake up/ and in the lace
of so much conquering decide that some
civilising (despite Mr. Buchan) is at last
due an innings.
Scots, especially, will enjoy it, and any-
one else who drinks whisky may gather
some interesting and perhaps astonishing
information from it.
Woods’s Australian Diaries (John
Andrew and Co., Sydney). The 1936
series has 84 varieties, ranging from,
midgets, costing 6d., to elaborate fools-
cap-size ones, costing 16s. They are
well bound, the quality of the paper is
good, and, apart from their usefulness
as diaries, each contains handy informa-
tion regarding such matters as taxation,
postage rates, eclipses, holidays.
Confessions of a Journalist (Whit-
combe and Tombs ; 6s.). That forceful
and resourceful newspaperman Pat
Lawlor reminisces about the chaps he
has met on the Inky Way in Australia
and Maoriland. He started as a copy-
holder on Wellington “Evening Post” in
Gresley Lukin’s time, and after many
years and a great variety of experience
migrated to Sydney in 1922. He knew
Henry Lawson, Frank Morton, Dick
Harris, Godfrey Turner and quite a lot
of the living writers and artists who have
made a name in Australasia. His refer-
ences to one and all are kindly (Lawlor
isn’t the sort of chap to capitalise spite
or scandal), and every old-timer in jour-
nalism (and a lot who just knew the
writing tribe) will find his recollections
pleasantly entertaining.
Sefton Brancher, by Norman Mac-
millan (Heinemann ; 21s. net). To write
a brilliant Life in the literary sense re-
quires the complete previous assimila-
tion by the author of all the material
available and a re-presentation amount-
ing to original creative work. This is
more a source book for such a future
Life of the great airman and air-leader
who might be said to have lost his life
4 pursuing an ideal that linked with Aus-
tralia. If the proposed dirigible route to
India and Australia had become a fact,
it would have been chiefly because he
had persistently advocated it from the
end of the war onward ; and it was, of
course, in one of Britain’s ambitious
dirigibles that he was killed. A good
deal of this Life of him, which is by a
leading fellow-airman, is in Sir Sefton
Brancker’s own words —an interesting
bulk of unfinished memoirs, dealing
largely with his war service, association
with Kitchener, Lloyd George and
others, the creation and performance of
the British Air Force and the post-war
establishment of civil aviation. Austra-
lian fliers in the war impressed him
strongly. “The Australian squadrons,”
he wrote, “proved a great success and
did magnificently.” Again: “We tapped
that wonderful source of good pilots, the
Australian Light Horse,” and he wrote
also that he “had the good fortune” to
have the first Australian Squadron under
his command in 1917, “and it was mag-
nificent.”
The admirable little “Australian Wild
Life,” official organ of the Wild Life Pre-
servation Society of Australia, features in
its second issue a review of the society’s
activities throughout the year. The ex-
cellent work being done for our flora
and fauna can be read about, with kin-
dred matters of interest, for an outlay of
sixpence.
European Civilisation and Politics
Since 1815, by Erik Achorn (Harrap ;
18s. 6d.). Everyone must admire the
intention of such attempts as this. It is
to take the vast subject indicated in the
title and deal with it so that a child of
12 might be able to understand it. A
disadvantage is that this involves illustra-
tion, demonstration and explanation of
matters that anybody but a C-grade in-
telligence should be able to grasp on
sight, and the result is a vast number
of words that have to be ploughed
through for nothing.
Every outstanding figure in history is in
part a leader, in part merely the product
of his age. The extent to which the
quality of leadership predominates is the
measure of his greatness. The number of
great men is small, and Metternich was
not great. Nevertheless he had his points.
He knew what he wanted —an essential in
a man of action —and he knew what the
conservatives wanted. Since the two coin-
cided, he at least could not be accused of
hypocrisy.
And so on. Still, for those who do not
mind the ploughing, there is certainly
a vast amount of material in this solid
tome.
West Maitland (N.S.W.) is celebrating
its centenary, and the Maitland “Daily
Mercury,” 93 years old as a newspaper
(42 of them as a daily), is out with a
neatly-arranged supplement. The history
of the town, from the time it was The
Camp and Molly Morgan was the social
light, is dealt with at length, and there
are photos, of old Maitland to interest
old Maitlanders. Others will find some-
thing of the State’s early history to in-
terest them, too.


American
De Luxe
UNIVEX
FOLDING CAMERA
The LOWEST-PRICED and MOST RELIABLE
Pocket or Handbag Size Folding Camera on the
Market.
Fitted with Synchromatic Lens, New and Easy Peep-sight method
of Focussing. No delay when taking a picture, springs open ready
for use at the press of a button.
Takes Good, Sharp, Crystal-clear Pictures,
PORTRAITS, SNAPS or TIME EXPOSURES.
The Fine-grained Negatives ensure Perfect Enlargements of your
Favourite Snaps
Unbreakable, made of Rustless Metal and beautifully finished in
shades of Black, Brown or Grey.
Attractively and artistically boxed for Presentation Purposes.
Illustrated and Printed Instructions with each.
MODERN
DESIGN ,
COMPACT
AND
LIGHT.
Only
156
POST
FREE
j
j
Daylight Loading. ULTRACHROME ROLL FILMS, Bd. per Spool (6 Exposures)
4UI
m
as
■
V*
The
GROSVENOR
DICTA TOR
OVAL or FLAT TOP.
Sensational New Racket!
AT LAST!! THE UNBREAKABLE TENNIS
RACKET FRAME
This remarkable Racket is Guaranteed Unbreakable under any
playing conditions.
The “DICTATOR” may also be restrung again and again and the Frame
remains as good as new. Our Salesman will demonstrate this indestructible
Racket on request
Specially-constructed 4-Piece English Ash with two Overlays of Genuine
Raw Hide and an additional Inlay of Walnut. Shoulders reinforced with
Fibre on inner side and Genuine Raw Hide on outer. ege ver ay,
Fibre reinforced.
A highly-polished and attractive Racket.
Strung with High-grade Gut.
GUARANTEE:
100 OATS ON FRAME,
100 DAYS ON GUT.
PRICE ,
so-
The Grosvenor Latest Model “J. O. ANDERSON,” All White Racket. . 75/-
The Grosvenor “ARROW-SHOT” Flat Top. Latest Model 52/6
The Grosvenor “PERFECTO” Oval Shape. Latest Model 52/6
100 Days’ Guarantee on Gut, 60 Days’ on above Frames.
The Alexander “CRESSY PERFECT” or “CRESSY WIZARD” 75/-
The Spalding “KRO FLITE” or “TOP FLITE” 75/-
The Slazenger “FLOATING POWER” or “CAVALIER,” Flat or Oval, 75/-
100 Days’ Guarantee on Gut. 30 Days’ on Frames.
All the above Rackets are strung with Edwards’, Klipspringer
Bentley’s First-grade Gut.
The “GOLDO”
MARQUEE MOTOR
TENTS
LISTED BELOW
have hand-sewn Pole Holes, and
are reinforced throughout with
high-grade Canvas. Top of
Tent has Roped Wall Plate and
is shaped exactly to fit.
The 6ft. Walls are made from
9oz. Duck and are reinforced
with Webbing. Poles are made
from selected Timber. Price
includes convertible Partition,
Telescopic Poles, Pegs, Guy
Ropes, Metal Rope Adjusters
and a Canvas Bag to contain the
whole Outfit.
Other features are a two-piece
Front Wall, either one or both
of which may be extended to
form an Awning, Laced Corners
on Walls, and many other im-
provements which make the
"Goldo” Marquee Tent the last
word in modern convenience and
comfort for Motor Camping.
SQUARE or COTTAGE TENTS.
Made from Heavy ENGLISH
“GOLDO” TENTING. Superior
make only. and Best
Workmanship throughout.
6xB, 14/6; 8 x 10. 19/11;
10 x 12, 26/11.
TENT FLYS, made from Heavy
ENGLISH “GOLDO” TENTING.
8 x 10, 8/3; 9 x 11. 9/9;
10 x 12, 11/3; 12 x 12. 13/9;
12 x 14. 15/3.
Enjoy Motor Camping
«***- «. fc
■I X
X: A
i /
“Goldo” Marquee Motor Tents
Special Make and Extra Strong Construction.
Sizes.
Q uality of T °P- J 12 x _12j_13 x 13 j 14 x 14j 15 x 13 | IS x 15
15oz. Waterproof | £ s. d. | £ s. d. | £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
White Duck ... | 6 10 6 | 7 16|7 116| 7 16 0! 886
“G.M.” Khaki I I I I I
Proofed Duck . . \ 7 15 6 | 8 10 6 | 9 5 6 j 9 6 0 | 10 5 3
Greenark Cloth or j j j |
Bir k my re 8 6 3|9 3 6|9 19 6|10 5 6 j 11 5 6
Marquee Auto Tents
Webbed Walls, 6ft. high, of 9oz. Duck.
Complete with Telescopic Poles, Ropes, Pegs, etc.
Quality of Top.
15oz. Waterproof White Duck
“G.M.” Khaki Proofed Duck
Greenark Cloth or Birkmyre .
Sizes.
12x12 12x14
£4 19 6 | £5 12 6
6 0 0 ] 6 11 0
6 14 0 1 7 6 0
MOTOR
COVERS, TARPAULINS and Camp Equipment
Lowest Prices. Write for Catalogue.
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JODHPURS
Vi
LADIES’ OR MEN’S JODHPURS
Well-tailored in Saddletwist Gabardine. IC/ 1 1
Usually 27/6 pair. Now, pair iO 1 1
LADIES’ OR MEN’S RIDING BREECHES
Strong and Smart Saddletwist. All sizes, -t e\ /
Usually 25/- pair. NOW, pair i Z/D
MEN’S RIDING BREECHES
Men’s High-grade Bedford Cord Riding
Breeches, particularly well tailored to fit. q- //j
Per Pair AI X)
Men’s Gabardine Riding Breeches, smart and /n
serviceable.. Per Pair
In Special Grade Gabardine. Per Pair, 35/- and 39/6,
All-Wool Bedford Cord Riding Breeches.
Special make. Per Pair D
PULL-ON KNEE-LENGTH WELLINGTON
RIDING BOOTS
Black or Tan. All Sizes. Ladies’ or Men’s.
Usually 37/6 pair. SPECIAL PRICE, pair. £.5/-
LEGGINGS
Solid Hide, Plain Strapped, Blocked.
Per Pair • • Z 1 “
Solid Polished Smooth Tan Cow Hide. 97/6
Blocked, Spring Front. Per Pair
All High-grade Goods at Lowest
Prices.
Write for Free Catalogues.
MAIL ORDERS POST FREE.
FREIGHT EXTRA only on Heavy Articles,
such as TENTS, TARPAULINS, etc.
ĵ
429 GEORGE ST.
(CORNER MARKET STREET),
SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years. ’Phone: 85748.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
WST
' -
m
wm
.
aiiiia
.
■■='.■!
w
m
£ ' - .
mm
m
i
; .v, .
HB m
.'. '■’■■■' ' ' :
i m
ft’.. *,
m
:
mmMa Wmm
V ,
■y- :,.; ,
r.’
:J
H
-
.
II
mm
i
.
M
I I
m»&<mv&
|p|
1 \; r !
1
U
am nan
m&mn
zr,
m
Wmmmmm
MP
' > ' • 's. ' '
, ■ ■■.
r "
■
■
5 I Wmm
.. juam
Wy*
' v
; , f
■
:
'
■
,
«n
Interior of One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —No. 2911.
November 27, 1935.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF EVENTS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
OUR GLORIOUS PRESS.
Meeting in Melbourne, the Australian Press Associa-
tion, representative of the leading daily newspapers-of
every State, listened without a blush to its chairman’s
unblushing assertion that the “association’s cable and
wireless service was founded on the principle of
prompt world-wide coverage of news without pre-
judice and with the utmost breadth of thought.”
This in the midst of an orgy of palpable untruths,
manifest absurdities, manufactured sensations and
ignorant nonsense inspired by the wretched Abyssinian
“war.”
The “war” has straggled along for nearly two
months, in which time there has been one combat.
It is difficult, “without prejudice and with the utmost
breadth of thought,” to sustain news interest so long
in so unfruitful a topic. At least, it is difficult to do
so at a pitch consistent with satisfying the craving
for hourly excitements which the newspapers—not the
gutter press, but the great dailies of every city of the
Commonwealth —would seem to consider it their
duty to keep feverishly alive.
In Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Adelaide,
Hobart they tell together the same stories at the same
time. And what stories they are!
Tales of those amazing warriors the “fierce
Danakils,” who creep into enemy lines at night
“slaughtering sleepers round the campfires.” Or those
“most terrifying troops” the famous Gofas, who not
only “do not care for God or man, and refuse to pay
their bills,” but “use the rifle sitting down, holding it
in the right hand and resting the barrel between the
first two toes of the right foot.” A manoeuvre which
leaves “the left leg and hand free, and with their aid
the soldier shuffles forward —it is said he is capable of
advancing two miles without a pause.” Here, too,
those awe-inspiring “guerilla bands, known as the
‘Legions of Death,’ ” and, surely most fearsome of all,
“the men of Galla,” who, numbering in their ranks
“men with one leg or one arm, and some even blind,”
go barbarously and hideously forth to slaughter.
Among these are some so primitive—or so primitive
the imaginations which report them—that “they are
even trying to make cartridges by filling up empty
cases with match-heads as explosives,” doubtless at
the behest of “the chief soothsayer in Abyssinia, after
reading the omens.” Yet they achieve dazzling feats
of arms. “The Abyssinians captured 200 bombs, two
tents and 15 police whistles” —though it has to be
regretfully recorded that “two died of fright”!
Meet, surely, in such situations —or in such report-
ing—that strong men should weep: “The Emperor
wept when he heard of the fall of Askum” ; “the
Abuna, the head of the Abyssinian Church, weepingly
promised to spread the news”; the Governor of Harar
stood “with tears streaming down his face”; “The
Italian Minister at Addis Ababa is continually
bemoaning his lost career. He weeps frequently.”
Not surprising, with such examples, that “Waizero
Shamerga Gaby, the wealthy daughter of a former
chieftain,” should have set out to “lead her own army
of 15,000 towards Adowa,” or that “General Nasibu
has now recognised as warriors the women who per-
sisted in following the men, carrying cooking-pots and
babies,” and has “issued to them old rifles, with which
many cheerfully climbed on lorries bound for the
front.” There they may emulate the medal-winning
effort of “Waizero Assagedich, the wife of General
Habte Michail, whom she accompanied to the front
in defiance of the Emperor’s orders,” and, when
“General Michail was about to retreat, proved that the
female of the species is more deadly than the male
by hastening to another outpost, taking command of
the occupants and cheering them on to an assault,
which she personally led, routing the Italians.”
Here, too, marches Ras Getatchu, whose “bulk
and physiognomy are reminiscent of Henry VIII.”
The very name of Getatchu spells terror. This doughty
Ras leads those fierce Galla tribesmen from the so-
called “Golden Province” who, on their way to the
front, “bore hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth
of gold, from ingots to dust, piling it up on the tables
of the Armenian dealers in the market-place, which
were high with the gleaming metal.” Thus “it will be
unnecessary to touch the former Emperor Menelik’s
£10,000,000 treasure,” buried with him in his tomb,
together with “'Menelik’s invocation of God’s curse
upon those disturbing the gold except in time of
national peril.”
Such is this feast of piffle to which we are daily
invited, “without prejudice and with the utmost
breadth of thought,” by the A.P.A. press. Nothing is
too casually gathered, too sob-stirring, too scare-
mongering to be beneath its dignity or beyond its
credulity. Pinning its faith to the wildest rumors, it
gives out as authentic fact that Mussolini has become
insane, that a serious quarrel has occurred between
Mussolini and the King of Italy, that Italian digging-
parties arc working over the battlefields of the last
war in a desperate effort to recover usable shells!
One day it can report a “Dr. Vockman, an Ameri-
can Red Cross organiser,” as saying that “Italian
aeroplanes are using dum-dum bullets.” Next day he
has become “Dr. Robert Hockman, head of the
American hospital at Addis Ababa,” and his report
is that “the Italians are using chlorine-gas bombs”
and that “Abyssinians were wounded with explosive
bullets.” A week later “Dr. Hockman declared that
he had not seen a single case of gas-poisoning. He
did not believe that the Italians were employing gas,
and denied that he had ever said so.” Meanwhile,
rumor from another source sets flaring headlines pro-
claiming again “Gas and Dum-dum Bullets,” used
“against troops, women, children and animals.”
To such travesty of truth, reason, “breadth of
thought” are we brought by a daily press which,
informing the public mind with this monstrous serial
insult to commonsense, seeks at the same time to lead
public opinion to allegiance with the lofty idealism
of the League!
AERIAL DEFENCE.
W. M. Hughes might have gone a lot further than
he did in his plea for an efficient Australian “air
navy.” And few experts arc likely to agree with him
that the policy which the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has pursued in the last year or two shows a
distinct advance.
Mr. Hughes says that Mr. Parkhill “is pressing
forward vigorously with a policy of building up an
effective air force.” All that Mr. Parkhill is doing is to
complete the first part of Air-Marshal Salmond’s plan,
which is several years old —in a word, obsolescent.
The spearhead of the air force consists of
17 Hawker Demons, which are not the latest thing in
fighters, though an immense improvement on the old
Bulldogs and Wapitis. Twenty-five more modern ones
and 24 Seagull Amphibians are to be added next year.
When the programme is complete there will be one
machine to every 14,870 square miles of country.
When Britain has added 2000 ’planes to its aerial
armada, as its Government plans to do—most of them
a year ahead of Mr. Parkhill’s flock in design—it will
have 3400-odd machines—one to every 35 square miles
of land area, including Ireland.
A lot of nonsense is talked about air warfare, and
much of it is given out by those who should know
most about it. Nations which have strong air forces
exaggerate their effectiveness, serving up examples of
the destruction of stationary ships and of successful
“attacks” on fleets insufficiently guarded. Other
countries smile at the suggestions, having faith in their
anti-aircraft measures.
Continental nations which saw Britain raided
again and again during the war have the offensive
complex. Britain, which suffered the raiding, has
developed the defensive technique. By 1918, even
with the imperfect defences then available, attack on
British cities and arsenals had become so costly to the
invader as to be scarcely worth the candle. The last
German raid on London by 45 ’planes, including giant
Gothas, did little damage; the invaders cleared out
after losing at least 25 per cent, of their machines.
At the same time, Britain’s defences against aerial
attack are a guide to the preparations that we must
make. Towards the end of the war scarcely a capital
ship had more than an improvised defence against air-
craft. In the past decade every warship down to light
cruisers has been fitted adequately with 4in. AA guns ;
the elevation of most other guns has been altered, and
superstructures have been reorganised and rearmored.
Finding and ranging apparatus installed in the past
two years has rendered attack by bombers highly
perilous.
Nevertheless, these very precautions show that the
aeroplane is an acknowledged menace to naval craft.
And, with the development of the torpedo-’plane,
which is in its infancy, it may become a greater
menace, though defensive developments keep pace with
offensive developments.
Australia does not possess one machine which
could do any mischief to the smallest capital ship.
The same principle that should be and is not applied
to the sea needs to be applied to the air. As the
R.A.N. should have (as it did have) at least one battle-
cruiser capable of standing up to any ship in the
Pacific, so there should be a squadron of heavy
bombers and air torpedo craft, adequately supported
with defensive fighters. And as much we need efficient
modern anti-aircraft defence which could blanket
attackers out of the industrial centres and cities
which would be the heart of Australia in war-time.
A powerful long-range air force would be all the
more useful since the essence of any attack which
aims at invasion must be troop-carriers and supply-
ships, both highly vulnerable to aerial bombers. Com-
munications following a landing would have to be
maintained with merchant vessels; and merchant
vessels cannot with perfect safety be aerially convoyed
over long sea distances while the threatened country
has an air force capable of disputing their passage.
HARVEST OF THE SEA.
Transfer of the Commonwealth Fisheries Investiga-
tion Branch to the Council for Scientific and Indus-
trial Research should bring about some definite and
useful action towards utilising the vast supplies of
sea-food which abound off our coasts, and which are
as yet unexploited except in a desultory and wasteful
manner.
After a century and a half from the days when
Governor Phillip sent William Bryant out to fish for
the starving little settlement at Sydney Cove, Australia’s
domestic production of fish is inadequate for the needs
of the coastal cities and towns. In the back country
sea-food of Australian origin is a rare and expensive
luxury. We imported in 1932-33 fish and oysters to
the value of £766,127, and exported £9087 worth. We
consume 131 b. per head annually ; Britain consumes
421 b. Next to nothing is being done to develop fish-
preserving or the manufacture of by-products.
Presuming—and it is a substantial presumption—
that the industry is got on its legs despite armchair
administrators and their tax-collecting colleagues, it
will be necessary to develop it in new directions. Most
of the work done by the Endeavour, and most of the
State attempts of the last couple of decades, have been
towards the development of trawling, a method of
fish-capture for which only relatively small areas of
the continental shelf are at all suitable. The Aus-
tralian food-fishes which provide the best prospects
of commercial return and of the employment of
substantial numbers of men (who would be priceless
for mine-sweeping in time of war) are surface-
swimming species. For their capture, methods of
netting are required which have hitherto been used
little in our waters, or not at all.
To take one example, the sea-mullet, in its annual
autumnal migrations northward along the coasts of
N. S. Wales, Queensland and Westralia, moves in
shoals containing tens of thousands of tons of first-
rate edible food, eminently suitable for canning,
smoking or other methods of preserving. The roes,
smoked, fetch up to 2s. a pound in Australia, and up
to 7s. 6d. a pound in Port Said and other Near East
ports, where they are supposed by an immense popu-
lation to possess medicinal value. At the migrating
season the fish are full of fat, yielding oil in large
quantity from any surplus not used for food.
Present methods of capturing sea-mullet are
merely wasteful and inimical to their breeding habits.
Regulated systems of taking toll from the migrating
shoals before they approach their estuarial spawning-
grounds have been in use for centuries in Europe and
other countries—our sea-mullet is of world-wide dis-
tribution in temperate and tropic seas—and should be
adopted here by agreement between States and
Commonwealth. The same applies to other species.
Australian salmon, garfish and sprats all afford an
immense field of industry and an immense supply of
sea-food, both for domestic consumption and for
export.
Despite our clerical rulers, despite our seven tax-
ing systems, despite arbitration awards wtyich take no
account of time, tide, season or weather,- it is up to
us as a people to make use of the wealth which the
sea brings to our very door, and to establish a fisher-
fleet which would be an increasingly valuable auxiliary
to the R.A.N.
There has been a deal of talk about Japanese
“poaching” of trochus- and pearl-shrill within our
alleged sea-boundaries. A shoal of fish which travels
more than three miles from any shore or island of
the Australian coast is the common property of all
nations. We make brave gestures from Canberra con-
cerning “sanctions” against a first-rate European Power
which is getting very hungry in the effort to secure a
bit of country that will save it from getting hungrier.
We have nearer at hand another first-rate Power whose
population mainly lives on fish and whose fish-supplies
are getting shorter every year. Most of the migrating
millions we waste go outside the three-mile limit —
well outside it in many places, as the Japanese well
know.
There is nothing to prevent a 10,000-ton
factory-ship from operating on these migrating fish-
shoals. Such a vessel could carry scores of net-boats
and hundreds of miles of nets, with the men to work
them. Nothing in international law allows any inter-
ference with a vessel thus operating, or with the supply
to her of fuel or other needs by her nationals or
others. And already it is reported from Tokio that
such craft may be dispatched to operate on the sea-
bream (prized by Japanese) with which North West-
ralian waters teem.
BRAY ROCK.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Kicking the Watchdog.
Treasurer Casey is not to be congratulated on his
attempt to administer a “rebuke” to the retiring
Auditor-General because of that gentleman’s expressed
dissatisfaction with the manner in which the Common-
wealth finances are presented to (or concealed from)
the taxpayers, and with the loose administration of
the Pensions Acts. As for the politicians who have
issued veiled threats that they will punish Mr.
Cerutty by depriving him of his furlough allowance,
they would be ill-advised to try it.
Briefly put, an Auditor-General’s job is that of
a watchdog. His powers of biting are limited, but
Mr. Cerutty has done a great deal of useful bark-
ing. And it is neither a sensible nor a sporting thing
to allow persons whose manoeuvres have aroused the
watchdog’s honest bark to put the boot into him.
Mr. Cerutty’s principal offence in the eyes of
would-be boot-wielders has been to insist that a con-
tributory scheme of national insurance has become
necessary. He has laid stress on the fact that the
annual cost of old-age and invalid pensions is
£12,770,000, and that between 1921 and 1933 the
number of pensioners increased by 77 per cent.,
whereas the increase in total population was under
22 per cent.
He has said bluntly that political considerations
have been mainly responsible for the huge increase
in cost. He has also very plainly told the Lyons
Government that it is taxing in advance of neces-
sity and obscuring the allotment of vast sums under
cloak of published statements and returns which
cannot be actuarily checked.
All these things are part of Mr. Cerutty’s duty
under the terms of his appointment. He has per-
formed an unpleasant duty fearlessly, and, despite
political “rebukes” and threats, the thanks of every
Australian citizen are due to him. And, inert as they
may have been, the people won't stand by and see him
victimised.
4
Mr. Hartigan “Explains.”
It has not been revealed in Parliament nor in any
Sydney newspaper why Commissioner Hartigan and
the Assistant Secretary of Railways travelled from
North America in the Lurline, a subsidised U.S.A.
luxury liner, when the Monowai, one of those British
passenger steamers whose existence is threatened by
U.S.A. luxury liners, arrived in Sydney three days
before. But Mr. Hartigan, it transpires, made a con-
fidant of the Sydney correspondent of the “Argus”:
I wanted to observe how they handled the tourist
traffic and to get into touch with the tourists travelling
by that line so that 1 might learn what attracted them
to different countries.
The obvious reply is that Mr. Hartigan is not
paid £5OOO a year (“less cut”) for being a tourist agent,
and that, in any case, tourists are not “attracted” by
train travelling.
It would have been wiser of Mr. Hartigan and
the Assistant Secretary of Railways to return by the
Monowai, as did F. H. Stewart, M.H.R., the Under
Secretary for Employment, and J. M. Dunningham,
the N.S.W. Minister of Labor and Industry. Mr.
Dunningham came back with an obvious contempt
for past efforts to “popularise” the tourist trade by
forcing trippers to see the country in Government
trains. Even Sydney people, he says, though over-
supplied with Government railways (he did not say
that, but it is a fact), are unfamiliar with beauty-spots
adjacent to Sydney “which, with a well-planned pro-
gramme of road construction and a subsequent motor-
coach service, would soon become well patronised
tourist and pleasure resorts.” Motor-coach services
there must be:
It is possible to travel all over Britain and Europe
by comfortable motor-coaches at a rate that is really
amazingly cheap. Provision for accommodation is in-
cluded in the fare. In America the same standard
is maintained. The motor-coach trip across the con-
tinent, from New York to San Francisco, which can
be made for 40 dollars, is an example of the cheapness
of this form of travel.
That was contributed to the “Telegraph.” In an
address to Automotive Industries men, reported in
the “Sun,” Mr. Dunningham said:
Tourist traffic by motor is now regarded among
the principal industries in many countries. Wherever
possible abroad I travelled by motor coach, because
of its cheapness and its facilities for observation, not
possible in train-travelling.
If Mr. Hartigan had “travelled British,” as did
this mere member of the Government that appointed
him —and raised his salary, and acquiesced when he
raised the salaries of his headquarters staff, though
all the money came out of the taxpayers’ pockets —he
might have weaned Mr. Dunningham from these dan-
gerous ideas. However, it may be presumed that he
had interesting and improving conversations aboard
the Lurline with those inveterate tourists Mr. Perry
and Mr. Norman Brookes.
4
“Happy Days Are Here Again.”
It must be pleasant to be a member of a Queensland
Labor Ministry. In three years ten Ministers have
charged up £15,571 for travelling expenses, not count-
ing trips in 10 Ministerial cars.
Mr. Bulcock, the Agriculture and Stock man,
doesn’t seem to be playing the game according to
Queensland Labor rules. Last year he spent only
£l7B, whereas Mr. Pease, in his activities for Lands,
needed £1567. Mr. Pease’s hotel expenses amounted
to £632. Mr. Forgan Smith, although Premier, required
only £373 for this item, and £B7O for all travelling;
but he, of course, is Scotch.
Ten Ministers is a liberal allowance, seeing that
there is probably sufficient work for eight; but it
seems that ten Ministerial cars are not enough. The
ten Ministers (who, of course, have free passes over
the Government railways) spent £1567 in car-hire.
Mr. Pease splashed £356 ; Mr. Bulcock’s bill came
to £27.
Mr. Bulcock appears to be an inactive and inhos-
pitable person. Something should be done about him
as a bad advertisement for the Return of Prosperity
to Queensland, of which Mr. Pease (who refers to
himself as “the best Lands Minister the State ever
had”) is so illustrious and modest an example.
4
St. Kilda and Its Dykes.
In fine weather a broad esplanade flanks St. Kilda
(Vic.) beach, and on the other side of the road there.is
a respectable collection of residences and flats. But
when a storm arises this part of St. Kilda becomes
another Holland, except that it has ineffective dykes.
The sea-wall which has been erected to prevent the
inrushing waves might as well be absent. The billows
sweep over the top, fill the roadway and trespass upon
the private property on the far side.
Such is the experience of South St. Kilda almost
every winter. During the past twelve months it has
suffered three times. To-day, the usual wrangle is
developing among various public bodies as to the
responsibility for making the hinterland safe.
Very sensible and attractive is the plan put
forward by Road Boards chairman McCormack. It
would provide an ample beach, protect the roadways
and houses from flooding and improve the appearance
of the whole foreshore. The McCormack idea is to
adopt the military principle of carrying the war into
the enemy’s camp. In place of submitting to sea
encroachment, he would encroach upon the sea and,
by means of a sand-pump dredge, carry the beach out
to a point where there is now several feet of water.
At that point a sea-wall could be erected to prevent
stormwater being blown in, and a strand would be
left for the pleasure of kiddies and grown-ups. The
annual bill would be negligible after the initial cost.
This method of protecting St. Kilda is only part
of a big scheme which Mr. McCormack has outlined.
At present the southern road from St. Kilda to
Sorrento —a distance of about 60 miles —winds along
the top of the cliffs and is woefully inadequate to
carry holiday traffic, which is immense. The
McCormack plan would provide for filling in a stretch
all the way with sand, making a lower road and
utilising both thoroughfares for one-way traffic. Inci-
dentally, it would give a 60-mile stretch of sandy
beaches, whereas at present there is merely a succes-
sion, alternating with rocky heaps and plain precipices.
4
“The Bulletin’s” Christmas Number.
The Christmas Bulletin, which will be published on
December 11, will contain, in addition to the usual
weekly features, upwards of 50 cartoons, drawings
and joke-blocks by leading Australian artists and a
splendid collection of short stories and verse, includ-
ing yarns by Katharine Susannah Prichard, F. D.
Davison, Mervyn Skipper and other well-known writers.
The enlarged issue will contain 68 pages, and the
price will be, as usual, sixpence.
4
The Shark “Menace.”
Last summer The Bulletin criticised the aerial surf
patrol which spots sharks along the Sydney beaches,
on the grounds that it was of little practical value and
tended to make people unnecessarily shark-conscious.
Surf clubs are now also waking up to this fact,
and are beginning to fear that warnings meant to
frighten people out of the water will eventually
frighten them away from the beaches.
The statement was attributed to one pilot that
he had seen “no fewer than 100 sharks within a radius
[sic] of 500 yards of the shore,” and “could tell tales
that would turn surfers pale.” Rather too reminiscent
of the Fat Boy in Pickwick Papers, with his desire “to
make your flesh creep.”
No one disputes that there are sharks along the
eastern coast of Australia ; but through undue pub-
licity the impression is being created that whole
schools of them swim ceaselessly up and down the
surfing beaches ever on the lookout for human prey,
and that they prefer it above all other food. If the
legend is true, then an overwhelming percentage of
sharks must go to the grave (or its ocean equivalent)
with their epicurean taste unsatisfied, for in 18 years
total deaths from shark attacks on Sydney beaches
have not reached 30.
It is the horrible and gruesome nature of the
death, magnified and headlined by the daily papers,
that exaggerates the danger in the popular mind.
Hundreds of thousands of persons go surfing every
week throughout the season. If a case of drowning
occurs it is doubtful whether one person (apart from
the victim) is deterred from swimming as a result; but
after a shark tragedy, with half a page of lurid details,
there is always a falling off in surfing crowds.
Business people whose trade depends on the
popularity of the beaches are complaining about the
“shark-scare” on this score, but the trouble goes
deeper than that.
It is accepted that it is in the national interest
to attract oversea visitors to Australia, and our
national publicity people cite, among other attractions
for the tourist, “our unrivalled beaches.”
Is it to be expected that these will lure visitors
when papers and cables are dispatched to other coun-
tries emphasising and exaggerating the dangers of those
same unrivalled beaches? Already articles have
appeared in French and American papers giving the
impression that, beautiful though Australian beaches
are, the risk of shark attack is so great that all but
the most foolhardy are afraid to enter the water.
does not call for aerial patrols and
expensive netting schemes, but should be looked at
in its proper perspective. In proportion to the num-
bers indulging in the two pastimes, the risk of death
from shark attack while surfing is no greater than
the risk of death from heart-failure while playing
bowls.
Melbourne University.
The pleasant old gentlemen who control Melbourne
University raised a hornet’s nest when they imported
Vice-Chancellor Priestley. It was perhaps expected
that Dr. Priestley would just carry on and present an
acceptable picture of an English gentleman, wearing
the right sort of clothes and partaking of social
amenities with grace and aplomb. But Dr. Priestley
has turned out a totally different sort of vice-
chancellor.
Ever since he became aware of the financial
position Dr. Priestley has come out into the open. He
blames nobody ; he simply states the facts ; and those
facts, which cannot be denied or dodged, reveal that
Melbourne University is drifting to bankruptcy.
The position has become desperate. For several
years, Dr. Priestley told the council last week, the
University has been underfinanced by from £30,000 to
£40,000 a year. Professor Osborne in his annual
report stated that the Medical School was taxed to
its limits and would have to refuse to accept students.
Professor Wood Jones reported that, while every
modern university recognised that there should be one
demonstrator in anatomy to every 16 students, Mel-
bourne had one for every 100 students.
Chancellor Barrett held that the student paid only
40 per cent, of the cost of his education. He advo-
cated increase of fees for lectures and examinations.
Though such may possibly be unavoidable, it will be
a retrograde step. In the United States every State
university is not only free, but books and equipment
are provided. San Francisco, with the twin city of
Oakland, has a population equal to that of Mel-
bourne ; it possesses two universities, one free.
Together, these universities have enrolled a body of
students which numbers as many as the Universities
of Oxford, Cambridge, Liverpool, Manchester, Glas-
gow and Edinburgh put together.
If California can contrive to run Berkeley with-
out charging its army of students anything for their
tuition or examinations, it is strange that Melbourne
should be taking the backward step of making what
should be the very cream of the population pay for
the shortsighted parsimony of past politicians.
4
The Two Voices.
For years there has been nothing to laugh at in the
condition of N.S.W. coalminers ; but the proceedings
of their Red and Pink leaders have been food for
ironical mirth. They never tire of lauding the Soviet
and all its works, and every year a miners’ delegate
goes to Russia, and returns with a glowing account
of the marvels he saw. Yet, it now appears that piece-
work is universal in “the Workers’ Republic,” and, on
the evidence of Molotov, boss of the People’s Com-
missars, “Stakhanovism is sweeping through the
country like a mighty torrent.”
What is Stakhanovism?
A cult inspired by the achievement of Stakhanov,
a coalminer, who, with a pneumatic pick, hewed 778
tons of coal in a six-hour shift.
“With a pneumatic pick”! In N.S.W. Red and
Pink leaders, while continuing their flow of flap-
doodle about Russia, have united against “mechanisa-
tion,” and threaten an old-man strike unless its
progress is arrested.
♦
Waste of Water.
In Australia water conservation is known only where
it is easy. It is confined almost entirely to Murray
and Murrumbidgee systems. Land irrigated for crops
in N. S. Wales last year was reckoned at 130,000
acres ; in Victoria at 478,000 acres ; in Australia at
693,000 acres. The whole of the vast area of Queens-
land had only 31,000 acres of irrigated cropland.
In normal monsoons the Thompson flows through
Central Queensland up to 40 miles wide. Its waters
go to waste in Lake Eyre, and drought leaves only
artesian supplies, which have declined 44.1 per cent,
in flow since 1914. Allowing for the loss of natural
increase, the price of the neglect in this district alone
since 1926 has been 12,000,000 sheep. The equivalent
in Australian pounds, put into improvement of water-
courses, catchment holes, dams and the diversion of
some rivers to storage reservoirs along the Dividing
Range and the ranges along the southern Barcoo and
Upper Bui 100, would, taking the long view, save
millions of sheep.
It is idle to say that nothing can be done. Every
Australian river has waterholes which are almost
permanent. There are several on the Barcoo and the
Georgina and other northern rivers which are known
to every drover. Some survived long droughts. Why
should hundreds more not be created artificially? A
study of the conditions under which waterholes and
billabongs exist would be worth while, particularly in
their relation to their suitability as dam sites and as
to the creation of fresh ones.
Further south, the Warrego - Paroo - Narran -
Mclntyre-Severn systems flood the countryside at
times. At other times it is hard to believe that rain
falls there at all. Some of these rivers present all the
features round which power and irrigation schemes
can be built. The Mclntyre and the Severn drain
hundreds of square miles of mountain country, as
does the Dumaresq. It has been estimated by the
engineer of the Ashford Shire Council that these three
rivers disgorge 100,000,000,000 gallons of water a
year. Six months ago the Mclntyre overflow drowned
thousands of sheep. At the moment, sheep and cattle
in the same region are dying of thirst.
Millions of acres of comparatively rich sheep
land suffer every year or. two from drought in the
central-north of N. S. Wales, between Moree, Col-
larenebri and Boggabilla. The matter is to be taken
up seriously—a public meeting, called by the Ashford
Council and embracing interests from about 10,000,000
acres of affected country, is being held at Narrabri
to-day. „ .. ~ ,
A proper water survey of Australia, with plans
for using water resources in the best manner possible,
is badly needed.


Sciety
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bukshi Sahib”: I regret that I shall
be unable to show my face at Hyderabad
for the Nizam’s jubilee tamasha. H.H.
is the richest man in the world—intrinsic
riches at that, and not paper —but it is
going to cost him a few lakhs. One of
his obligations will be a free feed to his
subjects, and he has 15,000,000. Also he
will have to drive through Hyderabad
daily in his silver landau scattering new-
minted rupees. All this is for the
common people only. What will stick to
the fingers of officialdom and family
hangers-on in the way of dusturi is in-
calculable, to say nothing of the legiti-
mate gifts to brother potentates and dis-
tinguished visitors. The British Resi-
dent will be about the only man who will
get nothing out of it all except a wreath
or two of marigolds.
* * * *
“Quayeau”: A soldier was reported
missing after the Bullecourt stunt in
1917 ; somebody reported that he had
been seeri the following day, and he was
posted as a deserter. Three years later,
nothing more having been heard of him,
the army discharged him as an “illegal
absentee.” Writing to his brother
before his disappearance, he said he
had made a will, which was in his
paybook, “leaving all to you: see you
get it.” Last week the brother applied
to a Sydney Court for grant of probate
as executor. Counsel argued that the
phrase “See you get it” gave the letter a
testamentary character, but ’Sonah
quoted case law to show that he couldn’t
grant probate on the letter, as such. But
he could, and did, grant it on the strength
of the reference to the will iff the pay-
book, though the paybook could not, of
course, be produced.
* « * :j:
“Oxmead”: A thing that has always
puzzled me is why living models are sup-
posed to be essential for painters,
whereas nobody has ever suggested that
poets, who are equally concerned with
holding the mirror up to life and nature,
need anything of the sort. An artist
ought to know perfectly well what (say)
a woman looks like underneath her
clothes; if he can’t feature it in his
mind’s eye all the art galleries he’s been
to can’t have done him much good. But,
no, he must have flesh-and-blood to in-
spire him, whereas the poet can sit down
and write a sonnet to his mistress’s eye-
brows, or a ballade to her’ankles, or a
lyrical ode to any other part of her
anatomy, with his eyes shut. And it is
quite likely to be just as good and true
and vivid in its way as any picture. Pos-
sibly there are erotic poets who need
models the “bubble-in-stirred-cream”
impressionist quoted in a recent Bulle-
tin among them—but I never met one.
Nor have I ever met an artist who would
admit that he could get along without
them.
* * * *
“Sixenale”: The other day a card was
put into my hand: “Throw Off Your
Chains! Free Yourself from Bondage!”
No, it was not Communist propaganda :
the exordium continued: “Have your
wife watched ; a divorce will free you
from payment of that alimony.” The
private inquiry agent added that since
a decision that misconduct on the part
of the wife, proved in the Children’s
Court, freed the husband from liability
he had achieved such marked success in
his efforts on behalf of chained man-
hood that he was now prepared to work
on a no-win-no-pay basis. It just shows
we’re moving anyhow ; time was when a
woman could have a string of lovers but
still send hubby to gaol if the alimony
wasn’t forthcoming.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The argument which 1
hatched about the oont and his capacity
seems to have hatched more addled eggs
than any other literary hen for a year,
largely because Palestine had more
addled historians. “Centurion” (B.
13/11/ ’35) says there were 50,000 Arabs
to help Lawrence in demoralising Turkish
“Would you mind showing my little boy how to dance the hornpipe?"
transport, and, anyhow, the Arabs
didn’t do it. 1 doubt if there were
4000 Arabs engaged up till Allenby’s
arrival. And I did not credit Lawrence
with the whole job on the Medina line.
The fact remains that his teacher and all
his later coadjutors mainly did their work
with Arabs and camels until the days of
the big push. In the month before
Akaba, Lawrence and his party rode
1500 miles, providing their own forage—
it was oh that trip that he first spied out
Damascus. Comparison with horse per-
formances may be had from any war
history— most describe breathlessly the
ride of the sth Indian Division from the
Nablus-road lines into Nazareth, 52 miles
in a single day—Lawrence’s daily average
for a month.
H: Jjs Jfc 5*C
“Adelaide”: Decided by an Adelaide
Court that a stockman who fractured
his spine while diving into a* waterhole
earned no compensation for his widow.
The custom of a swim after mustering
stock was admitted. But the Judge said
“Cleanliness extends to washing, not to
diving. It was no part of his course of
employment.”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”; “Double Express” is still a
little wide of the mark (B. 20/11/’35).
Admittedly the Pomeroy was not in-
tended for use in general warfare, but
grounding Zepps in flames was still
warfare. Lieut. Leefe Robinson brought
down the first rigid “flamer” over Eng-
land at Cuffley, in the first combat
demonstration of the Pomeroy. Tracer
bullets are more than a “tiny bit of phos-
phorus.” They contain thermit, which
burns at 5000 deg. Fahr., and can be easily
seen against the glaring orb of the sun
itself, when phosphorus wouldn’t leave
even a streak. Think of 5000 deg. of heat
plunging into the petrol-tank! And the
tracer is really more inhuman than the
Pomeroy when plunged into a living
body ; the one shatters, the other burns.
Allied airmen, forced down in enemy
territory, would ditch, if possible, their
remaining tracer ammunition. The Ger-
mans usually gave short shrift to those
caught with it.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Aero Club of S.A. has
started a strong move to have the “old”
or Victoria Park racecourse made Adel-
aide’s ’drome. The present airport is 10
miles out at Parafield, whereas the city’s
park-lands system offers an easy and
absolutely central landing-place. Racing
is carried on only 15 days in the year.
For that matter, a ’drome could be
arranged almost anywhere round the
parkdands belt, at the sacrifice of a few
goalposts and the like.
* * * *
“El V.”: Ralph Harwood, named
King’s Financial Secretary, has risen from
a job as a telegraphist, and it is sug-
gested that this is phenomenal. It is
nothing of the sort in a realm where
the King’s Royal Commissioner in Scot-
land, who succeeded a royal prince,
was a miner, John Brown, who lived
in a two-roomed cottage, and where,
in two recent years, the Vice-Cham-
berlain at Buckingham Palace was
an ex-police constable. Actually, the
public offices at the palace are run
on a scale more modest than some Aus-
tralian Government offices, and the same
applies in the British civil service. Only
officials whose ceremonial needs call for
a little grandeur get it. I remember
the horror of an Australian official pil-
grim when I took him to see one of the
knighted heads of the Dominions Office
some years ago. We found him sitting
in a room scarcely big enough to swing a
cat in and working in an alpaca office
coat much the worse for wear.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Lieut. Jean-Gabriel Win-
naert, a French officer now in Australia,
is troubled in turning Australian collo-
quialisms, and especially abo. phrases,
into French in preparing a translation of
Lasse ter* s Last Ride. The same diffi-
culty worried many Diggers. “Pas bon
pour Gundy” was a common expression
of the A.I.F. man on Paris leave who de-
sired to turn down the importunities of
people selling various commodities, while
the acme was reached by a private who,
wishing to indulge in a mild gamble, de-
manded of a poilu: “Ou est I’Ecole du
Deux Haut ?”
* * * *
“R.M.A.”: “Double Disc” is wrong
when he says (B. 20/11/’35) of the
Royal Marines marching through the
city of London that “it was the first time
for over 200 years they had exercised
their ancient right.” The right was
exercised at Queen Victoria’s jubilee in
1897. We came up from Portsmouth
to the Guards’ Barracks, marched to the
city boundary, halted, fixed bayonets and
marched through the city (being artil-
lery we carried the rifle at the shoulder).
On reaching the city limits, bayonets
were unfixed, and we marched to St.
George’s Square, which we lined with
the Ist Life Guards.
* * * *
“Ex-9th”: I don’t know who was the
first Australian to enter Damascus (B.
6/11/’35), but the sight which appealed
to me most on reaching the heart of the
city was that of two Light Horsemen,
leaning against a tramway standard,
watching the progress of the troops as
nonchalantly as if it had been a Sal-
vation Army procession in their native
land. Brother Turk, busy with measures
for his own departure, had neither time
nor transport to spare for a couple of
stray prisoners, captured a couple of
nights previously.
* * * * ■
“M.R.P.”: If Ccduna (S.A.) residents
looked sideways at the autogyro (B.
13/11 /’35) Adelaideans at least made the
journey from W.A. profitable for the
pilots. With a small paddock on the
South-road as a landing ground, short
trips were offered during a week-end at
10s. a head. Over 200 trippers went aloft
on (he Sunday alone, and as many motors
came out from the city with loads of
sightseers. There were still customers
waiting on Monday, when the pilots shut
up shop.
♦ * * *
“Gantry”: A fine bit of work has been
done in Melbourne by demolishing the
old Presbyterian church in West Mel-
bourne —it stood opposite the Law
Courts —and re-erecting it, stone by
stone, at Box Hill. The building is im-
mortalised in one of Shirlow’s best etch-
ings ; the time and trouble taken in
numbering every stone and replacing it
have been well worth while. Rebuilding
of ancient structures is common enough
in Europe, but rare in Australia. Still,
it has been done previously ; (he old St.
James Anglican church in Melbourne was
moved about a mile from its original site
and re-erected without a joint showing.
* * * *
“Basilcus”: Ex-King George of
Greece, who has been prevailed upon
to have another shot at being the figure-
head of that turbulent realm, is evi-
dently an optimist. Perhaps this is be-
cause there is no Hellene blood in him ;
his grandfather, the first of the dynasty,
was a Dane with a Russian
wife, and his father mar-
ried a Prussian princess.
Very little luck has come
the way of the house
since the throne was ac-
cepted by the Danish
prince in 1863, after
being hawked about
Europe for months —Aus-
tralia’s old acquaintance
the Duke of Edinburgh
could have had it, and so
could the Earl of Derby.
The first George certainly
reigned nearly half a cen-
tury before he was assas-
sinated by a half-witted
drunk, but Constantine,
his son, who had been
exiled when Crown Prince,
was escorted to the fron-
tier twice when he was
king, and the second
deposition was perma-
nent. The present George’s younger
brother, who was preferred to him by
the ruling faction, died from the bite of
a pet monkey. George had one year of
kingship (1923-24) before he suffered the
same fate as his dad.
* * * *
“Leech”: A North Queensland lady
has written to a hospital committee
asserting that the hospital surgeon,
operating on her for a sore toe, had
removed a perfectly sound one. Inquiry
showed that the lady had initialled the
discharge book “0.K.” when leaving
and did not make the reported discovery
until some time after she had got home.
If the thing were referred to a Scotch
jury I suppose the verdict would be
“not proven.”
# * * *
“Findy”: A Glasgow meenister on loan
to Australia has declared that there is
an active Home Rule movement in Scot-
land on the ground that the bare-kneed
partner in the U.K. is not receiving its
fair due. Just what Scotland’s fair due
is it would be hard to say. Its Parliamen-
tary representation comprises 12.3 p.c. of
the membership of Westminster, whereas
on a population basis it would be entitled
to only 10.7 p.c. From a taxation
viewpoint it certainly can’t be the loser,
and the doors of the civil service are
wide open to its sons. Quite a number
of British Prime Ministers have been
Scotsmen, and one of the prime qualifi-
cations in applicants for the position
of cook at a Dominion or Colonial Gov-
ernment Hoose is the ability to truss a
haggis.
EX-KINGS.
“Mv. Lloyd George will take a sunshine holiday
for six months. Mr. Winston Churchill, it is
expected, will be left free to cultivate bis garden
and his water-colors.”
One erst bestrode the world like a Colossus;
His was the driving force, the stirring speech,
The vision (keen as that of Caius Cossus)
For things beyond the normal optic’s reach.
The other—ah! in bygone years how gaily
And cpntidently was he tipped to sit
In the high place of Gladstone and Disraeli,
Of Palmerston and Pitt!
Where are they now? The cunning Cambrian
wizard,
The Marlborough’s indefatigable heir?
Say, are their flowing locks as shorn and
scissored
As once indomitable Samson’s were
That one may loaf about among lonia’s
Fair islands, freed from office’s restraints,
What time the other merely pots- begonias
And messes round with paints?
It’s hard to keep a good man down, by
thunder!
You’ve heard that aphorism, 1 suspect.
But when the best of us are down and under
It seems we’re harder still to resurrect.
It’s just as true of pugs as politicians.
Athletes and orators, you’ll all agree,
All kinds and sorts of blokes and all con-
ditions
Right down to you and me.
The winter wind, as Shakspeafe notes, is
blindly
Nipping and all too often rough and rude,
But, on the whole, comparatively kindly
Compared with human beings’ ingratitude.
They idolised ’em once who now contemn ’em
As busted bladders and as blunted nails,
The scion of the conqueror at Blenheim,
The wonder man from Wales.
Crack hardy, chaps! And* go your ways un-
daunted
And stoically scorn your grief to tell
At being tossed aside, unwept, unwanted.
Who once were counted indispensable.
Tis (he world’s way, and what’s the use of
hollerin’?
There’s lots of others know the same tight
shoes,
The same loose ends, from William Hohen-
zollern
To William Morris Hughes.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jae”: I hadn’t seen him since the
early days of the Australian navy, when
boots, even when ashore, were anathema
to him. As my steamer drew alongside
the jetty of an S.A. outport I noticed
my old shipmate in a well-fitting blue
serge suit. We shook hands, and he threw
down his lighted cigarette, crushing it
under his bare foot. “Still do without
boots, Tom,” I remarked. “Aw, I’ve
got a pair ’ome. Y’ see, the missus
likes me to take her to the pitchers now
and again, an’ the crowd laughs at a
feller when ’e goes in without boots.”
H* »I* ; k Jk
“El V.”: Surely “Kellick” (B.
20/11/’35) doesn’t call losing a few
fingers by putting them in a dying shark’s
mouth a “strange accident.” It cer-
tainly isn’t so strange as that which befel
a North Queenslander who stood up on
his saddle to take a black cockatoo’s
eggs out of a hollow limb. The horse
moved on, and his hand caught in the
barrel of the limb. His corpse was
brought home later.
5k 5k ;J: *
“Grandimarzsh”; Touching free-and-
easy conditions in gaols, when I was in
Samarai years ago the gaoler lent the
only white prisoner a book. His boarder
was a foreigner and a painfully slow
reader. His sentence ended before he
had finished the novel, and he declined
to leave unless the gaoler would lend it
to him. The latter refused to part with
it, and the engrossed reader served two
extra days for the pleasure of finishing
the book. I forget who was the author,
but what an ad. the publishers could
have made of the incident if they had
ever heard of it!
“N.7.Y.”; Recent paragraphs about
home-from-home gaols set me thinking
of the old lockup at Urandangie (W.Q.).
I was driving into town once, with my
wife beside me. As I passed the police
station there was a roar as a figure rose
from a swag lying in the cell, darted
through the open door and shot across
the road, calling greetings to me and the
missus. I pulled up to see who it was,
and recognised old Billy Boggs, a cham-
pion fencer. “What’s the idea of dossing
there?” I asked. “And, if you are in
the boob, why don’t they shut the door
on you?” “I’m not run in yet,” Bill
proclaimed. “I know what’s going to
happen to me, though, and I might as
well make myself comfortable and have
all my things with me as have ’em scat-
tered about the town when my time
does come.”
5k 5k 5k 5k
“Inaha”: There is gloom in M.L. bank-
ing houses. No longer does the teller
tell with a merry whistle or the ledger-
keeper ledger-keep with a song in his
heart. In its dying hours Parliament
landed a cruel blow on the whole fra-
ternity by reducing the number of bank
holidays from 13 to 10. St. Andrew, St.
George and St. Patrick henceforth will
be only a memory to bank clerks.
* $ $ *
“Bo”: Apropos the telephone cable
being laid across Bass Strait, the first
attempt to join the Speck to Victoria by
a submarine cable was made in 1859.
Constant bickerings between the captains
of the H.M.S. Victoria and the s.s. Omeo,
who were supposed to be working in con-
junction, marred the early proceedings.
Then rough weather compelled the cut-
ting and buoying of the cable, which was
later rejoined. Several breaks occurred
and, through faulty insulation, the cable,
though it operated for a time, was never
a success, the £53,000 project being aban-
doned a year later. Still, the blunders
served some purpose ; the engineers lay-
ing the Atlantic cable profited by them.
“ Mother , I'm sure his love is cooling. He's gone out to collect the eggs
without kissing me.”
“Shep”: Somewhat different from the
experience of the mother trying to get her
girl a typewriting billet (B. 20/11/’35)
was that of a matron of my acquaint-
ance. Herself the possessor of a Juno-
esque figure, she was extremely proud
of her daughter’s streamlines, and took
her to a dressmaker's showroom to apply
for a temporary job over the Christmas
rush. The wearied proprietress displayed
no enthusiasm when ma stressed her
daughter’s youthful slenderness ; she had
dozens of such applicants, she said.
Then, as if by afterthought, she asked ma
to stay behind for a moment, and there-
upon offered her a post, telling her that
many young women of hefty build
felt their poundage too keenly when con-
fronted by an ultra-slender attendant.
There were also older clients who pre-
ferred a mannequin of somewhere near
their own girth to display the latest styles.
So the end of it was that, instead of the
“ My , ain't she lucky? Alwuz 'as some bloke chasin' 'er”
damsel adding a bit of extra income for
Christmas, she did the housework whilst
ma sold frocks.
* * * *
“Felo”: In the old days when two
persons made a suicide pact and one
died, the survivor was likely to be hanged
for murder. Criminal codes are more
merciful nowadays, and the murder
charge is no longer laid. A young farm
laborer in Westralia and a married
woman, some years his senior, decided
on poisoning themselves together. She
died ; he lived, to be convicted of
“aiding” the lady “to kill herself.” It
was urged that he had been of good
character, that the affair was a youthful
folly —a crime of passion, as it were —
and that the death pact may have been
suggested by the woman. But the C.J.
pointed out that the penalty was the same
as the maximum for manslaughter ; also
that the survivor had provided the
poison and mixed the fatal dose. Two
years’ imprisonment, and that was “a
light term compared to what it might
have been.”
* * * *
“Footlighter”; I can go one better
than “Hamfat” (B. 13/11/ ’35) with re-
gard to the padding of actors. Went
“behind” one night, curious to see how
an actor friend, a slim, almost skinny,
individual in private life, was trans-
formed for stage purposes into a burly
he-man. The mystery was explained in his
dressing-room. He was not padded—pad-
ding was something that belonged to the
dark ages of drama. His dresser merely
lifted from him what was practically a
cuirass of papier mache, to which his tunic
was attached. That cardboard form had
seemingly been modelled from the figure
of some heavyweight pug. It gave the
wearer nine inches more round the chest
and provided a “foundation gar-
ment” which ensured a creaseless tunic
throughout his act. Of course, had he
been required to take part in an all-in
scrap with the villain or indulge in some
ground and lofty tumbling, the robot
figure would have been useless. But
this was an opera in which he had simply
to stroll round at the head of his Bara-
tarian troops, sing a couple of songs and
cuddle a few girls. The cuirass must have
made the cuddling highly unsatisfactory
for the girls, but the same hardships had
to be borne by all male humanity in
the days when women wore the old-type
corsets.
5}C $ ;j:
“Ghag”: Whilst not presuming to sug-
gest an actual cure for hay fever (B.
6/11/’35), I can confidently recommend
a remedy, passed on to me some years
ago by an old sailor, for minimising the
distressing effects. It is simple enough;
the idea is to keep the patient for three
to four hours in an atmosphere of 32deg.
Fahrenheit, or colder if you like. Any
freezing chamber will do. Over a period
of years my experience of the freezing
method has been that, whilst the degree
of relief varies, it never fails to benefit
the sufferer.
*l* * * >1:
“Gilbert”: Man-made holes (B.
6/11/ ’35)? The Yallourn opencut
measures a Tew yards short of a mile in
length, and 880 yards in width; the
depth ranges to 220 ft. Nearly nine mil-
lion cubic yards of overburden and 18
million tons of coal have been taken
from this excavation in 11 years. When
the Latrobe and Morwell rivers over-
flowed their banks last December, the
cut was filled —4750 million gallons. The
colossal task of removing this water was
performed by seven 24-inch high-speed
centrifugal pumps working continuously
for upwards of four months. “J.G.’s”
clayhole at Victoria-street, Brunswick
(Vic.), is a rabbit burrow in comparison.
“Tweedledum”: Ever since the boom
in goldmining and the price of gold it
has been urged that it is up to the Com-
monwealth Government to follow the
example of South Africa and take a large
slice of the premium. Claude de
Bernales, the most successful mining pro-
moter Westralia has had since the roar-
ing ’nineties, who admits that the leni-
ency of Australian Governments in this
regard is warmly approved by the Lon-
don investor, has been suggesting a
reason for' the difference between the
Commonwealth and the Union.
Heavy taxation on the gold industry in
SoQth Africa is looked upon as payment
by the mineowners for the right >to em-
ploy colored labor.... The Australian
mineowner is a supporter of the White
Australia policy, and he looks upon
Australian Governments’ fair taxation of
the industry as their contribution towards
the maintenance of that policy.
Plausible, but not convincing. The
right to employ Colored labor must neces-
sarily be extended to everyone in a coun-
try where the native population is num-
bered in millions. The Australian mine-
owner, however sturdy a patriot he may
be in the matter of the color line,
couldn’t get black labor if he wanted it.
* *k ❖ sjc
“G.M.”: Isn’t it about time to cease
the farce of giving elaborate “floral
tributes” to performers on first nights?
The gift of flowers to an actress origi-
nated in the graceful
and logical gesture of
somebody in the audi-
ence expressing admira-
tion of her acting by
throwing his own
flowers to her. The
preparation of an
ornate mass of flora,
hours before the cur-
tain rises, to be handed
up whether the recipi-
ent acts well or ill, is
simply a form of
blatant boost which de-
ceives nobody, and
pleases nobody but the
actress. Further, it
causes the audience to suspect that the
majority of the blooms come from the
management and are charged up to
publicity account.
* * * *
“Runa”: Another parsley superstition
(B. 20/11 /’35) is that bad luck will surely
pursue the person who accepts the gift
of a root. To ensure safety, parsley must
be grown from seed. It sounds like a
marketing stunt sponsored by some
enterprising florist.
* * * *
“El V.”: Under the heading “Iron
Duke Wanted to Give Duleep Sing an
Innings,” the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
publishes “an original letter written by
the Duke of Wellington in 1858.” For
an old gentleman who had been dead
six years the Duke wrote a wonderfully
clear and steady hand.
BALLADE OF LIVE WEIGHT.
“An Australian girl is wanted to act as under-
study to a Hollywood film star, now on her way
here. She must 'be a natural blonde, with blue
eyes and a slim, attractive figure, about sft. 2in.
arid a few pounds under eight stone.”
She must be blonde, as Helen or Oenone
Or hapless Rosamond may well have been.
Her figure, not too plump nor yet too bony,
Should subtly illustrate the happy mean,
The witching borderland that lies between
The fat and thin. And when it comes to weight
Disclosed by any accurate machine
She mustn’t send the pointer up to eight.
Her eyes will be of blue, not hard and stony
Like that in gems such as the turquoise seen.
Or that queer shade that in your owny-owny
Occasionally wavers into green.
But real blue, suggestive of the sheen
Of summer skies or willow-patterned plate.
And, whether twenty-five or seventeen,
She’s got to scale a trifle under eight.
Her lout ensemble must be trig and tony,
Her smile seductive and her pose serene;
Her checks as soft as silk or macaroni
(The latter when it’s cooked, of course, I
mean).
Some five-foot-two of beauty clear and clean
She needs must measure, when she’s standing
straight,
And even in the scantiest gabardine
Her “stoneage” must be something less than
eight.
Come, Jess and Joan and Julie, Jane and Jean!
There’ll be no lack of you, 1 calculate.
But if you want to be a talkie queen
Or understudy one upon the screen
Be warned! You musin’l tip the beam at
eight.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Cool to your tongue
K
(jZetyi&fit&eSL
Kind to your throat
****%•'
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
20/or I^6
10/or9 and
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
After dawdling in their fashion till
new-season’s wheat was arriving, the
politicians have dropped their plan for
a home-consumption price. Butler (S.A.)
and Collier (W.A.) wouldn’t have it.
They don’t object to the principle, but
a home-consumption price would be no
good to farmers who have had crop
failures, and there are heaps in that
position in South Aus. and Westralia
alike. So a reluctant Canberra Govern-
ment will be driven to continue the flour
tax.
J. H. Thomas has been transferred
from the Dominions Office to the Colonial
Office, and Ramsay MacDonald’s son
from Colonies to Dominions. Mac-
Donald may be an improvement on
Thomas, but it seems queer that only
Little Englanders belonging to an ex-
ploded Labor group should have been
considered for jobs requiring imperial
minds.
It is reported from the North Pacific
that Manchukuo is to have a baby
brother. A fat baby brother with three
times the population of Manchukuo and
including Peiping, the old Imperial capi-
tal of China, and the ports of Shanhai-
kwan, Tientsin, Weihai-wei and Tsingtau.
Manchukuo uttered its first cry on
Jan. 1, 1932.
The conference of grants-receiving
Governments which was to have staged
a large-scale eruption of grievances has
been called off. A prudent measure, for
it would have reminded taxpayers in
States which don’t get grants that they
provide each Government trading on its
grievances with a large part of its revenue
and nearly all its loan money. And they
might develop grievances and threaten to
secede.
Mussolini has recalled a sexagenarian
commander from Abyssinia and replaced
him with another. Sydney’s Mr. Stevens,
who believes that “Crown employees,”
politicians excepted, are too old at sixty,
is now convinced that the campaign will
come a thud.
Westralia’s Secesh League must
imagine that people have got over the
shock occasioned by the revelation that
the Perth Government paid one of its
silver-jubilee delegates to London £l7OO,
besides allowing each gent. £1022 for
exes. It has ordered Collier to ignore
the House of Commons committee’s
report, and “accomplish secession by
passing a bill.” Rather than “accom-
plish” the loss of all the easy Common-
wealth money he is getting (about
£2,500,000 this year) Collier would have
the league carted bodily to the Nullarbor
Plain and lost in a pathless cave.
Dunstan has obliged Casey by intro-
ducing a bill making the Vic. income-tax
law uniform with the Commonwealth’s ;
but it is not to be passed until next ses-
sion. Three-fourths of the really useful
measures brought down in State Parlia-
ments are postponed “until next session.”
Sometimes there is no next session for
the postponing Government, though
Dunstan, commanding a third of the
votes in the House, is certain that he can
carry on.
As a delicate reminder that Codlin’s
the friend, Lyons introduced the bill ex-
tending repat. benefits on the day the
Diggers began their Federal conference
in Sydney. The measure provides pen-
sions for the prematurely-aged (soldiers
at 60, nurses at 55), unemployables, t.b.
cases not hitherto pensioned, and com-
muted-pension cases in which disabilities
have developed. The Diggers’ confer-
ence expressed its appreciation, re-
elected Dyett, its permanent president—
and caused a motion demanding the
restoration of compulsory training to be
withdrawn. A debate on that subject
would have been embarrassing.
“It is no accident,” said “S. M.
Herald,” with the sapience that distin-
guishes it, “that Japan’s political and
economic aims coincide with these new
moves in North China.” Precisely ; and
it is no accident that the moves in North
China coincide with the moves against
Italy, of which the “Herald” is so hys-
terical a supporter. China is also a
member of the League, and all its fellow-
members guaranteed its territorial in-
tegrity and promised to protect it.
Vic. Leg. Council in a recent debate
vigorously denounced the sale of con-
traceptives. But doesn’t the Council itself
represent the application of contracep-
tive principles to popular legislation?
The 40-hour week is being introduced
—in N.S.W., of course, and in a sheltered
calling. Labor-controlled municipal
councils are conceding the alleged boon
to their employees “to make more
work”—which will be less work if the
supply of insurance-co. loans, bank over-
drafts, Government „ subventions and
rate-money runs short. In Lang’s dis-
trict of Auburn the council has given the
THE OLD LADY SHOWS HER METTLE.
“Here yah! Piper! Latest sensyshun! Two and a half Abyssinians almost
decimated! Piper! Piper!!”
corporation laborer the 40-hour week
and a 2s. rise so that he may contribute
to a superannuation scheme. At the
same time it is negotiating for a £30,000
loan. There is always a catch in these
things.
In four years to 1933-34, the last year
reported on, N.S.W. Government rail-
way refreshment-rooms went £40,000 to
the bad ; and the Auditor-General says
the ’32-33 and ’33-34 losses were “under-
stated by reason of the inadequate pro-
vision made for depreciation.” Neverthe-
less, a great new cafeteria is to be opened
presently at Wynyard station. There is
no need for it, since Wynyard caters only
for suburban traffic and there are scores
of hotels, restaurants and teashops in
the neighborhood. If the anti-socialism
of Stevens and Bruxner is not a whole
sham, they will veto this impudent pro-
ject for competing with taxpayers by a
department that pays neither rates nor
taxes and has piled up £28,000,000 of
losses in ten years.
Hughes was dismissed from the
Ministry for publishing his honest con-
victions about “sanctions” and the
neglected defences. Cerutty was stig-
matised as a malicious liar because he
published his honest convictions about
the way in which the Commonwealth
accounts are kept, the extraction of huge
unexpended amounts from taxpayers and
the size of the old-age pensions bill; and
he is threatened with a penalty of £1530,
the equivalent of twelve months’ accrued
leave. So the expression of honest con-
victions on matters of vital importance
has been added to the sky-stabbing
pyramid of offences. Australia is getting
abundance of evidence that eternal
vigilance is the price of liberty.
There are cheerful faces in the Gov-
ernment departments at Adelaide since
the accursed Commonwealth came down
with a £1,750,000 grant. Parliament has
merrily handed out increases all round,
dating them back in many cases, so on
November 29 9000 Government em-
ployees will divide £60,700 in “retrospec-
tive pay.” To June 30, the new rates
will add £104,000 to State expenditure,
exclusive of increases to Government em-
ployees paid by the day. Presumably, if
another deficit threatens, Casey will avert
it with another grant.
Defending “producer-control,” as he
and Lang call it, Stevens declared that
“all the British agricultural industries are
being reorganised by means of boards
and bounties.” But it doesn’t follow
that the British elector approves of
these measures. The one Conservative
Minister hard-pressed on November
14 was Elliot, the Minister of Agri-
culture, whose 1931 majority of ..9066
was reduced to two when the returning
officer thought he had finished his job ;
then another 200 votes turned up, and
they put Elliot 149 ahead. Labor alleges
bungling or worse, and a petition for an-
other poll has gone in. Had the elec-
tion been fought on the “boards and
bounties” issue the Government might
have been licked.
It seems impossible that the British
Liberals can last, much longer. Their
alleged party is split into three factions,
and the three together won’t constitute
9 p.c. of the new House. Without Con-
servative support, scarcely one of the 32
Nat. Libs, would have got in, and for
them it will be a case of joining the
Conservatives —as did the Liberal-
Unionists after the Home Rule split —
or being passed out. The Opp. Libs.,
reduced to 12, are almost certain to dis-
appear at the next election. Probably
the whole party will perish with Lloyd
George, who is 72.
Hughes’s spirits are rising as he feels
that the people are behind him. To a
cheering lot of Sydney Millions Clubbers
he said:
The book which has caused a fluttering
in certain dovecotes will remain true after
both dovecotes and doves are gone.
Precisely, and their departure may be
hastened, for Australia is getting very
weary of some of those birds. , Billy
spoke in the same strain to the T.B.
Sailors and Soldiers the same day:
We should be false to our trust if we
did not recognise the position we are in
in this war.
“This war” is regarded at Canberra as
heaping defiance on defiance. Yet Article
XVI, now in full blast, declares that Italy
has committed “an act of war” against
all other members of the League.
A frightful thought came to a certain
“Queenslander,” and he wrote it down
and hurried with it to the “Courier-Mail”
—perhaps from an office next to the
editor’s.
Surely no thoughtful person can con-
template without feelings of dread the
possibility of our having an Australian
politician as Governor, be he Labor or
Liberal.
Well, Westralia has had one for nearly
three years. Before he shifted to Gov-
ernment House, he had been a politician
—Lib. and Nat. —for quarter of a cen-
tury. And, whether as Premier, Oppo-
sition-leader or Governor, James Mitchell
has never been “contemplated” by the
timidest old lady of either sex with “feel-
ings of dread.”
Congestion at Vic. National Gallery
has reached such a climax that now, when
a work of art is offered to the trustees,
the first consideration is, not its artistic
merits, but whether it will fit the small
available wall-space left for pictures.
This revelation was made by Prof.
Wood Jones, one of the trustees, at a
meeting advocating the use of the hos-
pital site for cultural purposes.
From “Nap.”:
The Fiji Government seems churlishly un-
grateful for the interest taken in Fiji gold-
mining by Australian politicians (or ex-poli-
ticians), racing men, newspapermen and others.
It cherishes the old-fashioned idea that “the
gold in Fiji is the property of the Crown,”
and, announcing its intention of tightening
up the regulations, flagellates prospectus-writers
and option-hunters, it even says this;
In some companies the persons re-
sponsible for financial arrangements re-
tained too large a consideration.
Of course, it can’t be referring to the
Emperor float, from which Theodore, Wren,
Packer and Cody took a mere £300,000 in
cash and 600,000 10s. shares, which soared
to 305., though they have since dropped below
20s. Talk in Sydney, by the way, is that Theo-
dore and Packer are buying the “Telegraph.”
There won’t be £300,000 in cash and 600,000
10s. shares for division if they put THAT on
the market.
From Canberra:
Politicians have “got to get home for
Christmas,” so, though little useful work has
been done this session, the pre-Christmas rush
has begun. It is invariably marked by un-
necessary late sittings, applications of the gag,
charges and counter-charges, explosions of bad
temper and suspensions. There will be more
“scenes” this week, for the hitherto mild
Curtin is to move, if allowed, that “because
of gross partiality the Chairman of
Committees” (Curtin’s fellow-Westralian
Prowse) “be declared unfit to continue in
office.” Hawker, one of the members who
behave, suggests that “economic sanctions”
should be applied to members who misbehave
—loss of five days’ pay for a first offence, of
twenty days’ pay for a repetition, and so on,
as in the House of Commons. A good idea,
but penalties should be provided also for
Ministers who allow insufficient time for the
debating of estimates, and are absent from
divisions without good cause.


CIVILISATION?
“Dean Inge declares that we are still savages and have much the same tastes as primitive races.”


TRIPLE
SHELL
MOTOR OIL
/s the S A E N ° so
SOMMER RECOMMENDATION
fat these cats
sS^i
yVVU.MAN-5/AfCf^
i
PERSONAL ITEM S
By a coincidence a Sydney talkie show
was featuring a picture of Earl Jellicoe
pleading for a greater navy during the
week in which he died. It was obvious
that he had become a very old man—
almost unrecognisable to those who
knew him just after the war. He had
been in the navy 52 years, and had
figured in Egypt in ’B2, in the
Victoria as commander when she went
down in ’93, and in the attempted relief
of the Peking legations during the Boxer
row: he commanded the Naval Brigade
and was wounded. By 1907 he was a
rear-admiral; seven years later he was
in command of the Grand Fleet. Like
Beatty, he married money —a daughter
of Charles Cayzer, of the Clan Line.
John Madden, who succeeded him in
command of the Grand Fleet, married
another Cayzer daughter. Viscount
Brocas, who succeeds to the Jellicoe title,
is only 17—born when his father was
59. There are four daughters.
Some December birthdays:
Botanist Richard Baker (Syd.), 81, knight
John Evans (Tas.), 79, and artist George Bell
(Vic.), 57, on Ist; knight J. W. Kirwan (W.A.),
66, Dr. R. W. Cilento (Director of Health,
Q'land), 42, and Judge Kelly (S.A.), 37, on
2nd; Canon Garnsey (St. Paul’s Coll., Sydney),
63, on 3rd; Vic. Opposition-leader knight
Argyle, 68, Dr. A. C. D. Rivett (C.5.1.R.), 50,
and knight Jas. D. Connolly (former W.A.
Agent-Gen.), 65, on 4th ; ■ Major-Gen. knight’
John Gellibrand (Speck), 63, and Dr. Charles
Anderson (Australian Museum, Syd.), 58, on
sth; Judge Brennan (Q.), 51, on 6th; T. J.
Hartigan (Chief Commissioner of Railways,
N.S.W.), 58, and Ernest Watt (Syd.), 61, on
Bth; knight John M. Higgins (Melb.), 73,
Bishop Reg Stephen (formerly of Newcastle),
75, and Prof. T. H. Johnston (Adel.), 54, on
9th; D’Arcy W. Addison (former Speck Agent-
Gen.), 63, on 10th; Bishop Nutter Thomas
(Adel.), 66, on 11th; Bert S. Roach (pres, of
S.A. Public Library), 71, E. W. Archer (Grace-
mere), 64, N.S.W. Senator Hardy, 37, and
Vic. Min. of Agriculture Ned Hogan, 51, on
12th; etcher John Shirlow, 66, Brig.-Gen. H.
A. Goddard (London “Times’s” Aust. rep.),
66, and authoress Dulcie Deamer, on 13th;
S.A. Lands Min. George Ritchie, 71, on Nth;
W. Warren Kerr (Vic. State Savings Bank
Commissioner), 71, Dean Jose (Adel.), 67, and
Prof. H. J. Wilkinson (Adel.), 44, on 15th;
Dr. Cecil Purser (Syd.), 73, artist Elioth
Griiner, 53, former S.A. Premier John Gunn,
50, and Prof. H. C. Richards (Q.), 51, on 16th;
Rev. T. E. Ruth (Syd.), 60, on 17th; Llewellyn
Atkinson (Speck), 68, S.A. Senator Badman,
50, and poet R. J. Cassidy, 55, on 18th; J. T.
Jennings, M.H.R. (Watson), 57, and Maj.-Gen.
J. D. Lavarack (Chief of General Staff), 50,
on 19th; knight aviator Keith Smith, 45, on
20th; “Texas” Green, M.H.R. (Kalgoorlie),
66, and former S.A. Auditor-General W. E.
Rogers, 71, on 21st; knight John Harvey
(former acting-C.J., N.S.W.), 70, former prin-
cipal James Bee, M.A. (Scots Coll., Syd.), 71,
and knight John Butters (Syd.), 50, on 23rd;
W.A. Collector of Customs Bird, 57, on 25th;
authors J. H. M. Abbott, 61, and S. Elliott
Napier, 65, and Dr. Bradfield (of the bridge),
68, on 26th; painter W. Lister Lister, 76, Prof.
R. W. Chapman (Adel.), 69, and Bishop Hart
(Wangaratta), 69, on 27th; knight G. Mason
Allard, 69, Dr. E. E. Anderson (St. Andrew’s
Coll., Syd.), 63, on 28th; Justice Draper
(W.A.), 71, knight Hubert Murray (Lieut.-
Gov. of Papua), 74, C’wealth Crown Solicitor
Sharwood, 63, and ex-Premier Theodore, 51,
on 29th; knight Kelso King (Syd.), 82, and
Lieut.-Col. Harry Murray, V.C., 52, on 30th.
Albert Cherry, of the “Age,” dead at
77, was 40 years in Melbourne journal-
ism. He was a foundation member of the
A.J.A.—Victorian secretary for a time—
and in later years gave a lot of time to
charitable work. Dulcie Cherry, the
Shakspearean actress, is his daughter.
A proud young Australian who arrived
on the Merkur from Darwin—along with
the first giraffes he had ever seen —was
13-year-old Alexander William Stewart,
who has won the first naval cadetship
ever to go to a Territorian. His slock is
all northern, too —his father, who crossed
from Queensland many years ago, is a
senior officer of the North Australian
Railway Department.
An exchange gives the R.A.F. our Air-
Commodore S. J. Goble for a while, and
we get Air-Commodore Nicholl. Goble
should be at home on the other side—
he did his war service in the R.N.A.F.,
and after four years almost needed a
freight ’plane to carry his decorations,
to which he added a C.B.E. after his
pioneer flight round Australia in ’24.
This will be his second long visit to
England, where he graduated at the
R.A.F. staff college and the Imperial
Defence College eight years ago. H. R.
Nicholl, who replaces him, learnt to fly
at 33 in 1915, fought in the air for the
rest of the war and later held a squadron
command in Irak. He then became
Deputy Director of Manning at the Air
Ministry, and finally was put in charge
of the big Calshot R.A.F. Base.
Sam Lewins’s record of 50 years a
bandmaster was scarcely more remark-
able than the celebration of the event by
his home town, Bathurst, whose citizens
turned out 4000 strong, along with
bandsmen from other States, to do him
honor. In his day he and his band won
several championships.
R. J. Colvin was
chief accountant in
the Treasury when
he was appointed
by the Stevens
Gov e r nment to
manage the N.S.W.
State ssh! it
mustn’t be men-
tioned in some
other States, where
it is illegal. Since
then his task has
been to supply
lucky (and un-
lucky) numbers to
millions of cus-
tomers and pay
out prizes, like
Santa Claus, once
a week. And he
does the job with
the same serious
con scientiousness
that he applied to
Treasury accounts.
The new Com-
monwealth Audi-
tor-General is H.
C. Brown. Kentish-
born but educated
in Australia, he
became a N. S.
WaJes civil servant
in 1891, and trans-
ferred to the Com-
monwealth at Fed-
eration. He has
been chief clerk
and accountant to
the P.M.’s Department, and has held a
variety of other odd jobs— secretary to
W. M. Hughes’s Ship Construction Board,
Assistant Secretary to the Railways and
Works Department, Secretary to the
Markets and Interior departments. He
has not the specialised training of his
predecessor, and is not likely to worry
Mr. Casey as Mr. Cerutty did.
Eric Spooner, the new deputy leader
of the N.S.W. U.A.P., is a dark, earnest,
studious accountant, not unlike his leader
in appearance. The Lang reign brought
him into politics. He was at once made
Assistant Treasurer, and later Minister
for Local Government, and his firm
stand with certain councils which were
R. J. COLVIN, God of Chance.
not treading the narrow path prescribed
by the L.G. Act brought him into promi-
nence. No wowser, despite his bathing-
suit regulations, he lives a healthy out-
door life, indulges in moderation in all
the pleasures of a normal man and is a
good mixer—he belongs to three clubs:
the Wales, Tattersall’s and the Melbourne
Athenaeum.
Titles are no novelty in the family
of Australia’s Governor-General-elect,
who has been made a baron. His brother
holds the barony of Ruthven of Gowrie,
which dates back to 1487. At one stage
in their career the Ruthvens were Earls
of Gowrie, but Queen Bess turned their
heirs into commoners in 1600, when the
reigning earl organised the Gowrie con-
spiracy. The barony was restored in
1651. To this title Sir Alexander is not
the heir —it will go to his niece, wife of
the 11th Earl of Carlisle: he, like the
Ruthvens, got his title from Cromwell,
whose lifeguards an ancestor com-
manded. (The present Earl of Carlisle
is a stockbroker.) Our Ruthven will
come into an Imperial barony which
his brother holds. His mother was
a daughter of the Earl of Arran,
so that he combines the blood of
two titles whose names are a snare
to the phonetic mind: Ruthven (Scot-
tish) —Rivven ; Arran (Irish) —-Am.
“Scrib'q”: Governor-General Isaacs
met old friends when he foregathered
with the journalists
last week, but a lot
of older friends
along the Inky Way
had gone before or
been dispersed all
over the world. , 1
remember when, a
day or two after he
became Attorney-
General in a Vic.
Ministry, Isaacs
strolled into the
press-room at Mel-
bourne Law Courts
—a cramped place
with uncomfortable
furniture, cold,
draughty, and 'with
a telephone many
yards down the
passage. “W e 11,
boy s,” he an-
nounced, “what do
you want here?”
We tumbled over
Oile another with a
list of requests. He
made a note of all,
and; next day there
was! a staff of
workmen carrying
out his orders. We
got 100 per cent,
of our requests,
which is something
of a record in my
experience of depu-
tations. In re-
spect to informa-
tion, he was one of
the most satisfactory politicians I ever
had to deal with. He would give you
the news or he wouldn’t.
The new Consul-General for Italy, Dr,
Paul Vita-Finzi, comes direct from
Rosario, the wheat centre of the Argen-
tine, where he has been for two years.
Prior to that he held posts in Russia, Ger-
many and Tunisia, and was six years at
the Italian Foreign Office. He is dark
and eager and vivacious, and full of
courage, since he essayed the Herculean
task of learning English in two months
en route from the Argentine. Neither
does he seem to be noticeably perturbed
by the fact that his first child was born
on a British ship on the way to Sydney,
and is therefore qualified as a subject of
England, which is applying sanctions
against his country.
About an ex-M.H.R.:
William Noah (“Bill”) Hedges, dead at 81,
came out young from England to build rail-
ways. He was the moving spirit in lay-
ing down and working the Kurrawang wood
line, which supplied the Golden Mile and
proved a money-spinner. At over 50 “Bill”
developed political ambitions ; he failed to
win a State seat in 1904, but then held Fre-
mantle as an M.H.R. for seven years (1906-
1913). As a candidate Hedges probably spent
more money than any other aspirant in W.A.
history. A staff corps shared in his bounty.
He was a poor and rambling speaker, though
he could be explosive enough privately. When
the Trans, railway was being built, he was one
of the very few legislators who knew the dif-
ference between a dogspike and a fishplate,
and he well earned his keep in the House.
Retiring from Parliament, Hedges devoted his
energies to wheatgrowing. His property near
Bruce Rock, fitted with all the latest
machinery, was a show place in W.A.
A lot of people think that the “Long”
in the name of N. S. Wales Justice Long
Innes, who “hates flats,” is descriptive.
Looking up at him, as at Robert Garran,
anyone can understand the force of the
phrase “legal eminence.” Unlike most
Equity Judges, he has a pretty wit and
a body as active as his brain is subtle.
At 66 he gives his recreations as “cricket,
tennis, golf and swimming,”
“Also R.A.N.”: When the Naval Con-
ference meets in London next month the
chief technical adviser will be Vice-
Admiral W. M. James, author of The
British Navy in Adversity. On the
rare occasions when naval officers ven-
ture into print their shipmates regard
their publications, however high class,
with amused tolerance. Shortly after Vice-
Admiral James’s book was published his
flagship, the Royal Sovereign, was being
moored between two buoys in the con-
gested Grand Harbor at Malta when she
was caught by the wind and swung badly
out of position. Promptly a signal
from Sir Roger Keyes, C.-in-C.: “Royal
Sovereign, from C.-in-C. Med. The
British Navy in adversity.”
Papua is to have its Rhodes scholar—
Ronald Atkinson, son of the resident
magistrate at Abau, whose college is St.
John’s, Queensland University. At
Oxford he will do a novel course —in the
theory and construction of aircraft
frames. He is 21, and was born in
Ashfield (Sydney).
Duff Cooper’s autobiography of Earl
Haig, just published, contains a nice
compliment to Bulletin writer J. H. M,
Abbott, a long passage of whose Tommy
Cornstalk he quotes in a letter of advice
to a young nephew :
Buy the book and send me a copy, and
possibly a word or two of Mr. Abbott’s
patriotism would not be wasted on some
of your home leafers such as . “Aim
high,” as the book says; “perchance ye
may attain.”
The favorite Christian name among
the first rank of British passenger-ship
captains is certainly Arthur. Arthur Ros-
tron, the first modern mercantile marine
commander to be knighted, had charge
of the Berengaria (52,000 tons), the
world’s second-largest vessel then afloat,
till 1931. Arthur Britten, knighted last
year, succeeded him, and now takes over
the Queen Mary. He had a fine war
record, and has spent most of his life
crossing the Atlantic.
“El V.’s” reminiscence:
Jellicoe was fully qualified for office in the
Big-Little Men’s Association along with
Lloyd George, Kipling and Hughes. Gold
sleeve bands and rows of ribbons gave a slight
effect of caricature when he was in full
uniform, but behind an outwardly mild manner
he had a true naval bark. When he came to
Brisbane, the Government invited to his
reception two supporters concerned in a Com-
monwealth prosecution over the “Russian
riots.” I was present when a fervent loyalist
told the admiral of the “insult” which was to
be offered to him. “And are they really
coming?” asked the guest mildly. “They
would even meet me? How courteous —sink-
ing their principles to make a stranger
welcome! ”


YOUR CAR
BE BUILT
...but
■
%
iiii
m
v : V:-;
IT
mm
HI
W 0 7
90
A
mq
ii
Ni
m
mmm
Barnet Glass
\l
a
■
m
can jor isew
BARNET CLASS
“Moulded”
TUBES
ILf
j
The speedo creeps around—so, 60, 70 —it may be
an effortless job for your car. But—don’t do it on
worn-smooth tyres. They can’t hold the road—
they’re gripless, unsafe—ready to skid at any
minute. Don’t let them play you a trick like that—
Have them off your wheels and big, sturdy Barnet
Glass Checkskids in their place!
Checkskids will start you, speed you, stop you—
with a tenacious road-grip which defies slip or skid.
The unique Checkskid tread is built for to-day’s
faster speeds and harder braking—built to give
extra thousands of safe miles under these conditions.
Drop in and talk it over with the nearest Barnet
Glass dealer.
The New “ Checkskid"
with MORE RUBBER, DEEPER CUT gf
BROADER tread "


The WILD CAT COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
i Dividends N
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. (10 p.c.) (10 p.c.) serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 367,650 277,647 953 89,050 435,993
1926.. 440,229 310,602 196 129,431 565,429
Assets written up, £736,975 ..1,302,404
Reserves capitalised, £776,975 .. 525,429
(iii p.c.)
1927.. 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
(124 p.c.)
1928. . 590,134 485,622 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. .. 740,817
1929.. 634,054 539,860 94,194 835,011
(Hi P.c.)
1930.. 686,392 632,317 54,075 889,086
(8 p.c.)
1931.. 480,829 449,648 1 „. 10 ,
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO I 24,181 913.267
1932.. 467,474 449,648 )
Employees’ Fund,. £9OOO S 8,820 922,093
(8} p.c.)
1933.. 482,204 477,751 1 ...
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ) JIJ../40
(94 p.c.)
1934.. 567,119 533,957 „, 7 7na
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO | 28 ’ 162 947,708
(12} p.c.)
1935.. 628,699 702,575* 873,882
•Including special centenary bonus of Od. per share.
It was in 1834 that John Tooth bought
part of the Chippendale estate on the
south side of Parramatta-street—now
George-street West —Sydney, and he put
up the Kent Brewery there in the fol-
lowing year. Blackwattle Creek, with
a good supply of fresh water, ran
through it; on the opposite side of
the road was Ultimo House, part of the
estate of Dr. John Harris. The business
prospered, and from time to time the
older members of the firm relinquished
their connection with it and went to
England, where the Tooths had been
associated with brewing at Cranbrook,
Kent. The present co., which took over
in 1888, started with a paid capital of
£900,000. The figure is now £5,620,598,
of which £2,150,097 was provided by the
issue of bonus scrip ; the last £1,262,597
of it was scattered during the three years
to the close of accounts in 1929.
The co, now enjoys a lion’s share of
the trade in N. S. Wales. It took over
large and thirsty territories when it
bought Castlemaine and Wood Bros.
(Newcastle) in 1920, and Mahon (Wagga)
and Lincoln (Narrandera) in 1924. Five
years later Resch’s business (one of the
two other big city breweries) was welded
into the organisation. This involved the
issue of 1,250,000 paids, raising capital
to its present figure.
To celebrate the centenary of the busi-
ness, a special 2\ p.c. cash bonus is to
be added to the 10 p.c. div., making
I2j p.c. for the last term ; reserves are
drawn upon for £73,876 net for the
purpose. Actually £lOO,OOO of the
bonus is to be paid from reserves accu-
mulated prior to 1900, thus reducing
taxation payable by shareholders thereon
to a minimum. Also, those on the regis-
ter at March 11 next will be offered
562,060 new £1 shares at par. When
all the money is in, that will lift paid
capital to £6,182,658, on which 10 p.c.
will call for £10,433 less profit than was
claimed for the last term —gross earnings
(£1,383,891) sprang £146,394, and the net
result benefited by £61,580 of the in-
crease, reaching £628,699.
The market prices the scrip at 595. 9d,
as against 51s. a year ago; the figure
had dropped as low as 17s. lOd. in 1931.
After exercising the rights, the net cost
at the current price would be 555. 6d.,
subject to brokerage. The return at
555. 6d. is 3.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 4.3 p.c. on
his money counts on a 12 p.c. distribu-
tion ; on £6,182,658, this would call for
£113,220 more than was netted last year.
Including the new issue, the net tangible
cover is visibly 225. 9d.
Balance-sheet movements reflect a
lively expansion of the business:-
1925. 1934. 1935.
Assets:—•
Breweries, rto.. . £2,426,241 £5,*066,221 £5 616 798
Book debts .. 1,172,258 1,019,981 ’972’635
Stock • • • • 409,451 193,835 219,309
Liquid .. .. 182,522 1,230,339 855,237
£4,190,472 £7,510,376 £7,663 979
Sundry creditors.. 424,740 580,182 668,899
Net assets . . £3,765,732 £6,930,194 £6,995,080
The year’s net addition to the book
value of fixed assets, which include
hotel freeholds, was £550,577 ; this and
the continued growth of employment
suggest further expansion of the cur-
rent year’s earnings. To meet the out-
lay and carry an extra £25,474 of stocks,
liquids (they consist of Consols, deben-
tures and cash) were drawn upon for
£375,102 and debtors’ balances were re-
duced by £47,346. Still, the financial
position remains obviously snug ; exactly
what the new capital is wanted for is
not mentioned in the report.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £
1925. . 237.125 10 p.c.= 128,919 58,167 1,481,538
Written off mine property, £200,000.. 1,281,533
1926.. 220,487 11} p.c.= 145,034 64,670 1,292,321
1927.. 246,359 Hi „ ~ 145,034 53,583 1,340,063
1928.. 261,5.16 Hi „ ~145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13} „ ~ 177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 183,543 18} „ ~241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 101,130 74 „ ~ 103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 24 „ „ 38,750 43,913 1.398,893
1933.. 90,687 24 „ 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 24 „ ~ 38,750 32,480 1,377,172
1935.. 127,751 Nil 61,672 1,443,251
Unimpressive ; still, the outlook is better
than at any time during the last
five years, thanks to the rise in the price
of copper and reduction in costs. Ex-
penditure on prospecting and develop-
ment (£27,410, up £13,290 last year) and
provision for depreciation (£34,262, up
£15,902) are included with profits and
then shown as written off in the table.
Allowing for these and minor reserve
adjustments, the year’s net earnings were
£66,079 ( = 4.2 p.c. on the £1,550,000 of
capital) as against £6492 and £49,287 for
the two preceding terms. No div. was
paid, but 2\ p.c. is to be sent out on
Dec. 16.
All but a fraction of the profit came
from investments, chiefly in the fer-
tiliser industry:
_ Shares Fully
Company— Paid to £l.
Com’wealth Fertilizers ami Chemicals;
301,924 7 p.c. prefs. )
590:257 ords \ • • ■ • 898,181
Cuming Smith and Mt. Lyell Farmers’
Fertilisers 450,000
Australian Fertilisers . . .. ~ 93,750
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers . . 27,150
Metal Manufacturers .. , . . . 196,817
Zinc Producers’ Association .. .. ’250
That lot, which figures in the books at
£1,449,920, or £215,978 less than face
value, turned in £57,879 (up £3044).
Without allowing for any exes, on this
account, the profit on mining was £8033
as against a loss of £48,343 for the pre-
vious term. The improvement was due
to bigger tonnages, lower costs and
better selling prices. Though the London
average for electrolytic was £1 7s. 2d.
less at £33 Bs. 9d. (£4l 15s. sd. in Aus-
tralian currency), the figure rose from
£2B 15s. in Oct., 1934, to £4O at the close
of accounts. Including prospecting, de-
velopment and depreciation charges; the
all-in cost of producing and selling a ton
of copper was £49 10s. lOd. as against
£59 os. 6d. in the previous term, when
a stoppage, due to shortage of power,
bumped up the figure. Deducting the
value of the gold and silver content, net
costs were £43 Is. lOd. and £52 19s. lid.
respectively.
Production was stepped up to about
plant capacity:
1928. 1931. 1934.' 1935.
Ore treated (tons) 127,425 283,262 378,908 564,241
Blister produced
(tons) . . . . 7,126 10,115 7,217 14,078
Contents: —
Copper (tons).. 7,060 10,033 7,154 13,960
Silver (oz.) . . 121,456 155,970 79,704 142,642
Gold (oz.) . . 2,300 3,834 4,082 7,532
The copper value of the ore dropped
from 2.34 p.c. to 2.22 p.c., while that
of the concentrates improved from 22.9
p.c. to 24.19 p.c., without loss in recov-
ery, and the concentrating ratio rose from
10.39 to 1 to 11.59 to 1. Very little new
plant was installed.
The outstanding feature of the year’s
mining was the proving and partial open-
ing up of 2,400,000 tons more ore in the
big low-grade deposit, which can be
worked by opencut, in the West Lyell
property. Ore reserves are as follows:
i —Average
Sil-
Ore, Copper, ver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. oz; oz.
North Lyell . . . . 413,000 4.5 1.00 .015
Lyell Comstock . . 635,000 2.75 0.20 .025
Royal Tharsis . . 2,400,000 2.0 0.10 .020
West Lyell—
No. i Ore- body . . 3,3(70,000 1.75 0.10 .020
■ No. 2 Ore-body . . 400,000 1.50 0.10 .015
Crown Lyell . . . . 244,000 2.00 0.25 .015
Lyell Tharsis . . . . 201,000 1.50 0.25 .015
Total .. .. 7,593,000 2.05 0.17 .020
Before long the co. expects to draw half
the ore for treatment from West Lyell,
to the further benefit of costs.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1925. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Metals . . £212,555 £238,363 £151,212 £231,168
Book debts .. 240,480 34,825 29,047 45,589
Stocks, etc. .. 391,209 170,335 144,636 160,782
Cash, etc. . . 206,685 10,000 .
£1,110,986 £453,523 £324,895 £437,539
Liabilities .. 160,625 80,129 39,336 77,468
Surplus .. £950,361 £373,394 £285,559 £360,071
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus was £74,512. The
mine figured at £553,485 ; buildings and
equipment, £268,154 ; hydro-electric
plant, £148,430 ; railways, £213,192.
If electrolytic remains around its
present price in London (£39 10s. per
ton), there will be a small rise in wages
at the beginning of the year. Still, the
immediate outlook favors a substantial
rise in net earnings for the current term.
The pound shares, which dropped from
265. to 17s. in 1934, now fetch 21s. 7d.
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards
Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 61,811 2 p.c. = 46,730 5081 3814
Written off, £1065 4879
1932.. 60,069 2* p.c. = 63,071 7881
Unexplained reductions, £1129 .. 9010
1933.. 38,133 1J p.c. = 30,499 7634 1376
Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 31 „ ~ 85,397 2715 1339
1985.. 123,581 5 „ „ 121,990 1585 2924
The outlook for this big holding con-
cern is brighter than at any time since
it was formed in 1930 to amalgamate
half a dozen of the leading wholesale
drug houses of Australia:
A. M. Bickford and Sons (Adelaide and
Brisbane), Elliotts and Australian Drug
(Sydney), Felton, Grimwade and Ducrdins
(Melbourne), Felton, Grimwade Dental Co.
(Melbourne), Felton, Grimwade and Bick-
ford (Perth), Taylors, Elliotts and Aus-
tralian Drug (Brisbane, Rockhampton and
Townsville).
The idea was to reduce competition and
overhead, as well as gain advantages on
the buying side. But slump upset calcu-
lations, properties proved to be a burden,
and divs. have been modest, the best
being 5 p.c. for the last term.
There is £2,439,912 of capital to feed.
At June 30, shareholdings figured at
£2,438,778 (up £22,279), or £516,795
more than their net tangible book value ;
other assets were advances to sub-
sidiaries, £27,800 ; divs. declared by sub-
sidiaries but not paid, £72,965 ; debtors,
cash, etc., £1714.
The combined earnings of the operat-
ing cos., which gather manufacturing as
well as distributing profits, have stepped
up in this way:
/—Dividends—>,
Net Drug To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. Houses. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 47,718 6000 56,709 189,954
Unexplained reduction, £15,707 .. 174,247
1932.. 67,568 6000 63,921 171,894
Unexplained addition, £B3O .. .. 172,724
1933.. 61,613 6000 53,971 1,642 174,360
Unexplained reduction, £9515. . .. 104,851
1934.. 118,224 6000 94,747 17,477 182,328
Unexplained addition, £2334.. .. 184,002
1935.. 155,300 6000 131,055 18,305 202,907
*After deducting goodwill, £140,380.
During the last term sales increased by
3 p.c., and there was a “very great im-
provement” in returns from investments,
which figure at £264,811. After setting
aside an extra £13,094 for taxation
(£37,105), the net result was £37,136
better at 9 p.c. on the aggregate
capital of £1,719,016, of which £75,000
in Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins,
carrying a cumulative 8 p.c., is not
owned by the holding co. Deducting
this pref. div. (£6000) and the holding
co.’s own exes. (£7474, including pro-
vision for taxation), enough remained to
show 5.8 p.c. on Drug Houses’ £2,439,912
of capital as against 4.3 p.c. for the
previous term.
Deduction of an unspecified amount
on mortgage from the book value of
freeholds and plant obscures a clear
view of the financial position ; still, it
appears to be comfortable:
Operating Cos.’ Aggregate Figures.
1931. 1933. 1934. 1935.
£ £ £ £
Paid
capitalf. . 1,620,297 1,771,797 1,771,797 1,794,016
Overdrafts 451,452 259,470 176,022 84,863
Deposits . . 109,774 199,023 187,093 201,713
Sundry
creditors* 454,581 174,878 179,434* 209,991*
Freehold,
leasehold,
plant . . 706,887 747,990 750,513 738,204
Investments 260,605 250,215 204,796 264,811
Government
securities,
etc. . . 12,050 2,400 2,400 2,400
Stock . . 836,094 727,137 081,754 689,220
Debtors . . 1,011,015 879,847 877,596 875,916
Cash . . 6,258 1,495 1,312 1,712
flncludes £75,000 not owned by holding co.
* Excluding inter-company . debts.
For the three years to the close of
accounts in 1934, the outstanding
features were reduction of the over-
draft and trade debt, stocks and debtors'
balances being worked down for the
purpose. During the last term £91,159
was knocked off the overdraft and £7466
was added to the book value of stocks.
To do this an extra £22,219 of capital
and £14,620 of deposits were gathered,
£30,557 was added to the amount coming
to trade creditors, and the net book
value of freeholds, etc., was reduced by
£12,309. The improvement in the
apparent more or less liquid surplus
(£1,072,681, including stocks but not
shares) was £52,168.
As for the current term, sales have
continued to increase, a better return is
expected from properties, the sale of
some of the surplus freeholds is pending,
and further benefits are expected to
follow more centralised overseas buying.
At 28s. (245. 6d. a year ago), the pound
shares, covered by 16s. lid. in net tan-
gibles, return 3.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks for 4.3
p.c. on his money counts on a 6 p.c.
div., which was possible on last year’s
earnings.
Hoyts Theatres, Ltd.
, Dividends \ ,
Net A & B C Koaunal
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 5 p.c. Ords. Reser
£ £ £ **
1929.. 100,390 59,391 * 750* Nil]
Written off, £7076 lll.u^°
Guarantee, £4200) , ooma
1930.. 81,850 49,907 750* Nil ( 138,0 is
Guarantee, £4200f .. .. ••)
1931.. 4,341 Nil 750* Nil
Written off, £44,392 f 93,01/
Guarantee, £4200f .. .. ••) n
Written off, £10,981 76,03 b
Lass.
1932.. 11,723 Nil 750* Nil) 59,368
Guarantee, £4200t .. .• )
Profit.
1933.. 26,415 Nil 750* Nil I go, 828
Guarantee, £4200) .. .• -* 1 Q . 7
Written off, £10,981 net .. •• 69,84/
A & B
6 p.c. 5 p.c.
1934.. 52,802 46,500 750* Nil I 71,199
Guarantee, £4200f .. .. •- 5 .
Deficit.
Added to depicted assets account,
£246,418 175,219
1935.. 50,826 46,500 750* Nil) 175,533
Guarantee, £3890f .. .. •• )
•Guaranteed div. on 7500 C shares,
tGuaranteed to Picture Investments Pty., Ltd.
The £2,285,000 of capital is in 400,000
A 6 p.c. and 450,000 B 5 p.c. cum. prefs.,
935,000 C 2\ p.c. non-cumulative parti-
cipating prefs. and 500,000 ords. All
shares rank in the order stated for capital
and dividends. The C and ord. shares
are held by Fox Film Corp., U.S.A.,
which bought them in 1931 ; it also put
up £ 170,000-odd on a second debenture
to help ease the strain on finances caused
by the lavish building programme, due to
competition with the Union group.
Prospects of the A and B shares, in
which the public is interested, continuing
to receive their minimum requirements
(together £46,500) have improved, thanks
to the merging of the city interests of
the two groups on a partnership basis
for five years from the beginning of 1933,
to the general upward surge of business
activity, abolition of the Federal enter-
tainment tax, and reduction of the special
property tax and of the interest-bearing
debt. Next, the C shares are entitled to
21 p.c. (£23,375). After that £lO,OOO of
any year’s remaining profit, or so much
as the co. can afford, is to be used to
reduce arrears of p re f- divs.—As first
and Bs next; there is £96,000 coming to
the As and £126,000 to the Bs. Then
the C shares come into the picture again
for another 2\ p.c.; if there is anything
left, one half is to be divided equally
between the A and B shares until 8 p.c.
has been reached ; the other half belongs
firstly to the Cs until they have had a
total of 10 p.c., and the balance to the
ords.
Before the As can get anything on
account of arrears, the co. must net
£69,875 or more, and at least nine years
must elapse between the first payment
of arrears to the As and the first to the
Bs.
During the last term there was little
change in gross earnings (£444,529). In-
cluding provision for taxation (£17,005,
down £3902) and depreciation (£59,349,
down £9540), exes. (£393,703) were £l5OB
heavier. The net result (£50,826, down
£1976) was £314 shy of the A and B
minimum requirements and guaranteed
divs. That leaves out of the reckoning
£246,418 net added to the depleted assets
reserve, making it £320,652 ; there was
a loss of £21,551 on realisation of Mel-
bourne theatre freeholds, and £224,965
invested in Electric Theatres Pty. is con-
sidered to have gone down the sink. In
addition, goodwill figures at £678,770.
Here is the position as the holding
co.’s figures show' it:
1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £2,285,000 £2,285,000 £2,285,000
Mortgages, etc. .. 141,910 135,718 130,868
Overdraft.. .. 40,197 2*0,884 45,9701
Sumiry creditors. . 349,148 205,034 195,640
Freehold .. .. 343,782 311,351 270,422
Leasehold, plant, etc. 699,306 085.688 653,007
Shares other cos. 834,008 850,062 682,728
Book debts, etc. .. 319,752 290,093 288,930
The net reduction in the book value of
freeholds was £40,929, and in sharehold-
ings £167,334. Owing to a growth of
£25,086 in the overdraft, there was a net
addition of £10,842 in the amount coming
to outsiders. Excluding shares, liabilities
exceeded more or less liquids by £83,498,
up £11,955 over the twelvemonth.
The market prices the A shares at
19s. 6d. and the Bs at 13s. 6d. At these
figures the return is 6.1 p.c. and 7.4 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. and 5 p.c. div. basis respec-
tively.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £,£>£,
1925.. 132,639 13} p.c. = 122,782 9,857 273,980
Premiums on new shares, £17,403.. 291,383
1926. . 139,796 13} p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Shares in subsidiaries written up,
£455,492 761,503
Reserves capitalised, £455,492 .. 306,011
1927.. 159,103 111 p.c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928.. 154,084 10 „ „ 139,578 14,506 346,978
Share premiums, £17,308 .. .. 364,286
1929.. 160.637 10 p.c. = 141,909 18,728 383,014
Share premiums, £5O .. -.. 383,064
1930.. 118,347 7J p.c. = 107,263 11,084 394,148
1931.. 91,554 61 „ „ 89,386 2,168 396,316
1932.. 171,066 83 ~ ~ 125,140 45,926 442,242
1933.. 111,414 61 „ „ 89,385 ■ 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 74 ~ ~ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8J „ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
Paid capital is £1,430,173, and there were
£3OO coming to sundry creditors and
(Continued from page 18.)


NERVES ?" Said Someone
'.J
mmi
mmmm
I
& . I
siiii a
BS**
• ■ ;'; ■
i
p®
■V
hmthey
/Untie
■
..
They differ in types — these people—their
tastes are far apart. But one glance suffices
to indicate that in each of them the urge
to keep fit is strong. And since fitness
depends largely on nerve-health, they
take care of their nerves.
They’ve chosen wisely . . . they
smoke Ardath De-Luxe, the cigarette
with the traditional English blend,
satisfying, unvarying. Blended
from Special Virginia Tobaccos
so as to be "soothing to your
nerves and kind to your
throat."
RDAT
-LUXE
SoddifjL CiqahjMe
/■is/
r < j
s ■■ .
■
H
jip
m
V
■
iip
/II
X,
h .
%%
*Mi
•ill
Smart Flat TINS
10 - 9d. : 20 - 1/6
Also Flat Pocket 50’s, Tins of
100, and Round Airtight 50’s.
" Soothinq to ifom Il£/ivei
Kind to ifoni Ihxon


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
.
f: ■ 'i
\s /
m
ms
<• m
rm
f
tflU
"You won't have to
KEEP ME, JIM!”
MANY a young man has to keep his
parents in their old age because his
father did not make proper use of
the A.M.P.
Jim will not be under that necessity. Jim’s father
became a member of the A.M.P. even before he
married. His first policy was for £3OO. When Jim
was born he took out a second policy, for £3OO,
and a special one for £2OO so that the money might
be available for the boy to go to the University
when he was 17. Since then he has added Other
A.M.P. policies (one to pay off the mortgage on
the home), and they are growing with bonuses;
indeed, so splendid have the bonuses been that
Jim’s father now counts himself secure. JIM
WON’T HAVE TO KEEP HIM IN HIS OLD
AGE.
The A.M.P. is the largest Mutual Life Office in the
Empire. Use it to buttress YOUR life and affairs, and
you, too, will have a feeling of security.
A book, “Investing in Happiness,” and some other;
informative booklets, gladly sent on request.
. .• - :i
A.M.P. SOCIETY
•
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.I.A, A. W. SNEDDON. F.I.A.
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
«£•
t.Vg
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table, also Mcßichpals Gold-
and Tin-saving Machine. Call for a demonstration. Can also quote for all
classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables,
classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all
other explosives and accessories. Electric motors and switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
£221,412 to associated cos. at the end
of October. The lot, together with re-
serves, was invested in a group of jam-
and fruit-canning and -preserving and
general merchandising subsidiaries scat-
tered through Australia, Maoriland, S.
Africa and England. Outside the Com-
monwealth the co. is now successfully
operating six factories and four mer-
chandising cos.’ The curtain is kept
drawn over the figures.
All that can be said definitely is that
the co. has a very good record. For
the 20 years to the close of accounts in
’29, divs. averaged a shade under 11 p.c.,
sweetened with £455,492 of bonus scrip
in ’27, though share premiums (£59,040)
take a bit of the gilt off the gingerbread,
Slump and other things brought the rate
down to 6i p.c. in ’3l, since when over-
production of canned fruits, followed
by price-cutting, has produced fluctuat-
ing results.
For the last term Australian profits
were £2515 lighter, but returns from
overseas were £17,654 better, due
mainly to the clearance of canned fruits,
following the assistance given to the
export section of the industry by the
Sugar Control Board:
income- 1931 1933 1934 1930 ‘
* Australian.. £55,674 £75,476 £98,287 £95,772
other sources 35,880 35,937 36,196 53,850
Total .. £91,554 £111,413 £134,483 £149,622
disclosed net return from all sources
i mproV ed £15,139, reaching 10.4 p.c.
on capital, compared with 9.4, 7.7, 11.9,
6.4, g -3> 11.3 and 11 p.c. back to 1928.
An extra 3d. per share was distributed,
lifting the div. from 1\ p.c. to p.c.
The market prices the pound shares
at 38s. 6d. as against 355, 6d. a year ago.
At the higher figure the return is 4.5 p.c.
on an Si p.c. div. basis. As for cover,
about three years ago the chairman said
that the assets of the subsidiaries, if
generously valued, would not equal
395. 4d., at which figure the market then
priced the scrip,
Commonwealth's New 3£ p.c. Issue
The Loan Council is on the market
again, this time with £7,500,000 of 3i
p.c. Consols, with a 14-year currency, at
an issue price of £99 155., making the
return, including redemption, £3, 15s. sd.
p.c. Except for the long-dated 4 per
cents., it is a slightly better return-than
can be had from any other Common-
wealth issue at the moment.
Particulars of the last half-dozen loans
raised in Australia, together with the one
now offered, compare as follows:
Re-
Term, Issue Interest, turn,*
Date. Amount. Years. Price. p.c, p.c.
7/11/’32 . . £8,000,000 10 Par 3} £3/15/-
22/5/’33 .. 8,461,000 9 Par sj 8/15/-
16/11/’33. . 10,316,000 10 £99 3* 3/12/5
5/6/’34 .. 12,234,000 14 .698/10/- 3j 3/7/8
20/11/’34. . 15,042,000 14 699/15/- 3 3/0/5
11/6/’35 .. 12,500,000 14 699/10/- 3i 3/8/5
26/11/’35.. 7,500,000 14 699/15/- 3i 3/15/5
•Including redemption.
In June last the Government asked for
too much and offered too little, and
£1,700,000 had to be taken by the under-
writer, the Commonwealth Bank. These
errors have been avoided with the present
issue, which looks like being favorably
received.
The growth of London funds, owing to
satisfactory export prices, suggests that
there will be less need for the banks to
sell Consols locally in order to replenish
cash resources. Immediate indications
are, therefore, that there may be no
further drop in the price of Consols in
the near future. Still, if the States con-
tinue to talk of large loan expenditure
on public works, it will be difficult to
arrest the tendency for the price of these
fixed-interest-bearing securities to ease.
Airlines of Australia, Ltd.
Backed by the British .
Trust, an English concern interested in
commercial aviation throughout the
Empire, Airlines of Australia has been
formed to (1) take over and further de-
velop the business of New England Air-
ways, Ltd., and (2) buy the works of
the Larkin Aircraft Supply Co. (in liq.),
Melbourne, now owned by G. A. Robin-
son, managing director of New England
Airways.
Nominal capital is £1,000,000 in £1
shares, of which 5000 are deferreds and
the balance ords. The distinction lies in
dividend and asset rights. Divisible pro-
fits are to be applied first in .payment
of a non-cumulative div. up to p.c.
to the ords.; of the balance,, one-half
goes to the ords..a,nd the other half to
the deferreds. In the event of, a wind-up
the deferreds are also entitled to half
the remaining assets, after the ord. and
deferred capital has been returned. The
deferreds are thus endowed with attrac-
tive possibilities.
The public is offered 50,000 ords. at
par.' British Pacific Trust, the promoter,
will take a further 25,000, together with
any not applied for by the public, for
cash ; it will also receive 3710 fully-paid
deferreds for transfer of its option over
the assets of the two concerns being
taken over. The remaining 1290 de-
ferreds, together with 16,795 ords., all
fully paid, are taken by the New Eng-
land Co. in part payment for its assets ;
and 4000 f.-p. ords. are to be allotted
to A. G. Robinson for the aircraft fac-
tory, hangar, etc., of the Larkin Co.
The new co. will thus start with a
paid capital of £100,795 in 95,795 ords.
and 5000 deferreds. Including prelimi-
nary exes., estimated at £6500, £13,900
will be represented by intangibles. After
paying £58,062 for new ’planes, includ-
ing three now on order by the New Eng-
land Co., £10,438 will remain for work-
ing capital.
New England Airways, formed in 1931,
established a daily service each way be-
tween Sydney and Brisbane, and more
recently (Sundays excepted) between
N&wcastle and Sydney, Brisbane and
Toowoomba, and twice weekly between
Brisbane and Townsville. Capital and
earnings compare as follows:
Year to Paid Gross
Aug. 31, Capital. Earnings. Loss.
1932 .. 66,605 £12,572 £644
Profit.
1933 . . 6,967 23,338 1209
1934 . . 13,151 29,787 1429
1935 . . 13,181 35,983 6531
The 1935 profit was equal to 49.5 p.c.
on capital. Allowances were made each
year for depreciation but not for taxa-
tion. Assets to be transferred include
three 10-passenger, three-engine Av\os
(Fokker type), .three three-passenger, two-
engine Monospars, one four-passenger
'Ryan and a Moth, together with hangars
at Sydney, Brisbane and Townsville.
Also three new 10-passengpr, Monospars
are on order.
The new co. will foot the bill for the
additional ’planes (£8062), The inten-
tion is to extend the business by opening
up a daily service between Sydney and
Melbourne (three-hour run), and to pro-
vide feeder services as opportunity offers.
On the basis of two-thirds of the pas-
senger capacity of the ’planes, gross earn-
ings of the new co. are put at £84,334
p.a. Including £13,100 for depreciation,
exes, are figured at £71,296, leaving a
profit of £13,038. Subject to taxation,
this would belong £lO,lll to the ords.
(10.5 p.c. on their capital) and £2927 to
the deferreds (58.5 p.c. on their capital).
On the board are Lord Sempill and
W. S. Stephenson, both of London, and
G. A. Robinson, E. B. Wareham, H. C.
Armstrong, A. D. W. Allen, A. Mac-
dougall and E. D. Armstrong, all of
N. S. Wales.
Lake View (W.A.) has been getting
good results from boring in various parts
and at various depths in its Golden Mile
(W.A.) group. Chairman Agnew says
“most of the mines forming the co.’s
holdings had had wonderful records be-
fore they were taken over.” It was left
to the Lake View to show what the rise
in the price of gold, good management
and the latest equipment really meant.
Mr, Agnew also commented on the
foolishness of strikes and the sanity of
arbitration.
* * * ♦
From one on the spot: Lady Shen-
ton (W.A.) is putting the finishing touches
to its new power and treatment plant,
and 15dwt. tooz. crushings are spoken of.
Sufficient high-grade ore has been ex-
posed to enable the co. to achieve good
returns for some time, but opinion is
divided as to how the gold-carriers are
likely to shape in deep ground.
* * * *
Leonora Central (W.A.) forgot to look
before it leaped. Last February share-
holders were told that “before the next
annual meeting the co. will have joined
the ranks of div.-payers on a fairly large
scale.” The announcement was followed
by talk of a 50p0-ton-a-month plant.
Money, instead of being spent on plant,
is now to be used for further develop-
ment, which suggests that divs., if they
do materialise, are much farther off than
the co. anticipated.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
X.L.X.: That it has issued bonus shares and
created goodwill or some other intangible
against them. There is a difference between
this and bonus shares issued from reserves
created out of surplus earnings Enquirer;
Looks like a good swap. Mark Foys and
Morris Hedstrom are worth consideration
F.S. (Bris.): Doubtful as a long-term invest-
ment.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * ♦
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331—333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company. Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * ♦ *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined fin. Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTV., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.— Advt.


■H-EIX-E’S TO* HE
/VV ALT • • •
HOPS* • •
S UCAR • •
V E AS X •
THAT IS
THE ENERGIZING
POWER YOU NEED
When orc/erind
Pt LS £ A/Ett
SAY
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
< -*-
■
ox" 1 S A 3 h o o i
. « o J'iJOfl * o , A, ,
m&t
m
m
W
i
1 *
&
(td
'mmm -
Sfed
■:#:
ii
:
•Mil h
UN W MMI
H <r ll
>■
:
:- -:
- ; *•"' ■
■:;}
£ : . : ;v. .
SKuHai
/
tp*
f. '■ • *'• *?SMBR!
V--'
*r'
tit
r 5 x Ipc i f ,vK2i
f ' ••
$ *- * •/ -
l■ /* 4
» Uf, *' ■ .«**’; * “wt;
m
fetaiii
i -%
& •? ■
,•• ' ip* Jri
sdfy *Qt ?!*£. fcjffiiga
'*•
■■■ ■ ■
'
iMi


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mulga”; If those other fellows have
finished arguing about what makes a
bushman go straight, will someone stand
up and tell me what makes him go
crooked? For myself, I’ve struck a
line 48 miles across virgin country where
no white man had been before. There
were no hills or other landmarks, stock-
pads or wristlet watches ; and I came
out within a hundred yards of the spot
at which I was aiming. That's just one
of a dozen or more good shots. On
the other side of the slate, on a perfectly
sunny day I’ve turned round completely
within five miles on open country ; on
one occasion I turned round twice
within 10 miles in mountain country ; a
couple of other times I’ve nearly met
myself coming when I was going. What’s
the reason? When I’m good I’m real
good. When I’m bad I’m hor-
rible. The trouble with me is that 1
have no inside information of what are
my good and bad days, and I have to
go and find out before I know where I
am or how I’m working.
“Squalus”: The fiercely-discussed
question as to whether sharks will
attack black men hr.s been settled
temporarily ; one of the brutes the other
day attacked a N.Q. native skin diver
who was after beche-de-mer. The shark
grabbed the boy by the left shoulder,
but the plucky fellow beat it off and
dodged behind a patch of coral, while
the shark went to investigate a Japanese
companion, who managed to get off scot-
free. By this time the native had re-
gained the surface, and was hauled into
the lugger—in a bad way.
❖ * *
'‘Como”: Murrayville (Vic.) settlement
has asked the Forests Commission to
plant sugar-gums on the west side of all
agricultural blocks and all roads which
are two miles apart. If rows of Mallee
scrub had been left standing, the soil
would have remained in position and
wouldn’t have been blown over the grow-
ing crops in adjoining areas. It is
claimed that the sugar-gums will be
more effective than the original scrub,
seeing that they are quick growers and
reach a greater height. Diggers used to
wonder why the French peasants en-
closed all their farms and their roads
with lines of poplars ; the Mallee farmer
knows now.
“Yo Ho”: Don’t be surprised if one
of these days you hear of a second
edition of the Marie Celeste mystery,
the finding of an abandoned argosy on
the high seas. But the mystery is likely
to end when the first investigators go
aboard; and this is why. Sourabaya
Zoo has asked Taronga for a consign-
ment of Italian bees, a particularly
aggressive and bad-tempered variety of
a push not remarkable for its amiability.
A Netherlands-Indies shipping company
v/as dubious about booking the pas-
sengers, and with reason. Half a dozen
swarms on the rampage would mean
taking to the boats, and even then the
infernal beasts would pursue. A com-
promise has been effected. The bees
are to be kept in a special refrigerator
at a temperature of 40 degrees. Under
the impression that winter has set in
uncommonly early it is expected the
creatures will take to their hammocks
and pipe off their watch below until
restored to w'armer conditions in the
glamorous Orient.
“Slumgum” : George's head was like a
billiard-ball. I met him the other day and
inquired as to his health. “No use of
growling,” he said, “except for this head-
ache. I was stung on the head by a bee
20 years ago, and he fractured my skull.
I’ve had a headache ever since.”
“Frying Pan”: The old jest about
boundary-riding on a bee farm is likely
to be superseded by others about hea-
dlining. Someone in Yugoslavia has in-
vented a system of branding bees, and
it has been introduced here. It is used
now only in the case of queen bees, but
goodness knows to what lengths it will
go. There never yet was a stock brand
but someone with an urge to alter it
arose, and it will be interesting to see
what sort of technique the Australian
expert develops to deal with the new'
problem.
“Fiona”: “R.J.0.” (B. 13/11/’35) says
“even Maroubra.” in mentioning Sydney
suburbs which produce a startling quan-
tity of snakes. But it isn't long since
“Look ere, male, if y' don’t say nothink about it I Won't, neither."
Maroubra was one of the show spots of
Sydney for crawlers in their natural en-
vironment, the ancient swamp which
later became the site of the speedway
being reputedly the home of thousands
and the happy hunting-ground of reptile
collectors and charmers. I went there
once with a young English couple and a
land-agent who was trying to sell them
an allotment whereon to build a home,
and we all listened fascinated to his
prean regarding the view, the climate,
the aspect and the price. They had just
decided to close when a five-foot brown
crawled leisurely across the middle dis-
tance, and with a shriek the lady
repudiated the deal.
"Bungarrer”: Of course the goanna
drinks (B. 13/11/’35), and his favorite
bar is the bottom tray of the old bush
“cooler.” The water here has been
cooled from slowly dripping down the
hessian sides of the safe. Many a city
bride has sat terrified on the kitchen-
tabic while a go. had his refresher and
calmly contemplated the new missus. He
will return stare for stare, but just ignore
him and he stalks off without any to-do ;
he never attacks, and if cornered will
merely scale his tracker and make off.
His only drawback is his fondness for
eggs.
“Dungeness”; Only after a half-
century of acquaintance with Barrier
Reef and Torres Strait coral reefs has it
occurred to me that I have no reliable
evidence that the giant clam is dan-
gerous to man. Yes —I, too, have often
cut their adductor muscles across in
order to prevent them from closing the
corrugated shell-edges on the ankle of
some unwary beach-walker and holding
him to drown beneath the hissing floods
of a rising tide. But. except possibly at
night, I can't conceive how any sane
person with normal sight could take a
step into that vividly-mantled gape. Bar-
ring shipwreck, nobody is at all likely to
walk on tidal reefs at night without a
light ; and without a boat they would
soon be drowned, anyhow. The shell
closes slowly—the broad mantle has to
be withdrawn first —and there is plenty
of time to withdraw a foot before the
edges can catch it. Many miles of reef-
walking have never led me into the
faintest risk from clams. Brother Binghi
takes no notice of them. All the clam-
drowning stories that I have heard —and
they have been many—have been at
second- or third-hand, except a couple
from bar-going liars, flown with strong
liquor and desiring to impress the bar-
maid. Is there a single definitely re-
corded instance of anyone having been
drowned by a clam in Australian waters?
“M.P.": No bushman would suspect
a crow of being overtrustful, neither
would he attribute an iota of imbecility
to the sombre fowl; but this I will swear
to. Atop a sturdy straining post, lone
survivor of a demolished dividing fence,
a pair of crows nested, and thence
eventually launched four black young-
sters upon a sheep-infested countryside.
The nest stood for years, a monument io
a brace of big-billed crows that would,
evidently, try anything once; and it's
my entry for low altitude in crow
nurseries.
“Ricky”: The author of Tib urea
strikes a true note (B. 6/11 /’35) when
she causes her characters to accept with-
out question the fact that rabbits arc
not fit for human food. The “rabbo”
makes a living in the cities, but even
there there is this distaste for under-
ground mutton. Perhaps the Australian
countryman sees so many rabbits that
he feels an aversion to eating them. But
the English countryman sees rabbits, too,
and still considers them a delicacy. There
is also an aversion to milk in our coun-
try districts —milkless tea is typical
among country youths. Still, I never
knew a publican’s son who disliked beer.
“Mug Pirate”: “O. 1. Saye” is right in
saying areca is the nut in the slobbery
betel-chew outfit 18. 13/11 /’35). The
mature areca-nut is similar in appear-
ance to a nutmeg, and is every whit as
woody. But only the hardened chewer
can manage the fully-ripened nut. The
combination of areca-nut and betel-leaf
is a powerful drug, arid in (he end it
gets all but the ultra-tough devotee.
“Sailor”: Either “0.1.5.” is talking
out of his hat or some million niggers
and myself are wrong. My lifetime
among the colored brethren and palm-
trees has taught me that betel-nuts come
from the palms of that name, and the
betel-leaf comes from the creeper also
of the same name. The usual method
of chewing the narcotic is to extract the
kernel of the nut, wrap it in the pepper-
leaf and add a touch of lime.
“Cuddingwarra”: “Bungarrer" insists
(B. 13/11 / ’35) that the name of
the giant lizard of the Westralian hinter-
land is a native word and should
be pronounced as he spells it. But
the termination “arra” —vaguely sup-
posed to mean “water” —is very com-
mon among native place-names on the
Murchison, where pioneer squatters and
prospectors presumably first encountered
the reptile, and it is invariably written
and pronounced that way. Dozens of
instances could be quoted, such as
Meekatharra, Tuckanarra, Wheelarra.
Why, then, the exception in the case of
this particular specimen of Westralian
fauna?
“Nor’-west”: “Bung-arrow” is right-
“arrow” signifying the pace at which
the beaslie runs and “bung” his habit
of bunging into anything in his way. I
have seen him go up a horse’s leg, over
his wither and leap off on the other side.
“Tockilly”: Had an argument with a
chap the other day about the difference
between dog fleas and those that thirst
for human blood. I say they are of
different species; he says they're the
same, but of different size and color,
according to the nature of their host.
Any Aboliar settle the argument? A
bottle of the best depends on it.
“C.C.C.”: The bullock gallows here
(Winton, Q.) has (wo windlass arms
instead of the usual four. The arms were
lying out horizontally the other morn-
ing and a mob of kite-hawks, “wind to
facing sitting” as usual, were occupying
every inch of them. Presently one bird
Hew off. The decreased weight caused
that arm to rise, and two birds took off
from the other in alarm. Down swung
the first end. A couple more birds sat
down, and the process was repeated
several times. The spectacle of those
solemn fowls—somehow one can't
imagine a kite playing—involved in, but
not enjoying, a game of see-saw was
comical.
“Erua": The cockle may be neglected
in Australia (B. 13/11/’35), but it is
a much-esteemed titbit with Henare and
co. Picnickers on M.L.
beaches where the
cockle abounds on the
tidal flats usually carry
a tin with them in
which to boil the shell-
fish when it has been
gathered from its
muddy bed, and in such
localities the picnic
log may always be iden-
tified by the ring of
empty shells round it.
Still more popular, and
not so plentiful, is the
pipi, whose long, ele-
gantly shaped shell and
delicate flesh put it in a higher category
than the rough-shelled cockle. Both
wilt before the deep-sea mussel and the
aristocratic toheroa.
“Tidapa”: Another bird equipped with
a spiral windpipe (B. 6 /11 /’35) is the
frigate bird; and I’m willing to back
him against allcomers for packing away
the greatest number of fish in five
minutes. In Darwin we kept a young
’un as a pet, and the number of 6in.
mullet he could stow away was amazing.
When his stomach was full he would
continue taking the fish until the last
one would be still protruding from his
mouth. The last five fish he had taken
could be seen and felt packed in a per-
fect spiral around his neck. As a young-
ster 18 fish would satisfy him, but when
he could polish oil' two dozen we were
glad to give him his freedom. The
frigate never does his own fishing, pre-
ferring to rob the hard-working gannets
as they wing their way towards land.
“Pack-bag": Once bush townships
were ranked in importance only by the
number of pubs. But in Mareeba (N.Q.)
a youth informed me that Mt. Mulligan
was ‘‘list a town. It still has the silents.”
“Nagheer”: The “mudfish” in our
N.Q. estuaries have evolved far beyond
those southern degenerates described in
recent Bulletins as having to keep their
tails in the water. Ours clamber up man-
grove roots, two or three feet above
water-level, and lounge for hours to-
gether in a comfortable fork, regarding
The world with bulgy, intolerant eyes.
Nothing more superciliously superior can
be imagined. Not even Mr. Lang, re-
garding a Savings Bank depositor in
1931, could show more of the de haul
en has manner lam frequently driven
to shoot them in order to save my-
self from developing an inferiority com-
plex under the basilisk influence of that
cold, contemptuous stare. Like most
self-appointed critics of other folks’ busi-
ness, they lose all dignity when knocked
off their perches.
A STATION TRAGEDY.
i he clouds had gathered, as black as ink; then
the rain came lashing down,
And the station hands, when they reached the
shed, were soaked from foot to crown.
Bill Mulligan shook himself like a dog, then
• broke into speech profane:
II it adn’t been for that blanky Joe we'd 'ave
known it was goin’ to rain!”
Jhe statement puzzled me quite a lot, so 1
asked for enlightenment
Jouehing on Joe’s prophetic powers and how
he’d been negligent.
Aw, well,” said Bill, “there wasn’t a bloke
Irom Brisbane to Bungaree
Go c d tell as quick and as true as Joe what
sort of a day ’twould be.
" 1 hose Gov'ment meecherologists as often as
not will err,
But Joe was a walking weather-glass, a two-
legged b’rometer.
There was never a cloud could get within a
hundred miles o’ the plain
But what he’d alwiz be able to tell, an' give
us the tip for rain.
‘‘We got that way that even on sunny days we
wouldn’t 'ave dared
lo question ’im when he said it'd rain, an’
warned us to be prepared.
B d be right, o' course. Then the blasted
goat went an’ mucked the whole thing up
When a lew weeks back ’c ambled olf to see
the Melbin Cup.
‘‘As 'c's limpin' along in ’is tight new boots
some smart cove gives ’im the word,
And the very next day 'e's in the hands of
some chirop-o-dist bird.
It might be all right for ’ini to git ’is corn
yanked out be the roots,
But -the cow didn’t think of us!” said Bill,
as he tugged at his squelching boots.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Bull-ant Bill”: “Listen to
the lyin’ cow,” said old Joe,
spitting viciously in the direc-
tion of a butcher-bird’s flut-
ing. “Took me down, ’e did,
last week, for a coupla flamin’
quid. Hear ’im now, singin’
out: ‘Shadow King—sure ter
win!’ Bin doin’ it for the last
month. . Seemed a real dead
ring fer the Melbourne Cup,
so I shoved on a quid each
way. Then ’is flamin’ ’orse runs fourth,
and I does me good dough in. Gerrout,
y’ blanky spieler!” he howled, reaching
for a stone. “Hope y’r flamin’ eggs
grows red-’ot spikes on ’em! ”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: For lifelong marital
constancy I back mountain ducks against
anything else in the fowl world (B.
30/10/’35). I once caught some moun-
tain ducklings, brought them home and
reared them with our domestic ducks.
When they grew up we found there were
two drakes and four ducks. These drakes
paired off with two of the ducks, and
the whole lot nested around the dam,
but only the mated pairs hatched out
clutches ; all the eggs in the nests of the
two spinsters proved to be infertile. You
can’t ask for better proof than that. On
the other hand, the Lothario of the duck
world is the “pink-ear” —he’ll mate with
anything that has webbed feet —and the
black duck is nearly as bad. I’ve
known a black to entice away and mate
with the ordinary domestic duck, with
the result that a clutch of magpie-like
quackers appeared on the swamp later
on. A flock of these hybrids can be seen
in Adelaide Botanic Gardens.
* * * *
“Ex-Cavalryman”: Yes; those horses
of Haile Silassie (B. 6/11 /’35) are Arabs
all right. They are Kochlanis, the purest
of the breed. Kochlanis can stand great
fatigue, can pass days without food, have
a splendid reputation as war-horses, and
(according to Niebuhr) when their riders
are slain will carry them from the field.
Jfc * H«
“Overplum”: Standing with bare feet
on the lino, while I fumbled for a match,
I received a bite under the instep. The pain
increased, and I was greatly surprised
when investigation revealed a silver-
fish as the attacker. There was no sting
such as accompanies a bite from an
insect, and only experience could have
convinced me that a thing so delicate
could have inflicted so severe a nip.
Silverfish are progressive, for, when
family photos, went out and the back-
grounds no longer provided a diet rich
in vitamins, they changed over to knit-
wear and art. silk (preferably new). I
shall never forget the expression on the
face of my offsider when she opened a
package, bought the day before, and
shook out a completely ruined set of
the things described in the ads. as
“Lingerie, by Blank.”
* * * *
“Sullivan’s Beach”: I was wading in a
few inches of water at Sorrento (Vic.)
when I saw something wriggle at my
feet—a small, yellow, semi-transparent
snake, about a foot long and as thick as
a pencil, but an undoubted snake. As I
approached, it dived under the sand with
marvellous rapidity, but with the aid of
a stick I coaxed it into a bottle with the
intention of taking it to Melbourne Uni-
versity, for I had never heard of sea-
snakes so far south. But when I showed
my catch to fishermen they laughed at
me. The things were plentiful, they said.
They often hauled them in with the nets.
Nobody had ever been bitten, and they
had never heard of their being venomous.
Thereupon 1 disgustedly released the ser-
pent, which wriggled off contentedly.
But what was it? I’ve asked several Mel-
bourne naturalists since, and they dis-
own all knowledge of any kind of sea-
snake around Port Phillip Bay.
* *
“Keohlar”: Part of a composition
effort produced recently by a N.S.W.
“Stop making an exhibition of yourself, mother! Everyone's laughing
at you!"
schoolboy of six: "Our cat has four
kittens. One of them is a tom and the
rest are plain.” Plain Janes?
* if * *
The other night in camp
Jack swallowed iodine in mistake for
medicine ; then, seeing “Poison” on the
bottle by the light of a match, he flopped
on to a box and woke the camp. He
was given pannikins of emetics. While
he sat with a mug of soap-and-water in
one hand and another of mustard-and-
water in the other, Bill was noticed tear-
ing round in a motherly sort of panic.
“Strike me pink. Jack ; if I could only
find yer a fly !” he said apologetically.
* * * :;s
“Billy Bluegum”: Recently a lot of
well-meaning folk, having heard that
the parasitic mistletoe is working havoc
in Australian
forests where once
it was unknown,
have hopped to the
conclusion that the
vanishment of the
native bear and
possum is respon-
sible, since every-
one knows, as Aunt
Jobiska would say,
that these beasts
devoured large
quantities of the
parasite daily, and
so kept it within
bounds. It is a
fantastic tale as far
as the koala is
concerned. The
bear must have
food which con-
tains eucalyptus oil.
and cannot exist
on any other. That
explains the re-
striction of his
menu to gum-
leaves, and to
special varieties at
that. The possum,
while he eats a
good deal of grass,
is also a feeder on
gum-tips in his wild
state, though as he
becomes civilised
he will eat almost
anything. No one
whose opinion is
worth considering
has identified him
as a mistletoe-eater.
The great spreader
of the pest is the mistletoe-bird, which
eats the berries and follows the fruiting
season of the plant round Australia,
planting new colonies as it goes, much
as the emu does the prickly pear.
“Spropriare”: Near Roebourne (W.A.),
at Millstream station (on the table-
land, about 1000 ft. above sea-level, 80
miles inland), a rivei; rises out of the
ground and pours out millions of gallons
of water daily. It runs through a
valley full of tall cadgiebutt-trees and
bulrushes for about seven miles, and is
then lost underground in a subterranean
channel. The soil is mostly rich chocolate
loam. Growing about the station and
in the vegetable garden are bananas,
dates, oranges, lemons, grapes, tobacco
and all kinds of vegetables. Lucerne,
wheat and maize have also been grown.
The climate is splendid.
♦ * * *
“Laetitia”: Edibility of galahs? In
my jackerooing days I put up for the
races at a pub on the Cooper. The son
and heir of the landlord, naming his
pick when offered the choice of the
menu —“goat or galah”—plumped for
goat. “Ye’ll not, indade,” said Bung.
“Ye’ll have galah, and leave the goat
for the men who pay for it.”
* « * *
“Stab”: Has anyone ever taken a sex
census of stingrays? I’ve speared more
than a few, and i inspect every one that
I spear. To date, and my tally runs into
several hundreds, I’d say not more than
one in fifty is a bull. Is that the proper
“I’m a dip' theria-carrier, see, an I on'y got t' breathe
on y ’ t ’ send y' t' th' ’orspital."
proportion? Failing that explanation—
and I, knowing something of the habits
of the ’rays, refuse to believe it —what
does account for it? Apart from a pos-
sible pugnacity on the part of the bulls —
fights to kill which keep the numbers
down to a ridiculous limit —I would
advance the theory that the bucks rarely
come into shallow water where they can
be speared and examined so a man can
write to The Bulletin about ’em,
* * * *
“Horse-tailer”: Marine goannas (B.
9/10/’3s)‘? In the Walsh River, Cape
York Peninsula, there’s a greeny-black
water-goanna. He grows to five feet
long and is too slim and small about the
head to be confused with a young croc.
In shallow water he’ll fight a dog. Mostly
he lazes against the bank with his nose
above the surface. Once I watched a
four-footer for several minutes under
water. He looked dead, so to examine
him I grabbed his tail. 1 am not sure
who got the bigger fright—with a mighty
swish the go. shot away through the cur-
rent like a harpoon.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: When the Camel Corps was
formed in Egypt the haggins, mostly
brought from Arabia, were put on the
usual old service routine of stables, with
water and feed three times a day. The
result was when they went into Sinai
they needed regular drinks even more
than the horses. Not until someone con-
ceived the bright idea of putting them
under a tapering-off treatment until they
could go at least a week without a spot
could any good results be got from them.
As to their worthlessness in wet and slip-
pery country—well, ask any Light Horse-
man who took part in the raids on Es
Salt and Amman in the mountains of
Moab.
=je * ■-:<
“Bogan Boy”: “Groper” (B. 6/11/’35)
reopens the controversy regarding white-
ants eating their way through metal. At
Wave Hill station (N.T.) in 1920 we
searched the store for bullets, and found
about 40 packets stored away at the
back. The shelf they were stacked upon,
and the packets themselves, were
cemented together with an incrustation
of white-ant deposit. Investigation
showed that not one bullet was fit for
use, the lead of every one being eaten.
* * * ♦
“Bufo”: A lifetime’s practical ac-
quaintance with Australian sea-creatures
forces me to join the disbelievers of
whom “Kariah” (B. 6/11/’35) complains
with respect to his 16ft. turtles. The
world’s largest species of turtle is the
Luth, a tropical seagoing animal which
occasionally wanders into temperate
waters. It has been recorded up to 10ft.,
but out of many hundreds observed at
close quarters in Australian tropic seas
the largest was a full foot shorter. It
is twice the size of the green turtle or
the loggerhead, and its leathery-looking
carapace, with five strongly-marked
keels running the full length of the body,
make it quite unmistakable.
* * * *
“E.E.”: A childhood spent on a
N.S.W. farm taught me that lead- or
slate-colored snakes (B. 6/11/ ’35) always
went in threes. Our farm swarmed with
them, and if one was killed the other
two were assiduously hunted for and
dispatched. We didn’t know their sex.
I think the unrest following on the war
must be responsible for this stickybeak-
ing into snakes’ domestic arrangements.
All we knew was that they were
venomous ; we just found the handiest
waddy and dealt with the reptiles be-
cause they were snakes. Their morals
didn’t interest us. Anyhow, are snakes
supposed to have morals?
* « * ♦
“Flitting Bull”: Cables tell us that
“the widely held theory that the Ameri-
can Indian is of Australoid or Melanesian
origin” has been blown out. But when
was it ever advanced? There is nothing
about structure, habits, language or any-
thing to suggest a connection between
Fenimore Cooper’s noble savage and
Binghi or Tommy Tanna. Binghi has
the wavy hair, oval in section, of the
European ; Tanna’s is flat and woolly :
Uncas has the straight, circular-sectioned
hair of the Mongol —who is generally
believed by ethnologists to be his blood-
brother. The Indian melts into the
Eskimo, and the Eskimo spreads from
America to Asia, and always has done,
across the frozen Behring Strait, where
there is two-way sledge traffic every win-
ter. All the indications are that, though
the Red Indian has drifted away from the
Chinaman, he belongs to the same race.
In all probability the common ancestors
went from America to Asia, and there
evolved a civilisation which they picked
up from surrounding races. There is one
scrap of evidence that a Polynesian trace
may exist in the Amerindian: the totem-
poles and carvings common to the Maoris
and Hawaiians are to be found among
certain Amerindians —on the Pacific
Coast, the nearest point to Polynesian
settlement. And those early Polynesians
were great navigators ; people who could
make voyages from Samoa to Maoriland
in open boats take some beating.
JACKA HOOEY’S TEAM.
No sturdier cattle trod the road,
Outside a teamster’s dream.
Nor any pulled a bigger load
Than Jacka Hooey’s team;
’Twas famed on tracks he called his own,
From Bourke to Bulloo Downs,
And every bullock’s name was known
In all the western towns.
The shikker team, ’twas called. And short
And sharp the reason showed
When yells at Brandy and at Port
Were heard along the road.
He called his polers Rum and Gin,
His leaders Tooth and Toohey;
No other team could raise a grin
Like that of Jacka Hooey.
His eighteen beasts were brindle stags;
Their pedigrees were queer,
But for a pull with bales and bags
He’d bet on Bitter Beer.
He’d stake his boots on Whisky’s power,
And on old Sherry, too,
Or Muscat, dubbed in shine and shower
The pride of Tinneroo.
When summer blazed and roads
were bad,
Outbound for Warn Creek,
With grog on board for pubs, he
had
A birthday once a week.
And sometimes, while he roared
and railed
Through midday’s glint and
gleam,
A string of pink goannas trailed
Behind the shikker team.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


m
K
-■
0%
OP*
Ran
"The R-an-D" Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably."
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davie-, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N'.Z.: MacEnaii'x
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
*\AOE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
VALLEY- ■ BRfSBA/ME
y
~7teoct -ter Tnyd&Sf-
?Me.
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
BV.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known.
. . . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC. NEW YORK.
THE
fO«
N\*° l
6B®
RITMI
B.VD. UNDERWEAR
j
MADF IN AUSTRALIA BY
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
machinery
ĵ
JohnHcinc
WONEY tr gOW Ltd. »YPHEY
MtPHERSONS
pry. LTD.,' Melbourne. Adeloide. Perti.
mmmm * m,m.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Lambs and Wheat.
“The 0.D.”; Where fat lambs and
wheat are combined in N.S.W.. the best
crop is,Ford. It can take a heavy doing
from the lambs, top them off. and still
yield a sizable return in grain, even in a
dry year.
Plan your lambing so that the lambs
coincide with midwinter crop growth,
making sure to get them off before
August.
Stan Carberry, of Culgoora (N.S.W.y
grazed 1000 ewes and lambs on a wheat
crop last July, and his lamb return would
have covered him had he got a bag to
the acre instead of the ten-bag average
now coming off that same paddock.
Rainfall on the growing crop was
about half that of a normal year. Ford
is remarkable for its recuperative powers
on heavy, self-mulching country under
such conditions.
Lamb-marking Troubles.
“Sheepo”; Motherless lambs are hard
to avoid if ewes and lambs are taken long
distances in the heat to central marking
yards.
It is often hard to find the right
mothers to cut out. especially with ewes
on their first lamb. The use of brakes in
the paddocks for lamb-marking invari-
ably mean that a good percentage of
lambs turns up at weaning lime. An
advantage is that both ewes and lambs
arc not knocked about needlessly.
Enough netting or brush to hold one
day's marking can be used as a receiving
yard, in conjunction with a division
fence, in which the wires have been well
strained. One or two smaller brush
yards will serve as forcing pens, with
netting or brush yard provision for the
ewes.
Sheep hurdles will do for the race if
screened with galvanised iron.
Railings need to be built in the catch-
ing pen, and, when sterilising instru
ments, spraying the rail will help to
guard against tetanus.
Before letting fresh sheep into the
paddock brakes, tails and other refuse
should be raked up and burnt, and the
drafting race and catching pen well
sprayed with antiseptic.
Mark on new ground each year.
%
Better Wool on Fat-lamb Ewes,
“Albarmount”; “Corriedale” (B.
13/11 /*35) is rightly against keeping the
ewe portion of crossbred lambs for
breeders. Anyway it's unprofitable. If
they are fat lambs they will fetch more
than the purchase price of young ewes
ready for work. Western N.S.W. ewes,
which arc frequently shunted in to escape
a drought, usually make good fat-lamb
mothers.
“Winfield's” suggestion (B. 13/11 /'3s>
to use merino rams after the longwoois
may be all right in competent hands. But
a lackadaisical owner might allow the
unsold lambs of both classes to run
together with harmful results. How-
ever, this could be overcome if growers
would make it a policy to sell the whole
of their crossbred drop each year. Cross-
breds for mutton should be regarded
as a factory product. No manufacturer
likes to carry over last year’s model on
his shelves.
N. S. Wales Fodder Competitions.
“Ghanam”: The report of the N. S.
Wales R.A.S. shows that great progress
has been made —total entries tor loca'
competitions numbered 371 against 270
last year, and there were 33 in the open
competitions. Not nearly enough yet.
but the educational value is there —nearly
2(H) delegates attended the Conservation
Conference.
In the “open" competition, 20 had
accumulated enough food to provide a
full ration for their stock for nine
months. All but six entrants included
cereal hay in their stores.
The business, however, is merely in
its infancy, as is shown by silage figures.
There are 16,500,000 sheep in the area
where combined wheat-sheep farming is
followed ; but in the inland only 294
farms were making silage in 1934. and
their production was 26.402 tons, which
works out at about 3.621 b. per sheep.
On those figures, the declaration of the
R.A.S. is self-evident:-
The total quantity of silage conserved
each year in inland areas is negligible, and
discloses deplorable neglect to make an>
provision for the maintenance of stock
during lean periods.
Very different from the Argentine. An
Australian who visited that country re-
cently reported that in spite of compara-
tive freedom from drought there it was
the aim of cattle-ranch managements to
conserve one ton of silage for every 2'
acres of land. “Immense stocks” of
lucerne, clover hay and silage were to
be seen on every station.
What a changed business stock-raising
would be in Australia if there were one
ton of silage conserved to even every 50
acres of the intermediate-interior west ol
the Eastern States!
Top-dressing Technique,
"Mundowic": Many farmers and
graziers top-dress by the book rather
than by reason. I have asked hall a
dozen lately exactly what top-dressing
achieves, and no answer has been com-
plete or anything near it.
Actually it does far more than increase
the food output. Quality is improved,
100. More phosphorus and lime are
available, and the nitrogen content of
legumes is expanded. With a stronger
grass sole, weeds are kept down. Native
grasses of the right variety share in the
improvement, and grazing periods are
longer on improved than on unimproved
lands.
For all-round purposes there is no
doubt about superphosphate—22 p.c.
soluble phosphoric acid —but treatment
must differ according to district.
On N. S. Wales Tablelands and in
Riverina, scwt. to lewt. per acre is
enough, but on the coast a mixed
nitrogen-super, is better, especially where
paspalum is the staple fodder —2cwt.
super, with lewt. ammonium sulphate is
equal to anything. It is excellent, also,
for winter grasses, and the provision of
cold winter pastures, above all. should
be the aim of cast-coast farmers below
the tropics.
Time of application is as vital as the
fertiliser itself. Inland and on table-
land country, autumn is the best period.
In cold districts application should, how-
c\er. be very early—not later than the
first week in March.
Slocking is important. I have known
farmers who solemnly top-dressed and
then immediate!} turned in a fairly large
draft of sheep. Accessible super, is about
as safe with some woollies as a box of
chocolates with a schoolgirl.
There is no need to plough or harrow
grassland before top-dressing—unless a
carries root-bound paspalum. which
needs renovating sometimes. A "broad-
caster” or "spreader” is suitable lor most
l\pes of country, and in wheat areas a
wheat drill works quite well.
All Noxious.
"J. Want": Reports of graziers’ gather-
ings have something of the stern un-
forgivingness of ancient Hebrew com-
minution parties, while reflecting the
delicate atmosphere of numana.
Take a P.P.U. meeting held at Bathurst.
Bathurst being the centre of the oldest
settled district across the Blue Mountain-*,
one might expect to find it, alter 122
years of occupation, too intensively occu-
pied to allow pests to get a foothold.
Yet the meeting was one long wail.
Many holdings, it was reported, were
netted against the rabbit, but there were
others where more harbor destruction
was necessary. Members ol the board
sighed they know that politics prevent
a State-wide application of a rabbit
policy—and dealt with the next pest.
The travelling unemployed were alleged
to have been illicitly killing sheep.
Nobody suggested that some of them
might be employed digging out burrows
and keeping fences in repair; so unem-
ployed travellers arc to be “controlled,
instead of eating rabbit and the bread
of relief work.
The wombat was the next victim. A
gentle fellow, but a menace to netting
fences. Came a call from the St.
John's Wort Prevention Brigade at
Tarana. The spread of the weed on the
Fish River was "causing an alarm-
ing position which the board could not
afford to ignore.” So steps were taken
to buy salt and have St. J.'s wort
declared noxious by the local council.
Dogs infest the Bathurst district, too.
“Farmers suffer considerable loss from
the depredations during night raids by
packs of unregistered mongrels,” The
matter was of the “utmost importance
to the pastoral industry.” The police
are to be called in.
Dozens of meetings like that are
taking place all over Australia, but no-
body seems to think it worth while to
drive home the point that, when land is
fully used, pests cannot exist on a large
scale.
I often think that a large immigration
of Anatolian peasants to one of the
afflicted areas would set a good example.
They would wax fat on farms of 15 or
20 acres, putting up clean huts, bright with
rugs, built from the local clay. No rabbit
would be safe outside his hole, for the
visitors would regard him as cattle.
Wombat coats would be the vogue in
winter, and on the Sabbath young
Armenians would be seen in every
house carving the bones of deceased
pests.
By the lime a myriad Asiatic beasts of
burden with cast-iron interiors had been
tethered among the St. John’s wort for
a few weeks, and the dogs had been
skinned for leather and thongs, the rest
of the trouble would be well on its way
to disappearing.
Feeding for Results.
"Hortus”: Fat-stock cows on our
places in England were fed twice daily
on the following: Well-mixed chaff from
natural pasture hay and cither wheaten
or oaten or barley straw, chopped-up
mangolds, beanmeal and oil-cake.
The result was that our stock fetched
the highest prices in the market. Some
will say "What a costly business to feed
animals like that!” As everything, ex-
cept the oil-cake, was produced on the
farms, the cost, apart from labor, was
little.
Now' for an instance in Australia. For
a cow to produce 9221 b. of butter-fat in
255 days is very creditable.
From the time she last calved in Feb-
ruary she had the run of a 24-acre field
with a horse. As well as pasture she was
given a ration made up in the proportion
of 1001 b. chaffed maize. 61b. bran and
31b. linseed meal until the end of April.
From May onward the roughage con-
sisted of 501 b. maize silage and 501 b.
of oaten chaff, with the same concen-
trates as previously.
Two months ago it was found neces-
sary to change the concentrates to 31b.
bran and 31b. of linseed meal, which,
with 501 b. maize silage and 501 b. oaten
chaff, was continued to the end of the
lactation.
The cow, a Jersey grade, is owned by
K. Gunn, of Leongatha (Vic.). Her breed
ing is unknown. Her progeny in the
same herd by a pedigree bull is giving
almost 241 b. butter-fat a day now. The
mother's record is worth studying.
She produced 4381 b. butter-fat on her
first calf, and 6651 b, on her second in
273 days’ lactations. While undergoing
her recent test (yield 15.2701 b. milk,
average test 6.031 b. and 921.661 b. butter*
fat) over a period of 255 days, she never
gave less than 521 b. milk daily and she
reached 731 b.
For a Dry Year,
“M 8”: The value of quick-maturing
wheat such as Gecralying is amply
demonstrated in north-west N.S.W, crop
belt this year.
In many districts, autumn was so dry
that no wheat could be sown at the
normal time (Aprii-May). and, forced to
wait until July for good conditions, wise
growers turned to Geeralying. it came
along rapidly, even with as low a total
as 4in. for the short growing period, is
finishing well, and will yield up to 36
bushels an acre. It is a plump, hard grain
and usually gives high bushel weight
Weak Hindquarters in Pigs.
"Silky Bag”: The cause and cure have
been established on Glenfield State Farm
(N.S.W.). There are two sources of
trouble, both of which result in pressure
on the motor nerve-cord to the hind-
quarters. This causes paralysis, and may
be due to a broken vertebral segment
or to bacterial invasion of the column.
Fracture of the vertebra through
sheer bone weakness is common. Pigs,
growing quickly, need plenty of lime and
phosphorus.
The usual skim-milk diet is rich in
this, but the important calcifying vitamin
is completely removed by the separator.
Grain rations are weak in minerals,
but contain the vitamins, so that a com-
bination of the two is satisfactory. Pure
grain is too short of minerals.
Brittle bone conditions exist on most
farms where cither a purely milk or a
grain ration is used. Apart Irom com-
bining the two, chopped greenstufls
lucerne, clover or maize—arc probably
the best balancers.
Ultra-violet rays stimulate calcification,
so that a pig reared in sunlight has bone
more suited to withstand infection than
a shade-fed one.
At the same time, minerals arc needed
to build up resistance.
Better Bulls for All.
"Lion”: "Ghanam’s” suggestion of
Government-owned stud tarms for im-
proving the N.T. cattle (B. 6/11 35) is
splendid ; but could poorer settlers afford
to pay the price of such beasts?
Exactly the same trouble has been
experienced in S’Africa amongst tie


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
j
Best for riders !
Light, strong, pliant and smart-
looking . . . all the qualities
keen horsemen look for will be
found in this Abbey Riding
Boot. Its stout elastic sides
preserve resilient, easy fit.
Soft leather lining makes the
upper extra comfortable. It s
the ideal boot for everyday use.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. When
writing specify width as well ar,
size, and order a large tin of Dale’s
English Dubbin, available in black
and tan, at 2/6. This softens the
leather, makes it waterproof and
increases its wearing qualities.
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY. BOOTS. SYDNEY.
FPL 4
Jake this
GIANT SHIP
EUROPE
Hi
'impress of Britain"
0 Enjoy this new travel thrill
fas a climax to your journey
Home.
'A 12,500 tons gross of floating luxury.
(\ Ml living quarters have outside
0, light and air. Standing beds .. .
'a Ballroom .. . Stage .. . Screen .. .
() (ilympic Swimming P 001... Tennis
u\ Court .. . whole deck for Sports
y) ••• cuisine and personal service of
f), a new order. Rales surprisingly
moderate.
Write for beautifully illustrated booklet.
Vnv I ouri't Hooking Aaeney or
C.-WAIIIAK I’AtlllC,
:;i< George Street, Sydney,
I
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World's Greatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
le/as
qQSEs
EYE LOTIOI
For I rvf I ameJ Eyes and
SOLO E V E R Y W E
H. A. ROSE i, Co, Ltd. King
Eyelids
IERE
St. Sydney
If any illustration in The Bulletin
lakes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
IjCfc
SCHOOL BOOKS
•w»S*e
‘‘ r _y A y
L'i I ■J'
.
Neat, convenient and inexpensive,
the lightweight Globite Attache
Case is most practical for school
books. It's extra strong and rigid,
with a reinforcing lid stay. Ask
for a Globite Attache Case.
X I
A
'1
(■)
A
k\v
fT.
10*
0
**
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighiy Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
(muduui^iiikdumiMonljim
M
cattle of the natives and poor-whites.
The stud farm was tried and easy terms
offered, but they all knew the beast had
eventually to be paid for, and so few
availed themselves of the chance. Those
that did were moderately-well-off men.
The scheme was voted a failure, and
another was introduced.
The Government farms continued to
produce sound stud bulls, but leased
them to all and sundry at low prices,
conditionally on their being kept in good
condition. The bulls were rushed. The
scheme was profitable to all concerned.
Within two years a marked improve-
ment could be observed in all progeny
where the bulls had been used. Within
four years the real scrubby youngsters
were absent. Better prices followed
naturally, and then many herd-owners
were able to buy their own bulls from
the Government farms.
This plan could be applied to the N.T.,
and only Queensland would surely take
on.
There are difficulties, of course. One
would be to keep tab on the bulls and
their condition.
Kikuyu.
“Tharrowby”: I agree with “Ghanam”
(B. 13/11 /*35) that Kikuyu is useful in
the control of bracken. Kikuyu will, I
think, oust anything; but it is not so
easy to control as “Ghanam” would have
one believe. Although not a particularly
heavy seeder, it forms, with the aid of
those prodigious runners and easily satis-
fied adventitious roots, a matted carpet
of well-anchored grass.
Unless well stocked, paddocks of
Kikuyu are inclined to become rank and
coarse ; when young, it is succulent and
excellent cattle-feed.
Ernest Breakwell, the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Agrostologist, strongly recom-
mended Kikuyu for several purposes,
including the suppression of various
“weeds.” This suggestion was not very
favorably received, as everyone who
knew Kikuyu seemed to think that it
would become a greater nuisance than
the weeds. Since then the grass has be-
come exceedingly popular.
Pitting Potatoes.
“Eureka”: Try this storage recipe from
the N.S.W. South Coast: Select well-
drained level ground. Two small logs
are laid on top, 3ft. to 6ft. apart, accord-
ing to the quantity to be stored.
Empty the potatoes between the logs
and form into a ridged heap.
Cover well with straw or dry grass,
and then cover this again with sods of
earth. The sods should be placed from
the ground up, one overlapping the other
to keep water out.
Dig a good drain all round the out-
side of the heap. It is important to see
that the potatoes are perfectly dry before
storing.
Subterranean Clover.
“Granova”: Speaking at Temora
N.S.W. Agrostologist Moodie recom-
mended sub.-clover as a most useful
pasture plant for N.S.W. slopes.
The early strain can be grown in the
1 Sin.-rainfall belt, as it seeds in Septem-
ber. For N.S.W. and similar conditions
Mr. Moodie advised sowing a 50 p.c.
mixture of early and commercial strains,
thus providing a longer period of growth.
To get good germination s.c. must be
sown on a firm and shallow seedbed —
with wheat or oats. One pound per acre
of seed is sufficient. But do not put it
in as deeply as the cereal.
After the first year it can be stocked
at seeding-time without danger of spoil-
ing the next year's germination. Unlike
Wimmera rye in wheat districts, it will
not choke itself out by heavy seeding.
Success with sub.-clover is impossible
without superphosphate —lewt. per acre
every second year is needed.
Better Axe Handles.
“Tockilly”: When will Australians
wake up to the fact that they have timber
far more suitable for axe handles than
spotted gum?
Swamp oak, scrub willow (sometimes
called quince), water gum and lime are
far better, to my mind—almost up to
the standard of American hickory.
All the broad-axe men on my job (on
the “8.V.” line, Q.) swear by these
timbers, and make their own handles
rather than buy hickory or spotted gum.
Better Fruit—More Markets.
“Nranja”: Mr. Butler, the S.A. Premier,
told growers on his return from Britain
that, although the price obtained for
citrus fruit was not as satisfactory as
could be desired, “the fact remains that
our oranges are the finest in the world
for flavor.” Yet Jaffa, which apparently
can’t breed the finest flavor, shipped
5,000,000 cases to Britain this year, and
Mr. Butler found himself in the position
of telling his growers that “they should
continue to send shipments, even if it
were only 10,000 cases, but they must
be of the highest quality.” And he says
that “markets will have to be found else-
where, so as to relieve British conges-
tion”—the congestion which has been
caused during the past five years in the
process of our being shouldered out by
Palestine growers.
It is the same old tale. Australian
politicians are busy bolstering the fruit
trade, while other countries are spending
the equivalent of bounties and the like in
improving their crops and packing. For
years at the Imperial Fruit Show, which
is held in London every year, Canada
swept the boards of all prizes for apples,
while British merchants were straining
their voices trying to persuade Austra-
lian consignors not to pack in hardwood
cases, which flattened fruit on the out-
side, and not to grade so that there were
half a dozen variations in size in the
box. Then British growers took a hand,
and so improved their types that they
won the open championship, with
Canada a close second. But where was
Australia in this major event?
Like most other products, the Austra-
lian fruit trade languishes not because
of overproduction, but because of over-
production of second-rate produce.
California sells its oranges even
locally carefully wrapped, branded on
the skin and graded to a fraction of a
millimetre. Outside the capital cities.
Australia sells not only bare and un-
graded fruit, but often inferior sizes
and qualities.
There is a fortune waiting for anybody
who can introduce Californian fruit-
marketing methods to Australia, putting
better grades into local households and
encouraging the expansion of the use of
various forms of fruit salad, which are a
feature of the far-western U.S.A. menu.
Hints for the Farm.
“Balogie”; One of the hardest bush-
shoeing jobs to do without an anvil is
cutting off the heels of the shoes. An
old three-cornered file makes a good
cutter. Throw it in a fire and leave it
until it is white-hot. Remove, and let it
cool without putting in water. It will
stand as much hammering with an
ordinary carpenter’s hammer as you can
give it, if kept on a level surface.
‘’G.F.A.”: Let shed workers take my
tip and buy a pair of boots a size bigger
than usually worn. Nothing plays up
with the temper more than sore feet,
and the average m. 0.1. does so much
riding that he isn’t used to the feel ol
the boards, which make his cramped
feet spread.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What are the chances for a young man with
£2OO to settle successfully in Northern Terri-
tory ? —8656.
In ■ cattle-raising, the only industry except
mining, there would be little chance for a
man with only £2OO. Besides, most of the
worth-while land is taken up. Suggest you
write to Mr. A. M. Blain, member for the
N.T., Parliament House, Canberra.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
A
r
CWfJ
mi ■ i
■'iprn^w
. : W i ja» ">*
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
FOR SALE.
One resplendent uniform, undamaged
except by photographers; suitable for
Picture Palace Commissionaire. Or
would exchange for two watermelons.
Apply Colonel Hubert Fauntleroy Julian,
The Black Eagle of Harlem.
* * * *
“Almost anything may be fashionable for
women next year.”— Woman’s paper.
That may be better than the almost
nothing of previous years.
* * * *
“The High School girl from Edmonton,
Canada, who won a free trip to Australia with
a prize-winning essay on Australia, reached
Canberra... .met Dr. Page at Parliament
House... .called on the Governor-General....
heard the debates at Parliament House.”
—“5. M. Herald."
That’ll teach her to write essays on
Australia!
* -I- -1- *
“Greece to be ruled again.”
By George!
“This is what comes of wearing
those high-heeled shoes."
“ ‘Whenever I’m lonely I play the violin,’
says a correspondent.”
Quite a few people are lonely when
they play the violin.
ij* •% JU
“Wheel from passing motor-car comes loose
and rolls into house.” — News item.
There’s an old spinning-wheel in the
parlor.
Making Our Railways Pay.
VIII. — The Real Scheme.
I have been asked whether I shall
allow bars on my trains. 1 take it that
the inquirer means liquor bars. Assur-
edly they will be allowed ; in fact, not
only allowed, but encouraged ; more
than that, enforced.
My Sunday “Liberty” trains I expect
to be very popular. They will run from
all main centres to a spot just outside
the 25-mile limit, and the return fare
will include half-an-hour go-as-you-
please in the saloon bar, with extensions
at reasonable rates.
Then there will be private trains for
hire—bring your own guard and driver
—and mystery trains which will run on
week-ends and holidays to destinations
known only to the guard and driver. As
a variation of this idea the destination
can be decided by the vote of the pas-
sengers and changed as often as they
please.
All these measures are designed to
make train travelling popular. 1 don’t
expect to make very much money out
of them. My real money-making
scheme —the plan that is going to make
the railways pay once and for all—is
much more revolutionary.
The present system necessitates having
two sets of rails. 1 shall run my trains
in both directions on the one set of rails,
and do away with the other set. (It can be
converted into ploughshares, safety-
razor blades or nerve tonic, and thus
add to railway revenue.)
Think of the money that will be
saved by this plan!
“Pooh!” say the critics, “but look at
the time wasted on loop-lines.”
I shan’t use loops. My trains won’t
have to go around each other ; they’li
go over the top. All trains will be
streamlined, and a set of rails will run
up the front of each engine, along the
top of the carriages and down the back
of the guard’s van.
When a north-bound express and a
south-bound express meet head on, one
will merely climb up and over the other
and they'll continue as before. There’l!
probably be some
arguments as to
which is to go over
which, but that’ll be
a matter for the
engine-drivers.
The disused track
will be torn up and
the ground planted
with wheat, the drill being operated from
a train on the other line.
When the crop is ripe a harvesting
train will set forth at the rate of 60
m.p.h. and will reap, thresh, clean and
bag the wheat and deliver it at the sea-
port. Of course, I won’t grow wheat
everywhere. In turnip country turnips
will be grown, and so on.
My secretary has been at work taking
out the figures for this scheme, and when
she went to lunch she had arrived at the
following. result:
Proceeds sale of razor-blades,
etc. .. .. .. .. So much
Saving in maintenance of per-
manent way .. .. .. So much
Proceeds sale of wheat,
turnips, etc So much
She’ll finish the calculations during the
afternoon, but that is quite sufficient, I
think, to convince any reasonable person
that under my regime not only will the
railways pay, but they’ll pay handsomely.
Jasby.
*l*
How to Catch a Mouse.
Purchase mousetrap, oil spring with
Shellatex Double-B Plus, bait and set
equidistant between mouse’s hole and
bread-crock.
Procure box of Queensland maple
measuring 24 \ x 16j x 10 inches. Seize
cat, stroke fondly, thrust into box and
hastily fasten down lid. Label box
“Prime Dutch Cheese.”
Resort to hackneyed but infallible ruse
of telephoning mouse that Minnie’s in
grave danger; that Dick Crusoe and his
dog Sailor have been smothering her in
the Devil’s chamber of the Enchanted
Castle since Friday.
Mouse will open mouth wide with
astonishment and swallow the deception.
Will skid through hole on two wheels,
swerve to avoid trap, crash into table-
leg and be blinded by shattered wind-
screen.
Let cat out of box.
No, thank you, butcher, we don’t want
any cat’s meat to-day!
P.C.
True Love.
“Asked the secret of how to be happily mar-
ried, an octogenarian replied; ‘1 have always
told mum to keep the fires burning in the
kitchen if she wants to keep my love, and
she has done that.’ ”
The case of my Scots grandparents
was somewhat similar. When grandpa
saw his wee wifie for the first time minus
her false teeth and wig he felt he'd been
tricked. Being quick on the uptake
granny said:
"Jamie, my jo, wha’ must I do tae
retain your love?”
Jamie thought a moment; then, realis-
ing he’d have to make the best of it, he
took her down to the cellar and pointed
to a nine-gallon whisky-cask.
“Keep yon caskie fu’, lassie,” he told
her, “and I’ll no’ complain.”
“Aye, laddie,” she replied. “I’ll do
it.”
And she did. Years rolled by, and
despite grandpa’s efforts to empty it she
always kept the supply up. As time went
on it became increasingly difficult as
her 10 sons joined their father in his on-
slaughts on the cask, but still the old
lady proved herself
worthy to hold his
love.
At the age of 97
grandpa fell very
sick. For three
weeks he hadn’t
spoken a word and
granny had knelt
at his bedside day
and night.
At last his eyelids
fluttered faintly.
Granny be-
seeched him.
“Jamie, ma love.
Speak tae me.
Just one word be-
fore ye go. Say
ye love me, Jamie.”
Grandpa spoke
faintly.
“Is the wee
caskie fu’?”
“Aye, Jamie.”
He smiled.
“Ye’ve been a guid
wife, Jeanie. Keep
it so.”
And the fine old chap breathed his
last.
Becks.
•b 4* 4*
“Woman buys seat at opera for her clog.”
—News Hem.
A case for the S.P.C.A.?
A Misnomer.
“A prisoner in Goulburn Gaol is taking
honors in his leaving certificate.” —News Hem.
After several very narrow escapes
from shooting by sentries, I managed to
scale the prison walls last week and inter-
view the student. I had difficulty in find-
ing his cell, for they all look so alike, but I
eventually found it by the droning sound
of multiplication tables being recited.
His cell was littered with books, and
he blinked at me from a quarter-inch
battery of lenses set into steel-rimmed
glasses. “Tell me about your leaving
certificate,” I whispered uncertainly.
“Young man”—he drew himself high in
his convict garb—“it is scandalous. No
matter how 1 study, what tremendous
and soul-shattering reason 1 demonstrate,
to what celestial heights I soar in my
examination, the whole thing is still a
farce. The department has decreed that
my success in the leaving certificate does
not entitle me to leave.”
G.I.S.
Miscue.
"Faith, man ; have Faith ! ” That’s what
my sponsors urged.
“Hope’s sweet,” they said ; "bin Faith’s
divine, you’ll find.”
So I had Faith, and o’er me since has
surged
A passionate desire to change my
mind.
Now life is one long tale of misery —
A sequence of unnerving snares and
snags.
Hope’s wonderful! But she is lost to me.
For 1 have Faith — and, dammit, how
she nags!
P. O. M. C.
Getting Copy.
Another purple dispatch from Thatsall
Bunk, the “Howler’s” brilliant corre-
spondent in Abyssinia.
As I lay trying to snatch a few hours’
sleep in an outhouse of the Emperor’s
palace in the early hours of yesterday
morning, a torch suddenly flashed in my
face. Fully aware of the terrible danger
to which I was exposed as a press repre-
sentative of the hated white races, I
dived for my automatic. Then suddenly
I recognised the kindly, bearded face.
Haile Silassie —for it was he—laughed
softly.
“Fear not, Bunk,” he said, “it is I, the
Negus. I know that, in the absence of
dispatches from the armies, you chafe ;
you are —what you say? —hungry for
copy. Come, then, and witness an age-
old custom that goes straight back to
Moses on the distaff side!”
Wondering, 1 followed this amazing
man. We passed through serried ranks
of savage fighters of the dreaded
Onkwow tribe. The eerie darkness was
but faintly illuminated by the ghostly
glow of their tch-tch torches. The sight
I saw that night still haunts me. They
were eating a live lion! The savage
roars of the half-masticated jungle king
mingled with the horrible champing of
the blood-drunk warriors.
Haile seemed delighted. “The boys
are getting in trim,” he said gaily.
It was then that I noticed a gigantic
slave carrying a huge bundle of spears.
We wound our way into the dense forest.
It was pitch-dark. Only the roar of
prowling man-eaters broke the uncanny
silence.
Suddenly the King of Kings halted.
Then he commenced hurling spear after
spear into the blackness. After the last
one had been thrown he turned to me.
It says much for his splendid physical
condition that he had not turned a hair.
“Spear-throwing, Bunk,” he said, “has
been a sport in our family since Biblical
times. You will notice that I throw
them only when it is dark. 1 do that for
a cogent reason. I have probably hit
what 1 aimed at. If I haven’t I am
not aware of it, and am therefore not
distressed through my failure. It is better
so.”
The brilliant reasoning was breath-
taking. 1 marvel yet to think that /
have been given this great privilege. It
“We think th' bloke 'oo was stayin' with us must've
ratted it."
enables me better to bear the frightful
dangers to which 1 am constantly sub-
jected.
S. W. K.
The Rejected Manuscript.
(A Tale in Six Words).
Inspiration.
Application.
Expectation.
Restoration.
Indignation.
Conflagration!
E. M. E.


ecevLoit • . .
veuea*
WITH AUSTRALIA’S FINEST
BROADCAST RECEIVER
Jr
:v:>:
• - .
RAD
a
New Raaiolas at prices repre-
senting value as outstanding as
Radiola quality, l appearance
and performance A . .
and Battery operated types . . .
Unexcelled
circuits
efficiency with new
. Overseas reception
guaranteed . . . |Fully inclined
instrument/
t/ panel and Rotovisor
dial for greater convenience in
tuning , j. . Beautiful cabinets
in matched walnutl veneers and
finished/in a high\ gloss I lustre
. . . Range" models\
priced j from 25 guineas I. . .
A.W.A. High Standard ofyqual-
ity is also available lin receivers
for Australian Reception from
1/5 guineas.
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED 8Y
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’SIA) LTD.


FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, «/ « FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
«SILVER
EDGE”
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE; 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE; ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ..
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
The Steering Column.
OLDSMOBILE EIGHT OVER TEST COURSE.
COMFORTABLE, ROADWORTHY AND SAFE.
BY FRED BERRY.
TESTED recently over the “Bulletin” course, the Oldsmobile
Six worthily upheld the family traditions so firmly estab-
lished in past years. The Oldsmobile Eight, tested last week,
has similar good features, with greater power and longer wheel-
base. It is a car that baffies the fault-finder.
With a maximum speed beyond the
requirements of average drivers, the
Eight is built along very sturdy lines,
assuring owners more than average
freedom from service and maintenance
charges, while the life of the car should
be exceptionally long.
Careful scrutiny of mechanical details
reveals that the designer’s objective was
to produce a car that, apart from giving
satisfactory performance, might be
operated for unusually long periods
without attention or requiring replace-
ment of parts.
With a bore of 3in. and stroke ol
4|in. the eight-cylinder motor, using a
6.1 to 1 high-compression head, develops
100 b.h.p. at 3600 r.p.m. R.A.C. rating
is 28.8 h.p., and piston displacement
240.3 cubic inches. Cylinder block and
crankcase are cast integrally of alloy
iron, the crankcase being reinforced
with longitudinal ribs to provide a rigid
mounting for main bearings, so eliminat-
ing crankshaft whip at high engine revs.
Cylinder barrels are separated and com-
pletely surrounded by water jacketing,
which extends below piston head at
bottom of stroke. Cylinder bores are
honed to a mirror finish. Forged crank-
shaft, equipped with counterweights, is
balanced statically and dynamically,
and runs in five steel-backed main bear-
ings. At the front end of the crankshaft
is fitted a damper to eliminate torsional
vibration. Connecting rods are forged-
steel I-beam section, carefully machined
to equalise weight and rifle-drilled to
allow oil to pass from big-end to
gudgeon-pin bearings. Big-end bearings
are of the thin-wall removable type.
Pistons are lightweight cast-iron, electro-
plated. Four rings, two step-cut com-
Power plant of the Oldsmobile Eight, showing duplex
carburettor and specially-designed induction manifolding.
pression and two slotted oil-control rings,
are located above the gudgeon pin.
Side-by-side valves are used, combus-
tion chamber being L-head type. An
individual port is provided for each
exhaust valve, giving better facilities for
water-cooling seat areas, and so ensuring
longer life of var/e and seating. Venturi-
type ports form the connecting passages
between inlet mamtold and valves, the
Roomy. comfortable and smart in appearance, the Oldsmobile Eight.
purpose being to promote more rapid
filling of the cylinders and better mixing
of the incoming gases. Camshaft, running
in six removable bronze bearings, is
driven by a short, silent chain that does
not require adjustment ; to prevent end
play and maintain cam gear in perfect
alignment a spring-
loaded thrust button
is located at the
forward end.
Fuel is drawn
from a 14gal. tank
swung between the
rear dumb irons by
means of a mechani-
cal pump actuated
by an eccentric
from the camshaft,
the fuel line being
carried outside the
frame members in
order to avoid pos-
sibility of heat from
motor causing vapor
lock. Down-draught
carburettor, with air-
cleaner and silencer,
is dual type, two
carburettors and
manifolds being built into a single
unit, assuring uniform distribution
of fuel to the eight-cylinder engine.
Features of carburettor assembly in-
clude an atomising device to promote
easy starting in cold weather and to
prevent flooding of the combustion
chamber by careless use of the throttle :
automatic choke control, incorporating
a spiral thermostat exposed to exhaust
gases and a metal bellows operated by
manifold vacuum ; automatic fast idling
control, to prevent stalling when starting
up; co-ordinated starter-and-throttle
control, and an automatic heat control
governing the flow of exhaust gas over
the hot-spot cast in the induction mani-
fold.
Electrical equipment is single-wire
six-volt type, ignition advance being con-
trolled automatically. Starter motor is
positive shift type, the starter gear mesh-
ing with flywheel ring before engine
commences to turn. Generator is heavy-
duly air-cooled type, including
automatic voltage regulator. No
fuses are used in the circuit, a
thermostatic circuit-breaker inter-
rupting the current in the event of a
short or breakdown in electrical
equipment or wiring. Oiling system is full-
pressure type, a geared pump, driven
from the crankshaft, drawing oil from
the sump and delivering it under pres-
sure to camshaft, crankshaft, connecting-
rod bearings and gudgeon pins (through
drilled con. rods). In addition, the timing
chain is lubricated by pressure spray,
and valve mechanism by oil thrown by
centrifugal force from connecting-rod
bearings. Connect-
ing passages to main
and camshaft bear-
ings are drilled in
crankcase webbing.
An efficient cart-
ridge-type oil-puri-
fier is also fitted, and
crankcase ventila-
tion, including an
air-cleaner built into
the filter pipe, pre-
vents contamination
of sump oil by road
dust.
The cooling system is carefully
designed, generous water passages being
provided throughout the cylinder block ;
a thermostat control provides reticula-
tion of the water surrounding cylinders
and valves, thereby rapidly warming up
the engine after cold starting. The
motor is suspended in the chassis at three
points on live rubber supports. Trans-
mission is through single-plate dry-disc
clutch, using a graphite bearing in the
release mechanism to a three-speed-and-
reverse all-silent synchromesh gearbox,
all gears being helical cut. Final drive is
Hotchkiss type through open propeller
shaft, with needle-bearing universal
joints front and rear.
The back axle, in banjo-type pressed-
steel housing, is semi-floating type, helical
gearing being used in crown wheel and
pinion assembly, final reduction ratio
being 4.44 to 1. Frame is rigid-girder
X-type ; an extremely heavy cross mem-
ber at front end supports independent
suspension, and two additional cross
members are located front and rear ol
the fuel tank. Wheelbase, 121 inches ,
minimum ground clearance at difleren-
tial housing, inches. Suspension, con-
ventional semi-elliptic springs at rear, in-
dependent knee-action at front, with
double-acting shock-absorbers front and
rear. Independent suspension is panto-
graph type, with heavy coiled springs.
A ride stabiliser, consisting of a spring-
steel bar fastened to the rear shock-
absorber, with arms connected to oppo-
site ends of axle housing, prevents exces-
sive rolling or swaying when cornering
at speed. Centre-poise suspension is used
for fenders, radiator and lamps, every-
thing being pivoted on a single point as
one unit and cushioned from the rest ol
the car in a block of live rubber, avoid-
ing front-end vibration.
Four - wheel, self-
energising hydraulic
brakes are fitted as ser-
vice equipment, double-
acting pistons in the
wheel-cylinder assembly
giving maximum effi-
ciency with a mini-
mum of pedal pressure.
Emergency brakes,
operated by hand lever,
are independent of ser-
vice equipment, and
are mechanical type to
rear wheels. Steering
gear is centre control,
movement being trans-
mitted to each front wheel through indi-
vidual tie rods. Gearbox is worm-and-
roller type, with a reduction ratio of
18.75 to 1. Turning circle on left and
right lock is 37 feet.
The bodywork is neatly designed and
soundly-constructed, exterior and in-
terior hardware being chrome plated. The
V windshield is fitted with dual electric
wipers, and no-draught ventilation is pro-
Five-bearing, counter-weighted crankshaft, with vibration
damper and steel flywheel.
vided in front and rear quarter windows.
Rear seat has an arm-rest at each side
and a pull-down rest in centre. The
front seat, adjustable for driving position,
has an arm-rest on the driver’s side.
There are two adjustable sun visors.
Instrument panel is pleasantly designed,
the large speedometer, immediately in
front of the steering wheel, being flanked
by strip-design ammeter, oil-pressure
gauge, fuel gauge and water temperature
indicator. Provision is made for radio


USEFUL DATA ON OLDSMOBILE EIGHT.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 1-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 24ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 80 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 16.2 m.p.g.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
35
h
■m
i
1
5^
U
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
•V ; • !x;
0
m
*9
v<«
/Si
I
i
c
h '
h
v.>»
ANOTHER !
QUALITY FEATURE OF
FORD V*B TRUCKS
•„ to J ... t . o ii
ore "‘.ShV’ I*' 1 *'
I
All Ford V-8 Trucks have full-
floating truck-type rear axles—the
most dependable and accessible
type of truck axle construction.
The load is carried directly on the
axle housing instead of on the axle
shaft, the only function of which is
to turn the wheels.
Ford V-8 Trucks are designed
throughout for truck service. You
have seen them hauling heavy
loads and you have heard truck
owners tell how V-B’s enable them
to cover longer routes and to save
time and operating costs on all
classes of haulage. Perhaps you
have asked: “Will they do the same
for me ?”
You can answer this question by
making your own lest. Your Ford
dealer has such complete confidence
in V-8 Performance, V-8 Depend-
ability and V-8 Economy that he
invites you to test the Ford V-8
Truck yourself with your loads over
your own routes. Accept this in-
vitation for an “on-the-job” test
and you will agree that Ford V-8
is Australia’s greatest truck value.
Easy purchase terms are available.
A PRODUCT OF THE BRITISH
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD (Incorporated
EMPIRE
DEALER
in Victoria) 29.30
ADDITIONAL V-8
TRUCK FEATURES :
Straddle - Mounted
PINION.— The driving pinion
is straddle-mounted between
heavy-duty roller bearings,
and the ring gear is backed
by a bronze thrust-plate. This
exclusive design ensures con-
stant ring gear and pinion
alignment under all road and
load conditions.
New Truck-Type
Clutch The new clutch
which utilises centrifugal
force added to a fixed spring
pressure makes disengage-
ment easier at idling speeds,
and provides increase in
pressure as the engine speed
increases. This design en-
sures maximum resistance
to clutch slippage.
Handsome Coupe-Type
Cab.
EQUIPMENT includes—
Safety Glass.
Windscreen
Oil-Bath Air Cleaner
Front Bumper
Without Extra Cost
c
ill
installation, roof aerials being built into
all closed bodies.
The car tested was driven by J. Turner,
of W. H. Lober and Co., Ltd., N.S.W.
distributors, and, with driver, observer
and full fuel tank, weighed 36-Jcwt.
Speedo. reading was 10,201 miles, the
car having been used for demonstration
Section of rifle-
drilled connect-
ing rods, show-
ing provision for
lubricating
gudgeon-pin
bearings.
purposes without
mechanical attention
for approximately 7000
miles.
First impressions on
driving through busy
traffic were the smooth
and silent operation of
the engine and the ex-
tremely solid feel of
the car on uneven
roads. Despite the
wheelbase of 121 inches,
the generous steering
lock allowed the car to
be manoeuvred in con-
fined spaces with ease
and speed. Through
Parramatta and on the
open road beyond the
speedo. was held at
a comfortable cruising
speed of between 45 and
50 mp.h. Approach-
ing Pitt Town speed
was reduced to 15
m.p.h., and on the
rolling section a dis-
tance of 747 yards was
covered before coming
to rest, proof of cor-
rect alignment and
freedom of all trans-
mission details. Near-
ing Richmond the maximum speed was
checked over a measured mile from a
flying start. The time taken was 45sec.,
averaging 80 m.p.h. Steering was definite,
roadholding qualities were good, and
there was a decided absence of engine
roar.
Alter leaving Richmond the unmade
dirt road through Grose Vale was fol-
lowed. Over this rough and dusty sec-
tion roadholding and steering were
good. The bodywork was practically
dustproof. Continuing to Kurrajong
Mountain, the final steep section of 2 1-5
miles was climbed from a standing start
against the watch. Time taken, 3min.
21 sec., was good in view of the loose
road conditions. Second and top gears
were used throughout
the climb. In nego-
tiating the many diffi-
cult bends at speed,
the Oldsmobile Eight
steered easily and
positively, with a
noticeable absence of
body sway.
Down the moun-
tain, a test of emer-
gency-braking equip-
ment was made with
satisfactory results;
and on the cross-
country road via
Castlereagh to Pen-
rilh further performance tests were
made. Flexibility of the engine was de-
termined by travelling 350 yards in top
gear as slowly as possible, followed at
once by 350 yards
on full throttle. The
slow-running section
occupied 2min.
10sec., averaging 5.5
m.p.h.; the accel-
crated section,
16 l-ssec., averaging
44.4 m.p.h. The car
crossed the finishing
line at 60 m.p.h.
The slow - running
result could be im-
proved with adjust-
ment of idling jet.
Underside view of independent front-wheel suspension
and cross steering gear.
From 10 to 30 m.p.h in top occupied
8 l-ssec. ; 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second,
4 4-ssec. From a standing start to 50
m.p.h. took 12 2-ssec. Brakes were tested
from 25 m.p.h., the car stopping in
24ft. 6in.
Petrol used on the test of 119 miles
was 7gal. 1 quart, averaging 16.2 m.p.g.
(29.8 ton miles). The average speed,
inclusive of all tests, was 37.6 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
W.L.J. (Stuart Town, N.S.W.). —I require a
new car for rough country service. Do not
want smart performance, but a solid-wearing
job that should run 60,000 miles without major
overhauls. Which of the cars named would
you suggest ?
No. 1 or 8. Others approximately equal.
* * * *
F.H.B. (Bridgetown, W.A.). —Clutch of my
1-h.p. 'll model slips on heavy pulling. (1)
Is there any adjustment, or what can be
done to remedy trouble 2 (2) What is correct
setting for valves ? (3) What causes second
gear to jump out of engagement in my four-
cylinder tourer ?
No external means of adjustment. Motor
must be lifted out, clutch dismantled and new
clutch faces fitted. Also cut new slots for
clutch withdrawal fingers. (2) Inlet four thou.;
exhaust six thou. (3) Excessive wear, in main
or countershaft bearings or bent selector rod.
* * * *
T.A.E.P. (St. Kilda, Vic.). —I wish to re-
paint my ’26 Morris. Would it be advisable
to use a blowlamp and scraper to remove old
paint, or must I stick to old sandpaper
method ?
Liquid paint-removers may be obtained from
city accessory houses. If brushing or spraying
lacquer is to be applied, there is no need to
remove paint. Rub down well with wet paper,
then apply suitable priming coat before lac-
quering finally.
* * * *
I.E. (Ascot Vale, Vic.). —My ’29 car runs
hot, although never boiling. A thermometer
fitted reads 195-205 deg. when running on level,
but rarely exceeds 180 deg. on grades up or
down. Could I carry another pipe from header
tank to rear of cylinder head to keep water
cooler ?
Suggested alteration would cause dead water
in cylinder head and aggravate trouble. Stated
temperatures are not dangerous, and tend to
give greater efficiency and economy,
* * * *
M.J.W. (Donald, Vic.). ; —King pins, steer-
ing knuckles and steering box of my ’27 model
have recently been overhauled, and are in good
condition, yet the car steers erratically, making
sudden dives for the side of the road. Offside
front tyre wears rapidly on outside. Any
remedy ?
Front-end geometry requires careful checking
up with suitable machine, rapid tyre wear
indicating faulty alignment of camber of front
wheels.
(Continued on page 28.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail’’ in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: K. Jackson, 7t I’itt Street.
Melbourne Representative: K. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
Condon Representative: A. J. Chard, 93 Fleet Street.
HI
■
BACKACHE
WHY ENDURE THIS AGONY WHEN A SURE,
SIMPLE AND SAFE REMEDY IS AT HAND
When you reach the stage where pain compels
you to say:—“l must get rid of this backache!”
you will commence taking De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and then, in a very short time, your
pain will disappear.
Naturally it would be better u you took De Witt’s
Pills as soon as
THE FIRST STAB OF PAIN
came to warn you, buf many people make the same
mistake. They do not realise the serious nature of
Backache and so they wait, hoping the pain will
go away, or try various methods of treatment
which may give temporary relief. This cannot go
on for long. Soon the time comes when backache
compels you to neglect or give up your work. Life
is a mockery when you are always in pain, but
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will drive the
pain away and they will also protect you against
future attacks.
Read how successful De Witt’s Pills proved in
Mrs. Edmiston’s case and perhaps her experience
will persuade you to give them a trial.
Writing from “Gwen Villa," William Street,
South Brisbane, Mrs. A. Edmiston says: —
" I used to suffer terribly with backache and,
although I tried one thing after another, I
could not get lasting relief. The pain got
worse and worse until a friend induced me to
try De Witt's Kidney and Bladder Pills. These
gave me ease at once, A nyohe who has suffered
as I have will understand how grateful ! am.”
A point you will appreciate about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills is the fact that they give
almost instant relief. You may have endured agony
all day and you feel that unless you get rid of the
pain you will not be able to endure another day.
Put your faith in De Witt’s Pills. They will not
fail you. Get a box from the chemists to-day, price
3/6 and 6/6. Sold only in the white, blue and gold
boxes. Take two just before you go to bed and iu
the morning your pain will be gone.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills discolouration of the urine will prove
that they have commenced their good work,. You
will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients of De Witt’s Pills
have passed through your kidneys and your bladder.
No other medicine furnishes proof like this, and
once you have tried them your one regret will be
that you did not do so before. Take De Witt’s
Pills for Scalding Pains, Gravel, Stone, Painful
Joints, Stiffness, Rheumatism, Backache,
Lumbago, Sciatica. Give them to children subject
to Bed-wetting, and to aged persons afflicted by
Urinary Disorders, and m every case they will
give prompt relief. Many thousands of suffering
men, women and children m all parts
of the world have already proved
this, but the best proof of all can
can be obtained by a
personal trial in your
own case.
De WITT’S
KIDNEY ond BLADDER PILLS
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
»mi ui'.mww
URIC^ACID
M.A.W. (Tas.). —My ‘35 sedan is giving
trouble owing to engine spluttering out when
less than five gallons are in the tank. Cause
and cure ? (2) Must the tank always have a
minimum of four gallons ?
Probably due to obstruction in fuel line or
vapor lock. Disconnect pipe line from
mechanical pump and blow air at pressure
through to rear tank. (2) No. Pump should
draw all except half-gallon if system in order.
$ $ *
J.K.L. (Hamilton, Vic.). —1 have a Willys 77,
’34 model, 11,000 miles, and propose removing
head and decarbonising. (I) Would it he advis-
able to have combustion chamber metal-
sprayed ? If so, where can it be done ? (2)
Is it advisable to renew plugs yet ? (3) What
plugs should ! use ?
Yes. Write Metal Coatings, 16 Bridge-Road.
Stanmore. (2) Plugs should last 12-15 thousand
miles. (3) Replace with same type as fitted
originally.
* * * *
W.C.P. (Geurie, N.S.W.). —Please give me
information regarding maintenance and adjust-
ment of shock-absorbers on my car (sketch
enclosed).
Fill the casing of the unit with special
shock-absorber oil. If unavailable, use a vege-
table oil of suitable viscosity. No other atten-
tion required, except occasional inspection of
holding-down bolts. Adjustment is secured by
turning the hexagonal stud clockwise to in-
crease and anti-clockwise to reduce tension.
>IC Jjs *!•
A.M. (Burnley, Vic.). —My 15six-
cylinder car is doing only 500 in.p.g. on oil.
Rings are only slightly worn, and pistons not
slack enough to knock. (1) Is there any suc-
cessful method of fitting stuffing box to inlet-
valve stems ? (2) Cylinders are round and
parallel to within .001, and no external leaks
visible. Any suggestions .?
(I) Advise against deviating from standard
practice: rather lit new valve or guide or both,
and make a job of the repair. (2) Try fitting
an oil-scraper ring in the bottom piston slot,
and drill a series of fin. holes behind the ring
to allow oil to pass inside piston.
R.A. (Canberra, F.C.T.). —Mixture in my
'32 car is 100 rich. How can / adjust the
SU carburettor ?
Control rod on dash alters needle valve,
setting acting as a metering pin for jet. The
nut at base of jet under the carburettor can
be screwed down to enrich and up to make
mixture leaner.
* . * * *
C.P.E. (Smiihton, Tas.). — Which of the cars
mentioned would he more suitable for my
’* ' *
p.C.M. (Mackay, N.Q.). —Propose getting a
new sedan , chief requirements being low initial
outlay and economy in running. Submit selec-
lions.
No. L first; then 4, 3 and 2 in that order.
_„ " . " *
Qn Jr' ( Brisbane, QX—Have a 14 -h.p. car,
9 92 " ,,es : oil from pmiou shaft at
c ‘ifj. housing. Cause and care.'
Suggest, as car is still under service and
warranty guarantee, you take matter up with
local agents.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Spring”; A friend was motoring in
England when the driver’s attention was
distracted by a wasp. In the second his
vision was obscured by his hand brushing
it away the car collided with a telegraph-
pole. Result: badly smashed car and
three out of four injured.
# # * #
“Seenitall”: An ancient Model T
Ford is used by its owner to pull a
double-furrow plough, to harrow, to
drive a saw-bench and a centrifugal
pump. He fits special wheels for agri-
cultural work ; clamps a band on one
jacked-up wheel for bell work.
sj« }{« >Jt i\t
In ‘l2, when motor-cars
were few and garages and mechanics
were fewer, I broke a back axle on the
Queensland border, north-west of Brc-
warrina (N.S.W.). Days would pass,
perhaps weeks, before an axle could be
secured from Sydney. A search of the
station workshop revealed a piece of
water-piping that fitted over the axle,
broken about half-way in towards the
diff. The two broken pieces were in-
serted into the piping, cut to the proper
length, holes drilled on each side of the
break, half a dozen rivets put in, the
axle replaced. It carried me to Sydney.
j|« ;J; j»: sj?
“Bog In”: A friend noticed steam ris-
ing through the floorboards. Investiga-
tion disclosed water in the sump. A
service station inspection disclosed no-
thing wrong. Refilling with oil, he drove
on, but again found water in the sump.
Three times in two months the motor was
stripped down. The trouble persisted
until an acquaintance pointed to the fault.
Outside the engine, extending from the
timing case to the water pump below the
pump shaft, was a trough with a small
drain hole. Usually water escaping from
the pump gland was caught in the trough
and drained away. In this case dirt
blocked the hole causing the water to
rise in the trough to the level of the shaft,
It worked through the shaft bearing into
the timing case. A poke with a match did
the trick
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Known as the Sandhill
Switchback, a 25-mile stretch of road
between Ouyen and Mildura (Vic.) is
probably the most nerve- wrecking
tralian road for motorists at. ntgtit. ii
is built over a series of sandhil s, w
cause 40 or more consecutive P •
Lights of an approaching cai P-
vanish, point skywards and g are .
on all in the matter ot seconds,
ably they are reflected in .V s c . t . ‘
which makes it impossible to tell whether
the car is coming up from the dip imme-
diately in front or from one half a mile
away.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- ami 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d'Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV£. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Mm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne Sydney, and 90
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geucial banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let" notices are not admissible.
Young lady, Sydney, senior typist and tele-
phonist, requires position.—93so.
Accountant, Sydney, experienced, well
known, will invest up to £2OOO with services
in sound proposition, city or country.—9344.
Gentleman, Sydney, with advertising, broad-
casting and journalistic exp., requires position.
—9329.
Housekeeper, Sydney, with boy seven years,
desires position, Sydney or country, with
gentleman preferred. Refs.—9293.
Solicitor, Sydney, exp. various branches legal
work, desires position, city or country town.
—9282.
Active M.L. pressman (23), with advtg. exp.,
seeks engagement.—93ss.
Young man (21), engineer, gas, oil and Diesel
certificates, mining and agricultural exp., re-
quires position in New Guinea.—9324.
Whereabouts of Mrs. M. Page, once resi-
dent of 263 Bulwer-street, Perth, W.A. Grand-
son inquiring.—929l.
Whereabouts of Jack Johnson, formerly of
Taranaki (M.L.), last heard of at Mildura
(Vic.).—9278.
To buy The Hound of the Baskervilles, by
Conan D0y1e.—9290.
To buy Highways and Byways in Somerset,
by Edward Hutton, illustrated by Nelly Erich-
sen.—9337.
To buy Cartoons, by Thomas Nast, and
Cartoons, by Bradley.—933B.
Words of verse “Australia First,” beginning
Iter destiny is ours to shape, her lands are ours
to hold.
—9357.
Information Sought.
(1) Can a batsman in a cricket match,
having been given out by an umpire and having
left his crease to retire to the pavilion, he re-
called by the captains of the teams or by any
other person ? (2) Is there a rule dealing with
this, and, if so, was it formulated to meet a cir-
cumstance such as arose in a first-class match
during the ’34-35 season ? (3) Having given a
decision, can an umpire change his mind ? (4)
If captains of opposing teams agree between
themselves to act contrary to an umpire’s
decision, what is the umpire’s remedy ?—9283.
(1) The action of a captain in recalling a
player to the crease after the player has been
given out by an umpire is contrary to the
rules. The decision of an umpire is final. (2)
The law is as stated in (1); it has been in ex-
istence for 50 years, and has nothing to do
with any incident last season. (3) No provision
in the laws for an umpire changing his mind.
Under general notes to the M.C.C. Laws of
Cricket is: “An umpire may alter his decision
if in the hurry of the moment or by a slip of
the tongue he has given a wrong one, pro-
vided that such alteration is made promptly.”
(4) An umpire should report the occurrence to
his association.
♦ * * *
(1) What conditions were imposed by the
Commonwealth Government in its £lO,OOO prize
for the first flight from England to Australia ?
(2) Who comprised the winning crew ? (3)
What machine did they use ? (4) Dates of de-
parture and arrival ? (5) Actual flying time
and distance covered ? —9372.
(1) First, the machine must be wholly con-
structed within the British Empire; second, it
must be manned by an entirely Australian
crew; third, the flight must not take longer
than 720 consecutive hours (or thirty days);
fourth, one machine only must be used, though
repairs might be effected en route', fifth, the
flight, must be accomplished before December
31, ’l9. (2) Capt. Ross Smith, Lieut. Keith
Smith, and Sergeants J. M. Bennett and W. M.
Shiers. (3) A Vickers-Vimy model propelled
by two 360-h.p. Rolls-Royce engines. (4)
November 12, ’l9, and December 10, T 9. (5)
Actual flying time, 135 hours; distance covered,
11,340 miles.
* * * *
A few brief particulars concerning the great
Moore-slreet, Sydney, fire which happened
about 45 years ago ? —9358.
Fire broke out early in the morning of
October 2, ’9O, in the printing establishment
of Gibbs, Shallard and Co., Hosking-place.
Damage exceeded £600,000. Twenty important
buildings were destroyed, including the City
Bank, the German, Athenasum and Southern
clubs, the Wheatsheaf Hotel, and nearly a dozen
warehouses, offices and chambers. Fire burnt
for several days; when it finished that section
bounded by Castlereagh, Pitt and Moore streets
and Hosking-place had been almost wholly de-
stroyed.
* * * *
Details of the gold and silver medals issued
about 60 years ago in N. S. Wales in recog-
nition of acts of bravery in conflicts with bush-
rangers ? —9360.
Charles Cowper ordered them in 1870.
They were issued in ’75 to private persons and
constables during ’63, '64 and '66. Gold
medals were given to private colonists; silver
medals to constables. On the obverse side was
the head of Queen Victoria and the words
“The Colony of New South Wales”; on the
reverse the Australian coat of arms, below
which was inscribed the name of the recipient
of the medal, together with a wreath of flowers
and foliage of the banksia, the whole being
surrounded by the words “Granted for gallant
and faithful services.” The gold medals were
struck at the Sydney Mint.
* :Jc sjc
Particulars concerning Lady Penrhyn and
Fishburn, two ships of the First Fleet ? —9305.
Lady Penrhyn was a transport of 333 tons,
under Captain William P. Sever; she was the
first of the fleet to sight land on arrival. Her
contract ended on arrival at Sydney, and she
entered the service of the East India Co. Fish-
burn was a storeship, 378 tons. Captain R.
Brown was master.
* H< * *
Members of the first Austialian Federal
Cabinet formed on January 1, 1901 ? —9363.
Edmund Barton (Prime Minister and Minister
for External Affairs), Alfred Deakin (Attorney-
General), William Lync (Minister for Home
Affairs), George Turner (Treasurer), Charles
Kingston (Minister for Trade and Customs),
James Dickson (Minister for Defence), John
Forrest (Postmaster-General), Richard O’Con-
nor (Vice-President of the Executive Council),
Neil Lewis (Minister without portfolio).
* * * *
Value of batter and wheat exported from
Australia during each of the last five years for
which figures are available ? —9149.
Butter: 1929-30, £7,001,540; 1930-31.
£8.621,379; 1931-32, £10,250,002; 1932-33,
£8,940,008; 1933-34, £8,194,220. Wheat: 1929-
30, £10,036,535; 1930-31, £14,744,468; 1931-
32, £19,220,203; 1932-33, £17,804,849; 1933-34,
£8,873,987.
He He
Has the old-time canvas hag been discarded
by bushmen in favor of some other type of
water-carrier? If so, why? —92s7.
No. Drovers, stockmen and boundary-
riders still use the canvas waterbag, and by
them it may never be discarded. The water
remains cool though the bag is suspended
against the warm flanks of their horse.
Shearers generally have a canvas waterbag
hanging at their stand or in the gateway of
their pen, where draughts keep the water icy.
Haymakers nearly always have their drinking
water in a canvas bag propped up on a pitch-
fork in the shade of their stack.
* * * *
In the tables issued daily by the Sydney
Weather Bureau, what is the significance of the
figures relating to humidity ? Quite a lot of
people I have met seem to think that an atmo-
sphere with 100 p.c. humidity would be H2O.
But the tables give an “absolute humidity”
index (weight of water vapor in grains per
cubic foot), which frequently does not correlate
with the percentage column, and which indi-
cates almost infinitely small quantities of water.
—9205.
The observations referred to are taken in a
regulation thermometer screen, and refer to
the humidity of the air at 4ft. above the sur-
face of the ground. Water vapor is always
present in the atmosphere, but constitutes only
a very small quantity per volume. For every
degree of temperature there is a definite maxi-
mum amount which the atmosphere can con-
tain, and when this is reached the air is
said to be saturated, or, in other words, rela-
tive humidity is 100 p.c. The weight of the
moisture content of the air, given in grains
per cubic foot, is termed the absolute humidity,
and is the actual amount in the air at the
time of observation. The following example
will illustrate the foregoing remarks. At 70deg.
temperature the maximum amount of water
vapor is 7.99 grains per cubic foot, and this
constitutes 100 p.c. relative humidity; at 30deg.
the maximum amount is 1.97 grains per cubic
foot, this also constituting 100 p.c. relative
humidity.
* * * *
What were (1) British casualties in the S.
African War, and (2) A.I.F. casualties during
the Great War? —8994.
(1) British losses 7 were 5774 killed, 22,829
wounded. (2) A.1.F.: 59,038 killed and 166,817
wounded. Deaths occurring later from war
injuries are believed to have brought death
figures to more than 66,000. And there were
193 troops officially listed as missing, whose
disappearances were never accounted for.
* * * *
Numbers of killed and wounded during the
Great War for Great Britain, France, Belgium,
Italy, Portugal, America, Russia, Japan ? Also,
where is such information available ? —8933.
British Empire, 946,923 killed and 2,121,906
wounded; France, 1,393,388 and 1,490,000;
Belgium, 38,172 and 44,686; Italy, 460,000 and
947,000; Portugal, 7222 and 13,751; United
States, 115,660 and 205,690; Russia, 1,700,000
and 4,950,000; Japan 300 and 907. These
figures, with the exception of those for Russia
and Japan, are taken from Whitaker’s
Almanack. Other publications give differing
accounts.
* * *
Of what did the pre-war German Colonial
Empire consist ? —9292.
Togoland, the German South-
west Africa, German East Africa; in the
Pacific, German New Guinea, Bismarck Archi-
pelago, the German Solomon Islands. Nauru
the Mariana or Ladrone Islands, the Marshall’
and Pelew Islands, the Carolines and Yap
and the Samoan Islands. The colony of Kiao-
chau was leased from China for 99 years in
1898. All were forfeited by the Treaty of
Versailles.
* * * *
(1) Number of old-age pensioners at end of
1934 ? (2) Estimated number of old-age pen-
sioners per 1000 persons eligible on age qualifi-
cation ? (3) Number of invalid pensioners at
end of 1934 ? (4) Total payment to pensioners
for 1934 ? (5) Cost of administration for
same period ? (6) Cost of administration per
£lOO paid to pensioners ? —9333.
(1) 183,397. (2) 327. (3) 77,282. (4)
£10,963,090. (5) £105,308. (6) 19s. 3d.
* * * *
Taxation per head of population in U.K.,
France, Germany, llalv and U.5.A.? —9325.
For 1934: U.K., £l4 17s. 3d.; France, £l4
11s. 2d.; Germany (Federal only), £8 7s. lOd.;
Italy, £6 12s. 4d.; and U.S.A. (Fed. only),
£5 19s.
* * * *
To what geological process do the “ gibber ”
plains of Central Australia owe their origin?
—9349.
In countries of low rainfall and with very
few rainy days, the capillary action of per-
colated rainfall in the soil and subsoil and
underlying rock greatly predominates over the
leaching action of the rainfall. Sparse rains
tend to wash soluble mineral matter from the
surface to deeper levels, but during each of the
(perhaps 350) dry days in the year surface
evaporation induces a constant upward flow by
capillarity of subsoil water with mineral water
dissolved in it. Further evaporation leads to
this mineral matter being deposited as a hard
superficial crust, from 2ft. to 10ft. in thick-
ness. If the dominant soluble mineral in
underlying rock is lime, a surface crust of
tufaceous limestone (nodular kunkar) forms;
if iron is the dominant soluble material,
laterite and pisolitic ironstone (pindar iron-
stone) result; if silica, the surface becomes
enriched in silica, and porcellanites and quartz-
ites result. These siliceous crusts become
disrupted through great diurnal changes of
temperature in Australia’s interior, and form
vast sheets of angular blocks like freshly-
broken road metal.
* >!= >l= *
(1) Extent of trade between Abyssinia and
other countries, and which countries are the
principal traders i with A hyssinia ? (2) A nglo-
A byssinian import and export figures ? —9340.
(I) Abyssinia’s total export and import trade
in ’33 was estimated between £1,500,000 and
£2,000,000. Some 60 p.c. passed through
French Somaliland. Exports consist mainly of
hides and skins (cattle, goat, sheep, leopard
and monkey), coffee, grain, wax, civet and
native butter. Imports are salt (from French
Somaliland and Sudan), grey sheetings and
other cotton piece-goods (from England, India,
Japan, Italy), cotton yarns (from England,
India, Japan, Italy, France), building materials,
petrol and kerosene (from England, U.S.A.
and Russia), sugar, glass, soap. Leading im-
porting countries in ’33, on a tonnage basis,
were French Somaliland, Japan, Belgium, Eng-
land, India and U.S.A. (2) In ’34 Britain’s
imports amounted to £165,123; her exports
to £48,858.
* * * *
What meanings are attached to the names
John, lan, Stewart, Douglas and Donald ?
8975.
John means “he who enjoys the grace and
mercy of God - ’; lan is the Scottish equivalent
of the same name. The Stewarts, who were
later to become the royal house of both king-
doms, originally took their name from their
office, that of Hereditary Royal Steward of
Scotland, and the name of the Douglas family
is derived from a Gaelic phrase meaning
“black water” or “the clan dwelling by the
black water.” Donald means “proud and
great chief.”
* # $ *
I have in captivity a young fox, progressing
very well. Is there any special diet to pro-
mote growth of fur ? Will he cross with a
sheep-dog ? —9lBO.
Good fur in foxes is principally a matter of
climate. The best furs in Australia are pro-
duced on the mountains between 4000 ft. and
6000 ft. above sea level. Foxes are bred for
furs in the cold parts of Europe and America,
and at the end of the winter, when the fur
is at its best, they are given raw eggs, which
produce a sheen not otherwise obtained. The
dog-and-fox cross is. exceedingly rare.
* ❖ * *
How to raise tuberous-rooted begonias from
seed ?—' 9284.
Sow seed (which is very fine) in a mixture
of loam (three parts), leaf mould (two parts)
and rotted cow manure and sand (one part).
Use shallow boxes, and stand them in water
for moisture, since overhead sprinkling will
wash the seed away. Cover the boxes with
paper until germination takes place, and then
gradually remove the covering. When the third
leaves appear shift the seedlings to boxes,
set them an inch apart, and keep them watered
regularly. When well-grown they can be placed
in pots or large boxes.
* * * *
How to treat chrysanthemums affected by
mildew and rust ? —9275.
Where the plants were affected the previous
year it is better to get fresh stock. For mildew,
spray with Bordeaux mixture (loz. to three
gallons of water well emulsified with soap);
rust can be got rid of by spraying with sulphide
of potassium (loz. to three gallons of warm
water) or dusting with flowers of sulphur.
Be sure that the underparts of the leaves are
treated. In very bad cases it is wise to remove
all affected leaves and burn them.
* * *
What Australian poet wrote the poem be-
ginning :
Drowsy with Poesy’s dim woven spell,
I wandered w'ayward in a lonely dell,
Soothed by the crooning of voluptuous bees,
By languid waters’ dreamy melodies.
—9380.
Arthur Albert Bayldon. Entitled “The Muse
Repulsed,” it is in Collected Poems of Arthur
Albert Bayldon.
Brief Answers.
H.W.E.: The statutory definition of a lot-
tery is so fine-meshed that even the smallest
fish may be caught. Whether the charge be
a “fee” or the purchase of goods to a certain
value, it is a “consideration” within the mean-
ing of the Act H.H.: (1) See the Australian
Authors and Artists’ Handbook. (2) Among
the women’s papers. No need to submit in
color. (3) In Who’s Who in Australia
D.J.M.N.: Write Agricultural Department,
Brisbane, for leaflet on “Timber Borers ’....
R.W.C.: (1) Write Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment, Canberra. (2) The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is not considering at present any pro-
posals by a chartered co. for the development
of North Australia. (3) It is not proposed at
present to make the areas resumed from the
stations referred to available for leasing....
J.H.: Shift the front peg five back, and leave
other peg anywhere behind it... .W.S.H.: (I)
A map of the sort desired is not available.
A general map of Australia may be obtained
at the Department of the Interior, Canberra,
2s. A map of the Northern Territory, show-
ing stations,. stock routes, etc., may also be
obtained, 2s. Maps ,of the States of the Com-
monwealth may be obtained at the Lands De-
partments in the various States. (2) Write to
D. Mackay, Tyreel Point, Port Hacking
(N.S.W.) J.H.T.: All the country in the
Northern Territory held by the late Sidney
Kidman was held under leasehold tenure. In-
formation is not available of the properties
held by him in other States... .A.A.: Only
servants’ registry offices situate within the
Metropolitan District, as defined by the Vic.
Factories and Shops Acts, and the cities of
Ballarat, Bendigo, Warrnambool, Geelong and
Geelong West and the town of Haniilton are
required to register. The registration ice is
10s. p.a., and there is a scale of charges show-
ing the amount that may be charged for various
positions. These vary according to the wages
received by the servant... .H.8.H.: The Met-
ropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board
(Sydney) informs us that the totals of arrears
and rates are only made up each year at June
30, and figures are not available for any other
period of the year Inquirer: A super, foot
is 144 cub. in. (I) 480 ft. x 3in. x Uin. at 425.
per 100 super., £3 15s. 7id.; (2) 1640 ft. x 6in.
x Hin. at 455. per 100 super., £23 Is. 3d.;
(3) 864 ft. x Sin. x £in. at 40s. per 100 super.,
£7 4s A.P.D.; “Fascist” derives from the
Italian “fascio,” meaning a group. Nazi is a
word coined from the German, “AV/tional-
soz/alist” D.A.S.: Italian overseas terri-
tories amount in area to 994,020 square miles.
English possessions outside Great Britain amount
to 12,820,434 square miles P.V.L.: (1) and
(2) Depends upon your qualifications. (3)
Cannot say as yet. (4) Sec reply to 8885 (Ser-
vice Page, B. 6/11/’35) 8.Y.: Mary Queen
of Scots was the daughter of James V. and
his wife Mary of Lorraine. Queen Elizabeth
was the daughter of Henry VIII. and Anne
Boleyn... .W. 8.: Heat one quart boiled lin-
seed oil, whisk in 4oz. yellow soap dissolved to
a jelly by being shredded into boiling water,
and add a dessertspoon of alum. Stir well
together and keep hot; apply while hot with
a brush, and let dry thoroughly before apply-
ing a second coat. For a black dressing, add
lampblack. You can buy it cheaper ready
made W.A.8.: There are no recipes for
softening fishbones. Lemon juice will slightly
soften very small bones, and is often used when
such bones stick in the throat. The powdery
condition of the bones in some sorts of tinned
fish is obtained by great heat, but there is
nothing for use in the home which is safe or
satisfactory... . D.E.E.: Write Anthony Hor-
dern and Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney....
P.L.: It is pronounced “276-u-ron”... .E.K.S.;
Fawcett’s Writing for the Films (4s. 6d.)....
C.L.S.T.: Cannot trace the b00k... .G.C.H.:
Suggest Schnabel’s Engine Alan’s Master Key
(10s.) S.Y.: Can be bought retail from
most chemists. Wholesale agents are Mazoletti
and Co., 545 George-street, Sydney J. 8.:
Volgyesi, the Hungarian psychiatrist, is recog-
nised as an authority in both England and
abroad. His only work translated into Eng-
lish is A Message to the Neurotic W0r1d....
F.J.P.B:. Commonwealth Pictures, Stephen
Court, 79 Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .8.W.:
You will find it in his book of verse, The
Man from Snowy River... .C. M.: (1) and (8)
Yes. (2), (3), (4) and (5) No. (6) and (7)
Yes, as at that stage the resignations had not
been accepted. (9) Not unless the executive
regarded it as a vote of censure or want of
confidence. (10) It was in his power to do
50....E.W.: Under the Deserted Wives and
Children Act (N.S.W.) you could apply to a
Court of Petty Sessions for a maintenance
order. If granted, then under the Maintenance
Orders (Facilities for Enforcement) Act, 1923,
it could be enforced against your husband,
though now residing overseas. In view of
the lapse of time since the desertion, you may
have difficulties to encounter, and the services
of a solicitor would be necessary.... W.C.S. :
Having regard to the fact that the first repairs
were carried out two years ago and the car
has been in use since then without apparent
defect, your claim is belated. In view of a
possible conflict of evidence as to the suffi-
ciency of the first job it is doubtful wisdom
for you to risk an action... .R.M.: Write
Australian Gas Light Co., Pitt-street, Hay-
market, Sydney... .E.F.: There is evidently a
deficiency in the food. Give the birds chopped-
up green food and cod liver oil mixed with
pollard... .C.H.: (1) Only to purchasers of
their welding plants. (2) At the Technical Col-
lege, Ultimo, provided you are employed at
that trade. Duration of the course is three
years, three nights weekly... .E.R.H.: Write
R. A. Rooney and Co., 8 Spring-street, Syd-
ney W.A.8.: The legislation to give effect
to the wheat plan won’t apply to this, season’s
harvest. If it ever comes into operation it
will provide for the setting up of Wheat
Boards in the various States, and the appoint-
ment of the personnel required by these boards
will be a matter for State authorities
C.M.Q.: Charles Throsby discovered the Mur-
rumbidgee River (N.S.W.) in April, 1821
C.J.R.: Acacia koa is an Hawaiian timber
used for many purposes. Cannot trace a
supplier in N. S. Wales. The nearest approach
to it is blackwood (Acacia melanoxylon), which
is readily available... .(Many others mailed.)


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in ihe story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XV111 —( Continued. )
THE problem raised by Vera’s wedding was noi
lightly settled. It meant the reorganisation of the
staff.
“There was never a waitress like you,” mourned
Mrs. O’Brien. “Madge is a good girl, a very good
girl. But she bounces. Not like you. Vera ; she’ll
never be like you, bless you.”
“You’ve been really wonderful,” Vera declared.
But Mrs. O’Brien was not listening. “Now let
me see. Madge will have to take your place, and
Jenny can take Madge’s. And the little White girl,
the quick dark one who made that distressing
marriage, was asking me the other week for a posi-
tion. I’ll give her a trial in the kitchen in Jenny’s
place.”
“Ella White!” Vera said in surprise and some
horror. “Why, Mrs. O’Brien!”
“Marrying that horrid Sam Jordan!” Mrs.
O’Brien sniffed. “A damn’ disgrace. I don’t know
how the rector could allow it. She shall certainly
have a chance if she needs one, poor little devil. If
she’s really impossible, I can always have them send
me a girl from Sydney.”
So Mrs. O’Brien bullied Dave White into letting
Ella take the job. Dave didn’t dare offend Mrs.
O’Brien.
Ella started with a light heart. Her idea of
linoleum was to find out just how much of it she
could dodge polishing. To watch her with a duster
smacking the mantelpiece playfully so that the
dust descended to the same resting-place from which
it had arisen was to see the epitome of busy neglect.
She swept the dirt under the hall carpet. She shook
the mats out the window.
They tried her out in the downstairs dining-
room, and she let the ice-chest leak all over the floor,
and brought the soup to table with her thumb below
the Plimsoll line. She sang as she carried in the
morning tea at seven o’clock, and slammed all the
doors as she went out with a crash that sounded like
a cannonade. She had nothing to sing about, for
the staff, with the exception of Standforth Roman,
who hardly ever noticed her one wav or another,
treated her, as she said, “like the mud off their boots.”
They felt that Ella spoilt the tone of the place.
But when it came to passing bottles through her
window after hours, it was then that Ella was at her
best. Scurrying round the old rabbit warren of a
hotel with trays of whisky she found not only profit-
able but exhilarating. She had a sixth sense about
approaching plainclothes policemen, much as Mrs.
O’Brien herself had. There were exactly fourteen bolt-
holes from the Royal, and it would have taken a
cordon of police to prevent Mrs. O’Brien’s customers
drifting in after hours.
“If drinking is wrong,” Mrs. O’Brien was accus-
tomed to repeat firmly, “it’s just as wrong at five
to six as five past. Personally, I don’t see why a
man who’s been working hard on a chaffcutter six
miles out shouldn’t have his beer and meet a few
friends the same as the men working in offices who
leave the place to the typist and come here any time
they please. Take those two shandies, Ella, like a
good girl.”
Mrs. O’Brien loved playing cat-and-mouse with
the sergeant. Probably her underground sympathy
with hard cases was due to this trait. If she had by
any accident been prevented from carrying on an
illicit after-hours trade she would probably have
pined away.
The staff disapproved of Ella, but later they
began to realise that at least she woke the place up.
Her specialty was midnight scenes of a highly operatic
nature, which she conducted with her husband on
the back stairs. During these scenes any guest occu-
pying No. 14 could not fail to gather most
interesting details of the married life of Mr. and Mrs.
Jordan. On one occasion Sam complained that he had
caught Blue Saunders emerging from Ella's bedroom
window, but Blue was able to prove that he had come
for a large order of assorted drinks which he was
taking back to the football team’s dance. Mrs.
O'Brien was very indignant about Sam's persecution
of Ella, and at last forbade him the premises. Never-
theless. when Ella was not sitting on the back steps
with Blue or some other “boy friend.” it was only
because one of the other maids had got there first.
“Y’ know," Blue remarked lazily one night, “when
1 come to this town. Mrs. Blakely says to me, ‘1 seen
you cornin’ in the gate,’ she says, ‘an’ 1 think of
trouble. You'll be in it,’ she says. An' Gawd
knows,” Blue concluded ruefully, “the old girl knew
what she was talkin’ about.”
“Ain’t that funny!”
“1 seen 'er in the street the other day, an' I says:
‘Well, Mrs. Blakely, that trouble of yours turned up
orright, just as prompt as if y'd shipped it by rail.’
She'd heard about me bein’ slung in the cooler for
'Siting a John with a bar o’ soap.”
“Well, "e was lookin’ f'r it.”
“Yeh. Well, guess what she said.’
“Go on.”
“She says: ‘Oh, the trouble ’asn’t come yet.'
What d' y’ know about that?”
“As much as she does. Nothin'.” said Ella
indifferently. She shifted closer to him.
“ ’Ow long y’ stayin’. Blue?”
“Until Dutch comes back.” Blue said uneasily.
“You mean until that little chap comes outa
orspital.”
“Well, maybe. Dutch and I figured it out that,
if Dutch went on an’ I stayed ’ere, Dutch could
double back when Denny was better, an’ we c’d all
go on together.”
Ella looked sulky in the dark.
“What’s up?” Blue inquired.
“Nothin’.”
“Come on. What is it?” Suddenly he laughed.
”1 get y’. Thought 1 was stayin’ until J could ’elp
y'r spend the forchin y’r husband’s goin’ to leave y’.”
“Him!” Ella shrieked indignantly. “I can't
even get a divorce out of Mm. 1 Ml Mm the other
night with a saucepan to see if ’e wouldn't belt me. but
not Mm. Too damn’ mean.”
“Y’r dad still seems to love Mm, anyway.”
“Dad still thinks ’e may get somethin’ out of
Mm. Dad’s too cunning I’ let money move outa Ms'
reach.” She nestled even closer. “Blue!”
“Well?”
“ ’Ow about takin’ me with y’r when y’ go?”
Blue was silent. He kissed her abstractedly after
a minute’s thought.
“See here,” he said at last, “y’ know 1 wouldn’t
’ave stood by an’ let y’ marry the old hound if I ’ad
any money or any place or anything. Y’ know I only
got a job ’ere for the moment hawkin' oranges, but
that ain’t goin’ to last more’n a week or so.”
“I could work.”
“No,” he said determinedly. “A man can live
on the track an’ put up with it, but I wouldn't take
a woman on the track ; no, not if she tried t’ poison
me. It’s a hell uv a life.”
“But, Blue” began Ella.
“Drop it, will y’?” he said wearily. “Think I
wouldn’t rather say, ‘Come on, kid. let’s clear out
fr Sydney and chance our luck?’ But I'm damned
if I will. I ain’t goin’ to marry any girl while I’m
on the dole. See y’ gettin’ tired an’ old lookin’ in
some back alley. Or, maybe, leavin’ me fr another
man that ’ad a job an’ could give y’ things. Not
a bit of it! I’d rather go off on me own. an’ then
if 1 hit it lucky I’d let y’ know.”
“What’s the good of that?” Ella said scornfully.
“It may be years. I’d do anything to get out of this
damn’ Tiburon.”
“1 ain’t goin' to take no girl on the road.”
But still her family failing of taking the cash
and letting the credit go urged Ella on. “There’s
other women travel with men in turnouts.”
“Not with men,” said Blue drily.
“I want to get out of Tiburon.”
Blue sighed. That was the worst of women.
They went on and on and on.
“You ’ang on to y’r job 'ere for a bit,” he advised,
“until you get enough money to try your luck inde-
pendent like in the city.”
“You think 1 ought to try the city?”
“Y’ll get there sooner or later. You got ambi-
tions. You save y’r money an’ get y’rself a job in
Sydney as a waitress or somethin’, an’, y’ never know,
one of these days y’ might end up ownin’ y’r own
joint an’ tellin’ others ’ow t’ do the work.”
Ella had not been listening. “An’ y’ won’t let
me go with you?” she asked.
“No, 1 won’t.”
She remained silent. “All right,” she said at
last. “Guess I’d better go inside.”
“You an’ y’r Magsman,” she fired at him from
the door. “A fat lot o’ good him an’ Ms magging
‘ave done in this town. Look at Bill, can’t get the
relief. Look at the way the p'lice are treatin’ the
single men. An’ ’e’ll never do you any good!” She
paused for breath. “Anyway, if you’d sooner have
a rotten little blatherskitin’ Bolshevisk than me, 1
don't care. You! You give me a pain, you damn’,
stupid fool.” With which parting shot Ella slammed
inside.
Blue rose from the back stairs, dusted the seat
of his trousers and sighed. “That’s jus’ like a
girl,” he said to himself. “They're all the same.”
He sighed again, and lounged with his hands
in his pockets round the corner to Souter's forge,
where he was camping these nights. He knew
Ella would make it up with him and repent her hot
temper. But what was the use of making it up.
Sooner or later, both of them knew, they must go
different ways, never to make it up again ; for, as
their experience had taught them, wedded bliss anc
the joys of home belong only to those who can atlord
such luxuries, even if entering the married state did
mean doubling the dole issue.
11.
Dennis Kelly lay in hospital, too sick even to
protest that the nurses were working too much over-
time. His only visitors were Blue Saunders and Bill
Sorrell. Denny was very touchy about the way Blue
was staying on until he was on his feet.
“You get along,” he said sullenly during one of
Blue’s visits. “1 guess I’ll be all right.”
Blue said nothing. He merely looked at the
floor and whistled through his teeth. Alter live
minutes' silence he said; “Got a letter from Dutch.
Him and Okker were goin' up the coast to Brisbane.
But now Okker’s makin’ ’im ride the buffers south
I' go t’ Sydney f’r the Pastoral Union’s conf’rence.
Dutch says there's been a spell of wet weather, an
the thought of ridin’ them buffers in the rain don't
appeal to Mm.”
This did not rouse any interest, so he tried
another tack. “The pea-pickers at Mudger’s Flat are
still on strike.”
No answer.
“They was offered eightpence extra yest’d’y,
accordin’ t’ the papers. They turned it down."
The Magsman still lay like a graven image. Blue
played his ace.
’ “I shook a tin o’ petrol from Pearson’s garage
last night,” he said under his breath. “I've got it
hid out in a safe place Jim White knows of. When
d’ y’ think y’ll be fit?”
“Next week,” the Magsman croaked. “I’ll sec
if I can get the doctor to see sense. 1 may get out
Thursday.”
He lay still, with little odd flashes going through
his mind of all the glorious November colors. Like
a sunset in his brain the names of places flamed at
him. Tabulam, lying forgotten in the mountain’s
pocket, heavy with the scent of flowers, where the
wild lemon-trees fruited and the dark-green Clarence
River seemed too deep and slow to move. Huskis-
son, whispering like the surf that, on a still day.
breaks against the miles and miles of blinding white
beaches in the jade and peacock-blue shallows; Mul-
laley, where the green beehive mountains were all
over the plain ; the Hawkesbury, with sunny orchards
and lazy oyster leases. At Cobbitty there was a black-
smith's forge with a vine growing over it like a shower
of flame, and at Capertee there was a white rose-
tree beside the door of the lockup that they never
locked. In Araluen, that valley of the dead gold-
fields, he was always sure of a handout.
He would take his old Ford down to the coast,
through the purple mountain shadows, to Bull! and
the cottages of the miners clinging above the cliffs
of coal, against which the sea boomed at night. He
was sick of the west, and now, in November, the silos
would be filling their concrete hulls with wheat, the
trucks on the siding groaning and shunting as the
engines urged them on to drain all that yellow grain
to the city.
He was tired of being an agrarian organiser in
this west that regarded hard graft, bad food and
hard times as just as inevitable as a duststorm. No
one could ever shake it from that lazy fatalism. He
was going to chuck it in. There were plenty of
organising jobs in the city, useful jobs he could do
with one hand tied behind him. There was an empty
house he knew down White Bay where it was only
a matter of lifting the lock of the kitchen window.
Six bachelors could make themselves pretty com-
fortable there. He would go to the coast or the city.
He might have to live on his brother Paddy for a bit.
“I’m afraid you’ll have to be going.” The prim
little nurse bustled up to the bedside, and Blue rose
awkwardly, wondering whether it would look odd to
shake the crooked, calloused hand that lay so slack
on the counterpane.
“So long,” he said.
“So long,” the Magsman croaked in return. “I’ll
be out on Thursday.”
The nurse drew Blue aside in the doorway. “1
wouldn't count on him being out under three weeks
more,” she cautioned, “and perhaps not even then.”
On Thursday, when Dr. Blakely brushed aside
the Magsman’s plea with a chuckle ancf “You
haven’t worked your sentence out yet, Kelly, me
boy,” the Magsman made a complete nuisance of
himself by getting out of bed, staggering a pace and
collapsing. “Men,” said one of the nurses as she
dragged him back to bed. “are the most senseless
of animals.”
Bill Sorrell came that night.
After his first awful fear that the rector might
want to pray at his bedside, the Magsman had come
to appreciate those visits.
“Thought J was gettin’ up to-day,” he grunted.
“Lyin’ ’ere gives me the willies. 1 keep on thinkin'.”
“Not such a bad thing in its way.”
“But, hell, what's the use of it? You gel so's
you can't see an inch ahead of you.” The deep lines
round the Magsman’s face tightened. “1 get t’ the
stage when I say, ‘Well, suppose the Revolution comes
next year or twenty years from now, say, an', afte r
it’s successfully established, what then? Will it crawl
along a minute sooner fr me naggin’ at the workers
an’ tryin’t’ wake ’em up t’ themselves? An', if there
is a bloody revolution, will it be worth it?’ 1 almost
sees meself,” he grinned nastily, “givin’ it all up and
gettin’ a fat job preachin’ the gospel.”
“You wouldn't find yourself free from heretical
temptations,” the rector said whimsically, “just by
changing your clothes. Denny. How many times do
you suppose I’ve said Ts it worth it?’ It doesn't
matter whether you’re on the wrong lines or the right,
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
The White family, the chief of Tiburon’s
“unwantedslive in humpies on Warning Hill.
Paul White works for the Dwyers, with
whom Jessica lives. Uneducated, in the usual
sense of the word, he has an intense love of
poetry.
Blue Saunders and Denny the Mags-
man are “travellers.” Denny has been injured
in a relief-workers’ strike, and is in hospital.
Bill Sorrell, Anglican parson, and “one
of the best.” Polly, his wife, plump and
good-tempered.
Mrs. O'Brien, proprietress of the Hotel
Royal.
Mrs. Claufield (“/ feel a little tiny, tiny
bit hurt by the selfishness, one might almost
say the sordidness, of Tiburon"), Mrs. Ilford
(the hank manager’s wife), Mrs. Darch and
Mrs. Blakeley (small, timid and a minor
poetess).


whether you have a political faith or a religious one ;
it’s always better to be single-tracked, if you ask me,
and keep plugging along. You're right, though.
You don't want to think too much or you’ll begin to
doubt heaven or the revolution or whatever you're
heading for. Funny thing”
He broke off abruptly. Denny looked at him
curiously.
“It’s queer,” he said, croaking hoarsely, “t' hear
you cheerin’ on the faithful with words uv comfit an'
strength.”
The rector grinned. It rather tickled his sense
of humor, too. “What else am I to do?” he said. “I
can’t see you in a surplice, Denny. And if you did
decide to get into my union you'd want job control,
and you'd go round getting rectors to agitate for a
congregation of no more than forty and no over-
time.” He knew that that sort of flattery would cheer
Denny up.
“I used to go t’ church,” the Magsman said stub-
bornly. “But I soon got to see religion don’t gel
down to grips with things. It’s up in the air all the
time.”
“It isn't the fault of the religion,” Sorrell
defended hotly. “I don’t care whether you’re a
Hindoo or a sun-worshipper, but your religion isn't
going to get a chance if you aren’t going to try to
be as big as it is.”
They were off again on their favorite stretch of
debate.
“Now that's where we don’t gel the same angle
on it. What 1 say is that all religions is jus’ dope,
like cigarettes, booze or snow. Nothin’ but dope to
drug (he workers.”
“Denny”—the rector leaned over and tapped the
Magsman on the arm —“why do you suppose I come
up here and waste a perfectly good night when I could
be spending it quite comfortably at home?”
“Search me.”
“Because you're the most religious man in this
town.” The Magsman looked shocked. “Honestly.
I just thought I’d tell you,” the rector said. “1 know
you think it’s a political idea you have, but it's a
faith. And you’re just another fanatic. Why, Denny,
didn’t you marry Mary Sullivan?”
The Magsman shut his eyes. “So you know
about Mary?” he said. He lay silent for a while, and
then a spark of his old humor lit his face. “Wc
quarrelled about the children,” he said. “Of course,
we never had any,” he added hastily. “But she wanted
them christened and reared religious, and 1 wasn’t
having it.” He looked sideways at his visitor. “Next
thing, she would ’ave Shawn, that was the eldest,
goin’ t’ the convent. So we never got any further.”
He chuckled, and then the chuckle broke into a
cough, and he had to grip the bed because the cough
hurt his ribs. “ ’Ow did y’ find out about Mary?”
“Father Flaherty is a friend of mine,” the recto,
answered, “and he knew the priest that was to have
married you.”
They stayed silent. “Funny that,” the Magsman
said, twisting his mouth into that grimace which he
thought was a smile, “it was lucky she chucked me.
I seen her the last time I was in Bourke. Funny 'ow
women change.” He meditated a minute. “Married
an’ bringin’ up her kids respectable. An’ stout!”
The rector began to roll another cigarette, and
they sat silent for a long time.
“I s’pose,” the Magsman said at last, “bein' a
revolutionary is like bein’ a parson. Once you gel
in the way of it you can’t get out. It’s a ’abit.”
“You may be right.”
“Strange. I was thinkin’ the other day that I
was goin’ to chuck me job.”
“You mean, travelling the west?”
“Agrarian organiser,” Denny said proudly:
“that’s me. An’ I was goin’ back to the city an’ let
some other mug take it on. The west’s no picnic,
an’ I’ve been battlin’ it four years now. If I went
back to me brother’s pub I could get a soft job any
day.”
“Well, why don’t you?”
The Magsman looked him in the eye.
“Why don’t you ?” he croaked.
The rector reflected. “Yes, that’s so,” he said.
“I see your point. Quo vadis? 1 mean, where to
from here?”
“West. Right out where the water dries up.
West we’re goin’.” The Magsman set his jaw. “The-
blasted, don’t-give-a-dam’, never-be-organised west.”
The rector grinned. “When you're a duststorm,
Denny,” he said, “I’ll stand and look out at you as
you blow in over Warning Hill and say, with a mis-
quotation of a fine old poem. There goes the man
who tried to hustle the west.’ ”
But the lustreless look had gone from the Mags-
man’s eyes. There was a touch of color in the yellow
under the skin of his broad cheekbones. The rector
noticed that the hair below the bandages had faded
from dark-brown to grey. “I’m goin’ t’ get out.”
said the Magsman, breathing hard. “I’m goin’ to get
out next week if I crawl out.”
“Good luck,” said the rector, knowing perfectly
well that he had an unspoken agreement with Dr.
Blakely to keep Denny in bed and out of trouble
until he was at least half well.
Chapter XIX.
I.
THE rector should have known better than to have
said to Mrs. Blakely: “It’s an excellent thing for
young Paul White that Miss Daunt is taking an
interest in him. I hoped she would. A girl with her
background could do so much. It was providential
for Paul at least that they sent her to Warning Hill.”
Mrs. Blakely had sighed. “It’s a wonderful
thing to see a young man and woman who have over-
come the barriers of caste and prejudice, who have
a communion of souls, a common bond, a love of
beauty, a love”
“I only meant she could help him in his literary
studies,” the Reverend William Sorrell said rather
stiffly.
“1 know." Mrs. Blakely agreed dreamily. “Such
a wonderful thing.”
She mentioned it to Mrs. Darch as one example
of the democracy of elevated minds. “I know you
thought, dear Jane, that it was a little irregular of
me to converse with the red-haired man who repaired
the path. I remember your mentioning it. But, really,
dear, to a person of true humanity, these distinctions
do not exist. Take, for example, that delightful Miss
Daunt helping that White boy after school hours.
The rector mentioned to me how interested Miss
Daunt was in him.”
“Is that so?”
“She is training him in English literature and
the understanding of the great writers. And think
what a broadening experience for a lady brought up
so carefully! There is such a lot one can learn from
a man or woman in a lower sphere. For instance, my
dear, 1 had no knowledge that you could walk down
the Murray on raisins and currants, as Mr. Saunders
says he has done. One can learn so much from
people of varied experiences,”
“No doubt,” said Jane Darch. She mentioned
to her husband that that fly-by-night school-teacher
at Warning Hill was seeing a great deal of Paul White.
Her husband told Jeffery Harper.
“A damn’ sight too thick they are,” Jeffery
Harper said, confidently. “I shouldn’t be a bit sur-
prised, not a bit. My niece Bessie —she works out
at the Dwyers’, y’ know —was saying on her Saturday
oft’, ‘A darn sight too thick,’ she says. Walking on a
Sunday in the bush, studying birds, eh?” Mr. Harper
grinned jocularly at Mr. Darch. “Heh, heh!”
“Heh, heh!” responded Mr. Darch. and told the
news to his next customer, who told it to Souter,
who promptly kidded Dave While. Dave merely
looked knowing and winked. This was taken as
confirmation, and it was soon understood that Miss
Daunt had a relationship with Paul White that, for
her own sake, could not fail to lead to matrimony.
The staff of the Tiburon school had long since
formed into a circle for mutual offence and defence.
“I want to get out of Tiburon.
The matter was raised by Jingo in the staffroom one
morning. “Phil,” he said thoughtfully, “you know
young Jessica Daunt better than any of us.”
“I wouldn’t say that,” Phil Alwin responded.
“She sometimes walks in on a Saturday to spend the
day. She’s dreadfully lonely. But what’s the trouble?”
“Well, you know the rumor going round about
Jessica and Paul White. I thought it might not be
such a bad idea to put her wise. You’d be about the
best to tackle it.”
“All right,” Phil Alwin said decisively. “I’ll let
her know. Jingo.”
The next Saturday afternoon Miss Alwin
“tackled” Jessica. The main street was full of the usual
Saturday-afternoon shopping crowd, every hotel post
had someone to lean against it. the pavement was
so crowded that it was just possible to push a way
through. It was probably the fact that the sports
outside Olgy’s shop sniggered as they passed that
hardened Miss Alwin in her resolve to tell Jessica,
particularly when she noticed Bill White among them.
When they were once more back at the morgue, she
plucked up her courage.
“Jess,” she said bluntly, “do you know that
people are talking about you and Paul White?”
Jessica’s first response was an indignant aston-
ishment.
“But they have never seen us together,” she
protested, “except once or twice in church.”
“Don't worry,” Miss Alwin said consolingly. “It
happens to all teachers in country towns. When I
was in South Middleton they had me married off to
a lad because I used to feed his cat through the fence."
She shrugged her shoulders. “Not that they ever
bother about me now. Only when you are on the
shelf will you be safe.”
Jessica dropped her rage in quick sympathy.
“Don't say that, Phil.” she said, and put her arm
round Miss Alwin’s shoulders.
Miss Alwin hated to be touched. She got up
and walked over to the dressing-table. “I don't mind,”
she said. “I’m happier as I am, and 1 rather like
leaching kids. But, as for you, I don't know why
you ever took on the job.”
Jessica looked a little resentful.
“Oh. I don’t mean you are not a good teacher,"
Miss Alwin went on quickly. “But I know these little
isolated schools. After a month you could scream for
anything to distract your mind from the horrible
prospects of the same family, the same food, the
same talk”
Jessica had been waiting for a chance to confide
in someone.
“I didn’t want to be a teacher, I wanted to be
an artist. But father, of course, knows so many
artists; and, as he says, the life is too loose and
irregular. Besides, there's no money in it.”
“That's always the trouble,” Phil said.
“But, oh, I don't know,” Jessica frowned. “When
1 first went to Warning Hill I used to glory in it.
I called it my hermitage. I was going to paint hard ;
but, apart from the school desks, 1 haven’t touched
a brush. The trouble is I never seem to be alone.”
“I know what you mean,” said Miss Alwin
“I don't mean only the Dwyers and the children.
After all, they are dears. But even when I go out
into the bush, right out on the top of Warning Hill,
I have a feeling of people watching me. I never
feel alone for a moment.”
“I used to believe in the myth of the great open
spaces,” Miss Alwin said, “but there are none. You
go miles away from anywhere and take off your
clothes to have a sunbake. Just as you reach the
Milanese you look over your shoulder, and discover
you are up against some shanty that wasn’t there
ten minutes before.”
Jessica nodded. “I know,” she said ; “and you
are startled out of your wits by some goanna.”
They laughed. “I suppose it’s us being just poor
city girls”—Miss Alwin lifted a whimsical eyebrow.
“Anyway, Jess, don’t take any notice of Tiburon and
(he thing’ll die down in a week or so.”
But how could Jessica fail to take notice? Her
sensitive pride writhed at the thought that these petty
shopkeepers, these town loafers, dare discuss her;
dare even think of her!
And then her mood changed to defiance as she
tramped furiously along (he uneven road towards
Warning Hill, the Saturday-afternoon dusk fading
before her. She had a good mind to give them some-
thing to talk about. She would insist on Paul accom-
panying her every time she went into Tiburon. Why
should she be frightened out of her walks with Paul
just for a few gossips? Then it was that her anger
rose and almost choked her.
She felt that Phil Alwin's few words had burdened
her with a load almost too great to bear. The minds
of these people! What was the use of being alive if
this was the way people behaved outside your own
family? And yet even her family had not really
understood how much she wanted to paint. They had
thwarted her. Under the. smooth, gracious surface
of the Daunt life were furious, whirling undercurrents
and treacherous channels. Her sister Joan was glad
to see her leave home. Her aunt hated her. Her father
was a thin-lipped, selfish pedant. And Jeff, who
wanted to marry her. was merely an advertising agent
who looked on marriage as the monopoly of a good
product.
She heard the sound of sulky wheels behind, but
so wrapped up was she in the bitterness of her new-
found cynicism that she paid no attention. The sulky
drew alongside and creaked to a stop.
“Give y’ a lift?” Dave said politely, if thickly.
“Goin' our way?”
“No. thank you; I prefer to walk,” she said
coldly. “1 like to walk.”
Dave shook his head pityingly, muttered to
Blasted and passed on, Jessica was not sorry she had
refused the offer. It would be horrible to travel four
miles in the sulky with that drunken old man. And
he was Paul’s father. His was the family with which
the gossiping nobodies had linked her name.
Warning Hill! What an evil effect the place had
had on her! What a blight on all her small hopes
and enthusiasms, her very personality! In the city
she was not like this. She had been light-hearted to
the point of flippancy. But here no one admired
her. She was cast in the wrong part. She simply did
not fit into the frame of Warning Hill. The sun
was going down behind the Hill’s bald crest, and it
made her eyes water and dazzled her glasses. She
felt awkward walking towards that terrible glare, but
there was no way of avoiding it.
She watched to see the sun sink behind the peak
of the Hill; but it seemed to be tantalisingly slow
about it, and the ache in her eyeballs made her blink.
Warning Hill, with its gross, heavy bulk, brooding
over the fields, made her remember Dave White. It
pleased her to confuse the spirit of the man with the
Hill —the sprawling, stony Hill. “Not even good for
pasture,” Mick Dwyer told her, but dominating all
those fields, as Dave did his sons and daughters. But
how did he dominate them? Simply by being inert,
immovable, while they changed, were cultivated, grew
and changed again. He alone was unconquered by
economic or emotional necessity, as happy in his soak-
ing of beer as Warning Hill when its grey rocks were
sleek with rain, as hard, as disinterested, as curious
and crude.
She hated them both and all they stood for —their
stony stupidity, complacent inertia and dogged, im-
movable selfishness. No one could make the country
into a land of fine-speaking, fine-thinking, healthy,
carefree people while the Warnings Hills and Dave
Whites dominated the landscape, and their children
grew up diseased in their shadows. “It’s a good bit
of land,” Mick would say sadly of his farm ; “that
of it that isn't full of rock from Warning Hill. The
river patch is all that earns my keep.”
Jessica was still thinking on these lines when she
turned in at the gate and swung it so savagely (hat
the iron bruised her fingers. As if she hadn't had
enough for (he day without that!
“You're looking ill, Miss Daunt,” Mrs. Dwyer
said as Jessica came in. “I thought you were having
tea in town, but I’ve kept a nice little salad an’ some
junket for you. an’ if y'll just mind the baby for a
minute I’ll have a real hot cup of tea.”
Jessica sat disconsolately nursing the baby while
Mrs. Dwyer bustled about her.
“There,” said Mrs. Dwyer, “you should have
waited for Mick to drive you back. I know it isn’t
good for a frail girl like you to go walkin’ like that.
How are you feeling now?”
(Continued on pufic 50.)


Z
Stromberg
-Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Cl
.0
A
<h
( m
hi
r-
m
PHILIPS
ru
MODELS FROM £l9 * 19 • O
RADIO NEWS
INTERFERENCE TO BROADCAST RECEPTION ON
SHORT WAVES.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The problem of interference in the
short-wave bands is one that has become
of steadily greater importance to broad-
casting. It may take the following
forms: («) Interference between short-
wave broadcasting stations owing to in-
sufficient separation between the stations.
{b) Interference between stations which
have lOkc. separation, but cause in-
terference because the receiver is not
selective enough, (c) Interference caused
by fixed point-to-point services, gener-
ally telegraph stations, working in the
broadcasting bands, or vice versa, (d)
Interference with broadcasting stations
situated near the ends of the short-wave
broadcasting bands, caused by fixed
point-to-point stations and insufficient
selectivity in the receiver, (e) Interfer-
ence caused to broadcasting stations
working in their correct bands by fixed
point-to-point telegraph stations working
in their correct bands, the interference
being due to second-channel or image
signal in the receiver. (/) Interference
caused by the harmonics of broadcasting
and/or fixed point-to-point stations.
Short-wave broadcasting stations do not
generally cause interference under this
heading on wave-lengths above 25 metres,
since there is no short-wave broadcasting
band above 50 metres and the relation-
ship between the various short-wave
broadcasting bands is not harmonic.
There is the possibility of medium-wave
broadcasting stations having harmonics
in the short-wave bands.
In addition to inter-station interfer-
ence, there is interference called “man-
made static,” caused by industrial and
domestic electrical apparatus, motors,
fans, vacuum-cleaners, etc. In the short-
wave bands in particular, considerable in-
terference may also be caused by the
ignition systems of motor-car and aero-
plane engines.
There is nothing that can be done by
the listener to remove interference types
(a) and (c). Of the other types of inter-
ference, the listener can do little to
remedy them on existing receivers, but
can encourage manufacturers to do so by
refraining from purchasing receivers
showing these faults.
Regarding the elimination of indus-
trial interference, considerable improve-
ment can sometimes be obtained by
erecting the receiving aerial as far away
as possible from interfering apparatus,
and connecting it to the receiver by a
feeder line, sometimes called a “noise-
free lead-in.” The most satisfactory way
to deal with industrial interference is to
suppress it at the source by fitting suit-
able suppressors to the apparatus re-
sponsible.
Reporting Interference.
It has been stated above that the lis-
tener can do nothing to cut out inter-
ference of the (a) and (c) types. It is,
however, most desirable that all types
of interference should be reported to the
broadcaster whose station is affected, for,
although some types of interference with
transmissions from the British Empire
broadcasting station, Daventry, can be
heard in England, short-wave propaga-
tion conditions do not always make this
possible.
Interference to the reception of Daven-
try may be caused in certain areas with-
out the 8.8. C. being aware of it, unless
reported by listeners in these areas,
Reports should give all available informa-
tion as to the identity of the interfering
station, such as its callsign, if it is a tele’-
graph station ; the type of interference,
such as Morse telegraph transmission,
heterodyne interference ; whether the in-
terference is intermittent or continuous ;
the time of day and the particular wave-
length on which the interference is
present.
Once the interfering station has been
identified, either by the listener himself
0 r by the 8.8. C. receiving station actin'*
0 n the information obtained from lis-
teners, it can generally be determined
whether the interference is due to in-
sufficient selectivity in the listener's re-
ceiver or not. If it is established that
the interference is due to a definite fault
on the part of the transmitting station
j n question— c.g., if it is working on a
The amateur station J8CD, of Ryozo Nagataki, in Pyengyang,
Korea. This station is one of many in this part of the world
familiar to Australian amateurs.
wrong frequency or is occupying an
unduly large wave-band for the service
that it is carrying on —then the matter is
brought to the attention of the General
Post Office and is dealt with througn
the ordinary channels between telegraph
administrations.
Selectivity of Receivers.
The question of selectivity of re-
ceivers is of major importance in deal-
ing with the interference problem. Com-
parison between selectivity on the
medium-wave broadcasting band and on
the short waves is interesting. A medium-
wave broadcast receiver working on
IGOOkc. (300 metres) would be con-
sidered selective if it were capable of
separating two broadcasting stations giv-
ing equal strength signals, the two broad-
casting stations working with a separa-
tion of lOkc. Assuming the same selec-
tivity for a receiver working on 10,000 kc.
(30 metres), this receiver would be cap-
able only of separating two signals of
equal strength lOOkc. apart.
In the superheterodyne receiver, in
which the oscillator tuning condenser is
not ganged to the signal-frequency tuning
condensers, two tuning positions of the
oscillator tuning condenser will be
found for each station. These two
positions will be respectively at points
on the oscillator tuning condenser
scale where the oscillator frequency
is equal to the frequency of the
wanted station, plus or minus the inter-
mediate frequency. Even if the oscil-
lator condenser is ganged to the signal-
frequency tuning condensers, it may be
found that stations tune at two points
if the signal-frequency circuits have not
adequate selectivity to prevent this tak-
ing place. While it may not matter that
each station can be tuned on two adjust-
ments —although even this is inconvenient
—it also means that two stations can
come in at any one adjustment, which is
a serious disadvantage. This image-signal
or second-channel interference becomes
less acute as the selectivity of the signal-
frequency circuits is increased and/or as
the intermediate frequency is increased.
Some superhet converters and short-
wave or all-wave receivers have been
found to bring in both channels at
approximately the same strength. This
point has been discussed at some length,
since a lot of interference reported on
(he Empire transmitters from commer-
cial telegraph stations has been due to
this fact, and not to any fault in the
working of the commercial telegraph
stations themselves.
Morse Interference.
Some of the reports of interference
investigated indicate that it is due to
commercial telegraph stations working
on their assigned frequencies, adequately
separated from the wanted broadcast
station, but causing interference even on
receivers having adequate selectivity.
The unwanted station, in fact, is trans-
mitting a very wide band of frequencies,
considerably larger than is necessary to
perform its service.
Observation has shown that certain
commercial telegraph stations may oc-
cupy a band-width of 80 to 100 kc.,
and thus cause interference up to as
much as 40-50 kc. away from their
allotted frequency, owing to unsuitable
keying. This type of interference is
generally characterised by clicks which
follow each other in rapid succession.
The synonymous use of the terms
“image signal’’ and “second channel” in
describing one type of interference in a
superheterodyne receiver may be ques-
tioned, since the term “second-channel”
interference is sometimes used to desig-
nate the interference produced in a
superheterodyne receiver when two sig-
nals are received, the frequency difference
of which is equal to the intermediate
frequency. “Second channel” does not
describe the latter correctly, whereas both
it and “image signal” describe the former
correctly and adequately.
L. W. H.
o Courtesy the British Broadcasting Carp.)
City Short-wave Diallings.
The published list (B. 13/11 /’35) of
short-wave stations that should provide
the most satisfactory reception during
the next few weeks omits one important
group—the German. The concert of
light music given from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m.
by DJB is always worth listening to.
More attractive still is the programme
from 11 p.m. By that time the Zeesen
station comes through as clearly, if not
as strongly, as GSF, and the music is of
distinctly better quality. Towards mid-
night, moreover, the 31m. pair, DJA and
DJN, are free from the interference of
local stations and, except for intermit-
tent stabs of static, are serviceable sub-
stitutes for DJB and DJQ. Nor should
the new German station, DJO, on 25m.
(which closes down at 10 p.m.), be over-
looked. I have also heard a still more
recent addition, DJL, on 15,170 kilo-
cycles (near GSF).
Another omission was the Ethiopian
station ETB, on 25.1 m., usually heard
in a brief transmission at about 8 a.m.
on Thursdays. Starting from 17/II / ’35,
GSF replaces GSD in the 6 p.m. session.
Now that 2ME Sydney has taken to
foreign languages, the question of pro-
nunciation arises. Centuries ago wise
English Judges fined any counsel who
ventured to pronounce French words m
French fashion in their courts, and some
kind of legal blister might be found tor
the radio announcer whose vaulting
linguistic ambition o’erleaps itself. For
my own part, I should prefer “nottray
transmission to be given in good, plain,
dinkum Aussie. Here’s a hand to the
brave Digger of 3ME Melbourne ? who
doesn’t shrink from saying “Pussini” and
“conserto”! If he should need moral
support when assailed by the scoffs and
sneers of the Superior Person, let him
call to his aid the accomplished
announcer of DJB who, when addressing
himself to English listeners, unblush-
ingly speaks of “Beathoven.”
After listening to juvenile choirs from
all over the world in the extraordinarily
interesting sequence “Youth Sings
Across the Frontiers,” broadcast by the
German stations DJB and DJN, I came
sadly to the conclusion that Australia
was the only country in which singing
was not a cherished art. Following the
announcement “Australia calling!” there
came, first of all, a nerveless and dis-
piriting “Coo-ee,” and then the banal
strains of “Advance, Australia Fair.”
Our contribution concluded with an item
called “The Kookaburra’s Song,” an
effort which would rouse that candid
bird to peals of derisive laughter. 1
have no wish to be unkind, but the
crudity of our performance cannot be
forgotten. It is to be hoped that the
A.B.C. will find means of putting this
great international relay over our local
stations, not for the sake of advertising
our shame, but in order to let the Aus-
tralian public realise to what a high
pitch of excellence juvenile singing can
be raised in music-loving communities.
P. R. W.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been very good, ex-
cept for early morning, when both 25-
and 31-metre bands are weak and erratic.
No. 1 transmission from the 8.8. C. is
excellent right up to closing, with only
slight weakening. GSD still has less
static and lower noise-level.
Both VK3LR and 3ME are now heard
during the evening at tremendous
strength, and, as the broadcast band has
been impossible, owing to static, for
several nights, these stations are useful.
Nineteen metres continues to be the
most useful band in the early evening,
but none of the stations is better than
’phone strength until 10 p.m., and PCJ
does not come up until about midnight.
Radio Coloniale apparently has
dropped the 9 p.m. news session in
English, as this has not been heard for
some time. DJA and DJN, in the 31-
metre band, have been excellent, especi-
ally after 11.30 p.m., but DIB is weak.
The Belgian station on 29 metres is
gradually weakening, and may fade out
shortly. The carrier is n6w barely audible
after 6.30 p.m. PCJ was very good
entertainment in the usual Wednesday
night transmission, but strength is not to
be compared with the sister station, PHI,
on 25 metres. This is regular and at
excellent strength.
The very short waves are remarkable ;
on 10/11 /’35 the harmonic of JVH, on
20 metres, was stronger than the funda-
mental at 20.55 metres. The writer is
using the simple five-metre superhet
described B. 24/4/’35, but with coils for
10 metres. It is much more sensitive
than the T.R.F. set formerly used.
2RO has been the best of the morning
stations, and has improved in strength


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
F RE E !
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
.Write (enclosing nd. in stninjis) for tlio 30 X 20
■ nch Lavishly Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St, Sydney
BUY IT WITH YOUR
SAVINGS ON
BATTERIES.
Milliard Battery Valves are world
famous for efficiency aud economy—
their use In the MULLAKD MASTEK
Units makes frequent battery re-
placements unnecessary. A new visual
type dial dispenses with the
battery-draining dial light,
and a “battery reserve switch '
makes every battery
useful long after it
would normally have
refused to function
j
eebbbq m p. 19
u s i ini* 1 }
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
in the evening transmission. It has
ceased announcements in English.
Americans have been very poor in the
morning, except for WBXK, on the 19-
metre transmission, which is audible
until 7.30 a.m. or later.
N IGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
“QRM OM from a CW station.” How
often does one hear reference thus to a
“CW” station, meaning one that is using
telegraphy? This is wrong. All stations,
'phone or otherwise, are CW (continu-
ous wave) stations. The word “key”
could be better and more intelligently
used. The use of “CW” is almost as bad
as a verbal “HI HI” for laughter!
A Big-City telephony exponent was
heard to remark, after a verbal CQ:
“That station calling me on CW. Sorry
1 can't copy. Been on ’phone so long I
have forgotten how.” Such instances
prompt one to observe that a yearly
Morse operation exam, would be in order.
The biggest bone of contention in
technical comparisons is the radiating
system. Each amateur has his pet
system. Generally, it resolves into a
case of “Use the one that suits you best.”
They are all good if properly applied.
Perhaps in actual efficiency the matched-
impedance-fed doublet outshines the
others, but there is here a real snag—
non-flexibility. A separate antenna for
each band is only possible in a few
instances. For general purposes the
straight and simple “Zepp” fills the
average bill, but, like any other radiating
system, it must be radiating efficiently.
Many amateurs strike trouble with non-
resonance, unequal feeder current indica-
tion, and low efficiency generally. if
the “flat-top” is around 66ft. for a half-
wave 7000 kc. system, this portion can
be taken as suitable. A combination of
parallel and series feeder tuning is far
preferable to either one or the other.
Otherwise multi-band resonance may be
difficult or unobtainable, even with 40ft.
feeders. One trouble in this respect, little
realised by many amateurs, is the
presence of undue capacitative coupling
to the tank circuit. Those in doubt
about the efficiency of “Zepp” systems
should try link-coupling the final stage
to the antenna. The method of doing
this is outlined in “Radio” handbook.
It is simple, and effects a better im-
pedance match to the antenna. An ad-
vantage is that the antenna tuning unit
can be mounted on a wall well away
from the transmitter. Using a “Zepp,”
66ft. “top” and 45ft. feeders, there is
no trouble in resonance on 80, 40, 20
and 10 metres. The same applies to a
centre-fed 133 ft. antenna. It should be
needless to stress the necessity for feeder
spreaders, which really are insulators, not
a leakage path. For the best part of 12
months’ weather exposure, |in. dowel
sticks, boiled in paraffin wax until so wax-
laden they will not float, are effective
insulators against R.F. leakage. After
a few months’ exposure they should be
reboiled. Ceramic or Isolantite spreaders,
available to our American friends, cost
far too much for Australians. If bakelite
is used for spreaders, make sure that it
is a good compound. Glass tubing is. of
course, an effective insulator, but on the
heavy side.
A change in frequency allocation for
telephony and key operation in the Aus-
tralian amateur bands is in the air. The
suggestion is that each band should be
split, one half approximately for ’phone,
the other for key-work. The W.T.A.
divisions are to be asked to vote on the
subject. This suggestion does not
originate from the W.1.A., but from the
department. The writer suggests that
VKs will do well to give the matter
serious consideration. Obviously the
department considers such a move a
solution to the ’phone-key QRM
squabble. It would mean grinding
crystals for some, and new ones for
others; but some measure of relief from
each other’s QRM should be welcomed.
VK2NO.
Latest in the Trade.
Mr. .1. C. Draffin. who is now in
charge of the commercial engineering
department of Amalgamated Wireless,
was in radio in ’l6, when he was attached
to the large Telefunken station, Bitapaka,
Rabaul, after it had been captured from
the Germans. Four years later he con-
trolled all stations in the Man-
dated Territory, With the advent
of Beam wireless, he, with other A.W.A.
men, went to England to study
the new system. Mr. Draffin also in-
vestigated higher radio technique in Eng-
land. visiting the principal stations before
returning to Australia to take charge ot
Beam transmitters at Fiskville, Victoria,
where the direct Beam wireless service
with England and Canada is conducted.
He has taken part in experiments and
tests in across-the-world telephony, and
participated in work which last year was
crowned by the inauguration of the
MR. J. C. DRAFFIN, who is in charge
of the Commercial Engineering Depart-
ment of A.W.A.
A.W.A. picturegram service between
Australia and England. Mr. Draffin’s
department provides facilities for instal-
ling broadcasting apparatus and for ser-
vicing.
v. K' 'l*
The October issue of “R 9,” an Ameri-
can magazine for experimenters, mentions
a new type of resistance-coupled 56mc.
supcrhet with tuned R.F. stage, using
6D6’s, 41- and 42-type valves, by Lafay-
ette. There are a treatise on the radiation
of vertical antenrue; data on the new
6L7 metal translator valve ; on the Piezo
crystal headphones; on a development
of the crystal mike ; and an interesting
review of five-metre DX. Subscriptions,
225. 6d. per year, are accepted at The
Bulletin office, 252 Georgc-street,
Sydney.
All Round the Dial.
On December 7, 2UW will broadcast
a description of an aerial-and-train
Sydney-Newcastle excursion. The main
feature of the excursion, for which book-
ings are being accepted, is the aerial
“hike,” in which a number of ’planes
will be engaged to fly to Newcastle. As
there will not be ’plane accommodation
for all, the majority will go by car and
train.
Clifford Arnold, one of Australia’s
oldest (in service) radio identities, with
11 years of broadcasting experience, is
now presentation officer at 2UW. He
has wide musical and dramatic know-
ledge. C.A. can recall when, without a
programme as a guide or check, the an-
nouncer selected records more or less
at random. They were run on turn-
table gramophones, incorporating clock-
work motors. Many a time, however,
the motors ran down unexpectedly, and
a wild rush would be made by the an-
nouncer to rewind before listeners rang
to ask the announcer to “step on it.”
Such experiences are fine as stories
around the Microphone Club's lunch-
table, but they were nightmares to the
staff at the time.
« * ’ fc *
“C. Sharp”: The new g.m. of the
A.B.C. offers encouragement to Aus-
tralian playwrights. What about
composers? The annual composers’
competition offers front seats to a few.
and a mass of good material goes back
to those who could not be placed higher
than third. Song writers, especially, need
some encouragement. There is noVeason
why songs and musical scores should
not be bought like plays and put on
the air.
■‘Lost Chord”: Radio is about as suit-
able for opera as it is for talkies. No
amount of explanation can replace the
magnificence of stage scenery and the
personalities and performances of the
actors. Lack of knowledge of an opera
prevents one from visualising the stage,
settings and acting, and makes the radio
version lifeless.
-i*
“The Messiah” will be performed by
the Royal Philharmonic Society at the
Sydney Town Hall on Christmas night,
and 2UW has the right to broadcast the
whole performance from 8 to 10.20 p.m.
* * *
“No Misogynist”: Why do women
sound so weak, unmusical, and unim-
pressive on the air? Feminine voices
are all right on records and at talkies,
but, broadcast, it is another pair of
sleeves. My dog always leaves the room
when a woman announces.
Stratosphere Long-distance
Reception.
Dunlop Perdriau “Bulletin” records the
reception in Melbourne, between 7.15
a.m. and 7.45 a.m. on 12/11 / ’35, by
Mr. H. B. James, of two-way conver-
sations between officers in the strato-
sphere balloon Explorer IT. and officers
of the big Pan-American ’plane China
Clipper. Mr. James used a commercial
all-wave seven-valve receiver. At the
lime, China Clipper was 90 miles out
from San Francisco, and the balloon
was 74,000 ft, above Nebraska, in the
centre of U.S.A.
The American balloonists, Capls.
Stevens and Anderson, of the U.S.A.
Air Corps, had a small transmitter-
receiver aboard, and were heard to talk
to broadcasting stations in New York
and San Francisco. The London “Daily
Telegraph” also made contact with the
balloonists, who, in answer to a query,
stated that it had taken four hours to
reach peak altitude. Reception in Mel-
bourne of the conversations from 74,000
feet was clear and without a trace of
static.
These remarkable results, obtained
with short waves from an altitude of 14
miles above earth, show vast possibili-
ties, as the equipment on board the
balloon was necessarily of a low-power
type. Long-range communication from
high-speed stratosphere ’planes is easily
visualised ; but severe static generation
aboard a very high-speed machine,
owing to skin friction, may be a prob-
lem in radio reception. Comparatively,
a balloon may be considered as
stationary.
Home-made Output Meter.
One of the handiest accessories the
builder of receivers can have is an out-
put meter. Such a meter connected in
the audio output circuit of the receiver
permits the accurate lining-up of each
tuned stage.
A.C. voltmeters frequently serve well
as output meters. The modulation ampli-
tude of the signal being gauged must be
constant, and modulation preferably at
one frequency. Do not try to line up
on a broadcast station ; use some form
of modulated oscillator. The A.C.
milliammeler is also a good output meter.
Use lOOma. or 50ma. range across the
voice-coils of dynamic speakers. Use
the voltmeter ranges above 16, such as
50, 75. 110, 125 or 150, across a mag-
netic speaker or the primary side of the
dynamic output transformer.
The diagram shows a simple output
meter which can be put together from
the things found in the average shop,
radio station or laboratory. It is a work-
able makeshift for aligning tuned circuits
(LF. or R.F.) when using a modulated
signal from an oscillator.
D is a fixed crystal detector or a
Westector. C is a paper condenser,
with a capacity of 2-4 microfarads for
an A.C. voltage of at least 200. Ch. is
anything in the form of a choke coil,
provided the resistance is not too high.
An old B-eliminator choke is quite good.
R is a variable resistor with a maximum
of about 5000 ohms. It should always
be set at maximum when starting a test,
and cut down gradually until a good
meter reading appears. Ma. is an
ordinary D.C. milliammeter with a 1 or
14 milliampere scale.
Casual Comment.
"V.E.”: Listening the other day whilst
checking up on an aerial race, I was
agreeably surprised at the quality of the
transmission of a local B-class station as
heard around 60mc. I was two miles
away from the emitter in question.
Seems to me that there is no excuse for
unstable (wobbulated) ’phones there any
more, and two telescoping legs from an
old camera tripod, used in the “long
lines” method, suggest themselves for
stationary portable work.
* * * *
“Enno”: Sydney State Theatrette re-
cently had an interesting newsreel shot
illustrating the usefulness of amateur
five-metre apparatus. A Californian
radioman keeps his little daughter, aged
four, within earshot thus: The little one
goes out to play and chat with her
friends, pulling a small rubber-tyred toy
cart. On this is a super-regenerator,
switched on, and complete with loud-
speaker. Comes lunch- or tea-time. Dad
brings his portable five-metre transmitter
on to the house verandah, and his voice
tells the child that it is time to come
home. The once-neglected ultra-short
waves are indeed full of possibilities.
* $ * Jjc
“S.E.”: ft has often been stated that
the ancient Egyptians had telephone sys-
tems and other scientific developments
with which (he man in the street in 1935
is contemptuously familiar. But did King
Charles the First know anything about
radio. The question arises because the
October issue of an esteemed Vic. con-
temp. bears the date October, 1635!
“4X” writes;
The Radio Editor (13. 4/9/’35) and “W.S.”
(B. !6/9/’35) disagree with my opinion of
Brisbane’s television experiments. I do not
attack amateur experimental activity, however;
I applaud it. What I deplore is the unwar-
ranted publicity which attended tire efforts under
review. For instance, a report in “Electronics,”
an American technical publication, states
that experiments have reached a stage where a
Federal grant is justified. As one who con-
tributes to the funds from which the grant
would be made, I protest. The system con-
cerned is 30-line transmission, via the scan-
ning disc. No authority thinks 30-line trans-
missions have any entertainment value for the
public. As for the scanning disc, it is a product
of last century, and is stilt in its original form.
Anyone who has followed television progress
in other parts of the world can have no
illusions as to the present position or the
ultimate end of the disc.
* * * *
The 8.8. C. states that there are no
plans for a television service to the
Empire. The transmission of high-defi-
nition television necessitates the use of a
frequency band more than 10 times that
required for sound broadcasting, which
can be obtained only on wave-lengths
below 10 metres —much shorter than
those which can be used for the Empire
service. The wave-bands in which the
Empire service channels are allotted are
fully occupied with transmitters separated
from each other by about lOkc.
A listener to Empire broadcasts has
presented the 8.8. C. with this puzzle,
which, so far, remains unsolved:
I have been suffering from painful inflamma-
tion of the knuckle- and finger-joints of my
right hand, which had the appearance of an
attack of gout. As none of the usual remedies
did any good, I wondered if the swelling is
traceable to excessive use of the short-wave
band. I use short waves for Empire pro-
(Continued on next page.)


"V 5 -
, i \
■ aJ.
FRANZ JOSEF
GLACIER
c mvenjoiL ieen-
A RIVER OF ICE ?
THE Franz Josef Glacier in NEW ZEALAND
is unique in the world—at its base it flows
through luxuriant tropical foliage, almost to sea-
level. This is only one of the glorious and awe-
inspiring scenes that await you in NEW ZEA-
LAND—there is also the Fox Glacier, perman-
ently snow-capped peaks, gem-like lakes, geysers
and boiling pools, majestic fiords, unique caves,
and many others. You can reach them by
modern and luxurious trains, steamers and cars
—stay at first-class hotels and guest-houses, where
the cuisine, service, and moderate tariffs are
equally pleasing,
A holiday in New Zealand is a delightful
ocean cruise and a thrilling tour in one—
and the total outlay is easily within your
means. No exchange. Book through the
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau—you save
time, worry and money, and ensure the ut-
most in Service. call or write—
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST B UREAL
14 Martin Place, Sydney Tel.: B 7043
(Directly opposite G.P.0.)
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne
Tel.: Cent. 3110
King House, 79 Queen Street, Brisbane
MOUNT
EGWCNT
And All Travel Agents
- :
grammes. I seem to have read of what is
called “hand capacity” from use of short-
wave sets. A cure and how to prevent future
attacks?
* * * ♦
“Red Wul”: At an unemployed camp
two miles from a B-class station a man
had a crystal set working ; another had
a set of earphones. As the owner of the
’phones was anxious to couple his mate’s
and his own camp with the set, it was
moved to the central tent. Those on
either side (about 20 yards away) con-
nected with a ’phone each ; results were
excellent. But in their ignorance they
used scrap wire of all gauges, stringing
it loosely from tent to tent. Although
dozens of pieces were used not one of
the joints (figure-eight knots included)
was soldered. What about solid joints
now?
Radio Weather Forecasts for
Airmen.
The Commonwealth Meteorologist has
arranged with Amalgamated Wireless for
the co.’s operators on Willis Island to
send to the meteorological authorities
complete daily weather reports. Informa-
tion collated will cover temperatures,
barometer readings, humidity, cloud, sea,
wind velocity and direction. The arrange-
ments have been made in order that
Weather Bureau officials at Brisbane, Syd-
ney and Melbourne might advise more
accurately air-transport cos. about weather
likely to be met over the Commonwealth.
Willis Island is a dot on the border of
the Coral Sea. Many cyclones originate
in the locality. The wireless station was
established originally to give warning of
cyclones approaching the mainland.
The Radio Play.
“M.G.”: According to published
statements, the new policy of the A.B.C.
will be to encourage the radio play. So
far broadcast plays have been unsatis-
factory because they were written for
the stage. The result is that it is almost
impossible to follow the characters.
Efforts have been made to secure players
with strongly contrasting voices, but
where there is a cast of a dozen or more
the listener doesn’t know whether the
character denouncing Harold is the
soubrette Mary or the heroine Beryl.
No radio play should have more than
four adult characters and, perhaps, a
child, and the voices should contrast.
The announcer also should give a brief
description after each scene, although
there should not be more than one. The
writing of radio plays will develop a
technique entirely different from that of
every other form of dramatic entertain-
ment, and the sooner the Commission
realises this and encourages plays in-
tended solely for broadcasting, the better
it will be for listeners. As it is they are
apt to switch to something else the
moment they hear the announcer say
that a play is about to begin.
“Bloxon”: Signals communications,
including radio telegraphy and telephony,
must play a vital part in Australia's
defence organisation, and signals effi-
ciency, in the hands of the existing per-
sonnel, is graduating under handicaps to
a high standard. Routine training exer-
cises have been proceeding regularly, but
the week-end of November 16-17 was
notable for a rigorous combined signal
exercise under war conditions at Cecil
Park (N.S.W.), when the officers of all
signal units were mobilised and assisted
by senior n.c.os. The whole party was
graded as one unit, and, to distribute
personnel to the various duties efficiently,
captains became corporals and lieuten-
ants signalmen. Steel helmets, gas re-
spirators, bandoliers, rifles, etc., 'were
issued and worn as would be the case
in front-line defence. Staff corps from
Melbourne attended, and divisional com-
manders 1 and 2 were present. Charles
Rosenthal, the 2nd Div. commander,
has lost none of the art of soldiering,
for his couch for the Saturday night was
a straw palliasse and two issue blankets.
Sigs. office was a hive of feverish ac-
tivity from the “enemy” dawn attack,
and efficiency in message handling, both
by line and W and R/T, was the key-
note. Great credit is due to Major T.
Farrow, adjutant of Ist Div. Cavalry
Sigs., for his hard work in organising
the preliminaries. In the near future, a
similar exercise will be worked, but on
attack instead of defensive lines, fol-
lowed later by a combined attack and
defence scheme, provided politicians don’t
jib at the “expense.”
The Q. and A. Column.
I am building a transmitter for special tests
on ultra-short-wave propagation. Not liking
the usual method of tone modulation by buzzer
through a speech amplifier, I would appreciate
information on some way of introducing this
to the R.F. amplifier. The transmitter will be
an M.O.P.A.— 338.
The simplest idea is illustrated. Our old
friend the audio-frequency oscillator may be
connected so that it modulates the
without extra apparatus or plate supply-
oscillator voltage is obtained from the vo 8
drop across the grid bias resistor or G
tery. A separate source of filament supp
is needed. Across a bias resistor, a 1000-cycie
tone is obtained. A 27 valve is suitable.
* * * *
Enclosing a circuit of a crystal receive / on
which I hear 2TM Tam worth. 20 miles, some-
times 2 MO Gunnedah, 40 miles distant. (1)
Would reception be improved by a two-volt
audio amplifier, transformer coupled ? (2)
How would these be connected? (3) A good
textbook for constructor beginners ? —333.
(I) Yes. (2) Circuit illustrated shows how
this is done. Audio transformer can be of a
high ratio for best results. (3) Practical Radio
(John Scott-Taggarl), Angus and Rbbertson s,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to charge a six-volt storage
battery used )or wireless from a 32-volt elec-
tric-lighting plant ? (2) If so, what apparatus
is necessary, and how arranged ? (3) Can /
test the electric-light wires for polarity? —339.
(1) Yes. (2) The simplest way is to connect
the battery in parallel with three of the light-
ing-plant cells when charging. Correct polarity
must be observed: i.e., positive to positive and
negative to negative. (3) Place the two wires
in a tumbler of water, keeping them about
one inch apart. The negative lead will show
bubbles. Be careful to avoid shorting the
leads.
* * * *
(1) What range will a one-valve receiver cover
in distance with ’phones ? (2) Is a dry cell
efficient for A supply ? I have no accumu-
lator-charging facilities. —336.
(1) Remarkable results can be obtained with
a single-valve detector working smoothly and
correctly if a large, well-elevated and well-
insulated aerial is employed. Under such con-
ditions West Coast (U.S.A.) stations were
heard in ’24. (2) Depends upon valve; if the
two-volt .06 valve, two cells in series will be
needed, with a rheostat. Generally the 30-
type valve will operate well at H volts from
one large bell-type cell.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.W.C.: It doesn’t rise above mediocrity
A.G.: Satirical verses about ladies seated at
a bridge-table “with cigs. in their gobs” firmly
rejected.. . .G.V.S.: They’re only suitable for
a children’s page... .A.V.S.: You spread your-
self over too many subjects. Try condensing
and polishing... .Ess Jay: There’s a gleam of
promise in it, but you’re an untidy versifier as
yet L.C.: Story of the disappointed hen
failed to touch us T.A.: You use
strange words — e.g., “predations” and “shep-
herdry”—and some even more involved ex-
pressions. What, for instance, are “forests
dark with latent rains”? .... R.W.T.: The book
on the facts of life which turns out to be
a Bible is an old yarn N. 8.8.: Verses ex-
horting people to laugh and look pleasant
when things aren’t going well are commend-
able in sentiment, but their poetical level is
seldom high 1.M.M.; None of them
appeals Stewart W.; There’s not a great
deal in it Albarmount; Doesn’t last the
distance.:. .H.W.T.: Idea ingenious, but it
doesn’t quite get there..... D.G.: The yarn is too
obscure... .M. 8.: There’s a lot of truth and
human nature in the theme, but as a story it
lacks interest... .J.E.G.C.: A fair proportion
of good lines in them; keep at it N.K.:
Writing verse about insomnia is no cure for
it —except perhaps in the reader... J.M.L.:
Hasn’t an atom of reality. We want stories
about people who exist outside magazine covers.
A.B.S.: Scarcely worth while... .M.K.8.:
It’s a capital refrain, but the verses don't
measure up to it R.L.M.: Clever enough,
but it’s hard to pack all those polysyllabic
words into smooth iambics... .G.A.L.;
“Bitter” still misses G.M.: “Please de-
stroy MS. and state reason.” Well, we
couldn’t raise sufficient enthusiasm over the
charwoman and her idiot son to save them
from cremation K.K.: The first line, “Trees
in marmorial splendour,” pulled us up with a
round turn C.W.J.; “The Spell” the best
of the ■ bunch. Some spirited stuff in all of
them R.W.T.: Apart from our thanks, we
can’t raise the local paper’s bid for it D. 8.;
In places good, in others very ragged
H.D.A.: No room for poetry of despair
C.C.McN.: it doesn’t fall far short D.W.:
The whole point of your story depends on the
assumption that a left-handed man would
naturally alight from a tram on the wrong
side. Ridiculous, my dear Watson!
V.G.N.; Far too sentimental... .J.A.: Highly
artificial —even to the extent of the author with
a two-million public writing merely “for a
hobby” T.A.H.; No room for your bees
in our bonnet G.W.S.: Bucolic interlude
a bit overdone... .A.H.A.: No English-village
yarns, please! A.G.M.: Melodrama ladled
out too thickly—all miss M.J.: So very
romantic, but, alas! so very unsuitable
U.C.: The scandal proved a washout
P.A.8.; Dialogue and style good, but story
painfully lurid; try a less-hackneyed p10t....
J.T.M.: Entries for Humorous Story Competi-
tion will not be answered in this column. All
will be held until the final judging takes
place—unless the authors particularly ask for
them to be returned earlier... ; Doesn't
run ripplingly enough... .D.V.K.: Sprightly,
but it would take too much space... .E.J.S.:
Regret cannot use; might try elsewhere....
A.C.E.: Reads like impressions culled from
visions after consuming a crayfish at 3 a.m.
Interested to learn that Foreign
Legion methods of discipline have been intro-
duced into Government training farms; but
doubt if readers would believe it... .T.W.P.:
Trying to swallow that was like taking a pill
without water... .R.S. (Canada): Not suitable.
. ...M.E.C.: And then he clasped the beau-
teous wench to his manly breast, vowing eternal
love! Ah! A.McB.; “Old Ben” strangled
with his bootlace in the act of reminiscing....
C.W.J.: Rather pointless, though it seems a
faithful enough study of a college “rag”
H.J.C.: And we thought it was going to be
funny... .M.D.: Buried without honors.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
PJ.D.: The ganger and the pick-and-shovel
man appear to have been through a mangle.
R.E.: Steady, lad! You can’t expect to
fill full-pages at 12 L.H.: Attempt to draw
with mapping-pen on butcher’s paper was a
disaster H.T.; You use the rubber more
than the pencil A.C.: Study from life, not
from photographs... .N.C.C.; Deadbeats arc
younger than gag....5.W.; A Sydneysider, and
can’t draw the Harbor Bridge!.. ..R.S.F.: Slick
linework handicapped by unreal poses and
dreary jests H.M.D.; But a man doesn’t
fall to bits when hit on the head with a rolling-
pin E.P.J.: A hoary jest M.H.; An abo.
in a turban and a grass skirt would puzzle
the anthropologists K. 8.: With more confi-
dence you should do we 11... .T.N.: Sanctions
cartoon is a hopeless drawing based on a
muddled idea P.F.H.: Tramp plodding his
weary way homewards... .J.S.: The merry
widow doesn’t look very merry, and the joke has
seen better days D.A.: Suitable merely as
fashion-plates... .W.W.; They look like blocks
of granite suffering from German measles
C.J.8.: Not a winner in the dozen... .F.H.W.:
That sort of drawing would decrease any
paper’s circulation P.R.: You’re a bit late
in the day with that cartoon S.M.C.: Pic-
torial plea to Hitler rejected J.V.: As a
horrible example it could hardly be bettered.
. ...A.W.S.: Lopsided batsman sent back to
the pavilion A. 8.: Neat student’s work—
keep on trying J.L.F.: A familiar radio
chestnut and a feeble sketch E.R.: Why
aren’t any of the characters’ feet touching the
ground? J.A.K.: Almost the week’s worst.
.H.S.: Blowfly-and-rautton gag arrives every
summer G.N.T.: You have a lot to learn.
0.J.8.: Decidedly, no K.L.: Same to you.
H.C.B.: Declining the bulldog-cockatoo
sketch F. 8.: What did you use for models
—dolls? A.M.A.: Has a little merit; try
drawing larger and in ink M.R.: Can’t
make sense out of it R.G.: Deformed and
scratchy S.C.H.: Ancient.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Fund Handicap: North Wind;
next, Metro.
Highweight Handicap: Gay
Mary ; next, Royal Barb.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Kogarah Stakes: Merrie Miller ;
next, Grand Warbler.
Welter: Prittle Prattle; next,
Raleigh.
Moorefield Handicap: Broccoli,
next, Fairoic or Lancaster King.
Hurstville Mile: Buonarroti;
next, Fairoic or Lancaster King.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
History repeated itself remarkably at
Caulfield when Burlesque won the rich
Consolation Stakes for the second year
in succession. On each occasion he
started at 25 to 1 ; each time also Hall
Mark was made favorite and ran third,
and again the victory of Burlesque fol-
lowed on an unplaced outing in the Ben-
digo Cup.
Originally the Seremond stallion was
trained at Randwick by J. A. Donohoe
for F. F. Robinson and his son Norman.
They tired of trying to win a race with
Burlesque and leased him to Gerald
Coffey. Coffey recently secured a re-
newal of the lease. Until Saturday the
best achievement of Burlesque this
season was his second to Satmoth in the
Veteran Stakes at Flemington. In the
Consolation Stakes he met Hall Mark
161 b. worse than he did 12 months ago.
Is it any wonder that Hall Mark, fresh
from his C. B. Fisher Plate triumph,
should have been preferred?
Yet Coffey’s representative had the
race won as soon as he entered the
straight. He scored by a length and a
half from the Oaks winner, Nalda, who
was nearly as far in advance of Hall
Mark. Art commanded nearly as much
support as Hall Mark ; in fact, he was
Gert OH| Bert''
Bert’. *lu, get even with them''
Giert : " Mow z . "
if j
Bert*. Ive got their number.
the opening favorite. With every chance
in running, the Moonee Valley Cup
winner never looked a possibility over
the concluding half-mile. Hall Mark got
boxed up in the field along the railway
stretch, but made a wonderful run from
the turn into the straight. He is a lion-
hearted little fellow, and nobly handled
9st. 101 b.
Fred Hoysted and his patron, Archie
Crofts, the South Melbourne sportsman,
ought to be thoroughly satisfied now that
Valiant Chief is not a stayer. In the
Consolation Stakes he failed just as de-
cisively as he had done in the Victoria
Derby. Up to a mile Valiant Chief
handled himself satisfactorily ; after that
he tired so much that Voitre eased him
into last position before they reached
the judge’s box. Crofts has announced
that the autumn objectives of Valiant
Chief will be the Futurity Stakes and the
Newmarket Handicap. That being so,
why worry the brilliant young thorough-
bred with racing over journeys that are
beyond his tether?
So palpable was the falling-off in the
calibre of Grand National candidates
last winter that the Victorian turf authori-
ties got windy about the future of cross-
country sport. Trainers represented that
the ban on summer steeplechasing had
driven affluent sportsmen out of the
ownership of timber-toppers. Leading
clubs decided to try to remedy matters.
There will be steeplechases at Moonee
Valley early in December, at Caulfield
on Boxing Day and at Flemington on
New Year’s Day. If contests can be
staged such as that which took place at
Caulfield, steeplechasing soon will regain
its old popularity.
Twelve started in the Tara Steeple-
chase, and all completed the course.
Wanconner tried to run away with the
race, and drew out for a lead of 20
lengths. Before reaching the turn for
home he was gathered-in by Wirrate and
My Talisman, who were locked together
all the way down the straight. None but
the judge could say which had won, and
he awarded a dead-heat, which satisfied
the wildly-cheering spectators.
Hoysted failed with Valiant Chief, but
landed the Ormond Handicap with
Metro and saddled up My Talisman.
The late A. S. Chirnside bought My
Talisman from A. D. Webster, but did no
good with the Claro gelding. My Talis-
man was in receipt of 221 b. from Wir-
rate ; so that the honors of the dead-
heat lay with Wirrate.
Pat Quinlan, who prepared Cragford
for the Metrop. in 1930, has some very
smart juveniles in hand. He annexed
the Stansmore Two-year-old with
Mitsui (Eastern Monarch—Charlecote)
and the first division of the Maiden Two-
year-old with Novia (Baralong—Tene-
bra). Both youngsters belong to J. P.
Arthur, who owned Cragford ; the first-
named was bred by her owner, who gave
220gns. for Novia at the Sydney sales.
No doubt Arthur acquired Novia with
an idea of sending her to his stud later
on. The filly is out of Tenebra, by All
Black (sire of Desert Gold) from Queen
Battery, a sister to the great Artilleryman.
The last event on the programme, a
six-furlong sprint, went to Heros (4 to 1),
whom Holt trains for Mrs. L. R. Buxton.
Earlier in the afternoon Holt had regis-
tered a second with Gay Mary (perhaps
unlucky to lose the Ormond Handicap)
and a third with Hall Mark. It has been
a very lean spring for Holt.
* * * *
Betting plunges have been associated
with recent victories of Jaccuse, now
owned by W. P. Curtis, and another came
off at Warwick Farm. Backed from fives
to 5 to 2 for the Horsley Handicap, the
Promised Land gelding, generally a
smart beginner, missed the jump. How-
ever, he hit the front in the last furlong,
and hung on gamely when challenged
by Falstaff, whom he beat by a neck.
Medallist, who had to be checked on one
occasion, was a fast-finishing third.
Veilantif, heavily backed, gave an in-
glorious display, and finished last.
Bachian, a tip for the Villiers Stakes,
looked nice and bright, and showed that
he has lost none of his speed ; he led
smart ones like Wise Boy and Prince
Yamba, and turned for home looking
dangerous. He tired, but should be
cherry-ripe for the Christmas meetings
at Randwick.
Dick Wootton nearly landed a double
in the divisions of the Maiden Handicap.
In the first, Whimsey (7 to 1) was just
beaten by Jeanne DArc (6 to 1), who
carries the colors of Yass pastoralist J.
K. Osborne ; in the second, Zulander (12
to 1), a sister to Whimsey, finished fast
and defeated Linklet and Royal Promise.
Whimsey and Zulander are by Rangag—
Zuleika.
Warrawing, owned by the Livingstones,
of Moree,. took the Juvenile-after a fine
set-to with Shakspeare and Water Wag-
gon. He was backed from tens to sixes.
Dual Ratio (12 to 1) won the first heat
of the Novice from barrier-rise to judge.
Lavage (33 to 1) was second, and Merrie
Miller third. Bulletin, the favorite, ended
up in the middle of the field, but there is
an excuse for him ; he was badly inter-
fered with. The second division went
to Architect, owned and bred by A.J.C.
committeeman E. J. Watt, and trained
at Orange by G. Langham. Cinema and
Frieze were in the places. Architect has
been winning in the western districts,
and this son of Doric—Lady Aura looks
good enough to score in better company.
He had his field settled after going a
couple of fprjongs, and could have cut
at least half a second off his time, Imin.
13sec.
Mainlaw (9 to 4) returned the, expenses
of his unsuccessful trip to Melbourne by
winning the November Handicap easily
from Measure (-3 .to 4) and Sally. Muhro
waited until Toriwa had run
themselves- to*.a standstill, and waltzed
away from, Fairpic, who led into the
straight. - Mainlaw will be one of the
early faincies for the Summer Cup. But
too much use was made of Fairoic, and
she will do-better.
King Moab (7 to 1), trained at the
Farm, struggled home in the Leumeah
Handicap after an exciting finish with
Raleigh and Autoland ; half-heads sepa-
rated them, and Rose Gem was a close
fourth. Foxhunter, supported from tens
to fives, could not manage the track ; he
was also handicapped by going wide at
the turns. Tremayne ran a useful race,
but Broccoli never got into the picture.
Raleigh’s effort to win all the way was
a sterling performance, and presages an
early success.
* * * *
The V.R.C. committee dismissed all
appeals against the disqualifications im-
posed by the stipendiary stewards in the
Country Party case. The horse was
rubbed out for the race (the Batman
Stakes) only, and may be sold, but owner
(Tancred), trainer (Jamieson) and jockey
(Bartle) will have to do their 12 months ;
and after that, of course, it will be
necessary for trainer and jockey to
secure a renewal of their licenses. Jamie-
son had a No. 1 license at Rand wick,
and had a string which included Limarch
and Closing Time.
* * * *
Synagogue will do his future racing in
India, having been sold to a patron of
Higgins, who won the Viceroy’s Cup with
Ethics. It is improbable that Synagogue
will turn out as good as that horse. The
fields he beat in the Futurity Stakes and
the Epsom were not of much account,
and he was a failure at w.f.a. Phillips,
the bookmaker, was wise in getting rid
of him.
* * * *
“E. 8.”: Melbourne fielders still groan
when they think of Flemington. “Worst
settling for many years! ” they aver. Two
banks near Tatt.’s and the Victorian
Club where numerous bookies have
accounts ran out of cash and had to be
replenished from headquarters. One of the
big winners was “The Man in the Boxer
Hat,” who bets in hundreds and always
in notes; he laid £6OO to £4OO on Fidelity.
Eric Connolly plumped for Marabou.
Still “Con” doesn’t operate quite so ex-
tensively as he did in the days of Sun-
burst and Rostrum.
* * * *
“Glenelg”; The Queensland Betting
Commission, taking evidence in Adel-
aide, received mixed information. One
witness testified that 435 new mokes had
been registered for the trots since the
game was thrown wide open. Another
—wearing a black coat and a white collar
—declared that the opening of licensed
shops had made children familiar with
betting. My experience of Australian
cities and the city child is that battalions
of brats' living in places where shops
are not licensed know quite well what
mother means when she gives them 6d.
and telfs them to run down to the
barber’s and put it on Boko for th’ Flyin’.
* * * *
C. B. Kellow has bought Marabou for
5500 guineas—a good price ; but then
he is a good horse. Naturally the Cup
winner will be trained by Holt.
# * * *
“F.Y.7”: I read that a horse named
Hurry Scurry had won a race at a Sydney
suburban meeting, and time went into re-
-1 verse. In the years that the locust has
scoffed, the Hurry. Scurry event always
closed the four-day meeting of the
Western Downs Jockey Club at Blackall
(Q.). After the regular racing, for which
crack trainers and jockeys from Bris-
bane and Rockhampton came along,
there was a Consolation' Stakes for real
racehorses. Then came the Hurry Scurry,
any horse, owners up and catch weights.
Stockmen,: white, black and brindle, gun
shearers, with perhaps a Kanaka and
even a Chinaman, all faced the starter
in all sorts of garbs. s The race was
generally a mile flutter, and not more
than half the field usually finished—that
is,’not more than half the riders, though
the assorted mokes generally managed to
waddle home somehow.
Ins and Outs
Batting first at Sydney, the M.C.C.
made 260 in a bit better than even time.
Hardstaff did best with 77 (he is an ex-
cellent batsman, taller and more dash-
ing than his father); Parks (55) and
Langridge (31) helped. White, a slow
left-hander, had all the batsmen think-
ing—he sent down 20 overs for 43 runs
and four wickets —and Cooper, a new
fast man, got both openers for 55. For
N.S.W. Fallowfield (49) and Mudge (43)
put on 86 for the first wicket, but then
Lonergan, Kippax and Robinson went
quickly. From 5 for 134 Marks (88) and
McGilvray (66) took the score to 257 ;
Easton (77) and Chilvers (23 n. 0.) carried
it to 385. Sims got 6 for 125. And then
M.C.C. collapsed: 6 for 98.
♦ * * *
Helped by execrable fielding, Richard-
son’s men started auspiciously against
Natal at Durban. Fingleton (121) and
Brown (148) were together till the score
reached 215 ; then McCabe added 65 (in
45 minutes) and Richardson 75. At
stumps on the first day the score was 5
for 522, with Chipperfield (60) and Old-
field (70) the not-out men.
* * * *
At Karachi Tarrant’s lot accounted for
Sind by an innings and 90 runs. Oxen-
ham snared 5 for 28 and 5 for 7 —and
took his fiftieth wicket for the tour —and
Nagel took 5 for 24. Almost everybody
did a little with the bat.
* * _ * *
“Fitzcray”; Norman Bayles, a Mel-
bourne C.G. trustee, returned from Eng-
land, reports a feeling there that some-
thing should be done on this side to
squelch over-the-odds barracking. Bayles
says that the Melbourne C.G. heads
have made preparations to deal with
rowdy individuals, and already the other
States have come to some sort of agree-
ment to the same end. In Sydney the
nuisance could be swiftly abolished if
newspapers devoted healthy criticism to
it. instead of publishing the ghastly “wit-
ticisms” of offenders.
(Continued on next page.)


ĵ
The Prontac
( Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . ,
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
I I
WWW
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
0
SEASICK REMEDY
Guarantees Travel Comfort
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Palmer is returning to Australia for a
few months, his match with Phillips hav-
ing fallen through. Present arrangements
are that he is to meet the winner of
Harvey v. Petersen at Wembley in Feb-
ruary or thereabouts. If he does get his
chance, he is very likely to become heavy-
weight champion of the Empire. There
are generally some good little men knock-
ing about England, but form among the
boxers from lOst. 7lb. upwards has been
poor for a generation. Petersen, the
“champion of England,” was no match
for Neusel, the German, whom Camera
has disposed of in four rounds. And
Camera was easy meat for Baer, the
worst heavyweight champion Australia
has ever seen in a fight film.
* * * *
If there are many more at home like
“Young” Aguinaldo, the “freed” Philip-
pines will be no soft thing for an in-
vader. Reputed to be the only Filipino
heavyweight pushing leather for a living,
Aguinaldo (13st.) stopped Pietro Georgi
(12st. 101 b.) at Leichhardt in four
rounds. Left swings to the solar-plexus
put Pietro down for “nine” in the third.
Still groggy on coming up for the fourth,
Georgi had no defence against a right
to the chin. It floored him for “nine,”
and when Georgi was down again the
referee decided he had had enough for
one night.
* « * *
“Tuart”; If Louis gets away with
Braddock, doubtless the old clamor for
a White Hope will be revived. Australia
may supply one in the person of Mr.
Londos, a young gentleman of Greek
extraction, who at present weighs 17st.,
but could go to scale at 20st. if de-
manded. Mr. Londos has had a couple
of mills in Sydney. One lasted a punch
(Mr. Londos’s); the other was over in a
minute. If not destined to wear Brad-
dock’s crown, he should at least succeed
Mr. Pat Redmond, a beaming Irish bar-
man who was persuaded to take up scrap-
ping during a slack time in the Trade a
few years ago. By dint of shoving out
a left like a telegraph post, Pat beat a
few third-raters in Sydney and achieved
the kind of popularity that Lurich en-
joys, the kindest expressions applied to
him by the populace being “Mongrel!”
and “You big loafer.” He went to New
York, was taken up by Tom O’Rourke
and pitted against Camera. Discharged
from the hospital, Mr. Redmond returned
to the practice of his profession.
Ins and Outs
The Marylebone team did not add to
its reputation by its showing against Vic-
toria. The home side closed with 9 for
332, which included a spanking 112 by
Rigg and good scores by Scaife (60) and
Plant (64). M.C.C. answered with 252,
Parks batting strongly for 74. Each side
then played an exhibition knock to give
the spectators value for their brass. Sims
(4-140) was again the best of the touring
trundlers. Victoria has unearthed a pos-
sible treasure in 19-year-old Gregory,
who bowls right-hand leg-breaks. He
took 5 for 69 in Marylebone’s first
innings.
* * * *
“ ’Eighty-eight”: It was a graceful act
of the Australian cricketers in S’Africa
to lay a wreath on the grave of J. J.
Ferris in Durban. What a great bowler
he was in his day! Turner and he were
the mainstays of the Australian sides of
'BB and ’9O in England, pegging
away from match to match and fin-
ishing with records that look marvellous
to-day. “There’s Ferris the fiend and
there’s Turner the terror,” wrote “Punch,”
but the redoubtable pair couldn’t save
the visitors from having rather a lean
time in both those years, for the bat-
ting, with few exceptions, was below
standard. “W.G.” engaged Ferris for
Gloucestershire after his second trip, but
the county didn’t get the match-winner
it hoped in him, for his bowling very
soon began to deteriorate, though he be-
came a really useful batsman. He was
only 33 when the Boer War claimed him
for a victim, not of wounds but disease.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: A symposium held
by “Cricket” on the new l.b.w. law shows
that 14 county captains favor it after a
season’s trial, the only dissentient being
Wyatt. Most of the leading professionals
back it, and —most interesting of all—
so do the umpires, on whose shoulders
the change was expected to throw a bur-
den greater than they could bear. The
chief point in its favor seems to be that
under it many more matches which, under
the English three-day system, could be
made assured draws are now finished.
* * * *
“Wanderer’s”: South African cricket’s
bad luck continues. In addition to the
dropping out of Bell and Crisp and the
loss of poor Cameron, Balaskas, hero of
the second Test match in England, has
developed tonsilitis. If he is unable to
play later—and rheumatic complications
make this not unlikely—a good deal of
the spring will be taken out of the ’Boks.
4> * $
“Graziers’”: A Sydney paper, com-
menting on Lonergan’s appearance with
N.S.W. against the Marylebone team,
says he shares with Karl Quist the rare
“Thought you said you were a good batsman?"
“So I am, but t' at fast bowler—nobody tell HIM!”
distinction of having represented three
States at cricket. There was one other
at least: Percy McDonnell. Percy played
with Victoria and N.S.W., and with
Queensland before that State was ad-
mitted to the Sheffield ring.
* * *
“Tenth Slip”; After dilly-dallying with
the idea for months the N.S.W. State
cricket heads are permitting the new
l.b.w. law in grade and junior matches,
starting on November 30. Every other
State has now done the same thing, and
it is a certainty that next year the rule
will be in force in all grades of Austra-
lian cricket, as it should have been at
the beginning of the season. Selector
Vincent is to be commended for up-
holding a year-old Bulletin contention
that to make the rule apply to off-break
and not to leg-break bowling is ridicu-
lous. Other clear-headed folk who
agreed were delegates Tom Andrews and
selector Dwyer.
* * $ *
“Richmond”: Melbourne Cricket
Ground trustees are shoving ahead with
improvements. When they are finished
the ground will beat anything of its kind
in the world for seating accommodation
and public convenience. It will accom-
modate 100,000 people, and there will
be seating for 40,000 in the bob reserve.
No squatting on a slippery grass slope
for Melbourne!
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: Cochet says he and Mrs. C.
have been on the tennis track ever since
last January, and have given exhibitions
and lectures in Egypt, Palestine, Syria,
India, Ceylon, Java, Singapore, Indo-
China, Hong Kong, Macao and the
Philippines. He was received with open
arms everywhere, and given every facility
to show by local tennis authorities. He
ranks Vines as the greatest player in the
world, and reckons that Perry has had
pretty poor opposition at Wimbledon, a
remark which Perry and Crawford do
not endorse.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: In spite of
recent illness and other evidence that he
has been playing too much tennis, Mc-
Grath is to be shipped off to Maoriland
for the Dominion championships in
December. It is probable that Moon
will go with him as offsider if the
Bananaland heads are willing.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The hacking-
about to which McGrath has been sub-
jected ever since he broke into the tennis
world at 15 bore fruit in the N.S.W.
championships, when the lad collapsed
during a gruelling duel with Hopman
and withdrew. For this he was ad-
monished by a “prominent official.” I have
known “prominent officials” who would
take it as an affront if a leading player
dropped dead on the court, and would
probably suggest suing the corpse’s rela-
tives for damages. No one seems to
have publicly reprimanded Perry for
spoiling the season’s gate-takings by in-
juring his back ; but, then, Perry is a large
and temperamental person.
.** * *
“Hotham”: The 52nd Victorian tennis
championships begin at Kooyong on
December 6 and continue until Decem-
ber 14. In addition to the championship
meeting there will be triangular inter-
state matches (Vic., N.S.W. and S.A.) on
Dec. 4, 5 and 6 on the Albert Ground
grass courts. In the championships.
Crawford will defend his singles title:
Quist and Turnbull will face challengers
in the doubles.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: The annual caddies’
tourney in Brisbane for the “Courier-
Mail” Cup starts on December 14.
Caddies must be under 18 and have been
dinkum club carriers for 12 months
before entry. Some of Queensland's
finest players have graduated through this
competition, notably Von Nida, holder
of the State open championship.
* •:< * *
“Lowbrow”: Some of the Sydney
musical crowd are expressing indignation
at the statement that Joan Hammond is
being sent to Britain to improve her
voice and her game of golf. They say
that to mention golf in the same breath
as the divine art of singing is sacrilege
and that, anyway, it would be impossible
to combine the two studies. Not so sure
of that. For instance, Joan would be
under the care of her golf maestro while
playing a shot. While walking up to
the next, the singing master might lake
charge, and the lady could practise her
scales and cadenzas to his accompani-
ment on the jew’s-harp or the mouth-
organ.
:J: sj; $
“Woogaroo”: Queensland associates
are developing some of the energy and
initiative of their Victorian cousins. The
game has spread wonderfully among
Bananaland girls, and instead of sitting
down and leaving it at that the local
heads are planning to send teams to
other States and on various tours to im-
prove the quality of their game. For
this funds are needed, and a levy of a
bob per club member has been decided
on, to be paid at the same time as the
club subscription. So far the girls are
paying up without a squeak. Too often
when something of the sort has been
tried with men players in this and other
States the riot has been deafening.
..* * * *
“Sandringham”: Golfers at Aspen-
dale (Vic.) were staggered when two
players in a four-ball against Bogey won
with the score of 13 up on the colonel.
Somehow it recalls the tale of another
colonel, asked for his score at the club
whist drive. “Two hundred and
eighteen!” said the amazed official, read-
ing the card ; “why, Colonel, this is a
record.” “One moment,” replied the old
gentleman, fumbling in his pockets. “That
isn’t the whist score ; it’s my card for
this morning’s round.”
Miscellaneous
“Stamford Bridge”: The Games Federa-
tion in England has voted £2600 to send 15
athletes to Sydney for the Empire Games.
The secretary of the Federation, Evan
Hunter, is raising funds to send out 50


iov safe
s
<s>>:
■fPi
e
hi
irti a
if you could only think of it,
is the one present he really wants. Is it ani-
mal, vegetable or mineral? Does it walk, crawl or
run? Is it useful? Is it precious? You’re getting
warmer. It’s a “Valet!” Good for you! And
very good for him —he’ll be having perfect “60
second” shaves from Christmas morning onwards.
THE SET illustrated is
set No. ioi. This set is
packed in an entirely new
type of moulded case,
finished in rich mahog-
any or dark red. Con-
tains strop in nickel-
plated hinged container
and three blades
in plated sheath
Other Sets from 4/6 to 65/- of all dealers.
VALET
4 i'lulfyStwp
Safety Razor
V 3-*o S
ss
.. . '
■
i 9
■
/is
f3ES
1
M
'WJW I
V
IN virgin bush and forest can be heard the crash
of falling timber. The hum and whine of saws
resounds in town and village. To-day the industry
in New South Wales provides employment for
15,000 men! Much of the timber is used for build-
ing modern homes, which in turn creates employ-
ment for 7,000 carpenters, and thousands of other
good Australian tradesmen.
Considerable home-building activity is financed by
the Advances for Homes Department of the Rural
Bank, which, in twenty-one years, has made
£19,469,859 available for this purpose, the loans
being repayable by easy monthly instalments.
The Bank depends on its own resources and upon
the support and co-operation of the public for the
funds that make the credit possible. Fixed
Deposits are accepted and cheque accounts
opened at all branches of the Bank.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS. P. KEARNS
jpaxt jj) I !lj
Commissioners:
athletes, covering all branches. He says
100 were sent to Canada, and the least
that can be done is to give Australia a
decent meed of recognition.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Sounds quite like old
times to hear that professional running
is to be tried on the grand scale under
the banner of a Victorian promoter. It
is recognised that this fine old English
sport cannot possibly flourish without
betting, so efforts will be made to have
the ban on layin’ ’em removed. Betting,
of course, goes on under the lap on
professional and, for that matter, ama-
teur events, a lot of money being laid
on such events as the Stawell Gift. It
will be a great day for the boys if the
old regime comes back, but they may
be depended on to make such a welter
of it, as they did in the good old times,
that the game will soon be suffocated by
its own parasites. One old N.Q. friend
of mine told me one day after a big
meeting at the Towers that he was get-
ting out of the game. “Never again!”
he said feelingly as he poured a double
nobbier. “Never again will I back any-
thing that can talk.”
* * * *
“Spike”: A popular myth in connec-
tion with the Olympiads is that they are
the stay of amateurism. In cold fact
hundreds of athletes use them as adver-
tisement for their prowess in order to
get the best possible price for turning
professional. Not an Olympiad goes by
without a dozen prominent athletes going
over to the paid ranks. What profes-
sional promoters think about it is seen
in the expressed intention of Australians
who have been running professional
shows to send a scout to Berlin with a
bag of simoleons to buy a batch of
sprint and middle-distance runners. The
American negro element, including Jesse
Owens, is especially desired. The emis-
sary has a fair chance of success. No-
where else but in Australia is there any
money for professional peds.
* * * *
“Mat”: N.S.W. bowlers took their
customary away-from-home hiding when
they met the Victorians in Melbourne.
This sort of thing is always likely to
happen while the idiotic system of dis-
allowing expenses to travelling bowlers
is maintained. As a result, teams for
Melbourne or Brisbane have to be
selected from the players who can afford
the trips, while stars who can’t have to
kick their impecunious heels at home.
“Backwoodsman”: N.S.W. bowlers
are reminded that the team to play in
Maoriland is to leave Sydney on
December 28. Present estimate of the
cost of the round trip is £7O, but if
there is a big entry the cost will be
proportionately reduced by the usual
concessions.
* * *
“Green Chequer”: An ugly story was
unrolled in a Sydney police court when
a man was sentenced to three months
for selling champion homer pigeons to
a gun club for Is. a head. The affair
calls attention to the need for a legal
ban on the vile “sport,” so called, of
shooting trapped pigeons. Most civi-
lised countries and even the gambling
resort of Monte Carlo have banned it
long ago. Speaking as a gun-shot of
lifelong experience, I say the beastly
practice does not train men to shoot ; in
fact, the “sport” exists only as one of the
baser betting mediums. On the other
hand, the homer pigeon is an asset to
the nation, especially in time of war. On
the French front in the turn-up with
Fritz, the birds were of the greatest
value when heavy fire cut wires and kept
runners underground.
* * * *
“Richmond”: Entries for Henley-on-
Yarra are much better than originally ex-
pected. In addition to the Police eight
N.S.W is sending a Mosman four (Mos-
man beat Police in the first of the
season’s championships), while a crew
which has been blushing unheard of is
to come from Corowa. Rockhampton is
also having a cut at the fours; in all 74
crews, representing 29 clubs, are entered.
Turner (N.S.W.) looks the best of good
things for the sculls. He has won the
event three times, and the Australian
championship four times.
* * * *
“Long Dog”: We have all heard of
the racehorse who stuck out his tongue
in a tight finish and was awarded the
race by it. A performer in a grey-
hound hurdle race at Moss Vale (N.S.W.)
won by a tail, if reports are correct. The
dog crashed at the last hurdle and slid
some distance towards the finishing line,
30 feet away. Another dog followed,
and bumping the first one slid it over the
line backwards. The judge gave the
first dog the verdict by a “head.” As the
tyke was a lady, that may have been
just delicacy.
* * * *
“Splash”: The people behind the surf-
lifesavers’ tour abroad mean business.
Failing help from Governments, they are
forming a limited-liability co. with a
capital of £lO,OOO. It is expected that the
team will pick up a lot of money from
shares of carnival gates, broadcasting and
film rights and in other ways. The co.
will go into voluntary liquidation on
return of the swimmers, and any profits
will be divided among shareholders. It
is proposed to visit France, Holland,.
Britain, the U.S.A. and South Africa. '
* * * *
“Stand Off”: With the game against
Scotland, the All-Blacks had got through
20 of their 28 matches. They meet
Ireland on Dec. 7, Wales on Dec. 21 and
England on Jan. 4 —the England match
is the closing engagement of the tour.
In the 1924-25 tour this affray, won by
the visitors, included a glorious box-on,
an almost unprecedented happening for
holy Twickenham. It is to be hoped
that Maorilanders will not be too sorely
tried this time. More than once on this
tour they have given evidence of frayed
tempers, and if another turn-up occurs
the All-Blacks will be getting themselves
ranked with Australian cricketers as
positive outsidahs.


m Mim uio r
★
?;
m
PoTs
AUSTRALIA
IN HELPING
YOUR
FELLOW!)
/Af\Aesr
//V TH/S
L
0
fl
n
INTEREST-
SI per cent.
PRICE OF ISSUE-
£99/15/-
ANNUAL YIELD-
£3/15/5
BACKED BY ALL THE GOVERNMENTS OF
AUSTRALIA.
This Loan offers a sound investment for amounts of £lO
and upwards.
Applications may be lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office or member of a stock exchange.
Subscriptions may be paid in full or by instalments. Proceeds
will be used for public works and other purposes.
Issued by Authority of Australian Loan Council.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
R. G. CASEY,
Treasurer.
APPLY EARLY
'
Mm
.
m mss
m
m
Delhi—The Fort.
It is well worth breaking your journey when
travelling to England or returning to Australia
and seeing India, its cities, its monuments,
its people.
Full information and inclusive rates may be
obtained from:—
Messrs. THOS. COOK & SON LTD.
Berkeley Street, Piccadilly, London, W.l, England.
Challis House, Martin Place, 269 Collins Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Melbourne, Victoria.
OR FROM
THE CENTRAL PUBLICITY OFFICER,
Indian State Railways, Old Secretariat, Delhi.
THE MANAGER, INDIAN RAILWAYS BUREAU,
57 Haymarket, 38 East 57th Street,
London, S.W.I, England. New York, U.S.A.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Compulsory Voting
Victoria is considering the application
of compulsory voting to Leg. Council as
well as Leg. Assembly elections, and al-
ready somebody has come forward with
a plea that compulsion should be ex-
tended to municipal contests. The idea
of compulsory voting in itself is
ludicrous, and appears to have been
plagiarised from the action of that
Oriental potentate who ordered all his
subjects to be happy, failing which they
would be flogged until they were.
To expect that legislation will be im-
proved by forcing people without a
vestige of interest in political matters to
vote is so fantastic as to merit no con-
sideration. In the old days, when thd
privilege of voting was confined to those
who took the trouble to get out an elec-
tor’s right—and pay sixpence for it, too
—the legisation, however bad, repre-
sented what the public wanted.
If I had my way, so far from making
voting easy 1 would hedge it round with
all sorts of difficulties. I would restore
the elector’s right, and have it made of
tissue-paper. Polling-booths would be
distant from the residences of electors.
People who would vote under such con-
ditions would be patriots who look a
deep interest in politics. Then party
machines would rust and decay, and the
wirepuller and the boodler would have
no chance of working their fine points.
—De Aar (Vic.).
A Hint from Ireland
Two members of the new House of
Commons, returned for Fermanagh and
Tyrone,* refuse to have anything to do
with the Oppressor. They list themselves
as National Abstentionists, and arc pre-
pared not only to forego the salaries but
even to forfeit their election deposits
(£l5O in the U.K.) in defence of the
principle that Ireland should cut loose
from England for good and all.
There seems to be a tip in this for the
Westralian secessionists —anyhow, it is a
logical gesture. I can’t quite see Senator
Johnson or Mr. Gregory refusing to
draw his Commonwealth salary and
withdrawing from Canberra to show his
bona frdes as a secessionist. And the bare
suggestion would probably make Mr.
Prowse look gloomier. Still, if Irish
, patriots can go to such lengths for prin-
ciple, are Westralian ones going to lag
behind ?—Mudurup (W.A.).
Hitler’s Marriage Laws
In Germany marriage is prohibited
where either of the parties is suffering
from hereditary disease, from any in-
fectious disease which might affect the
health of the other or of the children, or
from mental aberration. Penalty is im-
prisonment and annulment of the mar-
riage.
It is a courageous step which, coming
on top of the bold sterilisation experi-
ments, definitely puts Germany in the
very forefront of advanced eugenic
thought. It is a step which other civi-
lised nations, reluctant though they be,
must eventually take, unless civilisation,
centuries hence, is to be overrun with a
race of halfwits. We English-speaking
people still follow the age-old stupidity
of allowing mental defectives fo breed —
and they do, prolifically.
The rapidly-mounting asylum figures
constitute a serious world problem. In
the ordinary course of time, if the drift
is not arrested, the intellectuals, among
whom the procreation of their species is
apparently viewed as a sort of unnatural
vice, will become as extinct as the dodo,
and those of normal mentality will, it the
birth-rate continues its decline, just about
hold their own ; but the burden of sup-
porting vastly increased hordes of sub-
normals will be their lot.
Our Australian marriage laws are woe-
fully slack. There is nothing whatever to
prevent anyone whose mentality is ques-
tionable from begetting progeny which
must inevitably become a burden on the
State. — Quayeau (N.S.W.).
“Too Old at Seventy”
Public outcry has compelled Premier
Dunstan to amend his bill to sweep 70-
year-old Js.P. off the Victorian Bench
and allow those already on the list to
continue sitting. If Isaac Isaacs, G.-G.
and a Privy Council Judge “on the ulti-
mate Court of Appeal in the British
Empire,” and Edward Mitchell, K.C.,
leader of the Melbourne Bar, are on the
Commission of the Peace, they must be
devoutly thankful for this reprieve which
acknowledges that at 80-odd they are
still fit to try drunks.—OßßOST (Vic.).


Patents.
METHOD OF PRODUCING A PULVERU-
LENT BINDING MEDIUM CONTAINING
BITUMINOUS CONSTITUENTS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
7890/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World's
Tales of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d,
ML
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue, now on sale, discusses—
THE OUTLOOK IN SECURITY AND OTHER MARKETS.
TRADE DEVELOPMENTS.
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION.
BASE-METAL PRICES.
THE MONTH’S BALANCE SHEETS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
a normal rise in the cost of money. An
abnormal factor would be heavy Govern-
ment borrowing.
Can Profits Beat Rising Interest?
Recent new industrial share issues (B.
20/11 / ’35) have, with premiums, now
reached a total of £4,070,752. Tooth’s
additional capital requirements account
for £562,059 of that. Despite this oppor-
tunity for investors’ savings and the pro-
posed Government loan that will take
£7,500,000 from the public and banks,
the market for existing industrial issues
remains strong.
Some ordinary stocks to reach new
high levels in the last few days have been
Tooths, Broken Hill Prop., Mauri Bros,
and Thomson, David Jones, Electrolytic
Zinc, Meggitt, Peters, Metropolitan Gas,
Carlton Brewery and Australian Cement.
Stocks depressed for a long period but
which have shown sudden and sustained
improvement are General Industries,
N.S.W. Blue Metal, Sargents, United
Provisions, Emu and Prospect Gravel,
Kauri Timber and Caldwell’s Wines.
The gold market, with the exception of
a few sounder Westralians such as Lake
View and Star, North Kalgurli, Boulder
Perseverance and Wiluna, is, on the
whole, much weaker. Fijis have suffered
particularly.
Barrier mines ran up to record prices
a week ago ; Norths to £8 175., Souths to
£5 13s. 6d., and Zinc Corps, to 725. The
silver-lead sharemarket has since come
back slightly, influenced probably by
profit-taking—it is only a few months
since Norths could be bought for £6 10s.,
Souths £4 10s., and Zinc. Corps. 40s.—
but the sterling price of lead is still
around £l7 10s. a ton, while spelter is firm
above £l6. The outlook is for much
larger profits next year.
There has been renewed activity in
Mt. Lyell (the Speck’s West Coast copper
show), following a div. of 2\ p.c. and a
higher price for copper; Mt. Isa, the
low-grade silver-lead mine in Queensland,
has been attracting more interest, especi-
ally since the U.S.A. started boosting the
price of silver.
Tin shares, after a slight recovery a
couple of weeks ago, are showing weak-
ness again. The spot price is somewhat
erratic (it has fallen £lO a ton within a
few days), and present demand for the
metal is suspected to be abnormal in
some quarters, owing to Italian pur-
chases. But the largest consumer is the
U.S.A., and the consumption in the
motor-car industry there is decidedly
heavier lately, with prospects of con-
tinuing.
The tightening in the money market —
banks are now finding it difficult to at-
tract deposits at current interest rates,
whereas a year ago they brought down
deposit rates, in order to discourage idle
funds piling up, to the lowest level on
record—has as yet had no visible effect
on the prices of industrial ordinary
shares, though fixed-interest securities,
such as pref. shares, Consols and gas
scrip, have fallen back.
The future of interest rates will have
a vital influence on the prices of ordinary
shares in industrial, financial and mining
companies; If the yield on safe fixed-
interest securities rises too far above re-
turns from ordinary shares there will be
lessened support for ords., unless a good
prospect of higher dividends or other
benefits exists. Higher interest rates,
however, in themselves depend to a large
extent upon greater industrial activity ;
therefore higher dividends should follow
Fiji is drastically amending its mining
laws, thereby giving our lazy Govern-
ments a lesson. Its Government says that
gold there is the property of the Crown,
and it is not going to have the industry
crippled by heavy promoters’ charges
and financial juggling with licenses and
leases.
In some companies, the persons respon-
sible for financial arrangements retained
too large a consideration Certain pros-
pectus statements were grossly misleading,
and the Government proposes to amend
the law to include private prospectuses.
Well done, Fiji!
* * * *
Though Lake View and Star, North
Kalgurli, the Barrier mines and Broken
Hill Prop., as well as many other Aus-
tralian stocks, are below the Australian
market price in London, allowing for ex-
change, Lancefield lately has been con-
sistently above Australian valuations. On
Nov. 21 the London price was 12s. 3d.
(stg.), equal to 15s. 4d. (Aust.), whereas
the scrip hasn’t touched 15s. on Austra-
lian ’Changes for some time.
* * * *
N.S.W. Stock Exchanges, Ltd., has
been registered ; nominal capital, £5OOO.
“Where's cap'n, boay?"
“Gone up to grass, I think. I 'eard un say ’e Was famished for somethin'
t' eat.”
There have been previous attempts to
break into the commission business
monopolised by the 90-odd members
of the Sydney Exchange; the latest
member admitted to that body paid
something like £5OOO for his seat.
London, New York and San Fran-
cisco, to mention only a few over-
seas cities, all have independent ex-
changes outside the principal body. But
Sydney is still without a kerb exchange.
State Stock Exchanges, Ltd., has also
been registered (at Canberra), with a
nominal capital of £lO,OOO.
There have been all sorts of “investi-
gations” in regard to production of
petrol from shale and coal, and periodi-
cally grants are made for furthering
experiments. But of definite action or
clear policy there is not a trace. Govern-
ment cannot be blamed for holding back
from the expenditure of colossal sums
(£8,000,000 was mentioned at one time)
on a hydrogenation plant when from a
commercial viewpoint such plants over-
seas are still experimental. Still, the
half-hearted, cumbrous mode of dealing
with the problem of producing Australian
oil fuels (very vital from a defence view-
point) is most discouraging to the many
private experimenters interested in the
subject.
* * *:* *
Mount Lyell, which during the year
to September 30 produced 12,252 tons
of copper, earned a profit, including
income from investments (£57,880), of
£65,910, and paid a dividend of 2\ p.c.,
for the fortnight ended Nov. 13 turned
out 507 tons of cathode copper. During
the first six weeks of the current year
production of the red metal has been
1588 tons, an average of about 520 tons
a fortnight, a slight increase on last
year’s rate, which was the highest in the
co.’s history. The metal is now around
£4O in London (£5O Aust.), and Lyell’s
production should be showing a work-
ing profit of several pounds a ton. Last
year’s working costs were £43 a ton, as
against £46 6s. in 1933. Present sterling
price of the red metal is £6 higher than
last term’s average.
#••••«
Mount Morgan (Q.), which produces
about 130 tons of copper a month as a
by-product of its gold-extraction opera-
tions, will also benefit from the higher
price of the yellow metal. If the present
price of £4O (stg.) holds it should mean
an extra £lO,OOO clear profit to share-
holders during the current year. Treat-
ment, at present at the rate of 6000 tons
of ore per week, will be increased to
7000 tons by the end of March; 10,000
tons a week is aimed at in the not so
distant future.
* * * *
Emperor, Loloma and Koroere all fell
in the market last week. On Thursday
Emperors, which had recovered to over
21s. a few days before, slumped to
19s. Lolomas dropped a couple of
shillings to 375. 6d., while Koroeres,
holders of which have been getting im-
patient with continued reports of low
values, broke under bear attacks in Mel-
bourne ; the shares, which sold at 17s, a
week earlier, were down to 13s. on
Thursday. There was a rally in all three
issues at the week-end, but prices are
still far below September levels.
* * * *
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., the Cen-
tral-square (Sydney) retail store, earned
£44,371 during the year to Aug. 3, as
against £11,781 in 1934 and losses in the
three preceding years. The first prefs.
were paid a half-year’s div. (to Feb. 15,
1931), which called for £9OOO, leaving
£18,269 to credit of p. and 1. account,
as against a debit of £17,102 in the
preceding term. The sharemarket seemed
a trifle disappointed with the result;
but, had there been no arrears of pref.
divs. to pay off and no p. and 1. debit to
erase, it would have been enough to pay
the prefs. one year’s requirements (less
the statutory deduction) and 2.8 p.c, on
the ords. There is something like
£159,000 of pref. arrears to work off yet.
❖ sj« 5k *
Gold is still around £7 Is. (sterling)
an ounce in London ; it has kept about
that figure for months now, in spite of
war and war talk, British elections and
Continental financial complications. The
price is equivalent to £8 16s. per fine
ounce in Australian currency, subject to
transport charges to London, insurance
costs, etc. The high price of the metal,
however, doesn’t warrant excessive de-
mands by labor in the majority of low-
grade shows. Mt. Morgan’s profit per
ton of ore treated is 11s. 2d. —costs last
year were increased by the introduction
of the 40-hour week —and that doesn’t
provide a very wide margin for mount-
ing wages. But the surplus should be in-
creased when the new plant for handling
oxides is installed ; at present a consider-
able proportion of the gold is lost
through treating oxidised ore by the sul-
phide process.
* * * *
The Bank of England’s gold holding
has been increasing lately—there has
been an influx of the metal from
France, responsible for the lift in Bank
of France’s discount rate —standing at
£197,189,000 on November 20. The B.
of E.’s discount rate remains at 2 p.c.; it
was reduced from p.c. on June 30,
1932, and has remained stationary for
the 3y vears since.
* # * *
Sydney wool prices last week were a
record for the season; 14.7 d. was
averaged, as against 13d. during the first
two weeks of September.
* « i- *
“Reg-D.”: My Stock Exchange com-
mentator follows general usage in his pro-
nunciation of halfpenny (B. 30/10/’35),
but for some obscure reason he always
refers to shares quoted “ cum rights” as
“cumulative rights,” while “ex rights” be-
comes “extended rights.” Also, he has his
own ideas as to the correct names for well-
known cos. United Provisions becomes
United Providers, and Boulder Persever-
ance Boulder Preservation.
* * * *
Australian butter, though down on the
prices of a few weeks ago—they were
then the highest for some years—is still
fetching a shilling or two over £5 a hun-
dredweight in London. This is a favor-
able return for this time of the year ; with
higher export values for butter, wool,
wheat and metals our trade position
would be healthy but for the unusually
heavy imports coming in at present.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAI BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADO W
SHOWS
“Reckless"
Principal fault of this talkie at Sydney
St. James is a thoroughgoing mixture of
styles. The thing starts as a back-stager,
threatens to develop into a spectacular
revue, switches to domestic comedy,
develops into society drama, has an inter-
lude of Natgouldishness, then 1000 feet
or so of heroine-falsely-accused-of-
murder, with battle-for-babe after ac-
quittal ; it winds up with the goil, on
stage, torch-singing, holding hands with
lover, off-stage. But, mercurial as the
rigmarole is, it gives Jean Harlow, May
Robson, William Powell and Franchot
Jean Harlow in “Reckless,” at Sydney
St. James.
Tone the sort of opportunities which they
can most successfully seize, and though
running time is well over an hour and
a half there are very few dull moments.
Powell and Tone both get soused, on in-
dependent occasions—Powell pleasantly ;
Tone unpleasantly—and their expositions
of the effects of the Demon are gems of
realism. Miss Harlow shows a hitherto-
seldom-exercised capacity for sentiment,
and May Robson’s unlimited resources
in that direction are well throttled down,
so that a reasonable balance is main-
tained.
“Memories and Melodies’’
Also at the St. James: a technicolor
that Weaves romance round Stephen
Collins Foster and introduces “Old Folks
at Home,” “Camptown Races,” “Ken-
tucky Home” and other Foster ditties.
Musically it is excellent, the sing-
ing of a quartet of negroes being
finely recorded. Moreover, scenes
in the drawing-room and grounds of
a white-pillared Kentucky mansion in
the days of crinolines are a delight to the
eye. But the most notable feature is
that the human complexion—travestied
in earlier technicolor productions —looks
natural and in proper balance to the rest
of the color scheme.
“Men of the Hour’’
A series of glimpses of newsreel
cameramen on the job, interlarded with
extracts from old newsreels depicting
buildings and ships on fire and aero-
planes crashing. Grafted on these
features are a love story and a gangster
episode. The technique of news film
photography is presented convincingly
enough, but it seems an error of casting
to make Richard Cromwell, in his sissiest
mood, a member of a hard-boiled
brotherhood. Wallace Ford, who does a
bit of mild villainising in the early
sequences, is a much more credible
example. The goil is Billie Seward and
the principal gangster Jack La Rue.
Action, brisk throughout, accelerates
toward the end. At the fade-out Mr.
Cromwell and Miss Seward are being
married while Mr. Ford films the cere-
mony. At Sydney Capitol.
“A Cuckoo in the Nest”
This bedroom farce by Ben Travers
should be familiar to most. It has
appeared in print, on the stage and over
the air, and it now makes its debut
on the screen. Only a very poor troupe
could fail to make a success of it, for it
well-nigh plays itself. With Ralph Lynn
and Tom Walls in the cast its brightness
is assured. Lynn is the silly ass who
leaves his wife stranded in a train and
ends up in the bedroom of a country
inn with a female friend—purely acci-
dental, of course. Walls, heavily made-
up, is his papa-in-law, a bottle-a-day
soak and a chucker of parlormaids’ chins.
Then there is Yvonne Arnaud, cool and
collected despite her troubles. Others
who help to keep the fun simmering arc
Mary Brough, delightful as the suspicious
and cranky innkeeper; J. Robertson
Hare, effective as an interfering parson,
and Grace Edwin, the most formidable
dragon of a mother-in-law seen on the
screen for a long time. It assays two
chuckles a minute. At Sydney Mayfair.
“My Old Dutch”
Based on Albert Chevalier's music-hall
ditty, this story of the married life of a
costermonger begins as farce and finishes
oozing with sloppy sentiment. The abili-
ties, proved in more congenial fields, of
Gordon Marker, Michael Hogan, Florric
Forde, Frank Pettingell, Robert Nainby
and Billy Shine are wasted on a scenario
that suggests a penny dreadful crossed
with a Charles Garvice romance. Betty
Balfour, the “English Mary Pickford.”
struggles with a poor role without making
it palatable. It is up to someone to use
the characters and the atmosphere with
better understanding. The thing could
be made racy and picturesque and full
of broad laughter. Also at the Mayfair.
“The Passing of the Third Floor
Back”
This screen version of one of the most
original and popular of stage plays gains
Phyllis Dixey with Angus Watson, at
Sydney New Tiv.
and loses in about equal parts by its
transfer to two-dimensional mono-
chrome. Settings, particularly the scenes
on the excursion steamer and in the
boarding-house, are much better managed
than is possible on any stage, but other-
wise the adaptation is not a conspicu-
ously good one, and the characterisation
in the first act seems a bit stagy and
artificial. After that all goes swim-
mingly. Conrad Veidt as the Stranger is
admirable ; beautifully mannered, saying
more with face and gesture than with
tongue. The rest of the cast in this
British film are scarcely known to Aus-
tralian audiences, but they fit their parts
well. To come to Sydney Embassy.
Digger Bob Lakeside, seriously
wounded during the war, has found his
faculty for training dogs a godsend. His
hound, one of the famous Australian-
bullterrier-sheepwrangler-bitzer breed, is
the only dog with a free pass over Aus-
tralian railways. He can tell a black
penny from a brown one, can spell
Bulletin in sharp barks, lost a week’s
Bob . Lakesid e.
salary for Frith by giving him the wrong
tip for the Melbourne Cup and does a
dozen other tricks which are features at
children’s parties round Australia. The
only test he fails in is the unravelling of
the Federal Income Tax Commissioner’s
formula for computing tax. The woe-
begone expression which came over his
features when it was put in front of him
only served to clinch his owner's claim
that he has “a nearly human brain.”
Some First Nights
Sydney Royal was well filled to watch
the berthing of “H.M.S. Pinafore,” a more
or less regular visitor to Port Jackson
since 1879. Ivan Menzies, who pirouetted
on the quarter-deck as First Lord of the
Admiralty, sang of Sir Joseph’s rise in
the “Queen’s Navee,” conducted his re-
view and courted the unwilling Josephine
in the traditional Savoy manner. Gregory
Stroud makes an able Captain Corcoran,
spruce in appearance and exercising a
pleasant baritone. Equally satisfactory is
Godfrey Stirling as Rackstraw, and
Evelyn Gardiner’s Buttercup is well in the
picture, too. Westralian Helen Langton
scores yet another success as the sup-
posedly high-born maiden who loved a
sailor. Bernard Manning, one of the old
G. and S. brigade, makes Dick Deadeye
convincingly cantankerous. The chorus
excels itself in “He Is an Englishman,” the
orchestra, under Andrew MacCunn, does
itself proud, and the production is a
credit to Minnie Everett. “Cox and Box’
(libretto by Burnand, music by Sullivan),
is the curtain-raiser.
“The Laughter Express,” Frank Neil’s
latest variety show at Sydney New Tivoli,
is a fast-moving evening’s entertainment.
The headliner is Angus Watson, a Scottish
comedian who is also an accomplished
dancer and acrobat. The Lassetter
Brothers run Angus a close second. Rene,
Charlotte Ayres, Larue and Maurice,
dancers ; Tracey and Vinette, comedians ;
Maudie Edwards, Harry Marchoni,
Keith Connelly, Phyllis Dixey, Isabelle
Mahon and Frank Melbourne are also
entertaining in their several ways.
*l* *l* ***
While the Sydney Independent Theatre
players failed to scale the heights in
their production of “Hamlet,” at the
Savoy, they were letter-perfect, and
there were no tedious waits between cur-
tains. Although rather too restrained,
Alfred Race as the Prince gave a sincere
and interesting study of the part. Ann
Gordon was Ophelia. She displayed
plenty of emotion, and in her last scene
was a lovely and forlorn figure. Oriel
Mullarkey, despite a tendency to slur
some of her words, was a suitably digni-
fied and remorseful as Gertrude, and
Edward Samuel, who played Claudius,
captured some of the usurper’s suavity
and wickedness. John Alden was a manly
Horatio, and Maxwell Osbiston showed
appropriate dash and color as Laertes. As
Polonius, Traflord Whitelock’s articula-
tion was an asset. The Elsinore Castle
interior and the graveyard scenes were
well done, and the production reflected
credit on Enid Lorimer.
•b * * .
An entertaining amateur show is put
on every year in Sydney by the Bush
Walkers’ Club. Among the lasses and
lads who spend their week-ends clamber-
ing about the countryside in khaki shorts
with huge rucksacks on their backs there
are not a few with a marked talent for
entertainment, and they can all sing. The
eighth of their campfire medleys hap-
pened at the Savoy. Three one-acters
were well done, but the performers were
at their best in burlesques and in songs
and dances. Among the attractions was a
poem on the lure of the bush by Dorothy
Lawry, recited by that young lady. The
club numbers among its objects the
establishment of “regard for the wel-
fare and preservation of the wild life and
natural beauty of the country” (members
are all honorary rangers), and it taboos
the verb “hike” and its derivatives, on
both of which grounds it merits a cheer.
* *l*. *l*. , . ..
A Sydney pianist with a clarity ol
execution that Carreno would have
appreciated is Josephine Bell, who in a
recital at the Con. Hall last week demon-
strated steady advance in interpretative
knowledge. She played Beethoven, Bach
and Chopin, the Dohnanyi transcription
of the “Naila Waltz” and a group of
compositions by Australians—Alfred
Hill, Hutchens and Grainger—-and in all
she showed imagination and good taste.
She combines with the lightness and dex-
terity required in Chopin’s whirlwind
passages the ability to unleash an /// that
would almost satisfy Mark Hambourg.
►b ,|. -l-
Principal feature of Sydney Orpheum
Society's concert at the Con. Hall was a
performance of Max Bruch’s G Minor
Tracey as George Arliss, in Sydney New
Tiv.’s variety show.
Violin Concerto with Leo Cherniavsky as
soloist. The work evidently is one for
which Mr. Cherniavsky has a strong
affection, and it went well, the orchestra,
under J. A. Travis, providing a nicely-
balanced background. Beethoven’s Fifth,
a group of solos by the visiting violinist
and songs by Joan Hammond and C. Q.
Williams also figured in a well-varied
programme.
4* *i* 4* 4*
“Dragon’s Teeth,” by Shirland Quin,
produced by the Sydney Players’ Club
at St. James’s Hall, is an anti-war play
in which the propagandist dominates the


THAT'S
rrc
. 1 Q U EU B
'"JErSWr*
Definitely the
Finest WHISKY
Scotland produces. c
% NEW POWER
1 K ui tAa
MOTIOK PICTURE INDUSTRY
Plenum
MICHTY THRILL-SPLASHED
\\ SUCCESSOR
Treasure,
ISLAND''ji
IK
r
CAPT.
MARRYATT’S
WORLD-POPULAR ADVENTURE
ROMANCE NOW A £lOO,OOO
EPIC OF THE SCREEN AUDI-
ENCES EVERYWHERE WILL
HAIL WITH DELIGHT.
Rollicking choruses, superb melo-
drama, terrific adventures on land
and sea. Huge cast headed by
HUGHIE GREEN, sensational
juvenile star of variety and
radio fame.
WORLD STODDARD PRODUCTION)
dramatist. It is crammed with sermons,
and it pillories those who support the
idea that war is inevitable —to an extent
that makes the proceedings heavy and
unreal. The brightest patch is a third act
representing a girl’s dream, in which
reality and absurdity are mingled. Some
ingenuity in staging was called for, but
producers John Appleton and Harry
Goodsall rose to the occasion. The mar-
shalling of the dream-people was well
done. Leading parts were played by
Grenville Spencer, Laura West, Beatrice
Wines and William Wines.
*!• •!*
The four Hungarians continue to pack
the Assembly Hall in Melbourne, and
the same faces turn up almost as regu-
larly in the audience as they do on the
platform. Nobody could have imagined
that a Melbourne audience could have
been attracted night after night to listen
to a programme composed exclusively of
string quartets by Beethoven ; but, then,
Melbourne has never had the oppor-
tunity of listening to four performers
who practise eight hours a day and every
day and who are reputed to have been
doing it for nine years past. The critic
“The Veil of Mist,” in Percy Lindsay's show at Rubery
Bennett’s galleries, Sydney.
who feels obliged to discriminate between
one concert and another is baffled by
the fact that when he has decided that
Opus 127 couldn’t have been done
better and that no more beautiful collec-
tion of notes could ever have been
assembled, he discovers that Opus 132
has given him an impression that has
wiped out all his previous sensations:
and then he hears Opus 59 and Opus 135,
so decides to give it up and simply enjoy
himself. Monday, December 2, will be
the final opportunity for listening to the
visitors from Budapest, and the final item
will be Opus 131 in C Sharp Minor,
which at the moment of writing present
commentator places first in his prefer-
ence among Beethoven’s quartet creations.
Current Artbursts
The difficulty about criticising Percy
Lindsay’s show of land- and seascapes in
oils at Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Syd-
ney, is to single out any one picture for
special mention. They are all interest-
ing ; each has upon it the imprint of
sincerity ; each unfolds, very quietly but
very effectively, some charming aspect of
nature. This artist paints in low tones,
and has a marked predilection for greys
and for small canvases. Most of the
pictures in the present show have white
mounts, and the effect of these is at first
sight rather disturbing. “Spring Morn-
ing,” a very prettily composed Sydney
waterside study, is keyed so low that with
a white border it almost suggests moon-
light. But within his relatively small
range of shades the artist achieves on
occasion color-effects that glow like an
opal. “On the Slip” is a case in point—
a yacht hauled up at Balmain, with a
glimpse of the city beyond. Capacity to
paint sky is demonstrated in an uncon-
ventional glimpse of Pinchgut; that
Lindsay has a deft hand with water is
proved in “Morning, Neutral Bay,”
“Morning, Bay View,” and “From
Birchgrove.” A very effective composi-
tion, with more contrast than most of the
others, “The Veil of Mist,” is reproduced
on this page. In “Craft in Snail’s Bay,”
the biggest canvas in the show, an
against-light (but not against-sun) study,
powerful contrasts are equally effectively
handled. It isn’t usual to refer to the
vulgar matter of prices, but most of these
Lindsay canvases seemed to be marked
at much less than their proper value,
weak though the market is at present.
*l* *»•
Robert Armstrong, whose pictures fill
the walls of the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, paints mostly in a key as high
above the normal as Percy Lindsay’s is
below it. Arm-
strong delights in
the hazy and misty
effects so fre-
quently e n c o u n-
tered in the east-
ern part of N. S.
Wales, and has
made himself a
master of the
values created
when the atmo-
sphere is a veil. A
fine example of his
aptitude in this
sphere is “Sydney
Harbor from
Berry’s Bay,” of
panoramic shape.
“Grey Day, Bal-
main,” is another
very effective essay
in mistiness. Many
of the subjects
selected, however,
are more notable
for the faithfulness with which they
portray certain aspects of nature than for
their pictorial quality. They are pleasant,
and they ring true, but the question arises
as to whether the scene isn’t a little too
prosaic to warrant the expenditure of
so much loving care upon it. However,
that’s only one critic’s opinion, and there
may be many who thoroughly approve
Mr. Armstrong’s choice of subjects and
standpoints. His style is rather broadly
impressionistic, but he conveys his im-
pressions very ably.
* * * *
By far the most interesting pictures in
the very extensive “Leslie Board collec-
tion” at present housed in the Anthony
Hordern galleries, Sydney, are those
from the brush of Board himself. The
other pictures, partly inherited, partly
collected by the artist, now dead, cover,
it is true, almost every style and period
of painting. There are canvases “attri-
buted to” or directly claimed as the work
of Titian, Rubens, Rembrandt, Domen-
chino, Watteau, Wilkie, Constant, Gains-
borough, Lancret, Van Eyken and Dirk
Hals, together with examples of the
work of such Australian artists as
Streeton, Longstaff, Gruner, Syd Long,
Norman Lindsay and Blamire Young.
There are examples of French impres-
sionism of various schools and a few
paintings by modern English celebrities.
But in hardly any instance (save perhaps
in the Australian section) are these col-
lected canvases and water-colors top-
notch specimens of the work of the artists
who signed them. Even among the Aus-
tralians Board’s own work is best worthy
of study. He was an amazingly versa-
tile painter, who seems to have experi-
mented in many fields and to have drawn
inspiration from many quarters. To his
credit must be placed the most graceful
nude in the show—“At the Spring”;
landscapes—“ Old Town of Cassis,”
“Lighthouse at Cassis,” “Grand Canal,
Venice,” and “St. Tropez”—of better
than Royal Academy standard, and a
score of meritorious compositions in
which, whether of primary or secondary
importance, figures are drawn with a
masterly hand.
•J* •!* .
At Kodak’s, Collins-street, Melbourne,
Cazneaux exhibits a number of his artis-
tic photographs, landscapes, Sydney
street scenes, harbor views, beach
glimpses and portraits. Such a master of
light and technique as Mr. Cazneaux
seldom goes wrong, though he is in-
clined to over-accentuate clouds and thus
strike a note of tragedy. His harbor and
beach studies are most attractive, and his
portrait of Dr. Julian Smith, a fellow
artist-photographer, is a notable bit of
technique.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
111
11
whf
illll
*3 Vi
n tri
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
132-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfas*- from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4 14 I CIO lines).
(California (Clumilatrs
BY POST
WONDERFUL
CALIFORNIA
Chocolates
Made in Australia.
PACKED IN
REDWOOD BOXES
Happiness in Every Box.
AN IDEAL GIFT TO POST TO FRIENDS
IN THE COUNTRY AND OTHER CITIES.
California Chocolate is>f)op
mb.
NEW ADDRESS,
748 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. BECKMANN,
16-20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn _it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
If ever again any woman calls her
husband a Turk it will be a term of
praise. For Kemal Pasha has done what
no other ruler has ever thought of, and
had a set of postage stamps issued
depicting women famous for their
services on behalf of women. The issue
was struck last April to commemorate
the International Suffrage Congress at
Istambul. A set of these on an illumi-
nated background was presented to Lady
Isaacs by Mrs. Kenneth Street, president
of the United Associations, at a con-
versazione in honor of the Governor-
General and his wife. The auditorium
of David Jones’s simmered wjth the
enthusiasm of well-dressed women and
men, many of whom flew jubilee decora-
tions. Our first Australian-born Gover-
nor-General bore the plaudits with a
benign smile, and listened with obvious
pleasure to the cool, smooth notes of
Dr. Constance D’Arcy, who was testifier-
in-chief to the merits of Australia’s over-
lord and lady.
Lady Isaacs wore some good gems
with discretion, and a frock of velvet
in two tones of lilac. Soft draperies
floated from the shoulders of Mrs.
Kenneth Street’s black chiffons. The
Lieut.-Governor Streets, the Mayoral
McElhones and the Earle Pages were in
the official group. The train of newly-
returned Ruby Rich’s pink tulles was a
souffle of frills. She talked to the David
Cohens. One of the most striking-look-
ing women was Mrs. Tom Rolin, whose
carnation-pink satins showed the new
quilting. Camilla Wedgwood, surely one
of the world’s best-dressed anthropolo-
gists, wore black velvets checked in gold
thread. The Henry Braddons, the Arch-
bishop Mowlls, the Chief Justice Jordans
and the Charles Lloyd Jones couple were
others glimpsed amid the night’s
flutterings,
Louise Mack, who in the last of the
’nineties and the first year of the present
century wrote the Woman’s Letter,
died during the week-end. Louise was
the seventh child of the Reverend Hans
Mack, one-time of the Channel Islands,
but a resident of Hobart when Louise
was born. Later the family came to
Sydney, and Louise went to the old Syd-
ney Girls’ High ; here she became editor
of the school magazine. After school-
days she wrote some charming books of
adolescence: Teens and Girls To-
gether among them. Her verse was
much quoted in those days, its main
features being lyric quality and Celtic
wistfulness. She married a barrister,
John Creed. Then she went to London,
had a striking success as a novelist and
was still in Europe when the war broke
out. After the war she returned to Aus-
tralia, married Captain Allan Leyland
and was widowed a second time. Her
pen was fluent and versatile till the end.
Impossible to believe that Hugh Deni-
son had had his seventieth birthday party
the night before as he stood vital and
genial at the Empire Society’s reception
to Sir Alexander and Lady Hore-
Ruthven. Hugh and his lady (her black
Chantilly laces were sweeping of line)
were receivers-in-chief. And along the
line welcome smiles were flashed by
knight Kelso King and daughter Olive
and the C. M. C. Shannons. By the time
the State Exes, arrived the lounge-rooms
on the first floor of the Australia were
waves of satin, alternating with fields of
chiffon starred with flowers. The thin-
nest of frocks, the largest of fans, the
most glittering of decorations gleamed,
stirred and scintillated.
The vice-regals arrived at nine o’clock,
happy, and glorious at least as far as
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s pearls were con-
cerned. Her tulle frock had the blue-
greens of some tropic bird, and was
belted with diamente. She added one of
her favorite feather shoulder capes, a
plumy affair in the same green-blue
tones. A flamingo-red feather fan was
waved by Mrs. Norman Lowe, whose
frock was periwinkle blue. She and
Bertie Kelly compared decorations;
Mrs. Lowe’s was accorded by the former
King of Siam. With Mrs. Lowe were
her tall husband and graceful young
daughter Lulu. The Clifton Loves were
among the well-known, her briar-rose
pinks a nice contrast to the lake-blues
worn by Mrs. J. C. Leete, who had much
to tell of flying nephew Jimmy Broad-
bent. The richness of royal-blue satin
was added by Mayoress McElhone. The
Colonel Bruxners and Speaker Dan Levy
and a sister were there. The Archbishop
Mowlls were with Archbishop Wand,
from Brisbane. Mrs. H. E. Fuller, Federal
secretary of the Mothers’ Union, was
over from Adelaide. Walter Swinson met
artist B. E. Minns after 30 years, and the
two fell to talking about parlies they had
had in Phil May’s studio in Holland
Walk. They reminded each other of the
night when Phil was throwing a grand
party for Dana Gibson. Everybody stood
waiting, waiting, and presently the doors
were flung wide and Dana gravely rode
in on a bicycle. The Walder lady’s dress
deserves a note. In black and of spun-
glass material, it had a short split
train which showed green. Mrs. Flor-
ence Taylor came with sister Miss
Parsons. Songs of charm were sung by
Raymond Beatty.
Drama Week kicks off with four one-
act Australian plays on Monday next.
Adele Quinn, in this Freeman picture,
plays lead in one of them, “The Rose,”
by Nora McAuliffe. Other plays are by
Dulcie Dcamer, Sumner Locke Elliott
(the 17-year-old son of writer Sumner
Locke) and Lionel Shave. Minister for
Education Drummond will speed the
week on its way.
Caps and gowns and degrees ambled
about the University ways last week
when that knowing old institution enter-
tained Sir Alexander and Lady Hore-
Ruthven. Intended as an ave to the
State Governor and his wife, Court
mourning and Sir Alexander’s rise to the
Governor-Generalship (his promotion to
the peerage wasn’t then known) turned the
affair more or less into a vale. Still, it
presented a scene of dignified jollity, and
Chancellor Mungo MacCallum and his
lady received in the great hall to the
merry peals of the carillon. Lady Hore-
Ruthven wore jocund silks made with
short sleeves and an elbow cape. Her
hat was swathed in blue and white.
Archbishops, civic authorities, admi-
rals and Justices Squired their wives to
this academic junketing. Mrs.
with her tall archepiscopal husband,
wore her big eyes and gentle look above
black and white. The Mayoral McElhones
were among the noteworthy, Mrs. David
Maughan among the good-looking, an
Camilla Wedgwood, Beatrice Wines and
Dora Peyser, of Berlin, among the
Minervas who revelled with decorous
gaiety between the Fisher Library and
the Nicholson Museum and listened to
the music of the organ and Dora Ran-
claud’s violin.
Barbara McPhail is one of the grace-
ful and picturesque girls who will dance
in “Carnival” and “The Lake of Swans.
The First Australian Ballet will present
these two works at the Savoy to-morrow
evening. Louise Lightfoot and Mischa
Burlakov will direct the ballets, and
Feador Pollack will lead Ihe orchestra.
Sydney Riley photo.
Drama may be on its uppers in Syd-
ney, but long-deceased Gilbert and Sulli-
van continue to prove a most prosperous
and popular partnership. Up to the very
last performance “The Yeomen of the
Guard” was played to packed houses.
Nor were the audiences oldsters or the
middle-aged only. Young men brought
their girls, flappers came in groups, and
they enjoyed the fun and the pathos as
much, or nearly as much, as did father
or grandfather, who can tell them about
the days of Lauri and Howard Vernon.
Saturday night was all fun. Messieurs
Cox and Box presented the eternal tri-
angle of two men and one bed ; and then
came “H.M.S. Pinafore,” with Evelyn
Gardiner as that “plump and pleasing
person” Buttercup. For days before
florist Fred Searl, next door to the
Theatre Royal (though why specify our
one professional playhouse by name?),
had in his window a dashing model of
the craft riding a sea of flowers.
Girdled with such brightness it might
have been the constellation for which it
is named, the Orion blazed across Wool-
loomooloo Bay, and drew, even as the
star the moth, 1100 dancers to its
decks. The female dancers were butter-
fly in hue ; the males were the same old
study in black and white. One of the
most distinguished looking among them
was Earl Beauchamp, who brought a
sizable party. Another who wore his
clothes handsomely was W. G. Layton.
Nor must D. L. Dowdell, the Orient’s
g.m., be overlooked in the list of men
who make their tailors proud. The boat
deck was giddy with dancing feet, glad
awnings and relayed rhythm. When
tired of revolving, the reveller could
muse above the swimming pool, with its
waters like fluent jade, or regard the
white marble clock near by, with its
cardinal hands and figures, toiling on,
marking off another red-letter day. The
curtains in the library struck a nice note.
Of white, with narrow gold stripes, they
were flanked with drapings of blue and
white.
This ball, which will benefit the
Maternal and Infant Welfare Fund and
the Mothercraft Society, was a favorite
from the first. Weeks before, tickets were
all sold, and the committee had a waiting
list of hundreds. Not only that, but when
the day of the dance dawned young men
whose best girls were sighing to be
present drew forth to-day’s equivalent
of the battle-axe and spear, and went
forth into the jungle with open cheques
trying to snare the coy ticket.
The Governor-General and Lady
Isaacs, and with them Lady Hore-
Ruthven, arrived at half-past nine, and
posed at the gangway to greet them were
chairman of the Orient Co. I. C. Geddes
and Mrs. Geddes, Captain Owens, of the
Orion, the Arnold Johnsons and D. L.
Dowdell. Lady Isaacs wore one of the
feather capes so fashionable in v.-r.
circles. It was azure blue and ruffled
above a trailing frock of silver-and-blue
brocade. Emerald and light jade were
the chiffons that girdled Lady Hore-
Rulhven’s black chiffons; the Lieut.-
Governor’s lady weighed in with a cape
of pink feathers above gold lamC Mrs.
I. C. Geddes wore her hair banded in
the classic style ; old rose was the color
of the fillet, brown the hair. Hydrangea
blues were caught in the satin of Mrs.
J. C. Leete’s frock and cape. Diamonds
and brocades gleamed as Lady Hiley,
from England, moved. The Premier
and Mrs. Stevens, the Mayoral
McElhones, the Chief Justice Jordans,
and William Morris Hughes, with his
decorated Dame Mary and daughter
Helen, were of the hundreds.
What a silly fashion the wearing of
saris is! Above the Australian face,
coupled with the Australian deportment,
they are entirely out of place. This was
particularly noticeable at some of the
recent dances. In fact, the sari at a
distance looks more like a wispy shawl
than anything else, and adds nothing of
glamor or the mysterious to Western
faces.
Artist B. E. Minns has been painting
up Muswellbrook way and staying with
station friends. The homestead has two
domesticated kangaroos, and some time
ago three ’roos hopped out of the bush
and decided to join their squatting
brothers. All five Toos now lounge
about the paddocks eyeing arriving cars
with a sophisticated and appraising air.
Every day they call on the cook, who
gives them large pans of milk. One
evening the family went into dinner
leaving the doors of the sitting-room, in
which a fire blazed merrily, wide open to
the night. On their return to the sitting-
room after dinner they found the live
kangaroos seated at their ease blinking
at the fire.
In less than 10 minutes £133 had been
promised to the fund that is to send
Joan Hammond to Vienna. The board-
room at Peapes was the scene of the
first meeting, and of course Lady Hore-
Ruthven took an active part in the dis-
cussion of ways and means. Mostly the
matter is to be left with the golfers —
Joan is a golfer herself, and the deck
and brassie clan look upon her as their
birdie, so to speak. The clubs of the
other States are to be asked to join in, so
the thousand pounds which Joan will
need for foreign parts seems a certainty
before March of 1936. Unlike most
students, this aspirant to fame has already
appeared in opera. She has five German
roles at her tongue-tip, and has a good
knowledge of languages. When she
arrives at her journey’s end she will find
everything in readiness —home, music
masters, even a “little” Viennese dress-
maker. Mrs. Marsi, who came to
Sydney with the Viennese Boys’ Choir, is
arranging the last.
Gwladys Edwards, whose singing has
stirred Perth, is back in Sydney, and
intends to make a prolonged stay here.
Gwladys, who was a pupil of Marches!,
has not only a voice of beauty but, in
addition, is a cultured musician. For
years she was principal soprano at the
R.C. cathedral in Perth.
The Orion was a movable feast last
week. Continuously set for a party the
liner was one day at Pyrmont, one day
parked off the ’Loo, and another day
tethered to the Quay. According to your
position in the alphabet you were bidden
the first, second, third or fourth day.


At Sydney’s
Social
Centre
You will find every
modern convenience,
first-c lass service
and an excellent
cuisine.
1 * h
Hotel Mansions
Is situated in the most central part
of Sydney, and is the real home for
visitors from all over the world.
Excellent catering for Wedding Break-
fasts, Dinners and Private Lunches, etc.
King’s Ci oss, Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
Legal Notices. \
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1018 of 1933.
BETWEEN AGNES DEWAN Applicant
(Petitioner).
And CORNELIUS JOSEPH DEWAN
Respondent (Respondent).
TO CORNELIUS JOSEPH DEWAN late of
46 Packington Street Prahran Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that this Court will be
moved on Tuesday the Seventeenth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five at ten o’clock in the forenoon or so
soon thereafter as counsel can be heard on
behalf of the abovenamed Applicant for an
order under Section 56 of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 that the land known as Lots
92 and 93 Woodbine Street Bankstown (Cert.
Title Vol. 2571 Fol. 78) should be transferred
to the said Applicant as beneficial owner upon
the grounds appearing in and by the affidavit
(inter alia ) of the said AGNES DEWAN
sworn on the Seventh day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five and filed
herein.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
LORTON, LINKS AND DUKE, Solicitors
for the Applicant, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
TO AARON ROBERT BELL McCORMICK,
SON OF JOHN McCORMICK, WHO
DIED INTESTATE IN NEW ZEALAND
ON THE 2nd MAY, 1918, TO HIS
CHILDREN AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY, THROUGH OR UNDER
HIM OR THEM: . . .
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby authorised to send to me on or before
the Ist day of March, 1936, your claims to
share in the estate of the abovenamed John
McCormick, failing which such estate will be
distributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 15th day of
November, 1935.
CHAS E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
Commonwealth Golf Club turned on a
merry dance on a night so mild that there
were none of the usual crackling fires
casting flickers up to the lofty-beamed
ceiling and over the roughcast wall of
the lounge- and dining-room. Instead
great bowls of flowers made vivid
splashes in the fireplaces and corners of
all the rooms. Hanging over the lamps
were autumn leaves of crinkly paper.
With shutters pulled down to cover the
bottles the bar became a conventional
sitting-out lounge. Supper didn’t just
come on and go off again—it com-
menced at tables round the room, every-
body eating and drinking according to in-
clination, and not by the clock. Presi-
dent H. G. Adam and his better-half did
the receiving, Mrs. Adam in white
organdie with a gingham check pattern-
ing. Associates’ captain Margaret
Rhoden was in a tunic dress of Madonna-
blue crepe beneath which there were
glimpses of Patou-pink linings. Club
captain T. R. Cockram and a committee
made up of J. Grainger, lan McEacharn,
W. M. Melville and C. L. Glew saw that
things went with a swing.
Edith Hoare, captain of Victoria Golf
Club associates, gave a jolly party for
the committee and pennant players.
There were cocktails before play and
after, and tea was served in the dining-
room, other players tactfully remaining
in the lounges or on the verandah. For
the competition Mrs. W. Tompson car-
ried off a cut-glass bottle of eau-de-
Cologne, and Molly Fairley received a
scent spray, Bonnie Box now has a new
handbag, and Mrs. R. Hartley two extra
packs of cards.
On Saturday the Town Hall seethed
with babies, candidates in a show held
for Paddy Wilkinson’s Queen Carnival
candidature. The babes didn’t squeal
much just enough to drown the
speeches and the announcer’s voice
when the numbers were called—and
they had to put up with a good
deal, sitting on mother’s knee for
hours when there was a perfectly good
floor to crawl on, having their heads
measured and being prodded and pum-
melled by six young bachelor judges.
A few parked along the edge of the
stage made grabs at the silver cups.
Gradually the judges, looking magnificent
in their frock coats, spats and white gar-
denias, left more and more of their re-
sponsibilities to Dr. Geof. Pern and
Sister Forsythe. The section devoted to
twins caused special interest. They were
bonnie babies, and each pair, neatly
dressed alike, was a credit to its hard-
working mother. There were lots of
fathers present, every bit as keen and
proud about their offspring as the
mothers.
Most men are afflicted with embarrass-
ment when they enter women’s clubs.
They lose theirfund of small talk and show
an inclination to hide behind the furni-
ture. Reverse reactions happen, however,
when women visit men’s clubs; in fact,
they enjoy the experience exceedingly.
Dr. Constance Ellis chose the Lyceum
for her farewell to Dr. and Mrs. Ivan
Maxwell, who are preparing to make
tracks overseas. It was a smallish party,
and Dr. Maxwell had the moral support
of so many of his colleagues that our
most highbrow feminist club felt as
friendly as anywhere else. Knight David
Rivett and his lady, Dr. and Mrs. Walter
Summons, Mrs. J. P. Bainbridge, Dr,
Lucy Bryce and Jocelyn Hyslop were a
few of the guests.
It is a very rare occasion when a
country hostess engages a group of Con-
servatorium musicians to entertain in her
own home. Such an event happened last
week, when Mrs. Edward Manifold, of
Wiridgil, Camperdown, invited Hinemoa
Rosieur, Dawn Hunt, Marjorie Lyon and
perfect accompanist Ida Scott to travel
from Melbourne to play and sing at her
party. Guests of honor were Mrs. Leland
Greene, who with her husband is sailing
for Europe early in December, and her
daughter Lilian, whose prospective
travels will probably be a series of town
and country visits while her parents are
away.
We are in the midst of a spate of art
shows. If one-tenth of the people who
frequent exhibitions could afford to buy
just one picture for Christmas,' what a
prosperous Yuletide it would be for the
artists! They work and paint, and some
of them live in garrets with leaky roofs ;
and there are occasions when they must
be hungry. There is nothing nicer to
live with than a compatible picture. It
can be restful or stimulating, to suit
the mood of its possessor. Then it’s use-
ful to show off to one’s friends (or
enemies), and might save the day and
the conversation at some grim party
where politics are dangerous and no one
will dare to trench on any subject beyond
the weather.
Two women painters, A. M. E. Bale
and Rose A. Walker, are holding an
exhibition at the Athenaeum, where the
indefatigable Miss Bale exhibits 70 pic-
tures. Knight Harry Lawson opened the
show. Among the onlookers on the first
afternoon were Mrs. Charles Lowe, Mrs.
A. Fitts, Miss Leviny and several more
Castlemaine people, General Bruche and
Colonel Pestell, Mrs. John Farmer, Mrs.
C. Malcolm, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Walker
and Ernest Buckmaster,
The Hon. Mrs. Arnold Henderson and
her daughter Daphne (whose portrait is
by Broothorn) are visiting Australia in
very pleasant circumstances. Mrs. Hen-
derson’s son Roger married Judy Thorn-
ley (last week the couple became the
proud parents of a daughter), so that the
Western District is making the visitors
particularly welcome. Mrs. Henderson
gave a dinner-party in honor of some
friends among the English cricketers.
She and her daughter on leaving Mel-
bourne will continue a round-the-world
tour.
During the last 12 months Betty Pater-
son has made several visits to Berry-
street Foundling Home in search of
models for her baby- and child-study ex-
hibition. Among these happy infants,
all dressed alike in their blue jumpers,
Miss Paterson found plenty of material
for smiles, frowns, v shrieks of anger or
tummyache, straight hair, angel curls or
cherubs asleep. The Lady Mayoress, in-
troduced by R. B. Croll, opened the
exhibition in the Kodak Building.
Among those who paid visits on the first
afternoon were P. Neville Barnett (Syd-
ney), Paula McNab (in lilac with a chou
of white organdie upon her hat), Mrs. E.
J. Freame, Mrs. Bill Johns (wearing a
brown hat and cocoa foxes) and Mrs.
George Matthews (sheltering under a
navy picture hat, with a bunch of corn-
flowers at her throat).
To assist the candidature of the Queen
of the Daphne, St. Aloysius Players put
on “Why Not Again?” for two nights
at the Garrick. Though many of the
gags were threadbare and some of the
leading men showed a tendency to expect
applause for showing their teeth and roll-
ing their eyes, there were no hitches in
the production. The 28 revue items
stepped forward one after another with-
out delays, and the cast knew its part
and sang and danced as if its many
throats and legs really enjoyed the job.
The ballet emphasised the fact that legs
look well in black silk stockings. One
of the best numbers was done by the
White Minstrels, girls and men in top-hats
and claw-hammer suits with silver lapels.
The Daphne Queen, Edna Carr, wore a
pale-green-and-white-sprigged frock of
chiffon, with a neck ruffle of starchy
organdie. During the intervals she was
busy selling threepenny tickets for a huge
box of chocolates.
Mrs. William Barrett and her attrac-
tive daughter Betty gave a surprise to
the friends who were at Station Pier to
meet them. Betty, who has been four
years in England, where she stayed for
a time with her sister, Mrs. Caerlyon
Stanford, in Devon, and with Mrs. Alec
Waugh (who was Joan Chirnside), will
remain in Melbourne for only a few
months. She has made a matrimonial
promise to Edward G. Ranicar, of High
Range, Travancore, Southern India.
While a hospital is growing from a
jumble of bricks and mortar upon a vacant
lot an auxiliary springs into being as if
by magic. The Freemasons’ Hospital
has a long way to go before it is ready
for beds and curtains, but the infant
auxiliary is already at work ; it held its
first effort, a bridge party, in the Masonic
Hall last week. The Pro-Grand Master,
Warren Kerr, and his wife were special
guests of honor, Mrs. Kerr’s black satin
gown being a dusky background for her
presentation sheaf of flowers. The
Deputy-Grand Master, knight William
Brunton, was present with his lady,
whose black robe burst into sleeves of
shell-pink net. Hon. sec. Mrs. E. H.
Richmond wore black lace mingled with
silver threads ; the hon. treasurer, Mrs.
A. Ricks, was also in black, with a relief
of creamy lace at the throat. Mrs. R. G.
Balding was in georgette of flag-lily
purple, and Mrs. M. Marshall chose sea-
green romaine.
On December 3 Ruth Rogers and
David Pittendrigh will commence their
matrimonial venture. One of last week’s
parties for Miss Rogers was given by
Mrs. Hugh Syme and Athalie Cuming
at Grenfell, Kooyong, to which the pass-
words were gifts of linen for the bride’s
home. Mrs. Syme wore a hat of
lightsome straw, banded to match
her aquarelle-blue dress. Miss Cum-
ing, who is over from Adelaide to
officiate as bridesmaid, was in two
shades of blue, with a stimulation
of scarlet for belt buckle and hat. With
her grey suit tall, slim Ruth wore a
starchy white blouse as a change from
the darker tunics which have had such
a vogue during the last couple of seasons.
Here is a Broothorn photo, of Mrs.
Miles Evergood, from New York.
Many American women would never
consider giving up their professions
after marriage, but Mrs. Evergood
did; her artist husband (who is
an Australian) liked to carry his
palette up north into the snows of
Canada or down south among the sugar-
cane, just as the fancy moved him, and
his wife always accompanied him. Her
profession was rug-designing, and the
location of her firm was in a “suburb”
of New York 180 miles distant from
the big city. Before her marriage in
1930, she worked in a large studio with
12 other girls and 15 men. The designer
is literally the “brains of the rug” ; she
(or he) works at a very large easel.
Sometimes a design covers one quarter
of the whole pattern, but in other cases
when the pattern, for instance, is an
Oriental affair with few repetitions the
whole design must be completed.
In American offices rugs (we call them
mats) do duty as sound absorbers. The
pile, several inches thick, necessitates a
very complicated arrangement of yarns
underneath. The designer arranges the
spools on the trays so that when the
machine is set in motion it goes ahead
almost like a robot. Mrs. Evergood
started her profession as an apprentice,
which, she says, is by far the best method
for an ambitious student, for rug-making
is complicated and takes years of experi-
ence in blending mathematics with
artistry. She loved her job, and con-
sidered the working day very short —
“only eight hours,” commencing at
8 a.m. Designers could have short
breaks in the fresh air whenever they
needed it, but there was never such a
thing as morning- or afternoon-tea. The
busy Americans haven’t the time for this
custom, which has become a rite in Aus-
tralian offices. Miles Evergood will hold
an exhibition of his pictures early in
December at the Athenaeum.
The Little Theatre made a great suc-
cess of its first stride into being social.
The overflow of guests eating bits of toy
food and drinking sherry in the garden
did a sardine act when the burlesque
revue commenced; somehow nearly
everybody managed to squeeze into St.
Chad’s. The programme was bright and
snappy, and even the most conventional
people kept their sense of humor upper-
most. Shirley Goldman, looking very
nice in her greeny frock and hat with a
tassel, officiated at the door. Mrs.
Juddie James, in floral silk and a beige
coat, Mrs. F. Cussen, in an archangel
halo hat and a pink frock, and Mrs.
Hylton Daniel, in navy, were a few of
the busy committee people who juggled
trays. Wdbur Reid and Bill Staughton
pulled beer in the kitchen garden. Ter-
ence Crisp, whose first appearance was
as the official guide to the Loch Ness
Monster, quoted Keats to prove that the
monster has a wife.
Dr. Barbara Wood has returned to
her job of resident radiologist at Royal
Melbourne Hospital, During the months
she spent abroad the doctor studied
modern radiological equipment and the
results obtained from its application.
Fifty thousand pounds was the value of
a generous endowment for plant at the
Middlesex Hospital. Dr. Wood went
over to Stockholm to see the work of
the neuro-surgical clinics. In London
she met Dr. Hugh Cairns, a South Aus-
tralian Rhodes scholar, now a famous
neuro-surgeon.
Mrs. P. H. Lang, of Titanga, Lismore,
and Mrs. W. A. Lang, of Carlaminda,
Cooma (N.S.W.), have invited a young
Scottish relative to stay with them. She
is Diana Lang, a very captivating person
who has made hosts of friends on the
journey out to Australia.
The Lindsay Biggins couple sailed for
Europe a few days after Lindsay trans-
ferred his sister Jess into the care of
Charles Donald Wilson, The bridal
gown of creamy satin was cut on sim-
plicity lines, with a short train and long,
snugly-fitting sleeves. The veil, lent by
Mrs. W. A. Catanach, frothed from a
halo of orange-blossom. Afterwards the
bride’s mother, Mrs. A. Biggins, received
a handful of intimate friends at the
Wentworth.
At the Kelvin Hall on December 4
Edith Harrhy will give her first recital
after many years. Miss Harrhy is now
a writer of part-songs; she has had 20
published recently.


| m
VSj
, ,
m
/
/
l ■
a NEW BUSINESS SERVICE
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED THE
TELEPRINTER
FOR YOUR
BUSINESS?
Teleprinter communication gives direct and
instantaneous communication between
points within the same building or sepa-
rated by distances up to thousands or
miles. It eliminates error .... it saves
time • it definitely fixes responsibility.
The Deputy Direc-
tor, Posts and
Telegraphs, Gener-
al Post Office, will
gladly place at
your disposal, with-
out any obligation
on your part, the
services of a traf-
fic expert to advise
upon your particul-
lar communication
needs.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE CLEAR TYPEWRITTEN RECORD
AVAILABLE SIMULTANEOUSLY AT TWO OR MORE POINTS ANY DISTANCE APART
THE WRITTEN MESSAGE IS INVALUABLE WHEN FIGURES AND
SYMBOLS ARE INVOLVED. AS THE FOLLOWING EXAMPLE SHOWS
5,000 UNITS.FS9/C3 @ £l4. 7. 8. PER 100.
THE DUAL RECORD FIXES RESPONSIBILITY.
B
ST
PRIVATE
WIRE
Reception is purely
automatic and any-
one capable of using
a typewriter can
operate THE TELE-
PRINTER, which
combines the speed
of the telegraph and
the personal touch of
the telephone with
the permanency, legi-
bility and authority
of the printed word.
TELEPRINTER SERVICE
J,:
m
* i
\'4 A 2 J :
> 1
i
” ] "n i :
/
\
mm
\
fm
4.. Z «■
t&.MLA 0
I ;
ial
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Some 500 guests boarded the Zephyr
at the invitation of Commodore George
Gwynne for the opening of Royal Perth
Yacht Club’s season. After following
the races and quaffing tea, they disem-
barked, made a change of rigging and
returned to the clubhouse for dancing.
Mrs. Moran defied the sharp breeze with
a gold and brown brocade cape over
beige georgette, Jessie Fothergill be-
tokened stormy weather with lightning-
striped satin marocain, Felicity Sands’s
foam-white satins were windswept,
and Gladys Fladley’s black cloudy georg-
ettes scintillated with crystal raindrops.
Bee Bostock, youngest of the Pingelly
Bostocks’ quintet of daughters, fol-
lowed in her sisters’ footsteps, and
crossed the matrimonial bridge at St.
Mary’s, West Perth. Reg Cusack stood
at the flower-decked altar while his bride
wafted down the aisle on a cloud of
tulle ; her magnolia satins rose from a
circular train to a cowl neck at the back.
The frock had a panel front, swathings
to the shoulders and billowing sleeves.
Helen Dobson and Pauline Phillips, soft
and sweet in shirred and caped pink
georgettes, carried garlands of Cecile
Brunner roses, and bound their heads
with rosebuds and silver leaves,
“The Tudor Wench” filled the stage
of the Rep. Club’s theatre with the most
striking costumes yet seen at a local am.
dram. show. In the name-part Nancy Lee
caught the eye with a black taffeta liber-
strewn with diamente and topped
by a glittering sunray headdress. Mrs.
Hubert Momber as Lady Seymour wore
ber scar j e t velvet and satin with an air ;
Norrie John and her black-and-white
Mrs. Ashley gown were highlights, and
Tom Tracy and Brian Curlewis fitted
comfortably into their parts and doub-
e s ‘
Sunshine, the C.W.A. seaside home at
Cottesloe, housed a goodly gathering
when knight Edward Wittenoom un-
veiled a portrait of John Forrest’s
lady. After the ceremony Mrs. Cecil
Treadgold, Mrs. V. Ogilvie, Miss E.
Kenniwell and Miss Evalme Parker made
mus,c -
Mrs. E. Callanan, wife of Vacuum
Oil’s chairman and managing director,
was guest of honor at the Esplanade,
where a tea-party was given by Mrs.
J. G. Murray. The hostess was trim and
slim in black phantom crepe finished with
white organdie and lace, and Mrs. Cal-
lanan carried presentation roses and
pansies before parchment embossed crepe
bebuttoned with black and crowned with
a cartwheel black hat from which
dangled a bunch of cherries,
The Qrsova carried away a crowd of
folk breathless after last-minute fare-
well parties. Mrs. P. U. Henn (she wore
navy marocain flecked with shell pink to
Mrs. John Hoskyns’s valedictory shivoo)
set sail lor a holiday trip to England,
Peggy Watson-Williams finished her
round of festivities with a tea given by
Hettie Forbes and a dinner-party with
Dorothy Kirby as hostess, and packed
her trucks for a stay with Mrs. Francis
Henstock, of Colombo. Mrs. Mavis
White .and sister Neva Hocking were
others bound for Ceylon. Hope and
Phyllis Hope Robertson are booked for
England, where Phyllis’s marriage to
George Mager, of the Royal Indian
Navy, will take place.
Mabel Feather chose her favorite navy
and white to open the Girl Guide fete
at the Town Hall. Bamboos did sentinel
duty on the main stairway, and colored
streamers canopied the spot where State
Commissioner Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere
introduced a guest of honor.
In lieu of a ring Joan Smith is wear-
ing a diamond bar brooch, the gift of
Reg King, of Wallal. Wedding bells are
to ring when the new station home below
Broome is completed.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Though the weather does not give
much promise of summer many Adel-
aide folk are settled in their houses at
Mount Lofty and have been trying to
keep warm before huge Yule-log fires.
Mr. and Mrs. John Baker, North Adel-
aide, are among the contingent that has
taken up residence in the hills.
The Orford, due at the end of this
month, will bring back a host of return-
ing travellers, including Mrs. Roy Bul-
lock and her daughter, Dr. and Mrs.
Leonard Lindon, Christine Tipping,
whose parents are returning by another
route, Dr. and Mrs. Guy Lendon and
Mr. Bob Simpson.
Sir Ernest Clark, Governor of Tas-
mania, and Lady Clark were the guests
of his Ex. and Lady Dugan at G.H. on
their return in the Maloja from Ceylon.
Lady Dugan takes a great interest in
the welfare of army nurses, and made
extensive purchases at the display ot
needlework at the Nurses’ Club, Flinders-
street, for which she performed the open-
ing ceremony. She was accompanied by
her sister-in-law, Mrs. Haseldene, who
wore a tailored cape ensemble with a
Breton sailor hat in black trimmed with
scarlet wings. Miss Murray (president of
the A.T.N.A.) and Miss E. Sinclair
Woods received the v.-r. party.
Mrs. Humphrey Makin was hostess of
a cocktail party for Mr. and Mrs. Roy
Davidson, who have just returned from
overseas.
Monica Jessop, who had a wonderful
time in London during the jubilee, in-
cluding her presentation at Court, was
the guest of honor at a sherry party
given by Kay Powell at the home of her
parents, Largs Bay.
Archaeologist Nancy de Crespigny,
elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs. C. T.
Champion de Crespigny, who returned
by the Themistocles after a year and a
half abroad, has announced her engage-
ment to Hallam Leonard Movius, of
Boston (U.S.A.),
TASMANIA. •
Lindisfarne golfers ran a ball in the
Rowing Club Hall to raise funds for
their rejuvenated club, and garnered
many shekels. Mrs. W. E. Senior and a
committee made an effective decorative
scheme with the club colors, light and
dark blue. The night was warm and
moonlight, so the town contingent’s trip
across the water was a pleasant one.
The Tas. Art Society broke out into
a ball at the Technical College, but was
disappointed at the small attendance.
No end of trouble had been taken by
the committee to make a success of the
affair. Supper was served in the studio,
where blue and yellow flowers graced
the tables.
Mrs. Mary Parker lent her beautiful
grounds for a bazaar to help finance the
A.W.N.L. Fair. It was a happy idea,
for both political supporters and garden
lovers rolled up. Stalls were set on the
lawns and tea-tables under the trees,
and the gardens were ablaze with color.
Viva Beamish and Bernard Gordon
were made one by the Rev. F. B.
McCabe in the chapel of the Launceston
C. of E. Grammar School. Silver-white
suede crepe formed the wedding
garment, which had a shirred yoke and
wrists and a long train. The tulle veil
fell to the edge of the train. Mary
Weedon and Brenda Bertram ’maided in
floral dusty-pink crepe frocks. Festi-
vities followed at the bride’s mother’s
house, Hornsey-avenue.
Mavis, daughter of the S. Tulloch
Scotts, of St. Leonard’s, and Richard
Bell, of Launceston, faced the wedding
music at St. John’s, the bride wearing
ivory matelasse satin woven with a
silver thread. Her ’maids were Marion
Harrison and Marcia Scott. There was
a reception at the Metropole afterwards.
The wedding-breakfast table was a mass
of red roses, and behind the bridal party
was a bank of pink bloom, chiefly roses,
which were also used in profusion to
decorate the church.
Helen Gray and Enid Brownell hadn’t
time to call their souls their own in their
last weeks of spinsterhood. Morning-
teas, cocktail rallies, luncheons and
bridge parties were their portion. At
one party guests were asked to bring
recipes, and at another garden requisites
were called for.
A group of Keir Murdoch’s young
friends gave her a surprise party for a
birthday treat at her home, St. Andrew’s,
and spent a gay time. The Hon. T. and
Mrs. Murdoch had just returned from a
trip to the mainland.
Mrs. T. Hytten and her young son
have arrived back in the Speck after an
unusual trip abroad. Mr. Hytten, who is
expected later, is economic adviser to
the Bank of N.S.W., and he studied
banking methods all over Europe. Mrs.
Hytten especially enjoyed their visit to
Norway, where they stayed with Mr.
Hytten’s brother at Kragero. They were
at the banquet held at Grosvenor House
in London on Norway’s national day
(May 17), when King Haakon and Queen
Maud were present.
Mrs. G. P. Potter is flitting from Laun-
ceston to make her home in Melbourne.
Miss L. Jaeger, who leaves with her, gave
a farewell dinner-party to a number of
their mutual friends at the Launceston
Hotel before leaving, and, after the new
fashion of double-banking parties in one
evening nowadays, guests went on and
finished the festivities at the home cf
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hawker.


o
Ui
U
7l u in
iacjctlic'c .. . j^ot (niinen,
Jte. <jy>t social ...
convenience then it an at
pettu.\ J-ldel
SYDNEY
tariff: Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
E. J Langley, Manager.
ilOs;
i
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Necessities to users in \
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer-best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as vour own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUK COY., L.TO., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
An N.T. Drama
“X.T.”; The full details of the Dun-
mara buffalo raid show how tragedy may
lurk round the corner anywhere in the
northern bush. Dunmara is owned by
Mrs. Noel Healey.
One morning the owner, a guest and
the manager heard snorting round the
house. When the sun rose, there was
the buffalo. His tongue hung out, he
was evidently mad with thirst and he
was hundreds of miles away from the
herds. The only male member of the
household fired at him with a small bore
rifle. He galloped, bellowing, into the
bush. An hour later screams were heard
in the yard. The buffalo had charged the
small child of a guest on the property,
and she, with strange presence of mind,
had slipped into a detached bathroom
and slammed the door in his face. Then
the animal turned and tossed a four-
year-old half-caste.
Darwin is 400 miles away by airline.
Ten years ago, it would have taken weeks
to get a doctor. But portable radio
brought Dr. Fenton within the day. He
carried a .303 rifle. Shooting buffalo
with a .303 is hazardous work; what
is needed is a heavy, spreading bullet.
A military rifle has too much velocity,
and if a vital spot is not found with
the first shot the killer may find him-
self the killed.
By the time the doctor had attended
lo the small dying patient and had gone
to stalk the buffalo, the animal was mad
with pain and thirst.
Nevertheless, he killed it
with three shots at close
range.
The wounded child was
moved to Katherine hos-
pital, but died.
“Nagheer”: The earth-
tremor which gave Thurs-
day Island a mild shake a
while ago appears to have
caused more damage than
was at first supposed. The
five-million-gallon con-
crete reservoir which sup-
plies the township and
visiting shipping with
water has run dry for the
first time in history. The only additional
supply is 250,000 gallons in the old Fort,
led by a siphon down the “Goat Track.”
The siphon is giving trouble. The reser-
voir is being overhauled for cracks, but
unless the wet season comes in early the
Island is likely to regain its old name of
“Thirsty”—with which, alas! it was not
baptised because of lack of water. The
statesmen at Canberra might well help
with a money grant to ensure a more
liberal and constant supply for naval and
other ships, in view of the strategic
position, but they probably aren’t inter-
ested in a place carrying so few voters
to the acre.
* * ' * ♦
Queensland’s newest Deputy-Governor
is Justice Hugh Macrossan, son of
an early and active member of
Federal Conventions. He is a Brisbane
native who was called to the Bar in
1907, and took just 19 years to reach
the Supreme Court Bench.
* * * *
“Pitta Pitta”: Born among abos. and
speaking one of their tongues as soon
as I prattled in English, I reached middle
life before I was introduced (by Cine-
sound) to my first native “princess.”
Marcelled and dressed in the latest
fashion, she spoke in the voice which
India calls chi chi. The natives of a cer-
tain mission camp, she said, were so
impressed with the story of Moses that
they had made a song about it. So
firstly she recited the song, in the accents
of Currawillinghi-atte-Stratford such
vocalisation was certainly never heard
in a blacks’ camp. And then she sang
it —to the accompaniment of the ukulele
and to a tune which was Methodist-
Hawaiian! I boiled inwardly, for
Binghi’s airs have a sad monotony, a
haunting charm that would suit some
Old Testament stories.
* * * *
“Calliungal”: Rockhampton has lost
one of its best-known citizens, D. D.
Dawson, dead at only 59. He was
secretary of the Anglican Diocesan
Registry when war broke out, but,
having already served in S’Africa, he
went to the front as a major and was
promoted to command the 25th on
Gallipoli. In 1920, he was placed on the
retired list as a colonel, and was the
first president of the C.Q. branch of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. Since the war he had been
in private business, and had twice sat as
a Rockhampton alderman.
* * * *
“Sambio” on the new civilisation;
No longer can anybody assert that the
Papuan is a savage. He has come to the
stage where he knows all the white man’s
tricks, as witness the case of an uneasy burgher
of one of the island’s most up-to-date villages
“The first egg , dear! Congratulations!"
“Why pick on me?"
who called the other day on an R.M. “Tau-
bada,” he said, in effect, “his Worship the
Mayor makes me uneasy. He told us a month
ago that he knew where there was a rich gold
reef in the Trobriands? and he formed a com-
pany among us to exploit it. I invested 265.
He has gone there. We have sent him radios,
but we get no satisfaction. How is it?”
Investigation showed that a syndicate had, in-
deed, been formed. A native clerk had drawn
up a prospectus which would have made
Pitt-street miners blush. There was capital—
£37 10s.—and there were the radios asking
for progress reports, to which his Wor-
ship replied “All is well. Am returning on
Governor's yacht.” When the Laurabada
came in he was there —in not so effulgent
circumstances as his wire might have sug-
gested, but bukshee in the crew’s quarters.
Haled before the Court to explain, he seemed
to have difficulty in suppressing his scorn.
“Let him have his money back!” he said
grandly, confounding the disgruntled share-
holder with his stare; and forthwith produced
a roll of cash as thick as a man’s arm.
The Court gasped, but explanation came in
time: he had formed a "holding” company
on his way home. But his village does
not yet know this. Such is the hypnotism of
the “roll” that they pass him by furtively on
the other side of the street lest he should force
their capital back upon them and deprive
them of the chance of sharing in an island
counterpart of Lasscter’s “lost reef.”
“Zedo”: Sheena Stodart has become
Queensland’s youngest air-pilot at 17.
Her instructor says that she has taken to
the air like a duck to water. She is the
daughter of R. M. Stodart, who fought
both in S’Africa and at the Great War.
He was wounded as Lt.-Colonel of the
2nd Light Horse.
* * * *
Con Drew: We were in Cape Colony,
not the Transvaal, as stated by
“Petrie Terrace” (B. 20/11/’35), when
I sent that army biscuit to the Brisbane
Safety Bicycle Club ; but that’s a small
matter after all the years. It was part of
a Christmas dinner —the puddings and
cakes we were supposed to receive from
Queensland having been left on the
wharves at Cape Town. Poor McLeod, of
our company, who suggested sending the
biscuit home, was fatally wounded six
days later at Sunnyside (Jan. 1, 1899)
during our first engagement—Victor
Jones was the first Queenslander killed.
Poor Mac died with my coat as
a pillow. The biscuit stunt must
have been a new one then, for it received
much undue publicity in Australia and
abroad. I was sent a Yankee paper
which gave it a stick of type.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
A crop of engagements is preluding
the season of peace and goodwill. Mick
Ryan’s third daughter Sheila wears a
diamond token that came from Ross
Hunt. Constance, daughter of E, W.
Watson, of Nangwe, is engaged to Edwin,
youngest son of the late Peter Murphy.
The Neagles, of Mayne, also have a
newly-engaged daughter in the house, her
choice being Ken Buchanan, son of the
late C. P. and of Mrs. Buchanan, and
grandson of Brisbane’s fine old lady, Mrs.
J J. Buchanan.
So many of our lads have gone south
for brides that a little reciprocity is wel-
come. Jessie Jones, of The Summit, has
become engaged to John, only son of
the J. H. T. McCraes, of Brighton (Vic.),
and Merle Walters, an English lass, who
lives with her aunt, Miss I. Walters, at
Kangaroo Point, wears a ring the gift
of Edward, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs.
E. W. Walker, of Oakleigh (Vic.),
Norma McWhinney decided on a
“cotton” wedding, and very cool she
looked in her crisp organdie matelasse
frock and hat of the same fabric. Joe
Hockings, of Thursday Island, was the
’groom. Eileen McWhinney, in green
voile and matching hat, was the ’maid.
Eric, son of T. H. Browne, of Longue-
ville, Sydney, kept his altar date with
Betty Gertrude Dix at St. Mary’s, Kan-
garoo Point. Tulle veil and lace frock
formed the bridal array, and Gladys
Goodman was the bridesmaid. The wed-
ding breakfast was eaten at the Belle
Vue.
Thirteen years ago, when the Bush
Book Club was holding its first annual
meeting, Padre Flynn wired his congratu-
lations and said that he hoped to be able
to get to a meeting some day. When the
members assembled to hear this year’s
report, Flynn of the Inland was in the
chair. During a lecture at the Town
and Country Women’s Club Padte Flynn
mentioned the various associations which
interest themselves in the folks outback.
There were about 70 slides, illustrating
our continent from the coastal area of
the Territory to S. Aus.
Lady Wilson went to Norindoo to stay
with son Peter while Sir Leslie was in
Cairns. It wasn’t altogether a holiday
jaunt, as she went to the C.W.A. confer-
ence at Roma one day.
One of the most important things dis-
cussed at the C.W.A. Conference was the
Western Children’s Health Association,
which aims at giving outback kiddies a
chance to spend some of the hot weather
by the seaside. Besides the Governor,
Raphael Cilento and his lady and the
Lord Mayor are interested. A public
meeting will be held on December 6.
Mrs. A. R. Cowen, of Longreach, secre-
tary of Far Western Health, also will be
an active supporter, and her organisation
will link up with the new body.
Since 1922 the C.W.A. has given
approximately 20,000 women and chil-
dren a seaside holiday in the association’s
homes and cottages. At time of writing
a large party of children from the Long-
reach district are holidaying in the
C.W.A. house at Pialba, Toe H, in con-
junction with the C.W.A., sponsoring the
party.
Everybody seems anxious to wind up
work in connection with pet charities and
get down to preparing for Christmas.
The Travellers’ Aid Society has had a
busy year, meeting over 200 travellers
and soothing the weary and the invalids
with aspirin and hot tea. Taking western
kiddies to the Ophthalmic Hostel and
finding travelling companions for school-
children going long journeys home are
a couple of jobs the Aid people do, and
do well. But they won’t get a holiday
at Christmas. That’s their busy time.
For 50 out of the 90 years she has
spent on this planet, Mrs. Fanny Lethem
has been a philanthropic worker. The
members of the Ladies’ Work Society
gave a party at the City Tabernacle, and
drank her health in tea, and Emily Bul-
cock produced a congratulatory birthday
ode. There also was a fine cake with 90
candles. Mrs. Lethem, a Victorian
pioneer, remembers the time when bul-
lock waggons got bogged in Collins-
street. Her needlework is exquisite, and
a piece of it for sale at a church bazaar
is as good as cash.
A concert staged by members of the
Young Russian Society drew a big
crowd to St. James’s Parish Hall, Coor-
paroo. Stefan de Polotynski, a Polish
composer, and his wife were among the
soloists. Russian national and ballroom
dances (especially the sleigh dance) set
the audience clapping vigorously.
There was an unusual visitor at the
musical luncheon arranged by the
Methodist Foreign Mission Women’s
Auxiliary—a tall, white-turbaned figure in
Hindu dress, whose 14-year-old son was
in the garb of an Australian schoolboy.
The Rev. Gunasekera is connected with
the Indian Christian Mission, and he
gave a talk on life in India,
Michael Addison, Kathleen Wand’s
fiance, is a nice obliging boy. When
Kathleen’s cold prevented her from do-
ing the job, he opened a garden party
at St. Peter’s, West End, and made a
very charming little speech for her.
Mrs. Forrester Alexander, who has
been spending some months in Brisbane,
packed up and returned to her Mel-
bourne home. Mrs. R. A. Wearne
arranged a farewell tea in her honor,
and then had to have the party minus
its inspiration, for Mrs. Alexander
developed ’flu and couldn’t go.


DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
tC Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.; 83100.
DEAF
Humor Competition Entry:-
LEMON
SAGO
BY C.SHARP
MRS. AMELIA HOBBS stood, with
her hands on her widespread hips,
beside the steaming pots and pans
in the kitchen of a select residential, of
which Mrs. Henrietta Hash was the pro-
prietress. That it was a select residential
and that Mrs. Henrietta Hash was the
proprietress were painted in yellow
letters on a big red board attached to
the balcony railing outside. Mrs. Amelia
Hobbs had compared the wording on
the board with that in her letter from
the Getajob Employment Agency when
she arrived in her capacity as cook that
afternoon.
Mrs. Hobbs was puzzled. Her brow
was furrowed, her hands began to mas-
sage her hips, and about an inch of fat,
red tongue protruded outwards and up-
wards, as though the tip of it and the
tip of her nose were making friends with
each other. That pose always indicated
that Mrs. Hobbs was puzzled. She gazed
at a little bottle on the shelf above the
gas stove. Then she changed her pose
to bend so that her face was over a big
glass dish of lemon sago she had stood
on the kitchen table to cool. Sniff, sniff,
sniff! It might be all right. Then again
it might not be. Sniff, sniff, sniff! A
second opinion on the matter was desir-
able, and was at hand when the pro-
prietress of the select residential opened
the door and entered her kitchen. That
was fortunate and opportune. Mrs.
Hobbs now folded her arms as well as
her ample bosom would allow her to,
and spoke.
“Mrs. ’Ash?”
“Hash!”
“Hey?”
“My name is Hash.”
“1 said ’Ash!”
Mrs. Hobbs was puzzled.
“But / said Hash!”
“Ho!”
The two ladies let it go at that, tem-
porarily. Mrs. Hash drew her thin
frame up to its full height of five feet
ten inches, put the tips of her fingers
together in a devout attitude, and gazed
steadily at Mrs. Hobbs through her steel-
rimmed spectacles. Mrs. Hobbs stood,
and took deep breaths that made her
folded arms rock up and down. She
gazed back at Mrs. Hash, and the tip of
her podgy little nose began to twitch.
Mrs. Hash’s heart began to flutter.
It always did when the tip of a cook’s
nose began to twitch. She had seen the
tip of a cook’s nose twitch only yester-
day, and the twitching was immediately
followed by a vitriolic outburst from the
twitching-nosed cook, A frying-pan had
whizzed past her ear. Doors had
banged, and the wild woman had packed
and departed, still yelping her opinion
of Mrs. Hash and her select residential.
That experience of yesterday with Mrs.
James must not be repeated with Mrs.
Hobbs.
F3R a few moments the pots bubbled
without interruption. Silence may be
golden. Then, again, it may be dan-
gerous. Mrs. Hash decided it would be
better not to allow it to be either.
“Is everything all right, Mrs. Hobbs?”
“That’s as may be. Then, again, as
may not be. What’s in that there bottle?”
Mrs. Hash looked at the bottle the
cook’s fat finger indicated. She lifted
it down, drew the cork with her teeth,
and held the mouth of the bottle daintily
to her left nostril. Sniff, sniff, sniff!
“Is it essence of lemon?” the cook
demanded.
“It smells like essence of lemon.”
“Well, essence of lemon or no essence
of lemon, it’s in the lemon sago!”
Mrs. Hash smelt the
lemon sago. Mrs. Hobbs
smelt it, too. The maid
burst into the kitchen and
dumped a pile of plates
on the table with a clash
that made both Mrs.
Hash and Mrs. Hobbs
jump from their sniffing.
“Gladys! Do you know
if this is essence of
lemon?”
Gladys straightened her-
self, let her hands drop
naturally to her sides, and
lifted her chin before she
replied, slowly and care-
fully. A magazine article had assured
her the first step to a screen career was
perfect diction, and she was treading that
first step by taking correspondence
lessons on elocution.
“No, Mrs. Hash! That bottle con-
tains the medicine of the late Mrs.
James.”
Mrs. Hash was surprised.
“I didn’t know cook was taking medi-
cine, Gladys.”
“Yes, Mrs. Hash. Professor Pro-
fenza sold • her that bottle yesterday
morning. It contains Professor Profenza’s
Vitalising Drops. It is a certain cure
for the nix, nax, nox and nerves. The
professor said so. Three drops would
give the weakest man the courage of a
lion. Mrs. James took some to gain
the courage of a lion —a —er —I mean a
Mrs. or Miss Lion.”
Mrs. Hobbs was not interested. Mrs.
Hash was. She was thinking deeply.
Could there be any connection between
this medicine and yesterday’s outburst by
a hitherto mild and docile cook, who had
suddenly become invested with such
courage as to throw a frying-pan at her.’
Mrs. Hobbs interrupted her cogitations.
“Well, is it essence of lemon or ain’t
it essence of lemon?”
Mrs. Hash looked at the dish of
lemon sago, and her heart sank. What
a waste! There would not be time to
prepare another dish to augment the
supply of junket. Besides, Professor
Profenza’s Vitalising Drops could not
be poisonous. The law would not allow
it. And there was a big dish of junket.
Gladys would ask the select residents if
they preferred lemon sago or junket.
None had to choose lemon sago while
there was junket. Mrs. Hash prided her-
self on her capacity for giving quick
decisions.
“It is the same as essence of lemon.
Serve the lemon sago, Mrs. Hobbs.”
After Gladys had taken in the dessert,
Mrs. Hash approached her.
“How are they to-night, Gladys?”
she asked in a whisper.
“Very re-bell-ious, Mrs. Hash!”
Gladys whispered in reply.
Mrs. Hash smiled nicely. As usual
her boarders were rebellious, were they?
“Rebellious again, Gladys?” she whis-
pered.
“All except Mr. Chump, Mrs. Hash!”
Mrs. Hash sniffed. All except Mr.
Chump, of course. She smiled again
as she visualised Mr. Napoleon Chump.
The quiet little man with the big, bald
head would be sitting by himself as
usual at an end table, with his head
buried in a book. Poor little book-
worm. He even blushed like a school-
girl if she wished him good morning.
“Perhaps I had better go and attend to
the rebellion, Gladys?” Mrs. Hash snig-
gered.
Gladys giggled. She always giggled
each evening when Mrs. Hash sniggered
after making that suggestion. She always
interrupted her giggle to reply “Yes,
Mrs. Hash,” so, as usual, she stopped
giggling and said:
“Yes, Mrs. Hash!”
* ' *
THE proprietress sneaked along the
hall of her select residential on tiptoe,
and stopped outside the dining-room to
listen.
“And I say one of us should stand up
to her and say, ‘Look here, you thieving
old cow! What do we pay you for?”
1 That was the voice of Mr. Cramp. He
was a month behind with his money.
“Really, one should! I told my
about the chops we had for breakfast,
and he said ‘Why doesn’t one of the
gentlemen stand up to her, and tell her
she is a robber?’ ”
That was Miss Weedon. Mrs. Hash
smiled. Miss Weedon was three weeks
behind with her board.
“Well, I tell you I won’t stand for it
any longer!” the voice of Mr. Porpus
boomed. “I am a patient man, and I
don’t look for trouble. But if the thirty
bob a week I give that old Hash thief
was as bad as the mutton I have just
eaten”
Mrs. Hash giggled into the handker-
chief she pressed to her lips. Mr. Porpus
had not paid his thirty bob for a fort-
night. She giggled again. In a moment
she would straighten herself, as usual,
and march into her dining-room to fix
her eyes on her rebellious boarders. And,
as usual, the rebellion would fade away.
Each boarder would politely wish her
good evening. Except poor little Napo-
leon Chump. He would be too shy to.
And each boarder would say, as usual:
“Yes, thank you, Mrs. Hash. The
mutton was delicious!”
Mrs. Hash began to giggle again.
But in some way that giggle stopped
short. In doing so it left her mouth
strangely twisted. She pressed her hand
to her heart and gasped. Perhaps there
was some connection between Professor
Profenza’s Vitalising Drops, now in the
lemon sago, and that amazing rebellion
on the part of Mrs. James. Mrs. Hash'
continued to press her hand to her heart,
and thought deeply. Was this the usual
hot-air rebellion of the evening meal that
could be turned to milk and honey by a
glare from her eyes? Or had Mr. Porpus
chosen lemon sago, and become invested
with the courage of a lion?
She continued to think deeply. If she
did not appear as usual, her absence
might give her boarders courage if the
Vitalising Drops in the lemon sago did
not, Mrs. Hash was a brave woman. A
very brave one. Lemon sago or junket,
she straightened herself to her full height
again, and marched boldly into the
dining-room. Her heart was fluttering
ridiculously, of course. But she marched
into the dining-room just the same, and
fixed one eye on Mr. Porpus and the
Gladys giggled.
other on Mr. Porpus's plate. Mr. Porpus
had chosen junket.
“Good evening, Mr. Porpus!”
“Ahem! Aha! Good evening, Mrs.
Hash!”
Mrs. Hash transferred both eyes to
Mr. Porpus.
“Did you enjoy your dinner, Mr.
Porpus?”


Next Week’s
Humor Competition Story
“A VERY GENTLEMANLY
MURDER,”
by
HAROLD MERCER.
m
V-
MX
■
T* ■
v®mi
m
A Christmas drift
FOR THE SMOKER
David Jones' Special Smoking Mixture. Blended from some of
the best tobaccos grown in America and the Empire. No
ordinary mixture this! A long, cool smoke, practically free
from moisture. The aroma is pleasant, but not scented. David
Jones' Special Smoking Mixture is packed in screw-top air-tight
glass jars, containing |lb. for 7/6; in 4oz. air-tight tins, 3/8; in
Boz. air-tight tins, 7/4; or 11b. tins, 14/6.
WHEN ORDERING. PLEASE INCLUDE FREIGHT.
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Summer Time is TEA TIME
m
V?
m
■vSh
mam
5
MP
a
i
m
• . . And here's Usher's
original recipe for
CREAMED ICED TEA
Put 2 tablespoons good quality
tea in teapot, previously heated.
Pour 1 quart boiling water over
the tea, allow to infuse for 5
minutes, then pour off into a jug.
Place jug in freezer for two hours,
then mix the tea with 3 ozs. castor
sugar and \ pint cream (or \ pint
milk) place in freezer, and chill.
Serve with thin slices of lemon.
Always strain tea carefully.
or
"Cooling, Satisfying
and Invigorating”
Says Mr. Ken Murray
USHER’S FAMOUS CHEF
"Of all suitable Summer
beverages, non quite equals
tea for prompt refreshment
and healthy stimulation. A
good, fresh cup of well-made
tea is cooling, satisfying,
and invigorating.
For in-between drinks and
thirst quenchers, tea is again
the logical thought. Served
iced, it has all the attributes
that a good Summer drink
should have/'
You'll find a copy of our
FREE RECIPE BOOK
very useful. Write now to the
TEA MARKET EXPANSION
BUREAU, Kyle House. Macquarie
Place, Sydney, enclosing one
penny stamp for postage.
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET
EXPANSION BUREAU.
TS6H
■.— TE
j
“Ahem! Ahemf Thank you, Mrs.
Hash. Ahem! The mutton was aha
ahem”
“Deeleecious, Mrs. Hash!” Miss
Weedon cooed. She had also chosen
iunket
J ‘
Sniff!
Mrs. Hash’s heart ceased to flutter.
She looked from plate to plate. Fortu-
nately, junket was a popular dish. She
fixed one boarder after another with her
eye. She could easily have relaxed the
firm line into which she had drawn her
lips, to enjoy a good laugh. Rebellious
again, indeed! She began to wish some-
one had chosen lemon sago.
SHE gave a slight start, and tightened
her lips still more to prevent her
shrieking with laughter. Someone had
chosen lemon sago. It was Mr. Napoleon
Chump. Mrs. Hash took a grip on her
feelings. The poor little bookworm.
Hfere was a fit subject for rebellion —and
her scorn. How she wished cook had
poured a quart of Professor Profenza’s
Vitalising Drops into the lemon sago!
Mr. Napoleon Chump! It would be like
pinching a baby. But rebellions are rebel-
lions. And cats play with mice. At
least, Mrs. Hash had read that some-
where. Well, she would be the cat. She
would educate her rebels by playing with
Mr. Napoleon Chump-mouse, before she
killed him with her tongue.
“Good evening, Mr. Chump!”
Mr. Chump hastily wiped some lemon
sago from his lips with his hand, and
arose from his chair a little uncertainly.
(
“Good evening, Mrs. Hash!”
The other boarders looked with amaze-
ment at each other and at Mr. Chump.
The fact that he had spoken aloud was
surprising enough. And there was some-
thing peculiar in the deliberate way he
had spoken. Mrs. Hash looked surprised,
too. She had intended to look surprised,
anyhow.
“Have you anything you wish to say,
Mr. Chump?”
“I have, Mrs. Hash!”
The boarders gasped. Mr. Chump
stood as only a Napoleon would stand —
with one hand thrust into his vest.
“What is it, Mr. Chump?” Mrs. Hash
asked craftily.
Mr. Chump cleared his throat. His
voice was then dignified and decisive as
he said:
“I have been here for nine months,
Mrs. Hash. I am now about to tell you
what I think of you!”
The other boarders were now gasping
like fish. Mrs. Hash wet her lips with
her tongue, and slightly closed one eye.
“Indeed, Mr. Chump?”
“During the nine months I have been
here, Mrs. Hash, you have tortured me
as no other woman could!”
“Indee-ee-d, Mr. Chump!”
The little man pressed his hands to his
bald head. He seemed to be dazed. Mrs.
Porpus boomed.
Hash was laughing inwardly, but her
eyes glinted dangerously.
“Don’t be afraid to say just what you
wish to say, Mr. Chump,” she purred.
“I must say it! For nine months I
have been trying to get the courage to
say it. By some miracle I have the
courage now. Some power possesses me,
and demands me to reveal the truth to
you. I will say it! ”
Mrs. Hash walked softly and with
stately tread past the amazed boarders
and towards Mr. Chump. He plucked
his hand from its nest in his vest, stepped
from behind his chair, and advanced to
meet her.
“You will permit me to say what I am
longing to say, Mrs. Hash?”
“Certainly!” Mrs. Hash simply hissed
the first syllable of the word.
“Then, 1 will. I must tell you!”
Mr. Chump looked at the others doubt-
fully. Then he looked at Mrs. Hash.
He raised his head to look into her eyes.
He held out his hands, and slowly sank
to rest on one knee as he cried:
“Mrs. Hash—Henrietta —7 love you!"
Wry Time.
All wry is hunger, wry and out of season —
That the green moonlight on the limestone crag
Clanged from the shattered anvil of my reason.
What food is here, where the lone fisher shag
Between the marshes and the mudflats’ treason
Watches the stagnant waters drone and drag,
And the raw cattle, now gnarled day has come,
Flank-deep in rushes at the creek's grey mouth,
Crop the rank straw, low sadly, and are dumb;
What food is here for the green greed of youth
But, freezing spirit and the hot heart numb,
The sour and stringy grasses of the truth?
Too long, too long the days have willed me
hither
For this fierce mass of reeds and salt corrosion;
Too long, too long since we were warm
together,
My hurt, my heartache, dour with foiled ex-
plosion,
Fvc watched with wiser eyes the patient weather
Working the pastures’ and my heart’s erosion,
So all that moon-green crag and fire and clang-
ing
Were but a she-owl pleading through the night.
A lean wind stirs the fens, the overhanging
Willows that winter’s eaten bare and white,
And silence breaks in swift harsh-yellow twang-
ing
As on the reeds the shag beats wings in flight.
MAORILAND.
Far up the sullen valley now is sped
The clanging arrow l of that death-beaked ranger,
Where, landlocked, sealockcd, mindlocked and
inbred,
Pause from their games of cruelty and danger
The dwarfed and twisted children of the mad
To gluck and gibe at nothing or the stranger.
Still on the crag the moonrays clang and
smoulder,
Though only in my mind the waters seethe.
Eaten, my heart, and winter-changed and colder,
It is but toughened by the fens beneath,
And, in this acrid waste, to herj white shoulder
Burns fiercer yet the frostbite of my teeth.
All wry is hunger, wry and out of time.
The lone shag sees the weasel and the grouse
Creeping up hills too cruel for trees to climb,
And leagues of orchards desolate and hoarse
Where, sluggish as a snail’s slow trail of slime,
Silvers its path the far-down watercourse.
Now the raw breezes twang the reeds’ chill
nipples
And, supple and cold about the cows’ unrest.
The tide brings death in all its silver ripples
Yet floods my heart with strength, a new harsh
zest
For frost-white boughs and little, bitter apples
The green untimely apples of her breast.
Douglas A. Stewart.


Personal and Missing Friends.
IF WILLIAM LEDGERWOOD, formerly of
Girvan, Ayrshire, Scotland, last heard of in
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, about
five years ago, will apply to the subscribers, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
MURRAY & TAIL,
Solicitors,
Girvan, Scotland.
VIVIAN PENDER PHILLOTT.—Last heard
of about nine (9) years ago in Queensland
working for an Indian horsebuyer; before that
in 1923 at “Colane,” Winton, Queensland.
The above is requested to communicate with
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED, of
395 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, when
he will hear of something to his advantage.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts or whether
he is dead is requested to communicate with
the above company.
INNES SCOTT, formerly of Nelson Cottage,
Tamworth, New South Wales. —Anyone know-
ing his whereabouts or that of his wife or
descendants, please communicate with HAR-
WOOD & PINCOTT, Solicitors, 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, re interest in deceased
estate.
WILL Mr. N., who some years ago wrote
referring to Tenison family, please write to
M.N., c/o Bulletin Office, Sydney, for
information.
WILLIAM WILLIAMSON, who in 1882
married Matilda Alice Avery at South Grafton,
and was then a wharfinger, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts or having information as
to his death, is requested to communicate with
the Public Trustee, 107-09 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. If alive on 3/3/’35, he would be
entitled to share in the intestate estate of his
late wife.
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample bos
C. BRANDAUER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Acid Stomach
inflicts unfold misery
'4
/
“Why am I always weak,
nervous, despondent?”
There are countless women, men too,
who for years have not known what it is
to feel really fit and well. They drag
wearily through life all unconscious of
the fact that a chronically sour acid
stomach is capable of souring one’s
entire existence. You can easily detect
an acid stomach by the following
symptoms—Alwaystired and low-spirited,
frequent headaches, disturbed sleep,
overstrung nerves, loss of appetite,
nausea, flatulence and indigestion. If
that is how you feel, don’t resort to pick-
me-ups but take 'Bisurated’ Magnesia to
sweeten your stomach. This will correct
the excessive acidity of your gastric
juice and overcome the chronic sourness
of your stomach. With the * ‘ mainspring ’ ’
of your system in healthy working order
your distressing symptoms will promptly
vanish and you will soon be enjoying
normal health and spirits. Get a bottle
of * Bisurated * Magnesia, powder or
tablets, from any chemist and start on
the road to good health by taking a dose
after your next meal —the effect will be
a revelation to you. In * Bisurated ’
Magnesia you have the supreme remedy
for stomach troubles, with over 20 years'
reputation for unfailing efficacy.
‘BISU RATED'
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the ‘ Bismag ‘ Trade Mark
j
90 PAGES FOR 3“
MARVELLOUS VALUE
DON’T MISS THIS
AUST R.A LIAN
WOMANS
MIRROR
ON SALE FRIDAY
A GALAXY OF TALENT
Short and Serial Stories —Knitting and
Crochet —Novelties for Clever Hands —
Interesting Illustrations Verse Beauty
Culture Christmas Fun Gardening
Cookery
FREE CHRISTMAS PATTERNS
Tent and Indian Suit for the Little Chap
A Slip for Mother
Tells of a Strange Invasion:-
THE GROUSERS
By ARTHUR W. UPFIELD.
SALT beef hot; salt beef almost cold ;
salt beef and spuds with damper and
strong tea. That was the standard
menu for many weeks, because the
station people would not kill a beast
until the hot spell ended.
It suited Rooster Williams. All he
had to do was to sling a junk of salt
beef into a bucket of bore water and
boil it from one to six hours, according
to his mood. He was all right, lounging
all day in the shade of a bough shed,
but it was not fit tucker for three men
working on contract raising the height
of that vermin barrier known as the S.A.
Border Fence. As Snooker Fred said
more than once:
“A bloke on hard graft needs red meat
at least once a day. We’re losing money,
we’re that weak ; all on account of that
cross-eyed squatter being afraid to kill
in hot weather.”
Snooker Fred was the boss of the fenc-
ing gang. He was five feet high, three
feet wide and two feet thick. Faded blue
eyes habitually glared from twin open
spaces in a whiskered face ; and there
was only one thing he could do better
than build a fence, and that was insert
a particular adjective between the
syllables of words.
Then there was Long Tom, lean and
lanky and tireless—Long Tom with his
grey walrus moustache and one eye, and
a neck like a ram’s. Being a fencer’s
offsider to these two was no bed of roses.
It was even worse living week in and
week out on salt beef hot, salt beef cold
—or nearly cold. Life would have been
less difficult had the meat been properly
cold, but cold meat in a temperature
which never falls below a hundred is not
to be had.
The bough shed, built by Rooster Wil-
liams in his spare time, was situated
some hundred yards east of the Border
Fence. It was flanked on one side by
the first Ford car that ever reached
Broken Hill, now converted into an
alleged ton-truck —alleged because more
often than not it carried well over a ton.
On the other side of the shed was the
campfire where Rooster cooked accord-
ing to his moods. From the branches
of a near-by cabbage-tree were suspended
the salt-meat bag and the loose rations.
WHY that fence was ever erected and
why it was carefully maintained were
puzzling. They said its purpose was to
keep South Australian vermin out of
New South Wales, but the only vermin
to be seen were the flies, to whom a
| netted mesh was no barrier. We saw
j no rabbits save three sitting on a burrow
at sunset in New South Wales. We saw
no emus, though one would have been
preferable to the salt meat. In fact, in
South Australia there was not a living
thing, and by right South Australia
should have regarded the fence as a pro-
tection from New South Wales.
The spring gales, having done their
utmost to blind and choke us with the
sand they raised, had given place to
astonishingly still days and nights.
Between sunrise and sunset not an ant
was to be seen running over the red-hot
ground, but from sunset to sunrise all
were very much on the job, from bull-
ants down to bright-red fellows no
bigger than cheesemites.
Of course, the meat question had to
reach a climax. Snooker Fred possessed
but one virtue, which was never to work
too hard on Sundays. Every Sunday
morning he and Long Tom visited the
homestead to purchase meat and rations
—invariably salt meat. It was absolutely
essential for Long Tom to go with
Snooker, because Snooker could not
steer the truck and play tunes on the
box of four batteries fixed to the dash.
According to the tune Long Tom played,
so did the cylinders fire, and when he
managed to fire all four cylinders in
correct order the world knew about it.
Two cylinders firing spasmodically repre-
-1 sented Long Tom’s average achievement.
One Sunday
they returned
from the home-
stead with no
fresh meat, and
when Rooster
Williams learnt our fate he expressed a
desire to stone the crows.
“If you was anything of a cook,
snarled Snooker Fred, “you would go
out and get a bit of fresh meat. You
talk about us always grousing, but you
keep your end up.” (To get the full
value of Snooker Fred’s remarks it is
necessary to interpolate an adjective at
the most convenient spot in all words of
more than one syllable.)
“Well, strike me pink, you’re all
right!” snorted Rooster. “Where in ’ell
am I to get fresh meat?”
“There’s them three rabbits in Noo
South,” Long Tom pointed out.
“Rabbits!”
“Yes, rabbits! A rabbit sloo wouid
go better’n salt meat.”
Rooster Williams examined Long Tom
with eyes made glassy with horror. He
tried to move, but could only repeat the
one word “Rabbits!”
“Ain’t y’ ever seen one?” inquired
Snooker with remarkable mildness.
“Rabbits!” again gasped Rooster Wil-
liams, and then leaned against the truck
as though all strength had gone from
him.
We turned to unload the truck, and
by the time we sat down to eat the
cook had partly regained composure.
Glumly he carved the oily salt meat.
“Well, I’m the first bush cook since
1872 wot’s been asked to cook rabbits,”
he complained, evidently deeply hurt.
“Yous blokes wanter remember I’m a
cook, not a rabbit-oh. Any’ow, you get
the flamin’ rabbits, and I’ll cook ’em.”
“How?” demanded Snooker con-
temptuously.
“Bile ’em, I suppose. How d’you
think? I ain’t never cooked no rabbits
in me life.”
“Ain’t y’?” cut in Long Tom. “Well,
you skins ’em first. Then you chops ’em
up. Then you plants ’em in a pot of
spuds and onions, and then you simmers
’em for an hour. That’s the way my ole
woman does ’em, and they ain’t so bad.”
For the first time hope was expressed
in Rooster Williams’s small black eyes.
He said:
“All right! You get ’em. I’ll cook
’em.”
And so, instead of being permitted to
try to cool off for the afternoon, we
took shovels and proceeded to shift
from twenty to thirty tons of sand to
capture the three last rabbits in the
Western Division. They were good
examples of the survival of the fittest
three 10-year-old bucks more difficult
to skin than a bullock. Huge iceberg-
clouds lay aloft, but not one of them
touched the sun or each other. There
was no wind, not a breath, and this was
singular, because cloud shadows produce
eddies of air and willy-willies.
The rabbits were seized about three
o’clock, and on account of their age and
sex I suggested to Rooster that he
should proceed instantly with the cook-
ing. Despite his grunted objections.
Long Tom overseered the job, determined
that Rooster should not just “bile ’em.”
When the sun went down that even-
ing in a clear western sky, it lit to glory
a vast and deep cloud mass lying above
the Barrier Range about seventy miles
from us. We had been obliged to wait
for darkness to paralyse the flies before
tackling the stew, for a stew is a more
efficient flytrap than cold salt beef.
While we lapped it up with noisy relish,
we could see the lightning jazzing in and
about that cloud mass.
AWAKING about two o’clock in the
morning, I found Snooker and Long
Tom smoking their night pipes so care-
fully filled with tobacco and placed
within easy reach before they went to
bunk. I felt peculiarly exhilarated ; gone
was the heavy mental lethargy produced
by high temperatures. About the camp
a light wind was playing its music on
the notes of the tree leaves. It was
coming from the east. It brought the
perfumes of paradise, and, instead of
reaching for the cigarette makings, I
lay breathing deeply with ecstasy. The
wind was coming from the rain.


tarn
I fir
»i
Vt&
\
m
m
m
tm
*******
*<*<*¥*
"♦SSh<
»(<♦>*>»
vm
m
at
'
r
:
ib
TWEED TWIST SHIRT
In check designs, with two
collars.
AERTEX
Your Garment is not
Aertex unless it bean
this label.
/ always thought this Aertex ”cool
in summer, warm in winter” business
sounded too good to be true. But I
soon changed my mind when I
began to wear it .. . yes, very com-
fortable . . . temperature changes
simply don’t affect me, and that’s
saying a lot, in this climate! . . . I’ve
been wearing Aertex for two years
now and I never felt so fit in my life
Expensive? Not a bit, of it ,
and it stands an incredible amount
of hard wear. Aertex half sleeve
vest and button trunks (illustrated).
Chest or Waist sizes 32 in. to 44 in.
Vest or Trunks } 88, 931, 1616
in qualities \at various prices
Stocked by all good Men's Stores and
Drapers throughout the Commonwealth.
Wholesale only; THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LTD.,
313-315 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Distributors throughout Australia: DENT ALLCROFT & CO. LTD.,
Branch or Agent in Every State.
11 any difficulty in obtaining, write to Cellular. Box 1274 L Melbourne.
□
i'uHl
iiiii
iitiin
mini
THE LYSAGHT BRAND STANDS FOR
DURABILITY and DEPENDABILITY
Lysaght’s still manufacture the highest-grade galvanized iron. Made
in Australia for Australian conditions Lysaght's galvanized iron is the
cheapest and most efficient means of roofing, walling or tank making.
SPECIFY THE CORRECT BRAND
★ Red Orb corrugated sheets for roofing.
if Blue Orb corrugated sheets tor curving.
Queens Head plain galvanized sheets for general use.
★ Lysaght's special Tank Making Sheets.
KKHi
The Rooster crowed in the dawning,
as was usual, and we rose to eat the
remainder of the rabbit stew. It was
quite impossible to chew the meat, but
it was better far than salt beef cold
or nearly cold. No clouds formed above
us this day, but the temperature was
distinctly lower. Our failing hopes that
the station people would now kill a beast
mounted, and after a long day’s labor
the truck-driver and the battery player
set off for the homestead. When they
returned without any fresh meat, even
Rooster Williams was shocked by their
observations.
On the morning of the following day,
life appeared in South Australia for the
first time. Several hundreds of emus
came marching down from the north,
walking close to the west side of the
fence and thereby delighting the fence-
riders, because the birds kicked away
from the netted barrier all dead rubbish
blown against it. The Rooster shot one,
and the others marched on as though
nothing had happened. Long Tom and
I preferred salt beef cold, or nearly cold,
to the stew Rooster made from the leg
of that bird.
From then on each day seemed deter-
mined to be hotter than the one before.
The wind blew from the north and the
north-east, and it shrivelled the black
hair on Snooker’s amazing chest and
face. Other emu mobs passed south,
hugging the fence like souls kept out of
paradise.
We were now working about half a
mile south of the camp, and late in the
afternoon of the fifth day, after some
three inches of rain had fallen north of
Broken Hill, Long Tom abruptly dropped
his pliers, seized a stick and gave chase
to a rabbit that was determinedly fol-
lowing the emus’ pad. It eluded him, and
our hopes were dashed.
“Pity you couldn’t aim a bit straight,”
groused Snooker Fred. “We could’ve
had rabbit stoo again for breakfast,”
WE were returning to camp, walking
" over the monstrous ranges of sand,
when from the allegedly dead heart of
Australia appeared the army. Its leaders
could be seen running eastward along
one of the flats. We, having reached
the summit of a sand-range, saw Rooster
in South Australia rushing about and
slaying rabbits with a hefty billet of
mulga. At each kill, he tossed the
carcass into New South Wales, and
when we arrived, to note his activities
with admiration, he yelled:
Stoo! Rabbit stoo! We’re set for
rabbit stoo!”
In the evening we walked across to
(he fence, to see rabbits gnawing at the
netting; rabbits reaching up to find a
hole big enough to slip through ; rabbits
lying bunched into masses covering
many square yards. Rabbits ran and
bucked about over all the ground in
sight beyond the fence. Here and there
against the fence, controlled by a strange
law, they lay on top of each other,
forming waves of fur to sink away here,
to form again elsewhere. Not even a
Jeans could have counted those rodents.
“Wc oughter be all right now for
rabbit stoo,” remarked Rooster.
The wind had died away, leaving the
air stifling. In New South Wales was an
unbroken silence, but from South Aus-
tralia came to us a low, unearthly noise.
In it was the murmur of the sea at great
distance, the rustle of wind-stirred leaves
fallen to a roadway, and the hissing of a
gigantic snake. Above this sound, like
objects floating on water, were the con-
tinuous squeals and screams of rabbits,
high and piercing in note. We now could
not see the fence, but to us it appeared
that South Australia was alive, stirring
with life, no longer a tract of land.
They boast about Sydney bridge and
they skite about St. Kilda-road, as though
these were marvels comparable with a
rabbit migration halted by a netted fence.
Men have related the passing of cats in
vast hordes, followed by wild dogs that
were in turn followed by blacks earning
fortunes from dog scalps, and their gins
following behind them waiting to snatch
their scalp cheques to spend with the
’Ghan hawkers bringing up the rear. But
when you see a rabbit plague boxed
against a netted fence you wish, first, that
you had a moving-picture camera ’and
second, that you possessed a gallon of
eau-de-Cologne.
Unlimited “stoos” faced us beyond the
fence when day broke. The sky was
empty of clouds, anc the cadmium-
colored, high-level haze promised wind
direct from the north. Before it came
the fence-rider of that section and the
inspector, with their strings of camels,
passed southward to the portion of the
fence still to be raised to the new regula-
tion height.
We ate rabbit stew for breakfast.
All the salted meat in the salt-encrusted
bran-bag had gone blue-mouldy and
recklessly Rooster Williams heaved it
out. He was brilliantly cursed by
Snooker Fred for not having “aired” it
overnight by hanging it on hooks from
tree branches, but he waved to the massed
rabbits that could have kept the larders
of all Europe well stocked for a year.
Smothered rabbits lay in heaps against
the fence, and above them live rabbits
were trying hard to reach up to the top
of the barrier. The fence-rider’s hurry
was produced by just that danger where
the barrier was ye’t only 4| feet in
height. Waves of rabbits washed up
against the fence, to sink back and form
again elsewhere. They were endeavoring
to obey the single order which had
started their migration: Go east, young
man!
Now they were doing their hardest
to obey the order, to go east to the miles
of green feed promised by the recent
rain north of Broken Hill. When we
arrived at our work, when we had scaled
the fence into South Australia to lash
new posts against old ones and to net
and wire the new topping, we had to
slide our feet over the ground to get
standing room.
There was no fear, no timidity, in
those rabbits. They were driven by one
desire, a desire which had ousted fear.
We could pick them up, and on setting
them down they would at once
continue the frantic search for a way
through the barrier. They gnawed at
the wire-netting. They gnawed at the
old fence-posts. Strangely enough, they
did not attempt to dig. As the day
lengthened, so they massed even harder
against the fence, to be suffocated in
waves.
The hot wind came, and as the sun
mounted it grew in strength. Like fleas
jumping on the floor of a dog’s kennel,
so a never-ending succession of rabbits
leaped high, screamed shrilly and fell
back.
That night we again ate rabbit stew. |
Rooster Williams was improving with
practice.
When darkness came, temporary re-
prieve was given to millions. From our
bunks we could hear rabbits gnawing at
the netting in a fearful assault on the
barrier. The attackers were starving, and
yet, because of the order to “go east,”
they never thought to return westward,
even for a little distance, where they
could still have found sustenance.
THE next day the sun began its work
early, assisted by a hot northerly. It
was as though a windstorm had blown j
dead buckbush against the barrier, so '
high were the waves of smothered rabbits
crested with living animals still reaching
upward with outstretched forepaws, j
Little mounds of them lay everywhere,
but not a rabbit lay further back from
the fence than ten yards. The army had
delivered its assault. To a unit it fought
to death. Gradually, the number of
rabbits jumping high in the death-leap
diminished, until at noon that astounding
manifestation of life was stilled. For
forty miles there lay a festering horror.
The north wind brought with it
detached fur fibres, invisible to eyes
habitually semi-closed to withstand the j
sun glare. The fibres were caught by
face bristles, and produced a tormenting
itch. They were drawn up into nostrils,
and produced violent sneezing. They |
were drawn down parched throats, and J
caused racking coughing.
From a warm, musty smell began the
stench of death.
Came the carrion birds. The hitherto
invisible eagles sank to the fence and
neighboring trees. They drew down
with them eagles from adjoining areas,
and in turn these drew eagles from
further afield. The crows came out of
space, and the daylight hours were
shocked by their uproar.
And we, returning to camp, mentally
unbalanced by the torture of the fur
fibres, came to see Rooster Williams
stirring the contents of a large billy.
“Come on! ” he shouted cheerfully.
“Rabbit stoo for supper.”
And then Snooker Fred employed his
adjective between words as well as be-
tween the syllables of words. After all,
the Rooster deserved what he got. He'
was crowned with his rabbit stew.


“THE AGE’’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household ' publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, defending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which dav by dav cov.ers the broadest possible
survey of the' world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or' busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE" FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National 5 Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use t
Clk mercury I
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury’* is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-,
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, .LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office; Newspaper House, Collins St.
V F. RIEUSSSET, ‘Representative.
Tell Your Story
to REAL Buyers
“'pHE NEWS,” even-
i'ng daily, plays a
big part in Adelaide’s
evening home life . . .
It’s the family circle
which buys your goods
... get your story in
there.
Advertise in Adelaide’s
Only Evening Paper
“THE NEWS”
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace.
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House.. Collins
street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post’
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
cairy vour message into the broken HiU
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
“Th 6 Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Uet Building. Sydney; B. J. McCartney.
Newspaper House, Melbourne Advt.
department. News. Ltd., Adelaide.
the EXAMINER ANNUAL, 1935
NOW ON SALE
THE FIRST ISSUE is acclaimed
produced in TASMANIA. A
reached Vat high standard,” “Above
field of "Annuals,” are among some
everywhere as the best yet
beautiful “Has
anything I have seen in the
of the opinions received.
Copies obtainable from
Gordon & Gotch (Aust.) Ltd., Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, or Perth.
Published by W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD.; Launceston,
Proprietors of The Examiner (Daily) and Satur^ ay A^ ven,^ g lh^'le .
Representatives; R. R. Brett. London; Mervyn S. Allen, Melbourn ,
W. Dougan, Sydney.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
“Better,” said Miss Daunt truthfully; “much
better.”
Her splendid anger, her godlike disgust of lesser
minds were giving way to a dreary feeling that it was
all her own fault. She had flirted with Paul. Only
out of idleness, of course, and in a manner which she
had deemed rustic and pastoral, after the style of an
Augustan shepherdess in china or Celia coquetting
with Sylvius. And then her mind rose again on the
turn of the wheel. She’d show Tiburon that it
couldn’t dictate to her. And round on a circle again.
11.
It came upon Jessica more and more strongly
that she would like to see Sorrell and Polly. They
were the kind of people who were restful, and they at
least could have nothing to do with this gossip. She
had avoided Paul on Sunday, and did not go to
church ; but on the Tuesday evening she saddled the
fat horse and jolted into town.
Unfortunately, she chose the very night when
Bill was out. Polly, however, greeted her cheerfully
at the door.
“Come on in,” she cried. “Another of my boy
friend’s girl friends.” She helped Jessica hang up
her hat and coat and led her in to powder her nose.
“It’s a meeting,” she hissed under her breath, indicat-
ing a murmur of voices in the sitting-room—“the
Charities Committee. I’m on it—got to be —that’s
why Bill’s out. He never could mix with old Mother
Claufield.
“I’ll go,” Jessica said hastily. “1 should have
called on Phil Alwin, anyway.”
“No. Slay and support me” —Polly dragged her
arm. “You’re a godsend. Besides, you can help hand
round supper.”
With Polly’s firm clutch on her arm it was im-
possible to escape, and Jessica was led reluctantly
along the hall into Polly’s drawing-room, which was
almost unrecognisable beneath the crush of femininity.
It might have been her imagination, but there
seemed to be a slightly artificial touch in the smiles
and nods that greeted her introduction. Mrs. Clau-
field, very delicate in dove-grey, relegated her, with
a little move of her hand, to a chair which Polly
brought in, and continued with the business of the
meeting.
“I still think the committee should have the right
to exclude the undesirable element,”*she said sweetly.
“Will you read out the motion and the amendment,
please, Mrs. Ilford?”
Mrs. Ilford, as secretary, duly gabbled off a
motion to the effect that the Charity Committee
proceed to devote its energies towards giving a Christ-
mas dinner to the unemployed.
“It’s such a wonderful idea,” Mrs. Hicks, sitting
next to Jessica, whispered to Polly. “So reverent /
To think that at least on one day of the year those
poor people will really have more than enough to
eat. There is so much of the genuine Christmas spirit
about it. That one day of the year”
“Sure,” said Polly cautiously.
They were taking a vote on the amendment.
“Well, since you ladies have decided to devote
the committee’s time and attention to raising this—
this dinner,” Mrs. Claufield summed up, “perhaps
we should now get down to the practical details.
Naturally there must be a sub-committee to collect
donations, and, let us say, another sub-committee to
attend to the actual catering and waiting at table
when this dinner takes place.”.
“Wouldn’t it be better if we just hired a cafe."
Mrs. Ilford suggested, “and left it to the cafe people
to do the actual serving and all that?”
“I’m sure,” said stout Mrs. Perry when the idea
was fully explained to her, “on Christmas Day 111
be too busy cooking for my own, and you must
remember that we’ll sit down fourteen, not counting
Mr. Perry’s cousin Ada and her three children, who’ll
be motoring over in the morning. I’m sure you can t
expect me, Mrs. Claufield, to go down to any hall
or cafe and go feeding a lot of men when 1 ought
to be home looking after my own. Charity begins at
home is what I say.”
And poor Mrs. Perry sat back in r her armchair
very flustered at having made such a long speech.
“No, no, Mrs. Perry,” Mrs.. Claufield soothed
her. “Naturally, with your responsibilities—but per-,
haps some of the other ladies” -
None of the other ladies seemed keen.
“1 move we just advertise that anyone who wants
it can have dinner at the Garden of Desire and wc 11
pay for it,” Mrs.' Ilford said in a bored tone. She
glanced across at Jessica curiously, and then shitted
her eyes when the girl turned her head. “1 wondci
how it feels,” Mrs. Ilford was thinking, “to have a
farmhand make love to you.” .
“Only genuine cases,”, Mrs. Darch was restricting.
“None of these drunken‘men who hang round the
hotels.” .
“That reminds me.” Mrs. Hicks put in. “I he
O’Briens always give a Christmas dinner to anyone
who really needs it. And beer. Mrs. O Brien told
me they could eat as much as they liked.”
The other ladies gave the impression that Mrs,
Hicks had created a breach of good taste by mention-
ing the eccentric habits of the hotelkeeper.
“Order, order.” Mrs. Claufield tapped with her
little silver pencil. “I have a suggestion to make.
Suppose that instead of a Christmas dinner to all and
sundry we concentrate on the distribution of a certain
number of hampers to families in need. If we could
get the hampers together a week before Christmas
that would npt come quitejso close to the busy season,
would it? And a sub-committee could be set up to
see'to the distribution.” !
There was a general | murmur of approval.
“And also,” said Mrs. Claufield, “we will need
a committee to attend to ithe donations.’
“I’m certainly not going to be bn it,” spoke up
Mrs. Sam Harper firmly.' “My feet get that sore
I can hardly stand at the ,end of the day. . I think
me and ..Mrs. Benson, seeing we did the canvassing
for Mothers’ Day, ought 'to be let off this time.”
This rather daunted any other possible members
of the sub-committee. They hung back.
“Come now,” Mrs. Claufield reproved the meet-
ing. '* “Suppose .we suggest you for the committee,
Miss Fulcornbe?” ’j ' j
Miss Fulcornbe, being young,and frightened, was
on the committee before she could stammer a protest.
“And how about you, Mrs. Mac Leary?” Mrs.
Mac Leary did not like to refuse. “And now one
more. Mrs. Gordon? Very well, Mrs. Gordon, if
you’d prefer not. Will you, Mrs. Hicks?” Mrs.
Hicks didn’t mind. “Thank you. And now for the
matter of finance.”
“We might be able to get Mr. Barnes to put on
a show,” Mrs. Gordon suggested. She liked to see
her daughter Olive act.
“He may not be here. The holidays will not be
long now.” , ... „
“Well, we'll need extra money to buy little things
for the hampers. Suppose we say a dance.
A dance was finally decided on, to be called the
Charity Ball. . „ ..
“Oh, and before we go any turther Mrs.
Claufield consulted her notes—“how many are likely
to apply for hampers?”
The meeting did not know.
“There’s a lot of them,” Mrs. Traves said
cautiously, “seeing all the rain there’s been and no
one making much over harvest. Then there s a Jo
of pea-pickers working on a sliding scale , they didn
get as much as they were expecting, the market being
what it was.” , • . .
She noticed that the rest of the ladies were ook-
ing at her a little surprised as though her plebeian
knowledge did her no credit. “Of course, I couldnt
really say how. many there’d be,” she finished weakly,
“but there’ll be a good few.’
“Thank you,” said Mrs. Claufield, a little coldly.
“There’s a lot of travellers camped out at Warn-
ing Hill,” Mrs. Mac Leary volunteered. “But they 11
all have moved on by Christmas.
“Don’t worry” Mrs. Ilford looked round with
an amused little smile. “The poor we have always
with us.” . .
Jessica rose to her feet for all Polly s detaining
hand.
“l”_ — S he began, but Polly got there first.
“You’ll excuse us,” she said. “Miss Daunt is
going to give me a hand with supper in the kitchen.
She pinched Jessica’s arm warningly.
“Mutt,” she said when they were away from
the sudden silence that had fallen on the Chaiity
Committee. “You must learn to keep quiet. Get out
those biscuits.” .
Jessica breathed hard. “The fat cows! she said
vulgarly. .. . „ t .
“Exactly.” The rector’s wife nodded. Just put
that kettle on, like a good lass, and less cheek from
you. You just remember that Mother Claufield,
Ilford and co. think they own this village, and no
one’s allowed to breathe when they’re about.
“I don’t care twopence for their old committee.
“I know. But, believe me, the things they’d have
said about you if you’d said what you looked as
though you were going to say”— Polly had got
a bit mixed, so she lapsed into silence and cut cake
viciously. “I wish that woman really would leave
Tiburon,” she said at last. “She’s had as many fare-
wells as a mailboat.” She went to the cupboard and
returned with little lacy covers to put on the cake
plates. ; . ~ ltT „.
“Well, that looks like the lot,” Jessica said. 111
be going. Can I get out the back way?
“Don’t be an idiot. You can’t go without a
word.”
But, despite Mrs. Sorrell’s whispered protests,
Jessica let herself out the back door. The faithful
Polly braved the drawing-room, and, securing Jessica's
hat and coat, brought them down to the back fence,
where the horse was tethered.
“But what am I to say to them, you idiot?
she pleaded, trying to make herself heard above
Browser’s barking.
“I don’t know. If you don’t go back the kettle
will be boiling over.” And Jessica slipped away.
{To be continued next week.)


MORE Convincing Proof
that Dr. Sheldons Gin Pills will end
BACKACHE & RHEUMATISM
JN order to remove any indecision that you
may still have, we publish a few testi-
monials that we have received from grateful
users of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
This well-known and reliable Kidney
Tonic has brought relief to tens of thousands
of sufferers of Backache and Rheumatism.
There are no dangerous or harmful drugs
in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. They can be
taken by anyone, no matter how old or young,
and their composition is such that they cannot
help but do you good.
„
WONDERFUL RELIEF.
“For many years I suffered
with my kidneys and was un-
successful in finding a remedy
that would give relief until I
commenced taking Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, which gave won-
derful relief and cured me of
dreadful backache.”
Mrs. F. HADLEY,
Brighton St., Richmond, Vic.
ANOTHER BACKACHE
GONE.
“Having suffered for years with
kidney trouble and always with dreadful
backache, and trying so many remedies
without success, I was advised to try
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. They are
really wonderful, and have completely
cured me of a very long-standing
trouble.”
Mrs. O. M. MEARS,
Augustus St., Enmore, N.S.W.
j
EXCELLENT
FOR RHEUMATISM.
“/ am sending lids testimonial
to let yon know how wonderfullv
your Gin Pills have benefited
myself, wife and two grown-up
children. We have found them
excellent for Backache and
Rheumatism, and have been free
from illness ever since we had
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills In our
Medicine Chest.”
Mr. GEORGE CHRISTIE,
Gilbert St., Gilberton, S.A.
No matter how long you have suffered, nor what you have tried before, you
will definitely get lasting relief by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. They are made
for one purpose only—to end Kidney Trouble and its many allied ailments, such as
Backache, Rheumatism, Stiff, Swollen Joints, Lumbago, Inflammation of the Bladder
and all Uric-acid Complaints.
D 8 SHELDON'S
27 Pills 1/9; 60 Pills 2/9
ĵ
Here is an opportunity of testing Dr.
Sheldon s Gin Pills without any cost, other
than Id. stamp to pay for postage. If your
Kidneys are the cause of your ill-health, you
will notice a marked improvement by the
time you finish this sample. Naturally the
wise thing to do is to continue taking Dr.
Sheldon s Gin Pills until your trouble has
completely vanished.
POST COUPON NOW!
&
A 0
c»V> .•••'
/// :■■■ .-
i* A4>'
4- *
sv ' ~
!&
c\ cS
s \0 S
■.# ■’ &
*o
*•
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
m
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment,
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/~.)
*.
,<A ❖
V.* ...»
v e
A'
c,i
kV® oV
»e u
a' 6
*'° *>"
vO^
t-’
s *
0*
.-*** ..••■■\^p e ts
.•** ,\ *>V vV 0<
v° \^sA^'


YOU LIVE BUT ONCE !
Let the realisation of this fact
commend you to a Plan which will tend to make your
life the complete and contented life it should be —
Some day you will be 55, 60 or 65 —
What steps are you taking to
guarantee to yourself some financial security for the
autumn of life?
A relatively small monthly contribution will guar-
antee a substantial cash sum at a selected age,
say 55, 60 or 65. Our method of saving is ideal.
It makes certain provision for your future, and at
the same time provides substantial compensation
for your dependents should you not reach the
selected age. You cannot secure a more attrac-
tive and complete Savings Plan. Contributions as
low as 10/- per month will be accepted. Don’t
put off till to-morrow what you should do to-day.
Your future comfort is in your own hands.
ACT NOW!
A special representative will, if requested, call and discuss this very important
subject with you All enquiries receive individual attention.
U/ye
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
The Largest Mutual Office in Australasia conducting business
on the “Ordinary” Premium basis only.
The “National Mutual”is conducted for the benefit of its
policyholders only. There are NO SHAREHOLDERS.
Assurances in force exceed £108,000,000.
OfflC08! OsW 3.1 d St* CicllTy
350 George Street, Sydney. Manager.
