

7
“If you have friends, pre-
pare to snap them now!”
You never know when the moment
for the perfect snap may arrive, so
slip a Kodak film into your Kodak—
and keep it handy.
Make snapshots of the children at
each opportunity, and never be with-
out your Kodak during every holiday
—week-ends —or annual leave.
Kodak offers a wonderful range of
new models, at popular prices, too,
that will not need a very deep dip
into the average purse.
Be sure to inspect them.
mm.
BROWNIES.
The most popular cameras i
the world. There are tbor
oughly dependable modal
from as low as 6/-.
That illustrated above i;
model’s hand is the Brown)
Six-20, for pictures 21 x 3
inches, priced at 19/6. Th
Brownie Six-16, for pictun
2-J x 4i inches, is 24/-.
Fitted with new Di-way lens,
ensuring sharper pictures o!
near and distant subject
Fixed focus, with “time” and
“instantaneous” shutter.
KODAK SIX-20 an
SIX-16 Juniors.
The Six-20s make picture:-
2J x 3i inches and th
iix-16s 2} x 4i inches. Thcr.
.is a wonderful range o
nodels. In the Six-20 you
can have a splendid camera
titled with f/8.8 Anastigmat
for as low as 47/6, or th<
Slx-16 with an f/7.7 Anastig-
mat at 67/6, or with f/6..‘
Anastigmat at £4/17/6.
WITH THE
CINE-KODAK / EIGH I
AT £l3
Vou can make your own splen
lid Horae Movies on Bmir
dm—movies that will brin
happiness, because it record
ipipiness, too! The movie
an be made by you just a
easily as regular snapshots.
Make this season the mo>
.■xciting ever—instal Kodu
dome Movies. Ask fo
"mofliSt ration, or write foi
complete printed matter.
KODAK RETINA.
larvellous Value al
English List Price—
£lo/10/-
ligh precision miniatur
amera—makes 36 pictun
U x 1 inch on 35mm. cini
ilm. Daylight loading—
©thing new to learn.
'itted f/3.5 Xenar Anastig
at iri the new Compur Speed
•butter to l/500th second.
KODAK SIX-20 DUO.
SPLENDID VALUE AT
£B.
intriguing model, classed as
miniature, makes pictures
2-i x 1| inches, large enough
for contacts, make splendid
enlargements to any size. With
f/4.5 Anastigrnat in Compur
Shutter —speeds to l/300th —
price £B. With faster f/3.5
ens, £lO.
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (-Aust.) PTY., LTD.
379 Qf.orge Street, Sydney; Kodak House, 233 Collins Street,
. , r „ , , , Melbourne, C.l; 330-253 Queen Street, Brisbane; 37 Bundle
Street Adelaide; -55 Elisabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthvcn Street, Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville,
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 163 Queen Street, Auckland; 70 Princes Street, Dunedin; 29-5 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2902.
Australia and Japan
Wednesday, September 25, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transm ssion by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for (935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
at HOMfl
Particulars Free to You!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAUL
Please send, •without obligation, particulars of
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING,
as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 335
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which, will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year's
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose w'ork that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the secorid competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de phone, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AMERICAN
SYMPHONY
If this heading
has misled the
musical, they
should stop at
once. There will
be nothing here
of music, save the compliment of bor-
rowing a word from it for convenience.
A book may be like looking along a
great road or down a drain ; it may be
like a picture or like being tangled in
a fishnet. These shifts of the critic are
convenient, and carry an implied
apology. This book, then, is like some
huge music, an orchestration of a tre-
mendous amount of sensuous feeling;
and otherwise, too, it is work out of the
ordinary.
It is Thomas Wolfe’s novel, Of Time
and the River, a formidable volume. Not
a formidable book—that is another sort
of thing. A book of higher mathematics,
or the niodern psychology, or, especi-
ally, this last foisted on to you as
literary criticism, might be so described.
A formidable book is never anything
else but formidable, even more so after
it is read than before. But Doughty,
say, if one had not heard favorably and
sensibly about him, would have been a
formidable volume for two); and who,
having read him, would think of him as
a formidable hook for one minute—
would not go back eagerly to him in any
spare half-hour? It is in this sense that
the word is applied to Wolfe’s huge opus.
Anyone who had read his earlier novel
would know that there could not help
but be writing of great beauty and value
here as well. He would know that here
fine subtleties of character as well as
physical appearances would be realised,
(he place would live as a pulling, nos-
talgic reality, and the experience of life
he was privileged to share would be the
writer’s own, and hot something got at
second-hand from other writers or falsely
invented. But, unless the reader had all
time to play in, the volume—9l2 pages,
nearly half a million words—could still
be formidable, as a volume.
Even as a book; a novel, it might
seem vaguely so, too, if Wolfe had been
read before. The reader would think
then of the vast loose outline of this*
author’s narrative, the rolling onward
torrent of his prose, and (he American
place and people asf they are known to
him, and that much, at least, of the novel
would be familiar already. It is not un-
likely, either, that after reading it the
reader’s fears that jlhcre was going to
he too much of it mfght seem well justi-
fied. But it could hardly be thought of
any longer as a formidable book. The
reader must have known disappoint-
ments. He could have felt that the figure
who dominates in the narrative is only
occasionally fully realised, that for one
whose thoughts are sb rich and vigorous
he is incredibly inarticulate, that he is
too often ridiculous; and. when he is
not that, too vague to leave any impres-
sion of a convincingly great character.
The first two-thirds of the novel is set
in America, and this is glorious writing
much more often than not; but when
the scene shifts to Europe, which it does
for the rest of the book, something
dfessed-up, slightly false, artificial, comes
into if. There are saving scenes —one of
the books few bits of good broad
humor, for example, when the ambassa-
dor to arrange a duel is bought off with
a roll of notes out of a woman’s purse,
not an isolated, though the most biting,
criticism of French meanness —but the
people here are all slightly wrong, they
have turned into caricatures of them-
selves, and, again, the frequent tendency
of the author to let his people talk at
great length about very little, as if they
were all richly gifted like himself, here
runs riot, and a couple of these cari-
catures can take a thousand words to say
nothing. Mere surface description re-
places the searching examination of the
American scene, and it seems that here
Wolfe is merely looking at things with-
out much feeling. These disappointments
the reader must surely have known and
readily forgiven.
The Lost ,
Homeless
People
What the author
really has to give
the reader is well
given before that.
The reality, the
achievement of
the book. lies in
the magnificent way in which it bodies
forth the place of America. Not the
shallow, cheap and superficial America
that wc know from general report, but the
America that thousands and thousands
of the sensitive but inarticulate youth of
the country would doubtless be truly
though vaguely aware of—as we have a
glittering Australia, as yet unrealised
wholly by any writer, though by taking
the worth of all the sincere ones together
we can make a sort of patchwork place
that approximates to it.
Even from here, and against the silly
place it often seems to us, it is impos-
sible to miss the truth of this America
that Wolfe sees, or, rather, that he knows
through his fine senses appreciating it
in a frenzied hunger to absorb it all and
utter it afresh. He is the first to realise
that it is a great and wonderful place in
quite the way that he does, but others
have unconsciously expressed iff His
theme is its awful homelessness, and to
that there are a thousand signposts, from
the frantic homeless life of Poe to “Ole
Man River,” from the nostalgic senti-
mentalising of the homeless author of
“Home, Sweet Home” to (he homeless
characters of Sinclair Lewis and O.
Henry, Hervey Allen and a score of
others. But it is here from Wojfe that
we first have consciously the key to this
characteristic of the accidental and liter-
ary expression of the country. He says
of one character; “Like all men in this
land, he had been a wanderer, an exile
on the immortal earth. Like all of us
he had no home. Wherever great wheels
carried him was home.” He utters the
loneliness of it: “We are so lost, so
lonely, so forsaken in America.” Not a
loneliness of gloom, though, as we con-
ceive loneliness here, or as our writers
do, all-fearfully and perhaps even a little
cowardly and meanly, but loneliness with
enchantments arid enchanted beauty. In
the vastness of his work there are scores
of passages where he dwells insistently
upon this: and it is out of this he evolves
his vast and beautiful conception of
America. Its nights fascinate him, with
their associations of enchanted loneli-
ness: he is for ever crossing over the
country in its roaring trains ; absorbing
it; obsessed with the feel and sound and
sight of it. He listens to it, senses it
and re-creates it magnificently. It is not
a picture that he hands on: that is the
last shallow thing it could be called. It
is a huge orchestration. It is a fury of
sound welling up in a great silence of
words, and if it were not the business
of a critic to speak, it might well be
received and accepted in silence.
What the new-novel addict might
think of it doubtless does not matter
much. Perhaps he would not care for it.
He might want to know what it is about,
and, being the new-novel addict, might
not think much of the answer that it- is
about America. But that is really what
it is about, all of it that is of value.
It could not help much to give a thin
outline of its story. The thread of that
is fastened to a young Southerner, hag-
ridden by the loneliness which is whaf
the author seeks to express of America,
and forced qn by the fury and hunger
of life which is only a more expressive
way of saying youth. Vigorous, vital,
masculine, introspective and keenly sen-
sitive, his experience of life in the South,
at Harvard, Boston and in the Europe
towards which these “lost” Americans
lean is what would come inevitably to
one of his peculiar character. It is ex-
perience shaped and formed chiefly by
the feelings seeking expression within
himself, but influenced by his own
people, friends, acquaintances and all
the occurrences and accidents embraced
in the rather loose definition of a Des-
tiny which shapes our ends. It would
be futile and misleading to pretend to
follow this thread through all its twist-
ings and tangles, ft touches upon an
assortment of characters of all kinds
solid men, eccentrics, girls and women,
beautiful.and otherwise, most of them
clearly realised, and it winds about the
country, in and out of college rooms,
into hotels, restaurants and such places.
Wolfe’s
Notable
Prose
Its track is not
in any way con-
fusing to fol-
low; there is no-
thing in the least
confusing about
Wolfe: his state-
ment is as clear and straightforward as
his prose is often rich and weighted and
beautiful. It is simply that the thread
is only a thread, a strong one holding all
the surrounding things to a pattern, but
itself of no other importance. The
reader might very well never want to
follow its course again. But he might
put the book aside with passage after
passage of fine prose marked or remem-
bered for further enjoyment. One ex-
tract may provide an idea of the quality,
though it is given here doubtfully, since
it conveys nothing of Wolfe's many-
sided interests, and since a fairly large
and superb book could be made out of
his obsession in trains alone:- —
But now the train was coming. Down
the powerful shining tracks a half-mile
away, the huge black snout of the loco-
motive swung slowly round the magnificent
bend and tlarc of the rails that went into
the yards of Altamont two miles
away, and' with short explosive thunders
of its squat funnel came barging slowly
• forward. Across the golden pollenatcd
■ haze of the warm autumnal afternoon they
watched it with numb lips and an empty
hollowness of fear, delight and sorrow in
their hearts....
Then the locomotive drew in upon them,
loomed enormously above them, and slowly
swept by. them with a terrific drive of
eight-locked pistoned wheels, all higher
than their heads, a savage furnace-flare
of heat, a hard, hose-thick hiss of steam,
a moment’s vision of a lean old head, an
old'gloved hand of cunning on the throttle,
a glint of demon hawk-eyes fixed forever
on the rails, a huge tangle of gauges,
levers, valves and throttles, and the
goggled, blackened face of the fireman,
lit by an intermittent hell of flame, as he
bent and swayed with rhythmic swing of
laden shovel at his furnace doors.
The locomotive passed above them,
darkening the sunlight from their faces. . ..
That is only a fragment out of the
journey's beginning, but it may perhaps
hint of the force that is in the work as
a whole. The night in the train which
immediately follows it, for instance, is
an epic of train travel —the familiar,
accustomed experience which is a com-
monplace to all of us transfigured into
a great and wonderful and heroic ad-
venturing. These are the things that
seem to matter, to be of value, in the
book, and they can be garnered in it by
the dozen.
Red Page.
[Of Time and the River, by Thomas Wolfe
(Heinemann; to sell in Australia at 12s.) ]
Australian
Fiction
Dialogue
Dialogue has
two main func-
tions—to give in-
formation in a
short and graphic
form, and to etch
in individual
traits of character. The speech used in
Australian fiction, as a general rule,
fulfils the former purpose. That it does
not lend itself to quotation is due to
trivial substance rather than to fault of
form. It signally fails, however, in its
second purpose. The author is so intent
on his history that he forgets to make
his characters distinctive.
A student of English literature, hear-
ing a scrap of dialogue from a novel
by George Eliot or Charles Dickens, will
readily identify the character speaking.
The individual speech of such people as
Mrs. Poyser and Bartle Massey is un-
mistakable. The Dickensian tags,
“ ’umhle,” “dem’d” and “something will
turn up,” become monotonous through
repetition ; but. as they embody the domi-
nant trail of the speaker, they call up
at once the figures of Uriah Heep, Man-
talini and Micawbcr.
Not so in the Australian novel. A few
of the best of our novelists maintain that
the want of diversity in the dialogue of
their characters is true to life—as Aus-
tralians have a compulsory basic educa-
tion, there is little variation in Australian
speech, socially or geographically. True ;
but there are variations ; and. if flat char-
acterisation is to be avoided, the writer
must sharpen his observation, and train
his ear to catch significant idioms and
individual usage of words and phrases.
These are the few, however; most of
our writers take the easy way. They
divide Australians into the educated and
the illiterate, according to occupation or
distance from a capital city. It is the
presentation of these “illiterates” that
makes so much of our fiction unreal and
unsatisfactory. Instead of studies from
life, the authors give us bad copies of
conventions from a bygone social age.
They try to express illiteracy through
grammatical error and mispronunciation
—both invented for the purpose. The
typical Australian grammatical lapses, “I
seen,” “I done,” “I would have went,”
“We was,” and the genteel female’s “For
you and 1” go unnoticed.
The attempts to show phonetically the
speech of the uneducated are ridiculous.
Writers must fancy (hey sec the words
spelt in letters out of the mouths of their
characters. Else, why do they write
“sed,” “shure,” “becos,” “agen” to show
illiteracy? Many variations of the
primary vowel sounds in English cannot
he differentiated in writing. Nor can the
written word convey the cadence of the
voice, the stress on a syllable or the
clinching or slurring of the final con-
sonant.
Mispronunciation follows the line of
least resistance. Then, what excuse is
there for writing “Ycr said” and “ter
go”? And what for the overworked
apostrophe to mark elision? For even
a university professor, in his ordinary
conversation, docs not give full value to
every sound in such words as “your,”
“can,” “and,” “are” when in unstressed
positions.
John Truran's Green Mallee is a strik-
ing example of a novel spoilt by bad
dialogue. The scenes of farming life in
the Malice arc set down with photo-
graphic accuracy ; and the story, though
thin, is sufficient to hold the interest. The
colloquialisms and turns of speech of
Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING I'—our 1 '—our policy which knows no deviation.
“THE SENIOR STORE”—“While I Live 111 Grow.'
r
m
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Guarantee and Recommend
i
sV)' F ob mekt
I AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH -
R_:v-jr v«K'&' •.jL.' =r. i
Regd. Trade Mark.
Quality Underwear Obtainable Only at Anthony Horderns’
“Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right protection against changeable weather. Its native
warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected long-staple Pure Woollen Yarn the
soft downlike surface of the fabric is flawless, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is Australian through and through. It is made in light weight for
summer wear.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is guaranteed unshrinkable, and the wide range of sizes stocked enables
every man to obtain a comfortable fit. Wear “Jumbuk” Underwear this summer!
IDEAL WEAR FOR SUMMER!
mmm
$
:
WKm
K>y?.
m
tm | ; H Wwjt
V!
SK-SKS
:
m&yk
■
w
.T ; -
V * y W " :
% : :,' ■■ ' ■ V-
''£■ h*t * *f J
AT RlGHT—
“Jumbuk” Wool and Cotton.
Light weight.
Shirts, short sleeves —
Underpants—
ABOVE—
“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Light weight.
Sizes, inches .. .. 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 7/ 7/3 7/9 8/6 9/3 10/3 11/6 12/9 14/
Underpants .. ..8/- 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/3 12/6 13/9 13/-
Tmnk Drawers .. 7/9 8/- 8/6 9/3 10/- 11/- 12/3 13/6
• Men’s Underwear —Ground Floor. George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.
s
)
)i ■'<*
v - £
M* it
Men’s “Jumbuk” Combinations. Light-
weight All Wool with short sleeves and trunk
legs.
Sizes, inches, chest 34 36 38
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 16/- 17/ 18/
Sizes, inches, chest 40 42 44
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 19/- 20/ 20/9
Long legs, 6d. extra.
Boys’ “JUMBUK” Underwear—Finished Like His Father’s!
Boys’ “Jumbuk” Undershirts of Natural All Wool. Light in
weight, and made with short sleeves.
Sizes, inches, chest . . 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Prices .. .. 4/6 4/9 3/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/-
‘‘Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets in light-weight Cream All Wool.
Sleeveless style, and the sizes range from 22 to 32 inch chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . - • • • . • . . 2/11
Natural Wool and Cotton Light-weight Undershirts.
Short sleeves.
Sizes, inches, chest . . 22 24 26 28 30 32
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/ 5/3 5/6
• Boys’ Mercery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or First Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
’Phone: M 240 1,
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
LIMITED
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Every Sufferer from
INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[JJ Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
.protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again. .
Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witts
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
ITT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and.
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt’e
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain,the genuine product —
De WITT'S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
the Mallee folk are carefully noted—for
instance, the local usage of the word
“auction.” But the overlabored dialect
keeps the eye and ear on the strain
and tires the reader. Here are a few
extract's:
A Yorkshireman: “Nay, ah’m sorry,
but ah’m reight aht o’ baccy nah. Gan-
nan to be a cowd neet, ain’t it?”
A Cockney lad: “A blowke be nyme o’
Kenworth, it was. ’lm yer towld me abaht,
that d’y in the sulky. I’m gowin’ ter
work fer ’im nah.”
A Malice farmer: “ ’E’s camped agen
our fence still, with ’is fambly.”
A Malice girl: “I’d never ’a’ known yer
was more’n thirty, ’pon me sowl I
wouldn’t if yer ’adn’t said as much ycr-
sclf.”
A policeman, presumably Irish: “Come
on, me boys; time to be movin’. They’ll
be after cleanin’ the place up now.”
“They’ll be after cleanin’!” To an
Irishman this sounds as sensible as
“They’ll clean it up yesterday!” For —
notwithstanding the copyists of Synge
the copyist—there is no future-perfect
tense in Gaelic.
Katharine Prichard, in her later novels,
has mastered the art of natural, signifi-
cant speech. Cock-eyed Bob (in Coonar-
doo), addicted to boasting to cover a
feeling of inferiority, is telling some tall
yarns of his experiences, “Go on, Bob!”
says Hugh at length. Recognition of the
falsehood, good-humored protest, the
bushman’s easy tolerance of the weak-
ness of his fellows—all are expressed in
that terse Australian idiom. Again:
Bob, with his chief solace, his homemade
violin, has drawn enraptured to the
singer, the town-bred Jessica. He proudly
shows his instrument. “I made that
myself,” he says. “Why?” is the cool
comment. “ Why ?” A page of narrative
description could not more clearly dis-
close the trivial soul of the singer.
A fragment of speech from F. D.
Davison’s Man-Shy lingers in the
memory. At long last the red heifer had
been branded, but she still stood cower-
ing. The stockman flapped her with his
hat. “All over now, Jemima?” he said.
Those few words give psychological in-
sight. The stockman, though inured to
the inevitable brutality of handling cattle,
can still feel sympathy for a tempera-
mental female making, as he thinks, an
unnecessary to-do.
The idiomatic speech of the people
around us, terse and pregnant, set down
without distortion—that is what we
would like to find in Australian novels
and short stories.
CLUAN.
A Book
of Australian
Bees
To read Tarl-
ton Rayment’s A
Cluster of Bees
(Endeavour Press;
215.) is to be
guided into what
had been a
neglected and hitherto almost unexplored
country. It is true that hidden away in
obscure scientific periodicals there existed
many papers, by the American Dr. T.
D, A. Cockerell and others, containing
descriptions of Australian bees, but de-
tails of their habits and life histories
could be sought almost in vain. An
enormous number of different species of
Australian insects have been named by
systematists, but we possess not one iota
of information concerning their lives and
habits, or even what forms their food.
From this desert it is a relief to turn to
a book like Mr. Rayment’s, where so
much space is devoted to a record of the
lives and ways of this curious little
people. Here, at last, is a book dealing
adequately with our bees.
This book will come as a revelation to
many—that we have so many different
kinds of bees native to Australia and the
complexity of their lives. Also, it un-
locks the door leading into a wonderful
world of little lives, of strange habits
and still stranger instincts. We find, for
instance, that the honey-producers are
but a small minority ; again, we are in-
troduced to carpenters and masons,
miners tunnelling in sand or resistant
sandstone, and pastrycooks who concoct
savory cakes of honey and pollen for
the food and delectation of their young.
Of special interest is the chapter on our
stingless native bees, no larger than
flies; and it will come as a surprise
to most that the slingless bee has a wide
range throughout the more tropical parts
of the globe. This chapter is, perhaps,
the first account, with any pretensions to
completeness, which has so far appeared
in a readily accessible form, dealing with
the curious habits of these tiny insects
which store up their dark honey in cells
of brown wax—a thing delectable to the
aborigine under the name of “honey-
bag.”
The general reader will find inexhaust-
ible fascination in those sections of the
book which deal with the lives and
economy of all these wise little creatures,
while for the specialist detailed accounts
are given setting out the characters of
each genus of Australian bees, and ,a
further section contains descriptions of
one hundred bees new to science which
must be added to our list of species—
already large, numbering no fewer than
925 when the last census was made some
years ago. Chapters are interspersed
through the book dealing with ants,
thrips, flies and other creatures with,
perhaps, but remote connection, with the
story of the bees.
Criticism is perhaps invidious in a
book of this nature, but it must be said
that Mr. Rayment has attempted a diffi-
cult—perhaps impossible—task when he
set himself to write a book at once scien-
tific and popular. The scientific worker
will undoubtedly find much to his distaste
in the popular chapters, and the general
reader will be disconcerted by the tech-
nical portions interspersed through the
book, which he will, no doubt, term “dry
as dust.” One cannot please both sec-
tions, but even the serious worker will
find the general chapters a mine of
hitherto unavailable information.
The black-and-white plates and num-
erous text-figures, which are from Mr.
Rayment’s facile pen, are a delight, and
must be commended for their clarity and
accuracy. The minute details of struc-
ture included in many of the plates will
receive the blessing of many systematists
in elucidating knotty points in the deter-
mination of insects belonging to this
admittedly difficult group.
An immense amount of patient and
expert observation, extending over many
years, is evident in the text of the book.
Australia owes much to Mr. Rayment
for his comprehensive work.
The Endeavour Press has produced in
this lavishly illustrated book something
worthy of the contents. The printing,
paper and binding make the volume a
delight to handle.
K. C. McKEOWN.
A Satchel of Books
A Girl Died Laughing, by Viola Para-
dise (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Yet another
beautiful woman has been foully slaugh-
tered to provide entertainment for a lot
of callous readers who will probably
complain because she wasn’t twins. The
dreadful deed is done in America, the
girl being cut off in her youth and a
fancy-dress costume whilst uttering a
burst of happy laughter. Who did this
thing? The author knows, but keeps it
to herself until the second-last chapter,
the reader meanwhile distributing his
seething suspicions among all the mem-
bers of a museum staff. Fairish enter-
tainment.
Tramp Royal in Spain, by Matt Mar-
shall (Blackwood ; 6s. net). Good read-
able travel stuff, of the kind written by
one who deliberately sets out to “do” a
country and write a book about it. Mr.
Marshall is determined to be jolly and
entertaining, and sometimes he writes
like this; “This plain of Leon is stupen-
dous, colossal, of a vastitude that staggers
and intoxicates conception.” Still, he has
merits. He can give a good picture of
what he sees, and he leaves nothing to
chance by writing always on the assump-
tion that the reader’s mind is an absolute
blank as far as the country described is
concerned.
The Seven Arms, by L. A. G. Strong
(Gollancz; Angus and Robertson; 7s.
6d.). A moving and beautiful novel,
acted out by the primitive dwellers on
a peninsula of the West Scotland coast
about 100 years ago. The simplicity of
(he folk it deals with, the emphasis upon
common and abiding human values, the
absence of period dress, save for a soldier
or two, and the complete avoidance of
dialect, since the people spoke Gaelic
and Strong renders it in plain English,
all make it different from usual period
fiction. Implicitly, the writer contrasts
his people’s code of simple honesty
ruling the conduct of their affairs with
the myriad and amazing laws that are
found necessary to ensure decent social
behavior in “civilised” communities. It
is rich, warm reading; an admirable
piece of good workmanship.
Wild Career, by William J, Gibson
(Harrap ; Bs. 6d. net). The author sives
evidence of having lived a life capable
of justifying his book’s title and the
hardly less modest sub-title; “My
Crowded Years of Adventure in Russia
and the Near East.” He has fought with
the Cossacks, been a “spy upon spies,” a
Commissar of the Bolsheviks and other
risky things besides. Yet he records these
adventures in such a commonplace way
that the autobiography of a man who
had lived in one suburb all his life might
easily be lively by comparison. As a
bald account it is well enough.
Forsytes, Pendyces and Others (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d. net). Minor Galsworthy
items—discarded opening chapters of a
book, some short stories, a little auto-
biography and some utterances on other
writers. The book chapters were the
original opening bf the novel The
Country House: having written, Gals-
worthy discarded them, and The Country
House begins from where they end—an
example that many might copy with
artistic profit. (James Agate says in his
Autobiography that he does similarly
with every essay he writes—completes
it, and then strikes out the first para-
graph.) The book is of chief interest to
Galsworthians, though the short stories
are mature work of general appeal,
and the comments on writers, especi-
ally on W. H. Hudson and Mase-
field, have value, being Galsworthy’s.
Conquering Seas, by L. Luard (Bodley
Head ; 7s. 6d.). Drama of trawling in
the Arctic, the grim, unending fight be-
tween fisherman and sea, with the odds
in favor of the sea. After a lifetime of
it Skipper Fairfax has legs on fire with
varicose veins, hands knotted with a
heaped twist of veins. So he drops out
of the rush to Iceland, to the coast of
Murmansk, and recommends young John
Laidlaw as skipper for his trawler. To
back his opinion of the young mate,
whom he loves as a son, he offers to
pit him against the trawling company’s
next youngest master, and the race to
disaster is on. A strong picture by one
who knows the ways of the seas and a
trawling town.
Losing Religion to Find It, by Erica
Lindsay (Dent; 6s. net). In a series of
co-ordinated essays the writer faces a
present world of dominant material
realism, which accepts from false science
a temporary substitute lor eternal law,
its great need the assertion of absolute
objective spiritual principles. Thus re-
ligion is temporarily in exile. He asserts
that this is only temporary ; that, though
“we are evading the pains of spiritual
rebirth,” this will come “with the advent
of some spiritual counterpart of the pure
scientist.”
Cottage Angles, by Norah James
(Dent; ss. net). The sort of book that
any novelist might write for personal
pleasure and the relief of change. It is
four long chapters, each given to a sea-
son of the English countryside ; a blend-
ing of possible autobiography and fic-
tion, quietly amusing character-portrayal
and an amateur-naturalist interest in sur-
roundings, written with a light grace and
like nothing so much as listening to a
charming woman’s conversation. A neat
book, too, with woodcut decorations by
Gwen Raverat.
Meet the Detective (Allen and Unwin ;
3s. 6d. net). Fifteen leading living fabri-
cators of detective fiction chat lightly on
how they came to invent the detectives
who made them famous. Especially
interesting for addicts of mystery fiction
and instructive to anyone launching out
to write for them.
Those Nut-cracking Elizabethans, by
W, J. Lawrence (Argonaut Press;
Moore’s Bookshop ; 165.). That quaint
title covers the author’s selection of his
informative essay - commentaries on
doubtful aspects of Elizabethan drama.
He reveals wide knowledge in discursing
entertainingly on the nut-eating habits of
audiences, the use of animals on the
stage, items in Shakspeare’s and other
texts that have misled many semi-
scholars, and suchlike topics. A good piece
of bookmaking helps to justify the price.
George the Fourth, by Roger Fulford
( Duckworth; Angus and Robertson;
10s. 6d.). Purposely refraining from
writing another “wine, women and song
life, enlivened with a little gentle raking
in the muckheap” of George IV.’s rela-
tions with his wife, the writer, though his
admiration for the king is unbounded,
does not approach near the other ex-
treme, either. He presents what to nine
readers out of ten must appear an un-
usually favorable George IV. Things he
cannot justify, such as the Brighton
Pavilion and suchlike extravagances, he
blandly accepts, and where he can de-
fend, as in the scandal of the prince’s
alleged racehorse-pulling, he defends
with vigor, and convincingly. As light
reading it is excellent. It has a brightness
and a narrative swing not to be found
in the bulk of so-called historical fiction,
and is quickened with a touch of humor
which stops sensibly short of the snigger
school of historical fabricators.


SUMMER—RE
Qhe NE W
OM
\
MOTOR
ENDATIONS
YOUR
1934 and 1935
DODGE
needs
DOUBLE
SHELL
S.A.E. 40.
YOUR 193!
CHEVROLET
needs
sit)
ZERO
SHELL
S.A.E. 20.
K SHELLS
——
OTHER SUMMER
RECO M M E NDATIONS
SINGLE SHELL is the SUMMER
RECOMMENDATION for 1934
and 1935 models Buick, Hudson,
Pierce • Arrow, Pontiac and
Terraplane.
DOUBLE SHELL is the summer
RECOMMENDATION for 1934
and 1935 models Armstrong
Siddeley. Auburn, Benz, Cadillac,
Chrysler, Chrysler - Plymouth,
Continental, Daimler S. V.,
De Solo, De Vaux, Dodge,
Hupmobilc, Lafayette, Lanchester,
La Salle, Nash, Oldsmobile,
Packard, Reo, Studebaker,
Willys 77, and Graham (1935
Model).
TRIPLE SHELL is the SUMMER
RECOMMENDATION for 1934
and 1935 models Alvis, Amilcar,
Austin, Citroen, Crossley, Daimler
0.11. V., Delage, Fiat, Ford,
Hillman, Humber, Lagonda,
Lancia, Morris, Renault, Riley,
Rover, Singer, Standard, Stutz,
Sunbeam, Talbot, Triumph,
Vaiixhall, Wolseley and Graham
(1934 Model).
The New SHELL
MOTOR OIL
Lubricating qualities are
intensified and non-essen-
tials rejected by the selective
refining used in producing
the new Shell Motor Oil—
Result: Increased power,
sweeter running, less sludge,
less carbon, easier starting,
extra mileage and longer
engine life. Refill with the
new Shell Motor Oil and
enjoy better motoring.
YOUR
1934 and 1935
CHRYSLER-
PLYMOUTH
needs
DOUBLE
SHELL
S.A.E. 40.
YOUR
1934 and 1935
FORD
needs
TRIPLE
SHELL
S.A.E. 50.


GIFT
CASES
... »;■
n
Interior of One of the Storage Cellars—Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4J Million Gallons.
SEPPELT’S will deliver throughout Great Britain from their London House, situated at
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, THE STRAND, W.C.2, an assortment of their productions at a special
price for the FESTIVE SEASON. For full particulars, apply to any of B. SEPPELT AND
SONS, LTD.’S establishments at —
South Australia:
Head Office, Seppeltsfield,
or
Kithers Buildings, King
William Street, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
Cr. Sussex and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
or
Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Victoria:
581-587 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Packenham Street,
Fremantle.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2902.
September 25, 1935.
ATLAS SPEAKS.
“I have only to make a sign and 10,000,000 men can be mobilised in a day.”— Mussolini. ‘‘Democracy and Christianity have failed.”— HUler.
“If I let this fall on you”....


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydnev; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15 <•. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper,
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AUSTRALIA AND JAPAN.
I HE Dcbuchi mission is an interesting episode in the
history of our relations with the Japanese.
Mr. Debuchi declared when he left Japan that
“the nature” of the mission was “simple,” that he
was “going neither to take up any special diplomatic
negotiations nor to attempt to develop a market for
special merchandise.” His object was to repay the
Latham visit and “convey to the Australian Com-
monwealth the sincere goodwill and genuine friendship
of our 90,000,000 people.”
Mr, Debuchi seems, from his speeches, to believe
of Australians what Mr. Latham believed of the
Japanese—that “there are many people who appre-
ciate a compliment even more highly than a bargain,
and who see genuine significance in a sincere act of
courtesy.” He has certainly proved, as have others
of his compatriots, that it “is never necessary to make
apologies on behalf of the policies” of his country.
Mr. Latham found such apologies sometimes used
against Australia in foreign countries.
Mr. Debuchi has said flattering things in Aus-
tralia, and pregnant things. He has told us he realises
that “prosperous trade between countries depends
on goodwill,” that Japan is destined to be our nearest
neighbor among the Great Powers, since the Supreme
Council of the Allies gave it “perpetual rights” over
the mandated islands, and that Japan’s policy is “Jive
and let live.” He thinks “Australia and Japan are
complementary”—while Japan is using Australian
raw materials, Australia is using Japanese materials
in its factories.
But in certain respects Mr. Debuchi has been
reticent. For instance, he has not mentioned the
demand for modification of the White Australia
policy put forward by the influential Australia-Japan
Society, of which the most prominent public men in
Japan are members ; nor its request for tariff revision
and admission of Japanese ships to our coasting trade.
A diplomat, not a politician —he was Ambassador to
U.S.A. for five years—he nowhere repeated the senti-
ments of Mr. Machida, the Japanese Minister of
Commerce, who recently described the exclusion of
products of other nations from markets reserved for
home products as “an abuse of free trade.”
Japan will never agree to any policy which may
result in the blockade of trade or in the ruin of trade.
Mr. Machida was obviously referring to Australian
policy, for he went on to say;
It is easy to understand that Japan’s imports from
Australia will decline if an unreasonable oppression is
forced on our exports. Our Government, likewise,
may be forced to study a safeguarding policy The
trade problem at present has a vital connection with
Japanese-Australian friendship.
According to this Minister, “economic problems
will not be solved merely by the exchange of good-
will envoys”—a dictum that Canberra, which is
apt to be blinded by admiration of its own efforts
at-negotiation, might take to heart Mr. Machida
hopes “from the bottom of his heart” that “the two
nations will compare views without reserve.”
Before setting out from Japan, Mr. Debuchi
mentioned in a newspaper article that Australian-
Japanese trade had grown from 170,000,000 yen in
1932 to 264,000,000 yen in 1934, and instanced
the greater Japanese purchases of wool. He
allowed that Australian imports of Japanese rayon
and cotton had increased, and in this he saw a ten-
dency to make trade “not competitive, but comple-
mentary.” But Mr. Tsuda, president of one of the
biggest Japanese cotton cos., referred dourly to “the
British Empire bloc to expel Nippon goods by way
of safeguarding its own trade.” Mr. Tsuda acknow-
ledges that Japan has learned much from Britain,
but he protests that Britain renounced free trade at
Ottawa, and that Japan is “more upset by the British
attitude than by the blow” his “country suffered”;
the Japanese found Britain “looking upon Japan as
if it were Britain’s worst enemy.” He added that “this
malicious attitude later became worse.”
All this was published in a special issue of a
great Japanese newspaper devoted to the promotion
of goodwill—the front page was decorated with two
symbolic doves. This also from Mr. Tsuda —that
Japan may have to take “retaliatory measures for
Ottawa” against Australia “to prevent still greater
pain.”
By all means let us have frankness and exchange
of views “without reserve.” Our Japanese friends
make too much of the comparison between import
and export figures for abnormal years. They allow
too little for the fact that our restriction-of-imports
policy was designed to enable Australia to meet its
overseas commitments. And even when exports to
Japan fell to £6,555,000 in 1929-30, imports from
Japan were valued at £4,181,600 —invisible imports
not included. Imports from Japan in 1934-35 were
valued at £4,500,000. exports to Japan at £14,000,000 ;
the increase in exports was due to increased wool-
buying. An unfavorable balance for Japan, but, then,
over a term of years Australian trade with the U.S.A.
has been far more unfavorable to the Commonwealth.
Take 1929-30, for example: Imports, £30,316,200 ;
exports, £5,233,700.
Countries are bound in these matters by the
nature of their production. The Japanese buy Aus-
tralian wool because they cannot do without it. Most
of their woollen machinery is of the Continental type
made to handle merino lines. Their only method
of “safeguarding” through reduction of Australian
woolbuying would be to get their raw material from
other countries. As they cannot buy fine merino wool
anywhere else, the handling of broader types would
mean a complete reorganisation of the industry, which
would pul their manufacturers to immense expense.
In any case, changing their lines in that way, they
would not find an outlet for their product. Some-
body else would buy the wool and get the business.
Japan imports wheat and flour, and sometimes
gets considerable quantities from Australia. Here
it has framed a policy based on an equalisa-
tion fund, financed from differential freight-rates,
to compensate millers who lose by shifting their
trade from one country to another more com-
pliant. It has not so far met with wide approval—
commercial men always favor the best market, whether
buying or selling. There is also a general safeguard-
ing law, passed in May, 1934, which authorises a
tariff up to the value of articles affected or prohibi-
tion of imports, “as an answer to measures taken by
foreign countries.”
Most of the increased demand by Japan for
Australian products is due to a new policy of com-
petition with British and other manufacturers. If
a way can be found to meet the requirements of both
countries without injuring needful industries or
damaging the interests of our associates in the British
Commonwealth of Nations, it will be all to the good.
But Australia must come first and our associates in
the British Commonwealth of Nations next. It is
a rule which the Japanese themselves follow in the
affairs of their empire.
“TOO HIGH.”
Towards the end of the B.M.A. Congress in Mel-
bourne, Dr. Dain, a visitor from Birmingham, startled
the Australian delegates by denouncing the medical
fees charged in the Commonwealth. They were far
too high, he said, and it was because they were so
high that sick people were driven to consult chemists
and Chinese herbalists and crowd into public
hospitals:
You expect a woman who brings along a child
with the stomachache to pay 10s. 6d. for a consulta-
tion, and you give her a prescription that costs her
3s. 6d. That woman would get. away from my
surgery for 2s. 6d.—we do our own dispensing. Yet
to lodge patients you give nine attendances for a pound.
Either your lodges are grossly underpaying you or your
private fees arc too high in comparison with the
economic position of the worker.
A Melbourne doctor, proposing a vote of thanks to
Dr. Dain for his address, acknowledged that he had
“put his finger on a point of weakness which we
recognise here.”
The trouble is that the scale of fees was fixed in
1930, just before the blizzard hit us, and has not been
revised since.
Attempts have been made in other parts of the
Commonwealth to answer the Birmingham doctor.
One practitioner said it would not be possible to
charge Birmingham prices in Australia, because medi-
cines were 25 p.c. dearer. Others pleaded that they
had to ask for 10s. 6d. or 12s. 6d. —the regulation
fee for a g.p.’s visit in Sydney—because so few
patients paid. Generally speaking, the replies were
half-hearted and unconvincing, and suggested that
their authors would welcome national health insurance
in some form.
Perhaps it is unfair to single out the doctors
for blame. After all, they have only been following
a common practice, trying to do what nearly everyone
else has been doing with greater success —charge as
much as the traffic will bear. Dr. Dain sympathised
with the lot of the Australian worker on £4 a week;
this, he said, is about twice as much as the Briton
on the basic wage earns, but rents are “about double
what they are in England” and medical fees “four
times as high.” Wages themselves have been shoved
up by industrial laws, without noticeable benefit to
the workers, because their own political represen-
tatives, their Labor parties, have made it one of their
objects to shove up prices.
It was a State Labor Government which set up
the control system under which the retail price of
milk in Sydney, a city with perhaps the most copious
milk supply in the world, rose from sd. and 6d. to
7d. and Bd. a quart. Another Labor Government
pushed excise so high that the worker had to pay
9d. a pint for beer. A third, discovering that wage-
earners loved to take their families to the beaches
on Sundays, added a penny to fares charged on the
Government trams that day. Because of a tapeworm
scare at which scientists and doctors sneer, a Labor
party is assisting a Cocky Government to snuff out
Victoria’s million-pound sewage farm, with the result
that rates have been raised already, and the public
will have to pay more for beef. And Labor parties
are as keen as farmers’ parties on introducing com-
pulsory pools and “home-consumption prices,” the
object of which is to inflate the prices of necessaries
not already inflated, and the U.A.P. is as keen—or
professes to be. The consumer has no political
champions.
Australia used to be one of the cheapest countries
in the world for a family man with a modest income.
It has become one of the dearest. Revenue duties,
sales taxes, excessive income taxes and service charges
have contributed to the transformation. No doubt
there were inequalities and hardships in the pre-war
days, and it would be difficult, in some cases impos-
sible, to go back to pre-war conditions. But the
change to a regulated existence has brought losses as
well as gains, and it has darkened the future of
industries that used to stand on their own feet.
THE FLYING MEDICO.
A slim, unassuming, active-looking young man, with
a quiet but assured voice, talked at Melbourne Town
Hall to an audience of school children and to any
radio-owner who happened to be listening. As he
talked he unfolded a more enthralling story of inven-
tive genius, enterprise and adventure than was to be
found that week in any of the city’s cinemas. Though
it is becoming familiar nowadays, it is worth
recapitulating.
The story begins with an idea that germinated
in the brain of a member of the A.I.F. when
wireless was relatively unknown and aeroplanes were
in their infancy. On his way to the Western Front
he drew' up a tentative scheme for an aerial and wire-
less medical service for the back blocks. He died in
France, but the idea lived, and after the war his
scheme began to take shape rapidly.
There was no particular difficulty about estab-
lishing a base from which a flying doctor could set
forth and fetch sick people from lonely places for
treatment at a hospital. The trouble was to enable
station people to call him up with the same prompti-
tude and certainty as a city-dweller calls up his doctor
on the telephone. An ordinary receiving set was good
enough to enable a remote settler to hear what the
doctor might have to say regarding treatment or the
provision of landing-grounds, but how was he to
answer the doctor?
An Adelaide man set to work and evolved a
bicycle generator which anybody with moderately
strong legs could work to provide power enough to
communicate with the doctor’s headquarters. But
this was only strong enough for a 200-mile radius,
whereas the service needed had to cover an area with
a radius of at least 400 miles. Morse transmission
was necessary. The Adelaide inventor devised a
sending instrument with an ordinary typewriter key-
board on which the station housewife had only to
pick out the letters for her message to be automati-
cally translated into the Morse alphabet while she
pedalled at her bicycle.
There are now 30 stations in western Queens-
land with sets of this nature —some can be carried in
the hand and set up on a boundary fence or a bush
track. The area covered is greater than that of
the British Isles. Last year the Cloncurry (N.Q.I
doctor made 45 trips to attend patients, visited 21
different centres and flew 18,000 miles. He gave
advice to distant centres J 3 times, including 26 times
by radio ; and a third of his patients were children.
An accidental by-product has been the provision
to the people of the outback of a telegraphic service
which last year received and handed over to the post
office 10,000 messages containing 180,000 words.
Some of these came from stations which previously
had to wait four or five months for replies to iheir
letters.
The flying doctor's cases are far from ordinary.
There is one of a child whose mother had taken the
family for a holiday to Cloncurry, 126 miles away. The
day after their return to their station the child fell
ill. The mother, thinking the cause might lie in a
possible epidemic at Cloncurry, looked through the
files of newspapers she had brought back w'ith her,
and found that the symptoms exactly corresponded
with those of infantile paralysis. At 8 o’clock next
morning she was sitting at her pedal transmitter wait-
ing to hear the carrier-wave from Cloncurry. A few
moments later she was listening to the doctor’s voice
—he told her he would drop in at II o’clock —and
noting his instructions about a landing-ground. By
the evening her green shoot was in the hospital at
Cloncurry with the preventive serum inside him, and
already on the way to complete recovery.
This is all very interesting, but one cannot help
wondering why Dr. Allan Vickers—that is the name
of the slim, unassuming flying doctor who spoke in
Melbourne —has to stump the country making appeals
for funds for extension of such a service when there
is a Government with ample resources on which this
duty should rest. Six bases similar to the one at Clon-
curry are all that are needed to cover the whole of
medically-unserved Australia with a network of com-
munications and aeroplane ambulances. It is under-
standable that a Government like the one at Can-
berra may be hesitant about supporting art and litera-
ture, because it knows little about these things and
the results are problematical. But the scheme of
aerial medical services is not in the realm of the
problematical, thanks to the labors of the Rev. John
Flynn, of Dr. Vickers and other individuals who for
the last 10 years have been quietly perfecting it. In
western Queensland it has been astonishingly success-
ful. There is a pressing need for bases in other places,
such as North Westralia and the back of N. S. Wales.
In the end the service would probably be self-
supporting, for the backblocks people are of the kind
who like to pay for the good things that are done
for them.
C. Q.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Decidedly Serious.
Though fountains of eloquence continue to gush at
Geneva, the world has almost abandoned hope that
the League will succeed in averting an Italo-Abys-
sinian war, or even in localising and shortening it.
As to that, events have taken a decidedly serious
turn. Part of the British Home Fleet has been trans-
ferred to the Mediterranean, H.M.A.S. Australia is
there also, destroyers are keeping a watch on the
southward passage of Italian submarines through the
Suez Canal, and there has been a sudden concentra-
tion of warships about Alexandria.
If enforcement of Article XVI of the League
Covenant were decided upon, “this country (and
others),” said the “Times” of August 15, “would have
to blockade Italy so thoroughly that not even States
outside the League would be allowed to trade with her.”
The movements in the Mediterranean, and certain pre-
cautionary measures at Gibraltar and Malta, look
very like preparations for a blockade, but the concen-
tration at Alexandria signifies something more. It
is a swift reply to the massing of Italian troops
(80,000, it is asserted) on Egypt’s western frontier
and to anti-British gestures on the part of the Italian
colony in Egypt and the Egyptian nationalists. Mean-
while, not a ship, a soldier or a gun has been sent
into the Mediterranean zone by the “others” men-
tioned by the “Times.” There are 24 “others” in
Europe alone, but the “others” seem content to let
the British Empire make all the preparations and
take all the risks.
In our own country war-risk insurance on vessels
going north has been imposed, and H.M.A.S. Can-
berra and H.M.A.S. Sussex have arrived at Darwin,
an arrangement for the Sussex to visit the New
Hebrides having been cancelled. The Minister of
Defence says there is no significance in this change
of plan or in the bringing of the port of Darwin under
naval control; and presumably he expects to be
believed.
Meanwhile, British-Empire opinion, though unani-
mous in condemning the proceedings of the Italian
Government, is sharply divided as to whether invasion
of Abyssinia should be the signal for the imposition
of the boycott specified in Article XVI —in Sir Walter
Citrine’s expression, “sanctions involving all the
possibility of war.” The division exists in Sir Walter
Citrine’s own party, in the Australian trade-union
movement and in the Commonwealth Cabinet. The
loudest supporters of “sanctions” are Communists and
Red trade-union leaders, who were as loud in demanding
disarmament (though not for Russia) and denouncing
the League until their masters saw in membership of
that society a way of securing British support for
them in wars with Germany and Japan which their
incessant intrigues have made possible. Next in order
of vociferousness come the British Liberals, whose
rotten foreign policy nearly dragged us into a second
war with Turkey, and whose “national” wing, in a
resolution aimed at Australia most of all, demands
“reduction in the barriers to international trade” and
“freedom of immigration to under-populated countries.”
If a war is forced on Britain, which God forbid,
Australia and Maoriland will be in it. These nations
would not remain out if they could. But they have
earned the right to state their views and to take a
hand in the shaping of the policy that binds them ;
and they cannot be easy in their minds when they
consider the disturbed state of Europe, the extent of
their obligations under the League Covenant and
the sudden support of Reds in all countries and the
whole body of British disarmament cranks for
“sanctions involving all the possibility of war.” Many
Australians agree with ex-Senator R. D. Elliott that
“Britain should stand aside from the League,” that
“nest of intrigue and danger to peace,” and “exercise
its own judgment in international affairs.” Many
feel also that Sir Samuel Hoare was not sufficiently
explicit at Geneva, and that a far greater effect would
be produced by the delivery of a plain warning, with
all the weight of the Empire behind it, that Britain
must return to its traditional foreign policy (the Lion
gathering his cubs about him) if Italy repudiates its
engagements under the League Covenant and all the
other signatories fail to stand up to theirs.
■ ♦
“Comprehensive” and “Modem.”
The Forgan Smiths announce that they intend to
provide Queensland with a “comprehensive, modern”
Police Act in place of the present medley of 17
different statutes reaching back to 1838. Doubtless
a worthy legislative intention, but it is possibly signi-
ficant that the announcement was made on the
same day on which a jury awarded £350 damages
against a member of the police force on account of
his treatment of a man who had assaulted Mr. Forgan
Smith in October, 1933. The Government has
decided that the damages will be paid by the depart-
ment —meaning, of course, the taxpayers.
Queensland has a new and active Commissioner
of Police, who is introducing much-needed improve-
ments. He is not a graduate from any Police Depart-
ment, but spent many years in the Taxation Depart-
ment immediately prior to his appointment. It is
hardly necessary to emphasise the manner in which
taxation services have developed into bureaucracies,
protecting themselves and their officers against legal
or other consequences of oppressive or unlawful acts
and operating in all essential details under regulations
which they themselves frame, and which they alter
or adapt at their own discretion to meet particular cases.
It is to be hoped that the Police Act will not be
designed and operated on anything like lines similar
to those followed by the department in which Mr.
Commissioner Carroll received his administrative
training and experience. A taxation bureaucracy can
thrust itself into the financial and business affairs
of any citizen at its own sweet will. This is bad
enough, but a similarly-organised and -operated police
force would have it in the power of any of its officers
to render justice and individual liberty the sheerest
of travesties. Not only Queenslanders but every Aus-
tralian citizen who has or contemplates acquiring
interests in Queensland will do well to watch very
carefully the provisions of this “comprehensive,
modern” Police Act.
-4.
Rather Like a Revolt.
There is an unctuous strain in Premier Stevens which
grates on people who admire his admirable qualities.
Addressing the U.A.P. Convention at Sydney, he said
the U.A.P. was not like other parties.
Other parties may stultify their development by
grim concentration upon the problems of the past and
a pathetic refusal to admit the implications of to-day
and to-morrow. The U.A.P. looks to the future.
One respect in which the U.A.P. was not like
other parties—or, at least, another party —was that it
was “a movement without an Inner Group.”
The words were scarcely out of the Premier's
mouth when the executive committee, of which he is
president—Mr. Sydney Snow is deputy-president—
proceeded to show how like an Inner Group it wanted
to become. The executive committee, as “S. M.
Herald” smugly puts it, has the “right, under existing
rules, to veto the name of a candidate after selection
by an electorate conference.” But this “right” did
not go far enough, and it sought other “rights.”
Mr. Sydney Snow explained that they had been
embodied in “amended rules” for the selection of
candidates at Federal and State elections, “drafted
by a special committee.”
The “amended rules” provided that only one can-
didate should be selected for a seat (incidentally,
selected candidates have been known to die between
nomination- and election-day), and that the selecting
should be done at a ballot directed by an electorate
conference. This is the case at present; but a great
change was demanded.
Nominations for selection shall be submitted to
the executive of the party, which shall examine the
credentials of the candidates and shall have the power
to reject any one or all.
Ex-Premier Bavin was put up to thrust these Inner-
Group “rights” down unwilling throats. Author of
the necessarily unpopular legislation which preceded
the rout of his party at the 1930 general election, and
not invited to join the Ministry after the victory in
1932, he is still cast by the U.A.P. for invidious
rdlcs; and it seems a shame. A skilful pleader,
he did his best to recommend the “rights” to an
audience that was becoming more and more hostile
every minute. One or two State members made half-
hearted attempts to support him. When these worthies
had faded out, Mr. Ross, the member for Kogarah,
jumped up and denounced the manoeuvre as “an insidi-
ous attempt to substitute executive control of admin-
istration for branch control.” Warming to his work,
he shouted “We should never allow control of the
party to get out of the hands of the rank and file” ;
and, as the chief U.A.P. organ fiad to record, “there
was loud applause from all parts of the hall.” Other
speakers supported Mr. Ross, and the “amended
rules” were voted into the w.p.b. So Mr. Stevens,
Mr. Sydney Snow and Mr, Samuel Walder will not
enjoy the “right” to veto a candidate because they
don’t care for his sentiments or the cut of his jib.
After this the delegates passed a series of resolu-
tions very unpalatable to the Tin Gods. They demanded
“an investigation into the milk supply of Sydney”
(the Government hurriedly announced that it would
be granted); penny postage ; “review of the policy
of constant borrowing and reduction of the State
debt” ; “reduction of the Federal land tax, with a
view to its total abolition”; and removal of the
Harbor Bridge tax. Above all, they demanded drastic •
amendment of the “socialistic” Transport Act, and
declared that “the establishment of non-elected boards
is an unwarrantable interference with the rights of
the people ” It seems rather like a revolt.
4
Standing on Our Own Feet.
For years British shipping interests in the Pacific have
been steadily worsted in their struggle with the sub-
sidised competition of the U.S.A. luxury services.
They have now made it clear, through Mr, Shaw, the
managing director of the P. and 0., that
unless some defence is afforded, British passenger and
•mail services between Australia and San Francisco will
be withdrawn within the next few months. Under
present conditions there is no prospect of making ends
meet.
Mr. Shaw allows that nobody can blame the Ameri-
can cos. for taking advantage of artificial economic
conditions brought about by the action of the U.S.A.
Government and the inaction of British-Empire
Governments. He nevertheless puts it to the Govern-
ments concerned that the survival of British liners
in the Pacific is an economic and strategic necessity.
Judged by Canberra standards, Mr. Shaw is
an impatient gentleman. It is only two years
since Mr. Stewart informed Parliament that his
Government was still awaiting replies from the Maori-
land Government before deciding on some policy.
And Mr. Lyons has been fertile of excuses for
masterly inactivity every time somebody has mentioned
the matter in the House.
If war came to-morrow, Australia would be
largely dependent on foreign shipping for transport
and wholly on overseas interests for oil fuel. More
and more foreign cargo ships, Norwegian, Dutch,
German and Japanese, are carrying our produce
abroad. The Norwegian-Australian Line transports
huge quantities of Australian wool and other pro-
ducts, and brings back full cargoes from Europe.
It has had ships built for the Australian trade in
Denmark, France, Sweden and other countries—
never, of course, in Australia. In this, it is
merely following a melancholy Australian precedent;
even the Broken Hill Prop., well as it has done for
itself these last two years, and splendid example as
it is of Australian enterprise and workmanship in other
directions, is having two 8000-tonners built abroad.
The Australia-Japan Society argues that Japanese
ships should be allowed to carry cargo on the Aus-
tralian coast. Japanese passenger shipping to Aus-
tralia is subsidised at the rate of one yen (Is.
per ton per 2000 miles of run, with a 10 p.c. increase
for every additional mile per hour of speed over 12
knots. The Shipping Law of 1932 set apart £1,000,000
to be spread over three years as subsidies on the
building of 200,000 tons of new freighters, to be used
for overseas trade.
The Japan Year-Book records that
the most important work of Japanese tramp ships is
connected with the shipment of lumber from Puget
Sound to Japan and other Oriental countries; of
Australian wheat to British India and Japan.
Japan has built 300,000 tons of freight shipping in
the past three years, two-thirds under the subsidy
scheme. Two new vessels, among the fastest of their
kind in the world, are to be put on the Brisbane-Kobe
run, and the time is to be reduced to 11 days. British-
owned passenger ships—some built in Hong Kong —-
still take about three weeks to do the trip via Shanghai.
At the present rate, Australia may soon be
described in the geography books as a continent
almost entirely surrounded by foreign shipping.
—
bk the Limelight Again.
The Dairy Farmers’ Co-operative Milk Co. has come
into the limelight again. It figured largely in the
Shand report on the administration of the Lang Milk
Act. The learned Royal Commissioner made sundry
references to the “standardising” of milk contrary
to the Pure Food Act; to the purchase, at 6s. 3d. a
gallon, of 35,000 gallons of cream, carried free on
the insolvent Government railways, “whereas, if it
had been purchased under the Milk Board’s direction,
the cost would have been 7s. 6d.,” and to the distri-
bution of large sums as “special cash rebates” to
customers of the co. (many denied having received
them) by Dairy Farmers’ managers, one of whom
became chairman of the board.
Now certain “unsatisfactory” evidence in the case
of the milk-carters, to which Dairy Farmers was a
party, has prompted Browne, L, president of the N. S.
Wales Industrial Commission, to conduct a little
inquiry on his own account.
The question was whether a 2.5 per cent, allow-
ance for carters’ wastage was excessive. His Honor
decided to go into the records of Dairy Farmers’
Marrickville depot. He discovered that “out of 17
rounds there was no carter whose shortage amounted
to anything like 2.5 p.c,” An official who had
been in charge of the depot for years said he had
never heard of a shortage exceeding 2.5 p.c.; a
keeper of records said that he had known only one
instance. Further detailed investigation revealed
“shortages extraordinarily low” —five gallons in 1496
on four runs, gallons in 1213 on four other runs
in one week.
And carters pooh-poohed the idea of a 2.5 p.c.
loss, “Being greatly puzzled at the extraordinary
difference between these records and those of others
of the same company,” his Honor made a minute
examination, and discovered “an amazing fact.”
Some of the carters not only had very low shortages,
but frequently, and in one case almost always,
accounted for more milk than was booked up to them
by the weigher and measurer. One carter, who must
be a particularly careful and accurate employee, sold
considerable quantities in excess of those received by
him —in one case in the neighborhood of 40 pints
in a week.
Further, “bulk bookings of milk received and
sold by the depot on all its runs” made it appear
that “on a considerable number of occasions the milk
received from the central depot of the co. was less
than that sold.”
If the company feels wounded by Justice Browne’s
observations, it may be consoled by the reflection that
the business has its compensations. In its capacity
of retailer it gets 7d. a quart for country milk (the
farmer gets lid. a gallon) and 7d. a quarter-pint for
cream carried free on the Government railways (last
year’s deficit, £2,025,000), and has seen its gross profits
rise from £255,830 in 1,932-33 to £369,662 in 1934-35.
4 __
South Australia’s Railways.
The Government railway position in South Aus. is
no more cheerful than it is in other States. Comparing
1934-35 with 1933-34, earnings are up £98,000, but the
proportion of working expenses continues to increase
slightly—77.B p.c. in 1931-32, it was 79.8 p.c. in the
past year, A “surplus” of over half a million was
buried by the weight of the interest bill of £1,334,000,
though the average rate has gradually come down
from 5.1 p.c. in 1931 to 4.3 p.c.
It seems a matter of simple arithmetic that, with
a “total deficit” of £794,000 after payment of interest,
the accumulated deficit of £8,321,000 reported in June.
1934, would have increased. But, in accordance with
an Act passed a year ago, £858,700 provided some-
how for depreciation of wasting assets has been
swept back “to the credit of profit-and-loss accumu-
lation account,” to be financed through the national-
debt sinking fund. Thus an “improvement” of £60,000
in the accumulated debit balance is claimed.
The Commissioner gloomily points out that the
system, in which £28,000,000 has been sunk, is over-
capitalised by £10,800,000, having regard to revenue-
earning value. He objects to its being debited with
interest on this amount, because, as he points out, the
department has been charged “with the full cost
of developmental lines into sparsely-settled country
which, as a commercial proposition, were not justi-
fied.” On top of this “unjustified” expenditure mil-
lions were lavished on a rehabilitation programme. So,
With increasing mileage of improved highway, and
resultant competition from other forms of transport,
there is increasing difficulty in enabling the railways
—which have to provide and maintain their own track
and right of way—to meet full interest charges.
The “difficulty” seems insuperable. Indeed,
greater losses on at least part of the system are inevit-
able, and the Commonwealth Government is to
contribute some on its own account, for it is going on
with its idiotic plan for a 4ft. line from Red
Hill to Port Augusta.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Findy”: Let temperance advocates
say what they will, no one can convince
me that the average drinker is not as
honest as the day. I met him the other
morning (the a.d., I mean) and he told
me of a temptation he had resisted on
the previous afternoon. “I went in for
a quick one and passed the sheilah a quid.
She must ha’ been a bit dithered or some-
thing ; anyhow, I’m hanged if she didn’t
give me twenty-three and sixpence change.
Slapped it down on the counter, just like
that. I swallowed my beer and counted
it twice to be sure. At first I was
going to get right out, but then 1 thought
a man ’ud be pretty lousy to do a thing
like that. It wouldn’t be fair on the
house.” “So what did you do?” I asked.
He straightened himself up as one who
always fights ignoble impulses. “I put
down the sixpence,” he told me, “and
had another beer.”
❖ ❖ * *
“W. Hill”; Sydney papers have been
making a song about the city’s slums.
Some of the unemployed camps around
country towns are worse, from the aspect
of crowding. At Leeton (N.S.W.) an in-
vestigator found a family of seven in a
shack 16ft. by 16ft., five in a roofed
but wall-less shed, and others cramped
up in cowbails, outhouses, tents and
what not. Anyone who has seen these
camps knows of these shocking living
conditions; Tihuron gives a true pic-
ture of them in the description of the
camp on Warning Hill.
»•* v ♦{'
“Sixenate”; A new precedent in com-
pensation law was created when £5OO
(besides funeral costs) was granted by a
Sydney Court to the relatives of a man
of 78 who died after being run down
by a motor-car. The calculation was
based on the fact that he was making £5
per week in his own business and might
have been expected to continue to do it
for a few more years. Although the
N.S.W. Government is bent on pension-
ing off civil servants in their sixties, the
general prolongation of life is altering
old conceptions of the working age. I
know a man in Sydney who still runs a
boot-repairing business at 94, and a
working upholsterer aged 89, while
George J. Cohen can still look after
some of his directorates at 93. There are
thousands going strong between those ex-
treme ages and 75. Up to now, however,
Courts have regarded the industrial value
of the man of 70 as negligible.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: This (from Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” 5/9/’35) can be confidently backed
in any queer-advertisement competition;
ADELAIDE’S WORST HOTEL. Visit
Adelaide’s Worst Hotel. Inspect the
Kitchen, and be pleasantly surprised.
[Name and street given.)
It is a plucky reply to unkind things said
about the place in the Licensing Court.
* * * ♦
“Kwakprak”; Now and then we get
some curious illustrations of the special-
isation of our body-control mechanism.
A young man admitted to Brisbane Hos-
pital with head injuries from a motor
smash ceased breathing, although his
heart went on beating strongly. After
over four hours of artificial respiration, it
petered out gradually. His injury had
damaged the respiratory brain centre
without hurting that of the heart. Con-
trariwise, I’ve seen a heart stop during
an operation, with the breathing con-
tinuing bravely. The surgeon opened the
abdomen, inserted his hand, squeezed the
heart rhythmically through the dia-
phragm, and started it again. The anaes-
“ Oo Was it said ‘Gentlemen prefer blondes'?"
“ 'Oaever it Was, she's a liar!"
thetic had put the heart-brain centre to
sleep, till it was thus roughly waked up.
Of course, lots of people survive after
both lungs and heart have been out of
action for quite appreciable times —any
well-frequented surfing beach sees such
cases every season.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A Booval (Q.) man
had a curiously variegated day recently.
He had arranged to take a promising dog
to Brisbane for a coursing trial. Over-
hauling his car in preparation for the
run, he found that his tools had been
stolen. Hastily collecting a few substi-
tutes, he stepped on the starter, only to
discover that it refused duty. Followed
the usual exasperating period of inspec-
tion, adjustments, car-rocking and the
rest, until a friend gave him a tow. Nurs-
ing the partly-revived engine, he reached
Brisbane after a dusty and unpleasant
trip, to find that he was an hour late
for the dog trial. Just then his wife
rang him up and told him that they had
won £6OOO in the lottery.
* * S= *
“C. Coral”; 1, for one, have read the
report of Captain Lawson, who in true
Munchausen style wrote up his adven-
tures in the ship Nautilus on a cruise
round New Guinea in the ’seventies (B.
14/8/’35). It was less interesting to me
than the criticisms of that irascible
old seadog Captain (afterwards Admiral)
Moresby, who was at the same time
poking round Torres Strait waters
cleaning up the blackbirding traffic, be-
sides surveying and charting, in
H.M.S. Basilisk. But has anyone ever
identified “Captain J. A. Lawson”? Visit-
ing Papua a couple of years ago, I ran
across a nephew of the intrepid explorer,
who assured me that the “Wanderings”
of his relative were produced as the
result of a wager. All sorts of extra-
ordinary yarns were current at the time
regarding the strange new unexplored
country. “Lawson,” as he called himself
in his book, merely used his powers of
imagination to test public credulity.
Experts were soon pouncing on his in-
accuracies, but apparently no one realised
that the whole thing was a huge joke.
♦ * ♦ *
“Cato”: Curious are the modes and
fashions in men’s facial adornments, and
Parliaments probably reflect them as
graphically as anything else. A Wes-
tralian commentator notes that in 1890,
when the colony had an Assembly of
33 members and a Council of 15, 30
legislators were full-bearded and nearly
all the others moderately-whickered;
only a single clean-shaven face appeared.
Ten years later, when the numbers had
been increased to 80, eight —seven of them
lawyers—had dispensed with all hirsute
ornaments. But when the 80 men who
make the country’s laws assembled
the other day there were only four beards
among the lot, and even moustaches were
an utterly negligible quantity. So the
wheel turns; in another 10 years it is
a pretty safe bet, from present indica-
tions, that lip-thatches at least will be re-
asserting themselves.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Though much exposed
to Egypt from 1915 to the end of 1917,
1 cannot recall the mutiny of Sudanese
troops there mentioned by “Colonel Bung-
starter” (B. 18/9/*35). Indeed, beyond
a few orderlies with Sudanese officers,
I never saw any Sudanese troops in
Egypt —they were too busy in Darfur
and the Southern Sudan. There was a
mutiny there and a bad one —the
mutineers shot their white officers and
had a good run before they were
scotched. They had a grievance. Some
asinine authority forbade their wives to
accompany them on the expedition
they were engaged on. Your Sudanese
always goes forth to war with at least
two wives. The ladies look after them-
selves and scrounge extra tucker on the
march to supplement their lords’ rations.
* if * *
“Tuart”: An acquaintance sends me
a bundle of “View Mat.” advertisements
clipped from Indian newspapers printed
in English. Some of them make me
shudder to think of the stuff that must
appear in vernacular rags in the country
about to enjoy the blessings of Federa-
tion: —
Wanted an educated, healthy, beautiful
and fair-complexioned Khattry girl for a boy
of 17 years, and also an educated, beautiful
boy of a respectable Khattry family for a girl
of 12 years. Apply, with copy of horoscope
and recent photograph, to Box 618, “Leader,”
Allahabad.
Distinguished M.A. (Hons.), handsome Sunni
Muslim, 26, very brilliant, respectable family,
desires very fair bride, same sect or Parsees.
Decent footing in State service or financing
foreign studies desired.
Wanted educated, fair, aged Kayastha virgin
or childless widow for self-supporting youth.
A cultured Bengali (Mukherji) youth wants a
blind girl from a respectable family of 13 to
marry. No restriction of caste or creed.
A Kayastha undergraduate (25) of respect-
able family is willing to marry a deaf and
dumb or a blind girl for employment or other
means of livelihood.
Mother India seems to have been written
in vain.
“Nakhoda”: The popular belief that
the tropics are a good place to get out
of is not shared by H. Dexter, a 70-year-
old planter, who proposes to return to
New Guinea because he objects to liv-
ing hunched up over a fire in London.
There are plenty of precedents. Almost
every district in Malaya has its retired
magistrate or planter who leads a
reasonably full life as a club secretary or
something of that sort, and spends most
of his time on the club verandah reminis-
cencing to the griffins about the good
old days when whisky was ten cents a
nobbier and there were no trade-unions
foe native servants. Transport the same
worthy back to his native village, where
nobody knows him. and he will die in a
twelvemonth through boredom and a
sense of his own insignificance. There
is a woman in Melbourne who bitterly
laments having left a small island in
Borneo where there were 17 white men
and only three other women. Owing to
her official position she was queen of
the island, which, despite the prickly
heat and the mosquitoes, was prefer-
able to being an obscure member of the
Women's National League.
♦ * * »
“Mulga”: Before worrying about mis-
takes in films of Yankee origin, why
not take the beam out of our own eyes?
An author whose work I have been
reading twice tells his readers, writing
of kingfish, that “the deck was wet with
blood and thick with scales.” Kingfish
haven’t got scales. Another near-
classic, recounting an epic run after
scrub cattle, represents
the manager, after
yarding them, as fe-
rn ark i n g that they
would be fit for the
market as fats in a
month. Twelve to 18
months would be a fair
estimate. Other bush
writers locate curlews
and prickly-pear in
western Queensland ;
you might see a cur-
lew there in a decade,
and the western limit of
the pear is about the
Barcoo. The kooka-
burra's laugh is sup-
posed to ring over all
Australian literature,
whereas the bird isn't
heard off the coastal
fall and was unknown
in W.A. until imported
The kurrajong, pine,
belah, myall, brigalow,
other odd frees and
herbages are scattered
with fine impartiality in places where
they never grew, even as pot-plants.
Lastly, and most ridiculous of all, is the
use of stockwhips. They are supposed
to kill a man (at need), throw a horse,
cut things in two, and any other old
thing at all.
* * A *
“Promoter": “Chevroford’s” wail over
repudiation of the oil concession in
Abyssinia by Britain, which had nothing
to do with it (B. 18/9/’35), is ill-timed.
The man who buys concessions from a
country about to engage in war is apt
to find himself on a sticky wicket. If
his side loses, his concession goes down
in the general crash. A lot of concessions
given by the Southern Confederacy to
British moneylenders in the Civil War
—don’t confuse these with the notorious
American debts to Britain—had to be
written off when the Stars and Bars went
down. In later days Britain cancelled
some of the most glaring concessions
granted by Paul Kruger to outside ad-
venturers when the Transvaal passed
under the British flag.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Broad Arrow”: “Kerys” and others
(B. 28/8/'35) may dwell on the comforts
of N.S.W. gaols where prisoners are
allowed to play pianos, but for a real
home from home the old Blackall (C.Q.)
Gaol had them all beat 40 years ago.
Twelve months was the limit sentence,
and for a man who wanted a quiet spell
it was an ideal retreat. The old walls
didn’t make a prison—they could have
been opened with a rusty pair of scissors :
it was only the moral effect which used
to keep us in. We could slip across the
road any time to the Royal Hotel if an
old mate was blewing a cheque—and help
him blew it. We could wander up the
yard and give a hand in the saddler’s
shop run by the gaol. Those who
had flowering ambitions could help
to water old Sergeant Farquarson’s
garden. Nature students could take the
dray with the two mules, Moses and
Aaron, and, with a black-tracker as an
offsider, go carting wood—actually you
looked on while the abo. did it. Cer-
tainly there was no piano-playing, but
who wouldn’t prefer a man’s occupations
to those sissy exercises?
WE ARE THE PEOPLE.
“There are no people in the world like the Aus-
tralians, and we will continue to set an enviable
example to all other peoples of the world.”
• — Mr. Lyons.
“Our backs are easy riz. We must be cracked
up or they rises and we snarls.” —American patriot
in “Martin Chuzzlewit.”
There’s nobody like us! That’s frozen
Veracity, plain and direct.
We’re the twentieth-century Chosen,
Too right, and the modern elect.
And whatever afflictions may strike us,
Twill be always a comfort to know
There’s no other people that’s like us,
According to Joe.
He’s travelled and tested and sat in
High places with Briton and Frank :
He’s sampled the volatile Latin
And chinned with the versatile Yank.
He’s studied with optics discerning
The Teuton, and glimpsed at the Russ,
And he reckons they all might be learning
A lesson from us.
It’s not they’re less skilful and limber
At hurling, these men of the North,
A ball at three sections of timber.
Or guarding the same with a fourth;
It’s not, I imagine, the paeans
He’s heard at our cricketers thrown
That sets him assigning to “we ’uns”
A class of our own.
He isn’t, be sure, a bcliltler
Of Baldwin or Ramsay the Scot;
He isn’t disparaging Hitler
Or Herriot —certainly not.
But, linked with the spirit and letter
Of his latest, you’ll find guarantees
We have statesmen as good as or better
Than any of these.
He gazed on Benito (he whooper,
His rule over Roosy he ran,
And noted in neither the “super”
That marks from his fellows a man.
He doubted, for all of their trample
And bellow and bustle and buzz,
That either could set the example
That Canberra does.
We’re the first to be out of the wallow
That bogs and the nets that enmesh;
We’ve beaten all other chaps hollow,
He swears, in the climb from depresh.
Self-praise such as this might be ■ muffled.
But wc’rc mostly addicted to purr
When they stroke us—or spit when we’re
ruffled,
As cats with their fur.
Wc’rc (he pick of the nations! He knows. If
You doubt what the verdict is worth,
Bethink that our amiable Joseph
Has recently circled the earth.
At the end of the jubilee barney.
He roamed through old Erin with zest,
From Drogheda Bay to Killarncy—
Not forgetting the Castle of Blarney,
I’m moved to suggest!
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Oxmead”; Haile Silassie gave news-
papermen an interview in “colorful
Amharic,” his own native tongue, which
was obligingly translated (by someone
unspecified) into French and English. It
is a job that might have stumped
the most erudite of university
professors, for Amharic is one
of the most ancient of lan-
guages, certainly far older than
any European one. Delving
into books of reference, begin-
ning with the Bible, 1 find it
laid down in Genesis that there
was a time when “the whole
earth was of one language and
one speech.” What was it? A
much later commentator, though
far from a modern one, boldly
claims that Hebrew was the
language spoken by Adam and
Eve. However this may be,
philologists apparently agree
that Hebrew, Arabic and Chal-
dean are the three branches into
which the prehistoric Semitic
tongue presently split. Arnarhic
is one of the oldest forms of
Arabic ; it went westward into
Africa. Hebrew stayed in west-
ern Asia. The Chaldean variant
went into northern Asia, and
is preserved in the cuneiform in-
scriptions of Babylon and
Nineveh. So that it is quite
possible that Haile Silassie, barbarian
though he may be, could make a much
better fist of deciphering some of these
mysterious hieroglyphics than a Musso-
lini—or even a Max Muller.
“Bert the Carpenter”: He was a
wizened-faced, shifty-eyed little chap
with restless fingers, and beer had
loosened his tongue. He looked hard at
a man who had just declared that a
pickpocket would have to be pretty smart
to get anything from him. “You ever go
to the races?” he asked, and when the
other man nodded he added: “Cripcs,
I’d get your dough in two ticks. I’d
follow you and see where you carried it,
wait till the next race was being run,
walk up to you with either a sharp-
pointed little pair of scissors or a safety-
razor blade stuck in a cork, slit your
pocket open with two quick cuts, and
catch your purse as it fell. The only
pocket I couldn’t get at would be one
on the inside of your waistcoat. What’s
that? You’d feel me cutting the cloth?
Bless me heart, you betting blokes and
punters never notice anything when the
horses are coming up the straight. Why,
a man could cut your - throat and
you’d never notice it till you dropped
dead!” They were still arguing when the
crowd moved to the bar for another
round ; suddenly a commotion arose.
The betting bloke had put his hand into
his hip-pocket and had encountered no-
thing but air; his purse was gone. So
was the wizened-faced little chap, though
nobody had seen him going.
*** “ *
“Pitt Street”: During lunch-hour at
a big N.S.W. factory a little soapbox
orator arrived and began a passionate
denunciation of the Government, the
political system, the British Empire, re-
ligion and several other things. He
worked himself into a frenzy, while the
mob gathered round and listened with-
out comment. At the first lull in the
storm of mob-oratory, a tall workman
chipped in with, “Can I ask y’ a ques-
tion, cobber?” The speaker beamed on
him, evidently thrilled at this response
to his efforts. “Why, certainly, comrade,”
he said. “Well,” asked the other, “are
you in favor of snakes wearing braces?”
“Brix”: The story of the sale of water-
damaged drapery that went on indefi-
nitely (B. 18/9/’35) recalls a similar hap-
pening in a suburb that had two drapers.
One went under; the other bought the
goods and advertised the usual bankrupt
stock sale. The business done was pheno-
menal, and it soon became evident that
there was plenty more waiting if only
stock were obtainable. A small ware-
house with a lot of junk on hand came
to the rescue. Only when everyone in
the district had bought piles of stuff he
or she didn’t want did the sale fervor
abate.
* $ * *
“Chevroford”: Dr. Eccles, a pilgrim
in the medical hegira to Melbourne,
remarked at a temperance luncheon that
if he had his way every person, motorist
and pedestrian, involved in a street acci-
dent should be subjected to blood tests
to prove irrefragably whether he had
had a spot. According to Dr. Eccles, a
proportion of one drop of alcohol in
1000 drops of blood is sufficient to place
a person under the influence ; one in 700
produces definite symptoms of being shot
and at a concentration of one in 500 the
subject is dead drunk. As a cold scienti-
fic proposal, the eminent physician’s sug-
gestion no doubt has its points, but,
after all, you’ve got to catch your hare
before you can cook him. 1 was once
placidly driving my car at 20 miles an
"What are you gelling now, daddy?"
“Damned annoyed."
hour through a Melbourne suburb when
I was hit by a motorist travelling at 60
m.p.h. who had started on an attempt to
lower the record from Melbourne to Syd-
ney. When I could look round I ob-
served that four motorists following the
speed expert were accelerating so as to get
as far away from the incident as pos-
sible ; two others approaching from
the other direction were speeding
past, and half a dozen pedestrians who
had witnessed the accident were rapidly
disappearing down side streets. 1 was
left with, for witnesses, three children
who were playing hopscotch.
* * * *
“Primula”: “Thirsk” says he has
never heard of primrose wine (B.
18/9/’35), and suggests that “Mid-
Sussex,” who included it in his list of
delectable beverages, must have had cow-
slip wine in mind. But the flowers are
quite near relations—according to Darwin,
the common oxlip of English meadows
is a hybrid between the cowslip and the
primrose—and something resembling
wine might be compounded of either.
Touching the Primrose League, which
came into existence after Disraeli’s death,
there is nothing to support the conten-
tion that the flower was “Dizzy’s” favor-
ite. When a controversy arose on the
subject 50 years ago some industrious
person went through all the deceased
statesman’s books to find if there were
any allusions to the primrose. He found
only one —that a few of the petals made
an excellent addition to a salad.
“Mid-Sussex”: Tell “Thirsk” he made
my South Down blood boil by
suggesting that I was thinking of cow-
slip wine when I spoke of primrose wine.
The difficulty of petal-gathering would
be even greater in the former case, for
primroses are found in far greater abun-
dance. I once spent two days in a flower-
strewn copse picking enough petals to
make a pint of beverage.
"Diggaire”: As Jack Pugh was not
enlisted in the A.1.F., he (cannot be
classed as the youngest Digger (B.
11/9/’35). I think the youngest was Roy
Robertson, of the 3rd Batt., who was
killed in France; he enlisted on
his fourteenth birthday. There is a
memorial erected to him in Gordon
(N.S.W.) cemetery. Jack King, of
Port Melbourne, ran Robertson very
close, as he enlisted at Bendigo in the
24th Batt. when he was 14 years and two
months. Four months later he was badly
wounded at Lone Pine. Discovery of
his real age led to his being discharged.
Subsequently he re-enlisted and went to
France, where he was badly gassed and
wounded.
* * * *
“C.J.R.”: “G.A.L.’s” objections to the
Australian naval uniform (B. 18/9/’35)
strike me as mostly puerile. Certainly,
during my time in the R.A.N. I found
the little cap the most satisfactory of
headgear for ordinary climatic condi-
tions. We were always issued with tropi-
cal helmets for places where the sun was
hot enough to do any real damage. Also,
sweaters did not have to be bought by
the men; they were an item in every full
kit received on joining up. I still have
the one supplied to me in 1924.
X! * * *
“Jindivick”: “Upper Tooling,” who
complained in a recent par. that he
couldn’t find real costers in London, must
have looked in the wrong places for them.
Naturally, he drew a blank in the city
itself, but had he wandered through
Southwark, Greenwich, Shepherd’s Bush,
Hammersmith, Fulham, Balham (or even
Tooting) he would have seen plenty. On
gala days, anyhow; the “pearly” cos-
tume isn’t worn to work, but is reserved
for festive occasions. Had “U.T.” visited
Hampstead Heath on an August bank
holiday he’d have seen costers by the
thousand—in all manner of get-ups.
With their girls, too ; all conforming to
magazine-cover specifications.
* * ? *
“Quero”: A well-known medico at
the recent conference became reminis-
cent, and related how he got his start
to fame and prosperity. It recalled some
of the stories Conan Doyle wrote of his
early professional struggles. In this case
the medico had married young and hung
out his shingle in an unfashionable Syd-
ney suburb. One Saturday morning he
was looking gloomily through his sur-
gery window wondering how he could
beat up the grocer’s bill when a car
containing four opulent citizens bound
for Randwick collided with a van at his
gate. The fees for repairs gave him a
flying start, and two of the victims be-
came regular patients.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Lord Horder, the Prince
of Wales’s physician-in-ordinary, has
been commenting on Melbourne’s trams
and the effects of the row they make. In
my experience the impressive quality of
the human brain is not its susceptibility to
noise, but its occasional imperviousness
to it. I have walked down Collins-street
with an interesting companion, and at the
end of the journey all I have remembered
has been his discourse. The infinite
number of sensations with which my
eyes, ears and nose have been assailed
has not troubled my conscious mind in
the slightest. On the other hand, I have
sat at my typewriter trying to write and
having no desire to write or any interest
in what I am writing, and have been
acutely aware of a bird’s twittering or the
sound of children’s voices a quarter of
a mile away. Obviously, then, the prob-
lem of noise in a great city is not so
much a public problem as a personal
one. Make Melbourne or any other city
as silent as the grave, and there would
be people who would find as good
reasons for their neurasthenia in the
deadly stillness as they now do in the
present uproar. The average healthy
flapper rushes to town in tram or train,
scoots through the city under the noses
of shrieking • and bellowing motor
vehicles, fights her way home again in
the evening, comes back to attend a
cinema and goes home to sleep without
giving a single thought to the matter.
* >l! * *
“Uramao”: Italian newspapers have
been talking about the “British illusions”
it was hoped to dispel at Geneva. While
in Italy during the war 1 discovered that
Italians entertained some illusions about
Britons. At a Genoa cinema I saw an
Italian comedy, one of the characters
being an English nursemaid in the ser-
vice of an Italian family. According to
the script the maid’s inseparable com-
panion was a volume of Shakspearc, into
which she dipped repeatedly, sighing like
a furnace the while. My opera-glasses
enabled me to make out the title of the
volume, although the actress held it
upside down. It was Juliet et Romeo.
No Briton suffers from the illusion that
Italian nursemaids carry around a copy
of Dante’s Divine Comedy.
♦ >!< jJi
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The reported
discovery in mid-Atlantic of an aban-
cloned luxury yacht, with life-
boats intact and an ample supply
of food and water aboard, re-
calls the long-ago mystery of
(he Marie Celeste. The yacht's
log, signed up by the master,
showed that she was bound
from Bermuda to Madeira, and
accommodated six pcop I e.
Women’s clothing and chil-
dren’s toys were found in the
cabins. As with the Marie
Celeste, there was no sign of
struggle or violence. A reason-
able explanation may be that it
is another Yankee advertising
stunt of the Seth Parker kind.
If not explained, it will provide
another sea mystery for sailors
to argue out in the forecastles
of a myriad ships—that is, if
to-day’s sailors are interested in such
matters.
****
“Dromteus”; The emu pest is once
more exercising the cockies on the east-
ward side of the Westralian wheat belt;
the hungry birds are reported to be
arriving in greater numbers than three
years ago, making light of the rabbit-
proof fence and other obstacles. The
Government pays a bonus of Is. a head ;
there is a demand that this should be
raised to 2s. 6d. and that Lewis and
Hotchkiss guns should be dispatched from
Perth to the emu front. The account
against the destructive fowl, as set out
by several wheatgrowers’ unions and
country roads boards, is a heavy one,
but it seems he is of some small use
when dead.
The one benefit to be derived from the
pest is that the birds make excellent
pig feed.
Emu-fed pork doesn’t sound particularly
appetising; still, the stomach needn’t jib
at what the eye doesn’t see.
* * * *
“G.’s Understudy”: The fact that
Batman died in Melbourne in 1839
throws some doubt on “M.G.’s” statement
(B. 28/8/’35) that his grandmother, who
arrived in ’44, knew the pioneer on both
sides of Bass Strait. The sketch of Bat-
man by Paul Dowling which has been
purchased by the trustees of Melbourne
National Gallery is supposed to have
been executed in the ’fifties, when many
people were still familiar with the sub-
ject’s appearance. By latest advices, artist
Mclnnes has been commissioned to
paint a picture from an old sketch which
has long been in the hands of Batman’s
descendants.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Moshe Menuhin, the father
of Yehudi, has been ventilating his griev-
ances against the taxation officials who
mulcted his party to the extent of over
half their Australian earnings. There is
another side to the medal, however. While
one is grateful to the young fiddler for
enabling us to hear the works of the
great masters capably performed, his re-
ward is out of all proportion to his
achievement. Yehudi did not play a bar
of his own music. He played Mozart,
who died of hard work and poverty in
his thirties; Schubert, who perished ob-
scurely in Vienna ; Beethoven, who had
to cheat his publishers to preserve his
existence, and many other composers,
none of whom was ever able to erect
an expensive palace at Los Angeles or
anywhere else.
THE DEADLY SIN.
“A Sydney restaurateur has been prosecuted and
fined for selling morwong as snapper.”
You may dress up your mutton as lamb
And work any wiles you may wish
To render your beef and your ham
A trifle more tasty and “swish”;
You may fake any intricate dish
That appeals to the knut and the flapper,
But, when it’s a matter of fish,
You mustn’t sell morwong for snapper.
You may set undeniable cow
Parading as tenderest veal.
And no one will question you how
You knock up your sauce bechamel.
Your salmi of fowl may conceal
The spoil of the rabbiting trapper;
But you’re daring a dangerous deal
It you substitute morwong for snapper.
I doubt, let me frankly remark,
If most could tell t’other from which —
Or possibly either from shark—
When a roisterer’s yearning to pitch
Into fare that is racy and rich.
But the Law may descend like a clapper.
And Achilles be down in the ditch,
II he tries to serve morwong as snapper.
1 here’s none can decide at a glance
II ■ anything’s true to its wrapper.
But, Tony, you’re taking a chance,
And the Cadi will eye you askance.
If you’re caught selling morwong for snapper.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“I have smoked 44,000 during the past j
years and have never suffered any
throat trouble”
Try Craven “A. M Test their smoothness, coolness and flavour;
their freshness and freedom from all irritation. Carreras con-
fidently invite your verdict on Craven “A”—the Cigarette that
is made specially to prevent sore throats.
fd
f
df
d
POLITICAL POINTS
According to Melbourne “Age,” “there
is cause for profound gratitude that
Britain, Russia and France have rallied
so strongly to League and Covenant.”
On whose part? It’s all Collins-street to
a cockle that France and Russia are each
after an assurance of British-Empire
backing in another European war. They
will have “cause for profound gratitude”
if they bring it off, by fair words or
false ; but we shan’t.
It was reported from Canberra last
week that “the sharp improvement in
wheat and wool prices” had “appre-
ciably brightened the prospect for tax-
relief”—in the 1936-37 Budget. Man, the
taxpayer, never is but always to be blest.
Bishop Burgmann, of Goulburn, is of
opinion that the school-leaving age should
be raised to 16, “even if it means ten
times the present taxation.” According
to McKellar White, of the Taxpayers’
Association, “income taxes alone rise
as high as 50 p.c. of the taxpayers’ in-
come.” How very ill-informed are these
bishops who give the public so much un-
solicited advice!
Income taxed by the State of Queens-
land for the year 1934-35 amounted to
£16,995,400, an increase of £2,074,700.
Taxes were assessed at £1,845,800 —just
on 11 p.c. Then the Commonwealth came
in for its cut, which runs to 37| p.c. ordi-
nary tax and 6 p.c. special property tax.
Yet Minister Cooper is positive that taxa-
tion has no relation to unemployment.
The area under wheat is down 172,000
acres in Westralia. In 1930 the State had
3,957,000 acres sown with wheat; in
1935, 2,736,220 acres. Of course, 1930
was the year in which a Government of
well-meaning doctrinaires urged farmers
to grow more wheat and promised them
4s. at siding for every bushel. They got
25., and thousands were ruined. Indeed,
though politicians avoid the subject,
cockies say 2000 Westralian wheat farm:;
have been abandoned.
Lament from the greatest American
weekly;
Because the “Saturday Evening Post”
has published articles questioning the
soundness of the Townsend Plan for pen-
sioning persons past 60 at the rate of
$2OO a month, it has received many letters
expressing the belief that it has no interest
in pensions of any kind or in measures to
ameliorate poverty.
The Bulletin has the same experience
every time it criticises Douglas Credit.
There are none so intolerant as believers
in schemes for giving the multitude some-
thing for nothing, and none so arrogant
and cocksure.
MacCallum Smith, M.L.A., reporting
to the Westralian Assembly on his
secesh mission to London, claimed that
it would be “of intangible benefit to the
State.” “Intangible” is right, though it
must have been of tangible benefit to
some people. The taxpayers were
“touched” for over £5OOO.
“De Valera Supports Britain” was the
optimistic headline over “S. M, Herald’s”
account of his Geneva speech. While
Dev. was “supporting” the Oppressor,
one of his lieutenants proudly announced
in Dublin that a republican constitution
was being drafted. Still it may not mean
anything. After the expulsion of the
third Napoleon the French prepared a
constitution designed to set up a limited
monarchy with the Comte de Chambord
al its head. That stiff-necked Bourbon
refused the gift except on his own terms
—one was the substitution of the white
flag for the tricolor —but the constitution
still has a monarchical twist.
A. J. Hannan, S.A.’s very capable
Crown Solicitor, takes a serious view of
its financial future. In an address at
Adelaide he said it had had 20 years of
deficits amounting to over £16,000,000,
had doubled its public debt in nine
years (the increase was from £44,259,000
in 1919 to £90,813,100 in 1928), owed
£106,000,000 now and was “in such a
parlous financial position that its very
existence was threatened." The conclud-
ing remark may be applied to other
States. Without a redistribution of
functions and taxes, there is no future
for any of them.
Fresh from advising Australia to give
huge hunks of itself away to the Jap-
anese, the Dean of Canterbury has
arrived in North America with the news
that Douglas Credit is “the beginning
of a tremendous religious war on
poverty,”
Canada and N.Z. are running a close
race to be first to adopt the programme.
Other countries will tumble over each other
to join in.
What other countries? China and India?
If the gospel of Douglas is true it should
be applicable to those countries* and all
others, since truth has no geographical
limits. But the Douglasites don’t send
missionaries to China and India.
“Now then, Archie, and you. Bob, remember the whole Commonwealth
is lookin' on. Backbitin's allowed, but not bitin."
The struggle for the U.A.P. deputy-
leadership is beginning again at Can-
berra. Parkhill and Menzies are the
combatants, and, though Menzies is head
and shoulders above Archdale, intellec-
tually as well as physically, it is no cer-
tainty that he will be chosen, anti-Vic-
torian feeling having been worked up in
the U.A.P. caucus. In other days, when
the standard of N.S.W. representation
was high, Parkhill would have been re-
garded as lucky to be in Parliament at
all, let alone contending for the right of
succession to the P.M.
At Hitler’s direction, the Reichstag
has passed a law forbidding marriages
and “extra-marital intercourse” between
Germans and Jews and employment by
Jews of “German female domestics
under 45 years of age.” At 45, presum-
ably, Gretchen is proof against the
blandishments of Issy, or perhaps the
idea is that she can then look after her-
self.
The Jew has become the world’s scape-
goat. While the Nazis were legislating
love out of the relations between Ger-
mans and Jews, Dr. Dwyer, the R.C.
Bishop of Wagga, came out with a tirade
against “Jewish bankers.”
The Jewish bankers in London rule
England and rule Australia. They may
depose Governments if they wish by taking
money away from them, as they did a few
years ago, when civil servants could not
be paid.
So “the Jewish bankers” did that. The
general impression is that Lang brought
it on himself by defaulting. In any case,
no money was “taken” from his demented
Government, though the Commonwealth
Bank Board certainly refused to place
money at its disposal on the rotten
security of its word. And there was no
“Jewish banker” on the board. The
chairman was a matter-of-fact Scot.
One day last week a strike of engi-
neers broke out at Cockatoo Dock, Syd-
ney. Under a Federal award men
previously getting £5 a week had been
reduced to £4 ss. On the same day the
State Industrial Court raised the weekly
wage of milk-carters from £4 Is. 6d. to
£4 55., saying they had very important
duties to perform. Industrial arbitration
(there are “two shops”) has a way of
working out like that.
Tas. Premier Ogilvic was reminded by
Launceston “Examiner” that he had not
fulfilled his promise to “explain the truth
about Ireland to Australians”—he said
it would be “a duty and a privilege.” An
“Examiner” man offered to put the re-
quired space at his disposal. The re-
turned wanderer refused it, and seemed
quite huffy. “It is a pity,” said the
“Examiner” drily, “that when the press
is anxious to assist a man to reveal the
truth it is not convenient for him to
accept the invitation.”
Federal Labor is electing a leader and
a deputy-leader. Forde is to succeed
Scullin, and not only because he has
been Scullin’s deputy. Labor clings
to the old belief that the leader must
come from one of the three big States.
The U.A.P. has at least shaken itself free
from this superstition, as well as from
the belief of its forerunners, the Liberals,
that it is a crime in a politician to be
young.
The U.A.P. convention at Sydney
opened with noble exertions in the back-
scratching line. Mr. Sydney Snow, the
chairman, said “the forces opposed to
socialism” had never had “leaders of
more distinguished ability than Mr. Lyons
and Mr. Stevens,” and Mr. Lyons said
there was “no man to whom Australia
owed a greater debt than to Mr. Sydney
Snow.” “The forces opposed to social-
ism” had to contend with Mr. Lyons for
21 years before he turned, and they now
see Mr. Stevens acquiescing in the war
on commercial motors and in plans for
more Government buses and cafeterias.
Still, Mr. Sydney Snow is entitled to his
opinion. And there is no better judge of
softgoods anywhere.
British Labor is losing two leaders in
both Houses as a result of its demand
that Britain, which it did its darnedest to
disarm, should “defend Russia by defend-
ing Abyssinia.” Lord Ponsonby, like
Lansbury, is resigning; he says that
the T.U.C.’s pro-“sanctions” resolution
“violates his lifelong conviction that peace
cannot be secured by force of arms.” So
there really are pacifists with the courage
of their convictions.
Something has gone wrong with Dun-
stan’s theory that unemployment could
be wiped out by adding 50 p.c. to sus-
tenance and starting loan works in all
directions. A year ago Victoria had
37,773 persons on sustenance and relief
work ; now the nurhber is 39,600. The
information was furnished during a de-
bate on a bill authorising the raising of
£2,400,000 for unemployed relief. Dun-
stan wanted £5,500,000 for the year, and
talked darkly of seceding unless he got it.
Out of a population of 950,000,
Queensland had last year only 14 per-
sons with incomes of £lO,OOO or more.
The highest was that of a wholesale
manufacturer who paid £5643 on £15,535
of personal earnings and £126 on £345
from property. A storekeeper paid
£4876 on £13,542 “personal” and £22
on £62 “property.” A sheepman, whose
income was all “personal,” paid £3718 on
£10,519. State taxes only; the Com-
monwealth army has yet to report. If
pleases Queensland Labor to strike at
the fat man ; unfortunately, its bludgeon
bounces off and hits a lot of lean men,
too. •
“S. M. Herald” chides “certain minor
sections of the community” for object-
ing to being dragged into a war in which
the British Empire might be “the mug.”
“Australia,” it says, “has signed the Cov-
enant.”
It has pledged its word to protect “the
territorial integrity and existing political
independence” of any of its fellow-
members, and Abyssinia is such a fellow-
member.
So are Lithuania, Poland, Latvia,
Esthonia, Czecho-Slovakia, Russia and
the rest. And “Granny” obligingly men-
tions in the same issue that the Germans
may start “a successful rising in Memel,”
which “might be the beginning of a re-
vision of eastern frontiers, leading to the
reannexation of Danzig and the Polish
Corridor, and even of eastern Upper
Silesia.”
T. J. Hartigan, the wandering N.S.W.
Railways Commissioner, has been heard
of again. Mr. Hartigan has been playing
tennis in the U.S.A.—no, it’s Miss Harti-
gan who has been playing tennis, but
Mr. Hartigan must be somewhere about.
Meanwhile, lacked, M.L.A., one of the
new additions to the U.A.P. band, has
been congratulating him on having “re-
duced the railway deficit to £1,250,000.”
What he did was to increase the railway
deficit (£26,095,100 in nine years) by
£2,025,000, £BOO,OOO of the £2,025,000
being tax-revenue, transferred to the rail-
way accounts every year to make them
look less appalling. But perhaps new
Jacketts can’t be expected to know this.
For once The Bulletin finds itself in
agreement with Lang. At first, his news-
paper joined in the cry for “sanctions,”
but the Boss soon stopped that. Last
week he said “sanctions can mean nothing
but war.”
If you support sanctions you go to war
with Italy, and Australia does not want war
with anyone. The future of our country lies
in the Pacific, and no other nation in the
Pacific is engaged in this war to preserve
peace.
Audited and found correct.


The, old qrev mare,
p.SME AINT WHAT SHE USTA BE,
ain't what she usta be
Its not the biro in the golden ca^e
THAT SINGS THE SWEETEST soHq *
", '
Its okilv a i
TUMBLE -DOWtJ I
NEST "
;/ L E 3S THAN TVie DUST ( BENEATM THV %
CHARIOT WHE-ESU,
" i
Just break the news to mother
BECAUSE 1 VvE NO OTHER V ,
1/ , *■- ’ t "
]m for ever blowing bubbles,
v
lo WALK. A
THOUSAND MILS*
FOR ONE OF VER.
SMI-l-l-LES,
Mam- m-mv "
* w
I HEAR you CALI_IM<3, ME
CARVE A UTTUE
S|T OFF THE TOR FOR MS.j
For. me y
“I HAVE A SONG TO SING-O.”
“A Sydney psychologist advocates singing to lessen the monotony of work.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest,
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
m
nm
Heat -tb- ynyAetjf-
?Me B.V.D^Jb
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really sirug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
the
f 0«
ffcAO*
rE'M'-
B.VD. UNDERWEAR
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC. NEW YORK.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The death of Elliott Lewis, at 77,
leaves only two survivors of the Federal
Convention of 1897-98 —Isaac Isaacs
and Walter James. Lewis had been just
on 50 years in politics when he
died—he became a Tasmanian M.H.A.
in 1886. He was twice Premier of
Tasmania, and during his first term
(1899-1903) he was a member of the
Federal Executive Council. The second
was from 1909-12, and he held office in
three other Ministries, He was Chan-
cellor of the Tasmanian University for
nine years, retiring when he became
Lieutenant-Governor in 1933. Like the
other two survivors, he was at the Bar.
R. F. Sanderson, who will lead the
Australian trade delegation to India, is
a versatile person dowered with the
shrewd canniness of a Scottish ancestry.
He is managing director of Headwear,
Ltd.—an offshoot of the softgoods firm
of Buckley and Nunn, of which he also
is a director. He is a member of the
Victorian Meat Board and president of
the Victorian and S. Riverina Lamb Ex-
porters, He led the goodwill mission to
the East Indies in 1933. His colleague,
John Thomson, is g.m. of Westralian
Farmers —the biggest co-operative show
in the State.
Selwyn Betts, appointed deputy-chair-
man of the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensa-
tion Commission and a temporary Judge,
has his roots firmly in Australian history.
He is a descendant of Parson Marsden.
Betts is a broad, equable counsel
whom anybody around the Middle
Temple would pick as devoted to
the law, and has long enjoyed one of
the best junior practices in Sydney—he
has worn a wig since 1903, except dur-
ing the period when he donned a Light
SELWYN BETTS.
Horse captain’s uniform. For years he
has been A.M.F. divisional legal officer.
Though he is an inlander —born in Goul-
burn—yachting is his passion,
F. W. Mann is a different type from
William Irvine, whom he succeeds as
Victorian C.J. He is S. Australian-born
—Mt. Gambier was his home town —
but he graduated at Melbourne Uni. and
was called to the Victorian Bar just in
time to go to the Boer disturbance, where
he was shot through the shoulder at
Hartebeestefontein. He was an Equity
and Constitutional man at the Bar, far
too busy to worry about politics, and
when he became a Judge in 1919 his
chambers were full of important briefs—
among them one in the T. J. Ryan v.
“Mercury” case, which was the cause
celebre of the year. He combined a
cautious and courteous manner at the
Bar with a dry wit, and, more than most
other Victorian Judges, is devoted to
an open-air life. He is noted as a sound
botanist and bird student, is a yachts-
man in the first rank and before he
became a Judge was among the most
sedulous followers of the Melbourne
Hunt. A son, F. G. Mann, won the Vic-
torian Rhodes Scholarship last year.
J. H. O. Eaton, S. Australia’s official
chief engineer, who has been connected
with most of the State’s big water and
drainage projects, retires after 51 years
in the public service. His place will be
taken by J. T. Angwin, an Adelaide en-
gineering graduate, who from 1914 to
1929 was at work on the construction
of the River Murray lock and weir
scheme, though the job was interrupted
for a couple of years while he kept an
important engagement in the north of
France.
Dave Souter is dead, at 73. A stocky,
humorous Aberdonian, he wrote good,
light articles and
short stories and
capital verse, and
hi s conversation
bubbled with
humor. But it is
for his black-and-
white drawings
that he will be re-
membered. They
began to appear in
The Bulletin in
the early ’nineties,
and in 1896 he
int r o d uced the
Souter cat as a
blob of black-and-
white to fill up an
empty space in a
confection called
“The Bride’s First
Pie.” The cat was
a real cat —he
strayed into the
Souter household
on a New Year’s
Eve, and, christened Thomas Dark,
was cherished, in spite of criminal
habits, until a neighbor immolated him
with a shotgun. D.H.S. was editor of
“Art in Architecture” for many years, and
latterly had been on the staff of N.S.W.
“Country Life,” for which he did an
illustrated causerie. His last drawing in
The Bulletin —published in this issue—
is a domestic scene in which the cat
figures. And to the end his line was
unwavering and assured, like his friend-
ships and his courage. He was an
original member and one-time president
of the N.S.W. Royal Art Society.
“Oxon”: The Bulletin’s John Dailey
threw as much vigor and keenness into
field sports in his younger days as he
applied later to literary pursuits. He was
a good cricketer at Oxford, and played
for his college ; he might have gone higher
if he had shared the store set by most of
his contemporaries on athletic distinc-
tions. But he never did ; the game was
always more to him than the prize.
Before he was called to the Bar in Eng-
land he shot and hunted regularly. He
D. H. SOUTER —an impression.
told me once that he had given up the
former from some humanitarian im-
pulse, which may or may not have come
from battue-shooting. And the hunting
field held one particularly tragic memory
for him. His younger brother, a subal-
tern in the Guards, was killed by a
smashing fall when they were out to-
gether.
Atlee Hunt’s busy life has ended, at
70. Originally a N.S.W. Lands official,
though Queensland-born, he practised at
the Bar for several years before becom-
ing secretary of the N.S.W. Federal
Association, from which he went to
the League, which in 1899 conducted
the referendum campaign in favor
of Federation. He became first
private secretary to an Australian Prime
Minister—Edmund Barton —and first sec-
retary to the External Affairs Department.
He was at two Imperial conferences —'07
and ’ll —and got a C.M.G. in 1910.
Afterwards he was Commonwealth Public
Service Arbitrator for nine years. Atlee
Hunt was a kindly and judicial-minded
man to whom a host of friends turned
for advice when in difficulty.
E. N. Dewhirst, who recently died in
Adelaide at 84, joined the National Bank
in 1876, and managed various branches,
including Port Augusta and Port Adel-
aide. He raced his yacht Doris (built by
himself at Port Augusta) in both gulfs,
and was at one time commodore of the
Royal S. A. Yacht Squadron. Deeply
interested in musical- and literary-society
work, he was a past president of both
the Orpheus Society and the Port Adel-
aide Institute.
Bertram Thomas,
on a lecturing lour
in Australia, is
reckoned the
world’s leading
authority on
Arabian affairs
now that T. E.
Lawrence and Ger-
tru d e Bell are
gone. Only St.
John Philby can
lay any claim to
equal him as an
explorer of the
Arabian peninsula
—for his journey
in 1930-31 he was
awarded every
geographical medal
for Asiatic explora-
tion which was
worth winning.
Before the war
Thomas was in the
British civil service
for six years, but
after he had enlisted as a Tommy
he was sent to Mespot. with his
regiment, where a flair for politics
and administration led him into strange
courses. From 1922 to 1924 he was
an assistant British representative in
the turbulent Trans-Jordan area, and
for the next five years was Wazir
and Finance Minister in Muscat and
Oman. Then his old college, Trinity,
rescued him, from Asia. Like Law-
rence and Philby, he discovered Arabic
scholarship to be a passport to member-
ship of the gloomy and exclusive
Athenaeum.
Many a Digger has kind memories of
Dr. E. T. Brennan, who contributed
one of the brightest addresses delivered
to the Pacific Health Conference in
Sydney. Dr. Brennan was the 11th
(Westralian) Battalion’s first m. 0., and
was with Raymond Leane (now S.A.
Police Commissioner) in the attempt to
effect a landing at Gaba Tepe. Always
cool and resourceful in action, he came
out of the war Lieut.-Col. Brennan,
D. 5.0., M.C. Stawell (Vic.) claims him
as a son.
Under the guidance of Lieut.-Col.
J, M. Maughan, Chief Commissioner
the N s Wales B Scouts who d ;
strattd fheir strength and efficiency in
, _ y 111
P ara de through Sydney last week, have
made rapid strides in recent years,
Maughan has a fine war record. He
A Scout Commander-in-Chief.
served in the New Guinea expedition and
also at Gallipoli and in France, where he
was wounded at Pozifcres. Educated at
King’s School, Parramatta, and Balliol
College, Oxford, he was admitted as a
solicitor in 1906. He is a brother ol
David Maughan, K.C.
From “El V.”: —
The impending marriage of the Cam-
rose of Longcross heir to Pamela Smith will
unite two of the most enterprising titled families
in Britain. The bride is a daughter ol
Birkenhead, who was as prodigal as he was
clever. At their.father’s death, the family were
too poor to support a peerage on the scale on
whicn peerages are usually supported, but this
did not worry them. Eleanor, the eldest—lor
whose work Australian newspapers have been
giving her 21-year-old sister credit —established
herself in no time as a iirst-rank novelist with
her Red Wagon and other circus and gipsy
stories, and the films added to her royalties,
Her brother, the new Earl, burst into biograohy
with his father’s life and some other books,
and Pamela has shown herself branded with
the same brush. Lord Camrose, father ol
the bridegroom, is a Berry who, with his
brother, has risen in 30 years from the mere
ownership of the “Advertising World’’ to the
control of Allied Newspapers, the “Daily lele-
graph” (which he bought from the Lawsons
and of which he is editor), the “Sunday Times,
the “Illustrated London News,” the “Financial
Times” and “Kelly’s Directories” —a group with
more capital than the Northcline press,
Editors like the Berrys—they do not interfere
with policy or go in for mass-production of
ideas. Australia has had some good out ol
Lord Camrose —McCaughey, of Coonong, and
Taylor, of Turanville (N.S.W.), bought ms
Royal Show champion Shorthorn bull and its
sire and other cattle of his breeding a few
years ago.
“A.H.” in reminiscent vein:
Reading a couple of Gavin Casey’s short
stories of goldfields life in recent Bulletins
set me thinking of his father, from whom he
doubtless inherited some of his literary apti-
tude. Casey psre, who died 18 years ago, was a
N.S.W. native and a surveyor. He went to
the West in the roaring goldfield days, and,
after some mining experiences, settled down to
a steady job as town surveyor of Kalgoorlie.
He was an occasional contributor to Ihe
Bulletin, and a fairly regular one to the Kal-
goorlie “Sun” of those days, and there was a
deal of genuine humor as well as keen obser-
vation in his contributions over the pen-name
of “Judex.” And, if he didn’t write prize
stories, I can recall one prize competition that
he won —against the whole of Australia. It
was when the “Lone Hand” its career
in 1907 by offering a £lO purse to the reader
who should detect most misprints and errata
in its first issue. Entries must have arrived
from everywhere between Cape York and the
Leeuwin; I pored over the issue myself and
came to the conclusion that 20 was a fair
outside estimate of “literals” and ungram-
maticalisms. But Casey landed the bacon with
137.


Brakes may be
*7
perfect but...
Think it over
and you'll fit
CHECKSKIDS
100% brake efficiency drops to zero if tyres can’t
grip the road! Think of it .. . the area of road-
contact of a tyre amounts to a few inches only!
On the grip the tyre puts into those few inches
depends your safety. Don’t take chances .. . discard
those smooth, grip-less covers and fit Barnet Glass
Checkskids.
No other tyre has a tread like a Checkskid. It
holds and grips with an unequalled tenacity, pre-
venting skid or slip on any surface. It stops
you . . . starts you . . . speeds you . . . safely, surely!
And—it wears more slowly—giving extra thousands
of safe miles which lessen running costs as well as
danger. Be wise—forget the idea of a few more
miles from those old, worn-smooth covers. Have
the local Barnet Glass dealer replace them with
Checkskids!
ck
son
The New
“Check skid”
with MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
BROADER
M 64. FP. 35 TREAD,
\
i
HlllUilll UullMlll
TYRES
New lyres call for New BARNET GLASS
fd
TUBES


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 481 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lurch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors — James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton. Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 06
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi«
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.)
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931.. 4,413 5 „ „ 4262 151 ) „
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO *■‘,•>o4
From inner reserves, £57,000
From tax reserve, £2026.. ..
Loss. u
1932.. 71,284 Nil
Deficit.
1933.. 176,830 Nil 176,734
From inner reserves, £31,018 .. .. 145,716
1934.. 31,378 Nil - 177,094
"Eight months.
(Excluding capital reserve, £166,077 at Dec. 31, ’34.
It is difficult to say exactly what the
future holds for this co. Plant has been
one of the chief troubles ; much depends
upon the extent to which improvements
(hereto place the co. on a competitive
basis. The board puts it this way:
The usual provision has been made for
depreciation, and stocks have been conser-
vatively valued. Maintenance charges have
been heavy. The policy has been to place
the working assets in good condition;
additions have been made to plant, and it
is intended to continue the purchases of
new plant to the fullest extent possible
under the circumstances.
With this end in view, interest on the
£529,747 of debentures—they are the
funded trade debts of the old Bond cos.,
and used to carry a nominal 7 p.c., re-
duced to £5 Bs. 6d. by the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act —is to be lowered
lo 2 p.c. (= £10,410), 2\ p.c. (= £13,012)
and 3 p.c, (= £15,615) for the three years
lo Nov. 1, 1937. During the same period
there will thus be a temporary saving
in outgoing of £46,000-odd. This is to
be paid out of subsequent profits as soon
as practicable ; shareholders cannot get a
div. again until debenture-holders,’ interest
slate is cleaned. Also, during the term
of the agreement, the trustee for the
debenture-holders will have the right to
nominate two directors to the board.
The cotton bounty, payment of which
was discontinued half-way through 1932,
provided the profits claimed in ’3O and
’3l, and more besides, and greatly re-
duced the loss in 1932. The principal
section of the business, hosiery and
knitted-goods, has gone on making
losses. A revaluation of stocks accounted
for a considerable portion of the big
loss in ’33. After spending an unspeci-
fied amount of the year’s earnings on
plant, and paying interest (£28,481) on
the debentures, the loss for ’34 (the
figures were presented over seven months
after the books closed) was £31,378. That
raised the p. and 1. debit to £177,094;
on the other side is a capital reserve of
£166,077, mainly a book entry in respect
of the freehold.
Before paying debenture interest, last
year’s trading resulted in a profit of
£2897. It is plain, therefore, that things
will need to improve substantially before
even the reduced rates of debenture in-
terest already referred to are earned. The
market notes this and the outside debt,
and prices the £lOO debentures at £2B
10s. as against £4l a year ago. At the
lower figure the return would be 7 p.c.,
8.7 p.c. and 10.5 p.c. respectively on the
basis of the rates of interest to be paid
for the next three years. Excluding the
capital reserve, the cover is £75 10s. 3d.
in net tangibles, mainly plant, worth
what it can earn.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Prospectus. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £85,840 £86,442 £86,442
Debentures ..£509,041 544,033 529,747 529,747
Mortgage . . 126,677 111,676 109,786 105,817
Overdraft . . 76,712 89,393 122,099 149,191
Sundry creditors 120,348 50,012 30,312 18,321
Freehold . . 223,729 322,296 320,920 320,920
Plant . . 212,271 231,148 212,754 201,016
Stocks . . 383,487 278,411 226,034 239,762
Book debts . . 88,888 223,254 128,602 105,821
Cash, etc. . . 18,400 7,947 10,426 10,981
To carry an extra £13,728 of stocks, clip
£11,991 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors and £3969 off the mortgage,
the co. went to its bankers for an extra
£27,092. Including stocks, more or less
liquids exceeded the floating debt by
£83,235, or £19,630 less than at the pre-
vious balance.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
-- £ £ £
1925.. 43,724 10 p.c. = 30,007 13,717 117,665
00,838 10 „ „ 31,613 19,225 136,890
1927.. 54,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written off, £6OOO 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.a = 39,820 16,253 167.265
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.a = 49,986 9,797 127,062
1930.. 43,653 7 „ 35,000 8,653 135,715
1931.. 37,730 6 „ „ 30,000 7,730 143,445
1932.. 39,162 6 „ „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
1933.. 41,017 6 „ „ 30,000 11,017 163,624
1934.. 48,638 7 „ „ 35,000 13,638 177,262
1935.. 46,034 7 „ „ 35,000 11,034 188,296
This co. is in the woolbroking, pas-
toral finance and agency business in N.
S. Wales and Queensland. Conditions
were mixed last year. The average price
of wool (£l2 12s. sd. in Sydney and £l4
os. 6d. in Brisbane) was down roughly
£8 a bale. But the co. put 27,563 more
bales under the hammer. Most of its
increase was in Queensland, where it now
does about one-third of its wool turn-
over, and where the number of its wool
clients has doubled during the last
decade:—
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 ~ 137,258 821,140 15,357
1925 .. 117,550 232,501 32,676
1930 ~ 182.221 485,958 37,243
1931 .. 186,801 518,125 26,099
1932 .. 214,126 481,507 21,901
1933 .. 253,647 557,935 24,980
1934 .. 206,277 442,((78 20,447
1935 .. 233,840 420,674 25,457
Sheep prices were better, but 15,404
fewer animals were put under the
hammer, while it was the other way
around with cattle. Turnover in the pro-
duce and machinery sections was “highly
gratifying.”
Whatever the co. missed on the swings
it seems to have picked up on the
roundabouts. Certainly the declared net
result was £2604 lighter at 9.2 p.c. on
the half-million of share capital, com-
pared with 9.7, 8.2, 7.8, 7.3, 8.7 and 11.9
p.c. back to 1929. But that was after
paying all exes., providing for deprecia-
tion and other contingencies, and, for
the first time, rebating 20 p.c. of the com-
mission on all wool sold during the year.
The div. was kept at 7 p.c., the final
being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., as in the
previous term.
As for (he current term, the clip will
be lighter, especially in Queensland,
where heavy stock losses have been sus-
tained, but prices are up (they are about
30 p.c. better than a year ago), and the
outlook is encouraging. Considering the
margin between last year’s earnings and
distribution, immediate prospects of the
co. being able to repeat a 7 p.c. div. are
promising.
The market therefore prices the scrip
at 30s. 6d., at which figure the return
is 4.6 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 275. 6d. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1920. ip2B. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . £205,755 £414,018 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 461,352 553,490 598,795 387,231
Freeholds . . 160,8*56 199,965 200,624 200,624
Plant, etc. . . 35,687 31,656 29,629 42,119
Advances, etc. 505,048 899,365 1,051,066 800,226
Investment and
•ash .. 21,396 21,865 11,321 11,321
Consignments 1,916 3,417 41,240
The reduction of £250,840 in advances,
etc., and of £211,561 in outside liabili-
ties reflects the small carry-over com-
pared with the 1933-34 season. Plant,
etc. —the etcetera consists of an unspeci-
fied amount of trade stocks—was up
£12,490. Because of this, there was an
apparent shrinkage of £1456 in the more
or less liquid surplus (£465,553).
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profit. (Pref. and Ord.) serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 39,8.38 8 p.c. = 30,750 3,088 07,687
1920.. 64.981 10 „ „ 50,000 14,981 82.668
1927.. 79,813 11 „ ~ 55,000 24,813 107,481
1928.. 71,600 10 „ „ 50,000 21,600 129.081
1929.. 67,806 10 „ „ 50.000 17,806 146,887
1930.. 51,980 8 „ „ 40,000 11,980 158.867
1931.. 31,003 5* „ „ 27.221 3,782 162,649
1932.. 27,138 5* ~ „ 27,750 162,037
July,
1933 f. 24,538 6* „ „ 27,750 158.825
Profit on sale of shares. £BBO3 .. 167,628
1934.. 59,445 7i p.c. = 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935.. 39,894 7* „ „ 38,550 1,344 187,105
*Prefs. 7J p.c. tThirteen months.
The sharp rise in the 1934 profit—it was
the best since 1929—followed improved
trading conditions, alterations in the
method of distribution and changes in
the management. Though tariff adjust-
ments increased competition from im-
ported goods, prices were fairly steady,
and trading conditions continued favor-
able during the last term. Yet there
was a contraction of £19,551 in declared
net earnings, which appears to have been
due mainly to allowance for deprecia-
tion, smaller returns from investments,
chiefly Yarra Falls, and, possibly, stocks.
Fixed assets, practically unchanged in
1934, were reduced by £8565 net, stocks
were down £62,876, and Yarra Falls, in
which A.K.M. holds about 300,000
shares, has lowered its div. from 10 p.c.
to 8 p.c., while Austral Silk and Cotton,
which paid 3£ p.c. in 1934, has not yet
sent along anything in respect of its last
term. Gross earnings (£56,173) were
down £20,548, while exes. (£16,279, in-
cluding £3051 legal costs in connection
with an appeal to the Privy Council)
were only £996 lighter.
The £39,894 netted was 7.2 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 10.8, 4.4, 4.9, 5.5, 10.3, 13.5,
14.3 and 15.9 p.c. back to 1927. The
div., which fell from an average of 10.2
p.c., sweetened with £90,000 of bonus
scrip, for the nine years to the close of
accounts in 1930 to 5 p.c. for the three
following years, was lowered from 7+
p.c. to 7 p.c., the final being at the rate
of 8 p.c. p.a.
Over the twelvemonth the pound
shares dropped from 31s. 6d. to 28s. 9d.
in the market. At the lower figure the
return is 4.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 265. 9d. in net tangibles,
mainly fixed assets.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
'I9X7. 1931. 1934! 1935.
Paid capital.. £OO,OOO £550,000 £566,000 £550,000
Liabilities .. 3,845 47,580 72,069 22,525
Property, plant 28,893 196,470 190,082 181,517
Stocks.. .. 23,170 125,802 206,511 143,035
Hook debts . . 12,347 58.340 43,308 45,520
Clash, etc. . . 24,818 . 9,245 431 15,998
Shares In assoc.
cos. .. Nil 384,170 394,930 394,930
To lower the amount coming to out-
siders by £49,544, add £2212 to debtors’
balances and £15,567 to cash, stocks
were reduced by £62,876. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£182,628, including stocks) was £4447.
Since the close of accounts, Julius
Kayser Inc., New York, has bought the
whole of A.K.M.’s holding in Julius
Kayser (Aust.) Pty. for £58.938.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
, Dividends , To Re- Rc-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves,
£££ £ .
1925.. 30,880 0 p.c. 8 p.c. 28,700 8,120 350,849
1920.. 31,060 0 „ 10 „ 35,560 352,349
1927.. 63,384 0 „ 10., 35,060 27,824 380,173
1928.. 47,524 6 „ 9„ 82,160 15,364 305,537
1929.. 41,455 6 „ 7„ 25,360 10,095 411,032
1930.. 05,409 6 „ 9„ 32,160 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026 414,855
1931.. 9,127 0 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405,422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ 5„ 18,560 15,862 420,784
1933.. 46,320 6 „ 6„ 21,900 24,300 445,144
1934.. 46,150 6 ~ 6 „ 21,960 24,190 409,334
1935.. 64,403* 0 „ 6„ 21,900 42,503 511,837
‘lncludes profit on sale o( Consols.
There was further improvement in the
number of passengers and quantity of
cargo carried, and the subsidiary, Hob-
son’s Bay Dock and Engineering Co.,
sent along an unspecified but “slightly
increased rate of dividend.” In the still
sick coal trade, the co.’s interests are
confined to agency and carrying work.
There were some minor mishaps to the
fleet, but most of the cost was recover-
able from the underwriters ; the balance
(unspecified) was charged against work-
ing account. Also, the co. sold its hold-
ing of Consols (book value, £162,988 at
the previous balance) when the market
was at its peak. The profit was sent
direct to reserves, chief of which is pro-
vision for depreciation, special replace-
ments, contingencies, etc. (£406,130, up
£28,448 as against £14,223 in the pre-
vious term).
The board wrote the year’s net profit
£4238 better at £35,732, or enough to
pay the pref. div. (£1560) and show 10
p.c. on the £340,000 of ord. capital as
against 8.8 p.c. for the previous term.
The difference between £35,732 and the
profit shown in the table represents un-
explained additions to reserves.
The cautious board kept the div. at
6 p.c., and more than twice the amount
distributed was put on the shelf, lifting
reserves £145,837 higher than paid capi-
tal at June 30. The accumulation is
largely the result of the sale of surplus
tonnage when prices were high and of
liberal allowances for depreciation and
other contingencies during the boom
years.
Balance-sheet movements reflect the
purchase of the new 10,000-ton passenger-
and-cargo motor-vessel Duntroon, due
to arrive about the end of this month:
1921. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £366,000 £366,000 £366,000 £306,000
Liabilities .. 128,600 44,760 90,007 71,948
Steamers, etc. 1 - O on ( 414,525 448,735 727,831
Freehold, plant 11 51,698 54,102 54,^29
Stores, etc. . . 38,256 8,031 15,875 17,133
Book debts . . 105,144 57,874 54,950 57,565
I n v e s tments,
cash . . 365,621 291,633 362,659 104,007
The net addition to the book value of
the fleet was £279,096. To meet the out-
lay and reduce the outside debt by
£18,059, the co. was in the fortunate
position of being able to draw upon in-
vestments and cash for £258,652 net;
when the books closed it still had
£42,000 on fixed deposit, £19,006 in
current account, etc., and £l3OO of de-
bentures. Shares in other cos., mostly
the subsidiary, figure at £41,701.
With the arrival of the Duntroon, the
Dimboola —the co.’s only passenger ship
at the moment —which was taken from
idleness and put on the Westralian run
about three years ago, will no longer be
required. Since the close of accounts she
has been sold to Singapore purchasers
at “a satisfactory figure,” which, of
course, will help to replenish the still fine
pile of liquids.
The market prices the pound ords.
at 335. as against 325. a year ago. At
335. the return is 3.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis, with prospects. Every lift of 1
p.c. in the div. would raise the yield by
approximately 0.8 p.c. The net tan-
gible cover is 50s. Id., and for the prefs.
(there are only 26,000 of them, and they
seldom appear on the market) £33 15s.
Were’s Investment Trust
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
• £
Preliminary exes., £3788 .. .. 3,788
Reserves.
Net surplus on sale of stocks, £4140.. 352
£ £ £
1929. . 10,332 0 p.c. = 7,041 2091 3,043
Deficit.
Loss on sole of investments, £4985.. 1,942
Reserves.
1930.. 18,145 24 p.c. = 7,017 5528 3,080
I<oss on sale of investments, £2892 .. 094
1931. . 7,072 Nil 7672 8.300
Loss on sale of investments, £l7OO ~ 0,000
1932.. 11,996 24 p.c. = 9,375 2021 9,227
Profit on sale of investments, £331 .. 9,558
1933.. 12,729 24 p.c. = 9,375 3304 12,912
Profit on sale of investments, £7055.. 20,507
1934.. 14,723 8 p.c. = 11,250 3473 24,040
Profit on sale of investments, £3442.. 27,482
r 1985.. 17,001 4 p.o. = 16,000 2001 30,143
From the outset the board has adopted
a policy of complete frankness, disclos-
ing the full contents of the co.’s invest-
ment portfolio, and has followed the
sound principles established by success-
ful English and Scottish investment
trusts. One of the most important of
these is security of capital, which gener-
ally means a spread of risks and moder-
ate returns until substantial reserves have
been built up. These reserves are the
cornerstone of this class of business;
they arise largely, especially during the
early stages, from capital profits on the
sale or exchange of securities. A trust
should also offer the investor expert ser-
vice at low cost, thus relieving him of
the anxiety of managing a small port-
folio to the best advantage.
Judged on this basis, Were’s (the first
of the Australian investment trusts) con-
tinues to put up a very encouraging per-
formance. While a further rise in
security prices affected returns from new
investments, it enabled the co. to make
a capital profit of £3442 (£7655 in the
previous term), which was sent direct to
the investment fluctuation reserve
(now £24,442). Also, better conditions,
especially in Empire countries, where
most of the co.’s 548 separate invest-
ments are, enabled traders to earn a
bit more. An extra £3704 was received
in divs., etc. (£21,886). The net result
benefited by £2938 of the increase, reach-
ing 4.7 p.c. on capital as against 3.9
p.c. in 1934. The div. was lifted a point,
making it 4 p.c.
At June 30 the securities were made
up, as to nominal value, of bonds and
debentures 8.13 p.c., preference shares
8.02 p.c., ord. shares 83.85 p.c. The lot
stood in the books at £9900 more than
their market value, whereas the gap was
£78,926 two years earlier. That leaves
the exchange value between British and
Australian currencies (£A33,859 in the
co.’s favor) out of the reckoning. Since
the co. can sit tight and await develop-
ments, capital depreciation of its holdings
is not an urgent matter calling for imme-
diate adjustment.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1931. 1933. 1934. 1936.
Paid capital.. £375,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Loans, etc. .. 97,856 * 24,899 215,315 102,444
Sundry creditors 2,369 15,438 5,273 18,483
Invpstments .. 441,555 418,607 629,218 543,863
Debtors,'etc... 7,775 13,785 2,628 3,539
Cash .. 30,186 12,210 5,499 174
To lower the amount of loans, etc., by
£112,871, securities were reduced by
£85,365, cash by £5325, and £13,210 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. It all suggests a cautious
policy.
The fully-paid ss. shares, covered by
net tangibles with a book value of
ss. 4d., are at par or thereabouts in
the market.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


_1
UIIIUIHI
:n
S 3
Hell
=si
Siap
•••
iuw
SEE
CHINA AND JAPAN
The popular E. & A. Line Steamers offer to passen-
gers a varied and interesting route, calling at
Rabaul, Manila, Hongkong, Shanghai and five ports
in Japan.
The comfortable SECOND SALOON accommoda-
tion is in 2, 3 and 4 berth Cabins, the Menu Is
excellent, and Second Saloon passengers have many
privileges similar to First Saloon.
Passengers may live on board at all ports, fares are
free of exchange and the Australian £ is worth 25/»
in Japan.
ROUND TRIP STEAMER FARES:
Sydney to Yokohama
First, £9O; Second, £56/15/-
Faret are Fret* of Exchange.
Joint E. & A. Passenger Agents:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
5.5. TAN DA
leaves Sydney Oct. 12
5.5. NANKIN
leaves Sydney Nov. 13
5.5. NELLORE
leaves Sydney Dec. 14
m


Said a bandmaster, “Wilson, you’re sacked »
Since you took to Schweppes Tonic you’ve cracked
Twenty drumsticks, and split
Seven drums. I submit
That such force should be tempered with tact ”
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
How Much Time
cnn von Rive 1o your friend’s affairs? He can probably only Rive as
much'to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
vour Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors;
T II Kellv (Chairman), Walter X. Brunton, Herbert K. Lysaght, Sbepbeard K. Laidley,
‘ liieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. .1. Playfair, M.L.C., E. K. Knox.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V Douglass, Manager.
NOBEL;
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEU
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.s Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.; Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.; R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.s Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE. QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
The Sharemarket
The week-end found all investment
stocks weak. Reasonably or otherwise,
the market is worried about the Abyssinia
business, and after a period of buoyancy
uncertainty, following the profit-taking by
speculators which was almost bound to
come after presentation of the June 30
accounts, is producing a shaky appear-
ance in the share-lists.
Even Broken Hill Props, have fallen
back to 625. 6d.; at that figure the present
buyer who takes up his quota of the
new issue will obtain a return of £4 16s.
lOd. per cent, when the promised \2j p.c.
distribution comes along on his fully-
paid holding. It seems to be too good a
thing to be left open long.
Likewise with Kandos Cement. Fol-
lowing some general remarks by the
chairman on the economic outlook at
the annual meeting, these shares fell from
265. 6d. to 245. They recovered slightly,
but dropped to 235. last week. On a
p.c. div. basis the 16s. fully-paids
yield 5.2 p.c. Cement-manufacturing may
be an overcapitalised pursuit in Aus-
tralia, but last year this concern, which
has a half-interest with Australian
Cement (Melb.) in the Kandos (N.S.W.)
and Geelong (Vic.) plants, showed over
11 p.c. on its capital. Compared with
the Vic. co.’s £1 shares at 305., Kandos
16s. scrip at 235. seems the better pur-
chase.
It is hard to see how a war (if any)
would result in increased purchasing
power of paper currency—that is what
the fall in ordinary (or equity) share
prices suggests. Usually commodity
prices go up following the outbreak of
hostilities. During the last war all Aus-
tralian investments became depressed on
’Change despite satisfactory earnings. But
there was considerable borrowing in
war loans going on at high interest rates.
After the war —and even towards the
later .stages of it —a much brighter atmo-
sphere prevailed as regards ordinary
shares. The years 1919-21 will be re-
membered, for example, as having pro-
duced more bonus issues than any other
period of Australian financial history.
Clif G. Rutledge passed through
Samarai in the early part of the month
to inspect Fred Cuthbert’s Misima prop-
erty on behalf of Australian interests
who have underwritten the purchase
should Rutledge’s report recommend it.
Cuthbert’s terms are pretty well known,
viz., £75,000 cash and 20,000 shares. The
property has been such a profit-earner,
and the ore possibilities are so good, that
it is unlikely Rutledge will turn the pro-
posal down.
♦ * * *
Mount Morgan, for the four weeks
ended Sept. 18, treated 21,370 tons assay-
ing 3.B3dwt. for 25030 z. gold and 140
tons of copper. Assay values are down
Idwt. compared with two months ago ;
the enlarged plant, however, is treating
twice the quantity of ore. This profit-
able treatment of low-grade stone greatly
extends the mine’s probable expectation
of life. There is nearly 8,000,000 tons
averaging 4.2Bdwt, gold.
* * * *
Lancefield, Beria (W.A.), netted £9654
after charging office exes., etc., for the
four months’ operations to June 30. The
period included the running-in of the
plant; volume (shortly to be 12,000 tons
a month) and recoveries should soon be
on the improve. Average head value of
ore treated was 335. Bd. per short ton
(gold at 855.), slightly more than the pros-
pectus estimate. Development, mining
and extraction costs should improve con-
siderably in the next 12 months. Plant
is in the books at £131,894. and develop-
ment exes, capitalised (to February 28)
were £30,680.
* ♦ ♦ *
Rothsay (W.A.), which has had a
little trouble with copper, had a better
return last month, 900 tons being treated
for £2600-worth of bullion. This show
is on the Yalgoo field, and has a fairly
long shoot which gives promise of im-
proving at depth. Recently an expert
was called in to suggest ways and means
of improving the extraction.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance,
latest addition to the Westralian De Ber-
nales group, has commenced operations
on three of its eight mines—the Padding-
ton Consols, near Broad Arrow, the
Menzies Consolidated, close to Menzies,
and the Augusta, at Laverton. None oi
these shows has been worked for several
years, and each will need some recon-
ditioning. Engineers are npw inspecting
the other five. Managers are the Aus-
tralian Mines Management Secretariate,
Ltd., which already has 26 mines in the
West and three in Victoria under its con-
trol. B.M. and F. also has a sixth inter-
est in Yellowdine, and is owner of the
assets of Associated Northern, details of
which were given in a recent “Wild
Cat” par.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Swan Bitter shareholders who are
hoping for the best had better prepare
for the worst. There is apparently no-
thing payable at depth, and the gold in
the shallow workings is gradually being
gouged out. The last crushing of 420
tons yielded 790 z.
* * ♦ ♦
Chapman’s Co., now trying its luck
on an old claim at Wilson’s Patch, con-
tinues to interest itself in Westralian
has-beens. A free option has been taken
by the board over the Quartzite King
and Donegal, at Lawlers, and sampling
of the former has commenced. Neither
on appearances seems suitable for a co.
seeking a fortune.
* * * *
An important development has
occurred on Nicholson’s lease, Ora
Banda (W.A.), now being worked by
0.8. Amalgamated. Ten-pennyweight
values have been secured on the No. 3
level, following a barren patch, over a
width of 50in.
• * * •
Kunanalling Co., of Melbourne, has
established its right to the Blacket areas
at Kunanalling (W.A.), as well as £3193,
proceeds of gold won from the property.
These areas, as well as the Mclva Maie,
continue to yield rich ore. Recently 153 i
tons from the latter returned 2260 z.,
while 467-1 tons from Blacket’s lease
yielded 5990 z. A parcel of 495 tons of
sands gave 2260 z. gold.
* * ♦
On the recommendation of H. Annear,
Ora Banda Consols has abandoned its
option over the Kings of the Hill,
near Leonora (W.A.). This was the second
concern to pull out of the Leonora dis-
trict last month, the other being the
Luxall Co.
♦ * * #
Kott and party, of Perth, have taken
a three months’ sampling option over
the Ingliston Consols at Meekatharra.
Marked improvement in underground
development is reported, and work is
being pushed ahead to determine the
extent. Western Mining Corp., which
had an option over the Ingliston Alberts
near by, has discarded it.
* * * *
Great Victoria has exercised the option
over the tailings lease and dumps on its
Yilgarn (W.A.) show. Arrangements are
being made for immediate treatment.
Work at present is being concentrated on
opening up a laterite deposit, and con-
siderable development must occur before
the tonnage available and values can be
estimated.
* * * ♦
Another small enrichment is reported
by L. F. and A. Payne on the old Donny-
brook field, in the sou’-west of W.A.
Half a hundredweight of ore yielded
200 z.; in another shaft, south of the
original, a “continuation of a rich leader”
was discovered. State Geologist Fore-
man says the lodes have little indication
of living down, and are of secondary
origin.
* ♦ * *
D. J. McClelland, chairman of Mt.
Lawson Syndicate, says that the tested
portion of the Irowat area. New Guinea
(a co. to work it is to be floated), contains
1,000,000 c.y., averaging 3s. 9d., and that
leaves out of the reckoning some rich
ground in the creek. J. M. Spence, who
is supervising the boring, is hopeful of
values being maintained throughout the
property, which he expects to contain
between five million and six million
cubic yards of pay dirt. Costs are esti-
mated at not more than 9d. a yard.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.T.W.: Figures not broadcast now. t aken
over by Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) in
1920. Dividends not yet in sight. No open
market for shares.... Doss: Fair chance both
improving later... .J.C.N.: Unless misrepre-
sentation, or anything else that will nullify the
contract, can be proved, you are liable for the
uncalled balance on the shares L.O’N.T.:
Write L. B. Tomlins, - secretary, 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne Yalgoo: (1) Sit light for
the present. (2) and (3) No record... .A.F.:
See B. 3/7/’35 and 31/77*35, and “ ‘Wild Cat*
Monthly” August, 1935... J.A.D.: Yes.
A.Z.S.: (1) Dividends nowhere in sight. (2)
Net tangible cover nil. (3) You are liable to
pay all calls up to the full face value of the
shares. (4) Provided the transfer has been regis-
tered, the purchaser is first liable. In the
event of co. being unable to recover from pur-
chaser, seller’s liability continues for 12 months
after transfer... . M.W.: (3) and (2) Have a fair
chance of further capital appreciation over the
next couple of years. (1), (4) and (5) Doubt-
ful specs, at present price... : Write secre-
tary, Stock Exchange, Pitt-street, Sydney, for list.
E.C.McC.: (1) A doubtful spec. (2) Lance-
field F.LJ.P.: (1) Looks like a satisfactory
buy. (2) Yes. (3) Risky; much depends upon
whether competition will materialise A.W.:
Unless the material can be obtained by hand
dressing, it will be necessary to crush the ore
and pass it over corduroy blankets or a con-
centrating table... .W.R.L.: (1) Barytes fetches
from £2 to £4 10s. a ton, according to quality.
The best is white, and lower grades are iron-
stained. (2) Taubman’s, Ltd., Mary-Street, St.
Peters; Minerals, Ltd., Botany-road, Alex-
andria ; Austral Rock Milling Co., Newtown
—all Sydney.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Abyr.
♦ * * *
DAVIES' & OOJXISON. Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Ccdlison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* ♦ * *
AUSTRALASIAN tirnborlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
♦ * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 193") Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.—Advt.


mtrn
m
■
i
*
ne
IMPORTANT ADDITIONS TO THE FAMOUS RANGE
Three rtew Radiolas at prices representing value as outstanding
Radiola quality, appearance and performance . . .
Unexcelled efficiency with new reflex circuits . . . Overseas
reception guaranteed with World Range models . .
Fully inclined instrument panel and Rotovisor dial tor
greater convenience in tuning .... Beautiful
cabinets in matched walnut veneers and finished
i high gloss lustre . . . A.W.A. High
Standard of Quality is now available in
receivers from 15 guineas (Australian
Reception) and 25 guineas
(World Range).
*
, *6JS
v>*
rs
micii nitimi
IWlFllli
THE FISK
mmoLO
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
You may enjoy the possession of
Australia's finest broadcast re*
ceiver for a small deposit and
conveniently extended payments.
Radiola Distributors throughout
the Commonwealth will gladly
give you full particulars.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (ASIA) LTD.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Mat’s Male”: Wc heard it coming
and bolted for shelter, but the Mallec
tornado caught us on the way. It whirled
over and over, blew Mat into a clump
of scrub, picked trees out of the ground
and generally played old Harry. Then
came a deluge of rain. Bedraggled and
miserable, we made for the
camp. Two pine-trees were
down on top of our tent, and
half the farmer’s bag-and-iron
humpy was wrapped round
the ruins. In dismay we eyed
the yellow flood of water —a
loot deep—which covered the
ground and our bedding and
clothes. The cocky sat at the
table in his roofless shack,
head bare to the rain, and
cursed monotonously. His
dog and his wife shivered in
the water under the table.
Defunct fowls floated in the
yellow sea. Then Mat shouted
“Cripes, somebody’s happy!”
Curled tail up, head down,
busy, the cocky’s lone Tndian-
runner duck was having the
lime of its life in the first
water it had ever seen.
>l= * *
“Ume”: An old-time pub
being demolished at Penrith
(N.S.W.) panned a pros-
pect of about £6O in gold, silver and
copper from under the floor-boards
behind the bar. Apropos, when Billy Han-
cock decided to give up his miners’ store
at Tamata (8.N.0.) he carefully dug up
the red clay floor behind the bar to a
depth of a foot. Billy used to keep his
gold scales on the inner edge of the bar,
and in one way and another it was hard
to avoid spilling a little now and then
while weighing. He invited me to the
clean-up, which yielded nearly 30 ounces
of fine alluvial after only three years’
weighing.
* tjc afe *
“Stone Plover”: Am filled with amaze-
ment at “Cam Cove’s” assertion (B.
1.1/9/’35) that roast curlew —the land
variety—is superior to any duck that
ever quacked. The bird carries less
“flesh” to its bones than any other writer
knows of, and half a dozen couldn’t
furnish a decent meal. The string which
covers the bones is dry, tasteless and not
worth the trouble of cooking. To com-
pare it with the flesh of the incomparable
black-duck, one of the most. succulent
game birds in the world, is to invite
derision.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
"Gryllus”: It seems a shame to disturb
a popular belief, but monkeys have no
fleas. Those industrious huntings in each
other’s fur are for the removal of scurf
or dirt. Monkeys in zoos may carry an
occasional one, but it is always a human
flea, contributed by the very onlookers
who are so beastly superior in their re-
marks. And its life is very short once
those busy fingers get to work. Of the
400 or so known species of fleas, only
one has been found on a reptile—our
brown snake. The same species occurs
on certain ’possums, kangaroo rats and
the banded ant-eater. The marsupials of
Australia and S. America have closely
related flea-species; the association
dates back to before the separation of
the two continents. The only fossil flea
so far discovered is in a piece of Baltic
amber, millions of years old. It differs
little from fleas of to-day, and allied
species still exist. The finder of the speci-
men asked £l2OO for it.
# * * *
“Two Gun”: Out kangaroo-shooting
in C.Q. came across a dingo in a dry
creek bed. He seemed to be fight-
ing something, so I watched. He stopped
his antics and started eating; I shot
him, and found a brown snake about
half-eaten. On opening the dog up 1
found the rest inside.
* * * *
“Fore Royal”: The late John Badgery
also had great ideas on the prowess of
puss as a hunter of rabbits (B. 11/9/’35).
During 1906, while he was securing the
necessary numbers to wage war on
bunny, no one’s cat was safe in Moss
Vale (N.S.W.). The experiment was a
huge success—for puss. When rabbits
became wary and scarce, young lambs
were taken, 100, and so much did the
felines appreciate their new food that by
the end of 1909 free ammunition was
available for their destruction. I still have
a rug made of the skins of cats shot on
Arthursleigh, the old J.A.B. homestead.
“Selma”: To cats which undertake to
provide for the wants of others (B.
11/9/’35) add a nine-year-old feline I
met out Crookwell (N.S.W.) way. On the
“Hey, Dig, the whistle's gone for lunch!"
farm there were representatives of at
least four generations of her kittens. But
when a good meal was due she did the
hunting, while six hefty descendants
stayed at home awaiting her return. She
caught a rabbit a day, and on two occa-
sions staggered home with two.
* * * *
“Bulrush”: “Bill Boredrain” (B.
28/8/’35) knows too much. I’ve seen a
mob of paddock sheep caught in a sudden
storm swim a creek to get to a dam at
which they always breasted the bar. (Full
particulars on receipt of a self-addressed
and stamped envelope.) I’ve seen poddy-
calves, foals and lambs, drought-reared,
that didn’t know what had struck them
when rain came and filled holes on the
ground—seen ’em stand at the edge of
the water, afraid to cross it, and call
pitiably when debarred from going to
the trough at which they always had a
drink. Tell “B.B.” that any class of
stock is likely to do any old thing at any
old time, and the man who tries to write
rules for them is a fool.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A wattle-bark stripper in
the Bega (N.S.W.) district didn't bother
to shave for a month because he was
well back in the bush, away from civilisa-
tion. When he called on a barber for a
shave the razor struck something fairly
hard in his beard. It turned out to be a
bush-tick, partly buried in the man’s
jaw. Two more were found before the
razor had completed its job. The host
had thought the irritation due to his not
having shaved for so long.
“Pisces”: Yabbies and depressions?
Around Victorian towns 40-odd years
ago we youngsters practically lived
on the tasty fresh-water crustaceans. A
few lengths of cotton, some tiny scraps
of meat cadged from the butcher, and
we were set. Dams and quarry-holes
were plentiful, and often we dined on
the spot, cooking our catch in jam-tins.
My memory of yabbies—or crawfish, as
we called them—is that they tasted better
than prawns. But perhaps that was
because there wasn’t any dole in those
days.
“Vamac”: While the yabbie-crayfish
hunt is on, can anyone tell me something
about a queer petrified specimen of the
cray family? As a kid I found dozens
of ’em bedded in blue clay on the bank
of a tidal creek just north of Mackay
(Q.). Almost perfect specimens were
there, turned into stone. Looked like
blue limestone to me. The only part
never intact was the tummy.
♦ * * *
“Boomp”: “Tom Willie” is assigning
to the bittern a role he doesn't deserve
(B. 11/9/’35). He is a night fowl, and his
vocal efforts are heard only when all
other birds save the owls and nightjars
are safely tucked in bed. His call isn’t a
warning, either. It is just his way of
conveying to his sweetie that she is the
only girl in the world for him. It sounds
to the outside world like a battleship's
horn in a fog, but no doubt he is the
perfect crooner to her.
* * * ♦
“Laetitia”: I deputed a Torres Strait
Binghi to dig a hole for a rubbish
deposit, and designed it on the bottle-
shaped principle. When he
didn’t return at sundown to
claim his “sugarbah” or tobacco
ration, I suspected something
amiss, and visited the scene of
operations. There I found
Binghi absolutely imprisoned in
his self-constructed dungeon.
The foresight of providing a
rope for his own exit when
the job was finished was
absolutely beyond the abo. mentality,
Two other bright sparks built me a fowl-
house complete with all accessories
except a door; the artisans were inside
when the job was completed, with no
means of egress. They were seated dis-
consolately on their marrow bones wait-
ing patiently for advice on their predi-
cament.
“d..m
i P Z ’ Ak du | (B.
asks whether anyone has seen a sheep-
skin sewn on the living flesh ot
a sore-backed camel. I was, travelling
from Bourke to Broken Hi 1 m 1901 with
the late Tom Tail, one of the Barriers
best-known identities, and, passing
through old Mt Gipps we came across
a cow camel with a mob of crows busy
° n A h u V A S L. WaS do B:P° or ,, and d y m 8’
and had a saddle-sore bigger than a soup-
plate. On it a doubled sugarbag had
been sewn with packthread to the living
flesh. We gave her the quick way out
with a Mauser bullet. In those days a
good pack camel was worth £4O to £7O,
hence the surgical attempt.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Those india-rubber
New Guinea pigeons of “Dau’s” (B.
4/9/’35) were poor specimens. We gave
up shooting them out of kindness of
heart. If only wounded the creatures
kept on bouncing so long that they
starved to death in the air. We tried
throwing birdseed at them as they
bounced, but it is difficult stuff to throw
straight, and by the time they came to
rest they had got so thin as to be quite
uneatable. If killed, they bounced for
so long that w T e had to pitch camp to
wait for them, and by that time they
had usually gone bad in the tropical heat.
The same resilient properties are pos-
sessed by the tree-crocodiles which in-
fest the vast forests at the head of the
Le-Gpul.. Stalking their prey from far
aloft amid the dense leafage, they choose
the suitable moment, launch themselves
through the air. seize the luckless buf-
falo or python in their six-foot jaws as
they hit the ground, and bounce back to
devour it at leisure, 100 ft. above.
« * ♦ *
“F.Y.7”: Pubs on wheels (B. 4/9/’35)
were a commonplace of shearing-time on
the Barcoo in the ’eighties. Hawkers of
general goods were the merchants. Their
drays carried many large glass jars of
“brandied peaches,” one peach to the
gallon. If they were discovered, the
station folk were generally satisfied with
smashing up the conserves and running
the merchant off the run. Sometimes a
lurid scrap resulted, but most of the
station managers and owners of the time
were pretty men with their fists—they
had to be.
* * * *
“El V.”: All I need say to “Ohno"
(B. 11/9/’35) is that 1 have never seen
a bushman, lit to call himself such, who
did not keep an eye on direction features
of the landscape whether mustering or
just going somewhere. George Mclver,
one of the oldest drovers in Australia.
puts the position accurately in a book
just issued:
The sun and the stars were the I bush-
man's) chief guide, but if the sun were
lost to view an experienced eye can
detect a difference between the bark on
the north and south sides of a tree.
As for wristlet watches, I know one
station in the Far North where it is in-
sisted (and has been for years) that every
employee carries a watch. And I—“on
my way to the library,” as "Ohno” puls
it so politely —via several limes across
Australia and in Asiatic and New
Guinea jungle country where “Ohno’s"
fatal gift of instinct would carry him
about three yards, have never been
without one, either, not being of the
type of hidalgo who values his mystic
directional qualities above his skin.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Some learned lad at Mel-
bourne Uni. has discovered that the skin
of a frog contains a strong poison,
hitherto unsuspected. Anyone who has
had the dog of his bosom
pick up a frog and has
watched the subsequent
frothing and canine curs-
ing, coupled with frantic
attempts to get rid of the
taste, will agree that the
professor is running a bit
late. As a small boy 1
had a personal experience
of frog-poison. I was
Ashing in the Barcoo for
black bream with a couple
of lines. While about to
bait a hook with a par-
ticularly succulent frog a
violent bite came on the
other line. There was no
lime to wait, and the frog
was too lively to put
down, so I popped it into
my mouth while hauling
in the fish. The result
was a burning sensation followed by
heavy slavering, and after that violent
sickness. It took 24 hours or more
before the unpleasant taste had left my
mouth.
* * * *
“Airline”: How many times have I
seen it stated that the kca “tears out the
kidney-fat” of a sheep? Hundreds ; but
never yet have I seen an eyewitness s
account of the killer’s attack. A night
bird, most of his dirty work is done
under cover of darkness; but on foggy
or dull days he ventures forth earlier
than usual. His modus operandi is to
alight on the back of the woolly, which
makes things easy for him by rushing
about frantically until it collapses. And
there is no doubt whatever about what
the bird wants. He wants meat, and
plenty of it. The kidney-fat myth arises
from the fact that his initial attack is
made at that spot. I have seen a
flock of keas around the carcasses of
three sheep that couldn’t have been killed
more than an hour, and they were
literally torn to pieces.
* * * *
“Doondi”: No need to go to the
Burnett of long ago for Chinese ring-
barkers (B. 11/9/’35). Chinese tree-
killers cleared a lot of money in s.-w.
Queensland in pre-war days, whatever
may be the case now. The head Chow
handled the job at a flat rate, seeing to
the feeding and management of his own
gangs. It was a mighty convenience to
station-owners once the contract was
signed, and, as usual with John, the work
was always faithfully done. The last lot
writer saw were busy on the A.P. stations
in the St. George country in 1912,
THE LUCK OF THE GAME.
“You can always bet that they'll tell a bloke
it’s the luck of the game,” he said,
“No matter how hard he has worked to win
or how well he has used his head;
No matter the place or the circumstance,
their verdict is just the same;
I hey will come along with their one remark;
‘Ah, well, it’s the luck of the game.’
“You’re getting a little ahead at last, which
is only what you deserve;
And it’s only a matter of time and work,
but it doesn’t improve your nerve.
And it doesn’t strengthen your will to win,
and it doesn't better your aim,
lo hear, when you think you arc doing well,
that it’s just ‘the luck of the game.’
“They’ve worked it all out on a simple plan,
it’s easy as A B C;
I here is always something that’s not quite
right with fellows like you and me.
If wc come a thud, as they think we will, wc
have only ourselves to blame,
Hut if things work out in the way we hoped—
well, then, ’it’s the luck of the game.’
“When my final plan has gone all awry, and
I've registered one more miss,
And I'm watching eternity creep by in a warmer
clime than this,
If I get the chance I will guarantee that there's
always plenty of flame
In the special place that's reserved for those
who harp on ‘the luck of the game.’ ”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“S.G.”: We were suckering on one of
the company stations (s.-w. Q.), and the
latest arrival in the camp was a fresh-
faced young immigrant. Suckering doesn't
call for skill, but the boss was a stickler
for a “clean” job, so the newcomer was
put next to Paddy, the dag of the gang,
who averred he’d “keep an eye on him.”
The country we were covering was open,
mostly scattered box, with some big walks
in between. Paddy looked worried the
first night of the new partnership, and
grew more irritable as the week wore on.
The fourth day things came to a head.
Paddy and Choom had just reached
one of the more open spaces, when the
former stopped and turned fiercely on
his companion. “Look here, Joe,” he
roared, “I’ve stood just about enough
of (his. Call another of these blasted
plains a meadow and over you go!”
* * * *
“Western”: “Bungee's” marron of
Westralian rivers (B. 21/8/’35) were
mere babies at Sin. Have caught plenty
up to J2in., exclusive of the feelers ; and
if “B.” visits Perth Museum he’ll find
even larger specimens—as big, in fact,
as the average two-bob cray, Fremantle
size.
* * * ♦
“Bray Rock”: “Jewel” fish (B.
4/9/’35) be blowed! Also, the “dews,
or whisker-like attachments to the lower
jaw.” It hasn’t any. “Jewfish” certainly
was dewfish once, but the name arose
from the glistening skin secretion which
appears along the lateral line after cap-
ture, and resembles dew on grass. But,
to avoid the main basis of squabbles be-
tween fishermen the world over, let me
say that I’m referring to Sciana antarc-
tica, close relative of the teraglin.
According to McCulloch, it grows to
over 6ft. My biggest was just over sft.
and 641 b., but I’ve heard reliably of 7ft.
and 1101 b. in south Queensland waters.
Best bait for big jew is a bunch of
beach worms, all alive-oh, tied and
threaded round a 6/0 or 8/0 hook on
a thin steel trace. No sinker.
* * * *
“Vamac”: He was thoroughly discon-
solate, though he was sinking my beer.
“I’m goin’ ter quit ’roo-chasin’, mister.
The game’s at a bubble. Bloke told me
there wuz a Too under every tree up
Nelia way. I takes me dawgs 300 mile
ter get ’em. That cove ’e spoke true
enough ; but, blarst ’is ’ide, there wasn’t
more’n one tree in ten mile in them parts!
The clurk of the D.I. Board went sour
on me, too, ’cos me dawgs wasn’t regis-
tered. I’d just fixed ’im up wen dis-
temper bruk out in me pack. One day
three o’ me best dawgs lies down on me.
That night seven was sick. Wot? ’Ot
bath and plenty of lysol? Look, mister,
yer don’t know nothink at all about
dawgs. If I done that every flamin’ tripe-
’ound would lay down an’ die on me.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“F.R.”: In the thickly-wooded gullies
about Gosford (N.S.W.) stick insects
with a wingspread of lOin. and a body-
length of 12in. and moths measuring 9in.
from tip to tip can still be taken by keen
collectors. Butterflies, though numerous,
don’t reach the same size, but catches
up to 7in. have been made.
"I’m sick and tired of telling Jessie to gel
her face lifted!"
“Trevdee”: Tommy Logan, a Gipps-
land stock agent, versifies his newspaper
advertisements. A recent effort:
PIGS.
We opened up the market, our yarding five
three six;
Had a decent sale in bacon, and in pork took
many tricks;
The chopper sale was dragging, and stores
were very low;
But you always get the very best from
T.S.L. and Co.
It’s a bit crude, perhaps; but so are pigs.
* * * *
“Old-Timer”: A good antidote for
severe insect stings in the bush (B
4/9/’35) is -tobacco ash, moistened and
dabbed on the wound. It stings like the
devil, but it counteracts many poisons.
, a|e j|c >|(
“N.Y.Y.”: In the Georgina (W.Q.) the
peculiarity of some of the more famous
holes there is that the drier the season
the fuller they get. Waukaba (Caran-
dotta-Walgra boundary), about 15 miles
long, recedes gradually until about Sep-
tember or thereabouts —taking it for
granted it was filled when the river ran
in March. Then the subterranean springs
play a hand. The water curdles slightly,
drops its sediment, assumes an ocean
blue, gets slightly brackish and raises its
level an inch or two. The stuff never
gets really salty, like Parapituri hole. The
change is so gradual that a man living
on it doesn’t notice the transition. Further
down, 15 or 20 miles or more —and the
same wonderful chain of holes runs the
whole distance —we get to Lake Kath-
erine. She fills, too, in a dry time.
Further, she emulates Mrs. Lot to a
greater extent than does the fellow
further up stream. In one of the more
“I want one o' them long-'andled ones, too!"
serious droughts of the long ago, when
Walter H. Rose was manager of Rox-
borough, Katherine started to flood the
main channel. She had to be dammed
back, or would otherwise have run info
the homestead hole and spoilt that water
for gardening and domestic purposes.
“Spare Farrar”: Per-
haps the champion “ear”
story to date, and one well
able to stand up to “Orun-
cha’s” kid that had a nest
of ichneumon eggs taken
out of its lug (B.
11/9/’35), was given wide
publicity in the Queens-
land press a couple of
years ago. Here again
the kid complained of
pain in the ear. When
the medico came at last
he found a grain of wheat
had sprouted in the orifice
and gave every promise of
a healthy crop if undis-
turbed. Unfortunately, it wax disturbed,
and we shall never know how many
bushels to the acre it might have run in
its strange environment.
« * * *
“Kriss”: A kind of lung-fish on
Hinchinbrook Island (Q.) has become
comparatively tame. About 4in. long,
these fish frequent a pool only reached by
the sea at high tide ; keep still and they
will hop to within a few inches of you.
If ants are tossed to them they scurry
from all points for an easy meal;
the eyes protrude and appear to see in
all directions. Probably their seeming
tameness is due to their confidence in
their jumping ability, in which the two
pairs of fins are used as legs. I can
vouch for their fleetness, as it took me
two days to capture a 3in. specimen
while the other members of the party
were catching sharks and other big fish
galore. The things prefer a sort of half-
and-half existence, seldom being right in
the water or high and dry on the sand.
Generally they frequent the edge of the
pond or rest on twigs or logs in the
water.
* * * *
“G.G.”: Talk me been otherday Sat-
day Comnist man my house-farm for buy
Red paper. Me say him me no derstand
Comnist. Man him say you been spell,
read Comnist propganda: altogether, you
straightway come good brain for derstand
eberthing. Him man talk too much,
alsame gramophone—Pa-ta-pla, patapla,
boombem, boombem —say nothing, only
talk. Him man say bimeby me come
plenty good the farm, work four hour
daytime, alsame Russia, plenty play.
Soviat Australia sometime come, two,
three year some more, buy the cane sugar
for you to everbody, no more money,
give ticket for tuck for eberthing. Me
gottem farm, me no wantem ticket the
ration, me ' say. No, no, no, him
say; you no derstand. When time
come, no more money, no want money.
What, me say, no wantem money ?
Ha, ha, ha! Me look the him eye, me
say; You liar man. Suppose work four
hour daytime, what grow the crops? No
money, what pay him the bills, the
farm, lose deposit? No money, ver
quick the butcher meat, baker bread
make soumons. Him say suppose So via t.
Australia him boss, you no pay nobody,
you wantem no money. Me look him
down, me say me no fool me you, you
make talk alsame rubbish. Me take one
stick for break the head, him go ver
quick the road. Me whistil dog, the my
pup catchem fleas, see him run like rabbit
animal. Me laugh too much fall down
the ground my side. Him come no more,
the Comnist.
* * * *
“Rex”: When attacked by a dog there
is nothing more useful than your hat
thrust out in front of you. The mong
won’t pass anything that’s yours. The
gentleman who first told me this was a
bailiff—and he ought to know.
* * * ♦
“Kellick”: Low Island, a tiny speck
between Cairns and Cooktown, must be
the smallest inhabited isle in Australian
waters that can boast a lighthouse.
Roughly circular in shape, the islet is
only 70 yards across at its widest point,
and its greatest altitude is about Bft.
From the tower, 60ft, above water, the
white flashing light guides mariners away
from this part of the Barrier Reef.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Long strings threaded
through hundreds of small disc-shaped
objects aroused my curiosity on a T.f.
pearling lugger. Found they were the
large muscles of the pearl-oyster in
course of preservation by sun-drying.
The Japanese crews relish them as food.
They certainly make a delectable curry.
♦ * * *
“Ringer”: In reply to “Condo” (B.
28/8/’35), without wishing to detract
from the merits of Mrs. Gunn's book,
I would point out that it was not written
until some time after she had left the
Territory. She would then be influenced
by the talk to which she was daily accus-
tomed—town talk—and she would put
into the mouths of her characters words
which she would think they would use.
For each month that Mrs. Gunn spent
among cattlemen I have spent at least
two years; and I repeat that I never
heard the word “stampede” used when
“rush” was meant.
* * * ♦
“S.G.”: “El V.’s” muzzle-loader (B.
14/8/’35) reminds me of a post-mortem
several of us held over an old rifle—
I forget the calibre—in which a bullet
had jambed a few inches from the
chamber. As the outcome of our de-
liberations, several .303 cartridges were
opened, the space between the bullet and
the chamber was filled with the cordite
so obtained, and a cartridge was placed in
the chamber to help things along. For-
tunately we wired the rifle to a tree, and
pulled the trigger from a distance by
means of a piece of string. The resul-
tant explosion shook the neighborhood,
brought the local cop down on us in
10 seconds, deafened us for as many
days and left nothing but a few pieces
of twisted steel and wood with which
to substantiate our claim that it was
“only an accident.”
* ♦ * *
“Eureka”: Watched a female lyre-
bird feeding her chick ; it was truly a
work of art. The mother partly digests
the food and then puts it right down the
young ’un’s throat. One has to keep very
still, otherwise the bird takes fright.
* ♦ * *
“A.W.8.”: The harsh scream of the
screech-owl is louder than the cry of
the native companion (B. 11/9/’35), and
can be heard for two or three miles
through heavily-wooded country. For
penetrative carrying power, however, the
whistling call of the white fish-eagle is
more remarkable. This can be heard
clear and distinct, as if originating close
at hand, when the bird is miles distant
and can only be distinguished, a silver
speck against the sky, when the sunlight
glistens on the sheen of its plumage.
* # * *
“Bkali”: “Doorbell’s” lady (B.
28/8/’35) would have got her bearings
all right from a Malayan tombstone.
Malayan grave-marks invariably face due
east. One age-long rule stipulates that
the body shall lie on the earth, but not
the earth on the body, and in order to
follow out this custom a bottomless coffin
is used. Just before interment a clod
of earth is held to the nostrils of the dead
and the fastenings of the grave-clothes
are partially loosened to allow the de-
ceased to rise slightly when listening to
the prayer known as the talkin. Garlands
of flowers are placed on the grave and
sprinkled with holy water, and all friends
return to the house of mourning and
assist in chanting the Koran until late in
the night.
THE GENERAL STORE.
“You often hear,” said Bill, “of ’ow the city
calls to country coves,
Of cockies walkin’ off their farms an’ makin"
down to town in droves.
It "as me beat why blokes desert the bushland
for such crowded joints—
Good grazin’ country gone to waste, I reckon.
’Course they have their points.
Noo York, I ’ear, is worth a look; some tell
me London’s pretty fair,
An’ Paris is a lively town for fellers with
quid to spare.
I break out now an’ then meself an’ visit
Sydney for a week,
But, spare me days! I’m always glad to get
back home to Dingo Creek.
“The creek might not appeal to those who like
to hear the traffic’s roar;
There's reely nothin’ there excep’ a weather-
beaten gen’ral store.
A proper sort of store it is, not like your
flamin’ city shops
Where counter-jumpers never know a thing
about the districk crops.
1 bought a shirt or two in town, an’ while
I’m waitin’ for me change
I asked the feller what he thought would cure
a sheep-dog of the mange.
’E gave me sich a stupid stare —I dunno what
they kept ’im for;
A bloke like ’im would never last a minute
at our gen’ral store.
The cove who runs our store is worth a dozen
of such useless dolts.
’E’ll tell you what to do for bots an’ ’ow to
handle yearlin’ colts.
O’ course, as far as business goes, I must admit
’e’s out of date:
Is stocks are generally low, an’ fresh supplies
are always late.
But wot’s a month or two out ’ere among the
everlastin’ gums?
Wc’vc lots o’ time to wait for stuff that very
often never comes.
An’ when a lean year strikes the place, though
bankers show a bloke the door,
’E knows there’s corn in Egypt still—an’ credit
at the gcn’ral store.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


HTTS
LYS
JS
PROOf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
«•*.-,
mr
....
r, >
KM
<£>
i
*
v& r : •- %-* fa.
jrrJ&wm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and A seats.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head office: 17-19 Bridge Street Svdiev.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Skirting Fleeces.
“Murrawong”: You cannot class a
clip decently unless fleeces are prop-
erly skirted. And unless hands are
thoroughly instructed by the classer and
supervisor the job will be only halt' done.
It is false economy to work a shed
without enough shedhands. There should
be one wool-roller to four shearers. Jn
some districts they may not be over-
worked at that ratio, but where dusty
backs have to be removed, where fleeces
break up and cannot be thrown out on
the wool-table, or are matted with burr
or seed, they will have to go all out to
keep the table clear.
The wool-roller’s job is to prepare the
fleece for the classer, to remove all in-
equalities in length of staple, such as
short trimmings, etc., to skirl off all
burr and seedy patches and dusty backs,
and to leave the fleece fairly even in
yield. Then he rolls it' with the shoulder
wool uppermost, so that the classer may
appraise it without loss of time. It is
not enough for the classer merely to tell
his rollers how he wants the job done.
Unless he knows his men and they un-
derstand his methods, he should skirt a
few fleeces to demonstrate.
Where fleeces are free from burr, it
should be necessary only to trim off the
fribby edges and short trimmings, unless
the neck folds are heavy and discolored
or very variable in quality.
Fleeces with a light dusting of burr
on the skirts are easily skirted free, but
where the burr reaches high up toward
the back the problem is how much to
remove. If it is heavy all the way it will
have to be carbonised, and only light
skirting should be attempted. However,
if the heavy burr occurs low down on
the skirts, it should be possible to remove
this, leaving the fleeces carrying only
light burr. Modern machinery can re-
move a fair amount of burr (trefoil) in
combing.
Wool Standards.
“Sheepo”: There’s a lot in what “X.T.”
says (B. 14/8/’35), quoting A. F. Blax-
land’s warning at the Melbourne Sheep
Show, that too much coarse, common
and ill-nourished wool is being pro-
duced. The multitude of fleece lines sell-
ing below the average throughout the
year proves it.
Ill-nourished wool can’t be avoided ;
it is almost invariably due to Nature.
But coarse wools, which Mr. Blaxland
says are “getting closer and closer into
line with the products of the Argentine
and South Africa,” are something that
will increase yearly until the manufac-
turing trade pays the extra price super-
fine wools merit in comparison with the
prices paid for the medium and stronger
quality wools of lower spinning capacity.
Medium and strong merino types fill
the wool bales from lesser sheep num-
bers than do superfines and fines; and,
with price per head and not price per
pound the keynote of successful grazing,
I don’t blame one-time fine-wool enthusi-
asts for changing over to the more pay-
able types.
Caseous Lymphadenitis.
“Doitnow”: C.L. is contagious in
sheep, and is spread particularly during
shearing and crutching, but culling, clean-
liness, carbolic and care will conquer it.
Avoid rough shearing; and disinfect all
cuts before sheep leave the board.
Twice a week, if c.l. is prevalent, wash
the board and catching pens with carbolic
or other strong germicide.
Don’t allow an accumulation of wool-
bits and dags in yards or counting-out
pens. Keep everything as clean as pos-
sible.
When a case of c.l, comes on to the
board, don't allow the infected sheep to
go into the counting-out pen with other
healthy sheep. Wherever the discharg-
ing pus comes in contact with another
cut, c.l. is likely to be spread.
Sheep with swellings on the shoulders,
flanks, belly or elsewhere should be
culled.
The pus is greenish-yellow, has an
offensive smell and is unlike the pus
from an ordinary abscess.
Remember that (he germs can be
carried on dust particles in the yards.
Lumpy Wool.
“Sheepo”; Mycotic dermatitis—lumpy
wool —has its genesis in germs bred on
the skin of sheep during wet or humid
weather. A non-irritant disease, it must
not be confused with trefoil dermatitis,
commonly referred to as aphis disease,
which arises on sheep grazing on trefoil
pastures. This is always found mostly
on the face, ears and nostrils.
Mycotic dermatitis is hard to detect in
its early stages, and, as a rule, not until
semi-shedding sheep are seen does reali-
sation come that something is wrong.
At first the skin becomes tender in
patches, later developing pus-discharging
sores.
Lumpy wool is thus formed by the
drying pus glueing the wool fibres to-
gether, with a scab on the skin. The
final stage is when the scab peels off,
carrying with it lumps of matted wool.
Highly contagious, mycotic dermatitis
calls for instant isolation of all suspi-
cious cases. Dipping or spraying with a
non-arsenical antiseptic solution might
cure mild cases, but bad cases should get
the knife, and carcasses must be thor-
oughly burnt and their residue sprayed
with poison.
Of more recent years mycotic derma-
titis has spread into districts where humid
conditions are rare.
The Milking Machine.
“Bill R.”: Regular attention immedi-
ately after use saves trouble with any
milking machine.
After every run draw cold water
through, the cups and tubes till it comes
clean, with no milk stain in it. Then
use hot water —at 165 deg. F.
Disinfect with 0.5 per cent, of lye
solution, and rack the tubes in a whole-
some atmosphere.
Thoroughly scrub the machine and
buckets with hot water. Drain off in a
place entirely clean.
Closer attention to cleanliness with
dairying apparatus is required in the
springtime, when there is a good deal of
new and varied herbage about.
Parabotulism.
“Kirk": Last September I lost two
cows, on chou mocllier and a ration of
hay-chaff and molasses, with para-
botulism. They developed the symptoms
after a heavy frost, digestion completely
stopping from paralysis. Despite pur-
gatives, linseed oil, ginger and gertian,
the disease progressed till the whole body
became paralysed and the animals died.
A week ago, one of my milkers devel-
oped the same symptoms as those I lost
last year.
Thinking that something was needed
to stimulate the stomach and restart
digestion, 1 gave half a cupful of Hol-
brook’s sauce in a pint of milk at mid-
day, and repeated the dose at night and
next morning. The cow got well quickly
and came back to her feed—green-stuff
and bran and a few potatoes. I find
that potatoes, in moderation, are very
tempting to either cattle or horses with
jaded appetites.
With continued special feeding and a
tonic, the cow is now about back to
normal, though her milk yield is still
50 per cent, below her ushal quantity.
Second-grade Butter.
“Nor”: Victorian wholesalers told the
Commonwealth Dairy Produce Board the
other day that they did not favor put-
ting second-grade Australian butter on
the market. They did not think it pos-
sible to pat it at the price suggested -
108 s. per hundredweight, or Is. 2d. per
pound, when export second-grade was
giving the producer a net yield of 1225.
per hundredweight. N. S. Wales and
Queensland have both refused to co-
operate in the scheme, and they are right.
What the Dairy Board and every other
body interested in the trade should be
doing is encouraging the production of
more choicest. Too much second-grade
and far too much third-grade is turned
out in Australia.
Uniform Herd-testing.
L. T. Mclnnes, head of the N. S. Wales
Dairy Branch, is pleading for uniform
herd-testing. In N. S, Wales, W.A.,
Queensland and Tasmania, it is a rule in
tests that cows must be stripped-out in
the presence of an official. Victoria
won’t agree to this—so Victorian tests
are only official within the State. S.A.,
until 1934, followed the other States,
but has now departed from the rule.
It is unfortunate.
. Cattle repeatedly change hands across
borders, and it is a simple matter to adopt
rules which will ensure that a test in
every part of Australia means the same
thing.
Take-all.
“X.T.”: Take-all is caused by a soil
fungus which attacks the roots of wheat,
barley, oats and grasses—western rye
grass, broom and barley grass are pecu-
liarly susceptible.
The disease usually breaks out in
patches in a crop, and when it does
heads ripen prematurely, ears are white
and grainless or holding only pinched
grain.
Plants can be pulled up without
trouble. The sheaths of the butts arc
black or grey, dotted with the minute
seed spheres of the fungus. The base
joints show brown or jet-black spots, and
the straw is freckled. Take-all is
very much dependent on weather and
soil—even where fields are infected, it
does not develop unless there are speci-
ally favorable conditions.
No varieties are immune. Only the
observance of rigid precautions will keep
it out or get rid of it. Crop rotation—
oats is useful—helps to starve the fungus.
Wheat and barley should not follow each
other. Bare fallowing, with susceptible
grass kept out of the fallows, may help.
Take-all patches should not be ploughed
when the land is dry and dusty, and
feeding off is unwise. Diseased stubble
may be burnt off, though this is not
always effective, as the diseased roots
may be untouched in the ground.
Wheat Qualities.
“Wundi”; Tests made by W. and B.
Stockdale in Melbourne at the instance of
the Wheat Commission have shown that,
while a fair loaf is produced with Vic-
torian f.a.q. grain, blending with West-
ralian and Canadian wheat greatly im-
proves the baking quality of flour.
In the commercial test, Victorian
secured 60 points. With 20 p.c. West-
ralian, its rating was 934 points; with 20
p.c. Canadian, 87 points. Canadian by
itself received 78+ points and Westralian
67 points.
Further tests will determine the keep-
ing quality of loaves. So far, the results
endorse the millers’ pleas for an improve-
ment in Victorian wheat standards.
Townsville Lucerne.
“Wagoo”; Townsville lucerne, a near
relative of the real stuff, looks as if it
may be the salvation of parts of the
North. Along the Darwin-Kathcrine
railway, it grows in profusion, self-sown,
and is beginning to spread in a manner
heartening to graziers.
It is hardy in coastal regions, will grow
on poor soils, and stock regard it with
favor. The Commonwealth Government
might do worse than distribute a few
bags of seed in (he lands above the 20in.
rainfall belt, and watch results.
The Value of Good Hay.
“Stump Jump”; Hay isn’t just the
natural product of soils and seasons. It
has to be made.
Prime lucerne hay can have up to 17
p.c. protein content and prime clover 10
p.c. Well-made cowpea hay, though
hard to handle, holds up to about 20 p.c.
protein. These figures are concentrate
proportions, and can be attained by any
grower who takes the trouble.
Far too many A 1 lucerne paddocks
are allowed to grow their winter grass
for a mixed-hay crop. If the grass is
carefully mown when the heads are fully
formed (not later), in nine cases out of
ten a clean first cut of lucerne can be
made with only a fortnight's delay.
The grass, being soft, soon rots back
and manures the lucerne. It does not
pick up in the rake later on either.
The best time to cut lucerne is when
the flowers first show. Before that the
hay is soft, but the proteins not fully
formed.
The old-fashioned hand-cocking makes
(he best hay. The rake leaves 100 much
loose stuff open to leaching, and does
not give handy-sized single cocks that
can be loaded in one piece. The even
pressure in the hand cocks also makes for
good curing.
Carting is a daybreak job, to finish
as soon as the leaf starts to droop —
usually about 11 o’clock. An energetic
man can get six hours in before that.
Pasture Replacement.
“Agricola”: In 15in.-and-over rain-
fall zones, there arc many plants, in-
digenous and introduced, which can be
used to replant drought-denuded areas.
In lower rainfall areas, however, and
particularly in Australia’s so-called
“desert” country, the re-establishment of
dry-country trees, shrubs and pasture is
difficult, because most of the areas are
unfenced ; or, if fenced, they are not
netted and there is not complete protec-
tion from stock and vermin. .Seeds of
many drought-resistant plants do not
germinate readily, and frequently lie in
the ground for years before producing
seedlings. .Since seeds are scarce high
prices are charged for them.
Saffron thistle, although not a friend
of the wheat-farmer, has proved of bene-
fit on parts of N.S.W. south-western
plains, as it helps to keep the surface of
the land from blowing, and collecting
soil at the base of its stems provides
cover in which grass and herbage seeds


A New
Small Graziers* Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
RIDING,
WORKING,
ROUGH COUNTRY
WEAR AND
V * >
HIKING
FARM MANAGER
required to control lucerne area on New South
Wales sheep property. Technical qualifications
and practical experience in conservation and
grazing on irrigated and dry lucerne essential.
Reply in first instance, with copies only testi-
monials, stating salary required, to “Lucerne,”
C/o Gordon and Gotch, Sydney.
AN ALL - PURPOSE
BOOT
Extra-strong at all
points! The handsome
brown grained calf
upper, pliant and well-
adapted for hard wear,
is reinforced with a
soft leather lining.
The stout ankle elastics
maintain smooth fit
and endow the boot
with that easy resilience- which makes it
supremely comfortable for riding, work-
ing or walking. Double thickness of sole
gives added strength and guarantees out-
standing service.
The Abbey Boot pulls on easily . . . there
are two tabs which tuck in at ankle. The
buckled ankle strap prevents bulging and
smartly finishes the upper.
ORDER BY POST
Full and half sizes are available, each in
medium and wide fittings. When writing,
specify width as well as size, and order a
large tin of Dale’s English Dubbin, avail-
able in black and tan, at 2/6. This
softens the leather, makes it waterproof
and increases its wearing qualities.
Brown Grained Calf . . 42/6
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ABBEY
tstab'/shod over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY, MOOTS, SYDNEY.”
FPL4S7.
df
r No. 163
“TUMBA
“PRIDE
OF THE
ROAD
£lOlOl-
-
A high-grade saddle, with
the narrowest possible grip
and non-chafing seat.
Freight paid in N.S.IV. for cash with order.
Use our No. 300 HAIR CLOTH, 21/-,
and say good-bye to sore backs. Post,
1/6 N.S.W.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE u ARTILLERY”
LOG-SPLITTING GUN
(Fitrated).
Revolutionises log-splitting. No boring.
Cuts labor and material down to a
minimum. If your local dealer docs not
stock the Gun, write for full particulars
WINGATE & CO., LTD.,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
Maiiul'uetnrers ami Distributing Agents.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote vou orice
for the original.
<?. aV"* 1
*
A
1
m
—r
l*m>.
*
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route “
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
/mMmJuMaMmMnm/inei
THE, PLIERENCH
Two extra jaws, as Illustrated, for pipes, round or damaged nuts, fencing
and general wire work- Twenty tools in one. Made from finest materials.
ICXVi»-=‘V*"
m
n»pewn«*no
lOto
rry
To r
U
O
Q
Herean Irresistible
loo6'ft*md,lhTSsa«'Grip /
With an easy grip on the fornvfit Handles.
Fully Guaranteed.
Two Sizes: 7 and 8|
Prices; 24/6 and 30
Inclusive of Tax.
Postage extra.
Sole Agent: H. S. G. WOOLF, Box 3212 P, Sydney, or Box 551, Christchurch, N.Z.,
or from your ironmonger.
germinate. The seeds of this thistle pro-
vide some feed for stock.
The ringbarking of timber in- grazing
paddocks and removal of the dead
material for firewood have resulted in the
blowing away of much surface soil and
formation of scalded plains. There is a
saying among western N.S.W. men that
any limber on the ground which a bullock
can turn over with its nose should not
be picked up. Grass and other seeds
find harbor among such shelter until
firmly established.
Grass fires destroy many useful plants
and seeds. During the latter half of the
eighteenth century the authorities at the
Cape of Good Hope prohibited the firing
of pastures unless in special circum-
stances.
Paddocks which have been denuded of
saltbush may be strip-planted with seed.
It should be put in shallow with a com-
bine in late autumn in western N. S.
Wales, after the land has been lightly
worked with a cultivator to make the seed-
bed. From the strips, growth will spread.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wrash”: When old tanks are to be
covered with cement, broken dairy floors
to be mended or concrete walls built,
horsehair is a sound reinforcement.
Chopped short, the hair, being fine, does
not affect a smoothly-worked surface. It
is the best binding where loam is used
to fill cracks in slab walls or crannies in
stone fences.
“Wrash”: Fit a pair of plough or
other low wheels to a 3ft. axle. Bolt a
binder seat to the axle. From its middle
extend a spar 2jft. long, bored at the
forward end, and fasten the contraption
to the rear of the harrow. Then ride at
case instead of trudging over the clods
“Silky Bag”: Fit four inch-pieces of
rubber hosing, instead of steel unions, as
joints on the milk line to the pigyard.
Any blockage in a section of pipe can
then be pushed out with ease, as the
connections slip off by hand.
“Ghanam”: The highest price paid for
u dairy bull since 1928 was re-
corded in U.S.A. when a Guernsey, Lang-
water Reveller, was sold for approxi-
mately £2500 in a herd of 102 which
averaged £66 per head. The figure does
not approach beef-cattle records —14,000
guineas odd is the record, paid
by an Argentine buyer, for a British bull.
The best price for an Australian-bred
sire was 2450 guineas, paid by J. R.
Lomax for Robertson Bros.’ beef Short-
horn Twenty-fourth Duke of Derrimut in
1877, and for an Australian-bred female
2200 guineas received for the heifer
Roan Duchess on March 19, 1875 —a
world’s record for a heifer of her age
(26 months), as yet unbeaten. There arc
several imported beef bulls in Australia
which cost from 2000 to 3000 guineas.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How do you tell Ihe age of a cow by her
teeth ? What is the number of teeth in a full
mouth ? At what age do they appear, and
how many are there ? —8606.
The age is told by the incisor tcctli and by
the rings on the horns. The upper jaw presents
no incisors, but a firm, smooth gum; whilst
in the lower jaw there are eight incisors, which
are somewhat loosely fixed. The whole of the
milk teeth may be seen in the mouth of the calf
at or shortly after birth, and no change, except
such as is due to growth, wear and tear, takes
place till the animal is 18 or 20 months old.
At this time, the central pair of milk teeth drop
out, and arc replaced by the first pair of per-
manent (broad) teeth. The second and third
pairs follow rapidly, but the fourth may not
be cut till the animal is nearly four years old.
At first, the teeth present broad, sharp white
edges, and are close together, but as they wear
they show a flat, yellow top and get gradually
rounder and more separated from each other.
A five-year-old will have all its teeth in wear,
but, while the centre pair show a well-marked
table, the corners have only their edges slightly
worn. The age may also be told by counting
the rings at the base of the horn and adding
two.
$ * « *
Can you tell me something about the culti-
vation of sunflower seeds in Victoria ? —8545.
Victorian sunflower seeds are used almost
exclusively for birdseed. The chief buyers are
seed merchants. The seed is not used for oil
extraction. Small quantities for this pur-
pose are imported from South Africa, but
the demand is limited. It would be advisable
to arrange for a market before sowing a large
area. The crop may be sown in spring after
the frosts have passed. Seed (81b. per acre)
is sown in rows 3ft. apart, with about 18in.
between each plant. The growing crop should
be cultivated between the rows, as is done with
maize. The heads are allowed to ripen in the
field, and when ready to harvest the stalks are
cut with the heads on and threshed by striking
them on the side of a large bin, allowing the
seeds to drop into the bin. A hot day should
be chosen, and the threshing should be done as
soon as possible after cutting. Later, the
seed is winnowed and prepared for market.
Birds are likely to damage the crop unless
some action is taken to keep them off. The
average yield obtained in Victoria is lOcwt.
to 15cwt. per acre. The seed price varies
from £lO to £3O per ton, but £ls per ton
is a fair average. Large Russian and black
seeded are the "most popular varieties.
* * * *
Will date palms fruit in Australia ? If so.
where ? I believe the palms have flowered at
the Semaphore, S.A., but have not borne fruit.
—7954.
Date palms have been tested at Lake Harry
and Coward Springs, in the Far North, and at
Berri, River Murray. Good fruits were pro-
duced at Lake Harry, but at Berri, although
the trees fruit freely, they do not ripen fully.
Development may not be expected in the coastal
region.
♦ * * *
What is the yield of jam-melons per acre
in Tasmania ? —8548.
It is very difficult to say, as most melon
areas are small. The average crop would be
from 18 to 25 tons p.a. Up to 40 tons p.a.
has been harvested.
* * * *
(1) What are the economic prospects of bee-
keeping in W.A. ? (2) Area of land required,
cost of same and suitable localities ? (3)
Minimum number of hives to make a living '■
(4) What experience is required, and what is
the best way to obtain it ? (5) What capital
is needed ? —8555.
(1) Prospects for beekeeping in W.A. are
reasonable. Prices, considering the depression,
arc very fair, and the market good. (2) Apiary
sites can be obtained from the Forestry Do-
partmcnt at £2 per annum, and this gives the
beekeeper a radius range of two miles around
the site. The home site need not be large.
Westralia’s main crop of honey comes from the
forests, but is not obtainable from the same
site every year. Beekeepers move their hives
to follow the blossom. (3) The number of
hives required depends upon many factors,
the most important being the capacity of the
beekeeper to obtain the maximum results. This,
of course, requires considerable experience and
knowledge, not only of the bees, but of the
country, A capable man should be able to
make a living with 250 hives. (4) Ex-
perience is the only teacher. Get work with
an established beekeeper for a year or two.
(5) It is difficult to estimate the capital re-
quired. This would depend entirety upon
whether the beekeeper can make his own
hives and frames. Most successful bee-
keepers start in a small way with a few hives
and gradually develop them, in which case an
apiary of, say, 250 hives, together with neces-
sary apparatus, not including a motor-truck
for moving the bees, would probablv run into
£6OO or £7OO.
lie ill * *
Can the ordinary fig be grown in Tasmania ?
—7929.
it can in favored situations and districts,
but the climate makes cropping uncertain.
* * * *
(1) What is Clark’s solution for estimating
hardness in water, and how is it prepared ?
(2) How is the lest carried out, and how are re-
sults expressed ? (3) Does the lest reveal
chlorides as such or simply the degree of hard-
ness ? —8578.'
Hardness is due to the presence in the water
of soluble salts of lime and magnesia. Clark’s
solution is a soap solution of known strength,
which may be purchased ready for use. In
a chemical laboratory, however, it is prepared
by dissolving a pure soap and standardising
the solution with calcium chloride. (2) The
test is carried out by running Clark’s solution
into 70 c.c. of the water to be tested in a
stoppered bottle. The C.S. is run in from a
graduated tube (burette) and the number of
c.c. required to produce a permanent froth or
lather in the water is noted. Each c.c. so
used corresponds to Ideg. hardness of the
water. For full details of the test and the
apparatus commonly used for the purpose, see
Wanklyn and Chapman’s Water Analysis (by
Kogan Paul, London), or a book such as
The Control of Laundry Operations, by R. G.
Parker (1925). In the appendix, p. 193, of the
latter book, a full description of the method
and illustrations of the apparatus used will
be found. (3) The test does not show the
amount of chlorides in the water, but only the
degree of hardness.
* * * *
(1) How do goats compare with sheep as
drought-resislers 'i (2) Best breed of goat for
(a) mutton, (b) milk, (c) hair and wool ? (3)
Can the raising of goats be made a commer-
cial proposition in Queensland ? (4) Is there
anv sale for mohair or goats’ wool ? —8437.
(1) Generally speaking, goats are better re-
sisters of drought than sheep. (2) (a) The
Angora—ordinary cross; ( b ) the Saanan; (c)
the Angora. (3) Goats, generally, have not
been raised commercially in Queensland.
Their use has been confined to the more arid
areas for milk and mutton. Mr. Scammel,
of Miles, Queensland, imported pure Angoras,
but the industry did npt grow'. Mr. Chisholm
is trying Billy out on the Roper River (N.T.).
(4) The price of good pure-bred mohair in
Queensland, over a period of years, has aver-
aged less than 4d. per lb.


ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australasia’s Leading Physical Director.
Founder of “Health and Physical Culture
Magazine,” circulating throughout the
Southern Hemisphere.
AT LAST...THIS
AMAZING BOOK
... FREE!
Now you can read the most sensational
book on strength EVER published.
This book will amaze you with its facts
—startle you with its possibilities! You
don’t know you’re alive until you get
this book in your own hands. Do you
know what gives a gorilla the strength
of 10 men ? Do you know why strength
and sex are connected? It will answer
questions you have hardly dared ask
yourself, and you can get a copy FREE
—if you hurry. Fill in the coupon
NOW, this minute, and post it
TO-DAY !
zm
■m
J
m
i
Splendid examples of muscular
manhood—the result or
Briton system. You, too, can
develop a beautiful physique—if
you get the coupon in the post
NOW !
Now Watch YOUR Muscles
GROW!
ALMOST OVERNIGHT these men changed from puny weaklings into physical giants.
It sounds like magic, doesn’t it? But it’s just an example of what BRITON training does
for thousands of men—WHAT IT CAN DO FOR YOU. I’ve taken men of every size and
condition and transformed them into perfect physical specimens! I’ve been doing it for
years. “Magic worked on muscles,” people called it. But it is SCIENTIFIC magic.
I’ve made a science of building men. I CAN CHANGE YOU—IN 30 DAYS I Give me
just 30 days to PROVE to you what I shall do for you. In just that short time I shall
cover your body with layers of solid muscle, and they’ll be panther muscles—as live as
spring steel, with the speed of lightning and the power of a battering ram. You’ll laugh
at men twice your size.
This Is What I’ll Do For YOU
I’ll take that body of yours and build it into something so wonderful, so impressive, so
altogether beyond your fondest hopes that you'll gasp with amazement when you look
into the mirror at the end of the first 30 days. I’ll take those skinny, soft arms of yours
and transform them, almost overnight, into lithe, steel-like battering rams of marvellous
speed and power. I’ll take the kinks out of that weak back—straighten
it out —tighten it up around the waist—go over the lungs, the heart, the
kidneys, the liver—strengthening, always strengthening. I’ll take that
weak, flabby stomach and make the muscles around it look and feel like
a cast-iron washboard. I'll straighten out those thin, stooped shoulders—
square them up—broaden them—literally pack muscle on them until they
look like a piano-mover’s. Large lumps of red-blooded muscle will magically
appear here, there, everywhere—and you’ll feel so full of pep and vitality you ll
want to conquer the world.
Watch Them Turn Around!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow who carries himself with head up.
Notice how the broad-shouldered man always gets their eye. They want a
dependable he-man when they make their choice one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember, I do not only promise it. I
GUARANTEE IT. Now, don’t put it off a minute. Get going to new happiness
and real manhood—to-day 1
YOURS if you •
send now
NS'S
X
S
X
<- >:•
I
m
i
Eli
I ■
>s
* m
: 1
m
r
Just take a peek at these wonderful
specimens of muscular manhood. You,
too, can acquire lasting health and
muscular strength if you send for this
FREE BOOK NOW!
READ THIS STARTLING PROOF!
£lOOO Guarantee.
I guarantee (hat all testi-
monials published in this
announcement are genuine
extracts from reports
received.
WOULD NEVER WORK AGAIN.
“I am going to tell you some-
thing I have not told you before.
For two years I was in and out of
bed, and the doctor hinted that I
might never work again, but after I
started your instructions I got work
as a hod carrier, going up the
ladder all day long with six stone
of bricks on my shoulder at a
time. I think I am as strong as
any man living in my district, and
a lot better in health, so I will
close with these words. Mr. Briton.
I am more than grateful for what
vou have done for me.”
—A. CALDER. D.
“I am delighted with the course
and the results I have already
gained from it.”—E. C. NEWEY.
GAINS 6 INCHES AROUND CHEST.
“I have gained 6 inches around
the chest, 1 inch biceps, 1 inch
forearms, 2 inches thigh, Ij inches
.calves and many more splendid
improvements. I am delighted with
;tny muscular neck, now 151 inches
.—a gain of 2 A inches.”
—W. D." WHITFIELD. B.
Alfred J. Briton, Dept. L,
107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
GAINED 5 INCHES AROUND THE
- CHEST.
“I have put on 5 inches around
the chest and 1 inch on the upper
arms. I am very fit and well also,
and thank you for the interest
taken in me.”—F. WOOD. W.
‘‘l have gained 7Jlb. in weight
since I started.” —W. BRYAN. B.
‘‘The course is
really wonderful.”
—W. SCOTT. C.
‘‘l would not
hesitate to recom-
mend you to any-
one, as I know
that what you are
doing for me you
can do for any-
one else.”
—R. LESTER. L.
INCREASED
WEIGHT 11 LB.!
“Your course
certainly is the
‘goods,’ and my
progress is won-
derfully satisfac-
tory. I have in-
creased my weight
by 111 b.”
—A. V. DOORS. R.
‘‘l feel a differ-
ent man.”
—L. HOW ELLS. C.
“I have grown
another ll inches.”
A. TUNSTALL. C.
“I am not now
troubled with con-
stipation.”
—A. WATERS. X.
“I have gained
lsin. in height.”
—J. FRANCE. T.
ASTOUNDEDI
“I am astounded at how my arms
and legs and chest have developed.
Muncies have developed all over my
body.”—W. HALLPORD. N.
“My chest is now 41 inches, and
biceps 14 i inches, neck 16$ inches,
waist 32 inches, and the rest of my
body is coming on fine.”
—T. H. REID. D,
MORE THAN SATISFIED.
“I am more than satisfied with
your course. I have now completed
two months and I think it wonder-
ful. I only wish I had heard of
your course before, I now have to
have a size larger in shirts and
collars, and I feel sure that it is
the best thing 1 ever did.”
.—E. WELLARD. 0.
r Heres mq personal offer
to YOU... POST NOW!
Send
NOW
Tear Coupon—Post NOW!
Alfred J. Briton,
DEPT. L,
107 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
df
Dear Sir, Please send me, absolutely FREE, a copy
of your latest book, "The Secrets of Muscular Strength
.—And How to Acquire It.” Don’t send one penny.
It’s FREE.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
B. 25/9/’35


SMOKE-OH!
“The Japanese Envoy (Mr. Debuchi) was
welcomed by the Rotary Club and the
Chamber of Manufactures, and left for Bris-
bane.” — “S. M. Herald."
Well, it might have been pul dif-
ferently.
* * ...
The Doctor Turns Motor Mechanic.
“H’rn! Yes. Those blotches? No-
thing to worry about, nothing at all. I'll
write you a little duco prescription that
will clear that up in no time. External
use only, remember.
“H’m-m-m. Slight murmur in the basal
region of one cylinder. Nothing to worry
about, nothing at all. Let me see. What
oil do you take? Yes! Yes! Quite a
suitable type, but don't overdo it. And
remember your dynamo’s a delicate in-
strument. Feel the cold much? No?
Any stiffness in the mornings? None?
Good. Any exhaust troubles? Just one
moment while I examine this carburettor.
H’m. Ah! Yes. I’m afraid that a
slight operation is needed. Oh, no, no,
nothing very serious; little more than
an adjustment. Now whom would you
have to operate? You'd like Mr. Blank?
Very well, I’ll write to him. Good morn-
ing.”
H.J.
-2- •!* * *
“He had had breakfast at the boarding-house,
certainly; but what is a boarding-house break-
fast?” —Sydney magazine story.
Not much chop usually.
“Now for a rollicking capstan chanty by the 'Four Jolly Sailormen.'"
“The decline in the birth-rate continues to
be alarming. ’ ‘ Sun.
In tact, the little stranger is becoming
a little stranger still.
“There is the question, of course, whether
Oldfield retains his as a wicketkeeper.”
— “Sun.”
Many South African batsmen will be
slumped for an answer.
Freak at Figures.
At the ’Varsity I was notoriously bril-
liant at higher mathematics, my tutors
averring (figuratively speaking, of course)
that I carried two heads upon my shoul-
ders. I shocked the professors by dis-
puting that a straight line is the shortest
“If I get another ’undred buffalo ides, I'll be goin' t' Sydney nex' year.
Wot did y' say that sheilah's name Was?"
distance between two points ; I gave them
a practical demonstration by elaborat-
ing the “longest-way-round-shortcst-way-
homc”- principle with the Chancellor’s
daughter.
After I was sent down, 1 opened a
ladies’ bathing-costume salon. Naturally
enough, J fell in love with Athene, my
beautiful mannequin. After a time, how-
ever, Athene became a profound prob-
lem, the poser being how to avoid marry-
ing her without sacking her.
Well, retiring to my private office and
summoning my stenographer, 1 reduced
this teasing theorem to the third, dimen-
sion. Suddenly, Athene burst into the
room, burst into tears, and, incidentally,
burst out of my latest aquatic creation.
Then, frantically snatching at broken
shoulder-ribbons, she huffily resigned
both her job and my affection.
You see, I still had two heads upon my
shoulder—and the other one wasn't
Athene's.
P. G.
•!* -1- -I*
“After serving his home town for many
years in dozens of different capacities, he be-
came its member of Parliament.” Biography.
It seems a pity that such a good man
should come to an end like that.
.j. * *
Her Weakness.
Her husband had left for the office
ten minutes ago, and she knew that by
now he was well out of (he way.
A voice floated up from the street
below. Her face lit, and she crept
guiltily to the window.
Ah, there was the man she wanted!
Smiling, she beckoned to him ; then ran
downstairs and opened the front door.
“Hush!” she whispered. They stole
upstairs with the silent caution of
burglars.
“Now,” she said, “make as little noise
as possible!”
Obediently the bottle-oh proceeded to
gather up her secret collection of empty
gin-bottles.
Nat.
The Rougher Mining Field.
“In the new goldfield at Iron Pot Creek,
near Casino (N.S.W.), when the Warden’s
office opened, there were 25 applications for
miners’ rights, including one of a woman.”
"Since women butted in,” said the old
prospector, “a goldfield’s no place for a
decent, well-brought-up man. When they
start clawing one another’s hair over a
dispute about pegs it’s a good place to
keep away from. And the language!”
“Too right!” agreed his companion.
“The only job on a field it’s safe for a
man to take nowadays is barman. But
how many landladies protect a man if any
of these wild mineresses become too fami-
liar? Some of the proprietresses are worse
than the mineresses. One pore feller I
know found the lock taken off the door ;
and he had to sleep with his bed pushed
against it. When the proprietress brought
in a carpentress and had the door
changed so that it opened outwards the
poor feller appealed to the local police-
woman ; and a few of the decent miner-
esses put in to pay his fare back to
Sydney.”
“Yes; a man’s liable to lose his
reputation altogether if it’s known lie s
spent any length of time on a goldfield,
put in the first speaker. "They’re too
rough altogether. It’s not right. A man
should be able to do a bit of goldmining
if he feels inclined.”
“What should be and what is are dif-
ferent things,” the other man retorted
tersely. “A man can’t afford to lose
his reputation; and these mining fields
nowadays are altogether too rough for
self-respecting men. I’m trying to get a
job now in a gentleman’s beauty parlor.
“Are you?” It was said eagerly. “If
you succeed you may be able to put a
little business in my way. C rochet-
work is my line. M's not very profit-
able”—
“Anything is better than these rough
mining fields,” said the beauty-parlor
aspirant decisively.
H. M.
;1- -I- -I-
Aviation is not necessarily the logical
career for men who are no earthly use.
•!• •J* -I-
-“I have seen evening frocks that are abso-
lutely vulgar.” —Sydney parson.
Some of them are pretty low,
•I- -I- -I- *
“Owing to poor patronage in country towns,
(he vaudeville tour had to be abandoned.”
~-"Sun”
A short circuit.
Overcoming the Fly Menace.
Flies that are in the house overnight
can be trapped simply and inexpensively
at the breakfast table. Put molasses in
the honey-pot and honey in an ordinary
breakfast-cup. The flies will naturally
assume that the honey-pot contains
honey, and will go straight to it, becom-
ing engulfed in the less expensive
molasses and leaving the honey un-
touched. The flies can afterwards be
wrung out and dispatched.
The buzz fly is not attracted by honey
or molasses, but is easily vanquished if
you go the right way about it. Wait
for one to get into the kitchen, close
all doors and windows, and take a
dinner-plate outside, placing it against
the closed window, at the same time
making a noise like a piece of roast
beef. The buzzy will precipitately make
for the plate, and dash itself to death
against the window-pane.
The most effective method of all, how-
ever, for the destruction of flies (and of
all flying insects) is to paint the house.
Use either while or cream paint. Wait
until the first coating has dried, sand-
paper the insects off, paint again and
repeal ad lib.
S. W. K.
“Alcohol makes men loose.” —Sydney parson.
We always thought it made them tight.
♦l* *h *l* *i*
“She was forced to appeal to her husband
for money.”— "Sim.”
But a woman most appeals to her hus-
band when she doesn’t appeal for money.
-h -I- •Jr *l*
Tragedy of an Oyster.
“ ‘Chemists are even more secretive than
doctors,’ says a women's paper.”
We met by accident, and I invited
her to lunch. Over our cocktails she
suggested;
“You can lake me to the pharma-
ceutical dance if you like.'
“Me?” I exclaimed, astonished. “De- j
lighted, of course ; but I thought Dill- s
water took you everywhere ?”
“I’ve given him the air,” she assured ;i
me with finality.
“Why—too secretive?”
“Yes,” she agreed ; “he's always
bottling things up.”
P. C. |
Not-so-free Verse.
You chide me now, after these fruitless
years,
/ hat time was when in the silent
Watches of the star-filled night
/ sat and,
hi the white heat of my overpowering
Passion,
Bent my brows to the dear task
Of penning a deathless ode to your
Matchless eyes and our inspiring love.
Each polished line throbbed
With the divine ardor of pure poesy
To reveal my inmost soul.
How, now poignant memory floods hack
As ! see the damned thing
On the Bar table marked “Exhibit A” !
KEO.
Peeps at the Professions.
XXIV.-THE DIPLOMAL
In his brown attache case
He holds the future of our race.
On him the nation’s weal depends.
’Tis he who makes our foes our friends.
[Or vice versa, for who knows
Which are our friends and which our
foes ?)
With foreign agents on his track
He lives in danger day and night;
Visits health resorts and spas.
Ever seeking formulas
Whereby to prove that black’s not black,
But just a darker shade of white.
One doesn’t get into the Diplomatic
Service in the sense that one joins the
army or navy or is elected to Parliament
One is born into it.
Fathers put their sons’ names down on
the list immediately after baptism, and
wise parents ensure that the infant dip-
lomat does any mewling and puking that
he finds necessary in the arms of a
French nurse, so that he acquires a
Parisian accent right from the beginning.
Young diplomats learn to speak at a
much earlier age than children destined
for other professions, but on the other
hand their utterances arc much harder to
understand,’ and arc usually capable of
two or three different interpretations.
The growing child is watched carefully
until he tells his first lie. His father then
takes him in hand, and points out how
foolish he is to employ such a clumsy
device, at the same time showing him
several different ways in which he could
have avoided the truth, without actually
being mendacious.
Take a simple homely example.
The boy has just denied chopping
down his father’s cherry-tree. Instead
of a direct denial, he should have adopted
one of the following replies; —
1 (In hurt tones): “Father! How can
you suggest such a thing?”
2 (In astonishment): “You don’t mean
to tell me that someone has chopped the
cherry-tree down?”
3 (Displaying empty hands): “I haven’t
got an axe.”
4 (Ironically): "Me? I’m only the
chap that set the Reichstag on fire.”
At school they polish him up a bit,
but when he joins the Service he’s still
a bit scrubby, though not as much as
an ordinary youth, of course.
He serves for a while as a courier,
carrying (as he thinks) dispatches, which
may be anything from a good piece of
stable information on the Grand Prix
to a jar of pate de foie gras.
Gradually he becomes suave and
polished. Next, he puts in several years
as an attache, in which position his main
job is to confide false secrets to bogus
foreign countesses. This makes hint
more suave and more polished. Finally,
by effluxion of time (Old diplomats can’t
live for ever) he becomes an Ambassador
or even a Foreign Minister (very suave
and absolutely polished).
He spends the rest of his career attend-
ing conferences with other diplomats in
all sorts of places. The main thing at
these conferences is to avoid unanimity,
for that would mean no more confer-
ences. This is done by arriving at a
formula.
A formula is a way of expressing a
resolution so that it will be acceptable to
all parties, but shall not tally in any
degree with the original desires of any
of the parties, yet shall be capable of
interpretation to the various Govern-
ments of the respective parties in such a
way that it will appear that each party
has gained what it went out after.
JASBY.


USEFUL DATA ON FORD VB.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 11 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 seconds.
■•i ■ •
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft. -6in.
Maximum speed, 76.6 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 19.8 m.p.g.
“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd,, London, England,
Factory Rep i John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
ADD TO
YOUR CAR'S SPEED
..byreplacing worn plugs
with CHAMPIONS
PION
WINDSOR,
CANADA
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
fd
WORLD N
LEADERS
FOR 25 J
shears/
The Steering Column.
NEW FEATURES IN THE V8 FORD.
ROOMIER ALL-STEEL BODYWORK AND GREATER
RIDING COMFORT.
BY FRED BERRY.
' | *HOUGH few motorists have been able to fault the ’34 model
V 8 Ford after a year of strenuous work under Australian
conditions, this year’s model, using the same wheelbase, gives
vastly improved riding comfort, with more leg room. Brakes
are better, clutch is lighter and the all-steel body with safety
glass windscreen gives a high factor of safety together with
silent running and freedom from squeaks and rattles.
The motor is some Sin. further forward
in (he chassis than in last year’s model,
so providing a better weight distribution
and greater body space. Acceleration
and speed are of the same high order as
in the previous type, but owing to refine-
ments in construction these results are
achieved with less fuss and vibration.
Longer life and greater reliability
may be expected from the engine ny
reason of the employment of new-type
cast-alloy-steel crankshaft and copper-
lead bearings in big ends of connecting
rods.
In appearance the new car is a distinct
improvement, the increased body length
allowing of more effective streamlining,
and providing a free and graceful profile.
The V 8 motor consists of two banks
of cylinders set at 90deg., the right bank
being staggered £in. ahead of the left.
Cylinder blocks, crankcase and exhaust
passages are cast in one piece, providing
an extremely rigid support for the crank-
shaft and preventing whip and distortion
when driven on full load. Bore is
3 l-16in., stroke 3|in., giving a piston
displacement of 221 cubic inches and an
R.A.C. rating of 30 h.p. Compression
ratio is 6.3 to 1, and 90 b.h.p, is de-
veloped at peak revs.
Side-by-side valves are used, compli-
cation having been eliminated by an
ingenious combination of the intake
manifold and 'valve-chamber cover.
Valves are chrome-nickel alloy, actuated
by fixed tappets, and exhaust valve seats
are of alloy steel inset in the cylinder
block, so maintaining engine tune over
lengthy periods without necessity for
valve grinding.
Cylinder block is of special hard-iron
alloy, walls being polished to a mirror
finish before assembly, thus appreciably
reducing the time required for running
in the motor.
Pistons are three-ring T-slot type, of
hard aluminium alloy, the low co-efii-
cient of expansion permitting a fit in the
cylinders as close as those of cast-iron.
Piston skirt is ground elliptic, six thou,
from true centre, the smaller diameter
being in line with the piston pin so that
when the motor is hot the skirt becomes
almost perfectly round. Connecting rods
are I section, the crankpin bearings being
of the floating type, making available
the full area of bearing surface for each
cylinder. A copper-lead metal is used
for big-end bearings.
Crankshaft is cast steel, balanced
statically and dynamically. Longer life,
better lubrication of bearings and quieter
operation are claimed for the high-
carbon cast-steel shaft as against the
conventional forged-steel shaft.
Detachable cylinder heads are of alu-
minium, the specially-designed, non-
detonating combustion chamber allowing
second-grade fuels to be used without
fear of detonating or pre-ignition.
Induction system is of novel design, the
dual down-draught-type carburettor be-
ing located centrally above and between
the cylinder, blocks and bolted to a
special aluminium casting. Each half
of the dual carburettor supplies four
cylinders, two in the centre of one
bank and the two end ones in the
opposite block. This arrangement is
accomplished by the use of an over-and-
Newly-designed all-steel Australian-built body fitted to 1935 series Ford V8 sedan.
under type of dual intake manifold, and
this feature, coupled with the extremely
short and smooth inlet passages, provides
high power output and rapid accelera-
tion without excessive use of fuel. Petrol
is held in an 11-gal. tank located at the
rear, fuel being drawn to the carburettor
by a mechanical pump mounted above
the cylinder blocks at rear of induction
manifold. An oilbath-type air-cleaner
and silencer is attached to the carburet-
tor.
Lubrication is force-feed system to
main, connecting-rod and camshaft bear-
ings, the cylinder walls and pistons being
lubricated by splash.
Anew feature of the V 8 engine is the
system of crankcase ventilation, air be-
ing forced into the engine by draught
from a fan through a gauze-covered
scoop mounted at the rear of the cylinder
blocks, and circulated through the crank-
case and valve chamber, leaving the
motor by a duct below the sump.
Ignition is 6-volt coil-and-battery
system, the generator being mounted
centrally above the cylinder blocks, belt-
drive tension being readily adjusted by
lowering or raising the generator.
The belt drive of the V 8 is possibly
unique in automobile practice, as the one
endless rubber belt passes over the crank-
shaft pulley, left- and right-hand water-
pump pulleys and electric generator
forming a compact diamond-shaped
assembly.
The motor is mounted in the chassis-
on live-rubber supports to absorb vibra-
tion.
Trans mission is
through improved type
single-plate dry-disc
clutch. Three cen-
trifugally - operated
forged weights apply
pressure progressively
as engine speed in-
creases, thereby reduc-
ihg the pedal pressure
necessary when oper-
ating at low speeds or
when the clutch is dis-
engaged in traffic.
Three forward
speeds and reverse gears arc used, with
central ball change lever.
All gears are constant mesh, helical
cut, second and top being synchro-silent
easy-change type. Final drive is the
typical Ford full torque-tube drive, with
enclosed propeller shaft, power thrust be-
ing absorbed through robust diagonal
torque stays anchored at the rear beneath
the axle housing extremity, and at the
front to a 'central ball joint on the X-
chassis member.
Rear axle is three-quarter floating in a
pressed-steel banjo housing. Final drive
reduction is 4.11 to 1; spiral bevel gears
being used;
• Characteristic transverse springs are
employed front and rear, this year’s
model having flatter springs than hitherto,
made from chrome-alloy steel, while
double-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers
are attached to each of the four spring
anchorages, the front end being kept in
position by radius rods anchored- in a
central ball joint below the gearbox.
Steering gear is semi-reversible worm
and-three-tooth-sector type, with self-
adjusting thrust races. Reduction ratio
is 15 to 1.
Easier and more positive steering, to-
gether with elimination of road shock
transmitted to the steering wheel, .is
secured by the employment of the cross-
steering principle wherein the drag link
is placed in a crosswise position, parallel
to the axle instead of longitudinally, as
in convenfional practice, the end of the
drag link being attached near the left
front wheel, instead of the right.
Chassis is of X-girder construction, with
the ends over the axles sharply upswept.
permitting much lower floor level and
centre of gravity. Vertical motion of the
tailshaft is provided for by a tunnel along
the floor centre. Wheelbase is 112 in.
Service brakes are of the mechanically-
operated, internal-expanding two-shoe
type, a floating wedge being used to
equalise the pressure applied to each of
the two shoes in the drum. An emergency
hand- and parking-brake operates shoes
through independent cross shaft and
linkage.
An outstanding feature in the ’35
model is the employment of , all-steel
Australian-built bodies. All panels and
pillars are electrically welded into one-
piece construction, eliminating the work-
ing loose of doors and the generation of
squeaks and rattles after a little running.
Front windscreen is of
non - shatterable glass;
rear and side windows
provide efficient ventila-
tion without inducing
draughts. External hard-
ware is either chrome-
plated or of stainless
steel.
The car tested was a
de luxe model four-door
sedan, driven by G.
Baglin, of Hastings,
Deering, Ltd., Sydney
metropolitan distributors.
Speedometer reading stood at 4530 miles,
and, together with full fuel tank, driver
and observer, the car weighed 30^cwt.
Front end of V8 motor, showing ingeni-
ous four-point flexible drive from crank-
shaft to L and R water impellors, fan and
generator.
First impression upon driving through
congested traffic was that of excellent
acceleration and immediate response to
both throttle and brakes, while the light
{Continued on page 28.)


Kim
m
ivmmim
9
im
mi
Mi
HI
■
pm
Wmmm
m
& *
&
k-zfx
Hi '* :
:; : S
*Y
•V
:• ••¥ .•>;' :
:?>■■:' •■ ;:i
¥ : >
S«SSj»
x isaaTA 1
ipw»:
S j
-V**
&
A-
F ' 1
**% ,S
mmm
Y< V
.JK
■• *: ’
s y
<c : ;y
—m wmm «%»
■ ■
..
\ ,
iWimm.
n
VA.
. 3083
lilb • JJ/. I
*
Kllil
■* *
pill
|HiX
b,m»
M#
ag*
Hi
■#4;«!
Js&S
M
»K«C
?&
V-.-.-
*#ls-
-
: --m
■Fg
■ViMi
>.;': : v;
V*«
ik
■•WWW?
I i
m
tmi:
\%
: % *
site
v g
►
r
:•:•:•:•
»»
.
>V-
: : : :-
y.
In Great Britain, Europe, America,
motorists everywhere are acclaiming
the advantages of the New Mobiloil
by the Clearosol Process.
And no wonder! This 100 per cent
PURE LUBRICANT not only gives
definitely better engine performance,
but saves money in greatly reduced
oil, petrol, and maintenance costs.
Yet—it costs not one penny more;
THE
by the World-Famous
CLEAROSOL PROCESS
VACUUM
MS2Q
OIL COMPANY
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)


u
I 111
Slromberg
■Carlson 3
RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Use The Neiv SIMONIZ KIEENER to
*
Restore Your Gar’s Original Beauty
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of "The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
wmmmmm
m
m
.-•: &
•4Hfl
COOL MOTORS
Vjt HOT DAYS. ..
NO matter how far and fast
you drive you can de-
pend on Veedol Motor
Oil to keep your car running
cooler and smoother. Veedol’s
famous “film of protection”
actually absorbs the extra sum-
mer heat that causes most motor
oils to break down and burn up.
Change to Veedol ... the
world’s finest 100% Pennsyl-
vania oil.
Drive it hard —
Drive it fast —
You can’t break it down
MOTOR
OIL
100% Pure Pennsylvania
NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED
All Spates
steering and short wheelbase enabled
the car to be parked with great facility.
On the open road the speedometer needle
hovered around the 50 mark —a very
comtortable speed, and one that could
be maintained over any type of main
road with ease.
First test, that of coasting in neutral
from a steady speed of 15 m.p.h.. showed
that all running gear was
in excellent condition and
alignment, a distance of
715 yards being covered
before the car came to
rest.
Over the measured mile
with flying start maximum
speed was 76.6 m.p.h., the
time taken for the dis-
tance being 47sec.
Approaching Kurrajong
Mountain and
negotiating the dirt
road through Grose
Vale the VS made
light of the diffi-
c u 11 conditions,
roadholding, sus-
pension and steer-
ing being very
good.
The final 2 1-5
miles of the steep-
est portion of Kur-
rajong Mountain
was climbed from
a standing start.
First attempt in
top gear occu-
pied 4min. 25sec.,
second gear only
being used for the last few yards of
heavy going alter crossing the finishing
line. Next attempt, using middle and
lop gears, was clocked in 3min. 18sec., a
really fast climb, during which the car
appeared safe and free from swaying on
the difficult corners.
New layout of V8 front-axle assembly, showing flatter transverse spring and
two-way hydraulic shock-absorbers.
Returning down the mountain further
traffic tests were made on the cross-
country road via Castlereagh to Penrith.
In top gear, 350 yards was covered, first
as slowly as possible, and immediately
afterwards on full throttle. On the slow-
running section the time taken, 2min.
25sec., gave an average of 5 m.p.h. On
the accelerated section the car showed
splendid pick-up, crossing the finishing
line with speedo showing between
55-60. Time was 16sec., averaging
45 m.p.h. From 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top
Diagrammatic section of crankcase ventilating system,
showing screened air forced through rear inlet, scavenging
crankcase and valve chamber.
and second gears showed Bsec. and ssec.
respectively, whilst from a standing start
to 50 m.p.h. through gears was timed in
llsec.
A test of braking equipment showed
that (he V 8 would stop in 22ft. bin. from
a speed of 25 m.p.h.
Turning circle was demonstrated to be
39ft. 6in. on both left and right lock,
whilst minimum ground clearance under
diff. housing was B|in.
Fuel used for the total journey of
121 miles was 6gal. Iqt., an average
consumption of 19.8 m.p.g. (30.2 ion
miles), while the average speed, inclusive
of all tests, was 38 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
S.M. (Sarina, N.Q.). — l have a utility truck
which has had good service. Previous owner
operated in salt-water country, and now frame,
mudguards and springs require replacement. I
propose to use the car on long runs with '.-ton
load. Would repairs or a trade-in and pur-
chase of new car be the better investment ?
As the car would have to be practically re-
built, the best plan for future operation would
be to cut loss and purchase new equipment.
If chassis and springs have been seriously
damaged by alkali you would be running a
grave risk by continuing to use the present
outfit on the work intended.
* * * $
M.L.Y.N. (Mourilyan, N.Q.).—/ have a mag-
neto from which some of the varnish on the
windings has recently run, gumming up the
armature. This excess varnish has now been
cleaned out, and the magneto is working again.
Will you tell me whether this trouble is likely
to happen again, and what should be done to
rectify it ? The magneto runs in a cool posi-
tion.
Although the magneto is apparently well
cooled, symptoms point to a mechanical defect,
with consequent local overheating. If bearings
are badly worn, allowing armature to touch
magnets or field windings, the trouble will
recur, next time resulting in a complete electri-
cal failure. Only certain remedy would be to
send the mag. to a specialist in one of the
adjacent towns and have the repairs thoroughly
done.
> * * * *
J.R.C. (Camden, N.S.W.). — Should I regu-
larly change the oil in gearbox and differential
of my car? There is no drain plug in either
case, and / am concerned whether harm may
result by using the same oil over again.
Provided the oil level is maintained by re-
plenishing with the correct grade, there is no
occasion for worry. If you wish to be per-
fectly secure, you might have a -Jin. gas thread
tapped in the base of both diff. housing and
gearbox, and a grubscrew inserted so that the
assembly may be flushed out thoroughly every
5000 miles.
8394.—(1) What is the graphite recommended
for mixing with lubricating oil ? (2) How
much should be used, and is it to be used
occasionally or always ?
(1) Graphite in colloidal form has proved
beneficial when added to lubricating oil during
the running-in period. (2) Quantity depends
upon concentration, but, using well-known
brands, loz. per gallon is ample. A good
surface should be obtained after using for
approximately 5000 miles.
* * * *
G.L.H. (Wentworth Falls, N.S.W.). — Is there,
any advantage in using graphite in the petrol,
and how is it obtained ? My car is new (200
miles).
Yes. Colloidal graphite can be obtained
ready-mixed in small tins for addition to petrol,
and it assists during the running-in period in
smoothing out the friction surfaces within the
motor.
♦ * * . *
G.N. (Nowra. N.S.W.). — My ’29 1-h.p. car
while in for overhaul recently had the socket
joint on the torque tube replaced, and since
then hack-axle gear has become noisier,,particu-
larly on the overrun. There is no play in any
part of the assembly, and all spacing washers
have been replaced in exactly the same posi-
tions as when car was first assembled. Can
you suggest a remedy ?
If the pinion shaft has been removed in
fitting the socket joint, the noise is due to
alteration in meshing of crown wheel and
pinion upon reassembly. Although existing
adjustment may be correct mechanically, yet
even a few thousandths' variation from the
original setting will cause the noise com-
plained of.
* # /,
G.N.B. (Baltina, N.S.W.). — Although my
1-h.p. car is seven years old it is In good
mechanical condition, and my only worry is
by reason of rattles from under the body when
driving over rough roads. Is there any way
of lessening this trouble ?
Brake rods or torque-rod anchorages are
the cause of your worry. Only permanent cure
for worn brake mechanism is to replace eyes
and yokes, but as a temporary remedy you
might wrap each joint with a number of turns
of thin elastic —the inside of a golf ball will
serve the purpose —and this can be renewed as
required. Torque-rod anchorages, when ex-
cessive play is evident, should also be replaced,
but again the rattle can be stopped by dis-
mantling the unit and packing the ball joint
with sufficient tinfoil to take up play.
* * ff
L.L. (Blayney, N.S.W.). —My ’32 model since
last overhauled has developed an elusive engine
trouble. In cold weather or on short rims no
trouble is experienced, but when driven hard
for more than a few minutes the motor
splutters, backfires and finally stops. In every
case the float chamber of the carburettor
appears almost empty, yet there is no obstruc-
tion in fuel lines, and filter and pump are all
right. Any suggestion ?
If you iiave tested the fuel pump under
hot and cold conditions and found it working
properly, the only possible solution of the
trouble can be that the petrol pipe is in some
part lying close to or touching the exhaust
manifold. This, in most instances, will cause
a vapor lock and give rise to the symptoms
indicated.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
"E.C.A.”; Taking too sharp a turn at
a corner of the main thoroughfare of
a Queensland town, the wheel of a car
ground on the silent cop. The thread
on the bolt clasping the wheel hub to
the axle was stripped, and the wheel
broke clear. The car was pulled up
quickly, but not before the axle had
ploughed along the roadway for a few
yards. The wheel continued on its way.
rolled 40 yards diagonally across the
street, and, gathering speed, jumped the
gutter on to the footpath. It finally
ended its reckless career in the midst
of diamond rings and wristlet watches,
completely shattering the plate-glass
window en route.
* * * ♦
‘‘Pick'’: A Sydney heavy-lorry driver
got the surprise of his life the other day
when there was an explosion underneath
his truck like the report of a cannon.
The lorry tloor was ripped to shreds.
What seemed like a charge of shrapnel
hurtled between his feet and shattered
the roof of the cab, and there came a
tinkle of glass from near-by shop
windows. The flywheel of the engine
had burst into a hundred fragments.
Luckily the driver escaped without
injury.
$ $ #
“Aerogenes”: A good impression of
the condition of an old-model used car
may be got by trying the starting handle.
A handle that fits well and grips, with
dogs hardly worn, suggests an owner
who has taken good care of the machine
in the matter of easy starting and, pre-
sumably, in every other matter. A
handle that is loose and worn calls up
visions of a life of abuse for the car ;
bad adjustment, hard starting, battery
always flat, long and furious cranking,
frayed tempers, vicious attacks on this
and that innocent part, and altogether
unhappy relations between driver and
the car.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart tor the service ot Bulletin
readers. , ,
The service is entirely free. # All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Old soldier (48), Sydney, single, excellent
military discharge, good knowledge of station
work, wants employment anywhere. —8582.
Young man (21), N.S.W., wants employment
as station-hand. Used to horses.—Bs72..
Chauffeur-mechanic, English, Sydney, is avail-
able casual driving and repairs. Rolls-Royce
exp., and used to city and country driving.
Refs.—Bs6B.
Englishman and wife, N.S.W., child, school
age, want a roof over their heads. Husband,
gardener, etc.; wife, housework, also good
with needle.—Bs9o.
Station book- and storekeeper, N.S.W.,
middle-aged, experienced, seeks position.—
8376.
Young public-school man, Vic., single, seven
years’ exp. with sheep western N.S.W. and
Riverina, knowledge book-keeping, wants job
on station. Refs. —8525.
Copy of verses commencing “But a shearer
came down from the Lachlan, as tall as a
woolshed door.” —8527.
Words of verse “Nine Miles from Gundagai.”
—8509,
To buy back numbers of "Illustrated London
News” and London “Sphere” containing illus-
trations of the airships Graf Zeppelin, RlOl,
Akron and Macon.—BsB6.
Whereabouts of any descendants in Tas-
mania of John Woodcock Graves (1795-1887),
who lived in that State for 54 years and was
buried at Sandy 8ay.—8573.
Present address of Miss Dolly Watt, known
in church circles at Warracknabeal, Vic., 30
years ag0. —8539.
Information Sought.
(1) In a Test match at Melbourne years ago
Trumpet made 49 before lunch. Macartney
also hatted. J. N. Crawford was one of the
howlers to them. How many runs did Macart-
ney make in both innings of the match ? (2)
Names of the 1910 South African Test team
to Australia? —8242.
(1) C. G. Macartney’s innings in the Test
match referred to, which was played in Mel-
bourne in 1907-08, were: b. Crawford, 37, and
c. Humphries, b. Barnes, 54. (2) Shcrwell,
Faulkner, Zulch, Sinclair, Vogler, Pegler,
Schwarz, Commaille, Llewellyn, Snooke,
Strieker, Campbell, Pearse, Hathorn and
Nourse,
* * * *
Date of the Nelson gold robbery in Hobson’s
Bay, Melbourne, and a few particulars con-
cerning it ? —8398.
It occurred on April 2, 1852. The ship
Nelson, which had arrived the previous day
in Hobson’s Bay from Geelong with treasure,
was boarded by a gang of robbers and
plundered of gold to the value of £24,000.
There were qnly three sailors and three passen-
gers on board. The gold was bought by a
Melbourne storekeeper, who met the robbers
on the beach, at 30s. an ounce. He then sailed
for England, and was never prosecuted. Four
men—John Jones, James Morgan, James
Duncan and John Roberts —were indicted for
the offence, and found guilty. One was after-
wards released on the ground of mistaken
identity.
* * * *
Any particulars concerning the exploit of
a young girl named Martin who was instru-
mental in saving life from a wreck and was
afterwards known as the “Grace Darling girl” ?
—8532.
Julia Martin was a Maori girl who, in
company with her husband, brother-in-law and
three other Maoris, gallantly assisted ashore the
crew of the brigantine Delaware, wrecked in
a raging gale some distance from Napier,
M.L., on September 3, 1863. Julia Martin’s
portrait, with particulars of the occurrence,
is in the Nelson Art Gallery.
♦ ♦ * ♦
A few brief particulars of the life of Phil
May, including the period he spent in Aus-
tralia ? Is it a fact that he was entirely self-
taught ? —8552.
He was born at New Wortley, near Leeds,
on April 22, 1864; his paternal grandfather, a
squire of artistic leanings, was a gifted amateur
in water-colors, and it was probably from him
that May inherited his extraordinary natural
gifts. Phil worked as errand boy, first for a
solicitor and later at the Grand Theatre, Leeds,
where he also took minor r6les and drew
posters; joined a touring company, where he
doubled the parts of actor and poster artist,
and finally arrived in London. After some
experience in that city, chiefly connected with
magazine work, he accepted the offer of W. H.
Traill, of The Bulletin, of a three years’ en-
gagement at £lOOO a year, and arrived in
Sydney at the beginning of 1886. In October,
1888, he returned to England, spent a short
period studying painting (for which he had
no marked aptitude) in Paris, in 1896 joined the
staff of “Punch,” and died in London August
5, 1903. He used to say, “I have never had
a drawing lesson in my life, yet I cannot re-
member a time when I couldn't draw.”
* * ♦ *
Some years ago I read that, while England
was at war with her American colonists, the
latter officially regarded Captain Cook as a
friend. Recently I saw a statement that Con-
gress repudiated what had been merely a
friendly gesture on the part of one of its
representatives abroad. Which version is cor-
rect ? —8383.
The first version is correct. In March, 1779,
when Cook was expected back in home waters
from third voyage, Benjamin Franklin (then
Minister to France) instructed the commanders
of American warships to consider Captain Cook
a friend if he should meet any of them.
Andrew Kippis, Cook’s biographer, in 1788
asserted that Congress reversed this instruction
as soon as it was known in Philadelphia.
Kippis in 1795 withdrew the statement un-
reservedly.
♦ * * *
How did the terms “Uncle Sam" and “Cousin
Jonathan" come to be applied to the United
Stales; also the origin of “Yankee" ? —8471.
The story goes that during the Revolutionary
War bags of flour for the army were marked
U.S.; a clerk understood them to be intended
for “Uncle Sam,” meaning Government Com-
missioner Samuel Wilson. This became a popu-
lar joke, and stuck. “Cousin Jonathan” origi-
nally was “Brother Jonathan.” Washington re-
lied greatly on the judgment of Jonathan Trum-
bell, Governor of Connecticut, being in the habit
of remarking, in connection with any difficult
matter, “We will consult -Brother Jonathan
about it.” In time Brother Jonathan came to
be associated with constituted authority and
a sort of national figure. Two plausible ver-
sions arc given of the origin of “Yankee,”
one being that it was the Indians’ attempt
to pronounce “Anglais,” which they had heard
the French use, “Yengeese” being the not
unlikely result; the other is that the Dutch
settlers in the Hudson Valley, jealous of the
new English settlers, called them contemptu-
ously "Johnny”—in Dutch “Jankc,” pronounced
“Yanky.”
* * * *
What is the earliest mention of influenza ?
How did it come to he so called ? —8436.
Influenza seems to have been spread through
Europe during the Crusades. Supposed to be
an infliction of Heaven, influenza was named
the influent ia cceli. From this was derived the
term influenza, first used in England by Hux-
ham in 1767.
When was slavery abolished in the United
States, and when were the slaves granted full
citizenship ? —8446.
The Thirteenth Amendment of the Consti-
tution, passed December 18, 1865, abolished
slavery; the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amend-
ments of the Constitution, passed in 1868 and
1870, gave to the former slaves rights and
privileges of citizenship.
* * * *
■ What , American novelists have won the
Pulitzer Prize for the best American novel
since 1918 ? Titles of their novels 7 —8479.
1918, Ernest Poole, His Family; 1919, Booth
Tarkington, The Magnificent Ambersons; 1920,
no award; 1921, Edith Wharton, The Age of
Innocence; 1922, Booth Tarkington, Alice
Adams; 1923, Willa Gather, One of Ours;
1924, Margaret Wilson, The Able McLaugh-
lins; 1925, Edna Ferber, So Big; 1926, Sin-
clair Lewis, Arrowsmith (he refused to accept
the prize): 1927, Louis Broomfield, Early
Autumn; 1928, Thornton Wilder, The Bridge
of San Luis Rey; 1929, Julia Peterkins,
Scarlet Sister Mary; 1930, Oliver La Farge,
Laughing Boy; 1931, Margaret Ayer Barnes,
Years of Grace; 1932, Pearl Buck, The Good
Earth; 1933, T. S. Stribling, The Store; 1934,
Caroline Meller, Lamb in His Bosom.
* * * *
I have been reading a book of Spanish short
stories, and in one or two of the stories
appears an official referred to as the "alguaz.il."
What would be his duties ? —8448.
The alguazil among the early Spaniards was
a Judge, and sometimes the Governor of a
town or fortress. In latter times he has
gradually sunk down to the rank of an officer
of the Court who is entrusted with the service
of writs and certain police duties, but he is
still of higher rank than the mere corehete.
or catchpoll. The title has also been given to
inspectors of weights and measures in market-
places and similar officials.
♦ * ♦ ♦
(1) Do both crows and ravens exist in New
South Wales ? (2) What is the difference be-
tween the two birds 7 —8264.
(1) The crow {Conus cecihe) is restricted to
n.-e. N. S. Wales, Queensland, Central and
South Australia. The raven {Corvus coronoides )
is the bird commonly referred to as crow in
N. S. Wales. It may have either a white or
hazel eye, according to age. (2) Principal dis-
tinction is that in the raven the bases of the
feathers of breast or back are dusty or greyish
white, while in the crow they are snow white,
the line of demarcation "between the white base
and black tip being very pronounced.
* * * *
Was the episode described by Whittier in
his poem “Barbara Frietchie” an actual
occurrence ? If so, who was Barbara Friet-
chie 7 —8223.
Whittier acknowledged that the heroine of
the event narrated in his poem was in point of
fact not the aged Barbara Frietchie, but the
comparatively young Mrs. Mary Quantrell, who
raised the Union flag on her house. She
was unmolested, certain of the officers raising
their hats, saying, “To you, madam, not to
your flag.” Barbara Frietchie’s exploit fol-
lowed some days later, when, on the occasion
of Burnside’s troops passing her house, she
followed Mrs. Quantrell’s example; she was
then 96 years old. Whittier had the story of
the two episodes from a woman friend, and
chose to immortalise the elder heroine.
* * * *
Difference between frogs and toads ?— 8392.
The typical frog is smooth-skinned, slender-
bodied and long-legged; the toad is character-
istically clumsy, with short legs and a warty and
usually dark-colored skin. The variations in
different families are so great, however, that
distinctions cannot always be made. Certain
relatives of the typical frogs are very load-like,
and some species of so-called toad families out-
wardly resemble frogs.
* * * *
What is the botanical name for blueberry 9
Are there many species in Australia ? Has It
any economic uses ? —8374.
The name is given to speeies of Elceocarpus,
a genus oi the family Elceocarpacece, trees or
large shrubs, which has spread from Asia to
Malaysia and even to M.L. Fourteen species
are endemic in Australia. E. reticulatus
ranges from Tas. to Queensland, is usually a
small tree (rarely reaching a height of 50ft.),
and bears a profusion of white, bell-shaped
flowers with fringed petals ; the fruit, a bright-
blue, succulent berry, is also highly ornamental.
It has a tough, light-colored wood which has
been favorably compared with English ash.
The fruit of E. Bancrofti is eaten by settlers
on the Johnstone River in Queensland. Its
timber resembles the American lignum-vitae.
E. grandis, a moderate-sized tree extending
from northern N. S. Wales into Queensland,
has large, blue drupes known to children as
blue figs, and sometimes, but incorrectly, as
quandongs. The aborigines, who also eat the
fruit, call the tree “callongun.” It has a
soft, easily-worked wood suitable for brakes
on railway carriages.
♦ * * *
Near decaying stamps or roots of eucalypts
rounded lumps varying in size from a pin's
head to a human head, and known to most
people as “blackfellows’ bread,” are often
found. How do they originate 7 —8371.
They are masses of tissue (technically the
sclerotia of Polyporus mylittcey— stores of re-
serve material to provide against the strain
of fructification. Another member of the same
family (P. eucalyplorum) produces the felt-
like fungus found on many eucalypts which
resembles the European touchwood.
* * ♦ ♦
How deep are the foundations of the 1200 ft.
Empire State building in New York, and have
steps been taken to measure the sway in a high
wind ? —BlB6.
The building is computed to weigh 300,000
tons, and rests on 200 columns carried to rock
at a depth of 50ft. below the sub-basement
floor. An elaborate system of wind-bracing
was adopted, and the building was also
equipped with instruments at various floors
for the measurement of wind stresses. A
vertical-telescope instrument known as a “col-
linator” was installed for the purpose of gaug-
ing the degree of sway.
* * * ♦
(I) Please give me some information about
Manchukuo. (2) Also, what is a hanging
valley 3—8529.
(1) Called by the Chinese the Four North-East
Provinces, also described as North and South
Manchuria, it adjoins Russian Siberia and
Korea, and consists chiefly of a great central
plain, extending north and south between the
Great Khingan Range in the n.-w. and the
Changpan Range in the s.-c. The area of the
territory has been variously estimated at from
340,000 to 685,000 square miles, and the popu-
lation at the 1933 census was 29,606,000, con-
sisting of 28,902,000 Chinese, 566,000 Japanese
and Koreans, the remainder being foreigners,
chiefly Russians. The soil is generally fertile,
soya beans, kaoliang, millet, maize and wheat
being produced, while the chief mineral re-
sources are iron and coal, although gold,
copper, lead, manganese and oil shale are also
found in some quantities. On February 28,
1932, the independence of Manchukuo was
proclaimed, the former Emperor of China,
Henry Pu-Yi, being chosen and crowned as
emperor of the new Slate, which was, however,
refused recognition by all the other nations
except Japan. The League of Nations
Assembly in 1933 severely censured Japan for
its course of action in Manchukuo, and it
withdrew from the League in consequence.
(2) A “hanging valley” is a tributary valley
leading to a deeper main valley, the streams
of such descending to the larger main stream
as waterfalls. Geologists generally agree that
the deeper erosion of the main valley is caused
by glacial action, a theory which is borne out
by the fact that these characteristics are especi-
ally numerous in glaciated regions.
* * * *
Is there any truth in the saying that alu-
minium cooking utensils are injurious to
health ? —8566.
No. A leading authority, Dr. J. H. Shelton,
M.D. (Lond.), says: “On an average human
diet the intake pf aluminium is somewhere
about 12mg. per day, of which about one-half
at least comes from food and not from cook-
ing utensils. We have no knowledge of
whether it is an essential element for the
tissues or whether it is merely taken up pas-
sively. In any case, in the amounts absorbed
from an ordinary diet, it appears that it does
no harm, and there need be no fear of toxic
effects from the use of aluminium cooking
vessels.”
* * « *
(1) Can the German language he self-taught ?
(2) Suitable textbooks ? (3) Could the phonetics
of the language be cultivated or learned from
an ordinary English-German dictionary ?
8458.
(1) To a certain extent. Much depends on
the degree of application by the student. (2)
Hugo's German Simplified and German with-
out a Master. (3) No. The books cited, which
give phonetic pronunciation, are necessary.
Even so, some sounds can be acquired only
from the mouth of a competent teacher.
♦ * * *
How did the term “bluestocking” come to
be associated with the higher education of
women ? —8544.
The expression originated with the evening
parties held about 1750 in the homes of three
women of culture and intelligence, Mesdames
Vesey, Ord and Montagu, who endeavored to
substitute a more intellectual recreation for that
of card-playing, then the principal diversion.
Eminent men of letters attended and took part
in literary discussions at these gatherings, and,
the dress being informal, many wore "colored
stockings in lieu of black. Among them was
Benjamin Stillingfleet, who habitually appeared
in blue worsted —thereby leading to the ex-
pression “Blue-stocking Society” being applied
to the coteries. Boswell, among others, has
given an account of these clubs. The term later
came to be applied to women of intellectual
or scholastic attainments.
* * * *
Information regarding arcus senilis of the
eye ? Does it require special treatment ?
8331.
The disease occurs as a circular corneal
opacity in aged persons. It is located at the
margin of the cornea, or clear part of the
eye, and develops as a complete ring of grey-
ish appearance separated from the white of
the eye by a narrow strip of clear cornea. It
represents a degenerative change in the cornea,
and may be indicative of premature senility.
A yellow or yellowish-white ring continuous
with the white of the eye is often mistaken for
this symptom. Examination is advised.
Brief Answers.
M.J.L.: The Commonwealth Solar Observa-
tory is on Mount Stromlo, a ridge of hills
about seven miles west of Canberra. The
highest point is 2560 ft. above sea level, or
about 700 ft. above the general level of the
Federal capital city M.K.: J. R. King-
horn's Snakes of Australia (105.).., .T.T.:
During August, 1931, increasing withdrawals
caused the W.A. Government to negotiate for
the amalgamation of the State Savings Bank
with the Commonwealth Savings Bank, and
the transfer was effected in October, 1931
W.F.S.: The common black snake does not lay
eggs. The eggs, as is the case with all vivi-
parous snakes, are retained in the oviducts
until hatched, and the young are born alive.
The argument depends on the correct identifi-
cation of the species. As far as is known, only
pythons and snakes belonging to the brown-
snake group in this country lay eggs....
R. 8.: Ihe Dr. G. E. Morrison Memorial Lec-
ture on Ethnology was founded by Chinese
residents in Australia in memory of a great
Australian who rendered important services in
China. Full particulars from the Australian
Institute of Anatomy, Canberra, F.C.T
D.H.M.L.; Information not available. There
is no separate registrar for each class of em-
ployee covered by the organisation J.J.G.:
Ihe barometer should have a greater range
than I.2in. in our latitudes. At Sydney, for
instance, the range is upwards of I.7in. Should
you desire to have the instrument tested, the
Divisional Meteorologist, Meteorological
Bureau, Sydney, will be pleased to give this
service if the instrument is forwarded to him.
....E.J.: “Old Hickory” was a nickname given
to President Andrew Jackson, of U.S.A., on
account of the toughness and sturdiness of his
character... ,S.D.: The first book of verse by
a woman to be published in Australia was
Poems and Recollections of the Past, by
Fidelia S. T. Hill, printed by T. Trood. Syd-
ney, and published in 1840 W.H.8.: Charles
Rodda has written South Sea Gold (1926), The
Scarlet Mask (1926), Tango (1928), and, under
a pseudonym, Eyes in the Night (1927), Six
Minutes Past Twelve (1928), The White-faced
Man (1929), Green Talons (1930) and Trail of
the Skull (1931) D.K.: Trillion denotes in
England a million million millions, but in
America, as in France, a million millions. The
American and French trillion is the English
billion... .C.T.: It was Robert Burns in “De-
spondency” who said “O Death 1 the poor man's
dearest friend”... J.R.; Information is given
in Advertisers and Publisheis' Guide (7s. 6d.),
published by “Newspaper News,” Warwick
Building, Hamilton-street, Sydney N.M.:
Write editor Ballarat “Courier” L.F.8.:
Wahratla means “camping-ground”; Quirindi,
“dead tree on mountaintop”; Kundabung, “wild
apples”; and Jerriga, “reedy swamp”—all are
N.S.W. abo. place-names... .11. N.: British
Empire has an area of 13,355,426 square miles
and an estimated population of 495,764,000
K.R.: The Isle of Man is not bound by Acts
of the Imperial Parliament unless specially
mentioned in them.... H.T.; The number of
war pensions or allowances in payment in
England as at March 31, 1934, was 1,053,500
approximately, and the estimated expenditure
on war pensions of the Ministry of Pensions
was £43,281,000 (inclusive of administration
expenses).... 8.T.: The following are not
members of the League of Nations: U.S.A.,
Brazil, Egypt, Costa Rica, Japan and Saudi
Arabia. Germany is due to withdraw from the
League on October 21, 1935, and Paraguay on
February 24, 1937 H.8.M.: Call at the
Mitchell Library, Sydney C. 8.: Call at the
office of the Federated Marine Stewards, Room
84, Trades Hall, Sydney... .E.T.: From sec-
retary, English Folk Dance and Song Society,
Cecil Sharp House, 2 Regent’s Park-road,
London, N.W.1... .C.D.: The area of British
Somaliland is about 68,000 square miles and
the population about 344,700 (non-native,
2683), which is entirely nomadic, except on
the coast, where a number of towns have
sprung up during British occupation W.H.:
There were 160,338 divorces and 3903 annul-
ments in U.S.A. in 1932 A.W.M.: King
Leopold 111. of Belgiufn has three children:
Josephine Charlotte, born Oct. 11. 1927* Prince
Baudouin, b. Sept. 7, 1930; and Prince Albert,
b. June 6, 1934 M.W.: Write P and O.
Steamship Cos., 247 Geqrge-strcct, Sydney
R.G.H.; It is in Galatians vi, 7, -and reads,
“For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he
also reap”... .K.G.S.: Royal Economic
Society, 9 Adelphi-tcrracc, London, W.C.2
P.G.M.; Write Under-Secretary, Department
of Territories, Canberra, F.C.T L.G (1)
“Australian Stamp Monthly,” Box 1944,
G.P.0., Melbourne; small advt. rate, l±d.
per word. “Stamp Collector,” Vallency Press,
89 Farringdon-road, London; rate, l±d. per
word. “Mekcel’s Weekly,” Beverley, Mass.,
U.S.A.; rate, 30 cents a line. (2) C. F.
Laseron, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney, holds weekly
auctions of rare postage stamps.’... FED.:
There arc no fortifications and no naval or
military bases in the Mandated Territory of
New Guinea G.H.: Write N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department for leaflet “Poisoning Green
Timber with Sodium Arsenite” H.M.D.:
No further applications are being called for
the Vic. Scottish Regiment (sth Batt., A.M.F.)
until next January. All who desire to join
must be a minimum height of sft. 6in., and
built in proportion; £3 10s. has to be paid into
regimental funds towards the cost of providing
kilt and sporran... .W.W.T.: There is very
little walnut timber in Tasmania, but there is
no reason to expect its quality to differ con-
siderably from that grown in the temperate
climates of the Northern Hemisphere. You
will be fairly safe if you follow the best local
practice in the drying of native hardwoods.
. ...J.A.: (1) North’s bid was informative and,
in the circumstances, rightly made. (2) His
singleton heart was an advantage in reference
to his diamond bid. (3) South had well above
average no-trump strength, and the assurance
of diamond support from his partner justified
his second call of three no-trumps A.G.M.:
Principles of Leather Manufacture and Leather
Industries Laboratory Book, by H. R. Proctor;
Leather Dressing and Chrome Tanning, by
M. C. Lamb; Puering, Bating and Drenching
of Skins, by J. T. Wood; The Sheep and Its
Skin, by Alfred Seymour Jones; The Chemistry
of Tanning, by A. Wilson; and Fur Dressing
and Fur Dyeing, by W. E. Austin M.C.’;
The Art of Horse-shoeing, by Hunting, and
Horse-shoeing and the Horse’s Foot, by Dollar
and Wheatiey (Many others mailed.)
The South African Soldiers’ Association of
N.S.W. wishes to acknowledge receipt of Boer
War Medal, 1899-1902, from “Saka Bona.”


The S. H . Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon is not an existing town, but a composite of many Australian
places. All characters in the story are fictitious, and hear no relation to any living person.]
AFTER school Jessica walked home again with
Colleen and Michael and Bridget to afternoon-
tea with Mrs. Dwyer, and nursed the baby while
it dribbled (she hated babies who dribbled). She
listened politely while Mrs. Dwyer told anecdotes of
the prodigies the baby had performed at three months,
and watched the cows being milked, with Colleen on
one side of her and Michael and Bridget on the other.
When she said she was going for a walk, they wanted
to come too, so she decided that it was too near tea-
time, After tea she listened to the conversation round
the fire for a time, while Bessie put the children
to bed.
“I hear Mcßory’s not going to sell after all,”
Dwyer finally remarked.
“Now fancy that!” Mrs. Dwyer responded. “I
saw Mrs. Mcßory in town yesterday afternoon—no.
it was Sunday—and she says they're certain to sell.”
“Well, it seems they’re not.” Heavy silence.
“Said he had his reasons. I wasn’t goin’ to ask him
what they were.”
“Yes, I s’pose he’s got reasons for it, but she was
so certain they were going to sell I thought they was
as good as sold.”
“Well, he has his reasons.”
The holy pictures on the wall seemed to take up
the chant.
“Excuse me,” Jessica said apologetically. “I
think, if you don’t mind, I’d like to go to bed early,
as it’s my first day.”
In her own room she did some eurhythmic exer-
cises, lit a cigarette, and tried to bury herself in
Freud’s Group Psychology and the Analysis of the
Ego.
“I wish it were a bit lonelier,” she said to herself.
“It would be wonderful to be entirely, completely
alone.”
She got out of bed and in spite of the cold went
over to the window and looked out. Behind the farm
rose the slope of Warning Hill, black as death. There
were a patch of light from the open kitchen door
splashed on the stones of the yard and a patch of
dimmer light from the little shed next to the cow-
bails where the hired man slept. She could see his
shadow in the lamplight against the wall. "That
is the one who is not a moral character,” she thought
with amusement. Bill Sorrell’s remark came back
to her. “Browser, you are a disgusting creature.”
Presently the shadow stirred, as though to turn
the page of a book, and Jessica decided that it was
too cold to stand on the linoleum. She went back
to bed and lay for a while thinking of her father
and sister. She pictured Joan playing the piano and
Dad reading one of his boring books on economics.
Or someone might have dropped in for a game of
chess or billiards. They might all be talking, arguing,
out at a concert or lecture, coming home to a late
supper of coffee and little biscuits and more talk. She
was not used to going to bed so early, and it was
the first time she had ever been away from home.
She had been very sensible, she thought. She was
going to be just as sensible in the future ; but as she
turned over she swallowed a hard lump in her throat
and shut her eyes because the eyelids were rather
hot and stinging.
11.
“Why do I have to go working at the Dwyers’?”
Paul had complained.
“I’ll tell you why,” Jim answered. “They’ve put
Bill off the dole, and it’ll be your turn next. We’re
not earning enough to keep half a dozen parakeets,
let alone the girls and the old man. And now the
sergeant’s putting the boot into us we'll need all
the cash we can rake up.”
Paul disliked work. He would work hard enough
if you kept an eye on him, but the minute you went
somewhere else he would put down his axe or spade,
go over to his coat and get a book. The old Tiburon
schoolmaster McAlister had spoilt him. McAlister
had wanted Paul to stay at school even after an age
when he could have been useful working. He got
quite angry when Dave made Paul stay away, Paul
was one of the selfish sort. He would have just
kept on going to school and doing nothing to help
his family at all. He had made no friends, except
with Jingo Barnes when that worthy had been teach-
ing at Warning Hill, and he seemed to prefer to be by
himself.
He could sing, of course, but then all the family
could sing, and most of them could play the mouth-
organ as well. Ella could play her father’s concertina
better than the old man himself, and she often made
a pound or two playing at dances. But Paul didn't
sing cheerful songs like the others. He sang songs
out of books.
No one missed him when he went to the Dwyers .
Him and his books! The boys used them to light
their cigarettes when they were short of matches just
to see him get in a rage. They were not the sort
of books anyone else wanted to read. Before
going to the Dwyers’ Paul had had a job on the
baker’s cart for a month; and, in spite of the fact
that he was paid only ten shillings a week, he had
cheated and schemed to keep some of it back to buy
books. Not only selfish, but a waste of good money.
It was his weakness. You could never call girls his
v/eakness ; for although he had a constant succession
of lady-loves he had never been known to spend
money on them. They spent it on him. They bought
him books, and knitted him socks which he never
wore, and mended his shirts. Yet he was not good-
looking. He was not as big as Jim, nor a fighter
like Bill, nor as good-tempered as Larry. He just
seemed to have a knack of getting girls to fall in
love with him.
Paul was as much interested in the new school-
teacher as the Dwyers. He was disappointed that J.
Daunt should turn out to be a girl. She was not
pretty, either; though she had a tall, frail gracefulness
—what he called swillopy. But she could be useful.
He left her alone for about a week, merely mur-
muring “Good day” when she passed him in the
yard ; and Jessica never realised the question in his
mind; “Is she a book-lender or not?”
Jingo had been a book-lender. He had evert got
books from libraries in Sydney so that Paul might
read them. Paul knew that the new teacher had
books, because he had taken a pefep through the
window and there were rows and rows ol them in
a hanging bookcase.
Jessica was standing on the back doorstep one
morning as Paul brought the milk buckets up to the
house, and it was with some surprise that she realised
that hie had pulled a battered old felt hat off his head
and paused in front of her, placing the milk buckets
carefully on the doorstep. With his dark-grey flannel
shirt and mud-stained trousers he was not very pre-
possessing, but she spoke civilly.
“I was wondering if you could lend me a book
to read. Miss Daunt.”
“I haven’t any books you’d care for, I’m afraid,
Paul,” she said kindly. “I don’t possess any novels—
love stories, you know.”
He swallowed. “I don’t like love stories. I don’t
read them.”
“What do you like?”
She was rather reluctant to let this dirty plough-
boy touch her books. She glanced at his hands.
“Anything, Miss Daunt.”
“Perhaps,” she thought, “if I give him something
he doesn’t like, he won't want any more.”
She fought the impulse down as unworthy, and
went inside to search through her books for some-
thing he might appreciate. He could hear her moving
about while he took the milk to the kitchen and came
hack to wait by the door.
“Here,” she said, emerging at last; “this might
suit you.”
It was a volume of the short stories of De Mau-
passant.
“Enough smut,” she said to herself, “to keep him
interested.”
When he returned the book the next day with the
remark that “That joker and the old dad would
have got on real well,” she doubted if he had read
the stories ; but he seemed to be expecting a second
book, and stood there waiting confidently.
“What do you really like?” she asked.
He shifted on his feet and cleared his throat.
“Po’try,” he said. “I like po’try books. I thought
you might have some,”
“Now he’s trying to impress me,” she thought
scornfully. “He thinks I’m game for his lady-killing.”
For Bessie, the fuzzy-haired, dimpled maid, had
a tale or two to tell of Paul, and Jessica had been
amused by them.
She came out with a slim blue volume, and as
he stretched out his hand she noticed that it was
scrubbed raw.
“He must have seen me looking at his hands
yesterday,” she thought with sudden compunction.
“What a cheap snob 1 am.”
Paul had opened the book, and was turning the
pages quite as though he were alone. Suddenly he
said aloud:
“The lambs are white ami lavender, the frosts are
with the moon.”
There was a different tone in his voice, a different
light in his eyes from any she had ever seen. It
shone through him and transfigured him.
‘‘The lambs are white and lavender,” he almost
whispered,
She quoted the whole of it sympathetically;
‘‘The lambs are white and lavender, the frosts are
with the moon,
The mushrooms go to God and say they cannot die
so soon.
Oh, they would hear the love songs of the birds sent
up to sing;
But I, I mourn for buttercups that stay not till the’
spring.”
He turned abruptly and went off without thank-
ing her. It puzzled her that this tall clodhopper of
Paul opened the book.
a boy should find a kin in the sweetest lyrist Aus-
tralia ever produced. Anyway, he was not trying to
impress her. She did not know how he lay on the
lop of Warning Hill with the blue of the sky over
him and the patchwork of Tiburon at his feet, and
clenched his fists and beat them on the stones because
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
She lives with the Dwyers —Mick and his
wife Sheila {“who needs an outsize in every-
thing, to match her heart”).
The White family, the chief of
Tiburon’s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill. Apart from rabbits, they
are reputed to live on rusty tins and barbed
wire.
Bill Sorrell, Anglican parson, and “one
of the best.” Polly, his wife, plump and
good-tempered.
The would-be social highlights of the town,
who wish to rid Tiburon of its undesirables,
include —
Mrs. Claufield (“I feel a little tiny, tiny
hit hurt by the selfishness, one might almost
say the sordiditess, of Tiburon”), Mrs. Ilford
(the hank manager’s wife), Mrs. Darch and
Mrs. Blakely (small, timid and a minor
poetess).
Colbert Carfrae, who is headmaster at
Tiburon school. A petty tyrant.
Standforth Roman, now barman at the
Hotel Royal.


he had found a man who said the things he wanted
to say about birds and fields of wheat and sunlight
and truit-trees; and now there was nothing left for
him, nothing but the exquisite pain of something
exquisitely oflered which he had taken like communion
bread. Something of his reverence for Shaw Neilson
passed into his attitude towards Miss Daunt. After
all, if she had not come, he would never have known
that such a man existed. After a fortnight he went
to her and timidly asked to keep the book a little
longer. He tried to explain himself in stumbling
sentences.
“1 liked po’try when I was little. The school-
teacher taught me ‘Mulga Bill from Billygoat Hill’
when I was seven. Mr. McAlister gave me one of
them Church of England prayer books an’ a Shak-
speare. Then Mr. Sorrell lent me books. I go to
church sometimes an’ see him after the service. He
has a heap of books. I like that song they sing, ‘My
soul does magnify the Lord an’ my spirit does rejoice
in God Almighty.’ But the rest of it is bunk.”
Jessica could imagine Bill Sorrell holding out
his bait of books, coaxing the boy gently towards his
little church as a man would coax some velvety
animal.
“If you’re going in to church any night you
" might tell me, and I’ll go with you,” she suggested,
utterly unaware how shocking the proposal would
sound to Tiburon, and how unwelcome it was to Paul.
“Do you walk or go on horseback?”
“Mr. Dwyer lends me old Sawney sometimes.”
Paul responded reluctantly. He was too polite to tell
her he was jealous and afraid that she would go
talking to Bill Sorrell about things he could not under-
stand, and leave him out in the cold. He treasured
the privilege of going to supper with the Reverend
and Mrs. Sorrell and sitting politely on the edge of
his chair in a Sunday state of clean collar and misery
until Bill finally led him into the study and let him
browse round, choosing a book and talking to him
about books while they smoked. Now all that would
be changed if Miss Daunt came with him. But
perhaps she could sit with the rector’s wife.
Paul was still revolving the problem when, with
a roar and a popping of motor-cycle exhaust, Jingo
drove into the yard one afternoon after school and
flung himself on Paul in a flurry of handshaking.
He dashed into the house, calling:
“Where’s Mother Dwyer? There you are, my
darling ; not an ounce less of you! Come and kiss
me! Wow! I’ll break every bone in your stays.”
He waltzed her round, singing at the top of his
voice in an imitation Irish brogue; “When / was a-
conrting with Micky Malone, He took me home all
alone on me own” —-—
“Stop it!” Mrs. Dwyer screeched. “Me hair’s
falling down.”
Bessie and Paul, and even Jessica, joined in the
laughter.
“I was sure quite enchanted with his funny ways ;
When he squeezed me he bruk all the bones in me
stays. Tra ... la .. . la.”
Jingo released his breathless victim and turned
on his successor.
“And how are the kids? Aren’t they priceless?
1 loved every one of them. Do they call you ‘sir’ ?
“No. They say ‘Miss Jessica.’ I’ve always hated
the name Daunt.”
“I repudiated my Christian name when I was five,
but I’ll tell you what it is if you come out driving
some bright moonlight night,” he declared gallantly.
“Isn’t he awful?” Mrs. Dwyer beamed fondly.
She was sitting on the table with his arm round her
waist,
“And I haven’t kissed Colleen.”
Jingo swooped on the blushing Colleen.
“Well! It’s good to see you. And Michael and
Bridget! ”
In about a quarter of an hour he had quieted
down to the stage when he was ready to eat enormous
bowls of fruit and junket and drink coffee and
declare he couldn’t stay for tea, but he would come
again some other time and eat the house out. Mrs.
Dwyer plied him with cakes and hovered round him
like a stout but benevolent guardian angel. The
whole Dwyer family gathered round and worshipped
Jingo while he told them all about his motor-bike
accident in the holidays and the twelve-pound fish he
had caught and the fights he had had with Colbert
Carfrae, all between mouthfuls of junket and cake
and gurgles to the baby. He did not stop talking the
whole time he was there about his holidays and
the dramatic society he intended to form, which, of
course, Miss Daunt must join. (This was a polite
afterthought.) How he hated getting back to Tibuion,
and how pleased he was to see them ; and just as he
was leaving he flung out an invitation to Paul to
“charge in and see me and borrow a couple of books,
you old book-hound.” . .
“In fact,” he decided, “you can come in next
Thursday night and escort Miss Daunt to the first
meeting of the dramatic society. Not that you II
join. It’s too far to come to rehearsals, but 1 and like
the opportunity of introducing her to people. So-
long.”
He was off in a roar and a cloud of dust.
Miss Daunt decided to go and “study the native
customs.” Secretly she was looking forwaid to the
dramatic society tremendously, for she had belonged
to one in Sydney and had been considered very
promising. No one could blame hei lor anticipating
a triumph over the unlikely competition of Tiburon.
On the appointed night, however, Paul mumbled
something about having trouble at home. He had
decided not to go to the dramatic society meeting,
partly because he knew that many ol Jingo s company
would resign if they thought he was likely to be in
the cast, and partly because he felt the society would
bore him. This last was, perhaps, the more powerful
reason. , , .
Miss Daunt, somewhat dashed, started out alone,
riding painfully on the Dwyer plough horse.
Chapter VI.
I.
THE meeting had been advertised to take place in
the Manchester Unity Hall at eight oclock, and
as this was the only hall in Tiburon for general
meetings no one was likely to lose the way. There
were a School of Arts, a picture show with a very
bad sound system, and several church halls; but
the Manchester Unity had been honored by every
meeting, from the A.L.P. and the Farmers’ and
Graziers’ to the Hospital Board and the Red Cross.
The windows had not been opened since the hall
was built thirty years previously, and now, in their
old age, they refused to open. It was therefore neces-
sary to leave the door ajar to ensure a supply of air.
This allowed those who did not attend the meeting
to sit on the opposite footpath and hear and see all
that went on.
There is an illustrious member of Parliament—he
now makes his speeches by radio —who relates how
in the old days of Tiburon he would advertise a
meeting of his loyal constituents for eight o’clock.
At half-past eight he and his chairman would stroll
down to the Manchester Unity Hall and find two
dogs and one old man sitting on the bench against
the back wall. At a quarter to nine he would see
lanterns bobbing up and down in the distance. The
lanterns would come to within twenty paces of the
door and stop. A few young men who wanted to
show off would slip in and sit on the back bench with
the old man. When half a dozen lanterns had been
counted round the door, the chairman would rise and
deliver a speech of welcome. By about a quarter-past
nine the space outside the door was packed
solid by a staring, silent mass of voters. They climbed
Jingo.
up the trees, they went round and gazed through the
windows ; but they never passed that magic-lit circle
of the door.
When the honorable member had finished his
speech and thanks had been duly rendered by the
chairman, the lanterns would go bobbing through the
trees, the ring of eyes would melt away in the dark-
ness, and the member, a few days later, would be
duly elected. He attributed his success to the fact
that, while other better speakers might dash into
Tiburon big with fair promises, they lost heart by
half-past eight and departed for more punctual and
appreciative towns. Tiburon still honors his fame,
not only by failing to build another hall, but by
arriving late for any meeting that may be announced.
On the night of the dramatic society’s meeting
poor Jingo sat in lonely isolation looking at his watch
and pretending that he did not care. Jessica came
in at twenty-past eight, and Jingo brightened to see
her. She was the first arrival, and her apologies
were waved aside in the joy of having at least one
member.
“What a ghastly hole!” Miss Daunt remarked.
“Wouldn’t you think they’d tear down those tattered
old bits of colored paper from the ceiling?”
“It gives a note of festivity 7 ,” Jingo reproved.
“Or, at least, I suppose it did when they were put up
ten years ago. Now, Miss Daunt, I’m in a bit of a fix.
Do you think you could play any accompaniments
just for to-night? Miss Pearl Moody, who always
plays the accompaniments, has tonsilitis.”
“I don’t mind trying.”
Jessica sat down at the dusty piano and began to
experiment with the yellow keys.
“G sharp doesn’t strike,” she remarked.
“That’s a good girl,” Jingo beamed. “By Jove! If
they were all as little trouble as you, Miss Daunt, I
wouldn't mind. Hullo, Roman! Did you bring the
trombone?”
Roman, marched up to the table, and without a
word placed the trombone on it with the air of a
native prince delivering the head of a rebel to his
overlord. Roman, by right, always looked after the
orchestra. He had managed the orchestra for every
dramatic society that had sprung up, flourished and
withered away in Tiburon for the past ten years; arid
their name was legion.
At the precise moment that Jingo decided to start
a dramatic society in Tiburon, there were already two
in existence. The first, the Merrymakers, went in
solely for revues. “Something bright and snappy was
their motto. The other, under the leadership of Mr.
Lynch, the bootmaker, had produced “The Sunshine
Girl” ; and then gone into recess to think of something
else and to depose their producer because he had
given his daughter the best part. A discontented
section of both companies was certain to seep into
the new society, and the fact that Jingo was popular
made it certain of a good start.
Joe Nestle and Peter Conn, two clerks from the
Commerce Bank, followed Standforth Roman in.
They were the bright young men of Tiburon, and
wore flannels and striped blazers in spite of the cold.
They whispered to each other, and eyed Miss Daunt
curiously until introduced, when they each murmured,
“How’re y’?” and immediately turned their backs.
This was not due to rudeness ; it was simply that
they had nothing to say.
The ladies now began to flutter in. All the
Younger Set were there: Jill Hicks, daughter of the
Hicks who owned the flourmill, and her friend Eva
Clancy, in a dress of bright pink serge with blue
ruffles at neck and wrists ; Dentist Fulcombe's three
girls, ranging in height from Willa, who was the best
soprano in the Methodist choir and six feet in her
stockings, to little Sylvia, who was five feet and a
contralto (Myra, who came between, was not such
a good effort, having pale-blue eyes, stooping
shoulders and buck teeth); Winifred Traves ; Beryl
Perry, whose father owned the largest bakery ; Doreen
Darch, giggling with her friend Jean Wilson, who
worked at Pearson’s garage; a sprinkling of lady
school-teachers from the Tiburon school and assist-
ants from the Western Farmers’ and Central Stores ;
the two Gordon girls, whose father owned half
Tiburon, owing to his habit of buying half-shares in
everything and his shrewdness in marrying Mrs.
Gordon ; Nancy Coombes, the secretary of Wilfred
Parboy, Tiburon’s more successful lawyer; and
Thelma Harper, who worked in the same office.
The babble was indescribable. Jingo thumped
on the table to secure silence, and at last the noise
quieted down.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” Jingo began.
“Oh, dear, that reminds me!” Olive Gordon inter-
rupted. “You ought to have invited Mrs. Ilford,
Jingo ; she’s terribly mad because she didn’t get a
personal invitation.”
“But, good heavens,” Jingo exclaimed, “who does
she think she is? Did I give any of you personal
invitations? I didn’t. She knew the thing was on.
Why couldn’t she turn up just like the rest of us?”
“Who is Mrs. Ilford?” Jessica inquired of the
girl beside her, Doreen Darch.
“Oh, Mrs. Ilford always sings at concerts, and
she’s always in dramatic societies. She and Olive
Gordon sing duets. They sang at the Country
Women’s Ball.”
“Anyway, I’ll fix that up afterwards,” Jingo
was declaring impatiently. “We must get down to
business. I don’t see many of the men here. Where’s
Charlie Benson? He promised to come,”
“It’s, the Thursday the firemen practise, and he’s
gone up to the fire station,” someone volunteered.
“He’d be here any other night.”
“That's just like Charlie,” Jingo declared. “He
might have told me he had something on, and then
I could have shifted the night of the meeting.”
“As a matter of fact,” Thelma Harper said in an
aggrieved voice, “I was going to ask you later if we
could change to some other night. Thursday is
terribly inconvenient.”
A discussion broke out on the relative possibili-
ties of every night of the week. There was a faction
that could come no other night but Monday, and
this now raised its voice.
“Charlie Benson is a baritone,” Doreen Darch
informed Miss Daunt. “He always takes the leading
part, and it’s very inconvenient not having him.”
“Well, now, to get to business,” Jingo began for
the third time ; “the first thing to decide is which play
we’re going to put on.”
“Couldn’t we have a revue?” Olive Gordon asked.
She felt herself a privileged person, for it was well
known that Jingo had been a little in love with her
last year, and she hoped to clinch matters now that
he had come back.
“No,” Jingo said firmly. “There’s been too much
of this light stuff. We want something uplifting.
Pathos—and drama” Then, seeing the look of
most of his audience, he added hastily, “Of course,
we’ll get a decent ballet and a bit of music as well.
We must have those. Now” —he quelled a would-be
interrupter with his eye and raised his voice so that
the row of loungers on the opposite pavement could
hear plainly—“now the play I have in mind is one
that was put on with enormous success by the Walli
Dramatic Society. It took only six weeks to pro-
duce. Has a good Australian setting—none of this
imported stuff. It was put on two consecutive Satur-
days and cleared thirty pounds. Not bad, eh? Well,
I happen to have the script with me. Words, music,
everything ; and I move we put it on. Will someone
second that?”
“I second that,” Olive responded loyally.
“Any discussion?” Jingo snapped.
There was a silence, and then Jack Wilson rose
and asked what the play was called.
“ ‘The Mackoniculls of Kilmuckie,’ ”
“Say it again.”
“‘The Mackoniculls of Kilmuckie.’” Jingo’s
honest face went red.
"Well, I move we have the play and change the
name.”
“Amendment out of order,” Jingo snapped. “You
must have the name. It’s all about a family called
the Mackoniculls who have a big station property
called Kilmuckie. In the first act there’s a very
pathetic bit where the mother —these children have
(Continued on page 50 .)


SLADE LEADS JIG AIN with...
Another Unit in the “Junior Midget” Series.
Combination A.C.-D.C. Analyser and Service Oscillator.
The Analyser. Type AD4O2.
Provision for New Type Valves. Accurate
and Reliable. Of Good Appearance and
Workmanship Outside and Inside (the
latter a SLADE feature), fitted with
“CALSTAN” Universal Meter —0-500
micro-ampere movement, 2000 ohms
per volt. Complete with Accessories.
Specification. —Black Leatherette Carrying
Case, B+in. x Bin.. x 3+in. Engraved
Ebonite Panel, Sin. x 54in. x 3-16 in.
Ranges.— A.C./D.C. Volts, 1000, 250,
100, 10; D.C. Milliamps., 500, TOO, 10, 1;
Ohms, 0-100,000.
Tests. —Point-to-point Volts and Ohms;
Milliamps. through German-silver Push-
button Switches.
Special test switch and outlets for induc-
tance-capacity tests.
Price Net, Trade, £ll/I]/-.
The Service Oscillator. Type 8303.
Operated with single-battery type dual-
purpose valve which generates indepen-
dent R.F. and A.F. signals. The result-
ing modulated R.F., in conjunction with
the electron-coupled variable output,
assures the highest degree of stability,
accuracy and sharpness, with perfect
attenuation. The Oscillator covers the
intermediate and broadcast bands - on
fundamentals, strong harmonics being
developed for short-wave bands. Has
separate output for use as audio oscil-
lator for amplifier work. Small battery
drain and is thoroughly shielded. Sup-
plied with batteries and calibration chart.
Price Net, Trade, £6/6/-.
D.C. Analyser. Type DlO3.
Range.— D.C. Volts, 1000, 250, 100, 10;
D.C. Milliamps., 500, 100, 10, 1; Ohms,
0-100,000.
Tests.— Point-to-point Volts and Ohms;
Milliamps. through German-silver Push-
button Switches.
Price Net, Trade, £B/8/-
A Isa supplied with oscillator as a combination.
fd
Combination A.C.-D.C. Analyser and Service Oscillator (illustrated)
Combination D.C. Analyser and Service Oscillator
PRICE, £l7/17/-
PRICE, £l4/14/-
SLADE’S RADIO PRECISION TEST EQUIPMENT
LANG STREET, CROYDON, N.S.W.
, Obtainable in Sydney at
Martin de Launay, Ltd. Murdoch’s. Ltd.
Melbourne: Australian General Electric,
Brisbane: Chandler & Co.
Interstate Agents:
Ltd.
AND RADIO MANUFACTURERS
TELEPHONES: UJ5381—UJ5382.
Fox & MacGillycuddy, Ltd.
Adelaide: D. Harris & Co.
Perth: Carlyle & Co.
Everything for the Experimenter
JUST LANDED
8
rvvfitftmmutf
igiwwßiwwiimw
Best quality
English double
spaced trans-
mitting con-
densers. Special
H.F. insula-
. tion, polished
'aluminium
plates with
rounded edges.
Ball thrust
noiseless bear-
ings. Operat-
ing voltage without flash over 1500.
CyldonTransmitting Condensers
.00025 MF 35/-
AMERICAN PORCELAIN STANDOFF
INSULATORS, lin. 1/-, ISin. 1/5, Sin. 1/8.
PORCELAIN AERIAL INSULATORS
4in. long, 1/10.
Everything for your transmitter.
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
b. c. Mclntyre, prop.
5 & 6 ANGEL, PLACE - - SYDNEY
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing 3tl. in stamps) for tlio 30 x 20
inch Lavishly illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
RAIO NEWS
RADIOTRON 6B7S FOR A.T.C.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. has
introduced a device developed in the
Australian Radiotron laboratories in-
tended to achieve automatic tone con-
trol.
Radiotron 687 S is an improved type
of Radiotron 687, suitable for use in all
circuits designed for the 687, but
featuring, in addition, special super-con-
trol characteristics. When utilised in the
appropriate circuit illustrated, it supplies
the following advantages:
1. Direct automatic volume control
action by the use of A.V.C. on the audio-
as well as radio-frequency amplifier.
2. Automatic tone control—wide
range for local stations, restricted range
for distant stations, reduced “between
stations” noise.
The automatic tone-control circuit
shown may be applied to any receiver
with five or more valves r provided
A.V.C. is used, and the construction en-
tails no greater difficulties than those in-
volved for ordinary automatic volume
control.
The A.T.C. Circuit.
The values of the resistances and con-
densers and the applied voltages may be
changed to suit varying conditions. . The
recommended values.suit a five-valve set
having A.V.C. on the first detector and
I.F. amplifier, but they may also be used
with a six-valve set having an R.F. stage,
provided the first detector is arranged
with fixed bias and the A.V.C. is used
only on the R.F. and I.F. valves. Many
other arrangements are also possible, but
the effectiveness of the tone control
depends on the amount of audio A.V.C.
action. If a very good radio A.V.C.
system is used, the audio A.V.C. is not
called upon to exercise much control
and the tone-control effect is small.
Decreasing the screen voltage on the
687 S increases the effectiveness of the
tone control, but if reduced too much
distortion will occur with very strong
signals. The circuit shows half of the
total A.V.C. applied to the grid of the
6875, but more or less control may be
obtained by varying the tapping point
(x) on the diode resistor. With full
A.V.C. on the grid of the 687 S very effec-
tive tone control is obtained, but the
strength of local stations may be reduced
below that of distant stations. When full
A.V.C. is used on the 687 S the screen
voltage should be increased to about 90
volts.
Lining Up.
The completed receiver should be lined
up carefully with the weakest possible
input from the oscillator or signal gen-
erator, especially in the case of the I.F.
transformers.
How It Functions.
A manual tone control is usually
arranged with a condenser and variable
resistance across either plate or grid cir-
cuit in the audio amplifier. It is neces-
sary first to have a good fidelity receiver
so that the quality with the tone control
out of circuit has sufficient “highs.” This
CIRLUJI FOR AUIONMATIC IONE CONLROL
same requirement holds for A.T.C.,
except that, instead of having to turn a
knob, there is an automatic arrangement
whereby the Radiotron 687 S controls
the tone, giving wide range for local
stations and restricted range for distant
stations. In between stations, when a
receiver with A.V.C. makes a distressing
noise, a receiver with A.T.C. is quietened
but still not “dead,” as with a muting
switch or Q.A.V.C.
This action takes place through the
small condenser shown connected be-
tween plate and grid of the Radiotron
68752
On strong sig-
nals this has a
negligible effect,
but on weak sig-
nals it is equiva-
lent to a capacity
about 50 times as
great by virtue of
the “Miller effect.”
When the re-
ceiver is completed
it is suggested that
the following test
be made to demon-
strate the tone-
control action:
Remove the aerial
and replace it with
a very short one,
just sufficient to
bring in a local
station at full strength; tune into a
“wide range” transmission ; listen, then
touch the large aerial on to the aerial
terminal and listen again.
THE ULTRA-SHORT INTERFERENCE QUESTION.
Around 1926, when wave-lengths in
the five-metre region were only a sub-
ject for speculation, the idea of inter-
ference between stations working at
such high frequencies would have been
scouted as ridiculous. Even at 32 metres
interference as known to-day was not
rife. Now, almost a decade since, the
problem of interference on ultra-short-
wave channels is a very real one, and,
indeed, has assumed menacing proper-
tions. The amateur five-metre allocation
has, during the last four years, changed
from a completely uninvestigated portion
of the frequency spectrum to a hive of
activity.
In the U.S.A., where 50,000 or so
amateurs are licensed, a goodly proper-
tion of these make use of five metres,
In the development of communication
on this band it was more or less neces-
sary to facilitate matters by deliberately
using broadly-tuned transmitters and re-
ceivers, but now the pendulum is swing-
ing and a direct reversal of this scheme
of things becomes imperative. The five-
metre band is essentially local in charac-
teristics, although occasional atmo-
spheric freaks result in the dumping
spasmodically of signals over unexpec-
tedly long paths. In an average Ameri-
can city there may be several hundred
amateurs, using a mixture of transmitters
and super-regenerative receivers, all in
a chaotic fight for space, and the result
can be imagined.
On a 0-to-100-degree dial of a super-
regenerator, covering in this space six
million cycles, an R 7 signal takes up
about 10 or 15 degrees on the dial. Thus
it will be understood by the veriest tyro
that under such conditions only 10
stations at the most, accurately dis-
tributed over the frequency spans, could
operate at once without interference,
This, be it explained, only means inter-
ference between transmitters, and does
not allow for receiver interference. Cer-
tain types of super-regen. receivers are
vicious radiators, and, in cases where a
high-plate voltage and low-value grid
leak on a “squegger” detector are used
with tight aerial coupling, the inter-
ference from such a receiver can totally
ruin intercommunication for 15 or 20
miles.
l n Sydney, the amateur transmitters
active on five metres number about
35. There are others, pirates, who
misguidedly imagine that u.-s.-w. D.F.
apparatus cannot hunt them out. After
the demonstration at Wyong, N.S.W.,
by two Newcastle men, this fallacy is
blown sky-high. If necessary, illegal
stations can be tracked down completely
in a matter of minutes. The 35 licensed
stations are not often active together,
but now a state of affairs has been
reached where severe interference from
listeners using squeggers is ruining ex-
perimental communication. On occa-
sions, one particularly powerful receiver
flits for hours from station to station,
compelling transmitters to close down in
disgust.
As ultra-short-wave bands become
more important, vital action will be
necessary to regulate the type of re-
ceiver permissible for general use. The
super-regenerator, unless preceded by a
coupling or tuned R.F. stage, must
eventually be outlawed. Either the auto-
dyne or superhet with R.F. coupling
to the antenna must soon take the place
of the makeshift super-regenerator.
Likewise, transmitters of the types popu-
lar to-day must go on the scrapheap,
just as “loop modulation” on a self-
excited oscillator is tabu on the 10-, 20-,
40- and 80-metre bands.
The time has come when the ama-
teur five-metre region must be used for
serious developmental work in the de-
sign of progressive apparatus, instead of
being used as a mere playground for
imitation duplex telephone services. No
greater field ever existed for genuine
experimental development, but at the
present stage only one or two take the
matter seriously, and others are con-
tent to “let George do it.” First moves
in cleaning up the chaos are the ousting
of radiating receivers and “transceivers.”
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
The seemingly impossible was achieved
on Sunday, 15/9/’35, when two-way com-
munication with Sydney from points
south was established on 56mc. The
week-end was one for exhaustive mobile
investigation, and interest rose on the
Saturday, when VK2QB (Ron Bell, of
R.C.S. Radio) left with his car fitted with
two-way gear, and held communciation
with the writer’s home station all the way
to Sublime Point. Even at a very high
speed along the straight approaching
National Park, reception in Waverley was
never less than R 7. The only Sydney
station heard at Sublime was VK2NO,
and this emphasises once again the im-
portance of a directive antenna and
plenty of R.F. After leaving Sublime
Point, VK2QB was not heard again,
although scheduled to operate on the
Sunday from Point Perpendicular or
Beecroft Head, 80 miles further south.
With VK2JU’s mobile station some-
where in the west, the writer’s mobile
station left on the Sunday with VKs
2CG and 2WD aboard for southern
positions to attempt to link up with the
two other mobile units. The poor results
of the previous attempt were not re-
peated ; excellent contact was made
in all directions. Up to National Park,
VKs 2WJ and 2WN were worked
with, and 2XK was heard strongly. At
Waterfall, the first long-distance contact
in Australia between two mobile stations
took place when 2JU at Kurrajong was
worked at R 6 strength both ways. The
distance is 50 miles, and is probably *a
world’s mobile record. A halt was made
at Sublime, but nothing was heard from
2QB or Sydney stations. Subsequently
2WJ reported strength R 4 here. It was
decided to make across country to Razor-
back, and arriving there a schedule was


NE
f
BATTERY
Radiol rons
They eliminate those ringing sounds which previously ARE NON-MICROPHONIC
spoilt your radio enjoyment. When selecting a battery
operated receiver or replacing worn valves insist on the new non-microphonic noise reducing Radiotrons.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD. AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’sia) LTD.
Sydney Melbourne— Brisbane—-Adelaide Hobart 47 York Street, Sydney 167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne
(ADVERTISEMENT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE COMPANY LIMITED)
kept with 2JU. Contact was immediately
established at R 7, and, although no Syd-
ney stations could be heard, 2NO mobile
was heard at R 4 by 2WJ, 2EH and also
by observers at the home stations. A
later R 8 report has been received from
Chatswood.
As we moved along to Game’s Hill,
nearer Sydney, stations began to filter
through well, and contact was established
with 2JU mobile, 2NO home station,
2NU portable, 2EH and 2XM. 2WJ was
heard at R 5 here, A move along the
road of 200 yards made a great difference
with Sydney stations, even a slight inter-
vening rise in terrain blocking signals.
Halting at North Bankstown, no diffi-
culty was experienced in working with
most Sydney stations, and the nearest,
2XM, 2CY, 2EH and 2EE, were all very
strong.
Useful deductions from this eventful
day are that receivers of some super-
regenerative types are lacking in sensi-
tivity on weak signals and that directive
antennae are imperative. The writer is
now laying plans for a comprehensive
superhet for fixed work, and a tuned
R.F, arrangement with 954 and 955
“acorns” for mobile. Despite handicaps,
these mobile tests have exploded the
fallacy that the south is a dead region
for ultra-short-wave reception, and prove
amply that organisation and the correct
type of apparatus can work wonders.
The writer is indebted to Diamond Bat-
teries for receiver plate-supply, and to
the Vesta Co. for the use of a massive
heavy-capacity accumulator for trans-
mitter power during these tests.
VK2NO.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions during most of a recent
week were poor—especially on the
morning of 8/9/’35, when practically all
stations were very weak. In the early
part of the week 2RO, in the 25m. band,
stood right out, and was the best the
writer has heard for a long time. The
No. 1 transmission from the 8.8. C. is
still splendid, but GSB, in contrast to
GSD, has been getting very weak toward
the end. An interesting change was a
move up to GSE (25.3 m.) for the No, 3
transmission, and, as always seems the
case, that particular frequency has been
good at night. DJA has started to
come in very well about 11 p.m., and
should soon be at maximum strength,
probably continuing so all summer.
The 19m. band has shown a slight im-
provement about 10 p.m., but is still very
patchy, with high-speed fading. GSF
on this band in the mornings has been
of use only for a very short period, but
GSD has been much better.
The D.E.I. station was heard on a
recent Sunday about 11 p.m. with a fine
transmission on about 26.1 m., an unusual
wave-length.
A Very interesting reception was of
Malcolm Campbell speaking just_ after
his record run in the Bluebird. This was
picked up from one of the Columbia net-
work stations on about 21m. at 7 a.m.,
and was word-perfect, being much better
reception than the electrical recording
put over from the 8.8. C. in the after-
noon. There always appears to writer to
be a good deal of background on these
electrical recordings compared with the
original.
The higher bands have been spoilt
by static most of the week, but GSL and
DJC were at good strength until 7 a.m.,
when noise level was not too high for
enjoyable reception.
2RO appears to be making a regular
transmission from about 11 p.m. to mid-
night in the 25m. band, and at quite good
strength. Soon PHI will change up to
25m., and should prove a welcome addi-
tion, the announcer always having some-
thing original to say. FYA, recently
fair at 6 p.m., shows improvement.
NIGHTOWL.
Don Battery Chargers.
Battery chargers are closely allied with
radio, particularly for the country
Don 9 battery-size charger.
dealer responsible for keeping up the
needs of radio-battery users. A small-
capacity charger, whilst quite suitable
for' the requirements of one user, is
usually inadequate for, dealing with even
small numbers of batteries. For heavy-
duty work, the six- and nine-battery type
Don chargers are noteworthy as being
well suited to radio dealers and garage
requirements. The six-battery type will
charge any number of cells equal to six
six-volt batteries at from one to six
amperes. A 10-amp. fuse is incorporated,
with a flush-type meter, reading from
oto 10 amperes. Regulation is obtained
firstly by the left-hand regulator control,
according to the number of batteries to
be charged, and, secondly, by right-hand
Don 30 battery-size charger.
control of the charging rate. The nine-
battery type will handle the equivalent in
cells of nine six-volt batteries between
one and six amperes. Valves supplied
are either of the Tungar or Rectigon
type.
Other Don chargers include pro-
vision for rates from .25 trickle to a
unit capable of charging 30 six-volt
batteries up to a six-ampere rate. The
doubtful method of regulating charging
rate by resistances is not used in Don
chargers, the rate being determined by
a special auxiliary winding on the trans-
former secondary. A 12 months’ guaran-
tee accompanies these products. The
maker is the Don Electric Co., Salisbury-
road, Camperdown, N.S.W.; phone,
L 2839.
"Bulletin” Test Review.
(, Manufacturers’ products considered worthy
of attention are tested and given an un-
biased report in this section .)
U.R.D. Battery Superhet, Model 71.
One of the most interesting battery-
broadcast superhets submitted to _ The
Bulletin for examination and trial is
the U.R.D, Model 71, pictured here in
chassis form. It has several unusual but
very effective points, and the
intelligence displayed by the
designing engineer is amply
reflected in performance. This
chassis is quite definitely one
of the most sen-
sitive battery
superhets to pass
through the hands
of the writer, and
its sensitivity is
combined with a
most pleasing
roundness of
tone, in which
the well - estab-
-lis h e d Class-B
audio system ex-
cels for battery operation.
The chassis is not designed
as a dual-waver, but is fitted
with a special input arrangement for
one of those effective dual-range short-
wave converters now so easily applied
to any good broadcast tuner.
Specifications embody seven American-
type 2-volt valves ;a 34 R.F. pentode takes
care of the input, conversion being by one
of those most useful of valves, the type 15.
Incidentally, the writer, and no doubt
others, would like to see a whole series of
2-volt indirectly-heated battery valves
available. If a 15 can be produced, so
can other types with indirectly-heated
cathodes. The I.F. amplifier is a 34, and
the frequency chosen is 210 kc. Following
the I.F. is a 30 triode, used as a diode de-
tector with A.V.C. From here, output is
into a 32, used as a buffer audio ampli-
fier ; then a 30 driver, and finally the 19
Class-B output valve. The driver trans-
former is a specially-designed U.R.D.
product, and that it is well designed is
proved by the excellent tonal qualities
obtained in conjunction with an Amplion
L 5 permag. speaker. A full 2-watt output
is obtainable where required, and no
self-respecting broadcast listener seeking
entertainment exclusively for his own
home needs any more.
The aerial coil of this receiver is con-
structed in such a manner as to provide
constant coupling at all broadcast fre-
quencies, and is not affected by the length
of aerial used. On test it was found that
two or three feet of wire lying along
the table was all that was necessary to
enable the receiver to pull in the whole
run of locals and inter-Staters, so that
first-class results in a far-off country
area with even an average aerial are a
certainty.
Sensitivity, in laboratory parlance, is
.5 microvolts per metre at 1300 kc. and
1.5 microvolts per metre at 500 kc. Con-
sidering the available audio output,
battery drain is very low, the filaments
taking 1 ampere and the B-battery con-
sumption averaging 10 to 12 milliam-
peres. There are two pilot lamps, and in
order to cut these out when not needed,
and thus further reduce battery drain, a
switch is provided directly underneath
the tuning control. The usual pick-up
connections are provided at the rear of
the chassis. B-battery voltage is stipu-
lated at 180 volts maximum, and in the
case of this particular receiver it was
found that this value must be used and
that 135 volts does not do full justice to
the audio side. This, however, is natural
with a Class-B audio system, and, in any
case, high rather than low initial voltage
should be used with any modern battery
receiver. Too many people expect to
take out more than they put in, and this,
like perpetual motion, cannot be done.
U.R.D. Model 71 is a very attractive
proposition both for dealer and pur-
chaser. The makers, from whom price
and other particulars should be obtained,
U.R.D. Model 71 battery broadcast
superhet; 210 kc. intermediate frequency
and diode detection.
are United Radio Distributors, 73 York-
street. Sydney; ’phone, 83639.
All Round the Dial.
“Eh": Yet another broadcasting
station has been added to the 20 national
and 68 commercial plants in Australia.
This is at Oakey, on the Daring Downs
(Q.), and is the highest-powered com-
mercial station in the State. Located on
a hill about three miles from the P. 0.,
the top of the station’s mast extends
about 125 ft. above the highest point in
the district. It is 210 ft. high, and has
a greater altitude than any other broad-
casting aerial in the Commonwealth,
being over 1600 ft. above sea level. Of
the quarter-wave type, the mast itself is
used as an aerial.
* * * *
“A. Major”: At a time when so many
foreign artists are purveying music from
A.B.C. stations it is comforting to find
a few Australians still in the running.
One of these is operatic tenor Browning
Mummery, who has been broadcasting
operatic duets with basso Fred Collier
(also an Australian, and one who has
sung at Covent Garden), Mummery was
born at Carlton (Vic.), and headed first
for an engineer’s career, with singing as
a pastime under A. C. Bartleman. Fate
led him instead to an engagement with
the Rigo opera co., and he made his
(Continued on next page.)


h
BUY A
omva
hhSts fpfS
HUilfJIJf II
c
v
i
DON’T MISS THE BOAT
Go By
P&0
- it’s more comfortable!
TELA-VERTA
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest.
- *£•*'
MACDONALD HAMILTON &C?,
Joint Passenger Booking AqentJ-Toußisr Class
GILCHRIST WATT a. SANDERSON I?
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
debut at Melbourne Princess in “Faust”
in 1921, The co. a little later was taken
over by the Firm, and toured Australia
and M.L. After that Mummery went to
England, was engaged by the British
National Opera Co,, and played principal
roles in London and on provincial tours
for four seasons. Then followed a season
at Covent Garden in Strauss’s “Rosen-
kavalier” with conductor Bruno Walter.
Mummery sang also at Covent Garden
on the historic occasion when Melba
made her farewell appearance in opera,
playing Rudolph to her Mimi in “La
Boheme.” He has made dozens of
records for the H.M.V. Gramophone Co.,
and in recent years has been broadcast-
ing in the U.S.A. and later still for the
8.8. C., and returned to Australia for
the Fuller co.’s opera season.
Pp * * *
“Highcee”: The 8.8. C. broke new
ground the other day with a broadcast
of barrel-organ music. These instru-
ments, forerunners of the gramophone,
have been in existence for hundreds of
years; they were * well-known in the
fifteenth century. There are illustrations
of barrel organs of that period driven
by hydraulic power. They were fre-
quently installed in churches, and some
of them survive to this day. Further-
more, they were so respectable that
Mozart wrote an Andante to be played
by the smaller instruments. Horace
Walpole wrote in 1737; “I am in pur-
suit of getting the finest piece of music
that ever was heard. It is a thing that will
play eight tunes. Handel and all the
great musicians say that it is beyond
anything they can do, and this may be
performed by the most ignorant person.”
That organ of Walpole’s was on a very
grand scale, and was ultimately sold for
£lOOO.
“Inaha”: Maoriland Broadcasting
Board is indulging in an orgy of kilo-
watts. IYA (Auckland) and 3YA (Christ-
church) are now powered by lOkw. trans-
mitters, and a set of similar power is
now being constructed for 4YA (Dunedin).
It is claimed for them that they are the
most powerful transmitters in Australia
or MX. operating on the broadcast band,
but the Broadcasting Board is not content
with that. It wants to make M.L. a small
country with a very big radio voice, and
is planning the erection of a new 2YA
(Wellington) on a sea-coast site 15 miles
from the capital city with a power of
60kw. Provided existing powers are not
increased too much within the eighteen
months before the new 2YA will be com-
pleted, it will be the most powerful trans-
mitter in the southern hemisphere, though
it will still have a long way to go to
compete with the 500 kw, stations of the
northern half of the globe.
iji * * ■ *
“Chronos”: To split a second into a
thousand parts may appear a difficult
business, but it is done by the A.W.A.
Standards Laboratory with the assistance
of the N.S.W. Government Astronomer,
and provides'a means whereby broadcast
listeners are assisted to enjoy a pro-
gramme without interference from other
stations. In the A.W.A.. laboratory is a
tuning fork which is kept at a fixed
temperature within a tiny oven, compris-
ing three wooden asbestos-and-copper-
lined boxes. The tuning fork vibrates
with a frequency of a thousand cycles,
and it is constantly ; checked by the
Observatory’s time signals, which in turn
are checked by the stars. The fork is
used to test the frequency ,of broadcast-
ing stations, and with its assistance, there
is no need for any station to vary from
its allotted wave-length.
What’s What in Radio.
Television is too expensive, in the view
of a committee set up by the Danish
Parliament. In its report the committee
states that a small country like Denmark
cannot be expected to participate in costly
research, but must wait for progress in
other countries. The Swiss Telegraph
Administration also considers that tele-
vision will be “very expensive,” especially
in a mountainous region like Switzer-
land, where numerous transmitters will
be essential. The British experiments are
being watched with interest.
❖ Jfc * *
An interesting wireless receiver is car-
ried by H. Nossiter on the yacht Sirius,
now on a cruise around the world. It
is intended for both utility and entertain-
ment, and will tune to broadcasting
stations on the 200- to 545-metre band
and to short-wave stations which transmit
international time signals. The appara-
tus was designed by A.W.A., and on test
before leaving it was found that the
1 p.m. signals of Paris on 25 metres came
in as clearly as the broadcast programme
of 2FC. Reception of time signals is
required as a check on the yacht’s chro-
nometer. Time signals with astronomical
accuracy are radiated at fixed times daily
from about 25 stations in various parts
of the world, partly for the information
of shipmasters and partly for the officials
of observatories. A.W.A. broadcasts
daily the signals of Sydney Observatory
and also those from Nauen (Germany),
Washington (U.S.A.), Malabar (Java) and
Paris.
# * *
. A Berlin broadcasting station has. a
collection of 1500 disc recordings, com-
prising'every kind of noise/which may
be required in broadcast plays. In most
instances to. secure' the desired, effect the
sounds of several records are mixed, and
these are again recorded to provide new
combinations for future use. ■
The Q. and A. Column.
' Enclosed is a diagram. of a transmitter. it
is ■ intended,.-to- use - r when the.A.O.C.P. is
' obtained. ■ (l)Are' there any mistakes, and
; what will-the output- be ?- (2) Would a 47 be
a better- crystal oscillator valve'than, the 2A5 ?
? (3) {Wljat work » does , the . relay , dp ■in the cir-
cuit ? (4) Could I obtain ' three-hand—2o-, 40-
and 80-metre—operation *by f changing crystals,
or ■ would d x have . to-change 'my coils ? (5)
Please explain link-coupling. (6) How could
I use»the transmitter ,fdr C.W7p arid would it
be powerful enough to work with U.S.A.?
(7) What kind of aerial do you recommend for
best results? (B)’ Would the microphone trans-
former, described in'“Australian Radio News”
last year ■ he suitable for use in this circuit ?—•
316. r' 1 ,
(1) Everything appears to be in order. R.F.
otitput, 10 watts. (2) No. (3) A keying relay
for the plate supply to the 46 buffer amplifier.
It is one method of keying for telegraphy.
(4) Three-band operation can be obtained
merely by changing coils, but the final stage
will be working as a doubler on 20 metres.
The R.F. output will then be very small.
(5) The diagram shows link-coupling between
stages in this case. Link-coupling permits
much better impedance-matching and higher
overall efficiency. It is far preferable to capa-
city-coupling. (6) By keying in the relay
circuit with a suitable “thump” filter or by
keying in the cathode of the 2A5 crystal oscil-
lator. For the latter method, an active crystal
is needed. With a good aerial system no
trouble should be had with DX. (7) The
twisted pair doublet for each band. (8) Yes.
? u'
I have a five-valve portable battery receiver
(details enclosed) with which I am just able to
get Rockhampton, 300 miles distant, in -the
morning, and all main interstate stations at
night. Would a portable with two 1 j-volt dry
cells, as described in B. 31/7/’35, be an im-
provement ? I would like daylight reception of
a few stations. —320.
The one described would be somewhat more
sensitive, but in order to get the highest gain
from the R.F. stages the resistor across the
first primary should be left out. In any case,
too much must not be expected from a bat-
tery portable, and for the daylight reception
needed it will probably be necessary to use
an external aerial.
Is the aerial substitute advertised in various
papers all it is claimed to be ? One claim is
that short-wave stations are heard on the dial
where none existed before. The idea appears
to be A merican. —3ls.
Haven’t tested the gadgets in question, but
. it isn’t very daring to make claims of that
. sort. Modern receivers are, firstly, sensitive,
and almost anything of a conductive nature
used as an aerial substitute will result in signals.
Overseas short-wave stations can be pulled'in
at excellent volume with really good receivers
by merely holding a finger on the aerial ter-
minal. With a relatively insensitive receiver
it is a very different story, and the fact re-
mains that a well-insulated, well-elevated ex-
ternal aerial is equal to one or two stages of
R.F. amplification. It merely boils down to
the valves having to work a < lot harder with
little .or no ~aerial,, and .modern valves^have
high gain and can make up adequately for
low signal input.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.P.: “Would be grateful for your comments
on this original contribution of mine, ‘Some-
body’s Worse Than You.’ ” Not many, we
should say, in the versifying line... .A.G.B.:
A bit too slight this time... .T.P.N.: There s
a glimmer of promise in the lighter piece, but
the jest is past its first youth... .B.V.: Too
prosy and matter-of-fact; we want rhymes that
ripple and dance E.M.C.: A slight twist
to an oldish plot... .S.H.C.: Not up to
standard, but keep going at original ideas....
H.P.: Came close N.C.: Off our beat....
A.S.R.: However far the arm of coincidence
may stretch in real life, it is well to keep it
within bounds for fiction requirements....
C. : On samples so far submitted, can offer
little encouragement, but very few writers hit
the bull or score an inner at their first attempts.
M.I.S.: Not far off... .B.W.: Sorry to dis-
appointsuch a genuine tryer... .H.N.: “Sixpence
for Memories.” Too dear... .D.A.G.: Gives the
impression of straining after an effect, with-
out achieving anything... .G.H.S. and Lady A.:
Not suitable E.A.S.: It doesn’t hold the in-
terest O.S.F.: Too melodramatic and story-
booky K.F.: “False Alarm” —no re-
sponse M.G.V.: It seems rather futile
A.D.: It’s your best effort to date, but rather
artificial and with too much tendency to
moralise M.P.: Not “utter drivel,” as you
suggest, but not entertaining either. One side
of the paper in future, please A.H.W.:
In the race, but not a winner... .J.R.S.: We’ll
never trust a ’possum again Emel: “Rose-
mary” was the better of the two, but not quite
the sort of thing we want M.B.: No room
for acrostics, even upon Mussolini M.F..
The verses are vigorous and musical, but the
sentiments are trite PJ.I.: The question
is; “Will you know next time?”... .P.H.: Too
sentimental... .D.J.: Your harrowing tale of
the evils of strong drink was read to the office-
boy. He has sworn off for the rest of the
month Main Royal: It’s an old, old theme.
C.G.C.: Not enough in it I.A.: Might
be worth sending to some other shop
E.R.M.: Afraid the reply must have referred
to another yarn. This one is merely a varia-
tion of a very old story... .P.G.W.: No
winners... .H.M.B.: Your footnote “N.B. —
‘Heaven’ is not meant to rhyme with ‘evening’ ”
doesn’t alter the fact that on your layout the
two lines in question should rhyme
A.F.: It makes no appeal T.H.: Of limited
interest only Pyramus: Story of Chinese
vengeance not in our line J.D.N.: It won’t
do I.V.: A conventional English novelette
yarn in a Sydney setting.. ..R.M.: Reveals a
vast ignorance of artists, artists’ models and
story-writing... .R.C.-B.: Doesn’t make the
grade J.W.W.: “I arose from the seat like
a stricken ghost.” We had always wondered
whether ghosts could sit down... .D.H.M.:
Prefer your humorous vein J.M.: It
seemed to be an old friend, and, as such, was
welcome —for a few days... .C.WJ.T.: Sorry
you took it that way, but not surprised. You
Douglasites are like the presbyters whom
Cromwell begged to consider it possible that
they might be wrong.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.M.: Unable to find point of picture
showing ruffian sandbagging small gent
S.P.: Be patient; most students are just be-
ginning at your age A.G.R.: Refused; but
she’s the first surf-girl of the season.. . .F B.:
A North Queenslander should be able to draw
a billygoat better than that....J.L.W.: Self-
taught, are you? Well, you’re a poor teacher.
T.T.: The parachute-jumper landed in the
basket A.M.: A cartoon that requires so
many labels and signposts is never worth while.
H.G.: Make your jests less long-winded,
and get more life into your drawings K.J.:
First time we have seen a couple of mummies
propped up against a bar counter... .A.M.S.:
You belong to the slap-stick school, and your
gags are anaemic... .T.P.: Angular lady smiting
husband with poker scored no laughs....
W.H.: Slow-train-and-milking gag dates back
to the'early days of railways F.N.: You
have a long, long road to travel T.H.S.:
Lines too grey and thin for reproduction....
N.B.: No hope for the artist who turns in a
sketch in blue pencil on brown paper.. ..C.G.:
Whatever the chap in kilts is playing it is
certainly not the bagpipes.... .J.W.S.: You
have all the shadows falling the wrong way
D. : Not a printable one among the dozen.
. . . . J.C.B.: You’ve got Hitler’s mo., but that’s
about all A.H.W.: You’ll need to burn gal-
lons of midnight oil....J.S.B.: Scratchy and
ill-formed.
“Zedo”: The difficulties of education
among scattered populations are illustrated
by the fact that Queensland has 1000
single-school teachers. In some there are
40 pupils, ranging from toddlers to 12-
year-olds working for scholarships. It
is no uncommon thing for half the pupils
to travel 10 miles to and from school
every day, occasionally three to a horse.
Anybody who had not experienced the
system might imagine it futile, but in
practice it develops initiative, I spent
my first year at school at 11 years old as
senior pupil in one of these singular
institutions. I was a class by myself. Our
master, a bow-legged cynic, used to call
in the morning, open Palgrave’s
Golden Treasury and say: “Go out under
that tree” —we were an overflowing com-
munity, and the school hall was used to
enclose juniors singing arithmetic—“and
learn that.” I would retreat and practise
the art of recitation until I felt letter-
perfect enough to be “heard.” I can
still repeat most of the 70-odd verses of
“The Rubaiyat” and the first canto of
“Marmion,” which is mom than I retain
of the fruits of some later and far more
expensive and sedulous tuition.


FOR HAWKESBURY.
Flying Handicap: Grand Mogul
or Sarcherie ; next, Orpah.
Spring Handicap: Sarcherie or
Lancaster King; next, Curator.
Three-year-old Handicap: Grand
Mogul or Prittle Prattle; next,
Gymkhana.
Highweight: Loud Applause ;
next, Cabalist or Prowler.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Rain on Saturday morning affected the
attendance at Rosehill, but the clouds
.were clearing away before the racing
began, and the afternoon was fine. The
surface of the track was greasy, but the
going was not actually bad. Indeed, The
Black Cat was able to establish a course
record (2min. 42sec.) for 12 furlongs over
hurdles, and Peter Pan’s time in the Hill
Stakes (Imin. 39sec.) was only a second
outside the tx*ack record, held by Vali-
care.
Weight-for-age events at Randwick
appear to be at the mercy of Peter Pan.
Having his first run since his holiday,
and far from fit—his preparation had
been interrupted—the champion played
with the opposition, strong as it was.
Silver Jubilee set a solid pace, but Young
Idea (9 to 2) shot to the front turning
for home, Knox being intent on getting
a break. Pike on Peter Pan was quick
to grasp the move, and the great chest-
nut had Young Idea in trouble a fur-
long from home. He beat the colt by
a length. Lough Neagh (5 to 1) was a
length and three-quarters away.
Berestoi surprised by running fourth.
This English horse of newspaper knight
Hugh Denison’s may have a chance in the
Metrop., but he has 9st., and is not yet
thoroughly acclimatised. Synagogue ran
an even race and finished fifth, but,
though he is back at the head of the
Epsom quotes, he is scarcely entitled to
the position. Journal was last. He
wouldn’t stretch out, and was in the rear
all the way,
•
Thirteen three-year-olds were saddled
up for the Guineas, and they looked a
pretty good lot. There was so much
Victorian money for The Chanter that
admners of Hadrian were able to get
5 to 2 (both went out at that price). They
ave a lot to thank Darby Munro tor.
He made the most of a favorable posi-
„ Io V , at ( } e barrier, set up a nice lean,
n kept his mount going sufficiently for
a nan 10 win by a neck, though
unga (14 to I) and Loud Applause (20
o 1) were fast leducing his lead at the
finish Backers of The Chanter were
unlucky rthe Windbag eoU nearly lost h's
rider (Voitre) at barner-nse, was un-
bakneed formostof the wayand wasdis-
appointed when going for a run on the
“I 8 -,. Ha came home well to finish
seventh. Homer disappointed again, and
Wykeham and Medallist shaped like non-
stayers. Allunga and Loud Applause
now look Derby possibilities ; perhaps
Loud Applause is more capable of im-
provement. He got into a bit of trouble
in the straight
- 8 .
Dermid (10 to 1), favored by a light
weight in the first division of the
Camellia Stakes—he carried 111 b. less
than his Epsom burden, Bst. 31b. —
brought off a coup for J. A. Donohue
and his friends. Putting in a long run
over the last three furlongs, he beat
Barak (7 to 2) and Australia Fair (7 to 1)
in really good style. Barak weakened
where he was expected to come on:
however, his rider made a lot of use of
him between the five furlongs and the
turn, and he was wide out most of the
way. The track may not have suited
him ; anyway the race will do him good.
Gay Blonde was a flop, and Sir John
was nearer last than first. It was after-
wards explained that he had slipped on
a greasy patch, and McCarten could not
get him going at full steam.
Cid (11 to 2) led throughout in the
second division. Munro cleverly in-
creased his advantage at the home turn,
and he went on to score comfortably
from the favorite, Windbird, and Golden
Chance, a moderate third. Dame Moab,
a street-corner tip, was never sighted,
while Grand Mogul only beat a couple
home. He is another that requires a
bone-dry track.
When Oro is in the mood he takes a
deal of beating. Backed from fifteens to
eights for the Spring Handicap, he had
a great tussle with Sporting Blood, who
was giving him 51b., and prevailed by a
head. Oro is in the Metrop. with Bst.
91b. —21b. less ; Sporting Blood has Bst.
61b.—101b. less. Scratchmere Star (8 to
1) was a good third. Break Up essayed
to win all the way, but he and Kagal
had had enough a long way from home,
Curator battled on to get fourth, just
ahead of Lough Neagh’s stable-mate, Pan-
dion, who looks sure to win a race at
Randwick. Theo improved a little on his
showing at Tatt.’s meeting, but Blixten
was last.
......
King Gee (12 to 1) outstayed Cherry
King and King Moab in the first divi _
s j on c £ tbe Highweight. The favorite,
B omb us, “walked” the last furlong after
i ead i n g i n to the straight, and Cabalist’s
runn j n g excited the curiosity of the
stewards. From twos he had blown out
to fj ves j n a couple of minutes. Not in
lbc picture early, he came home well,
“Explanation accepted.” The second
divis F ion was won % , he Heroic colt
Pritt | e Prattle (3 J Ridden ex .
tl b the Brisbane jo ' ckey shea he
ran y * the pm |. e ; D& Ratio at
the L scored ; asily from s ine
Cera a * d ’ Mananui .
*.* * *
~i he running.at Rosehill strengthened
. s Page s opinion that Sporting Blood
win the Metropolitan, but for the
ft will have to substitute Barak
- r lr J °nn. The latter may conceivably
be the better of the pair at the weights,
kut he doesn’t seem so trustworthy as
B ara k nor at home on a heavy track.
And in a year when rainfall has been
much below the average the possibility
heavy going must be allowed for.
* * * *
The merit of Hyperion’s success in the
Budgeree Handicap at Moonee Valley
was emphasised by Hostile’s performance
in the Mentone Gold Cup. Thought to
be unready, and unbacked, Hyperion
gave Hostile 71b. at Moonee Valley, and
beat him by at least 161 b. Ridden
much the same kind of race at Mentone,
Hostile was in front at the home turn’
and he stoutly withstood the attempts
of half a dozen horses to pass him.
The going was on the heavy side, and
it was thought this might not suit Hos-
tile —it didn’t at Epsom—so he was
allowed to go out at 6 to 1. The three-
year-old Gay Lover was favorite at 7 to
2. He, Greenhorn (25 to 1) and Nellie’s
Tip (12 to 1) helped to make a thrilling
finish of it. The judge declared for
Hostile by a head, with Greenhorn
second and Gay Lover and Nellie’s Tip,
bracketed, half a head away.
Hostile is in the Caulfield Cup with
7st. 111 b. Nicely treated for a horse
that won the Stand Handicap last year
with 7st. 101 b. and was second in the
Toorak Handicap (to Sir Simper, right at
his top) with 7st. 81b., he has hitherto
failed over a distance.
Followers of Skidmore, who rode Gay
Lover, did not have to wait long for a
recovery. In the next race, a division ot
the Dandenong Welter, Skidmore rode
Altanna to victory, and Altanna, a four-
year-old stallion by Beau Fils —Adjee,
went out at a nice price, 6 to .1. He had
one of the easiest wins of the day.
Another close finish was witnessed in
the last race, the Avenza Purse; here
the judge could not separate the horribly
named Aitchengee (8 to 1) and Two
Over (50 to 1). The entire ring was riding
Two Over as the leading pair, locked
together, struggled over the last bit, and
the suspense was terrible till the official
hoisted the numbers.
* • * * *
“Jamwood”: One great reason why
racing is more popular in Melbourne
than in Sydney (B, 18/9/’35) is that it
is less expensive. Clubs like Moonee
Valley and Williamstown advertise their
charges in the newspapers ; if you are
a stranger in Sydney you don’t know
what a proprietary club will sting you
for until you reach the course. For
example, a man can get into the grand-
stand at the Valley for 11s. and at Wil-
liamstown for 125., whereas he has to
pay 14s. in Sydney. The tariff for ladies
is ss. 6d. at Williamstown, 6s. at
Moonee Valley and 7s. 9d. at Sydney
courses. Nor do the Melbourne trans-
port authorities skin the racing public
as the Sydney railway and tramway
people do. For example, 2s. first and
Is. 6d. second from Melbourne to Wil-
liamstown; 9\d. first and l\d. second
from Melbourne to Moonee Ponds.
Why, for a mile or so to Rahdwick in
an alleged special tram they charge a
shilling return.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Jockey Club took
a characteristic view of the use of a
rattle in England to urge on a racehorse.
It grabbed the rattle and, after long deli-
beration, announced that it could not
possibly countenance such practices.
When the owner said he would like the
thing as a souvenir, it sent the rattle back
with polite apologies. If the incident
had happened on some Australian course,
owner, jockey, horse and rattle would
have been “out” in a couple of minutes
after getting back to the paddock.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
In the second of the V.F. League
semi-finals, South Melbourne beat Col-
lingwood 15-14 to 11-17. The Melbourne
C.G, was a quagmire as a result of
Friday’s storm,, but “Sowth” lost little
of its pace. Collingwood has another
chance against Richmond on Saturday,
the winner to play “Sowth” for the
premiership.
ik H: * *
In the second semi-final at Adelaide
Port defeated South 17-17 to 10-13.
Prideaux kicked nine goals for the win-
ners. South will now play Sturt for the
right to meet Port in the grand final. On
form Sturt should win.
s|c
In their third match the Maorilanders
beat Yorkshire-Cumberland 14-3 —a try,
the first for Yorkshire against the All-
Blacks.
* * *
“Brass Addler”: The N.S.W.R.U. ends
the season with a profit of £lOOO. The time
has come when the R.U. must set to and
get its own ground. With the disastrous
lessons of the past in mind there should
be no trouble in making a start on a
satisfactory basis and building up a
G.H.Q. like at Twickenham. The E.R.U.
started this with some misgivings. It was
a success from the beginning—paid for
itself and improvements in a few years.
To-day the money it earns from the inter-
national matches goes to subsidise clubs
all over England, particularly in helping
them to buy their own playing fields.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby League team
touring M.L. got off the boat on Satur-
day morning and in the afternoon beat
an Auckland side 16-8. Brown, whom
most of those making up the £7OO gate
were there expressly to see, scored two
tries and two goals, one a penalty. For
the home team the full-back, A. E.
Cooke, here with the 1924 All-Blacks as
a half-back, was far and away the best.
{Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Test-match dates for the
visit of the next English team to Aus-
tralia in 1936-37 have been sent to
Marylebone for approval. Melbourne
gets two ; Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide,
one each. A match against an Aus-
tralian Eleven is to act as consolation
to Ma for losing a Test fixture.
*** ' *
“Five Ways”: Tallon, the Queensland
wicketkeeper, lives at Bundaberg. A £4-
a-week job has been found for him at
Brisbane C.G. until March next, with a
promise of a permanency if all goes
well. Tallon will get time off for big
cricket, and the money for his job will
be found by the Q.C.A. and the C.G.
trustees.
* # * *
“Tenth Slip”: With the idea of bright-
ening up Sydney grade cricket, the
authorities have passed a new rule
whereby a team batting for the whole of
the first day may not bat on the second ;
there are reservations for unavoidable
stoppages. In an all-day holiday match
the side batting first is not to have more
than three and a half hours’ use of the
wicket. • It is doubtful if the innovations
will brighten up the play ; the only cure
for stodgy batsmen is to force them to
score at a fixed rate or go out. One wel-
come change is the abolition of the far-
cical tea interval. This should apply also
to Sheffield and international matches.
Records for the Goulburn-Sydney
cycle races were cut heavily on Saturday,
A strong southerly helped ; then the 128-
mile course is in better condition and
grades are less difficult than when Opper-
man made shr, 22min. 30sec. The pro-
fessionals’ race went to 45-year-old C.
Dredge, off the 70-minute mark, in shr.
56min, 3 2-ssec., but scratch-men Buck-
ley (N.S.W.) and Veitch (Vic.) covered
the distance in shr. 2min. 31 sec.
Cruise, another Victorian, was only
l-ssec. behind them. Of the amateurs,
Winterbottom put up fastest time,
shr. smin. 23sec., with Smith and Nel-
son following. First to finish was C.
Murray, who started from the 40min.
30sec. mark. ,
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Following on the
shock of Perry’s wedding comes the news
that the husband of Mrs. Fearnley-Whit-
tingstall has handed her a divorce plaster.
As Eileen Bennett, Mrs. F.-W. played
pretty good tennis, but it was her appear-
ance in shorts —she was the pioneer
among the girls—that made her in a
day the most famous personality on the
courts. Thousands who didn’t care a
tinker’s malediction for tennis flocked to
see what the tabloid press proclaimed
the most delectable legs in captivity.


KANGAROO
HIDE BELT
A belt is a very personal
thing to a man.
Experience a new idea in
trouser comfort by
wearing one of Pike
Brothers 10-strand
hand ridge-plaited
Kangaroo Hide Belts.
The finest and strongest
made. %
PIKES
o/QUEEN street
/ BRISBANE.
inexpensive Health
—through Correct Food & Exercise
Write for details of the
D UP AIN SCIENTIFIC HEALTH
POSTAL SERVICE
Founded 1900. George Z. Dnpain, Principal.
449 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
MARLOW & CO.,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers' Service
Station,
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired, Exchanged,
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship..
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7/10/-.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 Qld (SECOND
X Z/OHr EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, *•/ U FREE
,4iVD /IT /ILL NEWSAGENTS.
M:Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A rather promising young heavyweight
has joined the band of Westralians box-
ing in the effete East —“Tiny” Nicholls,
conqueror of old George Thompson,
“liny” made a first appearance at Leich-
hardt opposed to Rainsford, and won
every round. Before they had been fight-
ing 40 seconds, a right to the chin
knocked Rainsford down. He was up
before a count could be commenced, but
afterwards did more running than fight-
ing. Nicholls never stopped tearing after
him, and only cheers were heard when he
was crowned at the end of the fifteenth.
“Tiny” is a thirteen-stoner, aged 20.
* * * *
A palpable second-rater, and only half-
fit, one Paul Schaefer was thrown into
the Sydney Stadium ring to meet Jack
Carroll, trained to the minute and at
the top of his form. Carroll toyed with
the visitor for six rounds, at the end of
which the referee, Wallis, declared it “no
contest.” Afterwards Carroll was paid,
but Schaefer was deprived of his share
of the purse. To the crowd, which took
the exhibition in a jovial spirit, the poor
devil seemed to be doing his best, and
he had nothing to gain by not trying—
there was little or no betting. There is
a lot of sympathy with him.
Footbrawl
The secretaryship of S.A. Football
League (a full-time job), in succession to
Frank Marlow, goes to Tom Hill, already
widely known. At 40, he has been a
delegate to the League for 10 years and
secretary of Norwood (East Torrens) in
both football and cricket.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The All-Blacks in their
opening match in England failed, as
usual, to adapt themselves to the three-
men-in-front scrum, which they seem to
have tried in conjunction with the old-
fashioned stand-off wing-forward. Maori-
land footballers have never been at
home away from the old two-men-in-
front formation, with its accompaniment
of clean, fast hooking. Unfortunately
the British decision some time ago that
two-men-in-front would be frowned on
may prevent a return to the old method.
Evidently the tourists will have to rely
on their weight for shoving the other
fellows off the ball.
Against Midland Counties in the
second game the All-Blacks kept to the
three-four idea, the man over putting in
the ball. Mitchell, on the right wing, got
two’ clinking tries in the first half, and
the visitors finished with 9 to 3.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”; N.S.W. Rugby League is
to try to get its game going again in
Melbourne, urged thereto by the suc-
cess of Union Rugby there. Some years
ago the R.L., realising then, as it does
now, that it must extend its horizons or
snuff out, wasted a lot of time and
money on a Melbourne mission. A
shadow League was formed ; it lasted a
couple of seasons and then went west,
taking a lot of good N.S.W. and Queens-
land money with it. It is proposed to
play two exhibition matches by electric
light in November in competition with
the dogs. Cup Week has been chosen
for the effort, and promoters expect to
get the £4OO expenses back at least.
* * * *
“Outside Right”; A queer little fuss
has risen in England because the secre-
tary of the British Football Association
has accused public school masters of
snobbery in making their boys play
Rugby instead of Soccer, the R.U. code
being considered as socially superior.
Since the war there has certainly been a
strong trend to Rugby among schools
that once played Soccer. The new public
schools which have sprung up like mush-
rooms have mostly adopted Rugby, since
they have had no previous tradition of
Soccer or a game of their own. Oxford
and Cambridge still grant full blues for
Soccer as well as Rugby, and there is no
question of snobbery here. The truth
is that Soccer does not offer the prizes of
international status at home and abroad
that Rugby Union offers its votaries.
Further, Soccer is now practically a pro-
fessional game. There are amateur inter-
nationals with Scotland, Ireland and
Wales, but inclusion in these teams car-
ries little kudos and attracts no attention.
Ins and Outs
“Hotham”: Having waited until the
last possible moment, Fleetwood-Smith
and Darling notified the B.C. of their
willingness to go to South Africa. The
curt announcement had been made that
if all acceptances were not in by Sep-
tember 16 two other players would be
chosen. All 14 have passed the doctors,
and leave Melbourne for the West by
train on October 21. Three days’ cricket
at Perth and then hey! for South Africa
on October 31.
* * * #
‘“Tenth Slip”: The Sheffield States,
Queensland excepted, will have to find a
big batch of new players for the season
to fill the holes caused by the South
African and Indian tours, N.S.W. alone
losing six of its best men. It is to be
hoped that selectors will try new blood
and not fall back on old second-raters,
as is their custom. The season will be a
grand opportunity for young batsmen
and bowlers, the latter particularly, but
they can do nothing if the selectors refuse
to take risks and give them a chance.
❖ * ? *
“Aigburth”: Many reasons are ad-
vanced for the decline of English cricket.
My own opinion is that it is due to the
fatuous blatherskite poured out in the
press by Neville Cardus and other “easy
writers” who make such damned hard
reading. The choicest specimen I have
“Hey! Did you pay to come in, or did you climb over this fence ?”
struck yet is by “Cricketer” in the Man-
chester “G uardian”:
The batting of our team at Lord’s was
pitiable. Here we witnessed the culmination
of the ripe, aromatic putrescence of a long
period of decline in our cricket.
I am more familiar than most with the
literary outpourings of the late John
Norton. I doubt if he, even, ever ex-
celled “ripe, aromatic putrescence.”
* * * *
“Mid Off”: While maintaining the
allowance for inter-State players of all
grades at 255. per day away and a pound
a day at home, the N.S.W. cricket heads
have docked the pay of grade umpires
from 10s. a day to Bs. Inter-State and
international umpires will continue to
draw 255. a day. Chairman Oxlade
pointed out that umpiring fees had last
year cost the association £1365, a third
of that body’s income. The meeting also
decided to hold a trial match at Sydney
C.G. on October 26 and November 2.
Hi # ❖
“Tenth Slip”: Syd Smith was elected
president of the N.S.W.C.A. in succes-
sion to the late A. W. Green, The new
president has been closely connected with
the game for many years, and has proved
a vigorous and successful administrator,
whether as secretary to the Board of
Control for some years or as manager of
two Australian teams in England.
Hi 'I" H* V
“Tenth Slip”: A move by some
members of the Ma State C.A. to have
the new l.b.w. rule tried in grade cricket
is certain to be defeated. As the other
Sheffield States have refused to adopt it
for the Shield series no good purpose can
be served by trying it on the grade-cricket
dog, so all hands are to join with the
other States in waiting for what Maryle-
bone has to say about it all.
❖ * * *
“S.T.S.”; It looks as though Norman
Williams may get his chance again for
S. Aus. this coming season as a slow
bowler of the Grimmett class, now that the
latter is going away on tour. The annual
report of the S.A.C.A. insists on three
facts: (1) Grimmett last season took 49
wickets in Shield matches, six more than
all the other bowlers put together; (2)
only two others took more than 10, and
one of these was Lee, who has since
retired from big cricket; (3) Williams
(not needed while Grimmett was there)
took the most wickets in club matches
for the eleventh season.
* -i- *
“Aigburth”: Whether the new l.b.w.
rule is responsible or not, English batting
averages are much lower than in pre-
vious years. Hammond topped both
averages and aggregate with 51.59 and
2616. Only five batsmen reached the
2000-and-over mark, another falling-off ;
one of them was Woolley, 49 years of
age. Verity had' a great season with 201
wickets at 14.56. Reliable old Freeman,
of Kent, disregarded as a Test-match can-
didate for years, again got his 200 wickets
for the umpteenth time in succession.
“Bramall Lane”: If the English public
has approved the new l.b.w. rule, not all
the players and captains arc in agree-
ment. Jardine and Wyatt both say
it has encouraged bowlers to concentrate
on off-breaks, and this has affected the
always-attractive offside strokes. Holmes,
of Surrey, thinks it encourages forward
play—a good thing, too —but has proved
a bit of a nightmare to back players.
As these are the gentlemen who indulge
in padwork, their sorrows should find
no sympathy. Yorkshire’s skipper, Sel-
lars, says the rule has helped the
bowlers and made a lot of batsmen try
to play real cricket. The twin captains
of Essex are divided. Pearce counts the
rule a great success ; Wilcox thinks it
gives too much help to off-break bowlers,
already advantaged by bad wickets.
“Glenelg”: Sydney cricket has gained a
good cricketer in Lonergan, whose transfer
from S.A. will do a bit to offset the loss
of Bradman. A graceful, dashing bats-
man and a superb field, Lonergan has
done well for the Wheatfielders in Shef-
field cricket, and has the rare distinction
of being only the second S. Aus. bats-
man to notch three figures in each innings
of a match —115 and 100 against
Victoria in Melbourne. Like Bromley,
he learned his cricket in Perth,
“Tenth Slip”*: The N.S.W. cricket
heads have resolved to abolish the idiotic
tea interval as far as grade cricket is con-
cerned. It is to be hoped that the
movement will spread to inter-State and
international matches. Besides being a
modern excrescence on the game—the
giants of the earlier Australian elevens
in England, with their small teams and
programmes of 40 or more matches,
never heard of a tea adjournment,
and would have considered it a nuis-
ance—it is just as unnecessary to-day,
and is responsible for wrecking more
good batting stands than Barnes, Turner
and Larwood rolled into one. How many
times have we seen a batsman with his
eye in and the century only a few runs
off go in for tea and come back to be
out neck and crop the first over.
“Hermit Park”; Frank Sides, the
young N.Q. batsman, is talking of trans-
ferring to Melbourne. His health has
not been good, and for a couple of
seasons he dropped out of first-class
cricket. He is now in Brisbane, and had a
good club season last year ; he averaged
over 61 for Toombul, his scores includ-
ing 165 and 101. Like all Queensland
batsmen, Sides has suffered from lack
of first-class match practice. This he will
get in Melbourne, and as he is only 21
now there is room for improvement.
Against N.S.W. last year he made 68
and 32 and against Victoria 29 and 25.
Apart from these matches he has played
18 innings for the State: 19.75, highest
score 74.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: If the English
cricketers don’t show a profit it won’t be
for lack of playing. From December
13, when they start against Wellington,
the tourists will engage in 19 matches
from Invercargill to Auckland. Four
three-day matches against M.L. will be
played— at Dunedin, Wellington, Auck-
land and Christchurch.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The British women
golfers seem to have reached peak form
by now. At any rate they made the
cream of N.S.W. golferettes look like
the change for half a piastre in the first
match with N.S.W., at Royal Sydney. In
the foursomes Mrs. Robinson and Miss
Hammond managed to square with Mrs.
Walker and Miss Anderson, while Miss
Wade and Mrs. Greenlees downed Mes-
dames McKay and Clements, 3 and 1.
The visitors won all four singles by terri-
fying margins, save in the Wade-Clem-
ents game ; the Australian finished one
down. Mrs. McKay gained N.S.W.’s only
success in the second series, at the ex-
pense of Miss Wade ; the foursomes and
the other four singles all went to the
tourists. Mrs. Walker trounced Mrs.
Robertson, 6 and 5.
“Toujours, etc.”; The Canberra crows
and magpies treated the British golfer-
ettes with marked respect. Only once
did a crow make off with a new ball,
but as that belonged to a local player the
matter was overlooked. But, in a sense,
it is a pity the magpies held off. Their
ball-rolling and -burying antics, coupled
with their language and readiness for
assault and battery, would have provided
some interesting nature-study for the
visitors,
* $ <! *
“Sandringham”: Victoria’s golf cham-
pionship for boys, an annual event over
18 holes, which might well be imitated
by other States, was won this year by
Dave Doughton, son of the Riversdale
club president. Dodghton found Rutter,
of Kerang, a tough opponent, and was
forced to the 22nd, {he 19th, 20th and
21st being halved, before gaining the
lead and victory.
❖ * * *
“Hoylake”: Lawson Little, twice
winner of the British amateur golf
championship, has won the American
title for the second time —something of a
record for the game. This year most of
the long-established Yankee champions
like “Chick” Evans and others went out
early, Little’s opponent in the final being
a “newie” in Emery, beaten 4 and 3.


NETS? TOURING SEDAN .
ml
m
fm
...
m
m
mm -■
* ■>
SwS
::• : : :W:|*¥:W: : .
A '
A
&\.m
The smart lines of the built-in
luggage trunk enhance the dis-
tinctive streamlined style of the
new Touring Sedan. The trunk
is unusually roomy and will hold
four suit cases in addition to
sundry smaller packages. Luggage
is protected against loss or damage
in the lock-up, dust-proof trunk.
This model is the ideal general-
purpose car equally useful for
business or touring. Listed at
£345 (f.o.b. Branch, plus Tax)
it is unquestionably today’s
outstanding motor car value.
BUILT-IN LUGGAGE TRUNK . . . ALL-STEEL
BODY . . . CENTRE-POISE RIDING
NEW EASE OF .CONTROL...,
FAMOUS V- 8 PERFORMANCE
m
This magnificent Touring Sedan is the latest
addition to the Ford range of fine cars. The out-
standing feature of its strikinglyhandsome design
is the spacious luggage trunk built into the rear
quarter of the body. The new model has all the
features that have made Ford V-8 the most famous car of
the year: Welded one-piece all-steel body .. Centre-Poise rid-
ing comfort-Rear Seat has centre arm rest . . A new kind of
driving ease. .Thrilling V-8 performance. See this luxurious
Touring Sedan. Drive it —your Ford dealer will gladly place
a car at your disposal. Easy purchase terms are avilable,
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F2X.30.V
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. professional
golfers are trying to interest the other
States in a proposed circuit system by
which leading overseas players would be
attracted to Australia, The idea is that
the States should co-ordinate in estab-
lishing big golf tournaments within a
period of from two to three months.
Golfers would journey from one tourney
to the other like the busy bees, picking
up the honey as they do in the USA.,
where professionals follow the money
from California round to Florida during
the winter, turning to the northern States
in the season proper.
* * si: ' H=
“Sandringham”: The handicap-nursers
are finding their way harder. No longer
can players on a longish mark unwind
par form in a competition and walk off
with valuable pots. The Victorian G.A.
has resolved that after the State meeting
the handicap limit for competitors for
the amateur title will be reduced to 3.
This year entries have been so heavy that
players have had to leave the tees in
threes instead of the usual pair.
* Hi * #
“Open Go”: Sydney City Council is
to try to find out why its golf course at
Moore Park loses large sums—£9oo last
year—while similar courses in other
cities and private links run for a
profit pay well. Last year brought in
£5700 in green fees —Is. 3d. The inves-
tigators will look into the system of book-
ing times, cost of maintenance, number
of employees and the occupancy of the
course by M.P. club.
* * t- *
“Kingston”: Len Nettlefold, who has
not lately been heard from in big golf,
popped up in the Southern Tasmanian
championship at Kingston Beach, win-
ning with an aggregate of 143 for 36
holes. His rounds were 73 and 70, and,
as par is 71, this is pretty good going,
especially as the course was dead and
heavy. Blew, the runner-up, acquired
merit of a sort by being 17 strokes behind
the winner—something of a record in
itself.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: The folly of speak
ing out of one’s turn is seen in the tennis
ranking list issued by the “Times” before
the American championships. Perry
heads the list, with Von Cramm second.
Crawford and Austin follow, ahead of
Allison, who beat Perry for the American
title. McGrath and Quist, at ninth and
tenth places, have shouldered out the
Frenchmen. Joan Hartigan catches ninth
place among the women, and that is
something to be thankful for, since the
plucky player deserves it after her lone-
hand fight at Wimbledon.
* * * #
“Kooyong”: Victoria is out with a
proposal for throwing the Mars Buckley
Cup competition for tennis matches be-
tween Victoria and N.S.W. open do all
the other States as well. Queensland and
S. Aus. will welcome the change, and the
enhanced importance of the meeting
should ensure funds for travelling ex-
penses—a stumbling-block in inter-State
meetings at present.
* * * *
“Smasher”: The Australian L.T.A. is
going to ask the International Federation
to modify its amateur definition so as to
enable League footballers to compete in
amateur tennis. The decision was arrived
at without serious opposition ; the only
dissentient voice was from a delegate
who hazarded the remark that it was
not fair that people who worked in offices
should meet those who made a living
from some branch of sport. But the
footballer who gets his three pounds a
week for five months of the year can
hardly be said to earn his living at the
game, whereas the amateur tennis-player
who wins the necessaries of life and
a lot more for signing racquets for a
firm of makers might be regarded as
doing so. There are few pros, in any
branch of sport who get an amount
equivalent to the dole out of their
prowess.
♦ * * *
“Top Spin”; The decision of St.
Andrews to enforce the ban on ama-
teurs selling golf goods has caused some
deep thinking in Britain. There are
plenty of folk who are tipping that the
International L.T.A. will take similar
steps one of these days. The practice of
tennis-players pushing tennis goods has
been frowned on at H.Q. for a long
time, and many will recall the hostility
accorded the British attempt to bolster
up Perry’s status by permitting him —
and others, of course —to show in tennis
exhibitions on the films for pay.
* * 1 * t-
“Opt”: Some Australian press writers
on tennis continue to sit about and wait
for the millennium to stroll round the
corner. In other words, though they
know the International Tennis Federa-
tion will never allow professional and
amateur players to meet except in their
own country —and even then special per-
mission has to be sought—they continue
to discuss the possibility of men like
Vines playing in Australia with our lead-
ing amateurs, and linger lovingly over the
money there might be in such meetings.
Of course, professionals could always
come here and give exhibition matches.
But they would have to stand the racket
themselves, and their chance of taking
money out of the country would be poor.
He * He =fe
“Milton”: Queensland’s new tennis
constitution, which is to be considered at
a full meeting of delegates shortly, gives
the hardcourt clubs the greater repre-
sentation on the councils of the game
which they have been seeking for
years. A bitter fight against this is ex-
pected from the grass-courts people, but
it looks as if the other side will come
out on top. There are many other
changes in the present constitution, but
recognition of the claims of the hard-
courters will be the all-important ques-
tion.
Miscellaneous
“Huon”; Tasmanian rowing heads are
in a fix. The association, being broke,
asked to be excused the long and expen-
sive trip to Perth for the King’s Cup
race. A mail vote of the States on the
question turned the request down with a
thud. Now, if Tassie doesn’t send over
a crew it will forfeit its right to stags
the race in 1940. That is unthinkable, so
ways and means of raking in the simo-
leons are being canvassed.
H= * * H=
“Rottnest”: Westralia’s rowing cham-
pionship looks like becoming the per-
manent property of the Swan River club,
Liggins’s crew again shook off all chal-
lengers over the three-mile course on the
Swan, which was covered in 18min. Isec.
Westralian was second and A.N.A. third
—both well back.
* * * *
“Blade”: Mosman (N.S.W.) R.C. looks
like holding its end up again this season,
It has boated a “warm” four: Turner,
who stroked the London eight that swept
all before it at Melbourne, is stroke ;
Bromley, who has rowed in the last
three inter-State eights, is No. 3, and
Cyril Callaghan, hero of many N.S.W.
King’s Cup crews, will be No. 2—he has
f,l P ootsc . ra y- . Bodman.
of the 1932 King s Cup eight, is at bow.
* * *
“Hotham”: The bright lads who look
after amateur billiards m Australia are
a§ k a British champion to visit us at
the end of next year. It is hoped the
Empire championship will be held in
this counti yat the same time Such a
visit should buck the game a lot.
: . ,
bpike : Black sprinters are thicker
than crooners in Yankeeland. Just when
Jesse Owens was telling the world how
he intended to run the 100 in 9sec., he
was walloped by another cloud of dark-
ness, Peacock, described as of Temple
University. Peacock is credited with 10
l-ssec. for the 100 metres, and did 26ft.
3in. in the long jump, beating Owens
each time. Australia's best for those
events are Hampson’s 10 3-ssec. and
Metcalfe’s 24ft. £in.
* * * *
“Splash”; Those N.S.W. surfers who
are trying to engineer a Government
grant to help finance a team to visit
Britain and America and paralyse the
locals with their novel exhibition had
better think again. Have just been read-
ing a London “Daily Sketch” which tells
of the immense success of its touring surf
lifesaving team round British beaches,
and outlines one then about to start on
a 10-week tour of English coast towns.
It refers to reels and life-lines. Evidently
the methods invented in Australia have
been cribbed and made familiar to the
British holiday public which our men
hoped to dazzle.
* * * *
“Spike”: N.S.W. Minister Dunning-
ham is ; the claims of Sydney t 0
th(J n( J Emp ? e Games . Canada, the
only other applicant, has had them al-
ready, so Australia’s chance looks well.
Sydney, however, should buck up and
p Ut j ts house in order if it wants to score,
decent swimming pool is essential, and
the primitive condit fons at present pre-
vmiiling for the track and field events
wi|| h » ve to be brought up t 0 date In
fact, a special stadium should be built,
would give much-needed employment
to man y anc j WO uld pay for itself.
. T ., „ _ , . .
Flying Jib ; The boom in the cheaper
and aanaier s ™ tyP e 18-footer
sailing-boat has caught on in Sydney
since the quarrel with the old crowd.
Last year the new body had only five
boats of the skiff type. Six more have*
taken the water this season, which opens
on September 29. The State champion-
ship for these boats, which carries the
Windeyer Cup, will be raced for on
November 23 and 24 and on December 5.


,\v i'";,• )y\ \ v-vp*
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession, The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
World's Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
COMES TO AUSTRALIA
AND SCORES AN INSTANT SUCCESS!
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN-
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
No More Stomach Pain
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY IT!
Prof, H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed - in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
Is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder is
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most
effective ever devised as a remedy for
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Dyspepsia, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Palpitation, Nausea, Acidity, Stomach
Ulceration, etc.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100%
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains - and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS-NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief—the most worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Fails! You may be offered
something said to be “just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this
“H.M.” device on the package. Take
no excuse —— accept no substitute.
Genuine Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder is sold only in White Pack-
ages with Black ■ and- Red Printing.
Every doctor, the World over recognises the
pre-eminence of Prof. Maclean, in modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions is now avail-
able to YOU. In future, eat what you fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
H^RRISO^
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights are claimed to tho
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what-
ever in connection with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON - MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for any form of Digestive and
Stomach upset accompanied by Acid, Gas or Nausea.
V ; „" • • •* r 'i ■■ \ f ' ' . c.v."'.- •, ' . , ’ , t v . . ,
If supplies of HARRISON-MACLEAN STOMACH POWDER not available locally, post order
(adding 4d. postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney,


cv
c
H
yyjfn
E
R
MADE IN
:
W AU
STRALIA
Y
df
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD.,
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Melbourne!
%e Cat
/ m.§ m
■ mo
mS* O&iSf
Australia’s Leading Financial Journah
September Issue Now on Sale.
THE WEAKNESS IN THE MARKET
SEARCH FOR GOOD YIELDS
CLOUDED INTERNATIONAL OUTLOOK
IRON AND STEEL MERGER
MINING NOTES AND COMMENTS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £7/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
TO
ENJOY f
LIFE AND I
GOOD LIVINGS
||
(A good Single Bed- jp>
room, with Hot and 35.;
Cold Water, ’Phone ||
and Reading Lamp, jg
from 7/- per day;
Double Room at
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
w. G. Bulfin, Manager. M
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Still “Saving” Us!
The setting-up of non-productive—
often vexatious —-Government depart-
ments continues to be a fashionable
extravagance ; the national debt is grow-
ing, and must continue to do so as long
as Budgets remain unbalanced ; taxation
is blistering still, and emergency measures
loaded on to private enterprise during the
worst of the depression are beginning to
look like the Old Man of the Sea.
This country’s top-heavy civil service,
its seven Parliaments and incidental
costs, the spineless attitude of every
Government in every State towards
necessary economies where sound finance
means loss of sectional political support
—this feature of politics has had, and
unfortunately is still having, a bad effect
on our general outlook.
When depression struck, it was public
finance that showed up worst in Aus-
tralia. It is no excuse to point out that
some other overseas countries were in
a similar plight. The line of least resist-
ance has almost invariably been followed
in Budget management, except where the
Commonwealth Bank has put its fool
down.
It may seem that investments and the
Stock Exchange are brought into this
page too frequently. But they represent
finance, and the misery of the four years
from the beginning of 1930 was largely a
matter of finance, money, business acti-
vity and employment, or whatever you
like to call it. Wool was depressingly
low in price, it is true, and so were wheat,
metals and other of our staple exports.
Still, we have had low prices for these
products more recently, and yet have
done much better. Confidence has been
partly restored.
But, quite apart from the Abyssinian
affair, confidence is not so evident as it
was. Public finance is at all times a
recondite matter to men in the street
—few such men, for example, ever have
the opportunity of running their busi-
ness on Parliamentary Budget lines —and
the last meeting of the Loan Council
had a somewhat startling effect. It was
shown that our debt had been piling up
at the rate of £30,000,000 or so a year,
and State Treasurers demonstrated every
willingness to keep on borrowing. Two
of them were furious when their demands
(one specified £5,500,000 and the other
£2,000,000) were refused.
This time Governments had to come
on to the open market for their require-
ments. For three or four years Budget
deficits were unobtrusively financed on
Treasury bills, discounted by the banks.
The taxpayer and the investor now had
food for thought. The latter, starved of
profitable outlets for his money for some
years, had rushed the first two or three
loans after things had become more or
less stable at rates of interest flattering
to Treasurers. But loan threatened to
follow loan, civil-service salary cuts were
partially restored despite unbalanced
Budgets, the inroads of Government con-
trol and profit-levies in private business
showed no signs of letting-up—and the
investor became dubious.
Interest rates on mortgages remain
comparatively stable ; yields on Govern-
ment securities have taken a disturbing
upward movement. The November,
1934, 3 p.c. loan is now at £94. Consols
generally have not been so weak in the
market since 1933.
On the other hand, ordinary shares in
industrial companies, despite the heavy
taxes which have to be borne, are at a
higher level than at any time since 1929,
excepting the peak prices of a few weeks
back. These opposite movements are not
entirely anomalous; as equity shares
begin to give higher returns (through in-
creased profits) non-equity or fixed-
interest-bearing securities are likely to
lose favor. But Consols have fallen
more than in mere sympathy with pre-
vailing interest expectations.
The sceptics are asking “What is this
prosperity? Isn’t it just the stimulus of
borrowed money going into ‘works’?”
We have had that brand of “prosperity”
before, and have paid dearly for it.
No. Our progress has been more sub-
stantial than that. But, from the point
of view of public finance, we are run-
ning too close to the wind for comfort.
It is safe to say that responsible opinion
tolerates the present administration of the
“Let me have the pleashah of introducing you—Numbah 98762 , meet
Numbah 79310.”
public purse only because the other type
of political control offering has proved
worse.
Last week the uncertainty about Placer
Development’s intentions in respect to
its Avoca (Vic.) interests was mentioned ;
a definite —though very bald—announce-
ment has now been made that the options
held (through its subsidiary, Clutha De-
velopment) over the New Middle Creek
and New Pyrenees properties are being
abandoned. No specific reasons are yet
to hand ; and from £5 last week (they
touched £27 at one stage) New Middle
Creek shares slumped to 30s. on Thurs-
day, It is another nasty shock to in-
vestors. Great hopes were held in re-
spect of the Avoca field.
* ❖ * *
Perkins, Ltd., the old Queensland
brewery, is passing over the residue of
its assets (excepting cash) to Castlemaine-
Perkins, the concern which acquired most
of its other assets a few years back, for
£197,000 in cash. This works out at
10s. 4d. (gross) per Perkins share. The
assets now sold include 11 freehold
hotels (four in Brisbane, the rest mostly
in Ipswich and Toowoomba), 14 lease-
hold houses and the Mary-street prem-
ises, The transaction should result in
the eventual liquidation of the Perkins
business, which was formed into a com-
pany in 1882, The last 10 years or so
of the co.’s life make a sad story —of
lost trade, cessation of beer-brewing and
squabbles among shareholders and
directors. Many holders of Perkins scrip
will be pleased with the finale. A few
months back the shares were worth only
ss. or 65., as against 9s. 3d. last week.
As far as Castlemaine shareholders are
concerned, there may be a new issue of
shares to help finance the deal, which is
expected to be completed by Dec. 31.
'i* ,
General Industries, Ltd., has returned
to the ord. dividend list with an interim
distribution of 5 p.c. p.a., the first to
ord. shareholders in years. This con-
cern controls the Metters-K.F.B. busi-
nesses, manufacturers of stoves, pipes,
earthenware and builders’ fittings gener-
ally, It was one of those 1927-28
mergers, and a bit of a premium was
put on the old Metiers ord. scrip ; these
shareholders received five new shares, in-
cluding two deferreds, for every three old
ords. held. In August, 1934, 7s. 6d. per
share was struck off G.I. ord. shares, the
p. and 1. debit was wiped out, and
£156,949 was knocked off shares in sub-
sidiaries. The cleaning-up of the posi-
tion permitted the present improvement
in trading to be reflected in distributions
to shareholders.
* * # *
Queensland businesses have been shar-
ing in the general trade recovery ; this
State appears to have possibilities for
the inter-State investor which are not
yet fully recognised. Perhaps the
particularly oppressive Queensland taxa-
tion administration has something to do
with the wide yield offering to southern
investors in Queensland stocks. Castle-
maine-Perkins returns £4 ss. 2d. per cent,
at 235. 6d., as against £4 p.c. or less for
Tooths, Tooheys and Carlton, the prin-
cipal N.S.W. and Vic. beer-manufac-
turers.
Castlemaine-Perkins showed a profit of
11.1 p.c. on increased average capital
in its latest term, as against 10.6 p.c. in
1933-34. McWhirters, Allan and Stark
and John Hicks, retailers all of them,
have disclosed substantial improvement.
Engineering Supply Co., Queensland
Cement, Walkers and Evans Deakin—
the pronounced recovery in earnings in
each case points to a notable increase in
construction activity. Queensland is a
State with a great future if politicians
give it a fair chance.
* * * *
The comparative weakness in the price
of gold—£7 Is. in sterling or thereabouts
—is interesting. Certainly it went a few
pence below the £7 mark some weeks
back; but it is much weaker than early
this year. It means that sterling cur-
rency, compared with six months ago, is
at a premium despite war talk. Gold
and gold currencies are prized property
during a war —Italy is finding lack of
the metal a handicap in building up the
sinews for its East African campaign—-
and the confidence in sterling is flattering.
* # * *
Panic closed the Federal Deposit Bank
(Brisbane) in 1931. How needless it was
has been further demonstrated by
the liquidator’s repayment of £130,000
of 3 p.c. stock on September 16.
It was not due until Dec., 1936, and Dec.,
1937. An effort was made to get the
holders of the p.c. stock to accept
similar repayment; they, however, pre-
ferred to leave their money where it
was, as a safe p.c. isn’t easily ob-
tained these days. Shareholders should
receive slightly more than 20s. in the £l.
* * * *
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co. shows
less than half the 1933-34 profits in its
latest accounts; at £143,016 the result
to June 30 is equal to only 1.3 p.c. on
ordinary capital, after allowing for the
10 p.c. pref. requirements. No ord.
div. is recommended ; 5 p.c. was paid
last year. The latest year’s profit bore
charges in connection with revaluation
of trading and other assets ; volume of
turnover is said to have increased. A
special distribution of £120,000 is being
passed on to the parent co. by the
Barnet Glass subsidiary.
The British “deadweight” national debt
at March 31 shows a reduction of
£21,861,000 at £7,800,436,000 sterling—
it is roughly seven times the Australian
debt-burden, treating the £s of each
country as being of equal value. Most
Commonwealth and State borrowing was
done when the currencies were pegged
almost together. There is also a British
floating debt, borrowed under various
Acts, amounting to £101,996,000, com-
pared with £208,064,000 the previous
year. Reduction for the year in the
total debt was thus £128,000,000 The
Commonwealth’s debt, largely owing to
unbalanced State Budgets and quasi-
revenue expenditure charged to capital,
grows on unchecked.
Ellis H. Davies, chief engineer of
Charles Ruwolt Pty., Melbourne, on his
recent trip overseas found British en-
gineering industries working at high
pressure, largely on account of the gold-
mining revival. Still, he came to the
conclusion that his own firm and its
employees outshone in organisation and
efficiency most of the factories he had
visited. Ruwolts have made great pro-
gress over the last three years or so ;
the Golden Mile depends to a great
extent on Ruwolt grinding mills and other
heavy machinery.
* * * *
Claude Neons have a good word for
Australian industry. Ninety-five per cent,
of the material used in their signs is
Australian.
jJj *l* 4* jfc
“C.R.”: Phil Wirth, who has taken his
circus business indoors at the King’s
Theatre, Melbourne, has spread the
boards with the largest mat ever made
in Victoria. Its diameter is 40ft., and
its weight a ton and a half. It was made
by the blind workers of the Institute in
St. Kilda-road.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE. DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
‘‘Sequoia”
“Sequoia,” at Sydney St. James, is not
just another animal film ; it is different.
It tells a story of a friendship between
animals which by all the conventional
rules should be born enemies. Jean
Parker, living with her father in the
Rockies, adopts a puma cub and a young
deer and brings them up together. When
full-grown they are released, but their
strange friendship continues. Some re-
markable camera shots—the photography
throughout is splendid show them
drinking from the same pool and
playing together, the deer nuzzling the
puma. The ending taxes credulity some-
what, but the whole thing is neverthe-
less so well done as to excuse it.
Gato (the puma) sees the villain of
the piece hunting Malibu (the deer), and
in turn hunts him. A terrific fight be-
tween man and puma ensues (splen-
didly realistic work, this). Gato is thrust
over a cliff into a deep lake, whereupon
Malibu charges and hurls the man after
him. The closing scene shows Gato and
Malibu silhouetted against the horizon in
a setting of exquisite beauty. A fine bit
of nature-faking.
“After Office Hours”
A Clark Gable-Constance Bennett dish
with Stuart Erwin-Billie Burke sauce.
Take one tabloid newspaper office with
Gable as editor and Constance as a
young-lady-who-wants-to-do-things ; one
night club ; one riverside shack, furnished
like a Fifth-avenue mansion; one
murder. Allow Clark and Constance to
wisecrack their way from scene to scene
and _ place to place ; mix in a dash of
Erwin; allow Billie Burke to simmer a
little; wait till Clark solves the murder
mystery; then put your hat on and go
home, amused and satisfied. Also at St,
James,
“Now I’m a Lady”
Mae West is said to have penned the
story of “Now I’m a Lady.” She begins
her career in the film by winning a ranch
in a gambling game. Oil is found
on the property by a handsome young
English engineer, who runs away when
he discovers that Mae is out to cap-
ture him. Miss West crashes into society
in a spectacular manner and acquires
a husband, a young waster with a good
family name. Waster’s aunt instructs
him to compromise Mae. He is killed,
and Miss West is accused of the murder.
The stage is thus made ready for the re-
appearance of the engineer—he has been
hovering in the background disguised as
an English peer—who clears the lady’s
name and escorts her to the altar. Sydney
Prince Edward audiences appear to
enjoy the film, but this deponent, who
has seen Miss West go through precisely
the same tricks on three previous occa-
sions, lost interest long before the end.
“The Glass Key”
Also at the Prince Edward. An audi-
ence thoroughly acquainted with the rami-
fications of American municipal politics,
the liberties enjoyed by the American press
and the apparent immunity of wealthy
American grafters from police action
might be able to intelligently follow
this mingling of murder, politics and
romance. Even so, it is so rambling, un-
convincing and full of bathos that anyone
so acquainted would find it irritating.
George Raft is the tough young political
henchman who risks his life to prove
that his boss is innocent of a trumped-
up murder charge. Rosalind Keith is
the gal worth fighting for.
“The Black Room”
At Melb Hoyts’ De Luxe, The sinister
Karloff is a wicked Hungarian baron who
lives in a castle with a black room. It is
a custom of the family when twins are
born for No. 1 to be murdered by
No. 2 in the black room. To inter-
rupt the tradition Karloff’s father
has the room walled up, but Kar-
loff makes a secret door. To render
the interruption more complete he in-
veigles his younger brother into the room
and kills him, leaving a dagger stick-
ing through the chest, point upper-
most. He is in the act of marrying
the most beautiful and innocent girl in
the neighborhood when his murdered
brother’s dog bounds down the aisle,
chases him from the altar, hounds him
back to the castle, drives him to seek
shelter in the black room, and there leaps
upon him and hurls him down a flight
of stairs, at the end of which he falls on
the point of the dagger sticking out of
his brother’s chest. Thus is prophecy
fulfilled and bunk justified. Karloff
doubles the twin parts.
“Mickey Plays Papa,” sandwiched in
between these films, is one of the
funniest Walt Disneys present critic has
seen.
“In Old Kentucky”
There is more than' one reason why
nothing disparaging should be said about
this opus. One is that Will Rogers makes
“Fancy that now! And I always thought Macduff Was a pudding !”
a posthumous appearance in it. Others
are that it satisfies the requirements of
his type (the Nat Gouldish racing
romance), and is plentifully sprinkled with
humor. Rogers is a trainer, and his life-
long association with horses enables him
to fill the part to perfection. He shines
either as a driver of pacers or a rider
of gallopers, and exhibits a flair for tap-
dancing (the story requires that he should
study this art to win the hand of a nice
widow). Heroine Dorothy Wilson intro-
duces a variation into the usual lover-Iy
fade-out by wearing a mask of mud—
she has just ridden her horse to victory
on a bogged course. At Sydney State.
“Hooray for Love”
Supporting “Becky Sharp” at Sydney
Embassy, this film is the better entertain-
ment of the two. Gene Raymond, a
college graduate, pursues Ann Sothern,
a variety singer. She, of course, uses
every means to evade and discomfit him ;
he insists that she will be playing in “my
show on Broadway by the fall.”
He makes a more permanent acquaint-
ance with the lady upon meeting her
father “the Commodore” (Thurston
Hall, strongly reminiscent of Thackeray’s
Captain Costigan), who persuades Gene
to mortgage the last remaining assets left
to him by his father and put the stuff
into a show.
The promoters bolt with the dollars,
and the Commodore, stung by the hard
words of Anne, decides, with many dra-
matic declarations, to marry “the
Duchess” (Georgia Caine), a wealthy and
kind-hearted noodle who admires him.
He inveigles her on to a boat bound for
the Bermudas with the promise of a sea-
board marriage, gets a cheque for 15,000
dollars from her, and clears off on the
pilot boat. The show is about to go on
when the creditors report that payment
of “the Duchess’s” cheque has been
stopped, and demand a return of the
scenery and costumes. There is nothing
for it but actual marriage with “the
Duchess” this time, and the Commodore
carries out his duty nobly. The dancing
and comedy are excellent, and the singing
quite good of its type. Lionel Stander,
as the temperamental producer, deserves
special mention,
“Forgotten Men”
Propaganda for world peace, in which
scenes of the last war, from Govern-
ments’ archives, are used. A running
commentary is given by John Hammer-
ton, the war historian, and there are
peace pleas by wearers of scars and
medals. Many of the scenes are poorly
photographed, but that makes them more
A.
convincing. Great guns belch and re-
coil; torpedoed ships slide beneath fcon-
taining water; gas masks are dragged
on ; ’planes and Zeppelins fight and crash
in flames ; and, finally, tanks lurch on to
victory. Occasionally mud sucks down
a struggling soldier; another writhes on
his back, mortally wounded. There are
a few glimpses of civilian refugees
scrambling with household gods to tem-
porary safety. Panoramas of vast war
cemeteries fittingly close this vivid im-
peachment of war. Then the Sydney
Lyceum management provides an anti-
climax by flashing on the screen: “Good
Night—Happy Memories”!
“In Caliente”
Agua Caliente, the town that clusters
round a Mexican race-track, is allegedly
the scene of this series of cabaret
turns. The plot doesn’t matter in
the least. Pat O’Brien as “the bril-
liant editor of one of New York’s
smartest magazines” is a roughneck who
celebrates publication day by dic-
tating one paragraph that shows no
brilliance whatever and ordering in a
case of whisky, lapsing presently into un-
consciousness. There being plenty of
time to get out the next issue, associate
editor E. E. Horton (who owns the jour-
nal) shanghais his chief and fakes him to
Caliente to sober up. After this libellous
glimpse into the office life of Manhattan’s
Menckens and Nathans the affair
switches into sequences in which ladies
of all shapes and sizes dance and sing
to rumba rhythm. Dolores del Rio is
principal ballerina, and the most ambi-
tious musical offering is a parody on “La
Cucharacha,” first heard in Sydney in
the technicolor film that took its name
from the song. An effort to entertain the
tired American businessman. It’s no
wonder he’s tired.
Some First Nights
The boy’s Olympian superiority to so
many of the sentiments that sway his
elders may be one of the reasons why his
voice stands so very high among the
mediums of musical expression. Its purity
of. timbre made it the chosen first violin
of the choral orchestra a thousand years
ago. The Viennese Boys’ Choir, which
made its collective bow at Sydney Town
Hall one night last week, is an organisa-
tion of respectable antiquity. For 500
years its masters have experimented with
methods of training; have explored har-
monies and balances, and have handed
on what gold stayed in their sieves. The
choir, in its 1935 edition, is a virtuoso
instrument, perfectly disciplined, bal-
anced to a hair’s weight. It is the sort
of choir Handel and Bach and the great
host of Italian contrapuntalists heard in
dreams.
There was no Bach in the first night’s
programme, but a Handel “Hosannah”
of many parts had all the brilliance of
a bout between masters of rapier-play.
Italian composers long-forgotten, save in
ecclesiastical circles—De Viadana, Asula,
Victoria —contributed magnificent solem-
nities. Schubert’s wealth of melody
was effectively raided (he was once a
singer in this selfsame choir), and
Mozart, also an “old boy,” was repre-
sented by a whole operetta in costume,
“Reconciliation” (a charming affair), and
his most touching song, “The Violet.”
Seldom has Mozart’s severe elegance
been so finely presented. Brahms’s
“Cradle Song” and a clever arrangement
of Strauss’s “Blue Danube” (trust Vienna
not to forget its waltz king!) were also
heard, and one English song, “Drink to
Me Only.” In England last year there
raged a controversy in musical circles as
to whether this old song deserves its long-
continued popularity. Some pundits said
it was unmitigated tripe. The boys from
Vienna probably don’t care whether it
is or not, and neither did their audience,
which gave this item most unmistakable
approval.
•b b b , b
Asa peep into the harsher lights of
Governor Macquarie’s regime, Dymphna
Cusack’s “Red Sky at Night,” launched
by Sydney Players’ Club at the St. James
Hall, has merit; characterisation is
sound and atmosphere is achieved. But.
despite a hard-working cast, the piece
lumbers along heavily. The lines are
good, but not good enough to offset
the slender theme, and there is a dearth
of humor. A wild evening in 1815 finds
Alicia, fleeing from an unhappy match,
at an inn near Parramatta. An incred-
ible love affair ensues between her and the
hostel’s ostler, a “political” prisoner, and
the curtain rings down on their elope-
ment, which culminates tragically in an
attempt to breast a swollen river. Red-
coat John Appleton (producer, also)
swashbuckled through the three acts,
Colin Jones brought dignity to his poet-
vagabond role and Harold Fraser made
the inn-keeper a picture of glum corpu-
lence. As distraught Alicia, Laura West
was haughty, but little else, and Nora
Allen dimpled becomingly as the inn-
keeper’s wench.
Harold Simson’s “In Port,” a thriller
with elements of wit, which preceded


the Australian play, showed Arthur
O’Keefe and Robert Grome to advan-
tage.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Melbourne has produced the latest
infant prodigy—Noel Newton-Wood,
aged 12, who has received pianoforte
tuition from Seidel at the Uni. Con. He
appeared before a crowded Assem-
bly Hall last week and played
Mozart, Bach, Haydn and Handel with
an obviously comfortable margin of
facility, and with the usual boyish absence
of subtlety of color when it came to
Schubert, Chopin and Debussy. He dis-
plays the same calm in the face of an
audience as does Phillip Hargrave, and,
if his programme was not so exacting, it
was on much the same level of technical
proficiency. In his final number, Liszt’s
Hungarian Rhapsody No. 8, somebody
had forgotten to lift the roof of the
piano, and this was done in the middle of
his performance without shaking his
aplomb in the slightest. Unlike young
Hargrave, Noel is to be withdrawn
from public appearances forthwith, and
sent to Europe for further training. He
comes from a family with a musical
tradition ; an uncle of the same name
was one of Melbourne’s distinguished
musicians.
4* 4* 4* 4*
This year, on his annual visit to Mel-
bourne’s Niagaracultural Show, The
Bulletin man was accompanied by a
friend, one of those individuals who,
while neither sad nor melancholy, is un-
shakably incapable of awe, reverence or
enthusiasm. He yawned in the face of
the giant pumpkin from Sale, and, con-
fronted with the display of bottled pears,
bunches of grapes, hams, cakes and con-
diments from Warrnambool, whicli
would have turned a weighing-machine
into a voluptuary, he merely coughed
and stroked his chin. His eye gleamed
momentarily when it fell on the three
fat babies waiting to be adopted in front
of the booth of the Foundling Hospital,
but it became glassy again when he
mounted to the arena to inspect the
Grand Parade. The vast, open space was
an orderly kaleidoscope of vivid color,
correct tone and perfect form. White-
faced Hereford bulls, like mountains on
the move, wove themselves in a stately
dance between avalanches of Clydesdales
with gigantic chests, feathered legs, larri-
kin eyes and absurd-looking sterns with
bobbed tails tied up with little bows.
Lovely ladies in sable habits pranced by
them in the opposite direction mounted
on coal-black steeds, followed by Tom
Thumb youngsters on ponies born and
bred in Lilliput. By the time Lord Hunt-
ingfield arrived the arena was a tossing
sea of brawn and muscle, of bovine pride
of ancestry and equine aristocracy and
arrogance; but The Bulletin man’s
friend heard a low muttering, and, direct-
ing his attention to the threatening sky,
shook his head and sighed. Hurrying
through the Hall of Agriculture, he
looked negligently at the sheaves of
wheat, the piles of wool and the dyed
wool made into rugs that looked as nice
as the most costly furs ; and in a hall
that was full of the smell of rich cheese
and butter, bacons and hams he only
sneezed. As he emerged there was a
terrific clap of thunder, a gust of wind
shook the trees and the rain began to fall
as if somebody had upended the Sylvan
Dam over the suburb of Flemington.
Going through the exit, he felt obliged,
out of politeness, to show some enthusi-
asm, or perhaps he was secretly im-
pressed. “Even the most pessimistic
person must admit,” he said in a tone
that suggested the words were being
dragged out of him against his will,
“we’ve improved a bit on the aborigi-
nals.”
Current Artbursts
“Paintings and Prints,” the latest addi-
tion to Melbourne’s cultural background,
was opened at Kodak House with
a show of water-colors by the ex-Vic-
torian W. M. Whitney. Whitney’s sub-
ject-matter is mainly N.S.W. and Sydney
Harbor, and his work has a flavor of
Streeton, a dash of Harold Herbert and
not a little suggestion of Hilder.
A parade of pictures at the Fine Arts,
Melbourne, includes canvases by Dora
Wilson, Robert Campbell, G. Buck-
master, W. B. Mclnnes, Arthur Streeton,
Will Rowell, Louis McCubbin and Hans
Heysen, all in their well-known manners.
“Blossom and the Pool,” “The Fence,”
“Quince and Pewter” and “Sunlight and
Morning” show evidences of an endeavor
by V. Murray Griffin to get out of the
rut, but in his pictures Nature runs
second to paint.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Staffordshire has tired of its patterns
for crockery and is reaching out into the
world of really arty art for designs that
will fit snugly round a cup, make a pleas-
ant splash in the middle of a plate or
frieze the rim of a soup tureen. The
revolution seems to have come from
within the pottery industry. A girl named
Clarice Cliff showed adaptability as a
millhand. She had the touch. An
apprenticeship as a gilder (Is. per week)
rewarded her facility. There never was
such a gilder. One of the great high
priests of the Staf-
fordshire pots en-
couraged her to
try her hand at
designing. He swal-
lowed hard when
he looked at her
first efforts. Para-
phrasing Kipling's
devil he said “It’s
art, . but will it
sell?’' It did, and
the door barred by
centuries of jeal-
ous guildship fell
down. Now you
can buy a dinner
set decked all over
with Dame Laura
Knight’s circus
people; morning
sets inscribed in
flowing gilt with
Ernest Proctor’s
witty interpreta-
tions of the themes
of courtship and marriage; gorgeous
plaques redrawn (and reduced) most
faithfully from big color mosaics by
Frank Brangwyn; beautiful little sets
in grey and white from designs by the
same artist. Arresting sketches by
Duncan Grant, Paul Nash, Albert
Rutherston and Michael Wellmar flaunt
on coffee cups. John Everett’s exquisite
drawings'of the-Cutty Sark give a mari-
time flavor. An etcher who pays subs, to
the A.S.E. weighs in with a fish service.
Leavening the whole show are the splen-
didly effective designs of Clarice Cliff,
who learnt crockery before she began to
think about art. It’s a trade show at
Beard Watson’s in Sydney. The Bulletin
gives it a cheer because it is an answer
“Thirlmere,” by J. Muir Auld, in the Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
to “Dauber’s” plaint (B. 28/8/’35) that
the artist is debarred from the trade in
consumable commodities. Staffordshire’s
cups and saucers are not yet made of
unbreakable materials.
4* 4* 4* 4*
H. Neville Barker, whose water-colors,
pen-drawings and etchings are on show
in Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney, is
a young artist whose black-and-white
work is more mature than his other
offerings. He is master of a graceful
line, and has studied pen-and-ink tech-
nique very thoroughly. His etchings and
drawings are distinctive and charming.
The essays in color are all successful as
far as they go, and one of them at’ least,
“Girl in Cloak,” is a remarkably effec-
tive piece of decoration.
4* 4*
Mary Cecil Allen, the Australian
modernist who returned recently from
America, in opening an exhibition of
modern furnishings by Miss Van
Sommers at the Collegiate Galleries, Mel-
bourne, said Australia was lucky to have
so few antiques because, where a country
is full of antiques, the homes have a
static background. Where’s the luck?
An antique is something that has sur-
vived for the same reason as a book or
a picture survives—because it has some-
thing of the universal about it. Some of
the antiques are not of a superlatively
good tradition, but the worst of them
exhibit more pleasing forms than the
existing fashion which produces city
buildings like piles of packing-cases and
steel furniture which makes a drawing-
room look like an operating theatre and
a bedroom look like a dentist’s clinic.
Miss Van Sommers’s best efforts are
rugs in which appliques of felt are used
to produce Euclidean designs on plain
or variegated backgrounds. The colors
often chime happily, but the designs
traced on them smack of the kinder-
garten,
►I- *s* 4* 4*
The Athenaeum Gallery, Melbourne,
has an exhibition by Janie Wilkinson
Whyte, whose art is scarcely up to
metropolitan standard. The largest
canvas is a view from a Mt. Macedon
garden, and has a suggestion of distance,
but the flowers in the foreground step
out of the picture.
Cool comfort for Spring! Smooth-fitting Prestige "Nicks” with lace applique.
The "Invisible” brassiere may be made completely backless for evening.


Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Kvery
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Koom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
liUnch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The gardens of Government House
have not one half the beauty of the
Botanic Gardens next door. In fact,
except for their vista of Farm Cove
between the spires of cypress, the Gov-
ernor’s pleasaunces are easily beaten by
many of the gardens about the homes of
private citizens. But for all that they are
a gracious place to walk in on a spring
day when the breeze blows off Port Jack-
son and the wistaria droops in mauve
elegance along the sun-washed path above
the lower lawn. Last Friday was such a
day, and the public took advantage of
the offer of Lady Hore-Ruthven to in-
spect the grounds. They flocked in by
the dozen, each grown-up paying a
shilling, each youngster sixpence. The
money went to the Kindergarten Union,
the Industrial Blind and the T.B. Sol-
diers and Sailors’ Association. Caged
inside the tennis courts was an aviary of
tiny kindergarteners, who scrambled
after balls, read books under gaudy sun
umbrellas and played their games, com-
pletely disregarding the grown-ups who
stood outside the wire-netting cooing
over them.
With 3000 Boy Scouts about the city,
the average citizen is having so many
good deeds worked on him that he is
getting quite a hunted look. Ever since
it was declared an open season the
brown-clad, cheery-faced company have
been loving their neighbors as them-
selves, but what of the neighbor? Has
he been as generous in return? One of
the reasons of the week is to fatten up
the association’s bank balance, and, if
any man feels he hasn’t given measure
for measure, there are still two days
left of the chosen week.
On Friday, under the noonday sun,
the young army, with fife and drum and
green banners flying, marched through
the city streets. As decorative acces-
sories they had lifesavers (full size) on a
lorry and a rowing skiff. Up to the
inner Domain they stepped, and there,
brown as locusts, they settled—so close
that not a blade of grass was to be seen.
The Governor, as Chief Scout, made a
speech ; knight Kelso King—good friend
to the cause —and Sam Walder and
David Maugham followed. One by one,
two by two, silently, like the Arabs, the
Scouts stole away. But, though thinned
the ranks, many hundreds of diehards,
some of them as stalwart as women
golfers, stayed till the end.
Sydney’s heart has warmed to the
small boys of the Viennese Choir. In
their long-trousered blue sailor suits they
make instant appeal to the man in the
street. “Bright youngsters,” he mutters ;
“they don’t even look musical.” And
because he’s an Australian he likes them
all the better for it. But at night-time
in the Town Hall when they appear in
their black cassocks and white surplices,
walking demurely, arms lightly folded,
or holding a sheet of music, you know
they are all artist. They open their
mouths wide, as wide as blackbirds open
their little beaks, and out comes music
crystal-clear. “Such small boys, so far
away from home. Ido hope their diet
is looked after,” a woman murmured
between the items of the first concert.
Her mind can be at rest. Each lad
drinks a quart of milk every day, and
the food has the personal attention of
the choir’s director.
Platoons of small boys were at the
concert, choirs of St. Andrew’s and the
Westmead Boys’ Home. Among the audi-
ences were the De Abravanel couple,
Mrs. E. J. Tait, very trig in black velvet,
and Mrs. Jimmy Bancks, in turquoise
velvet. Mrs. Staal, too, was an early
booker ; so was dancer Irene Vera Young.
Mrs. Ainsworth brought black velvets
and daughter Betty in field-flower-scat-
tered chiffons. A pleasing thing about
the children is their readiness to burst
into song. They did it on Central, sing-
ing “God Save the King”; they piped
sweetly for Archbishop Kelly, for acting
Lord Mayor McElhone and for the
visitors to the League of Nations lun-
cheon. Since their arrival they have
added “The Last Rose of Summer” to
their English repertoire.
Sydney’s hard-worked businessmen
allowed themselves a long lunch hour
on the days the women golfers were
matching their skill, and joined the huge
gallery that followed the play at Rose
Bay and Kensington. Listening to a sym-
posium of the lads of our village on the
visitors, it appears that the women from
Britain have given more study than our
players to the matter of workmanlike kit
—“just right” was the verdict. As a
golfer the plum was handed to Mrs.
Walker, Pam Barton got a round of
applause for her fireworks —she’s an ex-
citing and spectacular player—but when
the Scotch lass was mentioned every man
instinctively straightened his tie and
stretched for a carnation for his button-
hole. In the immortal words of Elinor
Glyn, Jessie Anderson has “it.”
Lorgnettes worked overtime at the
Elliott-Ritchard wedding reception as
the matrons made careful procession
along the avenue of presents. There
were enough of these to stock a jewel-
ler’s shop. Silver and crystal, with an
occasional glint of gold, sparkled wher-
ever the eye turned, and there were a
mountain of telegrams, an equal moun-
tain, so it was whispered, of cheques.
This Letter has never seen champagne
so freely circulated, except at a party
on the stage, and with 300 guests to cut
for Madge was still busy at five o’clock
slicing the frosted cake behind its ter-
race of hyacinths, pink and mauve. One
unusual present these two can claim; —
the horoscope of each dope on special
art paper, bound in pale-blue suede and
tied up with blue ribands.
Earl Beauchamp weighed in with a
silver rosebowl. He returned by the
Makura on Sunday with his rosiest
smile to greet summer on our beaches.
On October 2 a French chef arrives to
rule his kitchen.
At the opening concert of the Viennese
Boys’ Choir, Mrs. Marsi, a resident of
Melbourne but Austrian by birth, was
one of the most attractive figures. It
was she who opened negotiations with
the ill-fated Dollfuss for the choir to
tour Australia. She wore her fair hair
in plaits about her small head, and her
coat of cloth of silver had a panel back
batiked with pink roses. A Dorothy
Welding photo.
All the best people (Archbishop Mowll
was one of them) went out to the
Infants’ Home at Ashfield to listen to
the yearly report of the good work, and
to gaze on its happy-looking youngsters,
the most convincing report of all. Lady
Hore-Ruthven, who was paying her first
call, was greeted by the president, the
MacCallum lady, and presented with a
sheaf of blue iris by two very small girls.
Camilla Wedgwood, of the Women’s
College, Minister for Social Services
Hawkins and Miss Macarthur Onslow
were among the speechmakers. On the
lawns small ones played with complete
unconcern, ate their bread and butter
and drank their milk, or drowsed off to
sleep. Matron was in her heaven and
all was right with their world.
The big draw of the R.S.P.C.A. fete
at the Julius home on Saturday was the
electric city, entirely modelled and
powered by the engineer knight and his
lads. Here are trains and cranes, and
excavator shovels (the most robust robots
of all) and fine houses, and at a little
distance farms, and in the background
mountains. There are soldiers who
march and signals that work, and lifts
taking ore out of mines. When it is
night-time this dreamland is lighted up
first of all in the human way with elec-
trics in the windows; and then in the
fairy way with pink and green and gold
and blue glow on mountain and stream,
on mine and farm. There was a con-
juror, too, in the billiard-room, and,
though one small boy doubted his every
trick, other of the youngsters were very
civil to him. They remembered the story
of the sceptical child who was turned
into a conjuror’s rabbit and had to live
in a hat.
The Randwick group of N.S.W. hockey
players jousted in what they called an
“American tournament” on Saturday.
This brought 300 girls rushing out to
Kensington racecourse, where not far
from the tracks there are, by courtesy
of the race club, seven hockey fields.
The stands and the clubrooms were given
over to the players on Saturday, so there
was a tea-party of great size when the
games ended.
Olive King, of Quambi, Edgecliff, is
one of the secretaries of Friday night’s
ball at David Jones’s which is to be the
event of Scout Week. Olive, who. is a
daughter of Kelso King, one of the
ardent supporters of Baden-Powell’s
youth movement, has put a good deal
of hard work into the organising of the
ball. The committee simply bristles with
society names. A Dorothy Welding
photo.
Maoriland eye chief Lindo Ferguson
was at the official table at the ball given
by Sydney medicine to farewell the
world’s Harley-streeters. This crowded
out David Jones’s ballroom midway
through last week, and, in spite of the
much smaller fees, accepted by English
medicoes (according to Dr. Dain), their
wives and daughters, if anything, out-
dazzled those of our half-gui'nea-col-
lectors. Bobbing among the daffodils
and stock at the entrance were bunches
of balloons emblazoned with a map of
the world. President of the New South
Wales B.M.A. Davidson, with Mrs.
Davidson (the delphinium-blue of her
frock woven with silver), greeted the
guests. Dr. Bertie Schlink, of Prince
Alfred’s, continued the smile, and
Matron Dun, the sleeves of her black
satin frock Persian-red, carried on the
glad work. Hibiscus-red moires worn
by tall Elizabeth Souttar, from England,
were an added gaiety to the official
group, and among the noticed was
Marjorie Dain, her rosy crepes glittering
with silver. The Premier Stevens couple
and the Health Ministry Fitzsimons pair
were among those who paid tribute to
the brains behind the brow. Two of the
handsomest frocks were worn by Mrs.
Brown Craig (black tulle and gold lame)
and Lady Berkeley (vellum lace and
chiffon). A good night, when bedside
manners were forgotten and maybe a
few bedtime stories remembered.
Agnes Stops, an Englishwoman who
organised the Women’s Institutes (first
cousin to our C.W.A.) in M.L., and is a
chieftainess of the movement in Britain,
brought her twinkling glance and rosy
cheeks to Sydney last week. This is Miss
Stops’s second visit, so when she spoke
at the Overseas, the Forum, and the
United Associations she found many old
friends. The Women’s Institutes in
England go further than the C.W.A. in
that they plan to become centres of the
drama and kindred arts. Much of the
visitor’s life is passed in planning deliver-
ance from life’s grimness for the women
of the dockyard areas of London.
Gardens are part of the scheme. Daffo-
dils a-blow in Canning Town are the
vista behind the steady blue eyes.
There was no buckram and not a man
about the golfing women’s “do” at Rose
Bay Golf Club the other night. After
dinner there was singing, and the guests
sat in a circle on the floor around the
piano and sang their heads off. Some
of the love songs Mr. Tauber has made
famous were heard. In between the com-
munity outbursts Joan Hammond lifted
her voice in operatic arias, while Lute
Drummond played accompaniments. At
the end there was a very prolonged “Auld
Lang Syne” while everybody flung
streamers at everybody else, and pres-
ently Mrs. Walker (she had raised gales
of laughter with her witty stories in the
early part of the evening) found herself
a maypole twined about with the bright
ribbons. Her flowered chiffons were a
happy color centre. Phyllis Wade, in
blue, was something to remember.
Sherry’s always a good drink, but when
sipped from Mrs. Mary Irvine’s crystal
it has an added bouquet. Mrs. Irvine
has one of the finest china collections in
Australia in her Manning-road home, and
the brilliant hues of Crown Derby, Coal-
port, Spode, Doulton and a hundred
more in cabinet and on shelf whisked
up the gaiety. Edgar Preece, from Adel-
aide, was guest of honor, and the 50 or
so guests were of University and judi-
ciary circles. Mrs. Howell, of the Fed-
erated Malay States, renewed friend-
ships ; the Clunies Ross couple, Jeanie
Ranken and the professorial Dakins
made a group; Mrs. C. L. Jones and
Miss E. Tildesley lingered over the
French paintings. The hostess’s rich
black silks were the right note for the
scenery.
This Letter raised a glass on Monday
evening to the happiness of the new Mrs.
Osborne de Lissa. Up till the early after-
noon she had been Mrs. Pickburn, and
only those actively concerned knew that
the late-afternoon party they were
bidden to was really the wedding recep-
tion. Mrs. Norman Dangar was matron
of honor and daughter Audrey (now
Mrs. James Chisholm) was hoverer-in-
chief. Mother and daughter are noted
for their good looks and delightful
manner.
When you consider that “I take but I
surrender” is the motto of the City of
Sydney you don’t need to be a sybil or
an augur to read significance into a
pretty little incident reported by the
“S. M. Herald.” Lady Hore-Ruthven
was strolling in the G.H. grounds on
Sunday afternoon while the public was
inspecting the gardens. When she
attempted to enter her home a policeman
“waved her off in another direction,” and
the vice-reine got a chuckle out of the
misunderstanding. But possibly the
cop.’s thumb was jerked in the direction
of Canberra.
For weeks past, every Sunday, the
rocks and trees above Middle Harbor
have echoed to the sound of German.
Sydney’s open-air theatre is rehearsing
its new show, a fairy story called “The
Crystal Ball,” and the actors and their
friends trek out by bus or car, loaded
with picnic baskets and-billies, and make
a day of it. Last Sunday librarian Ida
Leeson boiled the billy and Barnardo
Homes Ruth Beale crouched on the rocky
stage weaving black magic, while tenor
Charles Nicis made entrance and exit as
the bull between two tall gum saplings.
In the afternoon a group of well-known
artists strolled along to watch progress.
Singers Alice Prowse, Gladys Verona and
Constance Pickworth (one of the last
students to whom Melba gave singing
hints in Paris) swayed precariously on
rocks and boulders as princesses and
sylphs and such.
Painter-etchers are in the last-minute
throes of preparing their second exhibi-
tion, The Governor-General will open
the show in October. Among the
society’s 200 members are artists from
every State, and the work coming in is
varied and interesting. John Longstaff
is the president, Sydney Walker the sec-
retary and Sydney Long a prominent
member of the council. The Painter-
Etchers’ Society is run on the same lines
as the Black and White of London,
which Syd Long helped to found in 1925.
The wind blustered, and bit with icy
teeth through tweed coat and muffler,
yet a hundred or so guests bravely
breasted Darling Point-road to go to the
caravan tea-party given by the Rayner
girls on Saturday. The caravan, a cream-
and-green affair with diamond-paned
windows, could give foothold to about
ten at a time. In one corner Joan
Rayner brewed tea on an oil stove, and
Betty drew out slabs of butter and such
from the ice-chest, while a friend from
Melbourne rinsed cups and saucers at
the set-in sink. If that’s not enough of
caravan luxury, what do you say to
springy bunks, one on each side, between
them a baby chest of drawers, and at
their feet wardrobes with mirror doors?
Mother and father were at the party,
and singers and writers. Mrs. Florence
Taylor brought, or so it seemed, half
the Arts Club. In between tea-sippings
the guests paced between the trees of
Hopewood Hopse gardens.
There will be a skirl of pipes at David
Jones’s rooms when the Extra Chukka
Ball is in full swing. And —hoots, lass!
there’ll be a competition for the best
dancers of a braw Scots reel. This gorse-
and-heather touch is a compliment to
Gordon Munro, eldest son of the founder
of the Country Women’s Association.
Gordon is being married that same even-
ing to pretty Charmian Mack, and many
of the guests are coming on from the
ceremony to the dance. The G over not
and Lady Hore-Ruthven will be piped
into the ballroom, and kilts will be worn
by mony a man.


Personal and Missing Friends.
JOHN LAURENCE McGOLDERICK. Left
Leith in April, 1904, with party of 12 on the
Thompson boat for six months’ contract m
Montreal; left there, came to Port Dalhousie
to see sister. Last heard of by mother m 1906
in Fort William while he worked at water-
works. Inquirer, mother, ANNIE ALEX-
ANDER, C/o MRS. D. RUSSELL, R.R.4, St.
Catherine, Ontario, Canada.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
No. 125 of 1935.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
BETWEEN STELLA ROSALIE BRIAN Peti-
AikTlEO JAMES BRIAN Respondent.
TO LEO JAMES BRIAN late of Lothian
House 30 Semaphore Road Semaphore in
the State of South Australia formerly of
Fremantle in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Laborer. .
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date
11th day of July 1935 has issued out of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia (Divorce
and Matrimonial Causes) citing you to appear
and answer the petition of STELLA ROSALIE
BRIAN of 94 Queen Victoria Street Fremantle
in the State of Western Australia praying
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
In default of your appearing the Court will
proceed to hear and determine the said charge
and you will not be allowed to address the
Court THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty
days from the date of the last advertisement to
attend in person or by your Solicitors at the
Office of the Supreme Court in Perth and
there to enter an appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose.
T. F. DAIRES,
Registrar.
To be inserted twice in The Bulletin news-
paper.
HARDWICK, FORMAN & SLATTERY,
the Bank of Adelaide Chambers, Fremantle,
Petitioner’s Solicitors.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 781 of 1935.
BETWEEN WILLIAM CUMMINS Petitioner
And WILMA BUNTEN CUMMINS Re-
spondent.
TO WILMA BUNTEN CUMMINS formerly
of Melbourne in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
CUMMINS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
fust cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office oJ: this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of December next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition hied
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-live.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
CAPE KENT & OSBORNE, Solicitors for
Petitioner, 36 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Financially the Kitano Manx Ball was
an enormous success, the ship being
literally jambed with people. Balloons
bobbed over the decks among swaying
strands of blossom and wistaria so realis-
tic that the eyes, though not the fingers,
were easily deceived. With the assist-
ance of amplifiers the orchestra did its
job from the music-room, where the deco-
rations were the fascinating little dwarf
trees which travellers in Japan buy with
such gusto and usually kill with too
much kindness. In the dining-room was
a model of the Prince Henry Hospital
(icing-sugar, reinforced), a masterpiece
of the ship’s baker, in which electric
lights twinkled within the tiny windows,
headlights gleamed from the cars parked
in the drive and the lawns were grassy
swards of shredded green cocoanut.
Mrs. Barry Thomson carried a scarlet
balloon, and wore ice-blue lace. Barbara
Braddon, also in blue, and Norma New-
ton, in pink crinkle crepe, were given
the freedom of the purser’s office, and
pushed pencils behind the official wire
windows.
A recently-wedded pair in the throng
were the Keith Norwoods, Mrs. Nor-
wood in one of the new fish-net coats, an
adjustable covering which reached to the
hem of her floral dress. Captain Ideno was
a friendly figure, and David York Syme
brought his daughter Jean, who wrapped
herself in blue velvet. Sylvia Lane was
a-glitter with gold lame; Ella Coxen
was in black; Timmy Fellows wore
white, with some quilted trimmings,
and her sister Clare swished tomato-
shaded crepe. Mrs. Lem Callaway
danced in a long monk’s cape of navy
moire which had beneath it a rustling
frock of tartan taffeta. The N.Y.K. and
Dalgety’s gave the ship, the service and
the decorations, and it wasn’t their fault
that the supper ran out. The earliest
arrivals in the dining-room secured sand-
wiches, cakes and cups of coffee, the
five-minutes-later ones got coffee and
the last arrivals nothing at all.
Though the roads were deep in mud
and the little Bulla Hall, with its unsub-
stantial tin roof, was open to all the four
winds, everybody was in fine fettle for
the Oaklands Hunt Club Ball. Turkey
and ham were spread under canvas in
the adjacent paddock, so that by the end
of the evening every ankle was damp
and the floor lost its slipperiness and
became so sticky that swinging about in
the lancers was safe as a trot along the
tan. There were barn dances, follow-
the-leaders and rollicking songs like
“John Peel” and “Drink, Puppy, Drink,”
with Alf Watson as leader of the chorus.
“Sporting Judge” Magennis and his wife
were official receivers, and Alister Clarke
(whose garden provided most of the
botanical embellishments) and deputy-
master Alan Scot were two persons who
seemed to be everywhere at once. A
handsome brunette in bouffant taffetas
was Catherine Neylon, down for the
Show. Peg Robertson (Gundagai) draped
herself in sky-blue crepe. Mrs. Currie
Johnson wore briar-rose-pink with
deeper pink motifs upon the corsage.
Gardenias were clustered at the throat
of Joyce Wilson-Smith’s black velvet.
Chris Walker was enmeshed in black
net, gold coin-spots and twisted sash of
and green taffeta. When it was time
to hit the trail for home, John Sherwin,
who brought son John and daughter
Margie, was among the motorists who
found their means of transportation
firmly wedged in the mire,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Hartman handed
around cocktails at their flat in Toorak
in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Bernard
Perkins, who have just returned from a
marvellous trip commencing in Japan,
with a sojourn in America and a wander
through Europe. Mrs. Perkins wore a
green hat and Arctic foxes round her
neck, and the hostess chose a green gown,
long and snug, with three splits across the
shoulders. Among the guests were the
David Robertson couple, who brought
their daughter, known to Melbourne as
Aubrey, and to Sydney as Mrs. Nettheim.
Her hat was a real flowerpot of cire
straw, a gay little holiday hat, for its
wearer has for a very short time put
behind her the responsibilities of husband
and children. Present also were Mr. and
Mrs. J. Moser, who have come in for
some reflected glory through being the
parents of a couple of bonnie babies
known as “The American Twins” ; Mr.
and Mrs. Sadler Gill; Mrs. A. Barra-
clough, in rust-red pebble crepe; Mrs.
John Macgregor, in black-and-white
checks ; and Guy McHenry, with Ameri-
can-stamped letters in his pocket from
wife and son. The lad, a newly-fledged
medico, writes with the ardor of youth
of his adventures in a Hollywood hos-
pital.
Now that all the B.M.A. doings are
over tales are coming to light of slips
in the comprehensive organisation. One
story starts off at a women’s club, where a
dinner was being given. The hostess,wear-
ing her most becoming dress, felt that
everything was going forward without a
hitch ; all the expected guests had arrived
and the soup was ready to be served
when a handful of extra, unexpected and
unknown ladies was announced. After
a storm of consternation had been con-
trolled and place-card adjustments made,
there came another batch of unknowns
complete with B.M.A. badges and apolo-
gies for being late for the party. This
was distinctly serious, for the loaves and
fishes couldn’t stand the strain. Tactful
questioning, some telephoning and the
ordering of taxis smoothed things out,
and the latest arrivals were dispatched
to their rightful dinner party at another
women’s club.
At least these guests had the moral
support of one another; to gate-crash
alone is much more awkward. One
woman arrived about 7.30 at a private
home. The taxi-man had taken her to
the address as written on the engagement
card, but the people living in the house
knew nothing of a party. They had
dined, so they could not even stretch
hospitality and invite the unknown one
to share the family cutlet's and tomato-
sauce. The victim of somebody’s blunder
was so embarrassed that she wished the
floor would open and swallow her up,
and somewhere else a worried hostess,
after waiting so long that her dinner was
practically spoiled, arranged her guests
around a table with one vacant place.
Mrs. Sverre Lie, here portrayed by
Broothorn, is, with her husband, enjoy-
ing a motoring holiday to Sydney. Mrs.
Lie has accompanied her husband on three
trips to Norway, and knows enough Nor-
wegian to make his fellow-countrymen
“wary of what they are saying.” During
a midwinter visit the couple travelled to
a country estate through a quiet world
of snow, bare branches and the jingle of
their own sleigh-bells. They found the
cold of the Norseland more invigorating
but less bitter than that of many Mel-
bourne winters. Mrs. Lie’s only sister,
Mrs. John Capie-Thomson, lives in the
tropics—she and- her husband are now
settled at Wau, New Guinea.
Deniliquin (N.S.W.) is interested in a
wedding to be solemnised on October 10
at the Independent Church, Collins-
street. The ’groom is Lindsay, elder son
of Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay Field, of War-
breccan, and the bride Enid Howard-
Smith, a fair-haired, blue-eyed lass who
qualified as a nurse at the Alfred and
has recently been following her profes-
sion at the Deniliquin Hospital. She is
the daughter of the Rev. Howard-Smith,
of Beaconsfield, was born in China
(where her father was a missionary), and
went to an American mission school at
Pekin, where she lived until she was 14.
Her parents had some adventures during
the Boxer rising.
Guests at the wedding of Jean Duncan
and Alan Michaelis were invited to an
aftermath cocktail party at Menzies; the
actual matrimonial ceremony was with-
out fuss. The bride, eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Duncan, of Adel-
aide, decided to be smart and practical
rather than snow-white and ethereal.
Her dress of oatmeal woollen crepe had
three-quarter-length bishop’s sleeves, and
at the throat was a nut-brown bow.
Her expansive Breton-sailor hat was of
the same brown toning. Mrs. Michaelis
has given up the stage.
“Springtime Symptoms,” at the Em-
bassy, was one of the best-dressed and
-organised fashion shows ever put on in
Melbourne, for it went with a swing ;
there were no dragging waits, and musical
items were in the modem vernacular. The
show was a double fixture —3 to 5 with
tea and 6 to 8 with cocktails. Ticket sec-
retaries Edna Carr and Elizabeth Darling
and half a dozen more lasses wore ushers’
uniforms of white pique, long and full
of skirt and tight of waistcoat, with the
addition of something new in pique head-
dresses. As a mannequin, Mrs. Geoff
Smith almost burst into the rhythm, of
the rumba with the exuberance of an
evening jacket of black cellophane velvet.
On her wedding day Betty Erswell should
wear such a gown as the Grecian inspira-
tion of white satin, in which she looked
her very best. Margot Rhys, with her
curls dressed high on top of her head, was
distinctive in black chiffon with billow-
ing elbow sleeves, and again in white
lacquered lace made with one winged
and one bare shoulder. Kath Goodall,
with her wine-red saria, looked like
Rebecca at the well, and later was all-
blue and bridesmaidish in the gown
Winnie Tait wore as attendant at Madge
Elliott’s wedding.
Most of the evening gowns were train-
less, and so cleverly cut on the cross that
their backward fullness was a sudden
bustly protuberance below the hipline.
Gwen Munro’s golden gown had a huge
butterfly spreading its wings right across
the corsage, and a rippling frill ran cross-
wise down the back of the pink chiffon
displayed by Peg Shiels. Mavis Ripper,
who designed the dresses, came to the
afternoon party sporting a daring expres-
sion of a Hungarian peasant’s bonnet,
and Rene Murphy, who did the hats, per-
formed a musical item which tricked the
audience at first —was it supposed to be
serious or funny? It was soon seen to be
funny, and it went across beautifully.
The ankle-sweeping piles of to-day’s
and yesterday’s carpets are having more
and more competition to contend with.
One of the newest notions for floor
drapery is the felt rug, several examples
of which, designed and sewn by Kate
Van Sommers, are exhibited at the Col-
legiate Galleries. These rugs get on
beautifully with modernistic furniture.
One rug of green felt has a colored
design which suggests, impressionistically,
a grand piano. Some rugs are long and
narrow, others are large and square, and
a few are small and round, and with a
fin or two would look clever near a bowl
of goldfish. Mrs. Van Sommers utilises
the “bits” to make bags and belts for the
seaside. Pictures by Eric Thake and
Adrian Lawlor and painted calico hang-
ings by Michael O’Connell and Fred
Ward are dovetailed into the scene.
Wearing the frothy tulle ruffles is Cara,
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. P. C.
Holraes-Hunt, of Wallace-avenue, Toorak.
Miss Holmes-Hunt, who belongs to the
young contingent of workers in the cause
of charity, is one of the hon. ticket secs,
for the Animal Welfare Ball, which to-
night will spin across the floor of the
Commodore. A mannequin parade-
evening gowns and joyous summer dresses,
worn with large hats—is to be a feature
of the party.
What marvellous parties could be
planned by a wealthy hostess with the
Electrical Exhibition as an inspiration!
All that is necessary is money, a garden
and a fine night—the moon does not
matter. Clever lighting turned the great
dark Exhibition Hall into a fairyland of
gardens, vine arbors and fountains
bubbling with colored iridescence. The
loveliest garden was aglow with tulips,
each one made from crinkly paper
folded over a tiny electric globe. There
were daffodils also of paper, and roses
of organdie, all with electric hearts. Lights
were hidden in the depths of goldfish
pools, and nymphs slept in golden rays
coming from mounds of rocks, from
under the wings of bellbirds or from
beneath mushrooms straight from the
land of the gnomes and elves. Bunches
of purple grapes, radiant from within,
were draped over arbors, and peach-
blossom and wattle, synthetic and there-
fore super-perfect, grew upon the lawns.
Mr. Robot is drawing packed houses
to his half-hourly sessions at the Electri-
cal Exhibition. His most exciting trick
is “showing his teeth” and spitting blue
fire, when he looks decidedly ferocious.
His voice is croaking, and the machinery
winding itself up gives the impression
that he’s clearing his throat before he
answers questions. He’s not a handsome
person to have around the house, and
although he rings a burglar alarm a
savage Alsatian would be just as com-
forting a protection for the family plate.
Snow still lies thick upon the moun-
tains, but the season is over; there are
not enough late bookings to keep the
smaller hostels open after four winter
months. The Helmut Kofler couple are
getting ready to shut up the chalet at
Buffer, with its bunks one on top of the
other in the true Alpine style, with its
sitting - room - cum - dining - room where
tweed skirts and jumpers are the only
dressing for dinner and where the ladies'
bathroom is stiff a tin tub. A couple of
years ago a real bath was being taken
up the mountain by packhorse when it
slipped over a precipice and has never
been seen or heard of since. The Koflers
Alsatian dog and Persian cat Lousy both
adore the snow. Lousy is getting on in
years, for she’s had an eighth birthday.
Her name in the language of the Aus-
trian Tyrol is merely a term of en-
dearment.
Brainy women are supposed to go in
for unplucked eyebrows, unwaved hair,
the wrong shade of lipstick and clothes
which go down when they should go up
and fit where they touch. But Melbourne
medical student Muriel Crabtree would
never be picked as a blue-stocking she s
fluffy, with a pink-and-white skin.
Miss Crabtree has received special men-
tion in British medical journals fOl-
- work connected with iodine, con-
ducted at the Lister Institute Labora-
tories, Elstree, England. Before going to
England she got a job for herself in
Philadelphia. In Melbourne she worked
as assistant to Dr. Frank Apperley at the
Pathology Lab. Another assistant, Joan
Norris, had a trip to America, where she
stayed with the Apperleys at their Vir-
ginia home.


MIGKSIMMONS
Feature the Newest
WINCHESTER
MODEL 69
BOLT - ACTION BOX
MAGAZINE .22 RIM-FIRE
REPEATING RIFLE.
Price, £4/10/-
Adapted for .22 Short, Long or Long-rifle
Ammunition, Regular or Super-speed. An
extra magazine specially designed to handle
the Short Cartridge is supplied with each
rifle. 25in. Steel Barrel is fitted with hoodec
ramp front sight and sporting, open real
sight. Full pistol-grip stock of well-figurec
American Walnut. Take-down Screw. Ix
all a superior, modern, all-round .22 repeat
ing rifle, speedy, powerful and accurate.
(Carriage Paid.')
df
MR. LIONEL H.
BIBBY,
Mick Simmons’ well-known
Firearms and Ballistics
Expert, says of the new
Winchester Model 69:
“It is an outstandingly handsome rifle which •proves
Winchester can meet competition, without sacri-
ficing the high standard of quality for which this
name is famous. The extra magazine feature is a
decided advantage
Bet Fionel Bibby advise you on any matter
pertaining to Firearms or the Sport ol
Shooting. •
Write for Mick Simmons' Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
Are ready for the
TROUT SEASON
Greater . . .
more varied
stocks.
NEW TROUT RODS
No. 2 M.S; “Perfection” Split Cane Trout
Rod, lOift., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, ser-
rated lock joint ferrules, encased agate
butt and end rings. _ /- »
In Bag £7/15/-
No. 3X M.S. Split Cane Combination Trout
Rod. Makes 7£t. 2-piece casting rod, or
lOJft. 3-piece fly rod; cork grip, agate butt
and end rings, closely whipped. /i e /
In bag. Weight, 9J and 10J oz. £5/15/-
Montague “Sunbeam,” 3 Joints, 2 tops. Made
of brown finish cane, nickelplated fittings,
shaped solid cork grip, steel end rings and
guides. Wound two colors of silk, then
varnished. Partition cloth bag. .
Length, 9Mt. Weight, 6Joz. <6O/0
Montague “Plash,” 3 joints, 2 tops. Made
of flame finish cane, 'Shaped solid cork grip,
nickelplated fittings, steel guides and end
rings. Wound with two colors of silk and
varnished. Top frame and partition canvas
bag. Length, 9£ feet. Weight, _ .
6Joz. o^/0
{Carriage is Extra on Fishing Rods.)
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And at Newcastle.
Still the Best
Advertising Medium
for
Western Australia
THE
Perth’s Leading Weekly.
The Paper with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
m
Ik
i m*
Hii
v
X
XX
- :
X-
m
mmmm
x.
Booming!
Three weeks ago the “Woman s Mirror” announced the Wonder
Monoplane Offer for Girls and Boys. This original and unique to>
has caught the imagination of the young folks—and parents, too.
DON'T DELAY-
-SEND TO-DAY!
Thousands of girls and boys have already registered for tbs
Christmas toy, which is in keeping with the high standard of the
“Womans Mirror” and is really wonderful value for the money.
REGISTRATION FORM
Monoplane,
“The Woman’s Mirror,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please reserve a Mirror ” Monoplane for me. I will pos,al "° ,e
41- and the coupons from the next seven issues of the Mirror.
NOTE.— You may post this coupon, without a letter, in an unsealed en
one penny. SEND NO MONEY JsOW.
NAME
(Print name and address in block letters.)
POSTAL ADDRESS
STATE
B. 25/9/’35.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A Dogs’ Parade and Ballet were high-
lights of the Kennel Club Ball at the
Embassy. President B. R. Adam had
his lady’s cerise taffetas at elbow; secre-
tary K. Exley’s better-half was girt with
sapphire-blue matt crepe ; Jean Barrett
rippled crimson velvets; Rosemary Len-
nard’s blue lobelias grew in a bed of
white phantom crepe; Mrs. Gordon
Barnes flecked her coral-pink crepe with
gold, and Winnie Hart rustled moon-blue
taffetas.
Interesting to people from Northern
Europe and their descendants was the
Ohman-Sutton wedding. ’Groom Sigurd
is the son of Mrs. and the late A. Ohman,
a former Consul for Finland ; bride Elsie
is the daughter of Mrs. and the late
C, H. Sutton, well known in Perth’s
Swedish community; matron of honor
Mrs. Keith Bureau’s father, the late E.
G. Stenberg, was Consul for Sweden, and
Les Sutton was best man. A fore-veil
of tulle, shielding blue hyacinths and del-
phiniums, was attached to a cascading
Brussels lace veil which fell over Elsie’s
snowy-white satin folded into a V back
and front. Mrs. Bureau’s billowing
sheer crepes were topped by a white lace
picture hat. Rejoicings were at the
Esplanade.
St. Mary’s C.E.G.S. Old Girls had
their dance in the R.A.C. ballroom. Miss
Dannatt and Miss Hilfirty, their black
sheathings respectively in velvet and
matelasse, were in official guest pews.
Erica Hall’s black taffetas billowed at the
head of the dance committee; Sheila
Christie did secretarial duties in em-
bossed parchment satin; Mollie Wre-
ford swung bands of fur on her coffee
lame; Margot McAulay’s metal crepes
were silver-checked, and Jean Boyd
slashed her nut-brown velvets with gold
lame.
Members of the 200 Club booked
Anzac House for their well-attended
guest night. Joy Dickens the
feminine end of. the committee in a
cloudy confection of black tulle and
georgette. Billy Yde’s cotelle was striped
red and white; Isla MacLaren allied
silver lace and pink matelasse; Helen
Le Fanu flung a green cape over floral
georgettes, and Val O’Connor sashed her
blue laces with taffeta.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Regimental Ball at the Palais
Royal brought out a colorful crop of
military and naval uniforms. Lt.-Col.
A. R. Allen and his wife, the lady in
magnolia floral chiffon, received the
official guests, who included Acting
Premier Ritchie, Mayor Cain, Brig.-Gen.
Leane, Col. and Mrs. Fowler Browns-
worth and the Base Commandant, Briga-
dier McFarlane. Mrs. S. R. Symonds
(wife of the naval commander) wore
sapphire-blue matelasse. The official box
was massed with daffodils.
Margaret Pirie, who left in the Jervis
Bay for London to continue her studies,
was given a sherry party at the home of
her teacher, Madame Delmar Hall,
Unley. The house was charmingly
decorated with pink-and-white peach-
blossom. Madame wore brown marocain
with pink coral ornaments, and the guest
of honor chose a brown-tweed tailored
suit, with a primrose silk blouse and a
brown hat.
Katherine, only daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. J. W. Browne, of Somerton, married
Alexander, only son of D. A. Milne, of
Geelong, and the late Mrs. Milne at the
old Walkerville church, St. Andrew’s.
Over the bride’s magnolia satin cascaded
a veil of Honiton lace held in place by a
coronet of pearls. Judith van Zuilecom,
Pat Acraman and Phillippa McFarlane
’maided in period frocks of primrose
taffetas and poke bonnets with forget-
me-nots and primroses under the brim.
In pouring rain. Dr. Darcy Cowan,
president of the S.A. branch of the
B. and his wife entertained over
300 guests at the Mount Osmond
Country Club, The Governor was present.
The lounge, where host and hostess
received, was decorated with Iceland
poppies and other flowers in the same
tones. In the dining-room, where after-
noon-tea was served, the flowers were
pink peach-blossom and sweet-peas.
Mrs. Cowan was gowned in black maro-
cain, a smart black -hat and silver-fox
furs; she wore a spray of white flowers.
An orchestra provided music, and Clif-
ford Lathlean sang. Among the guests
were the Snowden lady, in black chiffon
velvet; Mrs. Ross Sawers, in burnt-
sienna light wool; Mrs. Harry Gilbert,
in a powder-blue tailored suit; and Mrs,
Alan Lendon, in a black tailored coat
with high-standing black fox collar and
a close-fitting black velvet hat. Dr.
Phoebe Chappie wore a brown mink
coat over a brown ensemble and a small
brown toque.
We are. sure of an overwhelming
number of welcome-home parties in De-
cember, as most of the folk who went
home for the jubilee will be returning
that month. Mrs. Hugh Corpe and her
three pretty daughters, of Medindie, who
are back in London now from the Con-
tinent, will be in Adelaide again for
Christmas.
Wallace Bruce and his lady have
issued invitations for the marriage of
their third daughter, Betty, to Robert
Fowler, of Melbourne, at St. Cuthbert’s
Church, Prospect, on October 22.
Adelaide was shocked when it learned
that Mr. and Mrs. S. Talbot Smith had
figured in a serious motor accident at
Norwood, and were both in hospital. Mr.
Talbot Smith rallied, but his wife is dead.
They were married in 1887, and had four
sons, one of whom was mortally
wounded at The Landing. Mr. and Mrs.
Talbot Smith were “in everything” at
Adelaide, and Mr. Talbot Smith has
been a Bulletin writer for many years.
TASMANIA.
Twenty-five hostesses, non-party and
non-political, entertained Mrs. Ogilvie at
lunch at Hadley’s, where the table deco-
rations were low crystal bowls filled
with cherry-blossom, freesias and blue
grape-hyacinths. Mrs. Tom Murdoch
was in the chair. The Lady Mayoress
was present. Mrs. Ogilvie told of what
she saw in Italy, where the Duce makes
marriage easy, honeymoon-trippers being
offered specially cheap fares.
The Daffodil Show at the City Hall
brought out more than bulbs and
blossoms, for it saw the first appearance
in public of his Ex. after his long weeks
of enforced inactivity at Government
House. The show was something to
remember, even the incessant wet of
the winter and spring having failed to
detract from the gorgeous coloring and
beauty of the exhibits.
Mr. and Mrs. Mae Urquharf (she was
Susie Nicholls) are here on holiday, and,
as Mary Nicholls is also in Hobart on
holiday from the Melba Con., the C.J.
and his lady find themselves in the midst
of their brood. To celebrate the event
they gave a late-afternoon party in Pil-
linger-street, where the daughters of the
house renewed acquaintance with num-
bers of old friends.
The Artillery Ball, held in the hall at
Sandford, produced 13 debs, to make
their bow to the Lieut.-Gov. (knight
Elliott Lewis) and Lady Clark, as his
Ex., though much better, is not yet
allowed to take up outside duties. Lady
Clark wore black lace with a little
coatee of the same fabric. Supper was
served in two rooms, red and blue being
the decorative color scheme.
The Orpheus Club gave its second
concert of the season at the Town Hall
to a good house. Lieut.-Gov. Lewis
and his lady and the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress sat in the seats of
the mighty. Mrs. Harold Poke (soprano),
Henry Bates and Harold Brown were
soloists, and David Dolman (violin) and
Mrs. Allen Limb collaborated in duets.
It was Elliott Lewis’s last appearance as
Lieut.-Gov.; the devoted old man died
on Sunday.
Amy Goldsworthy, Launceston, and
Colin Graham, formerly of Hobart and
now engineer to the Tongkah Harbor
Tin Dredging Co., Malay States, are to
be married within the next few weeks.
The engagement is announced of
Lieut. - Col. L. Worthington - Wilmer,
A.D.C. to Governor Clark, to Madge
Macdonald, Brisbane.


v vO%o* v
&
k
So writes the user of an “R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
A DEE AIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Etd.
PERTH; Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Etd. •
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Etd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD.
•VALLEV BRISBANE -
df
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
r RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE, AT ALL STORES
COME to Sydney
h
and STAY
$
\0
at
<9
$5
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
Save the Camel
“X.T.”: The camel, without which
Centralian settlement could scarcely exist
a few years ago, is dying out with the
advent of the motor-car, and it is a great
pity. He is an extraordinary animal. He
can go anywhere—more particularly she
can, for the best long-distance camels
are the ladies. The camel will eat any-
thing—or live on nothing if there is
nothing to eat. Fifty miles a day on
end with rider and luggage is all in the
day’s work with a good beast. The
world’s record for an Arabian camel is
over 170 miles in 24 hours —across coun-
try over which no car could travel
except at a walking pace. A 200-mile
trip without water is average.
The man is, of course, as much a
factor as the camel. Australians showed
in the Desert Campaign that they could
accommodate themselves to hardships
and meagre rations and camels; and I
should not like to be in an invading force
pushing through Centralia from the 20in.
rainfall belt with five or six thousand
cameliers scattered in groups along its
front, each two or three men armed with
a light machine-gun. Such a force,
specially adaptable for night work, would
be a formidable obstacle, able to work
at distances from a base which would
be impossible either to cars or horsemen.
Some attempt should be made to keep
the camel—its day is not done.
“Reo”: Two representatives of the
North’s oldest families have appeared in
the bronze-medal lists of the
Royal Humane Society. One
was George Wing, of Boulia.
not yet 18 but a “stockman,”
who, with another abo. —he lost
his life—tried to rescue an old
traveller who was marooned in
the middle of the Georgina. A
fine race, the Kalkadoons. The
second was Tabua Hero, a
Thursday Island Papuan, who
tried to rescue the crew of a ketch which
overturned during a hurricane in 1934.
He and two other survivors were in the
sea, mainly clinging to an upturned
boat, for 24 hours. In both cases a
money reward would probably have been
more useful.
* * * *
It is Brisbane’s turn to be assaulted
by influenza, and, other diseases follow-
ing in its wake, August was a black
month for deaths. There were 116
more registered than in the same month
of 1934—total, 418. Influenza and
pneumonia between them carried off 112
patients in August.
» * * *
“Nain”; At last Queensland University
is to have its medical school, which the
State Government will build at a pre-
liminary cost of £lO,OOO opposite the
General Hospital in Victoria Park. A
chair of dentistry is already provided for,
and a chair of medicine will shortly be
established. A research school is cer-
tainly needed in Queensland where there
are diseases of which the South knows
little, and where others which the South
does know take strange turns.
* * t- *
“Kieta”; Rabaul has just seen with
enjoyment a novel ejectment which shows
how backward are the landlords at whom
southern politicians sometimes rail. In
this case the tenant was a Malay, and
when told to remove himself he mut-
tered “Maski” and went to sleep again.
The landlord, a Celestial, gave him a day
or two, and then delivered an oration
about the law. The Malay muttered
“ Tid’apa and merely changed his posi-
tion once more. So presently John
returned with a screwdriver, and the
next time his tenant had occasion to
turn over he discovered that the
door had been taken off its hinges and
the remainder of his iron dwelling
was being removed, sheet by sheet, from
over his head. It takes more than that
to worry a Malay. Once more murmur-
ing his submission to Fate, he moved to
the shade of a palm-tree which couldn’t
be taken down with a screwdriver and
a hammer.
❖ * #
“B’long Badu”: Will Australia ever
produce another “Proffy” Watson, now
Thursday Island’s most beloved sports-
man? Born 80 and odd years ago on an
Upper Murray cattle station, “Proffy”
decided, at the age of 17 or so, and with-
out parental sanction, to see life. A few
months later found him as assistant cook
aboard the Carl brig, owned by Dr. J. P.
Murray. There he acquired a variegated
knowledge of the South Pacific in its
"Didn't get a prize, dad. The judge said she Was out of symmetry .”
"Wot's he torkin' about? She 's out o’ Sleepin' Beauty o' Boggy River.”
most picturesque period. Ensuing inci-
dents of an exciting nature shipped him
on an American whaler bound from Fiji
to ’Frisco, To work his way across
America and get to Paris from New
York was a simple matter for the kind
of lad “Proffy” was. So was a medical
course in Paris and Germany. Thereafter
ensued the Professorship of Anatomy at
Adelaide Uni., where for 40 years and
more he was the final Australian court
of reference in matters of surgical
anatomy. Generations of students loved
him for his deepsea language and his
heart of gold. His last professorial
remark was: “And now I can really go
fishing!” He has been fishing ever since
—all round the North Australian coast.
**. * *
“Petrie”:' Stewart Stormonth, clerk of
petty sessions at the pretty little sugar
town of Nambour (Q.), who shot him-
self in the office of the Under-Secretary
for Justice, was an old resident and
popular with Diggers there. Origi-
nally, he had been a teacher, but he went
to Nambour in 1914, almost immediately
afterwards enlisting. He was a captain
in the A.1.F., and is mentioned in two
war books —Hill and Jones’s Road to
Endor and Tommy White’s Guests of
the Unspeakable. He was taken prisoner
at Suvla, and spent three years in Turkey.
White calls him “blunt,” but as I re-
member him first—l spent half an hour
with him the day he enlisted —he was a
bright and active chap, eagerly looking
forward to the adventure of military
service. After he came back, he seemed
a changed man, older than his age. His
one obsession was to get back to Nam-
bour and the beautiful Maroochy River,
and, though a transfer might have meant
promotion to him, there he insisted on
staying and there, he told me when 1
last saw him 10 years ago, he meant to
spend the remainder of his days.
* * * *
“Malaguna”; The Mandated Territory
lost a well-known personality in L. F. S.
Hore, of Luburua, who was buried at
Kavieng with military honors a few days
ago. Hore was a Quetta native, and by a
curious coincidence married Emily Lacy,
heroine of the Quetta wreck, and fell
mortally ill about the time his native
city was wiped out by an earthquake.
He was originally intended for the Brit-
ish Army, and so sent to Wellington
School (England), but switched his in-
clination to the law and was called to
the Bar after taking an honor degree at
Oxford. He practised for a time in
England. Then health brought him to
Tasmania, and from there he found his
way to the Gallipoli and French fronts,
where again he graduated with honors
as a major (with M.C.) in the 2nd
Machine Gunners. From 1919 he was
for a time Judge of the Central Court in
Rabaul, and afterwards held other legal
positions, but since 1927 he had been
growing cocoanuts on New Ireland. He
was something of an artist, and the War
Record Department values in particular
his panoramic sketch of Anzac.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Macdhui, which called in at Bris-
bane a few days ago en route to New
Guinea, had aboard five girls whose
bridegrooms were waiting for the ship to
berth. Grace McNamara is to be
wedded at Salamaua ; Miss Spark, official
pianist on the Macdhui for several voy-
ages, and sister of Dr. Sparks, the ship’s
medico, at Billwah —she is to marry Nigel
Fraser, of the Bulolo Dredging Co. ; and
Annie Morrison is going to Wau to marry
W. A. Theobald.
What the Old World calls the Far East
seems to be at our front door, so con-
stant is the stream of tourists passing
through Brisbane to its glamors ox-
hurrying back to Australia to spend long
leave with relatives. A recent liner had
as passengers Mrs. A. S. Gray and her
two sons, who have been staying in Syd-
ney with Mrs. Gray’s parents. Mr. and
Mrs. Mackay Sim went back in the Nel-
lore to Hong Kong, and Major Longfield
Lloyd and his wife (he is the new Trade
Commissioner to Japan) also were
aboai'd.
Betty Douglas will marry Dud Shad-
forth at St. John’s Cathedral on October
28. Jean Douglas is to bridesmaid and
Mrs. J. S. Robertson matron of honor. ,
To celebrate the first arrival of the
Westralia in Brisbane and the commence-
ment of a regular service between W.A.
and Queensland, a thousand guests
were entertained at afternoon-tea. The
ship’s musicians performed lustily.
Mrs. Dave McWilliam and her niece
Minna Hogarth are just back from
Asia, and early in October Minna will
exchange vows with Gordon Watson, of
Pittsworth. Minna is a daughter of the
Bob Hogarths, of Balgownie. Several of
the Hogarths went west in the Great
War, and there is a lovely little memorial
chapel on the station.
The Lancashire Society of Queensland
had a dance and card party (aye, laad),
and over 130 Lancastrians turned up.
President L. A. Harrop and his wife
received the guests, and secretary W. E.
Stack looked after the card-players. There
was a song-dance, each dancer repre-
senting the title of a well-known song.
The supper was real Lancashire —and
plenty of it.
Brigadier E, M. Ralph and his wife
gave a cheery dance at their home at
Ashgrove to celebrate the 21st birthday
of daughter Eileen. Stocks, sweet-peas
and gerberas beautified the reception-
rooms, and the supper tables were prettily
decked.
Hugo Brassey brought rather wonder-
ful fishing tackle from the U.S.A. in
preparation for his sojourn on Dunk
Island. All the same, he will have to go
a long way before he gets anything better
than the Queensland yellow heart for rods.
A visiting Maorilander saw a rod in the
Forestry Department, fell in love with it,
and ordered enough wood for 20 rods to
take back to Fernland with him. He said
there wasn’t a wood in M.L. to touch
it, and that hurt, for he was Dominion-
proud, like the rest of those islanders.
A batch of medical visitors to the
B.M.A. conference arrived at Brisbane
aboard the Marella, and a covey of cars
met them at the wharf and took them to
Mt. Coot-tha, where they frolicked hap-
pily among the native bears. A mass of
tropical fruit decorated the tables, and
incidentally supplied dessert. Dr. W. N.
Robertson, president of the Queensland
branch of the 8.M.A., and Mrs. Robert-
son entertained a group at morning-tea
at Craigston, including James Purves
Stewart and his lady, Prof, and Mrs.
Sydney Smith and the O. Hofmeyrs, of
Cape Town, and afterwards drove their
guests on to Mt. Coot-tha for the
luncheon.
When Philip Hargrave gave his second
recital at the City Hall, singer Muriel
Wilson wore a delightful long-sleeved
period frock of satin brocade, girdled
with silver. Among the flowers sent up
to her was a basket of blue lupins and
delphiniums and scented freesias from
the Macartney lady. Philip collected a
number of fascinating-looking parcels, in-
cluding a book from the pupils at Lor-
etto Convent and a huge basket of
oranges. Our vice-regals were not there
■—Sir Leslie had gone to Toowoomba for
the Military Ball—but Marjorie Wilson
went along with Mrs. E. T. Bell and
Aileen Bell.


TWO
HALF-TURNS
and it*s FULL!
TOP
turn
half
then
left
TO
AGA'N
BACK.
\\
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings,
255 a George Street, SYDNEY
The LEVERLESS
This is the
simplest and
strongest pen
yet invented
—simpler to fill
and cannot go
wrong! Be up-
to-date see
and try it to-day
at any good
Stationers or
Jewellers.
PRICES:-The New
LEVERLESS * Swan ’
from 21/-. Other
‘ Swans’ from 15/-.
‘ Blackbirds ' from
10/-. 4 Jackdaws’
from 6/6.
Swan
** REM
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAN’ INK
/1.2.15'
mm.
•ytwnjJ
a -j
LIEUT. JOHN BOWEN
..rtf
mm
m
ss>¥/\ ■**'’*•
SSSi
mm
c&
HOBART
■> in 1817 p
T asmani-a's
First Settlement
In 1803, Captain Philip King, R.N., Governor of New South Wales,
despatched Lieutenant John Bowen to establish the first European
settlement in Tasmania.
Lieut. Bowen first settled at Risdon, a few miles up the River Derwent
from Hobart. Colonel Collins, sent out by Governor King in the
following year, promptly transferred headquarters to the present site
of Hobart.
The illustration above is an impression of Hobart in the year 1817.
It was in 1817 that the first Bank in Australia, the Bank of New South
Wales, was established in Sydney.
fit that time the Colony of New South Wales embraced what are now
the of Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, and
about half of South Australia and the Northern Territory. Tasmania
became a separate colony in 1825.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
The Oldest and Largest Bank in Australasia
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 1 5. 151 A-1935
A Powerful Story by a Maoriland Writer:-
THE BEASTS OF GOD
BY E MARY GURNEY.
THROUGH the steel-grey light and the
unutterable silence, the sheep were
coming down from the hills.
Rennie Olsen, planting trees on the
windward side of the ridge above the
sand dunes, did not notice them until old
Faithful began to snort and paw the
turf.
Then he straightened from his toil and
became aware of several things. That
in the world was no sound but the far-
off booming of the sea, mingling with
the uneasy snorting of old Faithful,
tethered under the gaunt old pines. That
the brilliant sunlight was blotted out, but
an .uncanny light remained, and that
Patch, his bobtail sheep-dog, was sitting
away over on a jutting point, staring
down into the valley. Rennie drove his
spade into the earth, and went over to
him.
From far and near, over the great
barren hills, the sheep were coming in.
Little, scraggy dun-colored merinos,
streaming over the hillcrests, silhouetted
a moment in sharp relief against
the sullen sky; silent wraiths mov-
ing without hurry, but with un-
swerving purpose, down the steep,
narrow tracks towards one central point,
where the track went down through the
gorge and out to the deep valleys where
the bush was.
Rennie spoke to the dog, and his voice
seemed to split the deathlike silence with
the vibration of a thunderclap.
“Schmidt told us to watch the sheep,
Patch. We’d better be going.”
Patch stood up, whining, staring to
where old Faithful was straining un-
easily at his tether. Rennie went to-
wards the horse, thinking “It isn’t only
the sheep that know.”
He went through the thick belt of spent
pines that leaned away from the pre-
vailing winds. As he went under them
they seemed to stir uneasily, yet there
was no wind. Only that waiting silence
that was fraught with menace.
Patch, slinking at his heels, whined
again, but Rennie went on until he stood
on a high spur that jutted out above the
corpselike mounds of the dunes.
Bleached they were, like old bones
Even this side of the pines no wind
stirred; yet, looking down on them, it
seemed to Rennie Olsen that they moved
ceaselessly, with the deep treachery of
water that shows no surface current.
Over them the steely light seemed bur-
nished.
In miles interminable, they went out
to the sea.
On clear days the tumbled line of the
breakers gave the dunes an ending, but
to-day they merged into the sea, and the
sea merged into the sky.
Rennie waited on the crag, but there
was no sound.
Even old Faithful had ceased snorting.
As though all life was suspended, the
world waited, but far below the gleam-
ing, bone-white dunes pulsated with their
hidden menace.
Rennie shivered and turned back
through the pines.
Deliberate always, he gathered up his
tools and cached them in the lee of a
huge, time-scarred old tree. Usually he
carried them to and from the job
strapped to the saddle pommel, but to-
day he had a feeling that it would be
better to hurry,
OLD Faithful hardly waited for him to
swing into the saddle before he was
off, trotting lumberingly over the rough
ridge towards the steep track that wound
into the valley bottom.
When he reached it, in all the wide
valley there was not a single sheep
remaining.
“Five minutes,” thought Rennie. He
felt a little dazed, a little awed. The
valley was a big one, and the sheep had
not seemed to be hurrying, yet even so
there was not a single straggler in sight.
Old Faithful, who took his time on
the steep descents, slid on to the track
and began to go down at a scrambling
run, ears pricked, head lowered, moving
with an unaccustomed swiftness that
lacked nothing of his usual caution.
Rennie gave him all the rein, and
thought anxiously of Eulalia, alone in
the dark old homestead on the rim of
the bush-grown valleys.
If possible, he must overtake the sheep
and get out ahead of them. There was
nothing neurotic about his wife—far
otherwise —but she lived alone too much.
Less imaginative than Rennie would
have wished, she still was not insensible
to the solitude of the hills, their barren
magnificence that awed even while it
appealed.
At least, Rennie acknowledged their
appeal, but at the back of his mind he
felt that Eulalia hated them—was afraid
of them and their aloofness ; was afraid,
too, of the scraggy little merino sheep
that had lived, gen-
eration after genera-
tion, in the hills.
Old Faithful slid
into the valley bot-
tom, and began to
pick his way along
it, trotting without
misstep among the
fallen scree and
rubble.
At the foot of the track that wound
steeply out of it, Rennie swung from the
saddle without checking him, and let
him go by, grabbing his tail as he began
to ascend with that pace that was foreign
to him.
Reaching the crest he was blown, but
stood a moment while Rennie mounted,
and once he felt his rider’s weight in the
saddle he started off again at his lumber-
ing trot round the rocky razorback. On
either side the hill fell away with dizzy
steepness, but he had been born on the
hills, and, so his rider could sway with
him, was fearless.
Rennie sat him with automatic ease,
and he broke into a shattering canter
that Rennie made no movement to check,
but sat peering anxiously ahead through
the shuttering opaque light, watching for
the first indication that he was over-
taking the sheep.
But it was not until they had gone
down and down, weaving along the hill-
side, and weaving up again to the ridge,
a mile from the gorge-head, that he saw
them again, streaming in in a dense, com-
pact mass that filled the valley below
him.
He spoke to Patch, who looked at him
sombrely, but did not move.
He said again, sharply: “Go away out,
Patch! ”
But Patch squatted on his haunches
and howled.
By going vertically along the hillside
the dog could have headed the mob be-
fore it reached the gorge, but nothing
Rennie could do could make him run.
So he broke a branch from the manuka
scrub, and sent old Faithful, astonished
and indignant, rocketing down into the
valley.
On their way they crossed the path of
the straggling tail of the mob, but,
though the sheep paused to let them
through, they did not break and scatter
or run, but kept on at their unvaried,
unhurrying gait.
Before they reached the head of the
track the foremost sheep were on it, and,
though he flogged the old horse unmerci-
fully, old Faithful would not attempt
to break into them; nor, though he
swerved and plunged on the very fringe
of the dense dun-colored sea, did they
flinch or edge away from him, but walked
on, seemingly unconscious that he was
there.
Swearing, Rennie abandoned him, and
began to climb on foot along the preci-
pitous side of the gorge above the track.
Looking back, before he rounded the
first spur, he saw old Faithful waiting.
Patience on a monument, for the sheep
to go by.
Below him they strung on, their packed
backs reminding him of the bone-white
dimes.
It gave that same impression of
leasheu, illimitable power.
If he slipped they would overwhelm
him—go over him without heeding that
he was there, as the sand came in from
the sea.
Slipping and scrambling, he made his
way along the gorge side, going up and
over spurs that were almost perpendicu-
lar, and presently found that he was
ahead of the sheep.
On a point he paused a moment to
get his breath. His heart thudded against
his ribs with a regular, painful rhythm ;
but above it, in the aching silence, he
could hear, not the peaty murmur of the
creek far below, but a sense of vibra-
tion rather than sound ; the muted scuf-
fling of a myriad tiny, oncoming hoofs.
Behind him. Patch whimpered.
Rennie went on.
EULALIA was out on the knoll in front
of the weathered old homestead that
crouched under a headland in a grove
of ancient pine and willow, and a belt
of black wattle whose golden bloom was
dulled by the steely light to an unearthly
dun.
Rennie, breathless and streaked with
sweat, joined her. He dashed the mois-
ture from his forehead and looked at
her without speaking, and the sheep
began to come out of the gorge, un-
hurried yet urgent, their white, staring
faces stamped with unswerving purpose.
From the confines of the gorge a cloud
of yellow dust, ghastly in the blue light,
followed them, and before them went
the whispering of their hoofs, like dead
leaves in dead grass.
Steadfast as doom, and in utter sound-
lessness, they came.
In half an hour they were gone.
Old Faithful came in on the tail of
them, plodding with a pathetic accept-
ance of whatever Fate might hold in store
for him.
The last sheep went over the rim of
the valley that fell away to the bush,
and once more the earth waited.
Eulalia spoke in a dead, matter-of-fact
voice that made Rennie want to laugh.
“Well, we’ve been lucky. Three years
without a storm”
She had fine eyes, without light; en-
durance, without the wish or the ability
to find amelioration.
Rennie had seen fit to buy the huge
station called Old Pines, wherefore she
would accept it; but, hating it, she would
find neither joy in its stern magnificence
nor humor in its pathos.
Oddly, it was the lack of such feelings
that endeared her to Rennie, whose heart
was lifted by the might of the hills, who
found food for humor in the little things
of every day.
Her flat acceptance of the mystery of
the sheep dispelled his sense of disaster,
lifting his mind from the uncanniness of
ir back to the picture of himself, endur-
ing hardship and danger to get to her
side, so that she should not be afraid.
He glanced surreptitiously at his torn
garments and lacerated hands, and
laughter bubbled in him.
“I’ll let the old horse go,” he said, and
went down the knoll towards the stable-
yards, where old Faithful waited with
his pathetic patience.
But instead of turning him out to pas-
ture he took the old beast into the dis-
used stable and gave him a good feed
of oaten chaff, making much of him for
the stripes he had endured.
The state of his clothes and hands
might amuse him, but he felt vaguely in-
dignant with Eulalia that he should
have abused his faithful servant only
to suffer her maddening self-sufficiency.
The steely light merged into a sound-
less dusk that was heavy and opaque as
a pall of mist; and from a great way.
off there was a moaning and a great
rushing of sound. Coming nearer, it lifted
to a long-drawn shriek, and the wind,
sand-laden, tore out of the hills, lifted
and died and lifted again, with a mount-
ing fury that threatened to tear the an-
cient house from its foundations.
Rennie, eating mutton hash, looked
down the length of the table at Eulalia,
who poured tea, ignoring the wind’s
crescendo fury. Watching her, he was
moved to wonder whether she was as
indifferent, as self-contained as she ap-
peared to be, or whether she had herself
most marvellously in hand. -For the first
time he wondered why he had married
her, or, rather, why he loved her. Not
for her capabilities, nor the way she sat,
a horse, but perhaps because she, his
direct antithesis, was yet his complement.
She possessed all the stability, the prac-
ticality he lacked. Her matter-of-fact-
ness, her utter lack of imagination,


OLD and DRAB
and PIT-OT DATE
•ffl'DIJIl
t un make it smart
useful agah
jTkON’T discard old furniture when it
becomes dowdy and dilapidated—
give it a coat of “DULUX” instead.
“DULUX,” the finish that supersedes
enamels, works miracles in the home. It
is ever so easy to use; it dries quickly;
and gives a hard lustrous surface that
will not crack, chip or peel. Try it—
you’ll get a pleasant surprise.
BALItf
THE
MIRACLE FINISH
—Supersedes
Enamels
CP V
V> V> c ve» f -
-S **
$ OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE *
ol->
A Product of British Australian Lead Manufacturers Ply., Ltd.,
makers of famous “Duco” Lacquer's and No. 7 Specialities for
the Motorist.
nave you ever really
tried ,
XF you really want whiter, more attrac-
tive teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth.
It catches bits of food. Harbors stains.
Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. Film is laden with
germs that are often the forerunner of
tooth decay. Thus film must be removed.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satis-
factorily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders
may be ineffective in removing film. There
is now a tooth paste you can depend on
regularly—a tooth paste thousands of den-
tists use in their own homes and millions of
people have used successfully. This tootli
paste is Pepsodent—-the special film-removing
tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
Pepsodent is different in formula, hence
different in the way it works. It contains
no grit, pumice, or soap. The basis of this
definitely modern tooth paste is a new
and revolutionary cleansing and polishing
material which is far softer than the
polishing material used in other leading
tooth pastes or tooth powders. Yet it removes
film and polishes teeth to new gleaming
lustre as more abrasive kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain”
tooth pastes or questionable ways? Remember
that this unique film-removing agent is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively. Thli-
no other tooth paste can assure you of
true Pepsodent results. Use Pepsodent twice
a (j a y — S ee your dentist at least twice a year.
m
m
m
m
»
balanced his dreams, his impish sense
of humor, his highly-strung sensitiveness
that led him sometimes into deep waters.
He said:
“It’ll mess up the old pines.”
Eulalia nodded.
“Morrissey was over,” she said, with
seeming irrelevance,
Rennie put down his knife and fork
and waited. Morrissey was their neigh-
bor who owned the bush-filled valleys
into which the sheep had gone for
sanctuary.
“He still wants to buy Old Pines.
Will consider what we gave.”
“Like hell he will!” said Rennie. The
wind drowned his voice.
Eulalia went back to her chair, and
the wind lulled.
“I told him he’d better see you.” She
helped herself liberally to potatoes, and
held out her hand for his cup. “Person-
ally, I think you’d be wise to quit,
since this will just about finish the old
pines.”
Rennie laughed.
“Dear, I’ve already planted nearly
four thousand new ones, to say nothing
of lupin and black wattle ; and the pas-
palum is beginning to take hold. By
the spring it will be over the first dunes.”
Eulalia said decidedly:
“If it were only the sand.”
“Isn’t it?” His voice lilted a little,
humorously, but Eulalia did not look up
from her plate.
“The market can’t last,” she returned
flatly.
Rennie laughed again.
“Lalie, must you always cross your
bridges before you come to them?”
“Someone must,” said Eulalia. She
began to clear away.
Outside the wind assaulted the trees
and the barren ridges, and filled the air
with a sound of hideous strife.
Rennie, sitting back from the fire so
that the smoke would not swirl into
his face, forgot Morrissey, and began to
worry a little about his young trees and
the paspalum grass that was just taking
hold on the dunes. If they were not
buried, they would be blown out.
He lay awake until dawning and the
dying of the wind, but beside him Eulalia
slept dreamlessly.
MORNING was calm and cloudless,
and the sheep came back from the
bush, not soundlessly, but with anxious
bleating, and in the half-light their
faces were no longer wise, but supremely
silly. The scent of them’ was sickly on
the air, and the sound of their myriad
hoofs rose with a muffled drumming.
Rennie was up to watch them go, but
Eulalia would not even leave her bed.
“I’ve seen them come in for the shear-
ing!” she said caustically. “They’re
only sheep!”
Morrissey came on the heel of them,
silhouetted against the sun, dust-covered
and irritable.
Rennie went out to him, and they faced
each other without speaking.
For once in his life there was a frown
on Rennie’s fine face. He did not know
that there were gold lights in his hair,
and that Morrissey found the very
direct gaze of his blue eyes disconcert-
ing ; did not know that Morrissey hated
him for his clean youth.
But in that moment Rennie knew that
he had been right in disliking his neigh-
bor. There was something dark and
secret about him, a furtiveness in his
sallow Jewish face.
He said with a mildness that could
not disguise his obliquity:
“Was it a neighborly thing to do,
Olsen?”
Rennie, with the stench of the sheep
in his nostrils, was overtaken by swift
intuition, but his face did not betray
him.
“I’m not sure that I understand you,
Morrissey.”
Morrissey gestured impatiently.
“To drive your sheep into my pas-
ture.”
Rennie did not reply.
They looked at each other through a
long silence, and Morrissey’s eyes fell
away.
“Anything else?”, asked Rennie.
Uninvited, Morrissey moved to the
verandah steps and sat down. Rennie
did not move.
“1 saw your wife yesterday.”
“I see.” Rennie’s gaze lifted above
the old house, away to the riven hills.
“Sorry,” said Rennie. “But I’m not
selling.”
Morrissey’s oblique glance slid over
him.
“Odd. I gathered that you—might.”
Rennie brought his gaze back from
the hills.
“Forget it,” Rennie advised brusquely.
He turned on his heel towards the
stable, but inside himself he was con-
scious of awakening pain, of doubt.
Eulalia, the practical half of him, had
said “might.”
Morrissey got up from the verandah
step.
“There’s another matter,” said Mor-
rissey. “I’m afraid if you won’t sell I j
must fence.”
Rennie stopped dead and turned
round slowly.
“You see,” said Morrissey, “all my
winter feed was in those valleys. You’d
be surprised what twelve thousand sheep
can do in a night.”
“I see,” said Rennie again.
He looked round slowly.
Over everything, far and near, the sand
lay in a fine dust, a light powder that
would get into the lungs of living things,
sheep weak from drought.
Morrissey’s voice, casual and indif-
ferent, continued:
“I shall send a gang in as soon as I
can get one together. If we have another
storm, your mob will clean me out. I’ll
let you know what it costs.”
But Rennie went without answering.
When he rode through the hills
towards the coast, the changes in the
features of his land filled him with an
irrational sense of foreboding and
dismay.
The sand in the valley, and on the
lee sides of the hills.
Half the scant feed was buried under
the shifting bone-white drifts.
But, scattered in little mobs, the sheep
were drifting indifferently back to their
feeding grounds. The instinct that had
driven them out before a danger that
their ancestors had known now called
them back, and they had but one idea: t
to fill their empty bellies.
Half the old pines in the mile-long
belt were down. Half his new trees
were buried. The paspalum that had
been running out to the dunes was, in
many places, buried feet under sand; in
others, blown out by the roots.
“A man,” thought Rennie, “is a puny
fool to pit himself against this.” But
all day he toiled, uncovering what he
could of the young trees. At night when i
he returned to the homestead he had
forgotten that his practical half had sug-
gested compromise.'
Eulalia, cool and capable, was milk-
ing. He took the bucket from her and
laughed into her face, taking comfort in
its immobility.
“Half the old pines and half the young
trees and most of the paspalum have
gone, but we’ll win out, old girl!”
But, reading the newspaper that had
come in with the weekly mail, he knew
that Eulalia was right.
If it had been only the sand!
But the bottom had dropped out of;
the wool market.
BY the autumn a new, shining fence
with raw, red posts wound along the
rim above the bush-filled valleys, and if
Morrissey wondered where young Olsen
had found the cash to pay his share he
did not bother to inquire.
There was a bumper lambing, but the
wool market remained at zero, and the
close of the year would see the mort-
gage falling due.
As on that other time, Morrissey
came when Rennie was over the hills.
When he returned Eulalia told him
quietly, but with a sense of unswerving
purpose that left him afraid.
“Morrissey hasn’t given up hope of
inducing us to sell. 1 told him we would
consider it.”
“We.”
Rennie did not speak for a long time.
Eulalia’s fortune, as well as his own,
was sunk in Old Pines.
“Lalie,” he said, “I don’t want to sell.”
“Neither do I.” Which was true,
because she loved him, but she knew
that it was better for them to go before
the place he loved broke his heart. “We
can’t afford to be sentimental, Rennie.”,
Rennie thought. “Sentimental! Eulalia!
Good God!"
Eulalia went on.
“You can see —you must see. Rennie,
that it will be years before the market
recovers. All history indicates it ... the
boom years after war; the inevitable
slump and the slow recovery ; before the
next war”--
Damnable logic!
Rennie got up and went outside to
watch the sunset die above hills that
were no more than stupendous silhou-
ettes against the shining light.
If a man had dreams they were shin-
ing things for which a man could fight; |
but against the cold, hard facts of life
his hands were tied.
SIX months later, when the last poplar
at the battered old homestead had
turned golden, Morrissey entered into
possession.
On the last day, while Eulalia packed
the residue of her household gods.
Rennie rode with the dark Jew out to
the back of the station to show him the
tracks and the young trees.
(Continued on next page.)


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1883)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
H I »
BESS
WATCH
YOUR MONEY
CROW
The
World’s
Largest
Commercial
Forestry
Company
Amount subscribed for Forestry Investment,
approx
Reserves—for maintenance and realisation
exceed
£4,000,000
£1,000,000
Area Planted, 157,063 acres; over 100,000,000 trees.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay,' Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
No connection with any other Forestry Company.
___ .
thersills
SEASICK REMEDY
Quickly Relieves
Travel Sickness 4
WORLD'S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
128 pages of maps in nine colors—Bo,ooo-word
gazetteer—l2o,ooo-word story of the earth.
42/- value for 7/6! Available only to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue—Now on Sale—Price 60.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
d
f
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each iazor.
THE PLUM KAZOK GUARD, for fin., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 651 George Street, Sydney.
f 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory ......... 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keut in order for two
years free of charge.
They’re holding well,” said Rennie.
Lost about half in the big storm, but I
replaced a lot; and the paspalum has
come away again.”
They went up to the crest of the last
ridge. Morrissey jerked his horse to a
standstill, and ripped out an oath that
Rennie wince.
The pines!” shouted Morrissey,
“You’ve cut the pines!”
Surely! said Rennie, “Half of them
went down in the storm, so I cut the
to P ay f° r f ence -”
God blast the fence!” said Morrissey,
He swung his horse back to the track,
spurring it brutally. This puts a dif-
terent complexion on the matter,” he
rasped. “I must see my lawyer.”
Rennie went after him. Morrissey
hadn’t a leg to stand on, for, if he had
neglected to look over the property
before taking it over, the bad luck was
his. Following him, Rennie wondered
what difference the cutting of the
pines would mske.
And then he saw the sheep.
FAR and near, unhurried, unswerving,
they were coming in
The sky was clear, but, noticing the
sheep, he noticed, too, the utter stillness
that had enveloped the earth.
Over the hills the sheep came, sil-
houetted now against the sky, now drab
shadows moving Indian-file across the
steep faces of the hills.
Old Faithful pricked his ears inquir-
ingly and quickened his gait, but he did
not seem distrait, as upon that other
occasion.
Rennie called to Morrissey, and his
voice echoed back tremendously, shiv-
ering the silence so that the sound of it
breaking was a tangible thing.
“The sheep! Look at the sheep!”
Morrissey pulled his horse up abruptly
and glared round with dilated eyes.
Then, without speaking, he plunged
the spurs home, so that his horse leaped
forward and almost lost its footing.
They went up and down interminably,
Rennie’s mind was less on their progress
than with the sheep.
They came over the hills, before and
behind, undisturbed by the passage of
horses and dogs.
On the last ridge, Rennie shook old
Faithful into his lumbering trot.
“If we hurry, we’ll head them to the
gorge.”
They got there by a few yards.
Morrissey spoke for the first time.
“You’d better turn them, or maybe
they’ll break back and smother.”
Rennie laughed.
“An avalanche wouldn’t stop them!”
He added as an afterthought, “You’d
better open the gate.”
Morrissey did not answer, and Rennie
reminded him. “They’re your sheep now.”
“Not yet!”
In turn, Rennie was silent. They
trotted out of the gorge.
Behind them was the scuffling of the
sheep’s hoofs, the sound of their pant-
ing breathing.
“They’re God’s beasts,” said Rennie
suddenly. “They’ve a right to sanc-
tuary!”
Morrissey laughed raucously,
“Let God look to his own!”
Rennie swung old Faithful out of the
track and watched Morrissey gallop
towards the gate.
The sheep began to come out of the
Morrissey’s horse would not stand for
him to open the gate,
Cursing, he dismounted, and it broke
away a ff d we , l l t B all °ping along the fence,
Rennie called to Morrissey, but the
passing ot the sheep muffled his voice.
. Morrissey opened the gate, slammed it
*he faces of the loremost sheep and
shook his fist at them,
The sheep came on.
At the gate they did not turn, but
were piled against it with a swift relent-
tessness that smothered them down be-
fore they knew that they had died.
Iff the time it takes to draw a breath
their weight had laid the gate flat, and
the tence.
The sheep went on.
1° front of them, Morrissey ran back-
wards, gibbering ; tripped and went to
knees, so that for a second he knelt
before them, ludicrously, in an attitude
°f prayer.
When, in a little while, the sheep were
past, there was a pile of them against
the gate, and beyond the gate, on the
rim of the valleys, that which had been
Morrissey,
DUT through the night no storm came,
** and with the morning the sheep came
back, not sedately with purpose, but
running blindly and bleating ; and their
white, staring faces were incredibly fool-
ish, incredibly lost.
A Gripping Yarn of a Flying Circus:—
DEATH DIVE
BY
ANDREW
STEWART.
an IGHTO!” Pickett glanced over
r\ the side of the polished fuselage
and spoke the single word into
the tube. As the pilot cut the switch,
~,„, . .. 1
the hoarse bellow from the exhaust died
with startling suddenness.
Pickett looked down again—at the
fields far below, criss-crossed with dark
green lines ; at the small specks that were
his audience. He could feel his heart
throbbing violently beneath the breast
pocket of his trim, white overalls,
Though the day was chilly and the cold
air was skimming over the face-wide
shield, Pickett was sweating profusely.
The death dive! A mirthless grin
flickered across his hot, dry lips. He
visualised the possible outcome of the
jump. A figure speeding earthwards,
turning over and over, till earth and sky
mixed in a mad jumble. Something
white crumpled on the green turf,
Smashed.
It was coming some day. Pickett knew
that, just as surely as there was another
dawn to-morrow. A tangled cord maybe ;
a brief period of unconsciousness, from
which there would be no awakening.
Oblivion. How soon?
He looked earthwards. They had over-
shot the field. Damn! That had hap-
pened yesterday and the day before ...
too often lately.
He spoke a curt command into the
tube. With a few staccato barks the
motor blew the oil from the cylinder
heads, then crashed into roaring rhythm
again.
Round the field once more. The
looktng up expectantly Mustn
fail this time! The pilot might suspect
that he was rattled- He probably knew ,
anyhow.
“Righto! ”
Pickett fought down the something
that seemed to hold him to the seat;
stood up and stepped out on to the
wing. Then he jumped well clear, count-
ing aloud as he went down.
CAM BELLAMY, leaning against the;
D battered fuselage of the old ’plane,
dispassionately watched the white dot
hurtling earthward.
Great stunt, that delayed drop! The
only thing that was holding the circus
together. Nothing in joy-rides at ten
bob a time these days! Likewise, the
stunting. People wouldn’t pay to watch
that—not when they knew it was as safe
as riding a bike. The death dive was
different, though. Always the intrigu-
ing possibility that the parachute mightn’t
open.
The ’chute burst open, a silver globe
against the blue. The cheer that came
from the crowd was only half-hearted,
Bellamy frowned. Pickett had pulled
the rip-cord far too early. Why, at the
start, he would leave it till the very last
second. He used to leave even the not-
easily-perturbed Bellamy with his heart
in his mouth.


“ The massive coffer is a
relic of other days . ~
fy
m
FIXED DEPOSITS
Local banks once safeguarded surplus funds in
massive chests. But times have changed. Modern
safes and strong rooms are installed. Fixed
Deposits have become an increasingly popular
form of investment, for many reasons. The
interest rate is uniform . . . the yield to the
depositor is certain . . the capita' is returned
intact at the end of a specific period. This bank
accepts Fixed Deposits at current rates of
interest, paid half-yearly.
Cheque Accounts are also opened at all branches
for any reputable person, company or society .
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office - - -' - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney. Branch: 350 George Street, (Opp, Wynyard St.)
Commissioners: C, R. McKerihan (President) H. Rogers P. Kearns
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
'4m
*4%
v-3
%,v%
'■•2&s£
«
I
3u? Wh/sAy
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. - - - - - Adelaide Macfarlahe Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
Getting windy—that was the trouble
with Pickett. Soon it would be no de-
layed drop at all. People wouldn’t pay
to watch ordinary parachute jumping.
Four thousand feet before you pulled
the cord—that was the stuff they liked.
To a terrific thunder from the exhaust,
Fenton took off and hurled the red, snub-
nosed Waco into the sky. Immelman,
loop, barrel-roll, a roaring power-diye ;
but the spectators weren’t interested. They
drifted away. A few remained to watch
Pickett, who was methodically repacking
his ’chute.
Bellamy strolled across. He stopped
beside Pickett, watching him. His eyes
narrowed as he noticed the slight
trembling of Pickett’s hands.
Pickett looked up and grinned feebly.
He picked up the ’chute by its web-
gear and slung it over his shoulder. They
walked away together.
“What’s wrong, Bill?” Bellamy’s voice
was hard, though not unsympathetic.
After all, the poor devil took a hell of
a risk for his few quid a week.
Pickett stopped dead and looked at
him. His face flushed slightly and he
looked away, avoiding Bellamy’s eyes.
There was defiance in his tone when he
spoke, and his voice was hoarse.
“You want to know, eh? You’re
wondering why I pulled out so early.
Then I’ll tell you! I’m scared, Sam—
scared as hell!”
“But,” expostulated Bellamy, “it’s not
as though you’re a greenhorn. Why,
you’ve done it a hundred times . . .
more.”
Stevens, the mechanic, approached and
handed Pickett a letter. Pickett took it,
glanced at the post mark and stuffed it
into his pocket.
“I know, Sam. But my nerve’s going.
I'm cursed with too much imagination—
that’s the root of the trouble. Every
time I step off I suffer the tortures of the
damned. I imagine something going
wrong. I see myself ... smashed.” He
laughed harshly. “I’ve even watched my
own funeral and compiled a mental list
of the mourners. I’ve listened into their
talk in the pub, after they’ve planted me.
And I’m getting worse.”
“You’re thinking of quitting?” said
Bellamy anxiously.
“Just that, Sam.”
“When?”
“I don’t know. Soon. I’d like to go
now, but I don’t want to leave you
dirty.”
“I’ve advertised you for to-morrow,”
said Bellamy, “but I don’t want to hold
you, if that’s how you feel. I’ve done
some ocean flying myself, and know
something about mental torture.”
“To-morrow then, Sam. The last time.
I can’t go on any longer.”
“Thanks, Bill.”
Half an hour later, as they were re-
fuelling the three ’planes, preparatory to
taking off for the next township, Pickett
approached Bellamy again.
There was a jauntiness in his step,
Bellamy noticed. And much of the
worry had gone from his face. Bellamy
climbed down after checking the D-H’s
oil, and took the proffered slip of paper.
The wind whipped and fluttered the
paper between Bellamy’s hands as he
read.
“It’s a job,” said Pickett, scarcely able
to keep the elation out of his voice,
“Inland Airways want me back. Steady
flying ; no stunts. Just as soon as I’ve
completed that jump to-morrow, I’ll be
hitting the trail for Sydney.”
“I’m mighty pleased about this. Bill.
But” —Bellamy hesitated—“well, in view
of this, it doesn’t seem fair to ask you
to jump.”
“Rot! You’re not asking. I’m offer-
ing. If you hadn’t advertised the stunt,
it’d be different. Besides, nothing’ll
happen—it couldn’t.”
“I’d never forgive myself if it did,
Bill.”
PICKETT eased the ’chute which
served him for a seat; licked his dry
lips; ran his hands over the web-gear.
It would be easy to pull as soon as he
was well clear —play safe.
No ; he’d put on a decent show for
the last. Give ’em their money’s worth.
“Righto! ”
The pilot closed the gun and cut the
switch. Pickett thrust his leg over the
side of the cockpit. He was on the wing,
his finger hooked through the ring on
the end of the cord.
The final stunt! The death dive!
He stepped into space and began to
count.
“One!” The ’plane seemed to leap
away from above his head, as though re-
leased by a gigantic spring.
“Two!” The rush of air clutched at
him like a gigantic, living hand. Sky
and sun blazed above him. He was still
going down feet first.
“Three!” Earth, sky and sun swung
together—a confused jumble of color,
like a canvas from the brush of a mad
artist.
“Four!” He was hurtling earthwards
at' a terrific speed now, spinning and
turning madly.
“Five!” God! how he longed for the
savage jerk that would let him know
that the "chute was open.
“Six ! Plenty of time yet. Mustn’t gel
rattled!
“Seven!” Must give ’em a good show!
The last dive!
“Eight!” Bellamy had come along
while he was repacking the ’chute. Might
have fumbled it. Had he repacked it a
second time? He couldn’t remember.
“Nine !” Had he repacked that ’chute?
The thought was bothering him more
than the thunderous roar in his ears.
“Nine!” Lucky about the job. Old
Godson must have remembered him.
Who was it whose coffin was suspended
between heaven and earth? Mahomet,
that was it!
“Nine!” Who the hell was yelling
‘nine’ in his ear? Couldn’t they let a
man sleep? What was the sense in call-
ing ‘nine’ all the time? God! it was his
own voice that he’d heard. The ring on
his finger whipped him out from semi-
unconsciousness.
He’d lost count. How far away was
the earth? How long had he been yell-
ing that accursed ‘nine’ ?
He tugged at the cord and waited for
the jerk. The sweat burst from him. He
wanted to scream, but fought it back.
The ’chute hadn’t opened.
He fugged again, and again. He was
in full possession of his senses now, and
fighting for his life. He looked up, but
could see nothing. No comforting globe
of silk ; nothing but a queer empty void.
He pulled at the cord again, desper-
ately, in a frenzy of despair. The ring
came away in his hand. This was the
finish. He closed his eyes. The earth,
he knew, was rushing at him at hundreds
of miles an hour.
He wouldn’t have long to wait. Thank
God for that! Unconsciousness took him
suddenly.
PICKETT opened his eyes. Bellamy
was tugging at the ’chute, and his face
was very white.
“Man alive!” he cried. “There’s such
a thing as overdoing it. You gave me
the fright of my life. What did you do
it for?”
Pickett looked at the detached ring
on his finger and grinned feebly.
“Wanted to put on a good show for
the last.”
Song of Lost Causes.
Give us a Stuart to fight for again,
A King and a fool once more —
We mayn’t have hoarded our hearts in
vain
Could we spend them like steel in the
splintering rain,
Dirk against dirk, and brain against
brain . . .
(We never got hone from Culloden
Moor) ■
Give us the King that is outcast and poor.
Whisper the words that our whaups
echoed when
A King might he looking for claymores
or men.
Mary the Queen is betrayed and gone
From her dancing at Holy rood.
Preacher John Knox, he told us no good
Could come of the bright wild tresses
that shone
Under the green of her hunting-hood:
But ... a smile from her mouth . . .
we’d have understood,
Have hacked the Englishman sinew from
hone.
Holyrood’s quiet. Her four Maries,
Her lissome maidens, are holding the
keys.
Give us the smoking skies of Glencoe,
A death and a song to remember.
This is the way of us . . . loving too slow,
Losing the flame and loving the ember.
Russet and purple our glens through
November
Flare like the beacons our hearts would
know . . .
Faith and Beauty are things to remember.
Give us the yellow-haired laddie again,
Swart staunch chieftains, a horn in the
glen.
MAORILAND.
ROBIN HYDE.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854. ]
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is. a household publication whose
' subscribers' welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day-covers the'broadest possible
survey of. the world’s happenings,, and upon
its advertising -ooTiimns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find' “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Cite mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians,
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
'Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collias Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
65% 0f...
“The News”
(Adelaide’s Evening Daily)
Circulation
Consists of
Cash Transactions
“rpHE NEWS” doesn’t just
come . it’s sought
and bought, and grips
afresh every evening. Ade-
laide depends on “The
News” for its news. That’s
the paper to carry YOUR
sales story.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House, Collins
street.
SYDNEY—F. A Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—P. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
SSL.
A> s?-
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies,
advertising
ess'
rates of “The Examiner" and “Saturday Evening
’ obtainable from:
W. K. ROLPH & SONS
PTV,, LTD.,
71-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
M. S. ALLAN.
National Bank Chambers,
■_'Tl Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
W. G. DOUGAjV,
50 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
NEW •
MARKETS
CAM brings new markets within
your reach. Hitherto many of the
pastoral, mining, ami farming areas
were not served by any medium.
Now the advertiser can reach these
markets with a regularity that only
6AM can give.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,.
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
been brought up in a wonderful home in an atmos-
phere of a mother’s love—-the mother, Mrs. Mackoni-
cull, is pressing the boy Wilfred’s pants after he has
gone to bed and there is a faulty connection to the
iron—it’s an electric iron, of course —and she’s electro-
cuted. After that the children go to the dogs
absolutely. A terrible sort of aunt comes to take
the mother’s place, and the children do their best to
prevent her marrying the father. Oh, you have no
idea how full of plot it is!”
Jingo almost bounced in his chair with
enthusiasm.
“Who’s taking the part of the aunt?” Nancy
Coombes asked gloomily.
“Well, I was thinking of offering it to you. It’s
got some good lines.” Jingo was disconcerted.
“I knew it,” Nancy said bitterly. “I’m always
the aunt or the stepmother.”
“But, then,” Jingo consoled, “look what a won-
derful aunt you make. There’s nobody like you.”
“Hang on a minute,” Peter Conn said thought-
fully. “Who wrote the play, Jingo?”
“I did,” Jingo said proudly, “at the special request
of the Walli Dramatic Society.” The audience looked
impressed. “Not only that,” the author went on,
“I’ve been told to send it to one of these theatrical
firms in Sydney. Royalties always bring in a tidy
sum of money. Of course, I’ve been too busy to
bother about it up till the present ; but now I’m back
here for another year I’ll see what can be done.”
“Is there plenty of dancing and music?” Doreen
Darch asked.
“No end of it,” Jingo said promptly. “I’m going
to ask Miss Daunt —by the way, ladies and gentlemen,
meet Miss Daunt, the lady who’s taken my place at
the Hill—l’m going, to ask Miss Daunt to play over a
few of the airs now that it’s settled that we are going
to put the play on. I may as well take a vote. All
those in favor? Carried. Oh, just'before we get on
to the music, I think we’d better elect an executive.”
He glanced at some notes and then gazed fixedly
at Olive. “The first office is, of course, that of pro-
ducer.” • , 3
“I nominate Mr. Barnes as producer,” Olive said
demurely, Mr. Barnes was duly elected producer.
“Now president and vice-presidents,” Jingo
demanded. There were seven nominations, and it was
decided to have a patron, a president and three vice-
presidents, in order to make the most of the prestige
offered.
“We need Councillor Mac Leary,” Jingo summed
up, “so that he can make the speeches if the curtain
won’t go up. Remember the time the Merrymakers
couldn’t get the curtain to go up, they put the
Methodist parson on —the one before this chap—
what’s his name? Oh, Hunter. Well, he must have
talked for a solid twenty-five minutes. We don’t
want that to happen. We’ll say Mac Leary’s elected
patron. I think that’s unanimous.”
“We must have Harry Smith.” Peter Conn was
positive. “He’s the only man who knows anything
about lighting, and he refused to lend the Merry-
makers any globes or fix the spotlight because he
wasn’t put on the executive.”
“Righto,” Jingo responded. “He’ll do as a vice-
president. Then we'll want to touch the Western
Farmers’ Store for furniture. They’ve got a suite
that would look just the thing if it’ll fit on the stage.
Suppose we make the new manager, Maclean, a vice-
president. And,” he added handsomely, “we’ll give
them a free ad. on the programme.”
“There’s two vice-presidents and the patron,”
Jack protested, “and we have to fit Dr. Westly in
yet. I propose we make him president.”
“Oh, must we?” Doreen Darch complained.
“Every time there’s a rehearsal he rings up to say
he’s been called out to a dangerous case, and then
afterwards you find he’s been playing bridge.”
“We can’t leave him out,” Jingo said thought-
fully, “seeing the money’s to go to the hospital. And
he’d be terribly offended. Besides, he has a fairly
decent voice.”
“He’s sure to want to sing the prologue from
‘Pagliacci’ before the curtain goes up. Remember
the time he sang it in a clown’s costume that he
had sent up all the way from Sydney?”
“That was at the Merrymakers’ show,” Nancy •
Coombes put in. “Poor Dr. Westly! He was stand-
ing behind the scenes trembling and as white as chalk
when a message came that Mrs. Wilberforce was
dying, and he merely said ‘Let her die’ and marched
on the stage. But it must have upset him. He was
dreadfully flat. Anyway, she was always saying she
was dying.”
“If he tries to sing the prologue again,” Jingo
said firmly, “he will be restrained. Now, let’s run
over the music. Are you ready, Miss Daunt? I
think we’ll start with ‘You’re My Melody of Love.’ ”
Miss Daunt started the tune and Jingo sang the
words. There was a hum of congratulation.
“Oh, it’s not half as good as the next,” Jingo
said modestly. “I wrote the whole thing in three
days, you know. It’s a bit rough in parts, and I just
dashed off the tunes. Still —if you’ll just try this over,
Miss Daunt. It’s called ‘The Wallaby Waltz.’ ”
Miss Daunt tried it over, and many more, until
she found herself at a loose end while the ballets were
being discussed.
“Who are those men sitting on the pavement over
there?” she whispered to Miss Darch. “Why don’t
you ask them in? There aren’t half enough men.”
“Ask them in?” Miss Darch looked at her
curiously. “But they’re travellers or, at least, if they’re
not travellers, they’re on relief work.”
“What is a traveller?” Jessica asked.
“Oh! ” Miss Darch was vague. “Tramps. People
who go round looking for work. Horrible rough
men. They come to the town and get relief work
repairing roads and cleaning drains and things like
that. No one you could possibly mix with.”
“It’s rather a shame to see them sitting there,”
Jessica said ; but Miss Darch did not notice her.
Jessica Daunt was getting more and more bored.
She was most disappointed, not only in the dramatic
society, but in Jingo, who had seemed rather a jolly
sort at the farm ; but now all his attention, apart
from the play, was obviously taken up with Olive
Gordon.
“Excuse me, miss.” She discovered the old
fellow who was going to manage the band and who
had been so polite to her at the hotel was standing
beside her. “Excuse me, miss, there’s something I d
like to ask you. Mr. Barnes doesn’t know, and 1
don’t like to ask any of the other teachers.”
“Anything I can do I’ll be only too glad,” she
encouraged.
“Well, it’s, like this. I’ve ‘got a bit of verse in
my head. I’ve had it for years, and I don’t know
where it comes from. A chap said it to me once, an
actor chap. And Paul White was telling me you re
a great one for books. I thought you might know
where it comes from.”
“Let me hear it.”
He looked round uneasily, and then, casting his
eyes down on the floor, he muttered like a schoolboy
saying a lesson:
“Though we be ringed with spears, though our last
hope is gone,
Romans, stand firm, the Roman dead look on.
Before our spark of life blows back to Him Who gave.
Burn clear, brave heart, and light our pathway to the
grave.”
“Aye, a great thing, that.” He shook his head.
“It’s like a whole band playing and everyone stepping
in time. I’d like to know where it comes from.”
“It’s from a play called ‘Pompey the Great,’ ” she
told him. “About a Roman general who had all the
odds against him and could have saved himself but
didn’t. It’s a great tragedy.”
He wanted to know everything there was to
know about “Pompey the Great,” and they filled in
the time till the meeting broke up talking about it.
“Ah,” he said at last. “I always hoped it was
something like that, though if it hadn’t been I’d have
liked that verse just as well.”
“Standforth Roman and I,” she thought, “are the
only two here who would rather see ‘Pompey the
Great’ than ‘The Mackoniculls of Kilmuckie.’ ” It
was not until she was trotting painfully home on her
large cart horse that she saw it all.
“Standforth Roman!” she said to herself. “So
that’s where he got it!” And then, quite sincerely,
“The poor old man.”
Jessica allowed the horse to slow down to a
walk. She did not want to get back to the house
before the Dwyers had gone to bed. It was a
beautiful night, with a half-moon rushing through a
surf of clouds.
Jessica was still musing about Roman when a
sound from Warning Hill caught her ear. She reined
in her horse and listened. Someone was shrieking
and shouting at the top of his voice. Now and
then the shrieking would die away to a low moaning,
and then rise again on a babble of words to a hoarse
scream. She shuddered. What ought she to do?
She felt herself a coward, but dared not approach the
unholy place. Were there no other people in hearing?
She could see a light, and she urged her horse towards
it as though fiends were pursuing her. She was cold
with terror, and it seemed that the horse was enjoy-
ing her fear and deliberately loitering so, that what-
ever was uttering those sounds could overtake her.
{To be continued next week.)


9
DOT NATURE
For Constipation Leads
To Endless Trouble
Nature has decreed that the Bowels shall
operate regularly at least once a day.
Defiance or neglect of this law leads to many
kinds of suffering, including Headaches, Bad
Breath, Biliousness, Indigestion, Pimples, etc.
Constipation also makes you look and feel
dull, bad tempered and livery.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a proved
remedy for regulating the Bowels and re-
storing the system to proper working order
in a thorough yet gentle manner.
A Course will convince.
Dn. Morses
»
ill
m
PILL
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or deprived,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or fcetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms..
NEW PACK
COH
2/.
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are a purely vegetable medicinal
preparation compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the intestines. They con-
tain specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared
in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney. Price 27- per box (six boxes
11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
•*' **• ■■- :••••
t'
n>
e V e .-•..-•-
. * r »,..•■
# sS .••■■' .■••■’ 4
titir o'" ..-•* .*: . S^J


*
V
o
ry
Wm
91
1
WHETTER
A JEA JESi
9P
M .
-
ii
m
■ ■
&
mm
mm
m
§ll
m
mi
m
i
at
m
m.
m
1
■V
WM:
.
■ - ■
mmmmm
liiii
iliil
liiii
“SHAVING LUXURY m
MUS RAZOR
The World’s Best Safety
sorted by THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA. LTD., Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Pacific,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Interstate Representatives; QUEENSLAND —Butler Brothers (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.. Creek Street, Brisbane Melbourne
VICTORIA and TASMANIA —The Rolls Razor Company of Victoria, 486 Bourke Stieet, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Harris, Scarte and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
