

m
■
«*& /
1 ! ;
m
sill;
-
iV ,
■mm
y < \ f
mSSmld: 1
0
:>■ ~-v
-
i m
EVER faithful to its respon-
sibilities , to its centuries-
old traditions of service, the
British Navy has proved the
mightiest instrument of an
Empire's Security the world
has ever seen.
So, too, Hamiltons (Austra-
lasia) Limited, because of
its strength and inherited
traditions, brings to the in-
vesting public the assurance
of security. In selecting in-
vestments it regards both
profit and security as im-
SF C TT P T T V
maam Ji 1 Jim JL JL
portant but security it re-
gards as fundamental.
Hamiltons (Australasia)
Limited has not only ac-
quired the investment busi-
ness formerly conducted by
Cranwells (Australasia)
Limited, but is committed to
the same well-learned and
df
well - tested policies and
practices of that long estab-
lished company.
Hamiltons (Australasia)
Limited offers to the invest-
ing public shares in estab-
lished companies only, and
makes balance sheets and
full information about any
investment freely available.
Hamiltons (Australasia)
Limited offers an entirely
free service covering advice
and information in respect
of all stocks and shares.
INVESTMENT
BROKERS AND
financial ADVISERS
Pactxes 8W1146 &BW 1147
_ ____ —>,— „ rrtrr „ JIJ „
HAMILTONS (Australasia) LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET. SYDNEY
BRANCH OFFICES:
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
AUCKLAND. N. 1.
The
Bulletin
(C C !• ”
Sanctions
Vol. 56.—N0. 2904.
Wednesday, October 9, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be- eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all properly
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose -address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
NEWS FROM
ABYSSINIA
Six months ago
Abyssinia was re-
mote as a mole
on the back of a
lama in Tibet;
to-day even
learned Judges are putting aside their
detective fiction to read the books on,
of and about the place which the pub-
lishers are sensibly beginning to turn out
like sausages. Two of these works have
just descended upon the table.
Of Abyssinian Journey, by Marcel
Griaule, little need be said, and that not
polite. It was published in France under
the title of Les Flambeurs d’Homme, and
if the translator had displayed the same
originality with the text as he did with
the title, it might have been a great deal
more readable than it is. In the French it
is probably a witty impressionistic account
of a scientific venture into the country,
w'ritten by the leader of the expedition
to amuse rather than instruct his brother
scientists. At any rate, it was awarded
the Prix Gringoire. In this version it
reads like an effort by the Man in the
Moon, who, apparently, has learnt his
English in Brittany, mistaking it for
Britain. As a piece of highly-mannered
word-spinr.ing it has its points ; but it
is not the address for anything informa-
tive about the country.
That, however, is exactly what the
second of these books is. It has the
prophetic title A byssinia on the Eve,
and is a really good journalist’s account
of the place, as seen since the war
began to threaten. The author, a young
Hungarian named Ladislas Farago, has
an excellent eye for news, and a light,
fresh style, with just enough humor to be
amusing without being flippant. Openly,
perhaps deliberately, sympathetic, he still
misses nothing of the comic-opera aspect
of the place. With this outlook he de-
scribes Haile Silassie, his Court, palace,
Parliament, pet lions and subjects ; his
Swedish adviser, Belgian army officers
and German pilot of the big three-
engined ’plane which “stands ready at his
aerodrome to take him to Cairo.”
Farago is sorry for Haile Silassie. It is
an uneasy throne at the best of times,- this
one that the Queen of Sheba sat upon.
Her present successor even keeps his
eldest son in a castle at a distant end of
the kingdom for fear the lad will filch
the crown. A Swiss cook, who has to
taste all dishes himself, is insurance
against poison getting into the royal
soup ; but there are other means of empty-
ing a throne, and armored cars and such-
like precautions are evidence that the
Lion of Judah is aware of the hunters.
Farago depicts him as one who would
like nothing better than to be a retired
ex-king, sitting at a tennis match some-
where in Europe, pleasantly deferred to
as a monarch. Instead, he is forced into
the role of a Don Quixote who has to
fight the triple enemy—the church, the
petty kings, and the threat of the Italians,
a combination which keeps his Majesty
awake at night and furrows the royal
brow when he walks with his lion cubs
in the palace gardens. All of which, per-
haps, has bearing on the fact that his
Majesty’s German pilot is, according to
Farago, the only man in the country who
is paid regularly.
Events of the country’s recent past in-
clude the action of a British Foreign
Minister who, calling upon his Majesty
and finding the doorway blocked by
two full-grown lions, shot both unhappy
animals, and to his Majesty's protest
replied that he would do as much for
any others that greeted him on future
visits. ■ The much-advertised slave ques-
tion, according to Farago’s account, is
in the same Gilbertian tradition. A few
years ago Haile Silassie promulgated a
law to abolish the keeping of slaves, with
the result that thousands of these un-
fortunates, who had pursued their honor-
able calling, keeping it in the family,
for generations, found themselves with-
out a job, and his Majesty had forthwith
to scratch the royal head over yet an-
other puzzling problem, that of his coun-
try’s unemployed slaves. Other matters
that should convince anyone that the
kingdom is one that eminently deserves
to be saved from civilisation include the
striking triumphal arches in the palace
grounds which turn out on inspection
to be made of cardboard ; and it seems to
deserve preservation, too, as an outpost
of Ruritanian legations, the present head
of the British section of which is especi-
ally valuable to the kingdom: he sets
the fashion in men’s dress.
Mussolini’s
Italy
Apart from
these pleasant
c h a r a c teristics,
the people and
place, in Farago’s
account, have a
strength and an integrity of their own.
The journalist would not change his job
for Haile Silassie’s, country, throne and
all, but his pity for the kingly dictator
is salted with a good deal of firmly
stated admiration. This is chiefly aroused
by his Majesty’s evident capacity for
endless work, the only thing he appears
to have in common at the moment with
the gentleman across the water who is
troubling him, not to mention the world
at large. It seems that it is nothing' for
Haile Silassie to have done five hours’
work before 9 a.m., and his day, with
the personal trial of murderers and such-
like kingly offices thrown in, lasts well
into the night.
Mussolini in this role of Napoleonic
worker looms large in Dr, Herman
Finer’s Mussolini’s Italy, an excellent
companion book to Farago’s, and a much
more comprehensive study of its sub-
ject. Dr. Finer is reader in Public Ad-
ministration at the University of Lon-
don, and his book is what would be ex-
pected, a fairly large-scale examination
of the Fascist system as an example of,
or experiment in, public administration
—one, incidentally, which he does not
think highly of and believes will surely
fall with the fall of Mussolini. As for
Mussolini’s capacity for work, he esti-
mates this, from a statement of Musso-
lini’s, to include the giving of 8500 audi-
ences a year, or about 24 a day, which,
as he says, .is remarkable if we do not
forget all the other activities; Grand
Council, Cabinet, party meetings, Parlia-
ment and the rest!
Against Farago’s suggestions of a
comic-opera Abyssinia, 1 Dr. Finer sets up
a country of the more theatrical sort of
grand opera, set to military music, with
political exhortations in place of the
tender notes of dying sopranos. Twelve
months spent in the land in two stretches
during the past two years convinced him
that public spectacles have become
Italy’s staple industry, and it is unfair
to the producers and managers that they
are not included in the statistics of pro-
duction. “More ingenuity, more thought,
more effort, are spent on, this industry
than on any other. There is an inces-
sant round of flags, assemblies, parades,
marching and countermarching of youth
organisations and militia, municipal
authorities, trade-unions and other asso-
ciations, and the ex-service men, all in
uniform and decorations. They all have
colors flying ; the bands play.” In the
words of the recent classic, too,
All over Italy
They sing so prettily !
A little while ago they were singing:
Youth! Youth!
Springtime of loveliness!
In Fascism is the salvation
Of our liberty !
According to Fascist statistics 3000
people lost their lives in fighting for
Fascism while singing that version of
the near-national anthem. The lines
have been changed, but the beautiful
voices of the country can still delight
in these from the same song:
Within the Italian boundary,
Italians have been refashioned,
Refashioned by Mussolini
For the war of to-morrow . .. .
After watching all this performance, the
most Dr. Finer seems to allow the sys-
tem is that it is a little preferable to the
Russian, though it seems also implied
that if he were pressed to it he would
place it incomparably above the Ger-
man. His finding on Fascism is flat
enough: “I categorically affirm, from
direct observation, and from the admis-
sions of good Fascists, that Italy is
being demoralised. The vacant-minded
repetition of uniform phrases and songs
and salutes, even when repeated by mil-
lions of people, cannot be called morali-
sation. To be moral is to have inwardly
striven for the conviction of truth.” He
finds that Italy has suffered, on the bal-
ance against its previous life, a very
serious loss; that Fascism, putting a
premium on successful humbug, flattery
and bluff, “achieves the result achieved
by all churches which have preferred
worship to godliness: the creation of
humbugs and panders.”
Obviously the work takes the color of
its author’s democratic ideals. It does
not prove him biased, but just sufficiently
blind not to see that the very thing which
seems to have happened to Italy is that
it has been morally stiffened to some
purpose, whatever fault may be found
with the method.
Red Page.
[Abyssinian Journey, by Marcel Griaule
(Miles; 10s. 6d.), and Abyssinia on the Eve,
by Ladislas Farago (Putnam; 12s.), both from
Angus and Robertson; Mussolini’s Italy, by
Dr. Herman Finer (Gollaijcz; 27s. 6d.), from
Moore’s Bookshop.]
T. E.
LAWRENCE
T. E. Shaw,
once T. E. Law-
rence, planned
that the 'Seven
Pillars of Wis-
dom should not
be read by the general public till he
was dead. But he did not reckon with
death at 47. He expected that before
the enormous work reached the
public, outside the small and understand-
ing circle which has had access to it
since 1926, everybody else mentioned in
it would be dead, too ; for most of them,
except one or two who had already
passed over when he wrote, were older
than himself, and he was a very vigorous
and healthy man, as one who is allowed
to enlist in the R.A.F. at 35 and remain
in it till well over 40 must be.
Now, in haste, the volume is out
(Jonathan Cape, per Angus and Robert-
son, 455.), and all the world is reading
it. It is the book of an epoch, but it is
hard to classify it. As war history, it is
incomplete ; it is more autobiography.
It is the best description of the Arab and
his arena written since Doughty. It is full
of vivid geographical description built
out of a wonderful memory with con-
summate literary skill and economy of
phrase. It is as revealing as Pepys or
Cellini. And it will probably live and
be numbered a century hence among
the great books of the period, though
in this generation a clamor of inter-
ested personalities eager for their rights
may prevent its being fairly judged.
It at least solves some of the Lawrence
mystery, which was not a mystery at all.
Lawrence got to the war only because
of the influence of Hogarth, of the Ash-
molean museum. He was rejected for
ordinary service because he was too little.
His name is so widely known, his fame
so assured, that it is difficult to believe
that the whole of his life on which his
fame rests was compassed inside two
years. When the war had run half its
course he was still a staff-captain in
Cairo, there rather by grace of his hav-
ing been with Newcombe’s archaeological
expedition to Akaba a year earlier —a
spying journey in which Lawrence and
the other archaeologists were a blind. He
was unpopular with authority for his
unorthodox methods and unmilitary
manners.
His first trip to Jedda with Ronald
Storrs was made while he was on leave
after having been to Mesopotamia, where
the idea of the Arab rebellion against
the Turk, which had been an obsession
of his youth, crystallised. But after he
had visited Faisul, who was in command
of the almost routed Arab forces, he did
not want to return to the Arab army.
When he did go, only one other English-
man was there—Garland, an explosives
expert, who taught him the technique of
blowing up railways.
It was only after Faisul held the coastal
towns and the Turks were cut off in
Medina and clinging like limpets to the
control of the Hejaz railway that Law-
rence visioned the strategy and tactics
of the Arab campaign. The regular
soldier saw all war as a war of contact,
with armies holding trenches against an
enemy and striving to wipe him out to
the last man. Lying sick in the camp
of the Sherif Abdulla, Lawrence analysed
the position. The conjunction of a Semite
people, an armed prophet and an idea —
on which he felt you “could always
swing the Arab as on a cord”—seemed
to him to hold illimitable possibilities.
The Turk, he felt, could not hold Arabia
except by a system of blockhouses so
vast as to be impracticable. He divided
war into its elements—the algebraic, the
biological and the psychological. He felt
assured that the Turk could win Arabia
only if the Arabs came as an army with
banners, but none so easily if the latter
elected to be merely “an influence, an
idea, a thing intangible, without a back
or front, drifting about like gas.” It
seemed that a regular soldier might be
helpless without a target, for then there
would be no room for what Foch and
his fellows declared to be the aim in
war; the destruction of armed forces by
the process of battle was rendered impos-
sible. Rebellion was to be “more like
peace than war.”
And so one of the most curious cam-
paigns of modern times began. Lawrence
was not even the senior British officer
with the Arab forces—he names half a
dozen who were his superiors—but in the
first 18 months he was the guiding spirit
“as much in command of the campaign
£s he pleased,” for he chose to implement
his own theories.
The forces with which he consorted
were wild Arab tribes, gathering size and
momentum as they passed through
friendly territories. He dressed as an
Arab at Faisul’s request, since in khaki
he might be mistaken for a Turk by the
Arabs, many of whom had seen no other
(Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our policy which knows no deviation.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
, -
1%:
m^r-
m
«*
a
IB
S&S
i.’JC;
ffr»
'■X
s»
:■;<
W
SVi*
REV,
■I
.vv
'V •••
aS<
2 L -r~
:i;iias
r&s
vr
.■■■>. c
STf'*
m
LEONARD
G*<p u 1 £47 / 10 /
REFRIGERATOR
These Refrigerators with their extra conveniences shorten kitchen
tasks and save many pounds a year by eliminating spoilage and
waste.
Illustrated is Model SL 1. high, 22iins. wide, 20 T %ins; deep,
food storage capacity 3.23 cub. ft., shelf area 7.98 sq. ft. This model
is equipped with all standard' "Leonard” features. Two Ice Trays
make 42 handy-sized Ice Cubes per freezing. Cabinet is finished
White Permalac with chrome-plated hardware. Anthony
Horderns' Price £47/107-
Other capacities—4.B6 cub. ft. . ■ £59/10/-.
5.64 cub. ft. £69/10/-
MODERN ELECTRICAL SERVANTS
gd
fg
dfg
dfg
df
gh
EUREKA
1935
MODEL
The extra powerful suc-
tion of the Grand Prize
Eureka ■ draws out that
deeply embedded dust
and grit which, if allowed
to remain in carpets, liter-
ally grinds them to pieces.
It also removes moth
larvae; no amount - of
sweeping can do this. One
of the most important -of
the Eureka accessories is
the Sanitor for moth-proof-
ing carpets, garments, etc.,
and for disinfecting car-
pets, bedding, clothing,
etc. Anthony Horderns'
Price £lB/18/-
BRITISH MADE
OFTfc
GOMPLET.E
THE FINEST WASHER EVER BUILT
Jill
fe
'■ ,-r ' ■ ■>>.
J** .JUM —-V
¥»> i-.i
-JSSUiK
>m
jMeassmtHu*.
wB&
|||;
VMi&'i*'
L-
,(,\
KwV-i&vS-'K Vv)
WMttK
ismmsmK'
VOI/653
MAYTAG
FAST, GENTLE
THOROUGH
ECONOMICAL
The Maytag, with its tub of solid aluminium, cast in one piece—with its
Roller Water Remover, almost a washer in itself—with its working parts
made carefully—has a right to the distinction of being the .world's finest
washer. " The Maytag washes faster, more thoroughly, more gently, and
more economically. The legs of the Maytag are adjustable so that the
washer will suit the height of operator. Equipped with large rubber
casters. Anthony Horderns' Price £59/10/-
5 VALVE SUPERHETERODYNE
CONSOLE
HORDERNIA
INTERSTATE
BROADCASTER
'
. .
ssv
*v. m
s
m
I
Tune-in to Interstate
Stations on the "Hor-
dernia" 5-Valve Super-
heterodyne Console. En-
joy high quality reception
and that clarity of tone
usually found only in
much higher-priced sets.
This set incorporates an
improved circuit, using
high-grade parts; the latest
type valves and dynamic
speaker which gives life-
like tone. Installed in a
full polished veneered
Maple Cabinet. Anthony
Horderns' Price, £l6/10/-
Also available for battery
operation, complete with
self - contained batteries.
Model 368, 6 valves.
Price £l6/10/-
new-
• Electrical Appliances
Ground Floor—Pitt Street —
Free delivery city and
suburbs only.
Ask for terms on which these goods may be purchased.


About Your Indigestion..
i
V
A
S-
-5C
as
a
m
m
s^°
INTESTINES
a
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE Painful distension of the
stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
■ ' The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE Duodenal ulcers. Excess
outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles. It acts in a
logical and common-
sense way, and if you
persevere it will even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain of
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply of
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists I
and Stores, in sky- I
bine Canister —
soldiers. His forces were mounted on
racing camels, capable of travelling 250
miles without water. For over a year
they rode an average of more than 50
miles a day. Twice they rode 140 miles
in 24 hours. They drank only at wells,
and their rations for six weeks, from the
leaders to the poorest members of the
tribes, was a 451 b. bag of flour slung on
the saddle bow. They had no bases or
transport corps.
Their specialty was railways. There
would be a long night-ride with 501 b.
of gelignite kneaded into a sort of
damper ; an explosion ; a looted railway
station, and a few yelling Arabs dis-
appearing behind a hill with the spoils.
No Turkish station from Medina to
Deraa ever knew any more than that
about these raids, and the moral effect
was intensified by a terrible propaganda
which permeated the whole countryside.
When the Arabs had taken Akaba and
Allenby had come to Egypt, a new phase
developed. After that, the increasing
rebel hordes were, in effect, the right
wing of the advance on Damascus. But
their army was more regularised, there
was more fighting. The motor-car and
the machine-gun had reinforced the
camel and the rifle. Raids were fiercer
and more frequent. Lawrence became
more and more an intelligence man and
liaison officer. Some of his adventures
were terrible —as when with a £20,000
reward on his head he was captured,
whipped and tortured while spying out
the land in a Turkish camp. He was hit
in five successive engagements.
Towards the end he had learned the
truth that he who “gives himself to be a
possession of aliens leads a Yahoo life,
having bartered his soul to a brute-
master.” His years in the desert had
“quitted him of his English self,” but
left him unable to become the true Arab.
One of the finest chapters in his book
is that in which he dissects his spirit on
his 30th birthday, and confesses to the
abnormality of mind which resulted
from the beastliness of living among
those he led, with hunger, cold and
fatigue always present and blood always
on their hands.
When he went to Egypt, he confesses,
he had meant to be/ a general and
knighted by the end of the war (he was
then a second-lieutenant on sufferance);
but four weeks before the taking of
Damascus with these dignities in his
grasp, if he survived, he was cured of
such .crude ambitions.
Some of his greatest authenticated
exploits, such as his visit to Damascus
during the height of the war, he does
not mention. And of others which were
great he makes little. His outlook was
intensely personal, and he was apt to
stress his reactions to the grandeur of
scenery and to scenes of horror which
impressed themselves on him rather than
accomplishment, unless it was that of
others.
The Australians he did not under-
stand, except for individual cases. Yells,
the machine-gunner who was sent with
him on one expedition, particularly cap-
tured his imagination. Ross Smith bring-
ing down Turks between breakfast saus-
ages, too;
He wished he might stay for ever on
this Arab front with an enemy every
Half-hour.
But Chauvel vexed him, though he
admits that Chauvel “won the last round
and made me feel mean.”
It is, perhaps, the finest war book and
certainly the most literary modern one
that has been written ; but it is a ques-
tion whether it was fair to publish it so
early. Lawrence is likely to be seen in
better perspective in 50 years’ time,
except by those who knew him well
enough to appreciate his selflessness, his
lack of desire for personal distinction,
his generosity to his friends and his good
deeds in aid of the underdog and those
to whom the war had not brought the
same fortune and opportunities as it
brought to himself. He died with only
enough capital to keep him above bare
want for the rest of his life, having given
away tens of thousands of pounds.
ABU SHAWARIB.
Louis Stone
Louis Stone,
who has died in
Sydney at 64, was
born in Leicester (Eng.) and came to
Australia when he was 14. He took his
arts degree at Sydney University, and
then became a school-teacher, writing, in
his spare time, short stories, verse and
plays, most of which he tore up, and then
his two novels, the classic of pre-war
Sydney low life, Jonah, and Betty Way-
side, an unsuccessful attempt to conjure
up romance from much the same sur-
roundings that he had viewed with a
keenly realistic eye for purposes of the
earlier book.
The two novels are, and doubtless will
continue to be, always grouped together
whenever the author is mentioned, but
they make an ill-assorted pair of twins.
It is known that Stone took four years
to write Jonah ; the other novel might
well have been written in as many
months. It has a measure of merit. Two
or three of its subsidiary characters—the
fiddle-doctor and the “colonel” especially
—are good examples of Stone’s liking for
and familiarity with Dickensian human
oddities, and, though most of the other
people are curiously unlifelike, they are
all visible enough. The story as a whole
is extremely thin, built mainly upon
slight misunderstandings, lovers’ tiffs and
music lessons, with coincidence stretched
to its elastic utmost on a number of
occasions to suit the author’s conveni-
ence. A curious impression is that the
novel’s setting is a small village, which
is almost inexplicable in a writer who
had proved in Jonah that he knew his
city fairly well. Even the dialogue, which
is the strength of a great deal of Jonah,
is almost slipshod and frequently melo-
dramatic: —
“It’s the Song of the Unwept Tear. It
will live when I am dead, for I, too, am a
musician.”
The fact is that to-day Betty Wayside
is interesting only because the author of
Jonah wrote it. This other novel is on
a different plane altogether. Even to-day
we have nothing to better the first half
of it in realistic writing. That is not to
say only that we haven’t any truer repre-
sentation of low life, though that is true
also. What really distinguishes Jonah
is that we haven’t any clearer representa-
tion of life on any level. Too much em-
phasis is possibly placed upon its value
as a picture of the sort of larrikinism
that flourished in Sydney before the war.
It, of course, has that sort of value, and
historical writers of the future will prob-
ably draw greatly upon it. But, in the
first half, at least, it has a singularly
clear literary quality as well. That is the
quality of realism, confused rather gener-
ally with rawness, but here used in the
sense of the ability to see life, of what-
ever kind, simply as it is, and not, as the
romantically-minded see it, through a
rose-tinted ( fog. Jonah is still good read-
ing because of that. It is both true of
its place and period and true to life. Its
author was never a romantic, as his
failure in Betty Wayside too clearly
demonstrates. That he wished he was
may be equally true, and evident in the
same way. There is further evidence in
Jonah itself, the concluding comparative
weakness of which might be ascribed to
the author’s striving after secret romantic
ideals —an inner desire to see life as
somehow more gentle and prettier than
his eyes made it out to be.
C. M.
A Satchel of Books
Victory to the Vanquished, by Barbara
Goolden (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.).
Small-scale fiction built around hardly
more than an episode, but very bright of
its kind. Place, London ; time, now ;
people, divorced or heading that way.
From an account of the affairs of a num-
ber of these, it narrows down to become
the story of a curiously incompatible pair
—a brilliant young barrister and his fine
wife, who love each other passionately,
and yet fail to adjust themselves as a
pair. Characterisation is uncommonly
good, as it is nowadays in so much of
this better-class slight fiction.
Illyrian Spring, by Ann Bridge
(Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.). A
moderately successful attempt to disguise
a month or two’s sightseeing in Europe
as a novel. Having had what the author
calls a “phenomenal success” as a
painter, Lady Kilmichael is still con-
descended to by her brilliant economist
husband and taken lightly by her grown-
up children. Therefore, she goes away
to paint in Europe, becomes slightly
emotionally associated with a young fel-
low half her age, looks at Venice with
a volume of Ruskin in her hand, and at
other places with like preciousness, and
by the end is sufficiently over her small
introvert troubles to pass the young man
on to her daughter and accept her
original life on a safer footing. “You’ve
had a thoroughly devastating journey,”
says the husband, come to take her
back; and the book is like that.
Russian Year, by Alban Gordon (Cas-
sell ; Moore’s Bookshop ; 10s. 6d.). A
gallant effort to write history that will
rival the more excitable sort of thriller.
Talking at' the top of his voice, the author
first introduces Lenin, waiting, waiting,
waiting in exile. Then we have Nicholas
the Bloody, moved to tears by the works
of the English authors Florence Barclay
and A. W. Marchmont, of whom he was
inordinately fond, and so callous towards
the feelings of others—either owing to
a surfeit of that sort of reading or per-
haps by nature—that he could remain
placidly unmoved when at his coronation
“several thousands of his people were
trampled to death in the Khodynka Field
at Moscow.” As he proceeds the author
gets more and more excited. Why not?
These historians are usually such dull
fellows that it’s about time something
was done to bring history into general
circulation. And what better method
than that of the soapbox?
Green Rushes, by Maurice Walsh
(Angus and Robertson ; 6s.). As pretty,
light romance, this blending of a.number
of little love stories is excellent. The
scene is Ireland during the Black' and
Tan War, and the characters young Sinn
Feiners who, at the sudden end of the
fighting, are able to turn to the gentler
occupation at which they are tradition-
ally equally competent. The author
hands out lovely happiness all round,
except to one of the group, whom he
reserves for purposes of a future book.
The Voyage of the Tai-Mo-Shan, by
Martyn Sherwood, R.N. (Bles ; 12s. 6d.
net).' Something a bit different in the
way of books of sea adventure, and an
especial treat for anyone with boats in
his blood. The writer was one of five
young British naval officers of the China
Fleet who had their own sturdy small
sailer built for them at Hong Kong and
spent the best part of a year voyaging
on her from that port north along Japan
and across the Bering Sea, thence to
British Columbia, down the American
coast to the Panama, and then across the
Atlantic to England. The account of the
trip is simple and jolly, with advice,
details of stores and the like that might
be invaluable to anyone planning such
a spree. Incidentally, the author says of
piracy in Chinese waters to-day that it
“is certainly no casual venture, but is so
highly organised and planned beforehand
as to make success almost a foregone
conclusion.”
Innocence and Design, by Richard
Waughburton (Macmillan ; Moore’s
Bookshop ; 7s. 6d.). One of the heartiest
bits of good, honest fun-poking that’s
happened in years. The victim —Britain’s
foreign-affairs diplomacy—does look a
little the worse for wear as a topic for
such treatment, but Waughburton has a
manner and ideas of his own for making
its hush-hush and otherwise pretentious
methods a laughing-stock. He hangs his
thorns on a wild farce about sundry
British knights and peers who take part,
innocently or by design, in securing in-
formation of Russia’s intentions regard-
ing a railway in a comic-opera country
near Persia. Getting the farce started and
keeping it going is done rather clumsily,
but the reader staggering through it will
find himself letting out unexpected
bellows. First-class parody of various
things from Gibbon’s style to Ruritania
fiction keeps the reader —or perhaps he
should be called onlooker—chuckling
between the laughs.
Potlatch and Totem, by W. M. Halli-
day (Dent; 15s. net). An interesting
account of the Indians of British
Columbia, written from 38 years’ ex-
perience among them by an agent of
the Department of Indian Affairs, of
Ottawa —a post similar to that of our
Protector of Aborigines. The first half
of the book is given to an explanation
and description, done in the form of
eyewitness sketches, of the curious
custom known as the potlatch —the mak-
ing of gifts to the point of impoverishing
the giver, the gifts, however, having a
string attached ; they would come back
with interest. This custom, which
reached such proportions as to become
virtually the law and regulations of the
Indians, was so abused that a special
Act was passed to wipe it out, and it was
the author’s risky job to administer this
much-resented law. A fine lot of photo
graphs illustrate the volume.
My Seven Selves, by Hamilton Fyfe
(Allen and Unwin ; 155.). Well-known
as a journalist through his war-correspon-
dence work, Fyfe has been on most of
the rungs from the bottom to the top of
the London newspaper ladder. In this
slight autobiography he records that ex-
perience, and there is just a hint that it
was for him a very interesting life. He
fails to make it so to the reader. He
leaves the impression that all his con-
tacts with others, with the scores of
world figures, characters, scenes and
events he must have known, were all of
the most superficial kind. Cub-reporters
would find it interesting enough, perhaps
even inspiring, but as general reading it
is thin.


When do you expect your children
to he self-supporting?
If the answer is “In twenty (or fifteen or ten) years” you need a
“NATIONAL MUTUAL” IMPROVED POLICY OF
INCOME ASSURANCE, which in addition to other
benefits will provide for your children's maintenance and
education should your death occur within that period.
AN ILLUSTRATION;
The following benefits could be secured by a man aged 30
nearest birthday for an annual premium of £29/13/4 for the
first 20 years of assurance, and £23/6/8 thereafter: —
In the event of his death within the term of 20 years: —
(1) £lOO and the full amount of vested bonus additions,
payable on death.
(2) £l5O per annum, payable by monthly instalments of
£l2/10/-, for the balance of the term of 20
years.
(3) £lOOO, payable when such income ceases.
In the event of his surviving 20 years: —
The contract becomes an assurance for £ 1000,
payable with bonuses at death.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Established 1869.
Funds over £39,000,000.
A purely mutual institution which was formed to protect its
members and their dependants from the financial difficulties
caused by death and old age.
Write and ask for any quotation. All inquiries will be given expert attention.
Offices: 350 George Street, Sydney Oswald St. Clair, Manager


GIFT
CASES
Wk
m
m
i i
.....
■
m
km
9
m.
m
m
nm
!
m
nterior of One of the Storage Cellars —Total Storage Capacity Maturing Cellars over 4\ Million Gallons.
SEPPELT’S will deliver throughout Great Britain from their London House, situated at
AUSTRALIA HOUSE, THE STRAND, W.C.2, an assortment of their productions at a special
price for the FESTIVE SEASON. For full particulars, apply to any of B. SEPPELT AND
SONS, LTD.’S undermentioned branches—
South Australia:
Head Office, Seppeltsfield,
or
Kithers Buildings, King
William Street, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
Cr. Sussex and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney,
or
Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Victoria:
1-587 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Packenham Street,
Fremantle.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56 —No. 2904.
October 9, 1935.
MOBILISED.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“SANCTIONS.”
Although it had watched steady preparation for it
during the previous six months, the world was appalled
at the announcement that fighting between Italy and
Abyssinia had commenced at dawn on October 3.
Each combatant promptly communicated with Geneva
and blamed the other, Abyssinia charging Italy with
“a violation of the frontier and a breach of the League
Covenant,” and Italy imputing to Abyssinia “a war-
like and aggressive spirit,” which had compelled the
Italian Government “to authorise the High Com-
mand in Eritrea to advance.” As a grim, gory fact,
Italy has renounced its signature to the Covenant, and
for its own part made waste paper of Article XII:
The members of the League agree that if there
should arise between them any dispute likely to lead to
a rupture they will submit the matter either to arbitration
or judicial settlement or to inquiry by the Council,
and they agree in no case to resort to war until three
months after the award by the arbitrators or the judicial
decision or the report by the Council.
Italy has also violated the principle to which
it subscribed when its Government signed the Kellogg
Pact, which, in the pacifist jargon of the time, was a
“multilateral treaty for the renunciation of war as
an instrument of national policy.” It was hailed by
the good Kellogg as “promising to bring to the peoples
of at least 62 countries within the scope of its benefi-
cent provisions a degree of universality without parallel
in the history of peace,” and its Article II states:
The High Contracting Parties agree that the settle-
ment or solution of all disputes or conflicts, of what-
ever nature or of whatever origin they may be, which
may arise among them shall never be sought except by
pacific means.
The author of the Kellogg Pact was Secretary
of State in a Republican Administration —that of
Calvin Coolidge. The author of the League Cove-
nant was President Woodrow Wilson. It is one of
the ironies of history that while Italian bombers
were attacking Adowa, in contempt of Covenant and
Pact, Wilson’s Democratic successor at the White
House should have been issuing a declaration of
neutrality, “moved by a stern determination to avoid
those perils that will endanger our peace with the
world.” “With that,” the record says, “he boarded
the cruiser Houston,” named after a fighting man,
“and set out to review the greatest massing of naval
ships in American history.” Afterwards he “turned
for a lone cruise down the coast of Central America,”
leaving the members of the League that America begot
and disowned to encounter, without his help or
counsel, “those perils that endanger” their “peace.”
It might be said of “sanctions,” as Lansing,
Woodrow Wilson’s Secretary of State, said of “self-
determination,” that it is a term “loaded with dyna-
mite.” Be this as it may, a member of the League
having attacked another member in defiance of its
engagements, Article XVI applies;—•
Should any member of the League resort to war
in disregard of its Covenants under Articles XII, XIII
of XV, it shall ipso facto be deemed to have com-
mitted an act of war against all other members of the
League, which hereby undertake immediately to subject
it to the severance of all trade or financial relations,
the prohibition of all intercourse between their nationals
and the nationals of the Covenant-breaking State, and
the prevention of all financial, commercial or personal
intercourse between the nationals of the Covenant-
breaking State and the nationals of any other State,
whether a member of the League or not.
So, theoretically, all members of the League should
now be at war with Italy, in an economic or a mili-
tary sense. Actually, no member other than Abys-
sinia is. Just as the League failed to prevent the dis-
memberment of China, an original member, by
another original member, and to prevent (or stop)
the war between fellow-members Paraguay and
Bolivia, it has failed to save Abyssinia. Its greatest
defect is that it is composed of Powers that are
satisfied with things as they are, and of Powers that
are dissatisfied. And this dispute has shown that the
choice membership offers when the action of an
ambitious Great Power threatens an already scared
Europe with an incalculable disturbance lies between
the certainty of grave disadvantages and the prob-
ability of immeasurable dangers,
Britain has declared its readiness to honor its
signature to the Covenant, and in this it was followed
by all the Dominions —though the Canadian Prime
Minister and leader of the Opposition declared that
in no circumstances would their country send troops.
The French faced both ways at Geneva, and after an
interchange of views with the British Foreign Secre-
tary, who politely declined to give an assurance that
John Bull would back France and its proteges in
every Continental wrangle—he said, among other
things, that “elasticity is part of security, and every
member of the League must recognise that the world
is not static” —French reluctance to join in applying
“sanctions” has obviously increased. Russian pledges
are worthless, and some of the smaller countries —
notably Spain and Austria —are evidently disinclined
to run risks. In any case, their military power is
negligible.
“One in, all in!” is now the motto of the English-
speaking world, the U.S.A. excepted. Only if all
the other associated nations now looking on subscribe
to it unreservedly can the collective-security system
stand. If it collapses the British countries must with-
draw into their own Commonwealth and be prepared
for any emergency that may arise.
ANOTHER DRAGON DOWN.
Full investigation into Australia’s latest air disaster
has been prorqised, and well it might be. The story
of the type of ’plane involved, the Dragon, is the
sorriest in our aviation.
Within a year three of these ’planes have crashed
to complete destruction in Australia, and 21 persons
have been destroyed with them. In each instance the
weather was normal, the ’plane had been flying well
right up to the moment of disaster, and then, without
a sign, the crash. The proper memorial for each of
them is a question mark.
The first vanished altogether somewhere in Bass
Strait, with 10 passengers and two pilots. The next
crashed at Longreach (Q.), and four men were killed.
There were five in the third, which disappeared into
Bass Strait, near Flinders Island.
If these were all acts of God, Providence has been
singularly severe on the D.H.86 type of ’plane, for,
until these disasters occurred, civil aviation in Aus-
tralia had had a particularly bright record. The one
other airliner that vanished went in foul weather:
the general performance of the passenger services
has been second to none in the world, save, perhaps,
the American.
The two official inquiries already held have
established very little, though maybe more than will
be established by the pending inquiry, if this is
concentrated wholly upon the one accident. The
little that has been established would seem to indict
man, rather than God or machine. The only concrete
thing that has emerged is that the pilot was not at
the controls when the Longreach crash occurred.
Probably the ’plane was being flown at the time by
the uncertificated relief pilot; and, though he knew
how to fly a ’plane, the machine might seem entitled
to the benefit of a doubt.
The inquiry into the other crash resolved into
pure guesswork, with the guess again tending to
absolve the machine. It was that the pilots may have
been exchanging control at the time.
Advance guesswork about last week’s Dragon
disaster also tends towards exonerating the machine.
In this case the guess is that something happened
while the wireless operator was winding in his aerial.
Based on even more slender evidence than the
guess about the other Bass Strait tragedy, it likewise
carries the implication that the active hand of man
was more blameable for the crash than the figurative
hand of God, or the original hand of designer or
material-maker.
Public opinion, veering about among all those
possibilities, concludes that either ’planes of this type
are unsafe or that flying altogether is less safe
than the body of evidence, supported by an especially
insistent voice of propaganda, has made it out to be.
Either way, it awaits the finding of the experts with
peculiar interest.
Most likely that finding will again be that these
’planes are structurally sound. For, whatever these
Dragons are, they are not troglodytes. The designing
of ’planes has got beyond mere hopeful experiment.
It has a scientific mathematical and geometrical basis.
A ’plane is no longer built and sent aloft in the vague
hope that it might stay there. It goes from designer
into the air with so much certainty of a safe per-
formance that ’plane-testing has the same occupational
safety as bookmaking, and is probably even healthier.
These Dragons had all survived rigid tests, and the
last of them to go had proved the design sound by
months of safe flying.
A less predictable item is the soundness of
material. The finding of “no structural faults” does
not satisfactorily cover this. It might mean that
regarded in the abstract simply as ’plane material
that used in the Dragons is excellent, as doubtless it
is. It may not certify the suitability to the particular
design of all the material employed in these construc-
tions. This may or may not be a weakness of these
’planes, but it is an item which seems to require closer
attention than it has hitherto had.
A disability of such inquiries is that, acting in
an ordinary spirit of justice, the investigators feel
that they have to be certain before they can suggest
definite and, as it might be, drastic action ; and there
is virtually no evidence or means by which such
certainty can be reached. Nothing can be learnt
from the scraps of salvage they have hurried to
Flinders Island to inspect. The whole circumstances
of the disaster make it clear that at the very most they
might arrive at a state of doubt, and it is the core of
our idea of justice to acquit without dishonor wherever
a doubt is present. A question is whether this possible
doubt should not be outweighed by a still graver
one: whether, in short, the Dragon should continue
to be given the benefit of what unquestionably is a
doubt, or whether the benefit should be given to
the public, whose safety would seem to be
almost equally in doubt, and certainly deserving of
equal consideration.
The Dragon chapter of accidents —there have
been others —might conceivably lead even an expert
committee to arrive at both those doubts simultane-
ously. If it does, must the committee put them aside
pending a judicial certainty which it has no means
of reaching? Or, as a matter of ordinary common-
sense, shouldn’t it say so frankly?
At any rate, civil aviation in Australia is in no
position to ignore the possibility and consequences
of an alarmed public. The latest figures available
make almost as sorry reading as this modern History
of the Dragons. Among other things, the number of
passengers carried in a year dropped from 80,408
in 1931 to 58,375 in 1934. Some of the vanished
20,000, of course, may have died.
OIL.
Senator McLachlan, who is Postmaster-General
and “Minister in Charge of Development,” predicts
a serious oil-fuel shortage in the U.S.A. in five
to eight years. Indeed, Dr, Benjamin Brooks, an
authority whom he quotes, thinks that, if consump-
tion increased, the shortage might come in two or
three years. Senator McLachlan interprets this to
mean that “presently our great shale and coal
reserves will come into their own.”
The Minister is persuaded that hydrogenation is
the process. In this he goes much further than the
Technical Committee which reported to the Govern-
ment a year ago; that committee found that the
figures dealing with estimated costs of production
were “now of little value, and to quote them would
be idle.” Also, that it “would be folly” and “unbusi-
nesslike to the point of recklessness” to contemplate
erection of a plant which would cost about £10,000,000
until the results of a large-scale experiment at Billing-
ham (Eng.) were known.
According to Dr. Herman, to erect plants to pro-
vide 180,000,000 gallons of petrol p.a. from coal would
call for an investment of £50,000,000, and even then
the Federal Government would need to subsidise the
industry to the extent of Bd. per gallon. But, he says,
hydrogenation has proved a success in England;
Imperial Chemical Industries, with a Government
subsidy of Bd. per gallon, is now producing
45,000,000 gallons p.a.
Fifty millions is a lot of money. Private enter-
prise would have difficulty in finding it, and no
Australian Government would get it in one piece.
Still, the need for action is here. The price of petrol
in Australia is up Id. a gallon, taking another
£900,000 p.a. out of motorists’ pockets. The increase
draws pointed attention to the Commonwealth petrol
tax of 71d. a gallon as well as to the sky-high State
taxes to which private motorists are subjected, and
to the war on commercial motor competition. In
petrol tax £6,500,000 was extorted last year. Prices
have gone up 4d. a gallon since 1933.
Defending the present increase, A. E. Callanan,
of Vacuum Oil, states that overseas petrol companies
are losing money in Australia. Mr. Lyons, for his
part, declares that C.0.R., in which the Government
has a controlling capital interest, shares this view.
In the disturbed state of the world it is increasingly
clear that dependence on foreign countries for fuel
is dangerous. An attacking country which cut our
petrol communications would have Australia in the
hollow of its hand.
Other countries, even those with petrol resources,
long ago began to take measures to provide
themselves with local fuel other than oil-well pro-
ducts. Most of them are turning to power alcohol,
distilled or got by fermentation from molasses and
grains. The U.S.A, itself produced power alcohol
last year equal to nearly the whole of Australia’s.
needs, and there has been talk of compelling the addi-
tion of a proportoin of vegetable alcohol to all gasoline.
Several European countries already have taken
this step. In France, since 1931, a 10 p.c. admixture
of power alcohol with all imported fuel is compul-
sory, and lorry fuels must carry 25-35 p.c. In Italy
and Hungary the legal mixture is 25 p.c. Germany
was using more than 50 p.c. of home-grown fuel
in 1933 —200,000 tons of benzol and 80,000 tons of
power alaohol out of 450,000 tons ; and the power-
alcohol proportion is increasing. In Durban they
use 60 p.c. of locally-produced alcohol with 40 p.c.
of petrol; the mixture retails at Is. per gallon.
In 1927 two investigations of power alcohol and
mixed fuels were made in Australia. The Standards
Association Power Board stressed “the admitted
vital need that a reasonable proportion of our motor
fuel should be produced in Australia,” and a C.S.I.R.
bulletin urged further investigation of power-alcohol
possibilities. It mentioned that alcohol from molasses
had been used in Government transport vehicles
for three years, and that, in a blend with B.H.P.’s
benzol and 10 p.c. of ether, it was “a most satisfac-
tory and efficient fuel.”
The cost of establishing local factories to pro-
duce 5000 gallons of alcohol per day from maize or
sugar was set down at £60,000, and —allowing 10 p.c.
for depreciation and 10 p.c. for interest and return
on capital—the cost of molasses distillation was stated
at 6.6 d. per gallon. Value of by-products, which
include acetone (through Jack of which Britain nearly
lost the war), dry ice, fertilisers and so forth, was
not stated.
Only one State has since done anything in the
matter —Queensland, which has taken as much power
as the Constitution will allow it to dilute petrol with
the product of local alcohol factories.
Though technique may not yet be perfect,
developments in other countries have gone so far
as to justify serious attention being given to this
industry before tens of millions are risked on coal
distillation. It is specially suitable to Australia,
and it may be important to the whole Empire. Coal
resources must come to an end some day ; agricultural
resources need not.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia’s New Cruiser.
If the crew of the new H.M.A.S. Sydney are ever
called upon to die for their country they will at least
do it in comfort.
Time was —even after the last war —when a
cruiser in the tropics was a place for heroes. Matlows
lived in hammocks in alleyways, and didn’t wear
pyjamas. They messed under conditions which would
have made a cane-cutter shiver, though the Aus-
tralians enjoyed luxuries which no navy outside Uncle
Sam’s knew. If they complained, they were reminded
of Nelson’s men, who, under some captains, were kept
in order with a ten-foot “cat,” and whose ration
during a long voyage was largely rum and weevils.
But the good old principle that the sailor should
live in such a way as to be glad to die has been
abandoned. The Sydney “scarcely falls short of a
luxury liner.” She has electric refrigerators, together
with an electric drive —and that means that she won’t
quiver and rumble like an iron tank in an earthquake,
as cruisers used to do. The taint of coal —not to
mention the labor of coaling—has been relegated to
the more unpleasant chapters of history. And there
is equipment for talkies, as well as all the con-
veniences of “an ultra-modern flat.”
Nevertheless, room has been left for eight service-
able six-inch guns, the newest quadruple torpedo
tubes, anti-aircraft armament and anti-gas protection.
The Sydney is a 7000-tonner, and can do 32 knots.
It might be objected that 5000-ton Italian cruisers of
the 1928 vintage have 20,000 more h.p. in them, and
can give the Sydney five knots. One of Mussolini’s
cruisers has done 41 knots for six hours on end, and
has exceeded 42 knots. These Italian cruisers, too,
carry the same number of six-inch and two more
four-inch guns. And the comparable cruisers which
Germany is building—6ooo tons —are more heavily
gunned and have a wider range of action. As for
Hitler’s 10,000-tonners, with their heavy armor, six
11-inch guns and eight six-inch guns, and a cruising
range of 10,000 miles, they make our capital units
look almost like toys.
While the Sydney will be a useful addition to
the R.A.N., Australia must have at least one capital
ship which could meet on equal terms the biggest
battle-cruiser likely to be encountered in the Pacific.
4
Those Salaries.
It would admittedly be difficult for any set of law-
makers to give an appearance of dignity to the act
of voting public money to themselves; but the thing
is quite beyond our Australian politicians. They
invariably introduce into the proceeding a mixture
of effrontery, shuffling and humbug. In these respects
the latest consummation of increased emoluments for
Ministers and members was no improvement on the
1933 affair, though, for once, some forewarning was
vouchsafed —not enough, of course, to admit of public
opinion intervening awkwardly.
Another 2\ p.c. having been promised to Min-
isters and members, the estimates showed increases
from £12,240 to £12,545 in the one case and £88,363
to £92,500 in the other —they are for nine months
of the financial year. For the appointment of a
tenth “Minister of State” a special measure was
required. This when introduced was found to appro-
priate £13,560 for the ten. Then there was a wrangle,
Lang-Labor members shouting that Ministers were
“giving themselves an extra 2\ p.c. in an underhand
way.” This Mr. Lyons denied ; he asserted that “to
vote the additional £1320 would simply restore the
proportionate amount available for each Minister to
what it was when there were nine Ministers of State.”
Then the P.M. dived, rather clumsily, into history.
He declared that in the early days of the Common-
wealth there were seven Ministers of State for whom
“about £12,000”. was provided. Commonwealth Year-
Books are more specific. They quote the relevant
sections of the Constitution;
65. Until the Parliament otherwise provides, the
Ministers of State shall not exceed seven in number
66. There shall be payable, for the salaries of the
Ministers of State, an annual sum which, until the
Parliament otherwise provides, shall not exceed £12,000
a year.
By 1917 Parliament had provided that Ministers
of State might exceed seven, “but shall not exceed
nine,” and the pool had been raised to £15,300. To
this total, as the Year-Book put it, “£BOO per annum
each was added by the Parliamentary Allowances Act,
1920,” when the member’s salary, which had been
£4OO p.a. for six years (1901-07) and £6OO p.a. for
13 years, was raised to £lOOO p.a. It is now £B5O
p.a., and, of the additional £BOO p.a. voted to Min-
isters 15 years ago, £640 is payable this year: that
is to say, the ten Ministers of State will be entitled
to divide £19,960. How they share it is kept a
secret. It would be much better if specific salaries
were fixed for specific posts.
It is alleged that the country can afford these
increases, though they will obviously be paid out of
sky-high taxes which have not been reduced. It is also
asserted that the backs of the beneficiaries are bowed
under the weight of their exertions in the country s
cause. The public, mindful of the fact that Ms.H.R.
had 39 sittings and Senators 19 in a twelvemonth,
and that Ministers did a great deal of holidaying in
the same twelvemonth, is mildly incredulous. Yet
Mr. Lyons and Senator Pearce, interrupted from their
task of appointing another royal commission, assure
the public that it is true.
Says Mr. Pearce, “The human frame is capable of
a certain amount of strain and no more.” This is rich,
coming from a gentleman rising 66 who is back from
a pleasant trip to the Mandated Territory and who,
having spent 34i years in Parliament and 23 in office,
looks good for another ten years at least. The Prime
Minister, for his part, has had 26 years in Parlia-
ment (11 as a leader of Governments), and he too,
looks well on it. He, his Attorney-General and one
of his Assistant Ministers have just had six months
abroad; the Minister for Trade Treaties is still
wandering about Europe, and the Minister for the
Interior has spent a couple of months in the North.
While these worthies were away their work was done
with no apparent loss of administrative efficiency by
five Ministers of State and three honoraries. It is
recorded of one of the Ministers of State, who has
been in Parliament for 41 years and has held office tor
13 years, that on his seventy-first birthday he did a
stepdance into the Cabinet-room.
4
White and Colored.
The idea that the white races are in danger from
a highly-rising tide of color is getting another airing.
Recent history suggests that clashes among colored
races themselves, due to the disruptive influence of
Western methods, technique and machinery, would
prevent any imaginable revolt from having a real
chance of success ; but it does not suggest that the
whites should stand by, idly watching the colored
races multiply.
The French are being warned of the folly of
having a population three million less than Italy’s
44.000. though their homelands are twice the
size of Italy and several times the value. M. Fernand
Boverat, vice-president of the French Council of
Births, who, with distinguished colleagues, has studied
world birth-rate waves, has concluded that, while in
the past 10 years Europe’s population increased by
20.000. Asia’s increased by 130,000,000.
At the head of the Asian table is China’s
420.000. , next comes British India, with 353,000,000.
Top on the white list is European Russia, with
149.000. ; the U.S.A. (excluding about 12,000,000
negroes and 2,000,000 assorted colored persons),
109.000. is second; and Germany, 68,000,000,
third —68,000,000 is also Japan’s total.
Alarming France is the realisation that if birth
control is persisted with it is a mathematical cer-
tainty that 10 years hence France will register a maxi-
mum of 550,000 births. Then, for want of taxpayers,
it will find it impossible to balance the Budget, now
balanced at the risk of riots, and for lack of men it will
be unable to defend the frontiers.
Remarking that Britain (45,000,000) is in a
similar plight, Dr. Louis Devraigne applauds Hitler’s
and Mussolini’s demands for more babies, and urges
Premier Laval to shout from the Chamber of Depu-
ties for an increase immediately in the size of families,
taxes for bachelors and payment of a bonus of 10,000
francs to mammas for every green shoot they produce.
Undeniable, he contends, is Hitler’s demonstration
that psychological, not economic, conditions are the
greatest influences affecting birth-rates. The infor-
mation may be of value to Australia’s war-time Prime
Minister, who has been conducting a silver-jubilee
campaign for more Australian babies.
-
Flat or Terrace.
Somebody —evidently a lineal descendant of the China-
man who burned down the house to roast the pig—
is advocating a return to the old-time terrace for
congested areas in order to obtain the garden space
which is missing from many newly-erected blocks of
flats. The idea of regulating the erection of flats to
provide for garden areas evidently did not occur
to him.
If the world returns to the terrace it will be a
retrograde movement calculated to set back the
advances of hygiene during the past 50 years. The
terrace is an abomination which should not only
be frowned on by individuals, but placed beyond
the pale by municipal bodies. No further terraces
should be permitted.
The ideal home is, of course, a cottage standing
in a garden, but, as it is impossible for thickly-
populated areas to accommodate all their residents
in this way, the choice between flats and terraces is
forced upon us ; and the experience of recent years
proves that in every respect the flat is preferable.
An architect can plan a flat in such a way as
to give it all the conveniences of a cottage, and provide
air, light and spaciousness, without waste of building
material. This is impossible with a terrace. Flat
residents are able to control their household on the
one level without the eternal running up and down-
stairs which the terrace occupant has to face. In a
large block of flats they are able to reach the level
of their home by lifts. In place of one set of stairs
to accommodate everybody in the building, a block
of terrace houses has to waste a large area in a
staircase for each family—an area which might be
devoted to one large or two small rooms.
But the most serious indictment against the terrace
is that, unless the house faces the south, the ground
floor back room is deficient in light—so deficient that
in many instances it is necessary to have breakfast
by artificial lighting. Owing to the necessity of
planning terraces in a particular way, the back room
is forced to gain all its light from one window, and
that in a corner of the room.
There is no reason why flats should not be
surrounded by garden strips. If flats have gone up
flush to the building lines and without access to air
and sunlight, that is the fault of the local authorities
and can easily be remedied. In the case of terraces
it cannot. The terrace is a menace to health and
convenience, and no amount of regulation can make
it otherwise.
“This ’Ere Culture,”
A handful of artists, writers, actors and the like who
don’t control a thousand votes are asking Premier
Dunstan to reserve the Melbourne Hospital site for
cultural purposes. Their audacity has perhaps stag-
gered the Premier, seeing that he might be able to
sell the land for hundreds of thousands of pounds.
But there is more in the proposed reservation
than the encouragement of the arts; there is the
future of the city of Melbourne to consider.
The site of the present Melbourne Hospital—
about to be removed —adjoins that of the Public
Library and National Gallery. They are divided only
by Little Lonsdale-street, a lane 30 feet wide. The
three remaining sides of the block front Swanston,
Lonsdale and Russell streets —all fine thoroughfares
of 99 feet, though they face a line of shops and
public-houses most of which date from the gold-
rush days. With a few exceptions the whole of the
buildings facing the hospital should be swept away,
according to the ideals of a modern city, and some-
thing erected worthy of the position. But if the
hospital site is sold it is extremely unlikely that any-
thing much better than the shops facing it will rise.
It is not a good business quarter of Melbourne,
and never will be, unless something revolutionary
occurs, such as the creation of a cultural centre. With
such an ornament to establish a standard buildings
affording an appropriate setting would probably rise.
What better position, for instance, could there be for
a hotel planned to surpass anything that Melbourne
boasts to-day?
The new group of buildings should become an
extension of the Public Library, Already the Museum
is overcrowded ; there is no lecture hall to accom-
modate those who gather to listen to local and visiting
artists and scientists and authors ; the National Gal-
lery itself has in its cellars statues and pictures which
the public never sees, because there is nowhere to
put them. The accommodation for the art students
and their instructors would be unworthy of a town
of ten thousand people, and the value of the tech-
nological collection is seriously discounted from lack
of room and proper facilities for the staff. Drama
gets no consideration whatever, beyond the collection
of books in the library, and neither does the moving
picture.
Little Lonsdale-street, for the length of this block,
might well be abolished. It carries no traffic to speak
of, and the land would better be incorporated in the
new group of buildings and gardens —for the front-
ages to the big streets might be devoted to gardens
in which statuary could be displayed.
Such a scheme, properly carried out, would prove
a greater asset to Melbourne than the cash which
Mr. Dunstan is tempted to accept for the land on
which the hospital stands.
4
Making the Most of It.
A pressman’s protest: —■
Stanley was the first war correspondent to make himself
famous in Abyssinia. After Magdala, the romantic Welsh
foundling rode to Suez and there supplied the “Daily Tele-
graph” with news of the fighting ahead of the official bulletins.
His account had the merit of being a straightforward story
of a concluded battle. The reporting of the new war is
evidently to be conducted on other principles.
The campaign must have thrills in the Wild West tra-
dition; and it must have heroes. Hence, a negro adventurer
from Harlem, N.Y., becomes “The Black Eagle,” and an
Australian chronicler proudly records having borrowed his
dress shirt. Then, as no show is complete without sex-appeal,
it is taken for granted that the Emperor of Ethiopia is a
descendant of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, though the
lady was only conjecturally an Ethiopian and there is not
a tittle of real evidence of dalliance between her and the sage.
And there are plenty of tales of thick-lipped Amazons full
of “it.”
Next, it is evidently essential that no blood must be
allowed to flow without being diluted with lots of red ink.
In large headlines it is told that the Abyssianians have been
the subject of “the world’s greatest massacre: it is feared that
1700 were killed and wounded.” The Turks used to compass
slaughterings like that before breakfast (the last Armenian
pogrom was estimated to have accounted for a quarter of a
million). A “bloody and intense” engagement which destroyed
2000 Ethiopians is whooped up.
National broadcasting stations became infected with the
same movie urge. When only the vaguest news of the first
attack had been received, 2FC and 3LO presented their
hearers with what was called “dramatised news of the war.”
Those responsible should realise that Australia does not want
this sort of stagecraft, in the press or otherwise. Plain facts,
calmly presented, are all that 99.9 p.c. of the decent public
cares to hear. Tragedy is bad enough without inflammatory
exaggeration.
4
Staff Trainees.
From a veteran of 1899-1902 and 1914-18:
In his diatribe against Duntroon (B. 2/10/’35) “SOP”
barks his shins badly. One reason why Duntrooners did not
rise to great heights during the Great War was that none
of them was allowed to take a higher rank than major.
And Sandhurst does not train men for staff work; that is
done later at Camberley (Eng.) or at Quetta—to one or other,
by the way, most of the officers mentioned by “SOP” went,
as the letters “p.s.c.” after their names indicate.
Monash was not specially trained for the staff, but he
lived laborious years as a militia officer, working his way
up through field training and periodical examinations to the
command of a militia regiment. His training as a civil
engineer was ideal for acquiring the essentials of a good staff
officer: concentration, ability to size up a situation and
quickness in devising a method of dealing with it. White
didn’t go to Duntroon because the place wasn’t in existence
when he began professional soldiering. He and that other
great Queenslander Chauvel began early on the Queensland
State staff, rated, when the Commonwealth took over defence
matters, the most efficient in Australia, thanks to that
great instructor the late Colonel Lyster. Others mentioned
Blarney, Jess and Lavarack —were staff trainees from early
in their Australian military career; Foster was an Imperial
soldier, and a staff man from the beginning.
“SOP” is evidently one of those who froth at the mouth
when the word “staff” is mentioned. They are on a pai
with the private who used to bore you by telling how often
he refused a commission “so as to stick with his mates.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Keg”: Giuseppe was in my battalion ;
a good fellow and a good Digger. I met
him the other day and jokingly told him
Mussolini would conscript him for ser-
vice in Africa. “Me, don’ you know I
am a civilised object?” was his startled
reply.
* * * *
“Tuart”: In the excitement of an-
nouncing the outbreak of war, “S. M.
Herald” excelled itself:
In a speech addressed to the nation,
President Roosevelt said: “The American
people can have but one concern and but
one sentiment. Despite what happens in
continents overseas, the United States shall
and must remain, as it was long ago,
a father. Our country has prayed that it
might remain unentangled and free.
I suppose it should be “The United
States shall and must remain—-as long
ago the Father of our Country prayed
that it might remain—unentangled and
free” ; but “Granny’s” version is choicer.
* * * *
“Rokko”; A Sydney man had a har-
rowing experience recently when motor-
ing home by night from Newcastle. He
was driving through the bush between
Gosford and the Hawkesbury ferry when
something crashed through the wind-
screen, scattering glass in all directions
and hitting him violently in the face.
He managed to pull up ; his wife, who
was beside him and also badly cut,
realised that the eye was seriously in-
jured, and pluckily took the wheel and
went at top speed towards Sydney and
medical aid. The unfortunate motorist
lost the eye. Cause of the accident—a
small brown owl, dead on the floor of
the car.
“Dr. Mivart”: I sincerely hope the
English Band of Hope won’t offer £5OOO
for a non-alcoholic drink with a kick in
it (B. 2/10/’35). Alcohol is, more or less,
a “narcotic, irritant poison,” as the
organisations that attempt to discourage
its use declare, but it is a kindly, gentle
thing compared with drugs that stimulate
the brain, give relief from pain or in-
duce sleep. Pasteur had a notion that
the physical effects of overindulgence in
alcohol could be obviated by sterilisation
of the spirit, and he, or some of his dis-
ciples or assistants, made some experi-
ments with wine which gave promise of
immunity from the “morning-after”
head. The people who were most
emphatic about the iniquity of such a
line of research were the professional
prohibitionists. If the demon Rum be-
came an angel their occupation would
be gone, their tracts worthless and their
carefully compiled statistics no longer
harrowing. However, Pasteur died-with-
out having stated or established much
beyond the mere possibility of the steri-
lisation of alcohol, and the research has
not been pursued.
H* H» H*
“Adelaide”; The slang phrase “He
set out to get me and got me” has
been the subject of a libel suit against
Adelaide “News” by E. R. Dawes, who
defeated former Senator Daly for the
Labor nomination last year. It was part
of an interview with Daly,
sought by the “News,” and
was alleged to have sundry
sinister meanings. Villeneuve
Smith, K.C., argued that
every candidate is, in the
nature of things, “out to get”
his opponent, and that Grim-
mett quite honorably “gets”
a batsman first ball. Judge
“ Don't you know me? I'm the fellow that saved your life yesterday."
"Oh, are you? Well, where's my bathing cap?"
Napier, however, thought the remark
went beyond fair comment. Damages
claimed, £lOOO ; allowed, £lOO.
* * * *
“M. W.”: “Exdig.” (B. 18/9/’35)
reminds me of “Snow’s” opinion of
Birdwood. “Birdie’s all right,” he ad-
mitted, “except for one thing. He really
seems to think we like fighting.”
* * * *
“Comic Strip”: For the first time in
its history Melbourne enters upon the
present bathing season with more liberal
regulations than Sydney. The Vic.
Municipal Association recommended the
adoption of the Spooner bathing cos-
tume, but individual councils cast out
the suggestion with scorn, and the
legless and brassiere vogue tabooed in
Sydney will flourish again in Melbourne.
So will the topless fashion for men ; it
became so popular on Vic. beaches last
season that constituted authority passed
it unnoticed, even showing little enter-
prise to stamp out the parties of
both sexes which forswore their tops
on unfrequented beaches. It was only
the full nudists who got the goat of the
law. They were pursued relentlessly.
Hi ❖ % %
“One Who Knew Him”; Henry
Stokes, of Melbourne, recently sentenced
to four years for conspiring to rob
the Commonwealth Bank at Ballarat, is
the complete antithesis of the general
impression of a gangster. Well-spoken,
well-informed and with an undeniable
charm of manner, he is a man who
might have been made welcome in any
grade of society. As the proprietor of
Melbourne’s leading two-up school, he
ran it on ideal lines. Not only were
big winners given the usual five minutes’
start, the door of the school being locked,
but Stokes provided them with an armed
bodyguard. He was never a desperado,
and in the shooting imbroglios in which
he was engaged he played the part of
victim. It was when he was shot in
the arm just behind Melbourne Town
Hall that the police decided to disperse
the Fitzroy gangs. While they restricted
their revolver practice to thorough-
fares surrounding the rather appositely-
named Gore-street in Fitzroy, Mel-
bourne didn’t bother overmuch, but
when bullets began to fly in the centre
of the city it felt that something must
be done. Financially, Stokes was in the
capitalist class. His two-up school
profits enabled him to build blocks of
flats—and good flats—in several Mel-
bourne suburbs.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A N. S. Wales country
paper published a report with the
heading “Hotelkeeper as Police Wit-
ness: Rang Up Police to Stop Betting.”
The statement was complimentary to the
publican’s respect for the law, but the
average publican would prefer to dis-
pense with such compliments. After
suffering a loss of trade which caused
him to relinquish his hotel, Bung sued
for £4OOO damages. But he was non-
suited. The Judge held that the cir-
cumstances published showed that the
plaintiff “was worthy, not of the
opprobrium of the community, but of
its esteem, and that a Court of law
could hold no other view.” That it
should work to the man’s financial
damage was unfortunate, but could not
be helped.
* * * *
“Arrah”: If “Pedant” (B. 2/10/’35)
imagines that few outside the medical
profession realise the nice distinction be-
tween “prone” and “supine” it’s a safe
bet he has never done police rounds.
I can recall at least half a dozen cases
of smug-faced juniors receiving a bawl-
ing-out from a sub-editor for writing that
a man lay “prone on his back” ; in fact,
I almost got the sack once for offending
and then daring to argue about it.
“Jagenal”: There is literary precedent,
too, for the use of the word “prone” as
upheld by that Westralian doctor. One
recalls a couplet from Browning:
And Setebos, and Setebos, and Setebos
Prone on his belly lay in summer heat.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: “Mulga” Taylor (B.
2/10/’35) infused humor as well as un-
conventional vigor into his early career
as a Labor member. An Assemblyman
disliked by the little Labor band had used
some metaphors which were objected to
as offensive and indecent, and had been
forced to withdraw. When the House
next met, it was amazed to see a small
pole, yellow flag atop, lashed to the back
of the chair occupied by the too forth-
right orator, who hadn’t yet arrived.
The Speaker ordered an attendant to
remove the invidious emblem, but he
took no further steps to vindicate the
dignity of Parliament, and the incident
ended in mirth. Nobody had any doubts
about the perpetrator of the outrage ;
“Mulga’s” colleagues were all too deadly
serious to be suspected of such a flight of
fancy.
* # * *
“Brix”: Talking of rats, Auckland
(M.L.) many years ago witnessed a
queer procession of the rodents. The
American barque Mary Hasbrouck was
lying at a small wharf making prepara-
tions to sail next day, when in mid-
afternoon the rats began to leave the.
ship. They streamed down the gangway
in hundreds and climbed shorewards
along every available rope. The cap-
tain was not displeased to witness the
departure of the vermin, but the crew,
looking thoughtful, collected their be-
longings and followed the rats. It meant
extensive docking before the ship sailed
with a satisfied crew.
!|: ill * =l=
“Becks”: The removal of Glenelg’s
Luna Park to Sydney has left on the
foreshore a large empty space which
was reclaimed from the sea by the
amusement company that ran the Big
Dipper. It is intended to plant the
ground with lawns and gardens, and to
erect a statue of Hindmarsh in the
centre. Hindmarsh was the first Gov-
ernor of S.A., and the site is appropriate ;
it is very close to the spot where the
first pioneers landed.
* * * *
“Ridgepole”: Lazzarini, M.H.R., who
threatened to put up a tent in the Parlia-
mentary gardens if the Hotel Canberra
increased its charges for accommodating
him (B. 2/10/’35), is a plagiarist. King
O’Malley started that joke. Indeed, I
fancy he carried it a bit further by apply-
ing for permission to run up a canvas
shack in the grounds of the Melbourne
law-factory, on the plea that his Parlia-
mentary salary was inadequate to defray
hotel charges. It was £4OO p.a. in those
days, and there wasn’t much vacant
ground at the top of Bourke-street.
If a thrifty democrat really wanted to
live under canvas at Canberra he would
have as much elbow-room as Abraham
at Mamre.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: J. H. Symon, K.C., left his
7000 books to the Public Library of
Adelaide on one condition —that they
must not be dispersed. Two spare rooms
have been knocked into one, fitted with
the old shelves, furniture and even
bronzes, and will be known as the
Symon Library. The widow performed
a brief formal opening, and literary-
minded daughters paid for the extra
furnishing.
“Findy”; The S.A. Government has
very sensibly decided to restore some
at least of the German names to town-
ships which lost them after T 4. Gaza,
Ambleside, Tweedvale and Marree will
once more be known as Klemzig, Hahn-
dorf, Lobethal and Hergott. Hergott is
in the north, but the other three are in
the heart of the “German” district, and
it is to be hoped that they presage the
return to other euphonious names.
Griinthal, for instance, suits the pretty
little village at the foot of Germantown
Hill (otherwise, Vimy Ridge) much
better than the grim Verdun which re-
placed it. German pioneers were among
the State’s most valuable colonists, and
their towns were named 20 or more
years before Wilhelm Hohenzollern was
born. As to the loyalty of their descen-
dants, the honor roll in any of the
German towns speaks for itself.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: “X.T.’s” appreciation of the
camel as a war steed will not be backed
by most of the men who saw the Camel
Corps in action in Sinai and Palestine
(B. 25/9/’35). The camels used in these
corps were not the swift-running hamils
as “X.T.” suggests. These are as scarce as
first-class thoroughbreds nowadays. The
camel of the Cameliers was the ordinary
riding oont, far from a sprinter and very
awkward to handle in the mass. On his
own ground and under his own condi-
tions in Sinai-Palestine the Australian-
blooded horse, in speed and endurance,
ran the ship of the desert off his feet. So
evident was this that after the break into
Palestine the Camel Corps was abolished,
the Australian members going to make
up the 14th and 15th L.H., while the
Imperial men were drafted into other
units. The camel’s worst drawback was
his immobility when sudden danger
threatened. If enemy batteries located
the beasts it took a devil of a time
to get them moving to safer quarters,
while aircraft found the slow-moving
masses an ideal target. The best points
about the camel were his capacity to
carry weight and to go a long time with-
out water or feed. As a transport
auxiliary to mounted troops he proved
invaluable, but there his utility ended.
SIGNS OF SPRING.
Now the spring, as ever, lavish with amenities
that ravish,
Comes to bring us daily, gaily charms and
beauties that enthral;
Now the woodland birds are singing and the
bards their harps are stringing,
Both inevitably swinging to the vernal
season’s call;
Now the gently-glowing dahlias and the
gorgeous azaleas
Tacit lessons of Australia’s floral excellences
teach.
But there’s something still more striking to. my
own aesthetic liking,
A more telling sign and token that the winter’s
sway is broken,
In the men and maids in “Spooners”
On the beach.
Now the man of ice emerges from hibernal
storms and surges
And obligingly converges on us with his
laden hooks;
Now the punter’s only troubles arc concerned
with picking doubles,
Destined to be pricked like bubbles by
accommodating “books.”
Now the pumps of malted liquor week by week
arc working quicker,
As the “peters” ring and clicker more con-
vincingly than speech;
But to me a surer hinter of the exodus of
winter,
Testimony more conclusive and alluringly
obtrusive,
Is the spectacle of “Spooners”
On the beach.
Time there was when Beauty’s daughters
plunged into the ocean waters,
Or reclined in graceful poses 'neath the sun-
light’s glow and gleam,
In attire so full and flowing it prevented figures
showing,
But they’ve latterly been going to the oppo-
site extreme.
Now we’ve struck the medium happy, not too
tight nor yet too Happy,
Chaste but also chic and snappy, with a
regimented reach.
There’ll be no more taking chances in the
region of romances,
For what isn’t cut to measure will invite the
beak’s displeasure,
When the couples spoon in “Spooners”
On (he beach.
Statesmen’s luck is mostly rotten. Fame’s a
thing that snaps like cotton.
Stevens may be yet forgotten, Joseph
Aloysius, too.
And I’d infinitely sooner take a ticket upon
Spooner
' For outlasting more distinguished politicians,
wouldn’t you?
Oft as winter’s left behind us there’ll be some-
thing to remind us
Of the costume he designed us, when he
stepped into the breach
To determine neatly, nicely, and to regulate
precisely
Just what quantity of human cuticle, in man
or woman,
May be subject to disclosure and provoke
no discomposure
When the pairs parade in “Spooners”
On the beach.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ex-Piriean”: A novel excuse was
advanced by three men who were arrested
at Port Pirie (S.A.) and charged, rather
ponderously, with having been “found
by night armed with offensive weapons
about which they did not assign any
valid or satisfactory reason for having
in their possession.” The weapons were
lengths of iron piping. Questioned by
a squad of five policemen, accused pro-
tested that they intended to use them
“fighting for the Abyssinians.” Haile
Silassie will have to wait some time for
the trio’s assistance ; anyway, they will
be out of action for three months.
'* * * *
“11 Vecchio”: Whatever happens in
Abyssinia, the illegitimate bambini of
Italy and their erring mammas will re-
member Mussolini for generations to
come. The revolution which he has
wrought for them is recorded in the Eng-
lish emanations of his official “Agenzia
d’ltalia”:
These women, who, in other times, be-
cause of great injustice, used to be aban-
doned to themselves, very often in the
most miserable conditions and left to de-
spairs, are now, in Italy, assisted with kind
interest... .Mothers are always enduced to
recognise their child with money prizes
and dowries to favor as well, as much as
possible, regular unions of the “unknown
parents,” thus helping greatly to the con-
stitution of regular families, according to
the high ideals of the Fascist Regime in
view of a healthy demographic policy.
If the Duce can mangle Haile Silassie as
hard as his followers mangle the English
language, the Ethiopian hasn’t a hope
with him.
t- -f s= *
“Exdig”: Italy is suffering from spy-
mania, an epidemic that parts of Aus-
tralia were familiar with in the early
war years. One happening that aroused
suspicions in Sydney was a mysterious
light which flickered after midnight
through the bush between Kogarah and
Sandringham. The locals jumped to the
conclusion that a spy was signalling to
someone on the bay. One night a mob of
excited and patriotic citizens fell upon
a man with a lantern and had their
convictions confirmed when they heard
him expostulate in a “foreign” voice.
The assault, however, came as a big
surprise to an honest Briton whose work
kept him so late that, missing the last
train, he had to walk from Kogarah
railway station to his home at Sandring-
ham, and used the lantern to light his
path. The “foreign” speech was the
Cousin Jack dialect.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The last of the fire-brigade
horses whose charge through the streets
was once a picturesque feature of Sydney
went when Samoa died, at 27, in the
Horses’ Home at La Perouse. He had
lived there for seven years, a thoroughly
deserving pensioner. Before the motor-
engines put them out of business these
fire-brigade horses became regular iden-
tities in their districts. Paddington had
Darkie, the ideal brigade horse, whose
stall was never closed. Directly the alarm
rang Darkie would put himself in the
shafts, and the harness only had to be
dropped upon him. Time and again he
proved the firemen’s boast that he would
get his engine to the scene of a fire ahead
of two-horse engines with less distance
to go. One day, after doing his duty in
response to several calls, Darkie brought
his engine to the place indicated by
another alarm—and dropped dead. And
it proved to be a false alarm.
“Gander”: In my boyhood in Eng-
land, September 29 was inseparably asso-
ciated with roast goose ; in the western
counties, Cornwall particularly, roast
goose was considered as indispensable on
every well-stocked table as plum-pudding
on Christmas Day or hot-cross-buns on
Good Friday. But 1 have so seldom en-
“Members of the Society for Public Morals will now speak on ‘A Plea
for Nude Ideas'—I beg your pardon, listeners, ‘New Ideas.'"
countered the “quarter-day” bird, with
sage and onions, in Australia that I am
wondering if our forefathers failed to
bring the old tradition with them, or
whether it lapsed because there were no
geese to sustain it in the early days.
One explanation of its vogue in Britain
is that Queen Bess was dining on the bird
at the house of one of her opulent sub-
jects when news of the destruction of
the Armada reached her, and that there-
after all patriotic Britons had a special
inclination towards goose on September
29. It is a picturesque story, but goose
was an accessory of Michaelmas in Ger-
many and other European countries cen-
turies before.
i? t- * *
“Der Jong”: Haile Silassie’s promise
of a free pardon to prisoners and fugi-
tives from justice provided they enlisted
against the common foe (B. 2/10/’35)
follows an ancient custom. On the out-
break of the Great War Britain issued a
similar proclamation applying to all
deserters from his Majesty’s services. At
the outbreak of the Boer War a general
amnesty for British subjects was pro-
claimed, and many a man who had
refuged for years in the Orange and
Transvaal republics took advantage of it.
“John, I really think We should let this front room."
The same thing happened in the first
Boer War, when there were many British
refugees from justice making a living in
the northern Transvaal and what is now
Rhodesia. The muster on that occasion
was quite an imposing one both in quan-
tity and quality. At least one heir to a
peerage was enabled to return and fill the
empty place that had been waiting for
him for years.
“Ricky”: There was a time when
S. Aus. had visions of rivalling Japan as
a silk-producer. One L. F. Wurm, of
Unley and Stansbury, a pioneer in the
olive-oil industry of the then colony,
began the cultivation of silkworms, and
was awarded a bonus of £250 offered
by the Government for the first hundred
pounds of cocoons produced. Samuel
Davenport and others took a keen in-
terest in the industry, and in a volume
of 20 papers published by the Chamber
of Manufactures in 1875 four were de-
voted to sericulture. The pioneer took
numerous first prizes in exhibitions in
Europe and America, but the mulberry-
trees scattered about the Adelaide
suburbs are all that now remain of the
infant industry of 60 years ago.
St St $ *
“Likell”: “Broad Arrow’s” reminis-
cences of his happy days at the Blackall
gaol (B. 25/9/’35) recall to memory an
old inmate of the Ballarat institution,
now a tech. Every afternoon he was
allowed his freedom. Playing a game of
draughts with him, I was a little annoyed
when, with hopes of a rare victory before
me, he suddenly called the game off.
“Gettin’ on for six,” he grunted. “Time
I was makin’ home. Head warder’s
gettin’ hard. Yestiddy I was amblin’
along Lydiard-street—six o’clock it was —
when 1 sees him standin’ at the door,
janglin’ his keys an’ lookin’ wild. He
tells me off—says if I’m not in on the
tick of six I’ll be shut out. Draughts is
draughts —and that was good beer —but
no more risks for me.”
“Bucks”: Let me tell “Jindivick” (B.
25/9/’35) that any person selling from a
hand-barrow in a London street or street
market is a costermonger. I i this he
is distinguished from a hawker, v,ho sells
from a basket or tray, and a “dealer,”
who sells from a cart —often drawn by
a moke. The only “pearlies” 1 have ever
seen were riding in a donkey-cart, and
were therefore not costers,, and one coster
I consulted on the matter in the Cale-
donian Market was raucous on the sub-
ject. “Nah! ” he declared stridently, “I’ve
never worn them finks. Them ain]t
costers. Them’s alius coves out ter git
some shiny by singin’ or somefink!”
* * * *
“There mustn’t be one law
for the Medes and another for the Per-
sians,” observed Councillor Kane, of
Melbourne, discussing a dispute over
window-boxes in Collins-street. Good ;
but as an improvement on the original I
prefer the one achieved by ex-Premier
Allen, who said to an Opposition critic
“You are like Napoleon ; you put your
blind eye to the telescope.”
* * * *
“J. Y. Plush”: Just a short biographi-
cal note about the Countess of Bangs-
borough. Unlike the coroneted lady
who, according to legend, swore she
never got a card above an eight-spot at
bridge, our lady was notoriously lucky,
owing, I think, to the fact that she
always had many more than eight spots
before she commenced to play, and was
a firm believer in the adage that one
peep is worth two finesses. Her lorgnette,
ascribed to Leonardo da Vinci and
crusted with enormous diamonds from
stem to stern, paid for itself many times
over. At 87 she retained a strength of
character derived from Crusader an-
cestors. She was temporarily engulfed
one day in a girls’ school promenade
pacing primly along Park-lane. She
related her experience afterwards in my
hearing: “I fixed the headmistress with
my eye and deliberately picked my nose."
Dying at 90, the countess, left half of
the unentailed portion of her immense
fortune to the cause of betting-system
research.
* * * 4>
“Ex-Sahib”: The statement that boys
and girls live together at 10 in India (B.
2/10/’35) is hardly accurate. Invariably
the boy is older than the girl, even in
child marriages. Usually the boy is about
12 and the girl eight, or even younger;
but immediately after the ceremony the
couple part and do not start their matri-
monial venture until the girl has reached
the age of 12 or 13 —and the boy is at
least 16. Gandhi, in his confessions, ad-
mitted to being at the high school when
he started his married life with Kas-
turbai (Mrs. Gandhi), who was then 13.
* $ * : I>
“Diggaire”: Add to little-known
British tipples birch wine, which I tasted
near Balmoral in the Scottish High-
lands when I was up there on Blighty
leave. The fresh sap of the birch-free,
when fermented, produces a beverage
that sparkles like champagne. Two or
three dozen trees were tapped in a
season, and the sap was boiled with
honey. I have often wondered why some
of our native trees have not been tested
for similar qualities.
* * * *
“Basta”: The Abyssinian trouble has
cast some light on Soccer football in
Italy. Three prominent Italian players
funked facing the sooty patriots of
Ethiopia and got away over the Alps to
Switzerland, thus avoiding da conscrip.
But their luck blew up when their wives
tried to follow them. An inquisi-
tive border Customs official found
the ladies were getting away with
£45,000 in notes. This was con-
fiscated, as was all the other prop-
erty of the absconders. What
strikes an Australian is that Soccer
must be a great game for the
player in Italy. Even in the
V.F.L. and the Sydney Rugby
League one would be hard put to
find three players with £45,000
among them. An explanation of how it
is done would be welcomed by all the
professional “sports” in Australia.
* * * *
“Macaulay’s Schoolboy”: “Tarry
Rope” (B. 2/10/’35) misunderstands the
wording of “Rule, Britannia!” There
is nothing of boastful supremacy in it.
The poet never said “Britannia rules the
waves.” It is “Britannia, rule the
waves” —nothing more than a patriotic
injunction. And the words that Thomp-
son originally wrote were “Britons never
will be slaves.”
* * * *
“Miya-sama”: A Jap dramatic coni-
pany promises to invade Australia within
the next six months to produce some of
the classical dramas of old Nippon. Pos-
sibly they have lost most of their old
appeal in their own land, seeing that
Japanese drama has become almost
100 per cent. Westernised during recent
years An annual published in English
by “Asahi” (Tokio) recently devoted a
section to drama, and the pictures of the
musical comedies were distinguishable
from a Williamson or Rolls show only
by the features of the show girls. Scen-
ery, stage arrangement, properties and
costuming might have been taken holus-
bolus from a European or American
stage.
THE WINE-TASTERS.
“Delegates to the Federal Vitieultural Council and
members of the trade tasted for 2t hours, without
swallowing, wines from all over the world.”
Men learned in the lore of many a tipple,
From vineyard expert to sagacious Bung,
They let no end of beverages ripple
Beneath the palate and around the tongue.
They noted pleasantly the rich and rosy hum
Of crusted port from Lusitania’s crop.
Bnt, still, you’d hardly call it a symposium,
For no man drank a drop.
They sipped the juice of many a purple berry
From Spanish hillside and lonian rock,
But hazarded no headache in the sherry
Nor any hint of hiccup in the hock.
No mild exuberance or pleasant coma
In their Madeira or Marsala lay;
They merely specialised in the aroma
And banked on the “bokay.”
Grave and impassive as a Bench judicial,
And solemn as selectors for a Test,
They entered on their somewhat superficial
But genuinely scientific quest.
And in their knitted brows, their thoughtful
eyes, too,
One might have read unquestionable signs
There’s very little that they were not wise to
In all the ways of wines.
They tried the tack that brings the Rhine the
rhino;
Their estimates on Burgundy they placed;
But all the veritas that’s in the vino
Concerned them naught—they only sought
the taste.
Their lips were parted but their throats were
muzzled,
And ever, as some rare old brand they struck,
I’m wondering—it frankly has me puzzled —
Did any say “Here’s luck”?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


spss
:
: S
mm
mm
Msm&ms
s||M
FACTORY-FRESH
when you open the packing
. 0
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and keeps-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”— 10 for 9 d# and 20 for 1/6
V/WO2OIH
*6
Made specially to prevent sore throats —
POLITICAL POINTS
Since Jan. 6, 1932, a Tasmanian has
been Prime Minister, and now if a Gov-
ernment had to be formed from the other
side of the House a Westralian, Curtin,
would be sent for. In this respect, the
small States are far better off than their
congeners in the U.S.A., though their
Governments howl so much about their
grievances. In America no representative
of a small State has a 100-to-J chance of
becoming President or even a Presiden-
tial candidate. All the Presidents have
come from 12 of the 48 States, and, of the
13 originals, Connecticut, Rhode Island
and Georgia have never had a native-
born President or Vice-President.
With the possible exception of Maurice
Blackburn, who disqualified himself by
refusing to fall out from the “united”
front “against War and Fascism,” Jack
Curtin was the brainiest of Scullin’s fol-
lowers, and on that score was entitled to
be named as his successor. But his elec-
tion was rough on Forde, especially as it
was brought about by a revolt of Queens-
land members, and he will have no easy
time. The Queenslanders who supported
him would prefer Forgan Smith.
During 1934-35 £861,500 of Common-
wealth tax-revenue was handed to the
Westralian Government for distribution
among wheatgrowers—“on acreage,
bushelage and to necessitous cases,” as
they put it. There are about 15,000
wheatgrowers, so the average payment
will be over £57 per farmer if all the
£861,500 is expended. And if it is not
the age of miracles will have returned.
“I doubt whether the League is of real
value as a force for peace—l feel indeed
that it might lead us into trouble.” Pre-
mier Butler said that in Adelaide last
week. It was recorded in local papers
and cabled to London, where the “Daily
Mail” compared Butler’s pronouncement
with one of Bennett, the Canadian P.M.
A slab from its leader was sent to Great
Dailies which had reported neither
Butler nor Bennett. As to that, the
“ ‘Times’ Weekly” of August 25 quotes
Bennett as saying that “Canadian troops
cannot be dispatched overseas to partici-
pate in any conflict arising out of the
present Ethiopian trouble.” This bit of
information was also denied to Aus-
tralians.
Bishop Crotty informs Australia that it
is “her duty to follow Britain in unequi-
vocal endorsement of the League,” and
that any other attitude “can only com-
promise the Government at home.” Dr.
Crotty was born at Nottingham—in other
words, he is one of those “Australian”
bishops who spend so much time “at
home.”
The aptest comment on the increase of
£1360 in the vote for Ministerial salaries
came, very unexpectedly, from Ward, of
East Sydney, who when he goes muck-
raking is the House’s dullest member,
“Don’t make any capital out of this,” the
P.M. pleaded, “You’re the ones who are
doing that,” said Ward.
“S. M. Herald” has a wonderful
opinion of Curtin:
He is a brilliant and powerful debater
... .of outstanding ability... .a moderate
protectionist... .no unificationist... .par-
ticularly well informed on national insur-
ance.... a keen student of banking and
monetary problems.... a new force in
Federal politics.
How about getting him to lead the
U.A.P. ?
The new Crimes Act is ostensibly
aimed at “tightening up” the existing
law —that is to say, making it more dras-
tic. Yet the existing Act goes so far that
some of its provisions must have escaped
notice when it was passed. To support
the overthrow of “any civilised Govern-
ment” renders the supporter liable to a
year in gaol.
Fairbairn, M.H.R., has launched a jus-
tifiable kick against the manner in which
money is extorted from members of
Parliament by ear-biting bodies. The
only Vic. legislator who effectively re-
belled against this form of blackmail was
Trenwith, who from the time that he
first entered the State Parliament reso-
lutely declined to subscribe to a single
organisation. Trenwith, moreover, cut
his election expenses to the bone. When
a State member he never spent more
than £2O in securing his return.
The Butler Government is consider-
ing plans for reduction of members,
and also proceeding with the completion
of its Parliament House. The “incom-
plete” building has served well enough
for half a century, and even in S.A.
there are many who wonder whether it
will not outlast State Governments.
Brighton (Vic.) is in the throes of a
wrangle as to whether it should have a
swimming pool on its beach. Swimming
“Look here, mossoo, I'm not going to carry the baby all the time. You
fellows take your share or I'll disown it!"
pools are necessary in inland places, but
to establish one where open beach
stretches for miles would be sheer waste.
Anyhow, a pool capable of serving all
the people who swim at Brighton in hot
weather would need to be a couple of
miles long and a mile wide.
Under the heading “Return relating to
Railways,” Westralia’s annual Financial
Statement once more includes the candid
line “Deficiency debited to Consolidated
Revenue, being Burden on Taxpayers.”
Opposite it this year are the figures
“£99,585.” In 1933-34, the Burden on
Taxpayers amounted to £280,586, and
interest and exchange charges that year
were £20,100 less than in 1934-35, so the
reduction was much more of an “extra-
ordinary achievement” than the one
N.S.W. Premier Stevens rhapsodises over.
With interest and exchange down
£438,500, the 1934-35 N.S.W. railway
deficit was “reduced from £2,632,500 to
£1,392,500” (i.e., increased by those
amounts in two years, £BOO,OOO of tax-
money being reckoned in each year as
railway receipts). Actually, railway losses
ate up two-thirds of the ordinary income-
tax revenue last year.
Lang excluded State Superannuation
Board loans when he was trying to
reduce “Shylock’s interest” by enact-
ment, and Stevens has been equally kind
in his way. The Superannuation Board
has lent upwards of three millions to
municipal councils, part having been pro-
vided out of tax-revenue. Delegates to
the Local Government conference pro-
tested that their councils were paying it
5j p.c. (a Marrickville man said that in
his council’s case it amounted to £lOOO
a year more than the Commonwealth
Bank would charge for the same accom-
modation), and urged the Government to
get them reductions. Spooner replied
with words intended to soothe, but they
didn’t soothe worth tuppence.
Curtin’s predecessors in the Labor
leadership, Tudor, Charlton and Scullin,
had the safest of seats. He is in no such
comfortable position. He was twice de-
feated for Fremantle by old William
Watson, and wouldn’t have won it last
time had Watson stood. As it was, he
beat an eleventh-hour opponent (a lady
at that), by 1028 in a poll of 48,874.
It has been suggested that Westralian op-
position to the tariff may lead to his
downfall, but this opposition is largely
bogus. The tariff has never been a means
of putting a man out in Westralia or of
putting one in.
At a cost to the taxpayers of perhaps
£l5OO, a Queensland P.M. has reported
that Hobart’s Hospital Board was
warranted in telling the last matron she
would have to leave because she couldn't
get on with Dr. Ratten. When the in-
quiry was demanded, Father O’Donnell,
the chairman, referred with some asperity
to persons demanding it; but when his
action had been vindicated he spoke
soberly and with sound sense about the
unsatisfactory results of the management
of public hospitals by boards —the
Hobart institution gets a new one every
time there is a new Government. Father
O’Donnell’s idea is that all the Tas-
manian hospitals should be placed “under
a commission of three.”
It has been proposed in the Sydney
suburb of Strathfield that the local
council should float a loan of £20,000 for
“works,” and an alderman moved that a
committee should consider the project.
Saying “I’m not going to be the first
Mayor of Strathfield to sanction a loan,”
Mayor Shortland asked his fellow-alder-
men to reject the proposal, and rejected
it was. Not that “works” are being
neglected in Strathfield; the council is
engaged on a £50,000 programme. But it
is getting an advance from a bank and
striking a rate to meet it, and will
have the overdraft wiped out when the
programme is finished. Every Govern-
ment in Australia could learn something
from Strathfield.
Seventy Extreme Right intellectuals m
Paris have issued a manifesto opposing
any action against Italy, “a nation which
assisted to defend France’s sacred soil.”
H’m, yes; but if it hadn’t been for
Britain there wouldn’t have been much
of the sacred soil left to defend at the
date when Italy came in.
Young as the Canberra session is, the
“Courier - Advertiser” gallery - reporter
notes that “an atmosphere of dulness
and boredom is closing down on the
debates.” “Hansard” supports him.
About a quarter-past four oh the third
sitting day, there being no quorum, the
bells had to be rung to get the requisite
number of listeners (24) to Earle Page,
Minister of Commerce and leader of the
Country party, although he was speaking
on a want-of-confidence motion. The
procedure was repeated about the same
time next day, when the younger Harrison
Was holding forth on the Supply Bill. No
quorum had to be called for when the
raising of Ministers and members’ salaries
was under discussion.
A new Parliamentary hand often lets
months go by before he opens his
mouth, but Senator Leckie, from Vic-
toria, was up and pitching into the
Government on his second day:
I looked in vain for a clear message
to the people as to what Australia is pre-
pared to do [in the Italo-Abyssinian busi-
ness]. I find the message of the Govern-
ment anaemic almost to the extent of
bloodlessness. It seems to be a message
from a Government carefully balanced on
the tight-rope of circumstances, and hoping
there is a feather bed to land on in the
event of a fall.
The nasty part is that Leckie was
elected on the U.A.P. ticket and is the
Attorney-General’s father-in-law.
The U.S.A. differs from Britain and
Australia in that some of its cleverest poli-
tical writers are women. One, Dorothy
Thompson (she is the wife of Sinclair
Lewis, the novelist), in a masterly survey
of the Roosevelt policies, now in very
bad odor, mentions that he got his idea
of spending his way to recovery from
J. M. Keynes. Keynes has his disciples
in Australia, too, and one or two are try-
ing to spread the notion that Stevens has
succeeded where Roosevelt has so obvi-
ously failed. These panegyrists will get
small support from unemployed and tax-
payers.
Notwithstanding its ghastly succession
of deficits —£28,287,600 in 10 years—the
N.S.W. Railway Department has a won-
derful “press.” Even newspapers in
other States join in the praise showered
on it; for example, Hobart “Mercury”
reports that N.S.W. railway business is
“booming—increasing so rapidly that
there is no longer any need for stringent
scrutiny as to whether any proposed extra
services would pay their way from the
start.” Considering the size of the accu-
mulated deficit, “stringent scrutiny” is
good.
From Canberra:
In 341 years of Commonwealth politics one
member —only one—has been expelled and
another —again only one —had his Parliamentary
career cut short by financial difficulties which
eventually deposited him in gaol. Both are
not long dead. In each instance the House
concerned passed a vote of sympathy with the
widow and family. In the case of the ex-
pelled member, the potentate who had had him
put out said that of all the Ministers he had
been associated with none had a keener
administrative brain. The other tribute was
not so flowery, but it seemed sincere. The
cynical may regard these ceremonies as a bit
out of place, but they smell incomparably
sweeter than salary grabs.


if , VN
Ive Just cleaned up Snowy Tucker y Dad.
Good work son! ' Go amo pix
A. PEW more"
" , *
Vou swoulokit ehcoura.se him, Dear.
" HoHSEHSE . iTLU MAKE WIN/'I HA.RDy,"
// _
TC>1_D you TO DO »T,
DID HE?"
IT ALL DEPENDS...
“If your boy has a fight, send him out for another one.” — Bishop Burgmann.


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
'SS
I
~He<xt -to-
-9 Ml b.v.d u3t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . , Red Label
tHE
fO«
tm
Rtf*'
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK,
tfy
UNDERWEAR
Hand PFajted
KANGAROO
HIDE BELT
A belt is a very personal
thing to a man.
Experience a new idea in
trouser comfort by
wearing one of Pike
Brothers 10-strand
hand ridge-plaited
Kangaroo Hide Belts.
The finest and strongest
made.
iy
PIKES
of QUEEN STREET,
/ BRISBANE
PERSONAL ITEMS
Of the new members of the Repat.
Commission, N. R. Mighell, the chair-
man, is a Queensland Digger who prac-
tised at the Bar in the North for several
years, and has been on the Brisbane
board of examiners for conveyancers.
Since 1929 he has presided over the No.
1 War Pensions Assessment tribunal.
One of his associates, J. Webster, was
general secretary of the Diggers’ League ;
the other, F. H. Rowe, has been in the
Repat. Department since the end of the
war —which he attended. All are in their
early forties.
Frith’s picture of N.S.W. Minister Erie
Spooner is rather an interpretation accord-
ing to the Sunbakers’ school of painters
than a portrait. The inventor of the
ERIC SPOONER, bathing-suit celebrity.
Spooner bathing suit is clearly recognis-
able, but the genial and friendly fellow
that he really is is hidden. He is a keen
tennis-player, and loves boating and
bathing himself. Those who have im-
bibed a picture of him through the even-
ing press as a Stiggins-like anchorite
and spoiler of youth’s pleasure may be
surprised to discover that he is a mem-
ber of Tattersall’s Club and the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum, both homes of good-
fellowship.
The death of S. M. Grime robs the
A.W.A. of one of its soundest men. He
had never been strong, but he had un-
bounded energy, which made him an
assistant manager of the big wireless con-
cern at 40, and he took a vigorous part
in radio trade organisation. He was
chairman of the Radio Section of the
N.S.W. Chamber of Manufactures and
of the Radio Panel of the Standards
Association when he died, at 48.
Monte Holcroft, whose serial “The
Papuan,” an S. H, Prior Memorial Prize
entry, will appear in The Bulletin early
next year, has knocked around a lot dur-
ing his 33 years. Born at Rangiora, hear
Christchurch (M.L.), he went from a
high school to farm work, and drifted
across to Australia in his teens, to be-
come dockyard clerk, farmer, rabbit-
trapper, railway porter and estate-agent’s
clerk. Going back to his home country
he was sub-editor of the “Weekly Press”
until its demise. He then went to Lon-
don and freelanced through England,
France and North Africa. He is now in
Maoriland once more. He has had three
novels published— Beyond the Breakers,
The Flameless Fire and Brazilian
Daughter.
From an old acquaintance:
Jack Curtin, who is surprisingly to suc-
ceed Scullin, sat at Tom Mann’s feet when
he was a youngster, and he could have had
a much wiser master. The experience told
against him when, after opposing Willie Watt
for Balaclava at the 1914 general election, he
went to Perth to edit the “Worker” and nurse
the Perth Federal seat. Curtin himself was
liked from the beginning, but the brand of
evolutionary socialism he favored was not
much to the taste of Westralian Labor, and
the pacifism he developed as the war dragged
on was still less appreciated. In fact, after
1916 the Westralian outlook for Labor became
so hopeless that it was not until the war was
over and done with that Curtin tried his luck
as a candidate. Then he not only failed to
unseat J. M. Fowler, but nearly killed himself
by writing 12 or 13 columns a week for the
“Worker” and addressing two or three meet-
ings a day. In later years he found old
Watson in the way when he sought to repre-
sent Fremantle. Not till Watson finally re-
moved himself from the Parliamentary scene
did Curtin feel that Fremantle was his. A
man of middle height, now in middle age,
Curtin is industrious, eloquent, a reader, a
thinker and a good fellow through and through.
In his party or out of it, no one begrudges
him his elevation, unexpected though it was.
Pilot Colin Ferguson, who crashed
fatally on the treacherous Salamaua-Wau
run, got his chance when a passenger
’plane he was piloting in N.Q. was forced
down in shark-infested waters. He
gamely swam to the shore for assistance
for his passengers, and eventually suc-
ceeded in putting up the bus again and
making Brisbane, 700 miles away. Car-
penters then snapped him up for the
N.G. service. The finest type of young
Australian, he was a skilful pilot and
engineer. He was only 30 at the end.
The record of H. E. Whittle, who re-
tires this month from the headship of
S.A. prison system; Born 1872; gunner
in the artillery at 18; warder at the
“Stockade” gaol; policeman in 1898, ris-
ing to be chief of the C.I.D. in 1922, and
Comptroller of Prisons in 1929.
S. Australian Police Commissioner
Raymond Leane fairly jangles with
medals and orders when he walks abroad.
The captain in the
11th who stepped
ashore at Anzac
had a bare tunic
front; the severely-
wounded brigadier
of the 12th brigade
who limped home
in 1919, still suffer-
ing from a severe
wound, was hung
with a double
D. 5.0., the M.C.,
C. 8., C.M.G., Croix
de Guerre, and he
had enough men-
t i o ns-in-dispatches
to make a blanket.
The year after his
return he was
appointed to his
present job.
Though H. A.
Knight, the tall,
reserved Maori-
lander who died
the other day, was
known to Aus-
tralians only as
the owner of Bally-
A much-medalled Police Commissioner.
mena and Limerick and other horses
which won £lOO,OOO among them, he
did a lot for the M.L. sheep industry
besides. He had been working his lovely
property Racecourse Hill, near Canter-
bury, for 50 years, and had taken a lead-
ing part in promoting the improvement
of Canterbury lamb. Since 1912 he
had been a director of the N.Z. Refriger-
ating Co., and during the war he was a
tower of strength to the Patriotic Fund.
The N.S.W. police lose one of their
greatest all-round sports with the retire-
ment of Inspector Carl Ferguson. He
was rough-rider, hammer- and javelin-
thrower, sprinter, wrestler and boxer;
and he still plays bowls, tennis, golf and
cricket. He has been in charge of Dacey-
ville station for years ; but every year
for the last three he has been given
special leave to organise the annual
police carnival.
Talbot Smith, this paper’s art and
drama critic in Adelaide for over 40
years, has had a stern rebuke from Fate
for a recent Bulletin par, in which he
claimed well over 100,000 miles of motor-
ing without mishap—“worth telling an
insurance company about.” In a
suburban road, a motor-lorry fouled a
back wheel of his car and slewed it
into a head-on smash with a tramway
standard. S.T.S. got olf with all his
teeth knocked out and a deep wound
in each knee; but his wife, his con-
stant companion for 48 years, was killed
at his side.
“Sach”: Arkins, the new N.S.W.
Senator, enlisted at 21 —he is 42 now.
He went right through the war—in the
ranks. He is a teetotaller, and so strict
that when in the State House he was re-
sponsible for the amendment that made it
an offence to take liquor into a dance
hall.
Ernest Mustar, managing director of
Australian Transcontinental Airways,
transferred from the Camel Corps in
1917 to No, 1 Squadron, A.F.C. He was
with Ross Smith as observer, and
at the end of the war he was a
captain and had been awarded the D.F.C.
and the Order of the Nile. He served
with the R.A.A.F., was instructor to the
Victorian Aero Club, and in 1927 went
to New Guinea, v/here he established
and for long managed the aerial services
of Guinea Gold, Bulolo and Guinea
Airways.
London’s new Lord Mayor is Percy
Vincent, who lived up to the Whitting-
ton tradition by coming to the capital
when he was 13
years old and ris-
ing from draper’s
message-boy to his
present eminence.
He was knighted
when he became a
sheriff a few years
ago. He is a lean-
ish gentleman with
classic features.
“Inaha”: Vice-
Admiral Geoffrey
Blake, recently
promoted, was for-
merly in command
of the Maoriland
station. He was
15 when he joined
the R.N. in 1897,
and his appoint-
ment as a com-
mander in June,
1914, made him
one of the young-
est officers of that
rank at the out-
break of the Great
War, during which
he served on Jelli-
coe’s flagship, the Iron Duke. Jutland
gained him a D. 5.0., and he was made a
captain in December, 1918. Several im-
portant appointments occupied him until
he came to M.L. in 1929, to leave in
May, 1932, upon his appointment as
British Fourth Sea Lord.
Justice Frederick William Richards is
one of Australia’s few Doctors of Law
—his degree is London vintage. He
graduated to the S.A. Supreme Court
Bench through unusual channels —he was
Justice RICHARDS, LL.D.
Parliamentary Draftsman and then
Grown Solicitor. He became a Judge in
1927 after a period “acting.”
“X.T.”: The death of Fred Thomp-
son, of Darwin, removes one of the best-
known journalists of the North. A
“Geordie” from Newcastle-on-Tyne, he
had roved most of the Queensland and
Territory coast editing newspapers wher-
ever they existed and suffering strange
adventures. Once, at Port Douglas (Q.),
a cyclone arrived in a busy hour and
left him nothing to edit. He had con-
trolled both the Darwin sheets, but
latterly had retired. Chestertonian in
build, he had a wit that could be biting,
but it was generally gay and kindly. He
was the last remaining member in the
N.T. of the Goose Club, an old-time
institution which used to make the
Administration unhappy by its derision.
From “El V.”;
Photographs do not do justice to Mussolini.
They make him appear a large, menacing
person with a majestic presence. This im-
pression is accentuated by the fact that he
often is. photographed with the King of Italy,
who is very little. Actually, he is not much
bigger than Napoleon or T. E. Lawrence and
not as tall as Stanley Baldwin or Lloyd
George, if I am any judge. In temperament
he is a cross between the Italian counterparts
of W. M. Hughes and Hugh D. Mclntosh,
with a dash of Harry Rickards thrown in. In
personality and appearance he resembles Mc-
Intosh most, and nobody can deny either his
magnetism or his eye for a situation. As a
speaker—l have heard him several times —his
diction and periods are Ancient Roman, but
he would be incapable in defeat of coming
down to the colloquial level of the announcers
of the disaster to Flaminius when Hannibal
immolated him. His manner on the platform
is normally an Italian version of Henry before
Harfleur. His energy and look of stocky
toughness belie his name —which means
“muslin.”
“Athanasius”: In April of last year the
Union liner Monowai altered her course
on a voyage from Sydney to Wellington
to take a 23-year-old cadet off the Fin-
nish training barque Favell, which had
wirelessed for aid. The lad was success-
fully operated on in Wellington and re-
turned to Finland. Later Captain A. H.
Davey (now of the Marama) was noti-
fied that the Government of Finland in-
tended to decorate him. Though he said
any shipmaster would have done the
same, the President of the Finnish Repub-
lic has conferred on him a knighthood
of the Order of the White Rose.


WHAT'S
EVERYTH/NG ... SO SMOKERS SAY. . .
WHEN THE NAME IS “MARCOVITCH”
The name of Marcovitch has been renowned among smokers since 1834.
It has been throughout these years symbolical, a standard of smoking
elegance. Today, more than ever before, a vast army ol connoisseurs are
finding delight in a famous Marcovitch Cigarette Black & White. It is
all that the name Marcovitch implies perfection in smoking.
Such wonderful traditions as surround the House of Marcovitch impose
great obligations—and Black & White Cigarettes amply fulfd them. Those
obligations are, to use only the costliest, most mellow Virginian tobaccos;
to skilfully blend them according to the Marcovitch “Private Process”;
and to roll each Black & White Cigarette in the purest and finest of
papers. Because of these quality standards Black & White Cigarettes are
welcome and smoked throughout the world.
What’s in a name? Everything! The name Marcovitch signifies quality
perfection satisfaction J
m
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN
%
h.
*r%
m.
&
m
WacK. &
(J
x <
f**-
5iLS£
5 2:
>
mm
mm
a.
o
<
A CENTURY OF BLENDING FINE CIGARETTES
8.W.0F.P, • '• ■ -


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office; Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with. efficient administration.
Write jor explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors-. ’ 1
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J H. S ANGUS <
J. W. BARNES, Manager ’ E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FlV£, PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Scats may be reserved by’Phone, M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.
Smelting Works and Refineries; PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australasian Catholic Assurance (Sydney)
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, ponses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. Assurance funds, £13,138
Less Goodwill, 2,500 .. 10,638
1926.. 50,253 1524 28,963 19,766 30,404
1927.. 64,430 1739 33,764 28.927 59,331
1928.. 84,900 3333 42,308 39,259 98,590
1929.. 114,290 4582 66,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 225,371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 162,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.c.) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
1932.. 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,354 f 376,254
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 f 451,453
1934.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 f 641,534
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 f 646,994
*Net funds apart from capital.
tAftev paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
Careful handling of the business from
the commencement, notably a close grip
on expenses, resulted in a quick accu-
mulation of funds ; discreet investment
(largely in first mortgages) brought
handsome interest returns. Bonuses
quickly followed —they were earned
within the first 10 years of the co.’s
life, a remarkable achievement—and in-
creased support from new and old
policy-holders has, over the past three
years, resulted in an annually-increasing,
buoyant income.
Of all the Australian life offices which
started since the war, this is the only
one to have yet definitely turned the
corner. With E. J. Mooney as managing
director, it began business in Sydney
with £14,610 of share capital in 1921.
At last balance day (June 30) it could
show £702,399 of tangible assets, the
organisation has spread to Queensland,
Victoria, South Aus. and Westralia, and,
though annual income has shown a
growth of £96,653 in six years, the in-
crease in expenses has been kept down
to £9860.
The actuary’s second quinquennial
overhaul (in 1931) showed a surplus
sufficient to pay bonuses ranging from
21s. per cent, in the Industrial to 30s.
p.c. in the Ordinary department, to pay
all arrears on the pref. shares, hand the
ords. 5 p.c. and set aside £9158 for a
bonus reserve.
Since then the steady headway has per-
mitted a reduction from 4 p.c. to 3\ p.c.
in the basis of valuation, an increase in
O.D. whole-life bonuses to £2 ss. p.c.,
on I.D. whole-life policies to 255. p.c., and
the raising of the ord. distribution to 7
p.c. Shareholders, originally entitled to
20 p.c, of the profits, voluntarily agreed
to a reduction to 10 p.c., leaving 90 p.c.
to be whacked up among policy-holders,
whose interests have thus been placed
in the foreground.
Last year income sprang £26,122, of
which £21,701 was in respect of pre-
miums (£179,459), and £4421 interest
and rents, etc. (£31,484). After paying
claims, exes, and 7 p.c. to shareholders,
a net £106,197 —half the year’s income
—was added to the life funds, raising
them to £646,994.
In addition, there is extra security for
in £25,795 “property
realisation” reserve, representing inner
strength in Consols and mortgages
bought below par, and brought to light
for the first time in last year’s accounts.
Excluding income tax (£2591, up
£1195), exes, took a shade less than
36 p.c. of the year’s premium income,
as against 37.9 p.c. in the preceding
year. The movement here is one of
steady improvement. The co. continues
to score on interest and rents; last term,
after deducting taxes, the net return on
mean funds was almost unaltered at
slightly less than £5 p.c.
Large new head office premises are
now well under way at the corner of
King and York streets, Sydney. The
purchase of the freehold and the P.P.
Bank premises in Brisbane is reflected in
balance-sheet figures:
1927. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* .. 672 4,935 7,715 14,999
Mortgages .. 43,138 207,775 291,780 309,891
Govt, securities .. 25,758 26,716 122,855 131,408
Cash, etc. .. 1,320 1,327 10,540 13,506
Debtors .. .. 466 1,788 1,422 2,008
Loans on policies 154 3,251 23,834 31,042
Equipment .. 2,727 4,696 4,711 4,668
Shares in other cos. 1,050 1,682 3,313 3,388
Freeholds .. 106,024 206,488
*Other than under policies.
The large and profitable holding of
mortgages gave the co. comparatively
little trouble during the worst of the
depression. A considerable proportion
of the freeholds item represents rent-
producing flats that have been highly
remunerative. When the new Sydney
building commences earning interest, re-
turns will benefit. The next complete
actuarial valuation should establish
further improvement in the outlook for
policy-holders.
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 81,065 10 p.c. = 69,000 12,065 82,074
1926.. 89,090 10 „ „ 69,000 20,090 102,164
1927.. 104,607 11* „ „ 79,850 25,257 127,421
1928.. 87,019 10 „ „ 69,000 18,019 145,440
1929.. 96,117 10 „ „ 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ „ 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 51,272 5 „ „ 45,000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ „ 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 .. .. 210,457
1933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 „ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 .. .. .. 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 p.c. = 72,000 30,186 209,526
*Half-year.
The Melbourne floods of November,
1934, spoilt what should otherwise have
been a record year in turnover and
profit. A direct loss of £64,088 is
acknowledged in the accounts under this
head; barring this trouble, the volume
of business is reported to have been
well maintained, and “substantial forward
orders” have been booked for the cur-
rent term.
The co. represents the more important
part of Australia’s largest textile organi-
sation, the A.K.M.-Yarra Falls group.
It includes the yarn-spinning and worsted
and weaving section. Ramifications of
the group extend to all avenues of the
trade, notwithstanding the recent with-
drawal of the Julius Kayser affiliations.
Apart from its own direct trade and
earnings, the co, draws income from
most of its £522,032 of investments. This
portfolio includes 400,000 shares in the
Globe Worsted Mills, Sydney (where
“excellent results were achieved” last
term, and the outlook remains bright);
50,000 shares in Australian Knitting
Mills (which paid 7 p.c. last term, as
against p.c. in 1934); 35,500 shares
in Austral Silk and Cotton (to pay a div.
of 6d. a share on Oct. 17); a small
holding in Rayon Pty., which turns out
lingerie; and 30,000 shares in Julius
Kayser (Aust.), sold since the accounts
closed.
Before debiting the flood loss, last
year’s gross profit (£126,126) was £17,368
lighter. Administrative exes., etc.
(£23,940), were cut back £14,275. Thus
the net trading and investment result
was down £3094 at £102,185, and equal
to 11.3 p.c. on capital, as against 11.6,
10.9, 7.4, 5.7 and 8.8 p.c. back to 1930.
Because of the flood’s inroads into re-
serves the div. was dropped from 10 p.c.
to 8 p.c. (quite satisfactory at that).
Visible reserves at the close of accounts
figured at £209,526, as against £243,429
at the beginning of the term. A stronger
retaining wall has been erected to mini-
mise future floodwater dangers.
Though they reflect the drain caused
by last year’s damage, finances are snug
indeed; —
1929. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £837,183 £900,000 £900,000
Sundry creditors and
deposits . . .. • 99,455 96,413 56,047
Freeholds . . . . 200,194 129,716 135,097
Plant, etc 559,117 205,156 196,805
Stocks 289,446 221,102 198.988
Sundry debtors.. .. 147,143 98,100 79,810
Advances, etc. .. .. 16,899 13,496
Cash, etc 164,150 114,068 76,714
Shares in other cos. . . 158,539 521,169 522,032
Freeholds show an upward movement of
£5381 ; plant dropped £8351. At
£196,805 in the books, this item repre-
sents a source of financial strength. It
is in at less than a third of its original
cost. Stocks (£198,988, down £22,114)
are also an item indicating compression
in book values. The outside debt
(£56,047) was reduced £40,366 during
the term; through one thing and an-
other the more or less liquid surplus
(£312,961, including raw and manufac-
tured materials) was £40,805 lighter than
at the previous balance.
The investments beforementioned
stand in the books at cost, and un-
doubtedly represent a source of inner
strength, especially as regards the
400,000 shares in the Globe Mills, Syd-
ney, which have lately shown great ex-
pansion. On book values alone re-
serves amount to 4s. 7d. per share. At
40s. the immediate return is 4 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The 10 p.c. distribu-
tion has every prospect of being restored
in the near future.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends , To Re-
July, Profit. , —Pref.— N Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
1927.. 20,451 8% 6% 5% = 15,421 5,030 5,349
Reserves.
1928.. 29,885 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 15,380 19,414
1930.. 30,064 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 9,562 28,976
1931.. 18,843 8 „ 6„ 6„„ 15,601 3,242 32,218
1932.. 15,831 8 „ 6 „ 6„ „ 15,601 230 32,448
1933.. 15,725 8 „ 6 „ 6„ ~ 15,601 124 32,572
1934.. 21,078 9 „ 7„ 7„„ 18,051 3,027 35,599
1935.. 25,963 10 „ 8„ 8„„ 20,502 5,461 41,000
There was a lot of building activity in
Brisbane during the year. For some time
new life assurance and bank premises
have been the order of the day in the
northern capital, which at present has a
skyline more prone to alteration than any
city in the Commonwealth. Bridge and
roadway activity has not been far be-
hind ; the construction trades generally
are having an active time.
This co. is the only cement manufac-
turer in Queensland. It has a plant capa-
city of 60,000 tons p.a., and the report
suggests that present output rate is in
the vicinity of about 50,000 tons. Dur-
ing the worst of the depression the works
(at Darra) were closed for two-thirds of
the 1931 term. But shareholders have
had nothing to complain about right
through the piece, and at present are in
a very snug position.
After openly striking £12,000 off for
depreciation (up £2000), and setting aside
£20,000 for taxation (yes, it’s a Queens-
land company!), as against £12,000 in
the previous year, the net result (£25,963)
showed a £4885 improvement. After
handing the prefs. an extra 1 p.c. all
round, and the ords. 8 p.c., the balance
was enough to provide an extra 2.2 p.c.
on all classes of scrip. But, instead, £5461
was carried to visible reserves (now
£41,060).
Capital account is made up of 44,878
8 p.c. first prefs., 182,183 6 p.c. second
prefs. and 18,000 ords. The prefs. par-
ticipate point for point with the ords.
after the latter have received 6 p.c.
Here are further details of the finances:
1921. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £174,110 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Overdraft . . 84,623 —• —• ~~l
Sundry creditors 21,680 8,057 18,057 13,593
Freehold, etc. 25,027 28,605 28,569 28,624
Plant, etc. . . 172,804 313,890 317,626 316,423
Stocks .. 25,353 50,816 29,420 30,248
Book debts . . 11,471 11,082 27,598 30,398
Cash, etc. .. 1,931 17,578 69,089 90,056
Against fixed assets totalling £345,047
(down £1148) there is a depreciation re-
serve of £155,532 —apparently ample pro-
vision against all reasonable wear and
tear. Stocks (£30,248) have been con-
servatively valued, and there should be
little danger in the debtors item (£30,398).
Against liabilities of only £13,593, there
is a fine pile of cash and Consols total-
ling £90,056.
In March a further reduction of ss.
a ton was made by the co. in the price
of its product, so the foundations of the
co.’s trade appear to be pretty secure.
Development of the scheme for utilising
the coral lime deposits in Moreton Bay
continues satisfactorily.
On last year’s div. basis the first prefs.
return 5.9 p.c. at 335. 6d., and the seconds
5.5 p.c. at 295. The ords. yield 5.5
p.c. at 295.
Australian Securities, Ltd.
To Reduce
June, Profit, Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes, £40,373.. .. 40,373
1927.. 10,842 5 p.c. = 8,338 2,504 37,869
1928.. 17,684 74 „ „ 14,823 2,861 35,008
1929.. 19,913 74 „ „ 15,611 4,302 30,706
1930.. 23,935 74 „ „ 18,471 5,464 25,242
Written off, £7566 32,808
1931.. 12,969 Nil 12,969 19,839
Uncalled liability (65.) on shares cancelled; Re-
is. returned in cash. Struck off paid serves,
capital, 2s. per share (£39,621) .. 19,782
Written off, £7829 11,953
1932.. 7,259 21 p.c. = 5,448 1,811 13,764
Written off, £2846 10,918
1933.. 5,889 21 p.c. = 5,448 441 11,359
Assets written down £59,432, and 3s. per
share ( £59,432) struck off capital.
Written off, £9107 2,252
1934.. 11,071 5 p.c. = 7,924 3,147 5,399
1935.. 14,087 6 „ ~ 9,509 4,578 9,977
Five shillings per share has been jetti-
soned since the beginning nine years ago,
but the motor-discount section of the
business can scarcely be blamed. Heavy
preliminary exes, and anticipated losses
on real-property mortgages (owing to
statutory deletion of the personal liability
covenant) were the trouble ; the co. at
last appears to be clear of these difficul-
ties and set for better things.
Last year the motor trade showed a
spectacular recovery, and the increase in
N. S. Wales new-car sales is continuing.
This co., previously suffering from an
excess of idle capital, found ready and
profitable use for its own funds and
bank accommodation, too. Earnings
(£14,087) improved £3016, rising to 8.8
p.c. on capital, as against 6.9 p.c. in the
preceding year. The div. was increased
from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c., and £4578 carried
to reserves (£9977).
The co.’s holding of Stock Exchange
securities (£28,333 at June, 1934) was
sold during the year, at a profit. The
accounts do not say what has been done
with the surplus, but apparently it has
been whisked off to somewhere where it
will be neither harmful nor obtrusive.
The visible lay-by is none too stout at
present, but the board intends to build
it up rather than become over-generous
to shareholders.
The co. principally finances motor-car
hire-purchase agreements; this business
is usually well secured, and losses in re-
spect of it are light. Earnings, how-
ever, are liable to fluctuate in sympathy
with activity in the motor trade. At
present the outlook is encouraging,
though the mere mention of a certain
country in nor’-east Africa is enough to
conjure up doubts in the minds of many
people about the future of business
generally. The actual danger from the
Italo-Abyssinian conflict may not be very
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


ST
o
Select Your FURNITURE With Confidence
There’s a 75 Years’ Reputation for Dependable Quality
and Satisfactory Service behind Everything We Sell
and You Can Purchase on the
EASIEST OF TERMS
THREE-PIECE OAK BEDROOM SUITE.
Finished in Two-tone or Light Oak. 3ft. 6in. Wardrobe,
Loughboy and Dressing Table.
ARNOLD’S SPECIAL OFFER
BEDSTEADS TO MATCH.
2ft. 6in., 34/6; 3ft., 39/6; 4ft. 6in.,
...£5/17/6
32/6 to £2/19/6.
df
GENT.’S OAK
LOUGHBOYS.
Half hanging space and mirror,
half fitted sliding trays, etc. Light
or Two-tone color. _
ARNOLD’S PRICE 59 b
COMBINATION WAbhrodpc
in Oak. Fitted hanging space,
drawers and mirror. A
article for that spare room.
ARNOLD’S PRICE . . .
handy
596
r.j
m
m
V> 1 :
bOR
rtfflKS# 5S
sH
te.r
HIGH-GRADE
BEDROOM SUITE IN MAPLE FINISH.
Four Pieces, comprising 4ft. 6in. Bedstead, fitted Ward-
robe, fitted Loughboy, Dressing Table in modern design
with either Bow Front or Cheval Mirrors* o| q / //»
(As inset.) ARNOLD’S PRICE XlJj/U/O
4ft. 6in. Wire Mattresses, 32/6 to 55/-.
u
i
m
7?
' *
tm
Mmtiirmti
S Sffiilftlv ? ffiffi S®
GENOA VELVET LOUNGE SUITE.
Three pieces. In modern two-tone effect. Full seat, well
sprung, broad arms. Roomy and comfortable. c* \n lif\l
ARNOLD’S SPECIAL OFFER Xll /IU/-
Upholstered in English Tapestry from £lO/10/-.
Arnold’s
pack and de-
liver FREE
to Boat or
Rail, Sydney.
ICE
CHESTS
In solid Oak, cork-
lined, fitted with
two shelves. Ice
Chamber opens
conveniently in
front. In two sizes,
as quoted below:
X
39 inches high.
20 inches wide.
15 inches deep.
43 inches high.
24 inches wide.
17 inches deep.
GALVANISED PORCELAIN
IRON. LINED.
£4'9'6 £s*l9/6
£5/15'- £7/7/-
W. b
SOLID OAK BED SETTEES.
With arm rests, reinforced wire mattress
with cable edge and Shadow Tissue
Cushion. n /fm /f%
ARNOLD'S PRICE XJ/ HO
Or with Printed Velvet Reversible
Cushion, £3/19/6.
EDWARD ARNOLD LTD.
Oxford and Crown Streets, Sydney


Said a batsman called Oliver Lees,
“This bowler aims straight at my knees,”
But Schweppes Tonic so lashed
Him to zeal that he smashed
All the scorer’s front teeth out with ease.
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
~ ciwA tjvu
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
For Sale
FOR QUICK SALE.
For Quick Sale —-A Tin Concentrating Plant,
with Lease of 17 acres, containing many tons
of valuable tin and gold sands. Plant con-
sists of 4in. No. 3 Comet deep well piping,
three electric motors (2, 5 and 1\ h.p.), one
forward down grinding pan, four Wilfley
tables, shafting, belting and pulleys, also build-
ings and tools, and a lot of other plant thrown
in. The sand dump contains about -10,000
tons of tin sands, assaying from 1£ to 4 per
cent.
This plant has been producing recently from
5 to 7 cwt. of concentrates. Owing to in-
different health, owner is compelled to dispose
of the concern at a reasonable price. There is
also on the same lease approximately 10,000
tons of gold slimes, from which 12 borings
recently assayed Idwt. 17gr. gold. Tests have
shown 84 per cent, gold recovery by cyanide
process. Unlimited water available.
For further particulars, apply—
P. 0., Box 24, Grenfell, N.S.W.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. ' For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 17 5 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
great, but uncertainty in the public’s
mind is always bad for trade.
Finances are in good shape:
1931. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. £277,179 £217,918 £158,486 £158.486
Deposits .. 1,521
Sundry creditors 355 256 29,825 44,056*
Advances .. 217,495 170,318 178,463 232,561
Cash.. .. 25,871 49,599 2,284 1,201
Fittings . . 715 836 1,022 1,041
Shares, etc... 25,998 26,717 28,333 997
including overdraft.
The debt (£44,056, including £39,443 on
overdraft) increased £14,231 during the
term. This, the realisation of most of
the shareholdings, and an alteration in
the method of treating unearned interest
enabled the co. to show an increase of
£54,098 in book debts, loans and bills re-
ceivable (£232,561, up approximately
£125,000, taking the writing-down of
mortgages into account, over the past
two years).
The net visible asset backing for the
Bs. shares (fully paid) is Bs. 6d. per share.
The return on a 6 p.c. div. basis is 6.4
p.c, at 7s. 6d.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Gealong)
Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. To Reserves, serves.
1925.. 21,676 7 p.c. = 12,030 9646 2,183
1926.. 18,801 7 „ „ 14,000 4801 6,984
1927.. 20,390 7 „ „ 14,000 ( ~o n , lq7 .
Superannuation Fund, £2OOO ) ciy
1928.. 25,186 8i p.c. = 16,500 8686 20,060
Net premiums on new shares, £4450.. 24,510
Added goodwill, £lO,OOO .. .. 14,510
1929.. 32,137 7 p.c. = 18,926 ) 001 , 09791
Taxation Reserve, £4OOO | Z6,UL
1930.. 10,450 5 p.c. = 15,000 19,171
Loss.
1931.. 4,099 Nil 15,072
Tax provision brought back, £4000.. 19,072
Profit.
1932.. 4,856 IS p.c. = 5,000 18,928
1933.. 5,185 IS „ „ 5,000 185 19,113
1934.. 8,019 ii „ „ 7,500 519 19,632
Added goodwill, £1972 .. .. 17,660
1935.. 4,457 H „ „ 7,500 14,617
In addition to operating several prop-
erties, the co. conducts a wool, wheat,
produce, livestock and land-agency
business in western Victoria, the Mallee
and Riverina. During the last term
operations were extended to five new
centres by purchase (at an unstated
figure) of the businesses of Mitchell
Bros, and White at Avoca, Beaufort and
Lexton, and of A. P. Officer and Co. at
Warrnambool and Koroit. The amount
added to goodwill was £1972, raising the
figure to £61,972, not treated as an asset
herein. An extra 2759 bales of wool,
making 59,355 bales in all, were put
under the hammer. The lot realised
£802,842, or £412,055 less than in the
previous year. But, owing to increased
turnover in other departments, gross
earnings (£78,976) were £5079 better.
Exes. (£71,636) took all the increase and
£679 besides, and, for the first time,
20 p.c. (= £2881) of the wool commis-
sion was rebated to clients, leaving the
net result £3562 less at 1.4 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 2.6 p.c. and 1.7 p.c. for
the two preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 2\ p.c. (the outlook for the cur-
rent season is more encouraging), though
reserves had to be tapped for £3043 to
do it.
For 16 years after the public became
interested, it was a steady 7 p.c. propo-
sition. Then, just before the boom burst,
the co. plunged into pastoral finance and
other activities, and went a bit into debt
for the purpose. Low prices and the
need to provide for contingencies have
since kept both profits and divs. down,
though the business has continued to
expand.
The fully-paid pound shares are steady
in the market around 14s. Id. The
return is 3.5 p.c. on a ,2j p.c. div.
basis. Every lift of 1 p.c. in the div.
would add approximately 1.4 p.c. to the
yield. The cover is 20s. lid. in net tan-
gibles.
The year’s activities are further re-
flected in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:
1923. 1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
£> £ £ £ £
Capital .. 150,000 300,00'0 300,000 300,000 300,000
Liabilities 88,618 362,088 240,774 203,845 251,152
Property and
plant .. 87,002 159,472 155,682 156,389 180,855
Stock .. 3,309 8,755 10,056 10,319 7,838
Book debts 137,357 521,486 396,016 361,311 383,218
Cash, etc. 3,923 2,045 5,132 4,958 3,356
The spring of £24,466 in the book value
of fixed assets is due mainly to erection
of a new wool store, while the addition
of £21,907 net to debtors’ balances re-
flects the extension of the business al-
ready referred to. To meet the year’s
outlay, £47,307 was added to the out-
side debt. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£143,260, including stock) was
•£29,483 lighter than at the previous
balance.
Hasting Deering Service, Ltd.
This is the latest addition to a group
of cos. directed by Harold Hastings
Deering and covering service in transport.
Hasting Deering, Ltd., is the Sydney
metropolitan distributor for the Ford
organisation ; A.E.C. (Aust.) Pty., which
handles Ford and A.E.C. trucks (Sydney
trolley buses), is connected with the
Associated Equipment Co., the big Eng-
lish concern which built the London
General Omnibus Co.’s fleet; the Deer-
ing Engineering Co. is specially equipped
for motor-car and aero engine rebuild-
ing.
Now Hastings Deering Service, Ltd.,
has been formed for the purpose of set-
ting up a chain of service stations in
and around Sydney and, if conditions
warrant, elsewhere in N. S. Wales.
Nominal capital is £lOO,OOO in 90,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 10,000 ords. There
is no goodwill or promoter’s considera-
tion. The ords. will be taken by H. H.
Deering and his friends for cash. Of
the prefs., 45,000 are offered. They have
priority as to capital and dividend, and
are entitled to advance with the ords.
from 7 p.c, to 10 p.c. Subject to pre-
liminary exes., and when the present issue
is fully subscribed and paid, the net tan-
gible cover for the prefs, will be 245. sd.
per share.
The intention, however, is to trade on
a semi-co-operative basis, wherein lies
much of the attractiveness of the propo-
sition to the car-owner. After paying
exes, and making provision for deprecia-
tion, etc., the board proposes to distri-
bute surplus profits in excess of 7 p.c,
on capital among shareholders in accord-
ance with their purchases from the co.
during the year. Also, for a fee of £2
10s. p.a. (£3 to outsiders), shareholders
will be entitled to inspection of the car
each 500 miles, and to lubrication and
the usual service adjustments up to 10,000
miles. Further, if the co. does 90 p.c. of
its business with shareholders, the tax
bill will be negligible. The amount avail-
able for purchasers’ dividends will depend
mainly upon turnover and operating
costs. Turnover will depend largely upon
shareholders’ support, while the nature
of the organisation and the control sug-
gest that costs will be moderate.
On the board are H. H. Deering, H.
W. Chancelor and D. W. Roxburgh.
Outlook for Securities
The opening of hostilities between
Italy and Abyssinia caused only
a temporary setback on the Stock Ex-
changes last week. At the moment de-
velopments favor the opinion that
Britain and the rest of the Empire are
not likely to become seriously involved.
Subject to international developments,
the economic outlook in Australia is
encouraging.
Although the wpol clip will be lighter,
the staple has averaged £l6 Bs. Id. per
bale in Sydney for the first three months
of the current season as against £l2 12s.
sd. for 1934-35, and Bradford, Japan
and others are operating freely. Sheep
and cattle generally are selling at better
figures, and so are fat lambs.
After a sharp rise, the price of wheat
has shown a little reaction; still it is
about Is. Id. a bushel above the season’s
lowest figure of less than three months
ago, and world visible supplies (esti-
mated at 361 million bushels—442 mil-
lion 12 months ago) are the lowest for
the last 13 years.
Last week-end lead advanced to £lB
12s. 6d. a ton, the highest for the last
five years; the figure-fell to £9 2s. 6d.
in 1932. Spelter was up to £l6 17s.
6d., the best for over two years. When
the London monthly average for lead
exceeds £l6 a ton, mine workers at
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) are entitled to a
bonus of 6d. a shift (= 3s. a week),
which moves up another 6d. a shift with
every rise of £1 in the average price.
Despite increasing shipments, the
London price of Australian butter
(choicest) has reached the highest level
(116 s. per hundredweight) for the last
four years.
If prices remain around present levels,
they promise to add over £20,000,000 to
the value of .our exports by June 30 next.
Provided it is not eaten into by in-
creased imports, this addition favors a
comfortable banking position locally and
a fairly firm market for both Consols and
trading stocks.
The recent fall in the price of Consols
was due partly to selling pressure ; one
trading bank in particular said it desired
to further strengthen its cash resources.
Now that selling pressure has eased,
prices have strengthened again. Includ-
ing redemption, the average return from
the 10 issues of 4 p.c. Consols was £3
15s. 6d. p.c. a month ago ; at Sept. 24 it
was par, and on Oct. 3 £3 13s. lid. p.c.
In its last quarterly report Lake View
(W.A.) gives particulars of the rich shoot
exposed about five months ago at 3390 ft.
in the Horseshoe, and about 1100 ft. south
of the main shaft. For a length of 113 ft.
the ore averaged 168 s. a ton over the
full width of the drive. At the 1000 ft.
level in the adjoining Chaffers workings
ore averaging 345. a ton over a width
of approximately 6ft. has been exposed.
Good values are also showing at depth
in the Lake View and Associated sec-
tions, and “satisfactory results” attended
4810 ft. of diamond-drilling.
* * * *
Lady Shenton put down a prospecting
bore from the 340 ft. level and cut the
main shoot at 210 ft., and continued in
it to 232 ft. Assays of the core in nine
equal sections varied from grains to
ounces; the average was about 16dwt.
Allowing for the fairly steep angle of
the bore, the approximate width was
lift. There was talk about hidden wealth
further south, and the market moved
sharply up. Just across Shenton’s south-
ern boundary, and about 500 ft. from
this prospecting bore, Western Mining
Corp., searching for the continuation of
the shoot, drilled to a vertical depth of
1000 ft. or thereabouts, and got nothing
worth mentioning,
* * * *
Aladdin and Beryl, two of De Bernales’s
Westralian group, are attracting attention.
Aladdin, at Nannine, is being bored at
depth. About 30 years ago it was
worked by a London co., which crushed
17,000 tons for 94480 z.; believing that
it had got everything worth having at
the old price of gold, the co. gave up.
Beryl is at Kundip, near Ravensthorpe.
Here the drill has located a large and
apparently payable gold-carrier in por-
tion of the workings.
* * * *
Fossickers around Broad Arrow (W.A.)
continue to unearth occasional dabs and
patches of . gold. About 1220 z. was ex-
tracted from 1001 b, of stone the other
day. The biggest finds on this field were
made in the early days at Hill End,
where thousands of ounces were got.
Years later lumps were dug out of the
Tara and an adjoining show.
* * * *
An Eastern State syndicate is un-
watering the Copperhead, Bullfinch
(W.A.), to sample the old workings.
About 40 tributors are toiling on the
lease ; they have kept a five-head battery
in operation for two years. The average
value of ore treated has been Bdwt.
* * * *
From one show at Meekatharra (W.A.),
which was turned down by an Adelaide
crowd, prospectors have extracted over
£2OOO worth of gold, and have raised
ore estimated to contain the same
amount of wealth. An option has now
been given to someone else.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp., which has been
diamond-drilling the Crown Reef, Cue
(W.A.), will presently bore Smith’s
United, and possibly the old Fingall, in
the same locality.
* * * *
D. F. McAulay, former manager of
Associated, Kalgoorlie, and a director of
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), is
dead at 69. A tall Scot, he mined in
Queensland and N. S. Wales before going
to Westralia, where he became g.m. of
Boulder Perseverance in 1909. Two years
later he went to Associated, and remained
in charge until the co.’s amalgamation
with the Lake View last year.


f?
w
V" t?
V.
I
r~
*9
J
■c
sim*.
\\m
m
** 1«#«!
?\,
Vl' fcs. <J*
* *0
/V
i
f?
us
3f
3F.
)MIS
r
'//>
: ir
/ £
$
mv
15
-3"
4S*i^
fy
Ss>
V
Jr
»«l
-*»
1
■^r
-ar
SW
---;v
/
0
a
#
R
mM
5,500 Holden employees
Column of Facts
The value, in terms of Aus-
tralian employment created, of
the body-building industry may
be gauged from the following
facts:
5500 men and women are
directly employed in making
Holden Bodies. Their present
wages bill is nearly one-and-a-
quarter million pounds a year.
Material consumed, including
Australian leather, lacquer, steel,
etc., totals two-and-a-quarter
million pounds a year.
The plant covers over one mil-
lion square feet of factory floor
space.
The men and women who make Holden Bodies are proud of their work,
and Australia has reason to be proud of it, too. It is hard to convey to you
HOW MANY of these men and women there really are. The figure
“5500” doesn’t help much. Your mind’s eye doesn’t know how many people
make 5500.
But —for example, if you walked round the works and merely watched
each operation for one minute, the tour would take you two days. You
would see work of hundreds of different kinds. At one end of the scale you
would see steel being toyed with like paper in colossal machines. At the
other end of the scale you would see fingers doing work of the finest delicacy
with wonderful accuracy and skill.
The point is that all this work is being done for you, the Australian
motorist, by people whose life-work it is to know WHAT AUSTRALIAN
CONDITIONS MEAN. An Australian’s car means a lot to him, gives
him the freedom of his country, and in order that the body of his car should
be fine in appearance, dignity and comfort even after many thousands of
miles, it has to be constructed more strongly than overseas bodies need to be
built.
These are the people who do that for you . . . who build specifically for
Australian conditions. That is why your “Body by Holden” SERVES
you so well besides being so beautiful and luxurious . . .
b
bod
H
1
BEAUTIFUL YET SO
gvdr
STRONG


ABORIGNALITIES
“Billy See”: Jusl outside our little
Westralian township somebody suddenly
discovered a hive in a lofty limb which
overhung the main road. Preparations
were being made by the local youth for
felling when the sergeant happened along.
“It’s on Crown lands and illegal to fell
it without official permission ; and if I
do grant permission all wood will have
to be removed from obstructing the road
and cut into reasonable lengths and
stacked.” Like Trojans we toiled to
bring that iron-hard dead bluegum
down—to discover that the beehive was
merely a swarm of blowflies sampling a
dead opossum. But the sergeant, a just
man, saw that all who had taken a hand
in the felling did their share in the cut-
ting up. Then, when all the wood was
nicely stacked, he ran in Kelly the team-
ster for being “drunk and disorderly.”
During the following week Kelly carted
all that lovely dry wood up to the police
station.
* * * *
“Whangamomona”: Add Maoriland’s
little fantail to the birds that will enter a
house for food (B. 18/9/’35). Every
summer when the flies are thick three
or four of the birds wage aerial warfare
on them all through our house. When
they’re not chasing flies they pursue their
own reflections up and down my bed-
room mirror.
* * * *
“Williami”; Will crows eat pork? I
say they won’t. I saw a flock of crows
singing a lullaby to a lamb left behind
by its mother. Baby jumbuck had its
head under a shell of bark, and when
I rescued it the crows called a special
general meeting and put a black curse
on me. Close to the lamb was a dead
porker. Its tongue was exposed, but the
crows gave it the cold shoulder. Two
weeks later I went to have another peep
at Dennis, now a very much flattened-
out carcass, going bald. Dozens of
crows lounged about the place, but none
came near him. He hadn’t a beak mark
on him either, and the tongue was still
intact.
% # jfc
“N.D.M.”: Poisonous spiders? A
Cadell (S.A.) fruitgrower was bitten on
the finger, one fang puncturing the skin,
the other glancing from the nail. Within
naif an hour he was in agony, suffering
acute cramp in the muscles of back and
chest; it was three hours before he re-
covered. The spider was a big, hairy,
brown brute, with huge mandibles and
thick legs. Our old friend the funnel-
web, perhaps ; I have a similar beastie
(in a bottle) that would cover the palm
of a man’s hand, and sporting jaws or
fangs half an inch long. They lurk in
holes, under bags or in any dark corner.
* * * *
“Vamac”: Early one morning, after
a night’s rain, I saw in the mud tracks
like miniature imprints of human hands.
The depth of the impress was marked—
out of all proportion to its surface area.
I followed the tracks, through many tor-
tuous windings, to a heap of old bags,
under which I found a large “sleepy-
lizard.” I have seen many of these rep-
tiles, but I never credited their tiny legs
(shaped not unlike a baby’s arm) with
the strength to carry the gross body over
200 yards of softish mud without once
letting it to earth. I always believed
them to be crawlers only, never walkers,
even on dry ground. Yet here was
evidence, circumstantial but convincing,
to the contrary.
* * * *
“Coolibah": Someone recently asked
about a goat’s expectation of life. /
want to know the natural life-span of
a goose. One in the N.S.W. district in
which I reside has been going strong for
33 years with its present owner, and it
was a grown bird when he got it
* * * *
“B-gar”:. Drought signs, is it (B.
11/9/’35)? If I had the opportunity to
go broke again I’d gamble on the doings
of some of our native birds, budgerigars
especially. Last spring Queensland’s
nor’-west, invariably a favored nesting-
ground of the pretty fowls, saw few of
them arrive. The rainless months that
followed wouldn’t have provided them
with enough to drink. This spring
they’ve come back, as Idriess would say,
in “countless millions.” I’ll wager all
I’ve got, which is nothing, that the season
ahead is just what graziers would like to
order. Those little “budgeries” know
what’s doing up above.
* * * *
“J.W.”: “Old-t.’s” par. about cooking
galahs (B. 18/9/’35) reminds me. Be-
tween Nimmitabel and the Brown Moun-
tain (N.S.W.) towards evening we noticed
a flock of mountain parrots, and to vary
the menu shot half a dozen. Water
wasn’t plentiful, and we didn’t wash
our hands after plucking and cleaning.
All went well until we’d each eaten two
of them and taken the edge off our appe-
"Now, Killjoy—try an' be a little more sociable!"
tites. Other senses became sharper, and
as we were using our hands for knives
and forks the characteristic “cocky’s-
cage” odor strongly assailed our nostrils.
It became so nauseating that neither of
us could finish our third bird. We always
make a strong point of washing our
hands after killing fowl or game now.
“Ornis”: Tame seagulls (B. 18/9/’35)
are banned by the N.S.W. authorities
as pets, yet they can be seen, usually
pinioned, about gardens on Sydney’s
North Shore line. The man persecuted
by slugs and snails can sleep sound if he
acquires a pair of gulls. Their only draw-
back is their wakefulness. They never
seem to sleep, and their querulous curs-
ing, in which they excel any magpie, is
often a trial in the night watches.
* * % *
“Western”: Old Binduli Mick was
deaf, and given to talking to himself out
loud. We were dry blowing the New
Patch (W.A.), and she was far from
rich. Binduli began panning-off, with
appropriate comments. We listened.
Suddenly a note of elation brightened
his monologue. “Ah, wud ye? But
I’ve got ye, and a little beauty ye
are! And what wud ye be weighing
now? An ounce, maybe?” Some judi-
cious weighing in a half-shut palm. “No,
ye wudn’t be an ounce! Well, maybe,
nointeen pinny weights?” More weigh-
ing in the half-shut palm. Then a
half-sorrowful headshake. “No. ’tis no
more than eighteen . . . and maybe a
few grains. Tis the bist I can make
av ye. Well, away ye go out av sight.’
Pouching the slug, Binduli resumed his
labor. Ten minutes later Kendall, whom
from his waggish ways Binduli rather
suspected of incipient insanity, strolled
across. “What luck, Binduli?” Binduli
answered with all the bland mendacity
of the hardened fossicker: “No luck at
all. Divil the spick have 1 seen this last
week.” “What about that slug you
slipped into your shammy a few minutes
ago?” Binduli assumed the innocence
of a child. “For the luv av hiven, wud
ye listen to him? Tis divil the bit have
1 seen this last week and more.” “A nice
slug it was, too,” Kendall continued.
“Eighteen ’weights three grains. Good
luck to you, Mick!” Next morning wc
found Binduli packing up, muttering
about “the avil oye” and “sicond-soight.”
“For how cud that felly Kendall know
all about the slug when no one had told
him?” We persuaded him to stop, but
for weeks after he surreptitiously crossed
himself whenever Kendall happened to
glance at him.
* * *
“Allabanach”: Caught a small gecko
(also erroneously called wood-adder)
under the bark of a dead brigalow-tree,
and was examining it. Its tail had been
half crushed at some lime, and two new
tails had grown from the side of the
injured member. Suddenly the whole
caudal unit bulged, stiffened and then
did a merry jig, while its late owner leapt
to the ground and made for the tall
timber.
}|S t\i 5|S jj!
“Arcturus”: Watching a number of
children diving from the bank of a dam
on the Westralian goldfields, 1 noticed
that one did not reappear. I was mov-
ing towards the dam when one of his
mates, romping with a dog, threw the
animal into the water. The dog struck
the water with a splash, and next moment
the missing boy appeared, gasping for
breath, and headed for the bank. He
told me he had dived into a shallow
part and his head had become embedded
in the sticky clay bottom. The dog, in
falling, had struck him, thus releasing
him from a watery grave. The incident
left the boy breathless but unperturbed,
and it hasn’t diminished the popularity
of the dam among the children as a
bathing-place.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Tom Willie”: I can’t agree with
“Mudgee” (B. 18/9/’35); that Norman
Lindsay saw is O.K. I know the type ;
it was invented to cut hybrid logs which
are soft on one side and hard on the
other, such as the cross between the
willow and the ironbark. The saw is
known as the one-way saw, and cuts only
when drawn against the hard part of the
log. The usual kind of saw would clog
on the willow half and make life un-
bearable for bush girls.
•I* '»* '•*
“Nordbo”: The ibis is the North
Queensland farmer’s friend. Where I
was ploughing, a hundred or so stalked
serenely up and down the freshly-turned
furrow, and attempts to calculate the
number of grey-back beetle grubs .they
gobbled up in a day would have made a
professor of mathematics dizzy. Some-
times the disc of the plough unearths a
nest of field mice, providing a change
of diet for my feathered friends. The
other day a half-grown rat, thrown
head over heels from its burrow, was
grabbed round the middle and deftly
turned, disappearing from view head
first. A huge, downward-moving bulge
on the bird’s long neck showed its pro-
gress ; then a gulp and —home! What
a lining there must be to that diner s
stomach! A young rat can scratch and
bite considerably, but the ibis gave no
sign of discomfort.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: Western Queensland
birds have hailed with delight the intro-
duction of the windmill. In the days of
the old wooden mills the galahs and
corellas literally ate the sails off them,
and, judging by the row they made,
thoroughly enjoyed themselves. The
vane of the present-day steel mill is a
favored nesting-place of magpies, and
wax-bill finches use the tower for the
same purpose. Lately I traced an elusive
squeak to two small galahs, just break-
ing out of their shells, in the hollow
main-casting of a Comet mill. Free-
dom from ants is probably the great
attraction from a nesting point of view.
* * * *
“Marra”: I can’t agree with “Gumble-
gubbin” (B. 4/9/’35) when he says “for
the blistering sting of the stinging-tree the
abo. uses the sap of that tree.” The abo.’s
(and the bushman’s) remedy is the slimy
sap of the cungevoi lily, or wild arum,
which grows in the same localities. The
usual practice is to snap off a flower or
leaf-stem and rub the end on the affected
part. But “Gumblegubbin” is right about
honey for bee stings. In a long experi-
ence in handling bees I have found no
equal to it.
“Ned Kelly”: Add to “Gumblegub-
bin’s” list, bracken-fern juice for sandfly
bites. There’s nothing to equal it. Use
the tender young shoots; it beats perox-
ide, baking soda or metho (applied out-
wardly) hollow.
% ❖ j|s :Ji
“Old-timer”: Seventy miles of whip-
stick mallee, sandhills and porcupine
grass, waterless, lay between the station
and West Bidura, and the jackeroo, who
had never been through that country, pro-
posed to strike a beeline for it.
We all tried to dissuade him,
but he was cocksure of going
straight there, and left at dawn,
tucker and water tied to his
saddle. Two days later a ’phone
call revealed that he had not
arrived. On the third day par-
ties set out to search. His horse
was found, starved and near
dead from thirst, 45 miles west
of the beeline. We gave it up
after a fortnight. A month later
Bill, riding the back paddock of
“Moonlight,” found a clue —a
scrapbook full of Bulletin cut-
tings all about the wristlet
watches, knife-blades, trees
leaning east, etc., used by—
ahem —bushmen to strike a line.
He’s probably somewhere in the
Gobi desert by this.
❖ * *
“Kumusi”: The little “mud-
fish” described by “Kriss” (B.
25/9/’35) is found in all the
tropical waters of the globe. He
is not an air-breather, as “K.”
suggests, but a 100 per cent. fish.
That is why he never comes
quite clear of the water, save
for a second or two while hopping. At
rest, as “K.” has noted, he likes to lie
partly in the water. That is because the
end of his tail is fitted with a tubular
appliance through which water can be
carried to the lungs.
“Chalfont”: One has heard much
about the hardihood of waterfall-jump-
ing salmon, but our kookaburra has a
similar disregard of self-inflicted pain
during the nesting season. I remember
a huge gum, just off the main road
through Belair (S.A.) ; there a pair of
kookas. were to be seen dashing them-
selves against one spot repeatedly. They’d
fly 40 or 50 yards to gain momentum, and
often would fall to the ground with the
force of the impact. This went on for a
week, by the end of which time they had
cleared the bark from over a square
foot of the trunk. Then they left. Some
time afterwards the tree was cut down,
and it was discovered that they would
have had to penetrate only a quarter of
an inch further to reach a hollow
in which to build their nest. How did
the fowls know that that point was the
one at which entry to the hollow would
have been easiest, and why did they leave
off before they had reached it?
* * * *
“V.E.”: Road gangs working near
Swan Reach (S.A.) on the Murray are
having trouble with wombats. The
animals have undermined the road with
their burrows, making traffic dangerous
and repair work a thankless job. The
furry diggers appear to be breeding fast
right through the Blanche Town plains.
Previously they had been scarce.
TO THE EMU (B. 25/9/’35).
Gaunt, wingless bird —Dronueus irroratus
Labelled in classical nomenclatures —
Has any fowl in any clime a status,
1 wonder, as anomalous as yours?
Proudly you stand, our stately sign and symbol
Of nationhood, alike on coin and crest;
Elsewhere wc rank you nothing but a nimble
And devastating pest.
You grow no feathers rich in lure, in cost rich,
For womanhood to covet and to prize,
Such as your sprightly relative the ostrich
Produces under Afric’s sunny skies.
There’s really nothing saleable about you
Or any of your mischief-making- mob.
Save that in cereal belts, where most they snout
you,
Your scalp brings in a bob.
You come in serried hosts and massed bat-
talions ;
Upon the struggling cocky’s crops you burst
Until he swears, of all the vile rapscallions
That Nature looses on him, you’re the worst.
He slays you, if he can. In burning phrases
He curses those that massacre evade,
And wonders why the blanky, blithering blazes
Such birds were ever made.
Quaint fowl, whom heralds naturally docket
Among our true Australian lures and charms,
Wc love to have your, picture in our pocket,
Your simulacra on our coats-of-arms,
But when you stride the plains there’s no one
rates you
Above the unremunerative nigs.,
And when you’re dead the only fate that waits
you
Is to be fed to pigs!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Any complaints?"
"The food ain't bad , but the view's lousy!"
“Laetitia”; In some years of beach-
combing I haven’t come across “Purin-
thy’s” (B. 31/7/’35) marine goannas, but
I have noticed on many occasions that
the ordinary land go. extends his depre-
dations to the outlying exposed reefs in
Torres Strait islands. Small fish and crabs
in the shallow rock podls and worms and
bivalves are the attractions which lure
him out of his element. I have never
known him to enter the water of his
own volition, but under duress he’ll
make his escape by skimming across a
shallow pool in a manner more sugges-
tive of walking than of swimming.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”: Everyone knows that a
magpie will attack any human being
who passes near the nest. A good
general, maggie arranges the attack so
as not to throw a shadow that might
warn the enemy. Saw a maggie click
on the north end of a fellow’s ear. “How
the hell did he do that without me seeing
him?” the victim wailed. “Came at
you against the sun,” I said soothingly.
If maggie’s shadow had fallen on the
ground in front of the bloke he’d have
had a say in the battle, but maggie
knows better than to publish his inten-
tions.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Scientists are still un-
able to explain the ascent of the sap in
a tree. To reach the top of a giant red-
wood or eucalypt, the water must rise to
a height of possibly 350 ft., requiring a
force at least 10 times as great as the
normal atmospheric pressure, and cer-
tainly not effected by the action of so-
called root-pressure. It is generally
agreed that the water ascends in the
wood, and the wet wall is permeable to
water; but even gas can’t be driven
through the fine pores except under
high pressure. Re-
cently J. H. Priest-
ley, Professor of
Botany at Leeds,
suggested that some
undiscovered force
must either drive
or pull the mois-
ture from above.
“Western”: Where does the emu stand
as a sprinter? An official party, inspect-
ing the emu-infested wheat lands of
Westralia, started a full-grown bird which
took off along the road in front of the
car. Thirty miles an hour showed on
the speedometer, and those in the car
thought that the bird would not long
be able to maintain the pace. But it
did, for miles; even when the driver
opened up to 35 it responded, and still
maintained a few yards’ lead. Variations
in the condition of the road necessitated
occasional slowing down, but the speed
never dropped below 25 and sometimes
rose above 35 miles. It took 10j miles
of this going before the emu decided to
quit.
* * * *
“C.R.”; Old George was about the
toughest thing that ever mixed a damper.
I don’t think he ever wore boots in his
life. He was badly smashed in a run-
away-team accident, and friends visited
him in hospital, among them a precocious
child. He studied George’s feet intently
whilst the elders talked. Then: “Look,
mummy,” the youngster said, “that’s the
sort of soles I want on my next shoes ;
like those Old George has on his feet.”
After six weeks’ absence from Mother
Earth the skin of the old chap’s hoofs
resembled sponge rubber.
* * * *
“Yarn”: People in the north-west
corner of N. S. Wales saw ice the other
day for the first time. Near Corona
station, 50 miles beyond Broken Hill,
a storm that dropped 2in. of rain in half
an hour left blocks of ice 3ft. square in
the creeks. According to the station
manager, some of the blocks floating in
the stream were miniature icebergs, from
30ft. to 40ft. long. I lived three years
in that corner and never saw a hailstone ;
it was a joyous experience to see rain.
But “Darling showers”—the stinging rain
of dry sand —were as common as bung
eyes.
* * * *
“Ped O'M.”: Bush mispronunciations
(B. 18/9/’35)? There is a small town-
ship in the far north of S. Aus. where
almost every woman uses “east” when
baking bread, where broken “laigs” and
“hens’ aigs” are common, and the A.I.M.
hostel is called the “horstrel” (even
“horstrich”). There, also, petrol is “peet-
rol,” and a drought is a “drort”; but to
one man only is it “imperial” whether
the “equilateral gales” blow all the year
round.
* * * *
“G.G.” (N.Q.); Me read been the
papers Italia the home. Me read been the
papers Australia. Me see by read II Duce
Mussolini him wantem for take Africa,
the black country —ver’ much black—for
pufem Italia altogather inside. Me tinkem
him fool, that Duce. Nobods skins-the-
white wantem blackfellow-skins country.
Ver’ much black ; too much the fevor ;
too much the smell. Other day, yesday,
Wensday, me pass some fellow-black’,
gin too. Him carry picknini to bastket
the back from shoulder behind. Close-
up down fall me the smell to faint; ver’
bad, ver’ bad. Why not the police Gov’-
ment, parson the church, the soao
washem that fellows too black for kill
smell? Me findem their house, high two
feet. To go inside the knees the ground
down must put, walk the hands, the
head first, to go the room inside mia-mia.
Terribil smell, like him cow dead long
time. Me the same must out go me, for
stop me die sure inside stop long. One
dog inside, straitway bow-wow! Jump
me him, the pants my trousers behind
some teeth ver’ point sharp. Jump me
quick the ground outside up to run ver’
strait like hell the home. Straitway the
creek jump me for wash the soap plenty
for kill the smell too much. Bimeby me
look me the pants my trousers from
behind for see big tearem sew him up,
the hole my skin behind too —the dog
teeth make him ver’ sore. Ambulance
must go some plaster stickin’ put. No
more, no more, fellows-blacks the house
mia-mia me go. Too much expriance
bad for my life one time.
* * * ♦
“Warramulla”: Most bushmen are
emphatic on the point that a goanna
will beat a snake when they get into
holts. I have my doubts. Came across
one of those sleepy specimens called
hereabouts (n.-w. Q.) a rock python
sunning himself luxuriously. He was
about 9ft. long, with a small black head
and black markings down the back. An
ominous bulge towards his middle made
me curious, and after dispatching him
and opening up I found there was no
argument as to who had won that fight.
The go. was well inside, and “out.”
* * * *
“Blue Wing”: In the far north of
South Aus. I saw a flock of fowls whose
cosmopolitanism (B. 11/9/’35) and lan-
guage would have rivalled those of the
Foreign Legion. The mob, consisting of
galahs, corellas, magpies, crows and
mudlarks, was out to down an escaped
pet corella. Screaming cockatiels and
ringnecks urged on the pursuers from
near-by trees; kite-hawks circled over-
head, ready to swoop if the victim
fell. At the end of the day “mother’s
pretty boy” was still alive, but
minus his helmet, strides and parts of his
tunic. His own account of the day’s
happenings would never pass the censors.
* * # *
“Posorus”: Who started that yarn
about a crocodile being slow on the
turn? I saw one snap up a dog the
other day in the Proserpine River (N.Q.).
Anything quicker than that chap on the
turn would need to take lessons from
forked lightning. It was on the land,
where the croc, isn’t supposed to be
lively, and that' insect did a toespin and
backflip that would have jinked a carpet-
snake’s back. Another wise fellow
reckoned they could stay under water
only four minutes. Four hours doesn’t
end the croc.’s submergence capabilities.
I’ve seen one in a tank, undisturbed, for
that time.
* * * *
“Groper”: Old Jim Cooper’s wild
ducks never held any shot to bother his
customer’s teeth.
Half a dozen fish-
ing lines were
attached to handy
float boards, each
board in turn hav-
ing half a dozen
short gut lines,
each with a hook
baited with a
special titbit. Float-
ing these boards
out on to the clear
water just beyond
the rushes, Jim
would crouch
down and, with his
old black felt hat,
simulate the flap-
ping of a duck’s
wings, at the same
time realistically
mimicking the sat-
isfied quack of a
feeding bird. That
brought the flock.
Soon the baited
hooks would be
snapped up and
swallowed. B u 1
before hauling in
his catch he’d jump
up suddenly and
scare the main
mob into flight,
and as they rose
would then send up three kylies with all
the deftness of an abo. A few more
would be got that way.
“J.W.H.L.”: I hasten to assure “Cam
Cove” (B. 11/9/’35) that at least one
other Aboliar can eulogise curlew as an
article of diet. I spent a holiday on an
uncle’s farm near Kelleberrin (W.A.).
Uncle drove me out from the station
about midnight, and I sat down to a
supper of roast curlew. I was put out
of gear by recollections of a pathetic
poem, “The Wounded Curlew,” and the
palate failed to register the full glories
of the first mouthful. But with the rapid
passing of this phase I experienced my
only genuine gastronomical delirium.
Now I’d barter a twelvemonth’s poultry
ration for just one curlew!
* * * *
“Eureka”: Almost any day you can
see a dozen or more fishermen fishing
near the channel where the warm water
from the Bunnerong powerhouse flows
into Botany Bay. The fish like the
warmth ; they swim right up this shallow
channel. I have noticed something
similar with fresh-water fish. Lazy abos.
used to catch them in the Mehi River
(N.S.W.) where the drain from the
artesian-bore baths runs into it.
* * * *
“Blue Flier”: Does any Aboliar know
of a winter snake? There is a wriggler
in this loose-downs country (south of
Maxwelton, n.-w. Q.) that I have only
seen from May till September. It has a
mid-brown body with a pattern of
darker brown, not unlike the carpet-
snake ; but the head is small and black.
The specimens I have seen range from
4ft. 6in. to 6ft. long.
* * * *
“Leirum”: “O.T.’s” par. (B. 7/8/’35)
re isolation for ’flu recalls the bad epi-
demic in 1918 in Torres Strait. An isola-
tion hospital was rigged on one island.
Rumors of the wealth of flour and rice
dispensed to the inmates filtered through
to the village; so early one morning
the huts were deserted. To a man and
pot-bellied child each unit of the popu-
lation was crammed but comfortably
ensconced in the “hospital.”
* * * *
“Thirsty Is.”: “Stylus’s” (B. 31/7/’35)
wrinkle about drying wet matches by
rubbing them against the short hairs
on the nead has been taken up by north-
ern Binghis, who perhaps originated the
notion as pearl and trochus skin-diving
boys. These habitually stow their
matches in their woolly hair, and after
a submersion of several fathoms the
waxies ignite readily without any further
drying process.
* * * *
“Lemanark”; “Walkabout’s” par. (B.
18/9/’35) regarding the abo.’s seafaring
qualities is interesting. My experience
of the N.T. natives is that they are ex-
cellent sailors. 1 have seen a 14ft. canoe,
with a freeboard of only 4in., leave Sol-
dier Point, Melville Island, and go over
to Cape Don on the mainland, a dis-
tance of 16 miles of open sea. It was
during the cyclone season; the “boys”
were short of tobacco ; hence the jour-
ney, every inch of which had to be
paddled. It took 10 hours. Three days
later they returned.
$ :fc $ *
“Rindy”: Queer catches? Night-
fishing at Berowra (N.S.W.), a cobber
hooked something out of the ordinary.
Having cast, without sinker, towards the
breaming ground under the bank, he sat
in the dark awaiting results. Came a
"If I Wadden local preacher, I'd say DAM’ UN.”
touch at the line —then hell broke loose.
For a few rushing, smashing seconds it
appeared that the hooked fish had taken
to land in its fight to avoid capture.
Loose stones, breaking bushes and crash-
ing commotion told the tale of desperate
ferocity. Then came the inevitable
breakaway, and a streak up the side of
the mountain. No—it wasn’t that Burde-
kin walking fish turned into a runner.
Instead of the bait going into the water
it had landed on the rocks, and the
rest of the nerve-racking incident had
been provided by a prowling domestic
cat.
THE LONELY RIDER.
On a trail beyond Bedourie, ’cross the rolling
dunes that blaze
In red billows ’Jong the Boori ’neath the
everlasting haze,
With his saddle-bags and Snider (for the dogs
that roam and row),
Jogs a solitary rider on a lumbering camel-
cow.
He has cleaned a soak behind him where his
scattered cattle drink,
And the drifting sands that blind him build
loose ridges round the brink.
There’s another, when the tramping of wild
mobs drums out the day.
Where the night will see him camping, fifty
lonely miles away.
Often there the drought has found him, with
the starry sky o’erhead,
With the desert beasts around him and the
desert sand his bed,
’Mid the stunted native willow, tired and
browned, but tough as wire,
His old saddle for a pillow, and his quartpot
by the fire.
With the dawn again he’s riding to the cheer-
less cries of crows.
Towards a timber-line that’s hiding some small
creek that seldom flows;
With the night his dromedary crops the salt-
bush clumps again,
And he lies alone and wary in the warrigals’
domain.
So the days and nights he passes till the shift-
ing dunes are stilled,
Till the rains renew the grasses and the
waterholes are filled.
Then among contented cattle, from the camps
to homestead rails.
With a hearty swing and rattle he goes singing
down the trails.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


m
HITS
LYS
Is
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
<p
%
J
m
m
“V'J
SV
<L
■Mt&M
.> «<*<•’ ,
; *e.
i
m.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents,
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Shed-hands.
“Bungaree”: “Dead Finish” and
“Byramine” are right to the point on
picking-up (B. 18/9/’35), but the test of
a good picker-up lies in his handling ot
broken, crumbling fleeces. After a few
hours’ experience most boys can throw
a good sound fleece, but the cause of
bad workmanship is invariably careless
picking-up. It takes only seconds to
straighten out neck and sides and un-
earth the near hind-leg, but boys wait
till the shearer lets his sheep go and
is in the catching pen before they
make a rush, snatch up the fleece any-
how and dump it in a hopelessly mixed
heap on the wool-table, leaving the
rollers to straighten it out.
“D.F.’s” suggestion of instructional
classes for shed-hands would be excellent
if practicable. In N.S.W. it would have
to be carried out at, say, the Homebush
Shearing Depot, unless the Technical
College undertook instruction in shearing.
The onus at present is on the classer,
but what with the laying-out of tables,
etc., instructing wool-rollers, piece-
pickers and pressers, and fixing his fleece
lines, he seldom has time to spare even
a glance toward the board during the
first run. In a six-stand shed with the
classer acting in the dual position of
classer-woolroller, and only one man to
skirt with him, he will be lucky if lie
finds time to leave the table before the
whistle goes.
A tech, has not the facilities for
teaching students the practical side of
shed work. The difference between
handling a neatly-rolled fleece in Syd-
ney and the heap of wool as the shearer
finishes the last leg is the difference be-
tween theory and practice. I have super-
vised student shed-hands from colleges in
three States and Queenslanders were “out
on their own” —the result of a thorough
and practical course.
Sane Classing.
“Dead Finish”: Classing, done sen-
sibly, will always pay, but overclassing is
disastrous.
With large lines, there is always a ten-
dency to make too many sorts. It is
easier for a classer, if he has enough bin
space, to throw aside fleeces which do
not exactly match his set lines. Before
long the spare bins get filled, and the
pressers clamor to know what is to be
done with the wool and how it is to be
branded. In this way, a couple of extra
lines automatically make themselves from
the “odd fleece.” *
That odd fleece continues to bob up,
even in well-classed lines, and unless dealt
with on the spot will attract a lot of
mates.
A little attention given fleeces of this
nature will not only pay, but minimise
trouble at the end of the run of sheep
when the lines have to be cleaned up.
Frequently, it is possible to split up a
fleece which cannot be blended into
any particular line —the suitable por-
tions worked into a fleece sort, while the
balance is sent to the skirtings. Of
course, any outstandingly rough pieces of
wool will go into the utility “cast” line.
By adoption of this practice the number
of lines made will be kept low, but will
be bulkier. This last phase is always
stressed as desirable by the woolsellers,
and the prices obtained for big lines
prove the advantage.
With smaller clips, overclassing is
most pronounced, and gives cause for
complaints such as “G.F.D.” (B.
7/8/’35) voices. A six-bale line, blended
to near uniformity, makes better selling
than lots of four and two bales classed
to the last fribby piece. Had ‘‘G.F.D.”
taken the bare, sweaty trimmings from
his fleeces and forgotten about the
“broken” line, his return from 700 sheep
might have been better.
Buyers want their lines big, and this
should be kept well in mind. There are
still growers who think they are not get-
ting value for the cost of classing unless
there are “plenty of sorts.”
A woolclasser’s make-up should con-
sist of a sound knowledge of wool and
it's uses, a knowledge of the buyer’s
needs and commonsense.
Bloat Prevention.
“Stump Jump”: Bloat is the result of
straightout indigestion, and the only
method of prevention is to remove the
cause of the ill-health that starts it.
If a pasture does not give a balanced
ration, the cattle or sheep grazing on it
gradually lose their power of full diges-
tion. Needed foods are absent, and the
digestive apparatus allows the fresh green
feed to “gas.”
Stock fed on well-balanced feeds —
clover pasture and grass hay or win-
nowed oat-chaff —are highly resistant to
bloat.
I’ve seen sheep feed for months on
end on very succulent flat lucerne which
had a heavy under-mat of dry grass
without any loss. Removal to a pure,
cut lucerne paddock, even though they
had no time to become hungry on the
way, started “blow-ups” at once.
Many dairymen strike trouble through
irregularity. Cows that have become un-
healthy on a clover-only ration are kept
away from the paddock two or three
hours twice a day. They go out hungry,
and there is trouble at once.
A little bail chaff might cure this.
What is really needed is a balance of
diet.
Clover or lucerne pastures need grasses
sown with them, or else hay and chaff
fed out. Conversely, grass pastures need
a clover or lucerne “buck-up.”
Care of the Poddy.
“Breeding Tells”: “Baby” beef can be
produced in Australia. I found a stud
Shorthorn cow —on Maryland, Stanthorpe
(Q.) —dead after calving. Looking round
1 found a calf quite a week old ; its navel
string had dried and fallen off, and that
never happens before several days. I
brought it home and poddied it, and sold
it at 15 months old to the local butcher.
It dressed 5601 b. Fed according to The
Bulletin’s “Handy Hints” book, it was
never out of a two-acre paddock or
sucked a cow.
Cultivating Lucerne.
“Lion”: Tell “Mangaratta” (B.
11/9/’35) that his contentions are up the
pole, as far as Riverina experience goes.
In working the paddock both ways, as
1 suggested, the plant is not damaged in
the slightest. I have cultivated thousands
of acres in this fashion with first-class
results. There is no real chance of split-
ting the plants of a lucerne broadcast.
There' is a paddock here 50 years old
which I have cross-cultivated seven times
in 11 years, and last year it cut a ton
to the acre on the second cut. The same
paddock was also fed off as suggested,
which puts that part of his remarks out
of court.
“Mangaratta” must have fed his down
too much and allowed the stock to
damage the crown, otherwise his experi-
ence could not have “cost him dearly."
The object of deep cultivation is to
aerate the soil, an essential factor for
the well-being of the lucerne bacteria.
That alone makes deep cultivation worth
while. Rich flats on rivers or creeks
don’t benefit very much from top-dress-
ing. It is deep cultivation they need.
Grazing lucerne, not so deeply rooted,
needs both. I have 400 acres of cutting
lucerne, and I defy “Mangaratta” to find
a damaged plant.
Pasture Silage.
“Ghanum”: Other countries can teach
us a lot regarding the salvaging of pas-
ture for silage. In Maoriland it is stan-
dard practice, especially in the more
moist districts where damp tends to
mould in the haystack.
Mixed pasture makes the best job.
Clovers and grasses set well together, and
fine-stemmed crops—wheat, oats, millets,
Sudan grass and field peas—can be
bundled in with the grasses.
The stage for cutting depends on the
use to which the silage is to be put. Fast-
grown, strongly-leafed paspalum which
has had a good dressing of fertiliser and
has been harvested when the flowers are
forming is nutritive for cows in milk.
To feed dry and young stock, and for
general maintenance purposes, the crop
should be harvested when the heads are
in flower. Grass should not be allowed
to go too dry before harvesting ; other-
wise there will not be enough moisture
to promote fermentation.
The stack is the best form of storage —
a 12ft. by 15ft. by 10ft. stack should
contain from 35 to 40 tons. The grass
should be cut with a mowing machine
with swathe board attached, and pulled
in with a two-horse 10ft. sweep which
will carry a load of about 4cwt. A mast
stacker and grab, which a single horse
can work, makes for quick work in get-
ting the load to the top of the stack.
On the first day it is wise not to build
the stack above half its height. Then let
it settle for a few days. Drive a lin.
pipe down the centre of the stack when
it is half finished, and gauge the tempera-
ture by lowering a dairy thermometer
attached to a string into it. When the
heat approaches 120 degrees, continue
stacking. The temperature should not
rise above 130, degrees. As each addi-
tional layer after the first is added, keep
on checking the heat.
The outer edges of the stack should
be heavily trampled, the centre being
kept level until the end, when it should
be slightly higher than the outside edges.
Even packing of the material is import-
ant.
When all the material has been settled
down, build a ring of boards around the
edge of its top, and fill the centre with
earth. The height of the earth dressing
will depend on the temperature of the
last six feet of material, but it should be
about Ift. deep at the centre and 18in.
to 2ft. at the sides. A temporary barbed-
wire fence to keep off stock will finish
the job.
When opening the stack, take the earth
off a small section, being careful not to
interfere with the rest of the covering,
and then take the silage out in a block
to ground level. A cubic foot will weigh
about 451 b. The best implement for
cutting it is a squaring axe, and only one
day’s supply at a time should be taken
out.
From eight to 10 weeks will make
grass silage, but the more matured it is
the better.
Turkeys at Wagga.
“X.T.”: A good job about which more
should be known is that which is being
done at Wagga (N.S.W.) with the turkey
business. Visitors from S. America
express astonishment at the littleness ot
our poultry export. Buenos Aires and
other Argentinian cities are as full of
poultry-shops as Sydney is of milk-bars.
Usually they have a turnspit in the win-
dow, and turkey, in particular, is as
cheap as beef, the birds being raised in
tens of thousands.
The growth of the industry in Riverina
owes its initiative to H. Gooch, who
developed the trade until a local
company-was needed to handle it. This
is drawing birds from all over the district.
The first year the scheme operated
5000 were killed; the second, 33,000;
for the first eight months of this year,
40,000.
The Giant Bronze is being gradually
standardised in the Riverina.
Now that chilling export is possible
and dry ice is on the way, there seems
no reason why a big business should not
be built up in turkeys, which are a more
staple article of seasonal food in other
countries than they are here, and of a
size to suit export shipment.
Ant Poisoning.
“Vic”: The summer ant is beginning
to operate —both the small black Iri-
domyrmex and the large brown sugar
Camponotus} not to mention the bull-
dog, the mound and the soldier. Poison
baits —11b. sugar, one pint water, *
gramme crystallised tartaric acid, one
gramme bezoate of soda, boiled together
for 30 minutes—will do the trick with
the small black ant and the sugar ant,
with two grammes sodium arsenite (80
p.c. arsenious oxide) mixed in one-tenth
of a pint of hot water and 2|oz. of
honey and stirred well into the sugar
solution when the latter is cool.
The bait should be set in tobacco-tins,
with holes in the sides to let raiders in.
The bulldogs and mound ants need
nest treatment with carbon bisulphide or
calcium cyanide powder. Carbon bisulph.
is poured down the main entrances in
ounce lots. It is highly inflammable, and
must be kept away from lights. Calcium
cyanide gives off deadly hydrocyanic acid
gas. It can be blown into ant holes with
an insect-powder gun. The holes should
then be carefully covered. All these
poisons should be kept in a safe place
well away from children.
Plant Olive-trees.
“The 0.D.”: Consider the olive-tree
as a shelter-belt for stock and a source
of income. It thrives on almost any type
of soil —or terrain, steep hillsides in-
cluded. It is thick and bushy, and, once
established, will live for hundreds of years
with little attention. A hedge of olives
makes a splendid breakwind, and the tree
is so compact that storms won’t damage it.
Mildura (Vic.) has many olive-trees.
There are a few in the Murrumbidgee
irrigation area, but in other parts where
the olive would thrive it is conspicuous by
its absence. It will grow without irriga-
tion, and even survive droughts. Free-
stone olives find a ready market for
pickling, clingstones for oil; they are
profitable because there is no cost of up-
keep. Last year we imported 299,000
gallons of olive oil.
It is a quick grower. Six-year-old trees
at Yanco (N.S.W.) are now seven feet
high and yielding good crops. At Un-
garie, which is a dry district, a small tree
planted on heavy, low-lying soil grew to.
a large size in three years.
When planting olives as a breakwind,
set them 15ft. or 16ft. apart. In a few
years you’ll have excellent protection for
(say) lambing ewes, and will harvest
profitable crops. For shade in paddocks,
plant them in threes in triangle formation
20ft. apart, protect the stems with netting
cages, and leave sufficient room to keep
them mulched. A piece of down-pipe
set upright in the ground beside each


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
jTuTfytJldlz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For the horseman . . .
nothing better!
By all practical tests, this
Abbey Riding Boot remains
unbeaten for everyday use. It
is pliant and resilient, and slips
on with perfect ease. It is
toughly soled and gives extra
wear. • The upper is lined with
soft leather, and has elastic
ankle insets. Wear Abbey
Boots ... it pays in cash and
comfort!
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. When
writing, specify width as well as
size, and order a large tin of Dale’s
English Dubbin, available in black
and tan, at 2/6. This softens the
leather, makes it waterproof and
increases its wearing qualities.
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Estabiished over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC) ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usua
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
FILLS
FASTER
QUICKER! BETTER!
TWO HALF
TURNS ONLY
Here’s an entirely new kind of pen that if
absolutely the ‘ last word ’ —simpler to fill,
and so strong that It cannot go wrong. Try
it for yourself to-day at any good Stationers
or Jewellers.
PRICES: The New LEVERLESS ‘ Swan ’ from
21/-. Other'Swans’ from 15/-. ‘Blackbirds’ from
10/-. ‘Jackdaws’from 6/6-
liable, Todd & Co., (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings,
255 a George Street, SYDNEY.
The LEVERLESS
jSWAN
** REN
MADE IN ENGLAND
► ALWAYS USE SWAM’INK
A.3.3S
THE “ARTILLERY”
LOG-SPLITTING GUN
(Patented).
Revolutionises log-splitting. No boring.
Cuts labor and material down to a
minimum. If your local dealer does not
stock the Gun, write for full particulars
WINGATE & CO., LTD.,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
Manufacturers and Distributing Agents.
IrU-' « ~~
iiswlws
iw 1
E
Bourke Street
Melbourne .
•M THE LATE FORTIES
GOVERNOR LATROBE.
Victoria's First Governor
The first Governor of Victoria was Mr. Charles Joseph Latrobe, who
had been Superintendent of the Port Phillip settlement for many years.
Governor Latrobe's appointment was made by the Imperial Parliament
in August, 1850, when an Act was passed creating Victoria a separate
colony.
In 1851, the Bank of New South Wales, the first Australian Bank,
which had been established in Sydney in 1817, opened its first branch
in Melbourne.
This Bank has always. been identified with the development of
Australia's resources. As settlement extended, the Bank opened
branches throughout the country. It offered complete security for the
people's savings and provided the financial assistance without which
the development of industry and trade would have been greatly
retarded.
The Bank now has over 730 branches throughout Australia, New
Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
The Oldest and Largest Bank in Australasia
Bank of New South Wales Historical Series No. 16. 155A.193S
p
p
p
Kn^s-
w
tree, and filled with water once a week,
will give them a good start.
Of the varieties, Verdale is an excellent
bearer of good-flavored pickling fruit, as
well as a good oil-yielder; it cross-pol-
linates well with Hardy’s Mammoth in
dry districts, the latter a large and early-
maturing variety good for pickling and oil.
Mission, Pleurer, Correggiolo and Her-
bequina, according to the principal of
Dookie Agricultural College (Vic.), are
the best of the lot. Six trees of the Lucca
variety, six years old, yielded five cases
of olives which were sold to local Italians
for £1 a case.
A fair average yield of oil per tree is
two gallons. First-grade oil sells at 16s.
to 20s. a gallon retail. It can thus be
seen that a few olive-trees about the
place would be a profitable proposition
while olive supplies are restricted, as well
as providing shade, windbreaks and
ornamentation.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.L.T.”: Spinifex has its uses. It
can be used to cover fowl runs and cow
ba^s —placed over wire-netting and kept
in place by plain wire ; and it also proves
a welcome thatch for the summer-house
—cooler than wood or iron.
“Mangaratta”: Discarded strippers
can be bought for a song these days, and
make a good substitute bacon-curer for
a few sides. The bacon and hams can
be hung on hooks placed through the
top of the stripper. Use an oil-drum
(with a piece of piping to carry the smoke
to the stripper) for a smoke-box.
“Groper”: Speaking of hardy jum-
bucks, there’s a property out from Car-
narvon (W.A.) where one time rain failed
to fall for over three years. All the wells
either ran dry or became too saline for
use —there weren’t many of them at the
time, anyway—but still the sheep lived
on. A light dew usually fell at night,
and the jumbucks soon learned to get
out just on daybreak and graze on the
still damp saltbush.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What are the symptoms of fodder-poisoning
in horses ? —8508.
There are two forms, acute and chronic.
In the acute form the animal becomes dull and
listless and goes off its feed. There may be
a discharge from the nostrils and excessive
salivation. Muscular twitching and patchy
sweating may be noticed. The tongue may
also hang from the mouth and turn purplish
as the disease advances. Death usually takes
place in from two to live days. In the chronic
form, there is gradual emaciation in spite of
treatment, and the animal steadily weakens and
dies. Sometimes it will linger for six months.
* * * *
How to poison wallabies ? —8212.
Try powdered strychnine—about as much
as can be taken on the point of a small pen-
knife—in lin. sweet potato cubes, or corn
soaked in a solution of strychnine in vinegar.
Care should be. taken to gather all baits that
have not been taken overnight.
* * * *
Value of felspar as (1) grit for poultry and
(2) fertiliser ? —8725.
(1) Felspar is practically valueless as poultry
grit. It is not likely to be readily eaten by
poultry. (2) There are several felspars, some
of which —albite, anorthite and oligoclase—
have no value as fertilisers. Potash felspar, or
orthorclase, contains 12 p.c. to 15 p.c. potash,
and when finely powdered has a limited value
as potash fertiliser. It has been used as such
in some countries, but field results show that
its value as a source of potash under ordinary
conditions is extremely low. It is not on the
market as a fertiliser.
* * * *
Is it possible to cultivate silkworms in Vic-
toria for profit ? —8709.
It is not thought possible. Prolonged
attempts by the Sericulture Association failed.
* * * *
What is curbyhock in a horse —the cause and
cure (if any ) ? Is it likely to appear on a horse
at a moment’s notice ? Is there any way by
which it can be detected ? —8708.
“Curb” is. a swelling which occurs about a
handbreadth below the point of the hock,
due to sprain and local thickening of the cal-
caneocuboid ligament, or to similar conditions
affecting the superficial flexor tendon; or even
to a bony deposit upon the head of the lateral
small metatarsal bone. There is no one cause
for curb. Any strain upon the ligaments and
tissues supporting the hock may give rise to
a thickening or swelling. Treatment consists
of rest, fitting calkin shoes to ease the back
ligaments, and in some cases the application
of a mild blister. If possible, consult a vet.
* * * *
(1) Any peculiarities attached to the incu-
bation of hen eggs at an altitude of 750 ft. ?
(2) What is the correct percentage of moisture
to use at that altitude (mountain climate ) ?
(3) How can that percentage be controlled with
a moisture gauge ? (4) Any instructions avail-
able for Prairie State Incubator {hot-air type)
in relation to temperature, cooling and mois-
ture ? —8738. .
(1) The eggs should be incubated with the
same treatment as in lower altitudes. (2) The
humidity with the temperature at 103 deg.
should be about 63 p.c. (2) Humidity can
be controlled by placing damp sand or water
trays in the machine. The amount of moisture
required is largely governed by the amount
of ventilation provided in the machine and
the evenness of temperature within the incu-
bator-room, as well as climatic conditions.
(4) The Prairie State is not on the market at
present, but the treatment the eggs should re-
ceive is the same as with other hot-air incu-
bators. The N.S.W. Agriculture Department
can supply general information.
* * -i *
A recipe to remove scale from navel oranges
without injuring the skin ? —8767.
The only method, which is sometimes
adopted in packing-houses, is to brush the
scale off with a brush in which the bristles
are not too hard to injure the skin. The tree
should be sprayed or fumigated next season,
so that the scale will not spread to the fruit.
* * * ♦
What is a hogget? —B7l4.
A hogget is a sheep of either sex up to two-
tooth which has not been shorn as a lamb.
$ * * *
(1) What is the best tractor for tank-sinking ?
(2) Are there any super-Diesel tractors of cater-
pillar type? (3) What do they cost? (4)
The name and address of Brisbane agents ?
(5) The cost per yard of a 3000 -yard tank ex-
cavated with a super-Diesel tractor, using a one-
yard Gaston scoop, compared with other
tractors ? (6) What horse-power would be re-
quired in a tractor to sink a tank using a
Gaston one-yard scoop and a Mitchell dam-
sinking plough ? (7) Are super-Diesel tractors
equipped with a pulley so that they can be
used as a stationary engine? —B7lß.
(1) The track or caterpillar type. (2) Yes,
but they arc big—far beyond the needs of a
damsinker. (3) A Diesel-engined caterpillar
tractor costs about £I2OO. A 20-h.p. kerosene
caterpillar tractor costs about £6OO. (4) They
are obtainable from the international Harvester
Cos., Roma-street, Brisbane, or from Waugh
and Josephson, Melbourne-street, S. Brisbane.
(5) Can’t 6ay. (6) A 20-h.p. kerosene tractor
has ample power for this work. (7) Pulleys
can be fitted to caterpillar tractors, but they
are not usually supplied as standard equipment.
* * # *
Is there any land in Queensland specially
reserved for selection by returned soldiers, and
do returned soldiers taking up land receive any
special financial assistance ? Ordinary method
of obtaining financial assistance from the Gov-
ernment for agricultural purposes ? —7665.
There is no land now specially reserved, nor
are any advances being made to returned
soldiers under the Discharged Soldiers’ Settle-
ment Acts. Returned soldiers who wish to
select land in Queensland must compete on the
same footing, as other applicants at the ballots.
A returned soldier who secures a block of land
may make application to the Agricultural Bank
for an advance under the Agricultural Bank
Act to improve and stock the land and pur-
chase implements. There is also provision in
the Agricultural Bank Act for the making of
advances to enable the applicant to pay off
any liabilities or the balance of any purchase
money owing on the land. The bank or the I
nearest agricultural inspector will give full in- j
formation.
$ $
Suitable type of fence to enclose paddock
occupied by pigs ? —B7OO.
The larger the paddock provided for pigs
the less substantial need the fence be. Where
timber is not available, the best fence is that
of woven wire pig-netting such as Ring-Knot.
Where labor is not important, a cheaper fence
can be made of seven barbed wires spaced on
the ground, and from 3in. to lOin. apart,
making a total height of about 30in. The wires !
should be put through the posts and provision j
made for frequent straining. Six posts to the j
chain with one dropper between posts is usually
enough.
* * * *
(1) How can I make arsenic soluble ? (2)
Formula to keep arsenic in dry powder form ?
—8697.
(1) If lib. of dry powdered commercial
arsenic is intimately mixed with £lb. caustic 1
soda and this mixture added slowly with stir-
ring to eight pints water the heat generated ,
with this mixture will generally dissolve it, but,
if the arsenic is found to be still undissolved,
heat to boiling-point. This mixture cannot be
kept dry, as the caustic soda absorbs moisture.
(2) The following may be kept dry; 11b.
arsenic mixed intimately with 11b. sodium car-
bonate. This mixture will need continuous
boiling until the arsenic is dissolved. The
operator must avoid inhaling the vapors wher
these mixtures are being boiled.
* * # *
A simple and humane method of dehornin'
cattle ? —8703.
This is Queensland official advice: “The
simplest and most humane way is to prevent
the horns from developing when the animals are
young. This may be done by the use of stick
caustic potash, which rapidly destroys the skin
and other tissues when kept in contact with
them. The hair is clipped away from the
young horn. The stick of potash is rolled in;
a piece of paper, with one end exposed. The
exposed end is moistened slightly and rubbed l
on the embryo horn for a few seconds, or.
until the skin begins to start, care being taker
that the whole of the border is treated. A
surface about |in. diameter will cover the
parts in calves a few days old. The best time
to apply the potash is when calves are five tc
ten days old, although it has proved effectua
even on the 18th day. With older animals. :
dehorning instrument must be used.”


The New SIMONIZ KIEENER RESTORES
Gar Beauty Quickly and Easily
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J, Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bans offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Lady (38), N.S.W., desires position in gen-
tleman’s home, sole care of children or light
duties. Good references. —8683.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
requires typing work; used to manuscripts,
neat and accurate. —8760.
Incapacitated Digger, taking up woodcarying
as a hobby, wants tp buy or borrow designs
for carving (not chip); also books on the
subject.—B7s2.
Old-age pensioner, N.S.W., watchmaker,
wants a home in exchange for services at his
trade. (No small work.) Refs. —8735.
Words of recitation “It Is All in the State of
the Mind.” —8748.
To buy second-hand copy, good condition,
Mining Engineering Handbook, by Peele.
8730.
To buy copy of Bulletin, April 16, 1925.
—8702.-
Information Sought.
(1) Is it true, as represented in the film “The
Mighty Barman,” that Jenny Lind went to
the United States under engagement to the
circus showman ? (2) Was she at the height
of her fame when she went to America ? (3)
What is her relative standing among the great
singers of tradition ? —8682.
(1) Quite true, and it is also true that her
engagement with Barnum didn’t last long and
she stayed on for several months under other
managements. (2) She had'made a “positively
last appearance on any stage” (in “Robert le
Diable,” in London, May 18, 1849), and then
changed her mind and accepted engagements
in oratorio and for song recitals. But she was
only 30, and some of her greatest vocal achieve-
ments (notably the “Bird Song” in Haydn’s
“Creation”) belong to the year before she
crossed the Atlantic. (3) She had what Mos-
cheles, Chorley, Julian Marshall and other
highly-qualified contemporary critics refer to
as a “unique” voice. It was a soprano of
a particularly bright, thrilling and sympathetic
quality, and, according to accounts, her mastery
of ornament was extraordinary. She invented
most of her own' cadenzas, and her admirers
say that no other singer has been able to
sing them as effectively.
* * * *
Where and when was the first savings bank
instituted, and who originated the idea? —8751.
Daniel Defoe was the first to suggest the
savings-bank idea, and in 1797 Jeremy Ben-
tham revived his suggestion —he called them
“frugality banks.” The earliest were estab-
lished on the Continent —at Brunswick in 1765.
By the end of the eighteenth century there
were many in France and Germany.
The Rev. Henry Duncan, D.D., in May,
1810, established in a small cottage in Ruth-
well, Dumfriesshire, Scotland, the first bank
to accept small deposits and pay cumulative
interest thereon. Duncan was the parish
minister, and had noted the need of such an
institution as an encouragement to thrift. Eng-
lish claimants for the honor are the Rev.
Joseph Smith, who in 1799 started a bank for
the benefit of small depositors at Wendover,
and Mrs. Priscilla Wakeman, who in 1799 per-
formed a similar service for Tottenham, but
neither of these could be said to resemble the
modern savings bank, as the money could not
be withdrawn at will nor was interest paid.
* * * *
(1) Cost of a trip from Sydney to Perth by
rail ? (2) Perth to Darwin by steamer ? (3)
Darwin to Adelaide by air ? (4) Best time of
the year to make the trip ? (5) Time taken?
—8538.
(1) First-class single, £l3 45.; second-class
single, £8 16s. In addition it is compulsory
to occupy sleeping berths and have meals pro-
vided between Port Augusta and Perth, the cost
of which is £3 12s. first-class and £2 Bs. 6d.
second-class. (2) Approximately £l5. (3) £25, ex-
clusive of meals and accommodation at places
where stops are made at night. (4) May to
July. (5) Sydney to Perth, five days; Perth
to Darwin, 11 days; Darwin to Adelaide, three
days.
* * * *
(1) How was the artificial harbor at Port
Kemhla constructed ? (2) Is the Hume Reser-
voir completed? —Bs7l.
(1) Port Kembla’s northern and eastern break-
waters are made of large stones, ranging up to
40 tons in weight, tipped in position. The top
of the breakwater is covered with concrete
at exposed positions. The eastern breakwater,
which is well advanced, is still under construc-
tion. Four jetties for the accommodation of
shipping lie within the protected area, and
railway lines from these jetties connect with
the railway systems of N.S.W. (2) Hume
Reservoir is completed to the present approved
capacity of 1 \ million acre feet.
* * * *
Who were the captains of the Cutty Sark,
and what was the length of service of each ?
—8562.
When she left England on her maiden voyage
in February, 1870, she was skippered by
Moodie, who relinquished the command in
December, 1872; he was succeeded by
F. W. Moore, 1872 to 1873; Tiptaft, 1873
until his death in 1878; Wallace, 1878 until
1880 (he disappeared overboard); Bruce, 1880
to 1882; E. Moore, 1882 to 1885; and Wood-
get, 1885 to 1895. This year saw the last of
her famous voyages, and she changed hands,
finally passing into the possession of Portu-
guese owners. Some years ago she was again
brought under the British flag, being purchased
by a lover of fine ships.
* * * *
(1) What ship did the Prince of Wales travel
in when he visited Australia ? (2) What ships
comprised the Special Service Squadron, and
what year did it come out here ? (3) In what
ship did the Duke and Duchess of York travel
on their Australian tour ? —7895.
(1) H.M.S. Renown. (2) The Special Ser-
vice Squadron, consisting of the Hood (flag-
ship), Repulse, and light cruisers Delhi, Daunt-
less, Danae and Dragon, left England on
November 29, 1923, being later joined at sea
by the Dunedin, and reached Fremantle 93
days later. (3) The Duke and Duchess of
York also travelled on the Renown on their
visit to Australia in 1927.
* * * *
Is a marriage between a widower and his
late wife’s illegitimate daughter legal in
Queensland ? —8540.
No. In 1563 the Anglican Church drew up
a table of “kindred and affinity” forbidding
certain persons to marry. This list was
embodied in a Marriage Act of William IV.
which is in force in Queensland and the other
Australian States, with the one exception
that a marriage between a widower and his de-
ceased wife’s sister is now permissible. The
specific prohibition in the case you refer to is:
“A man may not marry his wife’s daughter.”
Such a marriage could be set aside on the
ground of nullity.
* * * *
How are (1) spondylitis and (2) osteo ar-
thritis caused, and treatment ? —8387.
(1) It is a vertebral inflammation. In chronic
cases, especially in the aged, a general rheu-
matic arthritis develops which is most resistant
to treatment. Although the backbone presents
the most striking evidence of disease in bony
vertebral outgrowths, there is usually some
degree of change in other bones and joints.
In the early stages, both active and passive
massage, with vapor , and spray baths, may be
advised. Diathermy is also of value. lodine
in assimilable form is a useful internal remedy.
(2) Medical name for a chronic rheumatism
of the joints. It is a non-specific infective
arthritis, closely related to rheumatoid type.
Treatment involves hot foments and vapor
baths, gentle frictional massage and the in-
junction of dugong oil daily.
* * * *
My child, two years, is suffering from hives.
Heating foods and beverages have been dis-
continued. Any other treatment ?— B5BB.
With either child or adult the cause must
be remedied before local treatment is effective.
In young children, the trouble may complicate
with skin troubles as scabies or eczema, and
threadworms are a factor to be considered.
Scratching of affected parts initiates a nervous
reflex from which the secondary condition de-
velops. A simple, non-heating diet is essen-
tial. Milk of magnesia is a useful antacid
aperient.
* * * *
Details concerning the awarding of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Veterinary Science Fel-
lowship ?— 8452.
The object of the Fellowship is to promote
original research into veterinary problems of
economic interest to Australia, and the Fellow-
ship is awarded annually to a graduate in
veterinary science in Sydney Uni. The annual
•value of the Fellowship is £3OO, plus an allow-
ance not exceeding £2OO to provide cost of
material, apparatus and other expenses
approved by the Dean of the Faculty of Veteri-
nary Science. The Fellow is required to give
his full time to the work he has been appointed
to carry out, and is eligible for reappointment
from year to year.
* * * %
(1) When should poinsettia shrubs be pruned?
(2) How should cuttings be propagated ? —8386.
(1) Poinsettias should be pruned as soon as
possible—before the sap starts to move. Cut
last year’s seasoned wood back to about four
lateral points. (2) Lay cuttings in the sun for
three days and then plant. In heavy soils place
a handful of sand at the base of the cuttings
to assist quick root-growth. These young
shrubs can be placed in the open garden next
autumn.
* * * *
(1) What ways are there to do home enlarg-
ing? (2) What apparatus is required? (3)
Appropriate cost of apparatus ? —8526.
(1) Enlarging can be done either by electric
light or daylight. (2) The apparatus required is
an enlarger of suitable construction for the
particular type of light to be used. (3) Any
large photographic firm would be pleased to
forward you catalogues giving details and prices
of various types of enlargers. There is also
a number of textbooks which give details of
how to build an enlarger.
* * * *
/ wish to stain a new cypress floor, smooth
and even. What is the process, and should I
wash it first ? —8628.
Do not use water in cleaning the floor, as
it will darken the timber. Stain with any
of the good oil-stains on the market, and then
apply two coats of a floor varnish. Allow 24
hours between coats. A cheaper method
is to use an oil-varnish stain. Two or three
coats will give a good wearing finish.
Method of waxing paper roses? —8423.
Hot melted wax is sprayed over the flowers
through a special sprayer. The wax cools very
quickly, and the work is almost beyond the
scope of the amateur without tools, because
of the difficulty of keeping the wax hot during
the work. You may obtain some success by
melting the wax in a rather deep basin, keeping
it fluid over heat or hot water, and dipping
the roses in it; twirl them round once quickly,
shake off the surplus wax, and touch the
petals into position again.
* * * *
(1) Can rustless steel be rolled into thin sheets
for spinning ? (2) Names of metal spinners
and firms handling rustless steel in Sydney ?
(3) Is the manufacture of rustless steel costly ?
(4) What metal could be used as a substitute ?
—8430.
(1) Yes. (2) Holder-Stroud, Ltd., 472 Kent-
street, and Malley’s, Ltd., 50 Mountain-street,
are spinners. W. Adams and Co., 175 Clar-
ence-street, handle the raw metal. (3) Yes;
suitable for spinning, it costs approximately
2s. Bd. per lb. (4) Monel metal, obtainable
from Wright and Co., 81 Clarence-street.
* * * *
(1) Where in Brisbane can I buy materials
for making fibro-plaster sheets ? (2) Approxi-
mate cost of sheet of glass for bench 3ft. wide
by 6 ft. long ? (3) What kind of grease is used
for smearing the glass ? (4) Would it be cheaper
to make asbestos cement sheets by hand ? (5)
How made ? (6) Materials used ? (7) Where
obtainable ? —8241.
(1) and (7) Consult Brisbane Chamber of
Commerce. (2) Approximate cost of plate
glass, thick, 575. (3) Generally none at all.
(4) The best sheets are made by machinery, in
view of the high pressures required. (5) and
(6) Asbestos (which may be only medium
grade) is dried, teased into fibres, and then
mixed with Portland cement, roughly in the
proportion of 1 to 10. Water is then added to
the mixture and the whole agitated. It is then
fed to rolls and a travelling belt, and spread
in a thin layer to a steel collecting drum. Slabs
are stripped off the latter periodically, their
edges being trimmed; they are then put in a
hydraulic press, where they are pressed between
thin steel plates. The sheets are dried for a
a fairly lengthy period.
* * * «
Particulars of a transparent paint suitable
for glass, etc. ? —8328.
Shellac varnish, made with bleached shellac,
can be tinted with any of the various aniline
dyes. The glass should first be warmed, if
possible, and the powdered dyes used. If
required to coat the whole of the glass, pour
on the colored varnish, allowing it to
flow over the entire surface by gentle tilting,
and then drain it off at a corner. This method
will give better results than will a brush.
* * * *
(1) Is the fixative used for treating char-
coal drawings applicable to pastels ? (2) If so,
formula for preparation and means of appli-
cation ? (3) Is the preparation waterproof ?
(4) Is clear lacquer or duco suitable? —7011.
(1) Yes, but use very sparingly, as it is
inclined to dull the color. (2) Apply with a
spray sold for the purpose. A good fixative
is made by adding 3ioz. of isinglass to 2soz.
of distilled vinegar. Leave for 24 hours, and
then add one pint of hot water —not boiling—
and keep the liquid hot until the isinglass
is dissolved. Filter the resultant fluid through
clean white blotting paper, and add an equal
quantity of rectified spirits of wine. Store in
stoppered bottles. To use, the drawing should
be suspended by the four corners with the
pastel surface downwards, care being taken
that the surface is not allowed to touch any-
thing. The fixative is then painted over the
back of the drawing with a very soft, flat
camel-hair brush, sufficient being used to pene-
trate the substance of the paper. Keep the flow
of fixative very even; if more is applied to one
spot than another the surface will show stains.
Give the back of the work two applications of
fixative, and then pin up in a safe place to dry.
If the works are valuable, have them framed
under glass and bound passe-partout style,
using no fixative. (3) and (4) No.
* * * *
Recipe for white liniment ? —8350.
Acetic acid l|oz., oil of turpentine Boz., yolk
and white of egg 2 fl. oz., distilled water B|oz.
Triturate the egg mixture in a mortar, and
gradually add the acetic acid, diluted with 4 fl.
oz. of the water. Then add the remainder of the
water; strain through muslin into a suitable
bottle, and finally add the turpentine. Shake
well for five minutes.
'** * *
Some details of the encounter between
French ships and an English ship commanded
by John Shortland, who had been master’s
mate aboard H.M.S. Sirius ? —B7BO.
Shortland was given command of the Junon,
a French 40-gun frigate which had been cap-
tured in February, 1809, near Halifax, in Nova
Scotia, and spent £l5OO of his own money to
fit her out. In December, 1809, the Junon,
under his command, fought four French
frigates, mounting altogether 120 guns and
carrying 1400 men. In a fight that lasted 75
minutes half Shortland’s men were killed and
he was severely wounded. The Junon was so
damaged that she had to be burnt next morn-
ing. Shortland was carried by the French
to Guadeloupe, where he died in the military
hospital on January 21, 1810. He was buried
with military honors at Basseterre.
* * * *
Who was St. Winifred, what was the manner
of her death, and what is her day? —B6l2.
St. Winifred, or Winefride (Welsh Gwen-
freur), was, according to the story, a noble
British maiden who lived in the seventh cen-
tury, and was beheaded by Caradoc, son .of
King Alan, because she refused to marry him.
The head rolled down a hill, and where it
eventually rested a spring, later known as St.
Winefride’s Well, gushed forth. The spring,
located at Holywell, Flintshire, North Wales,
later became famous as a place of pilgrimage.
The chapel over the well is said to have been
built by Margaret, mother of Henry VII. In
1876 the locality was leased by the Duke of
Westminster to the corporation of Holywell on
a thousand years’ term, the council later
leasing it to the R.C. Church. , St. Winifred’s
Day is commemorated on November 5.
Brief Answers.
J.S.: The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act
provides that income, including all pensions,
must not exceed £79 6s. p.a. You may re-
ceive both old-age and war pensions, provided
your total income does not exceed the figure
mentioned. In the case of husband and wife,
except where they are living apart pursuant to
any decree, order or judgment, the income or
each is deemed to be possessed by both in equal
shares....W.F.K.: The most suitable mixture
of cement to sand would depend on the sand
used, and should be a matter for experiment,
generally about one part cement to three
sand. Write the Australian Cement Manufac-
turers’ Association, Sydney, giving full details
of sand proposed to be used; say whether wall
or roofing tiles are meant, and exactly what
is referred to as shingles... .8.M.8.: Cannot
say. Inquiry should be made at the various
hospitals in the different centres N.M.P.:
Write Under-Secretary, Department of the
Interior, Canberra, F.C.T T. 8.: (1) The
lineage rates laid down by agreement with the
Australian Journalists’ Association. (2) The
term was meant to express that the League
of Nations had ceased to be an instrument of
peace C.R.0.: Write Department of Agri-
culture, Wellington, M.L D.L.: Write
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., 108 Flinders-
street, Melbourne J.R.D.: Full particulars
from E. J. Reid, Veterinary Inspector, Depart-
ment of Commerce, Brisbane V.R.C.: (1)
Area of rice in Queensland is very small. (2)
Practically the whole of Australia’s require-
ments are supplied from the Murrumbidgee
irrigation area, and only about 20001 b. of
paddy rice is imported annually. The total
production of rice in the irrigation areas is
over 30,000 tons p.a. (3) From India
T.R.: From Bailliere, Tindall and Cox, 7 and
8 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London,
W.C.2 A.P.M.D.: (1) Stinkwort is an intro-
duced plant; it comes from Mediterranean
regions. (2) Accidentally J.F.: Suggest The
Australian Encyclopcedia. A second-hand set
can be obtained for you for 30s C.A.8.:
All large stores which sell linoleums supply a
special bituminous paint for sticking linoleums
and dampcourses to cement floors; price,
about Bs. a gallon. It is cheaper than attempt-
ing to make an adhesive yourself... .J.H.R.:
The amounts of tax payable on the income
as stated are: Federal income tax, £658 9s. 4d.;
N.S.W. State income tax, £257 13s. 3d.; and
N.S.W. special income tax, £ll4 3s. 4d
D.J.: Louisiana, 48,506 sq. miles; population,
2,101,593 —776,326 negroes... .L.A.: Persons
engaged in farm and station work are excluded
from the provisions of the N.S.W. Industrial
Arbitration Act, 1912, but some rural occupa-
tions are covered by Federal awards, and in-
quiries in this regard might be made of the
Deputy-Registrar, Courthouse, Darlinghurst.
If there is no award, either Federal or State,
applying to the industry, the rates of pay and
other conditions of employment are a matter
for agreement between employer and em-
ployee H.R.C.: Write secretary. Hairdressers
and Wigmakers’ Employees’ Union, Room 80,
Trades Hall, Sydney T.T.H.: As the grant
of a patent confers on the patentee the ex-
clusive right to make, use and vend the
patented invention, the answer to both ques-
tions is yes H.M.: The general public is
not allowed in any circumstances to keep
monkeys in Australia. Such animals may be
kept only by Zoological Gardens and recog-
nised circuses W.J.T.: Sex and a Changing
Civilisation, by Kenneth Walker (ss. 3d.)
W.M.: The Dionne quintuplets were born on
May 28, 1934, to Mr. and Mrs. Ovila Dionne,
who live near Callander, Northern Ontario,
Canada. The names of the five little girls are
Yvonne, Annette, Cecile, Emile and Marie
T.M.: Your arithmetic is correct, but you
haven’t established the manner in which such
a computation could arise J.T.: Make a
mixture of waterglass and fine graphite to the
consistency of very smooth paste; for each
pound of this paste, add loz. glycerine and a
few grains of aniline black. Apply to the
stove with a stiff brush and let dry T.H.:
Write A. A. Bloom, 84 Pitt-street, Sydney....
T.M.: Josef Drahonovsky is a professor at the
School of Industrial Art at Prague, and dis-
tinguished for his work in raising the standard
of ornament on crystal glass. (2) Glyptics
are engravings on either crystal glass or
precious and semi-precious stones E.R.1.:
Wood Sculpture, by A. Maskell, and The
Mediceval Carver, by M. D. Anderson. (2)
Penfolds, 88 Pitt-street, Sydney... .G.N.:
Minor epilepsy is manifested by attacks of
vertigo, the consciousness being preserved, or
by passing absent-mindedness, as in your case.
Either form is associated with slight convulsive
phenomena followed by coma, or mental con-
fusion of short duration. Unless the attacks
occur very frequently, the mental functions- are
not, as a rule, definitely injured by epilepsy of
this type. Treatment under medical supervision
is essential. Meanwhile, take simple foods,
moderate outdoor exercise and frequent
aperient salines. Alcohol and tobacco should
be interdicted; curtail red meats, cotfee, strong
tea, etc K.M.D.: With expert treatment
tattoo marks yield to the application of tannic-
acid solution (concentrated) in conjunction with
local caustics. X-ray, radium, etc., may be
employed by a specialist; in either case result-
ing skin exfoliation brings about the desired
result. Inquire Brisbane General Hospital
(skin department) J.N.: Write Under-Secre-
tary, Department of Agriculture, Brisbane
A.C.: Thomas Joseph Byrnes was the first
native-born Premier of Queensland; he died
while in office on September 27, 1898, after a
Premiership of only nine months J.W.M.:
Quotation reads: “And the earth opened her
mouth, and then swallowed them up, and their
houses, and all the men that appertained unto
Korah, and all their goods.” It is from
Numbers xvi, 32 G. 8.: If the resident
is yourself, the information may be obtainable
by application to the Department of Taxation.
The department will not supply the informa-
tion if it is another person... .R.P.W.: In-
quiries should be addressed to the officer-in-
charge of police at Broken Hill G.L.:
Write Department of Agriculture, Sydney, for
pamphlet “Mushroom Culture”... .G. 8.: Write
Swords Club, 279 George-street, Sydney
(Many others mailed.)


SMOKE-OH!
Italy’s Twin Dictators —Doctor Musso
and Mr. Lini.
Return of the Native.
Dave was settling down in the carriage
for the long trip back to the bush. As
the train pulled out he turned to the
other occupant of the compartment.
“Them cities,” he announced. “They
fair get my goat.”
“Bush?” inquired his companion,
“You bet I’m bush, and going to stay
there for the rest of my life. Wish I’d
never left it. I’m fair aching for a sight
of the old homestead again. Can’t think
why I ever came away. Silliest thing
I ever done.”
“I suppose you’ll be glad when we
come into your old district.”
“Glad? You bet I will be. I’ll just
stand up and sing and throw me hat on
the rails.”
“Been away long?”
“By cripes I have! All through this
blasted railway service. When I got
down to the city I found there wasn’t
another blinking train back for five
days.”
lan M.
A
“One mendicant left his ‘blind’ sign in a
tram; another’s collection-box was found in a
tram shed, and a third left his case of shoe
laces in a hotel.” —Sydney paper.
Absent-minded beggars.'
“Do you love me, Johnny?"
“ Darling, you take my breath away!"
“Wouldn’t Henry the Eighth be astounded
if he could wake up and see a car start by
simply pressing his foot on a button for a
couple of seconds?” —Motor note.
And wouldn’t many present-day
motorists?
Life’s Painful Expressions.
“Time, gents., please.”
“....seven, eight, nine, out!”
“If elected, I promise”
“You must give up alcohol.”
“Next item is a saxophone solo.”
“It’s twin girls.”
0. W. W.
Making Our Railways Pay.
II. — Changing the Administration.
There are two phases to be considered
under this heading. (1) Getting rid of
the old. (2) Installing the new.
In my businesslike manner of dealing
with first things first 1 shall explain how
and why I intend to dispose of the old
administration before I explain the in-
stallation of the new. . .
I shall dismiss all the Commissioners.
It doesn’t matter whether they are good
commissioners or not. They’ve got to
go. Anyhow, taking them all round they
can’t be much chop. •
Our railways have been run by com-
missioners for years. They’ve been piling
up deficits for years. We want to get
rid of those deficits. Even Euclid, as
old-fashioned as he appears nowadays,
could supply the answer. He
lays down the axiom that
“Things which are not equal to
one thing are not equal to any
other.”
Applying this principle to the
case in point we clearly see that
the commissioners must go.
Mind you, there is to be no
ill-feeling about it. I have no-
thing against the commissioners.
They’ve doubtless done their job
quite well, but their job appar-
ently has been to show deficits,
and we don’t want deficits.
Secondly, I shall dismiss the
accounting and costing staff.
These, I understand, are capable and
hard-working men. For years past they
have been keeping faithful records, and
can tell us in a moment to the exact
penny the deficit for any year we like
to mention. Their job, however, is now
completed. As there are to be no more
deficits we shall have no further use for
their services.
Then there is the rest of the clerical
staff to be considered. A large propor-
tion of them is engaged in preparing
timetables.
These men rhust go.
My trains aren’t going to run to time-
tables. They hamper operations too
much. Under my system, when a train
is ready off it will go, and no funny
business. '
Statistics show that the average train
spends 40 p.c. of its time loitering around
platforms waiting for passengers. I’m
not going to pay expert engine-drivers
and firemen good money simply for
watching the moving panorama of life
on a railway platform. No! They’ll
have to be driving or firing, or I’ll want
to know the reason why. If they want
to do the other
thing, then let ’’em
come along out
of working hours
and do it.
So, then, away
with timetables!
“But,” you may
say, “how will
people be able to
catch trains with-
out timetables?”
A natural ques-
tion, and quite a
fair one.
No doubt some
people will miss
some of my trains
through not hav-
ing a timetable,
but when you
think of the
number of times
you have missed
a train through
stopping to con-
sult a timetable
you will realise
that the argument
isn’t all one-sided.
The very aboli-
tion of the time-
table will make
for efficiency. At
present in the
natural order of
things some trains must at times be
behind schedule. It is impossible to get
100 p.c. efficiency with any schedule.
Abolish your schedule and no train
can possibly be late.
In other words, 100 p.c. efficiency is
achieved at once.
Jasby.
****** *l*
“In an industrial case a leader of an or-
chestra said that a saxophone player told him
he liked working and did not want time off.”
Most of us would rather see a saxo-
phone player work than play.
“Before the meeting at which the strike was
decided upon there were rumors of rouble.”
— “Sun.”
More Russian money?
4* 4* ‘ 4*
Humane Mosquito Extinction.
The idea of strangling mosquitoes with
the bare hands (B. 18/9/’35) is abhorrent
to me. I use a riding crop. Firstly,
I lasso the mosquito with the wrist loop,
always taking care not to loop it too
tightly. Secondly, I take it gently by
both wings, release it and place it inside
the small piece of doubled strap on the
other end of the crop. Thirdly, J im-
merse this end of the crop in whisky.
This method, apart from conferring
on the mosquito the inestimable boon of
dying whilst in an intoxicated condition,
imparts a certain extra “sting” to the
whisky.
R. T. A.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Incredible Story.
Everyone knows the sad fate of Polo-
nius Penwiper, brilliant editor of the
Greatest Daily. He committed suicide
by diving head first from his magnificent
office desk on a razor-blade in his waste-
paper basket, having first tacked his
obituary notice to the sole of his left
boot.
The reason has remained a mystery
until now. Only the office staff knew the
omission that meant for him inevitable
ruin and disgrace. In the previous
edition of the Greatest Daily there was
no map of Abyssinia.
Cap’n Bells.
'Flu Fantasia.
I’ve got the ’flu. You know the symp-
toms —a swollen head, aching joints and
a bottle of rum. A wink jars every bone
in the body. I crept to bed: a strong
man brought low. A germ the cause of
it all? An army of germs, under a
master tactician whom I shall call O.C.
germs.
For twenty-four hours I have studied
their modus operandi. The feathers
in the pillow are exchanged for
road metal, and the bed filled with in-
flated footballs. Once on this and you
envy the fakir on his bed of spikes.
However, a start is made on the hot
rum. You don’t like rum, of course, but
you persuade yourself it will do you good,
and after forcing down half a bottle you
feel easier. The germs like rum. O.C.
germs broadcasts “Calling all germs.
Calling all germs. Hot rum coming
down. Suspend attack.” You feel
drowsy, and decide on another rum —
and then another. Why, you feel you
could sleep. O.C. germs feels that way,
too, and addressing his troops says:
“Boys, tha’s goo’ rum. We’ll let him
have a night’s rest.”
You wake at 3 a.m. Germs have
started a grand offensive in your head.
Behind each eye is a bloke with pneu-
matic drill. A big hammer-and-gad
squad working up in the dome. Half a
dozen with rasps sawing at your throat.
One with a wire brush behind your nose,
whilst the rigging gang have handy bil-
lies and Spanish windlasses at every
joint and muscle. You reach for a drink.
O.C. yells “Look out, boys, he’s mov-
ing his arm. Hey! Charlie, Bill, drive a
few dogspikes in that shoulder and
elbow! A few of you get round his
knees and hips with some molten lead—
he might want to turn over.” Cripes,
no more rum. Think you’ll try a smoke.
O.C. germs unable to contain his mirth.
“Haw, haw, haw! Here, where’s that sul-
phuretted hydrogen? That’s it. Pump
away. All round his throat and mouth.”
Cigarette has queer taste, so you
throw it away and cough. This is a
signal for O.C. to let loose a large tank
at full throttle around your head. You
decide to slgep awhile, but your tor-
mentor prevents that. Closing your eye-
lids gingerly, you hear, above the clamor
of the rabble within, the incessant cry of
“More rum, more rum.”
Petitor.
•I* -I* 4* *l*
“She fined her husband ss. every time he
came home late.” — Woman’s paper.
Late income tax.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘We should sell our surplus lemons to Italy,’
says a newspaper.”
Fancy handing Mussolini a lemon!
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Anomaly.
I gazed at my neighbor Blabsworth
and then at his radio. 1 tried to say
something, but could only utter a gasp of
surprise. Never before had amazement
rendered me so powerless.
No, he had not tuned-in to some mys-
terious station on a distant planet; nor
was he picking up vital news from the
Abyssinian front. In fact, my astonish-
ment had nothing to do with the pro-
gramme at all.
It was due to the fact that Blabsworth,
whom I have always regarded as quite
a normal resident of our suburb, had
just told me —and Blabsworth never lies
—that he had not, actually had not,
bought his radio on t.p.!
Nat.
A Gentle Hint.
Between ourselves, dear, I’d be blind
If I could not with ease divine
And gather that you wouldn’t mind
Exchanging your last name for mine.
Yet, when proposal’s on the tip
Of my reluctant tongue, 1 stall —
That’s why you offer me a nip
Of Scotch and soda when I call.
But though one helps me, I suppose.
My self-assurance to restore,
You won’t entice me to propose
Until you give me three or four!
P. O. M. C.
Grievances Aired.
“A weighing machine at Coogee picks up
broadcasts from 2BL quite distinctly.”— -“Sun.”
Now, it would be news if 2BL were to
pick up a broadcast from the long-
suffering machine:
“....Here comes the champion opti-
mist. Beef to the ankles and chasing a
svelte figure. If she keeps up these daily
weighings I’ll be a cot-case with a busted
spring. Looks as if the six meals a day
have got the slimming dope she’s taking
beaten hollow. Well, not exactly hollow.
Whoosh! Cripes, she lands hard! Hear
that stertorous breathing, listeners? And
me rattling like a skeleton on a galvan-
ised-iron roof? Gosh! she’s wild! 1
can see by the way she’s glaring into my
dial. Ah! that’s better. She’s off now.
“There’s an inoffensive-looking chap
on the kerb —husband, of course. Poor
cow has to come with her every day.
I’ll swear he just looked at me with com-
passion when she heaved herself up on
the platform. ...
“Excuse me, could you tell me where those steps lead to?”
“Well, here’s a better change. Bony
Mary, of the Argyle Flats. Long, angu-
lar, and seven stone two. Been that for
years. See her come out of the chemist’s
over the road regularly every week. Get-
ting some stuff to try to put on weight,
I suppose. Hopeless! Yes, I thought so
—still seven-two ; shade under, in fact.
Stiff luck. Mary. See you next week.
“Hullo! ’Struth! I’m in for it now.
Here’s Blotto getting off the tram.
Sprung again. Stale whisky and staler
frankfurts, for a monte. Flops all over
me, and I can’t get away, either. Funny
thing he can never read his weight when
he’s shot, and he never has a go at it
when he’s sober. It’s a weird world, my
masters. Well, until to-morrow, listeners,
good night.”
S. W. K.


\\
V
s
<c
96
V
111
IWI
■
3
/TA
/
ft©
M
\
f
rj
w\
I
s
u
i>
\
s
MEGCITT LTD. ... WORKS: PARRAJ
HEAD OFFICE: ASBESTOS HOUSE, 67 YORK STREET, S


Sf
&
«
cs
m
si
m
■'w-
Wffi
m
Tm
SiaSS
«r
m
m
/
A
r
7>
m
i
nan,
*fe
i
i/ s:
s
*
%
8
\
a
IS?
0
/
4
\
VCrW
ATTA .
>NEY
. MELBOURNE ... ADELAIDE
. AGENTS OR DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES


«SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
TO
KEEP YOUR CAR
YOUNG..
s'*
ft*
IS
rfth
rjep la|;ie|
worn plugs with
Champion
gXfftSt- SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
The Steering Column.
IMPROVING PERFORMANCE OF
OLD-TYPE CARS.
TUNING HINTS FOR THE AMATEUR MECHANIC.
By FRED BERRY.
A LTHOUGH modern touring cars are capable of speed and
* * acceleration far in excess of requirements of the average
motorist, comparatively few motorists possess these highly-
efficient machines, and by far the greater number must be
content to keep in service motors of from five to ten years old.
Mechanically these chariots may still be in tiptop order,
but as regards acceleration and maximum speed they are not
in it with modern types.
Success in improving the performance
of these not-so-young cars will, in a
great measure, depend upon the degree
of tuning decided upon, for if owners
aim solely at a high maximum speed
they must realise that the cars will no
longer be docile and easy to handle in
traffic, blit rather rough and “cranky”
at anything less than 20 m.p.h. on top
gear. Further, owing to increased loads
and stresses imposed upon the various
reciprocating parts and on transmission
gear, wear will be more rapid and there
will be an ever-present risk of breakage.
But with a little attention the cars can
be made faster, either on hills or on the
flat, will “pick up” from the middle
speed range onward more rapidly, and
most likely will show a saving in fuel.
Points to be attended to are balance ;
reduction of friction ; alteration of
compression ratio; modification of in-
Simple and effective device for testing road wheels for
truth and balance. Leadfoil should he wound on spokes as
close to rim as possible and afterwards taped in position.
duction system ; adjustment of ignition
point; a careful survey of valves, valve
springs and tappets, and the use of
special fuels.
Correct Balance.
Where reciprocating parts are in-
volved, whether crankshaft, connecting
rods or wheels, a correct balance is
essential if efficiency is desired, yet few
motorists give attention to this feature.
The importance of balance can be illus-
trated by recounting a personal experi-
ence when, after taking delivery of ■ a
super-sports car of British origin, the
makers' were cabled for advice as to
ways of improving performance for
competition and racing. Reply was
brief and to the point: “Make sure
road wheels are balanced after tyres are
fitted ; see bearings are free and brakes
np,t binding.” This advice at first glance
savored somewhat of the kindergarten,
but it was taken, and speed was im-
proved by 4 m.p.h.
Although balance of crankshaft
assembly is rather beyond the average
owner-driver, much can be done to im-
prove performance by attention to road
wheels, brakes and transmission gear.
Many drivers have noticed their ears
seem to “hang” or roll badly when
coasting. This means
that petrol con-
sumption and speed
are adversely
affected, while wear
of the parts in-
volved is greatly in-
creased.
In rectifying this
trouble first jack up
the car so that all
wheels are off the
ground. Then spin
each wheel and note
whether the brakes
are binding and if
the brake shoes touch
the drums when the
pedal or.lever is in
the “off” position.
This done, spin each
wheel two or three
times, placing a
chalk mark on the
tyre at its lowest
point on coming to
rest. Should these
points coincide
approximately after
each spin then ob-
viously the wheel is
out of balance. To
rectify this defect
cut a piece of
sheet lead into strips
about half an inch
wide and, using a little at a time,
wind round the spokes of the wheel at
a position opposite the chalk mark and
as near to the wheel rim as possible.
Usually this operation will have to be
done several times before the wheel
and tyre are correctly balanced, when,
after spinning, the wheel should never
stop definitely iri'any one position. One
of the rear wheels should now be low-
ered to the ground, and with the gear
lever in neutral position the other rear
wheel should be turned by hand. This
experiment will prove whether the dif-
ferential assembly and gearbox pinions
are running freely. By this test the
waste of fuel and lowering of perform-
ance occasioned by the use of unsuitable
lubricants in transmission details may be
gauged. Heavy and viscous oils or
greases are not necessary in modern
transmission, and better results will be
obtained by replacing with either engine
oil or one of the special blends avail-
able.
Four-cvlinder, side-by-side-valve motor
with detachable cylinder head. Compres-
sion pressure is varied by use of thinner
gaskets between these faces or by planing
metal (see text).
Varying Compression.
Having so far as possible eliminated
losses due to friction and lack of balance
the next objective will be to increase
output of the power unit by increasing
compression ratio. As previously ex-
plained, increasing compression ratios be-
yond certain limits, governed by the
design of each combustion chamber, will
cause “roughness” at low road speeds,
but there is no reason why the experi-
ment should not be conducted in a pro-
gressive manner.
Keeping in mind that it will be impos-
sible to convert the average touring car
into a super-speed model just for
purposes of racing, the next consideration
is the amount by which the compression
ratio should be increased and the
methods to adopt in making the altera-
tion. First experiment will be to sub-
stitute a thin cylinder-head gasket made
either of clingerite or sheet copper for
the present thick copper-asbestos gasket.
In the average car this substitution will
lower the cylinder-head position by at
least one thirty-secondth of an inch. The
advantage in using a thinner gasket is
that no metal need be taken off the
cylinder block, and if results are unsatis-
factory the original setting can easily be
restored.’ Should the alteration be effec-
tive, however, the next process will be
to plane a little (anything up to one
sixteenth of an inch) from the cylinder
head in order to further increase the
compression ratio.
The job of planing the head must be
done by the proper machine tools, for
unless the head and block are true
trouble will be experienced in making a
tight fit of the gasket.
Assuming, however, the work is well
done, the thin gasket can again be fitted
and road tests conducted. Should com-
pression ratio be then too great, the
original copper-asbestos gasket may be
fitted without in any way detracting
from original performance.
Such endeavors to “hot up” the engine
will be governed entirely by combustion-
chamber design, for, while many modern
engines fitted with non-detonating types
of heads may safely be taken to 8 to 1
or even 9 to 1, older cars can seldom
be taken beyond 6 to 1 without seriously
affecting general performance ; further-
more, owing to the higher loads im-
posed upon bearings and transmission,
there will always be a serious risk of
mechanical breakdown, as the unit, even
in its new state, was not
designed to handle the addi-
tional load. Coincident with
the increase in compression
pressure must be an altera-
tion of ignition point and
a modification of the induc-
tion system, as these fea-
tures are both intimately
connected with any in-
crease in power and per-
formance.
It is advisable to deal
first with the induction
system, as the most suit-
able ignition point will be
governed by the carburettor
setting demanded by the
altered compression ratio.
Eliminating Guesswork.
In making these experiments, which
obviously must be conducted along the
lines of “trial and error,” those who
have a Heenan and Froude machine
available will be saved much time and
trouble, as the effect of each alteration
or adjustment can be determined in a
few moments by reading the tractive
effort and exhaust-gas analysis after each
change. Otherwise there will be no
alterative but to select some suitable
stretch of roadway, reasonably free from
traffic, and, after making notes of original
performance, carefully check the result
of each alteration against the watch.
As a general rule the amateur
mechanic seeking to improve perform-
ance endeavors, by means of changing
jets and (where fitted) chokes, to achieve
his objective, but this is beginning at
the wrong end. First job should be to
dismantle the intake manifold and by
means of a flexible buff burnish the in-
side of the casting and inlet valve ports
Repeated grinding wears both valve face
and seating, and so limits effective lift
and restricts free entry of gas to the
cylinders.
in order to provide a free flow of gas
to the combustion chamber and pre-
vent eddy currents and consequent un-
even distribution of mixture. While this
is being done valve seatings should be
examined. After grinding in a number
of times valve heads seat flush with, or
below, the level of the cylinder block,
and so, by reducing the effective “lift,"
prevent the maximum volume entering
the cylinders. Only remedy in such cases


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
~~ SB N
L a p p ed
n Pins
• • •
$P-^
DUFOR
★ Perfect Finish
★ Extreme Accuracy
★ Absolute Size
Uniformity
★ Complete range
AUSTRALIAN REPLACEMENT PAHTS
DU LYt HANSFORD It.
HAWKINS. 12
is to fit new seatings or recut the old
ones and use oversize valves.
Tuning the Carburettor.
This done, the carburettor may be
tuned; and at this stage the motorist
must decide whether he desires maxi-
mum speed and acceleration or seeks a
general all-round improvement. In
tuning for maximum speed, such factors
as slow running and petrol economy will
Excessive wear in valve guides, valve
stems and tappet guides will cause uneven
running, poor road performance and ex-
cessive fuel consumption.
of necessity have to be eliminated, and
in such cases it is desirable to fit a larger
carburettor than standard, so that the
choke area more nearly approaches in-
take manifold bore. Where overall im-
provement is desired, the existing car-
burettor can be used, but in either case
the first consideration is to decide on
the fuel to be used and carefully adjust
level in the float chamber. This adjust-
ment is of greater importance than is
usually supposed, for with fuels of vary-
ing gravities it is obviously impossible
to maintain a consistent level, and as a
consequence maximum power output
will vary within wide limits. This done,
the next problem is to select suitable jet
sizes ; and here, unless facilities are avail-
able for testing tractive effort, the only
method will be to experiment on a suit-
able stretch of road, using a stop-watch
and carefully noting the effect of each
alteration.
In conducting these tedious and rather
exacting experiments the motorist must
realise that in no circumstances should
more than one adjustment be made at a
time, otherwise it will be impossible to
determine with one is responsble for
any change in performance if such
occurs.
Fixing Ignition Point.
Next adjustment will be that of the
ignition point, and in this regard much
will depend upon whether the motor is
firmly anchored in the chassis by bolts
or is suspended on flexible rubber sup-
ports. It has been the custom in the
past to adjust ignition advance to a point
where “pinking” or detonation occurs
in order to secure maximum power, but
while this may be correct in cases of
rigid mounting it will not be satisfac-
tory in flexible types. Again one must
consult the stop-watch or use a dynamo-
meter if maximum output is desired, but
in any case cars fitted with flexible
mountings will give better performance
—provided always that the combustion
chamber is free from carbon, with the
ignition point set in such a position that
“pinking” will not be evident under load
or full throttle.
There are, of course, many additional
adjustments possible in the process of
super-tuning, lightening the reciprocating
masses and alteration of valve springs
being most effective. Higher speed in-
volves increased revs., and as a conse-
quence substitution of light alloy pistons
for those of cast-iron will provide a
more rapid acceleration and possibly
greater road speed ; while, in order that
valves may closely follow cam profiles
at these higher rates of revolution,
auxiliary valve springs, lighter and
smaller in diameter, can with advantage
be fitted inside the existing units. Should
this be done it will be found that on full
throttle the valves will cease to bounce,
and the car, while not appreciably faster,
will pull well at high speeds without
developing overheating troubles or injury
to valve gear.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.F., Jnr. (Mt. Gambier, S ; A.). —I have a
truck in which two new sleeves have
recently been fitted and the engine overhauled
generally. There is now a distinct knock, and
new rings have not cured the trouble. Can
you suggest a remedy ? (2) Are Willys sleeve-
valve engines still being manufactured ?
(1) If all the eccentric bearings are a good
fit, with not more than two- or three-thou.
play, the trouble is due to badly-fitting piston
or outer sleeve. Eccentric-bearing knock will
be regular regardless of speed or load, while
piston or sleeve knock will be dependent upon
load and throttle opening. (2) No.
* * * *
J.D.G.A. (Hughenaen, N.Q.). —(1) Best
method of running-in a new car ? (2) When
should oil be changed in sump, gearbox and
diff. ? (3) Would it harm the engine if, after
2000 miles, 1 drove on a long trip at 45-50
m.p.h. ?
Never open the throttle more than half for
the first 500 miles. Between 500 and 1000
refrain from long high-speed running, but every
half-hour during a trip it is advisable to drive
on full throttle for, say, half a minute. Use
colloidal graphite in sump oil and petrol until
car is thoroughly run in. (2) Change sump oil
at 500, then 1500 and each succeeding 2000
miles. Gearbox and diff. require topping up
only occasionally. (3) No; the motor should
be run in by 2000 miles, but on the first long
trip it is advisable to keep an eye on the water-
temperature indicator for symptoms of over-
heating.
♦ * * *
C.V.D. (Randwick, N.S.W.). —On coasting
downhill the lights on my car grow dim as the
engine loses speed, but brighten when revved
up again. What may be the trouble, and how
can I check correct focus ?
If battery is fully charged there must be
a faulty contact somewhere in the electric
wiring system. Lights can be tested at any of
the larger service stations in the city with
special equipment.
* * * *
J.T.A. (Ingham, Q.). —7 have recently over-
hauled my ’2B Essex, fitted new rings, taken up
bearings and tightened timing chain. ' There is
still a distinct clatter in the motor, but although
pistons are slightly slack I do not think they
cause the noise. Compression is good, and
the car pulls well: What’s the trouble ?
Crankshaft has probably worn oval, and
without first grinding true your bearing overall
has not been effective, crankshaft rattle or
piston slap, or both, being responsible for noise
in motor.
X.O.N, (Devonport, Tas.).— My car is a
Willys-Knight 70/4, 29,000 miles. Engine has
never been taken down, but is running as well
as ever. (1) Should the motor be dismantled
and cleaned ? (2) Should experts do this ?
(3) Is it wise to continue running without having
these matters attended to ?
(1) Not if it is running well. (2) Always
advisable to leave this work to experienced
mechanics. (3) Quite safe, but perhaps the
manifold could be removed and the ports
cleaned of carbon.
* * * *
Booroo (Cobargo, N.S.W.). —(1) When driving
a car and coining to a bump or depression in
the road is it advisable to declutch momen-
tarily ? _ (2) On a level road in driving, will
the car accelerate if the clutch is pushed out ?
(1) Minimising the shock when meeting an
obstruction depends mainly upon the design
of brake equipment. Application of certain
types of mechanical brakes tends to hold the
* * * *
G. (Jingellic, N.S.W.). — Please give me
your opinion as to the relative merits of the
cars named from the point of view of relia-
*A I “hi/~?paSirold .ypes, m uch
will depend upon present mechanical condition,
but, everything being equal, the order of pre-
ference will be 2 and 1, with others well out
of the
H. (Narrogin, W.A.). — I am considering
changing my car , and should be glad if you
will advise me concerning the cars named. I
do about 9000 miles p.a., and desire an eco-
All good; consult comparative data of
Bulletin tests. ,
M.R. (Gresford, N.S.W.). —Acting upon your
advice, the diff. assembly of my car has been
dismantled. One tooth, showing a flaw, has
broken away, but otherwise the pinion and
crown wheel are unmarked. What should
I do?
Send the damaged parts to Sydney agents of
your car and have repairs done, by specialists.
* * * *
A.A.O. (Manly, N.S.W.). —I have a La Salle
1928 model fitted with a F 8 engine, 4.8-/o-l
compression ratio. (1) Would it be possible
to have the combustion chambers of the cast-
iron heads metal-sprayed to raise the compres-
sion, and the whole outside of each head so
sprayed ? (2) Would such treatment improve
road speed and petrol consumption ? (3) What
compression ratio would be the best to work
at, and where could Jt be done ?
(1) Yes. Compression can be raised by
metal-spraying inside combustion chamber.
(2) Yes. (3) It’s a matter of experiment with
your motor. For further details, read article
in this issue. Apply for particulars and cost
to Metal Coatings, Ltd., 16 Bridge-road, Stan-
more.
Motor Oddities.
“Bogaduck”: A valve stem chewed
through on a* lonely bush track ; we had
no spare tyre or tube, owing to a couple
of blowouts. A search of the toolbox re-
vealed nothing more helpful than a stub
of solder—nc iron ; no flux. My mate
tramped a mile to a deserted farmhouse
and came back with some bits of candle-
grease scraped off the top of an old box
and a pinch of resin chipped off the
Oregon roof-timbers of a shed. We first
cleaned the metal around the hole in
the valve stem with a file, and pushed a
thin twig down the stem to prevent the
solder from blocking it. Then we lit
some benzine in a tobacco-tin, held a
bit of copper-wire over the flame and
when the wire grew red-hot we rubbed
some candle-grease and resin on the
valve stem, added thin shaving of solder
and let the end of the hot wire touch the
mixture. Half an hour later we were
bowling along again with four inflated
tyres.


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
CHAPTER VII. — (Continued.)
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[AUTHOUR'S NOTE .—Tiburon is not an existing town, but a composite of many Australian
places. All characters in the story are fictitious, and bear no relation to any living person .]
KAHN flushed angrily. He was a clever fighter, but
his job as “take man” meant that he had to use
everything. He was as mad with Bill as Bill was
with him. They went at it again, blow for blow. In
the last punch of the round Kahn jolted Bill’s head
with a right uppercut, but he was pouring out too
much stamina. It wasn’t taking much out of Bill, while
Kahn was becoming a mass of red blotches.
In the third round, however, Kahn sprang to
it gamely enough, and a right to Bill’s groin made
him giddy. He recovered and, with a tireless
aggressiveness, started to hammer Kahn about the
body, finally putting in a long right to the heart.
Kahn wilted, and Bill took the advantage to jolt
him again with two left hooks that brought him down
on his knees.
“Go on, you blighter!” Johnny screamed at him.
“Fight him! I’m not going to count you out.”
Kahn got up groggily, but a left on his ear as
he wandered past simply closed the account. He
collapsed on the sawdust, and the audience, with
howls of joy, counted him out.
“Your local hero wins,” Johnny Sullivan an-
nounced gaily. “Put your hands together for Bill
White, who knocked out Joe Kahn, the pride of
Fitzroy, in the third round.” And he murmured
things softly in a language that none understood.
“The next bout,” he announced firmly before the
sound of clapping had died away, “will be between
Andy Forbes and Will Sweeney.”
The piece of meat being thrown to the old lion
didn’t interest them much now, although they were
excited enough. It was Bill White! Stupid Bill!
Who’d have thought he had it in him? Bill, who had
never done anything but grin foolishly and slouch
into trouble all his life!
“You know,” Mr. Sullivan said afterwards to
his wife, “I’ve half a mind to take that kid up and
make him sign on the dotted line. He’d be an orna-
ment to the show.”
Mrs. Sullivan agreed. She was a good judge.
It had been Johnny’s intention to move out on
Monday morning, but on Sunday it rained, and no
one can fold his tents in the rain—they go mouldy.
So Johnny languished on. On Monday afternoon he
ran into Bill and put it to him that he join the outfit.
Bill hesitated.
“I’d have to see what they thought at home.”
“You’re free, white and twenty-one, aren’t you?”
“Nineteen.”
“Oh, all right,” Johnny said bad-temperedly ; “a
pound a week and keep is something half the
chaps in this town’d jump at. And look at the chance ,
it’ll give you. You’ll end up a first-class boxer. You
don’t want to waste all your life in this mud hole,
do you? Nothing but a lot of cornfields.”
“Wheat and lucerne.”
“Well, you don’t want to stay here, do you?”
“I dunno.”
“Well, let me know to-morrow. We’ll get away
on Wednesday if there’s no more rain.”
Bill decided it would be wise to sound out Larry
first. He put it to him that night. Larry was all
for Bill going straight back to Tiburon and accepting
before Johnny Sullivan changed his mind.
“What’ll the old man say?” asked Bill.
“Never mind what the old man says. You’re
not a kid. Anyway, who cares for the old man?”
“Well, 1 dunno”
“A fat lot the old man’s ever done f’r you.
’Member the time we was takin’ in a load of wood
round Christmas, an’ Jim said we could have the
money for ourselves? We were only kids then, and
we were goin’ to buy a new pair of pants each an’
a ball for Ella an’ stockings for Lizzie and Mary.”
“We were goin’ to get something for all of them,”
amended Bill.
“An’ then, while we was unloadin’ the wood at
the back of the store, the ol’ man collects the cash
and goes down the street an’ pays part of his bill
with Mrs. O’Brien an’ drinks the rest.”
“Still” Bill hesitated.
“You ain’t got no reason to study him.
Leave ’im to me.”
In pursuance of this policy, Larry
brought up the subject of boxing that tea-
time in what he considered a diplomatic
manner.
“Now the person in this family who
can box is Bobby,” he remarked. “He was
fightin’ Evie to-day, an’ he caught her a
beaut. Square on the lug. She went down
like a stone.”
“I give ’im a ’iding for it,” put in
Lizzie.
“Yes, but it ain’t many kids you’ll
find’ll time a blow like that. They don’t
stand back an’ measure their distance;
they just hit any old how. An’ Bobby
measured ’is distance like a real old bruiser,
didn’t y’, Bobby?”
“Bobby’s a naughty boy,” whimpered
Evie. “He hitted Evie.”
“It’s me ’e gits it from,” said Dave,
sopping some bread into his tea. “1 was a
a great fighter in me day.”
“Bill’s going away with Johnny Sulli-
van,” Larry remarked casually.' “Sullivan’s
having him join up with the outfit.”
Dave put down the cup of tea.
“What’s that?” he said loweringly. “Who said
’e could go?”
“I did,” Larry grinned impudently.
“Oh, you did, did you? Well, please jist
remember that I’m ’is ol’ father, an’ till ’e’s twenty-
one it’s me that’ll say what ’e does an’ what ’e doesn’t
do. Git that! An’ I don’t want no long-nosed,
grinnin’ guttersnipe like you thinkin’ y’re the ead
uv this ’ouse. Git that! ” , ,
“Oh, yeah,” said Larry, in the manner or tnc
new generation, getting up from his seat and making
casually lor the door. Dave really could use his
hands, and when his hands weren’t able to get to
you there was nothing to prevent his throwing things.
“I could do without you, Larry,” Dave said
softly. “I could cert’nly do without you. You an
y’r damn’ ’orse eatin’ its ’ead off! But Bill s gotta
stay an’ ’elp with the wood. Ain’t that a fact, Jim.
But Jim shook his head. “You ain't needed,
Bill. Go along, son, an’ good luck.”
Dave was silent.
111.
On the Wednesday, amid the good-byes of his
family, Bill was packed into the lorry, where he sat
beside his erstwhile enemy, Joe Kahn, cheerily grinning
and waving his hand as the lorry rumbled oft.
“You’ll have to work a bit harder now Bill’s
gone,” Jim remarked to Larry.
Larry looked injured. “Don’t 1 work now?”
“No,” said Jim, “you don’t. You leave the
sawin’ to Mary and Ella if y’ can get out of it.”
“All right,” said Larry grudgingly ; “don’t keep
nagging.”
“There seems to be a lot more room without
Bill," Ella pointed out to Lizzie.
“An' there won’t be so much washin’. Dirty, ’e
was.”
There was a redistribution of bedding. Bill’s
stretcher was claimed by Bobby, who insisted that
he now sleep on the verandah with Jim and the others.
But on Friday night there was a battering on
the door and Bill burst in.
“Gawd strike!” his fond father roared. “What
the hell’s up with you? What’s wrong?”
Bill grinned. “Nothin’. Just thought I’d come
home. Ain’t y’ pleased to see me?”
“What happened?”
“Nothin’. Jus’ got lonely.”
“Homesick?” asked Lizzie.
Bill nodded. “1 s’pose so.” His family were
much affected.
“Gee, it was rotten, bein’ away from ’ome.” He
drew a deep breath. “Gawd! I thought I’d die. I
couldn’t stick it any longer, so I told Johnny that I
was quittin’ an’ got a lift home.”
“’Ave y’ got y’r wages?” Dave asked anxiously.
“Not a bean.”
“Eh?”
“’E says I wasn’t worth it,” Bill grinned. “I
don’t care. Gee, I’m glad to get ’ome.”
“Then y’ didn’t git y’r money?” Dave concluded
gloomily.
“No,” Bill responded. “All 1 got’s a smack over
the eye.”
“That’ll learn y’,” said Dave, “thinkin’ y’ know
more’n y’r ol’ father.”
Chapter VIII.
I.
SCHOOL had just finished for the day at Warning
Hill, and Miss Daunt had sent Colleen and the
twins ahead of her, for she intended to mark some
exercise books. It was not that the work would take
much time, but she felt that she would like to be
alone, even if it meant missing afternoon-tea.
Jessica sat down at the table, reached for the
little pile of books and began to work her way through
with a red pencil. The school had changed a lot
since her arrival. The walls had been kalsomined
green and cream, and, where possible, she had covered
them with gay pictures bought with her own money.
Paul had helped her scrub the desks and paint them
Brought him to his knees.
a dark green. The blackboard easels were lacquered
scarlet, and Paul was making her a sand tray. The
dark-green table had a bright print cover and a flower
vase. There were geraniums in scarlet pots by the
windows, and the garden almost was a garden with
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
She lives with the Dwyers.
The White family — Dave, a useless waster,
and his many sons and daughters—are the chief
of Tiburon’s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill. Paul White works for the
Dwyers.
Others of the colony are the Willoughbys,
the Mulvers, Gran Staines and Mad Peter.
Blue, Big Dutch, Okker Slade and
Denny the Magsman are “travellers” camped
at the unemployed shelter.
The “respectable” element in the town is
anxious to rid Tiburon of its undesirables.
In this it is supported by Sergeant Moore
( half-heartedly) and Constable Scorby [abso-
lutely).
“Jingo” Barnes, a former teacher at Warn-
ing Hill, has lately returned to Tiburon.
Last week “Johnny Sullivan’s Boxing
Outfit” came to Tiburon, and Bill White [“alt
his brains are in his fists”) accepted the chal-
lenge to fight Joe Kahn, “of Fitzroy.”


three rosebushes out in flower and the honeysuckle
sweetening the verandah.
Miss Daunt looked round at her efforts m red
and green, the pitiful little makeshift of a curtain
hiding the fireplace, and the sunflowers in cheap vases
(she had thrown out the jam jars), and her heart
rebelled sullenly. The things she wanted! She wanted
plasticene and basket-work, reading books and a
piano. How could she teach these children without
a piano? She wanted drawing material and chalks
and crayons and more pencils. She was tired of buying
paint and nails, friezes and vases and kalsomine out
of her small salary. She wanted more rosebushes
in the garden. What was the use of asking Mick
Dwyer to bring her down a load of manure for the
garden if she had no plants? She wanted the children
to have a little aquarium, but so far there was only
a jam jar full of cheerfully wriggling tadpoles.
She wanted to take the children out botanising
in the bush, and she knew that when she did the
little brutes would know more than she did. She
had learnt all she could from Paul, but this week
she was not even able to send to the libraries for-
books on plants and birds because she had spent all
her spare money on paint.
Still, it was something to know that the children
appreciated her work. They had been so wildly
excited when the desks were painted. They had
messed round helping, and she hadn’t the heart to
send them home. Mrs. Mulver had come up the next
day to complain of the splashes of paint on Oscai,
but it was a wonder that he wasn’t paint from head
to foot. Mrs. Mulver was always complaining about
something.
All this went through Jessica’s mind as she red-
pencilled the laborious sums and the tiresome spelling.
What was she to do with Willie White? She would
have to go over and see his father about him. She
could not stand it any longer. Willie liked coming
to school. He cried if deprived of the red-and-green
brightness of his life. But, Jessica thought, after all
there are limits. It was not as if Willie was really
learning anything. She could hardly understand what
he was saying most of the time. And his personal
habits were appalling. So bad for the other children.
She would go down and interview old Dave as soon
as she had corrected the exercises.
Miss Daunt had got to this point when the
stealthy approach of feet startled her. They were
cautious feet, trying to be quiet in big, heavy boots.
She caught her breath, remembering how she had
come down early one morning to find two bagmen
camped on the verandah. They were full of apolo-
gies and explanations. Although the night had been
cold and wet, they had not slept in the
schoolroom because “it looked that nice
we thought we might get it dirty-like.” The
apologies had been accepted, and they had
insisted on cutting some wood for her
before they left. But Jessica had been
dreadfully afraid of them ; they were such
fierce, unshaven men. Suppose this was
another? She felt very much alone.
Jessica got up and went to the door.
There was a man hesitating at the edge
of the verandah.
“Did you want to see me?” Miss
Daunt asked.
“Yes, if you please, ma’am.”
His accent was unfamiliar. It sounded rather
American. He was holding by the hand a small boy
in an old, filthy jersey, a pair of torn pants, sagging
girl’s stockings, broken shoes and the school cap of
a famous college with the badge almost torn off.
“Won’t you come in?” Jessica invited, holding
the door open.
The presence of the small boy rather reassured
her. She would have liked to wipe his nose, which
was running painfully. He had a sore on his lip, and
was obviously suffering from the perpetual winter
cold common among the children o£. people able
only to give them poor food.
The man hesitated. He was a big, rawboned,
sandy fellow, very neatly shaven, with a long upper
lip like a horse. There were streaks of grey in his
hair.
“Come in,” Jessica repeated smiling. He was
obviously much more frightened of her than she was
of him. She sat him down just inside the door on
a chair, on the edge of which he perched ludicrously
and uncomfortably. Jessica returned to her table quite
self-possessed.
“And whaf can I do for you?” she inquired
graciously.
“It’s about the little feller, ma’am.” Jessica was
rather amused at that “ma’am.” Travellers always
called her “missus.” “I was wonderin’ if he could
come to school here for a while. I’ll only be here
a fortnight, but, havin’ no woman in the camp, I’m
scared of leavin’ him alone.”
He spoke very much through his nose, and she
again decided he must be American.
“Why, of course he can come,” Jessica said
pleasantly. “What’s your name, sonnie?”
The . boy shrank behind his father and put his
finger in his mouth. He gave her a silly grin and
sniffled.
“He’s seven year old, poor little feller,” said his
father in the tone of one petting a stray mongrel.
“He ain’t much to look at, I’ll admit. Neither was
his mother. But looks ain’t everything.”
Now that he was recovering from his nervous-
ness, the parent of the prospective scholar began to
enjoy talking.
“What name, please?” Miss Daunt asked
officially.
“Scoti. They call me the Big Yank, though I’m
really a Canadian, ma’am. I came out here with the
United States Fleet and deserted. Couldn t say I
done badly either, but for this last run of luck.
Contractin’s my line, though Ive done a bit in the
barberin’ trade, too."
There was nothing for Jessica to do but to sit
an( j look sympathetic.
“p ve a i wa y s been able to pick up a few bob
here and therej but j ast camp tbey stole my case of
razors G n me. I thought I’d go back to Yass, where
J come f rom , an’ sell off a bit of harness I have there
from a team j used to drive when I was doin’ the
con tractin’. If I make about a pound on that there
hamess or may be less, I could buy the little feller
some underwear an d socks and such. Don’t like to
see him goin > about in them girl ’ s stockings, though
they ' re warm enough, mind you. Hey, Jacky, you
]eave that cat a ] one or i t ’U bite you.”
His off rin had noticed , he school cat, which
h , |d dimbcd trom under the verandah floor and was
leadj a strj of smaU kittens oIT l 0 hunt grass .
hoppe ® s and such prey
** Wi ' h y °" ** “
•« a ( f ,' * nine monthS; .. the Y »nk
plaintively. “An’, as for relatives. 1 don' know
« * o . f she did shc never said novh i„'
h The kid's a stray, you know. Wc wasn't
. „
mair ‘® ; ~ T T ,
Oh • said Jessica. eie <s
t 0 sa Y- . „ ,
”An’ as lor leavin him in a home, the aiv
continued gravely, 1 like a bit or company, an
hate homes meself. I was brought up in one. I
wouldn t put a dog in a home. I d shoot it first. No.
He travels round with his dad, an qm e lappy
be about him if I only had a woman m the camp,
I worry leaving him alone all day when I m on the
relief jobs. He gets playm with nasty children. The
other week I gave him a good little toy drum that
cost me two shillings. Some kid oi o er io'c i
on bun.
Jessica felt that she wanted to laugh, but not for
the world would she insult the distressed father’s
gravity. She suppressed the temptation, and shook
her head sympathetically,
“Ain’t y’ pleased t’ see me?”
“1 don’t suppose”—the Yank looked at her shyly
with his light-blue eyes—“l don’t suppose, ma’am, you
know any girl hereabouts who’d be willing to marry
me?”
Jessica caught her breath. “Why, I —l’m afraid
I can’t think of anyone just at the moment,” she said
dazedly.
“I got to get a woman to stay in camp an’ look
after the little feller and the turnout. An’ I thought
that maybe you might know of someone.” He looked
disappointed. “You see, I ain’t spoken to a lady
friendly-like since 1 started battling.”
The cheap little compliment rather warmed
Jessica’s heart. She felt that to most people she was
an object of suspicion, an alien, rather than a lady.
At best she was just the school-teacher.
“I’d like to help you,” she said, “but, really, don’t
you know any yourself? I’m sure there seem to be
a lot of women on the road.”
“Them!” the Yank said indignantly. “I wouldn’t
let any of them come near the little feller. A swearin’,
drinkin’, blasphemin’ lot! No. I want a woman that
don’t drink an’ has been used to a good home.”
A sudden light came into Jessica’s eye. Why
not do one of Paul’s sisters a good turn? She had
an inspiration. The very one! Emma!
.“Would you mind,” she said cautiously ; “I think
1 know of a girl. But . . . she has a child, a little
girl. She—she hasn’t any husband.”
“A stray, eh?” said the Yank. “Well, I don’t
mind as it matters if it’s only one. Be company for
the little feller. But two would look like a habit.
No, 1 wouldn’t mind her bringing the kid. What I
say is if she does the right thing by me I’ll do the
right thing by her. I’ll change her name for her. If
me old missus was here she could give me a char-
acter for a man that doesn’t drink and always decent
enough. An’ there’s no one on the road got a better
turnout. Watertight tin roof —not a drip, ma’am, in
the worst rain, not a drip.”
“I’m sure there’s not,” Jessica agreed. “She’s a
good-tempered girl; not very good-looking, but
kind.”
“Would she be used to children?”
“There’s thirteen in the family. Her name is
White. You may know them?”
“Never been in this town before. It ain’t a good
town for battlers, ma’am. But I’d take your say-so
on her character. If she does the right thing an’ looks
after the little feller I’ll be willin’ to marry her in a
church an’ all. Dad was Baptist an’ I’m a Baptist,
too. Not that I’m fussy about religion.”
“Well, suppose I put it to her?”
“If you’d do that, ma’am,” said the Yank,
brightening, “I’d be eternally grateful. If she feels
like taking it on, and she'd like to talk it over, my
camp’s just behind that clump of kurrajongs. I’ll be
waitin’, but, of course,” the ardent suitor finished,
“if she doesn’t feel like givin’ it a go, I shan’t blame
either her or you, ma’am. It’s jus’ a chance. An'
I’ll send the little feller along to-morrer.”
Jessica had been pulling down the windows,
putting on her hat, and now stood ready to lock the
door. The Yank jumped to his feet, wiped Jacky’s
nose, pulled up his stockings and thanked her again.
They walked together to the gap in the fence that
served ats a gate. Jessica had nailed some barbed
wire across it to stop the cows from getting in, and
everyone had to climb carefully under the wire.
“Don’t forget to tell her that I ain’t bad-lookin’
an’ hope to have a business of me own again. I got
some money, but only a little, an’ not where she can
get her hands on it. It’s for the little feller. But
you’d better not tell her that. Jus’ say about thirty-
live an’ fairly good-lookin’,” He hesitated and then
confessed. “Tm forty, but there’s many a man of
thirty can’t work as hard or save as hard as I can.”
“I’m sure there’s not,” Jessica said again, really
touched this time. “Good-bye.”
“Don’t forget about the tin roof,” he bawled
after her; “the watertight tin roof on the turnout.
No rain, not a drip.”
“All right, I will,” she shrieked back confusedly,
and as soon as the turn of the path hid her from his
sight she leant up against the fence and laughed until
she felt sore. Jessica Daunt, Matrimonial Agency,
Widowers and Unmarried Mothers Half Price. What
would they say in Sydney if ever they heard about it?
She stopped laughing. After all, what was there
so funny about it? The man was clearly in earnest,
and the question was: Would Emma suit him, or,
possibly, would he suit Emma?
She hurried along so interested that she had
forgotten all about Willie until he ran to meet her
crying “Red, red.” Willie loved the red tablecoth
even more than he loved Jessica. He could not learn
to say “green.” Jessica and the colors of the school-
room were two of the main interests of his life, the
others being food, crooning little songs to himself
and sitting before a scrap of mirror on a stump, comb-
ing his hair and admiring his not very prepossessing
reflection. He was perfectly harmless with his chat-
tering and dribbling. He did not even play the mouth-
organ.
Jessica softened at the sight of him. The Yank’s
pathetic deference had made her tolerant even of
Willie. If the wretched school meant so much in his
poor life, let him come. She went to the door of the
White home through a barking chorus of dogs.
“Emma,” she called. “Are you there, Emma?”
Mary, her hair hanging in streaks over her sullen
face, came to the door with a frying-pan in her
hand to intimate that Emma had gone over to Mrs.
Mulver’s. Jessica hesitated. She disliked Mrs.
Mulver, who was, she felt, a venomous woman, full
of energy and spite ; but she had promised to see
Emma. She looked at Mary speculatively. Perhaps
Mary might take up the proposition with the quaint
American. But one glance would be enough for any
prospective bridegroom. Why couldn’t the girl look
a bit more cheerful? If she was not so sullen she
would look as well as Emma any day. Emma’s broad,
flat face always looked clean and rosy, but Mary
looked positively yellow.
“It’s on my way back,” Jessica said. “I’ll call
in.”
“Don’t you go, Willie,” Mary called. “You go
and find Bobby. I want him. Sorry she isn’t here,
Miss Daunt. I’ll send Bobby if you like.”
But she said it grudgingly. What did the school-
teacher want to come there for, with her nice clothes
and silk stockings? She was wearing, Mary noted, a
fawn skirt with a fawn-and-yellow jumper and a yellow-
patterned silk scarf. Low-heeled shoes, not like the
pretty little stilt heels the girls in Western Farmers’
wore, but shoes with flappy leather fringes. And
those glasses! What could Paul see in a girl who
wore glasses? He must see something in her else
he would never go painting the old school up for
nothing. Mary watched Miss Daunt’s trim figure
striding up the track, sighed bitterly, found that the
sausages were getting cold and turned back to her
frying.
“Who the ’ell was that?” her father inquired from
the broken-legged cane-bottomed chair where he was
reading the paper, his feet up on the table.
“You heard ’er talkin’, didn’t y’? Who'd y’
think it was?”
“Certainly not one o’ me daughters. Too perlite
spoken f’r that. You get on with the tea an’ not
so much of y’r damn’ insolence.”
Dave puffed at his pipe in the full gratification
that his paternal bluff had gone over. Mary merely
sniffed. There are many kinds of sniffs, and this was
one of the I-don’t-care-if-you-fall-in-the-sewer kind.
Jessica, all aglow once more with her kindly
intentions for her matrimonial agency, smiled her
(Continued on page 50.)


Rectifying Equipment
A.C.-D.C. Rectification is a
specialised branch of electrical
engineering requiring expert
knowledge and experience.
For Battery Chargers and all
classes of Rectifying Equipment,
consult
DON ELECTRICAL COY.
Other products include Trans-
formers, Alternators, Rotary
Converters, Amplifying Equip-
ment, Regulators, Volume
Controls, Petrol-Electric Sets.
DON ELECTRICAL COY.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Salisbury Road, Camperdown.
’Phone: L 2839.
T
o
ra>iAc/
RADIO
BUY
TELA-VERTA
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing Sd. in stamps) for tlio 30 x 20
inch .Lavishly Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
RADIO NEWS
AN ADVANCED 56MC. SUPERHETERODYNE.
BY
DON B.KNOCK.
Progress in ultra-short-wave development is, in contrast to experiment,
relatively slow. For most purposes, the type of receiving equipment now
in use embodies the super-regenerative principle. This, whilst convenient
from many points of view, has serious disadvantages, which are realised
fully with a large increase in the number of stations operating. The
superhet described here, by courtesy of “R 9” ( U.S.A.), has unusual
features in that link-coupled I.F. stages are employed. The design permits
sufficient latitude for the reception of both modulated oscillator and
stable transmissions, and standard valves are used. The type 954 and 955
acorns'’ could be applied in the input and mixer circuits with still
higher efficiency.
The inherent noise of super-regenera-
tor types of receivers limits the reception
ol weak signals. The hiss of this type
ol receiver goes down as the signals in-
crease in intensity ; signals that are weak
cause little or no reduction in hiss. This
makes it difficult to read weak signals,
Ot course signals that are strong enough
to stop the inherent hiss completely are
copied with ease, and the broad tuning
characteristic of this receiver is very use-
ful because it facilitates the reading of
modulated oscillator signals.
The accepted understanding that the
super-regenerator does not respond to
damped waves, such as the spark from
auto-ignition, has always been doubtful,
and the writer suspects that the reason
lies in the high signal level necessary to
reduce the hiss. Therefore, if auto-igni-
tion interference cannot be heard, signals
of equal strength also cannot be heard.
If a superhet receiver tuned to 20
metres responds to ignition interference
a considerable distance away, why should
not a five-metre receiver be bothered
with such disturbances more than the
receiver on 20 metres? It was once
said “There is no static on 20 metres,”
but when receivers were built with good
sensitivity there was the noise, just as on
the longer waves. In fact, the higher the
frequency the greater the ignition inter-
ference, provided the sensitivity of the
receiver is the same.
Comparison of Intermediate Frequencies.
The deficiencies that restrict the
modern superhet to use on waves longer
than 15 metres were considered. The
I F. most practical for receivers for work
from 550 kc. up is 500 kc. When the
signal to be received reaches 15,000 kc. the
receiver is working under the same han-
dicap that the old-fashioned superhet did
with a 30kc. I.F. amplifier and a IOOOkc.
signal. The dial gets full of whistles, and
the same station appears at several places
on the dial, together with unwanted
stations. Pre-selection is then necessary
to limit these unwanted responses, and
if a higher frequency than 15,000 kc is
to be received the I.F. must be increased,
The frequency chosen for the I.F.
amplifier of this receiver is 5000 kc. This
was chosen after a long series of tests
in order to obtain sufficient gain and
broad enough selectivity, and also to
eliminate unwanted responses. By the
use of grid and plate coils, separately
shielded and link-coupled, these require-
ments were satisfied. The link coupling
reduces the capacity coupling between
the circuits, and makes possible fairly
high gain without regeneration. At
5000 kc. the passed band is wide enough
to take in most of the frequency modu-
lation of 90 p.c. of the modulated oscil-
lator five-metre ’phones. The amplifier
is sharp enough to discriminate between
a fairly stable transmitter and one with
severe frequency modulation.
LF. Transformer Details.
These are in aluminium cans, 3in, tall
and 2in. diameter. The coils are wound
with 35 turns of 10-38 Litz on a lin.
form with no space between turns. They
are tuned by a 50mfd. maximum Iso-
lantite trimmer condenser of the com-
pression type, mounted in the top of the
can with adjustable screw accessible from
the outside. Smaller condensers could
possibly be used, because the capacity re-
quired is much less than 50mfd.
The High-frequency Coils.
The H.F. coils are plug-in, using four-
pin formers and wound with No. 14
enamelled, self-supporting inside the
form. The five-metre coils are fin.
diam. with six turns, spaced so that the
coil occupies about If in. in length. Ten-
metre coils are 12 turns, fin. diam. and
about Ifin. in length. This method of
mounting makes it possible to change
the turn spacing of the coils while ad-
justing the circuits for tracking, and then
if coils are to be changed to another band
they will stay put, owing to the protec-
tion of the form around them. The grid
terminals of the coils all come out from
the fop end, and are fastened to a spring-
clip with a small screw, so that -the clip
makes contact with the stator of the
tuning condensers. This makes it un-
necessary to have the grid wire to the
grid cap of the valve fastened to the coil.
The coils are wound on a form of the
proper diameter, and after being removed
are spaced properly. The bottom or
ground end, along with the tap, is then
soldered to the coil-form pin, and the top
end is bolted to the top side of the
former. By pushing up and down on
the coil, the inductance can be altered to
help make the circuits track. The trans-
lator coil is like the R.F. coil, but is
tapped. The proper location of taps may
be judged by comparison with the five-
metre coil, which has six turns, and is
tapped at turns No. 1 and 3, counting
from the lower end. The oscillator coil,
since it must work at 5000 kc. higher fre-
quency, has fewer turns. Thus the five-
metre coil has five turns instead of six,
and is tapped at turn two from the lower
end.
Tuning Condensers and General Details.
The tuning condensers are rebuilt
Cardwell RT7S. They are double spaced,
with eight plates remaining in use
(25mmfd. maximum with any suitable
condensers). The single-hole mounts are
used for rotor connection to the shield
plates between the stages. Insulated
rotor-shaft couplings are used between
the condensers to eliminate ground-loop
circuits, and also to check on tracking.
A small trimmer is put on each con-
denser by fastening a piece of brass fin.
by fin. to the shield side of the stator
and bent toward the shield. These are
used along with the coil turn spacing to
make the circuits track.
The H.F. oscillator is tuned 5000 kc.
higher than the signal by using less in-
Fig. 2. —Top view of receiver.
ductance than the signal coils. The con-
denser C 5, which couples the oscillator
cathode to the detector cathode, has a
great effect upon tracking ; also, the con-
denser C 2, from the R.F. plate to the
tap on the detector coil, has a great
effect upon.tracking as well as R.F. gain.
The antenna is coupled to the R.F.
stage with a If-turn coil of No. 14 wire,
mounted in the bottom of the R.F. coil
form, making the use of a doublet pos-
sible. There is no gain control on the
R.F. valve, which is a 6D6, for the reason
that few signals are ever strong enough to
block it. The main function of the R.F.
stage is to provide a coupling link to the
translator, which is regenerative and
would be affected by different antenna
conditions were the antenna directly con-
nected. The R.F. stage provides some
gain, and also some selectivity.
After comparing many types of trans-
lators, the cathode-tap, grid-leak type
was chosen for best sensitivity. Screen
voltage controls the amount of regenera-
tion, and is not at all critical. The whole
dial may be covered without changing
the regeneration control, and good sensi-
tivity can be obtained throughout the
range.
The usual trouble of quenching with
electron-coupled oscillators at high fre-
quencies is overcome by connecting the
plate of the oscillator directly to B + and
coupling the oscillator cathode to the de-
tector cathode through a very small con-
denser, the capacity of which is in the
region of Immfd. This could be two
wires run parallel to each other l-16in.
apart for an inch or so. The suppressor
grids of all valves are connected directly
to ground, as is one side of the heater.
All by-pass condensers in any one par-
ticular valve circuit are connected to a
common point on the chassis near the
valve socket. The link coupling between
the I.F. coils consists of H turns of
wiring flex around the bottom end of all
coils, being connected by a twisted pair.
Delayed A.V.C. is obtained by using
one diode of the 75 for detector and the
other for A.V.C. voltage, the A.V.C.
diode being biased 1-volt negative with
respect to cathode ; therefore the signals
must reach a certain value before any
A.V.C. voltage is generated.
The audio-gain control, which is a
500,000-ohm potentiometer, is also the
load for the signal diode. The .0005mfd.
condenser C 7, from the 75 plate
to ground, is for I.F. by-pass, and the
1500-ohm Rl2 and .02mfd. CB, from the
plate of the 42 to ground, stop audio
oscillation at high gain and act somewhat
as a tone control.
The panel is 7in. by 19in., of 12-gauge
sheet-iron. The tuning dial is in the
centre, and on the left the regeneration
control R 5. On the right is the audio
volume control R 6, combined switch
type, which also controls the A.C. power
supply.
Looking at the top view, the coil, valve
and condenser next to the dial comprise
the R.F. oscillator, using a 6C6. The can
next to the translator valve is the first I.F.
coil. The centre coil, valve- and con-
denser make up the first detector or trans-
lator, also a 6C6. The coil, valve and
condenser in the rear are the H.F., R.F.
stage, using a 6D6. The first I.F. grid
coil is on the extreme rear left, followed
by the first I.F. valve, a 6D6. The next
two cans to the right are the plate and
grid coils that feed the 75, which is on
the extreme right. The 75 works as
diode detector, A.V.C. and first audio.
The grid lead to this valve should be
shielded, otherwise audio oscillation may
be present. The 42 power valve provides
about three watts of audio to a dynamic
speaker. At the right front of the chassis
are the 5Z3 rectifier and the power trans-
former.
Size of chassis is lOin. by 17fin. by
2in., plated 16-gauge steel, and shield
baffles between H.F. coils are of the
same material. All sockets, except for
audio and rectifier valves, are Isolantite.
Results Obtained.
The sensitivity of this receiver so far
surpassed that of super-regenerators that
there is no comparison. Provided the
auto-ignition and other local disturbances
are low, extremely weak five-metre
signals can be copied R 9 on the speaker.
Harmonics from 20-metre ’phone
stations have been copied in Los Angeles
from nearly all American districts, and
eight-metre police department transmis-
sions have been heard clear across the
continent at R 9 plus. Selectivity, which
is entirely too broad for 20-metre work,
is necessarily so in order to receive modu-
lated oscillator five-metre signals.
On the 10-metre band it is necessary
to provide an external beat oscillator
tuned to 5000 kc. in order to receive
crystal-controlled CW signals, but the
oscillator was not incorporated owing to
the fact that it was entirely useless on
self-excited signals. Room was left on
the chassis for the addition of a beat
oscillator at such time as signals on this
band should become sufficiently stable.
List of Parts.
LI —Antenna coil. If turns in base of R.F.
coil form.
L2—R.F. coil. (See text.)
L3 —Translator coils. Same as R.F. except
tapped at first and • third turns from
bottom.
L4 —Oscillator coil. (See text.)
L 5, 7, 9—I.F. plate coils. 35 turns 10-38 Litz
on lin. form.
L 6, 8, 10 —I.F. grid coils. Same as L 5, 7, 9.
C—Cardwell RT7S, double spaced (8 plates).
Cl —Trimmers. (See text.)


NEW BATTERY
Radiol rons
They eliminate those ringing sounds which previously /S/O/V MIC POP HON 1C
spoilt your radio enjoyment. When selecting a battery
tr
operated receiver or replacing worn valves insist on the new non-microphonic noise reducing Radiotrons.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD. AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sla) LTD.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Hobart 47 York Street, Sydney 167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne
(ADVERIISEMENT OF AMALGAMATED WIREL £ S i> VALVE COMPANV LIMITED)
C2 —50mmfd. Isolantite base-trimmers.
C3—.OOOtmfd. mica.
C4—.Otmfd. mica.
C5 —Immfd. (See text.)
€6 —.OOtmfd. mica.
C7 —,0005mfd. mica.
C8 —.02mfd., 400 v. tubular.
C9—,2smfd., 400 v. tubular.
CIO —lOmfd., 25v. electrolytic.
Cll —Bmfd., 500 v. electrolytic.
R—4oo ohms 1 watt.
R1 —4000 ohms 1 watt.
R2 —75.000 ohms 1 watt.
R3 —1 meg. \ watt.
R4 —25,000 ohms \ watt.
R5 —50,000 ohms potentiometer.
R6 —500,000 ohms potentiometer.
R7 —500,000 ohms £ watt.
R8 —25,000 ohms 1 watt.
R9 —250,000 ohms I watt.
R 10 —10,000 ohms I watt.
R 1 ohms I watt.
R 12—1500 ohms 1 watt.
TI —Power transformer.
T2 —Audio output (speaker) transformer.
W6CLH.
AN A.B.C. ENTERTAINMENT.
Hope I’m not speaking out of place,
but I think the A.B.C. could do with a
tip or two from an old showman. Things
strange, curious, extraordinary and
unique are in my line, so when Percy
Grainger is on the air my valves and ears
are at his disposal. The programme said
that Perce came on at 9 p.m. It wasn’t
the A.B.C.’s official programme—there
ain’t no such animile —but it’s the only
guide we listeners have, unless we start
a newspaper scrapbook, for which life
is too short. Anyway, instead of Perce,
a Mr. Cleary made a speech about a
competition for musical compositions,
and said the A.B.C. was doing more to
encourage native composers than any-
body else in the world, and so ben-
evolent was it that in cases where the
entries were all too horrible to win a
prize the ante would be refunded. Then
a culchawed voice read a list of awards
that sounded 10ft. long and never likely
to stop. I’ll bet not one radio listener in
a thousand was even remotely interested.
Along towards 9.30 we got to Perce.
He needs firm management. His props,
included one grand piano, two har-
moniums, a marimba, musical glasses,
two orchestras, five solo singers and a
choir which sang in eight parts. What
did he do with them? First item was
people wailing miserably; second item
was people wailing still more miserably ;
third item, by a Scandy named Olsen,
had a little more spunk in it, but un-
doubtedly mourned some regrettable
occurrence. Followed Perce’s idea of
what a hill would sing like if it had
j^j^ n l essons d must be hell to be a
1 came Delius > s cxpr ession of the
feelings inspired in him by a long ramble
over the mountains. This endured, it
seemed to me, for hours and hours. My
nephew came in in the middle of it.
“Ha, incidental music to ‘King Kong,’ ”
said he brightly, but I was too depressed
to enlighten him. Delius wandered over
a t least 70 miles of mountains, never
met a single soul or evolved a single
idea, and came down more convinced
than ever that life is an empty mockery,
Every now and then a choi(ua great way
off sang “Ah, Ah, Ah!” most despair-
ingly. We wound up with “Doodah
Day,” which opened brightly but soon
relapsed into woe. Voices crooned “doo-
dah, doodah” as if it were Greek for “all
hope is dead.” Sounds fondly believed
by Perce to indicate the buzzing of bees
permeated the middle portion, but put
no sting in the mixture.
I believe Perce personally conducted all
these dirges, but if he had made a mis-
lake anywhere it probably wouldn’t have
been discovered until years afterwards,
There was a time when I used to say at
a concert “If that’s Beethoven, give me
Irving Berlin.” When Perce’s choir-
concert was over I said to myself, “If
that’s modern music, give me Beet-
hoven!” I refuse to believe that such
stuff is entertainment,
BARNUM'S GHOUST.
Amateur Chatter.
A period of relative quiescence prevails
in the Sydney area on five metres, after
the previous weeks of hectic perambu-
latings over the countryside with mobile
A.W.A. Radiola exhibit at the All-electrical Exhibition, Melbourne.
equipment. So far as communication
between moving or stationary cars and
fixed stations is concerned, there seems
little further to be demonstrated in this
direction. The participants have laid up
a goodly store of technical information,
and any element of uncertainty concern-
ing the suitability of various forms of
apparatus is quite removed. One certain
deduction, as mentioned in these columns
a year ago, after the establishment of the
2BP (Hazelbrook-Sydney) link, is that
Sydney could easily be served with an
unfailing ultra-short-wave television ser-
vice from several points in the Blue
Mountains.
......
The writer is mainly concerned with
the development of more advanced re-
ceivers and transmitters than those now
in use, and any such development will be
revealed in these pages.
At the last general meeting of the
W.I.A. in Sydney, at which Chief
Engineer Scott, of Stromberg-Carlson,
delivered a lecture on cathode-ray tubes,
members were in favor of increasing
the membership fees substantially. This
is a wise and necessary move, and its
realisation should put the W.I.A. on a
sound footing and permit
expansion in many direc-
tions owing to increased
finance.
For the first time for
many moons the writer
tuned a receiver over the
amateur 80- and
40-metre bands,
and was duly im-
pressed by the
bedla m. It is
really surprising
that the 160-
band is al-
most unused in
Australia, and
those ’phone sta-
tions complaining
of excessive QRM
on 80, and who
are able to work
without undue
BCL trouble,
should form a
160-metre group
to make use of a band which is now a
void except for sundry BC harmonics.
The English amateurs cover a few thou-
sand miles on this band, and so could
Australians, static permitting.
VK2NO.
Latest in the Trade.
Radiokes, Ltd., stands in Australia for
many things dear to the heart of the
home-constructor. The firm has flour-
ished through the years, and is still do-
ing well. Despite the avalanche of ready-
made radio sets, there are thousands of
people who like to put the things together
themselves. In the last two years the
Radiokes “Kit-Sets,” boxed with the most
minute instructions and every detail com-
plete down to the smallest item, have
found their way into hundreds of Aus-
tralasian homes. Nobody with average in-
telligence could fail to put one of these
kits together, and to make it operate
satisfactorily. Radiokes now has pub-
lished an excellent little book, How to
Build a Dual-wave Superhet. It costs
only 6d., and is the best of any such
publications the writer has seen in Aus-
tralia or elsewhere. There are 52 pages,
profusely illustrated, and the construc-
tion of a very cleverly-designed receiver
is shown step by step, photographically,
with accompanying instruction. In addi-
tion there are a list of short-wave
stations, a world time-chart and Aus-
tralian and M.L. broadcasting stations
and wave-lengths. The publication may
be obtained from Radiokes, Ltd., George
and Cleveland streets, Redfern, Sydney.
Increasing Decoupling Capacity.
The advantages of efficient decoupling
in detector and audio stages are how
well known, but what is not generally
realised is the question of the amount of
capacity it is possible to use. Increasing
the capacity of a decoupling condenser
will usually do nothing but good. If
a small capacity, such as .Imfd., permits
“motor-boating” or other forms of audio
instability, a larger capacity should be
connected in parallel as a test. Increase
the size of this test condenser until the
symptoms disappear, and then connect
permanently.
Lekmek Double Doublet.
It is one thing to design a suitable
doublet aerial for short-wave reception
over a limited range of frequencies, and
another to make an aerial system with
truly all-wave characteristics. Add to the
latter desirable features the important
point of noise reduction, and somethin;;
attaining an ideal is represented. The
three are to be found in the new Lekmek
double-doublet system now on the
market. It is available in kit form, as
illustrated, and is complete with all insu-
lators and coupling transformer. Two
lightning arrestors are also provided, with
a lead-in tube for, bringing the twisted
pair line through a wall or window
frame. Installation is simple, and the
kit contains full directions. The outfit,
priced at 475. 6d., includes a 110 ft.
twisted line, ample for all average needs.
The makers are Lekmek Radio Labora-
tories, 75 William-street, Sydney.
Eliminating Static from Short-wave
Signals.
Major Armstrong —famous in America
as the inventor of “feedback” and the
superhet circuit —has for some time
been sending out mysterious six-metre
signals from a station on the roof of the
Empire State Building in New York.
Short-wave enthusiasts could make
nothing intelligible of them.
Major Armstrong now announces the
discovery of a new method of handling
short-wave signals—below the 10-metre
mark —so as to make them free from
static and other interference. This
development will affect the future both
of high-definition television and of
short-wave broadcasting.
The inventor explains that he sends
out his signals by modulating the
carrier wave “in a different way” from
that in which “interference” modulates
it. This allows him to bring into play
a hew method of distinguishing between
the desired signal and the undesired
interference, and he arranges his
receiving circuits to accept one and reject
the other. It is now clear why listeners
could make nothing of the test trans-
missions. To receive such signals in-
telligibly it is necessary to use a special
type of receiver.
Instead of causing the signals to vary
the amplitude of the carrier wave, as
usual, they are made to vary the fre-
quency. Although frequency modula-
tion is not, in itself, a new idea, Major
(Continued on next page.)


There’s 25"% Greater
in the New
Wmm
W
i
■
>Vx-x
W^s^xmSM
■
MRP
fcwi ■»
v/tviw;
"\ / '.. s ■■ ✓ 2
wM
mmm
liiiik
S'
■i '■■r
i
IT’S THE CLEAROSOL PROCESS THAT DOES IT!
Greater mileage from your oil. And greater mileage from
your CAR. It’s a fact.
This exclusive process washes all undesirable elements right
out of the oil, producing a 100 per cent PURE LUBRICANT.
This gives far greater engine protection than was ever before
possible.
More facts: YOU GET an engine that stays clean inside; fewer
overhauls; noticeably better performance; and reduced petrol
consumption, too, with the new Mobiloil. Change to this
remarkable, money-saving lubricant to-day!
THE NEW
WORLD FAMOUS
PROCESS
CLEAROSOL
gnrtyj
MS2B
VACUUM OIL- COMPANY
TTY.
LTD.
lnto 1,60
I?"RADIO
ENGINEER
frito for full particulars to
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO COLLEGE
CORNER BROADWAY e> CITY RD. SYDNEY.
Armstrong carries it a good deal further
than has previously been suggested.
Knowing that he is working where there
is plenty of room — i.e., below 10 metres
—he deliberately increases the side-
bands produced by the signal until they
cover at least ten times the usual lOkc.
spread produced by ordinary amplitude-
modulated signals.
“Eh”: The feasibility of installing
wireless sets on trains, particularly those
on long-distance journeys, is being in-
vestigated by the Queensland Railway
Department. Experiments are being con-
ducted on a coach attached to the train
on which the Commissioner is touring
the North. Interference by electrical
equipment on the train is providing some
pretty problems.
Philips Overseas Short-wave
Transmissions.
PHOHI programmes (also relayed by
PCJ on 19.71 m.). Station call-letters
PHI, built and operated by Philips
Radio, Eindhoven, Holland. Wave-
length 25.57 m., 11,730kc./sec. Times
mentioned are E.S.T. Save where other-
wise mentioned, the session closes at
1.30 a.m.
October 10; 11.40 p.m., music; 11.45 p.m.,
talk by Mr. M. J. Bnisse; 12 a.m., concert
by the Residential Orchestra of The Hague,
conducted by Leo Riygrok; 12.30 a.m., latest
news from Holland; 12.45 a.m., second part
of orchestral concert; 1.25 a.m., music.
October 11: 11.40 p.m., music; 11.45 p.m.,
station orchestra —Mrs. Weenink-Wagenaar
soloist; 12.5 a.m., cinema organ and piano
music; 12.15 a.m., song recital by Mrs.
Weenink-Wagenaar; 12.30 a.m., latest news
from Holland; 12.55 a.m., station orchestra;
1.15 a.m., light music.
October 12: 11.40 p.m., debut of the
Troubadours ; 12.15 a.m., microphone d6bu-
tants; 12.30 a.m., latest news from Holland;
1 a.m., the Troubadours; 1.45 a.m., news
talk by L. Aletrino; 2 a.m., the Troubadours;
2.30 a.m., close.
The Q. and A. Column.
1 have seen advertised d radio instrument
( named) for which great claims are made in
the way of improved reception. (1) Is it a pre-
selector similar to one published by you some
months ago ? (2) Is it a static suppressor ?
(3) If not the former two, what is its action ?
(4) Is it good value at the price ? —319.
Throughout the years. of broadcasting many.
instruments for which similar claims have been
made have been put on the market. It is pos-
sible to use a small tuned circuit with relatively
little signal. pick-up to simulate actual aerial
conditions, and this applies particularly, so in
these days of ■ extra sensitive receivers. A
simple test with any receiver is to disconnect
the aerial, and place a finger on the aerial
terminal. The human body, being composed
mainly of moisture, has considerable signal
pick-up properties. Under such conditiofts
quite, a lot of receivers will tune in all locals,
and even distant powerful stations. Can
offer no opinion on the instrument named, not
having had a sample to test.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be relumed unless stamps accompany.
F.J.J.: A bit labored and nearly as tough
as the butchers’ meat you satirise... .F.M.D.:
Hopeless. How does a forest look when it is
“aglo\V with youthful ire,” and why do you
write of “a miner in search of greedy gold ’ ■
F.S.: A long way below the most lenient
standard W.McD.: You might have found
a better rhyme for “tobacco”... .R.W.C.
(ML):. They are pleasant verses, but have
•no general appeal... .W.J.: A condensed novel.
....C.T.R.: Cracksman ' story, not 1 the type
wantedi.. .E.McG.: —
Soon the soldier will be shorn of ev’ry gallant deed,
He’ll take his trophies one by one and hand them to
his steed.
Apparently inspired by the act of Caligula,
who bestowed a consulship upon his horse.
. ...G.S.: We turn down much funnier for-
tune-telling yarns... .K.AiJ.: Doesn’t convince
us that piano-playing and skill in arranging
flowers can compensate for everlastingly burnt
dinners... .A.M.R. and C.F.S.: Not suitable.
E.M.L.: We first heard the plot of “Un-
expected” in our very early youth... .A.J.K.:
Couldn’t raise much enthusiasm over George
the , Greek. One of his compatriots sold us
some stale oysters once Spadger: Came
fairly close.... A.S.V.: Too obviously inspired
by fiction... .G.G.J. (Eng.): Articles not in
our line.... J.G.: There has been a surfeit of
’island... goddesses and sacred monkeys....
C.V.N.: .Quite unconvincing... .La n c e:
Doesn’t make the grade.’.. .Cappy Ricks
(Mauritius): None suitable. Good luck with
the pirates’ gold! G.W.M.: Not quite what
we want... .C.F.: Yarns about the dead re-
turning to life have to be done very well in-
deed... .I.M.M.: Not far off....E.D.: Just
misses J.G.: Apparently your best plan is
to take on a job as night-nurse or as waitress
at an all-night coffee-stall... .J.G.N.: It is
good sentiment and good propaganda, but it
isn’t poetry.. .Stone: “Ballad of Noses” turned
down A.C.: Not up to the standard you
have set yourself.... .W.N.W.: Rather trite....
T.D.: Doesn’t quite get there.... E.W.C.:
Same J.A.: Off our beat. Try elsewhere.
.. ..S.C.H.: Even in an ode to a critic “under-
standing” does not rhyme with “sings” nor
“lore” with “law”... .P.J.B.: “Heaving
Chanty” failed to stir the salt in our veins....
A.R.: “Whither Where” is mostly incompre-
hensible prose. “Tiger” is better, probably
because it echoes Blake F.H.H.: Versifi-
cation all right, but the subjects don’t appeal.
J.L.M.: Yours, too, is correct in form but
slight in content.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.W.: Heads are too large and arms sprout
from middle of backs.... D.K.: Opening of
Sydney Harbor Bridge is a nice fresh subject,
isn’t it? F.M.: Just good enough—to make
us wish it were better... .R.S.D.: Not collect-
ing antiques, thank you! H.G.: She looks
like a dying seal C.T.: Not up, but lots
of first attempts have been worse... .V.D.:
Poor drawing and poorer gag....B.M.: Next
time you send a drawing add a joke... .A.A.T.:
It needs life, not that heavy treatment
J.B.P.: People who draw in purple ink on
grimy writing-paper do their own rejecting....
N.H.: Good idea there; try another drawing
... .R.T.: Cow-cocky has meathooks instead of
hands F.F.: Belongs to the nursery
W.C.R.: Sailor and barmaid seem to have been
hacked out with a blunt knife... .J.W.P.: You
lack skill KJ.: Drawings may be your own,
but ideas are not F.J.M.: Frankly, it is
dreadful H.W.H.: Drawing scarcely visible
and gag so-so C.S.: Is it possible for a
man to have two left hands? .... A.B.W.: Give
it eight times the space, and don’t draw on
both sides of the paper E.L.: Your flap-
per’s a frump G.P.W.: You need years’
more training... .J.S.M.: It must be 20 years
since we last saw that gag in print R.N.:
Chinese white won’t hide your errors... .A.D.:
“Result of 10 minutes’ work.” Give it 10
hours next time... .N.S.: Faint pencil marks
on yellow paper... .H.J.L.: You have a lot
to learn T.D.J.: What’s the use of trying
us with juvenile efforts?
Reports of League Assembly meet-
ings are on the whole dry reading, but
at rare intervals a vein of unconscious
humor is struck. A year ago the Polish
Foreign Minister said, in effect, that his
country would be dashed if it let foreign
organisations supervise its system of pro-
tecting racial minorities. This was de-
scribed by another delegate as “a simple
unilateral rejection of an international
undertaking.” The other delegate was
Baron Aloisi, of Italy.


FOR THE REMAINING DAYS AT
RANDWICK.
Craven and Randwick Plates:
Peter Pan.
Suburban Handicap: Kuvera;
next, Narbethong.
Members’ Handicap: Buzzard
King; next, Loud Applause.
Sydney Handicap: High Cross ;
next, Measure.
Waverley Handicap: Pandion ;
next, Curator.
Final Handicap: Tapestry ; next,
Lancaster King.
FOR CAULFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Caulfield Stakes: Feldspar; next,
Synagogue.
Guineas: Young Idea; next,
Hadrian.
Herbert Power Handicap: The
Trump or Hyperion ; next, Cueesun.
Toorak Handicap: The Trump or
Hyperion ; next, Sir Simper.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. had perfect weather for
the first two days of its spring meeting.
On Saturday the crowd was reckoned at
68,000 —up 12,000 compared with the
1934 Derby day. Rarely has more in-
teresting racing been witnessed at Rand-
wick, and most of the winners were well
backed. Though the Derby favorite
failed, the Epsom favorite did his job.
For the Epsom weight of money
brought Synagogue from fives to threes,
Barak and Lough Neagh receding from
sixes to eights. Synagogue had an out-
side position (No. 22), but that didn’t
matter, as Voitre had him in a handy
position all the way. When he went
past Silver Jubilee (16 to 1) —that horse,
with Dark Sky, had made the running—
as soon as heads were turned for home
he looked an easy winner, but King’s
Head (33 to 1), who had run second to
the chestnut in the Campbelltown Handi-
cap at Warwick Farm, came home
strongly under the whip, and was only a
“short” neck behind at the finish. Silver
Jubilee kept going, and was a fair third.
As in the Doncaster, Voitre had to sub-
mit to the ordeal of a protest. It was
soon dismissed.
Lough Neagh and Barak were great
disaoDointments. There was an excuse
GiERt’, " Have /akiv luck ax the.
Races ? vs
_ * ■ ♦
Bert.; fimished up about square.
//
Gert; What horses diq vou
Back. 1-"
BeR-T ° DIPmV BA-C-vc AWV
for Barak; he met with a lot of bad
luck in the early stages and was unbal-
anced for the remainder of the journey.
On the other hand Lough Neagh merely
plodded on. Dark Sky showed pace, but
he can’t run a mile in good company.
Australia Fair was a creditable fourth,
and Journal’s seventh was a really good
effort; his chance of winning his second
Caulfield Cup should not be despised.
Sir John was prominent for seven fur-
longs. Though the track was fast, the
time was nothing out of the way—lmin.
37sec.
There were 22 runners in the Epsom
and 13 in the Derby. “Evens” was
Young Idea’s opening price, but the
Ring had to lengthen it—to 5 to 4.
Allunga was firm at fours, and there was
brisk backing for Feldspar at sevens.
Pratt took Young Idea to the front, or
the colt took charge of the jockey.
Half a mile from home he was shorten-
ing his strides, and then Homer (33 to 1),
who had been second, ran past him. Two
furlongs from home J. S. Brunton’s colt
was clear, but Munro drew the whip on
Allunga, and with Knox and Munro
exerting all their strength and skill over
the last furlong their mounts went past
the judge locked together—the first dead-
heat since 1919, when the colts con-
cerned were Artilleryman and Richmond
Main. The time was 2min. 33|sec.
Two lengths from the dead-heaters was
the Queenslander Buzzard King. For
third he just beat Gay Lover, who ran
his race in patches. So did Feldspar and
The Chanter; all three will do better
on Victorian tracks. Loud Applause
failed to stay, as did Wykeham, who was
in the picture for a mile. Young Idea
finished fifth. With Pike on him he
might have done better.
Peter Pan (3 to 1 on) made an exercise
gallop of his Spring Stakes engagement.
Oro essayed to win all the way, but the
mighty chestnut made short work of him
when it came to racing. Oro’s jockey
weighed in four pounds light, and second
place was given to his stable-mate
Berestoi; Rogilla was third. Optimists
took 5 to 1 about Sylvandale’s chance of
beating the' champion. Fifth was the
best he could do. He is an overrated
horse.
The conditions of the Trial Stakes gave
Measure an advantage, and his party
was lucky that Silver Standard was
backed so energetically—Measure started
at 3 to 1, Coutts waited for a final run,
and Measure scored with ease from
Rogerio and Volwood. Silver Standard
was done with before they entered the
straight.
Great Legend (6 to 1) concluded a good
day for the Victorians by running away
with the Kensington Handicap. The
stable-mate of Synagogue—J. A. Phillips
owns both —was backed on the strength
of a good trial with the Epsom winner,
and won with his head on his chest.
Jaccuse and Bombus (each 7 to 1) chased
him from barrier-rise ; at that point Rem-
brandt’s prospects faded. Atucas was
conspicuous to the turn, and in weaker
company may be worth following. Lady
Baeda was fourth, and Curator came
home pretty well.
This Page picked High Cross for the
Metropolitan when he was 14 to 1 (the
price firmed to 9 to 1 on the course) ;
and he won all right; indeed, there was
not a moment during the long journey
when he wasn’t travelling like a winner.
But a protest alleging interference was
entered, and the race was awarded to Oro
(6 to 1), High Cross being placed second,
and Contact third.
Oro and High Cross had come into
the straight almost together, with no-
thing else in the picture. With a strong
run High Cross, on the outside, passed
the chestnut, and when the horse seemed
to be well clear, the rider. Parsons, made
for the rails. Pratt then pulled Oro to
the outside. Perhaps because of the
momentary respite, Oro made up a bit
of ground, but both seemed to have had
enough when they passed the judge,
whose verdict was High Cross by a neck,
Contact 2\ lengths away, and the time
2min. 46isec.
Curator ran a fine race, and was only
just cut out of third place by Contact.
The latter was in strong demand at fours,
Sarcherie being favorite at 7 to 2. The
mare looked well enough, but failed to
show up. Berestoi (7 to 1) was promi-
nent for a mile or so and then dropped
back suddenly,
Oro races in Jack King’s colors, but is
held on lease from an A.J.C. committee-
man, Hunter White. It is certainly King’s
lucky meeting; after the Spring Stakes
he was absolved.from blame for Oro’s
weighing in 41b. light, though the rule in
these cases is to hold the trainer respon-
sible and exact a stiff fine.
It is a great pity that three of the four
big handicaps run at Randwick in 1935
should have led to protests. To this
onlooker the Hall Mark-High case
looked much worse than that of Oro-
High Cross; and what Hall Mark tried
to do that day—savage his opponent —
he has tried to do since. But, of course,
the stewards are in the best position to
see and judge.
* * * *
“Tuart”: There are bitter complaints
about the new tote in the Randwick
paddock. Punters object to being de-
prived of the sixpences they used to col-
lect before the mechanical improvements
were made (and why should they be?);
then the indicator stops indicating in the
case of a hot favorite, leaving the public
so completely in the dark that the
machine is apt to pay more for a place
than for a win. It did this in the case of
Peter Pan after the Spring Stakes, the
div. (for 10s.) being 10s. s.o. and 12s. for
a place. Then there are too few ticket-
windows and clerks paying out. For
these last two reasons thousands of
pounds were turned away on Saturday.
* * * *
There was great disappointment at
Flemington when news of the failure
of the Victorian colts in the A.J.C.
Derby came through. Still, there are
plenty more at home to challenge the
supremacy of Homer and Allunga; and
some are pretty good. Among them are
two sons of Manfred, The Trump and
Cardinal, who both distinguished them-
selves at Flemington, The Trump, by
his performance in a division of the
Stand Handicap, recalling his sire’s
wonderful achievement in the A.J.C.
Derby 10 years ago.
The Trump is owned by Darcy
Eccles, and is engaged in the two Cups,
with 7st. 31b. and 7st. 41b. respectively.
Asa two-year-old he won the Alma
Stakes af Caulfield, and was thrice third
—on one occasion in the Ascot Vale
Stakes, won by Bimilla. But, outside his
party, few thought him capable of beat-
ing the strong field he had to meet on
Saturday, and his handful of supporters
(at tens) must have, felt like tearing up
their tickets when they saw him get away
last and chase the field lengths behind the
second-last bunch. He was still last at
the half-mile, but was making up his
ground. He was seventh into the
straight, all the fancied horses being
ahead of him ; and a furlong from home
it seemed certain that either Burlesque
or Panto (each sto 1) would win. But
Morris, who had never stopped riding
The Trump, brought him up on the
outside, and, finishing like a champion,
he cut down the older horses, beating
Panto by a neck, with Burlesque three-
quarters of a length away. And there
was no loafing on the journey; the 10
furlongs occupied 2min. ssec.
The crowd had not done talking about
The Trump when Cardinal came out for
the October Stakes—at 50 to 1 in a field
of eight, with Hall Mark favorite at 11
to 8 on. Morris was again the rider.
This time Manfred’s son jumped out
first, and was soon as far ahead of his
field as The Trump was behind his. And
nothing could catch the leader, although
Garrio (3 to 1) and Hall Mark tried
hard. At the end of a mile, run in Imin.
39isec., Cardinal was two lengths clear
of the other three-year-old, and Hall
Mark a length and a half behind Garrio.
And 50 to 1! Cardinal is in the Mel-
bourne Cup with 6st, 101 b.
The second division of the Stand
Handicap also went to a 50-to-l chance,
Hot Shot. Hyperion was favorite at
threes, but he got a bump which sent
him to the rear, and would not do his
best afterwards. If the like had hap-
pened to Hot Shot, Lord Carrington
would have won ; arid he also figured at
50 to 1. Hostile (8 to 1) was third.
And that wasn’t the worst of it, as far
as backers were concerned, for W, R.
Kemball supplied, in Idavale, his weekly
“skinner,” the race being the fillies’
division of the Maribyrnong Trial. Ida-
vale was quoted af 33 to 1. Tote divs.
for ss. were: Idavale, £l6 16s. and £3
19s. ; Cardinal, £ll 18s. 6d. and £1 12s. ;
Hot Shot, £8 3s. and £1 17s. 6d. ; The
Trump, £4 3s. 6d. and £1 75., and Lord
Carrington, £2 13s. 6d.
Gilded Youth (6 to 4) and Bimilla
(11 to 8 on) were the only successful
favorites —Gilded Youth in the colts and
geldings’ division of the Maribyrnong
Trial and Bimilla in the Edward Mani-
fold Stakes for three-year-old fillies. She
ran out a mile nicely.
Footbrawl
Collingwood has won the V.F.L. pre-
miership once more. South Melbourne,
without Pratt, led 24 to 9 at the end of
the first quarter. After that “Sowth” was
never in it. Wingman Reid was laid
out in the second spell, and the captain,
Bissett, went off afterwards. At the finish
the difference was 20 points—ll-12 to
7-16. The crowd was 54,154; “the wet
weather and a strong counter-attraction,
Flemington,” are mentioned as extenuat-
ing circumstances.
* * * *
Straight kicking won South Adelaide
the S.A. League premiership—ls goals
9 behinds to Port’s 13 goals 13. The
win was a popular one ; it is 36 years
since South was last on top.
“Findy”; Port Adelaide is an unlucky
team. Last season and again this year
it finished the minor round at the head
of the list, won the semi-final by a big
margin and then lost the grand final.
Last year’s premiers, Glenelg, had never
before won a premiership ; this year’s,
South, hadn’t won one for so long that
its supporters had forgotten such a thing
existed. Superstitious people will con-
sider it very fitting that Port’s score on
Saturday should have been 13-13.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby Leaguers won
the third match and the rubber against
M.L., 31-8. Brown got a try and five
goals.
* * * *
The death in Sydney of J. R. Hender-
son removed one of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union’s most devoted and unselfish ad-
ministrators. Not a first-rank player, he
early showed a talent for the administra-
tive side, and for over 40 years was a
managing committeeman and selector.
He excelled as a manager of touring
teams; and the Maoris thought so much
of him that they made him a chief of the
Arawa tribe —no small honor for a
pakeha. He will always be recalled in
Sydney as founder of what is now the
Northern Districts grade club, and its
win in this season’s premiership gave
him intense satisfaction in his last days.
(Continued on next page.)


Mf\9ACL£s/
; of ia 3s
/
o
Stromberg
•Carlson
Chromo -phonic RADIO
''AA/VV ' -
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C2
MARLOW & CO.,
8a Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers’ Service
Station,
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired, Exchanged,
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship.
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7/10/-.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 QIA (SECOND
1904 EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, W/U FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Footbrawl
“Elgar”: The small boy was barrack-
ing for Collingwood. As the Magpies
got a grip on the game he became bored.
Presently Richmond made an effort to
pull up ; a good bit of play yielded two
goals, whereat the nipper cheered hope-
fully. A large woman alongside dis-
approved. “ ’Ere, thought you was a
Maggie! Wofcha barrackin’ for Rich-
mond for?” “Well, I’ve got two eyes.”
* * * *
“Rouge”: A distinguishing feature of
this present tour of the All-Blacks is the
coupling of county and club teams
against them. None of the English clubs
proper seems to have been thought
worthy of the honor, though Blackheath
or Leicester could field a practically inter-
national side. The win of Swansea over
the visitors will cause no surprise. The
meeting between the teams in 1905 saw
the tourists scrape home by a field goal
to a try, though their luck was better on
the second tour. The truth is that invin-
cibility no longer perches on the All-
Black banners. The Maorilanders them-
selves have gradually taught the Rugby
world how to beat them.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The defeat of the
All-Blacks by Swansea set me joyously
anticipating their clash with Llanelly.
Welsh clubs are holy terrors on their own
grounds and with their own barrackers,
but the dorp which specialises in manu-
facturing kitchen utensils, and has for its
anthem “Sos pan Fach” (the “Saucepan
Maker”), is in a class of its own. At
Llanelly the original Wallabies got their
first licking. There were roughies in that
team, but they came away with memories
of Llanelly methods that obliterated any
of their experiences in their own land. It
should be a joyous meeting. It is asserted
that the All-Blacks showed symptoms of
temper at Swansea. They will have
plenty of chances to exercise self-control
at Llanelly.
* * * ♦
“Centre Half”: Australian Soccerites,
still toying with the idea of importing a
Russian team, have been told that an
Indian side is eager to come. There
should be no hesitation in choosing be-
tween the two if football is .the point at
issue. The Indians are pretty near as
good at Soccer as they are at hockey,
and we all know how they shape at that.
* =i= * *
“Carlaw”; The defeat of the Australian
League team in the first Test with M.L.
was not unforeseen. Writing to a Bris-
bane paper after the heavy-scoring game
in Wellington, co-manager Sunderland
expressed the fear that the “shiny” play
of the tourists would land them in the
soup in Test matches unless they paid
more attention to defence. So it proved,
the husky M.L. forwards having no
regard for Sydney newspaper reputations.
AIS a result, no doubt, of Sunderland’s
diagnosis, the Australians won-the second
game by 29-8.
* * * *
“Gate”; Details of the English Rugby
League’s team show that most of the
players are to leave England on April
17, others joining up at Marseilles. Their
boat reaches Melbourne on May 25, and
the first match against N.S.W. will be
played on May 30. The players return
via Maoriland and the Panama Canal,
leaving Auckland on August 14, and
reaching England on September 16. It
is something of a coincidence that Wag-
staff’s side of 1914 just got home to
England by the skin of its teeth with the
big war fairly into its stride. This team
may run into it on the way out, since
it comes by Suez. It would be a terrible
thing if Musso, impounded the lot for
the duration and defied the Australian
R.L. as well as that other talkative body
the League of Nations,
Ins and Outs
“Old Q.”: Every year about this time
Queensland cricket followers go into a
dither over the question of whether Gil-
bert will be allowed to play—he is an
inmate of one of those semi-monastic
establishments known as aboriginal
settlements. The youth has been released
for the match between Combined
Country and Metropolis. Last year there
was some feeling because the selectors,
while willing enough to play Gilbert in
Sheffield games in Brisbane, would not
send him on the southern tour. The Pro-
tector of Abos. took umbrage at this, but
the matter was smoothed over.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: With the Marylebone
team knocking at the gate—it starts its
first match against Westralia at Perth on
October 31 —the States are beginning to
tackle the task of picking teams. It
won’t be easy. India and South Africa
are taking the best of our players, young
and ancient, and their places will be
hard to fill,
* * * *
“Third Man”: For one reason or an-
other the itinerary of both our departing
cricket teams has been altered. The lot
for South Africa will not be able to
reach Durban until November 9, instead
of November 4, and the first game against
Natal has now been put forward to
November 23. The two extra matches
“In the next roun', Joe, 'it 'im under the 'eari."
“ 'E ain't got no 'eart."
at the Cape while the tourists are wait-
ing for the boat to take them home will
be tacked on to the original programme.
The Indian programme will now include
an extra' match in aid of the Quetta
victims, and this also will probably be
played at the end of the tour. The clos-
ing match on the present list begins
against an Indian team at Madras on
February 6.
* ■*..* *
“Tenth Slip”: It is early yet to judge
the effect of the new rule in Sydney
grade cricket which allows a side only
one afternoon for batting, but it is
doubtful whether it will have the effect of
brightening up the game. The batsman
who has formed the habit of stodginess
will continue in it, despite his club’s neces-
sities and the demands of his skipper.
Once it was usual for a skipper who told
a stodger to hit out or get out to be
obeyed. Now he is more likely to be
told to go to the Appleton layer.
* * ❖ *
“Reet Stalled”; Alfred Bennett, the
Lancashire lad who figured for N.S.W.
against the West Indies and then re-
turned to his native, county, is fed up
with it and is coming back to Australia.
Bennett, a very promising bat, went back
under engagement to a Lancashire
League team, and was tried for the
county, playing several games for the
Red Rose, though hampered by illness.
If he has retained his form, N.S.W. may
be glad to give him a trial before the
end of this season.
# * * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.C.A., for one, has
refused to play under the new l.b.w. rule.
It was proposed that the thing should be
tried in Melbourne club cricket, but it
was resolved to wait for the Maryle-
bone report on its application to English
cricket last season. Still the rule is likely
to come into general use, and the next
English team will probably expect our
lads to play under it. It would be best
to get in early and accustom our bats-
men to it —the tour of the M.C.C. team
for M.L, in Australia offers the oppor-
tunity, since the matches have no official
significance.
* * * *
“Rockferry”: Canada is the latest
country to throw its hat into the cricket
ring. A cable tells that R. C. Mathews,
chairman of the Canuck equivalent of
the Board of Control, is fixing up a pro-
gramme for an English tour. The
Canadians paid England an unobtrusive
visit in 1922, but did nothing startling.
They have been at the game long enough,
too, for their Toronto C.C. was founded
in 1827. The second-class counties will
probably be their chief adversaries. A
Canuck team visited England in 1888.
Writer recalls them playing Gentlemen
of Cheshire at Wirral, but can remember
no Turners or Murdochs among them.
* $ * *
“Aunt Sally”: Single-wicket is dead
to-day, though the rules still stand in the
books. Last season Kent and Gloucester
revived the old custom when their match
finished early. Goddard (Gloucester) and
Marriott (Kent) were the rival batsmen,
and Goddard won. Games of the kind
were not uncommon in N.Q. years ago,
and sometimes carried good money. 1
recall one in which bookmakers “Stepper”
Davis and Sam Fullarton were oppo-
nents. Each chose a side of three bats-
men, with appropriate fieldsmen. Sam's
lot won, but didn’t share in the cash. I
know, because 1 was one of them.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Kelly the Crow”; If looks as if the
U.S. tour of a team of professional
golfers is doomed. The players must
leave Australia by the beginning of De-
cember, and for a team of four £2OOO is
required. At present there is only £6OO
in the kitty, and the prospect of raising
the balance is blue.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The British professional
golfers have had to leave the Ryder Cup
behind them in the U.S.A., the home
team, captained by Hagen, winning by
nine matches to three. The Yanks won
three of the four foursomes, Charles and
Ernest Whitcombe scoring the solitary
victory for Britain. Next day America
took five of the singles, losing one and
squaring two. Allis was the only British
winner, Perry and Cox squaring with
Horton Smith and Parkes.
* * * *
“Chinaman’s Luck”: Mr. Lyons ex-
perienced the most extraordinary inci-
dent of his career while playing golf at
Canberra. He drove off from a tee fac-
ing the Molonglo River, which has en-
golfed, so to speak, enough 3s. balls to
pay off the deficit if they could be col-
lected and realised upon. As those
knowing the P.M.’s form expected, the
ball lobbed in the river, which has some
water in it at present. Instead of sink-
ing with all hands the pill ricochetted
off the water and landed on the green,
the P.M. taking a par 3. Nothing of
the kind had ever been seen or heard of
before.
* * * *
“Winnie Woogaroo”; The British
women golfers (B. 2/10/’35) ended theii
tour of Australia with an exhibition
match, playing off the men’s tees at Royal
Queensland. None of the team broke
80 on a 71-par course, though the five
scores ran from 82 to 84. This was dis-
appointing to us girls, since we had the
he-players cowering in dark corners wait-
ing for the storm of derision when the
cards came in with scores bettering those
of the low-mark males. As it is, the
males have bucked up, and are chucking
what they think is a chest to the accom-
paniment of the old tripe about a woman
never being a man’s equal.
* * * *
“Victoria Park”: The motion allowing
the Brisbane municipal golf links a liquor
bar has been carried. An opponent in-
sinuated that the council really intended
to run the municipal club as a disguised
pub, appropriating the profits for muni-
cipal purposes. He was nearly thrown
out.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Though the Kirkwood-
Hagen combination reaches Maoriland
in November, Australia is not likely to
see the pair until the New Year, as they
intend to tour the other Dominion for a
month giving exhibitions. In Australia
a fishing holiday is to come first; then
follows an exhibition tour in Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Hobart. Bris-
bane will be taken in on the way to
Japan.
:|t * * *
“Baffy”: The enterprising Lakes
(N.S.W.) club, which last year started an
open championship for the benefit of the
visiting American professionals, is going
to repeat the dose. Craig Wood will not
be here to defend his title, but Perrier,
who was first among the amateurs, will
be playing. The dates for the 72-holes
event are October 18 and 19 ; additional
attractions will be a junior professional
championship on October 14 and 15 and
a country foursomes championship on
October 17. The Lakes people deserve
all credit for giving some of the barnacle-
covered older clubs
a lead in bringing
the game along.
* *
“H ami 11 o n”:
Queensland’s close
championship went
to Von Nid a,
holder of the State
open champion-
ship. The former
caddie began the
last day two strokes
worse than Gaz-
zard, a veteran
professional, bu t
overhauled h i m
and finished with
an aggregate of
299 for the four
rounds two
better than Gaz-
zard, and four
ahead of Me
Arthur.
“Divot Digger”: The Australian G.C.’s
first foursomes championship was won
by Esplin and Allerton, Esplin holing in
one a 140-yard tee shot at the 17th.
Esplin is also singles champion of the
club, and his win gives another jolt to the
theory that mollyhanders never go far
in golf. Now that the old superstition is
dying out and left-handers are allowed to
develop their natural game instead oi
changing their style at the peremptory
orders of professional coaches, we will
probably see many more “mollies” in the
first flight.


CHEVROLET . . . . . . DURING OCTOBER
THE MOST FINELY BALANCED LOW-PRICED CAR EVER BUILT
Chevrolet interiors are
more luxurious and much
more comfortable than ever
t
Step into this beautiful car . and be entranced!
You’ll find many things to delight you, many
advantages you cannot find in any other low-priced car,
when you accept your Chevrolet dealer’s invitation to drive
the new Master de Luxe Chevrolet ! This new Chevrolet
brings you the matchless beauty of Holden Safety Bodies
.. . the gliding comfort of Knee-Action Ride ! And its the
only car in its price range that brings you such a perfect
balance of all motoring advantages, such a fine combination
of style and stamina, power and economy, speed and safefy,
pick-up and dependability ! But you will learn all this,Ao
your deep satisfaction, when you drive this car ! So please
remember . . . your Chevrolet dealer is host for the whole
of October . . . and please accept his invitation to drive
the most finely balanced low-priced car ever built . . . This
week 1 . . without obligation or fear of being urged to buy.
GENERAL M 0 T O R S - H 0 L D E N ’ S LTD.
MASTER DE LUXE
COME IN . . . DRIVE IT . . . WITHOUT OBLIGATION
1
lipFW
■ >»
4
■ *
- , 5 I
1
p
BUILT-IN LUGGAGE COMPART-
MENT
Fitted with flush-fitting weatherproof
lid as standard equipment it pro-
vides generous luggage space and a
separate compartment for spare
wheel and tools. For extra space a
trunk shape door, shown above, is
available at a slight extra cost.
KNEE ACTION
Proved by 3,500,000,000 miles of
practical usage in the hands of satis-
fied owners. Gives the only level
ride. Master Chevrolet front wheels
are independently sprung on soft
coil springs. Equalised springing
gives a smoother ride, added safety
at high speeds and shockless steering.
NO-DRAUGHT VENTILATION
This patented window allows in-
dividually controlled ventilation for
Master Chevrolet passengers—carries
away smoke prevents fogging of
windshield and windows, and allows
a constant stream of fresh air with-
out a draught.
m
m
mmtwm
WIDE, COMFORTABLE SEATS
The seats in the new Master de Luxe
Chevrolet are extremely wide . . .
extremely comfortable set at the
right angle and correct height so that
passengers in both front and rear
compartments have plenty of room
to stretch out and relax.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
C147.40
Racquet and Bawl
“T°P Spin”: Crawford and Quist,
both returned to Australia from their
South African tour, speak highly of the
Afrikanders, though the varying alti-
affected both players. Both are
unanimous that a challenge in Europe
now means a tough battle against two or
three European nations which have
improved out of sight on their own
courts, and advocate a return to chal-
lenging in the U.S.A. until the Pacific
zone comes into being. The Afrikanders
are looking forward to the cricketers,
though disappointed about Bradman.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: Manager Turnbull’s re-
port on the Davis Cup tour blames the
short interval of only three days between
the Cup engagements with France and
Germany, with a long train trip in be-
tween, for the Australian knockout by
Fritz. Like the players, he is all for a
challenge in the American zone next
time, the continual travelling in Europe
being too much in these days of im-
proved opposition. The tour should net
over £2OOO Australian, the biggest contri-
bution being £2060 from the Paris D.C.
match, plus £335 from the French L.T.
Federation.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Henri Cochet has
sent along his bill for a proposed visit
to Australia. He can arrive in December
from Singapore, and asks travelling ex-
penses for himself and his wife and 50
per cent, of gross receipts, a minimum
guarantee of £5OO being required. It is
evident Henri is as hard a bargainer as
the average Frenchman. Even if he had
a clear run, it is doubtful whether his
minimum would be raised. As it is, the
possibility of a visit from a team of
Yankee amateurs is threatening to queer
his pitch.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: An interesting
item of tennis news is that Quist may be
transferred by his employers, the Barnett
Glass people, to Melbourne or Sydney.
The idea is doubtless to give the Davis
Cup player a chance of practice against
more first-class players than he is likely
to meet in an Adelaide season.
* * * *
“Top Spin”; Norman Brookes is now
putting the case for his pet Pacific-
zone project before the Americans. They
are not directly implicated, but a new
zone which proposes to cut out the visits
of teams from Australia and Japan may
have some interest for them. One of the
difficulties will be getting the consent of
Japan. Players from that country at
present are always sure of a trip to
Europe and a pleasant time there. The
prospect of being bunged out in one hit
without leaving home is not attractive.
South Africa has declined all connection
with the show, and India, China, the
Philippines and Java seem hardly worth
while.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: More tennis ranking—
this time the doubles players by “L’Auto.”
Crawford and Quist are placed first, and
on their European performance this year
the choice cannot be faulted. Allison-Van
Ryn, who have been carrying all before
them since their return to the U.S.A., are
placed second ; Hughes and Tuckey
third. McGrath and Turnbull are sixth
in the 10 placings.
Miscellaneous
“Wanderers”: South African athletes
have decided to support the Australian
application to have the 1938 Empire
Games in Sydney. The ’Boks are of the
opinion that turn about is fair play, and
that Canada and Britain can wait. Also,
they probably desire the Games in South
Africa on some future occasion, and
hope for Australian support. Australia
has made a tentative offer to the Afri-
kanders of boat fares for 10, in addition
to a month’s housing and entertainment.
The trip to and from this country would
be more convenient than one to Canada,
which is, for the Union’s inhabitants, a
somewhat inaccessible country.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: It is proposed that a
“village” on the lines of those at the
Olympiads be established in Sydney to
house the Empire Games athletes—that’s
if the Games are held here in 1938. Far
better if modern track and swimming
conditions replaced the primeval methods
now prevailing. There is talk of holding
the swims at the North Sydney baths-
to-be. These promise to be O.K. if
they come up to specifications, but the
suggestion to hold the track events at
S.C.G. means that the sprints will have
to be run on grass—a thing asked of
speed merchants by no other reputable
athletic country. Rowing events on the
Nepean—that sounds all right.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: Some snake in the
grass has tried to get a motion through
the Ma State Bowling Association in-
augurating district clubs and residential
qualifications. This was hurled out with
contumely, as might have been expected.
A district scheme might mean that a
player must join a club without a bar.
There are, unhappily, such places, and
for one reason or another they have a
membership. Members can always be
spotted by the listless manner in which
they creep to the greens on Saturday
afternoons. Certainly most of these
carry larger bags than the average club-
man, which can hold a bottle of medical
comforts as well as a set of woods, but
there is none of the joyance in their
demeanor which marks the man whose
club has a bar and provides facilities
for rummy and Rickety Kate.
♦ * * *
“Nark”: That reference to the easy-
going methods of English sport (B.
25/9/’35) in contrast to the Australian
attitude applies pretty well to all other
sports beside racing. The man who tried
to hang the national colors or symbol
on the goal-posts before a big Rugby
match, as Welsh barrackers are fond of
doing with their leeks, would come near
to being hanged there himself. In Britain
the crowd habitually strolls on to cricket
grounds at the intervals and inspects the
pitch. To do that here would mean a
batch of summonses for offensive be-
havior or some other dragnet police
charge.
* * * *
“Dagger Fin”: The N.S.W. 18-footer
League is talking about holding a world’s
championship for the little open craft
on Sydney Harbor in 1936. J. J. Gilti-
nan is sponsoring the scheme. The chief
trouble will be that overseas sailers of
small craft do not build to our plans
and specifications, and are hardly likely
to do so just to make a Sydney holiday.


SHUVd IVNDIIVN
Straightforward foots call you to the Great
National Parks of America —scenic mile-
stones between her famous cities and
resorts —all brought, by rail, into a com-
pact travel-focus.
Arizona’s sublime Grand Canyon of the
Colorado is Nature’s finest example of
erosion—Utah’s Bryce and Zion Canyons
of vivid coloring... the best-preserved pre-
historic cliff-dwellings are in Mesa Verde
(Colorado) . . . the beauty of Yosemite’s
waterfalls is unsurpassed. Each park is
individual.. .all beautiful and easily seen.
America’s splendid railways make this
possible...they,too, are marked by facts:
They lattice the continent. Their sched-
ules dovetail yours. Their trains are air-
conditioned —providing a constant, ideal
temperature. Pullman sleepers defeat
weariness. The charm of dining car is
tripled hy exact service and delicious
meals. Aboard are barber, valet, ladies
maid; library, smart club cars for socia-
bility. Their speed links the coasts in
75 hours (with but a single change)
and generous, free stopover allowances
tempt extensive wandering. Low fares
and incidental costs round out the
smoothest, simplest travel in the world!
It starts, actually, when you board a new,
swift Matson-Oceanic liner —with Cali-
fornia only 18 days away —New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii in between! The
“Mariposa”and“Monterey”havemadethe
South Pacific route favored by pleasure-
conscious and cost-wise travelers.
Obtain a free copy of our illustrated booklet,
“England Across America.”. It will point this
fascinating route as the shortest to England. It
will explain its advantages—in language {your
own), novelty, economy, and elasticity of plan-
ning. It speaks entirely in facts.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION BUREAU
htson lie Oceanic lie
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
h/
‘fi
rv
<4
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
“Collective Resistance”
I picked up my newspaper, and what
did 1 read?
Fifty leading Englishmen, including
Viscount Cecil, the Earl of Lytton, Mr.
J. R. Clynes, Sir Norman Angell, Mr.
Hugh Dalton, Dr. H. H. Henson, Sir
Walter Layton, Mr. John Masefield and
Sir Herbert Samuel have resolved that
“we are determined to uphold the British
Government in the decision to apply col-
lective resistance to aggression, which is
also a determination of the majority of
Englishmen.”
Of all those named Mr. Dalton is the
only man who has any record of active
war service worth mentioning; he
was in the Army Service Corps and later
on in the Royal Garrison Artillery.
There is no true patriotism in yielding
up the manhood of Australia when that
manhood is required on its own soil. —
R, W. Hornabrook (Vic.).
“Beneath Contempt”
The Council of the League (including
the representative of Australia) has
unanimously adopted a decision to put
into operation Article XV of the Cove-
nant. This must result in the penalisa-
tion and ostracism of Italy (and possibly
something much more definite) should
her Fascist dictator persist in his
determination to massacre a defence-
less people and to annex their coun-
try (though a fellow-member) for no
reason other than that which actuated
the late lamented King Ahab in annex-
ing Mr. Naboth’s little vineyard.
In this crisis Mr. Lang and The Bul-
letin assert that it is the duty of Aus-
tralia to “rat” on its colleagues (includ-
ing Britain and the other members of
our Commonwealth of Nations), and
condone this contemplated outrage, while
assuming that, should our country be-
come the subject of invasion by some
powerful and predatory nation, these
countries will expend their blood and
money in assisting in our defence.
A policy of “neutrality” or “isolation”
or what other term may be used to de-
scribe repudiation of an accepted obliga-
tion, though perhaps sounding all right,
carries with it a danger of repercussion
far from pleasant for Australians to con-
template.
“Scabbery” as a policy for any nation
is beneath contempt, and in this in-
stance it might prove disastrous as well.—
Arthur Griffith (N.S.W.).
. ~ „
Lang on Sanctions
I hazard a guess that neither Lang nor
any of his newspaper helots properly un-
derstands what is implied by sanctions
(B. 25/9/’35). The term does not mean
necessanly a threat of or resort to arms.
To refer to one kind only, no nation is
under any obligation to trade with, or
travel in, a foreign country, and restraint
upon either, judicially and dispassionately
applied, affords no excuse for war. Does
this seem a counsel of perfection? It
has been acted upon often enough, and
with effect; and what essential distinc-
tion is there between an embargo upon
trade and travel and the refusal by means
of a prohibitive tariff to admit the goods,
or by a language test tp admit the citi-
zen, of a foreign country?
No one in his senses wants war as a
settlement of anything, but without the
right to resort to any sanctions Leagues
of Nations, with all their solemn mutual
compacts and war-renouncing covenants,
their goodwill and judicial paraphernalia,
are so much waste of time and effort.
And why does “the future of our coun-
try lie in the Pacific”? Answer: Lang is
wrong again. It doesn’t; it is world-wide,
and every advance in invention, trans-
port and the improvement of our pro-
duce makes it more so. —B. O’C. (S.A.).
That Queensland Police Act
Your warning (B. 25/9/’35) is very
much to the point. Queensland police
time and again meddle in matters right
out of their sphere of work.
I have in mind the case of a man from
England who intended launching a cam-
paign to help the fruitgrowers to the
extent of hundreds of thousands of
pounds. For some unknown reason the
Police Department put sleuths on to “in-
vestigate,” and private persons were actu-
ally interviewed. The gentleman con-
cerned was so disgusted that he returned
—money that had been sub-
scribed and went to another State, where
in exactly seven days he had all the
capital he required, supported by a big
quota from London.
This incident in itself should be a hint
to the Government to be less “comprehen-
sive” and more “modern.” Queensland
needs capital instead of driving it away
by “modern” police methods. —J. H. D.
(Q-).
Ocean Island and Nauru
Further to the review of Albert Ellis’s
book. (R.P. 18/9/’35), Nauru is a man-
dated territory ; Ocean Island forms part
of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands colony,
and comes under the jurisdiction of the
British High Commissioner for the West-
ern Pacific. Nauru and Ocean Island are
about 160 miles apart ; their association
in the phosphate industry is due to the
interests and concessions held in both
islands by the Pacific Phosphate Co. hav-
ing been purchased in 1919 by the Gov-
ernments of the U.K., Australia and
M.L. The present organisation—-the
British Phosphate Commissioners —was
then established.
The concessions under which the com-
mission operates are subject to the
“rights of the native owners of the phos-
phate-bearing lands.” The importance
of these rights is recognised fully by the
native inhabitants, and documentary
agreements providing for the leasing of
areas and for royalty payments in re-
spect of phosphate exported are made
between the commission (Mr. Ellis re-
presents Maoriland on it) and the native
landowners. — Moure (Vic.).
A Three-minute Limit
Considerable savings would be
effected by the ’Phone Department if the
rule applicable to public boxes were
made to embrace private installations.
Conversations should be limited to three
minutes, and extensions should be
charged up. Not only would the revenue
benefit, but the service would be im-
proved by the clearing of the lines. —
Grasspan (Vic.).
No Restoration
Pensioned soldiers who married in
1931 or after have been suffering an in-
justice ever since—or their wives have.
At the last election half promises of
restoration of pension rights to such
wives were made, but so far nothing has
been done. Now the Budget provides
£350,000 a year for undefined pension
concessions, and the newspapers forecast
legislation covering four classes of
Digger cases, but no mention is made
of the unpensioned wives.
The withdrawal of pension rights from
1931-and-after wives was a glaring in-
justice. Why should a wife who married
in 1930 have a pension while she who
married a few months later is denied
one? The disability of the latter’s hus-
band may be greater than that of the
former’s, yet her household may receive
less in pension total. It is ridiculous to
say they should have married sooner;
perhaps they were not in a position to
do so, and commonsense made them
defer the event. Now they are penalised
for their own sound judgment. —Jesmond
(Vic.).


ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, t
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at |
Double Rates) 1
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager. *
C/
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
October Issue Now on Sale.
WAR’S
effect on share prices:
A Special Survey
BALANCE SHEETS
CAREFULLY REVIEWED
—See what happened to
profits in the last war.
MINING NOTES AND COMMENTS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 21- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £11216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Professional Notices.
PUBLIC LIBRARY, MUSEUM AND ART
GALLERY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of DIRECTOR OF THE ART GALLERY.
Salary £5OO to £560 per annum (less salary reduc-
tion, at present 10 p.c.). Duties five days weekly.
Particulars obtainable from the Director, National
Gallery of New South Wales, or from the undersigned.
HATELY W. MARSHALL.
General Secretary.
Box 380 A, G.P.0., Adelaide.
THE
lIMITCn INSURANCE
UNI I 1111 COMPANYLTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire,
Accident Insurances
Lowest Current
Marine and
effected at
Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager,
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
War and Money
The hostilities between Italy and Abys-
sinia find Britain, Australia and the rest
of the Dominions off the gold standard.
The currency of the day is paper, not
convertible into gold. In England the
paper is Bank of England notes; in
Australia, Commonwealth Bank notes,
guaranteed by the Commonwealth
Treasury.
To this extent we differ from condi-
tions immediately preceding the outbreak
of the European war in 1914. But Britain
was early involved in that disaster, and
a suspension of the gold standard in a
veiled form followed. In the Common-
wealth also the practice of converting
notes into gold on demand was soon
suspended. On this occasion neither
Britain nor Australia has a gold stan-
dard to suspend ; if shares or other prop-
erty are converted into cash, the cash
represents only paper currency; the
value of the currency will depend upon
its purchasing power from time to time.
For a month before Britain’s declara-
tion of war in August, 1914, Germany
had been a heavy seller of its security
holdings on the Stock Exchanges of the
world. When Austria presented its ulti-
matum to Serbia on July 24, 1914, a
panic resulted, and the London Stock
Exchange closed from July 31, 1914, to
January 4, 1915. Then the nation’s gold
holding was mobilised, and later the
private holdings of dollar securities, in
order to finance the sinews of war.
Following the reported bombing of
Adowa by Italian aeroplanes last week
and the reaction of investors on the
London Stock Exchange, Australian Ex-
changes opened weak, with a heavy
marking-down in shares in key indus-
tries. Broken Hill Props, fell 3s. over-
night. Afterwards there was a good
rally. Those who have sold their shares
now have cash or bank deposits. The
question will be what to do with the
money.
During 1914-18 a great inflation took
place, especially in those countries
directly involved in the war. There were
a remarkable rise in commodity prices
throughout the world and a fall in the
purchasing power of currencies. The
national debt, in Britain and the Com-
monwealth, grew rapidly.
Where a person’s money is concerned,
he is entitled to take a pessimistic view
in arriving at the course of action he
intends to follow. Taking the view—
which at present seems improbable—that
the Empire is to become embroiled in the
Italo-Abyssinian scrap, then inflation and
rising prices could be expected to follow
if the military operations were on a large
scale.
During a period of inflation gold is
one of the most valuable forms of prop-
erty. Gold coin in the hands of the Aus-
tralian public is practically non-existent,
and it is not obtainable from the Com-
monwealth Bank at par. Bullion can
probably be bought at something near
£8 16s. per fine ounce, but in the event of
war emergency all gold holdings would
most likely be mobilised to maintain the
country’s credit. Purchase of the yellow
metal therefore has its dubious aspect as
a means of safeguarding capital.
Notes would decrease in purchasing
power as inflation advanced and prices
rose. Ordinary shares representing equi-
ties in Australian industries would, at the
worst, retain their legal rights to the
actual commodities and properties under
the control of the companies. The
properties could be expected to become
more valuable (in terms of currency) as
inflation progressed, and dividends, sub-
ject to any disorganisation of trade,
should advance at something like the
same pace as the increase in prices.
Further, war in the past has not gener-
ally been much of a hindrance to Aus-
tralian industries.
Holders of fixed-interest securities,
such as preference shares, Consols and
bank deposits, should be more likely to
suffer if a major conflict occurred. But,
as mentioned before, such a conflict is
visualised merely from a pessimistic
viewpoint, and is here discussed only to
point out the unwisdom of sacrificing
ordinary industrial shares, which appear
to have the greatest merits as investments
whatever happens.
Fiji gold shares continue speculative,
a pronounced weakening in market
support being noticeable last week.
Emperors, which had been up to around
305., fell back to 225., recovering to 245.
on Friday; and Lolomas, selling at
50s. two or three weeks ago, were
weak at 38s. Koroeres have also
seen much higher than last Friday’s
18s.; Nasivis, at £57 some time ago,
were changing hands at 15s. Tavua
Developments, selling at 15s. 6d. a month
ago, are down to 6s. Bd., and Vees United,
which went to 2s. a little while back, are
around 9d. Speculators who have a
fancy for a particular show don’t like
being put off it; but the prices paid for
some Fiji propositions over the past few
“Are these Aladdin's Dream gold shares any good, Joe?"
“ Dunno; I'll ask me broker in the mornin'."
mont hs have been ridiculous, considering
t^e amoun t G f development work towards
proving ore-bodies.
•
Mount Kasi, on the other large island
j n the Fiji group, at this stage is the safest
mining proposition in Fiji, It has been
working unobtrusively for two or three
years, and a large body of about lOdwt.
o re seems to have been definitely estab-
fished. It is free-milling ore, and extrac-
tion of the metal is turning out to be in-
expensive, with small losses in the tail-
ings. The 35.-paid shares are around
18s. 6d., giving the undertaking a valua-
tion of £300,000. That figure seems to be
well covered by ore reserves,
* * * *
Gold shares generally _ are weak,
Boulder Perseverance scrip is below 45.,
Great Boulder at 9s. 6d., North Kalgurli
18s. 10d., Lake View and Star 295., Roth-
say 3s. 9d., Norseman 19s. 6d. and Ora
Banda Amalgamated Bs. Lancefield has
been holding its own fairly well at 13s.
6d., and should strengthen. In N. S.
Wales New Occidentals are around
13s. 6d.; the market in this case is left to
do a lot of guessing about the co.’s pros-
pects, the management being particularly
tight-lipped. Mount Morgan (365.) and
Golden Plateau contribs. (30s. 6d.) both
showed weakness on the Queensland
front.
* * * *
Beasley, M.H.R., has been roaring
about Broken Hill Prop, and its pro-
posed acquisition of the ordinary shares
in Australian Iron and Steel. He asked
for an investigation by a select committee
on the ground that a merger would result
in a “monopolistic steel trust.” One wild
statement was that, “as a result of the
tariff protection fought for by Labor, the
B.H.P. had been able to maintain a 10
p.c. dividend throughout the depression.”
Actually, in 1931, 1932 and 1933 share-
holders went entirely without dividend.
* * * *
Melbourne wool sales opened with
prices 10 p.c. lower than the initial rates
for the season (at Sydney), but were
20 p.c. higher than the quotes this time
last year, Japanese buying still predomi-
nated ; Bradford and Australian manu-
facturers’ demands were both greater
than Continental inquiry. Average
Sydney price for the week ending Sep-
tember 28 was 11.7 d. a pound. Mel-
bourne quotes for merinos on the open-
ing day went as high as 19yd. a pound.
* * * *
Cranwells (Australasia), Ltd., has
made a firm offer of £200,000 for the
remaining debts owing to the Primary
Producers’ Bank (in liq.) as at March 28,
1935. The proposal has to receive the
sanction of creditors and the Supreme
Court of Queensland before the liquida-
tors can clinch the deal. The considera-
tion would be sufficient to pay a further
dividend of 3s. 6d. in the £1 to creditors,
making a total payment of 19s. 9d. Six
months prior to the date from which the
proposed purchase is to take effect,
debtors had a book value of £577,346, but
they were very slow of collection. Cran-
wells is to put down £30,000 upon re-
ceipt of the Court’s sanction, and the
balance is payable on January 31, 1936.
If creditors accept, it will mean a much
speedier settlement than was at first
anticipated. Cranwells is an investment
co. which has been operating in Sydney
for some years.
* * * *
Petrol sold by the major oil cos. and
some independent distributors went up a
penny a gallon in Sydney last week,
“super”-grade now being Is. 9d. and
first-grade Is. Bd. a gallon. Purr-Pull
spirit remains unchanged at Is. 7d. a
gallon. Present prices compare with
Is. sd. for first-grade in September, 1933,
and 2s. 3d. early in 1931.
* * * *
Petrol derived from Australian coal or
shale is to be exempt from excise duty
for five years. There is to be no bounty,
and that is as it should be. About
£200,000 has been spent by the Common-
wealth Government to date in the search
for well oil; there has also been con-
siderable outlay by Federal and N. S.
Wales authorities in investigating the
Newnes shale measures, in addition to
(he assistance given to the Lyons brothers
(Newcastle) in their experiments with
hydrogenation of coal.
* * * *
Victoria is to have a tax on share
transfers. At first the department favored
a system of embossed stamps (on the
scrip), involving delivery at the Stamp
Duties office, the same as in N. S. Wales.
Then it was proposed to demand that
adhesive stamps to the extent of the duty
should be stuck on contract notes, thus
eliminating the possibility of a hold-up of
scrip in the Stamp Commissioner’s office.
There is now an outcry from the direc-
tion of Melbourne Stock Exchange that
shares bought, say, in Sydney will bear
N. S. Wales tax on the scrip and Vic.
duty on the contract note, thus killing the
arbitrage business practised by brokers
where there is a profitable margin be-
tween the quotations of one stock in two
capitals. The suggestion is that transfers
bearing duty in the State of sale should
be exempt in the State of purchase. Min-
ing scrip is to be excluded from the tax.
* * * *
Mortgage interest rates in August re-
mained fairly steady, with a tendency in
N. S. Wales again towards lower charges.
The volume of business done in this
State for the month was the lowest since
October, 1934. Property sales were the
lowest for four months. There is a
growing belief that flat-building has
been overdone; one act of the banks
as a result of the tightening-up of money
supplies has been to slow down on financ-
ing apartment-house construction. There
is still a keen demand for cottages at
reasonable rentals, but —and here’s the
rub —rates and taxes have had the effect
of making rentals in some localities most
unreasonable.
* * * *
“Z.N.”: A noble example of how
bank exchange works in Australia. f A
Flinders-lane merchant who had a claim
against a Queensland country firm, now
some time bankrupt, received a notifica-
tion that “a first dividend of one-third of
a penny in the £ has been declared, for
which a cheque for 3d. is enclosed.”
As the cheque was drawn on a Sydney
bank, the exchange is 6d. This is one
point in which the U.S.A. scores over
us —there inter-State exchange is a dead
letter. Stamp duty of 2d. was, of course,
payable on the cheque form.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOW
“Dante’s Inferno”
Although this talkie deals with the
amusement-park sideshow business, and
exhibits Spencer Tracy in one of his most
congenial roles —he’s first the barker out-
side and then the owner of the show —it
doesn’t cheat its title. Right in the middle
of the somewhat mechanical plot and its
equally mechanical sensation-features,
such as the collapse of five or six storeys
of a jerry-built sideshow and the burning
of a luxuriously-equipped liner (converted
into a night-club), there is thrust a series
of imaginative glimpses into Dante’s hell.
Whoever stage-managed these spectacles
has little to learn about the possibilities
of photography, and the musical director
has helped the illusions with something
that sounds like the rising and falling of
a gale of despair. There are hundreds of
nude figures writhing and weaving, and
flickering flames, scorching blasts and
fearful depths of cold, H. B. Walthall
makes brief appearances as Virgil, and
there are glimpses of Tracy as the Alex-
ander who sighed for worlds to> conquer.
Looks as if the original intention was to
use Dante’s libretto, and that somebody
decided it was impracticable to drench an
audience with lofty tragedy for ninety
minutes on end. At the Regent.
“We’re in the Money”
Also at Sydney Regent. A suitable
sub-title might read “Quaint American
Legal Customs —No. 97, Breach of
Promise.” It appears that in the great
Republic when an action of this sort is
mooted anybody at all likely to be sub-
poena’d as a witness surrounds him-
self with a bodyguard whose business
it is to outwit the process-servers. Of
course, the chief outwitters work for the
prospective defendant. The lawyers en-
joy it all, too, and try to hire process-
servers who can outwit the outwitters.
Hugh Herbert in the film relies on a
pair of blondes, Joan Blondell and
Glenda Farrell. They put it over on a
crooner, a gangster, a wrestler (Leich-
hardt style) and a gentleman who,
dressed as a chauffeur, has been giving
one of the blondes grounds for another
b.-0.-p. case. Old stuff, but done with
hearty zest. Hugh Herbert, rapturous
over a toy frog, is amusing.
“Shanghai”
Profile beauty Barbara Howard
(Loretta Young) burns a boat ticket to
New York before the eyes of Prince
Edward audiences, and pushes miles into
China’s murky interior to drape herself
round the neck of Dmitri Koslov
(Charles Boyer), who previously had
lammed out of Shanghai, sacrificing a
commercial czarship, to be away from
her. Reason: they loved each other.
But from the way Dimi behaved when
Ambassador Lun Sing (Warner Oland)
told him his mother was a Manchu, his
father Russian (although the white strain
so predominated that nobody could have
guessed it) it was as plain as daylight that
they were more likely to cry about it
than to defy the chatter of a color-
sensitive society and live in an attic. They
cry about it, tear-dimmed Dimi coming
across at the fade-out with “It-is-a-far-
far-better-thing-that-I-do” stuff. Good
material wasted on a dead-end tale. Try
as they do, the leading duo can’t prevent
the scenario writer’s house of cards fall-
ing about their ears. Photography gets
full marks.
“Chasing Yesterday”
Anatole France created the characters
in The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard. The
sentimental old Prof. Bonnard is
smoothly played by O. P. Heggie. Jeanne,
the orphan girl, is Anne Shirley, who has
piquancy and charm, but wears an in-
credible fringe. Both give caricatures of
France’s caricatures of character, but
so cleverly that they still grasp the essen-
tials of the portraits. Helen Westley as
Bonnard’s tyrannical old servant, Elisa-
beth Patterson as principal of a girls’
boarding school and Etienne Girardot as
the villainous Mouche interpret life in a
Pickwickian sense as it were, and fit
snugly into the picture. It is Heggie’s
play from title to fade-out, and should
be embalmed to show coming generations
how an actor of the Victorian school
could portray an old gentleman. At
Sydney Capitol.
“The Irish in Us”
James Cagney, Pat O’Brien and A 1
Jenkins are in this romance of the prize-
ring. The Irish would respond more
readily to the humor and pathos of the
story if Mrs. O’Hara, the fine old mother
of a family of big, strong men, were
played by someone with an authentic
brogue. Mary Gordon’s is a cross
between Glasgow and Houndsditch.
However, there is plenty of boxing, and
James Cagney tDanny O’Hara) wins the
SYDNEY TALKIES.
Hugh Sinclair and Elisabeth Bergner in “Escape Me Never,” at the Liberty.
Below, Fritz Kortner as Abdul the Damned, at the Mayfair.
world’s middleweight title after having
been fold by brother Pat (his rival) that
the goil (Olivia de Havilland) is true to
her Danny (“Londonderry Air” here as
incidental music). Miss De Havilland
contributes to the entertainment one of
those miracles only possible on the
screen. She is underneath her car, doing
something to the sump, when Mr.
Cagney appears on the scene, and
emerges in a white sports frock and a
saucy little white hat without spot or
blemish. Also at the Capitol.
“Look Up and Laugh”
Dickens reduced to farce by Grade
Fields and J. B. Priestley. The story
concerns the endeavors of a grasping
financier (Alfred Drayton) to oust a
number of assorted comic characters
from a market so that he can clear the
site and erect an emporium on it. Miss
Fields rejects a lucrative contract to
appear in musical-comedy in London in
order to confound the financier and
rescue her relations, who keep a music
store in the market. The music store is
a device for enabling Miss Fields to
sing a selection of cheer-up ditties, two
of which are heartening enough to raise
a smile on the face of a morgue atten-
dant. The most vital characters are Miss
Fields, who lives in her own right, and
the mayor, Robb Wilton, who is wildly
funny without being savagely unnatural.
At Hoyt’s, Melbourne.
“The Silent Passenger”
This individual is a corpse which John
Loder carries in a box to France in com-
pany with Mary Newland, with whom
he is eloping. When the Customs
authorities discover the cadaver they con-
clude that Loder doesn’t carry that sort
of luggage about with him for fun. Scot-
land Yard employs the real murderer as
a detective, and the plot becomes com-
plicated enough to inhibit any theatre-
goer from approaching his week-end
crossword puzzle with anything but a
feeling of contemptuous superiority.
There is a battle between Loder and the
murderer, during which a locomotive
rolls over them, without baneful effects
to either; and there is much more fight-
ing, in which the contestants loyally
follow the British tradition of using their
fists in sinister silence, whereas if they
had been Americans there would have
been a fine rattle of artillery. As Lord
Peter Wimsey, a Scotland Yard sleuth,
Peter Haddon raises laughs when his
diction is intelligible. Also at Hoyt’s,
Melbourne.
“Abdul the Damned”
At Sydney Mayfair. Abdul is well
played by Fritz Kortner. His Chief of
Police (Nils Asther) murders, wth Abdul’s
blessing, the leader of his own party, the
Old Turks, Proclaimed to be a Young
Turk atrocity, the incident dishes the
radicals. To save her lover, Viennese
opera-singer Therese (Adrienne Ames)
joins Abdul’s harem. Believing her lover
to have been treacherously shot, which
he wasn’t, owing to some oversight, she
swoons, calling his name. Abdul in a
burst of sentiment gives the young man
(John Stuart) his freedom and exiles
him. The young patriot returns at the
head of an insurgent army, and forces
Abdul’s abdication; the Chief of Police
comes to a sticky end, and Miss
Ames and Mr. Stuart fade out in each
other’s arms. Casting and staging are
well-nigh perfect. Esme Percy as the
Grand Eunuch gives a memorable
character sketch.
“Radio Parade”
Also at the Mayfair. Starts off with
good promise as a skit on 8.8. C.
methods, but dwindles into stereotyped
comedy with an anaemic plot. Will Hay
as the Director-General of the N.B.G.
(National Broadcasting Group) is mildly
funny, and Clifford Mollison as pro-
gramme-director works hard to extract
a few laughs.
“Stormy Weather”
Tom Walls, plus Ralph Lynn, plus
Robertson Hare, plus Yvonne Arnaud, at
Melbourne Majestic. Play by Ben
Travers. This well-known English
recipe is, in a vague sort of way, redolent
of British beef and beer, despite some in-
consequence. Walls uses his masterly way
with women to keep his broken-Russian
wife (Yvonne Arnaud) guessing while he
philanders, first with a society lady and
then with a mysterious Chinese damsel
whom he picks up in process of rescu-
ing his wife from a kidnapping former
husband, who turns out to have been a
bigamist. There is ingenuity in the way
the plot, which begins in a department
store, ends in a Chinese opium den.
Spiced with Ben Travers’s familiar rapid-
fire dialogue and some excellent comedy,
there is even some recognisable charac-
ter-drawing in it. Good entertainment.
Some First Nights
Luna Park, Sydney’s new amusement
park under the shadow of the Harbor
Bridge, has a Gargantuan feast of thrills
to offer pleasure-seekers, and opening
night found the citizenry with an appetite
to match. Though the appeal is pri-
marily to the young, it apparently holds
quite as much interest for the not-so-
young, if the sportiveness of heavy
fathers and heavier mothers is any
criterion. Chief interest centres in the
Big Dipper, and the excitement of rush-
ing headlong down precipitate valleys is
tremendous. Travellers seem to make
no bones about boarding the Ghost
Train. Goofey House is nomenclatur-
ally, if not structurally, sound, while
those who tear about in Dodgem cars
must forget traffic laws. These and a
host of other attractions await the seeker
after excitement; and the whole place,
brilliantly illuminated, wears a carnival
air which the Ma city has long lacked.
•h *i*
When “The Gondoliers” leapt lightly
from their craft on to the Piazetta at
Sydney Royal on Saturday night, a
crowded house greeted them with an
enthusiasm which did not abate through-
out the performance. In G. and S. opera
there are many numbers which cannot
be considered to be really successful un-
less the performers are recalled at least
three times —the first two repeats being
regarded as an essential part of the show.
Even reckoning on this basis there were
many encores on Saturday night. Present
co. is not as strong as some of its pre-
decessors, but the new blood promises
well. Winifred Lawson, the new leading
lady, makes her bow as Casilda. Both
her singing and speaking voices are
pleasing, and her stage bearing excellent.
Another impressive newcomer is Rich-
ard Watson. As the Grand Inquisitor
he is an imposing figure (though when
he doffs his hat he looks more like George
Washington than Torquemada), and his
fine basso is an acquisition. Godfrey
Stirling is the tenor portion of the joint-
monarchy. On Saturday he did not im-
press favorably at the start of the show,
but improved vastly, both in voice and
manner, as he warmed up. He teamed
well with Gregory Stroud, now firmly


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL KEITH WATSON WATERHOUSE,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zealand?
Publication,
Australian Writers’ Annual.
ALL CONTRIBUTIONS for this publication
must be in by OCTOBER 15. Address: The
Editor, C/o WILL LAWSON, 46 Martin
Place, Sydney.
m
(QC vCnfJxr»\
UTINE
GRAPE VINES were brought to Australia by the
First Fleet. Our pioneers, men of the stamp
of Suttor . . . Blaxland . . . John Macarthur . . .
took pride in their vineyards. They foresaw splendid
opportunities for viticulture —and their dreams are
being fulfilled. To-day our wine compares favour-
ably with that from Continental vineyards. Approxi-
mately 2,000,000 gallons were produced in N.S.W.
last year, of which 1,600,000 gallons were from the
Murrumbidgee Area. Especially notable are the
light and sparkling wines from the famous Hunter
valley and the full-bodied and fruity wines from Albury-
Corowa. Besides wine our vineyards produce ‘
delectable table-grapes and raisins. Many of the
vignerons are financed by the Rural Bank which
depends on its own resources and upon the support
and co-operation of the public for the funds that make
the credit possible.
The Bank accepts Fixed Deposits, opens cheque
accounts for all reputable persons, companies, firms,
and societies, and affords most sympathetic treatment
to all its borrowers.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 350 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President). H. ROGERS. P. KEARNS
[This is the last of six advertisements illustrated
by Quinton Davis. An attractive brochure con-
taining the complete series may be obtained on
application to the nearest branch of the Bank. J|
established in popular favor, the other
half of the republican king. Other re-
cruits who should make good are Helen
Langton (Gianetta), Eileen Kelly (Tessa)
and another little contadine who sings
very sweetly in the opening scene. Of
Ivan Menzies’s Duke of Plaza Toro it is
sufficient to say that it has lost nothing
in its two years’ absence, and has even
gained a few Charleston steps. Evelyn
Gardiner, as the Duchess, also gives a
finished performance. Chorus and
orchestra give the usual sound backing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The “House Full” notice was out at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday
night, when a packed house of first-
nighters, each with a gas balloon in his
or her hands, greeted with gurgles of
delight the sinful and sophisticated ad-
ventures of Oscar Denes, as a Grand
Turk with six divorced wives, in that
simple and unsophisticated operetta
“Ball at the Savoy.” The burly Oscar
has, as his equipment, a robust manner,
a nimble toe and a mouthful of extra-
ordinarily white and glistening teeth, and
these he uses with telling effect. The
laugh which he produces between
clenched teeth resembles nothing so
much as a burst of machine-gun fire.
His companion in mime, Nellie Barnes,
is deft, slick and dryly humorous ;
Marie Bremner is a shy buttercup of a
heroine, and Sydney Burchall is in as
good voice as ever and slightly easier in
deportment than of yore. Handsomely
upholstered and gowned regardless of
expense, the piece should occupy His
Majesty’s for some time to come.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Gregan McMahon interested a full
house at the Comedy on Saturday night
with one of the most unusual plays Mel-
bourne has seen for years. “The Old
Ladies” of Rodney Ackland, from Hugh
Walpole’s novel, contains only three
characters, women so old that they
should be past caring, though this is by
no means the case. They inhabit an old
house in Pontippy-square, and their bed-
“The Teamster,” etching by E. Warner at Anthony Horderns"
Galleries, Sydney.
rooms, one above the other and the third
at the side, are plainly visible. In the
top room dwells Agatha Payne, an old
hag who tells fortunes with cards and
whose enormous lust for power com-
bined with this simple intellectual stock-
in-trade gains her the predominance
over Lucy Amorest, a gentle and pious
soul with a missing son, and May
Beringer, a woman equipped with no-
thing but complete discouragement, a
tearing fear of everything in life and a
capacity for self-pity which makes her
whimpering over her neurotic ills
throughout the three acts almost too
much to submit an audience to. Never-
theless, the battle for supremacy which
goes on within the four walls of Pon-
tippy House was so well done that the
audience was held securely in it's grip
from first to last. The gage of battle is
a piece of amber in the possession of
Miss Beringer, and when by playing on
her superstitious fears the old harridan
on top wrests it from her grasp, she dies
of heart failure and the harridan is left
a prey to the very same superstitious
fears as she had herself evoked, the
drama reached a high plane. Though the
psychology portrayed is little more than
elementary, neither in the play nor the
presentation was there any paltering with
the central fact of the horrible helpless-
ness of old age in the face of reality.
Effie Edwards and Patricia Isles were
good, but Eileen Ragg was more— she
was superbly sinister as the old harridan.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Judas Maccabaeus,” Handel’s long
and stately oratorio on an Old Testament
theme which curiously resembles the
present situation in Abyssinia, was sung
by the Malvern Choral Society at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Saturday. Under
Herbert Davis’s baton the choir sang
splendidly, and its close alliance with the
Mitcham Musical Society and the Zel-
man Symphony Orchestra was a tribute
to the conductor’s skill, for there were
200 performers on the stage, as well as
five soloists. Seldom has more intelligent
singing been heard in local oratorio than
in the tremendously long airs allotted to
Marion Kego and Truda Russell, Edwin
Hooks and Newstead Rush. Gertrude
Johnson’s mezzo-soprano was in notable
form.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Play’s the Thing,” by Ferenc
Molnar, was not a very impressive piece
of stage architecture when it was pro-
duced under J.C.W.’s auspices at the
Melbourne Comedy. Reintroduced at St.
Peter’s Hall by the Modern Theatre last
week, it looked little better than ram-
shackle. It rests on the device of a
young man in love with a distinguished
actress overhearing a dialogue between
his fiancee and an attractive stranger, in
which the stranger offers to bite an ob-
ject described as round, smooth and in- .
expressibly beautiful. The lovelorn
young man is subsequently led to believe
that the object in question was a harm-
less peach, though there is an atmo-
sphere of uncertainty about the explana-
tion and of artificiality about the whole
situation. Ida Osbourne, Lance Nicholls
and William Clarkson gave some point
to the narrative, and Paul Hill was a
footman the dulness of whose words and
business was redeemed by a supreme
effort on the part of the actor.
“B eggars on
Hors eback,” by
George S. Kauf-
man and Marc
Connelly, the
Leonardo group’s
latest effort at Syd-
ney Savoy, is a
farce written by
Americans to be
acted by Ameri-
cans for Ameri-
cans. Done by Brit-
ishers it’s not very
effect i v e. The
players were han-
dicapped by light-
ing that obscured
their faces, but
the Shadow Show
of the last act was
admirably done.
Leading parts
were taken by
George Goffin and
Jean Mort, and the
producer was May
Hollingworth.
4* 4* 4* 4*
After the finale of Beethoven’s Ninth
subsided at Melbourne Town Hall the
conductor received an ovation few con-
ductors have received since the days of
Verbrugghen, and as Dr. von Keussler
bowed to the uproar he was possibly
thinking: “If I could rehearse this piece
and these people for another 20 years
the result might satisfy me as much as
it does the audience.” And this isn’t to
say that Beethoven’s majestic opus was
scrappily done or inadequately rehearsed,
according to local standards; the
Prague conductor had his 230 executants
at his disposal more times than is cus-
tomary. The adagio molto e cantabile
sounded something quite new and
strange, coming with the freshness of an
original creation ; the second movement
astonished by its effect of speed without
loss of subtlety, and the crisis of the last
movement, when Horace Stevens’s noble
baritone entered to supplement the work
of the orchestra and the 150 voices of
the Phil, choir, completed the picture.
But Von Keussler gives the impres-
sion of a man who is incapable of
complacency. Besides the Choral there
was Handel’s Concerto No. 10 in D
Minor, and this was fitting, because it
is almost a compendium of the music of
the nineteenth century in all its aspects.
Current Artbursts
E. Warner, who has a show of etch-
ings at Anthony Horderns’ art gallery,
draws anything in the Australian
scene in such a way that the man or
woman who knows the landscape, the
job or the sort of men and horses that
do the job says “That’s right!” Warner
is a great draughtsman and a master
of etching. Like Rembrandt, he can
get character and drama out of old
garments. In a scene depicting the
scooping of a dam there is a whole essay
in the seat of a pair of old pants. A
glimpse of a country saleyard where
sheep are being auctioned brings
nostalgia to every city-dweller who ever
lived among jumbucks. “The Teamster,”
reproduced on this page, is just a sample
of the way Warner limns the real Aus-
tralia.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In his display at Melbourne Athenaeum
Norman Macgeorge has restricted him-
self to half the available wall space. His
work shows a preference for picturesque-
ness and arrangements of gum-trees,
cows and old farmhouses suffused in the
warm light of spring sunshine. Some
of his still-life studies are tentative
approaches to modernism, but don’t con-
stitute a serious stampede from the con-
ventions. “Landscape and Cattle” is the
most successful of his present picture-
making efforts.
S.A. Society of Arts has awarded its
annual prizes to three men, all greatly
improved of late. Ivor Hele gets the
Melrose prize with a portrait of James
Ferries, a brother painter. Gilbert
Roach and Max Ragless both get awards
for landscape. At the current show, pic-
tures by the veteran James Ashton (lent
by the State Gallery) and the presi-
dent, Leslie Wilkie, were hung, laurel-
wreathed, in their memory. There is a
powerful inter-State representation, and
the Art Gallery selectors bought one by
Douglas Pratt and two by Tom Garrett.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Adelaide Society of Arts, which has
just obtained the proper authority to
put “Royal” before it's name, claims to
be the oldest of its kind in Australia. It
was founded in 1856, and held an exhi-
bition the next year.
4* 4* 4- 4*
Jessie M. Traill has been searching
Tasmania for its most beautiful old
architecture, and without laboring the
point has given as much of its charm as
can be got into water-color drawing in
her show at Kodak House, Melbourne.
Killymoon, built about 1827, and
Clarendon House, built about 1831, are
matched in grace by old mills, stables
and bridges. One Victorian example,
Avoca House stables, belongs to the same
tradition.


The
si
Waiting for You
at
“The Australia.”
The Brilliant Atmosphere; the Notable Social Life;
the Convenient Location; the World-famous Cuisine;
• and the
•NEW “BOOM-OXEN” RATES:
Single Boom from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Tclegraphic Address: “Am tract el, Sydney”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Who said that Sydney citizens preferred
their beaches to their books? Randwick
on Saturday was an emphatic denial.
Nearly seventy thousand people raced
out to a Randwick with emerald lawns
monogrammed in paler green, with roses
round the door under a tent of silky-
blue sky. There was scarcely room to
sneeze between the stands and the ring,
between the ring and the tote. Anyway,
the day was so hot and dry there were
no sneezes in the breezes. The place
was light-headed. It was like a Bucking-
ham Palace garden party multiplied by
twenty and gone a little bit mad. Frocks
were thin and flowered, thin and plain,
but always thin. Silks, muslins and linens
took their first view of the world, and
were crisp about it. Hats ranged from the
wide and pictorial to turbans, with Cos-
sack and jockey shapes in between.
Breton sailors, turned up saucerwise, sat
on every second head, and navy-blue
occurred as frequently as in H.M. ships
of the line.
Both sets of vice-regals came out for
the day, and with thousands of others
had the joy of cheering Peter Pan to yet
another victory. Lady Hore-Ruthven,
too, has succumbed to the Breton sailor.
Hers was navy, and wore a white gardenia.
Lady Isaacs wore a hat of brown satin
straw with her beige suit. Sylvia Purves,
with the Commonwealth Governor’s
party, had a good win on Synagogue.
With Sir Alexander and Lady Hore-
Ruthven were her brother, Mr. A. Pol-
lock, and Mrs. Pollock, and some more
Government House visitors who had
arrived that morning in the Niagara. One
of them, Mrs. D. O’Brien, has fair hair
and blue eyes, and with these she wore a
yellow linen suit, its wide belt carnation-
red.
Feathers are in again. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s hat was feather-trimmed and
worn with a brown-and-beige outfit. Mrs.
Jimmy Dickson flashed green and yellow
coin spots. Miss K. Egan pinned a giddy
little posy on her tailored navy. Mrs.
Tom Rolin’s hat was of palest lilac satin
straw, and was upturned all the way.
Jeanie Ranken hovered between two
stands picking winners. Another winner
was Mrs. David Maughan, one of the
day’s nicest-looking. The McKelvey lady
was among the black-clad, and very
smart. Mrs. Julian Simpson, sister Bar-
bara Knox and Mrs. Malcolm Mac-
kellar (in daffodil, with gold earrings of
old Italian design) had a busy day.
Mrs. Sam Hardy and Mrs. H. C.
Osborne were among the well-known.
Bea McDonald had a bit on brother-in-
law’s Peter Pan. Joan Badgery, all navy
and white, was with fiance Harry Guin-
ness. The Reggie Staffords, from Mudgee,
were glimpsed. Pat O’Shea, from Bris-
bane, saw his Buzzard King almost bring
home the bacon. His grey topper and
the orchids in sister Ella’s silver foxes
(the singular would never do for the
length of them) quivered with excitement.
With the O’Sheas was Mrs. Pierre
Remond. Another brace of handsome
silver fox was worn by Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern. Mrs. H. Rosenthal, from Mel-
bourne, with her spun-glass scarf, Mrs.
Jimmy Bancks, Jim Ashton’s wife and
Geoff’s, Faith Macarthur Onslow, in
hyacinth pink, and Sadie and Elise Budge
were gaze-catchers.
The end of a perfect day was the Aus-
tralian Club’s party on Saturday. A
yearly event timed to provide a spot of
cheer to punters homeward bound after
the first day of the spring meeting, it
more than fulfils its destiny. Last Satur-
day it ran true to form, and greeted its
guests with a lavishness that ran from
orchids to caviar. Only once a year
do the members allow their womenfolk
within the fold, but then they do the
handsome by them. Red carpets flow
from entrance to kerb, posies are 'pro-
vided (this year it was orchids) and trays
of cocktails, pink and white and golden,
circulate with a rapidity that is positively
dizzying.
Last Saturday’s do was, if anything,
a bit more frothy than usual. The flower
bill alone must have been a staggerer.
Tall standards of pink and red roses and
spring flowers imparted romance to bil-
liard-tables laden with savories and caviar
and bon-bons. Mantelshelves were
massed in bloom, there were waratahs
and azaleas on the stairs, there was a
band in the hall. Three of the happiest-
looking men were the Commonwealth’s
Governor, Isaac Isaacs, Spencer Brunton,
radiant over Homer’s half-win, and John
Lane Mullins. The club’s president,
General Macarthur Onslow, and his wife
received guests till they must have been
weary. Lady Hore-Ruthven looked in on
her way home. Alexander Gordon’s lady
and Mrs. David Maughan held court
among the steel engravings in the hall
and in the lounge, with its soporific easy-
chairs and sofas and outsize paintings.
Mrs. Norman McGhie and Mrs. Norris
talked golf. The Bertie Kellys, Philip
Street’s wife, Margaret Gordon, of
Manar, the banker Riddles, John Pye
and Mrs. Julian Simpson were among
the coming and going, and Lady Isaacs
went off with one of the Watteau shep-
herdesses with spreading floral skirts —
proffered by the hosts as an act of grace.
The year she left school Florrie Howard
pledged herself to help the United
Charities appeal. For over a decade the
faithful one has worked untiringly in the
cause of the red rose. But last Rose Day
saw her make her farewell bow from
the official stand in Martin-place. All
that she can do to swell the cheques for
the 96 charities that benefit she wifi still
do, but she has decided to resign from
office. The yearly carnival in Martin-
place owed much to the ability of this
social secretary whose smile never failed,
and whose interest never flagged. Arthur
Rickard watched the stands go up with
a smile on Thursday: “We got a cheque
for £BO for Barnardo last year from the
collection,” he confided. New Talma
photo.
Moire flowing behind her like a wave
of the Blue Danube, Mrs. Bertie Kelly
caused quite a ripple in the d.c. of the
Royal on Saturday as she passed to her
box. With her came her husband and
daughter-in-law Mrs. Tom Kelly, cool
and dark in green. When the curtain went
up on “The Gondoliers” and their girls
there couldn’t have been an empty seat
in the house. At five minutes to eight
down in the vestibule E. J. Tait, wearing
a newly-cropped moustache and supported
by son-in-law Jimmy Bancks and Mrs.
Jimmy, in white, watched the oncoming
tide of ermine and satin, diamonds and
pearls, and was glad that Gilbert and
Sullivan had gone into partnership. In
the middle of the dress-circle sat the vice-
regals. Lady Isaacs’s frock was in two
tones of lilac. Lady Hore-Ruthven’s be-
furred green coat was offset by Mrs.
Pollock’s black satins and golden-
haired Mrs. O’Brien’s pink-tinged taf-
fetas. Joan Marks was attractive in blue
crepes; Melba’s god-daughter, Sonia
Newell, was with Muriel Fletcher. The
Chief Justice Jordans were there, her
cloak of black and gold neighbor to Mrs.
C. L. Jones’s ermine. Nor can the first-
night Spencer Bruntons be left out of
the picture. They were at the first per-
formance of “The Gondoliers” in Sydney
40-odd years ago.
For eleven of his fourteen years
George Farrell, of Bradley’s Head, and
his violin have been inseparables.
Teacher Henry Staell now says that
George plays like a virtuoso, and all
Sydney that has heard the satin-smooth
bow pluck rich, full cadence from
the strings is in agreement, George
will give a concert in the Town Hall on
the 19th. Mrs, Stanley Vaughan, Mrs.
Florence Taylor and Mrs. Mark Foy
(the last-named gave an evening musicale
on Friday, to which she bade 200 to
hear the young violinist) are working
hard for a success that will mean study
in Europe for the Mosman boy.
A fragile little lady, the Rose de
Boheme of literary fame in the years
that the Great War bridged, was the
heroine of the Sydney Lyceum Club’s
coming-of-age party on Friday afternoon.
Members thronged round the settee on
which she held court, with a sheaf of daf-
fodils from Mrs. A. G. Thomas’s garden
at Wahroonga to hide her blushes at
posies of compliments laid at her small
feet in memory of long ago. Known to
a wide circle of friends as Madame Rose
Soley (born in Scotland and educated in
France), Rose de Boheme was the
founder of the Sydney branch of the
society which has as its overseas parent
the famous Lyceum Club in London.
They didn’t wear their skis, but their
hearts were in the right place—up amid
last winter’s snow at Kosciusko. The
ceiling of the Blaxland Galleries was
draped with white-winged blue skis, and
as the dancers at the Ski Council Ball
stepped and slid and grew clammy in the
October night they remembered that an-
other winter complete with snowdrops
was on its way. A snow run, down which
an expert garbed in blue and gold sped
like the wind to a model of the Kosci-
usko hotel, blinking with electrics, was
the middle of the square about which
the Kos. Snow Revellers’ table was built.
A film showing the amazing agility of
Austrian expert Skardarasy, who gam-
bols amid treetops and snowy chasms
even as the young hart upon the moun-
tains, was sandwiched into the night.
Since Madge Elliott’s wedding saris
have gripped the imagination. Three or
the girls at the Snow ball draped them
about their heads, and entirely failed to
look mysterious and Oriental, which was
all to the good. Pink like a baby coral
just beginning to blush lined the cape
and sash of Mary Hordern’s lagoon-blue
crepes. Helen Hughes, forsaking blue,
emerged from off-the-shoulders black
taffeta with good effect. Black moire,
very full in the skirt, was Margaret
Burns’s choice. Frocks of blue lace and
white lace gained distinction from being
worn by Reba Glenfield and Marjorie
Ridley. Colin Gilder and Carleton Kelly
entertained parties ; Felicia and Kathleen
Garvan were there, and the Sam Hor-
derns. Mrs. Ashleigh Davy, who cap-
tains the N.S.W. women’s ski team,
brought blue-and-white stripes, her hus-
band and sister Margaret Gordon to join
in the fun.
If the committee can beat up the kin-
dergartens and the infants’ schools the
Children’s Loan Exhibition should be a
great success. But on the opening day
it was mostly Middle-age came in at the
door. The attendance was not as great as
the causes —the Boys’ Brigade and the
Day Nurseries —deserve.
One end of the room is hung with
photographs of leading citizens when
small children, and these prove how the
art of the camera has advanced with the
years. There’s one of artist John Moore,
aged about three, with his hand to his
heart like a baby Hamlet. There’s a
tiny Judge Gordon, too. Beginning
Stephens and Windeyers and Fairfaxes
of 40, 50 years ago are there watching
with round eyes for the birdie to fly out.
Philip Street’s wife opened the show, and
was given support by Henry Braddon
and purple iris by Miss Fairfax, who had
the loveliest white lace bells in the sleeves
of her black dress. Mrs. F. J. Davy’s
smile worked overtime. Mrs. Toby
Browne and Mrs. Lashmar were two who
hovered about the nursery of yesterday
and its very modern sister. The George
Julius couple, the Hubert and Wilfred
Fairfax matrons, the Gordon and Owen
ladies and handsome Mrs. Tom Rolin
were among the gazers.
What would young genius do without
the Alexander Gordon lady? Not a
penny less than £6OO for Susan Davies is
her present ambition. Susan (her father
was Archdeacon Davies) has won a
scholarship, and sails in December with
her violin for London and the Royal
College of Music. But not by scholar-
ships alone does a girl live ; hence the
testimonial fund. Susan’s recital at the
Con. on Oct. 18 is expected to rake in
the £2OO still needed. After that, Joan
Hammond is to be launched. On Sunday
Joan sang at Government House for the
Governor-General and Lady Isaacs, In
the meantime a new idea is being hatched
to give the new songbird a few feathers
to fly with.
Ruth Ainsworth drops a note from
Moly Sabata, Sablons. Moly Sabata is
a large house belonging to Monsieur
Gleize, a French artist who teaches the
gospel of the simple life. Artists, musi-
cians and such who wish to live accord-
ing to these ideals can stay there free
of rent. The rambling place is on the
banks of the Rhone, and through its
barred windows the Sydney girl looks
out on the mountains, the slopes of which
are all terraced, as once the vine was
extensively cultivated on them. Anne
Dangar, who was for some years on the
staff of Julian Ashton’s school, is a
member of this artistic community, and
during Ruth’s visit was holding a show
of pottery at Serrieres near by. Every-
body lives on fruit and vegetables. Miss
Dangar grows her own vegetables, and
dessert is picked from the trees. Ruth
was teaching a young peasant girl to
weave and an old laborer was digging
a portion of the ground in exchange for
a tobacco jar when the letter was written.


Hot Stomach Acids
KILL DIGESTION
and Take All the LIFE out of you —
Get Well Again this Fast, Proven Way!
A weak spot, eating something that dis-
agrees—and food fermentation starts. Acid
comes; gas, and the delicate stomach lining
is attacked. Inflammation begins—and that
may be the beginning of the end —DIRE
ULCERATION. Apart from the pain there’s
a real risk in neglecting stomach disorder.
Get your stomach well again, and most of
your troubles end. HARRISON-MACLEAN
Stomach Powder is what you need. It's
a modern remedy, based on the work of
Prof. H. Maclean, of famous St. Thomas’s
Hospital, London. Gives relief when ordinary
Bismuth, Magnesia, Soda, and such - like
fail. Brings recovery as well as relief.
Benefits even bad cases. Get a 2/6 package
of GhNUINE Harrison-Maclean Powder from
the Chemist to-day. If any difficulty, order
from Amalgamated Laboratories, Carrington-
?■/> ,j^ dn , ey ’ . Yo . u kr ! ow you’re getting the
world s best indigestion medicine when you
'*£? ful1 name HARRISON-MACLEAN on
the black-and-red printed WHITE package
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Representative Authors. The Cream of the World’s
Tales of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price td.
32
333
i»
STARS SEA SICKNESS
ETOVAVof SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all.
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes' walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Embassy overflowed with sup-
porters of the second Broadmeadows
Ball. Last year the effort was a roomy
affair at the Palais ; this year the com-
mittee played safe, with the result that
300 dancers were eligible for admission
to the small, circular floor. At the top of
the stairs an amber bowl filled with pink
blossom and deep-red gladioli was doubly
decorative, being reflected in a mirror.
On each table were tightly-bunched posies
of grape-hyacinths and primulas, and
from each chair balloons pulled their
feathery weight upwards. Lucille Meehan
wore rose-pink with a dropped shoulder-
line and diamente straps, Eileen Crispe
was long-sleeved in chalk-white chiffon,
and Helen Skehan wore pavement-blue
and pink carnations. Connie Christie
(who did the posters advertising the ball)
was all fish-scale sequins and dangly ear-
rings. Betty Sargeant matched her blue
frock with forget-me-nots in her hair,
Mrs. Roy Cahir wore off-white lace and
violas and Molly Hedrick’s black brocade
was patterned with tiny pink flowers.
Margaret Ryan wore a black frock as
sensational as her jet-black coiffure; while
dancing she held up the floor-sweeping
skirt to display a petticoat of peacock-
blue taffeta. One bottle of champagne,
auctioned several times, brought £9 10s.
The Victoria League wound up its
series of May-to-October at-homes at a
party which took place behind drawn
blinds, for a north wind churned up dust
over the city, and plucked with hot, vicious
fingers at the tender green leaves on
Collins-street elms. Alva and Edna Hat-
tenbach and Vernon Williams provided
trio music, made more interesting by
violinist Alva’s dissertation about each
number. Standing at attention between
lift and entrance to the reception-room
were convener Mrs. Eric Watson, wearing
a white hat like a breath of summer and
a piedish frill round the neck of her
black gown ; Mrs. Humphrey Clegg, in
navy, with deep tucks running round her
cape ; Mrs. James MacDougall, swinging
a knee-length cape, and Mrs. Tunley
Todd, who relieved her navy-blue
ensemble with a foamy fichu and a touch
of pink round the crown of her cire straw
hat. Also sharing the afternoon’s respon-
sibilities were Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn and
Mrs. Ralph Webb.
Among new members were Mrs. M.
Paterson, wearing a silk frock patterned
with black and white and an ivy leaf of
lacquered ribbon on one side of her black
hat. She was accompanied by a brunette
daughter who popped a tiny black toque
ornamented with a green feather upon
her severe Eton crop. Mrs. Arthur Old-
ham had a cluster of camellias at the
neck of her black-and-white spotty frock.
Mrs. George Forsyth wore china-blue
and a quaint little envelope hat of black
velvet. Among the young folk who dis-
tributed cups and plates were Alison
Syme, in beige ripple crepe and a black
bow on her beret, Margaret Bell, in navy-
blue, red buttons and a fox fur, and
Wanda Reid, tailored in black.
The Victoria League’s rooms hummed
with activity when a special drive was
inaugurated to collect reading matter for
the Bush Library. Among the people
with heavy bundles who kept the lifts
busy throughout the day was Lady.
Huntingfield, whose parcel was filled
with all sorts of good things for hungry
minds. By the end of the afternoon the
packing bee had stacked 2000 books and
several hundred papers and magazines
into cases.
The Bush Library has grown enor-
mously. Whereas two years ago its
annual output was 7000 volumes, during
the last 12 months 17,000 books were
distributed to lonely and very grateful
settlers. Subscribers living far afield re-
ceive two parcels each year of 50 books,
and those within coo-ee of a settlement
welcome batches of 32 volumes, which
they interchange with their neighbors.
The annual subscription of 2s. 6d. helps
defray cost of postage and railage.
Parcels journey as far afield as New
Guinea and the Pacific isles, and folk
who live in isolation on lighthouses are
not forgotten. Not the least joy for these
lonely people is receiving reading matter
in clean condition. League members
work every day at headquarters mending
pages and sprucing up covers with fresh
wrappers of chintz or strong paper.
Here is Mrs, J. A. Merlo, one of the
ticket secs, for the Mercy Hospital Ball,
to be held at Earl’s Court on October
29. The Mercy was opened last Decem-
ber. It contains all the facilities of a
great public hospital for the care of the
sick poor, and all the extra comforts for
which people with money are willing to
pay. Its up-to-date plant and equipment
drew unanimous praise from overseas
B.M.A. visitors. Broothorn’s camera
snapped Mrs. Merlo.
The champion of champions, the
country women’s championship and
several other L.G.U. events kept things
busy last week at Metropolitan and Com-
monwealth. In the country champion-
ship towns beginning with W had things
all their own way ; Woodend, Warrnam-
bool, Wangaratta and Warragul got into
the semi-finals through the level play of
respective representatives Misses R. Mc-
Kenzie, Elsie Watson, Hazel Conners
and Mrs. L. Scow. After Miss McKenzie
defeated Miss Conners on the final day,
the people playing at Commonwealth
migrated across the road to Metropoli-
tan for the distribution of prizes and
Mrs. Austin Gatehouse’s party. This
year there were so many entries that
many ardent committeewomen stood
down to relieve congestion and ensure
that all players would arrive home in
daylight.
A pipe band with one drum, some of
the braw laddies in trews and others in
kilts, is always a feature of P.L.C.’s
annual garden party. But this year was
a diamond jubilee, the sixtieth year of the
college’s existence, so there were two
drums, and all the pipers sported the full
Highland regalia. While the pipers were
giving introductory exercises to drone
and chanter on the lawn the usual bunch
of small boys appeared by magic
demanding “eats.” They refused to go
away until hon. assistant sec. Hester
Hooper informed them very firmly that
there were no eats, “only speeches.”
Once more the weather gods turned
their thumbs down, and the party was
held within doors, where a crackling fire
was reflected in the school’s trophies and
spring flowers banked up the platform.
Mrs. L. S. Latham, Miss H. Hailes, Mrs.
W. Gray and Mrs. R. R. Isaacs shook
hands with everybody. Miss E. Mollison
wore a navy coat over a patterned dress.
Among the younger generations of old
collegians were the three Marshall sisters :
Ailsa Grogan, in nut-brown and a spray
of lilies-of-the-valley; Ivy Henderson,
wearing a perky halo hat; her sister Ruby,
in navy-blue ; and Louise Harris, in an
expansive taffeta hat and Arctic foxes.
Marjorie McDonald had a dash of scarlet
at her throat; so did Jess Gilbert, hers
being composed of a ninon scarf pat-
terned with white. Joan McCauley wore
a dashing little Cossack cap, and Lil Mc-
Kernan was in navy-blue and white.
Kingston Heath was very merry and
bright on Saturday when club president
Picken invited all members and asso-
ciates (plus associates on the waiting list
—indeed, an honor) to play in mixed
foursomes and come to his tea party.
Tea was an elastic sort of meal, as late-
comers were still arriving for a hot cup
at 6.15 p.m. Hugh Anderson, of Rivers-
dale, made a speech to an audience of
well over 200. Club champion Mick
Ryan (whose name adorns the score-
board every year) and Mrs. O’Byrne won
the president’s trophy, a silver salver and
mugs—split, temporarily, so that Mick
took the mugs and his partner the salver.
A pact has been made that when either
of them gives a party the other partner
will lend his or het share of the spoil.
For her marriage with Dudley Gal-
lagher in Melbourne Grammar School
chapel, Joan Oldmeadow wore dull-sur-
faced white crepe over which no veil fell
to dim the glitter of silver in the weave,
A broad band of pearls encircled her
head, and instead of a bouquet there
swung over her arm a long rope of
azaleas and lilies-of-the-valley. The
’groom’s sister, who answers to the charm-
ing old Saxon (or is it Celtic?) name of
Aldyth, was the only attendant. Her locks
were bound with myrtle, and she clasped
red roses against her lily-green gown. The
bride’s parents received the guests at a
dinner party at the Windsor.
Kathleen Stobie, who for several years
has been a most enthusiastic office-bearer
of the P.L.C. Old Collegians’ Society,
changed her name at Scots Church to
Mrs. Donald Nairn. The long-trained
bridal grown shimmered through a mesh
of tulle veil which was prevented from
floating away like a feathery cloud by a
halo of waxed orange-blossom. Escorted
down the aisle by Cecil Hooper, David
Alexander and Dr. J. R. Adam were
Enid Stobie, Bell Lawson and Betty
Nankivell, three ’maids in pale-apricot
with tulle capes flying from their
shoulders and primroses in their hands
and wreathing their hair. Afterwards
there was a gathering at No. 9.
To-night, October 9, Alberta Leder-
man (whose portrait is by Broothorn) will
repeat her Saturday performance of Mary
Stuart at the Kelvin Hall in Masefield’s
poetic drama “End and Beginning.” On
the same programme the Standard Players
will produce Gordon Bottomley’s “Sing-
ing Sands” and “The Apricot Tree,” by
Clifford Bax. Miss Lederman, who was
educated at C. of E. Grammar School,
has studied dramatic art, and has lately
become interested in verse-speaking.
For the first time a flying scholarship
has been offered to men by a woman
flier. Freda Thompson, Melbourne's
competent young aviatrix, is the donor
of the prize, open to competitors who
must be old public-school boys aged be-
tween 17 and 25. P. J. Marriott, K. V.
Robertson, E. Whitehead, Y. L. Isaacs,
D. R. Cuming and N. V. Robertson are
the six airmen selected by the Victorian
Aero Club for the final test.
The last twelve months has been an
eventful period in the lives of Alderman
and Mrs. Waugh, just returned from
abroad. When the big Dutch ’plane
flying in the centenary air race was
bogged it was hoisted out of the mud by
Albury’s inhabitants, and Alderman
Waugh, as Mayor of Albury, was publicly
thanked by the Dutch Government.
Since then the crash of the K.L.M. ’plane
has written a black page in the history
of aviation, but the tragedy did not take
the warmth out of Holland’s welcome to
the Albury pair on their visit to the land
of tulips and windmills. Alderman and
Mrs. Waugh were given a magnificent
reception; they were guests of the
K.L.M. Co., and were presented for the
duration of their stay with a car and the
services of a secretary and doctor. When
they drove through the streets bands
played “Rule, Britannia,” and crowds
cheered and even attempted an Aus-
tralian coo-ee. Queen Wilhelmina, who
had previously conferred Holland’s
highest civic honor, the Order of Oranje
Nasau, upon Alderman Waugh, enter-
tained him with his wife over an informal
cup of tea at Perth, in Scotland. Mrs.
Waugh found the queen a woman of
great charm and exceptional tact. On
behalf of the residents of Albury Aider-
man Waugh presented the Burgomaster
of Amsterdam with a bronze statuette,
the work of Paul Montford, which
symbolises the landing of the Dutch
’plane at Albury.
In the absence through illness of
president Mrs. J. Tremearne, Mayoress
of Malvern, Mrs. Frank Alway declared
open the sale of work of the Gentle-
women’s Aid Society in Malvern City
Hall. These sales are held twice a year,
and work disposed of provides a neces-
sary means of livelihood for the women
whose fingers toil over fascinating baby
garments and whose eyes ache through
the strain of fine embroidery. Owners
of work sold receive the full price quoted
for each article. Expenses are defrayed
from donations, admission tickets, etc.
Gregan McMahon has done some
rapid work with the script of “The
Simpleton of the Unexpected Isles,” which
arrived in Melbourne by air mail. This
play, which opens a season at the
Comedy on Saturday, is Shaw’s most
recent effort, and was produced for the
first time in England a few weeks ago
at the Malvern Festival.
It’s wonderful the kick people get out
of balloons. His Majesty’s was a-bob-
bing with the baubles for the premiere of
“Ball at the Savoy.” They floated aloft
from every chair, and at the beginning
of the show nobody could see the
stage until the mooring lines were short-
ened. At the final curtain there were a
shower of streamers and an “I Love
Australia” speech by Oscar Denes. In
the packed house were Mr. and Mrs.
Eugene Gorman, Mr. and Mrs. C. G.
Hoelscher (the lady in aquamarine
brocade), the Harry Bests, Dr. and Mrs.
Rowan, the E. P. Arnolds (she in mul-
berry and gold) and Lois Lathlean (her
twinkly earrings brushing the pile of her
ermine cape). Mrs. Graham Tucker
swathed herself in a black coat, and Mrs.
lan Macfarlan twisted a halo plait round
her head.
The International Club is becoming
quite frisky. It intends to run monthly
bridge parties. Until the close of the
season a quintet of hostesses —Mrs. J.
Matheson, Mrs. J. A. Merlo, Mrs. Frank
Lynch, Mrs. K. Mouy and Reba Shearer
—will organise the gatherings, the first of
which will start at 2 p.m. on the 23rd.
People who wield cards on that date will
do so in the interests of resting their
own limbs at future club gatherings.
Funds go towards furniture, and chairs
have always been at a premium.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1448 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH READ Petitioner
And WALTER FREDERICK READ Re-
spondent.
TO WALTER FREDERICK READ late of
Bribie Island, Brisbane, Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
READ has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
divorce on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
fourth day of December next, and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of September,
a.d. 1935.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
WALTER B. DONNELLY, Solicitor for
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
The Bankruptcy Act 1924-33.
IN the Court of Bankruptcy District of South
Austria
IN the Matter of Sequestration Order No. 163
of 1934.
TO EDWARD JAMES DAVIES formerly ot
Meringur in the State of Victoria Store-
keeper.
TAKE NOTICE that this Court has
appointed the time and place hereunder set out
for the hearing of a report and application by
the Official Receiver for your committal to
prison for contempt of Court made on the
ground that you have without sufficient cause
failed to attend the said Official Receiver as
required by notice dated the 29th day of March
1935 published in the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia Gazette on the 4th day of April 1935 in
the “Advertiser” newspaper on the 30th day
of March 1935 and in the Melbourne “Argus”
on the Ist day of April 1935 and failed to
make out and file with the Registrar and fur-
nish to the Official Receiver a copy of a state-
ment of your affairs in the prescribed form
verified by affidavit within seven days from the
date of the order for sequestration made against
you on the 23rd day of November 1934 AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that on the 30th
day of September 1935 this Court ordered that
the publication of this notice once in the Com-
monwealth of Australia Gazette not later than
the 11th day of October 1935 and once in
The Bulletin newspaper not later than the
said 11th day of October 1935 shall be deemed
to be service of notice of the said application
and the time and place of hearing thereof
upon you AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to attend upon the hear-
ing of and to show cause against the said
application at the Bankruptcy Court Adelaide
on Friday the 25th day of October 1935 at
10.30 a.m.
DATED this Ist day of October, 1935.
(1.5.) W. R. FORBES,
Deputy Registrar,
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 661 of 1935.
BETWEEN MATILDA PRATT Petitioner
And CHRISTIAN EDWARD PRATT Re-
spondent.
TO CHRISTIAN EDWARD PRATT late of
TAKE NOTICE that the said MATILDA
PRATT has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of your
desertion with the said Matilda Pratt AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Seventeenth day of December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-five and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 27th day of September One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. A. de B. Wachsmann, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1422 of 1935.
BETWEEN STANISLAW MIKLOSSIK Pe-
titioner
And CATHERINE MIKLOSSIK Respon-
to Catherine miklossik formerly of
23 Moore Street Moore Park.
TAKE NOTICE that the said STANISLAW
MIKLOSSIK has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of the marriage on the ground
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-fourth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A • copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fourth October, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. G. NASH, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
5 Clifford Street, Mosman. By his agent,
JOHN S. HEANEY, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN’S MIRROR
AUSTRALIA’S POPULAR WOMAN S MAGAZINE
OCTOBER 15 ISSUE ON SALE FRIDAY
NEW SERIAL
BEGGARS* ROOST
Readers will enjoy this Comedy m a Seaside Villa
THE CALL OF THE SURF
Illustrated Fashions Letter from Paris
MATRIMONY MINUS THE WASHING-UP?
LACY JUMPER WITH CROCHETED COLLAR AND CUFFS
EYES, BROWS AND LIDS
A Beauty Talk by a Film Actress
FREE PATTERN OF A JUMPER
WONDER MONOPLANE
Sixth Week of this Splendid Offer
A CHRISTMAS PRESENT FOR THE CHILDREN
Thousands have already registered. Full particulars in this issue.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Harold Broome, of Colombo, and
Captain and Mrs. C. Strue’s elder daugh-
ter Rita went into double harness at St.
George’s Cathedral. A gossamer Chan-
tilly lace veil floated from the bride’s
halo of orange-blossom buds to the hem
of her long shirred train, offshoot of mul-
tiple folds of ivory satin with full bishop
sleeves. Matron of honor Mrs. Arthur
Gratwick shirred elbow-length sleeves
into pintucked buttercup satin. Roma
Facius and Olga Strue brought up the
rear of the procession with flared frills
outlining the panels of their ice-blue
moire taffetas. The attendants’ matching
painted lilies were later parked at the
Savoy, where Mrs. Strue’s granolithic red
crepes were topped by a beaded neckline
and a small brown hat.
C.T.A. members rallied hundreds of
friends to dance ’neath rainbow streamers
at the Embassy. Mrs. E. W. Long, hold-
ing presentation roses ’gainst her silver-
checked turquoise crepes, stood next her
president husband; Mr. and Mrs. John
Praed were there, she in flag-blue moss
crepe; sec. A. Launder had his better-
half’s red, black and green floral georg-
ettes at elbow ; Mrs. Abrahams dotted
her black taffetas with gold coin spots ;
Phyllis Dale’s pastel-pink matelass<s was
silver-striped ; Mrs. J. Kenny splashed
her green matt crepes with lame, and
Merome Holt danced in lavender mous-
seline.
Silver birds fluttered round the train
of Shirley Totterdell’s creamy georgettes
when she trod the aisle of St. Andrew’s
Church to become Mrs. Cedric Turner.
Preceding her was little Gwenyth Hearn,
a Victorian maid in pink satin, forget-
me-nots and lacey Juliet cap whose eyes
were on a level with the bride’s silver
girdle, which reflected the glitter of iri-
descent leaves holding in place the filmy
tulle veil. Una Atkinson, Edith Hearn
and Mary Sherwood followed, holding
pink roses and carnations before lettuce-
green antika crepe.
Tattersall’s Club held its “at-home”
within the precincts of its walls. D.
Ireland, with Mrs. Ireland alongside,
deputised for president Lalor. The musi-
cal programme which opened the pro-
ceedings was given in the billiard-room,
arranged salon-wise with comfy chairs
and a wealth of mauve and purple stocks.
Supper was upstairs, and then there was
dancing on the balcony.
Wives of Cabinet Ministers welcomed
Mrs. S. W. Munsie and daughter Jean
with a tea party at King Edward Hotel.
Mrs. Phil Collier did the honors, her
stone-marten furs slung over royal-blue-
decked black marocains. Mrs. Munsie’s
black fox merged into black matelasse,
and red-and-white-spotted navy maro-
cains peeped from Jean’s musquash coat
Members of the women’s auxiliary of.
the R.S.L. turned down the proposal of
inviting men to the dance which wound
up the annual conference, so 300 women
took the floor for the Gay Gordons,
Alberts, gipsy tap and circular waltz,
with honors going to white heads for
erectness. Breathing space was provided
by musical items given by Mesdames
Yiend, Henderson, Webster and Jacobs,
and before supper the State president,
Mrs. J. McKinley, presented trophies
won at the recent exhibition.
Mrs. G. Farmer’s black marocains
flitted between purple pansies and sunny
nasturtiums when members of the French
Salon met at her home in Nedlands.
Madame Gelle recited, and Mrs. Alan
Ross read Albert Carres “Entr’actes.”
Broome pearler Arthur Male’s stock of
gems has been depleted by one choice
specimen. His son Tom has had it made
into a ring, now glowing on Flo Broad-
hurst’s left-hand third finger.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide has had a theatrical mar-
riage. Nancye Cocking, who played for
some months under Thring’s manage-
ment and recently appeared in the Rolls
“Vogue” co., became Mrs. Colin Stagg
at Trinity Church. The bride, a daugh-
ter of the J. M. Cockings, of Millswood,
wore cream ring velvet clinging to the
figure and merging into a train. Her
cream tulle veil was held in place by a
halo of gold lame, touches of the gold
showing in the cowl sleeves. Mrs. Clive
Chinner, her sister, was matron of honor,
gowned in parchment chiffon flowered
in carmine toning. She wore a cream
tulle, close-fitting hat with a large bow
of carmine velvet at the back, a,nd her
bouquet of roses matched in tone. The
bridegroom hails from Gippsland.
The Australian Flying Corps Asso-
ciation’s Ball at the Palais Royal, a
charity affair, was a cheery occasion.
Tables round the ballroom were arranged
with bowls of pink roses, sweet-peas or
primroses, and the pillars were massed
with mixed flowers. His Ex. and Lady
Dugan brought a party, and were re-
ceived by Dr. MacDonald Moore (presi-
dent of the association) and Mrs. Dudley
Hayward (president of the Missions to
Seamen committee). Other official
guests were Bishop Thomas and his wife,
Brigadier McFarlane, Commander and
Mrs. S. R. Symonds, Mr. and Mrs.
Murray Fowler, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Conrad, Squadron-Leader Summers and
Flight-Lieuts. Dalton and Fleming.
Shrieks of laughter came from a corner
where J. Gosse, T. E. Barr-Smith, jun.,
and A. Knapman ran a skittle alley.
Miss Carlien Davies executed lightning
sketches at another location, and there
were all sorts of bazaar stalls. Lady
Dugan’s leaf-green triple georgette fitted
to the figure and merged into a train.
With it she wore a cloak of silver lame
lined with the same green and finished
with a ruched collar. Mrs. Nutter
Thomas’s black lace had a touch of red.
Mrs. S. R. Symonds, Mrs. A. M. Cud-
more and Mrs. Kenneth Wills also chose
black.
Lovely flowers decorated the ballroom
at Urrbrae, Glen Osmond, when bridge
was played to raise funds for the Truby
King Mothercraft League. Mrs. C. L.
Wells acted as hostess, and presented the
prizes. Mrs. R. J. Best (president of the
women’s committee) and Mrs. K. Burton
arranged the afternoon.
While Dr. and Mrs. Francis Muecke
were in Adelaide, Mrs. H. B. W. Wyn-
yard gave a luncheon party for them at
her home at Waverley Ridge, Mount
Lofty, when she entertained a party of
16.
The marriage of Katherin, second
daughter of Bishop and Mrs. Nutter
Thomas, will be quietly celebrated at
the cathedral next month —the first mar-
riage of a bishop’s daughter in Adelaide
since the pioneer days of Bishop Short.
The bridegroom will be Bishop Baddeley,
of Melanesia.
TASMANIA.
The Midland Hunt Club’s at-home in
Powell’s Hall, Campbell Town, _ was
organised by Mrs. A. V. Youl with a
band of helpers. On the stage was the
image of a huntsman on a grey horse,
attended by three hounds. Supper-tables
were decorated with scarlet flowers and
green fern. The whole countryside
turned out, with contingents from Laun-
ceston and Hobart. Frocking was smart.
Lady Clark was at the Royal Naval
Reserve dance at the Imperial. At the
official supper-table were the vice-reme,
Lieut-Com. V. A. T. Ramage (District
Naval Officer), Col. and Mrs. E. M.
Williams, president Lieut. McGregor
Smith, Lieut, and Mrs. G. H. Evans and
Major and Mrs. R. H. Robinson.
Collegiate School Old Girls, with Rose-
mary Moser and Zenda Edwards as joint
secs., ran a dance at the Continental in a
red-and-white setting to put some piastres
into the building fund. Lady Clark was
there, and Hobart’s Mayor and Mayoress
gave the affair the seal of civic approval.
Hutchins’ School dance fell on the
night after Collegiate, so the young things
who were on both lists had their fill.
At the Hutchins party the head and Mrs.
Harris received the guests, and non-
dancers could play bridge or listen to
music. The gym. was the ballroom, and
school colors and spring flowers gave it
a flavor of romance.
The Bush Nursing Association engi-
neered a mannequin show, with tea and
music, in the reception-room at the Town
Hall. Mrs. Riddell Stanley acted as
announcer, and the affair was financially
and otherwise a big success.
Hobart Rep. Soc.’s junior section ran
four one-act plays in the Town Hall to
a crowded house. These affairs make an
excellent trying-out ground. The plays
were produced by Mrs. Brett, L A. B.
Foster, Aella Giblin and R. B. Richard,
the lastnamed officiating for his own play,
a promising effort.
Pat, eldest girl of the A. N. Butlers.
Thorpe, Bothwell, and W. M. Hood, son
of the Percy Hoods, Sandy Bay, announce
their engagement.


5)
Q.
%
O'
rj,
Runs Li^htm^.seven-vdlveßadio
Elec. Iron for Vs u/eek
Above is extract of a letter from
an 4 R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
"too expensive to run.”
.1// details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
I’ERTH.—Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKL A N D, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd,
Dr from the manufacturers.
MADE IJM QUEEttSLAAJD BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
VALLEV BRISBANE
INGDLA
GABARDINE
You get maximum value from Ingola
Gabardine. Trousers made from this
durable fabric keep their smart shape and
creamy colour after countless washings—
and you can’t wear out their good looks.
They are tailored to give ease and free-
dom, finished to perfection, and are j
moderate in price.
u
// :
A
•OBTAINABLE AT ALL
LEADING STORE
cn
m
sB*
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
-comz-xo>s
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
□-irZQiflf*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.,
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Melbourne.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Queensland University will
have a full-blown law faculty next year,
to be known as the T. C. Beirne Law-
School in memory of a £20,000 gift, sup-
plementing a previous donation by Miss
Kate Garrick. Applications are being
called throughout the Empire to fill the
professorship.
* * * *
“Gain”: One part of the N.T., which
is “the home of beef,” is enjoying the
unusual sensation of buying its steak
cheap. The two butchers on the Tennant
have a meat war in progress, and where
choice cuts were 10d. a pound a few
weeks since they are now 4d., with bones
thrown in. Even that would make an
old-timer inclined to rage. Only a few
years ago anyone could call at most
N.T. stations and get a few pounds of
bullock for the asking.
* >l< >1:
“Kent Street”; In Marborough (Q.),
which is well above Twenty-eight, a
juvenile of 84 has raised a storm by go-
ing to an industrial magistrate and get-
ting permission to work for £2 a week as
a coachmaker. The local union believes
that permits of that sort should not be
granted and, at any rate, that the old
chap is sprighty enough to earn a full
wage. If it gets its way, there will be one
more old-age pensioner. It reminds me
of another oldster of the same region
who insists on living, at 81, in a secluded
seaside house which he has built himself,
together with all its furniture and a radio,
rather than with his family in a city,
where, he says, “there is too much mis-
chief for a man to get into.”
* * * *
“lludjera”: Young Ben Nicker - —he
must be all of 19—has found a tinfield,
and those who know young Ben will re-
joice. His father, “Old Sam,” was a boss
hawker in western Queensland, trading
up and down the shearing and droving
routes with his waggonette over stages
which were sometimes dry for 40 miles.
Stations welcomed him everywhere with
his stock of gaudy silks, tough galateas,
moleskins, buttons, scissors and pocket
knives. When he made a little money, he
took his family inland on to the O.T. line,
and there I last saw him 10 years ago, a
sturdy, jolly old chap, tending Ryan’s well
and raising a few cattle. Young Ben was
brought up a real Centralian. He is well
educated according to the tenets of two
civilisations. Among the Aruntas he is
a polished scholar full of the lore of the
tribes, speaking the language like a native
and unsurpassed in bushcraft and know-
ledge of natural history. Among whites
he is a thoughtful, quiet-spoken young-
ster, always in demand when somebody
is lost. He has been accustomed to make
long journeys across the bush alone
from the days when he became able to
swing himself across a horse. And that
tinfield has been his dream almost since
he could first walk.
* * sjt Jje
“Zedo”: The Kennedy Stock Owners’
Association (N.Q.) is advertising a splen-
did opportunity for young devotees of
Zane Grey. There is £5O reward for
securing the committal of persons sus-
pected of stock duffing or killing, or of
having suspected hides and beef in posses-
sion ; another £4OO for a conviction.
Thirty graziers are specified as possible
victims. The only trouble the sleuth will
have is to catch his duffer. For 60 years
the North has been trying to find a for-
mula for doing that without success.
* * * *
“Old Tracker”: S. Australian Germans
are to be rewarded for their loyalty by
a return to old town names. Hergott was
changed to Marree, but the new moniker
was never valid with old hands of the
camel-team days. Hergott has become a
quiet, prosaic sort of place since the rail
went through, but in an earlier day no
terminus could show a greater variety of
human and animal. Once an ancient
drover from the Diamantina paid it a visit
and waited to get his stock watered. There
were several outfits in the queue before
him. First, a teamster gave his horses a
drink. Then came a ’Ghan with his
camels. Then a mob of bullocks from
the Alberga weighed in, next a donk
outfit from the Powell and, finally, a
local with his goats. The old man
watched the procession with patience
and then roared for his black boy,
“Find me a blanky tree,” he yelled;
“You marry me an I give you le farm when Le old man dies.”
“But your father hasn't got a farm, Hori.”
“I know. But yours has.”
“they’ll be bringing on the lions and
tigers next.” It was a Hergott catch-cry
for years.
* * * *
“Walliew”: Comparisons are at times
ludicrous. Reading of the Silver Jubilee’s
average of 70 m.p.h. in the 268-mile run
from London to Newcastle and the
London-Bath (106 miles) average of 71
m.p.h., I was reminded of the N.Q.
“record”—Townsville-Charters Towers,
82 miles (over level country and a few
miles of range) in 11 hours. Such is the
world of speed we live in.
* * * *
“X.T.”; The Queensland railways have
received a bad advertisement through the
decision of the G.P.O. to establish a road-
mail service between Brisbane and
Toowoomba. It will run parallel with
the railway line, which hitherto has
carried the whole of the Downs and
s.-western postal traffic. The G.P.O. has
discovered that to post mail at 4.45 p.m.
and have it delivered at the railway
station 104 miles away at 12.10 p.m. next
day is a bit tardy. Its road service will
allow letters to be posted six and a half
hours later and delivered six hours
earlier than under the train-mail
system. The Gympie-Toowoomba mail
will have 17 hours cut off the schedule,
and intermediate town routes also will
be speeded up.
* * * =s=
“Fitzroy”: In H. A. Kellow, for 23 years
“the boss” of Rockhampton Grammar
School, Queensland lost a rare scholar.
Harraps have published his Practical
Training in English, Burns and His
Poetry, A Treasury of Scottish Verse and
Queensland Poets. Kellow was a Glas-
gow graduate—firsts in English and
Moral Philosophy. Five hundred old
boys walked at his funeral.
* * * *
“Lex”; Queensland Parliament had its
excitements last week. While arbitration
was being debated a lady from the quiet
North Coast district of Yandina began
to shower members with pamphlets. Mes-
sengers sent to point out that this was
a breach of Article 12 or something of
the Standing Orders discovered that she
had chained herself to the grille, a sub-
stantial contraption erected in the days
when iron was cheap. Police were then
called in to apply sanctions, but the lady,
uttering no word, put up such a good
fight that Mr. Godfrey Morgan cried
out for more police. Eventually, the in-
truder was escorted out of the gallery by
Mr. H. F. Walker, whom she opposed
at the last election as an Independent
candidate. She and her husband are
apparently among the many who in-
vested all their little capital on the North
Coast during the days of boom prices
before the depression. She had met
difficulty with the State Agricultural
Bank, and desired to protest that 11 years
of the struggle had not sapped their will
to succeed, and that they should have
another 15 years in which to make good.
If she does her farming as thoroughly as
her propaganda, she seems to deserve a
chance.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Everil Trude and Betty Douglas, two
October brides, are doing the usual social
round—teas and tennis parties, picture
parties and cocktail hours. Mrs. M. G.
Hayman and daughter Nell were host-
esses for both brides-to-be.
The W. A. Scotts and daughters Mary
and Doris, who are coming home on the
Orsova, have had a lovely time, Mary
and Doris went to Belgium, where they
were entertained by the Princesse de
Ligne and given gold forks with which
to eat their cake. They also saw the
Brussels exhibition and did some mild
mountaineering in Switzerland. Then
Doris went canoeing down the Moselle
with a party of friends, and finished up
with a walk through the Austrian Tyrol,
while Mary rejoined the parents in Eng-
land and shared a seven weeks’ motor
tour of England and Scotland with them.
When Nancy Iliff marries R. Gregory
on November 14 Lorna Mackay and
Sally Gregory will ’maid for her.
The R. E. Nixon Smiths, Mrs. Tom
Hunter and Betty Fewings, who are com-
ing home in the Bendigo, have been
travelling round Europe, visiting the
battlefields, looking in at the .Folies
Bergere and other well-known tourist
resorts, and hopping into ’planes when-
ever they wanted to shift camp. Zurich
will linger in their memories, for every
time they had a bath it cost them two
francs.
Margaret Ryder and lan Armstrong
have decided to have their wedding in
St. John’s Cathedral on October 15.
At last we know what is going to be
done with the Darnell Fund. The trus-
tees are to sock £lO,OOO away, and the
balance of £5OOO will be spent, as oppor-
tunity offers, in buying up representative
pictures in London. Let’s hope some of
it will go to buy the works of Australian
artists.
The T. A. Currys, before they parked
their suitcases on the Ormonde, gave an
afternoon-tea at Rowe’s to a number of
friends. Sweet-peas and roses were on
the tables.
The pavilion of the New Farm Bowl-
ing Club makes an ideal setting for a
dance, with the velvet smooth lawns all
round and the river sparkling magically
in the foreground. Cecile and Betty
Vaughan, assisted by their mother, Mrs.
R. W. Vaughan, entertained a lot of the
younger-setters at a cheery dance there.
Over 100 guests clustered into the small
town of Texas for the wedding of Wil-
frid Lees and Joan Jennings. Mr. and
Mrs. Lees did the 200-mile journey to
see son married, and a host of other
Brisbane folk were there, too.
If you are president of an aero club
it is a simple thing to entertain guests.
Just provide them with a chair and after-
noon-tea, and the members of the club
will compete in air races, do acrobatics
and show the uninitiated how very easy
gliding is. That is what happened when
G. E. Johnson, president of the Brisbane
Aero Club, gave a big at-home. His
guests enjoyed every minute of their stay.
The Viennese choirboys have had a
royal time in Brisbane. Lady Wilson
and Miss Marjorie had them out at Gov-
ernment House, and looked after the
youngsters themselves. The Musical
Association of Queensland also enter-
tained the boys, and Dr. Dailey Scarlett
and hon. sec. Victoria Blakey saw to it
that the youthful guests weren’t bored. A
civic reception at which members of the
Budapest string quartet were present
was another item in the week’s parties.
Russell Roberts, manager of Station
4BC, and Dorothy Stone, also well
known over the air, were married a few
days ago, and, rather unusually, the re-
ception was held in the home in which
they will live. Masses of lupins and
sweet-peas' and stocks decked the
reception-rooms, and the bride looked
handsome in her silver-grey drapings and
picture hat of powder-blue.
Over 40 guests went along to the
bridge-tea given by Mrs. Elizabeth Drew
at McWhirters’ cafe. When four o’clock
came, and the teacups began to rattle the
guests deserted the little green tables for
a large horseshoe-shaped board massed
with spring flowers.


APPL'D
Atiockwithout
A DIAL IS LIKE...
A FEN WITHOUT A
.WORD
GAUGE
The CONKLIN
Nozac W ord
Gauge Pen
Tells the writer at a
glance about how
many words he has
written and how many
more he can write
without refilling the
pen.
It is the only sackless
pen that is filled by
the positive mechanical
action of a new filling
device that Winds
Like a Watch.”
Regular Size 30/-
Models write over
5000 words and the
large size, 40/-, over
7000 words.
Available in Black,
Red Pearl and Green
Pearl.
Pencils to Match at
25/-
From all Stationers,
Jewellers and Depart-
mental Stores.
(R zautu
(PleprihcMfn L
to keep your car looking young
sews
BTC
ffl"
HERE’S a beauty treat-
ment, costing only a
few shillings, that will
restore the youthful looks
you were once so proud
of in your car. Why
drive a shabby car when
these three “Duco”
Specialties for the
motorist cost so little
and accomplish so
much?
HSIIOd 9 HI NWild
xovia dfi-Honoi
9NISS3UQ dOlOinW
Products of British Australian Lead Pty., Ltd.,
makers of famous “Dulux” Finishes and Duco Lacquers,
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Man’s Mischievous Mind!
“Most Of Us Are Our Own Worst
Enemies,” says Psychologist.
Complex as life may seem, some men find it
simple yet exhilarating. Though blessed wit
no remarkable ability, they snap with a grt
—the shackles which hold abler men back.
They revel in responsibilities and constantly
reach out for more. Confident of success,
they are seldom disappointed. Possessed ot
unflagging energy, they are gluttons for work
—and yet find time enough for play.
m
Shelley Castle.
“But the vast major-
ity,” says Mr. Shelley
Castle, founder of the
new commonsense psy-
chology movement
which is exciting such
widespread interest,
“are, literally, their own
arch-enemies. Out of
sheer self-mistrust they
refuse even to try one-
half the things they
could easily and suc-
cessfully accomplish.
Unconscious victims ot
their own mischievous
misgivings, they instinc-
tively recoil from shoul-
deiring responsibility,
shudder at the thought
of exercising authority, and remain cramped and
rut-bound in some humdrum, soul-destroying
job which they know, deep down in their hearts,
is as unworthy of them as it is devoid of scope.
Their prudence is their own undoing, hmerson
hits the nail on the head in his decree that
‘Self-trust is the first secret of success.
A limited edition of Mr. Castle s latest work,
“The Great Discovery,” has been published for
free circulation. It explains many of life s
most vital issues with unusual clarity. How to
cultivate self-confidence, conquer nervousness,
anxiety and indecision; how to utilise ALL youi
resources, make your mind more effecti\e and
increase your earning capacity; how to culti-
vate an appealing personality and maintain
health, youth and driving power, are but a few
of the points dealt with. “The Great Dis-
covery” is obtainable quite free of charge or
obligation, and our readers are urged to secure
their copy immediately, before supplies are
exhausted, by sending their name and address
to Mr. Shelley Castle (Suite 537), Castle House,
Jackson’s Lane, London, N.6, England.
A Good Timber-camp Yarn:—
THE HARD HARD
DRIVER
By ROY DECOQUE
BILL HOWLAND'S arrival was un-
heralded. A cloud of dust on the
main road to Lumbervale material-
ised into a bullock team driven by a
middle-aged man lolling on a taffy pony,
a blue cattle bitch perched on top of a
loaded waggon his only companion.
Ten minutes’ negotiation, and Regan,
owner of the Lumbervale mill, had en-
gaged a new teamster. As a good judge
of men, it piqued Regan that he could
not immediately size up his new find.
Dark to a point that suggested a touch
of the tarbrush in his ancestry, How-
land’s unwinking eyes never left the
other’s during their yarn, a disconcert-
ing stare that seemed to absorb every-
thing and disclose nothing. Except that
he had come from over the border, the
swarthy newcomer offered no informa-
tion. Squatting on his haunches in the
thick dust, he looked carefully at the
road map Regan had drawn with a stick ;
then his gaze wandered to another bul-
lock team idly chewing the cud in the
milliard.
“That there team could do with a
good feed,” he said.
“It’s very dry round here,” Regan in-
formed him. “That’s Rusty Thompson’s
team. He looks after them like children,
but they’re falling away a little. Rusty
is worried: he’s reduced the size of his
load, and doesn’t take them out every
day either. That team of yours is in great
nick. You’ll find it difficult to keep
that condition on them here.”
“Not me,” Howland contradicted
flatly. “I hand-feeds mine. Got enough
chaff on the waggon to last a month
and a lot more ordered ahead. I reckon
we’re in f’r a drought. Chaff bloke I
deals orf in the Riverina reckons we
ain’t; sold me a heap o’ feed reasonable,
me t’ take a truck or two a month.
Maybe he’s right; maybe I’m right.
Don’t matter, anyways, as I wants the
chaff, drought or no drought.”
Regan looked at the waggon curiously.
So that was what the load consisted of?
Chaff. He had often seen bullock
teams hand-fed in bad times to keep
them alive, but he had never come in
contact before with a man who hand-
fed a working team as a matter of policy.
“I feeds mine hard and I works ’em
hard,” Howland went on. “I’ll get inter
the logs day after ter-morrow and soon
have a cheque that’ll surprise y’ . . . I’ll
get y’ t’ send it away fr feed. You’d
back a man fr a truck er two if he run
short, I suppose?” he inquired idly.
“Yes,” agreed Regan instantly.
For the first time Bill Howland showed
he could smile.
“I won’t run short,” he said. “Don’t
be afraid o’ that.”
Across the yard Rusty Thompson had
taken his two leaders to snig a log for
Regan, and the new teamster watched
the operation with professional interest.
The job finished, Rusty unhooked the
chain, and without a word to the animals
turned on his heel and made in the direc-
tion of the two men. Instantly the bul-
locks followed, winding in and out of a
labyrinth of logs.
“Rusty thinks the world of those two
roan leaders,” Regan advised.
Bill Howland registered amused con-
tempt.
“Just like a coupler big dawgs,” he
drawled. “Looks more like circus beasts
than working bullocks. I don’t hold with
coddlin’ bullocks and pettin’ ’em —
they ain’t meant f’r it. A man can make
a mate outer a horse or a dawg, but
bullocks” ... he shook his dark head
disparagingly. “I feeds mine hard and I
drives ’em hard . . . That’s me.”
RUSTY Thompson, drawing near, had
heard. His usually placid blue eyes
narrowed as he took a good view of the
stranger’s team, and realised that they
were in much better condition than his.
“Howland here hand-feeds his bullocks.
Rusty.” Regan spoke genially.
Slowly red-headed Thompson turned
his gaze full on Howland. Blue eyes and
brown eyes clashed. The overheard re-
mark still rankled with Rusty, but could
not explain the utter lack of cordiality
on both faces. It was just another case
of two men deciding on sight that they
didn’t like each other.
“Hand-feeds ’em.” Thompson spoke
slowly, deliberately. “I don’t believe in
coddlin’ me team —or pettin’ ’em. I
reckons me bullocks is there t’ work 1 1
me, not me f’r me bullocks’
Regan laughed. Bill Howland, squat-
ting in the dust, aimlessly drew a line
with a twig. Then he looked up.
“Maybe y’ fancies them leaders o
yours,” he drawled. His tone became
aggressive. “I’ll back my pair t' scratch-
pull ’em f’r a tenner. Or maybe y’ likes
y’r whole team agen mine? I’ll race
y’ ten mile with two thousand feet o’
logs up —the fastest time in t’ win.
Coddlin’! I feeds mine hard and I drives
’em hard, and I got money t’ say my
way’s best.”
Rusty Thompson’s expression grew
darker. With his team in tiptop condi-
tion he would have found it hard to resist
the challenge, but commonsense told him
that they would have little chance at
present with Howland’s superbly-condi-
tioned beasts. “I’ll think on it,” he tem-
porised. “An’ I’ll be gettin’ along now.
Gee, Baldy. Gee, Spanker.”
REGAN was sorry the two bullockies
didn’t hit it off. He had in mind that
they might work together, although after
one week he realised that such an
arrangement was impossible. Bill How-
land —Black Bill to Lumbervale now —
drove his team at a pace that Thompson
simply couldn’t understand, at a speed
that Rusty, with thoughtful eyes on his
bullocks’ condition, absolutely refused to
emulate. Besides, Black Bill’s team was
corralled and lined up at a hollow log
serving for a manger, just like a team
of horses; he was invariably well on his
way to the forest while Rusty was still
riding round searching for his beasts.
A great advantage to the hand-feeder,
this, Regan conceded, but he shook his
head dubiously when at the end of the
month Howland instructed him to send
the whole of his haulage cheque away in
payment for chaff. What Rusty earned
was all profit, but no one knew how
much of the cheque Howland’s bullocks
had eaten.
The animosity between the two bul-
lockies grew. They never missed a chance
to dig at each other. Howland went on
his lone way drawing huge and regular
loads, varying the monotony of hard toil
by occasional visits to the Sluicers’ Arms.
After each visit the local men found that
they knew exactly as much about Black
Bill as they had known before —nothing.
It was quite by chance that Regan
and the Forester, on their monthly visit
to the bush for royalty purposes, were un-
invited guests at the spectacle of How-
land making a holy show of the team
Rusty was so proud of. Black Bill, for
once, had been very late in getting his
load, and was driving extra fast to get
back home in reasonable time. Halt-
way he caught up with Rusty Thompson,
plodding along millwards. It was only
a narrow log road, but Rusty could easily
have picked a spot where he could have
drawn to one side and let the faster team
through. Latent animosity prompted him
to stick to the road, as was his undoubted
right: possibly he would have drawn
aside at Howland’s request, but the same
feeling barred Black Bill’s asking even
such a simple favor.
Regan and the Forester grasped the
situation at a glance when from a sudden
rise they came into full view of the
comedy. Perhaps the honor of the en-
counter would have gone to Rusty if
the Forester hadn’t laughed heartily at
Black Bill’s discomfiture.
Black Bill Howland turned his team
straight off the road into the hop scrub
and virgin bush, his obvious intention
being to drive right past the team that
had challenged his progress, a team pull-
ing on a good, hard road. The two spec-
tators, practical men of the bush, watched,
enthralled. They had never seen bul-
locks driven to the limit Black Bill was
exacting, or a whip wielded so. The
Forester, a lover of animals, squirmed.
Howland was literally cutting pieces out
of his beasts as, with wheels a foot deep
in the forest mould, he forced the bul-
locks straight through the tangle of scrub
and wattle, round, and even over, logs,
chancing whether they would prove rotten
enough to crumble as the ponderous
waggon reached them. It was inhuman
driving, but without doubt Black Bill
was gaining.
Rusty Thompson knew it. Ahead lay
a stony ridge on Howland’s side of the
road. No bullocks living could race a
loaded waggon over such an obstacle. If
he could cut the other team off before
reaching that ridge Black Bill was van-
quished, and would have to pull in
behind again. Rusty, too, was plying
the whip now, but it fell on the bullocks
like a caress, in comparison with the pun-
ishment Howland was relentlessly deal-
ing out to his lot. And Black Bill won
out. Fifty yards before the ridge, he
called for a last super-effort from his
team, and turned them again on to the
log road —in front of Rusty Thompson.
“What y’ think o’ my team, eh?”
The teamster’s dark eyes were flashing
with malignant triumph as he passed
Regan. “I told y’ I fed ’em hard and
drove ’em hard. What d’ y’ think of em,
eh? And what d’ y’ think of them crocks
bciclc
The Forester smiled, but Regan had
become thoughtful. He, was watching
the approach of the outclassed team . . .
and the driver. He knew Rusty’s pride in
his beasts, and knew that the shame of
the happening would be doubled because
of the accident of the Forester’s presence.
“There’s a study in opposites for you.”
The Forester spoke with deep interest.


s -igim
0
/
iliwi
*
I
mmmm
:
uoawSSoi
r
❖
" IVc cordially invite you,
through our dealer organisa-
tion, to make your own test ofV-8
Truck Performance. If you are
interested in truck equipment, your
Ford dealer will arrange, at your
request,- an ‘‘on - the - job ” test with
your own loads over your own
roads. This service is free and
without obligation.
L FORD MOTOR COMPANY A
OF AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
w*
m
mm
■ ;
mm
V-8 TRUCK FEATURES:
Full-Floaxing Rear Axle
The most dependable and accessible
type of truck axle construction. Axle
shafts have only one function which
is to turn the wheels—load is carried
directly on the heavy axle housing.
Straddle - Mounted Pinion.
The driving pinion is straddle-mounted
between heavy-duty roller bearings,
and the ring gear is backed by a
bronze thrust-plate. This exclusive
design ensures constant ring gear and
pinion alignment under all conditions.
New Truck-Type Clutch.
The new clutch which utilises centri-
fugal force added to a fixed spring
pressure makes disengagement easier
at idling speeds, and provides increase
in pressure as the engine speed
increases. This design ensures maxi-
mum resistance to clutch slippage.
Handsome Coupe-Type Cab.
New Front-End Assembly.
Improved Cooling System.
New Quick-Stopping Brakes
Crank-Case Ventilation.
EQUIPMENT INCLUDES
Safety Glass Windscreen
Oil-Bath Air Cleaner.
Front Bumper
Without Extra Cost.
m
'
Your Ford Dealer invites you to
*“TRY BEFORE YOU BUY”
The surest and most convincing test of a truck is your own
lest. The experience of others is important, but what you
really want to know is “What will it do for me?”
So confident is your Ford Dealer of the superior performance
and economy of the V-8 Truck engine that he will gladly
arrange an “on-the-job” test, if you are in the market for
a new unit. Get in touch with him ... try the suitable V-8
Truck with your own loads —over your own roads. Let your
own personal experience show you that a Ford V-8 Truck
will save time and money.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY —Factory production is now able to
cope with ever-increasing sales and immediate delivery of Ford
V-8 Trucks can be arranged. Easy purchase terms are available.
A PRODUCT OF THE BRITISH EMPIRI
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD (Incorporated in Victoria)
F24.30.C
“I’ve known Rusty for years, and never
met a man who took greater care of his
team or more pride in them. He’d break
his heart if anything happened to those
two roan leaders. Bullocks are Rusty’s
working pals. But the other man. Proud
of his team, too, but only of what he
can make them do ; how they can live
up to his saying ‘I feed ’em hard and 1
work ’em hard.’ Howland would be
quite likely to kill a bullock where it
stood if it failed him.”
“Some day those two are going to have
a ding-dong set-to,” said Regan quietly.
“It only requires a legitimate excuse
now.”
And quite unwittingly Regan himselt
supplied it.
T HE drought in the mountains became
* acute, worse than the oldest local
could remember. All green feed gave
out, and even the hop scrub that served
the bullocks at a pinch wilted till it
looked like dried tobacco-leaves. Rusty,
improvident as most teamsters, had made
no provision for such a catastrophe: he
trusted in the coming of rain until it was
too late to rectify the position and fodder
was unprocurable. Rusty took his team
off the road and turned them out; they
might eke out an existence on the feed
available, but they certainly could not
work on it.
But Howland, who had predicted the
drought and stocked up with chaff
against its coming, hauled on untroubled ;
in fact, happy, for naturally the price for
bringing in the logs soared. He had
taken over an abandoned selection right
next to Rusty Thompson, and got a lot ot
amusement as his neighbor could be seen
watching Howland’s bullocks daily eat
their fill at their hollow-log manger.
Childlike, in such close proximity, the
two men caused each other many petty
annoyances, but as yet no excuse for a
really man-sized row had offered itself.
Then one afternoon Regan strolled
across to yarn with Black Bill as he un-
loaded at the mill. The teamster, work-
ing with a crowbar to roll the logs off,
paused. “I seen three o’ Rusty Thomp-
son’s crack team t’day,” he said mali-
ciously ; “you could damn’ near see right
through ’em. I seen another one of ’em
dead in Stony Gully yesterday. Funny
thing, though, I ain’t ever set eyes on
them circus leaders o’ his —the roans.
Y‘re goin’ t’ be mighty short of logs
waitin’ f’r Rusty t’ haul agen.” He laughed
hoarsely.
“Terrible hard man you like to be
thought, Bill,” Regan said softly—“a hard,
hard driver, eh? And yet as I passed
your place yesterday I saw Rusty Thomp-
son driving his cart away loaded up with
your precious chaff. He didn’t see me ;
just as well, as Td have chiacked him if
I’d caught up. Oh, yes, terrible hard man
you are, Bill” He broke off, warned
by the other’s face that something was
wrong.
“Leavin’ my place loaded with my
chaff.” Black Bill’s voice was non-com-
mittal as he strained on the bar, causing
the logs to start rolling and Regan to
jump aside. The bullocks knew their
master was in a hurry to get home that
afternoon. His whip started to crack
when they started, and hardly ceased
until they were there. Black Bill un-
yoked, and, still carrying the bullock-
whip, strode over to Rusty Thompson’s.
He came upon the rival teamster lean-
ing listlessly against the barn.
“Y* blarsted thief. Thank y’r stars,
Rusty Thompson, that I has no truck
with the police—that I deals with a thing
like you meself.”
He grasped the big whip firmly, hesi-
tated a moment, then took a step forward
and threw open the big door. For a full
half-minute Black Bill gazed, and when
he turned his face was expressionless.
“So that’s why I didn’t see y’r roan
leaders,” he drawled softly; “y’ been
hand-feedin’ '’em here ... on my chaff.
Thompson, where I was reared a man
was taught he must starve afore he stole
even a feed. But”—he turned again to
glance at the roans —“I blames no man
f’r stealin’ a feed f’r a hungry beast,
Thompson. I come over t’ cut bits out
o’ y’, but I didn’t see right on it . . . till
1 got an eyeful of them starved leaders
y’ thinks so much of.”
Black Bill turned abruptly, and was off
before Rusty, slow-witted at any time,
had time to frame a reply.
At the gate he wheeled.
“No more of it, mind y’, Thompson ;
no more o’ y’ pinchin’ me chaff. But I’ll
save y’r circus leaders f’r y’ . , . send ’em
over t’ feed in the yard with mine. I’ll
be seein’ y’ agen, Rusty Thompson . . .
1 likes a man with guts.”
Another Yarn by the Humor Competition Winner:-
JUST LIKE A DREAM.
By
A.C. HEADLEY.
THIS is the story of Skinny Hazlit,
his partner and the stuff that dreams
are made on. In the great tragedy
1 lost fifty-three friends from whom I
had begged and borrowed, and twenty
who insisted that I had performed the
third adjunct to that trinity. But what
was worse even than that, I saw two
hundred quid, deposited in the local
branch of the “Savings” to the credit of
Skinny Hazlit’s partner, vanish without
trace. I was Skinny Hazlit’s partner.
There have been millions of yarns
woven around dreams. You read them
everywhere, and they’ve all been woven:
you can’t do anything else with a dream
story except weave it. Sometimes it’s a
horse. Someone dreams it, backs it and
it wins or loses, or someone dreams it
and doesn’t back it arid it loses or wins.
As a matter of fact, it was a horse in
this case.
At the time of the first manifestation,
if that’s what you’d call it, I was man-
aging Skinny and turning his natural re-
sources into profitable enterprise. A
seventy-five-twenty-five basis, with the
big end sliding into my pocket, doing the
rural towns with a bearded-lady act.
Madame Thbra, absolutely and positively
the only act of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere. Skinny was Madame Thora.
To say the least of it, he was in the first
flight of the hirsute feminine. The beard,
which had taken him three months to
grow, and his voice were the chief in-
gredients of our stock-in-trade. Skinny’s
voice had given up the idea of trying to
jump the hurdle and had settled down
on the wrong side. That voice of his!
Often enough I’ve been thrown out of
boarding-houses for entertaining a lady
in the small hours of the morning.
Mind you, there was no trickery about
the business. If we took the coin we
gave them something of value in
exchange. Education, entertainment,
amusement and a healthy interest in the
mysteries of life. Why, the wisecracks 1
used to bellow through a megaphone out
front were well worth the price ol: ad-
mission. About forty of the locals
would plump down the six pennies they’d
thieved from the egg money and go inside
just to prove to themselves that the tent
wasn’t empty.
BUT to get back to dreams. One
morning I woke up to see Skinny sit-
ting up in bed and gazing at me with a
queer look in his eye. For a moment I
had an idea that he might have been
counting the people who entered the
tent the night before, and had noticed
a discrepancy in the accounts. Maybe
there was. Anyone is likely to make a
mistake once in a while. But it wasn’t
that this time,
“Listen, Bill,” he said very slow, as
if he was trying to tell me that my rich
uncle had died and left all his money
to the dogs’ home, “I had a dream.”
“I’ve had millions,” said I.
“Listen, Bill.”
It always sounded funny to me, that
soprano voice, slipping out from that
big bundle of superfluous. If sounded
even funnier this morning, him sitting
there with that queer look in his eyes
and saying “Listen, Bill.” I pulled the
blanket up round my shoulders and sat up.
“What’s on your mind, lady fair?”
said I.
Skinny took a swallow before he
answered.
“Listen, Bill,” he said with the same
foul tidings-of-great-woe note in his
voice, “I just dreamed the winner of
the Flying. Listen, Bill, how much
money have we got?”
“Shave off the beard,” said I, “and
I’ll put you in the teacup-reading depart-
ment.”
Skinny frowned.
“It ain’t a joke, Bill,” he said. “I seen
it all as clear as day. Numbers in the
box and everything. I tell you this horse
had the race won by a mile.”
“What horse?”
(Continued on next page.)


SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY/ LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
■w
N
i-
■
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
ImtulumSiiMauwiilmnlm
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
tfc The Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
BE
M
m
MM1
.
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6; with guard, 167-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Stronglv-made, grained leather ease free with each iazor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., Jin. and |in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 634 George Street. Sydney.
f 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keot in order for two
years free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
Skinny licked his lips, climbed out of
bed, opened the door to have a look in
the passage, walked to the window and
then came back to the bed.
“Arbiter,” he whispered.
I’m supposed to have a good poker
face, but 1 didn’t have, not then.
“Arbiter?” I squawked —“a thing like
that. You’re not right in the head.
Arbiter—it wouldn’t have only an out-
side chance against -the loser of the
Hare and Tortoise Derby. You could
grow a beard quicker than it could cover
three furlongs.”
“But I dreamed it.”
“Forget it,” said I. “I once dreamed
I was the King of England.”
Skinny wrinkled his forehead again.
“Listen, Bill,” he said, “this is dif-
ferent. I saw it so clear. I’m on the
course, see? The horses are just bein’
called into line. There’s one I likes the
look of. Number eight—Arbiter. I tell
you, Bill, the race was a shame. He
scoots straight to the front an’ stays
there. Listen, Bill, I got everything—
price an’ all. Thirty-three to one—l see
it as plain as day, as plain as the nose
on your face. It’s our chance, Bill. We
gotta take it.”
“Another time,” said I, “I dreamt I
was a millionaire.”
“Listen, Bill,” said Skinny, “you know
more about horses than me. Is Arbiter
a grey?”
“You guessed it in one,” said I.
“It was a grey that won,” said Skinny.
“How much money have we got?”
I didn’t think I could be so weak, but
I let him have a tenner.
At two-thirty that afternoon I was
standing right in front of the town’s
one and only radio set. And while I’m
listening to a band playing “Precious
Little Thing Called Love,” I’ve got a
queer feeling that maybe Skinny was
right. Soon there’s a voice announcing
that the horses are at the barrier, and
that feeling is well on its way to becom-
ing a certainty. And it was a certainty.
A couple of minutes later, when the
horses were grinding up the straight, I
knew it. There’s a doubt about the de-
cision, but it’s only whether Arbiter won
by five or nine lengths. I didn’t wait for
the price. I knew it—thirty-three to one.
I felt sad because I’d only let Skinny
have a tenner. At ten o’clock that night
he blew back home—and what a Skinny.
He’d been celebrating. Presently he
dived into his pocket and tossed a bundle
of; notes on the table.
“When I dreamsh,” said Skinny, “I
dreamsh.”
I hardly heard him. I was counting
the money. Three hundred and twenty.
I could guess where the rest of it had
gone. Presently I picked him up from
the floor, undressed him and put him
to bed.
THAT was the end of Madame Thora.
In the morning he nearly sliced an ear
off trying to get rid of the growth. In
all, we counted the money seventeen
times that morning to see if it was real,
and every time I got near enough to
Skinny I could hear him humming,
under his breath, “The skies will all be
blue when my dreams come true.” Then
he got on to telling me about the pub he
was going to buy when he’d had a few
more dreams.
“Listen, Bill,” he said, “that’s the life.
A nice little pub . . . plenty of friends . . .
and a drink whenever you feel like it.”
But it began to look as if the dreams
had walked out on him. I’d sit by his
bed in the mornings waiting for him to
wake up ; but nothing happened except
that he’d shake his head and look sad.
I even got him into the habit of taking
a nap in the afternoons. The local
chemist had started sending to the city
for a fresh supply of sleeping tablets. I
lost a stone in weight through not hav-
ing any sleep myself.
By the end of the third week I was
beginning to feel that there was some
truth in the old saying about lightning
never striking the same place twice. But
I was wrong.
Skinny picked on one morning at three
o’clock to prove it. At first I thought it
was an earthquake. I was being tossed
all over the bed. I opened my eyes, and
in the darkness made out the sight of
Skinny sitting up in bed, jumping about
and waving his arms over his head. I
reached for the matches. In the light
he was still jumping about. Then I saw
for the first time that his eyes were
closed. He was asleep.
“First —oh, you beauty,” said Skinny,
still asleep.
There was only one thing for it then.
I had to wake him. If I’d let him sleep
on, more than likely he’d have for-
gotten the dream. I shook him. He
opened his eyes and looked dazed for
a second; then he yelled out at the
top of his voice,
“I got it—l got it. Wake up, Bill!”
then, seeing that I was awake, he jumped
out of bed and did a dance around the
floor. “I dreamed it, Bill,” he yelled ; ”1
dreamed it.”
“What?” said I, as excited as Skinny
himself.
“Straight Bullet,” he said, his voice
right up in the air. “Straight Bullet. She
romped home.” He stopped, and then
added, as though he was apologising,
“Only fifteens, though. It won from a
horse called Fire Soldier.”
As though I cared what it won from.
I made a dive for the paper at the side
of the bed and ran my eye down the
sporting page. There it was —Straight
Bullet, 7st. And there was a Fire Sol-
dier, too, in the same race.
We seemed to be on velvet. I spent
the rest of that night thinking up people
I could borrow from. The best part of
the three hundred was still there, thank
heaven. First thing in the morning 1
grabbed it from the bank and took the
train for town. Skinny was with me.
All the morning we ducked about town,
cadging a bit here and a bit there, so
that when we reached the course we
were holding the best part of four hun-
dred quid.
Straight Bullet’s was the fourth race
on the programme. That fact made his-
tory. It was the first time I’d ever
been on a course and let the first three
races go by without a bet. But a quid
lost now was the same as fifteen. It
was the same with Skinny ; but we both
held ourselves in.
I NEVER knew time could pass so slow.
But the third race was run off at last.
I was a bit sorry about that race be-
cause the thing I liked won, in a canter,
at tens. A quid on it would have meant
another hundred and fifty later on.
When that was over we made for the
betting ring. First off we got twenties,
but it soon came down to fifteens, and,
like the dream, that was the price it
started at. Four hundred fifteens—l got
dizzy trying to work that out —and in
some places we’d got twenties.
“It’s like the dream,” said Skinny; “I
was standin’ right in this very place with
you.”
By that time the horses were at the
barrier. I had a look at them, and right
away I liked the look of this Straight
Bullet. The next second they were off.
Skinny’s hoarse whisper would have told
me that even if I hadn’t been looking.
Straight Bullet was two lengths behind
the leaders as they settled down.
“Just like the dream,” said Skinny, his
eyes wide open.
Half-way through that race I wouldn't
have given Straight Bullet a chance. The
thing Skinny had dreamed of for second
was miles out in front.
“Just like the dream,” said Skinny,
and he nudged me in the ribs.
I could only stand there and watch,
hoping that the dream would manage
to live up to its promise. Maybe Straight
Bullet didn’t know anything about the
dream.
“Look,” said Skinny.
I looked, and I don’t believe I’ve felt
happier in my whole life. There was
Straight Bullet going through them like
a .303. He was a bullet all right. The
thing Skinny had nominated for second,
Fire Soldier, was still a couple of lengths
to the good ; but it looked as if he was
just waiting for Straight Bullet to catch
up. At the turn into the straight they
were on level terms. Only for a moment.
Then the Bullet went right away. It was
all over in half a tick then.
WE didn’t even wait for the numbers
to go up. Skinny flung his arms
round me twice and, fishing the betting-
tickets out of our pockets, we headed
for the ring.
Half-way there a roar from the crowd
made us look around. Suddenly Skinny
grabbed me by the arm.
“Look,” he said, and pointed with his
finger.
When I saw the protest flag my heart
gave a double time. Then I mustered
up a feeble grin.
“It’s all right,” I said, not too sure
of things. “You dreamed it, didn’t you?”
Skinny licked his lips.
“I only saw the horses go past the
post,” he said in a voice that made me
think he was being strangled.
“It might be dismissed,” I said, but
not too confidently. “Of course, it will
be. Did you see any interference? I
didn’t. It hasn’t a leg to stand on. The
boy that made it should be fined for
frivolous objection.”
“What makes your face so white?”
said Skinny.
Well, we waited and waited. Then
presently there was another roar from
the crowd. I was too scared to look.
I left it to Skinny.
“Protest upheld,” he said.
I didn’t wait for any more. I dived
straight into the crowd. What Skinny
was doing I didn’t know. I only knew
that I was getting as far away from him
as I could before he remembered it was
me who woke him up too soon.


PICNIC RACE SADDLES
yhj
No. 25
2|lb.
BARE
No. 25 Picnic Race Saddle is a most
attractive saddle for the amateur
rider. It has long seat, Tod Sloan
flaps and weighs 2 fib. bare. The
price without mounts is £6/10/-.
No. 173 Light Exercise Saddle is
another suitable saddle for picnic
races. It also is Tod Sloan style, and
weighs about sflb. bare. Its price is
£4/12/6 without mounts.
Elastic girth and surcingle in web,
21/-; leather, 25/6 set.
Race leathers, fin., 6/6; fin., 6/9.
N.P. exercise stirrups, 4/3 pair.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Wes tr alia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
s&u cancan ut
..one/.so- can ofihetos/
i\s Film on Teeth!
*>
//'./'/■■'■"•V--- 'f-'iy/A, 9
0 Film must be removed from teeth , . . for beauty
and for health.
Film is that slippery coating on your teeth. Film
contains the germs associated with tooth decay.
Film invites tooth and gum disorders. Stains from
food and smoking lodge in film—make teeth look
yellow when they’re really not,
Film sticks like glue. To remove it you must use
a special film-removing agent. Pepsodent is known
throughout the world today as the special film-
removing tooth paste.
Due to Scientific Formula
Pepsodent’s unique power to remove film from teeth
is due to the formula. A new cleansing and polishing
material has been developed*. T his material is far
safer than any leading tdoth powderi-far softer
than polishing materials used in any other leading
tooth paste. Yet it removes film with striking
effectiveness.
This special film-removing material is contained in
Pepsodent exclusively—and in no other tooth paste
whatsoever. That’s why Pepsodent gives results not
possible with other kinds.
Dentists use Pepsodent
That is why thousands of dentists have told us that
they make Pepsodent their personal tooth paste.
That is why millions of people will not risk their
own teeth or their children’s with harsh, abrasive
pastes or powders.
Don’t take chances on cheap tooth pastes, when
Pepsodent leaves teeth brighter, gives higher polish.
Use Pepsodent twice a day—see your dentist at least
twice a year.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd*
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Maekay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Smith-street Has a Day at the Beach:-
HUMAN NATURE
By MYRA MORRIS
MARY sank on to the seat and sub-
sided with a little gasp. Her earnest
young face, a trifle shiny about the
nose, wore a weary, harassed look, and
there was something of a rakish air
about the accidental tilt of her hat.
She put up a trembling hand, straight-
ened her hat and looked round the com-
partment as the train moved out of the
station. There they sat in this com-
partment and the next, with their knees
apart and their toes turned in—the fifteen
hard-working slum-mothers who were
to have their day’s holiday by the sea.
It hadn’t been an easy job herding
them together, getting them to Flinders-
street on time, seeing that they had their
tickets intact. They had somehow pre-
sented an easier problem at the Smith-
street Mission Hall, where they listened
with docility one night a week to her
simple talks on hygiene and poetry, sand-
wiched adroitly in between parlor games
and community singing.
She half-turned in her seat and
flashed a shy glance of relief at Miss
Timmins, but Miss Timmins was look-
ing bleakly out of the window at the
dwindling suburban streets. Miss Tim-
mins, she remembered, had been a little
doubtful about the picnic.
“It’s a lot of trouble,” she had said in
that abrupt manner that seemed in some
curious way to have something to do
with the faint moustache on her upper
lip. “And why Seabrae? It makes it
so expensive going as far out as that.
Beyond Carrum. Why not somewhere
nearer, like St. Kilda? It’d be all the
same to them.”
Why Seabrae?
Mary smiled reminiscently, her blue
eyes soft in her pale, earnest face. Be-
cause there was a world of empty sea
and sand at Seabrae ; because, behind the
ridiculous bathing-boxes painted green
and blue and red, there were mysterious
aisles of twisted tea-tree (now in bloom)
and pale, thin-bladed grass as fine as
silk.
SHE had known Seabrae as a child, and
she still knew it in the odd intervals
when she could get away from town. A
Seabrae that remained delightfully un-
changed in spite of the growing town-
ship, the beach improvements and
Naylor’s (Nothing Over Ninepence) that
had sprung up on a vacant corner not
far from the pier.
It was the grey-white bloom on the
tea-tree that had given her the idea of
the picnic. It was hideous to think that
there were hundreds of noor, stumbling
souls shut away from contemplation of
inis loveliness in tne sordianess or re-
volting back streets. If she could give a
few of these, at least, a glimpse of this
ephemeral beauty of sea and blossom
she would be putting a little of heaven
into their commonplace lives.
She looked at them now as the train
slid in and out the busy stations. They
sat, a little self-consciously, clutching at
their tawdry handbags and the cheap
cups she had told them to bring.
Young and old, they were in their
best clothes. Dusty blacks and flowered
crepes under shiny-seamed cloaks.
Young and old, their faces bore
the imprint of Smith-street. Faces
shrewd and cunning and apathetic, faces
touched with a haggard excitement. Their
hands were bony and calloused, their
shoes splayed out by bunions or split
to accommodate troublesome corns.
There were black gaps between their
teeth when they laughed, as they were
laughing now.
Mary let her gaze roam on . , . Mrs.
Forbes, with her large, patient horse-
physiognomy and awkward feet. Mrs.
Dunnett, with her small, rouged face
twinkling under a girlish hat. Brooding
Mrs. Judd, whose only son had been
convipted three times. The two Carney
widows, knitting identical singlets with
grimy pink wool the color of pale gums.
Mary listened to their flat, disjointed
talk.
“And I says to him, I says, ‘Eddie, me
boy, if I catch you’ ”
“You buy them cheap at Naylor’s
Ninepenny. Threepence each”
“So I went and had a lay-down and
then went to the pitchers”
Mary looked out of the window. How
quickly they had come! Here was the
first glimpse of the sea, blue as lupins,
and the spindly tea-tree, frosted white.
A lump came into her throat.
“Look!” She
pointed excitedly.
“Look, everybody!
The sea!”
“Well I never,
so it is!”
The women
shifted about un-
comfortably, cran-
ing their necks.
After a few perfunctory murmurs they
went back to their conversation as if it
had never been interrupted. Mary, feel-
ing a little abashed, turned her mind to
the tea and sandwiches she had ordered.
“I have thought out every detail,” she
told herself complacently. “Nothing can
go wrong.”
AT Seabrae she shooed the women off
the station platform with a nervous
kind of jocoseness. Somehow the women
seemed difficult here —hostile almost as
they stood about waiting to be told what
to do. Even Miss Timmins, sliding the
mountains of sandwiches along the
baker’s counter, Miss Timmins, the tire-
less mission worker, seemed more for-
midable and matter-of-fact than usual.
They went down to the beach with
their paraphernalia, walking through
glades of flowering tea-tree and scented
box.
“It’s like snow on the branches,” cried
Mary ecstatically as she smelled the chal-
lenging smell of honey and trodden
grass and cold sand.
“Somethink terrible for blowies,” said
Mrs. Forbes lugubriously. “They breed
in it.”
It was bright and windless on the
beach. Everything seemed to lie caught
in a deep, unending dream—the milky
sea, the smooth, pale sand, the fishing-
nets that hung down like faded leaves.
Stung to ecstasy Mary wanted to cry;
“Clap your hands and run about and
sing, slum-mothers!”
But they did not dap their hands or
sing. They were too self-conscious, too
buttoned-down to their habits for that.
Instead they hung about helplessly,
shuffling their feet in the sand and yawn-
ing, or helped with a kind of desperate
eagerness to set out the eatables.
When the meal was over they drifted
under the shadowy tea-tree in uneasy
groups. Mrs. Forbes waddled down to
the sea-edge to bathe her corns. Some
of the older women sat against a bank of
sand, and marram grass, knitting, with
their shabby hats shielding their eyes
from the sun. Mary, feeling all of a
sudden deadly tired (she had been up
since five), separated herself from Miss
Timmins, and spread her neat little body
out under a scrawny banksia.
She woke from a doze, yawning, and
looked at her watch, surprised to find
how time had flown. On the beach
were only sad Mrs. Forbes, still absorbed
in her corns ; Miss Timmins, wandering
about forlornly, and four black-hatted
elderly women huddled together in the
sun like a bevy of garrulous crows. Of
the ten other slum-mothers there was no
sign.
“Corn along the beach towards the
pier,” volunteered one of the widows,
“They bin gorn a long time.”
MARY trudged along the heavy sand
towards the pier, biting on her secret
irritation. They shouldn’t have wan-
dered away like that. It was thought-
less of them when they should already
be thinking of getting together for the
return journey. But her irritation
did not last long. Tenderness flowed
over her. Tenderness and pity. Poor
slum-mothers! Poor darlings! They had
forgotten all about time. The unfamiliar
world of sand and sea had encompassed
them utterly. The grimy walls of Smith-
street no longer had any meaning.
But there were no shabby women
under the pier. Mary crossed the road
by the hideous beach improvements,
and found herself gazing perplexedly
through the window of the new store —
Naylor’s Ninepenny. The shop was full
of bustling, excited women peering into
boxes, fingering the cheap gewgaws on
the crowded stands.
“Oh, Miss Anderson!” They hailed
her gleefully without embarrassment.
“What do you think we found here? A
Naylor’s Ninepenny just like Smith-
s-treet ... so nice and friendly-like.”
Already purchases had been made.
Cotton and threads, scented soaps and
safety-pins. Mrs: Dunnett, with her small
rouged face alight, was dangling a string
of red glass beads over the counter. She
was taking them home to her little girl,
she said. Birdie was always a one for
beads.
“You’ll have to come along now,” said i
Mary with a touch of sharpness. “It’s 1
time.”
“Oh, not just yet!” There was a
murmur of discontent. “Just when we’re
enjoyin’ ourselves like.”


“THE AGE'
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers!
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Clk mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are thei lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Tell S.A. your
Sales Story when it’s
got the time to read
“THE NEWS ”
(Afternoon Daily)
and
“THE ”
(Midnight Saturday and deli-
vered Sunday all over the State)
Both offer this very dis-
tinct advantage . . , .
Adelaide is too busy to
read by day.
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House, Collins
street.
SYDNEI-P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
- . - columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. «J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
“THE EXAMINER”
Established 1842
Is the Family Morning Newspaper of Northern Tasmania
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS Pty., Ltd., 73-75 Patterson St., Launceston
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter St., Sydney
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
CAM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it ■ into # the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
l)o you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers*
William Street*
Perth,
Western Australia.
way up the track. She felt such a sympathy for the
Yank. She did want fat, cheerful Emma to like him.
“Emma,” she called as the Mulver dogs came
out to meet her, showing teeth. “Emma!” she called
again, standing still to reassure the dogs as to her
good intentions. “May I speak to you a minute,
Emma?”
Emma’s head was thrust out of the door. ‘Won’t
be a minute,” she called. “Gee, it’s you. Miss Daunt.
Hang on.”
She vanished, evidently to explain the situation
to Mrs. Mulver, who came out in a leisurely fashion
and kicked a few dogs. This discouraged the others.
“Ah, hinny, an’ won’t yah coom ’n’ arve a coop
uv tay?” Mrs. Mulver invited effusively. “An’ the
kettle jus’ this meenute bilin’.”
“No, thanks, really,” Jessica muttered. “Thanks
very much, all the same. I have to go back to the
farm. Could you walk a little way with me, Emma?
It’s rather important.”
“All right,” Emma agreed. “I’ll be seein’ y’ later,
Maggie.”
Mrs. Mulver looked after them with no very
pleasant expression in her eyes.
“C’mere, love,” she called to Bertie Mulver.
“You jus’ go along the track for mummy an’ see if
yah can ’ear what Miss Daunt’s sayin’.”
Bert grinned. It was a commission he and
one he was quite accustomed to carry out satisfac-
torily.
“S’pose she tells me to go away?”
“Yah jus’ pretend y’re playin’ about an’ don’t
take no notice. Ah’m tellin’ yah to -listen. Don’t
forget, love, an’ coom an’ tell mummy what they say.”
There was something about that stuck-up Miss
Daunt that made Mrs. Mulver feel, that she would
be neglecting her duty if she did not keep a close
watch on the young lady’s doings.
“But, Emma,” Jessica was saying as Bertie caught
up and loitered noiselessly beside the track, “he may
be only a traveller, but he seemed a decent sort of
man. You don’t want to stay here all your life, do
you? He seems honest and trustworthy.”
She found herself impulsively championing a
man she had seen for the first time that afternoon.
“Of course, it’s your business; but, after all, your
father has no right to stop your getting married.”
“There was a chap wanted to marry me,” Emma
said reflectively. “Lived over at Mogong. Real nice
chap he was, an’ not much of a drinker except
Sat’days. But dad wouldn’t let me.”
Jessica felt exasperated. Here she was being a
lady bountiful and bestowing a bridegroom on Emma,
who should, in common decency, be married, and
Emma was objecting because travellers were not in
her class, and her father might not like it!
“Well, it remains with you,” she said coldly, with
a shrug.
“An’ what’s more,”. Emma said thoughtfully, “I
don’t see meself lookin’ after any kid. Not that I
mind kids.”
“Well, please yourself.” Jessica’s fine glow of
enthusiasm had given way to a feeling of self-despisal.
She felt as mean as a procuress. “Perhaps I shouldn’t
have mentioned it.”
“Oh, I dunno. I might go an’ see what sort of
a bloke ’e is. But I ain’t so sure about marryin’ him.
Where the hell did you spring from, Bertie? Nip
off home, or I’ll give y’ something y’ll : remember.
Don’t you go spying on me.”
The disconcerted emissary fell back.
“If you do decide to see him,” said Jessica, “he
doesn’t like swearing and drinking. He’s a Baptist
The man hesitated.
and thirty-five, and he has a bit of money put away.
Oh, yes, I forgot. That roof of his; his turnout is
watertight.”
“Well, that’s something,” Emma said, with a
broad grin. “Thanks. Good-bye.”
She watched the school-teacher down the track
with a chuckle, and then turned on Bertie. “You still
’ere? Wait till y’r mother catches y’. She’ll give it
to you. She’ll wipe that grin off y’r freckles.” Bertie
made a derisive gesture. “Go on, get out of this!”
Emma said so threateningly that Bertie made off down
the track as fast as his legs could take him.
“Funny thing,” Emma mused aloud at tea-time,
“I dreamt about goin’ on a journey last night, an’
’ere I got one in me teacup.”
“You never do nothin’ but dream, Bill
responded. “Pity you don’t wake up.’
“You ain’t goin’ no journey,” Dave said. Git
that idea out uv y’r ’ead. The sergeant ain’t goin to
shift us. I’m a match for ’im. Always was an’ always
will be.”
After doing the drying-up, Emma stood in the
doorway for a minute looking out. It was a bright,
startlit night. She strolled into the inner room and
changed into a dress belonging to Ella, a dress of
maroon serge with blue cuffs and a collar of fur. She
even brushed her hair. She strolled to the door again
unostentatiously.
“Where y’ goin’?” Dave growled at her.
“Up to the Mulvers’,” Emma lied cheerfully.
“Y’ve been up there once to-day. Why the hell
can’t y’ stay ’ome once in a while? You stay home,
d’ y’ ’ear? Y’ ain’t goin’ to the Mulvers’. Where y’
goin’? You tell me!”
“Out,” said Emma hastily, and banged the door
behind her.
“An’ that’s the way she speaks to me, Jim! You
go after that 'girl an’ damn’ well drag ’er back. D’ y’
’ear me? Bill! Are y’-goin’ to sit there an’ see ’er
go gallivantin’ about like that?”
The boys merely grinned. It was none of their
business if Emma didn’t want to sleep in her bed
that night.
Next morning Miss Daunt received Mr. Scott
and his infant rather coldly.
“Sit there, Jacky,” 'she commanded. “You’ll
excuse me, Mr. Scott. School has been in five
minutes.” But he still lingered with that shy audacity
that made her rather like him.
“Thank you, ma’am,” he said under his breath.
“We got it all fixed up almost ’cept her old man, an’
I’ll fix him. If he starts any trouble it’ll be his
funeral, seein’ I’m prepared to marry her proper.”
“Eh?” said Jessica, bewildered.
“She come down last night,” said the Yank, “an’
we talked it over. She was real taken with the turn-
out. . She says the roof’s lovely. 1 knew she’d like
the roof. An’ she likes Jacky.”
“Congratulations,” said Jessica with a smile.
“And how about you?”
“Oh, she likes me well enough, too,” said the
modest suitor. “I hope you’ll be there, ma’am. We’ve
fixed" up the weddin’ for Toosday, seein’ me relief
work’ll be over, an’ they’ll only let me stay here a
fortnight. An’ thank you again, miss. There’s only
one girl I’d rather have that I’ve ever seen, an’ that’s
you.”
“Thank you.” Miss Daunt flushed a rich ruby
red. “I hope you will be happy.” (“I hope this
horrible return-thanks business won’t go on any
longer,” she thought.)
“Thank you, ma’am. I won’t keep you, ma’am.
I wish you the same luck yourself, an’ I hope the
feller that gets you deserves his luck an’ has a good
steady job, an’ ”
Jessica had gone inside and shut the door. She
taught spelling with fury and concentration for a
quarter of an hour before her feelings sorted them-
selves out. “Attend their wedding!” she thought.
“Good Lord!” She would have hated to admit to
herself that she knew the wedding was all over bar
shouting.
(To be continued next week.)


(T) c CqlWs
Scotefllhisky
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
Jffik,
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 50/-.)
X
vO v e
> <V
3|>' va HL. °<cP «,■•- ,^V
»*
Srt
0
0
<* ■■■■■■■ •••"'
►V* J.'ff J6< ....- •••• „■■
/ a"
%\C % 9r
C-• . I
..•* .** <$ \°


CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
Country as well as City Interests.
I nvestments carry greatest possible security.
THe Society that imposes no restrictions on aeroplane travel.
Vearly Bonus additions to all participating policies.
VI utual—owned and controlled by the Policy-holders.
Undoubtedly the most Liberal and Progressive Life Office.
The Office to assure with for Bigger Bonuses
u nique advantages by assuring with the City Mutual Life.
Australia’s Security is the City Mutual Policy-holders’ Security.
Liberality to Members unexcelled.
Lowest Expense Rate, 10.7% 1934.
I nvestment yield the greatest available.
Free Accident Conditions on all Policies with Death Risk.
Empire’s Soundest and Best Assurance Institution.
Strongest Reserves of any Society in the Empire.
Only one Board of Directors in the whole of Australia.
Ca eful selection of Risks, Low Mortality, High Interest Yield,
build Bonuses.
I nvestment in Life Assurance never depreciates.
KEifficicnt and Economical Management
T he Millionaire Society that operates only in the Commonwealth.
Young Australians will positively secure their future by
becoming Policy-holders of this Society.
I I
ii
1
£
if
II
ii
n
.
II
ii
51
m
m
KM
'•-"v .
39HT: I '■
S
$
~
Sik yl#tmranee - the Balance Wheel of Life
The one Investment that did not depreciate during the World-wide Depression
Life Assurance is the only Business Certainty
In October, 1934, a Member, 23 next
birthday, effected a Policy on his life for
£3OOO, and paid a quarter’s premium of
£l5/15/-.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for 1934
was £B6/5/- !
All Policies effected NOW participate
fully in the Bonus Distribution for 1935.
Full particulars will be forwarded on
application.
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE OR
BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORTGAGE
ASSURE WITH
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. Wm. BENNETT, Managing Director
