

ONLY
BATTERY
2-YEA R S
UNCO®l^r^G
i 1 /
m "r
iaHl
-M’MKI *
Vsffißfc
|f wl y * V]
X£SF|m‘
y-
;Ti
FOR CARS - MOTOR CYCLES - RADIO - HOME LIGHTING
or from
central distributors
AUSTRALIA:
New South Wales Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Victoria Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston
West Australia . . Airzone (W.A.), Ltd., 886 Hay Street, Perth
NEW ZEALAND:
d
f
PACIFIC ISLANDS
EAST:
Malaya—Philippine Islands Getz Bros. Inc. (Singapore)
Hong Kong and Southern China . . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong)
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia)
Fiji Islands Marlows, Ltd., Suva. Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva
New Caledonia Maison Barrau
V 255 VESTA BATTERIES are manufactured by VESTA BATTERY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., Leichhardt, New South Wales, Australia.
The Bulletin
Vol. 56. —No. 2878.
Wireless from All Angles
Wednesday, April 10, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DON'T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
tSliniif
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
MR. HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
The Block, 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
d
Particulars FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
tOO Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID .
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your home-study ARCHITECTURAL COURSES,
Building Construction, etc., as advertised in the
Sydney Bulletin.
My Marne
My Address
S.R. 835
THE EXAMINER
LAUNCESTON.
The Newspaper of Northern
NOW
IN ITS
93rd YEAR.
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Fttil information, copies, advertising rates of «The Examiner,» "Weekly Courier *> and "Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from *
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd,
78-76 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. 8. Allan,
National Bank Chambers.
27l Collins Street, Melbourne,
Mr. W. Q, Dougan,
66 Hunter Street,
Sydney,
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
HIS BOOK
THE WEEK’S BEST;—
Poetry of
Plain
Statement
From Maori-
land comes
Arnold Wall’s
The Order of Re-
lease and Other
Poems, the most
distinctive book
of verse published either there or here
for quite a long day. A fair proportion.
Perhaps half, is clearly trivial, but even
when it has not quality it has the merit
of being engaging, and at their best the
trivialities are excellent of their kind.
The Australian and Maoriland Muse is
not so lightfooted a lady that we cannot
be grateful for this sort of thing:
She’s bright as a shilling and precious as
gold,
A tonic to youth and a spice to the old;
She sings like the blackbird at eve in
the wood.
And her eye is so wicked she makes me
feel good.
Her eye is so blue and her lip is so red.
It’s just like the bubbly that goes to your
head ;
Her smile is so fetching it sends a man
mad,
And she’s so good-looking she makes me
feel bad.
I’d like to have magic and weave her a
spell,
And put it all over this ravishing belle,
And wrap her up tiny and make her a
charm
To wear on my watch-chain and keep me
from harm.
To be as honest with the poet as he is
with himself, the sustained quality of
that triviality is not
common to his verse,
some of which could
he quoted as illustra-
tions to the Art of
Sinking. That, how-
ever, may be more in-
tentional than it seems.
Wall is anything but a
pessimist; his domi-
nant note is plain,
manly courage ; but he
has been long enough
on earth to be aware
of the vanity and
futility of most of our
pretensions, and some
of his sinking might be
read as an indirect
deflating of things vain by the direct
and unusual method of the poet
exhibiting himself in the very pro-
cess of deflation. Still, the best of inten-
tions could not read anything like that
into such things as the longest verse in
the book, which begins uncommonly
well, and degenerates into a mere list
of things remembered ; and there are
others also in which the sinking appears
to be completely unpremeditated.
On the other hand, there is much in
which the staple ipgredients of the poet’s
thought and outlook—whimsical humor,
irony and plain manliness---make a
decently satisfying blend, especially after
a surfeit of those of, our poets who have
the desire without the gift, and those
who, in the words of a hitherto unpub-
lished critic, “write about nothing but
trees.” Such things, for instance, as
those reproduced on this and the fol-
lowing page as they appear in the book,
all the contents of which ar6 in that
script and decoration of V. Gould ; or
such, again, as this: —
God made the hill yellow and grey,
But it is all green now,
Save where the deep and rugged rift
runs in,
Too steep for the plough.
There the tussocks grow;
There couches the hare;
While up in the sun sheep crop the
shaven turf
Level and bare.
You parsons and schools,
Leave us a rift, please —
Some place for the lone old Mousterian
man to lurk
A nd sin at his ease !
There is more serious thought in the
book than appears in any of the
examples chosen. It resolves upon two
main ideas: the permanence of the
simple, bedrock things of life and of the
earth, and the ephemeral in mere exist-
ence. The poet looks upon the per-
manence, and in the acceptance of that
conviction faces with decent calm, even
with a measure of pagan ecstasy, the
certainty that his own existence is not
for very much longer.
A word needs to be said of the book
itself. Ugly underlined lettering is clum-
sily spaced on the cover, but inside is
made so unusual by Gould’s script and
decoration that it could be called a “col-
A decorated brevity from Arnold Wall's “The Order
of Release.”
lectors’ piece,” were it not that the poetry
is too plainly honest poetry to be associ-
ated with any sort of preciousness. It
is not pretended that it is poetry of the
purest water; Wall sounds the sort of
man who would be first to resent any
such suggestion; but it is genuine; there
is a poet at the back of it—and that is
something after the precocities of most
of our piffling and precious contempora-
ries.
Another
Apostle of
Directness
Doubtless those
who are pleased
with what now
passes current for
conte m p o r a r y
poetry could not
accept Wall as a
good poet, nor W. H. Davies as a great
one. Neither of them accepts the obscuri-
ties of intellectualism which dominate
the work of many moderns, to the ex-
clusion or eclipse of those two tra-
ditional qualities of poetry—ecstasy and
melody. Thought alone, that is the thing
of the moment; and provided it is pre-
sented with some suggestion of rhythm—
a very differ-
ent thing from
either melody
or ecstasy—it is
poetry enough.
Davies, in
the eyes of to-
day’s accepted
arbiters, is a
dawdler under
trees, fit com-
pan ion- for
squirrels, a
vagabond
rhymster with
a sackful of
songs. It is
sufficiently sig-
nificant and
indicative of
what has hap-
pen e and to
poetry through
W. H. Davies.
the doctrine of intellectualism that songs
is there used as a term of contempt. It
may take the tradition a long time to
overcome the fashion ; but, since it has
always done so sooner or later, it is not
adopting the risky role of prophet to
say that of the 533 verses of Davies that
have been collected into one volume
something like a hundred will be shining,
and shining brighter, when the eclipse
has passed. Lyrics like “The Kingfisher,”
“Rich Days,” “The Villain,” “A Great
Time” and a score or two others are not
written every day, nor every generation.
The word poetry should be scrapped
and a new one made to designate what
we had thought was poetry if bare in-
tellectualism couched in terms of largely
prosaic rhythm is to be given the name ;
because, plainly, the one word cannot
possibly cover both that and such things
as this (of the Villain Wind): —
I turned my head and saw the wind,
Not far from where I stood,
Dragging the corn by her golden hair,
Into a dark and lonely w00d. ....
or this exhortation to the Kingfisher;
Get thee on boughs and clap thy wings
Before the windows of proud kings....
or any one of several score such things
from the sackful.
These are Davies at his greatest. On
the other side there is bathos enough to
satisfy the hungriest “of to-morrow’s
ghoul-critics. It is the sort of bathos into
which Wordsworth was freely betrayed
—that which arises from a too-exalted
contemplation of lowliness, though
Davies is usually saved from plumbing
the really abysmal depths by his touch
of humor, not very robust, but sufficient.
For instance, “The Sailor to His Parrot,”
which is no more poetry than are Wall’s
whimsicalities, but contains the saving
humor of the man who wrote it: —
Why didst thou call the gentle priest
A thief and a damned rogue; and tell
The deacon’s wife, who came to pray,
To hold her jaw and go to hell ?
Thou art a foe, no friend of mine,
For all my thoughts thou givest away ;
Whatever I say in confidence,
7 hou dost in evil hours betray.
That note is much more common in
Davies than any of his critics have
allowed. It is not what his poetry is
made of, but it is the release spring
which lets him leap so lightly from con-
templation of the trivial and the mundane
to heights of ecstasy.
CECIL MANN.
\The Order of Release and Other Poems, bv
Arnold Wall (Whitcombe and Tombs; ss.)';
1 j \P e , ms of IV. H. Davies (Cape; per Angus
and Robertson; 11s. 3d.).]
Here Comes
the
Booterer
A King’s Bench
Judge in England
the other day was
moved to protest
at the growing
habit of giving
polite names to
plain things. Someone in his court
had referred to a “dustcart,” and
the corporation servant who had
charge of this dust cart interpolated
“freighter.” The comment of Mr.
Justice Charles was, “We talk so
delicately now.”
(4 Goodness only knows how
“freight” has come to be asso-
ciated with the higher dustman-
ship. It is no more explicable than
how “fruitology” has come to be
associated with the higher fruitmanship.
We know, even though it be but
obscurely, the meaning of “conchology.”
We are more familiar, perhaps, with
“theology.” But what, pray, is “fruit-
ology”? Yet who has not noticed the
arrival in our midst of the “fruitologist”?
And now comes the “booterer”! To
be followed, doubtless, by the “shoe-
terer”! At any rate, the “booterer” has
arrived. His trade was announced in the
legal-advertisement columns of the press
the other day in a notice of his trustees’
intention to declare a dividend. Indeed,
the plain truth of the matter appears to
be that the “booterer” is bankrupt.
We have, of course, become accus-
tomed by this to the phraseology of those
artistically minded people who have en-
dowed the plain and unromantic circum-
stances surrounding ordinary decease
with all the glamor of a de luxe tour to
the Orient. No longer need we look
forward with dismay to the prospect of
being uncomfortably coffined. Why
should we, when we can be carried from
the “funeral parlor” to the waiting
“coach” in a luxuriously upholstered
“casket”? Thus, in the very circum-
stances of our final leave-taking, we can
go out proud and happy in the know-
ledge that our obsequies have excited
the envy of all who knew us.
And in another sphere the advertiser’s
artful aid has also cast a glamor over
the sordid business of eating. “Delica-
tessen” sounds so much more refained
than “ham and beef,” and “meat special-
ist” than “butcher.” But where is it all
going to end? When we have finally
deceived ourselves into believing that a
spade is really a shovel, perhaps we shall
(Continued on page 4.)


truth IN ADVERUSING”—out policy which knows no deviation.
THE SENIOR STORE.'
fd
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
for your New Easter Coat
m
m
/ \\v .
iff
I Bi
HI
* -s\v f ,
' ■
■
I
iSI
if?
Sk
m
wm
0
Pi
.j
■
a :
I
■ I
■
wm
If
m
m
,
■
I m
Hi
r- • • ... : , ■
- *< i
351■ ■■ . v::—X
m
v,
: I
P
m
mm
warn
m
:.r
Hi
SM " : ;i
Hi
; . f , V
m
'■> m * *.
:>.v
:<
:
fe -3 y^'S%&4
V
g;,;» '
||ii||
■nw
H
H
A>ZN /** A
H
Jib |a / - , \
SB
HHPPHHi
i i :
In
.If <> / \
.*• 4-• i
■
n
I
Hi
111':. ■
H ■ '
■
■ 'r :; KiS
i * |
PHHHi Si I *|||
■ J
'Hi
, w"«*. *t ‘ ‘ ;
y.VAV'
■• ■•;. ■■
9
a—
i -
: ■ r ,
WBmKSmM
l:- : ,'i : B
BB: •■
■
jugal I
.
WBi
mm
.
PKi I
■
li
lis : .^
D.B. Style at 69/6
Above.—For style, fit and workmanship, they are
unequalled at this price! Form-fitting double-breasted
Overcoats tailored from English Tweeds in new over-
checks and stripes. Price, each 69/6
9 Men's Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all Seaports in the Commonwealth
and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
Raglan at 39/6
Above. —The hall-mark of smartness, good
taste and dependability! These coats are excel-
lently made from All-wool Fancy Tweeds in
Greys, Fawns and Herringbone designs.
Price, each 39/6
Polo Style at 49/6
Above.—A double-breasted Belted Polo Over-
coat in latest young men’s pattern. Choose from
smart tonings in Grey and Fawn. Smart and
serviceable for winter wear. Price, each, 49/6.
English Raglan
Men’s English-made Overcoats gm I
in the popular Raglan style. Jn ■■
Expertly tailored from Grey
Herringbones in smart and dressy shades.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 126/-
Gabardines at
Men’s Showerproof Gabardines
are well-cut and tailored in slip-on
Raglan styles. A selection of
Fawn, Olive and Dark Greys.
Anthony Horderns’ Price •
75/-
.... 75/-
USE OUR D.P.S.
If it is inconvenient to pay cash, use our D.P.S. First select the
goods you require, pay a small deposit on them, and then you may
pay off the balance in suitable monthly instalments. You have no
interest or any extra charges to pay for this splendid service.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
’Phone; M 2401 Day and Night SYDNEY Postal Address: Box 27120, G.P.O.


SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office:
343 George Street, Sydney.
DARVALL,
General Manager.
WNERSHIP !
\ '■ >. ? : ',v
Homes and farms, objects of
national pride and symbols of
progress. What a valuable, help-
ful part the Rural Bank . . . your
Bank ... is playing in their
development! Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that
by sp doing they are enabling it
to increase its useful services.
Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all
sections of the community.
%e RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office:
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
then return to the knowledge that it is
better to say what we mean, in case we
end in utter confusion.
Years ago in Dublin one of the great
banks started calling its clerks “officers,”
and one day it fell out that one of these
officers was absent from parade when
the manager (or brigadier?) wanted his
presence. However, the bank porter was
a very knowledgeable man. He just
popped round the corner and inquired,
“Have any of our officers been here this
morning?” “Yes,” replied the landlord,
“one of your officers left a few minutes
ago with his sword behind his ear.” But,
seriously, this business has been going on
for quite a long time. In actual fact, the
term “fruiterer” is itself a genteelism. A
person who sells fruit is a “fruiter.” A
person who deals in cates is a “cater.”
And a person who does upholstery work
is an “upholster.” “Poulterer” may be
excused because it comes through the old
spelling “poultery.” But in no circum-
stances is there any excuse for the “Prac-
tical Chimney Sweep.” If the man is
not practical then he had much better
spend his days writing a book upon the
theory of the subject.
We cannot even go to “jail” now. It
has become the “penitentiary” instead.
And when we get there we are con-
fronted with “prison officers” in place
of “warders.” If we go mad we do not
end up in an “asylum” but in a “mental
hospital.” If we go to sea we no longer
sleep in “cabins” but in “bedrooms.”
“Servants” have become “domestics” or
“helps.” And, of course, those of us
who have not actually been knighted or
attained the rank of esquire have at least
become “ladies” and “gentlemen”—in
name.
Only the other day I went into an
“inn” in Sydney, and taking up the
menu (!) 1 learnt that that hostelry adver-
ised itself as being “the home of colfee
with the college education.” So when
the young gentleman came along and
said “Coffee, sir?” I replied, “Yes, coffee.
I don’t mind whether it has a college
education or not, so long as it is above
the leaving standard.”
However, I suppose this game of make-
believe does make life a little more excit-
ing. After all, the people who study
bone lore, bug lore, bird lore and earth
lore call themselves by the most digni-
fied sort of titles. But I fancy this desire
to whitewash trade is essentially Vic-
torian in its essence. It harks back to
days in which it was considered more
elegant to speak of limb than leg. Days
in which a naked body was called an
undraped figure. And evenings in which
decollete sounded better than low-necked.
GERALD DILLON.
Murders
Unlimited
The Saint in
New York, by
Leslie Charteris
(Hodder and
Stoughton; 7s.
6d.), is an inevit-
able development. The appeal of this
Robin Hood of Modern Crime, as the
blurb calls him, is to the ever-growing
army of Speed Gordon fans —more or
less literate adults of the mental age of,
say, 12.
A nun lets herself into the tower suite
of the Waldorf-Astoria, a “gentle lilt
of a laugh like sunshine with a flicker
of steel” is heard, and the aged occupant
looks up. Simon Templar, dreaded by
the wide world of crime as The Saint,
has arrived from England at the request
of the millionaire William K. Valcross
to clean up a gang of New York despera-
does. The Saint is such a man as mil-
lions of victims of corns, poverty, asthma,
dyspepsia and nagging wives appear to
themselves in daydreams. Valcross
scrutinises him
from the sweep of his smoothly-brushed
hair to the stance of his tailored shoes
the rakish lines of the dark, reckless face,
the level mockery of the clear blue eyes,
the rounded poise of muscular shoulders
and the curve of the chest under the thin,
jaunty shirt, the steady strength of the
brown, halfiraised hand with the cigar-
ette clipped lightly between the first two
fingers, the lean fighter’s hips and the reach
of long, immaculate legs.
Irboll, Morrie Ualino and Voesang are
exterminated first; Papulos follows;
Maxie, Dutch Kuhlman—but why enu-
merate them? If The Saint’s methods
were less startling—one gangster is
ripped open from groin to breastbone —
the story of his slaughters would be dull.
Throughout the carnage he keeps up a
machine-gun fire of polysyllabic banter
which imposes agonising inferiority com-
plexes on the bewildered thugs. Utter
rubbish, of course, but it is written with
tremendous verve, and there is an unex-
pected finish.
A multiple killer also figures in Agatha
Christie’s Three Act Tragedy (Collins;
7s. 6d.). The Rev. Stephen Babbington
falls dead after drinking a cocktail at
Sir Charles Cartright’s house. Nicotine
poisoning is diagnosed. Shortly after-
wards Sir Bartholo-
mew Strange, who
was staying with
Cartright when Bab-
bington met his end,
also dies after drink-
ing a nicotine-
poisoned cocktail.
Poirot identifies the
murderer in time to
obviate the ruin of
a nice girl’s life.
The criminal is the
last person the
reader is entitled to
s u s p e c t —in fact,
Mrs. Christie’s hand-
ling of him almost
amounts to literary
sharp practice—and
the motives seem
rather inadequate.
However, it is a
first-class thriller by
and large.
Most of the
material facts are
revealed in natural-
ist i c, up -to - the-
minute dialogue, as
in other novels by
this clever writer.
There are two
murders and a pros-
pective hanging in
Alan Brock’s After
the Fact (Nicholson
and Watson; 7s.
6d.). In many ways
it is the most inter-
esting of the three
works under consid-
eration. The plot
isn’t too far-fetched
to be credible ; the
chief characters are
introduced in the course of a know-
ledgeable account of life aboard a liner ;
and they are assembled again in England
without damaging the continuity or
straining the arm of coincidence. Two
of them are clearly destined to function
as criminologists in future books by Mr.
Brock, and they are worth perpetuating.
After the Fact contains some richly
comic episodes and no sentimentalities or
heroics. If you want to read about
calamities which might happen any day
in your own social circle you are hereby
advised to borrow or buy it.
J. D.
Aspects
of Our
Censorship
High Govern-
me n t officials,
members of Par-
liament, univer-
si t y professors,
all the intelli-
gentsia of the Commonwealth, are for-
bidden to read certain books, or to look
at certain pictures, if the Minister of
Customs proclaims them as “indecent”
or not sufficiently in accord with his own
views of right and wrong.
Many of the publications thus banned
are permitted to circulate freely in the
United Kingdom and other countries, so
it seems that the moral fibre of Aus-
tralian adults is considered inferior to
that of the British or American, more
susceptible to injury.
One bookseller complains that he has
had over £l2 worth of books confiscated
in the last few years without getting any
compensation, and the same books are
freely sold in England and other coun-
tries without any interference. If any
book is really injurious it must be the
A page from "The Order of Release.” Script, devils, etc.,
by V. Gould.
author and publisher who are most to
blame ; the buyer should not be punished
when he does not know the contents.
Are we not intelligent enough to choose
our own reading, when we may choose
our politics and our religion?
The Customs list of forbidden publica-
tions looks like a revival of the bigotry
of the Middle Ages. Witness the incon-
sistency of forbidding Heptameron,
Decameron and Rabelais in cheap bind-
ings, and yet allowing them to pass in
stronger covers, as though any possible
pernicious influence was counteracted by
the superior binding!
Humor seems to be thought especially
dangerous, as we see by the banning of
“Le Rire,” “Le Journal,” “Amusant,”
“Razzle,” “Photo. Fun,” “New York
Life” and “La Vie Parisienne,” all fami-
liar to Britishers who travel. Even our
good old friend who gave us Robinson
Crusoe is not allowed to introduce us to
Moll Flanders in case our moral purity
may receive a taint.
Truth and Charity are too powerful
not to prevail at last, “He who complies
against his will, will hold his own opinion
still.” Our ancestors struggled hard
to secure our privileges of private judg-
ment and intellectual freedom, and we
should be cowardly to acquiesce quietly
in this bureaucratic abrogation of our
inherited rights.
JAMES BRITTEN.
A Satchel of Books
Bernard Newman’s thrilling story
Spy, reviewed on the Red Page
(27/3/’35), has been blown out in Eng-
land. Newman never was a spy, and his
whole yarn is a fake. In spite of that,
it stands as a first-class entertainer. This
Page has yet to meet a reader of it who
did not finish it at one sitting. It has
passed its third edition in England.
The reader who dips into collected
letters in search of meat will find it some-
what finely minced in Letters from John
Galsworthy : 1900-1932, edited, with an
introduction, by Edward Garnett, to
whom the letters, with few exceptions,
were addressed. They are chiefly con-
cerned with either replying to Garnett’s
criticisms of Galsworthy’s MSS. or criti-
cising Garnett’s work. Thus, they give
insight into technical aspects of the work
of both, and there are occasional nippy
comments on their contemporaries. It
makes a slight addition to the library of
Galsworthian lore. As general reading it
is thin. (Cape ; 7s. 6d., English price.)
Though the criticism it holds is too
skimming to be of much value, Ten-
dencies of the Modern Novel (Allen and
Umyin ; 3s. 6d. net) presents a competent
brief survey of the world’s best novels
over the past decade, with titles and
authors’ names useful to anyone wishing
to study the subject. It is a collec-
tion of articles from the “Fortnightly
Review” by Hugh Walpole (England),
Hamish Miles (France), Milton Wald-
man (America), Jacob Wassermann (Ger-
many), V. S. Pritchett (Spain), D. S.
Mirsky (Russia), Luigi Pirandello (Italy)
and Erik Mesterton (Scandinavia).
To one in Australia, where fox-hunting
isn’t exactly a flourishing industry, save
perhaps as between Police Headquarters
and Pitt-street, it seems a pity that such
a fine book as A Fox-Hunter’s Anthology
(Lovat Dickson ; 15s.) could not have a
different title. The one used certainly
describes it, but anyone with a wide in-
terest in natural sport, anyone with a
taste for literary curiosities, and anyone
who likes a beautifully got-up book, if
only for the sake of looking at it, should
relish the volume also. It has a colored
old-print frontispiece and other illustra-
tions in excellent taste.


rtIEHOS
ESS
6 1
n f
9i Q . °l q Q ' clO-h
•Va §a a
*
,'T) c <- ~ (i) 9
<n<v
ft ft, (
v
:C
H
T
m.
ws*jm
f*it~. *y*y y- r •
sj*
&*&
.t
•'A*
i.- i-jt
' .7 >
'*7 -> ,
** 7 0 0
'o 0 0
/ ri 00. ' 1 7 _ »
/J 1 a A 9 "a
o A
O' h ~ o ff "
' LM <v 0 9a
cirA'
islrf'.
. t ... , qCI
l*S J k*-sJl*&
wr**-*
i •«’Oja -'■t-"""
I -ft 1 > *9
Lend me your ears
began the great Mark Antony
delivering his famous oration
denouncing the assassins of Caesar
//
IS speech was heard by thousands of
Romans, to be passed on by word of mouth,
in many cases months later, to hundreds of
thousands of citizens of the Roman Empire.
O-DAY the speech of a prince, political leader or
church dignitary, by means of a public address system,
can be clearly heard by a hundred thousand people
assembled over an area of many square miles.
Further, by means of world-wide short wave broad-
casting, a speech can be transmitted throughout
the world and heard by millions of people.
Through the instrumentality of modern radio man’s
voice has become mechanised. The amplification of
speech and music is a phase of wireless progress that
has been extensively developed by A.W.A. technical
and research engineers.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


y\
m
mm
ili
c:
: : I :
I
i
is
-•
■SMH
r •••
Kiiiiiil
I
ill
, ; :
:
: H
psi;
. r -v
■■■MB——!


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2876.
April 10, 1935.
SHAREHOLDER’S INVESTIGATION.
“Ho, y’ want t’ ’ave a look at the ten-ounce reef. Well, it’s lorst, see! But don’ you worry, sport—we’re gettin’ another up by parcel post.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inler-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE JUMPING-JACK PREMIER.
\ disgraceful intrigue has resulted in the advent at
Melbourne of the weakest and least representative
Administration that Victoria has known. The oracle
was worked chiefly by a clique in an organisa-
tion unknown to the Constitution, and itself known
to few of the electors whose clear verdict for the
continuance of U.A.P.-U.C.P. government has been
flouted; and presumably Ministers will continue to
take orders from the clique.
There are among these Ministers no members
from Greater Melbourne —where, in the new Premier’s
words, “54 per cent, of the population live” —and
none from Geelong, Ballarat or Bendigo. Except
for a man from Orbost or thereabouts and another
from Warrnambool, the eight Assembly Ministers are
all from bits of central and northern Victoria, and
the four Upper House Ministers are from the north.
In the eight Assembly constituencies there are
only 85,134 people, whereas the electoral population
is 1,099,251 and the total population 1,837,589. They
tried to get an Attorney-General from the other side;
failing, they had to fall back on a gentleman who
once worked in a solicitor’s office.
The party in office doubtfully speaks for one-
eighth of the electors. Probably a majority of those
who voted for it at the late election disapprove of
the formation of the Ministry, and are ashamed of
the shabby circumstances which preceded it. They
accept the accomplished fact because they long for
the “rural rehabilitation” of which so much has been
said (though the clique, by its tactics, has delayed
“rural rehabilitation” for at least two months), and
because open opposition would mean smashing the
party to smithereens.
This feeling was made evident at Ballarat, where
delegates from Country-party branches held their
annual conference. Endorsement of “the action of
the Parliamentary party in accepting the responsi-
bility of government” was proposed by a member
of the clique and seconded by a “moderate” —very
cheerlessly: —•
The party has to face the fact that it has its own
Government. It is up to every member to get right
behind the Ministers, whether they agree with the
formation of the Ministry or not.
This view prevailed, and the conference proceeded
to make the best of what some delegates obviously
considered a bad business. But there was an angry
protest when the recommendations of a committee
regarding pre-selection and signed nomination forms
were put to the vote without debate and when other
items on the business-paper were mentioned the
objector roared “You don’t want discussion, but only
a ruling from the central council” — i.e., the clique.
And Mr. Martin, who had been elected and re-elected
for Gunbower in flat defiance of the clique, and who
openly acknowledged that he had voted against
separation from the U.A.P., was unanimously
readmitted to the party.
Then Mr. Dunstan, the titular Premier, had his
turn. After sneering at the U.A.P. Premier, below
whom he had meekly sat for three years, and from
whom he had accepted the Deputy-Premiership only
eight days before he launched his want-of-confidence
motion, this leader of a party of 21 in a House of 65
members said, in effect, that he was a proud and glad
Dunstan. Proud, because he led a Country party '
Government which had entered into “no entangling
alliance” ; glad, because “the will of the people has
prevailed and democracy has again triumphed.”
Removing his tongue from his cheek, he added, “The
Government only asks for justice.” Justice it will
get from the electors when their time comes. Mercy
is what it will need.
DROUGHT DISREGARDS VOTES.
Australia will have to grapple with the problems
of settlers in the interior. If it fails them, a time
may come when there will be no interior settlement.
Conditions are becoming worse with each
drought. They are so bad in northern South Aus.
that “trees are dying by the million, and the land is
capable of carrying only half the stock it carried 25
years ago”—the Bishop of Willochra is the witness.
In Queensland, though the number of grazing tenures
has almost doubled since 1891 (it was 5681
then), there are fewer sheep than there were in 1892
and 10 p.c. fewer cattle, despite the intensification
of dairying on the coast. The Western Division of
N. S. Wales carried 16,400,000 sheep, 101,000 cattle
and 44,000 horses in 1891 ; 7,000,000 sheep, 67,000
cattle and 23,000 horses in 1934.
In the case of sheep, improvement in quality has
made up for loss in numbers ; over a period of five
years N. S. Wales showed an improved wool produc-
tion of 1.331 b. per sheep. Queensland’s gain was
.381 b. per animal, but this in its turn has been offset
by increasing costs and imposts.
In 1927, when world wool prices were at their
peak, a Queensland commission considered the case
of pastoral leaseholders. It reported that Central
Queensland was going through a period in which
drought expenditure was as high as 255. p.a. per sheep.
On properties examined it found that graziers owed
from £3 to £5 per sheep ; in some cases, up to £3O.
After a general survey of liabilities, taxes, freight-
rates, labor costs, drought, rabbits, dingoes and Noo-
goora burr, it arrived at the conclusion that there
was “something fundamentally wrong” with the
economics of the industry.
In 1911, when the price of wool was about lOd.
per pound, a Queenslander making £4OOO p.a, out
of 16,000 sheep paid income tax of 2d. per sheep.
In 1927 the same income was subject to a tax of Is. 2£d.
per sheep. To-day any Queenslander making £4OOO
out of 16,000 sheep would deserve to be exhibited as a
living wonder, but even though income has vanished
taxation is much higher than on the 1927 scale. The
1927 commission examined the accounts for eight
years of an aggregation of properties with a turnover
of £20,000 p.a. Out of every 90s. of gross income
the grazier had paid 18s. to Governments and 525.
to workers and other persons associated with the
industry, leaving 20s. for himself. Taxes came to
£2300 p.a.—over 50 p.c. of net profit.
At the end of the war Central Queensland was
regarded as a pastoral goldmine. A ballot for small
Government blocks drew hundreds of applicants. The
winner of a ballot for 4000 or 5000 acres of Alice or
Isis Downs or some such station could reckon that
he was worth £5OOO as the result of the draw: any
pastoral firm would immediately finance his improve-
ments to that extent. Since 1928 the position of
an area as large as N. S. Wales, including some of
the most highly-improved interior pastoral lands in
Australia, has become precarious. Drought reports
came that year from Hughenden, Cloncurry, Boulia,
Dajarra, Birdsville, the Diamantina, Winton, Long-
reach and Jundah. Sections of this great area have
had some good seasons since, but the western part
has had almost unvaried drought, which has reached
its zenith in 1935. What is worse, the dry area is
moving south.
Near Jundah, one particular station has had only
one reasonably good season since 1923. In the north
of the area the monsoon has failed, and thousands
of miles are almost bare. Longreach has abandoned
its annual show. Charleville is experiencing the driest
season since 1881. The edge of the dry area has
reached to Cunnamulla, which, until a few months
ago. was surrounded by stations rolling in feed.
The position calls for measures touched with
imagination and heart. Reduction of taxes, interest
and rent; provision of water supplies, and, instead
of “public works to absorb the unemployed”—that
old fraudulent standby of the city politician! —great
tree-planting projects and nation-wide campaigns
against pests. Meanwhile the Government of the
State whose pastoralists are in the worst plight is
finding £2,000,000 for a bridge over a few hundred
feet of city river. The neighborhood has acquired
another electorate, and votes must be considered.
DOMINION STATUS.
A series of questions on this subject was recently
addressed to The Bulletin’s Service Department.
Because dates and titles of books which might be
consulted were asked for, it was sent on to the Depart-
ment of External Affairs. Back came a lucid summary
of the position, obviously the work of an officer who
serves Australia ably. It is here published for
general information, and for the particular instruction
of politicians and others who are inviting Britain to
interfere in the internal affairs of Australia and
suggesting that Britain should return the former
German colonies —a thing which, in the case of the
mandates held by the Commonwealth and Maoriland,
is not in its power. What applies to the Common-
wealth applies equally to Maoriland, though seces-
sionists and provincialists with inferiority .complexes
are not active there.
The main difference between a Dominion and a colony
is the extent of the dependence of the latter on the mother
country. Crown colonies, for example, have their executive
government controlled by the British Government through
the Secretary of State for the Colonies, although they may
have local Legislatures. Self-governing colonies —for example,
Malta and Southern Rhodesia —have wide but not unre-
stricted autonomy. It entitles them to representation at the
Imperial Conference, but does not entitle them to individual
membership of the League of Nations.
The status of the Dominions has been one of gradual
development. In the case of Australia, the beginning of
Dominion status may be regarded as dating from the estab-
lishment of the Commonwealth in 1900. The process of
evolution has been indicated at successive Imperial Conferences.
In 1921, at the first Imperial Conference held after the
war, Mr. Lloyd George said that the Dominions had achieved
full national status, and that they then stood beside
the United Kingdom in the dignities and the responsibilities of
the British Commonwealth.
In 1926 the Imperial Conference, in adopting a report of
the Inter-Imperial Relations Committee, definitely laid down
that the group of self-governing communities composed of
Great Britain and the Dominions were “autonomous communi-
ties within the British Empire, equal in status, in no way
subordinate one to another in any'aspect of their domestic
or external affairs, though united by a common allegiance
to the Crown and freely associated as members of the
British Commonwealth of Nations.”
There remained certain limitations on the Dominions.
Ministers in Great Britain were able to exercise control over
Dominion legislation by way of (1) disallowance by the
King of Acts passed by Dominion Legislatures and reserva-
tion of bills; and (2) the general provision in the Colonial
Laws Validity Act of 1865 to the effect that, where a Domin-
ion law is repugnant to the provisions of a United Kingdom
Act extending to the Dominion, such Dominion law is
void to the extent to which it is so repugnant.
Another limitation was that on the power of Dominion
Parliaments to give extra-territorial effect to their legislation.
There were also certain limitations on the right of the
Dominions to legislate as regards merchant shipping. A
special conference was held in 1929 to consider these matters;
this conference made certain recommendations which were
adopted by the Imperial Conference in 1930. Provision
was made for the removal of these limitations by the Statute
of Westminster, passed by the Imperial Parliament in 1931.
This statute is subject to adoption by the Dominion Legis-
latures; Australia up to the present has not adopted it.
Dominion status, with its equality in the British Common-
wealth of Nations, naturally increases the rights and responsi-
bilities of Australia. Australia is an independent member of
the League of Nations and other international organisations,
and appoints its own delegates to international conferences.
It has the right to negotiate and conclude treaties with foreign
countries, subject only to consultation with the United Kingdom
and other Dominions in cases where their interests are likely
to be involved.
Australia is consulted as to the appointment of foreign
Consuls in its territories. Consuls’ exequaturs are now counter-
signed by an Australian Minister.
Australia is now more widely informed and consulted by
his Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom regarding
the conduct of foreign policy, and, as a signatory of the
Peace Treaties, international agreements, treaties and con-
ventions, has assumed increasingly wider responsibilities.
Finally,
In the case of a Dominion the Governor-General is the
representative of the Crown. He holds in all essential respects
the same position in relation to the administration of public
affairs in the Dominion as is held by the King in Great
Britain. He is not a representative or an agent of the Govern-
ment in Great Britain or any department thereof.
POLICE-COURT PERILS.
The Bulletin raised a big subject when it referred
(3/4/’35) to the injustices that occur in courts of
summary jurisdiction.
When plain Bill Smith is fined for being drunk
and disorderly nobody bothers It is different when
Dr. Smith or the Rev. Smith has to face a similar
charge.
A conviction sometimes means ruin to Bill Smith,
too ; and Bill is at a decided disadvantage if he can’t
afford to brief counsel.
Few, here or in other parts of the Empire which
follow English police-court procedure, realise how
completely their reputations may depend on the
judgment— not to mention the honesty—of an indi-
vidual policeman. No one will deny that policemen,
British and Australian, nearly always act in good
faith. But the number of times that faith is mis-
placed may be judged by the number of times police-
court decisions are reversed by higher Courts. It was
estimated in England recently that over a period of
10 years more than 90 per cent, of challenged police-
court convictions had been dismissed on appeal.
When I was in London a few years ago an elderly
army officer was convicted at Vine-street of being
drunk and disorderly and molesting women. The
magistrate went on the evidence of a single policeman,
who admitted that he knew of the molestation by
hearsay only. The army officer appealed, was strongly
defended, and proved to the satisfaction of a Sessions
Judge that he had not been drunk ; a few minutes
before his arrest he had been talking in a well-known
club to members and the hall-porter, who testified
that he was stone sober.
It is a regrettable fact that in drunkenness cases
all over the Empire magistrates and policemen tend
to be influenced by the social position of the suspect.
The army man mentioned might have got off
in the first place if he had said who he was. Counsel
for the police complained:
He gave no indication that he was a major.
It is almost inconceivable that if the gentleman had
disclosed that he was a major Vine-street should have
disregarded all the police rules.
So the rich score as against the poor in another
direction.
There are cases, however, in which the police
recognise no class distinctions, and in many of them
the judicial convention referred to by The Bulletin
(that one policeman’s word is preferable to the testi-
mony of four reputable professional men) may have
appalling results. The mere fact of being publicly
accused may be almost as serious as convictions
would be.
Here is a problem which offers almost limitless
scope to law reformers; but it bristles with difficulties.
Obviously, if a court of summary jurisdiction isn’t
fairly summary it won’t be able to get through its
business. If a policeman’s opinion isn’t accepted as
virtually infallible, and if his word isn’t automatically
believed against that of the accused, then the whole
morale of the force is going to be adversely affected.
Policemen will get nervous of making arrests. The
corruption of the New York police is said to have
arisen from the interference of politicians on behalf
of their friends. Where policemen get the habit
of not arresting, citizens get the habit of taking the
law into their own hands. Particularly where offences
against women or children are concerned.
In the A.1.F., towards the end of the war, Legal
Officers were appointed. They were lawyers in civil
life, and their business was to assist courts-martial
members who knew nothing of military or any other
kind of law, as a rule. An immediate effect in some
sectors was to decrease acquittals by about 25 per
cent. If the State provided Legal Officers to assist
accused persons in courts of summary jurisdiction
acquittals might be increased by 25 per cent; and
justice would be served as it was in the A.I.F. The
vast majority of those charged would no doubt plead
guilty, as at present. It would be the duty of the
Legal Officer to decide which of the others were
worth defending on the available evidence. I believe
that such an arrangement would solve, to an extent
anyhow, a scandal which everybody deplores, and end
by giving the police courts the same high reputation
for dealing out even-handed justice to rich and poor
alike which is enjoyed by the criminal courts.
INNER TEMPLE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Italy and Ethiopia.
If Italy goes to war with Abyssinia it will be by no
means a one-sided affair of tribesmen against
machine-guns, and some dangerous repercussions will
be inevitable.
Abyssinia is mainly a huge tangled mass of
mountains peopled by fighting men. The savage
swordsmen who massacred and mutilated the unlucky
Italian troops at Adowa a generation and a half
ago are now represented by a trained army, versed
in modern war methods and armed with modern rifles,
machine-guns, tanks and artillery. The Ethiopians
have an efficient air force, and are said to make first-
rate pilots. Even to reach them an attacking force
will require to attain from 8000 feet to 10,000 feet
as a beginning of safety from ground reprisals. There
are no industrial towns, and to bomb the mud-hut
capital of Addis Ababa would be a useless waste of
ammunition. Anyhow, it is mainly inhabited by
Europeans.
To cut off munition supplies, Italy would require
a working agreement with France —through its Red
Sea port of Djibouti—and England, in respect of the
Sudan, Uganda and Kenya. Abyssinia has big gold
resources and vast mineral possibilities, and can
probably offer tempting terms to international gun-
runners, operating by air and otherwise.
All experience shows the enormous difficulties
attaching to wars with fighting races inhabiting a
mountainous terrain. The French troubles with the
Riffs, the Achinese war in the Dutch Indies, British-
Indian “little wars” with hillmen and many other
examples might be quoted. In the present instance
the color question is vigorously to the fore, and even
slight Abyssinian successes would produce dangerous
reactions in other parts of Africa, as well as in Asia.
Victory would mean that the prestige of the white
man as a fighter, already on the down-grade, would
be destroyed amongst black races. An Italian victory,
with resulting conquest of a country rich in minerals
and with great agricultural possibilities, might mean
another World War.
It seems a pity that the League of Nations never
grew up to be more than a blather factory.
♦
“Victoria for Immigrants.”
The first act of the Dunstan Ministry was naturally
to placate the “sustenance” men out on strike. Dr.
Argyle had offered them six months’ work at award
rates, with increased sustenance for the remainder
of the year, and it was obviously up to a Dunstan
totally surrounded by Labor politicians to go one
better. He said he would give the strikers the rates
promised by the other Government, and pay in
advance.
There are about 18,000 registered unemployed
unionists in Victoria. “Reproductive” work at award
rates will mean an expenditure of £70,000 a week.
Adding administrative expenses and the money needed
to pay sustenance for the remaining six months, the
total required will be perilously close to the £4,500,000
which the Argyle Government reckoned would be
necessary.
But the matter does not end there. The regis-
tered unemployed include few white-collar workless.
Such men and women have hitherto refrained from
broadcasting their troubles, but the prospect of
award rates for six months will bring out into the
open all this legion that never has been listed. More-
over, the unemployed in other States are not likely
to rest content with “sustenance” and a bit of
“emergency relief work” when award rates are being
paid for half the year just over the border. All day
long and all night long, the Albury bridge will echo
with the march of tramping feet, some of them
shaking the dust of Bundaberg from their boots as
they rush to register at the Wodonga office. The
Coorong will be a seething mass of humanity making
its way from South Aus. to the Promised Land of
Moses Argyle and Joshua Dunstan.
As a State immigration agency the device fathered
by Argyle and mothered by Dunstan has everything
which preceded it looking like the first efforts of a
dilettante.
*
Arnheim Land Gold.
On January 23 The Bulletin published an article
concerning Arnheim Land Gold Development (N.L.),
and dealing particularly with statements made in
the original prospectus. These were to the effect
that Mr. Francis Birtles had struck a rich reef,
from which dazzling specimens had been taken, on “a
field entirely new and never worked by anybody but
himself,” and that the promoters “had not hesitated
to subject Mr. Birtles’s statements to the closest
scrutiny and investigation”:
The reef has been tested, and its extent and the
assays from the lode are of a character which would
strain the credulity of those who have not had the
opportunity to verify Mr. Birtles’s statements. The reef
is of general uniformity, and its surface richness
indicates the probability that it will be more richly gold-
bearing as it goes deeper.... In short, promoters feel
justified in stating that the reef will provide a maximum
return for a minimum in mining it.
Other assertions were reproduced, and The Bulletin
wound up by suggesting a Sydney Stock Exchange
inquiry. None was entered upon.
Another article appeared on Feb. 6. It dealt
mainly with reports of the Chief Warden, who said
that “the show” had been discovered in 1920 by Mr.
S. Tollis, that several option-holders had rejected
it, and that “Mr. Birtles’s name” had “never at any
time appeared in the registers of this office as the
holder of any mining tenement of any description in
the Territory.” He gave particulars of assays made
by him. After this The Bulletin received a writ.
A series of company reports has since been issued
to Sydney newspapers. One, published on March
29, reads:—
The battery has run 187 hours and treated approxi-
mately 102 tons of ore for 440 z. of retorted gold.
Smelting and assaying done by the Mines Department,
Darwin, which is also assaying tailings.
The Commonwealth Government had meanwhile sent
Dr. W. G. Woolnough and two officers of the N.T.
Mines Department to inspect the property.
Dr. Woolnough’s report was presented in the
Commonwealth Parliament on Wednesday. Begin-
ning with a reference to “highly colored statements
obviously made with the intention of inducing
the public to invest in the shares of the company,” it
declares that “the methods of sampling were open
to grave objection,” and regards it as “very signifi-
cant” that, “with two exceptions, groups of samples
taken by Mr. Bell himself” —Mr. Bell is the Chief
Warden—“showed almost negligible values.” It had
been stated that “on Feb. 28, 1934, Shaft 2a had been
sunk to 'a depth of 75 feet, that the lode had been
encountered at 60 feet and followed in the shaft for
12 feet, containing values.” This was “grossly incor-
rect.”
Even the most excessive allowance for possible
stretch in the tape cannot make the shaft even 60 feet
deep... .The depth of this shaft, and with it the observa-
tions relating to the extent of reef matter, has been
misstated by the company.
Again,
The published statements refer repeatedly to
highly favorable values encountered in and near the
group of shafts. Yet no mining has been carried on
in connection with these shafts since June, 1934.
Instead, ore is being carried half a mile from “the
39-chain” costean, admittedly a much lower-grade
proposition.. . .We must conclude that the value of the
deposit at the shaft has been overstated.
A schedule of 35 assays of samples taken by the
Government parties on two visits is set down. One
sample taken from “ferruginous vughs in the 39-
chain costean” gave loz. 17dwt. sgr. fine gold per ton.
The return from 11 was “nil” or “trace.” Only five
of the remainder exceeded 2dwt.; the highest, from
“loose material at battery dump,” went sdwt.
In a general summary, Dr, Woolnough says:—•
We are unable to accept as conclusive the results
obtained either from the present series of samples or
from the crushing of ore recently milled at Yemelba,
as the possibility of contamination with gold at various
points cannot be eliminated.
We are strongly of opinion that the amount of gold
“recovered” during milling operations is greatly in
excess of the amount likely to have been contained in
the ore even under the most generous assumptions.
We find definitely that at least some of the pub-
lished statements of the company are misleading, and
are of opinion that the failure to produce ore from the
neighborhood of the shafts can be interpreted only as
a further proof in the same direction.
For 10 weeks there was frantic speculation in
Arnheim Land scrip. On Thursday, “until further
notice,” the name was struck off the official quota-
tions list at Sydney ’Change. This tardy proceeding
is no consolation to the multitude of people who have
lost their money.
A Lesson in Self-reliance.
Germany, whatever its faults, never fails to stand up
to industrial difficulty. No shortage of imported
material ever seems to worry its industrialists for
long.
Napoleon blockaded Europe against England.
The Germans were without sugar. They turned to
beet as a source. Before long, British West Indian
plantations were closing down because the German
sugar industry had become self-contained. To-day
Germany produces over 1,000,000 metric tons p.a.
of raw sugar, and has shown itself capable of making
2,500,000 tons —it did it in 1912 and again in 1930-31.
Before the war the value of Chilean nitrate
imported into Germany was £8,500,000 sterling. The
Allied blockade soon left the Germans stranded for
nitrates. A process was evolved by which nitrogen
was derived from the air. The whole national require-
ment is now produced internally, and there is a
fertiliser surplus worth £21,000,000 sterling for export.
The area under wheat was 4,500,000 acres in
1928, 50,000,000 acres last year. In 1933 German
wheat imports were worth £6,000,000 sterling; in
1913, £20,000,000.
The latest moves are towards self-containment in
textiles and fuels. Hitler insists that economic
nationalism is being forced on him; that he wishes
to avoid it so as to safeguard Germany’s exports. He
is anxious for trade agreements. Some of the latest
developments, however, have their direct lesson for
Australia.
The output of German petrol since 1928 has
grown from 92,000 tons to 239,000 tons. It may
reasonably be said that if Germany were to be cut
off by war from the sources of its fuel supplies it
has the nucleus of plant and the technique to keep
its motors running. Australia, more isolated, more
dependent on distant outside sources, more likely to
be blockaded in time of sudden war, could scarcely
produce enough to keep the politicians’ cars on the
road to Canberra without several months’ intensive
experiment and plant building. Yet we have the
materials for producing power alcohol —sugar, sor-
ghums and grain, for instance —in an abundance
which could give the Commonwealth a self-contained
fuel supply within a very few years.
■ ♦
A Champs Elysees for Melbourne.
Just as the Sydney man proudly takes the visitor to
his harbor, so does the Melbourne man flaunt St.
Kilda-road. He generally drives the stranger out of
the city down the splendid vista of two miles of
flowering gums; then, as a collection of frowsy build-
ings appears before them, he talks about St. Kilda
beach, and turns his car. Had he kept straight on
he would have driven through a narrow thor?-«ghlare
of shops erected in the days when bushrangers fre-
quented the outskirts of the city, shops which have
never been remodelled since their erection and which
are half their lime to let. After a mile of this, he
would emerge on Brighton-road—a replica of St.
Kilda-road —a fine wide boulevard which is once more
a credit to the city and the State. There are two more
miles of this; then the road forks into two branches,
one leading to the seafront and the other to the
country.
Apart altogether from questions of beautification,
the bottleneck of High-street, St. Kilda, is an obstruc-
tion to modern traffic and a source of danger to life
and property. For a generation, suggestions have
been put forward to widen this street and turn St.
Kilda and Brighton roads into one wide, continuous,
decorative thoroughfare from Princes Bridge to a
point six miles out. The expense of resuming the
necessary strip of land on each side of High-street
and remodelling the whole area has been so mani-
festly vast that everybody has stood appalled at the
prospect. Now the depression has come along, and
the fact that the State has never been so stone-broke
offers an opportunity of carrying out this necessary
work. The agitation has been resumed, and the pros-
pects of having the work done seem more rosy than
they were at any of the boom periods of the past.
The apparent anomaly is due to the fact that the
Government has to find work for the unemployed
somehow. The vast army on sustenance cannot be
permitted to starve, and the Government —any Gov-
ernment —argues that it is better to pay a bit more
and have something to show for it than pay a little
for nothing at all. St. Kilda-road extension will
certainly be something to show.
#
Sydney’s Chance.
Within the next year or so Sydney will be given a
chance to make the area at the northern end of Hyde
Park a credit to any city in the world ; and at little
or no cost to the taxpayers. St, James’s is as
beautiful as some of Wren’s churches. The land
made available by the removal of the Law Courts
should be turned into a park, thereby enabling
Greenway’s masterpiece to be viewed from every
angle.
In London 40 years ago when the Catholics
were dilatory about completing the Oratory the
County Council intervened ; the dome was finished,
and the big Kensington church ceased to be an
eyesore inside a year. The Government might simi-
larly request the St. Mary’s authorities to put the
missing spires on the Basilica; the money would
soon materialise, and not all of it would be Catholic
money.
Presumably the new Law Courts will be worthy
of their surroundings. The Archibald and Anzac
memorials are lovely in themselves, and Hyde Park
will improve as its trees mature.
Eventually Sydney may achieve a square as
central as Trafalgar-square, and as airy and parklike
as the Place de la Concorde. It rests with the next
Government.
#
Obsolete Lunacy Laws.
N. S. Wales lunacy laws are a generation out of
date —the Lunacy Act was passed in 1898. The
Inspector-General of Mental Hospitals says the need
for reform “cannot be too strongly stressed.” Mr.
Hogg’s department has been stressing it since 1902,
but on this subject politicians are blind and deaf.
In N. S. Wales no line is drawn in confinement
between the lunatic and the mental defective, between
the alcoholic and the epileptic. They are lumped
together in reception-houses and asylums.
There are 1568 non-epileptics, 476 epileptics and
97 “moral imbeciles” under State care. Not only are
these patients not properly segregated from the
general run of lunatics, but with them are brigaded
soldier cases and senile cases —old men for whom the
strain of the world has become a little too much,
and who, perfectly normal to all appearances in the
quiet gardens of Parramatta and Kenmore, go to
pieces as soon as they face a city street. There are
no tubercular wards. The Inspector-General says they
are sorely needed. Of 23 nurses who have become
infected during the past year in hospitals and institu-
tions, eight came from asylums, and 17 mental patients
died of the disease last year.
By law, mental patients are compelled to remain
in certain buildings during certain hours. Hundreds
of them are housed in weatherboard shacks, officially
characterised as “not reasonably safe from fire.” In
Parramatta alone 700 live under these conditions:
If a fire were to occur at night with a skeleton staff
on duty, it is feared that there would be loss of life.
Most asylums are set in acre upon acre of
beautiful garden and orchard, providing occupations
for some of those fit to work. But Gladesville wards
are described as “a blot.” There is no outlook from
the wards ; there are no day-rooms.
One need often “stressed” is for psychopathic
wards in general hospitals. There is one psychiatric
hospital in Sydney for voluntary patients. In 1933-34
it discharged 219 recovered, 136 relieved and 160 only
not improved. A number of hospitals have clinics; but
wards are urged as a necessity to provide expert chrc
for incipient cases, 50 p.c. of whom, it is said, could
be saved from insane institutions, while hospital
doctors would have the opportunity of gaining
diagnostic knowledge v/hich would save many more.
The percentage of recoveries “on admissions and
readmissions” is less than it was 30 years ago.
Whereas 35.58 p.c. to 46.93 p.c. of patients recovered
during the five years ended 1905, the figures were
28.22 p.c. to 33.5 p.c. in a similar period ended 1934.
The State cannot be held guiltless.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.W.”: Was waiting at a Circular
Quay jetty when a ferry from the Zoo
came in with a band. The man at the
gate, looking up from attending to
some children and catching sight of the
back of a man passing through, shouted
after him: “Hey! Are you a bands-
man?” The person accosted turned
round and held up a huge circular bass.
“Wot d’yer take this for—a cigarette-
holder?”
* * * *
“Thug”: Sydney police roundsmen
are making much of the discovery by
our guardians of “one of the cruellest
weapons ever seen in this country,”
found on a youthful criminal. The pic-
ture of the thing shows it to be an ordi-
nary knuckle-duster. U.S.A. papers
carry columns of advertisements offer-
ing knuckle-dusters for sale. Nothing
easier than for anyone with the money
to write and get one through the mails.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Coincidence beats the
band at times. Just on 400 applicants
were in the ballot for two fine grazing
blocks resumed from Portland Downs
(c.-w. Q.). Portion 1 was drawn by
marble No. 183, representing E. L.
Steele and E. J. Lawson. Marble No.
182 drew the other portion, giving the
block to John Lawson, father of Lawson
and father-in-law of Steele, in con-
junction with R. C. McCullagh. The
latter is overseer on Stainburn Downs,
Aramac, the property of E. Steele,
son of the co-drawer of Portion 1. And
ballots could not be any fairer in
heaven.
* * sH He
“El V.”: The craze for international
propaganda brings some strange news-
papers into Australian offices, but the
prize for polysyllables among them all
would undoubtedly go to “Pesti Hirlap,”
the “S. M. Herald” of Budapest. It
arrived with a marked paragraph of
which the heading is; “A vdrosok kon-
gresszusdnak kiildottsege a penziigy-
miniszternel es a beliigyminiszternel.”
Sounds like a good national language for
Canberra.
* * * *
“Jade”: Who was it said the age of
gallantry is past? We met beside the
harbor; he was 70, and confided that he
preferred working in spots to being on
the dole. A long talk followed ; becom-
ing reminiscent, he traced his life back
to his rouseabout days on stations in our
various States, and dwelt wistfully on
the chances he had missed. It was at Mar-
oubra that he once found a watch in the
scrub ; worth a fiver, he reckoned. He
wanted to give it to a girl friend, but
she demurred, having one already. Next
day she showed him an ad. in the news-
paper, and the description seemed to
tally, so he hied him off to the address
with the watch. “A lady opened the
door and reckoned it was her daughter’s
watch all right. Said she: ‘Me daughter
tells me she lost it when walking along
the tram line.’ I wasn’t going to put the
girl away by saying I’d found it in the
scrub, where she probably oughtn’t to
have been, so I said ‘That’s right.’ And
I passed over the watch and she gave me
half a quid.”
* * * *
“Hlobane”: Sydneyites who visit the
National Gallery may be interested to
hear of the death of James Michael
Rorke, who gave his name to the farm
by the ford where a small party of
English regulars shattered the attack of
the Zulu army which had eaten up two
British regiments at Isandlwana the pre-
vious day, and thereby saved northern
Natal from butchery and rapine. The
Gallery painting of Rorke’s Drift —
a replica, though this is disputed—
is sneered at to-day as a typical speci-
men of the mid-Victorian “signboard”
school, but it is full of color and vigorous
“Gef out, you beast, or I'll call my husband F!”
action and commemorates one of the
finest feats of arms in British history.
Rorke served in that Zulu war and in
many of the now-forgotten Kaffir troubles
which preceded it, but he always said his
nastiest job was showing the ex-Empress
Eugenie where the Prince Imperial had
been ambushed and killed. He died in
Natal in his 83rd year.
* * * *
“Three Plums”: When “fruit-machines”
and their political friends struck trouble
in Australia the quaint gadgets found
refuge in Merrie England. Scotland
Yard has now hopped in and put the lid
on. There is a feeling in certain Sydney
circles that the sleuths might have waited
until one of the fruit-machine kings had
been promoted to the House of Lords.
* * * *
“Lazarus”: Times are hard, and I had
to leave my topcoat with Uncle the other
day. He lent me a pound on it, and
said solicitously, “Ith a goot goat, and
shall I hang id up for you? If I don’t
id’ll get creathed.” I thanked him for his
thoughtfulness. Three days later I re-
deemed my coat, repaying the pound
and dredging up Is. 6d. for interest.
Uncle demanded another shilling.
“Whaffor?” I inquired. “Thath our
hanging-up charge,” explained my bene-
factor.
* * * *
“Lupan”: “Rouge Dragon’s” par. (B.
20/3/’35) about the three lions on the
Royal Arms of England being really
three leopards is obviously incorrect.
The only foundation for it is that Wil-
liam the Conqueror and his two succes-
sors had “two lions or leopards” on their
arms. The lions proper began with
Henry 11. The first great seal of Richard
I. bore “two lions combattant .” On his
second seal we have the “three lions
passant guardant in pale or, on a field
gules,” described as his father’s arms.
Ever since 1195 the three golden lions
on a red field have typified the might
of England. Even allowing for the
eccentricities of heraldry, leopards have
yet to be discovered with manes and hair-
tufted tails.
* * * *
“Erua”: Maoriland, which suffers
widely from the problem of the dis-
carded cat, is seriously considering mak-
ing it compulsory to register Tom and
Tabby. The contention is that if
owners have to pay for the registration
of their cats they will look after them
more carefully. The dog tax discourages,
the keeping of colonies of assorted
mongrels, and probably the cat tax will
make the payee think it worth while
to take the family mouser with him when
he moves.
H: * * *
“Adelaide”: The High Court has upset
the judgment of two S.A. Courts, both of
which had said that Rex Wallman, an
Adelaide lawyer (incidentally president
of the Rowing Association), should re-
cover £350 from the State Savings Bank.
His office posted a legacy cheque with the
name slightly wrong. By an odd chance,
there was in the same district a lady of
the exact name used, and naturally she
got it. After ringing up the office, which
(not dreaming of any error and coincid-
ence) replied “It’s yours all right,” she
opened an account, and used the money.
The bank says it made the usual inquiries
as to the identity and respectability of its
new customer, and could not be expected
to do more than that. Two Courts said
that it could, and should ; but the bank
fought on, and has got the decision in the
third round.
* * * ijc
“Tripod”: “Currency” (B. 27/3/’35)
finds something strange in a cheque being
worded “pay the sum of five pounds
exactly.” He wouldn’t if he had ever
been in the United States. It is, or was,
a regular addendum there. The word
“sterling” has no application in American
currency, so “exactly” is used.
* ❖ H* sfc
“D.”: “When,” asks “Hamer” (B.
3/4/’35), “did this country ever allow
that horrible cruelty the bearing rein, or,
for that matter, the docked mane and
tail?” There is no such thing as a
docked mane, but most Australian polo
ponies’ manes are still hogged. It is no
more cruel to hog a horse’s mane than
it is to cut a man’s hair. The bearing
rein and the docked tail (for hacks, cobs,
etc.) were fashionable here till they be-
came unfashionable in England. I have
a book with a picture of the present
King and Queen driving to Sydney Gov-
ernment House in a barouche ; the horses
have bearing reins and are bitted exactly
as they would have been if the royalties
had been driving in London. The tails
of these horses are not docked but
banged ; they look like thoroughbreds.
Thoroughbreds have never been docked
in England, Ireland or on the Continent,
and the chief reason why so many Aus-
tralian hacks and hunters wore long tails
in the pre-motor era was that 90 per
cent, of them were as near clean-bred as
not to matter. It wasn’t humanitarian-
ism but aesthetics. A docked thorough-
bred or near-thoroughbred would look
grotesque to one with an eye for a
horse; a docked Suffolk Punch (say)
doesn’t.
“Bridoon”: A Sydney essayist in an
article on cruelty to animals cited as an
example the Liverpool Grand National,
in which horses were “whipped and
spurred over hurdles for three miles.”
The distance is over four and a half
miles; the “hurdles” are the biggest
steeplechase fences in the world, and
the horses have to be held back rather
than whipped or spurred. Arthur Nightin-
gale, Ripley and other masters wore
dummy spurs or no spurs at all.
* *- * %
“Jonnop”; I was indeed pleased to
read that Judge Edwards, of the N. S.
Wales District Court, now prefers the
evidence of one policeman to that of
four doctors. A few years ago he
wounded me to the quick by publishing
a little book on the duties of magistrates
which contained this paragraph:
The evidence of the police should
always be scrutinised with the greatest
care. A constable gives evidence so fre-
quently in the course of his duties that he
becomes an expert in the giving of
evidence: he uses the same phrases so
often that he comes, after a time, to use
them without fully weighing their import-
ance or meaning. He nearly always has a
direct personal interest in the case. If he
has arrested a person upon a certain
charge he feels bound to support that
charge; if he does not, he is apt to get
into trouble with his superiors for arrest-
ing a person upon insufficient grounds.
His Honor has ascended the Bench and
seen the light since then.
* * * *
“Grandpa’s Understudy”: Touching
“Cabbage Tree” Ned Devine (B.
27/3/’35). Ned’s proudest day was on
the occasion of the Duke of Edinburgh’s
visit to Ballarat, when he drove the Cobb
and Co. coach with its famous greys
round the streets at £5 per passenger.
But he did not stay in Maoriland on his
retirement, as “H.M.” suggests. He re-
turned to Ballarat, was committed to the
Benevolent Home in 1904, and died there
four years later at a reputed age of 71.
The proposed statue will be placed in the
Ballarat Cemetery, where he is buried.
Frank Smiley, doyen of the Old Coach
Drivers’ Association, has the project in
hand.
* * #
“G.M.”: The rise of hiking as a
pastime has given a heap of trouble
to country people in Victoria. It
is becoming increasingly frequent for
work to be held up in some dis-
trict while everybody goes out to
find a party of girls or youths who
have been lost in the bush. Usually
they are discovered within a couple of
miles of the local post office. Dad and
Dave are beginning to get tired of
searching for lost hikers, and there are
rumblings about taking such action as
the French Government enforces on its
airmen flying the Sahara —they must
guarantee the cost of search-parties be-
fore they start. Quite recently a bunch
were lost near Olinda (Vic.) and, after
spending a night in the cold, lay down
and resigned themselves to death from
starvation. Then they heard voices, and
found that they were camped alongside
the paddock used by the local kiddies
as a playground. The governing body
of the hiking clubs—if there is one —
should raise sufficient money to finger-
post spots where their members are liable
to be lost, or to imagine themselves lost.
Hi ❖ * ❖
“Oran”: The discussion of a test for
inebriety reminds me of the excellent
one I heard Sandy MacPherson apply to
Hector MacTavish when one evening
Hector was in imminent danger of
arrest. Hector protested to our local
p.c. that he had never been more sober,
but the Law, having discerned Hector try-
ing to prop himself against a lamp-post,
listened dubiously. Sandy offered to
settle the argument. “Will ye lend me
a poun’ the nicht, Hector?” he asked.
Without a second’s hesitation Hector,
propping himself against Sandy, produced
an ancient note, remarking “Ye needna
return it, Sandy.” With a gloomy shake
of his head, Sandy pronounced his find-
ing: “He’s verra teepsy, but if ye hae a
ten-sheeling note, officer, an’ ye let Hec-
tor gang hame wi’ me, I’ll gie ye the half
o’ the poun’.” I left at this stage, but I
heard next morning that Hector duly
arrived home, escorted by Sandy.
1910-1935.
“The King’s jubilee celebrations will extend over
three months.’’
There’ll be jubilee jinks and historic displays
And pageants imposingly planned,
And beacons and bonfires by thousands will
blaze
As brightly as (twice) in Victorian days
Through the length and the breadth of the
land.
Multitudinous bells in thanksgiving will ring
And gladdening drinks will be poured
Down numberless necks to the health of a King
Who’s put twenty-five on the board,
Not out,
A round twenty-five on the board.
There are but a dozen, I fancy, all told
To weather that mark have contrived
Since the banner of Harold, the dragon of
gold,
Went down in the scrimmage at Hastings of old
When William the Norman arrived.
It’s open to doubt you could name them off-
hand
Or write them successively down.
What odds? Here’s another to add to the band
With twenty-five years of the crown,
And throne,
Five lustrums of throne and of crown.
There’ll be naval manoeuvres and army reviews,
The same as when previous reigns
Afforded our forebears a chance to enthuse.
And —something they couldn’t, it’s obvious,
use —
A regular riot of ’planes.
There’ll be jubilee banquets and balls for the
swells,
And I’ll wager that Joe and his corps
Will have ribbons to stick in their jaunty lapels
For sign of his Majesty’s score,
Five fives,
A thoroughly popular score.
Well, here’s to the King with the straight-
driving blade
That’s countered the spins and the swerves!
He’s shown us the way that the game should
be played,
And it can’t be too freely and fittingly paid.
The tribute his innings deserves.
It’s time for the nation to give him a cheer
With his fourth of a century scored;
And we’re all of us hoping, afar and anear,
That he’ll put many more on the board.
That’s so —
His fifty, at least, on the board.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jungor”: The Haynes family of N. S.
Wales won a considerable reputation for
plain (and colored) speaking in the old
Crick-Norton days. And the clan sent
a doctor and a lawyer to Westralia who
kept it up, being Hayneses, as far as they
could—and sometimes a bit further. The
doctor, a highly regarded practitioner,
was generally at odds with his fellow-
medicoes and never hesitated to tell them
and their governing body what he
thought of them. But it was the lawyer
who carried forthrightness to the dead
limit. He got into the Leg. Council, and
once voiced his ineradicable objections
to the Government of the day by stating
from a public platform that there wasn’t
one of them he’d “trust with a fiver.”
Another remark of his might have
enriched “Hansard” —but didn’t. An
opponent had made a violent attack on
Haynes for his blatant ignorance of agri-
cultural conditions. Everybody looked
for the assailed member to justify him-
self, but his retort, though perfectly
audible to his near neighbors, never
reached the Chair. “You wouldn’t
think,” he said reflectively, in a tone
with more sorrow than anger in it, “that
I’d once defended that chap for sheep-
stealing ! ”
* * * *
“Cantab” delivers judgment:
“Mells’s” English writer (B. 3/4/’35) who
called Lyons “a typically Australian Prime
Minister” wasn’t referring to his appearance but
to his voice. J. Aloysius provides a flawless
example of the national accent; all his vowels
sound wrong to British ears, and the effect is
accentuated by a high voice with a whine in
it. George Reid was certainly “stout and
humorous,” but he no more resembled a Scot
than Billy Hughes resembles a Welshman.
Reid was identified by pre-war London as an
Orstrylyun the minute he opened his mouth.
His timbre was like that of Lyons, and he used
his plaintive head-voice to point his jokes,
which were usually at his own expense.
Those who listened to his London speeches
forgave him his “a’s,” which sounded to them
|jke j “i’s,” and the habitual use of “eow” for
“o,” because of his genial self-depreciation—
an insincere pose for which the English have
an inordinate esteem. Though there is nothing
Welsh about W. M. Hughes’s voice (compare
him on the screen with the mellifluous Lloyd
George) yet he isn’t “typically Australian.”
Alleged to have been a super, in early life,
Billy has cultivated an actor’s diction; on a
hustings he is often a fantastic blend of Ralph
Lynn and a Tommy sar.-major in a towering
passion. Gullett’s accent resembles that of
Hughes, and if Gullett made a speech with a
plum in his mouth he would sound like
Scullin.
* ❖ * *
“M.G.”: London has been holding a
“Bad Taste” exhibition, at which all the
decorative atrocities of the early- and mid-
Victorian ages have been trotted out for
the amusement of the present generation.
There is in existence within a few miles
of Sydney a guest-house which was
formerly the residence of one of the
State’s wealthiest men, and which still
contains the furnishings accumulated by
him during his lifetime. Mirrors with
swans and water-lilies painted on, horse-
hair furniture, antimacassars, whatnots—
even those woolwork pictures of Queen
Victoria giving the Bible to the black and
the full-face image of the spaniel. Every-
thing that is a blow to art and beauty is
there, and the place should certainly be
reserved for the nation as a museum of
bad art. As such things grow rare, they
acquire a fascination for collectors.
When I was in London I saw as much
as £lO a pair being paid for those grue-
some mantelpiece decorations once known
as “lustres,” which did not cost half that
sum when they were new. Some people
would collect garbage tins if there were
only a few garbage tins in the world.
* * * *
“Stan C”: Somebody has mentioned
that English railway officials were very
lenient in lots of ways to the A.I.F.
Maybe, but they could be
too. After the collision at Ware-
ham between the troops at the
clearing depot and the military police in
1917, four hundred-odd Diggers de-
cided to break camp and make for the
delights of London. We formed up,
marched to the station and waited for
the express from Weymouth. The old
station-master surveyed us with a kindly
eye and beaming smile. Instead of ask-
ing us for tickets, he said: “That’s right,
“Give 'im one of y'r peanuts, Ernie!”
“ Wha ’ for? This ain't Be Kind to Animals Week.”
boys. You go off and have a jolly good
time.” He even did his best to find seats'
for us all on the express, and we de-
parted, calling him blessed. But it wasn’t
long before the train began to slow down,
and bitter curses followed from the Dig-
gers leaning out of the carriage window,
for an escort of Tommies with fixed bayo-
nets was lining the track on both sides,
waiting to receive us. They marched us
off, and the result was 28 days in red ink
in our pay-books. That dear old station-
master, realising that he could do nothing
with such a mob, had tactfully helped us
on to the train before he got busy on the
telephone.
“Oxmead”: The ludicrous inaccuracies
of writers in the “Saturday Evening Post”
about Australia are not confined to the
Sydney “waterfront” and detectives who
play solitaire in Parramatta bars (B.
20/3/’35). In the very next number to
that recording Mr. Glencannon’s adven-
tures in these parts appeared a story about
a black kangaroo. The whole yarn is
grotesque in its absurdity ; bushmen are
confused with bushrangers, a kangaroo
is represented as being swallowed by a
python, and the illustrator has colla-
borated with the fictionist by drawing
emus with the heads of roosters and
depicting fauna from different regions
in impossible association. I turned to
an article by an American Senator, to
learn that one reason why Uncle Sam is
finding it so hard, compared with other
countries, to emerge from the depression
is that it struck him later —five or six
years ago—whereas in England, Canada
and Australia it began more like 15 years
ago. Was ever such nonsense published?
“M. de Paris”: Once more lam moved
to protest against these inaccuracies in
matters concerning the treatment of
criminals. Before me is a photo, from a
film of “The Term of His Natural Life” ;
it purports to show a man being flogged.
The triangles are the wrong way up,
and do not spreadeagle the subject
in the classic fashion, but have him dan-
gling limply from handcuff chains about
a foot long. With these it would be im-
possible to get the rigidity in the patient
necessary to give the cat full opportunity.
Further, the flagellant is clad in loose
garments, the flopping sleeves of which
would be an insuperable obstacle to
good work ; worse still, he is depicted as
standing with both feet together and lay-
ing on with both hands. I need hardly
tell my readers that the stance of a
flogger, with one foot advanced in front
of the other, is as important as that of
an international golfer. Also, with two
hands swinging the cat, it would be im-
possible to get the true drawing cut
which brings the skin away in strips and
is the hall-mark of the artist.
“Deckboy”: I don’t know where
“Matlow” (B. 20/3/’35) learnt his sea-
manship, but it is certain that the British
merchant service never taught him any-
thing about right and left helm. The
change in helm orders is simply that
when the pilot says “Port” the wheel is
turned to port, or the left, where it was
originally turned to starboard, or the
right, and vice versa. I took a Newcastle
tramp up Sydney Harbor-—generally ad-
mitted to be rather busy—a few days
after the new orders came into force,
and the only alteration I noticed was
that the pilot gave a wave of his hand
to starboard when he said “Starboard”
and to port for “Port.” This was purely
for assistance to the lads, and I suppose
a few months after the orders came into
force even the hand-waving custom died
out. They don’t even say “right” and
“left” helm in the U.S. merchant
service.
* * * *
“Somnus”: That young urger who
worked the stunt about losing part of his
mother’s change .on “also-rans” (B.
20/3/’35) was a tyro compared with a
Sydney girl of a few years back. She
made a habit of becoming affianced to
different youths. Having secured an
engagement ring, she would arrange
matters so that a stroll took the pair of
them to the harbor, where she would start
a quarrel and in a burst of simulated rage
tear the ring off her finger and shy it into
the briny. Needless to say, the ring thus
disposed of was of the 2s. a dozen
variety ; the dinkum article would pres-
ently be presented over a pawnbroker’s
counter.
* * * * *
“Centurion”: Australia is certainly a
casual country in the matter of self-
defence. Some time ago it was an-
nounced that additional guns were to be
mounted on the coastal defences; this
was followed by a list of the places
which were to benefit by them. The
other day the Sydney press gave a full
description of the exact spot on North
Head where it was proposed to mount
a new battery of big guns, together with
the dates by which the work was ex-
pected to be completed. The only thing
omitted was the publication of blue-
prints showing the plotting of the battery
sites and the angles of fire covered by
them.
* * $ :j!
“G.G.”: Four residents of Onehunga
(M.L.) who won £12,000 in an Australian
sweep were charged in the police
court with having bought a ticket in a
lottery conducted outside the Dominion.
They pleaded guilty, and offered to
give £5 each to charity ; the S.M. ac-
cepted, remarking that he had intended
fining them merely £1 apiece. M.L.
regards all sweepstakes as unclean things,
yet what are euphemistically called “art
unions” are common enough, tickets
being openly disposed of. The ads. say
“All prizes in alluvial gold” ; presumably
this is considered a work of art, while a
banknote is not.
* =i= * *
“O. de V.”: Front-line Diggers who
may agree with the reference (B.
27/3/ ’35) to the all-round crudity of St.
Mande’s War, Wine and Women will
jib at the statement that “it is one of the
most authentic war books written from
the ranker’s point of view.” In a passage
about a working party going up the line
one is informed that “some carried picks
and shovels —ten per man.” On another
page, dealing with a working party carry-
ing trench material over shellholes and
mud, you read that “I was carrying a
dozen or so sheets of corrugated iron.”
A dozen sheets of lightest gauge 6ft. iron
considerably over a hundred-
weight, and, apart from the weight of
ten picks and shovels, any Digger who
has had to juggle more than two at a
time knows jdst how awkward they are.
“ What would you charge, boatman ,
to take us round the harbor?”
FEATHERS.
She wears a feather in her hat
When we go out together.
I like those modes in frill and fur
Which periodic’lly recur
Old memories to wake and stir
That dwell in fur and feather.
She flies a feather in her lid
As, years ago, her mother did.
Tis but a quill, a natty quill.
Nor does it matter whether
The plumage that supplied the thing
Belonged to birds in woods that sing
Or those that don’t. The rarest wing
Could spare a single feather
Without a row being raised. And that
Is all she needs to deck her hat.
It sends me back across the years
To thoughts of grouse and heather.
Of wildfowl rising from the mists,
Of wary jays and watchful quists.
It’s queer how much romance persists
In clinging round a feather.
The homeliest adds a touch of style,
A breath of brightness to a tile.
She flies a feather in the hat
That needs no pins to tether.
It’s Tyrolese, the recipe,
I’m told. Withal it wafts to me
A stronger hint of Arcady,
That fascinating feather.
She wears a feather in her lid
The same as, once, her grand"'' n ; d.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


(6
Craven A have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result. Craven “A” give
constant smoking pleasure—without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
CRAVENA
Made specially to prevent sore throats
W
/-
10 for 9 d '
20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
“Cellophane”
which protects
and ensures fac-
tory freshness
always.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Voice that Breathed O’er Eden —
Stalin’s.
The death of Dave Watkins deprives
Scullin Labor of its sole representative
in N. S. Wales. It can’t let the seat go
to Lang Labor without a struggle, so a
brisk renewal of the faction fight is
anticipated.
At the end of February, 1934, Can-
berra, the city of politicians and civil
servants, had a whole £229 in the local
savings bank. During the ensuing twelve-
month somebody removed £2 of it, so
now each Canberran has 6.09 d. tucked
away, as against 6.13 d. last year.
Senators beaten at the September elec-
tion were farewelled at Canberra last
week. J. Silver Collings is to have
another £lOO a year and a private secre-
tary to help him manage the Labor Oppo-
sition. It will consist of three Senators,
all from Queensland: Gordon Brown,
J. V. Macdonald and Collings himself. In
still more disastrous years, Senator
“Jupp” Gardiner, who now wants to
stand against Lang in Auburn, led a party
of one.
N.S.W. and Queensland State elections
are again to be held simultaneously;
May 11 is the date. Stqvens made this
announcement in the middle of a busy
Parliamentary week, at the end of which,
according to his custom, he rushed away
to the country —this time to the Riverina,
where he turned the first sod of “what
will be the longest irrigation canal in
Australia,” and spoke to a host of elec-
tors. N. S. Wales has never had a
Premier who worked harder. In this
respect, as in others, Lang was (and is)
a fool to him.
Candidates for the N.S.W. Assembly,
who have hitherto got all their Govern-
ment election printing and advertising
gratis, will now be required to put up
a £25 deposit. Howling has begun
already, but Parliament is not the place
for persons who can’t find £25 or parties
who can’t find it for them. In the case
of Communists the State provided a free
platform and paid for the propaganda
of fanatics who would overthrow it.
“Radical” Cockies, particularly a
recent convert from the Nats., were in
an exuberant mood at the Ballarat con-
ference. To catch metropolitan voters, it
was suggested that the party should
change its name to “Country and
Liberal,” and it was predicted that Hock-
ing, now no longer president, would be-
come its leader in either the State or
Commonwealth Parliament, There are
two objections. One is that the new title
would be rather long for the tombstone.
There are almost as many Ministers
as private members in the Cocky party
now making a show of ruling Victoria,
and rejected candidates for office are
quite huffy about it. Hogan turned
U.C.P. 10 minutes before he was named
Minister of Agriculture and Mines.
Hogan was returned on March 3 with
U.A.P. support. He attacked his old
party at the declaration of the poll on
March 11, and was stigmatised by Barry,
the Carlton man, as “the Weeper from
Warrenheip”;
His tirade of abuse is beneath contempt,
and it will be resented by all decent-
minded members of the community.
Hogan and his Government are now
dependent on the support of Mr. Barry
and his friends.
Stevens has made good his promise
that he would patch up holes in the
N.S.W. returned-soldier preference law.
The real test will come when the
amended Act is administered; piean-
while, the Government might well infuse
more of the preference spirit into its
own appointments. The most effective
speech in support of the bill was made by
Wilkins, the member for Bathurst, who
lost a leg in France; the most stinging
sentence was uttered by Hocking, of
Canterbury. Sniped at by Langsters,
Hocking said: “There are 21 returned
soldiers on this side of the House and
not one on your side.”
In Westralia an Assemblyman accept-
ing Cabinet office is still obliged to go up
for election again. Had Victoria retained
this salutary provision there would not
have been such a blackguard rush on the
part of Argyle’s U.C.P. allies to dis-
patch his Government with the aid of its
open enemies. It is a good safeguard in
such cases, and the U.A.P. ought to try
to get it restored.
Queensland and Lang Labor selection
ballots were won to a large extent by lads
with names like Healy, Kane, Keogh,
Connellan and Rogan. The pre-selection
system plays right into their hands ; then,
of course, they
are generally
good talkers
and good fellows.
But this predomi-
nance has a bear-
ing on the efforts
being made in at
least three States
to get subsidies
for church
schools.
General Evan-
gel i n e Booth’s
arrival in eastern
Australia coin-
cided with the
rejection of the
only known Sal-
vationist politi-
cian Barber,
M.L.A. for Bun-
daberg (Q.)
since 1901. He
was rejected, not
by his consti-
tuents, who num-
ber 9000, but by
a few-score
“comrades” in the
Labor ballot.
Very probably
his constituents
would prefer to
keep their old
member, but in
these days of
machine politics
the preferences
and rights of con-
stituents are
alike ignored.
Governor
Huntingfield has
been sub-
jected to much unfair criticism over his
handling of the confused political situa-
tion in Victoria. He really showed re-
markable tact and commonsense. On
the other hand, he blundered in his
reply to the sustenance workers who
demanded that they should be paid at
the week-end following their strike. He
told them they should apply to the Gov-
ernment which had resigned, and which
was merely carrying on till the Dunstans
were ready. It would have flouted law
as well as precedent if it had so distri-
buted tax-money among strikers.
Accounts of the discussions between
British Minister Eden and Litvinoff at
'Moscow suggest that the Red leaders
are mortally scared of Germany and
Japan. If their Red Army is half as good
as it is cracked up to be, their tails
oughtn’t to be down, but evidently there
are haunting doubts as to its quality, at
home as well as abroad. Lloyd George
quotes a mordant dispatch from the
British Military Attache at Petrograd,
sent at the crisis of 1917;
The Socialists would rather a war of
classes than a national war, and the mass
of the soldiers would prefer it as being
less dangerous.
Red armies and imitation Red armies
have the same prudent preference every-
where.
Revisiting Queensland, Archbishop Le
Fanu mentioned that he read The
Bulletin, and found in it information
which he turned to good account; for
example, “Personal Items” had enabled
him to send birthday greetings to his
Catholic brother Clune when that arch-
bishop was ill. The new Primate has
evidently read other parts of the paper
with profit. In the same address he spoke
up bravely for Commonwealth control
of education and for one Australian
divorce law.
Not only did South Africa wind up
its financial year with a surplus of
THE NEW LENINISM.
" You'll he welcome here, comrade —provided you’re not a
pacifist, and you don’t come from Germany or Japan,
and you have plenty of English money.”
£3,000,000, but its Mines Minister re-
ports that in two years £23,000,000 has
been invested in new goldmines which
will employ a thousand Europeans apiece
—and, of course, many more natives.
Under scientific direction, Australia, with
vast belts of auriferous country and
many mines abandoned to the Crown —
abandoned only because they could not
be worked profitably with gold at the old
standard price—might be making just as
good a showing. Unfortunately, much of
the capital which might have produced
these results has been wasted in wild
orgies of gambling in leases and scrip,
acquiesced in, if not encouraged, by
Governments and Stock Exchanges.
In Victoria last month 1,099,251 State
electors were registered. Only 85,000
or so are represented by the Assembly
Ministers in the Dunstan Government —
7998 in Gippsland East, 9717 in Upper
Goulburn, 9775 in Swan Hill, 10,736 in
Warrenheip-Grenville, 11,063 in Ouyen,
11,754 in Korong-Eaglehawk and 11,974
in Goulburn Valley. There are nearly as
many people in any three U.A.P. metro-
politan constituencies; for example,
Brighton (26,787), St. Kilda (26,4171 and
Dandenong (27,968) —though Dandenong
is partly country. Yet Dunstan protests
that his Ministry is representative, and
expects it to last.
Somebody has chipped away Hogan’s
name from the foundation tablet
of Geelong Trades Hall, presumably be-
cause Hogan is no longer Labor. The
unemployed are blamed, presumably be-
cause it is thought that the unemployed
can stand it.
N. S. Wales revenue from entertain-
ment tax last year (£62,257) was the
highest since 1930. Picture shows
yielded 56 p.c., theatres 21 p.c., racing
9 p.c., boxing and wrestling 3 p.c. Pro-
moters of shows collect from thd public
and pay over daily, yet collection costs
mount. They rose from £3397 in 1930
to £3845 in 1934.
Melbourne is to be relieved of one
reproach which travellers have heaped
on it for years. The visitor will no
longer have to walk to the suburbs on
Sunday mornings unless he can afford
a taxi; Sunday buses have been author-
ised. The Tramway Department has re-
frained from running its vehicles, not
because of Sabbatarian opposition, but
because it calculated that running them
would not pay. This seems surprising,
seeing that every other city in the world
derives a big revenue from its Sunday
traffic.
It is getting on for 70 years since
Americans wrote into their Constitution
that “No State shall make or enforce any
law which may abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the U.5.A.,”
and that “the right of citizens to vote
shall not be denied or abridged on
account of race, color or previous con-
dition of servitude” ; but in Southern
States Sambo is still refused the vote, nor
is he permitted to serve on juries. He is
beginning to object, and the U.S. Supreme
Court has been moved in two cases in
which he is concerned. In one the con-
viction of two blacks for rape has been
quashed because negroes are excluded
from jury service in Alabama. In the
other the Democratic ban on negroes
voting in the equivalent of our pre-selec-
tion ballots was sustained, on the ground
that it does not deprive Sambo of his
Constitutional right to vote at elections.
Australian exports to the U.K. last
year were valued at £67,543,500 sterling,
imports from the U.K. at £23,532,900.
It is natural for J. Bull to want to lessen
the gap, especially as the balance used
to be in his favor; natural also in a
dubious international situation for him
to place his own agricultural needs first.
He nearly lost the war in 1917 because
of his dependence on imported food.
Anyone with half an eye can see all
this, but evidently Francis Michael
Forde, Scullin’s deputy, hasn’t even half
an eye. Going to Melbourne Trades
Hall, he said:
If Britain persists in its refusal to take
our products Australia will be forced to
reconsider payment of interest on its debt
to Britain.
Such threats might come with better
grace from a politician who was at the
war. Francis Michael did not attend it.


CID-TIME authors
MAY HAVE HAD
DIFFICULTY IN
REACHING! THEIR
READERS
But tuev reached them
TbOAT TUEV C/vM KEVEF2 BE SURE {
THAT THEIR WORDS DON! f=ALt- OH STOUT G(ROUMD
//
iWEY CMsiT VMRITE POETR.Y NOWADAYS*
Its As LOST ART . "
* /
SOTHATS HOW HE
TURKIS OUT At_l_ HIS
Out-Back. %v
IHe most prosperous
WRITE.R. 1M /\uSTS*kU*v,
But ne%t vv/EEkjS
NOT Authors 1 WEEic.
IT’S AUTHORS’ WEEK.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DinEcroKS-s-James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F.' E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A, Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably
only give as much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), if appointed as your Executor, Trustee or
Agent, will attend to the affairs of your Estate all the time
—your friend can probably only attend to part of them
for part of the time.
Call c; write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds £3,800,000
Reserves —
The Company's provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds £900,000
AREA PLANTED: 156,415 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
PERSONAL ITEMS
With the resignation of Matt Reid
from the Senate, the Federal Parliament
loses the last of the Q. Labor stalwarts
who entered their State Legislative Ass.
in 1893. Andy Fisher, Dawson, Harry
Turley and Charlie McDonald were the
others. Matt was a Brisbane tailor before
he became M.L.A. for Toowong (Q.).
H. C. Wheeler, dead at 73, only re-
tired from Sydney Stock Exchange to
enter a hospital five weeks ago. He had
been a familiar figure in Pitt-street for
35 years. In ’95 “H.C.,” as M.L.A. for
Northumberland, was one of the young-
est members of the Reid Government.
He started commercial life in Singleton,
and was Gosford’s second Mayor before
he entered Parliament.
About a strenuous saint:
The Rev. William Magnay Wilkinson, who
has gone aloft in Brisbane at 81, began a tour
of the N.T. when he was 58. He took with
him two abo. horse-tailers and 14 packhorses.
During this trip he visited every house in the
Territory:—literally. He reached the last (at
Austral Downs) on his 61st birthday, and cele-
brated the end of his mission by shoeing his
horses. Then he rode home to Cooktown —
about a thousand miles. Deaf as the pro-
verbial beetle —he carried a speaking-tube coiled
about his neck like a brown snake—Wilkinson
had nerves of iron, and no one ever saw him
angry or downhearted.
“Lex”; Add to the hereditary lawyers
of N. S. Wales (B. 3/4/’35) the Streets
and Inneses. The Lieut.-Governor had
the unique experience of sitting as C.J.
with his son on the Supreme Court
Bench. The father of Justice Reginald
Long Innes was a Supreme Court Judge
in Victoria’s reign. The first Australian
Long Innes was a captain in the 41st
Regiment whose knowledge of military
law and procedure caused him to be
made Chief Commissioner of Police
under Macquarie.
Brisbane’s Mayor.
Mayor Alfred Jones, of Greater Bris-
bane, is the largest “Right Honorable”
in Australia. His opposite number, Mr.
Parker, of Sydney, would fit inside his
robes without showing a bulge, A Bur-
nett district native, son of a land pioneer,
Jones led Queensland Labor in the Legis-
lative Council for a time as Mines Min-
ister, then became M.L.A. for the indus-
trial Brisbane electorate of Paddington,
formerly held by A. J. Fihelly. He was
a Federal Commissioner and chairman of
the Queensland delegation at the Wem-
bley Exhibition in 1924.
“Pax”: It is by no means certain (B.
3/4/’35) that the Archbishop-elect of
Westminster will become a cardinal.
Bourne became Archbishop of West-
minster in 1903 ; he wasn’t raised to the
sacred purple till 1911, and he was in
his early fifties then.
Vaughan was about the
same age when he was
made a cardinal; Wise-
man was 48; so was
Howard; Weld was 57.
Gasquet was certainly
over 60 when his Red
Hat arrived; Newman
was 78 and Manning 66
—but Qasquet was a
monk and Newman and
Manning were not
“cradle”' Catholics. The
Vatican is a very far-see-
ing organisation. It prob-
ably has its eye on the
next Archbishop of West-
minster, who will have
matured by the time the
present incumbent (aged
70) goes to his reward.
From an old school-
fellow :
Viscount Goschen, chairman
of the British Parliamentary
body which is to decide
whether the Westralian seces-
sion petition is “receivable”
or not, is the son of that last-
century Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer whom Randolph
Churchill “forgot” - when he
assumed that his resignation
would be a crippling blow to
the Salisbury Ministry of 1886.
Goschen knows something of
Australia; he was private sec-
retary to the Earl of Jersey
when that nobleman was Governor of N. S.
Wales. He knows more of India, of which
he was acting Viceroy for a few months after
serving a term as Governor of Madras. At
Rugby he was in a house which has since
given England two Chancellors of the Ex-
chequer (Austen and Neville Chamberlain),
two Supreme Court Judges (Romer and Bate-
son), one of the most famous criminal pleaders
of modem times (Marshall Hall) and quite a
number of lesser celebrities.
From Bananaland:
Matt Reid —retiring after 18 years in the
Senate—is a tall, lean 86-year-old vegetarian-
teetotaller who once was king of the Brisbane
Trades Hall. The war brought him out of his
safe State seat at 68 to fight for the Senate.
During his campaign he travelled 4000 miles in
six weeks —and addressed three meetings a day.
He and his colleagues, T. W. Crawford and
Foil, wrested three seats from Labor at the
time.
I. A. Perkins, dead in Jamestown
•S.A.) at 43, was born at Penrith
vN.S.W.), and learned banking at Sydney
University. He moved to S.A. in 1932
as a branch manager of the Bank of
N. S. Wales.
Davy Watkins, father of the House
of Reps., just dead, was a stocky, un-
assuming Australian in his 70th year.
Half his life had been spent in the Com-
monwealth Parliament, and before that
he had gone into the N.S.W. House in
’94 with the famous batch of Labor men
which included W. M. Hughes and Hol-
man. He led a delegation of Parlia-
mentarians to England during the war,
and had visited most parts of Australia
and New Guinea. He never held office,
though he was party Whip a few times.
A staunch Scullinite, he was neverthe-
less liked and respected by members of
the Beasley group.
Pen-picture by “Sikes”:
Mrs. Harwood (F. Tennyson Jesse to crime
fans) looked anything but a student of male-
factors to the members of Sydney’s P.E.N.
Club who stood her and her husband a lunch
last week. She is tall, slim, exotically dressed;
an indefatigable smiler; an able exponent of
feminine helplessness. The last person you
would suspect of having written Murder and
Its Motives. Mr. Harwood is burly, tousled,
he-mannish; a theatrical, and looks it; an Eng-
lish public-school and Cambridge product, and
talks like it. A doctor by profession, he served
in the R.A.M.C., and he has produced (alone
or in collaboration with others) “Emperor
Jones,” “Cynara,” “Figaro” and similar West
End successes. The couple are fortyish, and live
in Paris;
A Frith impression of Captain Hol-
ford, A.D.C., the resourceful English
Hussar who has created an Austra-
lian record by dragging two young
females from the water within a couple
of months of taking up his duties at
Captain HOLFORD, A.D.C.
Sydney Government House. A stranger
to Sydney, Captain Holford is learning
about the local Doges and their relative
degrees of importance under the expert
tutelage of the imperishable “Giff.”
An old “Hansard” man talks:
Forfner Senator Josiah Symon left £230,000,
nearly all of it in his own State —instead of
squandering his huge fees Symon made them
work for him 24 hours a day. He had a
wonderful criminal practice, and at one time
bore the reputation of never having had a
client hanged. He had a dramatic touch.
On one occasion, the guilt or innocence of his
client turned on the identity of a bit of
human hair picked up near the murdered
victim’s body. “The Crown, gentlemen,’’ be
thundered, “asks you to find this girl guilty —
to hang her on a single hair.” The jury
acquitted. In the first Senate, Symon was
probably the ablest of all the Conservatives,
but he has been quite wrongly extolled for
his “clear, incisive speeches.” Symon rarely
spoke a sentence without correcting it several
times. On the other hand, his delivery and
enunciation were a delight.
*The pipe attached to this Will Mahony
version of Fred Leist has been worn at
that angle in a variety of places. Sydney-
born, Leist worked early for The Bul-
letin and kindred publications before
going to London. His painting “The
“Mirror” had a place on the line at
the Academy in 1911, and at the
Salon the following year. Other
places in which he has won a
measure of fame include Venice (at
its international Exhibition), Texas,
New Mexico and Arizona. Nowadays
he instructs in painting at the East Syd-
ney Tech. Diggers will remember him
as one of the official A.I.F. artists.
“Lex”: The late W. P. Cullen, of N. S.
Wales, who succeeded Frederick Darley
as Chief Justice in 1910, was born at
Jamberoo 80 years ago. An exception-
ally brilliant youngster, he educated him-
self at Sydney University by scholar-
ships, graduated (8.A., M.A., LL.D.) and
was called to the Sydney Bar in 1883.
Equity was his jurisdiction—he lacked
the robustious manner necessary for suc-
cess in Common Law suits —and he was
highly successful before the High Court.
He wasn’t an aggressively strong C.J.
(far from it), but he made remarkably
few mistakes in law. After his retire-
ment 10 years ago, he devoted himself
to his first intellectual love, the Univer-
sity. He had been both Vice-Chancellor
and Chancellor. Cullen represented
Camden at the beginning of the ’nineties,
became an M.L.C. in 1895, and resigned
from the Council on being raised to the
Bench.
General Williams, who has retired
from the board of Melbourne “Herald
and Weekly Times” at nearly 80, might
pass for 60. Originally a newspaperman
at Ballarat, with a passion for volunteer
soldiering, he was for a time town clerk
of the goldfields city. On the outbreak
of the World War he was summoned to
headquarters, and to his astonishment
found himself State Commandant. When
he took over things were chaotic owing
to the confusion incidental to getting a
fighting force ready for embarkation. In
a few weeks he had the machine work-
ing like clockwork. Williams was made
librarian of the “Herald” eight years ago,
and he proved highly efficient at that too.
In Brisbane the other day James Park
Thomson, who is nearing 80, celebrated
a double event—the jubilees of the Q.
branch of the Royal Geographical
Society of Australia and of his associa-
tion therewith as hon. sec. He founded
it in collaboration with the explorers A.
C. Gregory, M.L.C., and F. T. Gregory,
M.L.C. For years this hardy product
of the Shetland Islands devoted any
spare time he had from his work as
a draftsman in the Survey Department to
ethnological research, mainly in the
Pacific islands. In 1901 he received the
Cuthbert Peek award of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, London.
W. J. Ratcliffe, who was in the N. S.
Wales Assembly for 10 years (19221-
1932), is dead. He held the Works and
Railways portfolios for three or four
months in Lang’s second Ministry, hur-
riedly formed after the faction fight in
1927. It was an ill-starred improvisa-
tion. Lysaght, Cruickshank and Stuart-
Robertson predeceased Ratcliffe ; Stokes
and Gosling have lost their seats; Willis
resigned from the Leg. Council to con-
test Bulli against the Boss’s man, was
beaten, expelled and worsted in a
Supreme Court action against the Boss.
Only Davies, Horsington and Keegan
A Veteran Artist.
remain in Lang’s caucus, and Keegan,
now the dean of the party—he has been
an Assemblyman since October, 1910 —
will not be in the next Parliament, hav-
ing been deprived of the nomination for
Glebe.


Checfc
WITH MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
A-A
m
1
A
m.
DESIGNED TO
WITHOUT A SLIP
Positive starting , , , positive running . • . positive
braking always with Barnet Glass “Checkskid”
Tyres. Built to hold and grip the road from one
sturdy shoulder to the other; built to resist heat
and minimise tendency to internal friction; built
with heavier, deeper tread where pounds more
rubber meet the road surface. “Checkskid” are
safe, long-wearing tyres that give thousands more
TROUBLE-FREE NON-SKID MILES
w
•w<-
»
ys
::
m§s.
mi
C7Aem
Barnet Glass
4
-i
TYRES
for Endurance
New tyres call for New BARNET GLASS
d
TUBES
M.62.F.P.35


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
A Training Course in Business
to Meet the New Conditions
You are meeting new problems today. So we have prepared
for you a Course in Business Management. It brings the
best known business trainingttp-to-date —training which has
helped over 400,000 men to greater financial security and
earning power. Send for the interesting 1934 descriptive
booklet "What a Business Man Must Know Today.”
Alexander Hamilton Institute
A Division of Hemingway & Robertson
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne. 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Name Age
Business Address
I Business Position
27
SEND ENQUIRIES FOR
Garbage Destructors, Tilling-Stevens
Motor Lorries, “Curvilinear” Ore
Concentrator, Mcßichpals Gold and
Tin Saving Machine, Everlasting
Steam Blow-off Valves, Water Filters
for all Purposes, Electric Motors,
Ellisons Oil Breakers, Explosives and
Accessories, Rendrock Explosive,
Stamp Batteries and Shoes and Dies,
Flotation Plants, Keystone Excavators,
All Classes of Mining Machinery.
GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. (7* p.c.) Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928. .182,090 26,791 Nil 155,299 171,011
1929. 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 220,662
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,16.;
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,360
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312.725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
*Declarcd but not paid.
Both staff and plant are highly efficient,
but circumstances have been unkind.
The co. took over Hoskins’s Lithgow
works for a lot less than their book
value about seven years ago. The plant
was transferred to Port Kembla, N.S.W.
South Coast, and large additions were
made thereto. Among the attractions
were a wider range of products and
lower costs. While still in the midst of
heavy capital expenditure on plant ex-
tensions, trade collapsed, surplus earn-
ings, and more besides, were needed in
the business, and payments to the prefs.
ceased at the end of 1930.
There is £3,473,507 of capital to be
fed in a million p.c. cum. prefs. and
2,700,007 ords. —£142,531 was gathered
from the ords. last year, leaving £226,500
still at call. Most of the ords., which are
not listed, are held by the Hoskinses —
out of their allotment (1,446,000 shares)
they handed Dorman Long 396,400
shares and Howard Smith 50,000 for
coming into the venture. The statutory
cut (22y p.c.) has lowered the pref. div.
to a shade over 5.8 p.c. (= £58,125 p.a.)
from Oct. 1, 1931. That is to say, at the
end of • November last there was
£245,000-odd coming to them. There is
also £91,675 coming to the ords. in re-
spect of a 5 p.c. div. declared in 1929,
but not paid owing to the change in
outlook.
Last year declared net earnings sprang
£50,415, reaching £120,774, or more than
twice the annual pref. requirements. But
capital outlay continued, the co. having
just installed plant for the manufacture
of high-grade black and galvanised sheets.
So only £37,500, covering the half-year
to May 1, 1931, was handed to the prefs.,
leaving £207,000-odd (4s. Id. per share)
still to come. No mention is made of
further substantial expenditure on capi-
tal account. Subject to this, prospects
of the prefs. receiving more during the
current term are encouraging.
Last year £269,674 net was added to
the book value of fixed assets:
1928. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital .. £2,741,037 £3,330,970 £3,473,507
Sundry creditors 475,215 762,111* 777,531*
Fixed assets .. 2,277,672 3,453,823 3,723,497
Shares in other cos. 242,918 391,309 391,809
Stocks .. . . 494,361 265,745 266,897
Book debts . . 351,617 271,681 284,468
Investments, cash, etc. 21,695 23,253 17,864
’lncludes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
To finance the outlay and carry an extra
£12,787 of book debts, £142,531 of fresh
capital was gathered, and £15,420 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. Excluding arrears of pref.
divs. and shares in other cos. (chiefly
scrip in Southern Portland Cement and
Southern Blue Metal), liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids by £208,302, up only
£6870, despite expenditure on fixed
assets.
After touching 235. 9d. a few months
ago, the prefs. are now at 225. 3d. in the
market. At the lower figure the return
is 5.2 p.c. on a 5.8 p.c. div. basis, plus
arrears.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
f Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£, £ £ £
1929*. 9,866 8549 Nil 1,317 1,317
1930.. 19,149 Nil Nil 19,149 20,466
1931.. 1,530 Nil Nil 1,530 21,996
1932.. 1.065 Nil Nil 1,065 23,061
1933.. 9,296 Nil Nil 9,296 32,357
1934.. 25,131 Nil Nil 25,131 57,488
*Five months.
Paid capital is £850,940 in £1 shares —
300,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. (subject to
p.c. statutory cut), paid to £210,000, and
639,885 fully-paid ords. Although it
kicked off with the blessing of Australian
Iron and Steel, Howard Smith and Noyes
Bros, (among them they provided most of
the capital), it missed the market —pro-
duction began in May, 1929 —and the
prefs. have gone without for the last five
years. There was £72,000-odd ( = 4s. lOd.
per share) coming to them at the end of
October last.
More spending on public construction
v/ork and the revival in the building trade
put the spring of £15,835 in last year’s
net earnings, which were the best yet.
They were nearly twicei the present
annual pref. requirements (£13,020), or
enough to pay a year’s pref, div. and
show 1.8 p.c. on ord. capital. No divs.
were paid.
The outside debt was reduced instead:
1928 1933 1934
Paid capital . . £510,495 £849,889 £850,940
Overdraft.. .. 166,473 210,953 165,912
Sundry creditors. . 132,056 54,492 46,730
Freeholds, plant,
stocks ts> ,! te - :: Te.mi 1 ’ 120 ’ 008 I’oB2-229 1 ’ 082 - 229
Book debts .. 5,576 27,564 38,762
Cash . . . . 241 119 80
Including the allowance for depreciation,
etc. (£37,779 more was written off than
was spent on fixed assets), the year’s
surplus earnings enabled £45,041 to be
knocked off the overdraft, £7762 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
£11,198 to be added to debtors’ balances.
Excluding arrears of pref. divs., the ex-
cess of liabilities over more or less liquids
was £63,962 lighter at £173,800.
The industry is heavily overcapitalised
in N. S. Wales, where plant capacity is
approximately as follows:
Co. Tons.
Kandos . . . . .. < . 225,000
Commonwealth .. .. .. 225,000
Southern . . . . .. .. 160,000
Standard . . . . .. .. 100,000
Sulphide Corp. . . ■ .. .. 80,000
Total 790,000
Last year the five cos. turned out 231,000
tons (177,000 tons in 1933), or less than
one-third of total plant capacity. Capi-
talising plant at £5 per ton of capacity,
this means that £2,795,000 of the capital
invested in the industry was not earning
anything. Until production, which de-
pends largely on Government expendi-
ture, can be greatly increased, only mod-
erate earnings need be looked for.
The scrip is not listed.
Southern Blue Metal Quarries (N.S.W.)
Paid capital is £248,000 in £1 shares,
of which the vendor took 65,000, credited
as fully paid, the public 100,000 and
Howard Smith and Australian Iron and
Steel the balance, or all but a fraction
of it. No divs. have been paid to date,
nor are any in sight.
The co. was formed at the end of 1926
to work large blue-metal deposits near
Moss Vale, on the southern N. S. Wales
railway line. Soon after production be-
gan heavy overburden was encountered ;
it restricted output and increased costs.
The plant was reorganised and additional
equipment installed, but the old steam
shovel failed to do what was expected,
and was replaced by a new electric one
early in 1929.
Now there are too many in the busi-
ness for the volume of orders available.
Last year the quarry was worked “very
intermittently.” A profit of £414, about
the same as for the previous term, was
claimed, reducing the p. and 1. debit to
£B9BO.
The allowance for depreciation, etc.,
is not stated. Fixed assets figure at
£254,446 (down £185); stock, etc.,
£8691 (down £248); debtors, etc., £287
(down £2107). There was £24,403
(down £2955) coming to outsiders.
Perkins and Co. (Q.)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 30,427 8 p.c. = 29,332 1095 32,413
1926.. 23,550 8 „ „ 28,443 27,520
1927.. 23,858 6 h „ „ 23,492 366 27,886
Assets written up, £lB,OOO .. .. 45,886
Loss.
1928.. 16,561 Nil 29,325
1929.. 26.955 Nil 2,370
Profit.
1930.. 652 Nil 652 3,022
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 85,775 Nil 82,753
1932.. 4,070 Nil 86,823
1933.. 1,353 Nil 88,176
1934.. 1,940 Nil 90,116
Overprovision for taxation, £lB5O. . 88,266
Profit.
1935.. 3,185 Nil 3185 85,081
Assets written down, £61,003 ..' 146,084
Shareholders in this previously distraught
concern can now see a little more clearly
where they stand. During the year
£61,003 was written off the book value
of the assets, mainly debtors’ balances,
down £45,479. The profit on trading was
£3185 (less than 1 p.c. on capital) as
against a run of losses for the four pre-
ceding terms. After including a pre-
vious overprovision of £lB5O for taxa-
tion, there was £146,084 of the £384,205
of paid capital unrepresented by tangibles
in the books at the end of February.
The year’s surplus earnings and the
sale of two hotel freeholds enabled
£31,144 to be clipped off the amount
coming to secured creditors and £7954
off the amount coming to others:
• 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £378,966 £381,596 £384,205
Secured creditors . . 85,056 40,721 9,577
Other creditors . . 17,698 10,757 2,803
Brewery freehold, etc.. . 59,071 55,941 ( 09 ,
Freehold hotels .. 214,970 i ’
Leasehold hotels . . 9,913 9,913 3,000
Stocks . . 366 396
Shares other cos. .. 62,704 4,908 4,908
Debtors 47,692 60,017 14,538
Cash .. . . .. 547 3,898 6,222
The co. now owns 11 hotel freeholds,
the old brewery premises in Mary-street,
Brisbane, which are more of a hindrance
than a help so far as earnings are con-
cerned, and 18 leaseholds. The lot
figure at £224,436, down £49,333 over
the twelvemonth. The more or less
liquid surplus was £4027 lighter at
£13,684.
The market prices the pound shares at
6s. lid, as against 3s. 3d. a year ago.
At the higher figure it thus values the
undertaking at £133,223, or £104,898
less than its net book value. Assuming
that stocks, shares in other cos. and
debtors’ balances are worth the amounts
at which they appear, the market prices
the fixed assets at 9s. 4d. in the pound
less than the figure set upon them in
the books.
The year’s sales and reduction ot me
debt should lighten interest, taxation and
depreciation charges. With an adequate
adjustment of the capital account, there-
fore, moderate dividends may prove to be
within reach. Much depends upon when
the old brewery property can be sold,
and at what figure.
The co, used to be one of the most
prosperous brewing concerns in Queens-
land. In an effort to revive turnover
it plunged into debt, and then, in 1928,
sold the brewery plant and trade of the
hotels to Castlemaine Perkins for
160,000 paids (12s. 6d. face value),
priced at 15s. each, and later took
up another 40,000 at par. Also, the
book value of the freeholds was
written up £111,560 to offset the loss
on plant, etc. The co. has since
had to sell or transfer its Castlemaine
Perkins scrip to lighten the debt.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 60,80 G 6| p.c. = 50,000 10,806 48,831
1926.. 56,725 6<f ~ „ 50,000 6,725 55,556
1927.. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66.535
1928. . 65,141 7i „ „ 56,250 8,891 75,426
1929.. 62,995 7£ „ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
1930.. 60,489 7J „ „ 56,250 4,239 86,410
Jan., i
1932*. 56,695 5f „ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6i ~ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ ~ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 ~ ~ 37,500 101,759
*l3 months.
The persistent slip in earnings reflects
the steep fall in the price of copra, which
not only affects the co.’s direct earnings
therefrom, but also its merchandising
sales and shipping and other revenue.
Early in the last term South Seas copra,
which fetched £27 a ton in London five
years earlier, had fallen to about £B.
The figure, which didn’t rise much until
toward the close of accounts, mostly
remained below cost of production and
maintenance for 11 months. So, although
earnings from the co.’s investments and
other activities were maintained, gross
profits fell away £10,193, making the
slip £54,630 over the last five years:
Gross Exes. p.ff.
Dec., Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1925 .. .. £169,632 £108,826 64.1
1927 .. .. 161,785 97,681 60.4
1929 . . . . 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 . . . . 185,060 124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 169,182 112,487 66.4
1933 . . . . 158,121 105,933 66.9
1934 .. .. 147,700 109,642 74.2
1935 .. .. 137,507 100,349 72.9
After including something for deprecia-
tion, bad debts and losses, exes, were
£9293 lighter, leaving the net result at
4.9 p.c. on capital as against 5, 6.9, 7.5,
8, 8.1 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1928. The
div. was kept at 5 p.c.
At the moment the outlook is better
than at any time during the last two
years. April-May deliveries of copra are
fetching over £ll a ton, thanks partly
to the removal of the duty on Philip-
pine copra in the U.S.A., which relieves
the pressure on European markets. Still,
restriction of imports into Germany re-
mains, and keen competition from whale
011 promises to continue.
The share market, doubtful whether
better than 5 p.c. need be expected for
a while, prices the pound shares at 245.
6d. as against 275. a year ago and 345.
12 months before that. At 245. 6d. the
return is 4.1 p.c, on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 225, Bd. in net tangibles.
The co. has an able and cautious man-
agement, and assets can be taken as well
worth their book value:
1923. 1929. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 57,058 85,092 98,489 40,385
Proper! ies,
wharves, etc. 190,740 435,890 559,397 541,566
Stocks afloat 353,549 \ 28 7 613 195,372 154,299
Merchandise.. 179.665 ) ’ ’
Book debts .. 126,148 189,962 201,658 200,032
Cash . . . . 28,083 60,048 31,663 33,746
To clip £58,104 off liabilities to the
public, the book value of merchandise
was reduced by £41,073 and £17,831
more was written off than was spent on
fixed assets —a new concrete store at
Apia was completed during the year.
Including merchandise, the more or less
liquid surplus (£347,692) improved
£17,488.
Automobile Finance Co. (Melb.)
To Re- De-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, flcit.
£ £ £
1924.. 244 Nil 244 4,964
Added preliminary exes., £7594.. 12,558
Dec.,
1925*. 2,679 Nil 2679 9,879
Forfeited shares, £lO .. .. 9,869
Prof. Ord. £
1926.. 14,565 8 p.d. 10 p.c. = 9,746 4819 5,050
Reserves.
1927.. 19,651 8 „ 8 „ ~13,131 6520 1,470
1928.. 20,616 8 „ 8 „ ~13,480 7136 8,606
1929.. 18,731 8 ~ 8 „ ~13,480 5251 13,857
1930.. 7,596 8 „ 4 „ ~ 7,728 13,725
To bad debts reserve, £8500.. .. 5,225
1931.. 854 8 p.c. Nil 1,976 4,103
To bad debts reserve, £4OOO .. .. 103
1932.. 2,261 8 p.c. Nil 1,976 285 388
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 29 440 4 „ Nil 988 30,040
1934.. Nil Nil 30,040
*l3 months.
Hard times brought a change in the
nature of the business —less than 30 p.c.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
FIIS i of T . G ?, 1 . (1 ’ G “ l ‘ i Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
* o„ rnn Gol . d , aa f} Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
PBODIfcERs P OF Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver oj Copper.
® llver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Pm ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Dniw-i?u« Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
FRiJNXLKS METALS.—-Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
t° btanaard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
rtf _ Siting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 2o O Connell Street Melbourne Office; 360 Collins Street.
egrap , hlc Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
nfflt Th. rif“ d y ?.V r »°* d by Po B * (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
prrlian^ om P#ny will eflect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
ge and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
W. J. STAGG, A.C.1.5., A.I.LS.
Formerly Commissioner for Western Lands and eight
years State Secretary N.S.W. Branch Returned
Soldiers’ League.
General Representative and Broker.
Sound advice on all matters of Land, Real Estate,
Finance, Insurance (all kinds).
W. J. STAGG, A. 0.1.5., A. 1.1.5.,
36 Hunter Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 83731 ; JX2946 (Private).
Box 3050NN, 0.P.0., Sydney.
ili
nii
;■ ,jm\
ran
i«l|{
IWil
Mill
r, ' i i: ■! -HJl'i
\tiv
m
r*-. • . miiiuui'i
Lirfin"* 4 •
jjigfi
m
' / . ;. ■••
fei
ESGM'JZ
Km:
■
iteSSSawiS 1
h,,. 1
11l
ill
■■■■■
urns.
Dry Ginger Ale
WITH A SLICE OF LEMON MAKES AN
IDEAL DRINK
of the funds was invested in the motor
trade at the end of 1933 —and a heavy
crop of bad debts. The subsidiary, Gen-
eral Investments and Discounts, thrown
• off to handle other t.p. business, did no
good for itself either —£21,000 of its
£25,000 of paid capital was represented
by a p. and 1. debit at the end of 1934.
When things were at their worst, the
board decided to put up the shutters,
but a new set of directors was appointed,
the outlook improved, and it was resolved
to continue the business, A propo-
sal to return the pref. capital (£24,700)
was turned down by the Court, no pro-
vision having been made for payment
of dividend arrears.
The worst of the trouble occurred in
connection with second mortgages and
the discounting of bills for a jewellery
concern which failed. Including the pup’s
figures, the amount written off mort-
gages, etc., from the inception to the end
of 1933, was £50,250.
Last year more attention was given
to the motor business. Excluding un-
accrued charges (£5980), gross earnings
(£11,567) were £5020 better. After meet-
ing all outgoings, of which £2335 was
non-recurring, and openly earmarking
£5828 (£7016 in the previous term) for
bad debts, there was nothing left either
way. Of the previous year’s loss
(£29,440), £21,000 was in respect of the
amount struck off the holding in the
subsidiary.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1929. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £168,573 £168,545 £ 168,495 £168,495
Overdraft .. 78,056 25,767 13,973
Sundry creditors 9,325 10,595 1,979 3,080
Plant, etc. .. 700 500 1,150 1,741
Shares in other
cos 25,000 25,000 4,000 4,000
Book debts .. 274,838 149,848 103,787 144,325
Foreclosures, etc. 41,651 13,039 11,422
Cash . . .. 19,805
EJuring the year the amount written off
bills discounted for H. Lewis and Co.,
the jewellers already referred to, was
£15,407, leaving a balance of £24,333,
some of which is still subject to litigation.
Motor-car hire-purchase agreements
figure at £90,833 (up £70,796). To meet
a net growth of £40,538 in all debtors’
balances, the board drew upon cash for
£19,805 and raised £13,973 on overdraft.
One of the freeholds that fell into the
co.’s hands was sold at a small profit.
The co.’s trading outlook has im-
proved, and the £22,761 reserved for bad
debts, etc., is adequate, the board says.
A scheme for reorganisation of the capi-
tal account will be submitted to share-
holders when current litigation is out of
the way.
At the end of December last 4s. 2d.
per pound of ord. capital was unrepre-
sented by tangibles. The market prices
the lOs.-paid shares at 4s. 9d.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
For the year to Sept. 30 last New
Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., netted £180,091,
as against £130,278 for the preceding 12
months. A 4 p.c. div. (9.6 d. per share
= £171,362) was paid, the same as for
the previous term. That was after charg-
ing £54,196 spent on prospecting and de-
velopment against capital. No provision
has been made for amortisation of the
mine property.
In January, 1934, Mining Trust, the
co.’s consulting; engineers, sold a million
N. shares to those on its own regis-
ter at ss. 3d. each. At the same time it
published a statement showing profitable
ore reserves at 618,500 tons, including
400.000 tons at Golden Peaks. Gold was
then fetching £6 10s. an ounce in Lon-
don ; it is now worth over £7. Yet the
400.000 tons just referred to has been
omitted from the latest estimate of ore
reserves without a word of explanation
to shareholders. Including 15 p.c. dilu-
tion of wall rock, the consulting en-
gineers figured reserves at Sep. 30 last
at 156,000 tons of milling ore, averaging
O. gold, or enough to keep the Edie
mill going until 1940. The co. is fortu-
nate in being able to buy 1000 h.p. from
Bulolo Gold Dredging’s hydro-electric
installation. It will now be able to get
on with some important work, long overi
due.
It has been decided to cancel capital
which has been lost or is unrepresented
by available assets to the extent of 15s.
per share (=£3,354,225), thus reducing
paid capital to £1,118,075 in 4,472,300
shares of ss. each. Together with a share
premium reserve of £54,357, this will
enable the prospecting account (£439,549)
to be rubbed out, and leave £2,969,033
for adjusting the book value of other
assets.
Mine property figures at £3,719,070;
buildings and plant, £222,972 ; debtors,
stores, etc., £113,939; cash, £230,660.
There was £24,775 coming to sundry
creditors,
Anglo-Queensland Mining Prop., Ltd.,
has registered in Brisbane with a nominal
capital of half a million in £1 shares.
There will be no public issue. As
money is required, the scrip will
be taken by overseas mining and
finance groups, including Mining Trust,
London (it controls the Mt. Isa and New
Guinea Goldfields ventures), American
Smelting and Refining Corp., New York
(it is interested in Mining Trust and in
Mt. Isa), Premier Goldmining Co., Van-
couver (it recently took over the Big Bill,
Cue, W.A.), and Terra Nova Properties,
Newfoundland. J. P. Blakie Webster, of
Mining Trust, will be chairman, and
Julius Kruttschnitt, g.m. at Mt. Isa, is on
the board. The idea is to investigate gold-
mining propositions in Australia, with an
eye to large-scale operations.
* * * *
Indications are that stoping on the Mt.
Coolon (Q.) lode will continue late into
the present year. There are still
blocks of good-grade ore on the 100 ft.,
200 ft. and 300 ft. levels. The limited quan-
tity of high-grade stuff is being worked
out at the Sydney shaft, and in the ad-
joining Kangaroo lease there are at least
two months’ supplies, probably more.
Barclay’s sands are proving profitable,
and helping to keep the mill going three
shifts. No. 4 diamond-drill hole is under
way, testing the lode at depth.
* $ $
The State Mining Engineer and the
Government Geologist recently visited
Gympie, (Q.) to take evidence regarding
subsidies .from the Commonwealth min-
ing grant to further production on the
old field. Gympie mining interests are
keen on the unwatering of the old
mine workings, with a view of rework-
ing the big Inglewood dyke formation
and the Scottish Gympie lodes. It is
an engineering problem of the first mag-
nitude.
* * * *
Mines Minister Stopford (Q.) has an-
nounced a scheme for decentralising the
Geological Survey. The idea is to bring
the technical staff into closer co-operation
with prospecting and mining developments
throughout the State. Branch geological
offices, with staffs, are shortly to be set
up at Rockhampton, Charters Towers
and Cloncurry. To meet the new ar-
rangements the geological staff has lately
been increased by the appointment of
C. L. Knight, M.Sc., and H. G. Cribb,
B.Sc. For the present the requirements
of the Far North will be met by the
Charters Towers staff.
* * * *
Payable gold has been located on the
Hidden Star, Rockhampton (Q.), by Lau-
rence and Stack. Official sampling has
given results ranging from 4dwt. up to
70dwt. The best stone was 3ft. wide,
averaging 70dwt. To date prospec-
tors have crushed 63 tons for 1070 z.,
and about 400 tons is in sight. As the
workings are not yet down to the 100 ft.
level, the show seems to have possibili-
ties.
* * * *
Curnow’s Tin, Torington (N.S.W.), has
just crushed 188 tons of ore for 6 tons
llcwt. of concentrates, assaying 72.5 p.c.
t.o. The stone came from stopes, cover-
ing a length of over 300 ft., above Nos. 2
and 3 levels. The ore-body is strong
underfoot, and the shaft is being deep-
ened a further 100 ft.; driving continues
north and south on present levels. Since
Dec. 20 last the co. has paid three 6d.
divs., the last on April 2.
* * * *
Waihi has abandoned its option from
New Pyrenees Alluvials over some 3000
acres of deep-leads country in the Avoca
Valley (Vic.) because the price was too
high—£ll2,ooo, payable £30,000 cash in
London and £82,000 in fully-paids. After
allowing for equipment and operating
costs, interest, capital redemption and
English income tax of 4s. 6d. in the
pound, the 11,000,000 c.y. of wash, proved
by scout-boring and estimated to be
worth over £500,000 with gold at its pres-
ent price, was not considered enough.
The owners, who reckon there is a lot
more payable wash to be had, propose to
continue boring. Other interests are said
to be nibbling at the show.
* * * *
Aloha Central Gold, a Melbourne
prospecting syndicate with a nominal
capital of £lO,OOO in £5 shares, has de-
cided to form a co. to develop a 30-acre
holding, reputed to contain some very
rich stuff, in the middle of the area held
by Koroere Gold Mines on the Tavua
field, Fiji. This block was the site of the
original strike which led to the develop-
ment of Tavua. The owner, Pat Cos-
tello, who financed W. Borthwick, the
prospector that made the discovery, re-
served the ground when negotiating the
sale of other leases near by. The market
expressed its opinion of prospects by pay-
ing as much as £3OO for the syndicate
shares ; last week-end the figure was £275.
* * * *
“0.8.’5” views on five Wesfralian gold-
carriers :
Lancefield, Lady Shenton, Ora Banda, Roth-
say and Triton have had some buffeting in
the market lately. All are officially reckoned
to be right, and some are declared to be good
tilings. All, however, have weaknesses. Lance-
field is not short of ore, and isn’t likely to
be for some time, even if no further develop-
ment is done. Nevertheless, if the diamond-drill
is to be relied upon, its life is apparently
limited to 250 ft. below the present bottom
workings. At the moment it is beset with
mechanical trouble in the treatment plant.
Lady Shenton is thus far mostly a one-point
mine. Its chief assets are a pile of old tailings
and a rich shoot, on which comparatively little
work has been done. The cart is being put
before the horse by installing a treatment plant
before ore reserves have become impressive.
Meantime, small parcels of good stuff are to
be put through a local mill. Ora Banda can
best be summed up as a 15dwt. mine on the
small side, with doubt about permanency at
depth. An impending development at the
300 ft. level may throw considerable light on
this point. Rothsay has a long shoot of ore
of about 3ft. in thickness, which, though low
grade at the old price of gold, is good grade
at present quotations. The drill indicates that
it is improving in value at depth. There is,
however, just sufficient copper in the
mineralised body to perhaps give trouble in
treatment. Here, as in the case of Lady Shen-
ton, the installation of a gold-extraction plant
has been hurried. At Triton money is being
spent on a part of the property which might
well have been left alone. Like Rothsay,
Triton’s values are, according to boring, better
at depth, and the ore so far doesn’t present
any metallurgical difficulties.
* * # *
When United Wesfralian Gold has
completed 570 ft. of driving—32oft. has yet
to be done—on the 120 ft. (inclined! level,
it figures that there will be 12,000 tons
of 7.sdwt. ore available, and a further
12,000 tons is expected to be developed
with each 100 ft. of lift. Including the
sands, 396 tons of development stone
from this Kiora lease averaged 6.sdwt.
From the Gouldbourn, where the lode
was lost in a 44ft. south drive from the
Kiora A shaft, 48 tons averaged 17.5dwt.
Here shaft D is being sunk to 100 ft.
(now down 44ft.) to test the west lode.
A battery and cyaniding plant are to be
installed. Of the co.’s half-dozen leases
at Yellowdine, two have been jettisoned.
* * * *
J. A. Agnew, chairman of several big
goldmining concerns, including Lake
View and Wiluna, is paying his first visit
to South Africa. At a farewell dinner in
his honor in London, the host, F. H.
Hamilton, advocated the establishment of
a college for directors. It would be a
good thing for shareholders, he said, to
have some such institution for the pur-
pose of training those who went on
boards of companies, that they might
obtain a clear conception of their duties
and responsibilities.
* * * *
Members of the mining section of the
A.W.U. in Westralia have decided to
work a 44-hour week underground in-
stead of alternate weeks of 48 and 40
hours. The owners were forced by the
Labor Government to agree to a ballot,
confined to members of the A.W.U., and
to abide by the result. If a ballot had
been taken of all the workers in the
industry, or of all of those working
underground, the result might have been
different.
* * * *
On the 150 ft. level, Pine Creek Enter-
prise, Pine Creek (N.T.), has cut through
lode material, averaging 9dwt., for 30ft.
without disclosing the hanging wall. On
the 260 ft. level the co. is crosscutting
from the main drive to pick up the eastern
leg of the saddle exposed on the 150 ft.
level.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.E.J.J.; (1) Yes. (2) A fair spec
G.E.R. : (1) A gamble. (2) It is a prospecting
concern; everything depends upon what it finds.
If you cannot afford to lose, keep 0ut....
M.W.: (1) and (3) They are the pick of their
class. (2) A gamble, with the odds against
you. (4) Doubtful; looks like a long wait.
(5) Sound, with good prospects.... P.T.: The
co. is doing everything that it contracted to
do. Exchange of bonds for shares is in best
interests of bondholders. Impossible to say
what dividends, if any, are likely to be paid.
Prospects not very bright at the moment.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
H= * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (,Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
B Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOW.
“We Live Again”
In some ways this film at Sydney Plaza
is the best version of “Resurrection” that
has been seen on stage or screen ; in some
ways it is the worst.
The episode in which Katusha (Anna
Sten) and her mother bury Dmitri’s child
in unconsecrated ground is poignant with-
out being maudlin. The Easter cere-
monies, the church, the crude images, the
worshippers are done with severe re-
straint. All the traditional theatricalisms
are missing ; even the brutalities inflicted
on the prisoners are understated. Here,
the onlooker feels, is a bit of nineteenth-
century Russia revealed not altogether
without sly malice (Mamoulian clearly
hates Christianity and Czarist, as against
0.G.P.U., atrocities), but with know-
ledge.
Then Dmitri (Fredric March) appears,
looking 10 or 15 years too old to be a
junior subaltern in any peace-time army,
and with a voice that no well-bred Euro-
pean ever possessed, and illusion vanishes.
He seems to realise his limitations in the
early sequences, in which he is self-
conscious and stiff; but his remorse is so
sincere and unforced later that his
Boweryisms are almost forgotten. If only
this handsome American could produce
his voice like old C. Aubrey Smith, who
has a small part as an official! Unlike
Mr. March, Anna Sten begins by being
entirely convincing (any infatuated peas-
ant girl vis-d-vis her dissolute overlord),
and ends as just another exotic. Her face
remains completely unravaged after seven
years’ street-walking and vodka-drink-
ing!
Most of the outdoor shots —country
house, fruit-tree in blossom with bees
complete, farmyard, etc. —belong to a
popular school of which the writer, for
one, has long been weary ; they have all
the unearthly prettiness of picture post-
cards.
“Rendezvous at Midnight”
Irene Harvey, who loves Police Com-
missioner Ralph Bellamy, buys an alleg-
edly exclusive model frock. A duplicate
provides the clue to the murder. Miss
Harvey indicates by her blithesome de-
meanor that she knows as well as the
audience that she has not the remotest
Fredric March in “We Live Again,”
at Sydney Plaza.
chance of burning, though the evidence
is all against her. A lovely girl, but a
ghastly actress. Most of the big situa-
tions are idiotic—as when the chivalrous
Commissioner, accompanied by a Judge,
visits the reporters’ room of a newspaper,
begins to confess that he (the Commis-
sioner) committed the murder, and is
checked in time by the Judge. But it is
all worth while for the acting of Cath-
erine Doucet as' the old pirate who sold
the two frocks. There is art in every
arch glance of her villainous eyes, every
movement of her overblown, over-
dressed figure.
“The Merry Widow”
A wish-fulfilment or dope film raised
to the nth degree of ostentatiousness.
The widow’s bedroom suggests a cathe-
dral that has been furnished, regardless
of expense, by a modern interior-decora-
tor. Her shoes, stays, frocks and so on
are as the sands of the sea, and she is
attended by a retinue of lady’s maids.
Every device for the registration of
Olympian extravagance is employed.
Ever-flowing champagne, fawning
menials, stupendous beds, gorgeous uni-
forms, universal idleness.
The. movie magnates’ theory, of course,
is that these pictures of life above stairs
are gratifying to victims of the slump.
Certainly Sydney St. James, where “The
Jeanette MacDonald and Maurice Chevalier in “The Merry Widow,”
at Sydney St. James.
Merry Widow” is being unwound, is
gacked daily and nightly to the boxes,
ut what happens when the effect of the
narcotic wears off, and the addict remem-
bers that, while money may be of no
consequence to some, others are stone-
broke? The writer has a theory that if
the Revolution ever arrives this type of
film will be largely responsible.
Jeanette MacDonald is a most seduc-
tive widow. Her delightful voice records
well, and she does justice to the period
costumes. Eddie Horton is funnier than
ever. The ballets display more efficient
waltzing than any nineteenth-century
ballroom saw. Yet the show is “Hamlet”
without the Prince of Denmark. Maurice
Chevalier (Danilo) has a croak where
his voice should be, and, as a result,
many of Lehar’s most engaging numbers
are missing.
“The Spectacle Maker”
Also at the St. James. This fantasy
in technicolor contains one of the most
beautiful and unstagy little boys that
have been seen on a screen. It achieves
the atmosphere of a mediaeval morality
tale to a remarkable extent. Believe it
or not, the writer would be willing to
sit through “The Spectacle Maker” again.
It is followed by a fascinating animal
cartoon,
“Million Dollar Ransom”
Phillips Holmes, as a means of dis-
tracting his mother’s attention from a
foreign adventurer, gets himself kid-
napped. Edward Arnold obliges, intend-
ing to double-cross the lad. But Arnold’s
daughter (Mary Carlisle) falls in love
with Mr. Holmes. All the main features
of the kidnapping racket are there—
the threatening letter, the ad. in the Lost
and Found column, the contact-man, the
bagful of notes. Edward Arnold’s per-
formance is the best of an unimpressive
lot. At the Capitol.
“Ladies Should Listen”
Also at the Capitol. Cary Grant, a
young man about Paris, is in the toils of
Rositja Moreno, but Frances Drake, tele-
phonist at his hotel, by listening-in to his
’phone calls, manages to steer him clear
and marry him herself.
Eddie Horton, a nitrate concession,
Nydia Westman and a machine for pro-
ducing artificial thunderstorms assist.
“Here Is My Heart”
At Sydney Regent. A crooner (Bing
Crosby) is spending his savings doing the
things he’s always dreamt of. Enter a
stone-broke Russian princess (Kitty
Carlisle). Others in the cast are Alison
Skipworth, Roland Young and Reginald
Owen. The songs are catchy, the acting
is sound and Crosby has been reducing.
“It’s a Gift”
Presents, to quote the blurbist, the
“Idol of a Million Fluftery Feminine
Hearts! . . . Envy of a Million Worship-
ful Men! . . . Joy to a Million Adoring
Kiddies! The Man of the Hour, W. C.
Fields.” Fields is seen shaving ; conduct-
ing a grocery store ; trying to sleep on an
apartment-house verandah; driving a
battered car into a copy of the Venus de
Milo ; fighting oft a dog with a feather
pillow. Cut by half it would have been
100 p.c. more entertaining.
“The Little Minister”
The book has been followed fairly
closely by this film at Sydney State.
Towards the end, though, it goes senti-
mental in the Hollywood rather than in
the Barrie fashion. For this Beryl Mercer,
who has a movie mission to make the
ladies sob, is partly re-
sponsible. John Beal as
the Meenister is ade-
quately earnest, humor-
less and callow. Kath-
arine Hepburn 'works
hard as Babbie. Her
restlessness and her
dogged determination to
register radiance grow
rather wearisome.
Donald Crisp (Dr. Mc-
Queen), Andy Clyde
(Wearyworld), Alan Hale
(Rob Dow) and the trio
who play the dour elders
of the Auld Licht Kirk
are good.
“The Man Who
Reclaimed His Head”
At Sydney Civic. Paul
Verin (Claud Rains) is
a French journalist with
a fluffy wife (Joan Ben-
nett). In the cause of
world-peace he is content to give
Dumont (Lionel Atwill) “his mind, his
head” in Dumont’s anti-war paper. The
power-hungry Dumont is bought by
munition-mongers, and in order to get
rid of Paul, who is now an embarrass-
ment, wangles him into a front-line unit.
Paul deserts, reaches Paris, finds his wife
fighting off Dumont’s advances and
“reclaims his head” in a Grand Guignol
climax. Rains can act, and he looks the
part of the shy, limelight-hating idealist.
Some First Nights
The final performance of the Fuller
gropera co. was given last week
Edward Arnold in “Mil-
lion Dollar Ransom,” at
Sydney Capitol.
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne. To
borrow the phraseology of the “Argus,” a
reception of especial warmth was ac-
corded the conductor, Maurice de
Abravanel. The queen of the late festival
of song, however, was unquestionably
Austral, whose Senta in “The Flying
Dutchman” was a masterpiece of
artistry. Muriel Brunskill’s contralto
and the tenors of Widdop and Ben
Williams come next in order of excel-
lence. As usual, Melbourne ignored the
gift Ben Fuller laid at its feet until near
the end, when it fell over itself in its
anxiety to make up for lost time.
* * *
Katie Liddle, the Melbourne pianist,
proved herself a powerful player of Bach
and a sensitive interpreter of Chopin at
the Assembly Hall last week ; but when
she reached the middle of the Etudes
Symphoniques of Schumann, a musical
tightrope every local virtuoso feels called
upon to cross at one time or another, the
audience held its breath in expectation of
a tumble. Dohnanyi’s Variation on a
Nursery Rhyme, arranged for two pianos,
brought Rita Hope on to the platform.
It was the first performance in Melbourne
of a work of humorous comment based
on the simple melody of “Twinkle,
Twinkle, Little Star,” if present critic’s
memory is not at fault.
v * *
The Prince of Denmark wrestled with
his hesitant soul at the Kursaal Theatre,
Sydney, on Saturday. But “Hamlet” is
not for amateurs. It is hard to believe
that the Dane’s grief was quite so
queer as that of Harry MacDonald, or
that Claudius was the naive monarch
Peter Byron made him. Fenton Dob-
son’s Horatio was a likeable fellow, Henry
Messent captured some of Polonius’s
guile and Irene Harper contributed a
charming Ophelia. Quite the best thing
in the piece was Arch Hull’s gravedigger.
* * *
Monckton Hoffe’s “Many Waters,”
shown at Melb. Comedy last week, con-
tains many characters. More than half
the performers acted with the ease and
naturalness of experienced professionals.
Gregan McMahon had taken these mostly
inexperienced people and turned them
into actors and actresses, an achievement
which may be classed as a Thespian
miracle. “Many Waters” is a freak play
—the “switch-back” of the movies is
used to prove the great truth that we
don’t realise the romance of our lives.
A middle-aged couple are leading a
dull existence. Comes the switch-back.
They are young lovers,
bride and ’groom,
struggling young profes-
sional people, parents of
a girl who dies giving
birth to an unwanted
infant—a girl whose own
short life is one thrill of
poignant tragedy;
finally, they are old and
poor, but loving with
the same devotion they
had felt when they mar-
ried. “There’s the bloody
British public for you,”
announces the manager
to the author contemptu-
ously, and they laugh.
There are four acts and
11 scenes, but the play
hangs together well,
though it would prob-
ably make a far better
talkie.
David Reid and Mar-
garet Reid play the
couple, and each does
splendid work. None of the others
appears in every scene, but delightful
little character sketches are given by
Eileen Ragg, Thomas Skewes, H. N.
Gregory, Paul Alsop and Lynette
Dickenson.
The one truly repertory piece in
Adelaide Rep.’s first short-plays show of
the season was “Prelude and Fugue,”
by Clifford Bax. Iris Hart and Roxy
Sims had nothing to do but talk, but
they did that well. Other high spots
were Hilda Sands as a kindly village auto-
crat, and Edna Heysen as a girl pleading
for her lover in the French Revolution.


■s
x>cx —x.
»
NMM
n
m
Hj|H
IS
1
Ik
m
&
b.
VIRGINIA OOL
m
CORK-TIPPED
OR
PLAIN
RED&GOLD
Packing
another
\
;
/
A BLEND OF
IOO%> PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
ROUND AIRTIGHT 50’s
10 for 6d: 20 for ALSO FLAT 50’s
32148 4'S


ABORIGINALITIES
“Notaden”: Mrs. Ockelhoiser, our cat,
is a very Diana as, a huntress, though
differing essentially from the goddess in
her outlook on celibacy. Her favorite
quarry is snakes. Having carefully
chewed the head, she brings the body as
a present to anyone she considers best
worth propitiating. We’re used to it,
but the other day Mrs. O. decided to be
nice to the new maid. She chose the
unfortunate moment when that damsel
was carrying in afternoon-tea to lay a
2ft. grass-snake across her instep. Now
we have to buy a new tea-service ; worse
than that, the maid has decided that she
and Mrs. Ockelhoiser cannot live under
the same roof. It is no use trying to get
rid of Mrs. O. The last time she walked
home for 57 miles. The maid wouldn’t
do that in any circumstances, so Mrs.
O. wins.
•I* *i» 'k V
“Bufo”; Queer accidents? A small
boy in Brisbane wounded himself danger-
ously with a shotgun which he had
loaded and carried about while he was
walking in his sleep. A man near Graf-
ton (N.S.W.) had an artery severed in
his neck by a splinter of steel from a
wedge which he was driving into a log.
A fisherman off Noosa Head (Q.) was
knocked senseless into the cockpit of his
boat by a 301 b. mackerel which leaped
out of the water when chased by a shark.
All in the same week!
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Australia is the only
place on earth where the meteorite known
as the Australite is found. I have
handled a hundred of them in my time,
found at spots as far apart as Coward
Springs, the Westralian goldfields and 'he
border between S.A. and Vic.; I was once
lucky enough to find three myself near
Port Augusta. Scientists now tell us that
these little lumps of obsidian, so uniform
in size and shape, must have come to
earth as meteorites in a shower which
arrived thousands of years ago. They can-
not account for the fact that these fiery
hailstones fell only over the southern
and central parts of Australia.
“Val”: Staying with friends in Tas-
mania I was awakened at daybreak by
a gentle tapping which came from some-
where outside the house. It resembled
at first the fluttering of a bird against a
window, but soon developed a rhythm
which suggested the fussy beat of a
paddle-steamer or the puffing of a dis-
tant train. I lay fascinated, fitting little
tunes to the changing rhythms that flut-
tered and scampered through my brain,
till I dozed off. I mentioned the occur-
rence at breakfast. “Ay,” said my
hostess, “that’s, t’owd man. He’s 73,
but he still does a step or two on t’ back
verandah befooar breakfast. It’s an owd
Yorkshire custom, and it keeps him fit.”
* * * *
“Squalus”: As one who has passed the
time of the day to many assorted varieties
of sharks, I have never come across any
of the seagoing sort afflicted with
barnacles (B. 27/3/’35). Apart from the
few remoras always tagged on to them,
the shark’s chief worry seems to be a
sort of burrowing sea-louse, which works
in through the skin in numbers. Some
time ago, when a Sydney company was
netting sharks in large numbers for the
sake of the skins, many of these were
found to be quite useless, so riddled were
they by the boring parasites. All the
same, there seems to be something in
“Alpha’s” fresh-water theory, which
would work as well with lice as with
the barnacles.
“Spare Spinner”; Sharks in fresh
water? I’ve seen them in the Flinders
almost abreast of Richmond (W.Q.), and
that’s a long way from where the tidal
waters cease in the Gulf. They’ve fre-
quently been noticed under the Barron
Falls (N.Q.). What I want to know is,
do they bite in fresh water? I’ve never
heard of anybody raising a cry about it.
“Double Dee”: When a shark strikes
trouble it’s not slow in attacking anyone
or anything in the vicinity. Several young
fellows in a dinghy recently found this
out when they speared a 14ft. brute
about a quarter of a mile off the s.-w.
coast of Westralia. With six inches of
steel sticking in his skull the man-eater
charged at the boat and capsized it.
Luckily it was his last convulsive effort;
he rolled over, dead. Very much shaken,
four scared youths righted the boat and
wasted no time in getting ashore.
* * * *
“80P.”: Kangaroo-tail soup? Your
Too must be young. Take the meat
round the butt (don’t be stingy!) and two
"’Souse me, boss, d’y ’ happen to have a bottle-opener on y' ?”
joints of the tail; stew with an onion and
a pinch of salt and strain while very hot,
being careful to keep at soup consistency.
Add a splash of port wine or a nip o’
rum if the gods be kind. Where the
uninitiated go wrong is in cooking the
thin end of the tail until it is nearly solid,
serving it so when nearly cold, and get-
ting their back teeth bogged in the glue.
* * *
“Ragiana”: On the plans and speci-
fications given, the “newly-discovered
bird” described by “Sappho Sudds” as
having been collected in New Guinea
(B. 27/3/’35) can only be one of the
variety of paradise-birds, generally re-
ferred to as the blue bird-of-jparadise. I
cannot recollect his museum title, and
I have no books of reference handy, but
the description of the lustrous black
plumage and the ruff of blazing electric-
blue under the “chin” makes identification
pretty certain. There is, or was, a live
specimen in Taronga Park, and many
have passed through Sydney in the hands
of collectors.
* * t- *
“Dungeness”: Coral polyps are
amongst the difficulties attaching to sub-
marine telegraphy in the tropics; the
line from Thursday Island to Cape York
suffers frequently from their activities.
A recent lift of the shore-end to repair
a fault brought up a huge coral block
whose weight and wear had destroyed the
insulation. Repair work in these waters is
often a risky and difficult business on
account of the strong currents and—in
the n.-w. season—heavy blows. It is
amazing what cables and buoy-chains
collect in such waters. I have seen the
mooring-chain of a buoy in Clarence
Strait come aboard 2ft. thick with coral,
weeds and polyzoa, every cubic inch of
it swarming with tiny fish, crabs and
countless other small sea animals. That
was in a swift current, too. A sgal. drum
of scrapings kept three museums busy
for more than a year.
* * * *
“Snark”: Brewarrina (N.S.W.) reports
that a grisly creature rivalling the Loch
Ness Monster or the Laidley Worm is
terrifying the countryside with its wal-
lowings in the Barwon. The apparition
is believed to be a crocodile, but is prob-
bably only a floating log. Anyway, some-
thing useful might be done about it. In
the old days it was a knight’s job to sally
forth when such a monster was reported,
and slay it at the risk of his life. Here
is a chance for one of Sydney’s numerous
Ks.B.E.
* * =i= *
“Saurian”: Half a dozen newchums,
shooting on the Nicholson, near Burke-
town (N.Q.), wanted above everything
else to get a crocodile. We didn’t. On
the way back we wandered over towards
the Albert. While we were away the
tide had come in, leaving us to face a 20-
yard swim, with, maybe, a croc, lurking
in the water. Blinker, brave youth,
stepped to the fore. “I’m not fright-
ened of them lizards,” said he. “So
long as you others follow I’ll take the
lead.” We splashed, waded and floun-
dered across. Blinker led us to the pub,
and we each in turn did our duty to the
man who had saved us at the risk of his
own life. Months later I read some-
thing in a paper. Without any comment
I passed it on to Blinker. “That’s right,”
he agreed. “Whenever you’re crossing
a croc, stream you always want to take
the lead. The leader’s always safe. It’s
the last thing every time, be it man, dog
or beast, that the croc, takes.”
* * * *
“Tidapa”: Ma Penguin doesn’t hatch
her egg on ice or snow (B. 20/3/’35).
She carefully hoists it on her instep until
it is held securely against her warm body.
Here it remains until she requires a rest
or a meal; then Pa, who never moves far
afield during the hatching period, is
sharply called, and the egg is passed into
his keeping without contact with ice or
snow. Dad is a devoted nurse ; he does
a longer term with the egg and the young
’un than his spouse.
* * * *
“G.T.”: On a Phillip Island (Vic.)
sandhill I was amazed to see a roundish
black object, the size of a medicine-ball,
and what appeared to be several offspring
chasing up and down and round about
the steep, smooth side. With infinite
caution I stalked the strange creatures.
They continued their game, however,
and totally ignored me. At close quarters
they proved to be bundles of dry sea-
weed caught in a stationary whirlwind
on the side of the sandhill.
* * * *
“Twin Corns”: I think the carpet-
snake that “Meteren” (B. 13 /3/’35) has
in mind was defunct. No live wriggler
of the species would have stayed in that
hatbox. You can’t keep a carpet-snake
in anything less than an iron safe or a
glass case. Cardboard enclosures are
nothing to him. I once put a specimen
of giant proportions in a box made of
hardwood. He was to stay there over-
night pending the arrival of a buyer in
the morning. There wasn’t a hope of his
getting out, but, all the same, when I got
up he was gone. He’d swallowed the
box and taken it with him.
* * * *
“Buzzer”; This talk about Australian
flies having been introduced by whites
and being dependent on domestic stock
gives me a bunged eye. Years ago I was
out in absolutely virgin country west of
the Georgina, on the N.T. side. The
only white man who had possibly been
in the region was old Nathan, who was
speared in the early ’nineties, and the
probabilities are that he was never there,
as his beat used to be further down on
the Sandover and Mulligan. There were
no stock, no blacks, nothing but flies.
Flies! I never saw anything to equal
them. They’d rise in clouds as a man
walked or rode through the grass or
brushed against a gidya. At night you
were afraid to open your mouth ; they’d
rise in such numbers from the grass that
they might choke you blundering into the
open mouth.
# * * *
“Yarri”: N.S.W. South Coast is loom-
ing up as a rival to Maoriland’s big-
fishing grounds. The fact is that the
whole stretch down from Cape York
to Tweed Heads is big-game water.
Besides the much-desired groper, king-
fish, jewfish, rock-cod and large mackerel
—a strong fighter sft. 6in. long—the
giants include swordfish up to 15ft. and
5001 b. in weight; the sawfish, a savage
still longer and heavier; the sailfish, a
comparatively slim curiosity that reaches
a length of 30ft. and a weight of 6001 b.,
and has a huge dorsal fin that stands
up like a sail; the tunas (striped
and spotted varieties) of sft. to 6ft.
long; reef eels, 12ft. and over, and
conger eels, 10ft. and 1001 b. in weight.
Besides these and the great turtles, there
are fishes of all colors imaginable. Add
the charm of the Barrier Reef and a
thousand isles, and is there a fishing
ground in the world to equal it?
* * * *
“W.W.”: Following the splendid sea-
son in the Dalby (Q.) district, star grass
(or umbrella grass) has covered the
fences, gullies and railway lines, having
been blown there by the wind. For miles
there is nothing to show the course of
the Condamine River except the belt of
trees lining its banks ; the stream itself
is completely covered by the straw. So
thickly has it been deposited that fish,
prawns and crayfish are dying. Recently
trains have been held up through the
grass clogging the wheels.
* , * * *
“Crash”: According to “Psycho” (B.
27/2/’35), the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
must be a mass of eels, with just enough
water to keep ’em moving. Pky they
should be wasted ; there’s a factory in
Maoriland that cans about a ton a week
for export to Europe. Don’t scoff until
you’ve tasted eel cooked as Maoris and
old hands do it—fried slowly in batter
and with the backbone removed before
cooking.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: “Painkiller Mick’s” taste
in aperitifs (B. 23 /3 / ’35) reminds me that
painkiller was in universal favor as a
pick-me-up in the old days in W.Q., and
that among folk who would have scorned
to drink with Mick. Another throat-
tickler which commanded respect was
rum or brandy in which the little red chilli
had been infused, while spirits of turpen-
tine also claimed admirers. I recall a
near-tragedy caused by one of these per-
verted thirsts. Someone sent my mother
a most elegant silver samovar, and with
it a large jar of pure alcohol —stuff not
then easily procurable. The alcohol was
foolishly handed over to Fred, who had
been in a circus and was now the cook.
Next morning there was no breakfast,
no samovar and no Fred. With him had
vanished Jimmy the Lag, an ancient who
looked after the working horses and
milkers in the intervals of spinning
ghastly cuffers of his experiences under
the convict system. They were eventu-
ally found at the Chinamen’s graveyard
in the scrub, a mile or two from the
house. One of the gardeners had recently
died, and the others were keeping his
grave well supplied with roast fowl,
peaches and grapes. Fred and Jimmy
had held high revelry for a week with
the alcohol, supplemented by the adjacent
Barcoo River, painkiller, chewed tobacco
and any other ingredient they could
compass. The food from the grave prob-
ably saved them from poisoning. In
any case, after a fortnight or so of
agonised repentance, both returned to the
workaday world, and, since Fred especi-
ally was almost indispensable, nothing
more was said of the matter.
THE FORTY-MILE HOTEL.
Just a row of sprawling cedars,
Just a few blocks lurching low,
And a skeleton of horse-yards
That were owned by Cobb and Co.,
And a horse-rail by the roadside
That has braved the seasons well —
That is all you’ll find remaining
Of the Forty-mile Hotel.
There we’d scan the up-track winding
Past the culvert and the bridge,
Till the five big greys came swinging
Through the red dust on the ridge,
And the driver’s whip was cracking
As he swung to earshot range,
When he livened up the leaders
Down the home-mile to the change.
Wings and wheels that hum and hurry
On the air and down the road
Robbed the coachie of his mailbags
And the teamster of his load.
Now the long trains leave the stock-routes
Silent, desolate and drear,
And the old road by the shanty
More deserted year by year.
Phantom shadows rise and vanish
Where old Time has footed fast.
And there cling around the cedars
Haunting memories of the past.
And there’s something grips my collar,
Damps my spirits for a spell,
When I pass the old location
Of the Forty-mile Hotel.
QUEENSLAND.
P. JAMES IRVNE.


“Old-timer”: Anyone who has ever
tried it knows that two men living together
in isolation for any length of time even-
tually become enemies, so “Dash-me-
rags” Smith and “Charcoal” Jones, who
lived in a tiny hut on Prungle, an out-
station nearly 40 miles from Euston
(N.S.W.), were the wonder of the Mid-
Murray. They seldom saw anybody but
the driver of the rations cart, who visited
them once a month. Thrown together
day after day and night after night, they
remained cheerful and friendly. They
took a fortnight’s holiday every year, in-
variably enjoying it together somewhere
in Victoria, and would return sobered,
broke and content. The idyll had existed
seven years when Red Louis, himself on
holiday, sent us a copy of a Bendigo
paper. It told a story of two men
charged with riotous behavior at Eagle-
hawk, and of how a fed-up police ser-
geant informed the Bench that every year
he had trouble with the same pair.
“They’re always brawling,” he com-
plained. “They come here and fight
all over the place. When arrested
they bail themselves out and keep the
peace for about a day, but are soon
at it again. They give us a lot
of trouble about the same time every
year!” There was more, but the
secret was out. “Dash-me-rags” and
“Charcoal,” sharing toil and tucker at
Prungle all the year round, had reached
a gentlemen’s agreement to take it out
of each other’s hide on holidays. Four-
teen days of beer, brawl and bailing-out
no doubt compensated for 351 of isola-
tion and subdued enmity.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: Reference to the sale of
’roo-tail soup by Fortnum and Mason of
London (B. 20/3/’35) recalls the fact that
half a century ago a Queensland firm
put up tinned turtle, beche-de-mer and
dugong soup. A few tins came south,
and as a kid I experimented in all three,
"No bad langwidge, Mrs. Muggins!
Remember the parrot."
and found them excellent. The dugong
was t]p.e best of the lot to my fancy, and
I’m surprised that no gastronome has
ever sung the praises of the weird beast
responsible for the mermaid myth.
***:!:
“Mangpoona”: To “Kaapai” (B.
20/3/’35) “the saurian mind is inscrut-
able” just because one seized a big native
girl instead of attacking two piccaninnies.
Quite possibly that crocodile’s eye had
fallen on the unfortunate Mary first.
Wild creatures are made that way ; they
will tackle anything that takes their
fancy. This scribe knows of a case
where some blackfellows were swimming
a river in the N.T. A saurian swam
right under one —its back scraped his
belly—and grabbed the “boy” next to
him. Something about the victim had
attracted the brute.
* * * *
“MS”: That abo. who objected to
beiug “treated like a blasted nigger” (B.
13/3/’35) recalls a Southern European
lady to whom I was trying to sell a
vacuum-cleaner. “You Australian?” she
asked. “You fighta at da war?” “Yair,”
I lied, to note the effect. “Ah! Den
you coma back and finda da Pommy
taka your Job!”
* * * Sji
“Six-b’-eight”: There is a tree-fungus,
apparently limited to a yellow-box host,
which in damp weather glows with a
pronounced phosphorescence. At Mill-
thorpe (N.S.W.) a youth climbed 50ft. to
detach a specimen. It proved to be a
bread-like substance, and, though tough,
could be crumbled like bread. A few
particles sprinkled on a sulky fire—
especially where the wood is damp—is
the most effective of revivers.
* * H= *
“Gryllus”: The Mayor of Goondiwindi
(Q.), which hamlet was described in Feb-
ruary as having been devastated by
plagues of grasshoppers, mosquitoes and
green parrots, varied with fires and an
attempt at a flood, is evidently a man of
stout and cheery heart. He is reported to
have stated that the grasshoppers were
really a blessing in disguise, for the coun-
try which they ate bare is now clothed in
a rich, new sward, free of dry tussocks.
So far, nobody has ventured on a good
word for the mosquitoes, but maybe they
also did good by preventing too-high
blood-pressures amongst the squatters as
they watched their grass being devoured,
* * * *
“M. B, Mac”: The remarkable simi-
larity between the bore reed of western
Q. and the raupo or swamp reed of
Maoriland has me guessing. As far as
I can find out, the Queensland reed
grows only in bore water, and dies if
surface water gets to it. But the raupo
covers thousands of acres of swamp
country, and any old water seems to
suit it. Only difference between the
two plants seems to be that the
Queensland vegetable is not such a vigor-
ous grower, and is slightly narrower in
the blade. In seed-head and root they
seem identical.
*'* * #
“Cinque”: Another atomic coral-
dweller on the Great Barrier (B.
20/3/’35) is the marsupial crab, which,
were it classed as fish, would beat the
dainty demoiselle. Females measure half
an inch, but males are just spots. Coral
surrounds the crab while developing, and
eventually walls in the female, but leaves
the infinitesimal male free to come
and go. Coral also walls in the clam in
a similar manner, but so soon as that
chap finds himself in a jamb he exudes
a secretion which dissolves the surround-
ing coral, allowing his growth to proceed.
* * * *
“Marra”: For a little chap with a big
sense of smell I don’t think you can beat
the common bush leech. Walked from
Otford (N.S.W.) to Hell Hole Beach re-
cently. Half-way to the beach my legs
were swarming with the bloodsuckers.
Scraped them all off and made for the
shelter of a cave. There were no leeches
in that cave when I got there, but within
a few minutes they were swarming on
me again.
* * * *
A Digger pal at Woy Woy
(N.S.W.), in between bouts of illness,
“you say you've Worked three hours, Jacky. My watch says only two."
“ Crikey, who bin doin' the Work? Him or me?"
has a unique method of fishing. He dives
6ft. down into the weeds and spears his
fish. He can stay down 1} minutes.
While I was watching him he caught
a huge flathead in his hands and got
it as far as the surface ; then it whizzed
away. He has salvaged from D.J.’s
locker three canoes, a good motor-truck
tyre, three anchors, an expensive fish-
ing-rod, a motor-launch engine and
countless bottles.
* * * *
“Wang”: The parson listened sym-
pathetically to dad’s tale of woe, and
when he had finished remarked, “You
shouldn’t allow yourself to get down-
hearted, Mr. Gumbough. Things are sure
to right themselves directly. You know,
it is always darkest just before dawn.”
Dad eyed the parson in surprise.
“Gripes!” he exclaimed, “I never knew
yer’d gone in fer dairy-farmin’ y’self.”
* * * *
“Brach”: I note with horror that an-
other Aboliar has been referring to the
deerhounds intro-
duced to cope with
the dingo menace as
“staghound s.”
I don’t suppose one
could find a speci-
men of the stag-
hound in Australia
if it were combed.
The creature is a
short-legged piebald
dog which hunts by
scent in large packs.
The deerhound is a
big, swift and
powerful tyke which
hunts by sight, and
in its native land of
Scotland is used for
pulling down the
great red deer. The
staghound chases
the wild or tame
deer by scent, and in
the case of the
former is incapable
of killing it when it
is brought to bay—
that job has to be
done by the hunts-
man or other hunt
official. It would
save people like the writer much
agony of mind if The Bulletin would
publish pictures of the deer- and stag-
hound side by side.
* * * *
“Dionan”: Starr lordan, the Yankee
fish expert, says the octopus is helpless
on land. I disagree. A small oc. I
tickled with a stick on a soft beach got
up on his eight legs and ran like a kan-
garoo not in a hurry. Reaching a patch
of seaweed, he went down on his flat, like
a slug, and slithered through that weed
like a rail-Zeppelin. Incidentally, he
changed color in so doing in a way to
put any chameleon to shame. Inside five
seconds he had faithfully copied the
color of each piece of weed he passed
over. Then, finding a nice soft spot of
yellow sand, he turned yellow and went
under. I dug him out four times ; each
time he went back like a stone into wet
cement. He was about 9in. long, so
imagine a 12-footer in the same circum-
stances!
* * * * ,
“Airline”: Always thought the blue
kingfisher (B. 6/2/’35) was fond of
water, but when looking for rare birds
along the Everard Ranges (S.A.) I capie
across the nests of quite a few. A short
burrow in the soft sandstone of a cliff
face was the usual site. The nearest run-
ning water was 200 or 300 miles away.
* * * *
“Kiet'a”; Years ago an ambitious
water scheme was propounded for the
Vic. Mallee, taking in Lake Tyrrell,
75 miles round, now worked for
its salt deposits. The idea was to
construct a large channel from the
Murray River, near Swan Hill, and
thence by another channel from the lake’s
north-eastern end back to the Murray.
The inflow of water would have filled
the lake up to 35ft. deep in some places,
and cleared out the salt. Such a large
sheet of fresh water in the district would
greatly increase the rainfall, I’m tipping
that, should this Lake Tyrrell-Murray
scheme ever reach fruition, the Mallee
country would increase its productivity
beyond belief.
% % sfc
“Lassoo”: Our dripping waterbag had
made a little pool in the sandy ground ;
this formed a great attraction for frogs
and sometimes small birds. I opened the
verandah door, and saw a huge gleaming
brown snake coiled at his ease and drink-
ing at the pool. He put out his tongue and
raised his head at every sip, rather like a
fowl. He fixed me with one bright eye,
but otherwise ignored my presence until
I called for a stick.
H: * * *
“Splodger”; In the early ’nineties my
father at Blackall (W.Q.) took a gun to
have a shot at a kitehawk which was
molesting the chickens. While the old
man was getting ready to fire, another,
invisible, took a hand ; there was a streak
of lightning and one single-barrelled
report. The hawk! He and Casabianca
went to the same place, in the same
manner, and couldn’t be found after-
wards. Twenty years or more later I
saw two galahs disappear the same way.
* * * He
“Salt Lake”: Those fossils in the Murray
flats (B. 6/ 3/’35) bring to mind the large
outcrops of kopi and gypsum near
Chinkapook (Vic.), thought to be the fos-
silised remains of sea inhabitants. Fossil-
ised whalebone predominates, indicating
a whales’ graveyard.
MY NORTHERN HOME.
I see them in my dreams for evermore,
Those dim-lit jungle trails, so thickly roofed
With boughs on which the creeping parrot
moves,
Dripping with ferns, with orchids pale a-star;
Where misty sunbeams pierce and set on fire
The flambeaux of the palm;
Where even the soft flutings of the doves
Are muted, and the oriel’s note afar
Is drifted music from a half-closed door.
The fig-tree drenched in white, with petals shorn
From each o’erburdened twig, softly adrift
Above the moss. The forest-cherry gay
In rose and white and green. The shining
stream
Near by; and on its broidered bank the snake,
Deadly, immobile, lies.
The narrow footprints on the winding way
Where the shy natives go, pensive, a-dream,
In forest glades forgotten and forlorn.
I long for night beneath a northern sky,
With flying-foxes drifting ’neath the moon,
White cockatoos upon the topmost tower
Of the tall talking trees. The secret scents
Of flowers beyond belief that bloom unseen
In leagues of dark.
The roller tapping in his shadowed bower
On his eternal coflin. Starry tents
Low down—low down —where glinting glow-
worms lie.
I must go north—north—to my lovely home!
out > aifl d at night it calls me—
Come! ”
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
* 'qV^
'l'jß
%l • ima
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd,
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street. Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
CULLS VERSUS AGED EWES.
“Murrawong”: Young ewes (B.
27/3/’35) are a better proposition
than aged, provided the price is favor-
able. But my experience strongly favors
starting with a mob of ewes cast for
age from a well-known flock rather than
the culls of a previous purchase of
culls.
Many owners regularly sell their ewes
when they reach a certain age, and 1
know of numerous instances where five
good lambs have been bred from a cast-
for-age ewe. You will also get a better
percentage of lambs from old ewes than
from maidens.
The beginner should remember that
sometimes he can buy anything from two
to five old ewes for the price of one cull.
In N.S.W. anyway, sheepmen do not as
a rule throw out young ewes unless they
show a definite fault. If the cull-buyer
has to sell the worst for what they will
bring, he is going to bump up the price
of the remainder still further.
A little attention with the pliers to the
teeth of broken-mouthed ewes will result
in improvement of condition ; and, while
a drought may settle lambing prospects,
a bad fly-strike will cause far more
trouble among saucer-tailed, yellow-
fleeced and stunted culls than among the
old ladies.
If the beginner wants to cut a lot of
wool in his first year and doesn’t worry
about the future, let him buy culls by all
means ; but if he wants to build up a
good flock with even, well-bred wool that
will fit comfortably into two or three
fleece lines instead of a mixed medley of
odd butts and single bales or badly
matched lines, he should invest in a mob
of good old ewes and good young
rams. Foundation is the basis of all
building.
CALCIUM ARSENITE JETTING.
“Hortus”: The standard method of
preparing calcium arsenite for blowfly
jetting is to boil 101 b. white arsenic and
11b. caustic soda with the milk of 101 b.
stone lime, for dilution to 100 gallons.
Some graziers reduce the concentration
of arsenic to 81b. per 100 gallons. In
recent N.S.W. departmental tests, cover-
ing a period of six months, it was shown
that by this arsenic reduction a measure
of protection against strike was definitely
lost.
Caustic soda’s function in the mixture
is to dissolve the arsenic and to act as
a wetting agent, helping the final mixture
to saturate the greasy wool.
The tests proved that improved wetting
was obtained by increasing the caustic
soda to Ijlb. per 100 gallons, and the
increased causticity did not harm the
sheep in the slightest. More than l£lb.,
however, is not advisable, as it is likely
to injure the hands of the jetter.
The new mixture recommended is made
by boiling 41b. white arsenic and Boz.
caustic soda in 2 gallons of water until
the arsenic is dissolved. In slightly
less than 2 gallons of hot water in another
tin, slake 41b. stone lime, putting not
more than 11b. lime in at a time. Stir
the “hot milk” slowly into the arsenic
solution, which should be kept boiling.
Don’t add the lime too quickly, as the
mixture will boil over. Boil for another
20 minutes. The final mixture then
consists of white calcium arsenite in a
weak caustic soda solution, which is
made up to 40 gallons for jetting.
Of course, no known mixture can be
guaranteed to give absolute immunity
from crutch strike for more than three
weeks, but all arsenical mixtures do
limit very definitely the spread of indi-
vidual strikes that occur on jetted sheep.
Calcium arsenite is really the best mix-
ture both in preventing strikes and their
spread. It gives good protection on rams’
heads, small strikes that occurred on sores
following fighting being prevented from
spreading into the wool behind the horns.
Crutching, compared with jetting, gives
good protection from strike for six weeks,
after which the number of strikes in-
creases rapidly.
Therefore, if it is possible, jet six weeks
after a late February crutching in order
to try to break the back of the autumn
fly attack.
On sheep carrying six weeks’ wool, a
pressure of 1001 b. per square inch gives
ample penetration, provided the jet is
directed upward into the crutch.
For sheep with three or four months’
wool, increase the pressure to 1201 b.
“Agamemnon”: Many sheepmen are
chary of jetting for fly owing to the risk
of injuring the sheep.
The pressure to be used must be
gauged entirely by the length of the wool.
During the last year comprehensive tests
carried out on N.S.W. Government and
private properties show few injuries. A
set of ewes showing 10 weeks’ growth
of wool were jetted with calcium arsenite
under a pressure of 1401 b. per square
inch, the nozzle being held 2in. from
the fleece. This resulted in slight injury
to about 15 p.c. Others with three weeks’
wool showed 2 p.c. with severe injuries
when jetted with 1001 b. pressure.
At six months they may be safely
jetted up to 1501 b. Calcium arsenite is
less injurious than the sodium compound.
A lower pressure may be used if the
nozzle is held parallel to the wool fibres
to ensure maximum penetration. Warm
mixtures, although quite simple to pre-
pare, give no better results than cold
and require the same pressures.
LOOK AFTER LAMBERS.
“Valerin”: In a dry spell hand-feed
ewes in lamb and see that they get plenty
of exercise, either by changing feeding-
sites or moving them about the paddock.
Neglect means fatty liver and heavy loss.
A laxative lick should be put with
their salt. lam not keen on home pre-
parations. Very often the ingredients
are not correctly measured. There are
several good specifics on the market; ask
the local Government vet. for his advice,
and follow it.
DIPS AND FLY.
“W.D.McC.”: Tell “Albarmount” (B.
6/ 3 /’35) that he does not need “big
money” to build a 1950-gallon dip.
The length of the swim is the main
point in successful dipping. A short
swim, no matter how constructed, does not
allow the sheep enough time to absorb
the dip. Of course, sheep can be held
in a short swim, but that will make the
process needlessly slow.
It is no wonder that “Albarmount’s”
dip becomes filthy if his yards are not
paved, and I will bet that he has wasted
enough dip to pay for paving twice oyer.
Most dips are made the same width
at the bottom as on the top. The bath
should be made to taper from 22in. wide
on top to 9in. wide on the bottom. By
doing this it does not take nearly so
much water to fill the bath. A dip 60ft.
overall —with two draining pens to hold
300 sheep, and the race and forcing pen
paved—can be built for £lOO, or, if the
pens are roofed, for £l5O, provided that
material for concrete can be obtained
handy to the job. Any handyman can
do the job. I have seen a good bath
made of tongued-and-grooved board,
waterproofed with bitumen, which lasted
many years, but concrete or brick is
preferable. ' If “Albarmount’s” boys
prefer catching and struggling with
sheep and then lifting them into the bath,
they are different from any sheep-workers
I have ever seen.
The “slide-in” technique (B. 6/ 3 / ’35)
is not in the same street as “walk in,
walk out,” but “G.F.D.” is right in ad-
vising against dipping off shears and dis-
counting “Sheepo’s” advice to dip twice
within a fortnight.
“Dead Finish”: Has anyone ever tried
dipping sheep with the idea of putting a
“crust” on the wool staple as a protection
against fly, etc.?
Districts with a fair amount of timber
and a sharp climate can grow wool with
a black, hard tip. This helps to protect
the undergrowth from the sun, and pre-
serves it from a wasty tip. It helps to
keep dust and vegetable matter from the
fleece.
Sheep grown on Q’land rolling downs
country, with hardly a tree away from the
creeks and rivers, have a fleece with a
perished, wasty tip. It is not uncommon
to see them with open backs showing a
noily tip almost to the pelt. The rest
of the fleece is affected in lesser degree.
The perished tip is combed out in manu-
facture as noils which have to be milled
separately. This means a less price per
pound for a noily wool as against one
with a sound tip.
I have seen a carbolic dip used for
ticks, which left a residue in the wool
that produced a nice “tippy” protection.
If a dip of this nature could be devised
to stand up to heat it might mean better
prices for wool grown on downs country.
CA C T OB LA ST IS TECHNIQUE.
“Upilio”: Crown land which I lease
near Merriwa (N.S.W.) is infested with
prickly-pear. Four years ago I began to
get free Cactoblastis eggs every six
months from the State.
The results were slow, owing to my
distributing the eggs widely over 20 miles
of green-timber country. Two years ago
I started putting out all the eggs on a
few acres where the timber had been
rung, and the results are now good.
The insects have a firm hold, and the
pear is going down rapidly; another two
insect-seasons should clean it up for the
first time. I expect a regrowth from seed,
which, in its turn, I hope will be dealt
with by fresh introduction of Cacto-
blastis.
The eggs are available in March and
October in stick form, and need to be
distributed as soon as received, in case
they hatch. I smear a sheet of news-
paper with flour-paste, sprinkle the egg-
sticks over it and press them lightly down
with the finger. When the paste is dry the
paper is cut into 2in. squares and dis-
tributed among the pear. It is best to
pin slips on the young leaves —five or
six papers to an ordinary-sized clump—
so that the egg-stick is face downward
on the leaf and sheltered from the sun
and wind. A loz. packet of 240 slips
roughly pans out about 50,000 eggs.
PROTEIN CONVERSION.
“Bates”: “Stump Jump” (B. 6/2/’35)
seems a little ahead of research when
he states that protein in pasture can be
converted to cystine provided enough
sulphur is present. There is no proof
that cystine can be synthesised by bac-
teria or otherwise in the animal body.
“Stump Jump” can find for himself in
the textbooks explanations for the im-
possibility of this synthesis. He will also
find that the cystine in pasture plants is
enough for wool-growing purposes.
Comprehensive experiments by Pierce
in S. Australia and Seddon in N.S.W.
showed that sheep fed on a ration in-
cluding added sulphur did not increase
in body weight nor did they grow a
heavier or better fleece than the control
animals.
FAILING PASTURES.
“Albarmount”: If central and western
Queensland ever become heavily infested
with rabbits, “N.Q.” (B. 27/3/’35) will
soon realise that I was quite correct in
describing bunny as “our chief pasture
destroyer.”
Using mineral licks to overcome protein
deficiency, as advised by “N.Q.” and
others, doesn’t rectify the failing feed
value of pastures, but rather prolongs
the day of reckoning. How to replace
mineral deficiency in large low-carrying
areas is a difficult problem. Also, through
continued stocking and rabbits, thou-
sands of acres of low-rainfall inland
country have been divested of the edible
shrubs which chiefly provide fodder.
SOWING LUCERNE.
“Stump Jump”: “Lion’s” Riverina soil
which requires 81b. of seed (B. 6/ 3 / ’35)
is unusual. Thin sowing of 21b. to 41b.
by allowing ample soil for each plant to
draw on gives easily the best result. I’ve
tried the range from 21b. to 161 b., and
plump for 31b., except in dark soil de-
pressions, where 61b. is excellent.
There is no fixed rule and depth for
sowing lucerne. So long as permanent
moisture is assured, lin, to 2in. is best
sowing depth.
If you are waiting for the next fall of
rain, surface sowing is the thing. It can
outlast three or four months of dry
weather and sunlight on the surface, and
still strike.
About the deadliest enemy I know of
good lucerne stands on old crop pad-
docks is \yild oats, a greedy monopolist
plant. If oats and lucerne strike together
it is mostly good-bye lucerne, so it pays
to get rid of the wild oats first.
CONTROL THE EROSION!
“The 0.D.”: Filling gutters with
boughs and ploughing earth over them,
as recommended by “Spring” (B.
27/ 2 / ’35), will not check erosion by rain,
and is the careless man’s compromise.
Where the gutter has been will be soft
ground. The water will still run there,
and will do its wasteful work underneath
the boughs, finally bubbling out on the
low side and leaving a hole worse than
ever. The idea is on a par with the half-
hearted methods of chucking logs, stones
and other useless debris into washouts.
And that goes for dragging the cultiva-
tor over sheeptracks.
The only way to check erosion is by
contour-banking on severe slopes of both
pasture and cultivation paddocks and by
the sowing of grasses that will mat on
gentle slopes. The sole object should be
to hold the water and let it soak in,
eliminating the run-off wherever possible.
“Spring’s” advice, to keep wheeled
vehicles off ploughed ground, is sound,
but unnecessary where proper methods
are used.
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


s
I JJ4SHINE
K. AND ~
Massey Harris
Made in
Australia
for
Australian
Conditions
Are showing an extensive exhibit at the Royal Easter Show, where farmers, orchardists,
vignerons, pastoralists, etc., can see a full range of implements and machines—including
a number which appear for the first time. Visitors to the Show are cordially invited to see
these at the Sunshine and Massey Harris Stand, and to get a copy of the new 96-page
illustrated general catalogue, which gives a full description of the complete line. If you
cannot call, ask the local agent or write to us for a copy and complete price lists—free
and post free.
THE SUNFLOW
Distributor of Lime,
Fertiliser, etc.
The wide popularity of THE SUNFLOW
is a reliable indication of its success as
the best top-dresser. Sows a wide range
in quantities super, from 541 b. to
3361 b.; lime from 1201 b. to 16001 b.
Bft. 3in. size. 4ft. Sin. size.
(Sowing width.)
£27/15/9. £l7/11/-.
THE SUNTAPPER
VIBRATOR FERTILISER
DISTRIBUTOR.
A handy distributor for gardens,
orchards, vineyards and plantations.
Delivers the fertiliser evenly, quantity
easily controlled by lever and rack on
handle-bar, and can be stopped instantly
when required.
With dust-proof depth-regulating wheel,
£4/17/6.
THE SUNROW
VISIBLE SEED PLANTER.
m :
Sows maize, pea, bean, peanut, broom,
sorghum, and many other seeds. The
sowing plate revolves in view of the
user, and he can check the planting of
the seed all the time.
With Seed Hopper only .... £6/6/9
With both Seed and Fertiliser Hoppers,
£B/1/-.
Adjustable marker for marking rows—
-12/3.
SATELLITE
CULTIVATOR AND WEEDER,
Strong, all-steel, easy to handle, 1 -horse
hoe for weeding, furrowing, cultivat-
ing and hoeing-up all kinds of row
crops. Width of cut from 17 to 2 7
inches, controlled by rear lever. Front
lever regulates depth of work instantly.
No. 7, 5 tynes, 2 levers .... £3/3/6
Other styles at equally good value.
THE SUNKID
PONY PLOUGH.
Suitable for market gardens, plantation
and small-farm cultivation. Has very
high clearance and does excellent work
“hilling-up” potatoes, maize, cotton,
cane and other row crops. Cuts 7-inch
furrows.
Without Gauge Wheel £3/3/6
With Gauge Wheel •. £3/13/3
Other types at equally good value.
MASSEY HARRIS
SUGARCANE PLOUGH.
A similar type to the well known and
popular New Model Orchard Ploughs,
but with longer handles and so con-
structed that the board can be removed
without affecting the handles. Has steel
share, 6-inch furrow.
Without coulter or gauge wheel, £6/6/9
Also supplied with 8-, 10- and 12-inch
furrows.
SUNMULCH
Seed-bed-forming Harrow.
Tab
A
An outstanding patented harrow and
winner of the special prize at the
Melbourne Centenary Royal Show for
the best farm implement developed
during the year. It leaves a firm seed-
bed, and a mulch for the reception of
rye grass, clover seed, etc., while the
native grasses are not destroyed.
1- 20 teeth, 3Jft. cut . . . £4/17/6
2- 40 teeth, 6Jft. cut .... £9/15/-
3- 60 teeth, 9fft. cut . . £l4/12/6
MASSEY HARRIS No. 10
General Purpose Plough.
Suited to either sod or stubble plough-
ing. Does good work in new land,
tough soil or clayey soil. Long handles
give good leverage and control. Cuts
furrows 7 to 9 inches wide, and from
5 to 8 inches deep.
With steel share and extra cast share
Price £B/5/9
Gauge wheel and straight or rolling
coulter at small extra cost.
SUNSHINE
DIAMOND HARROWS.
Strong, durable, well-balanced. Each
section has 20 teeth that cannot twist
or work through. Lines of cultivation
1 f inch apart,
1 section, without bar, covers 3ft. 2in.,
£l/3/-
1 section, with triangle pull, for 1
horse £l/5/3
2 sections, with bar, covers 6ft. Bin.,
£2/15/6
Also 3. 4,5, 6, 8 and 10 section sets at
attractive prices.
THE SUNGRADE
Stump Jump Reversible Disc
Plough.
The most efficient reversible disc
plough yet produced. Easy to operate,
light to pull, has few wearing parts, and
by means of the special draught device
it will penetrate hard soil. Can be easily
changed to a single-furrow plough.
With 26in. discs, pole, neck-yoke and
two-horse bar £2O/19/3
THE SUNPEARL
DISC HARROW WITH POLE.
Reversible—for in-throw or out-throw.
Strong, well balanced and light in
draught—for orchard work, row crops
and light field work. Has levers to alter
cut to any workable angle. Discs in two
gangs, extensible for any gap up to
two feet.
THE SUNPALM
STUMP JUMP PASTURE
RENOVATOR.
Outstandingly successful as a renovator
of the stiffest of growths, and improver
of pastures. Cuts 3ft. 6in. wide ; nine
tynes—each jumps independently of
the others £l7/11/*
Sunshine
Farm Implements
Work Well
and Last Long
Prices quoted are nett cash for delivery f.o.r. Sunshine. For delivery
at any Australian capital or Tasmanian port, prices are a little higher.
Write to the nearest address below for descriptive leaflets and
complete price list —free and post free.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine, Victoria.
Branches: —654-664 Bourke St. West, Melbourne. 27-39 Broadway (George St. West), Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Sts., Perth.
Queensland Distributors :
H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Queensland) Pty, Ltd., South Brisbane.


WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
The best leather . . .
and an exclusive last
Here’s an Abbey Boot expressly
built for quality and longer wear.
Snug, smooth-fitting and delight-
fully pliant, it gives fullest comfort.
Both sole and upper are made with
the finest leathers of their kind.
This boot, too, preserves its good
looks. All full and half sizes are
available in three fittings . . .
narrow, medium and wide.
ORDER BY POST.
State both width and size re-
quired. Ask, also, for the cor-
rect Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a complete cleaning
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY. BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 432.
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf
Black Glace Kid
Black Box Calf
55/-
52/6
50/-
ABBEY
&
&
0^
o*
So writes the user of an “R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Did.
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Elower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD.
••VALLEY BRISBANE • •
THE NEAREST THING
TO PERPETUAL MOTION"
the
«oa
r eat
tfii
Per
Pet
ZhaVv ".n. 'I 10 *
*S a u, la w °r k .
T PU ®P.
U f , tln S
»at
20 >OOO
Sal,
£ aa*
tbi
kept
e uil
«itn
140
caj
Co|» 3
v 9e
and
ar*a
acinic
'•B9
Itig
the
tpn
ft
“gVI,
°«ie
watg
The Economy Mill has
special sails which de-
velop increased effi-
ciency. It is cheaper,
lighter, stronger . . .
and fits any old tower.
Write for folder.
ECONOMY
WINDMILL
GEO. E. FORTESCUE & SONS, LTD.
Arncliffe, N.S. W.- Phone LW2634-5
See this improved Mill at
the Show, Stand No, 25,
Machinery Avenue.
m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
°.y dug,
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY <
John Heine
C- Son Ltd.
McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne.. Adelaide.. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
For Sale
VAUCLUSE!
To Squatters and Gentlemen requiring a
Home in Sydney’s beautiful garden suburb.
The pick of positions facing beach, park and
gardens.
Charming Home, built of brick, with solid brick
foundations; containing lounge, billiard-room,
dining-room, four bedrooms, bathroom, office
and den, kitchen, laundry, linen and book cup-
boards, verandahs (back and front), garage,
electrical fittings throughout, hot-water service,
gas, refrigerator, lawn, flower and vegetable
gardens.
’Phone owner, FU9720, for inspection.
Price £5500
No agents.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
ICHUTE
BEILIUCSi
r
m
5k
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
SUCCESS COMPETITION.
A TASMANIAN ORPHAN.
The following comes from a Gov-
ernment school-teacher in the Speck.
Names and other details have been
supplied.
Years ago in Tasmania a family of
eight children were left fatherless on a
small mortgaged holding. The eldest
boy, 16 years old, had four or five
“bullocks” not much bigger than calves,
and with these as a team went into the
paling-splitting business. His younger
brothers helped. Palings were sometimes
carted 24 miles to the nearest township.
As the boy grew older he did road work
and hunting till he could get a piece of
Crown land of his own.
He went in for root crops, pigs, cows
and sheep. His example was followed
by his brothers, all getting Crown land
near him. After several years the eldest
boy owned a few thousand sheep and
several thousand acres of land.
He was in the forties when the war
broke out. The writer one evening was
approached by him.
He said: “I hear you can put money
in the war loan.” I said: “Yes, Jack;
how much?” He said; “£1000.” A
year later he came again to discuss in-
vestment.
I said: “How much this time?”
He said: “Oh, the auctioneers have
£l5OO of mine ... I had nowhere to
keep it, but they are right.”
He had made it out of stock on leased
Crown land.
Illustrating his powers of observation
and initiative, he once attended a sale
and got 300 sheep, most in lamb, at 3s.
9d. each. He said; “I watched a flock of
a thousand or two come up and I bought
the first that came, as they must have
been the strongest to arrive first.” He
had little education, but was always
honest, straightforward and ready to
help anyone in want —a good neighbor.
Honesty and hard work can pay divi-
dends on the land.
ANAEMIA IN PIGS.
“Large White”: Lack of iron, the
chief cause of aneemia in sucking-
pigs, may be remedied easily. Dissolve
Jib. sulphate of iron in 1 quart of
hot water with a little molasses. (Not
100 much molasses—it may cause scours.)
Wash the sow’s udder, then swab with
the mixture daily, commencing when the
piglets are four days old. Continue for
four or five weeks.
The same results may be obtained by
d rebelling once a week with the mixture,
but this involves much more work and
normally would only be resorted to when
the youngsters had been taken away from
the dam. The dose is one-third of a
teaspoonful for suckers under a week
old, gradually increasing to a teaspoon-
ful at three or four weeks.
TEETH AND CONDITION.
“Horsey”; Poor condition’in horses is
not always the result of worms or bots.
Some are puzzled when a drench does
not cure it. '
Horses with worms will not have
glossy coats. Where the coat is all right
and the horse is poor, look for teeth
trouble.
It is a fallacy to think that only old
horses suffer from bad teeth. Young
horses have their teeth just like young
humans. When this happens, they have
to be left until teeth are fully formed
and then treated.
Unless sure of your knowledge, don’t
interfere with their teeth yourself. It is
a tricky job, and needs special tools.
THE SOURCE OF MASTITIS.
“S.J.”: Evidence shows that mastitis
enters only through the teat duct. Vet.
Hopkirk, of Wallaceville (M.L.), has
spent years collating data to prove that
the health of the duct is the sole factor
in controlling mastitis.
Defective ducts, the result of accidents
or hereditary, may not keep mastitis
germs out, whilst the normal duct can.
Ninety-nine cows in every hundred that
have defective ducts are subjects for in-
fection.
Cufe of diseased nipples is uncertain.
The best method is to avoid violent
changes of diet or chance of injury. View
the health of the duct as of vital im-
portance, and get rid of the cows periodi-
cally strictured there. Suspect every hard
milker.
LOOSE WIRE.
“Valeria”: There’s nothing about a
property so untidy and dangerous as
loose wire. If the pieces, are Jong
enough and in good order roll up and
put away for fence-repairing. Gather
up the rest and dump. Big stock are
often crippled by getting tangled in loose
wire, and it sticks in sheep’s wool, having
to be cut out. A piece of wire may cause
serious • damage to farm machinery and
motor vehicles. Caught in a sulky-wheel
it can give the occupant a nasty cut or
cause a restive horse to bolt.
BAIT-POISONING OF RABBITS.
“Doitnow”: This Tasmanian rabbit-
poisoning method seems to assure against
loss of stock and bird life.
Cut 101 b. of apples into yin. cubes.
Place in a half kerosene-tin cut length-
ways, and dust them with powdered
strychnine. Use loz. to each 101 b. of
apples. Make sure the poison reaches
every bait. If the apples are sour dust
them with sugar. Use about ylb. to
each ounce of strychnine.
Next plough a deep furrow in the
centre of the rabbit country.
For two or three nights at sundown
place the baits prepared as above, but
without strychnine, every foot or more,
according to thickness of the rabbits.
This entices the rabbits to the furrow
in large numbers.
On the fourth night use poisoned baits,
but peel the apples so that they will
absorb all the strychnine. Collect baits
not taken at dawn next morning. Place
well into the furrow and the danger to
stock is minimised.
According to T. Philp, the Tasmanian
Government Stock Inspector, 11b. of
apples makes at least 250 baits. Thus
it is possible to destroy 2000 rabbits
with loz. of strychnine. Turnips or
carrots are as good as apples.
Skins at only 9d. per pound would
pay for labor and materials.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Greecy”: Before dipping milkers
grease their teats thoroughly with petro-
leum jelly after each cow has been
milked. This prevents the arsenic in the
dip from scalding their feats.
“Coobong”: In country where kurra-
jong is reluctant to grow, try pepper-
trees for drought fodder. They are
hardy, quick growers and good warm
feed. Lop with an eye to healthy young
wood,
“Eureka”: If there are leeches about
when you pull a bush tick out of your
dog, find a leech and attach it to the
place where the tick was. It will suck
the poison out and give the dog a far
better chance of recovery.
“Wrash”: On one side of a pine slat,
Min. by 2in., spread emery-cloth, and
on the other side a band of old belt
leather, with rims tacked along the edges.
At one end bore a hole so that the im-
plement may hang on a nail. Then
there’s a quick knife or chisel sharpener
always handy.
“Upilio”: Deaths from dosing are
often the result of careless drenching.
A safe way is to straddle the sheep, let-
ting it stand firmly on its own feet, and
not forcing the head too high. Place the
horn lightly on the back of tongue, leav-
ing the lower jaw unimpeded so that the
animal can swallow freely. If the tongue
is jambed tight, the lower jaw held firm
and the head high, the fluid may go to
the lungs. The nostrils also must never
be covered. If short of a doser a 2oz.
castor-oil bottle will serve.
“Granova”: Sow a small patch of sub-
terranean clover in a favored spot. When
the seeds are ripe put a flock of sheep
on it for a day, and then return them
to their regular paddocks. If conditions
are suitable, the sheep will spread the
clover over the rest of the property.


T** Don Miss!
ex'
kD
<
71
O
d'
1
■
This Year’s
ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
A Pageant of Progress.
AN EVENT OF NATIONAL IMPORTANCE
TO EVERYONE. INSPIRATIONAL AND
EDUCATIONAL EXHIBITS TO INTEREST,
INTRIGUE AND AMUSE BOTH YOUNG
AND OLD.
Thrilling Ring Events.
NINE DAYS—SIX NIGHTS
APRIL 15th to 24th.
SMOKE-OH!
In business circles a man is often
known by the company that keeps him.
b b b 4*
“All those who showed good work on the
ground floor were given better positions on
other floors.” — “Herald.”
You can’t keep a good man down.
'I* b -I*
“Every man who has driven that dray has
made quite a lot of extra money with re-
wards from customers.” — “Sim.”
It must be a tip dray.
b b b b
“Once you have slept in our pyjamas you
will never sleep in any others.” —Drapery advt.
Doesn’t seem too clear to us.
ANNALS*OF*THE NEW POOR.
“Mr. and Mrs. Harwood travel a great deal.
They have a delightful old Henry VII. water-
mill in Sussex, but the upkeep of the English
property is so expensive they spend their time
between New York and Paris, where they have
a ‘tiny cottage.’ ” —News item.
The predicament in which some of the
New Poor find themselves is almost
past belief. Those unacquainted with
the peculiar habits of water-mills can
have no understanding of the frightful
strain involved in keeping up appearances
while living in one. To begin with, it
necessitates a tremendous outlay in water
to keep things going, and in times of
drought the inhabitants simply have to
get out and push the wheel round—in
order to keep up the appearance of the
water-mill. When asked whether some
milling operations would not help to
keep the mill going, Mr. and Mrs. H.
replied: “Well, you see, there wouldn’t
be anything to write about folk who lived
in a mill and could think of nothing
better to do than just milling.”
Dilly.
■ 4- b b
They had words over her new bathing
costume.” —Short story.
What little things people quarrel
about!
b b b b
“Two bullets nipped his ear; then his
attacker ran out of ammunition.” — “Age.”
Out of ear-shot.
b b b b
“He offered his services as meditator.”
—Sydney paper.
A thoughtful chap, of course.
b 4* *b
“The pigs were soon drunk on the spilt
whisky.”— “Age.”
Pickled pork.
“The native showed a tool on which, he ex-
plained, his ancestors used to mend their
footwear.” — “Telegraph.”
The last of his tribe.
b b b b
“Scientist says Australia’s climate was worse
100 million years ago.”
That must have been pretty hard on
the jellyfish and saurians.
GLIMPSES AT THE GLOBE.
VI —Tent-folding in Arabia.
The Arabs are not easy to live with.
Their language looks like crazy short-
hand and sounds like erratic typewriting.
Furthermore, they are too neat and tidy.
The way they fold up their tents has be-
come proverbial. I lived among them
for years and could never master it. I’d
get up early and commence folding up
my tent, but long before I got through
"It Was Mafeesh."
they would finish theirs and silently steal
away.
I was thus continually being left
alone in the desert with a half-folded tent
and my faithful she-camel Mafeesh.
On such occasions Mafeesh meant
everything to me. She provided me with
sustenance, transport and fuel, and I was
even able to use her as a ridge-pole for
my tent. Lord knows what she lived on.
Flies and gnats, probably. A most in-
telligent beast, she could do everything
but play the piccolo. I tried hard to
teach her this, but she could never
manage it.
But to return to the tent-folding. At
last I evolved a scheme to trick the
tribe. Instead of pitching my tent of an
evening I would sleep on it just as it
was, all folded up. I’d then be ready to
steal away with the others.
After a couple of attempts I gave it up.
It was so uncomfortable that it used to
take me all night to get to sleep. Then,
just as I dozed off, the Arabs would rise,
and in due course I’d awaken and find
myself deserted as before. So I reverted
to my former practice and tried to get
along as best I could.
One morning I woke up in a terrible
predicament—trussed up in canvas and
jogging along on top of a camel. The
Arabs had stolen away, as usual, and a
band of Bedouins had come upon me
sound asleep, and had folded me up tent
and all. I was most uncomfortable.
All day we travelled across the desert,
and at nightfall camped about half a
mile from an oasis. There was no sign
of Mafeesh. Whether they had killed
her or whether the intelligent animal had
gone for assistance I couldn’t tell.
I was placed in a tent for the night.
It appeared that they had mistaken me
for Colonel Lawrence, and intended to
hold me to ransom. Flight was im-
possible. Without a camel I could not
expect to survive long in the desert. I
resigned myself to my fate.
Towards midnight I was awakened.
The sweetest voice I had ever heard was
singing outside my tent. I listened. The
words came clearly and sweetly:
My-y desert is call-ing,
Dear, come there with me;
I’m long-ing to tea chew
Love’s sweet mel-o-dee-ee ....
I peeped out. There stood Mafeesh.
She stopped singing, and came to me. I
clambered aboard, and off we flew. But
the Bedouins had heard us, and followed
swift behind. Straight for the oasis
Mafeesh headed, plunged into the cool
water and swam to the other side. Then
off across the desert like the wind.
Mafeesh had outwitted our pursuers.
When they reached the oasis they found
they had been deceived. It was only a
mirage, and there we left them flounder-
ing in the dust. Jasby.
»I- -!- -I* *l-
- SLIGHT ERROR.
My sole companion at the ship’s table
was a trifle hard of hearing. From the
loudspeaker came the strains of the ship’s
orchestra playing from the smoke lounge
excerpts from “Tannhauser.”
“There’s some talk of the Government
subsidising the opera business,” I said.
“Think it deserves it?”
“My oath,” said he, pointing his knife
at me for emphasis. “I’ve been in the
game all my life and ain’t got ahead of
it yet. What with the flamin’ typhoons
and the island
boys on the go-
si ow, and the
blarsted tariffs,
and cripes knows
what, we’ve been
havin’ a rough
spin. We can do
with it. When
are they goin’ to
start it, any-
way?”
‘‘Opera !” I ex-
claimed a bit
louder, pointing
to the loud-
speaker.
“Oh, opera —
that flamin’
stuff,” he said.
“I thought you
said copra.”
Bungool.
4* 4* 4*
KNOCKOUT.
They found the
editor crumpled
up on the floor
where he had
fallen from his
chair, a handful
of his hair grasp-
ed in one hand
and some MS. in
the other. Kindly
hands lifted him
to a sitting pos-
ture. Even more
kindly hands
gave him a stiff
brandy.
It was plain that he had suffered a
severe shock. He kept up an incoherent
mumbling, until at last those who stood
around began to despair for his reason.
Suddenly he leaned forward and pointed
to the MS.; then he fell back and gasped
weakly: “The ending! The ending!
Har, har.”
A sub. glanced down the last page.
“’Struth!” he said. “No wonder he
threw a doubler. Here’s one of those
yarns about the chap that grew rare
orchids. But the fellow in this story
actually isn’t strangled by one of his own
plants! ”
S.W.K.
•J* + F
OPTIMISM.
“I’m going to travel! ” she sighed
romantically. “I’m going abroad for
years! I’m”
“Hold on, darling!” he interrupted.
“Don’t you think it would be better to
buy a home here, a mansion? We could
settle down and buy a car—you can get
splendid cars for £lOO0 —and, of course,
we’d need a yacht, too.”
“No, no!” she protested. “I want to
travel! I’ve always wanted to travel!
I must travel! ”
“But, darling, we could do plenty of
local travelling if we had a car and a
yacht,” he argued.
“Oh, but I want to go abroad!” she
enthused. “I want to live on the Conti-
nent. I want to play roulette at Monte
Carlo! And Tsimply must see the East
—the East, with its pagodas and temples
and sampans and mysticisms!”
“Well,” he considered, “we may be
able to travel first and then come back
and settle down as I want to. Of course,
it all depends on whether we win first or
second prize.”
And he drew a lottery ticket from his
pocket and regarded it fondly.
Nat.
4* 4* 4* +
DOMESTIC STRATEGY.
There was something brooding nastily
over the house when I got home. My
clear conscience enabled me to face it
boldly.
“How was Mabel?” asked my wife
with a nasty sweetness.
“Meaning Mrs. Goodsort?” I re-
turned dauntlessly. “How do I know?”
“Oh, it was another woman, then, that
mother saw you with?” she said stormily.
“Don’t be silly, darling,” I retorted.
“Your mother didn’t see me with any
woman.”
“Then you’ve been all night drinking at
the club—and wasting your money!
You promised me”
“Look here, Mill., I haven’t had a
drink. I stayed at the office working,
and left half an hour ago.”
“A nice tale!”
“All right! If you don’t like to be-
lieve me! ”
“You said you weren’t going to do any
more after-hours working unless you
were paid for it. You have no back-
bone. If you told old Screw”
“I did tell him!” I interrupted. “He’s
paying me for this —a special job.”
“Yes!” she said scornfully, “a few
“Confound it! MUST you remind me that I've got
to Wait three years for my next leave?"
paltry shillings! I wonder you don’t stick
up for your rights like a real man!”
“Well, if you like to know, he’s paying
me darned well for this job,” I said
in proud vindication.
“Ah, that’s what I wanted to know!”
she cried triumphantly. “Darling, I saw
a simply beautiful hat to-day, and dirt
cheap—l had to order it. Now that
you’re getting this extra money”—-
Well, I ask you, what’s the use of
kicking?
H. M.
FINIS.
’Tis the last glass of whisky
Left standing here filled.
All her thrilling companions
Have gladly been swilled.
Yes, parted from kindred,
She’s all on her own;
So I’m thankful to heaven
I’m drinking alone !
T. W. N.
SEPARATION.
“ ’Tis time,” he said, “that we should
part.
A las, the parting pains me so !
For I have loved with all my heart,
And feel I cannot let you go.
Still, if I must — farewell! But, oh,
Return some day !” He wildly hid
His features with consuming woe —
Then parted with his only quid
HAN.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 18 noon (Sunday. 12 45 p.ra.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Simoniz Your Gar
... It Will Sparkle Like New
The New Kieener makes SIMONIZ/NG easier than ever.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquuy
must be confined to one subject. _
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, desires position as housekeeper
to one or two persons, capable, healthy,
bright disposition. Refs. Interview during
Easter. —6264.
Englishwoman, N.S.W., offers comfortable
home in return for assistance in all duties.
Four adults. References exchanged.—6229.
Freelance, Sydney, would like any literary
work. Will criticise, rewrite or type MSS. for
young writers. Fees moderate.—i624o.
Youth (18), experienced, seeks position on
poultry farm near Sydney.—6243.
Energetic man with 15 years’ business and
orchard experience, living in the central dis-
trict of Huon (Tas.), would book fruit for
inter-State agents on commission-and-expenses
basis. —6290.
To buy war books “Army Behind Wire,”
by Dwinger; “Black Monastery,” by Kunz;
“Recollections of an Airman,” by Strange;
and “German Students’ War Letters,” by
“Witkop” and “Waac.” —-6253.
To buy, new or in good second-hand con-
dition, “Liabilities and Duties of Trustees,” by
Birred. —6254.
To buy second-hand microscope, powerful,
and in first-class order.—62s2.
To buy books relating to early Tasmania,
particularly “The Hermit of Van Diemen’s
Land” and “The Tasmanian Pickwick,” in
parts.—626s.
Words of old Australian poem entitled
“ ’Urry.”—623s.
Words of Australian poem about a cockatoo
that caused a bullock team to bolt and drown
itself in a creek. —6241.
Information Sought.
Any regulation forbidding the flying of the
Australian flag on ordinary occasions, such as
on a sports pavilion during the playing of a
match ? —6113.
No reservation as regards the Australian flag
(Commonwealth merchant flag or Red
Ensign). Flying of the Commonwealth Blue
Ensign is reserved for Commonwealth Govern-
ment use.
* # H= *
(1) How to become an articled clerk in
N.S.W. ? (2) Usual charges ? (3) How many
years must be served ? (4) What exams, must
be passed ? (5) Remuneration during appren-
ticeship ? —6216.
(1), (2) and (5) Must be articled to a solicitor.
There is no fixed fee, but £2OO was at one time
and in certain cases now is asked. In some
instances no fee is required, but the clerk’s
salary is adjusted accordingly. It is a matter
of agreement. (3) Five years. (4) Before being
articled must pass the law matric. exam., or its
equivalent in the leaving exam. After being
articled the exams, are legal history, law inter-
mediate, final; they may be taken in six sections
covering contracts, torts, equity, bankruptcy,
probate and divorce, real property, conveyanc-
ing, procedure, etc. Secretary, Board of
Examiners of Articled Clerks, Supreme Court,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, will supply full details.
* * * *
(1) Are liquid resistances suitable for starting
motors under load? (2) What are their ad-
vantages over the wire-wound types ? (3) Par-
ticulars of construction ? —6270.
(1) Yes; they can be used in cases where
large amounts of power have to be absorbed.
(2) Compactness, cheapness, simplicity and a
gradual variation of resistance are obtainable,
but it is not possible to cut out the resistance
without short-circuiting the bath. (3) The
electrodes may consist of two metal plates, or
a single metal plate and a metal containing-
vessel. The metals are generally wrought- or
cast-iron for alkaline solutions, and lead for
acid solutions. The resistance may be varied
by moving the plates in and out of the solu-
tion. The electrolyte usually consists of a very
diluted solution of sodium chloride (common
salt), copper sulphate or sulphuric acid.
* * * ■. ❖
I wish to light up a small dairy, located
about 250 yards from the homestead, where I
intend placing a D.C. generator. (1) Which of
these three voltages would be most suitable for
the job— l 2, 32, or 110 volts? (2) Reason?
(3) Should generator be at homestead or dairy ?
(4) Could an ordinary radio receiver, refriger-
tor or other electrical household apparatus be
operated off this voltage ? —6263.
(1) 110 volts. (2) It is more economical to
transmit a high voltage and low current than
a low voltage and high current over a line,
as less power is lost in overcoming the line
resistance, and a smaller gauge conductor may
be used. (3) At the end where the greater
amount of current,is consumed, this probably
being at the homestead. (4) The ordinary radio
set cannot be operated off a 110 D.C. supply,
but other types of apparatus, if designed for
this voltage, may be used satisfactorily.
»!•
How to remove nicotine stains from the
fingers ? —6122.
Stains yield to an abrasive cleanser; liquid
solvents seldom act alone. Cleansing soaps
with fine sand or pumice as ingredients serve
the former purpose; otherwise prepare a paste
for use before washing the hands. Mix pumice
powder to a thick consistency with equal parts
liquid ammonia and peroxide; rub gently over
stained area until nicotine is removed. Rinse
the hands well, and dry.
j|c He ♦ *
What subjects must be passed to gain the
Old. senior public exam, certificate ?— -5905.
Subjects for 1934-35 are: Group 1 English,
French, German, Latin, Greek, modern history,
ancient history, geography and economics.
Group 11—Maths. A, maths. B, chemistry,
physics, geology and biology. Group lII—-
Logic, education (history and theory of
education). Group IV—Art, freehand draw-
ing, geometrical drawing and perspective,
theory of music, pianoforte, violin, organ,
singing and art of speech. Group V—Book-
keeping and accounts, elementary surveying
and astronomy and applied mechanics. The
minimum requirement for a senior public
examination certificate is a pass at one
examination in each of at least four subjects,
to include (a) not less than one subject from
Group I, and ( b ) not less than two other
subjects from Groups I and 11.
* * * *
I am naturally left-handed. I want to be-
come right-handed. Would there be any danger
in trying to do so ? I am 24 years 01d. —6167.
The change-over from left to right-handed-
ness is not advised after maturity—mental con-
flict develops with enforced reversion of habit.
Although primarily influenced by education,
there is a natural or inherent tendency to right-
handedness in the normal subject. As the brain
develops from childhood its left side becomes
the more important, containing as it does the
nervous centres that control speech and assist
in the association of thoughts and symbols
with words. The left side, of the brain controls
the right side of the body —therefore it is
natural that right-sided limb movement is more
readily specialised. Nature permits an occa-
sional exception, as in your case—best leave
well alone.
* * * *
(1) What is Euphorbia herb, and is there
any sale for it in Sydney ? (2) Is Yerba mate
a wholesome beverage ? —-6127.
Euphorbia herb is the dried, entire plant of
E. hirfa Linn. (Euphorbiacece ). It is indigen-
ous to India and most tropical countries —
grows as weed in Australia. For medicinal
purposes (asthma, bronchitis, etc.) the product
must be standardised —limited demand here
does not warrant this treatment. For dried
leaves and herb, Elliotts and Aust. Drug., Ltd.,
Sydney, quote 3s. per lb. (2) Yerba mate is a
mildly sedative and diuretic beverage.
* ♦ ■ ■ ■ # *
(1) Duties of an executor under a will ? (2)
Books of advice? (3) What is the rele-
vant law in S. Aus. ? (4) The covering Acts
in (2) and (3) ? (5) Acts of Parliament (Fed.
and State) relating to succession duties ? —6177.
(1) To bury the deceased suitably, protect his
property and gather particulars of his estate,
obtain probate, or instruct a solicitor to do so,
insert in newspapers the statutory notice to
creditors to send in their claims, carry out
any necessary realisations, and collect outstand-
ing moneys, pay debts and legacies, set aside
any trusts for life and see that the income is
paid as directed, etc. (2) A handy little book
is “Administration of Estates in N. S. Wales,”
price 12s. 6d. (Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street,
Sydney). (3) Practically the same as in N.S.W.
(4) and (5) The Law Book Co. will quote
prices and furnish Acts required.
* * * *
Details of unemployment tax in Queensland
on wages of £4 per week, with meat and house
to live in but without keep ? Does the em-
ployee pay on the tor ? —6125.
The employee is liable for the whole of the
tax. The rental value of the house must be
taken into consideration, and worth of meat
should also be included as income. The values
assigned to quarters vary ; as provided for in
the regulations under the Income (Unemploy-
ment-relief) Tax Acts they are: (a) Single
quarters, ss. per week ; (b) married quarters
provided for managers, overseers or profes-
sional persons, 20s. per week; (c) other mar-
ried quarters, 15s. per week. Having ascer-
tained your weekly income in accordance with
the foregoing, tax is 3d. for every 6s. Bd., or
nearest part.
* * * *
A maintenance order was obtained against a
man in the Sydney Children’s Court. The man
has since requested his wife to withdraw the
order. She is agreeable, but states that the
Court will not allow her to do so. Can the
Court stop the wife withdrawing or cancelling
the order?— 6l9s.
No provision is made in the Act for the
withdrawal of an order. The course is to
allow the order to remain unsatisfied. So long
as it remains- so and no application is made
by or on behalf of the person for whose sup-
port it was made no action can be taken
against the husband. See the Clerk of Petty
Sessions at- the’ court where the order was
obtained and inform him.
* .* * .
(1) Origin andibrief hisldfy .of the McKenzie
clan? (2) Books? (3) 'Present chief of clan ?
(4) Description of tartan ? —6197.
(1) and (2) Too long to print here. See
“The Scottish Clans and Their Tartans” (1933)
and “The Clans, Septs and Regiments of the
Scottish Highlands,” by Frank Adam, F.R G S
(1908). (3) The chief, James F. MacKenzie,
of Allangrange, Ross-shire, died 15/8/’O7, and
was succeeded by Mrs. Beatrice Anna Fraser
MacKenzie, of Allangrange. (4) Colored plates
in above volumes will give description.
* * * *
(1) Name of colony recently formed in Russia
for Jewish inhabitants ? (2) Any general
information ? (3) Further information ? —5898.
(1) Most likely you mean the Biro-Bydzhan
project. (2) It is still a controversial question,
frequently discussed in the Soviet press; also
in Jewish publications abroad. Very little
reliable information as to its practicability.
(3) In “Russia U.S.S.R.: A Complete Hand-
book” (Payson, N.Y., 1933).
* * * *
(1) Who was Pope Joan ? —6248.
A mythical Englishwoman alleged to have
been pope for two years, 853-855. The legend
was finally exploded by Dollinger.
jfc Hi * *
Who was “the man they could not hang,"
and what were the circumstances of his re-
prieve ? —6172.
John Lee, convicted of murder at Babba-
combe, England, was reprieved because the
drop refused to act on three occasions when
he was placed on the scaffold. According to
Ernest Bowen-Rowlands, it was the work of a
convict, a carpenter by trade, employed on the
scaffold, who slipped in a small wedge. After
the first failure he withdrew the wedge, show-
ing that the drop worked perfectly, but twice
he put the wedge back. Lee’s sentence was
commuted to life imprisonment, and he was
released after 25 years. Bowen-Rowlands, a
barrister, asserted that the convict confessed to
the trick upon his deathbed.
* *
Who said that London would be a splendid
city to sack ? —5997.
Bliicher.
* * * *
(1) Exports of coal from Australia for 1931-
32, 1932-33 and 1933-34 ? (2) Exports of coal
for same years to Netherlands East Indies,
(3) Netherlands and (4) Japan ? (5) Figures
giving amounts shipped from various ports ?
(6) Quantity shipped as bunker on overseas
vessels for the three years mentioned? —-5553.
(1) 1931-32, 344,015 tons, value £341,800;
1932- 282,977 tons, value £281,512; 1933-34,
292,416 tons, value £269,296. (2) 1931-32,
29,563 tons, value £27,607; 1932-33, 19,107
tons, value £18,286; 1933-34, 28,202 tons, value
£24,318. (3) and (4) No exports of coal to
either place. (5) Practically the entire export
was shipped from N.S.W. ports; details are not
available. (6) 1931-32, 506,140 tons, value
£534,897 ; 1932-33, 562,442 tons, value £550,277 ;
1933- 523,023 tons, value £495,051.
* * * *
Title a?id author of the lines:
A Are mist and a planet.
A crystal and a cell;
A jellyfish and a saurian.
And caves where the cavemen dwell;
Then a sense of law and beauty,
And a face turned from the clod—
Some call it Evolution
And others call it (tod.
—6049.
“Each in His Own Tongue,” by William
Herbert Carruth.
* * * *
I want to improve my lawn tennis. Where
could I receive a month’s coaching in Sydney,
and what would be the cost? —6298.
Suggest that you arrange with one of the
professional coaches at the N.S.W. Lawn
Tennis Ground —A. J. Willard, G. P. Lane,
H. W. Kirkpatrick or T. G. Moore. You
may join the ground for one month for £l,
and play on any day except Friday. Secretary
Wedgwood would see that you got a game with
players of your own standard. The cost of
coaching depends on the number of lessons,
etc. It would run from £2 2s. to £3 3s. for the
usual course of instruction.
* * * *
Of whom was the verse written:
To all the softness of her tender sex
Unites the noblest qualities of man:
A genius to embrace the amplest schemes....
Judgment most sound, persuasive eloquence,
Pure piety without religious dross
And fortitude that shrinks at no disaster.
—6056.
Louisa, Duchess of Braganza.
* * * *
How to preserve “everlasting” flowers, such
as statice, lavender and helichrysums ? —6297.
Statice and lavender should be cut when the
flowers are fully out and before they start to
fail. Helichrysums must be gathered before
the blooms are properly opened; picked after
that the yellow centres blacken. Hang up the
statice and helichrysums in bunches in a dry
shed; the lavender should be placed on a tray
of small-meshed wire-netting to dry.
* * *
(1) Who wrote the lines:
Bright Ursula the Third, who undertook to guide
The eleven thousand maids to Little Britain sent,
By seas and bloody men devoured as they went”. . ..
(2) What is the story or myth behind the name
of Ursula ?— 6199.
(1) Michael Drayton, 1622. (2) In Swabian
and Scandinavian mythology Ursula is the
moon, and the story relates to the moon and
the stars.
* * * *
Are there any positions vacant for qualified
telephone mechanics ( P.M.G. or private ) in Aus-
tralia at the present lime ? What exam, would
have to be passed to become a qualified tele-
phone mechanic? —6116.
Positions of telephone mechanic, P.M.G.’s
Dept., are filled from the ranks of junior
officers who have satisfactorily completed a
course of training for the purpose. To become
a junior mechanic (training staff), an exam,
must be passed, and the applicant’s age must
be between 15 and 17. Particulars from the
Commonwealth Public Inspector. As all public
telephone services are controlled by the de-
partment, opportunities outside are remote.
* * *
Who wrote:
Shall we vary our device at will.
Even as new occasion appears?
—6OBB.
Edmund Spenser.
How to propagate hydrangeas from prun-
ings ? —6234.
Place cuttings of last year’s flowering stems
in boxes of sandy loam to strike. They
should not be shifted for at least six months.
If the cuttings are to be set in the open garden,
mix plenty of sand into the soil. The cuttings
are more likely to strike when placed at
a slightly tilted angle. April is a good time
to do the work.
Brief Answers.
A.M.E.: Andrews and Beaven, Christchurch,
M. manufacture that seed-cleaner, which
is provided with interchangeable sieves so that
any size seed or grain may be cleaned... .R.K.:
See “Whitaker’s Almanack” (chronological
notes) for any year T.F.F.: Label as
quoted by you is incorrect. Possibly refers to
Giovanni Grancino, Milan, 1694-1720. Violin,
if genuine, should be worth the amount men-
tioned. Submit it to A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .M.M.8.; The metal Y on
the obelisk indicates that it was used as a
survey peg; possibly it is also a milestone.
J.W.C.: If a traveller overdraws his
account with a mercantile firm for which he is
working on a commission basis the amount
overdrawn becomes a debt due to the firm, and
has to be accounted for as a debt....
D.P.: Not unless you act as a hawker. In
N. the selling or offering for sale of goods
carried about on the person, or on any animal
or in any movable conveyance, whether by land
or water, constitutes the business of a hawker.
J.L.: (1) If by “local body” you refer to
the councils of cities, municipalities, shires,
yes. A person not being a director of a com-
pany is not disqualified for civic office by
having an interest in any agreement or trading
with the council as a member of an incorporated
co. consisting of more than 25 persons. (2) The
object is to check prejudiced or corrupt influ-
ences in the council without unduly hampering
its members H.H.: Comes under the head
of a pledge—“a bailment of goods to a
creditor as security for some debt or engage-
ment.” In a leading case, many years ago,
it was held that the pawnee was “bound to
use ordinary diligence in the care and safeguard
of the pawn.” But where exercise of all due
care can be proved, “the pawnee may still re-
sort to the pawnor for the amount of the debt
secured by the pawn”.... A.R.: (1) Australian;
born Condobolin, N.S.W. (2) Age 39. (3)
Height, sft. 4in.; weight, 10 stone; chest
(normal), 42in.; chest (expanded), 464 in. (4)
Alf. Britton is prof, coach in England and
U.S.A. (5) Cannot discuss qualifications....
D.W.: Palings will supply the French words and
music of “The Marseillaise” for 2s. Id., posted.
... .N.T.: The range of Malcolm McEachern’s
voice is from lower Cto F. He is 52; born in
Albury (N.S.W.) J.P.: Whale (sperm) oil is
used as machinery lubricant; also in prepara-
tion of certain leathers and as a lamp oil.
Elliotts and Aust. Drug, Ltd., Sydney, 12s. per
gal. Impure grades (commercial) are cheaper.
. ...W.J.0.R.: Write Chief Engineer, Public
Works Department, Hobart, Tas .T. 8.:
Consult Barrett and Besterinan’s “The Divining
Rod” and Henri Mager’s “Water Diviners and
Their Message”... .T.L.G.: Probably it would
be held that the words “subject to good
behavior and a proper discharge of the duties
of the position” do not confer upon him a
fixed tenure of office and place him outside
any subsequent administrative change affecting
the office of secretary... .J.L.K.: Advances
are made under the building-relief scheme,
administered by the Department of Labor and
Industry, Sydney, for repairs, renovations, etc.,
and for the erection of small homes in rural
areas on land from which the borrower obtains
or proposes to obtain a living. From the
particulars furnished it does not appear that
your proposal comes within the scope of this
committee’s authority; inquire at the Homes
Dept., Rural Bank, Sydney, which is making
provision for home-building in certain approved
cases R.A.: See Fletcher’s “Carpentry and
Joinery” (145.). Send us your address so that
we may post you a pamphlet... .R.M.C.:
Write Dept, of Agriculture, Melbourne,
for leaflet on cleaning of milking-machines.. .._
J.M.S.: See K. Edington’s “Modern Pise
Building” (245.) and “Building in Cob and
Pise de Terre,” published by H.M. Stationery
Office, London, price 2s J.D.: Write Dept.
of Public Works, Sydney J.J.E.: The
laboratory of the Marine Biological Associa-
tion of the United Kingdom is at Citadel
Hill, Plymouth, England... J.M.: The per-
son who makes the will is the testator, or,
if the will-maker be a woman, the testatrix....
A.M.L.: The Gota Canal (Sweden) is 115
miles long, the Suez 100 miles, the Panama
50.5 miles, the Kiel 61 miles, the Manchester
35.5 miles, and the Welland (Canada) 26.75
miles A.R.M.; At the end of September,
1934, the population of Maoriland proper
was 1,552,000, including 74,000
L.J.T.: Some English publishers who specialise
in the publication of plays are: G. Allen and
Unwin, Ruskin House, Museum-street, W.C.I;
Jonathan Cape, Ltd., 30 Bedford-square,
W.C.I; Victor Gollancz, Ltd., 14 Henrietta-
street, W.C.2; Samuel French, Ltd., 26
Southampton-street, Strand, W.C.I; and Wil-
liam Heihemann, Ltd., 99 Great Russell-street,
W.C.l—all London T.F.: Marianbone
means “great place for cockatoos”; Piyanola,
“the nest”; Guigola, “red ground”; and
Euratha, “cones on the uri-bush” —all are
N.S.W. abo. place-names.. . .H.N.; Edith
Thompson was hanged on January 9, 1923, at
Holloway Prison, and Frederick By waters on
the same day at Pentonville D.J.; The
Woolsack is the seat of the Lord Chancellor
in the House of Lords, placed in front of the
throne. When export of wool was forbidden, in
the reign of Elizabeth, the texture in question
was thus dignified in token of its importance to
the national prosperity... .C.R.8.: See “The
British Journal Photographic Almanac, 1934,”
page 330 L.S.: To protect galvanised iron
from corrosion give the iron a coating of good-
quality bitumen solution, free from all acids.
F.T.B.; Write Dept, of Education, Bris-
bane M.8.F.: “Labor and Industry in Aus-
tralia,” by T. A. Coghlan, Volumes 111 and
IV, contains the data you require (Many
others mailed.)


FOR over half a century “BILLABONG"
Pumps and Windmills have served Aus-
tralian Farmers and Graziers with a never-
failing water supply.
Those who installed our plants were able
in many instances to save thousands of sheep
and cattle during severe drought periods.
Thousands of users throughout the
Commonwealth have expressed their appre-
ciation of “BILLABONG” Service.
Behind this service, backing it to the very
utmost, stands 76 years’ experience in the
manufacture of pumping equipment.
Now we have built the New TROUBLE-
PROOF “COOEE” Auto Oiled, Encased
Gear Windmill, less in price than the “BILLA-
BONG but adapted from an imported
pattern of which thousands have been sold
in the Commonwealth.
Write immediately for our latest il us-
trated catalogue and price list .
d
fd
Melbourne:
391-403 Bourke Street-
Sydney:
324-331 Pitt Street.
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mon & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson &. Son - ■ - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros, and Co. Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Repeater: And you need to be to hit with
that sort of ammunition G.A.L.; It’s slight,
even as poetical epigrams g 0... J.McG.: You’ll
certainly need to do better than
Unknowing’, too, the loving winds
That lived and died in mother minds.
... .S.L.R.: Sonnet the best, but it’s much ado
about a mighty little H.R.G.; Adds no-
thing new to that old theme L.C.: Makes
the spectacle real enough, but such phrases as
“drunk with beauty home I went” and “bowed
with care and pain” would kill almost any-
thing. .. .G. 8.: Forces us to echo the refrain,
“Away, away!” 8.R.N.: That’s not a poem,
an endurance test.,. .N.V.H.: Sounds sus-
piciously_ like liver R.A.A.; Sonnet began
like a winner, but blew out in the last six
Gemini (Vic.): Better than your namesake
who was answered recently, but that’s as far
as praise can be stretched... .J.R.H.: Well-
worn thoughts, both of them J.D.R.
(Papua): Loads of the stark-bush poets here.
Why not write of what’s about y0u?....P.T.
(Q.): _ Not one that hasn’t a spark of poetic
light in it, and not one satisfying enough as a
whole. Seems to be hope for y0u.... Anon:
Like it well, especially the happy ending:
Drought has crossed the Western Plains;
It swallows up men’s gains.
One of the greatest droughts we knew
Occurred in stricken nineteen two.
After that great drought
Many pastoralists went out.
They simply had to go—
Their Bankers told them so.
The banks are badly understaffed—
Put on men to deal with overdrafts.
Landmen who survived that arid year
Have had nothing since to fear.
M.R.T.: No stamp, but returning it to
you because it’s good enough to deserve better
handling. —Leroo: Read poetry for a year;
then you’ll never write verse like that, if you
write at all J.A.S.C.: Fair way off the mark.
Hal Mac: Nothing there... .T.T.M.: Takes
longer than usual to say nothing G.A.:
Even verse needs to have something to give to
others,—R.R.P.: Might have been written by
an earthquake... .R.M.G.; It’s musical enough
to find a home _ somewhere, but not here....
N.S.:_ Your writing takes some deciphering,
even if we could get the hang of what you are
writing about N.F.; Unacceptable, though
it has some human interest... .S.H.: Afraid
n0t....R.WA.: Can’t make anything printable
of it.... A.C.H.: It covers well-trodden ground.
.... G.F.N.: Of insufficient general interest
Nothung: Tale of neighbors’ feud ended by the
sons of the parties being drowned together
brought no tears A.F.; It ends rather
lamely 8.H.: Still misses. Plot rather harks
back to the missing heir with the strawberry
mark on his left arm.... J.P.L.: No doubt
true enough, but similar things have been
used before... .RJ.R.: Couldn’t raise a laugh at
Dave in the corset shop... .J. 8.: Not a winner.
M.H.: Your characters aren’t at all con-
vincing L.M.M.: Well enough told, but the
plot is rather thin G.H.V.: Not in our line.
G.M.T.: Too slight..A.L.S.: Can’t be-
lieve that even the dullest school-teacher would
be quite so dumb G.St.C.: Not enough in it.
. ...A.K.: “The graveyard of his fathers” has
been disturbed too often. We intend to treat
it with respect from now 0n..., J.T.W.:
Finished down the lane,.. .F.M.: Story of tram
journey as dull as most tram journeys
H.E.0.: Your new Pied Piper had better try
his skill on the Brewarrina crocodile....
A.E.Y.: Doesn’t ring the bell J.M.P.: That
plot with slight variations is one of our most
frequent visitors E.W.W.: “I don’t know
the usual procedure in submitting stories.” The
usual procedure with a first story is to entitle
it “Retribution.” You have complied with
this G.S.D.: Not suitable E.McD.: Out-
side our fence The Admiral: Now let that
be a lesson to you and to all sailors
P. de M.: Trust you enjoyed your holiday
W.C.: It seems a remarkable coincidence, but
you haven’t proved that it was anything more.
C.L.R.; Atmosphere good, but ending un-
convincing J.McG. (S.A.): Has its bright
spots, but not enough. If you value our friend-
ship you’ll use only one side of the paper in
future... .I.M.McC.; It doesn’t appeal....
D.R.N.; Not far off Novo: Off our. beat.
. ...J.G.; No equine soliloquies, please.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.L.J.: The lady’s legs are long and crooked.
. ...M.F.: Preserved-monkey joke is old
K.G.: The approach of Easter is always
heralded by that Dad and Dave wheeze....
A.S.W.: Eight, nine—out E.R.: Child
who overheard everything is without ears
T.H.D.: You must have been a babe during
the war years, judging by the way you dressed
the Digger W.J.: Figures looked as if they
had been slapped-up in a box factory G. 8.:
Send some more, but not until after you have
had lessons... .H.H.: Poster-size cartoon advo-
cating a larger Australian navy fell by the
wayside... .N.S.: You have a slick line, but
your humor is on the feeble side A.E.M.G.;
Drawing of the Australian delegation’s arrival
in Ceylon weeks too late —otherwise not so
bad F. 8.: Bishops don’t dress like scout-
masters... .L.M.: No use for crayon studies
of talkie stars T.M.: Mediocre D.H.:
High opinion of your work not endorsed....
J.R.C.: An improvement on the last lot.
Strive for a less harsh line.... H.Q.: Wasted
efforts... .L.A.: Homeward bound.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
As a result of his observations abroad,
Vic. railway chief Clapp proposes to
give his State streamlined trains run
by Diesel engines. He is satisfied
with his own refreshment services, and
justly. Sydney-Melbourne express meals
will stand any comparison in point of
quality and cost.
* * * *
The proprieties have entered con-
tract bridge. It is now improper to
use any convention the significance of
which has not been announced—so the
psychic bidder who bleats “one heart”
on a hand void of hearts must be pre-
pared to explain his reasons. Dummy
is promoted from a deaf-mute to
“declarer’s partner,” and may call atten-
tion to revokes and other infringements
or rules. Slam bonuses are at last re-
duced, and under-trick penalties are less
severe.
* * * *
You can’t hustle “the East.” In 1932,
as a result of an accident in Egypt, a
Melbourne man spent several months in
hospital in Cairo, On his return to Aus-
tralia he wrote news of his improved
condition to one of the orderlies in the
Egyptian hospital who had been a par-
ticularly good scout. The reply has now
arrived:
Anglo-American Hospital,
Gezira, Cairo.
Dear Sir, —
I have the pleasure to write to you
answering about your letter. I offer the
greatest respect to you.
Sir, I am always your obedient servant
and many thanks to you.
I offer the best congratulations for cure
and best wishes for you for ever.
Your obedient servant,
Michael Awad.
The Melbourne man is wondering if
Michael has spent the last three years
compiling the letter, or if the long wait
is merely a custom of the country.
* * * *
A traveller returned from the U.S.A.
was amused by a notice in front of
a half-built house in Philadelphia,
“Help Yourself,” which alluded to a
number of bricks and tiles lying
about. The contractor must have been a
student of psychology. There’s no kick
about stealing when the job’s too easy.
For the same reason pavement flower-
gardens are seldom robbed, whereas
flowers growing behind high fences, par-
ticularly if there’s barbed-wire at the
top, tickle the marauding instincts of even
law-abiding citizens.
* * * *
A coincidence relative to the squash
tournaments held at the Queen’s Club
(England) is that during the last six
years finals have not been annexed by I
any woman in shorts. There are various
explanations—that skirts are lucky, that
the wearers are crafty with long years of I
experience and that the movement of
skirts confuses the opponent for a frac- I
tion of a second as the ball leaves the
racquet.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Colt (B. 6/3/’35) had
rivals in the revolving-pistol line whose
weapons long survived. One was the
Adams “pepper-pot,” in which the
six full-length barrels were cast in
a single block, each with a separate
nipple. It was a fearsome piece,
and occasionally all six barrels went
off at once. Fifty years ago 1
treasured one, bought of a pawnbroker
for Bs. We used to stalk sparrows and
such small game with it, and a “sitter”
at six yards was considered good shoot-
ing. We made our own shot, using Cur-
tis and Harvey powder out of a red
flask and match heads as caps. It was
a point of honor to cook and eat all
game secured —even the biggest, which
was a mopoke. Epicures may take it
from me, even after half a century, that
Podargus strigoides may be enthusiasti-
cally avoided on any menu,
* * *
“Jeames” on queer names:
Considering how easy and cheap it is to
change one’s name, the persistence with which
some people cling to theirs is a matter for
wonder. The oft-quoted Mr. Bugg who
became Norfolk-Howard by letters patent
may have overdone it, but he had the right
idea. I mention the matter apropos an attack
by a bagsnatcher on a Miss Greedy, of Auburn
(Sydney). How many inane jokes her name
must have inspired in its time! The Labor
M.L.A. for Northcote glories in his name —
Jack Cain. The Rotters are English ; one
of them, a Paymaster Rear-Admiral in the
R.N., is in “Who’s Who.” In the Inner Temple
hall some years ago an Indian barrister was
introduced to me as Mr. Abdul Hamid. It was
no joke ; he is now a sort of Prime Minister
in Kapurthala, In Flanders shortly before the
Armistice an American officer offered to give
evidence for the defence in an alleged case of
drunkenness in Amiens. When he said his
name was Lieut, Pimp I decided not to call
him • the C.M, might have thought its leg was
being pulled, and you get few chances to ex-
plain tilings in the army.


“SILVER
£oce<i
MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
SAFETY!
You are a motorist. There
are many laws made for your
safety—rules and regulations of
road traffic and so on—but the
fundamental basis of all safe
driving is in your own hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
- - - . in Good Condition ,
Have them adjusted and examined
periodically by experienced men,
and, ,if you wish to maintain true
adjustment and long life,
RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING
re-lining is necessary.
specify
when
BAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND ,
Factory Rep. : JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
COLONIAL NUT UAL NEWS
£5 A WEEK FOR LIFE
Recently payment was made by the Society on
a policy held by an officer who lately retired
from a well-known public Institution.
His investment of this money will show a
definite return of £s• per week for the rest of
his life, and to-day, after 40 years of that work
and worry which is the lot of every man, he
will enjoy the luxury of complete relaxation,
secure from any financial worries for as long
as he lives.
An Assurance Policy guarantees this financial independence.
Obtain particulars from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Principal Office-Melbourne. C. B. Hearn, A.C.1.5., Manager and Secretary
nnantWFS IN --- SYDNEY. BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
TASMANIA, NEW ZEALAND. SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON.
L 2175
ƒ
The Steering Column.
IMPROVING STOCK-CAR
PERFORMANCE.
By FRED BERRY.
PRACTICAL ADVICE FOR AMATEUR MECHANICS.
DURING the last few years keen motorists will have observed
the remarkable improvement in road performance of stock
cars, until at the present moment the family sedan is really a
sports car when piloted by an experienced' driver.
Yet, as Australian motorists are as a general rule keen
sportsmen, an ever-increasing number seeks ways and means of
“hotting-up” present models in order to show a clean pair of
heels when indulging in friendly roadside “scraps.”
In addition, there are many imbued
with the spirit of competition who
earnestly desire to enter the numerous
sporting events sponsored by clubs, but
who realise the futility of doing so if
they drive an untuned touring car.
Provided, of course, that money, time
and skill are available, there is no limit,
within reason, to the possibilities of
tuning up a stock car. The purpose of
this advice, however, is not to develop a
series of racing machines from tourers,
but rather to show how almost any car
can be boosted in performance, with at-
tendant improvement in running costs.
Although but a small percentage, of
readers will have either the time or
means or will deem it necessary to put
the complete scheme into effect, yet
everyone will realise the possibilities of
some individual improvement.
Care Essential.
Before entering into a detailed descrip-
tion it would be as well to warn motor-
ists who may expect short cuts to high
performance that they are to be sorely
disappointed, as a stock car can only be
converted to a sports type by putting
into effect a great number of minor de-
tailed alterations, each having a parti-
cular object. Furthermore, slipshod
work cannot be tolerated, as after each
alteration or
modification a
check must be
made to deter-
mine exactly
what improve-
ment, if any, is
shown; and never
on any account should more than one
alteration or adjustment be made at the
one time, as there will then be no possible
means of assessing the real worth of
either.
It must be realised that the ultimate
object of this scheme is to secure the
greatest possible power at the road
wheels for purposes of traction. It
follows, therefore, that before attempting
the more serious tuning of the engine
one must pay careful attention to trans-
mission system or braking gear, so that
when additional power is obtained from
the motor it may be used effectively in-
stead of being absorbed by friction and
vibration. One must first eliminate as
far as possible from the running gear
the two great enemies of speed, friction
and unbalanced masses ; and there is only
one way to attain this object—by care-
fully inspecting each part methodically
and in detail.
Virtue of Cleanliness.
Anywhere will do to begin, but it
would be as well to work forward from
the back axle. First clean out all grease
or gear compound from the differential
housing, and inspect the crown wheel
and pinion to see that teeth are meshing
evenly and are positioned correctly. A
tightly-fitting assembly will waste a good
deal of power, while a slack fit may in
all probability cause a breakdown.
Next, fill to the specified level with
ordinary engine oil instead of grease or
heavy gear compounds—again with the
object of reducing friction. Then jack up
the rear wheels securely and make a very
careful inspection of brake adjustment.
Binding brakes may quite easily slow
down the maximum speed by 10 miles
an hour without the driver being aware
of the cause, so that the necessity of
keeping the shoes absolutely clear of the
drums when in the “off” position must
be perfectly obvious.
This done, proceed now to balance
the road wheels, for, while at speeds up
to 40 m.p.h. the modern wheel is reason-
ably satisfactory, when around the 70’s
MOTORIMPRESSIONS.
Returning to the car park.
or 80’s it is an entirely different proposi-
tion. Of such importance is wheel bal-
ance at high speeds that a.car —on world’s
records bent—has been known to jump
from 155 to 170 m.p.h. simply through
the fitting of a set of wheels perfectly
balanced.
Wheel Balance.
The quickest method of doing this
work, is to start up the engine, engage
top gear and, with the rear axle securely
jacked up as directed, let in the clutch.
When the wheels are spinning rapidly,
put the gear into neutral and watch each
wheel come to rest. Make a chalk mark
on the rim nearest the ground, and if
this is consistent after two or three tests
it will then be known where the heaviest
part of the wheel lies. Correction is best
made by attaching strips of lead, bound
over with tape, to the wheel spokes oppo-
site this mark until such good balance is
secured that the wheel never stops twice
in the same position.
Go through the same process with
front wheels. Then, with the back axle
still on its support, go on balancing the
propeller shaft —another very necessary
precaution. Run the engine in top gear
as before, and, using a piece of chalk
attached to some rigid and adjustable
support, bring it slowly up to the rotat-
ing shaft. Assuming the shaft is straight
and true in centres, a chalk mark on any
one side will prove the part out of bal-
ance, the heavier side corresponding, of
course, with the marks.
In this case a simple and cheap cure —
with the shaft still in place—can be made
by attaching hose clips to the heavy nuts
projecting on the “light” side of the shaft
until, after a few experiments, the mech-
anism finally runs without vibration. The
last job on transmission will be to clear
all grease or heavy oil from the gearbox
and replace with light engine oil.
Weight Reducing.
Attention must then be directed to the
engine, with particular regard to balance
of reciprocating masses ; for, while the
modern motor is, from a stock point of
view, in reasonable balance, many parts
can with advantage be reduced in weight,
with attendant improvement in perform-
ance. The present heavy flywheel, while
serving admirably for touring purposes,
may, by the exercise of patience and care,
be considerably lightened whilst still
maintaining a perfect balance. The fly-
wheel is placed in a lathe and some of
the metal turned off the inside periphery.
Just how much to remove will be gov-
erned first by the degree of “supertun-
ing” the operator seeks, and secondly by
whether the wheel is of cast-iron or steel.
Steel as a rule may be taken down to
fine limits, but the weight-reducing pro-
cess cannot be overdone where cast-iron
is concerned, for fear of weakening be-
yond the safety limit. A burst flywheel
at high speed is an extremely serious
business.
The object in lightening the fly-
wheel is, of course, to reduce what is
popularly termed torsional vibration, for,
in effect, every time the engine “fires” the
flywheel tends to remain still, and so, in
starting it to move, the crankshaft is sub-
jected to an enormous twisting strain.
With the wheel lightened these stresses
are reduced, and, whilst top gear pulling
will not be as good, acceleration and
maximum speed will be improved out of
all proportion.
With the flywheel and crankshaft out
of the way, pistons and connecting
rods must now be considered. Few
motorists realise what an important
bearing these parts have upon any
scheme of engine tuning. Every time
the crankshaft rotates, each piston and
connecting-rod assembly must be started,
stopped, and started again twice. Seek-
ing high performance the object must be
to reduce weight in order to absorb a
minimum of power in changing direction,
and further to make quite sure each one
is of identical weight, thus eliminating
vibration as far as possible.
Matching Pistons and Rods.
Taking pistons first, one must be
guided by whether they are of iron or
aluminium. Should the metal be one or
other of the alloys of aluminium one can
safely leave them alone, except, perhaps,
for drilling half a dozen small holes
behind the bottom or scraper ring. This
will prevent “oil pumping” at high
speeds. Cast-iron, however, is a different
proposition, for here one may with
advantage reduce weight without sacri-
ficing strength. Drilling holes round the
piston skirt, below the gudgeon pin, is
the simplest method of removing metal,
and while this work is in progress the
whole set must be very carefully weighed
from time to time so that when finished
all are absolutely identical in this respect.
Connecting rods, if of iron or steel,
may then be lightened by carefully
machining and then weighing against each
other.
Finally, half an ounce of metal can be
taken from the big end bearing caps by
drilling several quarter-inch holes from
the outside. It is hardly necessary to
issue a warning that these holes must
not be carried deeper than the bearing
metal.
As each has been dealt with separately
it is next essential to join them up com-
plete, piston, gudgeon pin, rod, big end
and bolts, and weigh each against the
other to make sure the gross weights are
identical.
These operations are no doubt very
exacting, but experimenters can be as-
sured that it is the only way to achieve
results, and unless one is prepared to
carry on with care and precision the job
should be left alone.
Important Decisions.
At this stage and before final assembly,
one must now consider whether a new
or old engine is being dealt with, for, if
the cylinder bores are either worn badly
or not true, the trouble must be rectified,
otherwise all tedious and careful work
will go for naught. If the wear is but
slight there is no doubt honing is a much
better plan than grinding, for this method
gives a brighter and smoother surface
and saves fitting new pistons.
The next business will be to fit rings
to the pistons, and here motorists are re-
minded that this comparatively simple
operation will have a very important
bearing upon final results. Piston rings
should be of the hammered type, in order
to maintain good contact throughout
their circumference and to stand up to
heavy work for long periods. When rings
are assembled and tested for fit inside
the cylinder a feeler gauge must be used,
as the accuracy of this adjustment is
quite as vital as that of fitting a bearing
or valve.
Having spent much time and labor on
the various parts, assembly at this stage
would be accompanied by poor results,
for the way has but been paved to ac-
commodate greater engine output. The
most important feature is to raise com-
pression pressure, which, briefly, means
that combustion chamber dimensions are


d
fd
f
df
d
fd
fd
HEAT-TEMPERED
TO WITHSTAND
HEAT AND PRESSURE!
The huge hammers of industry are wonderful tools.
Made of tough HEAT-TEMPERED steel, they with-
stand endless punishment.
In the same way, HEAT-TEMPERED Texaco Motor
Oil stands up to a blazing inferno of heat and con-
stant pressure in the modern high-speed high-com-
pression motor —saving wear and money.
m
Texaco Motor Oil is distilled from specially
selected, heat-resisting crudes and heat-treated to
make it tough and longer-lasting still. It gives
safer, surer protection and quieter, cooler,
smoother motors; quicker starting and more
powerful performance.
WARNING; Protect yourself against substitution.
Soe that the oil you get is CLEAN, CLEAR,
GOLDEN!
TEXAC
MOTOR OIL
CRACK-PROOF . . . LONGER-LASTING
Only one Grade FIRST GRADE!
Only one Quality FIRST QUALITY!
M. 0.1-485
reduced and each charge of gas sucked
into the motor is squeezed into a smaller
space as the piston rises. Within certain
limits the tighter this gas is compressed
before it is fired the greater “kick” will
be given to the piston and so more power
at the road wheels.
Raising Compression.
Many technical factors govern the limit
of compression ratio, and the surest sign
of having overstepped the mark will be
“pinking” as soon as the engine pulls
slowly on load.
However, the cylinder head and block
are taken, and a strip of perhaps one-
thirty-second milled off both faces, the
actual amount depending upon the size
of engine and the compression pressure
proposed.
Having made this drastic move—the
designers never intended it—one must
now go a little further to avoid complica-
tions. With higher compression the
engine will run much “hotter,” so that
to avoid pre-ignition it is essential to
carefully buff up every inch of the com-
bustion head, and leave the surface with
a mirror-like finish, free from the slightest
suspicion of projecting ends of metal.
So much for the combustion chamber
proper. The next step will be to promote
as far as possible free and unrestricted
flow of gas to the motor via the induc-
tion system, and to this end each valve
port and as much of the internal surface
of the induction pipe as possible must
be buffed and polished, while the ports
may with advantage be slightly enlarged.
Now that all mechanical work has
been done the engine is ready for as-
sembly, and, of course, more than ordi-
nary care must be exercised in this opera-
tion in order that every part shall fit
snugly and give maximum results with
as little preliminary “running-in” as pos-
sible.
Final Adjustments.
Three things still remain to be done
before one can take the “wolf in sheep’s
clothing” out on the road and give friends
the shock of their lives—ignition, car-
burettor and valve springs must be
attended to
With regard to the last mentioned, as
i -I, , ’ ,
we expect, and certainly will get much
highei revs, than the original motor was
intended for, one must logically expect
the present valve springs to be rather un-
suitable. There are two alternatives—
either fit a stronger set or two weaker
springs to each valve. The latter is the
far better plan, for, as the double spring
consists of a large and small unit super-
imposed, they will, each having a differ-
ent “period,” entirely eliminate valve
bounce—the curse of high-speed motors.
As for carburettor and ignition, these
adjustments are definitely a matter for
trial and error, and will vary with each
individual motor—even of the same type.
With lighter flywheel and carefully
balanced reciprocating parts, one may
with safety give a very much greater
l ead to the firing point than has been
used as standard, but where the car is
*° be used T or d V purposes—touring
and competition—it would perhaps be
an .^ ux i lia i y spa ? ? dV .S
controlled from the dash, so that, while
the exjsting geal . ad 4 nced ,
serves dle purpose for touring, the dash
control can be used when real business
is afoot.
Provided the various operations and
adjustments described have been faith-
fully carried out, and the subsequent fit-
ting carefully done, the motorist will have
at his disposal a car that, from a per-
formance point of view, can look to its
laurels in any company. Further, after a
httle experience has been gained in deli-
cate adjustments of the ignition point and
carburettor, competitions may be entered
wd h the greatest confidence,
(Steering Column continued on page 30.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Aluminising Cylinder Heads
Read “The Bulletin” Motor Editor’s article on
Aluminising cylinder heads ( B. 26/12/’34).
Metal Coatings, Ltd., have the latest
equipment to carry out this class ot
work, which they guarantee.
PRICES:
Four (4) cylinder heads, 107-
Six (6) cylinder heads, 15/-
Sarae day service.
All other classes of Metal Spraying.
Wheels protected against rust for the life
of your car from 5/- to 7/6 per rim.
Same day service.
METAL COATINGS, LTD.,
16 Bridge Road, Stanmore, N.S.W.
Telephone: L 2533.
NEVERLEEK
HOOD DRESSING
NOW IN HALF-PINT TINS.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NOLAN, O’ROURKE & CO.. LTD,,
Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
BUXLER BROS. (AUST.), LTD.,
Creek Street, Brisbane.
BENNIE, XEARE & CO.,
A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
NOLAN, SHANNON & CO., LXD.,
Hyde Street, Adelaide.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
t QQA (SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from “The Bulletin.
252 George Street. Sydney. 3d. extra
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivevs
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
BROKEN
SPRING
BER
RU
ROLLED
fe-JAMBED.
HERE
Emergency roadside repair of
broken contact spring can be
made by forcing a piece of
inner tube behind the arm as
illustrated.
©Marks the im-
portant points
of lubrication in
motor vehicles for
which ALEMITE
affords the greatest
measure of protection
A
LEMITE
7
HIGHLY specialized lubricants, applied under
great pressure, are the contributions oi
ALEMITE to the efficiency of modern motoring.
si
(Water (Pump
Unless properly lubri-
cated, much trouble
may develop; a wrong
“grease” may even
clog the radiator. Be
safe, insist on special-
ized “Alemite” Water
Pump Lubricant.
“ALEMITE” not only
for water pump, but
for cylinder, wheel bearing, gear box, clutch release
bearing, steering gear, universal joints, chassis lubri-
cation and differential —There is no better protection.
g~i . . _ CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Alemite Lorporafion Cable Address: ALMIT .. . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD. Ltd., 384 Pitt Street, Syclnej
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W .A.) HaySt. ,l
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 133 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust o m
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
NOW
INDIGESTION
WILL SOON BE
ENDED
Indigestion in its early stages shows
its presence by attacks of heartburn,
wind, belching, palpitation or griping.
Later come the more serious agonies
of dyspepsia, gastritis, colitis and
ulcerated stomach, duodenum or bowel.
The stomach has been wonderfully
protected by Nature to withstand abuse,
but there comes a time when neglect
of small disorders upsets the whole
digestive system. The acids of the
stomach actually attack the fabric of
the walls, and vomiting, continual thirst
and severe pain indicate that ulceration
of the stomach has set in.
Serious though these complications
are, Nature will heal the ulcers if she
is given help. De ’Witt’s Antacid
Powder is especially prepared to help
in this healing work.
Firstly, it neutralises the excess acid
which the stomach continually produces,
and allays the irritation.
Secondly, the ulcers are coated with
a film of colloidal-kaolin. So finely
powdered is this kaolin, it is easily
spread over the entire surface of the
stomach, protecting the inflamed lining
from the hot, burning acids.
Thirdly, it actually digests portions of
your food, thereby still further taking
the load off the weakened stomach, and
finally, the ingredients in De Witt’s
Antacid Powder build up an alkaline
reserve in the body, that, with ordinary
care, there will be no recurrence of
your trouble.
DeWITT'S
ANTACID POWDER
Recommended for
INDIGESTION
ACID STOMACH
GRIPING PAINS
PALPITATION
FLATULENCE
HEARTBURN
GASTRITIS
DYSPEPSIA
ULCERATED STOMACH
Be sure you get the genuine DeWitt’s
Antacid Powder, in sky-blue canisters.
Take it regularly, as directed, and you
will get rid of your digestive troubles
for good. If you wish to have a free
test supply, fill in the coupon now.
FREE GIFT COUPON
To E, C. DeWitt & Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
(Dept.CAll). P.O. Box 26,
MELBOURNE.
| Please send me, free and postage
I paid, a sample of De Witt’s Antacid
‘ Powder.
Mr.
Mrs.
Miss
Address
The Trouble Lamp.
R.H.D. (Fremantle, W.A.).— Can you tell me
where books (named) can be obtained ?
Try Ford Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
* * *
5836. —What does the paste consist of
(1) that is pressed into negative grids; (2) the
positive grids of a storage battery ?
Negative, litharge; positive, red lead.
* * * *
F.J.N. (Rose Park, S.A.).— Where can I get
an instuction book and oiling chart for a '24
Standard, 13.9 h.p. ?
Australian agencies cannot supply. Write
Standard Motor Co., Coventry, England.
* * * *
D.B.M. (Wairoa, N.Z.) asks for particulars
of horse power, number of cylinders, country
of origin, and transmission details.
Twenty horse power; four cylinders; French
manufacture; conventional transmission ; gear-
box separate unit.
* * * *
J.L. (Stanthorpe, Q.). —Could you supply me
with complete specifications and measurements
of the 200 -m.p.h. Mercedes, as I wish to build
a scale model ?
Car illustrated is not a production model,
and particulars are known only to the factory.
* * * *
D.S. (West Maitland, N.S.W.) is about to
purchase a new car, and, setting out require-
ments, submits a list of several models. Which
would be suitable ?
You have evidently gone into the subject
thoroughly, and for your particular use I agree
with the order of your selection.
* * * *
T.L.L.D. (Williamstown, Vic.). —Will 34 x
rims fit 880 x 120 wheels of a 1920 Buick ?
Thirty-four-inch rims are for straight-sided
tyres, and have an internal diameter of 25in.;
880 tyres are beaded-edged, inside diameter
24.8 in. Not a perfect fit, but, with slight
alteration to suit the felloes, the change can
be made.
* * * *
B.A.M. (Werribee, Vic.). —My 1927 Chev.
has done 35,000, and I am having trouble with
oil leaking to rear-wheel brake lutings. New
felt and cork washers have been fitted without
cure. Can you suggest a way out ?
Trouble is undoubtedly due to excessive
wear in axle bearings, and they are due for
replacement. Oil-return channels on shatt are
also probably blocked up.
* * * *
J.R. (Gordonvale, N.Q.) sends a diagram of
the ignition system of his car, and would like
to know why the amp. needle shows a dis-
charge when the ignition is switched on.
The meter is in series with the supply through
earth return, and will naturally show discharge
when the switch is on if contact-breaker
points are making. If
open there will be no
reading.
* *
B.R.K. (Thi rimer e,
N.S.W.).— When I push
the accelerator pedal of
my ’29 Chev. right
down the motor splut-
ters and the car will
stop if I don’t let the
pedal back one-quarter
distance. I have broken
a choke cone on two
occasions, and the car
has given trouble ever
since.
Standpipe hold in g
venturi tube may be
cracked at base, or in
fitting a new tube a
size too large may have
been used. Jet size too small would produce
identical symptoms.
* * * *
O.R.G. (Gawler, S.A.) is troubled with over-
heating in a ’2B Overland. Fan belt, timing
and carburettor have been checked, while hose
connections are in good order. No sign of
sediment in radiator, yet car uses half a gallon
of water every 30 miles. Cause and cure ?
Suggest first having radiator dismantled and
cleaned under high pressure—the garden hose
is useless for this purpose. Failing a cure,
look for blown gasket in cylinder head, or
incorrect valve adjustment.
* * * *
G.FI. (Warwick, Q.). —Can you suggest a
remedy for what is apparently carburettor
trouble in my ’2B Buick ? Starts easily cold
or hot, yet will not idle smoothly under 600
revs. Pulling at 15 m.p.h., extra-air can be
opened fully without stopping the engine.
Heat-riser tube in the hot-spot has apparently
burned through, allowing exhaust gases to
enter induction system. Spare tube can be
obtained from Eager and Sons, Brisbane.
Temporary repair can be made by packing
manifold with a thin sheet of tin on both
sides.
Bushie (Fremantle, W.A.). — There is some-
thin? wrong with the starting switch of my
1930 Ford A. When the key is inserted the
engine will not always fire until the lock spring
is pushed in, and out several times. Climbing
a long hill the motor appears to lose power
until the switch is pushed in several times,
when normal pulling is again restored. How
can 1 dismantle the switch panel for
inspection ? .
Trouble is due to dirty contacts in the
switch. Dismantling is a tricky job, involving
drilling out a pin on the barrel. Suggest you
entrust the work to the nearest Ford service
station. To avoid further trouble instruct
them to throw the old switch away and fit a
new unit —it is cheaper in the long run.
Motor Oddities.
“1933 Comer Truck”: Petrol pump
giving trouble, found hexagon fibre
valve warped. Cut piece of leather from
boot top and got home just as it gave
out. Could not find any fibre to make
new valve, so cut one from a piece of
sheet aluminium. Result: Working
perfectly.
* * * *
“Hector”: Was driving from Lakes
Entrance to Melbourne in one of the
first Trojan cars that hit Victoria. At
Nar Nar Goon the road bends over the
railway like the letter Z. The sun was
in my eyes, but all seemed clear and I
proceeded to cross. On reaching the
rails I found that my passage would be
rudely interrupted by some shunting
trucks that 1 had thought stationary, so
I turned sharp to the right, intending to
run along the line away from them (a
Trojan will ride over anything), but for-
got the cattle-pit until we floundered into
it. While the wheels were spinning be-
tween the slabs my passenger jumped, just
before the leading truck arrived. The
old Trojan, bumped helpfully, mounted
the edge of the pit and was shoved for
about 30 yards along the line before the
engine-driver could pull up. The first
truck had by this time climbed the boot
and the buffer was nestling lovingly on
the back of the seat between my shoulder
blades. The only damage to the car was
a burst rear tyre and a boot like a
squashed kerosene-tin, but the passenger
can still feel in frosty weather the place
where he made contact with the business
edge of a cowcatcher. We got to Mel-
bourne on our own power.


RADIO NEWS.
'Twas the
Voice of the
Dean
Dean Inge’s
voice, heard in a
broadcast of a
recorded speech,
was a surprise
and disappoint-
ment. From this
profound thinker and writer, one looked
for the calm, well-modulated tones that
carry conviction. Instead, we heard the
clipped, mincing speech known as
“Oxford accent,” affected by Church of
England curates and encouraged in cer-
tain of our colleges for “young ladies.”
His sentences ended on inflexions that
left a sense of incompleteness.
This so-called Oxford accent, “labori-
ously affected by many who have never
been at Oxford and contemptuously
avoided by some of the ablest authentic
Oxonians,” irritates because it sounds
like a class affectation, and, as such, it
is as much a dialect as broad Lancashire.
English pronunciation is constantly
changing. Short “a’s” become long “a’s,”
and in many long words the stress is
brought nearer to the beginning. Some
recent examples in the latter class are con-
versant, disputable, despicable for conver-
sant, dispwtable and despicable. We be-
come accustomed to these changes, which
are duly recorded in the dictionaries, but,
when the vowel sounds are monkeyed
with the basis of the language is de-
stroyed.
The product of an exclusive school for
“young ladies” will say “Halleiou” into
the telephone and “good-bay” as she
hangs up the receiver. Certain young
men of “cultchah” might confess to a
faint interest in the “yah reece to
Awstreel Y AH.”
The Dean pronounced fear “feAH.”
(To reproduce the last syllable the lower
jaw must be dropped to its fullest extent
—a position which makes it impossible
to pronounce the “r.”)
All this is bad English—worse than
that of a Dave Rudd, because, if Dave’s
vowels are not pure, he at least intended
them to be.
In spite of the many dialects, there is
a form of English speech which we re-
cognise as standard, or as being free
from weird accents and affectations.
The King speaks it, screen actors
Arliss, Brook, Marshall and others speak
it, and many Australians who take the
trouble speak it. In this continent, with
its nearly uniform speech throughout, a
little attention to the purity of the vowels
would bring us near to that standard.
But save us from the halleioux and good-
bays !
VAL.
Broadcast of
High-grade
Entertainment
Hullo! Station
2KY, of course.
Are y’ all set,
young ’uns?
That’s the mus-
tard. Make y’
selves tome. Sit
on the old man’s hat, sit on the eggs—-
be seated. That’s the idea.
Well, small fry, here we are, fit as fleas.
You know where we are, of course.
That’s right. Of course you do. We’re
at the Auburn Town Hall.
What are we here for,
Why are we here at all ?
We’re here to tell you about our Jack,
Dancin’, prancin’.
Slither and slide and whack!
We’re here to tell you of Mr. Jack
Lang,
Lang,
BANG !
We’re here to tell you of Mr. Lang
Dancin’ around the hall.
Phew, kids . . . just a minute till I swill
the old tonsils.
Ha, as the Scotch lassie said to the
kiltie, “Mon, you’re no woman.” Noth-
ing like a bit of the old Scotch to buck
Be seated.
a man up. Tell
y’ old pot-and-
pan about it,
young ’uns. But
I’ll bet he’s got
his old lug cocked
there with you.
D’you know why
he’s got that
smile, that heeti-
fic, or however
they pronounce
it, smile on his
old mug? You
look in the
gramophone cabinet, and read the label
on it. He knows. Old Inverness Nectar.
Don’t forget the name; it’s on every
bottle. And tell him not to be stingy
with it, too, kids.
Well, well. You can’t believe, kids, the
glorious panorama that I gaze
down on from my eyrie aloft
here. Hullo, there’s Rufe!
How are you, Rufe? Where
y’ goin’ Saterdee? What’s
that? Surfing? Crikey, that’s a good ’un!
Why, bless my soul! Well, I’ve never
seen anything in me life upter now.
Never, kids. Strike me up a galvanised
gum-tree, kids, you’ll never guess what
it is in a creation of cats. Y’ know this
is a plain and fancy-dress affair, don-
cher? Well, Mr. Baddeley has jus’ come
in disguised as Stanley Melbourne
Bruce! If he don’t collect for the comic
, outfit I’ll eat a henroost —bark and all.
Hurrah, hurrah! Hoop-rah, hoop-
rah ! Good on y’, Jack! Good old
Jack ! Where’s Stevens now, the stink-
pot ? Whoopee ! For he’s a folly good
fellow, for he’s a folly good fellow, for
Swill.
he’s a jolly good
fellow, and so
say all of us, and
so say all of us,
for he’s a and so
say all good
fellow of us.
Hooray !
Well, well! Did
you hear that,
kids? Of course it was Mr. Lang arriv-
ing! Stupendous! Yes, Mr. Lang himself,
and looking finer and grander than ever.
You know, kids, every time I see him he
makes me think of that other great man
of history, that other leader of men,
that other noble conqueror Cadorna —I
mean to say Garibaldi.
Well, anyway, youngsters, he’s here!
And he’s not wasting his time, either.
He’s come through the
archway of uplifted
plaudits. He is now
diverging on to the
phalanx of the fair sex
on the right-hand side
of the hall. He has
selected his partner.
(Who’s he got hold
of, Fred? . . . Aw,
well, it doesn’t matter,
anyhow.)
Yes, kids, and now
that’s the band y’ can
hear, and they’re well
and truly inter their
stride. And can Jack
dance? Can he what?
Can Jack dance?
Can a duck lay the odds, I mean to
say eggs?
Now they are passing directly beneath
me. Mr. Lang is applying a sort of
pumping scissors hold. His partner re-
sponds with a clever rib-bar and thumb-
hold. Now they are working up to it.
She now has him in the centre of the
arena. She’s applying the pressure. He
responds by a georgette hold over the
left shoulder-blade. No, she won’t, she
won’t, she can’t, she’ll never get out of
it! But she has! She is! Yes, she’s out
of it!
Well, that was amazing. When the
applause dies down I’ll tell you all
about it. (Hey, Fred, that bloke down
there’s well pickled.)
Well, this is what happened, Mr.
Lang trod on her foot, and at the same
time placed his other boot on a peanut.
They are now both being helped to their
feet. Now they are making to the side
of the hall.
Ha, Mr. Lang
has stopped. He
holds his hand
aloft. He looks
more like Casa-
blanca than ever.
He is about to
speak. Soon the
air will tremble
with that mellow
melliferous or
however they
Tooroo.
pronounce it voice we all know so well.
Hush!
In this fall of my partner and myself,
what forthcoming political event do we
see symbolished ? I will tell you. Friends,
we see the impending fall of the Govern-
ment.
Hooray. Hooray Yah. Good on y’,
Jack. Rip it inter them. 800, the stink-
pots. For he’s a folly
Sorry, kids, you’ll have to buzz off to
bye-bye now. Good-night. Tooroo.
Hullo, everybody. 2KY here. You’ve
been listening to a session sponsored by
Old Inverness. Jolly good stuff it is.
We’re now crossing over to the Newtown
Stadium for a description of the dance
between Omykli, the Chink Champ., and
Pulliziff, the Soviet Grappler.
Oh, by the way, here’s news for you,
Himself.
folk. We’ve just got
it by urgent tele-
phone from the
Auburn Town Hall.
Mr. Baddeley burst
his strides while
stooping to select
his partner for the
Fancy Dress Prize
Waltz, and Mr.
Lang, with that pres-
ence of mind which
is going to carry
him into power for
a moral at the
coming elections, immediately covered
the situation with a “Labor Daily” poster
bearing the words;
HORRIBLE EXPLOSION.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN
MENACED.
HEROIC ACT SAVES 1000 LIVES.
SIZZLE.
Syndicated
American
Twaddle
Commercial
stations have
known for a long
time that there is
no need for them
to turn to local
talent for talks,
radio plays, or vaudeville turns. All these
have been obtainable on syndicated rec-
ords at a price that should show a hand-
some profit to all concerned.
Until recently, however, this field was
left comparatively fallow. Enter now
Big Business. Sponsored sessions seem to
be regarded as ideal for the
broadcasting of this canned
entertainment. Advertisers
rush it because of the variety
of the stuff available and its
cheapness. The result is that,
after listeners have gnashed
their teeth over the gentle-
man who has been holding
forth on the merits of Ocean
Salts for Spots Before the
Eyes, they are liable to be
driven wholly insane by the
nasal vulgarities of a couple
of East-side cross-talk artists;
by American crooners, saxo-
phonists and cowboy mel-
odies ; a talk by OP Man Cy
on “Mother,” Greta Pickson
telling “What My Art Has Done for
Hollywood,” or a sixty-minute session
conducted by Laramie Larry and his
Gang of Riders.
It is painfully plain what effect the in-
creasing use of this sort of syndicate
rubbish must have on local writers and
• artists who have spent much time learn-
, ing what broadcasting stations want and
a technique which will enable them to
deliver the goods ; but there is a wider
significance—the influence this torrent of
mutilated English and foreign sentiment
must have on Australian listeners, and
especially on the impressionable mass of
juvenile wireless enthusiasts.
Cultured Americans must, of course,
get something a bit different from the
mess that finds its way out to these be-
nighted shores. But quality entertain-
ment is not syndicated, and never will be.
JOHN KENTWELL.
Giving What
the Public
Wants
Alexander
Lippmann’s re-
marks on B-class
blah (B. 13/3/’35)
are apposite. The
commercial sta-
tion has one
ideal: to sell the goods which are adver-
tised through it.
There is a large section of the popu-
lation (about 80 p.c.) prepared to be in-
fluenced by radio advertising. It cares
nothing about the English language, and
hardly anything about what the kids hear.
In point of fact it definitely approves and
enjoys the blood-and-thunder stuff, hav-
ing the same level of intelligence as have
its children. Furthermore, anything in
the nature of good music gives it the
genuine blues. So the whole thing re-
solves itself into the ancient axiom:
“Give the public what it wants.”
The public to which the B-class blah
appeals is a child, and is simply being
served on its merits. If there is to be
discipline in the matter of these pro-
grammes, it will have to emanate from
another source. It will not be imposed by
the advertising stations. Why should it be?
Their objects are commercial, and they
are not altogether fools—-commercially.
L. J. H.
All Round
the Dial
“T o p Rail”:
What is Aus-
tralia’s best effort
to date in the
way of uninten-
tional broadcast?
There is the Sydney example, said
to be authentic, of the Uncle who
rounded oft' his kids’ session with
a heartfelt “There; that ought to
put the little s to sleep!” Only
a few weeks ago the 8.8. C. drew
a broadside for a similar offence. It
retorted that its record in avoiding acci-
dental broadcasts was particularly good,
being confined chiefly to scraps of con-
versation getting mixed with dance-music
broadcast from restaurants and hotels.
Some listeners must keep a quick ear for
such things; one Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.) dweller sent to the 8.8. C. the
staggering information that he had heard
a waiter drop a plate during some lunch-
hour music in London.
“S. Imber”: What earthly use is the
country women’s session of the A.8.C.?
Put over about 11 a.m., it comes through
as a lot of incoherent noises—that is, to
all country women who happen to reside
outside the metropolitan area. As it is
done now it is a country women’s session
for city women only. Still, it may be
called an advance on the earlier session
for the country women, which started at
11 p.m. Nobody, of course, stayed up
to listen to it, but those who happened
to be accidentally awake at the time
could at least hear it.
“Kekil”: According to Dr. Sydney
Nicholson, who recently toured Australia,
Maoriland and Canada inspecting church
choirs, and has been broadcasting his
impressions, boys are discouraged from
lending their voices to the goodly cause
in these benighted parts. The impression
he gathered was that our he-man men-
tality classified singing generally as “a
woman’s business.” He may be right;
but a more likely explanation is that the
Australian small boy is generally allowed
his own choice in such matters, and pre-
fers marbles. That choir-singing is not
really a dangerous occupation for boys
is strongly supported by the fact that
both Bradman and Kingsford Smith sang
in their local choirs as lads. Dr. Nichol-
son has given the gold-mounted biscuit
to Adelaide for the Empire’s best church
choral work, and he was greatly taken
by Melbourne’s habit of indulging in
daily choral evensong, Christchurch
(M.L.) being the only site of such per-
sistent effort outside Great Britain.
George Dyson, whose “Canterbury
Pilgrims” comes from 3LO this week,
was a bomber during the war, and got
so enthusiastic about that sort of music
that he wrote a “Manual of Grenade
Fighting,” which the War Office has
officially adopted.
Urgent Broadcast.
It may be that where
I live
A strictly
“Pommy” diet
Is considered by
Skeeters of
Epicurean taste
As being particularly
“Comme il faut” and rich
In their idea of
Vitamin
B.
But having been here
Now
For more than three
Years, and
Having nourished one million
Three hundred thousand
And fifty-seven
Of their
Relatives, friends
And acquaintances,
I am putting it
Up
To the whole darned Skeeter
Family
That it’s about time you
Laid off me, because
I am getting
A tough hide
Like most A ussies ;
And, besides,
There’s a boat from England
Due on
Sunday
With some nice fresh
“Pommies” aboard.
Have a go at them and
Give me a
Break,
Please.
N.S W.
C. PILLOW.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
i■■ S, V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), ——
1 4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin’' Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone'. 82261.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
PRINCIPLE OF THE SUPERHETERODYNE
FOR SHORT WAVES.
That the superhet is a comparatively
recent invention is the mistaken impres-
c „ , .
sion of many. Records show that the
idea was introduced in 1902 by Fessen-
den. This occurred at a time when the
advantage of the continuous (or un-
damped) wave over the spark (or damped
wave) for transmission was approaching
realisation. Continuous waves were a
temporary stumbling-block, because
spark signals only could be received with
a simple form of detector. Before the
rectifying action of the detector, the con-
tinuous waves had to be broken up in
some way before a signal became audible
in a pair of headphones. With simple
rectification by a plain detector, the
breaking of a continuous wave by means
of a Morse key does not produce any
audible signal. Mechanical methods of
breaking up the wave were tried, but were
superseded by Fessenden’s heterodyne
method. This uses the principle of two
waves of different frequencies, added to-
gether, with the amplitude of the com-
bined oscillation varying at a frequency
equal to the difference between the
original oscillation frequencies. A local
Fig. 1.
oscillation could therefore be added to
the incoming wave for the reception of
C.W. telegraphy, and by adjusting this
local frequency a difference, or beat
frequency, could be produced within the
audible range.
The development of the three-electrode
valve permitted the introduction of the
local oscillations by allowing a valve
receiver to oscillate, or by using a sepa-
rate oscillator valve. As the rectified
signals were made up of audio frequen-
cies, audio amplification could then be
employed. When shorter waves began to
come into use, efficient R.F. amplifica-
tion before detection (necessary with
weak signals) became diffi-
cult, owing to the increased
effect of stray capacities and
inter-electrode capacity of
valves. The superhet prin-
ciple came into use therefore
for converting the incoming
wave to one of lower fre-
quency where efficient am-
plification was possible be-
fore the usual rectification.
Two rectifying valves were
used, the first one for the
complex oscillation, produc-
ing another R.F. oscillation
of longer wave-length, de-
scribed as the “intermediate”
frequency, and the second to
deal with this I.F. before
passing on to the audio am-
plifier in the usual way. In
the earlier days of broad-
casting the superhet was
used for telephony reception as well as
telegraphy, but it was discarded because
new valve development and receiver
technique permitted very efficient R.F.
amplification at the frequencies then
being used for broadcast transmission.
The superhet also involved complica-
tions, and it went out of favor, and was
replaced by the “tuned R.F.” or
“straight” receiver.
Selectivity Becomes Important.
All went well for a time, and then
more and more broadcasting stations
appeared, and a new problem took on
a serious aspect. Stations began to inter-
fere with each other owing to operation
of large numbers within limited wave-
bands. The selectivity of receivers had
!° im U oV fd’ and tis
mg the number of tuned circuits, in
sQ^e pafts of the world alternative
broadcasting wave-lengths were in use
—IOOO to 2000 and 200 to 500 metres —
and it was difficult to obtain the same
degree of selectivity and band width by
using “straight receivers, so the
het came to life again. By using a fixed
1.F., selectivity could be obtained by
circuits tuned permanently to this tre-
quency, with one tuned circuit for the
frequency of the incoming signals, and
another tuned circuit to vary the tre-
quency of the local oscillator producing
the I.F. Several difficulties associated
with “double spotting and cross rnodu-
lation” were encountered, but with the
choice of suitable I.F. and the develop-
ment of improved valves these troubles
were eliminated.
The superhet for broadcast purposes
arrived to stay. Even so, it is still by no
means certain that superhets offer great
advantages over “straight receivers for
use on long and medium wave-lengths it
audio quality is of most importance,
Background noise is an unfortunate
characteristic, although more recent
valves have done much to cut this to a
minimum.
Short-wave Advantages.
On the short waves the superhet has
one great advantage over the “straight”
receiver. Efficient R.F. amplification on
short waves is very difficult, but by con-
verting the short-wave signal to one of
lower frequency good R.F. amplifica-
Fig . 2.
tion can be obtained and more efficient
receivers constructed. The present ten-
dency is to use an I.F. which is just
outside the 200-to-550-metre broadcast
range ; and, although this serves the pur-
pose remarkably well, the frequency is
nowhere near so low as that originally
used for the purpose of getting efficient
amplification. The important point just
now is not so much the question of which
I.F. to use, but one of complete freedom
from “double spotting” and also from
an unwanted station breaking through at
the I.F.
There is no great difficulty to-day in
obtaining efficient amplification and
selectivity. The design of superhets has
been considerably simplified by the in-
troduction of special valves combining
the functions of oscillator and first detec-
tor, notably in the more recent octodes.
Other valves act as second detector and
audio amplifier combined, and can also
be used for automatic volume * control.
It is possible to build a two-valve super-
het with a pentagrid or octode as fre-
quency changer and I.F. amplifier,
coupled to a duo-diode-pentode working
as second detector, audio amplifier and
A.V.C. control. It seems likely that the
superhet is the future short-wave re-
ceiver for a long while to come. The
important points are that it has the
necessary sensitivity and selectivity and,
above all, is as easy to use on short waves
as on the normal broadcast waves.
A good example of a superhet for
short-wave work alone is shown in the
circuit diagram of Fig. 1. This is a
“Radio” (U.S.A.) design, and as such is
intended only for use on the amateur
wave-bands. The first detector is a special
arrangement with regeneration for extra
sensitivity. All values are indicated, and
by using larger tuning condensers for Cl
and C 3 complete overlapping of the in-
ternational short-wave bands will be pos-
sible. Fig. 2 shows the suggested lay-
out for the receiver.
Coils LI, L 2 and L 3 are the same for
20-, 40- and 80-metre operation. LI —
12 turns, No. 24 D.S.C. wire, close
wound, on Hin. dia. tubing.
L 2 turns, No. 24 D.S.C. wire, close
wound, on lin. dia. tubing. This coil
slides into coil LI ; the coupling is made
variable by sliding L 2 into and out of LI.
L 3 turns, No. 24 D.S.C. wire,
wound on Hin. dia. tubing, separated |in.
from L 4.
For 20 and 40 metres (same coils used
for both bands).
L 4 turns, No. 18 D.C.C, wire,
space wound on Hin. dia. tubing, to
cover a winding space of Hin. long, and
tapped at one and one-third turns from
bottom.
L 5 turns, No. 18 D.C.C. wire,
space wound on Hin- dia. tubing, to
cover a winding space of Hin., and
tapped at turns from bottom.
Cl-C3. —lOOuufd. midget variable con-
denser.
C 2 double-spaced midget
condenser to give approx, 25uufd.
C 4 double-spaced midget
condenser to give approx. 20uufd.
(Use eight plates for C 2 and six plates
for C 4 if more bandspread is desired.)
Condensers C 2 and C 4 are lOOuufd
midgets, with alternate plates removed
so as to double-space the plates.
LI, L 2, L 3 same as for 20- and 40-
metre operation.
L 4 turns, No. 24 D.S.C. wire,
wound to cover a space of Hin. on a
Hin. dia. form, with cathode tap taken
at one turn from bottom.
L 5 turns, No. 24 D.S.C. wire,
wound to cover a space of Ifin. on a
Hin. dia. form, with cathode tap taken
at turns from bottom.
Note. —The cathode tap on the oscilla-
tor coil must not be too high, otherwise
image interference will become serious.
Valves. —Instead of using type 56, 57
and 58 valves, this receiver will give
equal satisfaction if the types 6C6, 6D6
and 76 are used for 6.3-volt operation.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Activity in Queensland on 56mc. is in-
creasing considerably, whereas in N.S.W.
(Sydney) it is rather quiet. A few sta-
tions, such as 2UC, 2WJ, 2SN and 2UG,
may be heard most evenings ; but there
has been erratic signal behavior, even
over the metropolitan area. Even with
beam aerials at both ends, 2UG could
not be heard at the writer’s location on
one occasion, though transmitter and
receiver were working perfectly. 2BP
Hazelbrook, is temporarily off the air,
and the writer is similarly occupied with
new apparatus under construction. 4MM
Brisbane reports that interest in amateur
radio has never been so great since the
early days of DX thrills. Extensive tests
with ’planes are planned by the Brisbane
56mc. gang, and, in view of the Too-
woomba-Brisbane success, big things are
expected. A sad story: With an eye on
aeroplane wing spars and sections to
make a framework for a rotating 56mc.
beam, the writer visited an aircraft depot.
“Have no crash material handy, but four
weeks ago we burnt four old DH9A
wings and boiled the billy with ’em! ”
And spruce is a mere 2s. 6d. per foot!
Trellis-wood will now form the basis for
the swinging beam d la “QST” cover.
Twenty-eight mega-cycles has out-
classed itself. ZL’s and VK’s are
working fellows all over U.S.A. on
Sunday mornings, and records are
being hung up. Listening at 11 a.m.,
31/3/’35, the writer heard several W6’s,
W9’s, aW2 and a Wl. W6VQ, with a
note like 1926, was a good R 9. A few
J’s could be identified weakly, and har-
monics of JYM and TDC were strong.
With conditions holding up like this on
28mc. there seems a good chance that
a VK—G QSO is no idle hope. VK’s
2LZ and 2EP have worked quite a num-
ber of trans-Pacific stations in the two
remarkable week-ends. “L.T.E.,” of Bom-
bala (N.S.W.), reports hearing many over-
seas stations on 28mc. These results are
a satisfying climax for those who for
years have devoted considerable time to
this much-maligned frequency. Unknown
influences appear to be at work at pres-
ent, and extensive barometrical and other
records during the period may prove
valuable. At this rate 56mc. may sud-
denly become a DX band!
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Amateur Radio
Club is staging a big “Hamfest” on
4/5/’35 and 5/5/’35. Proceedings will
commence with a banquet, supple-
mented by entertainment and compe-
titions, for which prizes are arranged.
There will be visits to local amateur sta-
tions, the steelworks, 2KO’s studio,
Toronto, and a luncheon at Lake
Macquarie. A large number of ama-
teurs is expected to attend, and the
occasion should be most enjoyable.
Intending participants should notify
Mr. Glassop (VK2RG), Bushell Court,
Pacific-street, N/C. The cost is sur-
prisingly small. Such occasions are
worthy of the utmost support. Amateurs
do not “get together” personally enough
in Australia.
VK2NO.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Conditions for the past two weeks
have been poor, but since the passing of
the southerly winds there is a big im-
provement, Several stations have been
at excellent strength in the 25m. band
round about 7 a.m., the strongest being
FYA, with GSD next, followed by DID
at fair ’phone strength, and the Ameri-
can WBXK good on Sundays up to
9 a.m. In the 31m. band at the same
hour GSB is good, and right at the bot-
tom of the band how is 2RO, much
stronger.
The interference on 2RO’s 30.7 m, trans-
mission from code stations referred to
some time ago has evidently been noted
by the engineers, as 2RO has been ex-
perimenting with various wave-lengths.
For a while it was on 31.24 m., but
a strong Jap code station spoilt this, and
now it is on 31.1 m., and very close
to the strong French-Indo station FZR.
Sunday was poor from both America
and FYA in the afternoon, and the even-
ing sessions from RNE were only fair
’phone strength. The late session from
RNE now comes through at tremendous
strength, but at an inconvenient hour.
Listeners will not find much of interest
in the evenings now below the 49m.
band, except very late at night; although
19m. is still coming through well about
10 p.m., at times reception is most
erratic, and will soon fade out for the
winter. On the 49m. band reception is
now quite good, though the Americans
are rather weak here.
There seem to be endless Japanese still
higher up, and they constantly change
their wave-length. Possibly most of them
are for future telephone channels and
not for regular broadcasting.
The 8.8. C. No. 1 transmission con-
tinues very good after 5.30, but the
earlier part is still very weak. GSD, in
the 25m. band, shows considerable im-
provement over last year, and is very
little below GSB in strength now. The
League of Nations continues the Mon-
day session at 6.15 —a very convenient
hour —but circumstances did not permit
the writer listening to the last trans-
mission.
NIGHTOWL.
Radio and Electrical Exhibition.
The 1935 Radio and Electrical Exhibi-
tion at the Sydney Town Hall suggested
a different trend from those of previous
years. In place of those sweeping
changes in the technicalities of radio re-
ceivers—such as the introduction of the
superheterodyne —the energies of the
leading manufacturers were devoted
almost entirely to improvement in detail,
and some of the models now available
to the public are fully representative of
the finest that radio has to offer. The
all-wave and dual-wave receiver is defi-
nitely established, and the manufacturer
content to turn out solely a one-range
model is right out of the running.
Cabinets are works of art, and with the
wide variety of clock-type dials, round,


try-:.
m
tea
V>;
‘•Hill
f, * -'•»«» t , > v a-'^rasMMHi
E&P&fr. y»
i
.-•; Wisfe:
-■ i
¥k- ■ f '7- -'■ *1 ' J J
vy.v:*v.v.v-v -.vjr ••>;.
'7 f 3
vlp^gfa:
<■'-<- N
i
31
'^"ly
mmmmuuiWL
w«?« arc
Si
. : -
li
--\ 'i
•'
&3!3
See the
EVER-READY
Display at the
Royal Easter Show,
Stand 74, Hordern
Pavilion —
April 15 to 24.
WHEN KEEN JUDGES AGREE
There’s never a doubt
about the verdict when
E VER-RE AD Y is under
the judge’s critical con-
sideration.
All who have used
EVER - READY Bat-
teries, KNOW they are
Australia’s —and the
world’s —best; products
that are sterling in
character through and
through.
An EVER-READY
Superdyne or EVER-
READY Heavy Duty
Radio Battery will bring
you the CONSISTENT
POWER your radio
needs, while an EVER-
READ Y Torch or Re-
fill will give you brilliant
light long after you
have ceased to expect
it.
For best results and
longest life choose
EYER-READY.
EVER-READY Torch Refills LAST LONGEST
Manufactured by THE EVER-READY CO. (Australia) LTD., Sydney and London
m
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BATTERIES
EVER-READY
ESIB
EAPV
VER
IS
EA
TORCHES REFILLS (r RADIO BATTERIES
oval and rectangular, the 1935 radio in-
strument is certain to harmonise, in one
form or other, with any home furnishing.
One receiver in a most luxurious and
massive cabinet sells at £3OO, but very
attractive also are those creations de-
signed for the average pocket. Compari-
son of the technicalities of the various
types of receivers convinces the critic that
Australian-designed radio apparatus is
to-day second to none, and a great deal
more advanced in quality of material
used than in many of the sets from over-
seas.
Australian radio engineers have set a
high standard, and already have left
that standard behind. On the transmis-
sion side, the exhibit by A.W.A. of the
new transmitter for 2SM Sydney was
noteworthy, and gives the layman a little
idea of how much work and complexity
of apparatus go into the building of a
modern wide-range broadcasting station.
Other transmission equipment included
the automatic SOS transmitter for small
vessels, the automatic distress-alarm for
ships where only one operator is carried,
public-address amplifier for marine appli-
cation, and high-fidelity studio control
panels.
Ever-Ready showed the latest in bat-
teries and battery accessories, and a most
striking broadcast receiver was an Air-
zone model with a particularly large cir-
cular dial. The Tasma range of models
has an entirely new bandspread tuning
dial with unique features, and Rayco-
phone has entered the all-wave field with
an attractive dial bearing a reproduction
of a globe as fitted to its new releases.
The display of accessories was relatively
small, and only one firm exhibited con-
structor kits. Ferranti transformers and
meters, the Philips octode and the Mul-
lard range of valves were well in evi-
dence. Amateur exhibits were conspicu-
ous by their absence, disappointment
being expressed by many visitors accus-
tomed yearly to seeing the latest ideas
of the experimenter. The auditorium for
the demonstration of good-quality audio-
amplifiers was a new idea introduced in
preference to the usual wireless-journal
stand where polite technical scribes dis-
pensed cures for radio ailments. Despite
the fact that the novelty days of radio
broadcasting are over, the radio exhibi-
tion is a great attraction. The difference
is that it is necessary to sightsee more
closely in order to examine the finer
points of design. It is like the motor-
car industry to-day. All cars in their
class are high-quality jobs, and do the
work they are designed for equally well.
But there are differences here and there,
and so it is with radio.
D. B. K.
Radiola Distributors' Annual
Conference.
The “get-together” of A.W.A. distribu-
tors in Sydney was again the occasion
for a luncheon, given by the co. at the
Wentworth on March 26. Over 200
sat down, and chairman E. T. Fisk,
after the royal toast, spoke interestingly
on the past, present and future of the
industry in which he is such an out-
standing figure.
Touching upon the economic chaos in
Europe, he mentioned Australia’s isola-
tion, geographically, from such turmoil;
with this advantage every effort should
be made to exact the most from the laws
of nature for the betterment of Australia
generally. .Australia’s national wireless
organisation has for an ideal the estab-
lishment of Australia as the future radio
centre of the Southern Hemisphere. Its
radio apparatus is entirely produced by
Australians. Mr. Fisk specially men-
tioned the picturegram service now
operating between- Australia and Eng-
land, the new type of lOkw. broadcasting
stations, as ordered by the Maoriland
Broadcasting Board, the output of over
. 10,000 radio valves per week, the develop-
ments in marine radio and the future
aspect of television.
Mr. C. Lloyd Tones said that A.W.A.
was an organisation of which Australians
should be proud. In the evening about
400 were entertained at a smoke concert
at the works, after an inspection of de-
partments, all in full swing. A clever
feature was the self-introduction of the
.latest-model Radiolas by a system of
.public-address switching, with 2UW an-
nouncers doing the talking. A sound-
film of A.W.A.’s progress was shown,
and Charles Lawrence, Frank Ryan and
Vernon Sellars contributed in no small
measure to the enjoyment of the enter-
tainment.
The Q, and A. Column.
» I wish to become an amateur transmitter,
bnd would appreciate a plan of a good, inex-
pensive short-wave transmitter. Do amateur
clubs give instruction for the A.O.C.P. by cor-
respondence ? —248.
Although a circuit diagram is illustrated
here, it must be understood that no amateur
apparatus must go on the air without first
obtaining a license. Such diagrams are pub-
lished to encourage prospective licensees —not
pirates. This is a single-valve crystal oscil-
lator, using a 47-type pentode, and is capable
of long-distance working under good con-
ditions. The circuit can only be used at the
frequency of the crystal, which may be within
the amateur 80- or 40-metre band. Plate-
modulation for telephony can be effected in
the usual way. No amateur club correspondence
course is known. Best source of informa-
tion is the “Radio Amateurs’ Handbook”
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney).
(1) Is it illegal to use a one-valve set, such
as the PI circuit, in the country, where it will
not interfere with neighboring sets ? (2) How
to eliminate the whistle when tuning into a
station ? (3) Could such a receiver be used for
short-wave reception ? (4) Is the long-wave
a reliable set ? —251.
(I) No. (2) Only by the careful use of re-
generation (reaction), but it is necessary to
have a single-valve receiver in a very sensitive
state in order to hear anything. It is merely
a detector with controllable oscillation. (3)
Yes, but a stage of audio is necessary for weak
signals. (4) Yes, presuming that by “long
wave” you really mean “medium wave.” Long
waves are those from 600 to 2000 metres or
more.
(1) How many turns are required to cover
the five-metre band with an 11-plate, double-
spaced midget variable condenser ? (2) Which
is the most suitable circuit for reception ? (3)
A circuit of a transmitter as used by most
experimenters for five-metre work ? —252.
(1) Four turns of 12-gauge enamelled copper,
lin. inside diameter, with turns spaced about
|in. (2) and (3) See B. 6/3/’35 for circuits,
with details of receivers and a transmitter.
I have built two 56 me. receivers, with no
results. Are there many stations to be heard
on this band, and do any of them operate on
the North Shore (Sydney) ? —253.
The Bulletin of 6/3/’35 contained a com-
prehensive article on the design and construction
of receivers and a transmitter for this now
popular experimental band. There are approxi-
mately 15 stations active in the Sydney district,
at least four of these being on the north side
of the harbor. Contacts are reliable and con-
stant, and distances of 50 miles are covered
regularly (Sydney-Hazelbrook). As the future
of television is concerned with the ultra-short
waves, any interesting development will be
dealt with accordingly.


The Prontac
C Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
Phones; F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
..say aiy
-m
is
r -s
5*
i
fl
* eive “69"..
r*
3
Hotels everywhere now have Vat
69, for years favourite whisky of
the connoisseurs abroad. Genuine
Scotch, Matured in wood at least
7 years. Mellow, smooth and
distinctive. Costs no more. Try it.
VAT 69
Pure httfueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, l*eith,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
69.2
“LIFE” Begins at
40—if Kidneys O.R.
“Life” Ends at about 40—
if kidneys break down!
Several million filters operate in your kidneys. If
they function as Nature intended, Life is an open
book for years yet to come, for each year increases
your experience on how to live. But let these filters
fail (as fall they often do in middle age) and no
experience can save you from misery -all knowledge
becomes useless in the face of pain. If you suffer
from Backache, from Joint Pains, Rheumatism, Night
Disturbances, Burning, Smarting, Difficult Urination,
Palpitation, Blood Pressure, Loss of Vitality arising
out of Weak or Disordered Kidneys, Bladder or
Urinary Organs—take Harrison’s Pills—quickly. This
remedy of a London Doctor is a proven success —
gets to the cause of the trouble like nothing else —
soothes, remedies and restores. Harrison’s Pills will
not, only give you surest relief, but they are safe
for young, middle-aged and old —under all condi-
tions. 18 Pills, 2/-; 32 Pills, 3/-; or 68 Pills, 5/-
a,t any good Chemist’s. Money back if not completely
satisfied with results from very first bottle. But
bo sure you do get Harrison’s Pills 1
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Disraeli, Gladstone and the
Eastern Question
A Study in Diplomacy and Party
Politics. By PROF. R. W. SETON-
WATSON, D.Litt., Ph.D., F.B.A.
With Illustrations and Map. 21/-.
[Studies in Modern History
The Two Sources of Morality
and Religion
By HENRI BERGSON. Translated
by R. Ashley Audra and Cloudesley
Brereton, with the assistance of
W. Horsfall Carter. 10/-.
This book should not be regarded
solely as a treatise on Philosophy.
Its appeal is to a far wider public,
for in its attempt to build a bridge
between religion and science it
cannot fail to interest all thought-
ful people and all schools of
religious thought. The success in
France of the original edition has
been phenomenal.
Principles of Economic Planning
By G. D. H. COLE. 6/-.
This book discusses in non-tech-
nical language the case for and
against a Planned Economy, both
in principle and with reference to
existing conditions in Great Britain.
The Works of JAMES HILTON:
Lost Horizon
Awarded Hawthornden Prize, 1934.
[Empire Library
With coloured jackets by W. A.
Kermode. 3/6 each.
Knight Without Armour
Contango
And Now Good-bye
Murder at School
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
-NOTICE-
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
LONDON’S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY & RESIDENTIAL HOTELS
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger lifts.
Garages. Central heating. Hot and cold
running water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Bridge, Bil-
liards, Table Tennis and Dancing.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT
I-!) Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, _W.2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 guineas.
Double from 7 guineas. Bedroom, Bath
and Breakfast from 9/0. Telephone:
Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 3J guineas Single,
0| guineas Double. Bedroom, Bath and
Breakfast from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL
39-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Telephone: Padd. 8022.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL
35-38 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Telephone: Padd: 9712.
Accommodation for 150 guests.
Hotels of refinement (adjacent to each
other), with yoxxng and cheerful society.
Delightful rooms arranged as bed-sitting
rooms. Owing to their popularity you
are advised to secure accommodation —if
possible—in advance. Terms: Single from
3 guineas. Double from 5 guineas. Bed-
room, Bath and Breakfast from 7/6.
The above Hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
Patents.
MACHINES FOR CASTING ARTICLES
FROM MOLTEN METAL.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No,
25858/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A HOLDER AND
METHOD OF TRANSFERRING STACKED
SUNDAE CUPS FROM CUP-STACKING
MACHINES INTO CARTONS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
11543/23 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“Unanswerable”
I am directed by the Bendigo Chamber
of Commerce and Industries to express
appreciation of the article on chain stores
which appeared in a recent issue of The
Bulletin. The statements made are un-
answerable. —W. C. Thomas, Secretary.
An Eight Hours’ Job
Like “E.R.W.” (B. 13/3/’35), I have
had to fill in wheat-bounty forms, though
not in Victoria. It took me eight hours
to do the job, including time expended
in travelling 16 miles to a J.P. and re-
turning with two neighbors to attest
that, as far as they knew (they knew
nothing), I had made no false statements.
But I 1 considered it the best-paid work
11 ever did. I got £4O for it. I had
j already sold my wheat for its value. —
| Tell Alf (N.S.W.).
Work for Westralian Lads
:
Westralia’s Boys’ Employment League
continues to get results. Five thousand
boys have now been placed in positions ;
their earnings, savings and production
have been reckoned at £882,000 p.a.
Eight League lads employed in the
country have saved enough from their
wages to commence in business for them-
selves. Three have just started, five have
made good.— Fred T. Cross, Secretary
(W.A.).
“Jumping the Rattler”
How crazy is this business of gaoling
train-jumpers—forcing work'-seekers to
“do time” to get to their destination!
In many cases it costs more than the
fare to maintain them in prison; in
Queensland, at least, watch-housekeepers
are paid so much a meal for all supplies
to “guests.”
Most of these young fellows go after
seasonal toil. Let the Railway Depart-
ment put cars on main-line mixed trains
running to centres of seasonal work, and
let the men travel in them on concession
tickets got from a labor bureau or a
police station —the same as are issued
to all sorts of showmen —tickets to be
paid for when the work ends. Some
cotton-pickers in C.Q. take away up to
£6O for the season; most of them
would come to light with deferred fares,
and pay full fares on going away. The
thousands battling their way to shearing,
sugar work, cotton-picking and fruit-
picking are, for the most part, good men
who are entitled to a better spin than
they have been getting.—W. B. (Q.).
Transport and Freight-rates
“Colonel Bungsfarter” (B. 27/3/’35)
follows the well-worn track of comparing
figures that are not comparable. The
Queensland railway freight-book is not
available to me at the moment, but
N.S.W. figures will do as an illustration.
The second-class rate, being the maxi-
mum, is quoted:
Distance, Per
Miles. Per Ton. Ton-Mile.
100 £3 16 9 9.2 d.
300 8 0 0 6.4 d.
300 9 17 6 4.7 d.
800 11 17 6 3.6 d.
1000 13 2 6 3.5 d.
It is surely not suggested that the 1000-
mile man should pay 10 times the freight
of the 100-mile man, or that the 100-
mile man should get off with a tenth of
the 1000-mile man’s charge. Motor in-
terests want short hauls and high freights.
Ask them to carry 1000 tons of coal for
1000 miles at the railway rale, and stand
clear for their answer! — Keg (N.S.W.).
They Who Pay
In Queensland there are 66,791 income-
tax payers out of a population of
960,000 ; of these 38,364, with incomes
averaging £328, pay an average of Ud.
in the £. Then come a group of 17,470,
with incomes aggregating £9,000,000, who
pay an average of 2|d. in the £. The j
rest —10,957 —have to cough up the i
balance of the amount collected for State I
income tax—£2,556,000-odd. By the j
irony of modern democratic government, j
though this very small minority has to
find the bulk of the tax-money, its voting
strength is the same as that of a like
number of citizens on “the sus.” —
Kicker (N.S.W.).
Duck-slaughter
The result of Chief Secretary Chaffey’s
altering the date of the opening
of the duck season in N.S.W. merely
increased the slaughter, instead of lessen-
ing it. Victoria opened its season as usual
on Feb. 15, when N.S.W. gunmen visited
the Cabbage State and joined with the
locals in the usual massacre ; on March
15 the process was reversed in N.S.W.
If Chaffey had. let the date alone, the
ducks would have fared far better.
Isn’t it time this annual butchery
was abolished? Newspaper reports
show that more than 1000 ducks
were bagged on Dry Lake (Narrandera)
alone ; nobody can tell how many birds
got away to die in slow agony in lonely
lagoons. Don’t talk to me about sport;
for there’s no sport in surrounding a
lagoon which the ducks have been
allowed to use unmolested for a year
until they become almost indifferent to
the presence of human beings, and then
blasting them to death.— Teal (N.S.W.).
Murray Waters Scheme
I was interested in reading Mr. Hol-
man’s racy narrative of how the above
scheme was accomplished (B. 13/3 / ’35).
When, however, he attributes the result
to his nervous headache it leaves some-
thing more to be said.
I very well remember that Saturday
afternoon referred to and Mr. Holman’s
outburst of temper. It was in my room,
where I had called them, determined that
this great project should be dallied with
no longer. For 20 years the question of
riparian rights had hopelessly divided the
States concerned. N. S. Wales had first
draught of the water, Victoria the second.
In dry weather there was practically
none left for South Australia ; and the
two larger States would do nothing to
help her.
In these circumstances I decided to
solve the difficulty by contributing
£1,000,000 of Commonwealth funds, the
estimated cost of the work to be done
in S.A., to enable that State to share
equitably in the waters of the Murray
on its way to the sea. Estimated cost was
between £4,000,000 and £5,000,000. Later
on I came into the scheme as a partner,
and I induced Parliament to undertake a
Commonwealth liability to the extent of
one-fourth of the total, at the same time
stipulating that there should be a Federal
chairman who would supervise the work
generally.
It is but fair to add that Mr. Arthur
Griffith, then N.S.W. Minister of Works,
took a keen and active interest in all the
arrangements of the conference, and had
much to do with the settlement eventu-
ally reached. He was the chairman of the
sub-committee appointed to deal with the
matter.
The Commonwealth Auditor-General
in his last report says that to date the ex-
penditure is well over £9,500,000. The
full estimated cost is now set down as
between £14,000,000 and £15,000,000.
But a 20-year period has intervened, and
everything seems to have been changed.
Many of those connected with the earlier
estimates have crossed the Jordan while
the great Australian Nile rolls on.
Many more schemes for utilising our
copious rainfall will come to birth as
Australia moves on to the realisation of
her destiny. To justify these huge out-
lays there must be corresponding in-
creases in our population. The active
policies of the past to achieve this in-
crease have had to be laid aside —let us
hope temporarily. I say temporarily be-
cause the old slogan still holds: “We
must people or perish.”— Joseph Cook
(N.S.W.).
THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
For contributions to B. 3/4/’35,
they go to: —
REG FERGUSON, Listowel Downs,
Blackall, Queensland;
H. S. TAYLOR, c/o T.S.S. Zealandia,
Sydney;
E. A. CLARK, Lalbert, Victoria;
and
S. C. WHYTE, Glen Lyon Station,
Broken Hill, N.S.W.
The prizes, original “Bulletin*’
black-and-white drawings, are offered
each week, in addition to the ordinary
rates of payment, for Society pars.,
Aboriginalities. Hints for the Farm
and gags for joke-blocks.


FOR WARWICK FARM.
Fairfield Handicap:. Solfast; next,
Fanfare. ' .
Chipping Norton Plate: Sylvan-
dale ; next, Journal.
Liverpool Handicap: Cid; next,
The Marne.
Warwick Farm Autumn Cup :
Oro ; next, Gold Trail, i
Cabramatta Handicap: Dromos ;
next, Povertdale.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It is a safe pastime forecasting the
winner of the weight-for-age races at
the Randwick Easter meetings. Peter
Pan stands out from his rivals almost
as Phar Lap did in his day. “Better
than ever” is Jim Pike’s opinion of Peter.
* * * , *
“I’ll take 5 to 2!” was the ringmen’s
cry when the Rawson Stakes came on.
Pratt rushed Sylvandale (7 to 1) to the
front, and tried to steal the race at the
turn. It was all over at the Leger ; there
Peter Pan took command, and at the
finish the three-year-old was nearly three
lengths behind him. Journal came home
strongly, to beat Rogilla for third place.
Topical, Master Brierly and Kuvera were
the others.
Pastoralist V. M. White thought High
would win the Villiers Stakes, but after
chasing Bachian most of the way High
faded out of the picture. Trainer Harry
England has been patient with this four-
year-old, and appears to have got him
at his top for the Doncaster, in which
he will carry 7st. 61b. In the first divi-
sion of the Elizabeth Farm Handicap
High was one of the outsiders, being
quoted at 20 to 1, but he revealed sur-
prising speed, and beat Silver King and
Winooka with ease. A protest by Darby
Munro was soon dismissed. High had
Gert “ Did you ever do any
Running, , Bert 7 "
BertOh yes; ( specialised vn
SHORT, DISTANCE EVENTST
Gert: " What did you do the
HUNDRED YARDS IN 7 *
Bert ' The dinkiest Little pair.
ot= Blue sups and a pink.
SINGLET "
rolled over on the colt at the furlong
pole, but at the time Silver King was
definitely beaten.
The second division wept to J. J.
Leahy’s bonny mare Sarcherie, backed
from 5 to 2 to 6 to 4. It was merely
an exercise gallop for her, and Cool spell
and Glenwitch were decisively defeated.
Sarcherie is in the Doncaster and Cup
with 7st. 101 b. and 7st. 111 b. respectively.
Somebody had already backed her for
the mile, though she had been always
looked upon as a stayer. Perhaps the
chestnut will concentrate on the Don-
caster.
Contact (4 to 1), an opponent for
Sylvandale in the St. Leger, won the
Jubilee Handicap like a real stayer.
Young Maher, a son of former jockey
Percy Maher, rode a good race on the
colt, who finished too solidly for Stone-
brook and King March. Limyris pulled
hard in the early stages, and her rider
was in trouble five furlongs from home,
where the saddle broke. Contact has
7st. 61b. in the Sydney Cup. He was
fifth in the Australian Cup, and is prob-
ably improving with racing.
Stable-mates Arachne and Solfast,
trained by Jack Donohoe, landed some
nice wagers when they scored in the
Opening Handicap and in the first divi-
sion of the Debut Stakes. Arachne (10
to 9, after 6 to 4 had been laid) led
throughout the seven furlongs, and won
in a walk from Povertdale and Regular
Bachelor. Myra Tip, First Son and
Bombus found the pace set by the
favorite too hot. Pavarti, second into*
the straight, beat only a few home.
About Solfast 3 to 1 and better could
be got. She hopped away well, but was
squeezed back at the five furlongs, and
was badly placed in the next furlong.
Reg Marsden was forced to take her on
the extreme outside at the turn. Going
great guns, and cheered on by supporters
in the Leger and paddock, she got up in
time to beat Rembrandt by a long head ;
Wykeham, who looked in need of the
race, was two lengths away third, after
showing an abundance of speed. Sol-
fast, who carries the “Constable” colors,
will be a strong opponent for Bimill a
at Randwick.
Shackleton, one of the conquering
Heroics, won the second division of the
Debut Stakes like a really good horse.
He started at tens, and came on the scene
at the right time, to down the northern-
owned and -trained Tuckiar, also by
Heroic, with Abstainer third. Viceroy,
a thing of Hugh Denison’s, was made
favorite, but got into trouble early. He
finished well in fifth place.
Tatyoon is invariably hard to defeat
on his home track. In the Celebration
Handicap, ridden by Booth’s jockey Zen-
sky, he headed Bachian in the last stride,
The Raider being a good third. Tatyoon
started at 20 to 1, and gave the bookies
a clean sheet; he had failed at Hawkes-
bury on the Wednesday, but Clarendon
is a rather tricky track. Multigris,
chopped out at the start, was always in
the rear, but Foxhunter, also a long way
back in the first half-mile, finished well,
and ran fourth.
* * * *
Archie Crofts, recently elected to the
Vic. Leg. Council, won another race at
Epsom on Saturday with Valiant Chief.
For Valiant Chief he paid lOOOgns. last
year. The Heroic colt is still rather
green, and looks like developing into
a clinking good three-year-old. His dam,
Cohesion, is in the N.S.W. stud of H. S.
Thompson, and was imported from Eng-
land. Crofts is one of the big men in
League football. So far he has not
devoted much attention to the turf, and
he was not present at Epsom when
Valiant Chief carried Voitre to such a
brilliant victory in the Two-year-old
Handicap; however, it would not be
surprising if the man from “South” de-
rived sufficient encouragement to be a
buyer at the Sydney sales.
Following on the success of Valiant
Chief came that of Sonitrice in the Trial
Handicap. Sonitrice belongs to another
moneyed sportsman —Henry Boan, of
Perth (W.A.). Boan, who resides for the
most part in Melbourne, has invested
heavily in racehorses. He landed the last
Williamstown Cup with Gothic Gem,
trained by E. J. O’Dwyer, whose son
has charge of Sonitrice. The Son o’
Mine filly revealed improved stamina by
leading all the way over six furlongs
and stalling off a late challenge from Toy
Crow. Emboldened by Keith Voitre
being on Benevento, punters went nap
on the Manfred colt. The favorite got
away badly and never was dangerous.
Tricycle, dam of Sonitrice, is a sister to
Trivalve, who is to stand in South Aus.
At Epsom the gruesome spectacle was
witnessed of Makonnen returning to scale
with blood pouring out of a deep gash
on the inside of his near hind leg. The
colt had been forced on to the rails at
the half-mile post, and. a piece of frac-
tured timber penetrated his flesh. With-
out loss of time he was destroyed,
Several Weeks ago Makonnen showed
considerable promise by defeating
Theresa Gamba at the Valley. He was
raced by the trainer, E. Fisher, in con-
junction with S. E. Bailey, who had a
half-interest in Shadow King when that
gallant old fellow gained so many places
in Melbourne Cups.
Keith Voitre is on the tidal wave of
success in Victoria. He achieved his
seventh winning double at Kyneton last
week. The Maorilander led off well at
Epsom by taking the opening event on
Valiant Chief, but none of his other
mounts gained a place. Alaric was an-
other favorite on whom he failed.
Alaric, bred and owned by Sol Green,
shortened from 2 to 1 to 5 to 4 for the
Epsom Handicap. He missed the jump-
out to some extent, and had to be shoved
along to gain a decent position at the
turn out of the straight. Half a mile
from home Alaric joined Blue Shot at
the head of affairs. He received a bump
after entering the straight but was well
beaten at the time, Skidmore brought
Steer Clear along with a splendid run,
and vanquished the undependable Sor-
dino by a neck.
twf T i,a XT i
Bert Foulsham, a son of Ike Foul-
sham, is having a profitable time in Mel-
bourne, At: Moon* Valley on April I
he won with his own horse Ganymeaa,
while on Saturday he captured the
Epsom Purse with Smdicada, owned by
C. Dawson, a Fhnders-lane merchant.
Both Ganymead and Sindicada are out
of Cyphrenee. Nice odds (7 to 1) were
obtained about Sindicada in the Epsom
Purse. Hot Shot, owned by Miss Ena
Marsden, of Sydney, headed the quotes,
but was closely pressed by Dubup. Being
built on small lines, Hot Shot found
9st. 51b. too much of a burden ; the
Pantheon gelding was near the rear
throughout. Dubup did much better; he
finished a length and a half behind
Sindicada,
J. E. Smedley, who has now left for
Sydney to supervise the preparation of
La Trobe at Randwick, saddled-up Fire-
brick for the second division of the Trial
Handicap. Firebrick ran a good race,
but in an exciting finish had to be con-
tent with third to Double Form and
Konclejetia,
Soft Step’s first gallop at Randwick
was frightfully disappointing. The
Queenslander came in on three legs, and
it was recalled that he had been galloped
on in the race he won at- Eagle Farm on
March 30. The vet., however, pro-
nounced it a case of acute sciatica. It
may be shaken off in time for the son
of Spearfelt to take his place in the
Sydney Cup field, but sciatica is always
liable to recur, and is a bad thing in
man and beast.
* * ? , * ,
G.S. : A parson who has a good
press has been transferred from Hurst-
ville to Randwick, and has issued an open
invitation to racing people to listen to his
first sermon, which will be preached on
the day that comes between the Don-
caster and the Sydney Cup. If the good
man imagines that he is going to a
neglected corner of the vineyard he is
mistaken. Canon Cakebread, for one,
has worked it for many a year, and,
though he has never been to the course
on a race-day, he knows'every trainer,
jockey and stable-boy in. the place. Many
of his faith are regular worshippers at
St Jude’s
* ’ * * *
Ethics, the Australian-bred winner of
the Emperor’s and Viceroy’s Cups,
dropped dead the other day. His death
has evoked a chorus of praise and
regret from Indian newspapers, some of
which say that his victories made such
an impression that Indian sportsmen who
once sneered at Australian thoroughbreds
are now keen on buying them. It ought
to be a good time for breeding horses
for Indian and other overseas markets
(Americans are likely buyers), but, oddly
enough, stud stallions and mares are
cbea P- f n Melbourne last week The
Night Patrol was sold for 1400 guineas
(the late Gerald Buckley gave 10,000
guineas for him), Gilt Edge for 600 and
Trivalve for 325. All three have begotten
winners, and are young as sires go. As
f° r mares, only young matrons bred in
the Purple brought anything like decent
P iaces ’ 625 guineas, given for Mistral
(Cykion—Deneb), being the highest,
fty or sixty mares from the Melton
and o£dc oase studs were knocked
down for less than 100 Bulneas-
(Continued on next page.)
.
Cambridge won the boatrace again
b y 44 lengths this time. It went into the
lead about 200 y ards from the start and
was ne J er headed.
Paddington had only t * o preven t West ,
„ Subu s rbs beati ht t 0 win
the Sydney first _ grade cricket premier-
,hip. It improved the shining hour by
inflicting a severe defeat on West, whose
star is Chipperfield—a flickering star this
season. After a slow 219 the Paddington
u ,• a TT . , „ ...
d ° sm Sd C West for" 101 Hendry B has
Tn e xSnt "eason wkh S and
ball> and fuHy deserves a place in the
state side ; but, like other old-timers, he
has ]ost his zest for representative
cr icket
* * * *
“Spike”: Tolan says he may return to
Australia, and in the meantime will try
to revive the professional game in the
U.S.A. His farewell message was on a
subject Bulletin writers have been
stressing for years—the re-establishment
of the cinder running-tracks which were
to be found in every considerable Aus-
tralian town years ago. This country
will never do any good in Olympic and
Empire track events, sprints in particular,
if its athletes do their training and run-
ning on grass.
* * * *
“Glenelg”; Torrens club, having easily
won the S A e i ght .oar championship,
automatically becomes the State’s repre-
sentafive in the race for the King’s Cup
on the Nepean River (N S W-) > May F
While the crew is sweating itself in
physical preparation or tbe event > row-
in § officials a nd dl< : ir fiends are
B°ir>g then hardest to taise the cash to
sends tbe el § bt to the Ma State,
* * * *
“Sprocket”; Hubert Turtill, the M.L.
cyclist, has been added to the team of
Australians shortly to descend on Eng-
]and ; he will give Smith a hand in the
spr i n t events of the tour. Among the
many championships he has won is the
25-mile title of Australia, but his best
work has been done over shorter dis-
tances Turtill, who is in Australia at
ent will to Britain via Maoriland.
* ' ~
Whitecoat : No, 41 of the La\vs of
Cricket says that if a fieldsman wilfully
stops a ball otherwise than with part of
L IS person five runs shall be added to
tbe scc > re > not r a kmg into account any
rims already scored. The Marylebone
|p.C. was applied to by the N.S.W.C.A.
or a ruling in a case where, after six had
been run the stroke and an over-
throw, a fieldsman stopped the ball with
1S ca P- T^ e M.C.C. says the rule mus
be adbered to and only five runs entered
in the book, unfair as it might seem. The
mother club added that a revision of the
rule is likely.


m
Model 67, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel and improved Safety
Catch. Elevating Rear Sight. A C I
Approx. Freight in N.S.W. 2/6 ”rO'"
Model 68, .22-cal. Single Shot Bolt Action Rifle,
similar to Mode,l 67, but with Aperture I
Rear Sight for Target Shooting OO' "
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIM FIRE CARTRIDGES.
Short
2/5 100.
Long
3/5 100.
Long Rifle
3/10 100.
COWLES and DUNN
•Phone: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
YARDS
LONGER
THIS YEAR.
—and still guaranteed for 72 holes of play
It’s the toughest, long-driving ball you can
buy! Ten yards longer than any "Kro-Flite”
we have ever made... and still backed by
our unconditional guarantee for 72 holes
s ol play. Multi - dot, in Mesh and
'•Dimple markings each
3/
r
0
*
r
r
r
r
r
c
RO
?UTE
n
r
p
n
r
r
r
0
r
r
r
n
r
Under the Whip
A Maribyrnong (Vic.) correspondent
recently took this paper to task for say-
ing that Heros was about the best
sprinter in Victoria. He protested that
Victoria had a dozen faster horses, a
score ; he was so indignant about it that
he wrote twice. After the Heroic —Lovers-
land gelding’s performance in the Quality
Handicap at Moonee Valley nothing will
be taken back. Carrying top weight,
9st., in a good field, Heros gave nothing
else a chance, and cut the course record
for seven furlongs ; La Scala was second
and Break Up, who is coming to Sydney
for the Doncaster, third. One of the un-
placed division was Synagogue, favorite
at 5 to 4 ; Heros’s price was 3 to 1.
* * * *
In the past the Saturday prior to the
big Easter meetings was given to
Hawkesbury, but the old club had to
content itself with a Wednesday date this
April. Regrettable in a sense, but only
common justice ; owners and trainers are
entitled to better prizes than are distri-
buted at Clarendon. The principal race,
the Autumn Handicap, was worth only
£125. Artful Clare, a filly of Hunter
White’s, by High Art —Malvina, won, at
sevens, from Captain Rado and Nord,
Mystic Spell again let his backers down ;
apparently even a mile and a quarter is
farther than he cares to go.
The only other race of any importance
was the Hawkesbury Mile, which went
to Le Legion, also 7 to 1, with Dango
second and Spear Belle and Tapestry
dividing third place. Le Legion lost his
form for a while, but practice over
hurdles seems to have regained it for
him. A big chestnut, well up to weight,
he is very useful on his day, and may
pick up a race at Randwick.
#
“S.G.”: No one will ever get rich rac-
ing horses for the prizes offered by Syd-
ney proprietary clubs. Considering attend-
ances and fields, the money they put
up is sinfully poor ; and, as for salaries —
well, consider the case of Moorefield,
one of the most prosperous concerns in
Australia (if it isn’t, it ought to be).
Moorefield is advertising for a secretary,
old General Lamrock having resigned.
The course is situated in a busy suburb,
and the training tracks are in constant
use ; the secretary has hundreds of things
to attend to and thousands of persons to
interview in the course of a year, and he
can’t get about in dungarees. The salary
is £365 p.a.—a pound a day. Slaughter-
men make more.
* * * *
As a result of recent litigation, which
rendered it at least doubtful whether the
A.J.C. committee could legally refuse
admission to or expel persons whose
presence at Randwick was undesired,
a bill designed to give the committee
adequate powers in both respects has
been put through the State Parliament.
There was support for it from the* Labor
side of the Assembly, one tribune being
almost obsequious in his references to the
committee. The measure might have had
a different reception if an individual
aimed at had not opposed Our Party at
a recent election.
JVI.Q* (and Rafferty) Rules
Though no match for Varner, who
has gone to England, Mickey Miller is
too good for most of the Australian
“fedders.” He outfought “Bud” Ander-
son at Leichhardt. His 51b.-heavier oppo-
nent began backing away as if afraid of
a knockout, but flicked light lefts to the
face while retreating. Miller took these
taps with disdain, and won most of the
15 rounds boxed.
% * * *
“Uriah the Hittite”: Almost universal
is the use to-day of the term cruiser-
weight, but few are aware that it was
first used by Bill Corbett when he was
with Sydney “Sun.” A cruiser had
arrived in Australia, and somebody was
struck with the idea that the cruiser was
to the battleship what the light-heavy-
weight was to the heavy. When the name
was suggested to Bill he jumped at it, and
the clumsy term light-heavyweight there-
after disappeared from his copy.
* * * *
“S.G.”: A reference to Meeske as the
finest wrestler Australia has produced
aroused the just wrath of an old-timer
who wrote to Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
about it. Meeske, who was in the A.1.F.,
is not a bad wrestler, though he is a
better showman, but, as the old ’un
protested, he is not to be compared with
“Professor” Miller, probably the most
versatile athlete Australia has known.
Miller was not only the greatest wrestler
of his day till Clarence Whistler
lowered his colors, but he was in
the first class as boxer, weight-lifter,
swordsman and walker. As a boy I used
to see him about the streets of Mel-
bourne, and even now I can remember
“Hey, give him these!”
what a magnificent-looking man he was.
Nearly 52 years ago he fought Larry
Foley 40 rounds in Sydney, and Foley
—much the lighter man, of course —was
glad to call it a draw. Miller went to
America, and was matched with John
L. Sullivan, but a broken leg put him
out of the game. By all accounts he is
still alive in New York, and going strong
for the century.
Footbrawl
“G.M.”: Out of the thousand-odd
men classified as League footballers in
Melbourne probably not more than 100
are Melbourne men. The vast majority
are importations from country clubs, and
the opening of every season sees an
army of scouts out in the backblocks
looking for mute, inglorious goalkickers.
A few years back country players
were tough, rough customers with
little finish ; to-day their hardness has
been brought to a brilliancy which makes
the skilled coaching of the metropolitan
clubs almost a work of supererogation.
Possibly the district which supplies Mel-
bourne with its most brilliant players is
the southern part of N.S.W. Riverina
could put a team into the field which
would take a lot of beating were the
natives collected from the various teams
and trained as one
“Grasspan”: Melbourne’s experiments
in night football are so far not encourag-
ing. The Australian code does not lend
itself to artificial lighting, however ex-
cellent; the game is too open, the
movements of men and ball too sudden,
Rugby and Soccer, on the other hand,
appear to be excellently suited for night
play, especially Union Rugby. The
size of the Australian arena is another
handicap ; it is a difficult matter to pro-
vide sufficient lighting without the lamps
being of such high power as to cast
confusing shadows;
* T * A * , * „
Canny Lad : Although a lot of
money was dropped on a similar scheme
last season the Sydney Rugby Leaguers
are considering night matches under
electric light. It is proposed to play these
before the season proper begins. Some
enthusiast has drawn attention to a
League game played at London’s White
City between the Kangaroos and a League
team that speculators were trying to
establish in London. In that game, said
the enthusiast gleefully, attendance ran
into four-figure dimensions. It did too ;
the cableman’s estimate was 1200.
“Brass Addler”: Though the hard-
headed Northern Union will not attempt
to establish its game in London, an opti-
mistic syndicate, stirred by the success
of the dogs and dirt-track racing there-
about, is to make an attempt to establish
what we know as the Rugby League
game there. It is alleged that £IOO,OOO is to
be spent on a ground at Mitcham, and
six clubs are expected to start next year,
Unless they play at night it is hard to see
how they can make a do of it, and even
then the going will be stiff. The sort ot
people who attend League matches in
Lancashire and Yorkshire follow the
dozen or so great Soccer clubs about
London and go to the dogs at night. The
Union clubs have a different
clientele altogether.
# ?}c & *
“Stiffy”: The Sydney League heads
have declined to tender this year for the
use of the North Sydney ground, which
in the past they shared 50-50 with the
R.U. They have taken the Chatswood
ground, cheaper but farther away, and
with nothing like the accommodation of
the N.S. Oval. The North Sydney
Leaguers, not so long ago a star side, are
dismayed, and say they might as well
disband.
He H* H< *
“Shore”: Some of Sydney’s south-
side Rugby Union clubs are complaining
because too many first-grade fixtures are
played on the north side. The north
has two good, accessible grounds in
North Sydney Oval and Manly, and
these can boast a very large permanent
Union following. On the other hand,
especially now that the S.C.G. is closed
to the Union, the south-side arenas are
not nearly as easy to get at—even
the University oval demands quite an
adventurous journey on foot from those
who go there, especially in wet weather.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Joyce Wethered, who had
been rated a semi-professional because
she took a job in a golf-goods store in
London, has turned open professional.
She is to play a series of exhibition
matches through the U.S.A., though op-
ponents for her should be hard to find,
since there are no women professionals
thereabout. A year or so ago Kirkwood
said he would probably bring the lady
for a tour of Australia one of these days.
Joseph must have known something then.
* * * *
“Sandwich”: Australia has no reason
to go in for artisan golf clubs. England
has a special association for them, and the
annual meeting in London disclosed that
there are now 145 clubs. They have no
courses of their own, but, by mutual ar-
rangement, play on other clubs’ courses
at certain times during the week. The
clubs are divided into northern and south-
ern sections, and each holds its annual
tournament separately.
i\i % %
“Mt. Eden”: The increasing vogue of
golf in M.L. is alarming some of the
football enthusiasts. Hundreds of husky
lads who used to go straight from school
to the football clubs now throng the links.
It is an old story. Years ago there was
only cricket or Rugby for the young
Queensland athlete to choose between.
There was no golf, and tennis was still in
the curate-and-bun stage. A craze for
lacrosse, following on the visit of the
Canadian team, drew many away, and
gradually the pernicious influences of
golf asserted themselves. This was helped
by the coming of the Rugby League and
the decay of the Union, many youngsters
who would have played football shying
at professionalism.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : It was here mentioned that
a challenge had been issued by artist
Harry Rowntree, on behalf of midgets of
the West Middlesex golf club, to big
fellows who had been “throwing off.”
The result was that four bantams finished
12 up on four giants in the aggregate for
four matches. Their opponents averaged
6ft. 3in. in height—one was 6ft. 7in.—
and weighed anything up to 18 stone.
( Continued on page 38.)


More Uses for Your Tractor on "Air Tyres”!
FIELD! ROAD! BELT WORK!
id _
m ■
m
mmm
m
WM
mm
■
m
• .:
i
I
::
#
m
Goodyear Farm Implement Tyres will enable you
to use your tractor in many more ways than are
possible with steel wheels.
One of the most important advantages over steel
wheels that these Goodyear Pneumatics have
brought to tractor operators is that, without loss
of time for wheel changeovers, an "air-tyred"
tractor can go straight from the field to the high-
way as a valuable hauling unit.
Again, in belt operation the tractor often stands
a long time in one position, flexing at one point of
the tyre; the extra flexibility of Supertwist pre-
vents weakening of the tyre at this point.
In ploughing, harrowing and all field operations
the Goodyear full diamond tread ensures maxi-
mum grip and traction, with resultant extra speed
and economy in fuel and oil.
mini
m
For complete details concerning Goodyear
Farm Implement Tyres, write to The
Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co. Ltd.
Branches in all Capital Cities. • • •
FARM
IMPLEMENT TYRES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
10-ClO-35.


ELEY
SPECIAL
Quail
Cartndges
The
NEW
"Eley
Special" Quail
Cartridge means
clean kills without
shattering the birds.
A Special Quail Load
assures absolute reliability and
provides a lightweight cartridge
that adds pleasure to your
shooting.
loaded with
SMOKELESS DIAMOND
POWDER and 1 oz. Shot;
12 Gauge x 21in., in 8,
10 and 12 Shot Only.
A Product of 1.C.1.A N.Z.
(Ammunition Section)
380 Collins Street, Melb
277 Clarence St., Sydney
Obtainable
Everywhere
at Popular
Prices
Ltd.
3
I
t
■Q394a
Season Opens Hay-1
© LOW INTEREST RATES
STIMULATE PRODUCTION
Money for commercial enterprise is plen-
tiful and has never before been as cheap as
it is to-day.
Business men and producers are invited by
the Bank of New South Wales to discuss
with the Manager of any of its 725
branches any proposals for extension of
productive operations.
The Bank has ample funds to lend against
usual securities, and the Bank’s maximum
rate of interest on all overdrafts is 5% —
the lowest maximum rate on record.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Established 1817)
119 a.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“Australia's Premier
Sports Organisation"
Tintroducing
the Latest
Small-bore
Man-sized Rifle!
MOSSBERG
22-calibre
Single-shot
Rifle,
Model 14,
a
Front
Sight
Rear Sight.
Bolt-action, 24-
inch steel barrel,
Special Flat Top
Gold Blade
Hooded R amp
Front Sight and
Peep Receiver
Rear Sight; pistol-
grip stock with
New “Bulge” fore-
end; fitted with
leather sling and
swivels. Takes 22
Short, Long or
Long-Rifle New
Super-Speed Cart-
ridges. Weight,
51b.
Price 52/6
oCarriage0 Carriage paid).
No. 13B— LATEST MODEL WINCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long or long-rifie rimflre cartridges,
27in. round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-
grip stock, latest Mauser type safety bolt
action, bead front sight, adjustable
lander rear sight. Weight, about 45/“
4*lb . '
Postage 3/3 Other States, 4/-.
No. 4—MOSSBEKG S.S. 33-CAL. R.E.
KIELE, MODEL 10, bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, walnut stock, bead front
and ladder rear sights. Weight, 7Q/
about 4Jlb , '
Postage, 3/8; Other States, 4/-.
No. 9—STEVENS’ “FAVORITE” RIFLE,
22, 25 or 32 calibre, R.F., round 24iu.
barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech
block, take-down action, open front and
sporting rear sights. Weight, 50/-
Carriage Paid.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD S.S.
RIFLE, MODEL 53, 22-caL. bolt action,
22in. round barrel, gold bead front and
ladder rear sight. Weight, about 35/-
51b.
4Jlb.
Postage, 3/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 15—WINCHESTER REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 63, 22-cal., 20-shot, 23in.
round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip,
ladder rear sights, slide action; magazine
handles 20 short, 16 long, or 14 long-rifle
cartridges. Weight, about £5/10/-
Carriage Paid.
sJlb.
No. I.3—WINCHESTER HAMMERLESS
REPEATING RIFLE, MODEL 61, 22-cah.
24iu. round barrel, pistol grip stock, ladder
rear sight, gold bead front sight, slide
action. Magazine handles 20 short, 16 long
or 14 long-rifle cartridges. This rifle will
handle adequately and safely the new
high-power Super Speed 22 -f7/1 f)/-
R.F. Cartridges. <*»•/! \J]
Carriage Paid.
No. 33A—WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC
RIFLE, MODEL 63, 22 long-rifle Super
Speed, 20in. round barrel, pistol grip stock.
10 shot; gold bead front sight, adjustable
ladder rear sight. Weight, £9/10/-
Carriage Paid.
about sflb.
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 3, 22-cal., 24in. round steel barrel,
bolt action; handles short, long or long-
rifle cartridges; gold bead front and
adjustable rear sight, pistol grip /C
stock; weight, about 4|lb. ...... u
Postage, 3/3; Other States, 4/-.
df
d
fd
fd
LIONEL 818 BY,
famous Rifle and Revol-
ver Shot and recognised
authority on Firearms
and Ballisti cs, is
attached to M i c k
Simmons’ Shooting
Department staff. Write
him for his expert advice
on any matter pertain-
ing to firearms and
shooting.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
Racquet and Bawl
By the casting vote of Lord Mayor
Wales, Melbourne City Council has de-
cided against Sunday tennis on its courts,
22 in number. Wales had supported the
reform, but, called upon to give his cast-
ing vote, explained that he was bound
to follow custom and decide against a
change. Half a dozen members of the
council got out of the chamber before
the division was taken. The decision
affects more than the courts controlled
by the city, because, with its lead,
suburbs would have followed suit.
* * * *
“Corregidor”: Moon and Schwartz,
who took a brief trip to Manila, seem to
have had a good time during their stay,
though Moon had to play 23 games on
end to win the first set in his semi-final
on a very hot day. The local cove wilted
even more, for he made little resistance
in the other two sets. The courts were of
crushed shells —a bit slow, but pleasant
to play on.
* * * *
“Two Gun Ike”: A London paper an-
nounces the appearance of young Brom-
wich in his first international tourney in
Melbourne, explaining that, entirely self-
taught, he “hails from the backwoods of
N.S.W, behind Sydney.” The journal
also tips the wonder from the wilds of
Eastern Suburbs as certain to take the
place of Quist, who has notified his in-
ability to join the Australian Davis Cup
team because of business. Barring these
few inaccuracies, the rest of the blah
about Bromwich is fairly correct.
* . * * *
“Gezireh”: Some old friends were
heard of in Egypt recently when Menzel
won the national singles from the Aus-
trian Bavarowsky. Miss Lyle, here with
the English women’s team, was defeated
in the semi-final of the singles by Helen
Jacobs, and with her team-mate, Miss
Dearman, lost the doubles to Miss Jacobs
and Elizabeth Ryan.
* * * *
“Top-Spinski”: Russia is taking up
tennis in characteristic fashion. Vines,
Lott and Stoeffen, who are to visit Japan
shortly, have been invited to go home by
the Western route and give Russia the
benefit of their experience by coaching
pupils at Kiev, Leningrad and Moscow
high schools. The Soviet Government
will control the games, as it does every-
thing else.
Miscellaneous
“Stretcher”: “Scots’” crew, training
for the G.P.S. eight-oar race in Sydney,
had the bad luck to lose anew craft,
built by George Towns; it was cut in
two by a launch. Four lads were hurt,
though not badly; the other four and
the cox escaped with a ducking. Cox is
Harry Kerr. He is so light that he has
to carry lead to make up the statutory
weight—in this case, Bst. He has already
steered crews to victory —the Sydney
club in the State championship and
junior fours. The knack runs in the
family, his dad, H. C. Kerr, of the Syd-
ney jewellery house, having coxed the
Mercantile crew long ago.
* * * *
“Y.Y.”; Fierce controversy is raging
in Melbourne regarding the Fairbairn
style of rowing, used by the London eight
that recently visited Australia. Efforts
to induce local crews to row “Fairbairn
have caused the arguments of a few
months back to break out anew. The
Londoners’ success was certainly a sur-
prise to old rowing men. They were the
raggedest-looking eight that had appeared
on the Yarra since the days when
country clubs first ventured to Mel-
bourne. It seemed impossible that they
could get any speed out of the boat.
Yet they left all the local clubs on the
horizon. Even now, it is difficult to
ascribe their success to anything but
the individual merits of the men. Had
they rowed “form,” it is quite likely
they would have been still better than
they were. Orthodox rowing is not based
on conservatism. It has good reason be-
hind each point, except perhaps the
straight back. Quick catch with a square
oar, straight arms, hard leg drive, clean
finish and slow movement up the slide
are all practical instances of plain engi-
neering axioms. Uniform swing is an-
other outcome of pure reason. Yet the
Englishmen swung far out of the boat,
one after the other, and won every time.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: Sydney Flying Squadron,
which last season banned the “skiff” -
type of open sailing-boat, though many
had been built in Sydney and Brisbane,
has climbed down. The boats, their
owners and their crews, which had been
disqualified for life for disobeying the
S.F.S., have been restored to the list.
To save its face, the S.F.S. has formu-
lated new rules for building future boats,
and left it at that.
* * * *
“Cinders”: Before Tolan left Mel-
bourne he took part in a freak match
with Bull, of the V.A.L.; he had to run
100yds. while Bull walked 45yds. The
Yankee ran his 100 three yards inside
evens, but Bull got home by inches.
These freak matches were common in
western Queensland when professional
running flourished. One chap owned a
pony he was ready to back against any
sprinter, 50yds. out and in, with a turn
round the post at the 50 mark. Many
had an idea that the turn gave the man a
big advantage. They lived to discard it,
wiser and poorer blokes.
* * * *
• “Aigburth”: Melancholy judgments are
being passed by the English on the perfor-
mances of their team in the West Indies.
Wyatt himself says the batting was dis-
appointing ; Constantine, back in Lanca-
snire, insinuates that some of the old
chaps were scared of the fast bowling, and
boasts that the W.I. could lick any team
England could put in the field. Accounts
of the matches show that when threat-
ened, however slightly, the tourists shut up
and tried to make a draw of it. The de-
terioration of English cricket since the
war is almost certainly due to the de-
parture from the scene of the first-class
amateur. The professionals are probably
as good as ever, but the man who makes
money out of big scores or stubborn
stands must, even subconsciously, put
self before the game. There is not to-
day a really great amateur playing
cricket. The youngsters who promise so
well at the universities disappear into
jobs where once they could have afforded
one county match a week at least. A
few who manage to catch masterships at
public schools are fairly free for cricket
for a time, and one or two are lucky
enough to become paid county secre-
taries. Amateurs who forced the pace
like Ranji and Hutchens have ceased to
exist in cricket.
* * * *
“Shinty”; The Indian hockey team for
M.L. and Australia will number 16 alto-
gether. There are three Britons, with
Sikhs, Bengalis, Madrassis and Punjabis
making up the balance. The skipper is a
Punjabi, Dian Chand, of the Indian
Army team, who is reckoned the best
forward in the world. When the Indian
Army team was here some years ago
feeding the mixed religions and castes
was a bit of a problem. In Sydney it
was solved by housing the Indian section
in the Engineers’ drill ground at Rand-
wick, supplying them with raw maSerial
of the food they affected and letting them
prepare it themselves, as religion and
caste required.
* * * *
“Box”: Babe Ruth has joined the long
list of baseballers who have found that
cricket isn’t as easy as it looks. Babe
tried his hand at Alan Fairfax’s school
in London, and hit everything except the
ball. He smashed a couple of bats on
the floor. Crack batsmen with the
American teams that came here in 1914
were similarly flummoxed facing a bowler
in place of a pitcher. All at home with
full-pitches, they found the bounce of the
ball off the wicket something beyond
them.


MADE IN ENGLAND
BRIT. RD.N0.750681
gfislc|for- :
Blue
Gillettes
2/- per packet of 5 blades
FIT; ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
FOR
APRIL 1935
BRITAIN’S TRADE
POLICY
GOLD COSTS AND PRICES
THE SHARE MARKET
BKAT WOOI WHEAT METALS
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
What Are Your
Investments Really
Worth to You ?
The'Wild Cat’Monthly"
is the Investor’s Guide.
The April issue, now on sale, may be
worth pounds to you—for 2/- there is
a wealth of reliable and valuable in-
formation in each issue.
SINGLE COPIES, 2/-
By Subscription; £l/2/6 per annum,
payable in advance.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
£
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and |
Cold Water, ’Phone I
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at i
Double Rates) %
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,Etc.
Hack to Work
Trade-union unemployment in Aus-
tralia at March 31 was 18.6 p.c., com-
pared with 18.8 p.c. during the last
quarter of 1934 and 21.9 p.c. in the cor-
responding part of last year. There has
been steady improvement since the job-
less represented 30 p.c. of registered
unionists in June, 1932.
Apart from the reabsorption of
artisans and factory hands, there has
been a large re-employment of clerical
workers. Sydney bank clearings in 1934
,were higher than at any time since 1930.
Life-assurance offices are doing very big
business, wholesale and retail houses
show increasing sales and payrolls, and
Government railways report an upward
trend in freight and passengers carried.
Re-employment in private enterprise,
without large Government expenditure
on “public works,” is always a healthy
sign. “Public works,” unless paid for
put of current taxation, mean increased
debt and a postponed tax bill. The U.S.A.
before the depression had a remarkably
low public debt; after Roosevelt has
done with his experiment—it can’t go
on for ever —it will be decided whether
the present enormous cost was worth
while. Politicians love to be regarded
as Father Christmas.
As Dr. Rivett has pointed out —so far
in vain—goldmining has great labor-
giving possibilities. The Rand mines
alone provide employment for over
250,000 natives. Australia has no Rand,
but there is little doubt that low-grade
mining, if carried out efficiently and
temperately in the Commonwealth for
the next 10 years, would absorb a great
number of unemployed. But Australian
methods of encouraging the industry
have been all wrong. The gold-share
boom has attracted not investors, but
speculators.
Early in 1934 a buoyant share market
brought forth a host of ill-considered
flotations. Shares in most of them went
to a premium, irrespective of how heavily
they were loaded with promoters’ con-
siderations. The attraction was Stock Ex-
change activity, not necessarily the merits
of the mines. Yet there was no warning
from Stock Exchanges as to the danger of
this type of speculation, no comment on
the welter which promoters were making
in the matter of cash and share con-
siderations to themselves. Now a share-
gambling bubble created on ’Change has
burst, and, though conditions in the in-
dustry were never more favorable, the
result can only be a check to genuine
investment and development.
Wool sold in Sydney during the first
three days of last week averaged lid.
per pound, and the market closed firm.
The Australian average price for some
months has been below 10d., but the
ruling rates at present are better than at
any time since November. Wheat is
up to 3s. 6d. a bushel, the highest figure
for a long while.
* * * $
Wool has been a matter for inter-
national discussion lately. France has
prohibited the export of war supplies,
and wool has been included in the ban.
Germany was a large customer in this
respect. The German Wool Controller,
owing to the shortage of foreign credits,
has cut down allotments to manufac-
turers by 30 p.c. to 50 p.c. for the next
six months, and has limited the use of
wool generally, exclusive of that obtained
under barter agreements, to 20 p.c. of
last year’s quantities. Even the War
Office has decreed that “fewer and
smaller flags” shall be used.
Notwithstanding these developments,
the markets in London and Bradford has
been somewhat firmer lately. Competi-
tion is keener, all countries, excepting
Germany, buying readily. Russia has
been taking a quantity, and France’s pur-
chases are up. Stocks in Britain are the
lowest for some years, and the staple is
going freely into manufacture. The
“Economist” says “it needs only a good
summer season’s trade in new clothes to
see all supplies absorbed and the trade
ready for the next Dominion clip.” The
Australian grower needs some such en-
couragement.
* * *
Sir Arthur Salter, of the British
Economic Advisory Council, says that
the forces which caused the devaluation
of the belga may compel Holland and
Switzerland to follow Belgium’s example,
in which case France would probably be
forced to follow suit. In addition:- —
Prospects of world recovery would
probably be improved by all-round cor-
rective devaluation of the gold currencies
to an extent not exceeding the Belgian
“Good Lord! ANOTHER new frock ?”
“New be hanged! It's an old one of Cranny's!"
reduction (a maximum of 30 per cent.).
Germany and Italy might then choose a
lower parity, simultaneously removing the
exchange restrictions which at present are
making the gold standard unreal. There-
after the gold currencies should be pro-
visionally stabilised with sterling and the
dollar.
Stabilisation would be a godsend to world
trade as a whole, but some countries,
especially America, have not yet finished
toying with the idea of devaluation,
* * * *
One of the last measures introduced in
the expiring N. S. Wales Parliament was
a bill to wind up the McArthur “trust”
cos. The “only substantial asset of any
of the cos.” is the “Daily Telegraph”
building, to be sold under approval of
the Court for the benefit of debenture-
holders. The bill disqualifies five men
from acting as directors or managers of
any N. S. Wales companies for a period
of 10 years. Winding-up action has also
been taken by the Maoriland Govern-
ment, with which the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment has been co-operating all along.
In Maoriland a Trustee Companies Pro-
tection Bill, regulating the allotment and
transfer of shares in public trustee cos.,
is also being considered by Parliament.
* * * *
The importance of the British butter
market to Australia and Maoriland is
shown by the U.K.’s imports over a
period of five weeks:
Feb. Feb. Mar. Mar. Mar.
20. 27. 6. 13. 20.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Australia 1876 2091 4071 4080 2895
Maoriland .. 1650 3250 3000 4900 1850
Denmark .... 2000 1950 1750 1800 2050
Other 745 985 1010 735 1005
Total ....6271 8276 983111,515 7800
Imports from Australia during that time
aggregated 15,013 tons, as against 14,650
from M.L. Meanwhile the market is
quiet, salted “Kangaroo” fetching 735.
a hundredweight.
* * * *
From all quarters Acting-Treasurer
Casey has been criticised on the score
of his bill “validating” the extortion of
a quarter-million of sales tax collected
on second-hand goods which the High
Court pronounced illegal. After saying
he would never yield he yielded ; refunds
are to be allowed where it can be proved
that the tax was not passed on to the
consumer. With second-hand articles, of
no fixed value, that is going to be hard
to do.
* * * *
Consumption of gas and electricity in
Sydney is at present higher than at any
time since 1929. Taking 1929 to 1931
as average years, output at present is up
4 to 5 p.c.
* * * *
In the Innisfail (Q.) district, one of the
most important sugar areas in the State,
the crop is expected to be 20 p.c. below
normal, owing to sudden and excessive
rains.
* * * *
Tea has been the latest commodity to
be restricted. The first year’s result has
been a still lower world price—a fall
from Is. per pound in January, 1934,
to 11 |d, in December. Most restriction
schemes, such as those affecting rubber,
tin and coffee, have failed in their object,
partly because of inherent difficulties in
holding up any market, and partly be-
cause of the general trend of world con-
ditions. The tea trade complains that
the repeal of prohibition in U.S.A. has
affected tea-drinking, and in Australia
fruit-drinks and milk-bars have lessened
consumption.
* * * *
Melbourne’s taxi services are under
discussion. Fares have been far too high,
and the concessions now being offered
by cab-owners still don’t bring the
charges within coo-ee of Sydney fares.
A mile journey in Melbourne costs 2s.
6d., as against Is. 6d. in Sydney ; the
proposed reductions in the southern capi-
tal would bring the fare down to 2s. 2d.
Melbourne taxi-men are said to earn
£2 11s. 6d. a week; in Sydney it is
doubtful whether there is that much in
it after wear and tear on cabs is included.
* * * *
Nearly all Australia’s exports, after
slumping badly early in the year, have
lately shown recovery. Base metals all
rose over the past month; copper by
£3 3s. to £3l (stg.), lead by £1 17s. 6d.
to £l2 2s. 6d., spelter by £1 7s. to £l2
155., and tin by £3 to £223 per ton. Silver
is also up by about a penny; gold is
down 4s. an ounce.
=K * *
Britain finished the financial year to
March 31 with a surplus of £7,562,000.
There is to be no cut
in direct taxation, but
the “second half of the
salary reductions”
which civil servants
suffered in 1931 is likely
to be restored. The
entertainment tax on
sixpenny seats at
cinemas is to be abol-
ished. Australia has
few sixpenny (adults’)
cinema seats, and no
surpluses, but it has a
lot of direct taxation
and civil servants. The
latter in N. S. Wales
are to have another 20
p.c. of their salary-cuts
restored, notwithstand-
ing that trade-union
unemployment in the
State amounts to about
23 per cent.
* * *
“G.M.”: Possibly the
most difficult crime to
detect is the robbery of
gas and electricity.
Anybody with a rudi-
mentary knowledge of
gas-fitting or electricity
can so manipulate the
pipes and wires as to
get his light and power
for nothing, and there
is no way of catching him except
by a careful scrutiny of the whole
system. But, not content with stealing
half the gas or current he uses, the thief
often goes out after more ; and the small
quantity registered makes the authori-
ties suspicious. During a prosecution
in Melbourne last week, an Electricity
■Commission witness stated that that body
lost £lO,OOO a yeear in theft of current.
* * * *
“G.”: During court proceedings in
Melbourne last week it was revealed that
the enterprising man who erected Temple
Court had to sell the building and land
for half a million pounds, incurring a
huge loss on the transaction. Yet his
scheme looked a good business proposi-
tion, and one which had been used with
great success in America. His idea was
to sell—not rent —individual, offices in
the big modern building, making every
occupant an owner. Melbourne busi-
ness firms didn’t rise to the occasion,
however.


■H HE rx -E ’ S TO’-E «
HOPS- •
S UCAR ■
VEASI
THAT IS
THE ENERGIZING
POWER YOU NEED
When orderin^i
P / LS £ /V Eft
SA\
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
fl
J:
i
uysiEi
'Wi
V\
/
To
oWE V S
I
■■■
t
»
m i
m
0
—t:
TWU|
i»sii
*■l*l
iiliii*
mm
mm
..
■
fd


Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
• etc., etc.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
-r [RECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
%
lIBIIIIi
lient, age 19J, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
.* 21 ~ 5 „ in 5 mths.
~ 20, 3£ „ in 16 days.
•i 30, „ S. „in 4 weeks.
40. 1* „ in 6 BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3|ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from dU over the world.
Fee 22 2s. complete. Details Free. Write now^
A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, J
Scarborough, Eno. iP.O. Box 16.)
ROSS for HEIGHT/
5% First Mortgage Deben-
tures of £25 Each.
Currency 20-25 years. Interest at 5 p.c. p.a.,
payable yearly for full period of currency of
Debentures, by coupon attached to the Deben-
tures. Redemption by ballot, in cash of l-sth
of total in each year between 20th and 25th
years, plus an accrued and annually added bonus
of 5 p.c. p.a. (apart from the interest) for 20
year's, making redemption double the original
value at maturity. Adequate security and interest
payable by lodging coupons at any Bank.
£lOO Debentures worth £125 in 5 years
100 „ „ £l5O „ 10
100 „ „ £175 „ 15
100 „ ~ £2OO „ 20
Plus 6 p.c. annual Interest.
Debentures procurable for cash, or on easy terras
alternatively, £5 deposit and £5 per quarter,
or £5 deposit and £2 per month, or £2/10/-
deposit, £2/10/- first instalment and £1 per
month. Interest starts first of month following
payment of each £25. Individual subscription
limited to £lOOO. Allotment in order of receipt
of applications. Redemption in cash plus Interest
ahd Bonus in the event of death of Debenture
holders after 5 years.
Inquire for prospectus and further particulars
from
EMPIRE TUNG OIL PRODUCTS LTD
12-14 O’Coimell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W1165,
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
The Half-caste Problem
“Kaloa”; Mr. Anderson, a Swedish
journalist, has stated that mission boys
and girls of 13 and 14 live together in
a common dormitory at Jay River, near
Alice Springs, and that a half-caste race is
being built up in the N.T. to such an
extent that it is difficult to find a pure
white child there. Though his charges
may not be true, the Interior Department
courts trouble by its methods of handling
both native and half-caste in the N.T.
Government homes and compounds in
arid desert towns or in cosmopolitan
settlements like Darwin are not the places
for these people, any more than the
woodheaps of outlying stations are suit-
able venues for degraded camp blacks.
They should be removed to distant and
healthy surroundings.
Ten years ago Alice Springs boasted
a half-caste home which consisted of
a flat-roofed iron shed almost devoid of
ventilation, in which boys and girls alike
were herded at night. There was nothing
to suggest that it bred immorality, be-
cause local supervision was strict, but
the place was certainly not suitable even
for cattle to sleep in, much less young
girls, some of whom were almost white.
After a row had stirred up the Minister,
changes were made.
The half-caste problem in the N.T.
may look serious to the stranger, but
actually it will solve itself. These cen-
sus figures sum it up:
Total, Inc. or Dec.,
1933. 1921-33.
European full-bloods ... 3306 Inc. 848
Non-European ditto 744 Dec. 183
Half-caste abos 743 Inc. 283
Other half-breeds 57 Inc. 35
There is great disparity in the sex in-
crease—half-caste males 187 and females
only 96. In 1911 there were 280 half-
breeds out of a total population of 2660,
so that, considering that the white popu-
lation is mainly ephemeral and that the
half-caste remains on his native soil, the
growth is not extraordinary or alarming.
N. S. Wales, considering the type of white
population which it possessed a generation
after its settlement, probably had a bigger
half-caste percentage than ever faced the
N.T. To-day it has about 5000 half-
castes, many of them useful citizens, in
a population of 2,600,000.
“Nai”; While there has been an in-
crease of 7 p.c. in the cancer rate in
other States, the increase-rate is 17 p.c.
in Queensland, though the number of
deaths per 100,000 in the North is
still slightly less than in other States.
Cancer caused 10 p.c. of all Queensland
deaths in 1934* despite the fact that Dr.
L. B. W, Clarke, a Cancer Trust radio-
therapist, says that “skin cancer is well
under control—no fewer than 95 p.c.
of early cases are cured and many cures
of older cancer are effected.” Dur-
ing the depression Queensland has be-
come more highly industrialised than be-
fore, and there should be some clues
worth following up in the rate incidence
of various centres through a general com-
parison with the incidence of other dis-
tricts in the southern States. The all-
Australian cancer death-rate grew from
74 per 100,000 in 1911 to 105 in 1933.
The less-settled areas have the greatest in-
creases. In W.A. the growth was from
62 to 106, but in N.S.W. the development
is only from 74 to 100.
“Wooloowin”: There seems to be a
chance for the south to send some of its
unemployed builders to Brisbane. The
president of the Real Estate Institute has
complained about a “definite shortage of
workmen’s cottages at rents from 15s. to
£1 per week and small modern houses at
from 255. to 30s. per week.” He says
the main reason lies in the better eco-
nomic conditions, permitting hundreds of
young couples to get married and hun-
dreds more, who had been driven back to
their parents’ homes, to take up house-
keeping again. While the shortage is being
filled somebody might design a new type
of house for Brisbane. The old-fashioned
ones built for summer coolness are ice-
boxes and windtraps when the June west-
erly blows. The newer ones are bad
copies of the less elegant U.S.A. work-
man’s dwelling.
“Eagle Farm”: Brisbane is to have a
new private hotel on modern American
lines at Hamilton, overlooking one of the
most beautiful reaches of the Brisbane
River. Its proposed layout is that of
modern American hostelries, with sur-
rounding gardens, a gymnasium, tennis
course, laundries for hire and other facili-
ties. There will be family blocks to
"I met SICH a gent, on the
tram, Mrs. Bloggs. 'E said
I looked tired, so ’e made
’ees missus give me ’er seat!”
which children will be admitted, bachelor
and spinster blocks and married couple
blocks in which children will be debarred.
The whole will be surrounded by gardens.
But there will be no license. Residents
who are accustomed to watch the sun
coming over the yardarm must either
provide their own fuel or walk at least
as far as Breakfast Creek,
* * * *
“O’Kwai”: Counsel in the N.S.W.
Supreme Court said the other day that
any atrocity can be committed on a fish
without the culprit suffering under the
R.S.P.C.A. Act. Up North, once you’ve
caught your bream, you have to be jolly
careful, because a “captive animal” is
defined to include birds, fishes and rep-
tiles. Just let our Home Sec. catch any
schoolboy pinching the goldfish’s tail or
tying the local black-snake into knots!
“Nagheer”: Darwin won’t be the same
without Ah Cheong, dead at 65. Wing
Cheong Sing was his trade-name, and
many a white man has reason to be
grateful in recollecting it and Ah Cheong.
A kindly but intensely shrewd old lad,
he was no mark for a takedown, but his
“All li!” meant as much as a sealed
agreement. Three sons followed him on
his last journey through Darwin. A
fourth son and three daughters are in
China.
$ # * ,'4!
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Amity Point,
at the northern end of Strad broke
Island (Moreton Bay, Q.), has gained a
fresh lease of life by a regular motor-
boat service from Brisbane, 25 miles
away. Eighteen allotments on perpetual
lease were recently sold at the Lands
Office at from £l5 to £25 each. The re-
maining one, with a shack, brought £235.
The attractive feature about it was that
it is reasonably permanent. Some of
the locality has a sudden habit of slip-
ping into the channel. Forty years ago
Amity had a boom, and long prices were
paid for sea-front lots. After the ’93
flood many owners found their real
estate six fathoms under water. Tom
Welsby, doyen of yachtsmen and official
historian of Moreton Bay, has had a
cottage there for many years.
* * * *
“Point Charles”: Wireless has done
good work in alleviating conditions in
the outback, but one of the best efforts to
date is the portable receiving and trans-
mitting set installed at the Leichhardt’s
Bar police station, on the Roper (N.T.).
Power is generated by pedalling, and
sending is done with a typewriter key-
board which transmits in Morse to Clon-
curry, whence messages go to Darwin.
The station will receive broadcast from
any of the larger east-coast stations, as
well as wireless-telephone messages.
Although primarily intended to improve
the efficiency of the N.T. Mounted Police,
anyone who knows the outback will
think first of what such communication
means to the constable’s wife who is left
alone, with no companionship but the
station blacks, for weeks at a time when
he is on long patrols.
‘‘Australia Jane’s” Budget
Captain R. C. de M. Leathes (pro-
nounced Lees), who is taking on Pat
Honnor’s job as aide to our Sir Leslie,
arrived by the Drama. Like Pat Honnor,
he is an officer of the Royal Marines.
He was on H.M.S. Revenge for some
years.
Nancy Rennick, who left for England
on the Bendigo, was farewelled by the
repertory movement at a tea-party hos-
tessed by Barbara Sisley at Barbara’s gay
little red-brick house at St. Lucia.
A good party was the “Back to Child-
hood” affair at the New Farm Bowling
Club, arranged by a batch of cheery
young things to help the funds of the
Y.A.L. George Rees, the judge, handed
prizes to Nell Thomas and Hartley
Pashen.
News has been received in Bris-
bane of the wedding in Hankow (China)
of Myrtle Katherine Wockner and Cyril
Thomas Biggin. The Church of the Im-
maculate Conception heard the Voice,
and Father Linus Lombard, assisted by
Fathers Adolph Kirst and Timothy
Cahill, officiated. The bride is the second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Wock-
ner, Walford, Jondaryan, and the ’groom
is the only son of Mr. and Mrs. T.
Biggin, Bristol (Eng.).
J. R. Kemp, who, during the last 14
years has built nearly 3000 miles of roads
and nine miles of bridges in Queensland,
has been awarded the Kernot Memorial
Medal by Melbourne University.
The Anglican Archbishop’s wife, Mrs.
J. C. Wand, had a first-hand demonstra-
tion of the physical fitness of young
Australia when she visited the Valley
Creche and Kindergarten and the Lady
Goodwin Free Kindergarten at Spring
Hill. A finer collection than the 100
youngsters who gathered could not have
been seen anywhere. Mrs. Bedford
Elwell (chairwoman of the Creche and
Kindergarten Association) and Mrs. P. R.
Pashen (chairwoman of the Valley
branch) were in the party.
The new Ashgrove Kindergarten, now
officially open, is a delightful building.
There is a big main room with lots of
windows, tiny chairs and tables in shades
of cream and green and green-and-gold
curtains. Nursery-rhyme illustrations are
are on the walls. Minister for Agricul-
ture Bulcock did the opening, and
the committee handed a bouquet of
dahlias to Mrs. Bulcock.
Mrs. Moffat Clow, president of
the Ulster Women’s Christian Tem-
perance Union, is visiting Q’land
after some months in Melbourne. She was
at the recent Stockholm conference, and
has attended four world temperance con-
ferences. She is at present in Stanthorpe,
where a brother, Walter Robertson, is
fruitgrowing. Her husband’s great-uncle,
Rev. James Clow, was one of the
founders of Presbyterianism in Victoria.
Bowls of dahlias decked the lounge at
the Brisbane Golf Club, Yeerongpilly,
when the associates celebrated the open-
ing of the golfing season. A buffet after-
noon-tea was on tap in the dining-room,
where pink roses formed the decorations.
Mrs. J. K. Cannan, the captain, is in
Melbourne meeting her daughter, Mrs.
George Bain, returning from Rangoon
with a grandson. Violet Midson, the
secretary, did the honors.
Strawberry, in large numbers and from
all parts of the Downs, flocked into Too-
woomba for the 75th annual Too-
woomba Show. Hosts of beauty-culture
experts travelled in her wake. The
weather behaved admirably, the entries
were large and the attendance excellent.
A drop of rain would be acceptable,
but all the Show officials hoped that it
would hold off until the end of the
week. James Taylor, who commemo-
rated the visit of the Duke of Glou-
cester by giving £5OOO to the Show
society ; T. H. Affleck, councillor of the
R.A.N. ; F. Prentice, of Southbrook,
whose hobby is lamb-raising ; and Nor-
man Hill, who raises Angora rabbits at
Oakey, were among those who haunted
the grounds.


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
THE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so saft
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN;S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
SfroMvns (.MEXICAN)
tfcUfudS&W’
Never Fails —
Unbreakable
STANLEY
HOT WATER BOTTLE
Big claims these, but amply substantiated.
Other features, too, are the Untarnishable
Aluminium from which it is manufactured
and a time-saving screw top that will never
leak. Further, despite its neat, flat, circular
shape it stands up for filling—factors that
have proved powerful attractions. The
Stanley will be found
invaluable for travelling or
in cases of sickness, Wupt-
plied with cover.
25-
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Boom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from %/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manaoer jor full particulars.
f
MEMORISE
. ... With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Lodge
Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B. Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Hore-Ruthven must be thinking
that Sydney is man-shy. Her first big public
affair, the Lady Mayoress’s party, was
overflowing, redundant, with woman.
Last Wednesday the women’s organisa-
tions of Sydney gave her the glad hand,
and in the whole of the gay, glittering
and flower-decked ballroom of David
Jones’s there was not so much as hair or
hide of one male. But there were 700
women, so a statistician murmured, and
this Letter is willing to take her word for
it. Even the band was a womanly one.
Very smart it looked, too, in its trim
blue uniforms, its cream-and-silver leader
an impressive and slim figure. It is
known as the New South Wales Ladies
Brass Band, and it put quite a dash into
the proceedings. After this array of
brass bands, loudspeakers and social
ushers, the National Council of Women
will have something to live up to in its
party to her Excellency to-morrow night.
Father and the boys must have had an
early dinner or taken their evening meal
in town, for the time set for the rally
was eight o’clock, and everyone was
punctual. By that hour the dais at the
end of the room was looking attractive
with baskets of flowers —one, colorful and
fragrant with red roses, scarlet gladioli
and golden roses, was presented to Lady
Hore-Ruthven, who arrived drawing a
small pointed train to her frock of mul-
berry laces, lit in front by a diamond
clasp. With her was Harry Budge’s lady
in the palest pink lace warmed by a
wrap of wine velvet. Mrs. Parker was in
flowered chiffons ; Mrs. Kenneth Street
was a busy mistress of ceremonies in
vellum lace boldly patterned with henna
leaves.
Fifty-two organisations sent ambas-
sadors, and six from each group were
presented to the Governor’s lady. Women
rowers, cricketers, hockey players, swim-
mers and other well-known sports
varieties were there with a sparkle in
the eye. Old friends from the St. John
Ambulance Brigade, the Red Cross, the
music and drama clubs greeted one
another. There were hospital workers,
there were Returned Soldiers and Sailors
Leaguers, women musicians, trained
nurses. Empire Guilders and dozens of
others. And everyone looked happy,
energetic and contented.
It was fortunate that the Phillip Streets
threw their party in honor of the Gover-
nor and Lady Hore-Ruthven on Satur-
day night. By so doing their guests
avoided, by the narrow margin of 48
hours, coming under the new Executive
Council ukase which directs the police
“to seize motor vehicles left in the street
unprotected, and which are a danger or
an unreasonable obstruction to traffic.”
Gar-drivers returning from theatres
and movies to their homes in Onslow-
place and Billyard-avenue, found Onslow-
avenue, where the Streets live, in an
insane state of confusion. Immense
cars, unprotected and otherwise, were
obstructing the traffic on both sides of
the thoroughfare from No. 11 to Eliza-
beth Bay House. As cars from the city
encountered cars travelling the other
way, complete traffic blocks occurred,
and the language, as mudguard met
bumper-bar, was shocking at times,
“We have had to have this regulation
approved,” Superintendent Carter, of the
Traffic Department, told an interviewer
oji Saturday, “so as to straighten out a
condition which has become a nuisance.”
In future, he says, any obstructive cars
left unattended in any street, however
affluent, will be “arrested and taken to the
police depot at Alexandria ; and the ex-
pense incurred will be charged to the
owner.”
Sydney’s senior presswoman, Mrs.
Fotheringhame, was plunged into mourn-
ing last week by the death of her hus-
band, Commander James Fotheringhame,
at the age of 78. Mrs. Fotheringhame
was the first woman writer on The
Bulletin staff, and has only lately given
up an active part in journalism. The
commander, a genial and fresh-com-
plexioned man, enjoyed a dance up to a
year or two ago. He was at the Boei
War with the Australian Bushmen, and
in the Great War he had a commission
with the Royal Naval Reserve, and was
in charge of an armed merchantman. He
was decorated with the Royal Humane
Society’s gold medal for brave rescues
in the wreck of the Ly-ee-Moon.
Salute Evangeline Booth, the just on
70-year-old general of the Salvation
Army! The erect, fair-haired woman, as
trig and well-tailored (though not so
orthodox) in the saddle as she is on the
platform facing her faithful, is about to
give Sydney a taste of her mettle. Sydney
will respond warmly, for it has a great
affection for the Salvation Army.
How are the pale greens and blues,
the silver paint, the Persian reds of the
Manoora going to stand the wear and
tear of the coastal run? When the
Adelaide S. S. Co. introduced her by
way of afternoon kettledrums to her
Sydney public, she was quite the belle of
the harbor-front. The company’s
Arthur Bridgemans received the guests ;
Captain Irvine, of the Manoora, and
Mrs. Irvine were surrounded by friends.
The Tasmanian Government has
snared a very personable as well as a
much-travelled publicity officer in the
widow of the Speck’s Agent-General
Snowden. With her husband she
was for seven years an official
figure in London’s social and political
life, almost as much at home in
Buckingham Palace, through having
sponsored the presentations of so many
Australians, as at Mrs. Alec Tweedie’s flat
in Devonshire House. Tasmania’s new
ambassador is trig of figure, pink and
white of complexion, and a smart frocker.
She knows all about the scenic and other
allures of Tasmania, though only allied
to the Apple Isle by marriage. Sydney
is her native heath, and Kambala under
the regime of Miss Gurney and Miss
Soubeiran was her school. Eldest
daughter Jean has dug herself into a
radio job; she has taken over the
children’s-hour session in Hobart.
Before the Manoora took up her inter-
state run she decked herself out in elec-
trics and held a dance on her wide decks.
To this Lady Hore-Ruthven went dressed
in lengthy black romaine silvered o’er
with leaf and bud. Her cape was of
ermine, her posy of red roses. These
were handed to her by Adelaide S. S.
Co.’s Mrs. F. Bridgman, whose black
moires wore a tulle cape. Of the young
women in the Government House group,
Joan Gifford wore the most gaze-attract-
ing frocking. Of palest blue crepe
it deepened to sapphire in its fichu-like
shoulder drape. English visitor Priscilla
Feilden had succumbed to the charm of
frangipanni, and wore it sprayed across
the shoulder of her black satins; pink
of an unsophisticated shade threw up
Miss Ivie Price’s fair coloring. The
potter Wedgwoods also came with the
Governor’s lady, Mrs. Wedgwood’s
Burne-Jones head rising above a long
and trained sheath of silver.
Among the very smart who trod the
decks were Mrs. A. V. Bridgman, her
white frock patterned in silver, and
Mayoress Parker, glittering diamente
clasps on her shoulders and a spray of
orchids in her wine-red laces. Mrs.
Harry Dransfield swung her black ostrich
feather cape over sweeping black crepe,
Alix Lamb wore blue deep as the night
sky, Mrs. F. J. Davy’s lace was dahlia-
red in tone, and Phyllis Booth, who came
with Mrs. Bruce Filmer, chose rose-petal
pink.
Authors’ Week, duly blessed by the
Governor on Monday, is now in full
blast. You pay sixpence to see the exhibi-
tion of Australian literature, from its very
beginnings to the present day. Dipping
into some of the older efforts, one gets
the idea that laughter was much more
plentiful a couple of decades ago. Per-
haps there was more to laugh about in
a pre-war world. To see the pageant
(plus afternoon-tea) you pay Is. 6d. It
consists of episodes from well-known
novels and plays linked together by John
Gould and Jeanie Ranken. A touching
and sincere scene is that from Henry
Lawson’s “Faces in the Street.” On Sat-
urday night the week closes on a note of
high festival—a ball in the Blaxland
Galleries.
Until last week Mrs, .Allen Anderson,
of this Raymond Sawyer picture, was
Catherine Rundle, of Ealing, Woollahra.
Hers was the most-taiked-of wedding of
the week, and was blessed by St. John’s
in Darlinghurst. The Rundle family
take almost a proprietary interest in the
grey stone church set back a little from
the rush and bustle of Darlinghurst-
road. Mrs. Anderson’s mother and
father, the C. W. Rundles, were married
there, and she and her sisters were
christened within its walls. The ’groom
is the youngest son of knight Robert
Anderson, of Bellevue Hill.
A plate circled with ivy-leaves used
by Napoleon on St. Helena is one of the
show pieces of the Wedgwood exhibition,
which netted Lady Hore-Ruthven and a
party from Government House last week,
as well as the general public. The gaze
lingers on this longer even than on the
plate from a service made by the old-
established firm for Catherine 11. of
Russia. This is part of the famous dinner
service of 1000 pieces bearing on them
English country scenes, cathedrals and
suchlike. In the collection is a copy ot
the Portland Vase and an old exhibition
piece, a mug dated 1750. C. T. Wedg-
wood, fifth in direct descent from the
famous Josiah, is now in Sydney with
his wife. She has a link with Maoriland.
being a great-granddaughter of Captain
Hobson, the founder of Auckland and
Enzed’s first Governor-General.
The first really dazzling military func-
tion of the season will be the ball
arranged by the Field Engineers and
Signal Officers’ Mess at the Wentworth
on Friday, April 12. Judging by the
great success that attended last year s
ball, this April’s adventure promises to
be brilliant and enjoyable. Particulars
from Lieut. W. T. Briggs; ’phone.
FL4840.
Mrs. McWhinnie, who is in Sydney
on one of her periodical visits (she has
a flat at the Astor) was one of the love-
liest Gaiety Girls Sydney ever saw when
she married Alf Marks, half-brother of
Theo, in the ’nineties. Alf died during
the war —a result of service in London
as a special constable —and the widow
married an R.A.M.C. major-general
some years later.
Her daughter Margery married Bertie
Watson, brother of Fred, the war his-
torian and Canberra pastoralist, in 1919,
but they didn’t get on. There was one
of those amiable divorces which leave
the parties and their families perfectly
friendly, and Margery, who has inherited
her mother’s tall, fair beauty, married
Sir Pyers Mostyn, Bart. The young man
had a distinguished World War career in
a Welsh Fusilier regiment. The Mostyns,
who have a son and a daughter, are
nearly as well known in Sydney as Mrs.
McWhinnie.
The Dean of Sydney and Mrs. Talbot
start off on another overseas holiday next
week. They go in a Norwegian ship,
The Triton, which carries only 12 pas-
sengers. They are feeling quite vice-
regal because they have the only suite
on board ; however, as the Dean takes
a pile of work away with him, the tiny
sitting-room is a necessity. They have
had a round of farewells, including one
at the Chapter House. Mrs. Talbot
staged an intimate one last week for her
mother, Mrs. Vert, who sailed by the
Bendigo on Monday.
Mrs. Douglas Duff, the attractive young
Englishwoman who has revelled in the
hats, shark-fishing, stadium bouts and
parties provided by Sydney, started on
her back-to-Folkestone journey last week.
This will be made in a Finnish sailing
vessel leaving from South Australia;
a youthful Chirnside is another passenger.
A thousand cigarettes are among the
extras tucked into Mrs. Duff’s luggage.
Mrs. Payten, Mrs. Duff’s mother, will
remain in Sydney a few more weeks, and
will then trek homewards in the orthodox
way by a luxury liner.
Woman, too, is doing her bit to make
a bigger and better Show. From Mel-
bourne are coming the ex-Mayoral
Luxtons, mother and daughter. Dinah
Hordern will ride Ceulan Comet, a
newly-imported pony given to her by her
father, Tony Hordern. Dinarth Jim,
champion for the past two years, will
again be shown by Mrs. P. L. Grimwood,
and little Mrs. B. B. Audette will exhibit
the saddle ponies which are among Keith
Dransfield’s prides. Mrs. J. T. Scrym-
geour, wife of the blind returned soldier
who is himself a fine cattle judge, will
pin her faith to Shorthorns ; Mrs. Tony
Hordern will send her prize Herefords
from Milton Park, Bowral, into the
arena; and Mrs. Audrey Manchee, of
Tenterfield, will again be seen in the ring.
American girl Alice Greenough and
young Australian Violet Skuthorpe will
add the thrill of a buckjumping contest.
Brigadier-General Anderson, private
secretary to the Governor, has had sad
news; his sister, the wife of Brig.-Gen.
Byron, died suddenly in South Africa-
six weeks after her husband’s death.
Twenty-five or so years ago, the two
were well-known figures in Sydney
society. Mrs. Byron, who had a clever
pen, wrote many short stories for The
Bulletin.
The philanthropic poodle and the portly
pug had quite an urban meeting-ground
last) week. The R.S.P.C.A. had hung out
its sign in Hunter-street, opposite a few
dazzling jewellers’ shops. Still, the spark-
lers opposite did not impress the blood-
hounds quite so much as the chops in
the window a few doors up. The walls
of the R.S.P.C.A. shop were crowded
with pictures of animals tame and wild.
The shop’s merchandise was happily
mixed ; you could drink tea there, and
buy the useful or the ornamental. The
shop was stocked and run each day
bv R.S.P.C.A. enthusiasts from various
suburbs.


Personal and Missing Friends.
IF RALPH EDWARD FOWLER, one time
of Bridport, England, and formerly of Kojonup,
Western Australia, will communicate with the
undersigned he may hear something to his
advantage.
DARBYSHIRE & GILLETT,
Solicitors,
Commercial Bank Chambers,
42 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Western Australia.
WILLIAM WALTER BARNARD, form-
erly of Hewlett Street, Waverley, Sydney,
Bus Driver, son of Mrs. Jane Barnard, deceased,
and husband of Effie Isabel Barnard, last
heard of in October, 1925, and who is entitled
to property in the estate of his mother, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with PAUL F. O’BRIEN, Solicitor,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usum
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
THE BOOKS OF THE DAY
serious, humorous, descriptive, biographical
are reviewed by experts iu the Literary Pages
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
See “The Australasian” also for Short Stories*
Literary Notes and an Interesting Literary
Questionnaire.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 540 of 1935.
BETWEEN CHRISTINA BRADLEY Petitioner
And WILLIAM HORACE BRADLEY
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM HORACE BRADLEY late of
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Christina
Bradley has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-eighth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. DALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Grand opera seems to have lost its
glamor in Melbourne. On any night dur-
ing the season that came to such a
pathetic end last week one could almost
count the people in the audience who
dressed according to tradition. At a per-
formance of “The Flying Dutchman,”
Mrs. Percy Chirnside and Mrs. George
Blackwood, sitting together in the circle,
did their bit toward preserving the grand
manner by wearing beautiful jewels and
formal white kid gloves. The Fuller lady
fluttered from box to foyer wearing a
black frock inlet with panels of flesh-
pink ninon and trailing a filmy sash.
Made of stern stuff is Gertrud—
give the “e” a miss—Helin, an almost
brand-new arrival, who, piloted by her
big brother, Henning Helin, the Swedish
Consul, made her first acquaintance
with a Melbourne racecourse and did
not deign to even powder her nose. The
Consul’s sister hails from a Swedish town
on the Baltic with one of those foreign
names that send the blood to your head
when you try to spell it. In her home
town she is assistant principal of a big
public school. She dotes on mathematics,
chemistry and kindred subjects, and her
leisure time is devoted to good deeds.
A recreation hall for industrial workers
and a boarding-school for poor children
help to keep her busy. On occasions she
goes gadding in the dashing uniform of a
District Commandant of Girl Guides.
A little plumper than of yore, Mrs. W.
J. Seymour cut a decorative figure at
Moonee Valley in grey English worsted.
She can wear tailorings these days to far
better advantage than in the days when
she was Wilma Clarke and her form,
right in line with the fashionable caraway-
seed figure, was the envy of all the heavy-
weights in Melbourne. Barbara Bellair,
who expects to be on her way to England
before the month is out, was swathed to
the neck in one of the new season’s dark-
brown woollens with a white pique jabot
hanging like a bib beneath her chin. Her
shapely hands were encased in a pair of
gauntlet gloves the color of raw coffee.
Norman Carlyon has persuaded Enid
Murdoch to name the day. She will
bind her brow with orange-blossom on
May 22. Col. and Mrs. T. Murdoch in-
tend issuing about 200 invitations for
their daughter’s wedding at Scots
Church. The toasting will be done at
the Hotel Windsor. Myra Sloan, Margot
and Alison Tiernan, Bertha Noseda, of
Geelong, and Billy Pamphilon are all
agog wondering how they will dress for
the role of bridesmaids. In type Norman
Carlyon’s bride-to-be resembles the film
star Joan Crawford.
The Luxton lady has patted her giant
Alsatians good-bye and packed her
trunks for Asia. She intends staying in
Sydney on the way so as to see young
daughter Mary ride at the Sydney Show.
Women friends staged a sumptuous
lunch as a farewell tribute at Gros-
venor, Toorak. So many pals of the
sporty matron were mustered that the
hostesses, Mrs. Albion Walkley, Mrs. O.
Bowden, Mrs. Clendinen and Mrs. Tom
Luxton, had to have the meal served in
the ballroom. After lunch everybody
seemed to be in a chatty mood. Bridge
tables were not brought into play. The
most impressive story of the afternoon
was a fishy one. Mrs. Cleve Pratt, who
with her daughters Shirley and Valerie
is joining the Luxton lady on the Asiatic
cruise, told of her luck at Portsea the
day before. She hooked 401 b. of snap-
per, and one of the scaly monsters
weighed 151 b. The travellers leave
Sydney by the Taiping on April 17.
Australian men as a rule fight shy of
getting into fancy costume. But those
who attended a cheery party staged by
Captain E. A. McKewan and Lucius
Conolly a few nights ago had to get
into character clothes or stay away. The
hosts were adamant. Being detained
until a late hour owing to numerous pro-
fessional calls. Dr. Alan Mackay tried to
wangle a concession by telephone. No ;
he must fall in line with the rest. Never
doubting that a personal explanation
would overcome the difficulty, the doctor
and his wife set off for the party in con-
ventional evening-dress. But they suc-
cumbed to the spirit of the revels when,
peeping from the shadow of the pergola,
they realised that they were a couple of
narks. Making a furtive exit they dashed
home, wriggled into kilts and made a
star entrance speaking broad Scotch.
The masquerade shook Kensington-
road, Toorak, to its foundations. Mys-
terious figures arrived at the Conolly
home by coach, sedan chairs and all kinds
of queer conveyances. A bright young
couple were only prevented from using
an elephant instead of a car because of
the difficulty of getting on and off the
beast. Compared with this gay happen-
ing the Bal Masque presented by the
university crowd to usher in Commence-
ment Week was a comparatively quiet
affair.
This is the time of the year when those
colorful figures known in golf clubs as
“associates” gather round clubhouse tea-
tables under the wing of Madame Presi-
dents to mark the opening day of the
season. There is always an added thrill
in showing off new sports clothes. The
cardigans and pullovers which were
given their first airing on President’s Day
at the Metropolitan Golf Club were
gayer than the zinnias which introduced
vivid splashes of color to the lounge.
Miss Marjorie Millear, a Western Dis-
trict girl who spends most of her life in
town, proved an ideal hostess, both on
the links and off.
A spanner has been thrown into the
machinery of the A.W.N.L. Mrs. C. E.
Bolitho has resigned. She took up the
general organising work 25 years ago,
after Eleanor Cameron, now Mrs.
Andrew Glencross,. had quitted the secre-
tarial chair. Senior members still re-
member the clash of the Cameron clay-
more.
The Victorian singer Gertrude John-
son, who is sampling Melbourne home
life again after an absence of 14 years
abroad, might have found the feat of
breaking into London’s musical circle
beyond her fighting strength without the
kindly interest and influence of the late
Peter Mcßride when Agent-General. An
introduction to the foremost bass in Eng-
land, Robert Radford, opened the first
door. The newcomer secured a provincial
engagement, and, after hearing her sing
the Jewel Song from “Faust” in a pro-
vincial theatre, Radford urged her to
get an audition at Covent Garden, where
Percy Pitt, the conductor and artistic
director, was holding voice trials and
nutting over a hundred aspirants through
their paces every week. Amid all those
hundreds the conductor found no singer
who could take the top notes with so
much ease as this young Australian.
Once a week for four years at Covent
Garden, Gertrude Johnson, as “Queen
of the Night,” sang music which soared
so high that she sometimes felt that the
top of her head would come off. The
fact that she was the first Australian to
sing in opera over the air from Great
Britain gives Gertrude—she calls herself
Truda now —a fine feather to put in her
cap. She has changed little from the
girl who went off so many years ago to
try her luck in the Old World except for
the poise and gentle dignity that mark
her bearing now. These are clearly
shown in her photograph.
Ambitious young Australians are re-
peatedly warned not to make for
London without sufficient money to keep
them afloat until they learn to swim.
Gertrude Johnson has stories to tell
of cruelly disillusioned young things
who wouldn’t heed the advice. Some
time ago an Australian girl bubbling over
with good spirits arrived to try her luck,
with ten pounds to finance the enterprise.
“She is either a fool or a heroine,” said
Roger Quilter, the song-composer, when
he handed out the usual subscription to
save the girl from going down for the
third time. “Wireless is taking the gilt
off the concert singer’s gingerbread,
especially in the provinces. There is a
waiting list of 15,000 tested voices at
8.8. C. It will be three years before
each one of these can be given an
engagement; auditions have been sus-
pended.” These are some of the
home truths the returned singer told
at a reception held in her honor at
her old training centre, the East Mel-
bourne Con. The budding Melbas felt
chilled to the marrow.
Sea-fever is bad enough, but look out
for yourself if stage-fever gets hold of
you! A pair of well-known amateurs
have been so badly stricken that they
have chosen a theatre for their marriage
ceremony. Enid Hollins and Jack Wilt-
shire, who have been scintillating for a
few years in the Little Theatre move-
ment, have invited friends to come and
see them get wedded on April 17 at
a quaint building in South Yarra,
once a C. of E. chapel. Now it serves
as a stage setting for the presentation of
plays that are unlikely to be presented
elsewhere. Dr. Adolph Joske bought the
place for a trio of artistically-minded
daughters. The stained-glass windows
and the dim religious atmosphere sent
them delving into the mediaeval age seek-
ing new notions for dance themes and
character costumes. When they went
abroad St. Chads passed into the pos-
session of Bret Randall and his Little
Theatre crowd.
Friends invited to the wedding are
making all manner of wild guesses as to
where the parson will stand to conduct
the ceremony. Dapper Terence Crisp,
under whose stage direction Enid Hollins
scored a brilliant success in a recent
performance, “Sorry You’ve Been
Troubled,” will play the role of best
man. Betty Tait, one of the John Tait
chicks, who gets a kick out of appearing
with the amateurs occasionally, will be
Enid’s bridesmaid. Jack Wiltshire is in
a position to leave his banking job and
take a chance on the professional stage,
but he would rather settle dowp. Being
a pair of city birds, he and Enid have
found a perch for themselves almost
within a stone’s-throw of Collins-street.
Broothorn induced Enid to sit for the
photographic study after one of her re-
cent stage successes.
The news leaked out during the week-
end that septuagenarian Hewlett Ross
has taken unto himself a wife. This young-
old man is one of Melbourne’s pictur-
esque personalities. With his wide felt
hat, thick crop of grey hair, and flowing
necktie, he is often mistaken for an actor
of the old school as he saunters through
the city. He is best known as an adjudi-
cator in those distressing exhibitions
known as elocutionary contests. The
perfectly modulated voice that tells
“mystery stories” over the radio belongs
to this colorful figure. The romance
began in one of the national broadcast-
ing stations here, where Mrs. Hewlett
Ross, then Mrs. Moyle, had something
to do with arranging the programmes.
Hewlett Ross is a good talker. He was
once the chief president of the A.N.A.
A grey-haired little gentlewoman, Miss
Winifred Mills, who still bears traces of
her early-Victorian upbringing, came out
of her shell at the end of last week to
give some of her young relatives and
friends a good time. The coming-of-age
of her nieces Patricia Mills and Elizabeth
Abercromby was marked, according to
social tradition, with the usual dance.
Ua-rdry, the old family home in Toorak,
could not be turned inside out and up-
side down just for a twenty-first birthday.
Guests were invited to 9 Darling-street,
South Yarra, but Uardry’s lovely old
garden yielded enough floral whatnots
for all the decorations. Mrs. Vivian
Price, a younger sister of the hostess, and
daughter-in-law of Colonel Tom Price, of
South African War fame, aired one of
those expensively simple black frocks.
Melbourne is not going to be allowed to
forget Noel Clapp’s wedding in a hurry,
unless the worst happens to those gold
tissue and net bridesmaids’ frocks. Betty
Stephens took hers off the hook again for
this party. Mrs. Reggie Power, daughter
of the late Rupert Clarke, dipped into her
jewel case in honor of the festivity, and
brought forth a long rope of gleaming
amethysts. That stiff brocade so adored
by the Edwardians has been taken up
again by the moderns. Dr. Julian Smith’s
brunette daughter Roma and D’Arcy
Lawry showed that they could look
as well as their great-aunts in silks with
enough bodyline to stand alone. A
few of the older generation came along
to see Geraldine George, of Ballarat,
make her debut in a filmy creation as
white as the driven snow, and hanging
on to a Miss Simplicity posy of pink
rosebuds blurred with blue.
Mr. and Mrs. Buller Allen were ready
to leave for England in March when
their plans went awry, and Mrs. Allen
was popped into hospital for an opera-
tion. So a couple of steamer berths fell
like ripe plums into the hands of the
waiting list —every English-bound ship
sails away packed to her funnels. As
the patient is progressing favorably, the
Allens are hopeful of getting away (the
P. and O. Co. has hammock space up
its sleeve) shortly.
No medico ever visits England without
casting an eye round for intriguing germs
or for new methods for treating or re-
moving the inner workings. Dr. Stella
Braithwaite’s interests are in the outer
layers of the human mechanism, for she’s
a dermatologist. While abroad she did
research at St. George’s, Leicester-
square, and took the opportunity of at-
tending the Women’s Medical Congress
at Stockholm. She arrived home the
other day, accompanied by sister Bertha,
who has been having lessons from
famous golf pros., and is anxious to
put their tips into practice on her home
links.
Names of Australians presented at the
second Court included that of Mrs. Tom
Hudson, who left for England six months
ago to see something of her son —he’s
in the Navy and is now doing a spell of
shore training after long months in the
Atlantic. Mr. Hudson and his elder son
are keeping the home fires burning in
Melbourne.
Wangaratta has been preparing a
welcome for its newly-created canon —
the Rev. Percy Dicker. Mrs. Dicker,
.who is preceding her husband out from
London (the couple have been abroad
for two years), arrived in Melbourne
by the Strathnaver, and is staying with
her parents, Archdeacon and Mrs. Han-
cock. Prof. Hancock, of Adelaide,
greeted his sister en route.


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
sold everywhere
H.A. RO S E &. Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney
IN NEW ZEALAND
marketing experience can
be bought at the lowest
cost by concentrating on
the capital city—WEL-
LINGTON —w here the
“Evening Post” offers a
complete coverage.
“The Evening Post”
goes regularly into 95 % of
the homes in Wellington
city and suburbs.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros. Proprietors)
For particulars and rates apply
to any accredited advertising
agency.
FINER FULL FASHIONED
HOSE
ustre
J2)ULBLOOM, another beautiful
stocking by Lustre. Created
from the finest of pure silk in a variety
of wanted shades. Dulbloom by Lustre
has all the most modern features and
is complete with a delicate lace top.
PAIR
FROM YOUR FAVOURITE STORE
o
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
%
■
i
■
ttiS
i
l
-> - v
W.
i'gm. | ,
1 •! h
M
■
Ufmmm
WINTER CHARM
AND COMFORT
A London Fashions letter from
Margot Hill-Manners, together
with interesting illustrations,
appears in this week’s issue, and
covers the whole of the new
season’s styles, the illustrations
revealing some wonderfully smart
creations for the winter days.
Who would have thought of
kilting tweed! The tweed en-
semble pictured is made of a
beautifully soft and fine fabric,
with hat and bag to match, and
trimmed with self kilting. The
fur-fabric scarf is also trimmed
with tweed kilting.
Don’t Miss Friday’s Issue of
Australia’s Most Popular
Woman’s Magazine.
MANY OTHER
FEATURES
Tunic Frock Patterns
Eighteen-day Diet
Knitted Tennis Jacket
Faggot-stitching
ON SALE FRIDAY
PRICE 3d.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The bells of St. Mary’s, West Perth,
rang out for Barbara Haly’s marriage to
Frank Hardie, of Port Hedland. Her
lovely Brussels-lace veil, which had
graced the head of a bride 150 years
ago, was mounted on filmy tulle and
caught with orange-blossom to form a
wide transparent halo ; through its misty
cascades shimmered classic-cut cloth of
silver, with long, tight sleeves, softly
cowled neck and yards of train. Matron
of honor Mrs. Herbert Davies and
’maids Betty Fletcher (Queensland) and
Grace Stapledon flipped fishtail trains of
silver striped matelasse, which rippled its
aquamarine waves on to silver-edged V
necks and thence to rolls of niching
around the throats. Silver roses and
leaves were woven into wreaths for their
heads, and sheaves of pink gladioli rested
on their arms.
There was a capacity house at the
Pleiades Club’s dramatic performance,
with part of the overflow perched on the
window-sills, giving an impression of a
dress circle. The programme was a
quick-playing fount of humor, starting
with a “Family Album” sketch put on
by Nancy Rogers, and finishing with
Sheridan’s “A Tragedy Rehearsed,”
which gave Margaret Giles’s large cast
full scope for displaying their colorful
garments. Sandwiched in between was
Dorothy Fallows’s production of “They’re
None of Them Perfect,”
For the Stone-Cohen wedding, ’maid
Dora Cohen made a flying trip to
U.S.A. and brought back some choice
creations from Hollywood. Olga’s bridal
satins shimmered with simplicity, and
her tulle veil was arranged so far back
on the head that it was scarce visible
from the front. Sisters Ada and Dora
swished musically in early-Victorian
taffetas, with bouffant skirts and demure
fichus caught in front with X.O.S.
flowers. Rabbi Freedman pronounced
the blessing at the Synagogue,
Just as winter’s icy fingers are about
to drive bathers from the beaches the
Cottesloe Council has reached finality
over the costume controversy. Trunks
are to be taboo, suits must not be rolled
and must be three inches long in the
leg, but the choice of color is left to the
whim of wearers.
News from London tells of the mar-
riage of Molly Oldham, second daughter
of the late Mr. C. L, Oldham and Mrs.
Oldham, of Cottesloe, to Norman Ben-
nett. The ceremony Was performed at
Kensington, and in lieu of orange-blos-
som Molly held her Brussels-lace veil in
place with sprays of white broom.
Phyllis Thiel is doing a round of
parties before becoming Mrs. Frank
Downing.
Telephones are disguised in divers
ways these days, but the Moulden lady s
latest acquisition for concealing the con-
venience must be unique in Australia.
It is a George I. sedan chair, which is
to be installed in her home as a tele-
phone box. Here one may sit down
while ’phoning, close the doors and have
complete privacy, with ample ventilation
provided by the little windows. The
chair arrived in Adelaide before its
owner, who is staying in Perth for a
few days on her way home from Eng-
land.
The latest victims of Cupid’s archery
are Audrey Savage, who is now a resi-
dent of Batavia, and George James.
Patricia Roe, of West Swan, and James
Hall, the E. M. Halls’ elder son, are
another affianced pair.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Polo Ball, held at the Palais Royal,
was a brilliant finale to Polo Week.
Mr. A. C. Rymill was secretary to a com-
mittee of 30 players and members. Huge
tubs filled with mixed blooms were
arranged round the dance space, and the
official box was decorated with bowls of
gladioli and delphiniums.
Lady Dugan was received by Frank
Downer and Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Porter.
She was gowned in fine black lace, with
peplum frill. Mrs. Porter wore a modish
frock of black ninon cut on slim lines
with a backless bodice. Mrs. George
Braund chose black chiffon velvet. Mrs.
H. F. Creswick (Melbourne) was in
whit'e-and-gold-embossed chiffon ring
velvet, with the scarlet ribbon across the
corsage that all the Melbourne players
and their wives wore; daughter Sheila
wore white satin; the Hon. Mrs. Helme-
Pott (Melbourne) was frocked in wood-
land-green moss crepe; Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson (Melbourne) chose daffodil-yel-
low moss crepe with lido-blue velvet sash
ribbon ; Mrs. W. T. Mortlock wore black
chiffon velvet; Mrs. Lance Lewis was in
wine-toned chiffon velvet with long angel
sleeves; Miss Frankie Rymill wore a
charming period frock of pale green and
gold brocade.
The dance held on board the Swedish
ship Mirrabooka at Port Pirie in aid of
the local branch of the Mothers and
Babies’ Health Association brought in
close on £3O. The captain has promised
the committee another dance when the
ship is again in Port Pirie.
Miss Bridget Corbin, whose marriage
to Mr. Stanley Facey takes place at the
end of the month, was the guest of honor
at a kitchen evening, when the hostess
was Mrs. Leonard Ewens, of North Adel-
aide.
A dance arranged by Mrs. Sidney
Ayers, aunt of the bride, will follow the
wedding of Miss Patricia Clovei this
week. It will be held at Eringa, Mills-
wood, the home of her grandparents, the
Sidney Kidmans.
Miss Hilda Snow has again given per-
mission for the Kindergarten Union to
hold its fete in the beautiful garden
of St. Wilfrid’s, at Aldgate, on Saturday
next.
TASMANIA.
Dorothy McGowan and Russell
George Pigott heard the music of “The
Wedding March” at St. David’s, the Dean
of Hobart officiating. The bride wore
magnolia-tinted flat crepe, with high cowl
neckline and long sleeves, the latter
diagonally tucked and dotted with little
pearls to match the Grecian-style belt.
A full tulle veil fell from a sort of poke-
bonnet contraption of tulle, exceed-
ingly becoming. Jessie Nichols, as ’maid,
wore soft-blue satin, the sleeveless frock
topped by a halo hat of silver lace. Mrs.
McGowan entertained friends and rela-
tives at her house afterwards.
Mrs. C. Payne and her daughter
Madge, who are going on a trip to Japan,
have been farewelled by many hostesses
at lunches, teas and bridge parties. Two
of the shivoos were given by Mrs. Thos.
Lyons and Mrs. Raymond-Barker at
their own homes.
A lively meeting was held at the Town
Hall to protest against the book censor-
ship. After much discussion “about it and
about” a resolution was carried that at
least all books freely circulated in Great
Britain should be allowed to pass with-
out question into Australia.
Mrs. Roy Lethbridge, formerly Nancy
Giblin, who has been with her husband
at Simonstown (S’Africa) for some years,
is coming on a visit to her people shortly
to enable young Elizabeth Ann to meet
her Tasmanian relatives.
Paul Harris, founder of Rotary in
Chicago, and his wife blew into the
Speck, and gave a fillip to Rotary affairs
generally. Members of the fraternity
entertained the pair, and Mr. Harris
planted a tree in St. David’s Park to
mark his visit.
Tasmanian listeners-in were thrilled to
hear Charles Benson over the air from
Daventry the other day. Cultivation has
improved the always-beautiful voice, and
the transmission was good, if a trifle
gusty.
Lady Clark is home again after her
mainland trip. The Governor went across
to Melbourne to bring her back, an Y
paid flying visits to country districts be-
fore returning to Hobart.
Dr. Keppel, president of the Carnegie
Corporation of New York, and his wi e
have been visiting us and looking oyer
the skeleton of our Public Library, whic
so badly needs flesh on its bones.
A change of job haviijg necessitated
Guy Webster’s sudden move to the
mainland, he and Sheila Maxwell dis-
pensed with all preliminary parties and
send-offs and faced the altar at short
notice. Rector Biggs, St. Clement s, tied
the knot at Kingston, where the small
church was filled with relatives and a
few intimate friends. The bride s tall
slimness was set off by her going-away
suit of dull pastel-pink crepe, made with
cape falling below the elbows and edged
with soft-brown fur. Her brown velour
hat had a bunch of color in its tnm-
ming of pink and blue leaves, and she
carried a sheaf of delphiniums. Sister
Jean ’maided in a lovely shade of blue
crepe, with brown velour hat.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
A Glorious
Heysen Show
Until May 26
a splendid col-
lection of oils,
water-colors and
drawings by
Hans Heysen—
-98 works in all—will be on show at
Sydney National Gallery. It is largely a
loan show, and exhibits covering a
period of more than 30 years include the
pictures that won the Wynne Art Prize
for landscape.
By his brilliant directness and clarity
of wash Heysen captures the freshness
which is nature. In a show of color-
work masterly technique is often apt to
loom so largely as to stun the intellect
and trap the tyro into drawing liberties ;
therefore, in this collection the interest-
ing section to the student must be the
charcoals, for it is here Heysen the
draughtsman is most clearly seen. As
with his water-colors, the charm is fresh-
ness, which is achieved by his very direct
methods; permitting himself only the
slightest relieving of sharp edges and
softening of delicate tones, his drawings
remain clean and sparkling. As examples
of charcoal they must ba the delight and
despair of students. At any rate, they
make the show one no student can afford
to miss.
In the color-works, from the superb
still-life pieces to the gentle rural scenes
and the parched Central Australian land-
scapes, the same peerless draughtsman-
ship shines through. Heysen has found
and held the warmth of the beautiful
country where he lives and paints, and
that he is very close to the good earth
is spoken in all his work.
It is reported that Sargent, viewing a
collection of Heysen, declared that he
had “never seen better drawings of land-
scape” ; and I recall a discussion with
Lionel Lindsay about 10 years ago:
“Heysen,” said Lindsay, “is the greatest
living water-colorist.” I believed it then ;
I believe it now.
ARIA.
Epstein’s
Figure of
Christ
P. O. MacCabe
(B. 20 /3 I ’35)
should read and
digest these
words of Ep-
stein : “Art is the
one thing about
which everybody is allowed to have an
opinion. If you permitted people to
storm the doors of Harley-street and
dictate to the doctors as to how they were
to do their job, those people would quite
rightly be turned out. If they marched
into the War Office and began to
give their opinions on the conduct of a
i campaign they would be shown the door.
I And yet any doctor or colonel considers
that his opinions about art are as good
as anyone else’s —including the artist’s.
If I had studied surgery for five years
I should be considered expert enough to
carve a human body. But, although I
have studied sculpture all my life, I am
, not considered to know as much about
my work as the urchin who throws stones
at it. It’s a little hard.”
Of course it is. The impression seems
to be that Epstein has no time for tech-
■ nique ; that he simply takes a huge mass
of material and, in the words of Bev-
erley Nichols, “Gets slightly tight and
kicks it about with his boots.” In real-
ity, Epstein is a master of technique; he
: studied at the Beaux Arts, the most clas-
; sical and conventional of all schools;
and there is nothing outrageous about
the way in which he sets about designing
his busts and figures.
Epstein’s intimate knowledge of the
craft of sculpture enables him to forget
about technical points; he knows per-
fectly well that he will put in automatic-
ally all the elementary details. And so
he can mould his clay in such a way as
to express the emotional impression
given him by whatever he is modelling.
This, of course, would not interest Mr.
MacCabe. His chief complaint seems to
be that symbolism is not art. Perhaps
he would condemn as art anything in
which there appears any suggestion of
symbolism. Consequently, the “Mona
Lisa,” whose smile is symbolic of some-
thing which none of us can fathom, is
not art, and in poetry everything where-
in imagery is the outstanding medium
of expression would have to go, which
would deprive us of most of the poetic
masterpieces in our language.
J. C. C.
P. O. McCabe quite obviously does
not know what the real appearance of
Jesus of Nazareth was like. Neither do
L Neither does Epstein, the Pope nor the
Archbishop of Canterbury. He might
have looked just as Epstein portrayed
Him. It is quite unlikely, but there is
that possibility. There is the further pos-
sibility that Jesus of Nazareth looked
something more like the recent Epstein
figure than the conventional figure of the
ordinary “sacred” picture.
“Woodside Pastoral,” one of the nine excellent [?] drawings in the loan
exhibition of Hans HeySen's work at Sydney National Gallery.
All this may be so. But it is probable
that Epstein wished to produce some-
thing that was more than a mere map of
the outline of Jesus of Nazareth. It is
no part of the true function of an artist
to aim at accuracy of reproduction of
natural fact or even of the visual fact,
but at the transference to another mind
of his own mental condition —his inner
judgment as to things seen by means of
necessarily imperfect pictorial mimicry—
and he has to try to convey this to the
dull living creature who is his brother
man.
In years to come, when people have
been able to get a clear vision through
the fog that enshrouds our religious be-
liefs at the present day, the force of Ep-
stein’s Christ will be appreciated. It is
no fake.
And might I point out to Mr. Mac-
Cabe that a symbol is not an abbrevia-
tion, nor an emblem representing some-
thing else? The symbol is the thing itself.
Confusion is naturally caused because
some of us are too blind to see it.
Gerald Dillon.
U.S. Film
Sneers
Ronald T.
Taylor (B.
20/3/’35) is a
trifle late in as-
serting that
Yankee films are
filled with slurs on Britain and the British
people. I see more films than most
people, and I never discern anything of
the sort. v But a much better authority
than myself is Professor Osborne, of
Melb. University. A couple of years
back, when several persons had made
vague charges of anti-British propaganda
from Hollywood, Osborne, who is a film
enthusiast, and knows Hollywood from
Sunset to the Wiltshire, was moved to
action. He said that there was not one
film company worth while which did not
employ a member of every nationality
screened to act as private censor before
the films left the studio. The representa-
tives were university men, preferably of
army experience, and their duty was to
cut anything offensive to their country or
their countrymen, any errors in costume
or custom and any Americanisms which
might creep into the spoken words. It
is almost impossible for offence or mis-
take to get past such a barrier, and
when it does it is because Jove some-
times nods.
G. TROTTER.
What Jazz Is
and Isn’t
Dr. E. L. Bain-
ton, of Sydney
C o nservatorium,
talking on
aspects of music,
took jazz as “low-
brow” for purposes of comparison with
“highbrow” music, the latter embracing
anything from Dvorak’s “Humoresque”
to a Beethoven symphony or a Bach mass.
Such an attitude is ridiculous. It elevates
jazz to a competitive position which no
jazz composer would think of claiming
for it, and it betrays a complete ignorance
of the part that these popular tunes play
in modern life.
Jazz music is first and foremost dance
music. That is its raison d’etre. It is
not stuff that asks of its devotees that
they should sit and listen. On the con-
trary, the most successful jazz melodies
are those which make the feet itch to
dance. Take any of the numbers which
have been big successes, and it will be
found that, primarily, they have been
excellent dance items.
Considered from a purely musical
viewpoint, jazz melodies admittedly are
puerile. But that is just how they should
not be considered. Dr. Bainton showed
that very definitely when, during the
course of his talk, he played a popular
hit of the moment: “Little Man, You’ve
Had a Busy Day.” It was awful! But,
and here is the point, it was played aca-
demically, as a piece of music, and not,
in the way a jazz pianist would have
rendered it, as a dance tune. The result
was about as bad as what one would
expect from an average jazz pianist play-
ing a Chopin nocturne.
Jazz is the outcome of its epoch. Its
cacophony, its strident blaring, its nervi-
ness are manifestations of the post-war
neuroticism of the world just as the
syrupy waltzes of the Edwardian era
were typical of that self-satisfied, easy-
going period. Both jazz and waltzes,
however, are alike in one thing. They
were composed for the ballroom, not
for the concert platform.
Bach, Franck, Ravel could stand as
typical of what the man in the street
would call “highbrow.” “Home, Sweet
Home,” “Thora” and Sinding’s “Rustle
of Spring” are examples of what the
more highly developed music-lover would
classify as “lowbrow.” Jazz, apart from
its terpsichorean significance, would
hardly be considered by either party as
serious music, but highbrow and low-
brow alike are to be seen prancing to-
gether in a foxtrot and enjoying it.
JOHN KENTWELL.
Current
Artbursts
At the Mac-
quarie Galleries,
Sydney, E. A.
Harvey shows a
mixed bunch of
color - works.
landscape, still-life and portraits, all in
oils. Twenty-six pictures are shown, and
with few exceptions the canvases are
small. The impression is that Harvey
could expand. He has technical skill
and draws well, but restraint is notice-
There is a good sense of design
and color in the flower-pieces. “Sun-
flowers” is a pleasant bit of bright color.
“Wheat Silos” is a competent landscape.
A group of compositions in which sex-
tants, barometers, old charts, rum-bottles
and what not are arranged are well-
enough-handled still-life, if somewhat
reminiscent of George Belcher’s work in
that vein.
“NTmporte”: The British loan col-
lection of pictures has been shown (or
half shown) in the ill-lit and ill-con-
structed (for picture exhibition, anyway)
attic-like top of Brisbane City Hall.
Even the Art Gallery would have been
a better choice, although probably few
people would have paid the tramfare to
go there. The room in which the pic-
tures have been arrayed is known as
the Randall Gallery merely because it
contains, as a memorial, the collected
art work of the late R. J. Randall. And
this collection is still there. One result
is that quite a few visitors have been
confused as to where the loan exhibi-
tion ends and the permanent one com-
mences. As for the Randall collection,
if it is seriously intended to be a per-
manent memorial, the purpose would be
much better served if about 40 per cent,
of the pictures were taken down and
left down ; they have no art value what-
ever.
At Melbourne Athenasum, Miss
Asquith Baker filled the gallery
with a mixed collection of land-
scapes, still-life, portraits and copies
of old masters. The flower studies
were probably the most solid work
in the collection ; “Lamplight” an
especially remarkable piece of light
and color.
The posthumous exhibition of
Blamire Young’s water-colors at
Melbourne Fine Arts Society is
unique in that it contains nothing
which is not beautiful, nothing that
is vulgar, nothing that is trite. As
Lionel Lindsay remarked in his in-
troductory speech. Young was one
of the three artists in Australia
who had brought romance into
their work. Norman Lindsay and
Milder were the others. In the place
of honor in the show hung the large
water-color “Dream of Flanders,”
a work which was reproduced in
color by London “Sketch” as a
double-page supplement. Color,
light, detail and all those qualities
of which Young was an undoubted
master are here revealed at their
highest. Close to it was “Deep Sea
Berries,” a crouching figure, the
texture of the flesh depicted in a
manner strange to water-color. Young
was seldom very successful in his nudes,
but he atoned for all past weaknesses
with this. Altogether a great show, and
each of its component parts a memorial
to a fine artist. A capable appreciation
of Young and his art by R. H. Croll
forms a preface to the catalogue.
<£B & & js
“Thermos”: “Flick” (B. 20/3/’35)
should not be surprised that “The Silence
of Dean Maitland” took a prize in the
Australian film competition. Though
not based on first-class material, it de-
served the distinction, if only as an in-
dictment of the commonplace and often
misleading rubbish masquerading as
Australian art. The Kelly Gang-cwm-
Captain Moonlight-cnm-Grandad Rudd
type of film is an anachronism. Shallow
thinking and insincere treatment be-
long to the days when, taking their
ideas from the theories of American pro-
ducers, managers of theatres decided that
a film would be a success (box-office, of
course) if it gained the approval of an
audience of average school-children.
Australian audiences are rendered bilious
by the constantly rehashed material of
local productions, while overseas film-
goers disdain them (and perhaps us too).
“Flick’s” suggestion to produce “Geoffrey
Hamlyn” is, as he states, subject to dis-
approval on account of expense. The
same would probably apply to G. B.
Lancaster’s “Pageant,” yet what a won-
derful film it would make. But what
about the wealth of untouched material:
the stories of Abbott, the Barrier Reef,
Nor’-Westralia, the islands of Torres
Strait, life in N.G., explorations, the
growth of the sugar and wheat indus-
tries, the romance of the merino and a
thousand others?
High Tide.
Night s battering waves mount upward
from the neap,
and again they have swamped out the
coastal day
and given all earth new wonder of those
deep
nine-hundred-fathom oozes, wherein
trees sway
like green weeds in a slow current, asleep.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.


A
&
/
(/:
((PS 1
A magnificent Ring with a
specially—selected, brilliantly-
cut white diamond in the
centre. Handsome diamond-
set shoulders. The richly-
carved filigree mount is 18ct.
white gold and platinum.
881, £35.
SMART DIAMOND
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
From which a Thousand Lights Gleam.
■
■
7*
Each diamond which enters
Angus and Coote’s stock is
selected by a director who has
made precious stones a lifelong
study. The quality of every
ring is reliable.
ANGUS & COOTE
guarantee the gold and the
plat inn the diamonds —even
the very smallest shoulder gem—
and the security of the settings.
9
m
a
>2 W
A de s i rabh
Ring. The
fashion able
single— s tone
style. A fine-
diamond is,
mounted in 18ct, white gold
and platinum.
BBT, £B/10/-
rr
m,
Exquisitely lovely Two-
diamond Engagement
Ring of 18ct. white
gold, with platinum
settings.
886, £l3/10/-.
ANGUS & COOTE,
A graceful
Diam o n d
Ring. Two
glorious gems
are set in
platinum, and
mounted on
a beautiful
filigree under-
r ail. 1 Set.
white gold
and plati-
num.
I;’>l’-.
£32/10/--
m
m
Three-stone Uiamonfl Ring
of exceptional eha.nn. Note
the diamond-set shoulders.
IBrt, white gold and
platinum.
Kir., £ll/10/-.
Write for par-
ticulars of our
Free Wedding Ring Offer,
A BOOK IULL OF LOVEI.V RINGS, ULEUSTRATED IN
COLOUR, 18 SENT POST FREE TO ANY “BULLETIN”
HEADER. EVERY KING IS SHOWN IN GREATEST DETAIL.
SEND YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THIS CHARMING
BROCHURE.
Sydney’s best value ! An
18ct. Gold King, beauti-
fully designed and carved,
with two well-matched
diamonds and diamond-
set shoulders.
884, £lO.
The “Claudette.” This Ring
is roost popular. It is a
beautiful 18ct. gold design,
handsomely carved? and the
diamonds are set in platinum.
1385, £l5.
500 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
No. 174. —When you’ve
seen Johnny Schneider
and his team of cow-
boys at the Easter Show
you will be keenly interested in our range
of cowboy saddles. Write for our 96-
page cat. of Aus. and Texas saddlery.
FIT.
price list,
nvas. All
including
A . A -n” rug.
■ SADDLER-I
BETTER MAI
r
SADDLER-MADE
BETTER MADE AND
m
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, L>td., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
Relates the Strange Adventures of Professor Some, Mr. Gibraltar and Oodnadatta Man:-
STRICTLY BETWEEN
SKELETONS
By VINCENT WRIGHT
To spend your days reading banned hooks and lying on a marble bed
that was not a very edifying sort of life to lead, Mr. Gibraltar thought.
He decided that since he was doomed to he a skeleton he would, at least,
he a right-thinking one, not an idler like Oodnadatta Man. Decidedly
he did not approve of the fellow, whose nonchalant speech seemed
unbecoming in one of such questionable antecedents.
TO this day, so far as the public is
concerned, only one fact is clear:
Mr. Gibraltar rose from his seat in
Parliament, descended to the ground
floor, stepped out briskly along the long,
dim corridor, and—disappeared.
It created a national sensation. A
member of Parliament for thirty years,
Mr. Gibraltar always was a figure, but
to vanish into thin air like this —it made
him famous. There were deplorable
whispers of Mr. Gibraltar’s leaving town
in a closed-in car, accompanied by a
blonde. Later, a public man told the
papers that he had seen the missing man
in London, this time with a brunette.
Considering that he was seventy years
old these rumors seemed a trifle hard on
Mr. Gibraltar. The trouble was that
there was no alternative theory to set
up in their place. After all, there was
no reason why he should have taken his
life. His health had been sound, his wits
had been alert. In Parliament he had
been able to hold his own with the best,
and on native problems there was not a
more dogmatic man in the House.
But it was as an amateur anthropolo-
gist that Mr. Gibraltar shone, and, curi-
ously enough, his last moments in Par-
liament saw him score a signal triumph
in this role.
FOR months a feud had existed between
Mr. Gibraltar and Professor Some
regarding the antiquity of the skeleton
called Oodnadatta Man which had been
placed in a glass case on the ground
floor of the Parliament. Some declared
that the relic was probably 100,000 years
old, and added that when it was in its
prime and the two countries were one
continent it undoubtedly had tramped
from Java to Australia.
Mr. Gibraltar, who disliked the theory
of evolution, said he did not intend to
let a godless fellow like Some get away
with such a far-fetched assertion. The
fact that Oodnadatta Man had been
found in his electorate added vigor to his
protest. His constituents, all of them
one hundred per cent. Anglo-Saxon, he
dedared? resen t e d the suggestion that
forebears were related to apes in
Jaya The bones? he said, probably were
those of a sundowner who had expired
m the desert for want of a drink
j n tbe end tbe matter came to Parlia-
menp where it was announced that, in
view ’ of tbe doub t which had arisen, the
j-tmiains of Oodnadatta Man would be
removed nex t day from the glass case in
Parliament,
'THIS had happened on the night of Mr.
1 Gibraltar’s last appearance in the
House. He had risen the centre of accla-
mation, a conquering hero who had
tilted at impious forces and won. Pro-
fessor Some, of course, was furious, but
Mr. Gibraltar was unperturbed,
Thus, in his very moment of glory, the
opponent of evolution vanished. It was
very puzzling ; there was no reason for
such eccentricity. You tried to think the
best, but, though it seemed,
your mind insisted on returning to the
report about Mr. Gibraltar, the closed-
in car and the blonde,
But foul play—no one even thought
of that. Murder in the Parliament—the
very notion was bizarre. Yet it had hap-
pened, and the only witness of it, apart
f rom tbe mur derer, was that enigmatic
rebd Oodnadatta Man.
For j t was alongside his glass tomb
tbat Mr Gibraltar went to his doom,
He bad paused there, a little derision in
b j s heart, perhaps, as he surveyed the re-
mains whose origins he had just exposed,
jj e bad turned to see Professor Some
towering over him, an iron bar uplifted
in bis hands.
There was a crash. Mr. Gibraltar fell.
jl/IR. GIBRALTAR’S first act on corn-
ing to was to scratch his head, but,
to his astonishment, where there had
been hair there was now only a skull.
and his efforts were attended with a
sound like the scraping of bones.
He was in a room illuminated by elec-
tric light. In a heap on the floor was
a pile of books, most of them in a bad
state of deterioration. Beside the pile,
intently reading, a book in the talons
that served it as hands, was a skeleton.
Mr. Gibraltar sat bolt upright, and as
he did so a further noise of scraping
sounded in the room.
“Hard, isn’t it?” said the astonishing
object near the books. “Just as well
there is no flesh on your bones, or you
would soon have calluses. It took me
weeks to get used to this marble floor.”
“I come from the Never Never,” he
went on, making it clear that he was
used to roughing it.
Mr. Gibraltar rose. There was, he
imagined, repulsion in his face, yet,
strangely enough, no fear as he stared
at the amazing conversationalist trom
the Never Never.
“But who are you?” he gasped.
“Oodnadatta Man,” the skeleton re-
plied.
Instantly Mr. Gibraltar recognised the
peculiar lines of that so-called prehistoric
relic,' the bones, once arms, the great
thigh bones and the huge grinning skull
which, according to Professor Some,
once had been the delight of a dawn
mother in Java.
/ ND then the appalling truth sank into
ri Mr. Gibraltar’s mind. He was
human, a mortal being, no longer. Like
Oodnadatta Man he was a skeleton.
Maddeningly his gold pass, secured
around what had once been a plump
neck, tinkled against the bones of his
chest.
“There isn’t much to tell,” Oodnadatta
Man explained, inserting a talon between
the pages of his book to keep his place.
“After Some hit you he carried you
down to this basement room. Only the
professor has the key, and now the room
is never used. Your body he threw uppji
the floor.
“Next day I joined you here, deposed
because you called me a fraud,
Oodnadatta Man went on. “Some was
obliged to find a less conspicuous resting-
place for my old bones. He did ifi l
can assure you, much against his will.
“The devil,” Mr. Gibraltar cried. “And
all because I exposed him! ”
“Yes, you made a bad enemy there.
He was in a towering rage,” Oodnadatta
Man said reminiscently. “I was peeved
myself. My pride was hurt.
“Not ihat I bear you any ill-will,” the
deposed relic added agreeably. After
all, down here a man has his books.
“I have become an omnivorous
reader.” Oodnadatta Man seizeo an
armful of literature, “All banned, old
chap. This is the plague spot of the
Commonwealth. Every book banned by
the censors since Federation has been
locked up here.
“Are you fond of Joyce?” this amaz-
ing savant went on. “Some of his things
in this pile.” His talons fished out a
mildewed copy of Dubliners. “A clerk
in the Customs Department objected to
the tone of it, but really it is innocuous
stuff.
“Reading Ulysses at present,” Oodna-
datta Man rattled on. “You can have
it when I am finished.”
Mr. Gibraltar went to the intriguing
pile and selected a book for himself.
“Shakspeare. Find him a bit heavy
myself,” Oodnadatta Man explained.
“These silly censorship laws. A police-
man saw it in a bookshop in Sydney,
and after reading ‘Venus and Adonis’
thought it would not be nice to leave
around the house in front of the kids.
By the way, the Government is recon-
sidering my case.”
MR. GIBRALTAR watched him un-
easily. He was finding it hard to
adjust himself to this grisly environment,
and, besides, he began to doubt whether
Oodnadatta Man, with his salacious
tastes in literature, was a fit associate for
a former public man.
To spend your days reading banned
books and lying on a marble bed—that
was not a very edifying sort of life to
lead, Mr. Gibraltar thought. He decided
that since he was doomed to be a skele-
ton he would, at least, be a right-thinking
one, not an idler like Oodnadatta Man.
Decidedly he did not approve of the
fellow, whose nonchalant speech seemed
unbecoming in one of such questionable
antecedents.
“You said the Government was recon-
sidering your case,” Mr. Gibraltar said
stiffly, determined to keep the conversa-
tion on a serious plane. After banned
books —why, they would be discussing
racehorses next! A pack of playing
cards at Oodnadatta Man’s elbow, evi-
dently salvaged from the pile, told Mr.


Qvefree
■
T
1
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
iVeu; Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
UNION S.S. CO., LTD,,
Zit George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
UNION
Murdoc
m.
m
Jr'
mm
m
m.
y.
mg
:
v
UNDERWEAR
100% Pure Merino
*
PARK AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY
GUARANTEED UNSHRINKABLE
Wool yes, 100% pure Merino
Wool—that accounts for the fleecy
warmth and sure protection in all
weathers. Light in weight, with
short sleeves, and guaranteed un-
shrinkable. Made exclusively by
Murdoch’s. Sizes 34in. & 36in., 8/6.
Size 38in., 8/11; 40in., 9/6; 42in.,
9/11; 44in., 10/6; 46in., 11/6.
MEDIUM WEIGHT 9/6
Similar to above. Sizes 34in. and
36in.,9/6.
Sizes 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 46in.
Price 9/11 10/6 10/11 11/6 12/6
HEAVY WEIGHT 11/11
Similar to above. Sizes 34in. and
36in., 11/11.
Sizes—*
38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. 46in.
Prices—
-12/6 12/11 13/6 13/11 14/11
Underpants to match, I/- extra on
above prices.
We pay freight. Write letters to
Desk R’
Mi
iff
Gibraltar that that disreputable fellow
had occupations other than reading.
“As good as settled,” the other re-
plied. “After you vanished Some re-
opened the case, and my credentials have
been re-established. Any day now I
expect to return upstairs.”
“But the Government!” Mr. Gibraltar
expostulated. “It can’t eat its words!”
“You’re telling me!” Oodnadatta Man
threw back his skull as he exploded in
a grisly gust of laughter. “Strictly be-
tween ourselves, Gibraltar, the Govern-
ment is on Sorne’s side.
“It is policy, see?” He rammed a talon
into the other’s ribs. Mr. Gibraltar
winced at the familiarity. “The Govern-
ment thinks that if Australia can pro-
duce a genuine dawn man of its own
the publicity will help our credit over-
seas. There is a big conversion loan
coming on, and all these restrictions on
meat and eggs.”
THE sense of this argument was so
* evident that Mr. Gibraltar, as a
practical politician, had no criticism to
offer. “But is it true?” he asked. “Are
you really Oodnadatta Man?”
“No,” the august relic said, lowering
his voice. “Found at Oodnadatta I cer-
tainly was, but to say I came from lava
100,000 years ago—well, that’s stretching
the truth.
“As a matter of fact,” he went on, “I
am no older than you are. Tom Burton
was my name. My family to this day
lives in your electorate. Thirty years ago
I went prospecting for gold, but died of
thirst instead.”
“Tom Burton, by all that is amazing!”
cried Mr. Gibraltar, wringing the flesh-
less hand. From long habit he never
neglected a handshake, particularly
when it was a constituent’s. “I see how
the mistake was made. All your family,
I remember, were rather dark”
“We won’t touch on that,” said the
former Mr. Burton, shortly. “There
were no skeletons in my family cup-
board.”
But Mr. Gibraltar was not abashed.
He remembered the Burton family very
well—a touch of the tar-brush, it was
whispered.
AN awkward silence followed. Oodna-
datta Man turned away, obviously
hurt. Presently he said, over his
shoulder: “If you like, Gibraltar, you
may take my place when Some comes
to restore me upstairs. It is comfortable
here, and, besides” —with a sentimental
gesture towards the banned literature —
“I would not care now to be parted from
my books.
“It is quite easy,” he added. “Some
is a fool. He won’t know one set of
bones from another.”
Two evenings later Mr. Gibraltar
found himself lying upon his back in a
glass case on a higher floor. So near
was he now to his beloved Parliament
that he could hear the buzz of the divi-
sion bells.
At night, when lights were out and the
great building was deserted, Mr. Gibral-
tar roamed at will, dropped into the
House when he liked and even seated
himself, as he had seen tourists do in the
old days, in that august legislative throne,
the Speaker’s chair.
He had his memories—all he lacked
was a vote. Mr. Gibraltar should have
been happy, but he was not. A passion
for revenge consumed him —revenge on
Professor Some.
DROFESSOR SORNE was an old man
1 now, and in old men remorse eats
deep. It would be doing his memory
an injustice to suggest that this famous
man did not feel regret for the crime
he had committed.
He hated to walk along the ground
floor, for to do so took him past the
case of Oodnadatta Man, a spot whose
existence he wished to forget. Besides,
of late there had been strange happen-
ings in the Parliament. Rumors were
widespread that all was not well.
An eddy of mystery, a breath of the
macabre, caused currents that were felt
by everyone. It was fantastic, it was
nonsensical, but the whispers persisted.
A skeleton had been seen prowling in
the lobbies, even in Parliament itself.
Oodnadatta Man, the superstitious said,
walked at night, some evil purpose in his
age-old mind.
A year before the Professor would
have put these reports down to liquor,
but now he was not so sure. Could it
be Mr. Gibraltar? The thought appalled
him. It would be like that exasperating
fellow to wander about the House if he
got the chance.
Could he have made a mistake when
he transferred the skeleton of Oodna-
datta Man from the basement? the Pro-
fessor asked himself. He resolved that
he would examine Oodnadatta Man at
once to see whether he had made an
error.
It is a cheerless business peering at a
skeleton after midnight in a corridor full
of shadows when you are alone and
your heart is full of fear. This night the
Professor had no stomach for the job.
There seemed to be an accusing intent-
ness in the gaze which Ooodnadatta Man
directed upon him, and the bones seemed
sensitive, almost electrical, under his
touch.
The Professor prodded his fingers into
the cavity which served the skeleton for
a mouth. He felt the sockets where the
teeth had been. Oodnadatta Man’s had
been deep. But these were not deep.
The Professor was puzzled. Was it imagi-
nation? The jaw of the skeleton seemed
to contract, touching lightly upon his
fingers, as if Oodnadatta Man was in a
malevolent mood and resented liberties
being taken with his mouth.
DROFESSOR SORNE now steeled him-
-1 self to face an ordeal. A scientist,
he knew his fears to be ludicrous, yet
there was a tight feeling in his throat as
he went on his way. He started thinking
he heard footsteps behind him, and he
would have fled except that it needed
more courage to go back than to go on.
Once again he opened the door, and
his fingers fumbled along the wall to
find the switch. Overwrought, it seemed
to him there was a rasping sound inside
as if something had fallen on the floor,
but when the light went on nothina un-
usual met his eye.
At least, not at first. Upon the floor,
on its back, was a skeleton. The Pro-
fessor had expected it to be there, of
course, but he was scarcely prepared to
find a book clutched in the relic’s talons.
The book, he found, removing it from
the nerveless grip, was Brave New World.
a deplorable satire which had offended
the moral feelings of the censors. Pro-
fessor Some wondered whether he was
dreaming, asked himself whether his
mind was wandering. It was preposter-
ous, a skeleton that read Huxley! What
a paper this would make at the society’s
annual meeting!
DUT the thought of converting the dis-
** covery into scientific profit no
sooner occurred to him than it was dis-
pelled. The address on the literary tastes
of skeletons which would have amazed
the world was doomed never to be deli-
vered.
There was a footstep. Professor Some
jumped, stared with terrified eyes at the
door. What he saw there would have
paled the cheeks of the Sphinx, much
less the face of a terrified old man with
the guilt of murder in his heart.
The form of the other skeleton was
outlined in the doorway, but even as his
senses reeled Professor Some knew that
it was not Oodnadatta Man. That sar-
donic object was Mr. Gibraltar. He saw
the grin, a glint in the avenger’s eye-
sockets. Then, as he fell, the door closed,
the key turned in the lock.
Professor Some was trapped. Like
Mr. Gibraltar, he had vanished from the
world, and next day, for the second time
in twelve months, the papers were shout-
ing: “Another Mystery in the Parlia-
ment. Famous Scientist Disappears
Without Leaving a Trace.”
TWELVE months later, to the very
* night, if you had entered the base-
ment room in the Parliament you would
have witnessed an astonishing scene.
This disclosing of the truth, for the first
lime, must come as a profound shock
to the public.
Instead of two skeletons there were
now three ; instead of being piled upon
the floor in the dejected attitudes peculiar
to their kind in fiction, they were sitting
up ; in their fleshless fingers were play-
ing cards. This terrifying company was
playing three-handed bridge.
That old rake, Oodnadatta Man, was
the chirpiest of them all.
“Three no trumps,” he cried, watching
the others to see whether his bluff had
succeeded.
“Hi-jacker,” grunted the relic which
once had been Professor Some. “I
double.”
“Redouble,” Oodnadatta Man came
back cheerfully.
But the third player obviously did not
have his mind on the game. Something
was rankling within him, the memory
of an old injustice which made cards
impossible to his serious mind.
“You heard the news, Some?” he said.
“To-day, you may remember, is the first
anniversary of your lamented disappear-
ance.
1 hey have erected a monument to
your memory,” he went on sourly. “To-
day there was a pilgrimage to the site—
even the Prime Minister was there.
Thanks of a grateful nation and all that
rot.”
(Continued on next page.)


FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the Kew Zealander that even in times ot
economic stress he to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
. s Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESbEHURST,
17 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Therejs no Substitute
lop
mo *■
A
and no Substitute
C«jdtUcum«i
Unsurpassed In purity, Cutlcura
Soap and Cutlcura Ointment
contain medicinal properties which act
as a protection to the skin and a pre-
ventive of skin troubles. Cutlcura
Talcum* fragrant and delicately
medicated, adds much to the comfort
of your skin.
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND
CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: CASTLEREAGH STREET AND MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY. FOUNDED 1886,
THE 48th ANNUAL REPORT.
A YEAR OF RECORDS.
NEW BUSINESS in the Ordinary Branch amounted to £4,217,584 —a
considerable increase over the 1933 figures.
SURPLUS. —The amount of surplus allotted to with-profit policyholders
in the Ordinary Branch for reversionary bonuses has been substan-
tially increased.
PREMIUM INCOME amounted to £2,196,612, the increase for the year
being £88,064. The increase in the Industrial Branch was £49,280 —
a record
TOTAL INCOME was £ 3,236,597, the increase for the year being
£143,719
ASSETS at the close of the year amounted to £22,974,259, of which 91 \
per cent, was represented by Government and Municipal Securities,
Loans to Public Bodies, and Loans on Policies.
FUNDS increased during the year by £840.809—a record.
OUTSTANDING INTEREST was £4687 (sd. per £lOO of the Company’s
assets of nearly £23,000,000), and was not brought into account
as an asset
RESERVES—lndustrial Branch contracts, which hitherto have been valued
at 3 per cent., were valued on a net premium basis at 2\ per cent.,
the strongest valuation basis yet reached in Australia. The Ordinary
Branch contracts have been valued since 1902 on a net premium
basis at 3 per cent, per annum. Large additional reserves have also
been accumulated.
EXPENSE RATES were lower in both branches.
TRUSTEES*.
John Donaldson, A.1.A., Melbourne.
The Hon. Sir John B. Peden,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Sydney.
Sir George Julius, K. 8., B.Sc., 8.E.,
Sydney.
Rt. Hon. W. A. Watt, P.C., Mel-
bourne.
The Hon. F. W. Eggleston, Mel-
bourne.
Edgar L. Guest, Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Arthur Eedy, Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.
The Hon. James Ashton, Chairman.
F. Leverrier, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc.
The Hon. Sir Henry Y. Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C.
A Blade That Lasts Over 25 Years!
And
Plum
Men
that gives silky, smooth shaves all the time. The
Razor and guard are the ideal safety combination,
who bought Plum Razors over 25 years ago report
still in perfect condition for everyday use.
’Lyw ;
the plum razor
Selected Steel,
Extra Quality,
Superfine Steel,
Strongly-made
7-day sets (7
100/-; Ivory,
Black Handle, 12/6; with guard, 16/-.
Xylo. Handle, 15/6; with guard, 19/-.
Ivory Handle, 21/-; with guard, 24/6.
grained leather case free with each razor,
razors in oak case) : Black, 85/-; Xylo.,
140/-. All post free, guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two widths, fin. and
fin. All are set ready for use, guaranteed,
and kept in order for two years free of
charge.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin,, fin.
and fin. blades, 3/6, post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
“A good sort, the old P.M.,” the pro-
fessorial relic answered. “What are the
papers saying now?”
Mr. Gibraltar banged his indignant
talons upon the floor. “You are a hero,
Some; the devoted scientist who gave
his life in the cause ot knowledge! But
I”-if a skeleton could choke with indig-
nation Mr. Gibraltar was in a very bad
way 7 ‘;.hey said I ran oft with a
a , e u i i ua
A gale of unholy laughter resounded
m the room as Oodnadatta Man and the
Professor abandoned themselves to mirth.
Mr. Gibraltar looked as if he might
have a stroke at any moment. “Gloat,
you morons! Laugh your stupid skulls
off!” he shouted. “It doesn’t matter
about my reputation, of course. What
must Mrs. Gibraltar be thinking?”
CUT nothing he said had any effect,
U . even that touching reference to an
indignant wife, burning to give a piece
her mind to a blonde sew
m< ~*, ~, A + t-_ p m fe«rtr
Oodnadatta Man and the Protessor
were almost helpless la ughte
rolled upon the floor tehkss :tagefe
P ressed against nhs moment
chuckled. “Gibraltar, you solemn old ass,
will be the death of me one day.”
There was a crack like a pis tol report
as j be p ro f essor slapped that venerable
f raud> Oodnadatta Man, between his
shoulder-blades.
“You old son of a gun,” the former
man of science cried. “He showed us
up, but we have the laugh on him after
all.”
A Sharply-etched Drama in Brief:-
NO TEARS
By MERBYN SKIPPER.
Funny ! He felt nothing at all, unless it were a
vague excitement. The fact struck him with terror.
There must be something wrong with him if he
felt no emotion over the loss of his father.
CHRISTOPHER knew that his father
was dead the moment he opened
the back gate and stepped into the
yard, because the first thing he saw was
the bedclothes hanging on the line. The
boy stopped short, and for a moment felt
like running away ; then he walked slowly
towards the house with his head hung
down, considering his emotions. Funny!
He felt nothing at all, unless it were a
vague excitement. The fact struck him
with terror. There must be something
wrong with him if he felt no emotion
over the loss of his father.
With his hand on the knob of the back
door, he listened. The breathing that
for the last two months had filled the
house with a loud and regular roaring
was no longer audible. His father was
dead, then. Still he felt no emotion.
There must be something wrong with
him. Hadn’t he, then, loved his father?
He had never been thrashed by him or
hit by him, except once when he had
thrust his elbow into Christopher’s
stomach, but that was when he was hav-
ing one of his headaches and Christopher
had deserved it for being rowdy.
Christopher opened the door and
stepped into the dark, cool lobby. Still
that ominous silence, except that from
the dining-room came the sound of sub-
dued talking and of plates and cutlery
being knocked together. It occurred to
Christopher with greater force than ever
that he still felt none of the emotions he
ought to feel. If he felt none of the
emotions he ought to feel, he reflected
in agony, how would he be able to be-
have in the way he ought to behave when
he faced his family, particularly his
mother? The thought made him want to
run away somewhere and think and
think about his father until he felt the
right way about him.
Hearing footsteps coming down the
passage he went hastily to his room,
poured some water into the basin, and,
after bathing his face, rubbed his eyes
so vigorously that when they were turned
on his eldest brother they were red and
swollen. His brother put his arm round
Christopher’s shoulder and said softly,
“Don’t cry, sonny, it’s all for the best,”
paused awkwardly and then told him to
come and have some lunch when he felt
better
After his brother had gone Christopher
stood irresolutely for a while looking at
the floor. Then, deciding that he would
not confront his family yet, he lay down
on his bed and, assuming a pathetic ex-
pression, stared at the ceiling. When
half an hour later his sister Alice brought
him some tea and a plate of tinned
salmon this was the face he turned on
her. When she had gone he considered
for a time whether he should eat any of
it, and then decided to drink the tea and
eat the bread and butter but leave the
salmon
It was the same sad face that for the
rest of the day he carried about the
Se and too/ into the backyard, but
all the time he was thinking in agony
that he was not feeling anything and
therefore his heart must be really hard,
for now he knew what his dead father
looked like, lying silent m the house with
a face of wax and hands like those of a
marble statue.
THE night was hot and still, and for
l a lolg time Christopher could not
get to sleep because he missed his
father’s breathing and he could not stop
thinking about his own absence of feel-
ing.
Next morning several uncles and
cousins had assembled on the back
verandah, and Christopher went out and
greeted them mournfully. None of them
noticed his sad face. His Uncle George
said. Hello, sonny ! and went on talk-
J hg about the new bicycle he had ridden
°n. .
You could ride it round a postage-
stamp, he said, and to prove his words
g ot on the vehicle and commenced
wobbling round the verandah
At this moment a man in a long black
coat whom Christopher had never seen
before came out of the back door and
said gravely, Would any of you gentle-
mci™ c . are to Vl ? w the body,
With a furious feeling m his heart
Christopher followed his relatives inside,
and, tiptoeing past the room where the
body lay, went into the drawing-room,
It was full of men in earnest conversa-
tion, but only one knew him and greeted
him with condolences. He sat with a
mournful expression on his face for a
few minutes, and then went out into the
passage. He stood there for several
minutes and then m an agony of shy-
ness, walked into the dining-room,
. His mother and his two sisters were
sitting bolt upright at the end near the
fireplace. The room was full of people
and an old wine merchant, a friend of
his father s, with a red face, a bald head
and white whiskers, a stomach that
sagged between his open knees, big hairy
hands and short legs was sitting in his
fathers easy-chair, blinking his tired
eyes at the window and talking,
“Young Dan was a rare good sort,
he was saying, nodding his head so that
a bright light kept running from the end
, of his nose almost to the back of his
head and down again. You couldnt
wish for a better mate on a holiday,
But too damn conscientious to make his
way in the world, too conscientious. And
a bit of a skite, too, a bit of a skite.
And he related, as if talking to him-
self, how Dan had hit a boulder once
when out cycling and had fallen into a
b ackberry and was so covered with
plaster when the doctor had finished with
him that he looked like a mummy, but
had insisted all the same on turning up
at the Governor’s Ball that evening be-
cause he had to do it for his paper,
Buried m the past, the old man went
on talking without regard to the ettec
of his words on his hearers. Christoph
hked the old man, but felt that his words
were as inappropriate as the bright tie ne
was wearing. His heart went out to his
mother and sisters, who must be feeling
as hurt as he was. They all had handker-
chiefs in their hands, and he could see
they had been crying a great deal. They
looked really sad, and when newcomers
came into the room and shook hands
and said how dreadfully sudden it a
been and how sad it was they sig
replied mournfully that it was and sa.d
other things that showed that they
it all.
npirrp t ram n of heavy feet sounded down
| nassaee and everybody stood up
turned reverentially towards the
door Christopher’s mother and sisters
broke into sobs . Christopher rushed to
his mother, threw his arms around her
and kissed her fiercely, bu he still felt
nothing, and when his Uncle Geor .
touched him on the arm and told him


11l
PROVE IT YOURSELF-
SEND 5 DAY TEST COUPON
Have you these symptoms of
SELF-POISONING ?
"Over 40 Ailments
are caused by clogged
intestines"
explains Dr. J. BRUENAUR
noted European Specialist
Poisons from sluggish intestines
spread throughout the body and
undermine health, physicians
explain. Coloseptic combats ill-
health by activating the entire
intestinal tract.
Constipation, indigestion, stomach
troubles, gastritis rheumatism,
neuritis, sciatica bladder weak-
ness, catarrh, frequent colds, head-
aches—lassitude and poor appetite
—all these and more can be caused
by the clogging of the intestines
which gives rise to Self-poisoning
(Autoxima).
NEARLY EVERYONE SUFFERS
Self-poisoning is caused through
incomplete evacuation of the
bowels. Nearly everyone suffers
even people of regular habits.
Modern foods and lack of exercise
give rise to a flabbiness of the ab-
dominal organs which makes com-
plete elimination almost impos-
sible. Fragments of food waste
cling to the intestinal walls and
there decay, breeding germs and
poisons which enter the blood-
stream. Self-poisoning is all the
more to be dreaded because it is
hidden and often unsuspected. The
symptoms of self-poisoning are
always apparent, however. Skin
blemishes, those frequent head-
aches, fits of ‘ blues,’ the strange
lassitude and weakness which pre-
vent you from entering fully into
the enjoyment of life all point to
you being a victim.
COLOSEPTIC BRINGS BACK
HEALTH
Before you can regain the spark-
ling health that is your birthright,
you must sweep away the poison-
ous intestinal accumulations. Drink
(left) Here’s
where 95% of
present - day
ill-health be-
gins. Keep
clean intern-
ally by drink-
ing COLO-
SEPTIC.
EQUAL TO is YEARS OF LIFE
I have been using COLOSEPTIC for over
three years. I have felt very grateful to it
as it effected a wonderful difference in
health and strength, equal to a recovery oj
15 years of life. I became absolutely free
of any physical complaint whatever. lam
83 years of age and my health continues
perfect and free from any trouble. I now
find it only expedient to take COLOSEP-
TIC occasionally of a morning.
COLOSEPTIC in hot water every
morning. Coloseptic first loosens
the fermenting matter encrusted on
the walls of the intestines and then
gently sweeps it right out of the
body. Coloseptic activates the kid-
H. A. C., Auckland E.l
neys, the pores of the skin, the
respiratory apparatus, thereby rid-
ding the blood-stream of all im-
purities.
DRINK COLOSEPTIC EVERY
MORNING
COLOSEPTIC gives you the in-
ternal cleanness which is the first
step to perfect health. And with
the body internally clean how well
you feel. Gone are the aches and
pains, the feeling of being old be-
fore your time. You regain the
yim and vigour of youth, your step
is firm, eyes sparkle, you are a new
being alive to all the pleasures that
life can offer.
TEST COLOSEPTIC FOR
YOURSELF
Don’t let the ill-health, so sympto-
matic of self-poisoning, drag at
you any longer. COLOSEPTIC in
regular full-size jars is obtainable
at all chemists. For a convinc-
ing test, fill in the coupon below
and post with 6d. stamps for a special
S-Day Demonstration Package and
interesting book, “Autoxima”.
Drink
COLOSEPTIC
for Internal Cleanness
PROVE IT YOU RS ELF -
SEND 5 DAY TEST COUPON
■■ CLIP OUT ---------------
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.) LTD., A 3
Laboratories,
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 6d. in stamps.
Please send me one special Test Package of Coloseptic
and booklet entitled “Autoxima”.
Name
Address.
come with him to the mourning coach he
went meekly.
Seated beside his uncle on the way to
the cemetery Christopher stared out of
the window wondering why other people
knew how to behave and he didn’t.
Passers-by lifted their hats, and in a
street through which all funerals had to
pass some small boys stopped a game
they were playing and stood still re-
spectfully. Uncle George beamed and
then looked solemn.
“That’s nice!” he said appreciatively.
Christopher felt a fresh pang of guilt
because he was still feeling nothing. He
thought suddenly of his mother’s absorbed
face when his father brought home a
pocketful of notes and silver from the
office on Fridays and slapped it down
on the dining-room table for her to
divide up after dinner, one pile for the
grocer, one for the baker, one for the
milkman and occasionally one for the
dressmaker.
Well, we’ve all got to die some time,”
said his Uncle George as they turned in
to the cemetery gates. “We’ve all got
to die some time, I suppose. You’ll be
treading in your father’s footsteps soon,
sonny. You’ll be going to the office.”
And he sighed deeply.
P KRISTOPHER looked at his uncle
v with astonishment and terror. This
office to which he would have to go now
that his father was to be buried? All he
knew about it was that it was the place
from which his father used to bring home
his headaches.
Everybody knew when father brought
home one of his headaches. Not that
he complained or made any fuss about it.
But he would walk into the dining-room
and thrust his face into the fire and you
could see by his eyes how he was suffer-
nnd there would be no jokes and
stories after dinner. Christopher would
be sent off to play somewhere quietly,
and his mother would hurry between the
kitchen and the bedroom with hot-water
bags and mustard-plasters and a rapt
look on her face, and sometimes his
father would rush out of the back door
with his face looking so terrible and
make such frightful noises under the
lemon-tree that Christopher, imagining
his father was going to die, would re-
treat to the far end of the yard and keep
quite quiet until it was over.
Then there were the operations when
the house became full of nurses and
doctors and smelt for days after of iodo-
form, and which Christopher also attri-
buted to the office because his father
always had a holiday after them. Then
there were the times when his father went
to do the hangings, and everybody, in-
cluding the little maid-of-all-work, went
about with the corners of their mouths
turned down and spoke in whispers,
bather was the only man in the office
who would do the hangings. All the
otheis got out of them on one excuse or
another. Father said he didn’t like doing •
them, but would do them if nobody else
would. Besides, he was good with his
pencil, and could make a quick sketch
°u- u cu ft °f the condemned man
which his paper liked to print along with
the description, as photographing the
prisoner was not permitted. So he had
seen five hangings in Christopher’s life-
time, and eleven altogether.
On the day before his father would be
allowed a half holiday from the office
and would come home and pretend to
do some carpentering, but would throw
down his tools after a while and go out
and stare at the foot of a tree with his
hands in his pockets, whistling. He would
talk and laugh a great deal at dinner, and
at nine o’clock Christopher’s mother
would pack his Gladstone bag, putting
in some sandwiches for breakfast, seeing
which his father would say, “I’ll only
lose it as usual.” Then he would go off
to sleep at the prison, as the murderers
were always hanged first thing in the
morning, and the trams did not start
&rly enough.
ACCUPIED by these thoughts Chris-
y topher hardly noticed that the coach
had stopped, that he was standing by a
graveside in a prominent position
amongst a lot of people who made wav
for him respectfully.
A young clergyman with a white face
was talking.
Christopher saw him stoop and pick
op something and throw it into the grave
and at the action Christopher’s heart
jumped violently, he felt a choking in
his throat and thought with horror that
he was going to laugh, as he had laughed
once when he had found a favorite do<*
Poisoned. Instead, he found himself cry-
ing uncontrollably. Two men took him
by either arm and led him, stumbling be-
fween the grave mounds, to the mourn-
ing coach. He was full of an unknown
terror, but at the same time he felt proud
of himself, fiercely exultant. He was
crying at last!
My Political
Lige
By W. A.HOLMAN
LABOR’S
PATRIOTISM
At the date I
have now reached,
after about the
first 12 months of
war, the general burst-up of the Labor
movement over the war had not arrived.
The Labor party, as a whole, still pro-
fessed intense patriotism and close
attachment to 'the Allied cause.
No men could be working harder or
striving more persistently to find ways of
aiding, to the extent of our means, the
general Imperial effort than my colleagues
were. Bui the position of Ministers was
daily becoming more and more awkward.
While on the one hand we were charged
by the Opposition with disloyalty to the
country because we did not instantly
adopt every plan regarded by eccentric
thinkers as accelerating the march of
victory, on the other a number of our
own supporters, which increased each
day, found us guilty of disloyalty to the
principles of our cause.
EXIT ANDREW
FISHER
In October
Fisher resigned
the Prime Minis-
tership, and from
this date his striking figure passes alto-
gether out of active Australian history.
It has been difficult, I realise, for me
to do him justice. He was a type of
which I am, I fear, temperamentally in-
capable of full appreciation. Unques-
tionably, he had many of the virtues of
McGowen: simplicity, frugality, rugged
candor and a single-minded devotion to
righteous causes. But all these excel-
lences were overlaid in Fisher’s case with
an impenetrable casing of self-satisfac-
tion. He had none of the endearing
modesty of soul which secured our
leader in the affections of his followers.
McGowen was greatest among us because
he was always ready to be servant of
all. Fisher would never be anybody’s
servant, because he was profoundly con-
vinced that he was born to be every-
body’s savior. Australia’s destiny had
somehow dropped into his hands as the
result of an obscure but, on the whole,
excellent process of natural selection,
and he was going to deliver the goods.
He was always difficult, sometimes quite
impossible, to live with ; and for some
time I had given up the attempt.
Most of this, I admit, was mere incom-
patibility of temper. Fisher’s faults
were obvious enough, but they were the
faults of many people, while his merits
were essentially his own. He did great
service to the Commonwealth, and he
(Continued on next page.)


ys
ASSISTING
ENTERPRISE
The business man relies upon his bank for many
necessary services. He knows that modern production
and trade cannot flourish without the help of a sound
banking system.
When he needs assistance to enlarge his operations,
a producer, manufacturer, trader, or other borrower
may receive valuable aid from advances made
against his securities. Thus his expansion is not
cramped or retarded by lack of necessary money.
His use of the borrowed money leads to increased
employment, with direct advantage to the community.
The State benefits through the resulting addition to
the wealth of its people.
For seventy-six years the National Bank has been
actively associated with the production, trade and
commerce of Australia. During those years, it has
consistently encouraged and assisted development and
utilisation of national resources.
To-day, with its wealth of experience, extensive
establishment and ample resources, the Bank offers
its services to further assist production and enterprise.
NATIONAL
of Australasia
BANK
Limited
ASSETS EXCEED £45,000,000
World-wide facilities for banking business of every description.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the. homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical with bright and chatty
literary features .dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY! OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Warwick
Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
' ; t i . i i 1 •
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday field, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of 4 4 The Courier-Mail in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: K. Jackson. 71 Ritt .
Melbourne Representative: B. D. Fisher. Ne'VßPaper Hou.e Col ns
London Representative: A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street.
never failed, up to the end of his time
as leader, to arouse warm enthusiasm
among the members of his party. He
represented, as thoroughly as McGowen
himself, the mentality of the fervent,
effectual Laborite. What the average
man in the crowd believed Fisher be-
lieved, and he believed it deeply and sin-
cerely. Hughes now succeeded him.
ENTER
W. M. HUGHES
No man was
ever perhaps so
entirely the archi-
tect of his own
fortune as W. M. Hughes. Other men
owe their rise to happy chance or to
the enthusiasm of adoring disciples. The
lucky accidents in Hughes’s career have
been far fewer than the blows of circum-
stance, and of him, more even than of
most Australian leaders, it may be said
that he has never been enshrined in the
hearts of the community, or even of his
immediate followers. When most ad-
mired he was least loved, and I do not
think in the whole course of his political
life his adherents have ever been in the
habit of speaking about him in affec-
tionate terms. The softer emotions, if
he did evoke them, would be an embar-
rassment to him. Men have accepted
him as an indispensable and invaluable
rather than a lovable personality.
But in these days of extraordinary
crisis the country as a whole with un-
erring instinct hailed in Hughes the leader
whose exceptional powers were to see
them through. Probably neither Barton
nor Reid could have aroused similar con-
fidence, nor can it be said that Hughes
ever ceased to display the great qualities
of mind upon which that confidence was
reared. Far-sighted, determined, per-
suasive, unscrupulous at need, he was
the man, not merely for the hour, but
for the years. Without attributing to
him gifts of actual prophecy, his grasp
of the chessboard of Australian affairs
was yet unrivalled. If championship lies
in seeing the result a dozen moves ahead,
Hughes may well be classed among the
Morphys and Zukertorts of our politics.
At the zenith of his power, as he now
was, he knew exactly what each move
entailed, and hardly lifted a pawn with-
out foreseeing its full ultimate effect.
HUGHES
BLUNDERS
He began his
career, however,
with what can
now be seen to
have been a serious blunder.
A body had been formed, under the
title of thfe Universal Service League, to
urge the introduction of conscription.
The comparative failure of recruiting, the
unfairness of its incidence between
families, and the small effort of Australia
up to that date compared with that being
put forward by the Mother Country and
her Allies were bringing round many
who had shrunk from the idea of the
draft at the commencement of the war
to realise that it was the only democratic
way through it. Wade and myself had
both become members of this league.
Alongside it there was a very definite
movement on foot among trade-union-
ists aiming at organised opposition to
anything in the way of compulsory
service.
Hughes tried to judge this situation
from Melbourne, always a dangerous
proceeding about New South Wales
affairs, and evidently concluded that our
league was the cause of this visibly in-
creasing polarisation of feeling. One
of his first steps was to ask us to suspend
our propaganda, on the ground that it
was embarrassing the Government’s
policy.
On a motion which I moved and
which Wade seconded, this was done, and
the league withdrew from its operations,
avowedly for some months, but actually
for good. This was not carried without
very strenuous opposition, which the
history of the next few years proved to
be right. But at the moment the spirit
of loyalty to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment prevailed ; there was a very general
belief that the remarkable abilities of
Hughes would manifest themselves in the
discovery of some way out, and that
either recruiting would be put upon a
new footing or other necessary steps
promptly taken as the result of his own
clear comprehension of the situation and
its needs.
The idea of a definite Labor revulsion
against the Allied cause had at that time
presented itself to no one. The Dublin
rebellion had not yet “gone through
the formality of happening.” What
anti-war sentiments were uttered by
Labor men could fairly be attributed to
fatigue or to a continuing consciousness
of unadjusted grievances. Irish sentiment
in Australia was ? still intensely patriotic,
and my old friend Father O’Reilly had
voiced it admirably in a set of excellent
verses, which he had published a little
earlier, entitled.“RighLto the End.” The
new Prime Minister was not to, be blamed
for failing to foresee what po one else
foresaw, the psychological revolution of
the next six months.
A RECRUITING
SCHEME
In other re-
spects Hughes be-
gan most promis-
ingly. Recruiting,
he recognised fully, was the central neces-
sity. He appointed Catts, a Labor mem-
ber of the Federal House, of known
organising ability, to take charge of
a general effort, and drew out a scheme,
as had never before been done, setting
forth intelligibly the country’s require-
ments. , • ••
During the next six months we needed,
not only sufficient, numbers to maintain
reinforcements to the units already in
the field, but a certain further number
—which, speaking from memory, I think
was 50,000—out of . which new units
could be formed. Our contribution to
the general strength had to be visualised
as a certain length of front which we
held, and a stream of reinforcements to
every part of that front,
Hughes’s plans now provided for a
lengthening of our share of the line and
the consequent bringing of our efforts
up to something like the same proportion
to our population as those of the other
Allies. This was clear thinking for the
first time, and was hailed as such by
all. Having fixed a period during which
it was to be ascertained whether volun-
tary recruiting, stimulated by the or-
ganising talents of Catts, could produce
the figures required, he determined to
visit London (whither Fisher had just
preceded him as High Commissioner) to
get information at first-hand.
The period of Hughes’s absence, which
was prolonged, as I shall point out later,
unnecessarily and possibly dangerously,
was an exceedingly embarrassing one for
everybody, and for our Government in
particular. Recruiting on a large scale
was over. Propaganda for conscription
was suspended. Our temporary alliance
with some of our opponents over the
Universal Service League was now ended,
while it was impossible to avoid getting
daily into more open and avowed antago-
nism with those of our alleged supporters
who were beginning to preach the gospel
of no further effort.
EARLY
CLOSING
In August,
1915, we were
embarrassed by
the zeal of Tom
Brown, member for Condobolin and a
worker for “uplift” almost from his
cradle.' He gave notice ;of a resolution
in favor of closing hotels earlier. The
vote of a thin House fixed the hour at
9 o’clock, to the alarm of licensed vic-
tuallers, , the majority of whom were
our supporters. They interviewed me in
protest. '
I had no sympathy with the idea that
interfering with hotel hours was a war
measure of any value. If earlier closing
would aid effective war training those
responsible for the training, the Federal
Ministers, ought to fix it. Conscious as
1 was of the growing hysteria of the
country, I failed to foresee that it might
take shape in some wild campaign in
favor of anti-liquor legislation.
Eventually we carried a measure alter-
ing the hour from 11 to 10 o’clock. This
was one of the most serious tactical
errors of which —looking over the whole
of my Ministerial career —I can see that
I have been guilty. To have quietly
agreed to 9 o’clock closing would have
nipped in the bud an agitation which
developed into a tumult, and did our
Government serious harm. I'can only
plead the abnormality of the whole situa-
tion. No one could foresee the wave of
prohibition'fury that was going to sweep
over the country during the next few
months.
]Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given in next week’s Bulletin.!
“INCORRECT AND ABSURD.”
From Senator Pearce, Minister of
External Affairs: The statement in the
late W. A. Holman’s memoirs (B.
27/3/’35) that in 1915 I informed him
that we were “not trying to get addi-
tional recruits,” because we “regarded
the output of the Defence small-arms
factory as the upper limit upon Austra-
lia’s contribution to the Allied strength,”
is both incorrect and absurd.
All through that year we accepted and
took into training camps thousands of
recruits for whom we did not at the time
have rifles.
Had Mr. Holman visited some of these
camps he would have seen recruits being
trained with dummy rifles. Many units
were sent overseas without rifles. The
First Division, however, was equipped
from Australia.
Neither is the statement about the
initiation of three shifts at the small-arms
factory correct. At the commencement
of the war steps were taken to train addi-
tional experts and leaders, and as soon
as they were available the three shifts
were installed. It was not shortage of
machines that was the trouble, as each
shift worked the same machines.


* *
Bilious
r
Biliousness ! Oh, what an awful feeling !
i roubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, hitter taste in mouth, and a furred
longue. Bowels may be loose and natural one day,
out constipated the next. This is brought about by
the natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up,
and the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
Dr. Morse’s
*
111
PILLS
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness,
and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing is done to alleviate the
distress. The symptoms of this disease are
somewhat variable, but generally they are
so characteristic that no mother need have
any doubt. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the
child is such as to cause the slightest
suspicion, a careful watch will give ample
proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents ,of
the bowels, generally occasion pain or
uneasiness in the abdomen, sometimes
spasmodic, sometimes gnawing and bit-
ing, and not infrequently of a vague,
indescribable character, and yet very dis-
tressing. Sympathetic with this is a
sensation of itching at the nostrils, pro-
ducing a disposition to pick the nose,
which is characteristic of the affection.
The bowels are often disordered, some-
times relaxed, as in dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable ; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving
or depraved, one condition not infre-
quently alternating with another. The
abdomen is often hard, swollen and tym-
panetic, the breath heavy or foetid, and
tongue furred, with disagreeable taste,
and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils,
and disposition to grind the teeth during
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
NEW PACK
cfOCft'
COM
2/-
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms, which
infest the intestines. They contain specific
properties which destroy the worms but
cause no injury to the stomach or bowels,
and do not weaken the system. The
pellets are prepared in the form of a
confection, or lolly, have no disagree-
able taste or smell, but, on the contrary,
inspire children to take them as they
would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Syd-
ney. Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6),
post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE weekly
TO “THE BULLETIN,**
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
1 j week for one year so that I do not miss a
1 I single issue.
? V v I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate. In full payment.
NAME
> ADDRESS
v
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
yC
/#
o' •■ ..-*• .••• M‘f%;
..*•* «| * '%>■
..•• ..-•’ c o'^‘Vos‘‘V^


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality .
PELMANISM is the approved system of mental training for adults
throughout the British Empire, and in several foreign countries.
It is a vital force, a most powerful stimulus to success m any walk
of life. It is a real training, a training of the individual s own capa-
cities It is based on natural laws, and develops inherent powers and
abilities so that the Pelmanist can make full use of his ownperson-
ality in his calling and in his social life. It gives him confidence in
the usual and everyday happenings and self-possession in exceptional
or difficult situations.
In a word, Pelmanism is a system which
other education and experience fruitful
Amongst the attributes and qualities developed by
Pelmanism are
Observation
Concentration
Judgment
Self-Confidence
Social Ease
Promptness
and a Reliable Memory
Will-Power
__ - m M*
Presence of Mi
for faces, figures, names, appointments, arguments,
prices, and useful data * of every kind . . »
These are v the qualities on whtch steadiness, serenity stability and productive energy rest
Pelmanism develops them until they become habitual and are exercised in all the affairs
# of life.
The headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London. Several International[Awards
have been granted to the Institute, including Liege 1930, Nancy 1932, Geneva
Paris 1933, and it has the approval and recommendation of leaders in all sph
activity, business, the professions and the arts.
Of greater moment, perhaps, Pelmanism is spoken of very highly by those who are not
so great, by the thousands of practical men and women who have been prepared by
Pelmanism for better work and greater responsibilities that have led to igger
and happier lives. Literally, Pelmanism has helped thousands in Australia alone
their previous knowledge and experience fruitful.
There are 650,000 Pelmanists, of whom more than 30,000 have enrolled for t J? e Pelm j i "
Course with the Institute in Melbourne. These Pelmanists live in all parts of Australia
and New Zealand and in the Islands. *
We shall be glad to send you a-cop|f|hThe Efficient Mind, 76 pages, ilost fr “'
can write us fully, or you can iJPjust a bare application by using the form at the
bottom of this announcement. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confident commumcation.
We have no outside representatives. Address: The Pelman Institute, ouces e
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
Aj Telephone: Central 11255.
t
“Efficient NAME...
Mind,” ADDRESS
please. 409
