

ft <
m
mi
S ft
m
.
M
m
Hi
x,
m
v
ill
.
*&sx?
Si
ft
■wml Hi
Sft :■
>:■•*
X
'•
:g • ••
XV
Is your wife only
HALF
PROTECTED ?
IT is a good citizen who assures his life, but
there are many good citizens who are not
adequately assured; their families are only
half
For how much, then, should a man be assured?
That depends on his obligations. He should
aim to assure himself for enough to give his
wife and family security and reasonable com-
fort after his death. The sum of £5OO invested
at 4 per cent, will give a widow an income of
less than ten shillings week. It is not enough,
but a £5OO policy is a good start for a man
to make.
In 1907 a certain man, then aged 29, joined
the A.M.P. Society and assured himself for
£2OOO. The premium was less than a pound
a week. He died recently and (so extra-
ordinarily satisfactory are A.M.P. bonuses)
his wife received £3300. Invested wisely, that
sum will return her about £3 a week. Little
enough, but a great comfort to a woman in
distress.
A man should begin with a £5OO policy and
add other policies as his income increases; that
way lie peace of mind and security. The wise
man will talk over this all-important question
with an A.M.P. counsellor or, if he live far
from an A.M.P, office, will ask that the book
“Investing in Happiness” be sent to him. The
wise man will write at once.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager. C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. C. M, MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
The Bulletin
Tropical Australia
Vol. 56.—N0. 2889.
Wednesday, June 26, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application tov
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Ml
This Book FREE to' YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Rnssell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE ANI> MAIE
Phase send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bcxi.e'iin,
My Name
My A'ddfesi .
S-B. 135 -
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing- June- 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year's
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted :
fiction, biography, travel, histoiy, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.) • ■
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:- '
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who'will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales ot
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees. ,
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person bom in
Australia. New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out ol
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney,-reserve the right to withhold the Prize it no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to. the
following year’s ’ Prize.
The Red Page
THE DEAR
DILETTANTE
Lying about
somewhere there
is an unpublished
and hitherto un-
mentioned work
entitled The
Verse Writer: A Practical Discourage-
ment of Poetasters. It was accepted for
publication, too, but the author got it
back from the intending publisher on the
pretext that he wanted to alter it, and is
still supposed to be doing so. The fact,
however, is that he has not done a tap
to it, and for this reason.
The aim of the book was to demon-
strate, by example and analysis, the
supreme difficulty of writing well. It
was not intended to teach, in any
accepted meaning of the word. Yet, in
its way, the intent was altruistic, for the
author is one who feeds that, if he can
do nothing else in life but discourage
the spread of dilettantism in writing, he
will have performed a respectable ser-
vice for both writing and the discour-
aged.
Hence that book, which remains un-
published because the author, after writ-
ing it, became convinced of its futility—-
that it would not be read by anyone to
whom it could do any good; that
poetasters, in common with all amateur
writers, consort daily with a soft god
called Encouragement, and will read any
ridiculous rubbish which flatters or which
pretends to reveal easy short cuts to
Olympus. Naturally, they will not read
the word which tells them there are
no such cuts, and that there is nothing
else for it, lads, but endless and toilsome
and undivided work.
The mere suggestion of work is hor-
rible to their ears. They want to mingle
with fellow-writers, getting encourage-
ment and what they call inspiration from
that commingling. They imagine that by
sitting about on chairs once a fortnight
or so they are making that contact with
writers which only a fool would deny is
necessary. They are unable to sec that
the whole business of the writer is his
writing, and only from his writing can
we have any value of him. In another
way of putting it, all that a writer is is
in his writing, and if that is of no value
upon it he himself will have
none, and if it is of value he himself
will add nothing extra to it.
The author of the aforesaid unpub-
lished work has mentioned some of the
foregoing matters in this place before,
and they, were not very well received.
He was accused of throwing stones and
other abominable practices, and, since he
regards futility as a major sin, would
probably never have reverted to the
topic again if he had not just read a new
work by W. Somerset Maugham called
Don Fernando, and especially one
chapter in it which bears pertinently, or,
as the dilettante would have it, most im-
pertinently, on this apparently high-
explosive cpiestion. The book is about
Spain, a light, discursive portrayal of the
literary and social background of that
country, particularly in its Golden Age.
Ic is a book composed entirely of digres-
sions, and in one of these Maugham
enunciates certain truths on that matter
of the writer’s whole business being his
writing. These truths are of such im-
portance that they ought to be nailed up
in every coffee-house and on every gum-
tree in this country, as a practical dis-
couragement to poetasters and milky
writers at large.
To reduce Maugham’s discourse to a
handy text for nailing up: “The pro-
fessional writer is one who makes
writing the main business of his life; in
every occupation the professional is
better than the amateur.” The intending
writer who could get that into his head
young enough would need no further
help from anybody on earth. He would
not need the “encouragement and in-
spiration of mingling with fellow-
writers”; he would have all the encour-
agement and inspiration he could hope
to cope with within himself. He would
need no telling that in order to make
writing the main business of his life he
would have no time, until he was very
old and had done that business, for any-
thing but gaining proficiency through
observing and experiencing life, and
through study of his craft in the only
place where it can be studied, in the great
examples of it: that, and the concurrent
and persistent and individual and un-
deviating practice of his main business.
Naturally he would lose nothing by at-
tending one meeting of a literary circle.
He could credit it to experience; but his
attendance at any more than one would
have little to do with his writing, except
as an interference.
That Blight ,
the Amateur
Writer
This, it can be
said, is idealistic.
Of course it is.
The ideal in-
volved is that of
good writing, and
not the shoddy we
are so used to and will continue to gel
until this unsparing ideal has entered into
the writers of this country and is burn-
ing in them as a fire. Those whom it
frightens should certainly congregate, for
comfort/and whistle a little, for courage.
To enlarge upon that text drawn from
Maugham: “In music, sculpture and
painting the amateur is rightly regarded
with disdain. It is understood that to
compose a piece of music or to carve
a statue a long apprenticeship and cog-
nizance of technique are needed. But
because everyone learns to write well
enough to put on paper in some sort of
fashion what he wants to say, it is sup-
posed that anyone can write a book. It
is asserted that everyone has it in him
to write one book. It may be so, but
if by this is meant that everyone has it
in him to write one good book, the asser-
tion is false. The writer needs as com-
plete a training as the practitioner of
any other of the arts, and the technique
of writing yields to none of them in its
difficulty.” In a long passage, of which
that is the substance, he finds that he has
to go one better even than that writing
must be the main business of a writer;
“... .writing must be not only the main,
but the only, occupation of his life.”
All this, which is here made the main
business of Maugham’s new book, is
really only one of the book's component
digressions. It even comes as a surprise
midst of a work whicffi, as has
been indicated, is a discursive talking
about the author’s beloved Spain and a
genuine pleasure to read as such if only
because it has the touch and the finish of
the professional, the accomplished writer.
To turn from friction to fiction, it
might be possible, but it would not be
easy to find in current writing a better
example of that finish which is, after
all, one of the main glories of litera-
ture, and one of the rarest things to
come upon in our own writing,
than is contained in the latest novel
in G. B. Stern’s Rakonitz saga. This
novel, which is not a sequel or continua-
tion but an aside, is called Shining and
Free, a singularly insipid title, than
which it would be hard to invent any-
thing quite so unworthy of the goods it
labels.
A Fresh Piece
of Fiction
For this is a
novel which, on
a first reading,
has no peer on
the shelves of
recent fiction in
grace of execution and simple beauty of
movement and pattern. It has the
master touch ; a novel that gives that
sense of pleasure which comes only and
always from pure excellence of crafts-
manship. Merely as a piece of writing
—if you like, a prose composition—-its
workmanship is a very beautiful thing,
you might almost say to look at.
This is not to call it a great novel: a
second reading makes very clear that it
is as defective as the general run of good
works of art; but that it tempts that
second reading and merits it is sufficient
compliment to the apparent high quality
of its performance, and that without
subscribing to the old fallacy recently
enunciated over again by an excellent
Red Page writer, that a book that is not
worth reading twice was not worth read-
ing in the first place. That is one of
those truisms which pass current for
truth, having enough of this rare article
in their composition to resemble it. The
truth of the matter is that no book is a
great book which does not further en-
rich the reader at every re-reading. As
for books that are not worth reading
twice but are well worth reading once,
there are hundreds of them. By neces-
sity they form the staple of the selec-
tions made here from week to week.
Therefore, this poorly-titled novel of
G, B. Stern’s ranks high by the standard
of these selections. It tempts a re-reading,
and it does at a second reading further
enrich the reader. Chiefly that is because
it is impossible to have too much of
such a good thing as the voice of the
Matriarch, who, though her story is
really secondary to that of her daughter
Truda, is on' the stage when the curtain
rises, and makes so dominant an impres-
sion as to remain thereafter so much the
leading character that all the time she
is offstage we continue to watch the
comedy mainly for the anticipated pleas-
ure of seeing her return. Other elements
of the book’s qualities become larger and
more lovely: little things of the pattern,
such as the sureness with which the
author dresses her people —even women
writers make a poor fist of this as a rule
—and the way she employs those people
to reveal the characters of each other.
There are separate scenes, too, in this
hectic day in the life of the Matriarch
which might bear witnessing over and
over any number of times.
But this re-reading has also the effect
of making the novel’s defects much more
emphatic than might have been guessed
at in the almost wholly pleasurable first
experience. The story begins with the
Matriarch, now 88, well into the stride
of one of her hilarious periods of living
as if the glorious Rakonitz past had
never vanished —not senility, but its
utter opposite, active and too-lively
living, with nerve-shattering conse-
quences to those about her. Here, while
the Matriarch is on the stage, acting her
magnificent eccentricitibs, speaking in a
voice that is a model for those who
would study the relationship of sustained
voice to sustaining character, the novel
most definitely improves on re-reading.
The second part is sound enough, too,
and the fourth and final part recaptures
most of the beauty of the first. It is the
third part, an account of the Matriarch’s
trip from London to Brighton to collect
a commode that has been willed to her,
that will not bear this closer inspection.
It has brilliant moments, but it has also
artificialities of incident and character,
and a frantic note of forcing the pace—
an impression that the author herself
found it hard to keep up with her Matri-
arch. Even so, this character is one
of the few supreme creations in con-
temporary fiction, and this little novel
adds something to* her stature.
CECIL MANN.
\Don Fernando, by W. Somerset Maugham
(Heinemann: Angus and Robertson; Bs. 6d.);
Shining and Free, by G. B. Stern (Heinemann;
7s. 6d.).]
THREE
BIG MEN
Though poles
apart in nurture,
thought and taste,
all W. R. Ak-
royd’s 'Three
Phil o s o pliers :
Lavoisier, Priestley ami Cavendish
(Heine maim ; Medical Books; 10s. 6d.
net) were great chemists, and there is
powder or a disinfectant over his coun-
ter but is in the debt of these three.
To go back to school, Cavendish dis-
covered the gas hydrogen, found out
that water is just plain H2O, determined
the total density of the earth, revealed
the inner life-story of nitric acid, and
remained all his life—-he died an octo-
genarian—a grouch. Surely he stands
forth as the world’s greatest bachelor!
Related to dukes, descended from dukes
on both sides of his family, crests and
memories of Edward 111. were as naught
to him. He lived alone in Clapham.
busy with his chemical experiments, see-
ing nobody, hating everybody—especi-
ally women. The one woman who ever
penetrated to his presence was shocked
to gaze upon a long row of chamber pots
—and very good vessels they are for the
evaporation of saline solutions. So
Cavendish lived, on £3 a week almost,
experimenting always, taking solitary
walks at night (always in the middle of
the road), going nowhere but to the
Royal Society, chatting sometimes' in a
shamefaced way with Sir Joseph Banks.
In 1810 he died a millionaire, snarling at
the pale servant who was worried about
the blood on the bedclothes.
What a different horse was Joseph
Priestley! Discoverer of oxygen and of
carbon monoxide, writer of the first text-
book on electricity, he was a Unitarian
parson. His trouble was that he was
always two jumps ahead of his congre-
gation in thought, no matter about what.
On account of his religious and political
views people of the Midlands chased him
from town to town. Once his church,
house and library were turned to smok-
ing ashes by a shouting band of hooli-
gans from Birmingham. Nevertheless,
his chemical experiments, performed with
makeshift apparatus, went on all the
time. He died in Pennsylvania (1804)
an honored scientist and the friend of
Adams, Jefferson and Talleyrand. In
his dotage he descended to Biblical pro-
phecy, but we should remember that he
invented soda water, and that his influ-
ence led the Admiralty to fit two war-
ships with appliances for the making of
what G. K. Chesterton calls “windy
water,” in a fruitless attempt to counter-
act scurvy.
Antoine Laurent Lavoisier owes the
acknowledgment of his genius to xhe
parson and the crabbed hermit. Yet he
was bound to be a prodigy, anyhow,
with a mind comparable to that of Leon-
ardo da Vinci. From first youth he was
an inquirer. Always a barometer in his
pocket, always a dozen barometers about
the house or in the hands of people as
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our undeviating policy.
“THE SENIOR STORE.’'
w
Phone; M 2401, Dav or Night.
PITT. GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O,
Guarantee and Recommend
FOR MEM
Quality Underwear Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’
"Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of
winter. Its native warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected long
staple Pure Woollen Yarn—the soft down-like surface of the fabric is flaw-
less, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
"Jumbuk” Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its
winter warmth the stored-up virtues of our Country’s Glorious Sunshine.
"Jumbuk” Underwear is Guaranteed Unshrinkable, and the wide range of
sizes stocked enables every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
Men’s "Jumbuk” Combinations, Natural All Wool. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Short Sleeves, Trunk Leg 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 27/
Short Sleeves, Long Leg 20/ 21/ 22/ 23/ 24/ 25/ 26/6 28/
Long Sleeves, Long Leg 21/ 22/- 23/ 24/ 25/ 26/ 27/6 29/
■m*
3
Mi
O Men’s Mercery Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight Paid to all Seaports in the
Commonwealth, and Railway Stations in New
South Wales.
BUY FLEECY "JUMBUK” UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS!
No. 220—"Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Light weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 4/6 4/9 5/ 5/6 6/ 6/6 7/
No. 330—"Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Underwear. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves ... 5/3 5/6 5/9 6/3 7/ 8/ 8/ll
Trunk Drawers 5/6 5/9 6/3 7/
Combinations, \ Sleeves . . 7/6 7/9 8/6 9/3
Long Sleeves 8/ 8/3 9/ 9/9
8/- 8/11
9/11 10/6
10/6 11/-
No. 15—"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Light Weight 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6
No. 25X—"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves ... 3/9 4/ 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/6 6/3
Combinations 6/3 6/9 7/3 8,/ 8/9
Q Boys’ Mercery—First Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
Seaports in the Commonwealth, and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
'Phone: M 2401
Day or Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


far off as Bagdad, people who sent
him records about the weather. Then
he started an experimental farm; he
thought that the peasantry were not get-
ting the most from their land. The Paris
of Lavoisier’s day was a smelly stew of
narrow streets, filled with ordure, foot-
pads and sudden death. Lavosier strove
to improve the water-supply, the hos-
pital and prison accommodation, and
the street lighting. He improved the
lighting of the French theatres, investi-
gated the qualities of gelatine soup,
thought out a mechanical armchair, a
fire-extinguisher and an aeroplane. But
such things are forgotten when we re-
member (that he established the true
theory of combustion, proved the inde-
structibility of matter, showed that a
diamond is nothing much more than a
lump of coal, and founded quantitative
chemistry by the proper use of the bal-
ance. In all these matters he was the
scientific child of Priestley and Caven-
dish.
In all his life Lavoisier made but one
mistake. Rich though he was, and mar-
ried to a rich and charming wife, he
chased money. This trait led him to
buy a place in the Ferme Generate, the
iniquitous organisation (it was largely a
family concern) which, in return for a
lump sum paid to the State, collected the
taxes of France, and ground peasants
and townsmen into the dust. It could
end only in one way. During the Terror
Lavoisier, with 30 of his fellow pro-
fiteers, went to the guillotine, and his
beautiful, intelligent wife —she who had
translated papers for him, and drawn
diagrams during his experiments—was
left penniless. Later she married the ad-
venturer Count Rumford. It was not a
success. The count, almost a recluse
in his later years, locked the front gates
against his wife’s visitors ; and she, in
revenge, used to pour boiling water upon
the count’s favorite flowers.
F. J. BRIDGES.
New
Australian
and M.L.
Work
Melbourne
writer Mary
Mitchell, whose
Warning to
Wantons owed
some of its sales
to misapprehen-
sion concerning
the character of
the story, but which could afford to
stand on its inherent merits, presents a
sort of acute literary sadism in Pen-
dulum Swing. Christina Macpherson, the
central character, is a sufferer from the
real inferiority complex. Unattractive in
appearance, possessing no charm of
manner, incapable of creative achieve-
ment, pinched by poverty, she is tor-
tured by consuming envy and detestation
of a cousin who has everything she lacks,
and expresses her dissatisfaction by being
defiantly rude to all her friends. The
poor creature’s life is a series of re-
buffs, disasters and humiliations. There
is an attempt to show that she has keen
aesthetic perceptions and unusual intel-
lect, but these attributes intensify her
purgatory. Christina and the many other
women in the book are drawn with an
obvious intention to be fair —but is the
vivisector’s scalpel ever fair? The men
are interesting because most of them are
drawn with more venom than insight.
The authoress sees them as coarse
fellows with no finer feelings.
Christina marries Hector Harcourt,
formerly Huggins, a young bank clerk.
Hector is faithful, frugal, ambitious,
a teetotaller and a non-smoker. Chris-
tina hates him like hell. His virtues
to her are vices. In short she has a
devil-given capacity for making herself
miserable and wallowing luxuriantly in
her misery. But in the last two pages
she is bereft even of the consolation of
being able to hate. She loses her jealousy
of her pretty cousin. “With new eyes
she looked at her own life, its drabness,
its disappointments, its narrow restric-
tions, its sordid pettiness, its two
uncongenial lifelong companions—the
husband she could neither love, like nor
respect, the mother whose illogical rest-
less fussiness was an ever-growing agony
—and saw them now only as a dark back-
ground throwing into greater relief her
few moments of happiness Simply
and sincerely, for the first time in her life,
Christina thanked God for the lot He
had given her.” Possibly the inferiority
complex does sometimes educe genuine
superiority, but it must be a rare pheno-
menon.
With a pen dipped in ink of a brighter
hue, Maoriland journalist Nelle M. Scan-
lan draws in Ambitious Harvest a more
normal and understandable heroine,
Mary Merridge, daughter of a Welling-
ton merchant. Mary’s childhood in the
windy M.L. capital with its picturesque
harbor (Sydney’s, Miss Scanlan makes a
character say, is “much larger, but less
lovely in some ways”) is interestingly
sketched. Arrived at 22 the girl, with the
aid of a small legacy, resolves to see the
world. Her adventures in the U.S.A.,
where she sings “Waiata Poi” and lec-
tures about the Maoris to women’s clubs,
are wittily narrated. Scene shifts to Eng-
land, where Mary meets a childhood
sweetheart, become an architect in Syd-
ney, and romance flowers. Both Mary
and her young man reach, before mar-
riage, a foreknowledge that their high (if
rather vague) ambitions of fame and
leadership are not likely to be realised.
On the last page the young husband is
killed off by typhoid—wanton destruction,
but apparently the only way of avoiding
a happy ending. For all that its climax
is obviously a makeshift way of wrap-
ping up the parcel, the book has out-
standing merit as a tale of travel. No
prejudice, no bitterness, the eye of a
good reporter and the sense of humor
and proportion that comes from ups
and downs make the details better than
the design, which is all over the place in
more senses than one.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
[Pendulum Swing, by Mary Mitchell (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d.); Ambition’s Harvest, by Nelle
M. Scanlan (Jarrolds; 7s. 6d.).J
Of a Plan
to Aid
Writers
Harold Mercer
in a recent R.P.
pa r. bemoaned
the fact that “not
even the literary
societies suggest
that members
might help the book industry by pledg-
ing themselves to buy one extra book a
year or half-year,”
About two years ago members of the
Australian Literature Society were asked
by a Sydney publisher if they would
guarantee —or even promise—to take a
stipulated number of copies—the number
left to their own discretion —of Aus-
tralian plays which it was intended to
bring out in cheap book form as an en-
couragement to the local dramatist. Did
members of the A.L.S. hail , the simple
and practical distribution scheme with
the applause and patronage it de-
served? Not at all. They picked the
scheme to bits; they got sarcastic about
it; in fact, they were so antagonistic that
a wag in the audience asked point-blank
why the society existed if it was not to
help in the manner desired. Some mem-
bers suggested that the publisher first
give his guarantee that the plays would
be worth reading! As if any publisher
in the world did that. Others showed
high-brow silence or a lofty disdain.
Yet the Scheme might have been
launched had each member, or some of
them, simply promised to spend about
threepence a week towards the caviare
of the Australian playwrights. Anyway,
being a playwright myself, how do you
spell caviare—l haven’t had any for
months.
KELLETT.
A Satchel of Books
Young Renny, by Mazo de la Roche
(Macmillan ; 7s. 6d.). Another chapter
in the extensive—perhaps a trifle ex-
tended—chronicles of the Whiteoaks of
Jalna, Canada. Here a preposterous
person, one Malahide, in the course of a
long visit sows sundry petty seeds ot dis-
cord in the household ; Meg, daughter
of Philip, has her wedding ruined
through her fiance’s affair with anothei
girl; and young Renny is introduced to
what is popularly regarded as being the
main business of life. Author sincere in
all things as ever, but her field is now
so winnowed over that it’s beginning to
look thin.
Half Mile Down, by William Beebe
(Bodley Head ; 18s. net). Pity the author
is so determined to talk down to his
readers and be amusing in the after-
dinner manner, for he has a good story
to tell—that of going down 3028 feet
into the ocean in his “bathysphere” and
watching the strange life of underseas.
Even with a helmet made out of a tin,
with a length of garden hose attached,
he knocks about under water as in his
natural element, and he recommends
this as a new, easy and enjoyable pas-
time. Why not cultivate your own
garden under the sea, or go down there
and write or paint, or make sport of it
and shoot fish with cross-bows? Every-
body will be doing so before long, as
soon as people have got past their absurd
fears that sharks are dangerous, so why
not get in literally on the ground floor?
That sort of thing is the burden of it,
with detailed descriptions of the “bathy-
sphere” submergings. Best value is the
book itself—a beautiful production, with
many interesting photographs.
Minstrels’ Gallery, by Raymond
Burns (Constable; Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.). Strikes an original note
in ribald humor, picturing the lives,
characters, work and morals of Eng-
land’s producers of jazz and musical
comedy. Leading part is taken by a
Newcastle young chap who composes a
good jazz piece, on the strength of which
he moves up into the London swim
among the bright ladies and the “faint”
young men, -the pictures of whom the
author insists are entirely imaginary.
Best of it is the fun-poking at provin-
cial book-censoring and morals-improve-
ment society meetings. Members of
such organisations will regard it as
poison. Others who think their morality
at least strong enough to withstand the
pernicious influence of naughty books
will find its humor a rib-damaging
experience. The novel is clumsy in con-
struction, but it will be surprising if
something extra good does not come
from its author.
The Portrait of a Rebel, by Gilbert
McAllister (Murray ; Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.). Biographical study of
James Maxton, brief, but packed with
relevant information on that stormy one’s
vividly individualistic life and career, and
closing on a note of criticism of his
recent behavior, a result, says the author,
of Maxton’s interpreting the feeling of
the British public from the Sunday-night
enthusiasm of an audience in the
Olympia, Bridgeton.
The Lemon Farm, by Martin Boyd
(Dent; 7s, 6d.). Engaging, very prettily
told little tale of illicit love between a
theoretical Communist and a young mar-
ried person of title, from which weak-
ness in the man’s character emerges
through tragedy to strength. Setting,
English village seaside, with boats and
a handy island for the brief, idyllic
love of the pair. All characters of small
proportions, but admirably done. If
anything, a better piece of work than the
author’s charming Scandal of Spring, but
with none of the breadth of his Austra-
lian piece, The Montforts.
FIRST YEAR’S ENTRIES FOR THE S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Following are the titles of MSS. and pen-names of authors competing for the first year’s award of the Prize:—
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Adventures of Roger Hampton T.P.D.
Against Odds Mary Brock
Alderman Grey Yelta
All Is Futility Lady Lyons-Brett
And All Because Flying Dutchman
Ann Lorimer Pilgrim
As a Child Is Born Gpal
Bain-mar-ray Christiaan Wolf
Balreena’s Bad Woman Kookaroo
Banners Unfurled Peterdick
Barrawa Mystery, 1 tie Telemaclius
Big Williams Sonsby
Blanche, a Queen Bee Golden Browne
Blood Will Tell Hannah E. Simmonds
Blue Jeremy Obelisk
Bridle Track, The Pituri
Broken Vase, The Kenneth Joyce
Browns Move Up, The , Myamyn
Buds That Open S, C. Guidero
Bungarribee .'.. Tu-le-mar
Burnt Offering Fanny Ranes Hall
By New Zealand Waters Twenty-four
Call of the Curlew, The Mochatoona
Calm Quartet
Carry On Brooke
Carved Is Her Name Jane Martha Hay
Chimney Smoke Haskett
Cinema ... Matt
City with Wings of Silver Peter Piper
Corridors of Time, The .. Ye Wearie Wayfarer
Cross Currents Austral
Crucible Fanny Ranes Hall
Curlew’s Call, The W.A.B.
Daredevil Nelly W. A. Znud
Dark Family Dandelion
Dead Finish Ninety-four
Deep Water Aotea Roa
Desperate Glory Cartridge
Diplomats’ Pawns J. Macarten Hall
Dome, The David
Doom Marlee
Doors That Slam Lauderdale
Dream House, The Menura
Dream Ships Sail By S.M.C.
Dream’s Parody Mary Stewart
Eastern Way Ampawa
Eknamau Tuatara
Enchanted Valley, The P.R.B.
Eye in the Wall, The Dominic Errould
Eyes of Gold Inez Temperley
Favorites of Fortune Xenia
Feather from the Phoenix, A Old Bird
Flagstaff Hill Tokerau
Flowering Seed Brolga
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Fox Hole Reynard
From the Bottom Up irigontewong
Fugitive Wife Aussie
Galahad Lancelot
Galleon Anton
Gilbert the Inexorable .... Crackles
Glowing West, The Pouakai
God of Gold, The Goldseeker
God’s Own Country Araluen
Golden Grain Lemane
Golden Haze Mercury
Golden Manilas, The Ruvana
Grandeur of Our Dust, The ., Sydney Sheffield
Grapes of Canaan Cacoethes Scribendi
Greenhide and Stringybark Ettalunga
Gundawarra Tyro
Heiress of Booroo Booroo, The Chaufel
Henry Timmins George Sidney
Her Diamond E.H.E.
Her Natural Self Muriel Woodby
Heretic, The Auster
Heritage, The • Eleventh Hour
Hermione of the Cove Auster
Hewn Path U.J.C.
Hidden Coastal Valley, The Gordonia
High Seas of Matrimony, The .. Blue Funnel
Hinemihi He Wahine
His Father’s Home Haughton
Housekeeper at Waiurirri, The .. Vivian Vane
How the Other Half Lives Junius
Huckaback A.M.N.Z.
Humdrum Leslie Danby
Ideal City, The Ego
If You Can Dream The Dreamer
In a Small Town Joan Nimmo
In These Latitudes William Murray
Influence James Parker
Island of Desire Lyall Romaine
Isle of Buccan Water ....... Robin L. French
It Must Be Our Secret Excelsior
Jew Boy’s Creed, The Tarqua
Jim Redpath Jim
Joanna and Her Children Victoria Ireland
Judas Dreaming John
Jungfrau Francis Street
Kalanga Quarter Sawn
Lambs at Pasture Drover
Laughing Lad Graham Browne
Letitia Grace Lacertus
Litany, The Killen Code
Little Brother of All the World Quien Sabe
Lookout, The Sparta
Love Journey of Sarah, The ....... Jeremiha
Luckier Lot, The Invictus
Magic of the Moment, The Le Flaneur
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Magnetic Call, The Adelaide Coombe
Man Who Worked, The Mizpah
Marguerita Alastair McDonald
Marred Lives Jose Stephens
Mary Colbornton’s Successes Jaques
Mistress of Seayham Bse
Moonshiner’s Daughter, The Salgood
Mother Atm The Acolyte
Mothers of Men Pax Vobiscum
Mount Mystery Te Tuhi
Mountains, The W.E.R.
Mysterious Settler Nomad
No Opposition Mark Hall
Not Sanctioned Blue Gum
Now Entnor
On Ankh
One Man in His Time Brogus
Opportunity of Bycroft, The Spartan
Other Side of the Door, The ......... Felix
Outcast of Fortune, The Dundlemus
Papuan, The Anthony Preston
Paragon, The Kathleen Hope
Passage to Freedom Annie Nigma
Passage to Rottnest 105deg. Fahrenheit
Patchwork Quilt Joan Emmerson
Peter Hart’s Quest Bios
Peter’s Idills .Don R.
Ponto’s Progress Disciplicus
Poppet Heads Miszellen
Port of Call Red Leaf
Potter Moulds His Clay, The Omar
Power of an Evil Eye c Hylas
Prelude Without Finale Justin
Prime Minister, The Aussie
Prophecy P- G. Kaye
Prospectors of Calvin’s Gully, The
Max O’Roon
Rata Mary L.G.
Rattle of the Convict Chains, The .... S.E.T.
Reactions Stan Lee
Red Cedar Signet
Red Hibiscus Roviana
Revolt of Pollie, The Phoenix
Rung Timber T.R.
Scarlet Cape, The Bidgie Bee
Sea God’s Son, The Duff McBride
Secret of the Old Herries House, The
Haumoana
Secret of Tsai Lun, The Alpha
Sefton Dalryrnple .... Phineas Philaster
Settlers, The Seventy-seven
Sheep Kings Monte
Sheep Without a Shepherd Ruetama
Shoes and Ships and Sealing-wax
A. Valleyman
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Sign of the Yellow Scorpion, The .. Rene Allen
Skipper, The Owen Slnclayre
Skyline Max Villers
Smith’s Reward Brace
Smoked Mackerel Estate
So Many Things Colonel Bogey
Solo and Medley William Ushaw
Some Other Sea Bolero
Spendthrift Cacoethes Scribendi
State Kid Bandong
Steps Luk Tanto
Steve the Waif Mopoke
Strange Rivers Musterer
Stubborn Thistles Pat E. Willunga
Sun Ray Douglas Norberg
Sunshine and Rain David Travers
Sunshine and Shadow Hunter
Talbot of Traves Gemini
Tale of To-day Westmoreland
Templetons, The Francis Williams
Ten Thousand Years Under the Soil
Spiro Butt
Test by Fire, The Ralph Northwood
Their Honor The Listener
Then Came Dawn Margot Brooke
Then Cometh Dawn John St. John
These Many Roads Meriden
Third Generation, The Margaret Inms
This Valley of Tears Dogemair
Those Clutching Hands Michael Kurn
Through Life’s Dappled Pathways
Kenyon Johnson
Tiburon Jurgen
Towards the Sunset Sphinx
Tree Falling, A G. R. King
Two Houses on a Hillside .... Clea Monash
Two Men and a Bitser Mopoke
Umbrellas Janus
Uncharted Road, The Athos
Vagabondage En Avant
Valley, The r Biteambo
Virgin Earth Karbulba
Voice, The Alexander Bremonley
Walubra Bravina of Lemuria
Johannes Tregaskiss
Wedding Dress Peter Pan
West o’ the Mountains Eunonhareenyha
Westerners’ Home, The Such Is Life
Where the Tatialla Sings Tullaroop
Whistle of Death, The Collier
White Feather, The Lawrence Herbert
Widening Circles H.J.L.
Wilga Brett ....... Currer Bell
Wind in the Stars Hoc Age
Wind on the Water, The Andromeda


THE ABILITY TO SPEAK EFFECTIVELY
MEANS ftfaU&ye,. ac/u&ve4ue4tt!
Cm tym (mXcovm freak
MidMaufC Iftujhf-
(mymSpmkwidi&U
iN>
fan ijjm aty lie a ft
andW IN?
f®os
Hi i
IB
: ;
m
mm
m
, i ■■■■..:
MS I
gHßaa^Bßa
i
THE PRICELESS SECRET
OF A MAGNETIC TALKER
IS NOW OFFERED TO YOU
IN ‘‘EFFECTIVE SPEECH”
EFFECTIVE
SPEECH
WILL HELP YOU TO
GREATER SUCCESS
GREATER HAPPINESS
Rich rewards await the man
who can talk well. He stands
out. He attracts the attention
of the leaders in all spheres.
Under all circumstances . . .
in business dealings, in selling,
in social and public life . . .
the man who speaks with ease
and fluency stands most chance
of getting what he wants. And
rarely has the spoken word
been of greater value than it
is to-day.
Make yourself master of Effec-
tive Speech by studying the six
books illustrated here. Mental
training, development of per-
sonality, public speaking . . .
all are included in the most
concise and practical home-
study course of its kind.
ONE OF AUSTRALIA’S LEADING
TEACHERS OF ELOCUTION SAYS:
• • this new work is presented on such a sound
and natural basis, is so simple and practical in its
teaching, and is so extensive and complete in the
range of its instruction that it will be a boon to
thousands of men and women who, wishing to
develop their power of self-expression, find it
impossible to receive personal instruction. To these
I strongly recommend the work set out in ‘Effective
Speech.’ Follow the simple rules that govern
health, body and breath-control, utterance, power
of emphasis, thought analysis, skill in managing
facts, cultivation of imaginative impulse, readiness
of speech and the result will be an added charm
and dignity in conversation, and the mastery of a
simple, straightforward, forceful style in influenc-
ing your fellow-men.”
Supplementary Material Free!
With the six volumes of ‘‘Effective Speech” you
receive a 64-page book on “Speaking Funda-
mentals.” It is full of sound advice on self-
expression, public speaking, meetings, delivering
addresses and the use of wit, humour and anecdote.
It quotes interesting examples. You also receive
12 practical discussions in pamphlet form, together
with a letter of personal instruction about each of
the 12 lessons into which the series is divided, and
a form of self-examination for each lesson. The
discussions tell you exactly how to apply what you
have just learnt. The self-examination forms make
it easy to check your progress and guard against
omissions. On every point, “Effective Speech”
gives full and easily understood instruction.
L INV/M fIOA XVHM
OOAIHSH!'*’®
uadmJly ywfa
'tmptpimm ywM fr->
This Is What You Learn;
How to Think More Clearly How to Concentrate. Overcoming Fear in
Speaking. Five Simple Rules to Overcome Fear. Methods of Preparing
and Delivering a Speech. Speaking Extemporaneously. Combinations of
Various Methods. How to Present and Accept a Gift. How to Accept an
Office. How to Make an Announcement. The Purpose of a Speech. How
to Respond at a Dinner. How to Make People Laugh. The Use of Stories
How to Secure a Pleasing Voice. How to Secure Resonance. Correct
Pronunciation—Articulation. Speech Melody. The Parts of a Speech: The
Introduction—the Discussion—the Conclusion. How to Control an Audience
“A Few Appropriate Remarks”—ln Opening a Meeting—ln Introducing a
Speaker—A Speech of Welcome. How to Respond to Such Remarks, etc etc
Deliv&iecL to ipou/i hom &!.
fot a fjiAM payment of
Six volumes, 5| x 7 % inches, bound in
flexible, dark-red, Morocco-grained artcraft.
This is a real opportunity to develop personality. For the
first time you can secure a complete, concise and self-
contained course in public speaking, prepared by a leading
university professor and an outstanding figure in the business
and financial world . . . successful men both.
SEND THB FORM AND SECURE YOUR SET
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD. ' 1
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the six-volume course, “EFFECTIVE SPEECH.” with hook on
pnrlnw'l 8 ’ fl * ™ ndament ® ls ” and 13 practical discussions in pamphlet form. I
enclose a first payment of 5/- and agree to make five further monthly payments
ot 10/-. The price tor cash within 30 days is £2/10/-.
NAME
ADDRESS.
OCCUPATION
BUSINESS ADDRESS.
‘Bulletin.” 2(5/6/’35.


f
ill
..
i
1
mm MM
a."- *.,. . i ,y|
A \ S\ !'t ;’■ ; , S “?s*£. y&\ s
.1? • - 1 ’ : ■ m *_ &
. ■
«. seppEtT * sons um
2Si SOUTH AUSWII4
■ ./.;
m
m \
■#
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2889.
June 26, 1935.
BREAKAWAY MOVEMENT.
“While State authorities are waging war on commercial motor services, so as to make land transport a State Government monopoly, Mr. Brown, of the Post Office, has
come out with a plan for aerial carriage of mails and passengers which will take heaps of traffic from Government railways.”
“Why, he’s scabbing on his mates!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: I. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. Netv
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE TRANSPORT CIRCUS.
It’s a great thing to be a transport boss of the 1935
vintage. The salary is large, and if the dull round
palls a boss can easily arrange for an overseas trip,
with all expenses paid. His powers are enormous,
and may be wielded virtually without responsibility.
State law is wholly at his service. Even if he doesn’t
himself draft the Transport Strangulation Act or the
Transport Strangulation Amendment Act, he can
issue regulations by the mile and have them enforced
by an army of inspectors—have bus and truck services
blotted out, private cars stopped on the roads, lorry-
men fined for giving unemployed a lift and farmer-
drivers prevented from carrying home goods from
their market town, world without end.
And these prodigious powers are not restricted
to intra-State transport. The High Court has ruled
that Section 92 of the Commonwealth Constitution,
though it says that “Trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of internal
carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free,”
does not operate in the case of motor vehicles passing
from one State into another. A sound legal inter-
pretation, no doubt, but the effect is that a State
Government may, if it pleases, impose not only irritat-
ing restrictions but prohibitively high charges on
such vehicles passing into its territory—for example,
from Victoria into Riverina, which should be a State
itself.
Another pleasure which the new dispensation has
brought to the transport boss is that of lording it
over legislators. The politician, so intractable in
other relations, has become his humble servant. State
Governments expect little of him, so little that an
annual railway loss of £1 ss. per head of population,
criminals, lunatics and babies in arms included, is
reckoned a marvellous achievement, a theme for
effusive praise. A transport boss can depend upon
his Government being perfectly tame, even when he
is accused of bureaucratic insolence to communities
starved of modern transport facilities which ask for
improvements, or when he issues an ultimatum which
suddenly removes from whole districts conveniences
to which they have grown accustomed, and dooms to
ruin and unemployment enterprising Australians who
have supplied them.
The Sydney suburb of Kogarah, which has to
get along with steam trams, recently objected to the
tone of a communication received from the head of
the Department of Road Transport. Its council was
abruptly informed that it would “facilitate the depart-
mental decision if the council allowed the position
to be determined on its merits when seeking to ques-
tion the mode of transport to be adopted.” Manly,
which asked the same gentleman to be represented at a
meeting of local bodies called to consider the modern-
ising of transport in that far-flung district—the chair-
man of the ferry co. made it his business to be there—
received an answer as peremptory as that which exas-
perated Kogarah. The aggrieved parties complained
to the Deputy-Premier, only to be snubbed for their
pains; Mr. Bruxner, so bold in Parliament, dutifully
backed the transport boss. And Mr. Dunstan, who
put up that “magnificent fight for Victoria” at the
Loan Council hullabaloo, showed no fight at all
when, without a word of warning, the Victorian
Transport Board ordered the delicensing of all com-
mercial motor vehicles carrying goods to and from
the Riverina, and serving many Victorian communi-
ties in the process. Stirred to a show of action by
a threatened revolt in his own party, Mr. Dunstan
asked the board to stay its hand until an amended
Transport Bill was introduced. The board was
graciously pleased to comply.
The late Justice Higgins called industrial arbi-
tration, now somewhat exploded, “a new province
for law and order.” Transport “regulation” might be
described as a new Eden for bureaucrats and jacks-
in-office. But their new Eden is too lovely to
last. Already a serpent is intruding in the shape
of Mr. Brown, of the Post Office, who has effected
an unlooked-for diversion by coming out with a plan
for carrying mails and passengers between all the
capital cities —the mails at ordinary postage rates —
in fast ’planes. His proposal has yet to receive
Cabinet sanction, but in one form or another, whether
as a Government undertaking or as an enterprise
in which investors hold 49 p.c. of the stock, as they
do in Amalgamated Wireless (which Mr. Brown
dislikes so much), it is bound to come. When it does
come it will consign railway mail vans to the scrap-
heap and make Transport Strangulation Acts ridicu-
lous. And it will bring Commonwealth control of
transport within measurable distance; and the sooner
that comes the better.
TROPICAL AUSTRALIA.
The census for Tropical Australia is a sound rebuke
to enemies of the White Australia policy. In 12 years
the non-aboriginal population below Capricorn
increased by 21.6 p.c.; above the tropic the increase
was 31 p.c.—from 190,800 to 250,300. And 201,000
of the 250,300 whites are native-born.
North Australia was pioneered by cattlemen.
This is true of all parts of it: North Queensland, the
Northern Territory, the Gascoyne, the Ashburton, East
and West Kimberley. Then came the miners and the
pearlers. From 1868, when Canoona was opened up,
till 1908 every decade saw the development of gold-
mining fields, and at the end of the period, rich
deposits of base metals having been found also, North
Queensland had half a dozen towns with populations
of from 6000 to 25,000. The N.T.and North Westralia
were not so fortunate, but the Kimberley rushes, dis-
appointing in themselves, attracted hardy adventurers
who pushed south. They contributed notably to the
development of the Murchison, Coolgardie and
Yilgarn goldfields and to pastoral settlement in those
parts.
Northern settlement has had its vicissitudes.
When the gold gives out or base metals cannot be
won at a profit or the bottom falls out of the pearl-
shell market, people have to move or starve, for
there are no local factories or workshops to which
their energies can be transferred. So towns once
flourishing have become thin shadows of their former
selves. In all the N.T., from Alice Springs north,
there are but 385 persons engaged in “industrial
occupations.” North Westralia, for its part, has only
470, of whom 126 are road repairers and 244 occupied
in feeding their fellows. In these regions also the rural
population is stationary. But it has grown substanti-
ally in N.Q., particularly on the eastern littoral, with
the result that there has been a general increase of
46.000 for the 12 years covered —an advance from
109.000 to 155,000.
N.Q. is either very wet or very dry. The coast
has scrubs and mountains to daunt the bravest.
But old families of the Illawarra took the Atherton
Tableland in their stride. Carrying their goods on
packhorses, they tore out the giant timber to make
way for paspalum and for prosperous towns in country
which a generation ago was the haunt of the dingo
and the wallaby. On the east coast the cultivation
of sugarcane, begun with black labor, has become a
white man’s industry of the first importance. The
number of persons engaged in producing the crop
leaped from 4135 in 1921 to 15,857 in 1933, though
some of the increase is represented by the transfer
of landholders from other kinds of farming. Twelve
years ago no tobacco-leaf was grown. Now there are
1600 farmers and employees, although the industry
is still in the experimental stage. And a beginning
has been made with power-alcohol production, which
has still greater possibilities.
Round about Mt. Isa and Tennant’s Creek mining
settlements have sprung up. These localities and
other mining districts which are experiencing some-
thing of a revival may not carry permanent white
populations, but with the development of chilling the
vast regions suitable for cattle can and will. And
from Shark Bay round to the Barrier Reef there are
fisheries, perhaps the greatest remaining uncommer-
cialised, which could be exploited to the same purpose.
In spite of inferior housing, the northerners are a
healthy lot, the prevention and treatment of tropical
disease —not so serious a problem as in other
countries —having been tackled successfully; and
value of production per head is relatively high.
Tropical Australia is chiefly unfortunate in that its
rulers lack vision ; but they can’t always be like that.
Some day there will arise a statesman who will
summon adventurous youth in the South to the con-
quest of the North.
NEW DEALS.
Mr. Lloyd George opened his New Deal cam-
paign on January 18 amid great enthusiasm. He
coined a number of picturesque phrases, such as “It is
time Mammon and Mars were certified as dangerous
lunatics and locked up,” and outlined a scheme for
putting millions of unemployed at work on “road
systems, housing, slum clearance, railways and canals.”
He reiterated the need for a land campaign, enabling
the return of 2,000,000 workers to it, said that a
prosperity loan would be eagerly oversubscribed, and
criticised the Bank of England’s blunders.
Congratulations arrived from such diverse sources as
Lord Snowden, a former Labor Chancellor of the
Exchequer, and Winston Churchill, another ex-Chan-
cellor, for whom the Baldwin Government isn’t
sufficiently Tory. Mr. Neville Chamberlain, the present
Chancellor, said Mr. Lloyd George’s programme was
“interesting,” and would be “examined by the Gov-
ernment with an open mind,”
It was Mr. Lloyd George’s bad luck that he
should have opened his campaign when the Americans
were beginning to realise that all was not well with their
New Deal. About this time the U.S.A. Supreme
Court delivered its judgment upholding the repudia-
tion of the gold clause in Government contracts;
ex-President Hoover advocated a return to the gold
standard and the stabilisation of the dollar at 59 cents
as the only means of restoring confidence, and papers
like the N, York “Herald-Tribune” began to say that
the situation called for “a different type of leader.”
Then came the judgment which declared the N.I.R.A.
invalid. Meanwhile it became clear that, while
minorities had had a good time on the New Deal
money, the deficit and the debt had reached terrific
proportions and the unemployed had not diminished
greatly. Small wonder the British Cabinet was
reported last week to “have rejected Mr. Lloyd
George’s ‘New Deal.’ ”
The truth about all these schemes for getting
prosperous quickly—whether they go by the name of
Lang Plans, Five-, Ten- or Twenty-year Plans,
Roosevelt Deals or Lloyd George Deals—is that they
suffer from a fatal disability. Somebody has to pay
for them. Currency-inflation was the basis of the
Roosevelt Deal. Borrowing, the ultimate effect of
which would be inflation, is the basis of the Lloyd
George Deal.
We have had small-scale Deals of this kind in
Australia ever since the appearance of universal
suffrage and professional politicians who discovered
that votes could be won by the creation of sand-
shifting jobs. They have grown bigger year by year.
Chiefly owing to them, there was added to the
national debt in the four depression years to June 30
£35,000,000 more than was added during the four
previous boom years. At present each State has its
Deal or Plan. In N. S. Wales, £9,500,000 is to be spent
on “wide arterial roads, radiating from Sydney, which
will carry increasing volumes of fast traffic,” on city
rebuilding schemes, and so on. The Government anti-
cipates that, as a result of its “spirited roads policy,”
motor registrations will during the coming twelve-
month beat the 1930 record of 251,329. Paradoxically,
at the time time as the Government is pouring out
money to induce motor-owners to use the roads, it
is trying to keep owners of commercial vehicles off
the roads in the interests of the railways and tram-
ways by regulations under its Transport Co-ordination
Act (1931).
Like all these patent Plans and Deals, the N. S.
Wales recovery programme is essentially a glorified
sand-shifting job. Part-time work, unfamiliar to most
of the beneficiaries and mostly unproductive, is pro-
vided for the unemployed; the huge public debt is
increased; taxation grows heavier and the tax-
gatherer more rapacious. Britain’s way is better ; the
great improvement in the British position is attributed
by representative Britons to reduction of taxes.
PUTTING US ON THE MAP.
Australia is perhaps the only first-class country in
the world without a national plan for a detailed
trigonometric survey. All Britain is on an inch-to-the-
mile ordnance map, which marks every bypath,
rivulet and 25ft, elevation. Tens of thousands of
section maps are sold to tourists on walking tours
and for commercial purposes. India, a vast and
difficult territory, has been intensively mapped.
The agitation for an accurate survey began early
in Australian history. Lord Bathurst, on Humphrey
Davy’s recommendation, urged it on Governor
Brisbane. The foundations were laid in N. S. Wales
by Major Thomas Mitchell, who had been Welling-
tion’s map-maker in the Peninsular War —one of the
greatest of cartographers. The first work under his
guidance was done by Thomas Florance in 1828
between Jervis Bay and Moruya. Then Sydney
Harbor was triangulated, together with parts of the
County of Cumberland. It was not till 1867 that
a proper geodetic survey was begun. Generally, the
work done since in the Mother State is recognised
by surveyors as having been well done.
Tasmania began its effective mapping in 1833,
but geodetic work ceased in 1858. Victoria started
in 1858, but work was suspended 14 years later. S.A.
began to develop a scheme in 1840, Queensland in
1879—its effort went on till 1891. Westralia was
voted funds for the purpose in 1882. But each
scheme has petered out. '
As far back as 1892 a Surveyors’ Conference in
Melbourne urged “the desirableness of extending and
connecting the trigonometrical surveys of the colo-
nies” and the finishing of work already begun. The
Commonwealth arrived, but it brought no co-ordina-
tion. In 1907 the Westralian Government Astronomer
urged a unified Australian scheme, and about the
same time the Defence Department began to add
topography to parish plans. The effort went on for
six years—without national triangulation. Meantime
the Victorian Mines Department pointed out the need
for a Federal effort, stressing that effective geological
surveys must be based on systematic geodesy. Aus-
tralian mining engineers backed this plea at a deputa-
tion to Mr. King O’Malley; then a conference of
Surveyors-General asked for the adoption of a plan
to secure Australia-wide consistency and a general
geodetic survey beginning with the coastline. The
Commonwealth Director of Lands and Surveys wrote:
A geodetic survey is perhaps the most important
subject for consideration It forms the basis of the
topographical survey required, not only for purposes of
settlement, but for projection of an efficient scheme
of defence; it facilitates the carrying out of systematic
geological surveys and provides accurate data for the
preparation of maps.
In 1914 the Defence Department dropped its
old plan and formed a separate survey corps which
linked existing triangulations in various States. The
work was not co-ordinated. By 1929 the Common-
wealth and States had a working agreement, but the
depression killed it. There is a specific scheme in
existence, drafted by an Australian Survey Com-
mittee, to complete the job started over a century
ago and keep maps up to date. But, although the
Commonwealth is putting into practice several of the
detail plans recommended, there is no correlation.
Mr. H. S. McComb told the Association for the
Advancement of Science in January that the mapping
of Australia was still in its preliminary stages. To
the end of September, 1934, only 34,951 square miles,
or 1.2 p.c. of the continent —confined to areas near
big cities —had been effectively charted according to
modern ideas, and at the existing rate of progress
it would take 1700 years to complete the job.
It seems to be an avenue which might absorb the
services of many young Australians profitably.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New World Force.
Before the depression Father Coughlin was the
obscure parish priest of a suburb of Detroit. As part
of his religious duties he gave Sunday-afternoon radio
talks to children, and he put in his spare time studying
economics. Some of his sermons contained references
to the world’s political troubles and quotations from
the social encyclicals of the Popes. These sermons
became popular locally, and it occurred to him to
start radio talks about his hobby.
Letters began to pour in. Tens, hundreds, thou-
sands a week. His present average is 60,000 ; he has
had 100,000 in a week—a bigger “fan mail” than any
movie star.
Father Coughlin’s chief asset is a radio voice
which surpasses that of Mr. Roosevelt himself in
attractiveness. And it isn’t even an American voice;
though born and educated in Canada, Father Coughlin
has a pronounced Dublin brogue. His persuasiveness
over the air has enabled him to build and pay for out
of listeners’ donations a parish church costing
£150,000. In the tower he has a study in which 30
secretaries are constantly employed dealing with his
correspondence.
Whether or not Father Coughlin’s political
opinions are sound has no bearing on the theme of
this article, which is the stupendous power that is
released when the right man gets in front of a
microphone. Such a man might start a revolution or
prevent a war without moving from his home town
or being seen by one in ten thousand of those he
was influencing. The power he wields is necessarily
an irresponsible power; in the wrong hands it might
prove one of the worst calamities that have befallen
the world.
«
“No Breakaway.”
Since the rout of the Denham Government in 1915
the parties opposed to Labor-Socialism have won
only one Queensland State election —that of 1929.
They had in the meantime “united” to “secure
common action against the common enemy.” In 1932
the electors sent Labor back with a majority of four,
including the Speaker. At the recent polls they almost
wiped out the town and city support of the C.P.N.,
which had a C.P. man for leader, but was “organised”
by an executive presided over by a city barrister.
As a bid for popular support it had improvised a
family-endowment scheme under which bachelors and
childless Benedicts were to be taxed to subsidise the
married ; employers were to collect the tax —and the
odium and the strikes.
Farmer-members of the routed party did com-
paratively well. Dalby was won by Mr. Godfrey
Morgan, whose old electorate, Murilla, had been
wiped out by a boundaries commission. Labor had
expected to win Dalby.
The G.H.Q. of the C.P.N. considered the situ-
ation and decided that something would have to be
done. So Mr. Moore has been re-elected leader; Mr.
H. M. Russell, representing Brisbane’s Bellevue Hill
or Toorak (Hamilton), becomes his deputy, and Mr.
Maxwell, member for another city electorate, is named
Whip.
Mr. J. A. 1. Hunter, one of the Country-party
Ministers at Canberra, has also decided that some-
thing will have to be done. He has been compaigning
for the separation of the Country and Nationalist
sections, and a Federal C.P. office is to be opened in
Brisbane as a preliminary to a State-wide C.P. organ-
ising campaign. Mr. Morgan, whose electorate, is
within Mr. Hunter’s, has resigned from the C.P.N.,
and is urging others to follow him into the new
organisation, branches of which have been formed.
Meanwhile C.P.N. headquarters earnestly assures
electors that “there is no breakaway.”
Droughts Made to Order.
The Victorian floods (there has been another in Moe,
Gippsland, “the seventh since November”) may yet
prove a blessing in disguise, for they are directing
attention to facts obvious for a generation to men
with scientific minds. The public is beginning to
take notice, and there are hopes that even politicians
may yet learn that floods are not unavoidable natural
calamities, acts of God.
In the past people driving along Orrong-road,
Toorak, have been moved to thoughtless mirth by
the Russell Grimwade garden, which is largely
devoted to gum-trees, and by the big tree in front
of A. O. Barrett’s residence on which is a fantastic
contrivance which seems to be an imitation of the
tree-houses of the Papuans. In fact, Russell Grim-
wade and A. O. Barrett are amateur scientists whose
advice Australia as a whole would do well to heed.
For years Mr. Barrett has been experimenting to
ascertain the relation between rainfall and absorption
of moisture and tree life. For years Mr. Grimwade
has been experimenting on somewhat different lines,
but to the same end. The conclusion both have
reached is that Australia is walking towards calamity
if it does not cease its unscientific destruction of
forest life and remodel its policy of “clearing”
country.
In an address at Melbourne Mr. Grimwade made
the disquieting prophecy that if Australia continues
to act as it has done in the past there will not be
sufficient water in the continent to carry more than
three times the present population. Since the advent
of the white man, he says, the entire biological equili-
brium of the country has been altered for the worse.
Though the annual flow of the Murray is crudely the
same as it was 80 years ago, the incidence has been
gravely changed. In 1840 the river flowed 51 p.c.
in winter and 49 p.c. in summer; to-day the figures
are 76 p.c. and 24 p.c. respectively. In other words,
the rain which falls during the most copious periods
runs straightway off the land, carrying with it fertile
surface soil and sweeping useless silt to cover it and
block up watercourses below.
All this destruction is the result of unscientific
felling of the trees which formerly clustered on the
hillsides; and worse will befall unless the policy is
changed once and for all.
*
There Are Still Anzacs.
Last week a storm lashed the eastern coast of the
continent. Shipping was badly hampered. Sailings
were postponed. Many liners arrived hours late in
Sydney; other vessels limped back.
At the beaches, sea walls and bathing enclosures
were wrecked, and small craft broke their moorings
and were dashed on the rocks or pounded to pieces
in the surf. Launches and fishing parties caught
unawares were forced to run for safety. One launch
was overwhelmed by a huge wave near Cronulla.
Three men were thrown up on a ledge of rock at
the foot of unscalable cliffs, with the nearest beach
two miles away—an impossible swim through heavy
seas breaking on a long stretch of rocks.
The Antiquary describes an almost identical
adventure, and Scott, in two graphic chapters,
portrays the feelings of the unfortunates caught in
such a perilous position. Yet his characters had
only to endure their predicament for a few short
hours. The three men in this story were on the ledge
for nearly three and a half days.
They were only half clad —they had cast off most
of their clothes during the swim ashore —and they
were continuously drenched with spray, yet they
managed to survive three cold nights. There was a
trickle of water from a small spring above them, but
they had no food, for a few tufts of grass and a dry
and long-dead seabird can scarcely be counted.
In these terrible straits the men managed to keep
their spirits up right to the end. Messages scratched
on rocks were washed out by the waves almost as
quickly as they were written, yet they still kept on
at what seemed their only hope. Finally one of these
messages was seen by a searcher above. He secured
the help of some relief workers with a rope, and the
three were hauled 250 feet to safety.
Another incident, unfortunately, did not have
so happy an ending. It concerns an amazing and
dogged attempt of two men in a yacht to ride out
the storm.
Scores of eyewitnesses saw the closing stages of
their fight, but were unable to go to their assistance
through the heavy surf.
When first sighted they were towing a small
launch. Near Norah Head lighthouse the towrope
broke, and the smaller boat sank. The yacht was
knocked about and received a terrific battering, and
it must have been clear to those on board that nothing
short of a miracle could save them, yet they made
no signals for help. They fought on for some time ;
then as they neared the breakers they dropped a
kellick. It held for a while. Then it began to drag.
A few minutes later the boat was overturned and
smashed up in the breakers.
The men had held out against the storm for a
day and a half, although it was only the last two
hours of the struggle that were witnessed from the
shore.
The heroism and endurance that such an effort
must have entailed can only be imagined. They
failed. Both craft were wrecked, and both men lost
their lives, but their story should not be forgotten.
Despite oft-repeated cries of decadence, the
human animal still measures up well in a crisis, and
Australians can regard with pride the behavior of
all involved in this series of struggles with the storm.
♦
A Matter of Aesthetics.
“Regarding the suggestion of extending Martin-place right
through to the Domain, if the road were taken right to the
Art Gallery it would certainly help to bring that beautiful
building more directly under the notice of our public."
—Sydney Ure Smith.
The president of the N. S. Wales Society of Artists
might have got an object-lesson in the unwisdom of
bringing the Art Gallery under the notice of the
public, as proposed, if he had turned to the photo,
page of the “S. M. Herald” in which his sentiments
appeared. “A remarkable picture taken from a sky-
scraper of worshippers leaving St. Patrick’s, New
York,” makes the spires of the church look as if they
were reflected in a distorting mirror.
This effect is produced, to an extent, in any
building which is looked down on. The Parthenon,
Capitol and other classic edifices of ancient times were
on hills. The Arc de Triomphe, the Brandenburg
Gate, St. Peter’s, the palace of Versailles, all the
great English country houses, Italian villas, French
chateaux and German castles are on hills or rising
ground. The Sydney Art Gallery faces a depression
which is far below the Macquarie-street level.
Town-planners abhor the vacuum which is pro-
duced when a main city thoroughfare runs over the
top of a hill; which is why St. Paul’s looks down
on Ludgate Hill, Rome’s vast monument to Victor
Emanuel 11. on the Piazza Venezia ; why Parliament
House, Melbourne, stands above one important street
and St. Mary’s, Sydney, above another.
Though to run Martin-place across the Mac-
quarie-street ridge and on to Woolloomooloo would
cost more than N. S. Wales can afford these hard
times, and though the scheme would ruin Sydney’s
forum and favorite playground, it might be justified,
inasmuch as it would hasten Woolloomooloo’s inevit-
able destiny as an important residential and shopping
centre. To end such a road at the Art Gallery
would be uneconomic, and an artistic crime as well.
The One Preventable Disease.
There is only one really preventable disease, death
or injury by accident. In Australia it takes a tragic
toll; and a large proportion of the victims are
children.
Figures for 1934 show that in Victoria 332
persons were killed in traffic mishaps. There were in
all 15,924 traffic smashes as against 11,232 in 1933, an
advance so shocking as to call for explanation.
Police Chief Blarney has put his finger on one
factor —the multiplicity of regulations governing traffic.
The man who is accustomed to perform certain evolu-
tions in his own suburb and his city is required to
do the reverse when he crosses a certain dotted line
on a map. Unless he has memorised every regulation
of every municipality in the State he is apt to bump
into somebody else, with results more or less serious
according to the pace he was travelling. Mr. Blarney
demands one big code of traffic regulations, and, as
the man responsible for seeing that it is obeyed, he
wants the power for himself.
Mr, Blarney is right in his demand, but every
little pompous municipality in Victoria is kicking
against what it regards as an infringement of its
dignity.
*
Wasting Money on Books.
Victoria’s Libraries Association was treated to an
experience of the municipal mind when it invited
representatives of municipalities and other organisa-
tions to discuss a remedy for the appalling position
disclosed in the report of Ralph Munn, of the
Carnegie Library, Pittsburg, and Chief Librarian Pitt,
of Melbourne. The report showed that, outside the
capital cities and a few large towns, the library
facilities of Australia were about equal to those of
Tajikistan,
Some of the speakers brought forward some
startling facts, one of which was that prisoners in the
gaols have far better library facilities than nearly one-
half the free people of this country. Another was
that the dweller in the smallest village in backblock
England has a choice of six million volumes, one
of which will be forwarded to his home for cost
of transport. Another showed the American position.
An Australian woman residing there applied for
a certain book. Only one copy was found to be avail-
able. and that was in the Congressional Library of
Washington, a thousand miles away. But on pay-
ment of carriage and insurance—for the book was
a valuable one —it arrived promptly.
The Libraries Association asked that the muni-
cipalities take on a work which is purely municipal
and not State —the establishment of local libraries and
of the machinery to enable borrowers to obtain books
elsewhere. It asked that only books of a utilitarian
and cultural nature be obtained, books which would
enable readers living in the country to study scientific
agriculture, mechanics and other matters which
enter into their daily lives, and books which make
for mental advancement. Such libraries as exist in
the country centres to-day—relics of the old
Mechanics’ Institutes —consist mostly of Edgar
Wallace’s romances, gangster stories, Hollywood press-
agency stuff and the Melbourne directory of 1901.
The councillors listened sympathetically, until
somebody mentioned that in Great Britain there had
since 1850 been power to strike a rate of a halfpenny
for libraries. Faces clouded at that, but when the
speaker went on to say that 3d. in the £ was allowed
how the municipal blood pressure rose to Kosciuskan
altitudes! Thenceforward war —grim war —prevailed.
Councils would have none of these ’ere libraries if it
meant spending-any money. If they wanted libraries
let the State foot the bill.
A resolution which meant nothing was agreed to
unanimously. A motion which asked for an amend-
ment of the Local Government Act to admit of muni-
cipalities contributing to libraries ended in a no-
decision contest, through a dead-heat in voting. Ten
other motions were shelved, as it was getting dark
and the talk had been going on since 3 p.m. The
uncensored remarks of councillors as they left the
meeting were more interesting than the speeches.
They’d never heard such blanky cheek in their lives.
♦
Newspapers in Court.
Two libel actions of great interest to newspapermen
and lawyers —politicians, also, since amendment of
the libel law is part of the Stevens programme —were
heard in the N. S. Wales Supreme Court last week.
On October 10 The Bulletin published a criti-
cism of a novel, Mezzomorto, by Clarence Vivian
Crockett. Mr. Crockett brought an action claiming
£lO,OOO damages. Under N. S. Wales law it is
competent for the Court to order the name of the
writer of an article to be divulged. The necessary
application was made, and it was revealed that the
author of the criticism was Brian Fenton, an employee
of Associated Newspapers, by whom Mr. Crockett
also is employed.
The hearing lasted four days. Evidence was
given for the plaintiff by Elliott Napier, Howard
Ashton, Dr. Martin and Associate-Professor Chisholm.
Mr. Crockett himself was not called, nor were wit-
nesses put into the box by the defence. The jury
found for the plaintiff; damages, £lOOO.
In the second case, John Bede Frawley, a solicitor,
claimed £2OOO from “S. M. Herald.” Last September
the newspaper in reporting the action Stevenson v.
Hook gave only the verdict and a rider, in which the
plaintiff was mentioned. The plaintiff claimed that
without the evidence the report was not fair and accu-
rate, though he did not allege malice. The newspaper
pleaded that it was fair and correct, and privileged
under Section 29 of the Defamation Act, 1912. Again
the jury found for the plaintiff; damages, £75.
A stay of proceedings was granted in each case.
This means, of course, that there can be no comment
during the period of the stay.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“G.M.”; Melbourne’s devotion to
football will be seriously threatened if
the latest manly sport catches on. The
wheeling of a heavy man up 50 miles of
hilly country is the newest stunt,
and the event from Beechworth to the
summit of Buffalo attracted thousands of
spectators, not merely from the district,
but from Melbourne itself, over 100 miles
away. Some actually came by aero-
plane to witness the idiotic contest, or,
rather, its start, for the actual progress
of such a match is just about as exciting
as an egg-laying competition. The noble
sport of seeing how long you can sit on
the top of a pole, popular in America a
few years back, will now doubtless find
imitators here.
“Bull-ant Bill”: These barrow mara-
thons must make some of the old hands
of the track toss disgustedly in their
lonely graves. Many a barrow was
wheeled from Perth to Coolgardie dur-
ing the roaring ’nineties. Milky Joe and
his barrow, himself in the shafts, a blue
cattle-bitch harnessed in the lead, were
familiar sights for years on western tracks
of Vic, and N.S.W. Joe carried a kit of
tools and built barrow-bodies which out-
lasted the wheels; those of his own
ornate vehicle ran on ball-bearings. But
the European barrow is a non-mechani-
cal affair beside the Chinese model. The
wily Celestial puts the wheel in the
middle, to take all the weight, and, when
he gets a fair wind, hoists a square-sail
to help him along.
* * * ♦
“Mr. Malaprop”: That story of the
flappers who wanted to see the reporters
in action (B. 19/6/’35) reminds me of
two of my great-grand-nieces who went
into a Government office and asked if
they might gaze on the staff at work.
An astonished porter returned the reply:
“I am afraid, ladies, that is absolutely
impossible”
* * * *
“Como”: Another of the old Italian
palaces that rose in Toorak in the ’seven-
ties is to go into the hands of the wrecker
to make way for flats. Hadleigh Hall,
formerly the home of Hugo Wertheim,
of sewing-machine fame, is marked for
demolition. It cost £20,000, and on its
tennis court “Sos” Wertheim first learned
to punch the balls; in its drawing-room,
nearly every celebrated musician visiting
Melbourne cut off a slice of harmony at
some time or other. Paderewski and
Hambourg were among them.
* * * *
It happened in Brisbane.
I was walking on air, for I had just come
from a chat with J. H. Curie, and be-
neath my arm rested an autographed
copy of Shadow Show. From my reverie
of sunsets in Table Bay, temples in Java
and waterfalls in South America, I was
suddenly awakened by someone calling
my name. It was little Mrs. Boxchatter.
“Look here,” I said, placing my prize in
her hands, “I have just had an interview
with the man who wrote that book.”
She opened it at the title leaf, and read
aloud the forty-sixth stanza of the
“Rubaiyat,” which is reprinted there.
“How I envy you!” she gushed. ‘Tve
always wanted to meet Omar Khayyam.”
$ * * *
“Spare Corp,”: Whenever o«r mob
had a sing-song back of the line a Digger
named Tudehope (pronounced “Chewed-
ope”) was invariably in demand. “Kath-
leen Mavourneen” we liked best, and in
a full-throated fashion the boys helped
“Chewed’ope,” dropping the aspirate
purposefully when he and they came' to
“The ’orn of the ’unter is ’card on the
’ill.” That Digger joke had a sequel.
“Chewed’ope’s” fame spread to England,
and he was asked to sing at soldiers’
concerts; then the management of a
vaudeville circuit offered him a job, which
led him to take his discharge in Eng-
land. A battalion cobber recently in the
Cold Country saw him there; using a
stage-name, he is now a ballad-singer in
good standing.
* * * *
“Felo”; Cases crop up periodically
where the savage old English law about
“death pacts” is mentioned and cause
one to wonder why it hasn’t long since
been eliminated from the statute-book.
"I cant say much for your bedside manner , but I DO like your
thermometers ."
If two people agree to commit suicide
and both succeed —well, that’s the end
of it. If both fail, neither will face any-
thing worse than a prosecution for
attempted suicide and the prospect of a
light penalty or a mere judicial admoni-
tion. But if one succeeds and the other
fails the survivor still runs the risk (and
will until the law is altered) of being
charged with murder. Nowadays it is
more than doubtful if any Crown Law
department would initiate such a prose-
cution ; if it did, it is certain that no jury
would convict, even if the Judge were to
point out that unwritten law has no place
in English jurisprudence.
jj* sjc sft
“Mac”: Sydney “D.T.” published an
article on preference to returned men,
written (very well) - by an A.I.F. general
and illustrated with pictures of a dole-
Digger of 1934 contrasted with the same
man in 1914. The funny bit was that the
original Digger was wearing the dis-
tinctive militia dress of to-day, 20 years
before the authorities authorised it!
“Port Bredy”: Mead (B. 19/6/’35)
has survived longer in western coun-
ties than anywhere else in Eng-
land. In modem literature I doubt
if you will find any references to it
except in the Wessex novels of Thomas
Hardy. That writer was obviously well
acquainted with its quality and pro-
cesses of manufacture. Angel Clare, in
less, brings home a bottle from dairy-
man Crick’s to his parents, certifying it
as “a very pretty drop of tipple.” And
there is a much older Hardy story of
an escaped murderer straying into an
isolated farmhouse and being hospit-
ably regaled with mead at a christening
party, another uninvited guest being the
hangman who is due at Casterbridge
gaol the next morning to string the mur-
derer up. Considering the number of
bee-farmers we have, it is a wonder that
nobody has experimented with mead in
this eountrv.
“Bingo”: I distrust these home-brewed
beverages. It was the custom for the
youth of our M.L. village to make perio-
dic excursions to an apple farm where
cider could be had cheap. Uncle, from
whom we had “expectations,” was on a
visit, and we decided that a trip to the
orchard would be a treat for him. We
took him out one Sunday afternoon, and,
assured that the cider was pleasant and
harmless, he drank a long glass; told
the old tale that a second would remove
any effects the first might have produced,
he had another. We were inured to the
stuff, but the effect on uncle was disas-
trous. We carried him into the car, and
he had to cancel an engagement to read
the lessons at church that evening. He
left next morning, after a dignified dis-
course on the degeneracy of modern
youth. Our branch of the family was not
mentioned in his will.
* * * *
“Wang”: Police raids on s.-p. joints
and two-up schools are a frequent
source of embarrassment to the resi-
dents in our suburb; unless the net has
been drawn tight, the sight of a perfect
stranger tearing madly down the passage-
way of your house and vanishing over
your backyard fence is no uncommon
spectacle. Only the other night my
neighbor Jones’s family, sitting quietly
around the tea-table, were startled by
the sudden incursion of an uninvited
and scared-looking visitor who, after
grabbing an empty chair and a knife
and fork, frantically appealed to his in-
voluntary hosts not to mind him; “it’ll
be all right as soon as the Johns have
gone.” “And what could we do?” asked
Jones; “we didn’t want to give him
away. I’ve ‘headed ’em’ myself, and I
have a bet now and then,” he added
pensively.
* *
“Oxmead”: Tasmanian Premier Ogilvie,
speaking in Dublin, made a bitter com-
plaint about the paucity of Irish news
in Australian newspapers. There cer-
tainly isn’t much that gets into the cables,
beyond an occasional pronouncement by
De Valera, but the reason is fairly
obvious. The cables are from London,
and since the Free State came into
being the interest of London newspapers
in politics on the other side of St.
George’s Channel has steadily waned.
For half a century and more Irish affairs,
in Parliament and out of it, were forced
upon the English newspaper reader day
after day. Wherever he was, he couldn’t
get away from Ireland. Things are dif-
ferent now that Ireland has been allowed
to get away from England, and London
editors can hardly be blamed for recog-
nising the fact. An Irish debate in the
House of Commons made copy; the
doings in the Dail have less interest for
the average Englishman to-day than
those of the London County Council.
“Buy Australian”; My gaze fell on
some attractively-got-up tins of pre-
served crab and sockeye salmon in the
grocer’s shop. Each tin bore the infor-
mation that it was “distributed” by a
local firm, and was embellished with a
portrait of Captain Cook. My patriotic
enthusiasm was stirred. Here, 1 reflected,
at long last is an attempt to exploit the
wonderful resources of Australia’s own
waters. Why can’t we have more of it?
For years Australian beche-de-mer has
had a market in Asia, and I have seen
samples of high-class leather made from
Australian shark-skin which looked
better than anything that ever grew on
a bullock. I was still reflecting in this
strain when I happened to look closer at
the tins. One bore, as a supplementary
inscription, the words “Produce of
Siberia” and the other was modestly
labelled “Produce of Japan.”
#
“Doodlakine”; Reminiscences about
Frederick Bailey Deeming (alias Wil-
liams), who was given to murdering
wives and cementing them under hearth-
stones, still command a certain interest;
but the reference to Cawsey, who “used
to describe how at all the wayside stations
between the Cross and Perth the populace
rolled up to hoot Deeming” (B. 19/6/’35),
runs ahead of railway chronology.
Deeming was arrested early in 1891, and
hanged in Melbourne in May, 1892. The
construction of the Northam-Southern
Cross railway hadn’t been even started
when Deeming was nabbed, and the
line wasn’t opened till 1894. In short,
there were no wayside railway stations at
all until Cawsey and his captive had
finished three-quarters of their journey
and started on the last lap (65 miles) to
Perth.
* * * *
“Janus”: The three Brisbane Labor
aldermen who have been ordered by the
party executive to hang on to their muni-
cipal seats while also drawing pay as
Ms.L.A., and who are represented as
being placed in a dilemma between such
an order and the Labor principle of “one
man one job” (B. 19/6/’35), have an easy
way out of the difficulty. They needn’t
take both salaries. When John Forrest
entered politics in Westralia 45 years
ago, he had an Imperial pension, but he
refused to draw it while he was in office.
And he stuck to the decision when he
entered the Federal Parliament.
* ■* « *
“Downing”; Oxford has wiped the eye
of the opposition at Cambridge by “send-
ing down” two sweet girl graduates who
kicked up their heels unduly during
Eights Week. It is the first time an
undergraduette has been so treated. Cam-
bridge once had its own way of dealing
with troublesome young ladies, but that
was before women were admitted to the
University. There was an establishment
called the “Spinning House,” and there
the authorities used to clink females
whom they considered inimical to the
best interests of undergrads. The pro-
cess came to a sudden end when the
powers “shot in” a lass who turned out
to be not that sort of young person at all.
There was a row all over England, and
what it cost the dons to hush the affair
up would have endowed a new college.
sfc He sj: %
“Nikko”: Like Sydney City Council
(B. 19/6/’35), Auckland, when in the
grip of plague, became generous in the
matter of rat bonuses. What troubled
school-teachers (I was one in those days)
was the conviction that on their way to
school enterprising pupils would carry
overnight catches for payment. They
did, too ; some brought their victims in
neat paper parcels, others in sugar-
bags ; others again tipped them casually,
just as they were, from below
nicely-wrapped lunches or hauled them
from the neck of a school jersey. Germs
and infection have no terrors for youth.
* * * *
“Vicar”: Far-off: friends of an Irish-
Westralian mourned when they read of
his passing in Perth. Death had really
come to another Irish-Westralian of the
same name, a neighbor actually, but the
far-off friends didn’t know that, and
some of them hit the track for the city;
one, a publican, motored 60 miles, had
a breakdown and was on the road all
night. They arrived just in time for the
funeral, and, returning to Perth, were
having a drink when they were amazed
to meet the man they thought they had
buried. “Did ye all go to me funeral?”
he asked, a glow of gratitude on his
honest phiz. “Sure, we did,” said the
publican, who had been on the road all
night; “and we wanted to be pallbearers.”
“Well, we’ll have another taste,” said
the supposed corpse, “and I thank ye
for going to me funeral, unawares like.”
Then, growing suddenly grave, he asked:
“Was O’ there, an’ Paddy an’
Dinny ? They were not, ye tell
me? A mahn’s got t’ die before he knows
who his friends are. I always thought
they were thraitors to me—an’ I’ll nivver
shpake to ’em again.”
THE SINGERS.
“General Booth said that her principal impressions
of Australia were of its generosity and its musical
ability. She had never heard such bands and such
singing elsewliei-e.”
Give thanks unto Evangeline,
And press them home with frozen flowers :
In all her travels she has seen
No nest of warblers such as ours.
What though a falling market strains
The produce of our fields and herds,
The all-important fact remains:
We sing like birds.
She heard the bands that blare and blay
From Bungaree to Bangemall
(That’s somewhere out in W.A.;
The other, Hogan holds in thrall);
She heard in every little place,
With rapture all too deep for words,
Tenor and baritone and bass
Who sing like birds.
Still marvelling, she went the rounds
Of all our legislative halls
(Thirteen, no less), though here the sounds
She heard were rasping shouts and calls.
Told six-one-seven the tally was,
She must have thought, though came no
words.
That most of them were picked because
They sing, those birds!
N.S.W.
TRUE THOMAS.


“S.G.”: It is a chilly winter for news-
paper controllers. Within the last month
verdicts have been given for the plaintiff
in Bedford v. Brisbane “Telegraph”
(after three trials), Frawley v. “S. M.
Herald” and Crockett v. The Bulletin ;
the editors and proprietors of Sydney
“Sun” and Sydney “Truth” have been
fined for contempt of Court; the “Sun ’
people have been carpeted again, and
with them the editor and proprietors of
the “Telegraph” (“his Honor said he
would consider what penalty he would
impose”); the “Illustrated Tas. Mail”
and Launceston “Weekly Courier” have
announced, without saluting Caesar, that
they were about to die, and, “owing to
the necessity for a rearrangement of our
staff,” an ex-editor of Perth “Sunday
Times” and several of his colleagues
have been put off. “Spare a copper for
an unemployed editor, lady!”
:J:
“Kid’s Dad”: There are two ways of
taking Bairnsfather (B. 5/6/’35). Below
the superficial joke, patent to everybody,
lies the stark reality of front-line con-
ditions and of army routine conjured up
by the sketch and the legend. I find
“Fragments” more effective in bringing
back the past to my memory than the
most vivid photographs. On Our Selec-
tion appeals to me in much the same
way; you sense the hardships and bat-
tling behind the humor. Those sketches
in “Punch” of roughriding sergeants —
much more subtle, sarcastic and biting
than their real-life prototypes, who were
monotonously blasphemous and un-
original—don’t bring back the war to
me. But a joke embodying rum, red-tape,
the “staff blokes,” big muddy boots
and our “blasted” (in two senses) dug-
outs unfailingly does. After all, Bairns-
father was the first artist to make the
travelling shell visible to the imagination
of the civilian mind. The soldier needed
no help in this direction.
* t- * *
“Jacky Roo” (Canada); Australia has
natural tourist attractions second to none
in the world, but we shall never tempt
wealthy Yankees to give them the “once-
over” until we improve our hotel
accommodation. It wouldn’t shove our
Government-owned railways much deeper
into debt if they went into the hotel busi-
ness and put up a few luxury pubs at
vital centres. The C.P.R. does it, and
the Royal York Hotel in Toronto —the
biggest in the British Empire—showed a
handsome profit last year. Ottawa’s big
pub, the C.N.R.’s Chateau Laurier, is
another paying proposition. Hotel prices
here are about on a par with Australian
tariffs, but there is a staggering differ-
ence in comfort and quick-fire service.
* * * *
“Nauticus”; The experience of “B.B.”
(B. 12/6/’35) recalls that when our lads
captured Rabaul in 1914 one member of
a landing party returned with a magneto-
generator which he had souvenired from
the enemy. It had been used for firing the
landmines which the Aussies encountered
in their attack on the Bita Paka wireless
station. His pride in this masterpiece of
German technical skill received a set-
back when inspection revealed a maker’s
nameplate bearing the inscription “Os-
born and Jordan, George-street, Sydney.”
❖ * -t- ♦
“McGilp”: I was beginning to think
the inquisition in the N.S.W. Industrial
Court as to What Working Women Want
was being overdone when Judge Webb
chipped in brightly—“speaking from
a wealth of inexperience, I don’t think
they wear combinations now.” One
of the gladdest features of modern life
is that woman
makes herself look
picturesque from
the time she steps
out of her bath
until she touches her
nose with the
powder-puff to
emerge from the
front door. In the
dark and virtuous
times of Queen Vic-
toria a half-dressed
woman looked
rather like a plucked
fowl; when she had
discarded all the
abominations of the
period the form of
Venus herself was a horror. Every one
of the models we had at the Vic. National
Gallery used to take the dais with her
torso criss-crossed with red lines like a
railway map, a result of the pressure of
the whalebone and steel composing the
corsets of the time. It was not until the
class was about to terminate that the
marks had worn off.
*** . * .
“Art. Sig.”: The deadliest-looking
cigarette I ever saw in the war years (B.
29/5/’35) was rolled by an elderly
French cocky While our mob was in rest
billets. He used a section of newspaper
that was mostly heavily-leaded headlines,
and the tobacco was the half-green leaf
commonly seen hanging from the eaves
of northern French and Belgian farm-
houses, presumably to mature. The
farmer plucked the leaf from its hang-
ings, mangled it with a clasp-knife and
made his cigarette, which he held to-
gether by finger pressure. The finished
article was quite Bin. long, but he con-
sumed it to the bitter end and showed
no ill-effects. Later on I gave this local
product a trial in a pipe ; and since then
I have been convinced that a nation pro-
ducing men of the fibre of that farmer
will always be unconquerable.
* * $ *
“Uramao”: The merging of the
Christchurch “Times” with the “Press”
ends the career of
M.L.’s oldest paper.
Men who have
grown grey and bald
in the service are
numerous, but they
have not been for-
gotten ; £5OOO has
been set aside for
employees displaced.
Some years ago the
closing-down of an-
other old paper
turned adrift a big
batch of ancients.
A printer who had
spent 42 years with
the company ex-
ploded as he was
going down the stairs for the last time:
“If I thought I wasn’t going to have a
permanent job on the blinking journal
I’d never have joined it.”
* * * *
“Rupert Robot”: A newly-made J.P.
friend of mine confided to me his
opinion that the office is regarded with
very little respect by the public. The
first affront put on him was when he
was asked to witness a statutory declara-
tion by a manufacturer to the effect that
the latter’s goods would not be used for
a certain purpose. When the job was
done the manufacturer disgustedly com-
mented: “There’s a lot of red-tape for
you; how the hell do I know what my
goods will be used for?” The second
was when a foreigner introduced himself
with the opening: “You’re a Justice of
the Peace?” My friend admitted it.
“Well, then, you can tell me the best way
to go bankrupt,” pursued the visitor.
4 s *I : »I» 'l*
“Greenhide”: One of my most vivid
memories of Anzac goes back to the
day of the Landing. After wading to
the beach from the lighters, clambering
up overhanging ridges and being mowed
down by machine-gun fire in the gullies
at the top, the troops struck the Turkish
first line. In front of the hastily con-
structed trenches stretched line upon line
of barbed wire. The Australians had few
cutters and no means of asking for
shell-fire to cut it from the ships, so
the boys plunged in, bucking, cursing
and panting. At the worst came a little
breath from home. A lanky bushman,
“What on earth- Blowing on your medicine !”
“Well, didn't y' tell me to imagine it was beer ?”
with his uniform cut to rags, bawled
out, “This b stuff is worse than a
cow-cocky’s sliprails.”
* * * *
“Nicol Jarvie”: Reference to folk who
wear the tartan , though not entitled to
do so (B. 12/6/’35) moves me to remark
it is about time the Great Caledonian
Myth of ancient tartan weaves was
scotched. The variegated tartans never
made their appearance until the
eighteenth century. Hill Burton, a world-
wide authority on the Highland clans
and their culture, says they first came
into use about 1715, having been in-
vented (and manufactured in the Low-
“HENRY!”
“Er .. those silly people in the shop! My dear, I distinctly asked for
BRACES!”
lands) by a Quaker named Rawlinson.
This enterprising gentleman pushed
his goods throughout the Highlands.
Then came Scott to write magically
of the Hielan’man in Waverley and Rob
Roy, and when Queen Victoria did her
block on the clans and their alleged
tartans there were plenty of firms ready
to work overtime in devising new and
staggering patterns.
* * ♦ *
“R.A.N.”: How many know that the
Japanese cruiser Asama, which recently
visited Sydney, once formed a unit of
a British squadron of which the battle-
cruiser Australia was flagship? In com-
pany with the Nizen and Idzumo and the
British cruiser Newcastle, the Asama
awaited the arrival of our one and only
battle-cruiser at Magdalena Bay, Mexico,
in December, 1914. The composite
squadron scoured the west coast of S.
America in search of the German Pacific
fleet, and the partnership was not dis-
solved until we got the news of the Falk-
lands battle and the destruction of Von
Spec’s squadron.
“Hi mba Gachle”: Don’t run away
with the idea that because native fighters
are terrors with spear or sword (B.
19/6/’35) they are likely to be more for-
midable when armed with modern
weapons. I can certify that the Zulu is
the worst shot under heaven, while men
who fought in both Sudan expeditions
have told me they had to thank the
atrocious marksmanship of the over-
whelming hordes of Dervishes for the
fact they were not wiped out. At El
Teb the Dervishes had Remingtons, taken
from the butchered army of Hicks Pasha,
but their practice of firing from the hip
as they advanced made the fire in-
nocuous. In both his rebellions the Zulu’s
rifle fire proved innocuous for the same
reason. The Abyssinian in the past has
been a close-quarters man with sword
and spear. I doubt if any amount of
training will make him anything like a
shot. Our Sudanese levies have had
a long spell of musketry instruction since
they were raised, but as marksmen they
remain a joke. Personally I fancy the
Italians will have more to fear from
malaria and dysentery than from the
Ethiopian army.
•t * *
“Maritus”: The cables have again
been recounting the woes of the South
African cricketers’ wives, who may not
travel with their worse halves or stay
at the same hotels with them. Mrs.
Siedle laid bare a poignant sorrow in an
interview. She described the horrors of
being able only to watch her husband
from the grandstand and to speak to him
in intervals of play. “I get very lonely,”
she said, “when I have spent all my
money on dresses.” It certainly must
be aggravating to have to sit round all
day waiting for an opportunity to nego-
tiate an advance for a ducky little hat
or something of the sort, while Himself
keeps purposely out of range until the
bank closes —the brute!
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Can any traveller tell
me whether any English-speaking coun-
try other than Australia uses “Hooray”
as a valediction? A growth of recent
years, not apparently a talkie-importa-
tion from Chi., it permeates town and
country alike. All ages and both sexes
use it. In Queensland young Bill, leav-
ing the farm for a job in the meatworks,
farewells with “ ’Ooray, mum; ’ooray,
gran ; ’ooray, dad. See y’ some more! ”
The family bellows in unison: “’Ooray,
Bill! Be good!” To which Bill, passing
out of hearing, replies “ ’Ooray! ”
* * *
“General Prae.”: An alienist friend
has collected Australian suicide statis-
tics over a period of 42 years, and some
of his conclusions are curiously interest-
ing. For instance, young girls, desperate
from unrequited love, are apt to take the
fatal step, but a disgruntled youth merely
whistles and lights another cigarette.
Elderly bachelors, much more so than
ancient spinsters, seek a way to end it
all; but widows die by their own
hands more often than widowers. R.Cs.
and Jews are rare figures in the casualty
list; Chinese suicides, though the China-
man is generally depicted as unemotional
and careless of Fate’s bludgeonings, are
relatively common. A suiciding Austra-
lian abo. is hardly ever heard of. Eng-
lishmen in Australia kill themselves more
than Irish or Scotch people. And the
suicide rate mounts the further north we
go; Tasmania has the lowest tally, Vic-
toria and S.A. run about equal, N.S.W.
beats them both, but loses by a long
head to Westralia and Queensland.
Nevertheless, Maoriland has a higher rate
than Australia.


m AVFTV “Si
CELLOPHANE
• Moisture-proof “CELLOPHANE” keeps the moisture-content of
CRAVEN “A” Cigarettes UNIFORM, ensuring fine smoking under ail
conditions of weather and stock-keeping. CRAVEN “A” reach you
FACTORY-FRESH, wherever and whenever you buy them.
H1837M/A
I 0 for 9 d -
-20 for 1/6
SO for 3/9
*
m
■;:v
TO
m
OPEN
just a touch
with the
tight thumb
breaks the
Freshness
seal.
POLITICAL POINTS
Though Australia sells at the highest
world price every pound of wool it can
produce, Victoria’s Dunstan Ministry
insists on bringing the commodity within
the scope of its Marketing Bill. If it
upsets the balance of the Australian
market, as any regulation by a single
State might do, it will have a lot to
answer for.
One certain result of the establishing of
aerial mail and passenger services be-
tween the capitals is that a vast collec-
tion of Government railway mail vans
will be for sale cheap. Mostly bought in
the spacious days when loan money was
no object they represent no inconsider-
able portion of the capital sunk in these
“permanent and reproductive works,” but
they will be hard to sell, even for week-
end shacks. There are now no buyers
for superannuated tramcars when they
are taken off the roads they cumber.
Anticipating an outcry over the cost
of the overseas pilgrimage of Common-
wealth Ministers and civil servants,
U.A.P. newspapers assert that Lyons has
secured a great concession—the right to
export to Britain 140,000 cwt. of chilled
beef, 710,000 cwt. of frozen beef and
450,000 cwt. of mutton and lamb next
quarter. “It is not likely that the quotas
will be reached” ; it is likely that the
British Government will use the “con-
cession” as an argument -in favor of
tariff advantages for British manufac-
turers.
Queensland Government employees
who want to make a bit in their spare
time are rejoicing at the decision of the
A.L.P. executive that the three Brisbane
Labor aldermen who have become
Assemblymen may hang on to both
salaries until further orders. They
reckon the ruling will render it impos-
sible for the Government to object to
their holding two or more jobs, if they
can get two or more. Premier Forgan
Smith is on the party executive that
sanctioned the departure from “Labor
principles.”
Some Australians have been turning an
honest penny by selling scrap-iron and
ships that have had their day to the
Japanese. A report from France sug-
gests that a use may be found for rail-
way lines that will have to be pulled up,
despite all the efforts of Transport
Strangulation Boards. The French arc
using discarded steel rails for the defence
of their long frontiers ; the rails are “stuck
perpendicularly in the earth, like great
teeth,” and it is reckoned that they will
stop tanks. Rails on scores of Australia’s
loan lines stop nothing but the march of
progress.
The City of Sydney has a substantial
asset in its lighting system, but it is pay-
ing dearly for aldermanic extravagance
in other directions. Interest and ex-
change take 9d. from every shilling of
rate-revenue, and resumptions another
2d. “Loss on resumptions account” is
£350,000 a year. Some people must
have done famously out of “resump-
tions,” and it would be interesting to
have a full return of properties bought
and amounts paid, together with cur-
rent valuations.
Stevens and co. have already had to
modify their plan for putting the new*
Police Commissioner in full control.
They found he was closing down coun-
try stations at a great rate and bringing
the officers to Sydney, and the cries from
Johnless communities forced them to
intervene. The same thing has been going
on to some extent in country towns with
railway workshops, but the Government
has let Mr. Hartigan have his head.
Westralian Labor is now at work on
its programme for the pre-election ses-
sion, and will have to be exceedingly
careful about it. Thesecesh fiasco, the veto
on bulk-handling extensions, the unem-
ployed objections to A.W.U. domination
of relief works and McCallum’s retire-
ment to a fat Agricultural Bank job have
told heavily against the Government.
The one shrewd thing Caucus has done
this last 12 months was to put Wise into
the Ministry. His appointment has
pleased the North, which always feels
that Perth neglects it; and no party
can reach or retain possession of the
Treasury benches without northern seats.
Queensland Labor, which is believed
to be meditating the restoration of four
saints’ days as public holidays, is col-
lecting plenty of information on the sub-
ject in advance. Newspaper correspon-
dents tartly mention that, although St.
Patrick’s Day was a public holiday in
Queensland before Moore’s time, it is
not kept up as such even in Free State
Ireland; “in fact,” as one says, “none
of the saints’ days is a holiday in the
British Isles.”
“Passing through Adelaide on his way to Perth, Dr. Page tried to remove S.A. objections
to the railway his Government wants to thrust on that State.”
“Where've you bin 'idin' these five-and-twenty years? Talk cars or
’planes an a man'll listen .”
When in Dublin Tas, Premier Ogilyie
must have answered many inquiries
about Dwyer-Gray, his deputy. Dwyer-
Gray’s father was a Home Rule M.P.
and editor of “Freeman’s Journal” ; in
the latter capacity the son succeeded him
when little more than a lad. There is a
bitter reference to him in O’Brien’s Life
of Parnell : —
Parnell married Mrs. O’Shea. A few
weeks later young Mr. Gray, of the
“Freeman’s Journal,” seized upon the mar-
riage as a pretext for going over to the
enemy.
Strange that he should have been destined
in youth to accelerate the political
descent of Parnell, and in old age to try
(with pathetic futility) to arrest that of
Lang.
Dunstan has taken the first step to-
wards “rural rehabilitation” in Victoria.
He intends to devote three millions of
Commonwealth money to paying off
debts so as to give farmers a chance, like
Dad in On Our Selection, to start again.
A board is to be set up, of course, and
“a mortgage corporation” is talked of.
Announced as “the largest passion-
fruit enterprise in the world,” a factory
for processing the wrinkled delicacy has
been opened at Red Hill (Vic.). Properly
handled, passionfruit products should
have a good sale overseas. Experimental
shipments to England sold well, despite
British objections to the appearance of
the fruit —“the ugliest in the world,” the
“Daily Mail” called it. In America the
passionfruit flavor is rushed by exclusive
restaurants, but the fruit and seed cannot
be imported. Hitherto, the embargo has
militated against Australian production,
but Canberra may fairly ask that it
should not be applied to processed fruit,
especially as Uncle Sam’s trade with this
country is so one-sided.
Still bent on cultivating British friend-
ship, the Germans have signed an agree-
ment limiting their naval strength to 35
p.c. of that of the British Commonwealth
of Nations. The only catch is that the
right to equality in submarine tonnage
is reserved, though the German Govern-
ment engages that here a 45 p.c. ratio
will not be exceeded except in special
circumstances on which Downing-street
will be consulted. The French are
furious, but if nothing has been given
away on the colonial question (it was
mentioned during the negotiations)
Dominion opinion will approve. Aus-
tralia, for its part, will not go to war to
preserve the French system of encircling
alliances, the latest of which is with
Russia.
A tour of Queensland has convinced
Assistant-Minister Hunter that the Coun-
try Nats, are hopeless, and he has put
himself at the head of a movement to re-
establish the C.P. As evidence of how
“united action against the common
enemy” has worked, Hunter says that,
while the Country Nats, were drifting to
their doom, he wrote to them offering
his services as speaker in Albert:- —
lam still waiting for a reply... .For 10
years I was secretary of the C.P. in the
Federal House. During all that time I
did not receive one official communication
from the C.P.N. at Brisbane, though my
own communications were many. We
were just not recognised.
The C.P. was born again at Stanthorpe,
State Labor member at 30, Opposition-
leader at 33 and S.A. Premier at 39,
John Gunn was still learning the job
when he met Bruce. Then in the first
flush of enthusiasm for “men, markets
and money,” Bruce put the young man
on his Development and Migration Com-
mission under Gepp; and when Gepp
retired in 1930 Gunn carried on as
Director of Development with nothing
much to do. Now his term is almost
up, and he is unlikely to. get another.
He has had a fine salary for nine years,
but if he had known what was ahead
of him he would probably have stayed in
Adelaide.
In flat opposition to the opinions of
eminent barristers proudly quoted by the
Secessionists, Professor Beasley, Dean of
the Faculty of Law in Perth University,
expressed the view that State politicians
approaching the Imperial Parliament
would find that they had no standing in
matters affecting the Commonwealth
Constitution. Events having completely
justified his forecast, he has been pub-
licly thanked by the Australian Unity
League. A rather unique tribute ; pro-
fessors discussing public questions
generally get more clods than compli-
ments.
A Sydney newspaper reports that, with
the completion of the Wyangala dam, a
construction workers’ township which
“boasted more than 1000 inhabitants”
will disappear, “leaving a grassy valley
for sheep to graze in.” Grassy valleys
served by the dam were to have accom-
modated hordes of settlers, chiefly im-
migrants ; but since the bottom fell out
of the wheat market that part of the
scheme has been postponed indefinitely.
If a person with £6OO a year could
transfer his capital to the new £12,500,000
loan, and get his £6OO through that
channel, he would save between £6O and
£B5 a year in income tax. That was one
of the arguments with which Acting-
Treasurer Casey tempted the investing
public. Loan interest is exempt from State
taxes and the 6 p.c. Federal tax on
property income. Federal tax on £6OO
of loan interest is thus £l7 12s. 7d. Fed-
eral and State taxes on £6OO derived from
other investments amount to £lO3 10s.
lid, in Queensland, £lOl 14s. Id. in
S.A., £B5 14s. sd. in Tas., £B4 9s. 9d. in
Vic., £79 ss. 4d. in W.A. and £77 19s.
lOd. in N.S.W. In effect (though natur-
ally Mr. Casey didn’t say so), taxes on
general property income are scandalously
high. It is against the best interests of the
nation that loan issues should carry
exemption from taxation, but until in-
come tax is exclusively a Commonwealth
matter the crazy folly will go on.
N.S.W. Deputy Premier Bruxner has
been told to expect intenser South
African competition in the British
markets for fruit, wine, butter, eggs and
the like, and warns the farmers to pre-
pare for it. Bruxner’s crowd ought to do
a bit of preparing on its own account by
getting taxes down. They are greatly in
excess of what Afrikander farmers have
to pay, and no amount of cheap advice
will remove the disparity.
Taking persons only, Union income
tax carries an exemption of £4OO, plus
abatements for children, and runs from
Is. to 2s. in the £. Provincial income
taxes are percentages on Union tax: 10
p.c, in Natal, 15 p.c, and 22\ p.c. in Cape
Colony and the Transvaal, 20 p.c. and 30
p.c. in Orangia, according to whether tax-
payers are married or single. N.S.W.
income tax runs from 7d, in the £ on
£251 to 4s. 3d. “on the excess over £7000”
(£5500 in the case of property income).
N.S.W. “special” income tax is 6d. in the
£ on “the first £100” and lOd. on “the
excess over £200.” Commonwealth tax,
mostly concealed in a maze of formulas
and five-year averages, rises to 7s, 6d.
in the £ of property income exceed-
ing £3700, and to 6s. of personal
earnings exceeding £6900. Then there is
the “special” 6 p.c. on property income.
Australians have cause to envy the Afri-
kanders.


// - '
lm OHUV
DOIMC, IT FOR A WAQER
f NO«VOLIrW HOT TO GiWE HIM A PEKHV,
Somebody probably oareo him to oo it
Here she is> ; yoo e>ex me
you'd KISS TME MR&T GORL TO <tOME
ROUND WE CORWER 7“
u . f
ip that s the; way you feeu >
WHY D»D VOU MARRY ME "
// Be.caus>h the bovs bet me
A DOLLAR ! WASHT QMVIE TO,
", ' /
ILL BET HE HE.D CATCH LSS ALIVE,
// Q f . _
Bet vou a tiki o \ can
knock, it Over, first'shot"
i/ / “ W ss
Haven t seen you at Rahovsick. Lately
KO VvE (qIVEM OP BETTIHC* FOR A tOvQER."
“RIGHT YOU ARE—IT’S A BET!”
“Freak wagers are becoming numerous.”


FROM A SELECTIVE REFINING PROCESS
“WHY did Shell decide that a way to new
and finer Oils must be found? Because the
newest automotive engines were making
demands that no existing Oil could satisfy . . .
“WHY will any car, new or old, perform
better when lubricated with the right grade
of new Shell Motor Oils? Because the New
Shell Oils flow more freely when cold, yet when
hot form a more durable lubricating film than
other Oils . . . because they form less sludge
than ever before . . . because they evaporate
less and last longer . . . and because they form
less carbon . . .
“WHY are the New Shell Oils finer than any
Shell Oils that have gone before? Because
Shell’s “Selective Refining’’ and new schedule
of blending have produced a series of Oils free
from non-lubricating, constituents that previous
processes left in the oil.”
the SHELL MOTOR OILS
sd
PERSONAL ITEMS
“Jeames”: Lord Barnby, the Bradford
wool magnate, has assigned his estate.
It shows how great fortunes vanish these
uncertain days. Lord Barnby, according
to London “Express,” estimates his assets
at just under half a million sterling ; “the
gross amount of liabilities is £683,028,
and there are also estimated liabilities
of £1,415,505 in respect of guarantees.”
When he succeeded his father six years
ago he was supposed to be a multi-mil-
lionaire. He served with a yeomanry
regiment on Gallipoli, and became Con-
troller of Wool Supplies in T 6. He is a
keen hunting-man, unmarried and 51
years of age.
William Henry Taudevin, who helped
to bring out the first Brisbane “Tele-
graph” 58 years ago, has passed away
in Sandgate (Q.). English-born, he was
educated at Guernsey, and came with his
parents to Brisbane in 1866.
“R.R.”; Meet Bill Scott, the modern
St. Patrick. When he decided over 20
years ago to become New Year Island’s
sole inhabitant this speck in Bass Strait
was alive with deadly snakes. There
were nearly as many snakes as there were
mutton-birds, and Bill proposed to live
by shipping mutton-birds to the main-
land. In self-defence he began killing
the snakes literally by the hundred. Now
there are practically none, while the birds
are as plentiful as ever.
Herewith David O. Watkins, son of
and successor to Newcastle’s M.H.R, for
34 years. The new member is 38 and,
like his father, was born at Wallsend, He
D. O. WATKINS, M.P. for Newcastle .
enlisted in the A.I.F. in his teens, tried
farming in the Riverina after the Armis-
tice and was a B.H.P. storeman when he
decided to stand for Parliament.
Killed at close, on 83 by an Adelaide
tramcar, G. F. Hussey, master-printer,
untiring worker for charities and trainer
of youth. He had only one term in the
State Parliament, but for nearly 40 years
was speaker and guide of a “model Par-
liament,” in which some of S.A.’s best-
known men learned to debate.
“Abo.”; Princess Lizzie, who has died
at the Dunwich (Q.) settlement at the
alleged age of 104, was the daughter of
King Tumpeny and granddaughter of
King Billy, the coal-black hero who saved
40 lives in the wreck of the Sovereign in
1847. Princess Lizzie was Mrs, Bulsey
by her marriage with a South Sea
Islander. Their son manages a Wide
Bay oyster co.
“S.T.S.”; North Ash, Anglican parson
and wit, who moves at the end of June
to Tamworth (N.S.W.) from St. John’s,
Adelaide, told his flock at parting that
after seven years of church debt it
seemed “almost like a prospect of Para-
dise” to realise that his new home had
a credit balance. He added that, as he
was also to be gaol chaplain, he would
be “assured of a regular morning con-
gregation, which had not always been his
lot in Adelaide.”
“G.L.D.”; Dr. R. R. S. MacKinnon,
the North Sydney doctor who passed to
his reward last week, was known to thou-
sands as “the friend of the poor.” He
wasn’t so well known in another capacity.
On his rounds one day he came upon a
carter battering a horse about the
head. MacKinnon called on the
man to stop, and, as he didn’t,
knocked him down and out. (Mild
though he looked, MacKinnon was
very useful with his fists at one
time.) On coming to the carter re-
cognised his assailant. “ ’Strath,”
lie mumbled, “I heard you were the
friend of the poor, but no one told me
you were the friend of the horse, too,”
Violet Teague, who has left on the
windjammer C. B. Pedersen for a trip
round the Horn, is the daughter of a
once-celebrated Melbourne medico. For
many years she has painted pictures of
sound merit in Australia and elsewhere.
Her last trip, which was prolific of
colorful canvases, was to Centralia, west
of the Hermansburg Mission and there-
about.
Lord Headley, the only Mohammedan
peer, who died last week aged 80, had
Australian affiliations. His second wife
was the late Barbara Baynton, the
novelist, mother-in-law of Minister Harry
Gullett, A civil engineer. Lord Headley
wrote prolifically on subjects connected
with his profession, and he had original
theories about boxing. He had made the
pilgrimage to Mecca, was entitled to call
himself A 1 Haj, and was a prominent
figure at the Moslem temple which was
erected on the southern outskirts of
London 10 years ago.
Died the other day in Christchurch,
Mrs. Elizabeth R. McCombs, the first
woman to be elected to the M.L. Parlia-
ment. vShe won Lyttelton on the death
of her husband, and her son may succeed
her. A brother edits the C.C. “Star,”
and a sister is “Vesta,” of Melbourne
“Argus.”
E. G. Knox, who is to reorganise the
publicity department of the N. S. Wales
Premier’s Office, was one of the best-
liked daily-paper editors Sydney has had.
He was definitely making a job of the
old “News” when it was slaughtered. He
made some interesting discoveries —not-
ably A. M. Pooley, Sydney’s first foreign
editor, and Hector Bolitho, the “News’s”
first literary editor. Knox (“Bill” to his
friends) served with the Australian Fly-
ing Corps in the war, and has latterly
been editor of Who’s Who in Australia.
Professor Shellshear, who arrived in
Sydney last week from Hong Kong, at
whose University he occupies the Chair
of Anatomy, will be remembered by
Diggers as Lieut-Colonel Shellshear. of
the 4th Artillery Brigade. A Sydney
doctor and keen militia officer, he joined
up in T 4, and left with his brigade the
following year, arriving in Egypt just
after the Evacuation. Small, slight and
with mild and charming manners, he
looked anything but the excellent fighting
soldier he was. A D.S.O. and two men-
tions were his awards.
W. J. Curtis, K.C., here depicted by
Dubois, is standing counsel for The
Bulletin and “S. M. Herald.” He
appeared in both capacities last week.
Short, stout and vehement, he is the anti-
“BILL” CURTIS, K.C.
thesis of Richard Windeyer, K.C., who
is usually to be found opposing him. He
plays golf; his learned friend and rival
is a yachting man. They share at least
one taste; both are enthusiastic patrons
of the theatre.
Frank Peach, president of the N. S.
Wales L.T.A., has added another name
to the long list of apparently fit men who
have died in the middle of a golf match.
He was playing on Saturday for Kogarah
against Pennant Hills when he collapsed.
Born in M.L. 48 years ago, he was a
natural athlete, and showed champion-
ship form at such divers sports as cricket,
Rugby Union, hockey, tennis and latterly
golf. He was a Kogarah and Sydney
estate agent (in association with his
brother Norman), a charming companion
and a remarkably capable and tact-
ful tennis administrator.
James Walker, president of the
N. S. Wales Graziers’ Association
for three years, who was killed in
a motor accident last week, looked
the good farmer that he was, but
only those who knew him well real-
ised the clearness of mind and force
of character which hid behind his
unassuming exterior. A Victorian,
he went to western N.S.W. 47 years
ago, built up merino and Short-
horn studs of high quality and died the
owner of three important stations.
Some July birthdays;
Former High Commissioner Ryrie, 70, and
Prof. Bernard Heinze (Melb.), 41, on Ist;
Prof. W. H. Bragg, F.R.S. (formerly of Adel.),
73, and R.C. Bishop Byrne (Toowoomba), 65,
on 2nd; Theo Fink (Melb.), 80, Arthur Blakeley
(formerly M.H.R. for Darling), 49, and Prof. F.
Bevan (Adel.), 79, on 3rd; former Speck
Premier McPhee, 57, and Bishop Elsey (Kal-
goorlie), 55, on 4th; Justice Piper (S.A.), 70,
Prof. Thos. Parnell (Q.), 54, and Taylor Darby-
shire (Aust. Press Assoc., London), 60, on
sth; N. S. Wales Gov. Hore-Ruthven, 63, Vic.’s
C.J. Irvine, 77, Judge Perdriau (N.S.W.), 55,
and Tom Dunbabin (editor “Sun,” Syd.),
52, on 6th; Percy Grainger, 53, on Bth; Justice
Milner Stephen (N.S.W.), 65, and Harold Boyce
(British M.P., b. at Taree, N.S.W.), 40, on 9th;
Prof. H. A. Woodruff (Melb.), 58, on 10th:
Chief Justice Belcher, of Trinidad (b. at Gee-
long), 59, Brig.-Gen. Lachlan C. Wilson (Q),
64, and birdman A. H. E. Mattingley Ohc.),
65, on 11th; Brig.-Gen. Leane (S-A. lolice
Com.), 57, A. M. Eedy (Mutual Life and
Citizens’), 65, on 12th; Spencer Browne (Bris-
bane), 79, E. E. Unwin (the Friends School,
Hobart), 54, Tom Tunnecliffe, M.L.A. (Vic.),
66, and Lt.-Col. G. C. Somerville (sec., Royal
Agric. Soc. of N.S.W.), 57, on 13th; Prof.
Peter MacCallum (Melb.), 50, on 14th , LJ°yd
Dumas (Adel. “Advertiser”), 45, on 15th; 1 rot.
R. L. Dunbabin (Tas.), 66, and authoress
Dorothy Cottrell, on 16th; J. A. Henderson
(Aus. Metrop. Life Assoc.), 62, Evan Kytnn
Thomas (Adel.), 69, on 17th; ex-Federal Minis-
ter Forde, 45, Prof. Davies, Mus. Doc. (Adel.),
68, bibliographer Percival Serle (Melb.), 64,
Syd. Municipal Librarian C. H. Bertie, 60, and
May Holman, M.L.A. (W.A.), on 18th; Vice-
Admiral G. F. Hyde, 58, and Sam Bennett
(W.A. Govt. Statistician), 57, on 19th; Prof.
J. B. Brigden (Q.), 48, on 20th; knight E. F.
Mitchell, K.C. (Vic.), 80, Dr. Cunningham
(“Argus”), 76, and “Smiler” Hales (b. at Adel.),
65, on 21st; Q’land’s Minister of Mines Stop-
ford, 57, on 22nd; N.S.W. Parliamentary Lib-
rarian J. J. Quinn, 56, on 24th; Bishop Moyes
(Armidale, N.S.W.), 51, knight Gengoult Smith
(former Lord Mayor of Melb.), 45, and T. M.
Shakespeare (N.S.W. Country Press Assoc.), 62,
on 25th; W. A. Parker (Master in Equity,
N.S.W.), 65, on 26th; W. R. Alexander (Clerk
of Parliament, Vic.), 64, Justice Crisp (Speck),
61, D. K. Picken, M.A. (Ormond Coll., Melb.),
56, and S.A. Crown Solicitor Hannan, 48, on
27th; Randolph Bedford, M.L.A. (Q.), .67,
Judge Foster (Vic.), 49, and J. V. Fairbairn,
M.H.R. (Flinders), 38, on 28th; F. S. Mance
(N.S.W. Mines Dept.), 63, on 30th; and
surgeon Alexander MacCormick, 79, on 31st.
For over a quarter of a century Oswald
Pryor’s Cousin Jack drawings have been
appearing in The Bulletin, and
they have been reproduced all over
the world by papers that circulate
in mining communities. Yet Pryor
is only funny as a hobby: he is a
mechanical draughtsman by pro-
fession. Head draughtsman to the
Wallaroo and Moonta Mining Co.,
he went to the Hume Pipe people after
Wallaroo closed down. He was in charge
of The Bulletin’s Adelaide office for
some years.
Grant Hanlon was a State-school
teacher in Brisbane when he decided to
see the world. Appointed manager of
Sousa’s band, he toured the earth with
Sousa, then went to the Firm. A
bigger show called, and he enlisted in the
A.1.F., emerging as a captain, but minus
a hand and with a fractured spine, which
it took all the skill of Frederick Treves
and other surgeons to patch up. Except
that he runs the Picton Lakes Consump-
tive Homes (N.S.W.), is vice-president of
GRANT HANLON, a cheerful Digger.
the Rose Bay R.5.5.1.L., an alderman of
Woollahra (one of the busiest munici-
palities in the Commonwealth), honorary
secretary of the Sydney Queenslanders’
Association and president of the Sydney
Operatic Society Grant Hanlon does little
work. He is a fine tonic for growlers.


wtmum
lilli iillll \
mmm
iliil
laiiii*
:::
:•
■ a gas : s i
• they will
tell you ,
these
discriminating
people
• • • that pari
of their life is
Country
%e Cigarette
100°/ PURE
VIRGINIA
TOBACCO
Tins of 14-1/-; 21-1/6
Also Flat 50’s and
Round Airtight 50’s,
100’s, etc.


CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR'"
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we arc
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
10-13 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NOW ON SALE
enable you to compile your own income-tax returns for the year
1 ui-u Sl ?® - ne ™ n . ext subsequent years, the Endeavour Press has
published an inexpensive, up-to-date, simple and authoritative handbook-
‘lNCOME TAX RETURNS
by H. RAWSON STEVENSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
covering the Federal and N. S. Wales Acts as at present in force,
• a A cts are ex Pjained in simple language, and there is a comprehensive
index of income and expenditure items. This is the first notable work
on he subject published during the past five years, and the price is only
FIVE SKILLINGS.
No person liable to Federal or N. S. Wales taxation-businessman,
farmer 01 salaiy-earner who handles his own affairs can afford to
.be without this book. He will find Income Tax Returns a simple and
comprehensive guide and money-saver. Accountants themselves will find
this book indispensable for all types of income-tax returns.
Now on sale by THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.'
ef
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£> £. £ £ £
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 p.c. = 25,252 21,467 74,833
1926.. 66,670 12,598 6 „ „ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000 113,603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,591
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130,591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 74 p.c.= 39,031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 .. .. 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 4,225 152.726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 9,302 162,332
The latest figures of this big Fiji mer-
chant and plantation owner surprised
the market, and the pound ords., which
had fallen to 16s. 6d. a year ago, ad-
vanced sharply from 18s. 6d. to 21s. 3d.
over the last couple of months. At the
current rate of exchange (£lOO Fiji =
£ll li Australian), the return at 21s. 3d.
is 5.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
6 p.c. cum. prefs. at 245. 6d. return 5.4
p.c., and their annual requirements were
over 3£ times covered by last year’s net
earnings. The net tangible cover is
£4 2s. 3d. prefs. and 265. 2d. ords.
Copra and sugar are the. chief staples
upon which trade activity in Fiji de-
pends. The co.’s earnings have been
affected most by the price of copra, the
London figure for which fell from £27
to £7 ss. a ton over the half-dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1934. The
stuff is now fetching over £l2 a ton ; the
rise occurred mostly during the final
quarter of the last term. This and in-
creased mining activity and the slightly
better outlook for sugar all helped, and
losses on produce and at branches in the
previous year were non-recurrent. The
spring in gross earnings (£130.223) was
£23,270. Of the increase of £8927 in
exes. (£85,082), £7833 was on account of
depreciation (£17,806). Including £3333,
dropped into the insurance fund
(£41,906), there was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 6.7 p.c. on the
£520,407 of ord. capital as against 4,
4.8, 2.7, 7.9, 11.5 and 12.2 p.c. back to
1929. The div. was lifted a point, rais-
ing it to 5 p.c.; and the outlook is a
lot better than it was 12 months ago.
Ever since the co. struggled out of
the backwash of the early post-war
boom, the policy has been to visibly and
otherwise strengthen its shock-absorbers.
Over the two years to the close of
accounts in 1932, £35,000 was openly
struck off the book value of plantations,
and reserves were tapped for a further
£12,400 to meet hurricane losses. Here
is the position as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. . . £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . . . 12,420 9,552 1,965
Sundry creditors .. 18,228 14,632 17,697
Plantations . . .. 65,524 57,455 54,194
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 331,762 331,454 328,095
Stocks, etc 212,276 221,473 227,231
Investments and cash.. 142,025 147,023 144,739
Capital v.alue of
branches, etc. .. 65,706 70,300 63,359
Rook debts, etc. . . 132,596 113,432 132.370
Last year there was a net shrinkage of
£3261 in the book value of plantations,
notwithstanding that a small property
fell into the co.’s hands. Book debts
were up £18,938 and stocks £5758. In-
cluding stocks and the capital value of
branches, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£548,037)
was £19,993.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
i Dividends
A B
Mar t>,. «. f Tet - Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
’’ “lone. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.e. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
10.500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
l Q 97 * 10 - 500 19,200 1500 19,253 229,160
1090 " 4 °' 4 * 3 10 ' s °o 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
49,617 10,500 19.200 1800 18,117 265,220
loan” !o’? 87 10 * 500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
iHiJU.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
lofi" 19-717I 9 - 717 10,600 19,*200 2100 7,917 299,265
iqq9 89,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
X 933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Although the co. operates in the diffi-
cult dry-goods field, the market has
always had a high opinion of Harper’s
scrip; and the figures, which reflect the
quality of the control, have justified its
faith. The £430,000 of capital is in
150,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs., which also
enjoy priority as to capital, 240,000 ords.
and 40,000 B (employees’) shares. The
last are entitled to three-fourths of the ord.
div., with a maximum of 6 p.c., but do
not share in surplus assets. The prefs. at
325. return 4.3 p.c. The ords. fetch 48s.
as against 435. a year ago and 395. 12
months before that. At 48s. the yield on
an 8 p.c. div. basis is 3.4 p.c., or less than
can be had from Government securities.
The investor who looks for 4.2 p.c. on
his money counts on a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion, which could have been paid with a
margin of £5424 on last year’s figures.
The net result of ordinary trading
operations was £5958 better, or enough
to pay the pref. and B share divs.,
and then show 12.2 p.c. on ord. capital
as* against 9.7, 8.8, 11.1, 11.3, 15.2 and
15.6 p.c. back to 1929. The ords. have
had a steady 8 p.c. since 1917, sweetened
with a 2 p.c. bonus in ’29 and ’3O. When
prices were at their lowest or there-
abouts, the co. stocked up freely, and
there has been no overextension of credit.
So, despite keen competition, which
has meant price-paring, the figures have
responded promptly to improved trading
conditions.
How stoutly ribbed the co. is finan-
cially is visible in the next table:- —
1919. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £398,268 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Mortgages . . 35,733 _ _
Deposits . . 31,318 _ '
Overdraft . . 72,103
Sundry creditors 94,014 41,778 47,297 49,056
Freeholds . . 135,682 145,665 146,188 145,647
Plant, etc. . . 81,769 48,926 42,251 39,686
Leaseholds .. 400 __
Stock.. .. 234.710 146,840 163,432 141,560
Sundry debtors 145,856 111,026 95,905 95,345
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 22,367 262,246 278,780 316,300
Last year the book value of stocks was
reduced by £21,872 ; cash and Govern-
ment securities were up £37,520 net. At
the previous balance Government securi-
ties, which were worth more than their
book value, figured at £177,099; they
now appear at £66,224. Meanwhile the
cash holding was strengthened by
£148,370, raising it to £249,961. Appear-
ances are that the co. sold most of its
Consols at or near the top of the market.
Whatever profit was realised has been
whisked away to inner reserves. The
board has given no hint as to what it
intends to do with the big wad of cash.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
. „ . Towards Re-
Apnl, Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 19,455 15 p.c. = 13,500 5955 15,202
1926.. 17,708 124 „ „ 11,250 6458 21,660
1927.. 14,768 124 „ „ 11,250 3518 25,178
1928.. 16,624 124 „ „ 11,250 5374 30 552
1929.. 15,582 124 „ „ 13,650 1926 32,478
1930.. 12,027 8„ „ 11,233 794 33,272
1931.. 10,677 6 „ „ 9,599 1078 34,350
Profit on sale of shares, £22,097.. 56 447
1932. , 7,987 54 p.c. = 8.797 - 55,637
1933.. 8,093 5 „ „ 7,998 95 55,732
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2365.. 58,097
1934.. 10,790 6 p.c. = 9,598 1192 59,289
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2000.. 61 289
1935.. 6,399 4 p.c. = 6,399 61*289
The 25,122 bales of wool the co. put
under the hammer last term averaged
10.25 d. a pound ; for the previous year
the figures were 33,180* bales and
13.6 Id. The contraction in the number
of bales was due to extension of the
selling season and drought; the fall in
price was largely the outcome of with-
drawal of buying support from Germany
and Italy. Gross earnings (£43,419, of
which £13,883 came from interest, rents,
etc.) were down £6322. A reduction of
£1931 in exes. (£37,020) was due to lighter
provision for taxation (£2600, down
£1900). Including £2OOO (£2365 in the
previous year) dropped into the contin-
gency reserve (now £9000), the net result
was £4756 lighter at 5.2 p.c. on capital
as against 8.2, 5, 4.9, 6.6, 8.5, 14.2 and
18.4 p.c. back to 1925. A couple of points
were knocked off the div., reducing it to
4 p.c.
After a run of 15 p.c. divs,, the rate
dropped to 12| p.c. for the four years to
the close of accounts in 1929 ; drought
and loss of the Brisbane agency for the
Orient line affected the figures. Mean-
while, the board decided to go deeper
into the pastoral-finance business, and
more share capital and outside money
was gathered. Then, with the big break
in the markets, came a sharp contraction
in commission and other earnings and a
louder call for contingencies. Over the
last five years divs. have averaged only
5.3 p.c.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows the lines along which
the business has developed since 1927:
1927. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £90,000 £159,959 £159,959 £160,000
Liabilities . . 01,282 87,063 91,033 175,545
Properties .. 91,719 93,174 91,730 90,857
Plant, etc. .. 1,341 7,681 5,862 5,344
Advances .. 47,044 146,111 219,441 302,350
Shares in other
oos 40,816 41,230 1,024 605
Cash, etc, ~ 2,289 1,900 2,486 2,067
Last year’s growth of £84,512 in the
debt and of £82,909 in advances reflects
the heavy carry-over following extension
of the selling season and the call for
assistance from the drought areas.
Though the demand for wool and the
price have both strengthened since the
close of accounts, the board anticipates
“a substantial decrease in wool turnover
during the current financial year, irre-
spective of the duration of the drought,
which will inevitably reflect itself in the
co.’s earnings.”
The pound shares, covered by 275. 7d.
in net tangibles, are offered at 21s. At
that figure the return would be 3.8 p.c.
on the basis of an uncertain 4 p.c. div.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus, Dividends. Reserves, Reserves,*
£ £ £* £
1922.. 9,039 9,039 9,039
1923.. 11,092 . 11,092 20,131
1924.. 10,603 10,603 30,734
1925.. 15,207 6 p.c. 5361 9,846 40,580
1926.. 15,811 7 „ „ 6295 9,516 50,096
1927.. 18,145 7 „ „ 6312 11,833 61,929
1928.. 21,271 7 „,, 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7 „ „ 6522 10,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7„ „ 6568 6,074 100,992
Loss.
1932.. 3,909 7„ „ 6568 90,515
Profit.
1933.. 14,031 7 6568 7,463 97,978
1934.. 12,469 7„ „ 6568 5,901 103,879
1935 -- 16,057 7 „ „ 6568 9,489 113,368
Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
Shareholders in this promising 14-year-
old fire, marine and accident business
are in a snug position, and policy-holders
are well protected, too. At the close of
last accounts it had accumulated de-
serves £19,543 in excess of paid capital,
which means that the two combined need
net only 3.1 p.c. to pay a 7 p.c. div.
Actually, interest and rents turned in
£8944 (up £523) last term, or 9.5 p.c. on
capital, leaving the whole of the under-
writing surplus, and more besides, to
swell investments and the returns there-
from. It is thus plain that the co. is in
a position to hand shareholders more
than 7 p.c. when the board considers
the time ripe. Since interest rates
now show a tendency to harden, a lift in
the div. may not be far distant, or there
may be pickings in other directions.
Another encouraging feature is the
marked improvement in last year’s un-
derwriting figures:—
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922.. £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0 p.c. 39.7 p.c.
1924.. 58,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.5 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7 „
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 „ 32.3 „
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 59.1 „ 39.8 ~
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1933.. 104.137 58,637 40,041 56.3 ~ 38.4 „
1934.. 105,781 69,696 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1935.. 130,221 71,367 51,741 54.8 39.7 „
Net premium income was £24,440 better.
Claims, though they took £11,771 of the
increase, were 30s. p.c. lighter than the
previous year’s. The growth of £9604
in exes, was largely due to agency com-
mission on a “considerably increased
foreign business,” the chairman says.
The growth in the underwriting surplus
(£7113) was £3065, making the net return
from all sources 17.1 p.c. on capital as
against 13.2, 14.9, a loss, 13.4, 14.9 and
18.4 p.c. back to 1929. The loss was
due mainly to London marine business,
from which the co. has withdrawn.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1922. 1929. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital . . £75,000 £93,175 £93,825 £93,826
Sundry creditors. . 8,028 99,072 79,025 81,112
Public securities. . 40,200 121,675 149,921 153,632
Fixed deposits . . 31,500 27,000 22,150 20,320
Cash, etc 13,209 13,872 20,593 22,308
Book debts, etc. . . 7,098 49,071 16,592 24,572
Freeholds .. . . 74,041 74,041 74,041
When the books closed policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 159 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, whereas 150
p.c. is usually considered adequate. The
£93,825 of capital is in 187,650 £1 shares
paid to 10s. each. The possibility of
shareholders being asked for a little
more will depend upon further growth of
the business.
The scrip is not listed.
H. McKenzie, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Be- Re-
Mar., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 11,527 Nil 62,479
Loss on sale of assets, £15,703 .. 46,776
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £64,281 .. 17,505
1927.. 3,738 Nil 21,243
Reserves.
Capital written down, £22,102 . . 859
Profit on sale of assets, £1172 .. 2,031
1928.. 107 Nil 1,924
Profit.
1929.. 3,098 Nil 3098 5,022
1930.. 792 2.7 p.c. = 4,911 903
Loss. Deficit. ■
1931.. 11,257 Nil 10,354
1932.. 13,936 Nil 24,290
1933.. 11,643 Nil 35,933
Profit.
1934.. 158 Nil 158 35,775
Capital written oft, £58,939.
Assets written down, £24,052 ;
deficit reduced, £34,887 .. ’ . . 888
General reserves' disappear, £859 1,747
Reserves.
1935.. 2,419 Nil 2419 672
That table tells of the sickness in the
timber trade over the last decade. Cer-
tainly the co. met with more than ordi-
nary difficulties, but of recent years
its experience has been fairly general
throughout the industry. To cover losses
in connection with the Patrick line
of steamships and the co.’s Fraser Island
(Q.) timber venture, ss. (=£70,000) was
lopped off each pound share in 1925, and
another slash of Is. 6d. a share was made
three years later, when Is, 6d. was also
returned in cash. Then came slump, and
the plant was unable to get enough work
to cover the cost of manufacture and
distribution, plus inescapable overhead
charges.
With the improvement in the building
trade, profits began to show up again
about 18 months ago. To give share-
holders, who haven’t had a div, for the
last 10 years, a chance to get into the
picture, another 4s. was lopped off each
share last year, reducing paid capital to
£117,879 in fully-paid Bs. shares. Of the
£58,939 that thus became available on
paper, £34,887 was used to rub out the
p. and 1. debit at Sept. 30 last, and the
balance (£24,052), together with the de-
preciation (£58,574) and general (£859)
reserves, was written off the book value
of assets, mainly freehold, plant, etc.
o Continued on page 18.)


w
A subtle aroma, yet un-
mistakable; an exclusive
heather and peat flavor,
these are the qualities that
make White Horse so easily
recognised. Experts pro-
nounce it to be equal to a
Fine Liqueur; particular
people demand it. Millions
of gallons of White Horse
are matured and maturing
to ensure your continued
enjoyment of this Real
Old Scotch.
Try a Nightcap of White Horse and Hot Milk.
White Horse
"■"scotch whisky
Small Flasks on Sale —Insist on White Horse
ŵ


ẁ
ERVICE
Since 1899 the Rural Bank has assisted 54.728
persons to establish farms and 33.823 families
to acquire homes on easy terms. It will be
seen, therefore, that the Bank has played an
important part in providing employment and
increasing rural production. Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that by so doing
they are enabling it to increase its useful
services. Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all sections of the
community.
7L RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - - 350 George Street
{Opp. Wynyard Street)
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen
(rates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. Writ
NORMAN HTL.Ii & CO., LTD.,
Catheart House, Sydney.
This comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows what has happened:
1924. 1931. 1934, 1935.
Paid capital.. £294,098 £176,818 £176,818 £117,879
Liabilities .. 38,409 3,521 6,082 11,537
Freehold, plant,
etc 105,503 105,597 100,786 48,112
Stocks . . 175,023 74,198 44,825 59,841
Shares other
cos 105,020 3,785 3,795 3,785
Book debts ] . 0 f 12.242 16,031 17,599
Cash, etc. [ 4 'b Bol | 2,148 10,262 750
The year’s net reduction in the book
value of fixed assets was £52,674. To
carry an extra £15,016 of stocks and
£1568 of book debts, the co. leant upon
trade creditors for a further £5455, and
drew upon cash, etc., for £9512. Includ-
ing stocks and shares in other cos., the
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£70,438) was £1607,
Although activity in the building trade
increased the demand for timber, there
was little profit in the larger busi-
ness, owing to competition and price-
cutting. Of the £2419 netted, £1747
was earned during the first and only
£672 during the second half. The lot was
a shade over 2 p.c. on the £117,879 of
capital. What the future holds for the
co. it is difficult to say; much depends
upon efforts now being made to eliminate
price-cutting.
Before publication of the sheet the
Bs. shares sold at 7s. On a 2 p.c, div.
basis the return would be 4 p.c. at 4s.
The net tangible cover per share is Bs.
Id., of which over half is represented by
surplus liquids.
Gold Mines of Papua
On its Misima Island property, Gold
Mines of Papua has completed 3300 ft.
of driving, of which 1000 ft. has been in
ore with an average width of 7ft.,
worth 465. a ton with gold at its present
price. Between the creek bed and the
crown of the ridge, 800 ft. up, 14 adits
have been driven at different horizons.
Values appear to be increasing, and the
board says sufficient tonnage is indicated
to eventually warrant development. A
pilot plant is to be installed to deter-
mine the most economical method of
treatment. At the end of last year the
co. aimed at blocking 600,000 tons of
ore.
The plant to treat the 100,000 tons of
I.o2dwt. sands and slimes on Woodlark
Island is expected to set in next month.
The option over the Kulumandu lode
has been exercised, and a development
co.. Woodlark Gold Mines, has been
formed to take over the property. The
£9OOO of subscribed capital, or all but
a handful of it, was put up by the parent,
and £lOOO in fully-paids was handed to
the vendor. Developments are favor-
able, but not yet sufficiently advanced
to enable a reliable estimate of the quan-
tity and value of ore available to be
made.
The parent has also taken an option
over 600 acres of promising alluvial on
Woodlark Island. This is to be scout-
bored immediately.
At Raub (F.M.S.) development work
has been allowed to fall into arrears,
with the result that reliable sources of
profitable ore are now very limited, and
continuance of milling on the present
scale is jeopardised. So says R. J. D. Rich-
ardson, g.m. of Austral Malay Tin, after
overhauling the show, which has been a
producer for the last 43 years. He con-
siders there are good chances of finding
fresh supplies of pay-ore, and recom-
mends a vigorous policy of development.
'ln the past, mining methods bumped up
costs. To overcome this difficulty better
facilities for handling ore and filling
slopes, etc,, are to be introduced, and a
cut is to be made in the rates paid to
contractors. To determine the best and
most economical method of extracting
the recoverable contents of the ore be-
fore it leaves the treatment plant, the
co. is recommended to make a full series
of experiments. Much of the machinery
and plant is described as good, and most
of the remainder can probably be made
suitable by repair and alteration. It is
recommended that the present cyaniding
plant be shut down at once.
* * * *
Dissatisfied with the old board, share-
holders in Day Dawn (New Guinea),
Ltd,, have elected a new set of directors.
The co. owes approximately £3OOO, and
has no cash. It has a cyaniding plant,
which cost £ 15,000-odd, and 30,000 tons
of tailings, estimated to average 4dwt.
gold and 12oz. silver, from which, it is
claimed, a net profit of over £15,000 can
be extracted. It also has 4ft. of stone,
assaying 12£dwt. gold and 15oz. silver,
over a length of 280 ft. in the bottom
level. To provide more working capital,
the co. is offering 600 8 p.c. debentures
of £lO each. The loan will be a first
charge against the assets.
* * * *
Lakekamu Goldfields (Papua) Develop-
ment has moved its boring plant to the
main creek on its Tiveri leases, where
the first four holes, to a depth of 25ft.,
averaged ss. a yard. The extent of this
ground is limited, the board says.
* * * *
• Aloha Alluvia], formed in Melbourne
a few weeks ago as an offshoot of Aloha
Syndicate, has abandoned its Upper Wai-
manu areas (Fiji). E. T. Lewis, who
prospected the ground, says “values are
very poor throughout, and no part of
the area is suitable for work on a
large scale.” The co.’s remaining hold-
ings, on the Lower Waimanu and Wai-
damu rivers, have yet to be tested.
* * * *
In an interim report on Aloha Central’s
30-acre block on the Tavua field (Fiji)
Dr. Loftus Hills says there are four
shears, all of which have gold-bearing
lodes developed in them. One of these
lodes is at least 1500 ft. long, with an in-
dicated width of 10ft. to 20ft. The three
western lodes are within a width of 250 ft,
and in places they coalesce to form, one
ore-body. The depth and value of the
deposits have yet to be proved by shaft-
sinking and crosscutting.
* * * *
The Federal Government has decided
to make a geological and geophysical
investigation of about 500 square miles
of country near Pine Creek (N.T.). P.
Hossfeld, the geologist in charge of the
survey of North Australia, and Dr. Wool-
nough, Commonwealth Geological Ad-
viser, have gone to Tennant’s Creek to
make a reconnaissance there ; they will
move on to Marranboy and then Pine
Creek.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan has declared an interim
6d. a share for the quarter ended June
25, payable July 10. Provided there is
no marked fall in the price of gold, the
board intends to lift the div. from and
including the next quarter. The new
treatment plant will be in operation next
month; it is designed to handle not less
than 5000 tons of ore a week, with better
recoveries and at lower cost.
* * * *
R. W. Hallett has reported favorably
on Centralia Gold Development’s 302-
acre sluicing lease at Smythesdale (Vic.).
The ground consists largely of fine quartz
and gravel on a pipeclay or soft-slate
bottom, and ample water is available.
In the northern section 23 pits were sunk
to bedrock. Here it is figured that there
is 350,000 c.y, of Is. Bd. dirt (gold at £8
an ounce), with an average depth of less
than 20ft. On the southern portion
900,000 c.y. of 2s. Id. ground, covering
46 acres, was tested by 18 pits, average
depth 12ft. Costs are put at 9d. a yard.
On results from five pits, it is reckoned
there is a further 650,000 c.y., averaging
approximately Is. 7d., in the hilly ground
to the west. Here costs are reckoned at
Is. Altogether there is about 14 years’
work for a sluicing plant comprising a
lOin. gravel- and 12in. water-pump.
* Jfc * *
Platinum Guinea Gold’s luck and cash
have both given out. Following dis-
appointing results in New Guinea, the
co. took an option, now expired and not
renewed, over the Three Jacks, Stawell
(Vic.). In the cupboard are 20 shares in
Gold Mines of Fiji.
* * * *
Westralian Under-Secretary for Mines
M. J. Calanchini dwells a little on dis-
tant goldfields in his latest annual re-
port, which says that a large number
of prospectors is operating in the Pil-
bara district. Diamond-drilling is being
done, and several old shows are being
reopened around Marble Bar; and the
Nullagine conglomerates, which, besides
gold, contain a few diamonds, are being
worked again. West Kimberley is as
dead as a doornail, but in East Kimber-
ley, • Gascoyne, Ashburton and a few
places outside the proclaimed areas the
high price of gold is making things hum.
Big sums are being offered on some of
the fields mentioned for pubs which
were unsaleable not long ago, although
Mr. Calanchini does not say this or
anything else about the liquor trade.
* * * lie
Westralia’s latest gold find of note is
in the bush 30-odd miles north of
Laverton. Two auriferous formations,
half a mile apart, have been napped
and potholed, and appearances at or
near the surface are favorable to both
turning out well. Western Mining Corp.
was early on the scene, and has secured
options. As usual, the surrounding coun-
try has been pegged for miles.
* * * *
First Hit’s initial crushing of 600 tons
from its recently acquired Menzies mine
(W.A.) yielded 6670 z. of gold over the
plates. Residues assay about 13jdwt. per
ton. The stuff treated was mostly the
product of development, A new
shoot has been cut in the main shaft
at a depth of 280 ft. The show was
originally equipped and developed to a
shallow depth by a couple of prospectors,
who sold to the co, for a wad of scrip
and £50,000 cash. Of the latter they
have received £20,000, and they have
notified the co. that, provided a further
£15,000 is found by November, payment
of the other £15,000 can wait awhile.
H» H* H*
New Golconda (W.A.) struggles on. It
has prospects, and is getting good values
on one or two of its auriferous Mur-
chison areas. Sampling and develop-
ment at depth in one of the best sec-
tions of a resurrected property are ham-
pered owing to heavy seepage from the
workings of the adjoining Lake-Austin
Eureka Co.’s mine. The management
fears that, unless drained, this water
might break through and drown the
Golconda. Lake Austin-Eureka has a
pump capable of getting rid of the
menace, but it has not yet been given the
job.
❖ ❖ A' ❖
Jubilee, 42 miles north-east of Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), may appear on the map
again. Huffa and Gessner, who opened
up Mt. Monger (W.A.) in 1915, have
located a nice reef there which went 2oz.
at first and 27dwt. at last crushing.
Three other makes have been discovered
in the greenstone schist, and they’re all
east-west. A Melbourne syndicate has
taken a six months’ option for £5OOO.
Sinking on the underlay revealed an in-
crease in width from 2ft. 6in. at the sur-
face to sft. at 35ft. The syndicate will
prospect to 50ft,, when it may become
a company job. In the past rich returns
have been won from the Jubilee mines,
though values cut out at 300 ft, (water
level) or thereabouts.
* * * *
The Last Chance, Kanowna (W.A.), is
under option to Goldfields Australian
Development for 12 months. The co.
has already lowered the water and
timbered to the 400 ft. level, and is erect-
ing poppet legs. The intention is to un-
water to 527 ft,, and drive to the Bal-
larat, next door. There is 10,000 tons
of Bdwt. ore between the 300 ft. and 400 ft.
levels, it is reckoned. The water makes at
the rate of 15,000 gallons daily. A true
east-west, it’s the only sulphide lode at
Kanowna that’s claiming attention.
Locally it is considered a good bet,
* * * *
At the annual roll-up of Sons of
Gwalia in London last week, chairman
C. A. Moreing said that at the begin-
ning of 1934 the co. had about four
years’ supply of 30s. ore (gold at 85s. an
ounce) in sight. There is now over five
years’ feed of similar grade waiting for
the mill, notwithstanding the extraction
of 136,548 tons meanwhile. Further de-
velopment' is considered likely to disclose
additional tonnage.
* * * *
Migratory Princess Royal (W.A.) has
moved to Kunanalling. Options have
been taken on two shows, for which a
total of £16,200 cash and £3OOO in shares
is asked. The co. has been given a
month to decide whether it will pay a
deposit.
* * * *
On the advice of its engineer, T. R.
Victor, General Mining Corp. has thrown
the Lady Mary and Iron Duke leases, at
Norseman (W.A.), into the discard,
* * * *
Carbine, Adelaide - controlled, has
abandoned its option over the Carbine
mine (W.A.). The co. will continue to
develop its Yellowdine claims, which
adjoin those of Commonwealth Mining
and Finance on the south.
* * * *
Following the expansion of gold-
mining on the eastern fields in Westralia,
the Government water-supply pipe-line
from Mundaring is to be further ex-
tended, Originally it served Southern
Cross, Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie ;' re-
cently a branch line was laid from Kal-
goorlie to Ora Banda, and another is to
go from Coolgardie to Norseman to
supply the mines there and along the
route. This latest extension will cost
about £170,000.
* sfc * *
Indian princes see that they get a good
whack out of gold production. One, the
Maharajah of Mysore, collected last year
from the Mysore Co. £35,000 royalty
upon the value of the output, £11,400
royalty on the adjusted profits and about
£19,000 income tax on profits. Share-
holders were handed £152,000 in divs.
The co., which has been paying divs.
since the eighties of last century, mines
with native labor at a depth of 7600 ft.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.T.S.: (1) Australian Sugar Co. was formed
in Sydney in 1842; it became Colonial Sugar
Refining Co. in 1855 ; the present co. took over
the business in 1887. (2) \l\ p.c., and 6£ p.c.
since the one-for-one bonus issue. (3) Retail
price of sugar is £37 6s. Bd. a ton, of which
C.S.R. gets £4 3s. Id. for refining, financing and
selling the crop. (4) Cannot say... .H.R.S.; It
is a big low-grade deposit, depending upon
large-scale production for profits, which means
that consumption and prices will both need to
substantially increase. The co. is heavily capital-
ised, and there is a lot of outside money in
front of shareholders W.M.8.: If safety of
capital is important, keep out of both
W.E.J.: Linden (W.A.) Gold, N.L., and Roma
Blocks Co., N.L., are two separate concerns,
both operating at Linden (W.A.). Each is
quoted under its own name on ’Change
G.V.C.: (1) Small amounts of petroleum oil
have been obtained from bores in Gippsland
(Vic.), but not in commercial quantities. (2)
Extraction of oil from coal is being carried
out on a commercial scale in Europe; but
this oil cannot yet profitably compete with im-
ported natural oil without a duty on the latter.
(3) and (4) About 250,000,000 gallons, all of
which is imported. (5) The estimated annual
production of 6,000,000 gallons of motor
spirit is too small to seriously affect the
Australian market A.8.C.: There is a fair
chance of a lift in the price within the next
few months... .T.H.: (1) You would not avoid
exchange, which, together with freight, other
handling charges and insurance, is included in
the Australian price. (2) There is no difference;
125 bears the same ratio to 100 as 100 does
to 80.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
)S # * $
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies.
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTV.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.—A uvt.
H: 'l' t- $
AUSTKALAS'IAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L, MACINTOSH ELLIS. B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* t- * 4?
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes, —Advt.
* * *. $
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
WESTERN MINING CORPORATION, LIMITED,
makes expert reports on and conducts diamond-
drilling and management of goldmining properties
in the State of Western Australia. The Corporation
has an expert staff, and in addition to branch officer
in Perth and Kalgoorlie has representatives on all
the leading Western Australian goldfields.
Write Western Mining Corporation, Limited,
Collins House, Melbourne.


ORIENT LINE
THIS POPULAR SERVICE
NOW—
ORIENT
LINERS
WILL CARRY
TOURIST/
CLASS/
• ' ...
dßfr
Orion* will make her
maiden voyage from
Australia at the end
of November and will
sail again in March.:
s
mm
' ,ORSOV*>.:, f2*QQQ: Tms
ifSSSK
W
m
#-M-3 /moo Tons
m
SS'H-S
OR ro*f> zmSwfi
ms
m.
*O,O Oq
m
mm
m
m.
1 WKKm
m
m
m .
.
-
mM
s
mm
“ Orontes ” and “ Orford,*’
each 20,000 tons, are under-
going extensive alterations so
that they, like the new
24,000-tonner “ Orion, ” will
carry Tourist Class in
addition to First Saloon.
OQq
m
TOUKI s*P»i#W»£ FWIC E
OMON • OKONTES
ORvFOPvD # • oKMo n;d e
ORSOVA
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o) a hostile character) will be taken o} communications
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS No liability is under *“™“™
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.M.D.: Best stick to prose or free verse.
E.W.: They all ripple along without reach-
ing any worth-while objective... .W.M.D.:
I wrote of life and love and men,
My wife said it was trash.
She wasn’t far wrong, judging from the
samples submitted... .8.W.: It has a musty
Sandford and Merton flavor... .G.H.M.:
“Ode to Electricity” fused W.S.H.: Offer-
ings needn’t be typed. In your case it would
be sheer waste of time... .8.5.: What sort of
moss do you mean? A.C.: Your parodies
are a bit crude, and that form of verse the
one that most needs loving polish. “The
First Beermaker” came pretty near... .M.M.:
That incessant repetition has an aggravating
effect V.G.W.: One verse from “The
Writer’s Dream” suggests that, however much
inspiration may fail you, rhymes never will.
And be walked with Lindsay Gordon
On the other side of Jordan,
And regaled himself with Lawson
From a bottle labelled Dawson.
... .O.C.D.: —
A good old rough-an’-tumble
Is the fight that suits yer ’urn bio.
Your jingle fully supports the proposition....
E.S.H.: All right as an anecdote, but not as
a story... .E.M.L.: That dud note again. A
fiver this time. It was a pound last week, and
10 shillings the week before. Our forgers must
be improving. .. .A.C.H.: An uninteresting
swindle, and the characters don’t live
R.D.8.: Doesn’t bring home the bacon....
C.G.: It would have to be very well done....
J.V.8.: Not a convincing story A.H.B. :
Too much like melodrama. Suggest as a
suitable ending that Leo should commit suicide
by swallowing his safety razor... .E.C.; Whim-
sical, but rather slight.. . .1.H.G.: Only our
regard for pure English prevents our describing
it as “bilge” Rkaye: It doesn’t carry the
Island atmosphere with it....Faisi: What is
this “indelible stamp of a gentleman”? And,
after all, Wilson’s accusation was quite a just
one E.W.; Not quite, but it might have a
ehance somewhere else.... J.G.L.; A priceless
pearl—murder—blood —sudden death. The
combination seems familiar... .F.M.: Not suit-
able A.L.: Opening reminiscent; ending un-
real and unconvincing... .R.R.: Intentionally
misspelt stuff doesn’t amuse as it did 80 years
ago J.S.: “The Soft Spot” didn’t find ours.
C.C.V.: Why not trV them on an English
paper? Here they only cover well-trodden
ground... .H.S.: Too much like the story of
the crooked sixpence C.C.L.; “Sir Jasper’s
Last Gasp” neither thrilled nor amused us
C.A.C.: The theme of the discovery of a pre-
historic animal in a remote cave has been used
a score of times G.A.L.: Doesn’t make the
grade F.S.S.: Of local interest only
R.C.: That type of plot seems to go over
on the films, but as a short story it is uncon-
vincing... .J.D.8.: Fair enough, but its
appeal lies in the ending, and we’ve encoun-
tered so many similar endings before... .R.H.:
Running wide... .G.M.8.: Too long for the
plot, and you haven’t succeeded in concealing
your “surprise” A.D.; Almost were we
moved to tears M.T.: It seems rather futile.
D.M.; Your story marks a return to
classicism in its use of thunderbolts for the
destruction of a villain... .E.N.V.: Don’t think
being burnt to death is as pleasant as you make
it... .T.E.McC.: Hop in; they’re asking for
it:
A groaning a moaning and a sighing
You’d think they had a pain
Or they were dying
For when they try to sing
They think it’s just the thing
To do a bit of crooning
But when they start to play
A thing called jazz I say
It’s time we had a little bit of music.
....T.T.1.: Purely of local interest, though
nicely handled R.S.: Subject done to death
already Digger: Can’t find anything to use
in it, but appreciate it as a letter..K.B.:
You’ll need to read a Jot of verse before you’ll
make much of a fiat of writing it Vaughas:
Thin as strained water N.C.R.: Merely de-
scriptive, and that’s always miles 0ff....
J.L.S.: Had to bid “Good-bye” its title....
W.M.: “Whither?” That’s what we want to
know after reading it J.W.: Slight.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.A.; Doesn’t resemble subject F.R.:
Joke has reached the last stage of senility
W.M.P.: We don’t like these hard, stiff outlines.
J.H.: It will be many years before you see
print C.M.K.: Is that grandma bathing, or
has a boulder fallen into the sea?.... W. 8.: It
took us 10 minutes to see the point....
A.M.D.: What’s the good of turning up with
such a cartoon at this date? ... .L.H.; The
work of an inexpert hand... .P.W.: Cannot
tell from copies; send some originals... .D.S.:
An old Bulletin joke 5.8.: The copper
looks and talks like an American
W.J.: You are not cut out for an art career.
N.K.: A grubby collection of microscopic
atrocities A.F.: No hope for sketches
thrown together in that rough-and-ready way.
C.H.S.; One or two good poses, but the
linework is harsh and splintery I.B.: That
particular drunk groping for his reflection in a
hairbrush has long been barred W.N.: A
poor batch.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”; “I’m afraid I’ll have t’
sack that young feller,” said Dad to
M um; “he’s hangin’ around Mary too
much.” “That ain’t any reason t’ sack
him,” retorted Mum; “he’s a decent
chap, an’ Mary an’ him’s fond of each
other. What’s wrong with that?” “I
got nothin’ ’gainst him that way,”
replied Dad, “but he’s interferin’ with me
gettin’ th’ cows in of a raornin’.’
“Rubbish!” exclaimed Mum; “ain’t y’
got th’ dog t’ bring th’ cows in?” “Well,
that’s me complaint,” said Dad. “Th’
dog’s gettin’ useless t’ me. Them two
can’t find any other place t’ sit of a night
but on th’ dog’s kennel, an’ they keep
him awake so long that he’s too tired t’
chase th’ cows in th’ morning.”
“0.W.W.”: A rare marine monster,
an oarfish, was found on the rocks
at Waikokupu, near Nuhaka (M.L.),
recently. The fish was just over 16ft.
long, and with its tail, which was missing,
the total length of the serpent-like thing
would have been over 20ft. Its skeleton
is being secured for a local museum.
“J.C.”: The abnormally wet year has
caused a lot of waste in Huon (Tas.)
orchards through the ravages of black-
spot. Lately 2000 bushels of apples were
dumped into the Huon River, near
Franklin. The shores on both sides of
the stream are strewn with fruit right out
to Huon Island.
* * *
“Gam”: “Iluka” (B. 8/5/’35) writing
of phosphorescent fungi reminds me of
a Mt. Gam bier (S.A.) farmer. He did
some fencing at night, and to keep his
line straight tied pieces of fungus to the
tops of his marking-sticks. All would
have been well had not a friend, for a
joke, moved one of the sticks. In the
morning the cocky found part of his
fence making a beeline.for his neighbor’s
corner-post.
“Say 99”: You can’t keep them down.
A station-hand on Malvern Downs (Q.)
caught his foot in the cogs of a boring-
plant. Result, foot crushed to pulp.
He hobbled to his hut, tore up a bed-
sheet into bandages and set about filling
in time. When two mates came with
some rations, the patient, with his leg
cocked up in some sort of sling, was
smoking and—are you listening?—read-
ing a book. That’s the best of literature
—it does help to take the mind off these
trivial scratches.
* * * *
“Caper”: Bankstown, a Sydney suburb
noted for its McGirr, its aldermen
and its goats, was in a stage of siege
the other day when a ferocious billygoat
took possession of one of the streets and
defied law and authority. The blood-
thirsty brute began by butting a small
boy, and then turned its attention to a
woman. By this time most of Banks-
town’s inhabitants were behind their
fences or somebody else’s ringing or
yelling for the police and the patrol-car.
After a pedestrian with the sense to give
the wild beast a kick in the ribs, which
quite satisfied it, had passed on in peace,
the police arrived. The animal walked
toward them, possibly desiring to frater-
nise ; an officer steadied himself and,
drawing his revolver, shot the horned
menace dead. About this time a small
boy owner should have turned up look-
ing for his pet, but if he did the after-
noon press which featured the jungly
narrative said nowt about it.
* * sjc *
“D.G.S.”: Three years ago I was
fishing for eels in a creek hole in the
Dungog (N.S.W.) district. I saw a four-
footer, but he was not to be tempted
—he would swim round the bait,
breaking the surface every now and then.
Fed up, I fired at him with my shotgun,
using my last cartridge, and missed! I
found a blank in my bag—rats had
chewed the casing and let out the shot.
I managed to stuff in some small stones,
a sinker and two nails, and fired again.
There was commotion in the water. The
mud settled. Beside a log was the eel,
"This ’ill's a bit 'aid on the 'orse, missus. Don'cher
think the little girl’d better get out an Walk?"
wriggling his body gently and moving his
gills, unharmed., 1 had to return to
Sydney then, but recently I went to the
same pool. There he was, bigger than
ever, and when my bait fell past his nose
he grabbed it. I tugged, and he was well-
hooked ; I pulled, and with him came
the Jog that had been embedded in the
mud: he was nailed by the tail to the
log. I recognised the nail.
# * * #
“Groper”: “G. Trotter’s” appreciation
of the Westralian flowering-gum (B.
22/5/’35) is flattering to a State which
chooses to regard itself as a Cinderella.
But, alas! even as he penned his lines
Nature herself was striking a felon blow.
According to the head ranger of King’s
Park, Perth, the flowering-gum, right in
its birthplace, is being attacked by some
obscure plant disease which is baffling
all experts, and which, if not checked,
may wipe out the finest avenue of such
gums in the world.
* :|; *
“Spica”: Jones was a keen angler, and
when he extended a dissimulating arm
in illustration of his catch his friends
scoffed. So Jones bought a pair of scales,
and on returning from a piscatorial
expedition weighed his fish in the PJ" es "
ence of his next-door neighbors. Pillars
of veracity, their word was accepted
throughout the community. Jones soon
won in his little town a fame that he
would not have bartered for the honor
and dignity of the mayoral robe. 9” e
day Mr. Stork paid a visit to a neigh-
bor’s house, and the doctor borrowed
Jones’s scales to weigh the baby. Baby
went 471 b.
“W.P.T.”: Don’t be too ready to be-
lieve the fish yarn supported by an actual
photo, of the fish and the angler. Such
pictures can lie. I knew a man who made
good money moving up and down
streams on Monaro (N.S.W.) with his
camera and a very large dummy trout.
Unlucky anglers were photographed with
the big fish for a reasonable sum. I’ve
seen these photographs proudly exhibited
to illustrate a yarn as tall as a New York
skyscraper. In the duck season the
resourceful fellow substituted a string of
preserved ducks for the trout.
;|: t- * *
“Ned Kelly”: The local lads^ where I
live use neither “coo-ee” nor “wa-hoo”
(B. 5/6/’35). They call out “ter-ree!”
They got the idea from a talkie. A futile
sort of hero lost a younger brother out
on a river. His wailing howl of “Ter-ree,
Ter-ree!” moved the country audience to
shouts of ribald laughter; and the boys
adopted the cry in derision. It seems to
have grown on them, and it is the usual
thing to hear it ringing up the gullies or
across Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.). It
competes in melancholy with the wail of
a beagle-hound or the cry of black swans
at dusk.
“Eyes Skinned”: It may be all right
for a bushman to come back from a
journey by the way he went to avoid get-
ting lost (B. 12/6/’35), though in my
youth a man who couldn’t find his way
through country by the sun and stars
was regarded as a babe and a suckling.
In soldiering it is quite another story.
It was an old Rhodesian pioneer in a
Queensland regiment who pointed out
that the scout or patrol that tried to
return by the way he or it went out often
never got back at all. The Boers would
never dream of coming and going the
same way in their scouting expeditions,
and to this day I give it to them as
masters of the art. On the other hand,
they excelled in lying doggo on the retm n
route of a British scouting party, as many
a poor Yeoman and not a few Austra-
lians learned to their cost.
* * *
“Nappa Coongy”: The half-caste is
very sensitive about his color, though he 11
often say things about himself which
would be strongly resented if said to him
by other people. One came into my store
the other day for a pair of elastic-sided
boots. “What sort,” I said—“black or
tan?” “Oh,” he said, “I’ll stick to me
color.” Still a bit puzzled I offered a
pair of tan. “No, ’he said ; black 11 do
me.” The same man was in the store
when the cook came in for some sand-
soap. “Wonder what color it’d make
me,” he said.
* * * *
“Dau”: The South Seas savage is
even more adept at getting the outside
skin of a cocoanut off than he is at ex-
tracting the meat from within (B.
12/6/’35), and the first is a long way
the stiffer job. The white new hand
faced with the prospect of tearing the
coating off a green nut will often
sweat unavailingly over it for hours until
he hurls the resulting monstrosity of
jagged fibres from him in disgust. My
native friends used two methods indif-
ferently. With one they slapped the
nut on to the sharp point of a stick
planted upright in the ground, and with
a couple of twists had a whitely-naked
nut ready for tapping. With the other
the nut was thrown carelessly on the
ground and, putting one foot on it, the
boy stripped it with a few jabs from a
black-palm pig spear.
“Pagewood”: Undoubtedly “Rus’s”
denizen of bore drains (B. 12/6/’35) is
A pus australiensis. A member of the
leaf-footed crustaceans, he lives in clay-
pans and other watery spots as well as
in artesian water. His eggs are encased
in little leather topcoats, and may be
blown by the wind from Charleville to
Bourke. His very short life may be still
further shortened by water beetles.
Along with Apus you may often find a
sister, Estheria, coming from the same
family, but enclosing herself in a bivalve.
Can’t explain their presence in the bore
drains unless facetious relatives had told
them to go and boil their heads.
“Oruncha”: “Kwakprak’s” par. re the
sand grains that are an inheritance from
our fishy ancestors (B. 12/6/’35) reminds
me of the lobster. It has a small hole
in its cranium into which it drops the
grains. Experiments were made to dis-
cover their purpose. One crustacean was
placed in an aquarium that had steel
filings on the bottom instead of sand.
The crayfish dropped the filings into the
Hole, as he had done the sand ; then a
powerful magnet was held over him. The
filings were drawn up out of the hole,
and the lobster turned upside down,
apparently losing all balance. When he
had deposited more filings, balance was
restored.
“S.N.E.”: How the bush and city
differ! I’m lying up with a badly-
sprained ankle. After the injury I had
to hobble home along a half-mile or so
of busy suburban thoroughfare. Though
limping badly and in pain I received no
offers of a lift or of first-aid. If I'd
been in the bush the first passer-by would
have helped me home, and then offered
further assistance. It’s the way they look
at things outback; your turn to-day,
may be mine fo-morrow.
* ❖ * *
“Spare Walton”: Prominent among the
many State-right anomalies is the jigsaw
control of the inland fisheries, each Stale
legislating on the question or failing to
do so at its own sweet will, Australia is
fortunate in possessing the finest, fresh-
water food fish in the world, the Murray
cod —the salmon may be put aside, since
he spends most' of his life somewhere in
the sea. N. S. Wales, Victoria and South
Aus. are the three States most con-
cerned with this national asset —for,
properly controlled, the cod is all, that —•
though the noble fish is plentiful in
Queensland rivers. Victoria has a close
season for cod, but permits netting. S.A.
makes an effort to prevent indiscriminate
destruction, but a very feeble one. N. S.
Wales doesn’t even close cod fishing in
the breeding season, incredible as it may
seem. All these States have permitted
the widespread introduction of the Euro-
pean carp and perch, which prey on
small fry and the ova of other species.
AH these States are deploring a
heavy falling-off in supplies of the
valuable cod and his. near-relatives
the golden and silver perches, and are
trying to find a remedy for their own
incapacity and laziness. The, obvious
remedy is Federal control of all fisheries,
ocean and inland.
A COMPROMISE.
The Wattle and the Waratah
Were blooming side by side,
As well-conducted flora may
And do, both far and wide.
Without a scrap of rivalry
Or hint of jealous pride.
“They still dispute,” the Wattle said,
“Which of us two is best
To grace the nation’s coat-of-arms
And ornament its crest.
’Tis time they gave the odious
Comparison a rest.
“If seventy artistic souls
Should argue for a year
Do you suppose,” the Wattle asked,
“ ’Twould bring agreement near?”
“No fear,” replied the Waratah —
“No adjectival fear.
“For factiousness it fairly lays
The feuds upon the shelf
Of Montagu and Capulet,
Of Ghibelline and Guelph,
The acrimonious row they’ve raised
Around you and myself.”
“1 wonder would,” the Wattle sighed,
“The controversy end
If somebody in Burbank's line
Could only make a blend
Of all that’s best in both of us.
My decorative friend.
“A brand-new shrub upon the shield
We’d make a goodly sight,
One that might still the strife of tongues
And terminate the fight.”
“A good idea,” acquiesced
The Waratah; “it might.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Bull-ant Bill”: For the first time in
my experience a Jew has made a touch
for a bit of tucker with all the dinkum
swaggie outfit up. He chopped the wood
so well and was so obviously a good
fellow that the missus asked him to
stay to a bit of tea and camp in the
shed. After tea, she produced a doubt-
ful. two-bob bit, and asked his opinion.
He pulled out another, and, rubbing
both simultaneously between fingers and
thumbs —palms up, arms half extended,
eyes partly closed —pronounced it bad,
but a clever one. “That’s the vay,
missus,” he said, bowing politely.
“Schlenters is slippery, but not so slip-
pery but vot you can’t feel if you’ve a
good ’un in the other hand.” Born in
New York, he told me, and had worked
a passage to Australia to see the birth-
place and grave of the most famous
general the A.I.F. had. Then thought
he’d see a bit of the country before his
time was up.
5{C % ‘ Sji
“Verri”: Add the octopus to the list
of creatures liable to do damage after
death. Fishing in Middle Harbor (Sydney)
we caught a fair-sized octopus, which
was killed and thrown on the beach.
We were quietly having a picnic lunch
when the air was filled with appalling
yells. An inquisitive youngster had de-
cided to investigate our fish, and the
large cups on the arms had gripped him
so securely that he was unable, even
with the help of other juveniles, to shake
it off. A tearful small boy with an in-
flamed arm went home to tell his family
his opinion of the octopus as a hanger-
on.
* # SJ® *
“Bryan”: The water-hyacinth again
has parts of the Clarence River (N.S.W.)
country in its grip. One stream is
blocked for about five miles. Cane-
farmers are seeking Government assist-
ance, and unless it is forthcoming im-
mediately they will be unable to send
their cane to the mill by water. A sug-
gested remedy is a drogher with cutters
in front, an American idea.
# $ * $
Whether the timber of the
foreign-grown eucalypts be hard or soft
(B. 1/5/’35), the trees are worth money.
A farmer of the Kiki-kiki (King Country)
district of Maoriland recently felled a
Tasmanian stringybark ( E. obliqua ) esti-
mated to be 50 years old. From it he
split and sold 260 posts at Is. each, 40
straining posts at 4s. each and a quantity
of firewood at 30s. —£22 10s. for the tree.
“Curly”: “Hal. Aust.”
needs to take a course
of lessons by post about
the dugong (B. 29/5/’35).
Where does he get the
notion that it’s half
hippo, and half seal? If
he ever examined one he
would cross out hippo,
and substitute man; I
would say it was three-
quarter man, with just a
dash of seal, All its
organs are exactly
human, and the so-called
traces of elementary legs
are so clearly defined
that they lose their
“elementary” category
by being prominent. I
was present when a
noted head surgeon dis-
sected a skull. His out-
standing surprise was the
human make and shape of the thing.
# :£ * *
“Eosis”: Swanee Taylor, a crack
American pilot, ends an article in the
“Saturday Evening Post” thus: “Don’t
ever consider any man or woman a born
pilot. There is only one living creature
that is a born flier the Australian
brush-turkey, a curious little fellow who
pops out of his shell fully feathered, all
set and ready to give her the gun.” Any
Aboliar seen it happen?
* * * *
“Ex-’Rooer”: I knew an old abo. in
West Kimberley (W.A.) who was a bit
of an artist. He gave me some baobab-
nuts, each covered thickly with draw-
ings done with a piece of fencing-wire—
birds, animals and reptiles peculiar to the
locality were cleverly depicted. There is
one sketch of a horse, and it even bears
the brand K.P. (Kimberley Pastoral Co.).
My bike was the first Binghi had seen,
but he drew it very well from memory,
and included it among the snakes and
lizards.
* * ❖ *
“Fore R.”: “Bray Rock” (B.
22/5/’35) is correct in - stating that tunny
are splendid sporting fish. A few have
been taken in Brisbane Water (N.S.W.)
during the last couple of years, and have
provided good fun. As a fighter, how-
ever, the bonito, schools of which have
been fairly common along our central
eastern coast recently, can give the tunny
both bowers and the ace and still win.
Rarely more than 101 b. to 121 b. weight
hereabouts, the bonito is about' the finest
“strike” an angler can make with rod
and reel, and, when taken on medium
tackle, will give anything up to an hour’s
keen battle before being killed.
* # ❖
"Herpeton”: A Brisbane lecturer hight
Pound introduced a new note the other
day. His subject was “Snakes in Art,”
and to illustrate his remarks he produced
a live carpet-snake, which he handed
round among the audience. The inno-
vation was appreciated after the first
shock, and the lecturer seemed mildly
astonished when the serpent was re-
turned to him after the show. Bris-
baneites have a lot to learn in the way
of souveniring.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: That hoary old belief
that a hare can’t see in front has cropped
up again (B. 12/6/’35). A hare can see
all ways, but when chased by a dog or
anything else runs with its eyes swivelled
back on the pursuer, hence its collision
with “G.J.B.’s” foot. This fixity of gaze
“Ladies and gentlemen, you are now about to witness the positively
final farewell performance of the inimitable Signor Tosti."
“There you are, sir — Canberra, our national capital. What do you
think of it?”
“A dam good paddock spoilt .”
also applies to the pursuer. My dog
once put up a rabbit which ran straight
for me. 1 squatted to intercept it, but
bunny slipped through my hands, and
the next moment I saw stars and was flat
on my back, having been hit by the
racing dog. The dog was also outed.
* * * *
“Fore R.”: Another entry for the one-
legged bird brigade. At Fagan's Bay
(N.S.W.) I was drawn by the cries and
struggles of a blue crane which had been
wading along the edge of the flats. The
fowl had seemingly entangled its leg in
the weeds, but, pulling over to free it, 1
saw that a large eel had seized it. Be-
fore I could interfere the thigh was
severed, and, bleeding freely from the re-
maining stump, the bird rose, flying
slowly away.
* * * *
“Lux”: The blind, or gummy, shark of
Torres Strait waters lazes on the bottom.
Island boys treat him with contempt, and
are not beyond dealing him a stout kick
when he happens to be lying on a patch
of sought-after m.-0.-p. shell. However,
when a Jap from T.I. tried the trick he
received a severe leg-bite for his trouble.
* * * *
“Ole Man River”: Different colored
river waters running side by side are to
be found in other lands than Maoriland
(B. 12/6/’35). After their junction
the Missouri flows side by side with the
Mississippi for many miles, the yellow
waters of the Missouri sharply de-
fined from the clearer Mississip. A
famous instance is the junction of the
Brahmaputra and the Ganges, the Brah-
maputra, crystal-clear from the Hima-
layas, refusing for a long time to mingle
its waters with the muddy flow of
Mother Gunga. Another is the meeting
of the Blue and White Nile.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Queensland is considering
seriously the total prohibition of
elephants, even as inter-
state migrants, Common-
wealth Constitution or
not. Two months ago an
elephant broke into the
premises of a hotel at
Woombye and pursued
the publican round his
own garden. Now news
comes from Boonah that
two valuable horses have
dropped dead at the sight
of an elephant, one so
suddenly as to dislocate
its rider’s shoulder. We
don’t mind the pink
elephants born of our
rum; we have every re-
spect for the elephant
which tried the unsafe
bridge with its foot and
then refused to cross; but
publicans and horses are
too much to venture. In the old State
days we could have kept out elephants.
Secession it is!
* * * *
“Quarryann”: “Galinghi” (B. 3/4/’35)
s was at Warbreccan (W.Q.); so was I. I
also was with old Joe Eves the time they
pumped out Break Dam so he could
work in it. That was the best bit of fish-
ing ever I had, and I’ve trailed a line
many times since then. They had a
steam engine and a 6in. ’fugal pump on
the job of emptying that dam. The thing
used to throw a stream of water big
enough to give all the souls in Hades a
drink. I got a bit of wire-netting and
made a bucket out of it as big as a tub.
I put that over the discharge of the ’fugal,
and had only time to fix it when a
yellow-belly a foot or more long was
caught in, it. I got six black-bream and
a dozen crayfish while I was looking at
the thing. We had fish as often as we
wanted it while that pump was working.
* * * »
“Ned Kelly”: Re squid changing color
(B. 29/5/’35). I watched a lot of them
one day in about 4ft. of clear water at
Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.). They kept
changing from transparency to the dirty
white “J.8.J.” describes as they shot back
and forth after food. There was no ap-
parent reason for the change. It was not
to adjust their hue to that of the lake-
floor ; that was clear sand. One of our
party offered the theory that the shadow
cast by the boat had something to do
with it. Apropos, has any Aboliar tried
rissoles made with minced squid? They
are excellent.
* * * *
“Emsee”: Shark Bay, Westralia, is
surely the fisherman’s paradise. Senator
Johnston, who recently returned from a
visit there, speaks breezily of gropers
weighing 6001 b., of dugong, kingfish,
snapper and oysters that are oysters.
Shark Bay seems to be immune from all
unpleasant visitants. Cyclones and storms
have their beginnings further north. The
townsfolk scorn road traffic, and all their
supplies, which are carried by steamers,
are delivered by lighters almost to their
front doors, for all the houses are built
along the seafront,
* * * *
“West Darling”: The parson found
the town’s Awful Example 'sleeping off
the effects in the gutter. He roused the
helpless one and piloted him home.
Hanging to the gate, the wreck thanked
him. “You’re the firsh man shever
done thash for me,” he said, “and lesh
hope it won’t be long before I can return
the complimensh.”
* * * *
“K.T.”: There are two types of bush
cooks —the “boil” cooks and the “fry”
cooks. Adherents to the pan style have
a slight advantage over the “boil” cooks
in the matter of speed, but the latter
don’t suffer the inconvenience of main-
taining a supply of fat or the transport
difficulties of a pack that includes a pan.
* * * *
“W. le R.”: Dr. Fenton, the N.T. fly-
ing doctor, received an urgent summons
from the Golden Dyke mine after an
accident. He set out by moonlight from
the Katherine, landed in a paddock at
Brock’s Creek, 100 miles away, and after
a rough lorry trip of 15 miles reached
the scene of disaster a couple of hours
later. Finding one of the casualties too
serious to be moved by motor-truck, with
the assistance of the mine employees
the doctor carried the victim to a near-by
cattle station over five miles of rocky
cattle-pad, raced by truck back to his
’plane at Brock’s Creek, flew back to the
station, where the mine employees had
cleared a rough landing-ground, and
landed his patient in the Darwin Hos-
pital an hour later.
WHAT’S THE ODDS?
“I used to think,” he said, and grinned,
“That blokes like me were somewhat raie,
And brains as good as mine, you know.
Would take me almost anywhere.
But here I am, a cocky still” —
He kicked the crumbling upturned sods
“Yet lots of blokes aren’t even that,
So what’s the odds?
“I’ve had my share of work,” he said,
“Though not perhaps my share of pay;
The block I got was mostly bush —
There’s little bush left there to-day.
It doesn’t seem a lot to show
For half a life. Perhaps the gods
Will chalk it up to my account.
But what’s the odds?
“I don’t owe fortune anything;
What I have got I earned, I guess.
But now my luck has turned at last;
I asked her, and she whispered ‘Yes.’
One little month and we’ll be wed.
How slow the time of waiting plods!
But life should soon be paradise,
So—what’s the odds?”'
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
£5 A WEEK FOR LIFE
Recently payment was made by the Society on
a policy held by an officer who lately retired
from a well-known public Institution.
His investment of this money will show a
definite return of £5. per week for the rest of
his life, and to-day, after 40 years of that work
and worry which is the lot of every man, he
will enjoy the luxury of complete relaxation,
secure from any financial worries for as long
as he lives.
0\
An Assurance Policy guarantees this financial independence.
Obtain particulars from the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Principal Office—Melbourne. C. B. Hearn, A.C.1.5., Manager and Secretary
BRANCHES IN SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
TASMANIA. NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND LONDON. L 2176
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only. Single Rooms trom 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del’ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,
SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEEO MEAL.
Universal Tally System.
“Murrawong”; It is doubtful whether
the universal tally system tried at Boo-
room ugga, near Cobar (N.S.W.), would
he successful generally.
The basis is that a competent shearer
should shear 100 average sheep a day—
fewer rough wethers and more light,
good-cutting sheep.
A per-day quota is set by the board
boss and tally-man, who should be the
fastest shearex*.
Theoretically, the positions of tally-
man and shearers’ rep. should be filled
by the same man, but in practice the
“gun” is not always a suitable rep.,
which may lead to complications. The
tally-man sets the pace, and no other
shearer may catch his next sheep ahead
of him.
It is claimed that under this system
sheep are more carefully handled and
better shorn, and that there are fewer
second cuts and less damage to woollies.
Also, slowing-down is supposed to allow
fleeces to be skirted better and the clip
better classed, and permit the forecasting
of the day’s requirements, both in shed-
hands and sheep.
Most experienced overseers and classer;
will not concur. In the first place, the
system has not had a thorough trial.
Boox-oomugga shears when it has the
pick of the shearers of two States.
The personal element —relations be-
tween boss and tally-man, and between
tally-man and shearers—is the weak
point. If the tally-man is “a bit of a
nark” he can easily add to the over-
seer’s worries, especially if the latter is
inexperienced. He can also create dis-
cord in the team. Suppose two other
shearers are equally fast—the tally-man
can hang back and hold up the other
men. Nothing sours the temper more
than hold-ups.
My experience, too, is that the man
who can shear 170 sheep a day and bet-
ter cuts his sheep less and makes fewer
second cuts because he hasn’t time for a
second blow. In most cases he cleans
them better than the man who is break-
ing his neck to shear 100. The tally
system, favoring the plugger at the ex-
pense of the fast man, does not relieve
the overseer of responsibility in keeping
down injuries and second cuts.
And fleeces in practice will not be
skirted and classed better, for lightening
of work in the woolroom will be balanced
in the immemorial fashion —by putting
on fewer shedhands.
Lastly, any classer with a knowledge
of the layout of the shed and class of
sheep can estimate his requirements ahead
without the tally system.
How the system would result in better
classing is a mystery. If a man can class
900 fleeces a day better than 1000, why
not put on one shearer less?
The net results of the universal tally
may be to make shearing last longer and
bump up costs. It is a blow at the con-
tract system which will hit shearers and
owners alike —in the pocket. But it
should suit rouseabouts.
Wool-valuing.
“Wool-valuer”: Wool-valuers, in fix-
ing prices, decide the type, estimate the
yield, multiply the latter by the clean-
scoured cost of the former and divide
the resultant figure by 100. The answer
is greasy value.
Three kinds of yield are recognised—
clean-scoured, carbonising and Bradford
top and noil. Clean-scoured is the wool
percentage remaining after the scour-
ing process and removal of all foreign
matter; carbonising percentage, that
left after carbonising ; and Bradford top
and noil, the percentage after combing
and noil “tearing” in a Bradford mill. Of
course, valuers are only able to estimate
their yields, but they are rarely wrong
more than 2 p.c.
Clean-scoured yields arc applied to
short-stapled, free or nearly-free wools,
from fleece down to locks and crutch-
ings; carbonising yields, to heavily-
burred wools of all grades—although
usually only to short-stapled lots, as
fair to good length must be burry indeed
to be uncombablc without first being
carbonised. Bradford top and noil is
applicable to most' Australian wool,
chiefly from fleece down to bellies and
to lambs and to locks and crutchings.
An example of clean-scoured cost is as
follows:
A wool is type 13, is estimated to yield
58 p.c. Bradford top and noil, and realise,
say, 16-fd. So, 58 x 16f divided by 100
= 28 pence, which is the clean-scoured
cost.
And here is an example of valuing:—■
A wool is type 13, is estimated to yield
58 p.c. Bradford top and noil, and the
clean-scoured cost (taken from above ex-
ample) is 28 pence. So, 58 x 28 divided
by 100 16.24 pence, which is the
greasy value. If this wool was estimated
to yield 60 p.c., greasy value would
work out at 16.80 pence; if 56 p.c., at
15.68 pence.
Protein and Entero-toxaemia.
“Corriedale”: Remarkably few deaths
from e.-t. on lucerne have been reported
compared with those on grasses and
clovers.
There is no proof that proteins are the
trouble. Losses are known among sheep
transferred from good pasture to stubbly
feed. Here fibre may have irritated and
heated the bowels, allowing B. ovitoxi-
cus to operate. The conditions under
which protein could cause heating are
rare,
E.-T, tends to be more prevalent on
recently broken up soils. Also, ewes after
a hard winter sometimes drop lambs
more disposed to e.-t. than-healthy sheep.
Excitement brings trouble, though the
lambs are getting less protein in the milk
than unaffected ones.
In some areas e.-t. seems to have a
regular cycle. At Hay (N.S.W.) it is
believed to have been absent for 30
years, only to reappear suddenly. It
clings to certain paddocks and neglects
others for no obvious reason.
“F.L.8.” (B. 5/6/’35) is right about
vaccine. With avoidance of internal
heating irritants, it is the best precaution,
although not fully proven.
Sheep on Dairy Farms.
“W.D.Mc.”: 1 have always advocated
a few sheep being kept on the dairy farm
in suitable regions.
They provide mutton for the menu
and clean up weedy paddocks. Sheep
are next to goats as scavengers of weeds,
and an annual cheque for wool helps to
stop a gap.
Sheep should never be allowed to ruu
with the dairy herd, as they eat out all
the best grasses.
If the farm is small, a coil or two of
netting with a barb on top and a few
posts will soon fence in a corner.
Ewes can usually be purchased cheaply
off shears. As long as they have decent
mouths they will rear lambs. If the
farmer can afford to buy young ewes, so
much the better. For small farms come-
backs or Corriedales are to be preferred
to merino, and, mated to Corriedale or
Ryeland rams, will produce good lambs
if properly fed. The wethers can be
eaten on the farm and the ewe lambs
kept to replace the old ones.
Once I bought 50 ewes with lambs at
foot for 4s. per head, lambs given in;
I bred them to good rams, kept the
ewe portion and killed the wether lambs
for home use. For five years they and
their progeny averaged £lOO per annum.
Of course, this return could not be
secured at present low wool prices in
combination with medium-high stock
prices. The flock will always show a
profit if well treated, and the good they
do in restoring the fertility of worn-out
paddocks goes to their credit apart from
the direct return.
Overstocking.
‘Sheepo”: As “R.F.C.” says, nature
would soon repair drought damage if
given the chance (B. 5/6/’35). Over-
stocking, often due to graziers having to
carry up to the hilt to make ends meet,
takes its genesis in too many instances
from want of pastoral knowledge. The
wonder is that Mitchell and Flinders
grass pastures have stood the racket so
long.
Grass-eating pests and the meagre wet
seasons of the past decade are not in-
trinsically responsible for the bare
patches and weed growths now often
seen on the one-time wheat field-1 ike
Queensland plains. Pests and droughts
were existent when the blacks ruled, but
natural pastures responded when pro-
vided with the essential moisture.
Lessons learnt in previous lean seasons
haven’t been heeded. The first green
shoot after rain sees stock rushed to eat
it, with the result that immature
grasses never get the chance to grow as
nature intended.
Fodder conservation is never men-
tioned except in drought periods.
Cattle Transport.
“Shorthorn”: An experiment impor-
tant to cattle-breeders has been con-
cluded at the Adelaide Abattoirs.
Eleven light-weight Shorthorn and Sbort-
horn-Hereford-cross steers from Mount
Leonard (Q.) were sold at an average of
£6 12s. 3d. —top price £9.
They had been forwarded 600 miles to
Broken Hill by aJ 10-ton, six-wheel petrol
lorry, the journey occupying 72 hours.
The cattle did not seriously lose condi-
tion.
Outback tracks in good repair are suit-
able for six-wheel lorries or the 15-ton
unit designed for the interior. The latter,
Diesel-driven, with two trailers, was
operated for some thousand of miles in
Central Australia at a cost of 3.7 d. a ton
mile, and a 30-ton unit would operate
more cheaply still.
If the Government would provide
tracks through the pastoral country, to-
gether with facilities for unloading so
that stock could be watered on the route,
vast numbers of cattle and sheep could
be saved in droughts, and it would be
possible for stock to be marketed when
ready. At present a station often cannot
sell fat cattle because stock routes are
too bad for cattle to travel on.
When the seasons are good thousands
of cattle walk down the Birdsville track
from Birdsville (Q.) to Marree (S.A.).
the trucking point. It has been estimated
that each bullock wastes lewt. to l^cwt.
on the track, (at present bare of feed),
and loses the bloom and quality.
The Mount Leonard cattle could not
have been marketed but for motor trans-
port, and, although eight died owing to
the floor of the truck being unsuitable,
the owners are confident that in future
losses will be avoided.
The Cowbail.
“Pick”: For a handy cowbail, erect
sft. uprights about 4ft. apart, with a
ground-plate between and planks bolted
squarely to each side above.
To a block sunk 9in. from the foot
of the left-hand post, loose-tenon a
smoothed rail sft. 3in. long, so that it will
slide back a little along the channel be-
tween the bolted planks.
Hinge a cover plank over the paral-
lels, and mortise it to catch the sliding
rail as it becomes perpendicular.
Rig a doubled rope through rings over-
head. Pulled from the rear, the rope lifts
the mortised plank, allowing the bail to
fall open. Pulled the opposite way, it
draws up the sliding rail until it is caught
in the mortise and the bail is shut. With
this outfit the milker need not approach
the head of a restive heifer.
Weak Wheats.
“Mangaratta”: Agricultural depart-
ments may recommend strong milling
wheats (B. 29/5/’35), but that is not
always enough to deter farmers who
wish to grow those of poor flour
strength. In S.A. Nabawa, Free Galli-
poli and Waratah were first, second and
third in the 1932 list, and Gluyas Early
was fifth.
These are all classed as weak. Although
Ford and Dundee would yield just as
well, farmers in my district have sown
more Free Gallipoli this season than
ever, because last harvest, when heavy
rain and strong winds affected the crops,
there was less loss with it by shaking
out and it reaped most easily.
A refusal by Governments to supply
seed of low milling quality would help
the position, but the growing of such
wheats will continue as long as grain is
bought f.a.q.
It seems inevitable that for years to
come good, medium and poor quality
wheats will be dumped together as f.a.q.,
but if some system of docking on weak
wheats were devised a big step would
have been taken towards improving bak-
ing quality.
Horses and Silage.
“Bluegum”: “Glencoe’s” pit (B.
22/5/’35) contains, not ensilage, but
sweated hay, and it is the fermenting
grain which attracts the horses. Cows
and sheep, though more fussy about a
change of diet, will eat the stuff just as
readily once started.
I’ve seen pigs howling drunk on the
residue from a similar stack. And it
needs only enough of it at one feed to
put up the toes of any of them for keeps.
Silage must be stacked or pitted green.
Nugget and co. may eat it, but its laxa-
tive action soon renders them unfit for
hard work.
Wimmera Rye Grass.
“Granova”: Wimmera rye grass is
proving a great success in the N.S.W.
south-west slopes, having carried up to
three ewes per acre.
By sowing 21b. per acre with a wheat
crop, it can be established for 2s. per
acre, plus the labor of mixing the seed
with super.
The seed germinates well in heavy soil
where lucerne is difficult to establish.
Where conditions are favorable, it
tends to seed-down too heavily, and
{“Man on the Land” continued on
page 24.)


#o*
li:?
r
s
iiipi
M
*B5
;-j ; S
*>«
5^
* “All-wave” models per-
fectly reproduce Australian broadcast programmes and set a new high standard in overseas
short-wave reception. With THREE wave ranges and selective wave range illumination
they incorporate the latest developments in radio receiver design. A fully inclined instru-
ment panel for convenience in operation and the new open faced Rotovisor dial constitute
the most simple form of tuning yet devised. Models for A.C. operation, 37 guineas jand
42 guineas. Battery operation, 39 guineas.
m
m
m
V
n
v
I
i
A)


STOMACH PAINS
i
says Mr. E. Keiland of Exeter, who writes;—
"For a long time I suffered severe pains
in my stomach; it seemed to be getting
worse until I dreaded eating anything.
The pain got so bad I was afraid I had a
malignant growth in my stomach. I was
advised to try ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia—the
very first dose relieved the pain and now
I can eat practically anything without
any pain whatever. I am 74 years old
and life seems worth living again.”
What appeared to Mr. Keiland to be a
serious disease proved to be another case
of Acidity! This condition is prevalent
among men and women of all ages and is
responsible for such ailments as indiges-
tion, gastritis, stomach ulcers, headaches,
biliousness, insomnia, etc.—all symp-
toms of acidity. It’s marvellous how
‘Bisurated’ Magnesia attacks and defeats
acidity —it’s amazing how it gives such
quick and lasting relief —the reason is
that it instantly removes the cause.
There is no more effective antacid
than ‘Bisurated* Magnesia—that is why
doctors and hospitals have used and
recommended it for over 20 years and
still consider it has no rival.
BANISHED/,
m
74 YEARS
OLD BUT
-LIFE
WORTH
LIVING
AGAIN lifflirg: m
FIRST DOSE RELIEVED THE PAIN’
fcISURATED’
MAGNESIA
POWDER TABLETS
* Bisurated * Magnesia is a concen-
trated preparation and is therefore
the most economical in use.
Every package hears the
oval e ßismag ’ Trade Mark ->•
Preferred by
horsemen!
For its light weight and supple-
ness, its comfort and durability,
this Abbey Riding Boot is
chosen by horsemen through-
out the Commonwealth. Elastic
ankle insets preserve a close,
easy fit. The upper is smoothly
lined with soft leather.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. When
writing, specify width as well as size,
and order a large tin of Dale's
English Dubbin, available in black
and tan, at 2/6. This softens the
leather, makes it waterproof and
increases its wearing qualities.
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS •
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 413.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Lna Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
PASTORAL & FARMING NEWS
Reports of Shows, Descriptions of Leading
Properties, Special Articles and Pictures of
Rural Interest are given in
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly for the Man on the Laud.
On Sale All States, Price, 6d,
w
UP-TO-DATE BRANDING
Stock- and station-owners, farmers and fruitgrowers have at
their disposal the most modern tool for quick and effective
branding.
Cattle, Horses, Rams’ Horns, Pigs,
Barrels, Casks, Boxes, Fruit-cases,
etc.,
can be stamped with brand or name by the use of
Starr’s Patent Combination Branding Lamp
A tool that operates with petrol on the same principle as a
blow-lamp, and one man can apply more brands in one day
than three men could using other means.
Specially constructed for use in all weathers, it eliminates vex-
ing delays due to rain and wind extinguishing branding-fires.
Price: Lamp, £4/10/-. Horse or Cattle Brand, £l/5/-.
Complete Outfit, £5/15/-.
Year Numbers can be attached to the brand. Single Letter,
10/-. Full set (0 to 9), £3/10/-.
Ram’s Horn Brand.
Complete set of numerals and horn brand in one.
Ram’s Numerals (0 to 9), £2/4/-.
Name (|in.), per letter, 3/-.
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. And at Lismore and Wagga.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
eventually chokes itself out. The remedy
is to stock heavily when it is seeding.
To get good germination every year on
soil where the surface sets hard, it is
sometimes necessary to harrow the stand
in early autumn.
Although grasshoppers attacked seed-
ing Wimmera rye pastures last year, they
are showing up well again this autumn.
If sown in on lucerne stands, the grass
will greatly increase winter carrying
capacity.
Sowing Pastures.
“Stump Jump”: The hit-and-miss
method of making up pasture mixtures
without reference to soil is fast dying
out. Of yore anything up to 15 varieties
of grass and clover were sometimes
sown in the hope that some would “take.”
Rarely in any medium-class soil did
more than three or four survive.
The best plan is to sow trial strips a
few yards long on typical parts of the
soil with several varieties. The survivors
are the best indication as to what is con-
genial.
However, it is necessary to be careful
with clovers. Some white kinds do not
establish well until the third season.
Again, Italian rye is wonderful in the
first year, while perennial is better in the
second.
On areas with between 20in. to 30in.
of rainfall it pays to experiment with
good strains of perennial rye as well as
Wimmera. Also, a percentage of white
Dutch with the sub. clover is useful.
When the autumn is usually more rainy
than spring, cocksfoot is the grass to
sow in the south-east of Australia,
Spring Lucerne-sowing.
“Stump Jump”: Whether lucerne
should be sown in autumn or spring
depends a great deal on soil and rainfall.
The vital thing is to get the root down
to as great a depth as possible in the first
few months of its life.
On alluvial, loamy soils with good
rain, the root appears to grow down-
wards for years. But in clayey soils —
wet, cold soil—the root goes down only
a few feet.
On Riverina soils I’ve struck lucerne
roots iin. thick, 3ft. down in February,
four months after sowing. They were
juicy and fresh, whilst the plants looked
wilted. In hard soils, unless it makes
that rapid growth in the first three or
four months, it seems to me that the
stand will never be hardy or long-lived.
In the Goulburn Valley (Vic.), lucerne,
if irrigated within six months of sowing,
has a life of only three to five vears. The
sizable roots are never more than 2ft.
to 3ft. down. But if the stands are left
dry for 18 months the roots may get
down Bft. to 10ft., and the plants live
for up to 12 years.
These facts tend to indicate that spring
sowing is best, as the dry weather in-
variably improves the stand. Autumn
sowing, however, offers a chance of some
grazing in the spring, but that is mostly
at the expense of the long life of the
crop.
Mowing is essential in spring-grown
lucerne, as soon as buds appear.
Hogweed often covers a new stand,
but it is rarely serious. It does not com-
pete with lucerne roots belbw, and gradu-
ally dies away.
Wild Tobacco.
“Whalebone”: Wild tobacco grows up
to 20ft. high, has broad blue leaves, long
yellow flowers and flourishes about rivers
and creeks.
It is not the problem stinkwort is,
but if not dealt with early overruns a
property, because stock won’t eat it and
the small, light seed is easily scattered.
Odd stalks and small patches can be
pulled, dug or arsenic-sprayed.
For large patches spraying is too
costly and digging is ineffective, since
the plant re-shoots from small roots or
seed left behind.
The cheapest eradication method is to
brush-hook the plants before flowering
and later sucker them with a stick.
A Self-closing Gate.
“Pick”: To build a gate that will open
either way and close itself, cut the top
bar four inches shorter than the lower
one and, giving the rear post a slant,
tenon the intervening bars anglewise. Pro-
ject the upper hinge pen so that when
shut the gate hangs parallel. When
opened, the latch end lifts. When re-
leased it drops back and shuts itself.
Pass the latch through a long, narrow-
mortise in the gate head, and bolt it
loosely to the middle rail. Nail a cleat,
bevelled both ways and with a notch in
the middle, to the front post as a catch.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.8.K.”: Old motor tyres can be
used for cleaning out silting water-
holes, especially where the silt is sandy.
Twist a wire cable across the hole from
tree to tree. At suitable intervals twitch
on strong-wire loops so that they
cannot move. Tie tyres to the loops
by wire and a chain with swivel attached
so that tyre can spin and let debris go
by. The swirl caused by several tyres
will shift a lot of silt.
“Whalebone”: When clearing sticky
mud out of a dam sprinkle a little dust
over the sides and bottom of the scoop
each trip before filling. This prevents
the mud sticking to the scoop.
“Mangaratta”: It is important to bring
hand-fed sheep on to full-grain feeds
slowly. Start with |lb. or less per
sheep, and increase by £lb. every four
days until full-ration stage. If feeding
a small flock it may be economy to soak
or crush the grain, as 41b. crushed grain
or 4|lb. soaked grain equals 51b. dry
whole grain.
“Dee Bee”: After robbing a bush-
bees’ nest, if the log is sound, cover the
opening with a sheet or two of stringy-
bark secured with wire. The bees will
soon return home.
“Mulyan”; When the butt of a fence-
post has been eaten by white-ants dig
round it and make a fire in the hole.
The shell and ant-stuff burn readily, and,
v/hile this cleans the hole, it also destroys
the ants and their eggs. Digging a hole
may be quicker, but many of the ter-
mites will be left there to infest the new
post or butt.
“Wrash”: To waterproof sheets for
stacks or farm machinery, coat them
(using a flat brush), when stretched, with
paraffin wax into which half as much
raw linseed oil has been stirred. Smooth
the surface thoroughly with a hot iron.
Then, after a day or two, paint the sheet
on the outer side with carriage paint.
Let it dry before using.
“Jasmin A.”: In feeding oats for milk
production, as “Upilio” advises (B.
29/5/’35), the variety is important. The
narrower the nutrient value the better
the oats for the purpose. For fattening
choose a kind with a high starch equiva-
lent. Algerian has a nutrient ratio of
1 to 7.6 and a starch equivalent of 58.3,
Lachlan 1 to 8.5 and 59,1, Mulga 1 to 8.2
and 60.1, Early Burt 1 to 9.1 and 61.8
anti N.Z. Cape 1 to 7.4 and 59.9.
Algerian and N.Z. Cape would be the
best for milk cows, while Early Burt
would fatten. If crushed or bruised the
oats are more easily digested and give
better results.
“Wandi”: Much has been heard about
the harm done by skeleton weed and
the efforts to combat it. Here’s a word
for the other side. At a meeting of the
Junee (N.S.W.) branch of the Graziers’
Association, A. A. Wilson said he had
been growing skeleton weed for 25 years,
but it did not become prolific, as the
seasons usually did not encourage it. He
had topped the Sydney market with
lambs fed exclusively on the weed.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
r. fi
n f
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 f 4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
It’s a sure thing that if France keeps
at it long enough she’ll get a Premier
that suits her. Fifty million Frenchmen
can’t all be wrong.
►l* •I* -I-
“Lecturer Attacks Trial Marriages.”
—News headline.
That’s all very well, but what other-
kind of marriages are there?
•I* -I- *3>
Apparently inspired by the Beech-
worth-to-Buffalo barrow contest, a Yack-
andandah farmer has wagered £25 that
“I’m a reporter. Tell me, what does it feel like up
here?"
he will drag a friend 190 miles to Mel-
bourne in a trotting sulky.
It now remains for some enterprising
citizen to roll from Cairns to Condobolin
in a dustbin, cross Bass Strait on stilts,
carry a horse three times round the
Flemington racecourse and bring the air
mail from Cootaraundra to Sydney on
a scooter. And for the Government to
increase its expenditure on suitable re-
ception houses.
•I- •!* 4* *l*
“Stated that the British Gqyernmcnt hopes
lor a rainy season in Abyssinia.”
But will Italy keep back her storm
troops?
-I- *l*
Suburbanish.
“When only slightly drunk he still had a
certain Wahroongahish respectability about
him.” —Evidence in Sydney court case.
A few drinks later on he was still fairly
Rose-Bayish; but this condition soon
changed to one of Bondi-ish gaiety. He
then lapsed into a state of almost Rand-
wick ian abandon. Going from bad to
worse, he grew quite Oxford-streetish;
but all decorum was thrown to the winds
when he finally became Darlinghurstically
drunk.
See.
Unsolved Mystery.
I am comforted with an exceedingly
perplexing problem, a real brain-feast.
Last week a bottle merchant pleaded
for a quote on
my stack of
emplics. _
"empties?” I
ex c 1 aimed, be-
wildered.
“Yairs, emp-
ties,” the bottle-
oh persisted.
“You’ve got a
pile wot Green-
sea couldn’t jump
over.”
Following him
to the side of the
house, I saw,
arranged in neat
rows behind the
garage, dozens
and dozens of
empty bottles —
beer, whisky,
port, sherry and
the rest. Well,
after a bit of
haggling, and
feeling like one
who aids in a
felony, I sold the
lot.
But what beats
me is how they
got there. I’ve
never bought an
empty bottle in
my life!
P. C.
The Bather.
The tide rose
steadily, but still
he lay there day-
dreaming.
The constant ripple of the water had
soothed his senses, and his fancy was
wandering far from that spot where soon
he was to be so rudely awakened.
He was dreaming of long, creaming
breakers ... of an island in the tropics
decked with palms ... of a blazing
sun . . . and a vast, golden beach on
which a nymph lay sunbaking.
Suddenly his reverie was shattered by
the irate voice of the landlady:
“Hurry up there, Mr. Smith! Y’ don’t
want the bathroom all day, do y’?”
Nat.
►I- *1- >!* *
"Some people are satisfied with a mere
smattering of knowledge of any subject; the
triumph is naturally with the man who puts his
full mind to it .” — “Sun.”
A triumph of mind over smatter.
•I* »!* *!*
Nonchalance.
Jenkins is the coolest fellow I’ve met.
Never have I seen him perturbed or
flurried. At school he would take a
caning with a fine air of abstraction.
When a motor-launch foundered it was
Jenkins who put the party on a raft and
sent up flares for six hours, while he
smoked cigarettes and told funny stories.
The other day he rang and requested
me to drop up to a private hospital in
the city. He was waiting in the lounge,
dreamily blowing smoke rings.
“I’ll be a father soon,” he chuckled.
A nurse burst into the room.
“Oh, Mr. Jenkins,” she bubbled.
“It’s”
“A boy,” prompted Jenkins.
“No,” she replied, “girls. Three.”
Jenkins crossed the room to the tele-
phone and dialled a number.
“Hullo! Furnishing department?
Jenkins here. Make that three cots in-
stead of one, will you?”
J. R. McC.
►l* * *l*
Too Bad.
“Defendant was found to be too drunk to
undergo the test of drunkenness.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
The case is not altogether unique. I
once knew a man who was similarly
afflicted with what might be called a
superfluity of perfection.
“Get y'r hanky, Bill, V take this speck out of me
eye!"
It was first noticed when he was a
baby. “Isn’t he just too, too cute?”
visitors used to remark. Later on when
he went to school they tried to give him
an intelligence test, but it was no good—
he was too intelligent.
Nor was it only mentally that he was
overdeveloped; he was outstanding physi-
cally as well. I remember one day the
pair of us visited a Fun Park.
“Test Your Strength” said a notice on
one of the machines.
My friend attempted to test his, but
he was too strong for it.
When he grew up his father put him
into business. “That’ll give him a chance
to show how clever he is,” he said.
As a matter of fact, he was too clever,
and soon found himself in the Bank-
ruptcy Court. His creditors were many
and furious. “We’ll make him pay,” they
threatened. But they didn’t get anything.
He was too bankrupt to pay even a
penny in the pound.
One day I went to visit him. He was
very ill. I brought a doctor who at
once recognised that his services were
useless. The patient was too ill.
So he died.
Some months later there were sus-
picions of foul play. The body was ex-
humed and a post-mortem ordered. But
it was never held. He was too dead.
Uco.
*l* 'i- v
“Privatc guards constantly patrol the resi-
dence of the ex-Kaiser.” — “World’s News.”
The Doom patrol.
Total Eclipse.
Once upon a time I was a source
Of radiant vitality ;
Then I was noted for my force
And individuality.
But now I live a clouded life —
I’m just a dull nonentity —
For I have found a pretty wife
And lost my own identity!
P. O. M. C.
Local Color.
“An American scenario-writer has been im-
ported by an Australian film company. ? His
job will be ‘preparing stories for filming.
“Production of an Australian film, ‘The
Burgomeister,’ has begun.... The musical score
includes a drinking song, a lullaby, a peasant
song and an original waltz tune.”
“Waal, folks, as I onnerstand it, the
sennario goes like this. This peasant guy
Mathias is purty near starving, and this
Jew Kovesky comes along with about 50
grand stowed away in his belt, and
Mathias bumps him off. Well, after
that he goes t’ live in th’ town and all
the folks think he’s a swell guy.
“He gets elected Burgomeister and he’s
a real kingpin. But all the time he’s
haunted by the sound of the bells on the
Jew’s sleigh, and in th’ end he dreams
he’s hung an’ wakes up to find he’s dead.
“A dandy plot, folks, but we’ll have to
pep it up a bit. Local color it needs
what you call dinkum Aussie stuff.
“Now, what about a rodeo to start
with? Big scene, buckjumping, steer-
riding and all that. Mathias is a young
cowboy an’ loses all his dough at faro.
Dinkum Aussie touch, that, eh?
“And this Jew Kovesky —I think we
betta make him a rich rancher with
designs on Mathias’s wife. And well
call Mathias Jack. So the Jew —that is,
the rancher guy —he’s going by Jack’s
place properly sprung. He’s had a big
win and he insults Jack’s wife. Jack
bumps him off. There’s a good chance
for some pretty gun play.
“Yes, I know he uses an axe in the
sennario, but cowboys don’t use axes.
Make him an axeman ? Now, look hyer,
boys. Don’t youse want any Aussie
stuff at all in this picture? What? Dong
him with a bottle ? Now, that is an idea,
bo. That sure is. That’s what he’ll do.
Y’ said ‘Dong,’ didn’t ya? Right. Jack
dongs him with a bottle, and gets his
roll. Then he leaves the ranch and goes
to th’ city.
“What’s that? What about y’r peasant
song ? I guess you’ll haveta make it a
cowboy song and work it in at the be-
ginning. Campfire scene, eh? No, I’ve
got it! You’ve got niggers hyer, haven’t
ya? Well, make it a nigger song and
well make a real swell number of it,
with a bally of darky hot mommas in
grass skirts. That’s a good suggestion of
yours, bo, Dinkum Aussie touch.
“In the city Jack gets among the big
stuff.
“Shots showing him doing the heavy.
Entertaining visiting dukes. Throwing
big parties. Ya could bring ya darky
song in again there. Got any dance
toons? A waltz ? No good. Make it a
hot number. Y’ know. Hotcha! Hotcha!
“Jack goes in f’r politics and gets
elected President. No, that’s going too
fast. Throw in
some war scenes.
Jack a lootenant
in the Pinchgut
Marines. Jack
being knighted on
field of battle.
Comes home. Show
lavish scenes build-
ing your Federal
capital, Canberra.
Jack goes in for
po 1 i tics. Elected
President. What’s
that? Oh, well,
Prime Minister,
then.
“Y’r drinking song? Aw, we’ll stick
that in a French estarainett scene. Pity
we can’t work the darkies in again there,
but it’s no good overloading it.
“Big shot. Installation of Jack as
Prime Minister. Canberra streets
thronged with patriotic millions. Jack
addressing crowd. Hears the bells —of
course, he’s been hearing ’em at intervals
right through the picture. Eh? What
hells? Why, the bells on Kovesky’s
sleigh—no, not Kovesky—the rancher.
What? No sleighs in Australia! Well,
make it bells on his horse. Put there by
his little daughter. No! I’ve got it.
Make ’em cowbells. Jack hears ’em
tinkling just as he bumps the rancher
off. What’s that? No cowbells on cattle
stations ? Well, make it a dairy. No.
I’ve got it. Gee! This is great! Cut
the bell stuff out altogether. He- doesn’t
hear any bells at all.
“This is something really original.
“Jack stands on platform to address
crowd.
“Show cheering multitude. His mind
goes back over his past life. Show flash-
backs. Lootenant Jack leading his troops
to victory. Jack central figure in swell
parties. Jack on world tour. Jack just
coming to city. Jack donging rancher
with bottle. Jack sitting in hut after
losing at faro.
“Return to scene at Canberra. Town
clock striking. Back to hut. Grand-
father clock striking in hut. Jack wakes
up. It is all a dream. He never donged
the rancher at all. Jack’s wife rushes in
with newspaper. He’s won first prize in
the lahttery.
“Now, there’s a dinkum Aussie sen-
nario for you.”
JASBY.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Clinch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
' " General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities- for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Highly-qualified kindergarten and infant
teacher (Tas.) desires position as governess
Queensland. Music and French (elementary).
—7263.
Mining engineer requires assistance to take
over raining proposition. Big tonnage of ore
exposed.—7262.
Young Maorilander, exp. orchard and dairy
work, desires position Tas. or Vic., commence
September.—7264.
To buy rear peepsight suitable for small-
calibre sporting rifle, with adjustments for wind
and elevation. Must have plenty of scope for
vertical movement. —7257.
To buy Hall and Knight’s Higher Algebra,
Lamb’s Infinitesimal Calculus and Statics,
Piaggio’s Differential Equations, Todhunter’s
Spherical Trigonometry, Bell’s Co-ordinate
Geometry of Three Dimensions, Loney’s
Dynamics of a Particle and Rigid Bodies, Whit-
taker and Robinson's The Calculus of Observa-
tion. —7248.
To buy C. J. Dennis’s A Book for Kids.—
7231.
To borrow Little Man, What Now ? by Hans
Fallada.—7223.
Copy of soldiers’ song “She Was Poor, but
She Was Honest.” —7229.
Words of verse, entitled “Father Jim,” be-
ginning “There’s a parson comes once a month
to Warreko,” —7266.
Copy of The Bulletin containing a short
story by Henry Lawson in which an Italian
wharf-laborer is one of the central characters.
—7173.
Information Sought.
(1) Has Jack Carroll, welterweight champion
of Australia, ever been knocked out ? If so,
by whom, where and when ? (2) Where and
when was Carroll born ? (3) How many con-
tests (wins, losses and draws ) has he had ?
7268.
U) Yes, by Meyer Grace in 11 rounds at
Melbourne on May 18, 1929, and by Fred
Henneberry in 13 rounds at Sydney on Febru-
ary 29, 1932. (2) At Kensington, Vic., on
February 3, 1906. (3) Ninety-two; won 78,
lost 10 and drew three, one being declared
“no fight,”
* * * *
(1) Correct tackle for the fish known in
N. S. Wales as blackfish ? (2) Hints on catch-
ing them, and their haunts round Sydney ?
7160.
(1) The rod must be light, preferably of
split cane or greenheart, and from to
104 ft. in length, with a 3iin. or 4in. centre-
pin reel, carrying about 100 yards of very fine .
plaited silk or ordinary silk twist, to which
must be attached a long, very fine Japanese
gut cast. A No. 10 sneck or French hook is
best for general use. A light quill or cedar
float is most suitable. It is essential to have
enough lead on the cast to keep the float
almost submerged, for the fish must have no
difficulty in downing it. A long-handled net
is necessary for use from wharves and piers;
a shorter one for boat fishing. For rock
fishing a loaded float is used. (2) The usual •
haunts of blackfish are in localities with rocky,
muddy or sandy bottoms, preferably close
inshore, piles of wharves or piers being favor-
able haunts. Their diet consists almost wholly
of seaweed. Seagrass for inside fishing may be'
gathered from the rocks about Sydney Harbor
or Botany Bay; it may also be bought in
Sydney. Select the longest and strongest for
bait, and chop up the rest, very finely. This
chopped grass is mixed with sand by taking
handfuls of each and rubbing strongly until
the weed is reduced to shreds. Throw it in
the water in moderate quantities, not big,
solid handfuls, and throw, well up against the .
tide, otherwise the fish will be drawn away.
When baiting the hook, wind the grass around
it as naturally as possible, and when the fish
draws the float beneath the surface allow it
plenty of time, especially when the drift is
slow.
* * * *
(1) What is the ski-jumping season in Aus-
tralia? (2) Jumping hills in Australia? (3)
World’s record ski-jump ? —7140.
(1) Ski-ing is usually practised from May
to September, but there is no defined season.
(2) Kerry Jump, Kosciusko; Kaatenbakken,
Charlotte Pass; Township Hill, Kiandra (all
N.S.W.); Higginbotham Jump, Mt. Hotham;
Koflers Jump, Mt. Buller; and Donna Buang
Jump, Warburton (all Vic.). (3) 92 metres, by
Sigmund Ruud (Norway), in Yugoslavia, March,
1934. A jump of 296 ft. by Engen, an Ameri-
can professional, is reported but not confirmed,
* ♦ :|: *
(1) Are saxophones the same pitch all over
the world ? (2) If not, what is the proper
pitch to buy for Australia ? (3) Are Australian
and American pitches the same ? (4) Are
English and Continental pilches the same ?
7206.
(1) No, there are three pitches in use, C 522,
C 517.3 and C 540. Of these 540 is the highest,
with 522, known as international low pitch
next, and 517.3, which is used on the Con-
tinent, the lowest. (2) C 522 (relative A 440).
(3) Yes. (4) No. You should obtain the pitch
prevailing in the territory of your residence.
International pitch C 522 (A 440) is recom-
mended for solo use. If playing with an
orchestra, pitch will be governed by that of the
band.
* * * *
Is there a reliable Government night school
in East Sydney at which I could rake up studies
in book-keeping and accountancy? —7l24.
You could enrol in the Evening Continuation
School at Woollahra Public School or at the
Technical College.
* * * *
On a ship coming into harbor, is the pilot
solely in charge and responsible in case of an
accident ? —6958.
In the case of compulsory pilotage the pilot
takes charge of the vesesl for navigation pur-
poses, but the master may intervene in certain
circumstances, such as breach of the regula-
tions, incapability owing to insobriety and the
pilot taking any action which might endanger
the safety of the ship. The law on the subject
fixes the liability of the owner or master of a
vessel navigating in circumstances in which
pilotage is compulsory; such owner or master
is answerable for any loss or damage caused by
the vessel or by any fault of the navigation
of the vessel in the same manner as if pilotage
were not compulsory.
* ■ * * *
(1) Number of patents filed by Australians
annually in Australia and granted; number
of patents filed in England and U.S.A. annu-
ally ? (2) Value of Australian patents in
Australia; value of U.S.A. patents in U.S.A.?
(3) Any authorities for figures? —7l44.
(1) Approximate average number of applica-
tions for patents lodged annually: Australia
5000, England 40,000, U.S.A. 64,000. Approxi-
mate average number of patents issued per
annum: Australia 1900, England 16,000, U.S.A.
49,000. (2) Impossible to estimate. (3) Official
publications.
* * * *
(1) What qualifications are required to be-
come a stockbroker? (2) To whom should
applications be made for a seat on the Sydney
Slock Exchange ? (3) Premium required ?
(4) Any age limit ? —7134.
(I) Reputation as to character and integrity
and financial position. (2) To the secretary,
Sydney Stock Exchange. (3) It is necessary
to purchase a seat either through the Stock
Exchange, if a seat is available, or from an
existing member. (4) One must be over the
age of 21 years before being elected a member
of the Exchange.
'Jf * * *
Principal railway gauges in England, Germany
and France, and miles of each gauge in each
country ? —7106.
The principal railway gauge in Great Britain
is the standard 4ft. B+in. Latest figures avail-
able show that there are 20,247 m. 77ch. of line
laid to this gauge, principally the London,
Midland and Scottish, the London and North
Eastern, the Great Western and the Southern.
Other gauges and lengths: Ift. Sin., 13m.
39ch.; 2ft., 77m. 63ch.; 2ft. 3in.; 14m.
44ch.; 2ft. 4in., 3m. 31ch.; 2ft. 4jhi., Bm.
63ch.; and 2ft. 6in., 17m. 26ch. In Ireland the
gauge in general use is sft. -Sin.,, the total
mileage laid to this gauge being 2920 m. 40ch.
German State railways operate 59,935 ’ kilo-
metres of 4ft.. B£in. railways and 950 kilometres
of narrow-gauge line. French State railways
work 8750 kilometres of 4ft. -B£in. gauge and
384 kilometres , of one-metre. The' Eas-
tern railway has 5104. kilometres of 4ft. Bfin.
gauge; the Midi, 4250 kilometres of 4ft. B|jn.
and 63 kilometres of one-metre; Northern, 4000
kilometres (170 in Belgium) ■ of -1.44 metre,
Paris-Lyons and Mediterranean 11,200 kilo-
metres (1265 in Algeria and Morocco) of 4ft.
B|in.; Paris-Orleans, 7568 kilometres of 4ft.
Bfin. and 323 kilometres of one-metre.
* # * *
For use as measures in weighing small quan-
tities of chemicals please'state the weights of
coins in use in Australia to-day. —7l7s.
The standard weight of new Australian coins
is, in grains: Halfpenny 87.5, penny 145.83,
threepence 21.82, sixpence 43.64, shilling 87.27.
florin 174.55. The average loss of weight is;
Florins and shillings 0.18 p.c. of their weight
p.a. during the first eight years, and for six-
pences and threepences 0.25 p.c: p.a. The rate
of wear of bronze coins has not been tested,
but is probably less.
* ■ * ❖ *
(1) What are the weights per Imperial gallon
of motor spirit, kerosene and lubricating oil ?
(2) At what temperature are motor spirit, kero-
sene and lubricating oil measured to obtain
the standard Imperial gallon ? (3) How much
do motor spirit, kerosene and lubricating oil
expand over the Imperial measure when heated
to UOdeg. F.?— 7105.
(1) Average weights are: Motor spirit 7.31 b.
to 7.41 b., kerosene B.llb. to 8.31 b., lub. oils
B.Blb. to 9.51 b. (according to class of oil). (2)
60deg. F. (3) The coefficients of expansion
for each degree of temperature over 60deg. F.
are; Motor spirit 0.0006, kerosene 0.0005 and
lubricating oils 0.0004.
* * * *
(1) How do the apogee and perigee of the
moon affect the tides? (2) When does dead
neap tide occur, and why? (3) Names of a
book on tides ? —7040.
(1) The height of the tide depends (amongst
other factors) on the distance of the moon,
and is greatest, other things being equal, when
the moon is closest (perigee), and least when
the moon is most distant (apogee). (2) Neap
tides occur when the effect of the sun on the
tides neutralises as far as may be the effect
of the moon; that is, at first quarter and third
quarter of the moon. (3) G. H. Darwin’s
The Tides and H. A. Marmer’s The Tide.
*"** * '
. What taxation is payable in N. S. Wales
on a salary of £5 per week ( bachelor ) ? —7158.
- Wages tax 3s. 2d. per week, State and Federal
income tax 10s. p.a. each if no deductions are
allowed. Total £9 4s. Bd.
* * * *
Proper times to lop and pollard plane, acacia
and similar trees; also sugar-gums and other
Australian ornamental trees ?— 7135.
Poplars and planes are best lopped in winter,
say July or August. Acacias vary according
to the species, but a good working rule is to
prune back when flowering is over. This
applies also to other ornamental trees and
even to some gums. Sugar-gums are best
lopped in September.
* * * *
I have a D.C. milliammeter■ which reads up to
Una. Its internal resistance is 60 ohms. (1)
How can I convert this meter to read up to 10
volts? (2) To 100 volts? (3) To read 10 ma. ?
(4) 100 ma. ? —7159.
(1) Connect a 10,000-ohm resistor in series
with the meter and multiply the scale reading
by 10. (2) Connect a 100,000-ohm resistor in
series with the meter and multiply the scale
reading by 100. (3) Connect a 6.66-ohm resistor
across the meter terminals and multiply the
scale reading by 10. (4) Connect a 1.22-ohm
resistor across the meter terminals and multiply
the scale reading by 50. The accuracy of the
readings will depend upon the accuracy of
the resistors, which should be wirewound for
the best results.
* s}: * *
Cure for baldness in irregular patches ? The
subject is a 19-year-old b0y. —7130.
In the absence of parasitic infection or
eczema, stimulation of nerve centres about
the affected area is the usual treatment. Add
a few drops of lysol to the shampooing water
and wash the scalp twice weekly; afterwards
apply a simple dressing of olive oil. Dab
equal parts dilute acetic acid and tincture of
cantharidin on the bald spot daily, and rub
gently in until a sensation of tingling is felt.
New hair growth may be lighter in color than
the normal hair tint.
* * * *
/ have recently been treated for liver- and
pancreas-congestion. Does the pancreas serve
any special purpose, and what diseases (if
any) can affect it ? —7192.
The pancreas plays an important part in
digestive processes and in the regulation of
sugar in the tissues. Disease may give rise to
diabetes and other serious conditions. In
chronic pancreatitis there is inflammation
which usually starts from the duct. Irregular
symptoms of indigestion occur, and the general
health is impaired. With consequent obstruc-
tion to the flow of bile a jaundiced condition
may develop. Resulting interference with
digestive processes is a matter of concern when
diabetes threatens.
* * * *
Is glandular trouble, involving obesity,
curable by operation ? If not, what is generally
the treatment? —6963.
Disordered gland functions involving obesity
and the like are seldom met by operation.
Under medical supervision thyroid-gland sub-
stance is administered internally; the smaller
dosage apparently gives best results in weight
excess. Meanwhile, certain diet restrictions and
exercise are essential. Overdosage causes weak-
ness . and excessive action of the heart, with
palpitation, flushing and breathlessness on
slight exertion.
* * * $
Any: information about the Venture, deco-
rated by Thomas Derrick, of the Royal College
.Art, London , and his pupils; names of his
assistants, time taken, cost and any other de-
tails?-—7250. .
The -Venture was at 138 Portobello-road,
London, and the room was formerly the ground
floor of a public-house which was converted
by the Kensington Council of Social Service
into.a lecture-roorn,, theatrette and dance-hall.
Derrick and six assistants, using Derrick’s scale
drawings as a basis, painted various motifs
n sh t round the room, including sailing ships
and children at • play on the shore. Assistants
were: Misses E. Capes, I. J. and T. Winney,
Kenneth Holmes, Edward Meade and Noel
Spencer. The students worked to timesheets
at trade-union rates, and the time taken was
16 days, at a total cost of £46 7s. 6 id., ex-
clusive of Derrick’s time in preparing the
original designs.
* ■ '' * si! $
My boys are starting a stamp collection. (1)
Should they join a stamp club or subscribe to
a stamp journal ? (2) Names of stamp firms
which can supply current issues ? (3) Cost of a
reliable stamp catalogue ? (4) Facilities avail-
able for the exchange of postage stamps ?
(5) Is an album essentialif so, cost ? —7052.
(1) and ■ (4) By becoming members of the
Philatelic Society of Australia they will auto-
matically receive ■' the “Australian Stamp
Monthly.” Meetings are held each month
where collections are exhibited and stamp auc-
tions held. Members can dispose of their
duplicates and purchase stamps by the ex-
change book system which is a feature of the
club. The annual subscription is 55., and par-
ticulars are obtainable from A. C. Campe and
Co., 21 Sydney Arcade, Sydney. (2) A. C.
Campe and Co. and J. H. Smyth, Ltd., I2U
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (3) Gibbons Sim-
plified Stamp Catalogue, price 10s. 3d., post
free, from J. H. Smyth. (5) Yes. A very
suitable one is the Triumph,' 10s. 6d. or
12s. 6d., with maps, from A. C. Campe
and Co.
$ ‘
Any information about Charles Sims, who
painted “Island Festival” in the N.S W
Nationaf Gallery ? —7069.
Born in 1873, he joined the Royal Academy
school in 1892, and won a medal during his
first year. In the second year he won the
Landseer scholarship of £BO. He had already
exhibited at the Academy. “Island Festival”
is considered his masterpiece; it was painted
and hung in the Academy of 1907, and led to
his election to an associateship. Later he be-
came Keeper of the Royal Academy and
director of the Royal Academy schools. He
became an R.A. in 1915, and died in 1928.
Brief Answers.
e


BRITISH BEDFORDS
Haul 565 Bales of Wool
Albury to Melbourne
on a time limit
Because of their unfailing dependability
Bedfords have become the exclusive truck in
many important business concerns. In
hundreds of others, Bedfords are replacing
obsolete units as fast as conditions permit.
All over Australia these sturdy, economical
trucks are making new sales history. Talk
to truck owners . . . drivers . . . service
men, and you will learn that Bedfords have
the Power, Speed, Economy, and Strength
that every truck-man wants. At their ruling
prices, Bedfords offer you the best truck
“buy” in Australia. Prove it. See your
local Bedford dealer and get full particulars
of the model for your job.
GENERAL MOIOBS-HOLDEN’s LTD.
156 Cardigan St., CARLTON, Vic.
20 th May, 1935.
Dear Sir,
I wish you to know of the splendid service given
me by the fleet of Bedford trucks ivhich I operate
between Melbourne and the Riverine. Since I
have been using Bedfords I have found them the
most satisfactory units in my service from the
points of vietv of economy and reliability. Not
long ago I received an order one Friday evening to
shift 565 bales of wool iveighing 87 tons from
Albury to Melbourne. Nine of my Bedford trucks
took the road that night, loaded the wool at Albury
next morning, and delivered it at Melbourne ports
on the Monday morning. That is the kind oj
service I require at all times from my vehicles,
and that is why I have decided to standardise on
Bedfords.
Riverina Transport Pty. Ltd.
(Signed) Robert A. Ballantyne
BRITISH BEDFORD
Consult your local authorised Bedford Dealer E4 i 3 b
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
Substitute Preferred
If wollstra is taking the place of wool,
the Germans can quote a parallel case
in Australia; The N.S.W. Transport
Department has supplanted leather by
an artificial commodity in the upholster-
ing of the new trams.
Cattlemen in Queensland are almost
broke, and hides are not expensive. Per-
haps it is cheaper to make an artificial
leather than to convert our hides into
leather.
Another borrowed million is to be
spent in N. S. Wales on transport. Surely
some of our leather should be used in
the hundreds of trams and buses to be
built.—W. J. J. (N.S.W.).
Are You There, Mr. Dunstan?
Regulations oblige Government ser-
vants to use the Government railways
when travelling or moving household
effects. A teacher, on transfer, moved
100-odd miles; it cost the Education
Department over £l3 in freight and cart-
age for a truck of furniture. The carrier
who shifted the furniture out of the
house and packed it in the truck offered
to do the whole job for £7. In. this way
the Education Department is losing thou-
sands of pounds to the Railway Depart-
ment —money that could be better spent
on education.
In the Department of Agriculture field
officers are always on the move, but they
are not allowed to use cars ; consequently
they can only do one-third of the work
they could and should be doing. In-
structors in fruit-grading and -packing —
responsible work in these times of com-
petitive marketing overseas —can conduct
classes at only one centre per day, no
matter if the next packing shed is only
three or four miles away. There is only
one Government train a day.
Farmers often complain of one small
district being visited by three or four
inspectors a week, when one man should
do the jobs. It is the Government rail-
way complex that is to blame. For
instance, the herd-tester should be able
to condemn diseased animals, but, as he
must travel by train to test two milkings
—night and morning—before passing on,
he has not the means to visit other con-
tiguous farms during the day for other
purposes. No member or Minister seems
strong enough to fight this stand-and-
deliver attitude of the railways ; but it
is a costly process for the State. —C. P.
, (Vic.).
“Cheapening the Services”
“King’s Regs.” (B. 29/5/’35) is off the
track, because King’s Regulations do not
apply to the A.M.F.
As “King’s Regs.” states, A.I.F. rank
was provisional, temporary or acting,
but in most cases such officers were able
to obtain substantive rank under certain
conditions, either by passing the pre-
scribed examinations or by appointment
to the reserve of officers. There were no
strings tied to such commissions; they
were “pukka” commissions in the
A.M.F., and could be used on all lawful
occasions. Officer V.Cs. would, of course,
come in this category.
As for honorary rank being reserved
for royalty, this is not the case in Aus-
tralia. Honorary commissions and rank
are common. One corps in the A.M.F.
consists of holders of honorary commis-
sions, and all brigadier-generals are
honorary holders of the rank. Also it is
an offence in Australia for a person to
assume “the title of any rank in his
Majesty’s Military Forces.”
As a matter of fact the distinction be-
tween the permanent and militia officer is
very fine. Both are carried on the same
army seniority list, and the only seniority
a permanent officer enjoys, apart from
rank, is the fact of membership—in most
cases of the Staff Corps, which is the
senior corps. In Australia most per-
manent officers are under the command
of militia officers. And because a militia
officer, who does his job well and with-
out whom the Australian army would
be non-existent, chooses to use a title
which is legally his, it cannot be argued
that the services are being cheapened.—
A. M. R, and O. (N.S.W.).
In reply to “King’s Regs.” I quote
from a letter (it is dated July 13, 1931)
received from the editor of “Titles” in
response to a specific inquiry:
The question of temporary commissions
in H.M. forces during the Jate war was
settled once for all by the King when he
granted the same privileges to the tem-
porary forces as to the regular forces, in
so far as retention of titles is concerned.
Therefore, if a man cares to use his pro-
fessional title in civilian life he is quite
entitled to do so.
Copy of letter enclosed. —D. B. (Vic.).
Lord Trenchard
I also knew Lord Trenchard (B.
22/5/’35). I first knew him in India in
1894, being in his company; “Hughie,”
as he was known to the company, was
most popular. I also knew him during
the South African War; for some time
he was in command of an Australian
unit- —the Queensland Bushmen, I think.
Our regiment and the Australians were
camped together in Krugersdorp. I know
that while with them he was very popu-
lar, and I can hardly fancy him develop-
ing into the type of officer described by
“J. McCraw,” —J. W., ex-Pipe-Major,
2nd Royal Scots Fusiliers (Vic.).
They Won’t Turn Nazi
Almost a century ago the Prussian
king prescribed a form of church liturgy
for use in all churches. Many Lutherans
saw in this liturgy a violation of their
faith, but the authorities met resistance
with ruthless penalties. Some pastors
were arrested, and troops entered into
occupation of churches.
George Fife Angas heard of the plight
of these Lutherans. In the result three
shiploads of them came to Australia in
order to gain liberty of conscience. They
settled near Adelaide, and one can still
travel in German-Australian settlements
peopled by their descendants, who have,
of course, spread from South Australia.
I Their central point is the Lutheran
Church. Prior to the war the necessities
of trade and intercourse made them, up
to a point, bilingual; but we have come
to the third and fourth generations, and
except in parts of South Australia Ger-
man is now practically a dead language.
Many Australians of German descent
cannot speak it, and during the Great
War a great number enlisted in the A.I.F.
German-Australians are, for the most
part, farmers or graziers, and their pro-
perties are usually well kept. These
descendants of the Australian Pilgrim
Fathers have become part and parcel of
the community—proud members of the
Empire which gave them liberty of con-
science. That is why 40,000 German-
Australians will not turn Nazi. —L. N.
(Vic.).
Shelters for the Homeless
N. S. Wales is an inhospitable land for
the travelling unemployed. Almost every
big town in Queensland provides shelter
for the man on the track, but N.S.W.
towns don’t, nor does Sydney. There are
city hostels where you may stay by pay-
ing in your dole, but the man not on the
dole is presumably expected to doss in
a park or to cadge the price of a bed.
He usually does the latter, until he is
caught and charged with begging; then
the Government finds him a free bed and
shelter —at Long Bay.
At present I am camped beneath a
bridge. It is bitterly cold, but there is
no other shelter where I may go. A
notice warns me that camping is pro-
hibited, and the park ranger has just told
me to get out; but where am I to go?
It is the same everywhere. I can’t go
into one of the Sydney shelters, for I
haven’t the price of entry, and I am not
on the dole. I can’t get it because I am
not on an electoral roll, and I cannot
stay long enough in any one locality to
qualify. There are hundreds like myself ;
“white blackfellows.” No exaggeration
this, for when huts were erected at Yass
for aboriginals the unemployed gratefully
moved into the tumbledown gunyahs
vacated by Black Brother. — Horrible
Hobo (N.S.W.).
What of the Youths?
After 50 years on the land, managing
stations in N. S. Wales part of the time,
my thoughts turn to the youth of the
country and are troubled. Their pros-
pects are anything but bright. We have
hundreds of young men anxious to go
on the land, young men brought up in
the bush and capable in every way of
making good if given a fair chance.
There are two great difficulties in the
way; want of suitable land and want of
sufficient capital.
I am well acquainted with the whole
of N. S. Wales. For such young men
there is no improved land, nor any un-
improved land of any worth, that can
be bought at less than £5 to £6 an acre.
Gradually all the best land in the State
is being bought up by companies, prin-
cipally English. I have in my mind
two properties lately acquired by Eng-
lish companies, one in Warialda and one
in Gunnedah; these holdings together
comprise over 75,000 acres, and are the
very pick of the districts in which they
are situated. Subdivided, they would
provide well for 25 or 30 families. They
are now locked up. The wool is no
doubt shipped to London for sale, and
the dividends are certainly not held in
Australia,
Surely the youth of Australia has
some right to the land. I know of young
men who have been balloting for years
in the hope of winning a block in
N.S.W. or Queensland and have given
up in despair.—M. J. (N.S.W.).


it s , LVER
EDGE”
/IL s* i Tr%jt
(/\fi[£vQ€Alo3s
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos ” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURKE, VIC,
,nVi
HAMPION
wiiiipsoiiit,. SPARKING PLUGS
\CANADA
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
Obtainable at
ail leading garages
The Steering Column.
AUSTIN SEVEN PROVES CLAIMS.
ECONOMY, RELIABILITY AND EASE OF CONTROL.
By FRED BERRY.
TO motorists who place operating economy and ease of
control first the Austin Seven is probably the world’s most
attractive car. Even under difficult road conditions this sturdy
little vehicle does almost anything its larger brethren can do—
perhaps a little slower 4 a little less comfortably, but giving
45 miles per gallon petrol over all types of roadways,
enormous tyre mileages and, of equal importance, surprisingly
low costs in regard to repairs and replacements.
The little Austin requires so little
effort to drive and control and can be
parked so readily that it is particularly
attractive to women drivers and those
businessmen whose occupation demands
frequent calls over an extended area.
Many light cars suffer from the fact
that their designers aimed at producing
New radiator design, longer bonnet and smarter lines of the 1935
Austin Seven tourer.
a big car in miniature, and pared dimen-
sions dangerously nsar the safety limit.
Owners soon realised that these midgets
were costly to maintain and seldom re-
liable. With the Austin Seven the posi-
tion has been far more satisfactory. The
design, unique in many ways, is aimed
specifically at providing reliable trans-
port at the lowest possible cost. Proof
of the soundness of the design can be
found in the number of these cars, seven
and eight years old, with road mileages
well past the 100,GOO mark, still giving
good service.
The new Austin Seven, tested recently
oyer the Bulletin course, whilst re-
faining the broad principles of the
original design, has been modernised
in many directions in order to pro-
vide greater ease of control, better
riding qualities and elimination of
engine vibration.
The 4-cyl. engine is fitted with
detachable cylinder head. Bore is
56mm. ; stroke 76mm.; swept volume
747.5 cc.; R.C.A. rating 7.8 h.p. At
2600 r.p.m. 12 b.h.p. is developed.
The crankshaft is heavier than in pre-
vious models and runs on ball- and
roller-bearings. Pistons are aluminium
alloy, and all reciprocating masses are
carefully balanced. Valves are side-by-
side type, with tappets readily accessible
for adjustment.
Coil-and-battery ignition is used, the
distributor incorporating automatic ad-
vance and retard of ignition point.
Fuel is drawn from a five-gallon tank
at rear by means of a mechanical pump
fitted with a hand priming lever and fed
to a Zenith V-type horizontal carbur-
rettor with interchangeable jets. Inlet
and exhaust manifolds are cast in one
piece, providing an efficient hot-spot
in order to promote easy starting and
smooth running from cold.
A pressure lubrication system is incor-
porated. oil being drawn from the sump
Four-speed synchromesh gearbox, show-
ing helical-cut teeth on second, third
and top ratios.
by a vane-type pump driven by skew
gearing from the camshaft and forced
through jets to slots in front and rear
crankshaft webs to main bearings. Big-
end bearings are lubricated through the
hollow crankshaft, and a direct oil line
is taken to front and rear camshaft
bearings.
The engine is suspended in the frame
at four points on rubber buffers to
absorb vibration,
Lucas lighting and starting equipment
is fitted, dashboard control being used
for starting
and variation
of charging
rate.
Trans mis-
si o n is by
single-plate en-
closed clutch,
with greater
pe da I travel
than hitherto,
to a fou r-
speed-a n d-re-
verse gearbox
with long and
robust c e n-
tral ball-type
gear - change
lever. T o p-,
third- and
second - gear
pinions are
helical -cut,
and are pro-
vid e d with
synchromesh engagement, ensuring
smooth, certain and noiseless changes at
various speeds. Furthermore, should the
motor stall when coasting in neutral, top
gear can be engaged silently without
starting up. Final drive is through spiral
bevel gearing, the tail shaft being fitted
with needle roller bearings.
Rear axle is of three-quarter float-
ing type, with differential and torque tube.
Reduction ratio of rear axle drive is
5.25 to 1.
Brakes on all four wheels are t'wo-
shoe mechanical type, internal expand-
ing, and act smoothly and powerfully.
The hand lever and foot pedal both
apply brakes to all four wheels simul-
taneously. All four brakes are adjusted
from a single point which is readily
accessible.
Chassis is typical Austin Seven tri-
angular design, light yet exceptionally
strong, while suspension is by semi-ellip-
tic springs in front, those at rear being
conventional quarter-elliptic. Shock-
absorbers of improved design are fitted
to front and rear, and this, coupled with
the longer wheelbase (now 6ft. 9in.)
gives better roadholding than in pre-
vious models. Track is 3ft. 7in., and
turning circle on left and right lock 38ft.
Steering is worm and worm-wheel
type, with provision for adjustment. The
worm wheel is fitted to the cross shaft
on three keyways, allowing a new point
of contact with the worm when back-
lash in the steering-box becomes exces-
sive.
Road, clearance is BJin. when the high
frame is used and 6fin. with low frame.
Bodywork is solidly constructed, and
a new radiator design gives the car a
more pleasing appearance. In the
tourer front seats are adjustable bucket-
type, while, due to the longer wheelbase,
rear-seat passengers are provided with
reasonable leg room.
The instrument panel is complete : Oil-
pressure gauge, speedometer, electric fuel
gauge, ammeter, ignition and light
switch starter button, strangler, dash
light and warning light—ail neatly
grouped.
The car tested was a single-door tourer
driven by K.. Dalziel, of Larke, Hoskins,
Ltd., N.S.W. distributors. The speedo-
meter reading stood at 3888 miles, and,
inclusive of driver and observer, the
weight was 13cwt. 3qr. 141 b.
Driving through busy city streets, as
would be expected, presented no diffi-
culties, the traffic-dodging possibilities of
the Austin Seven being well known, but
improved top-gear pulling and the easy-
Diagrammatic section of Austin Seven crankcase, showing
oil pump, large section filtering screen and general system
of lubrication.
change four-speed gearbox further im-
proved this feature.
On the open roads through Baulkham
Hills a steady speed of between 40 and
45 m.p.h. was maintained, and little dimi-
nution of speed was observed when taking
even the steeper main-road hills in top
gear.
Approaching Windsor the rolling test
was conducted. Commencing at a steady
speed of 15 m.p.h. the car rolled 640
yards before coming to a standstill.
Maximum speed'was then clocked over
the measured mile, the time taken,
72 2-ssec., giving an average speed of
50 m.p.h. Over this section on full
Mechanical fuel pump, showing hand
priming lever.
throttle the absence of engine vibration
was particularly noticeable.
Passing through Richmond and ap-
proaching Kurrajong Mountain the un-
made by-pass road through Grose Vale
was taken, and over this rough going the
car was comfortable, while roadholding
and steering were both excellent.


USEFUL DATA ON AUSTIN SEVEN.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 31 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 13 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in third in 8 1-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 23ft.
Maximum speed, 50 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 45 m.p.g.
r
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
| (SECOND
euition)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . » . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
252 George street. Sydney. 3d extrq
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20.000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Retails from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; R. ,1. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Hepartment, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
s
THIS IS
THE CAR
IT PAYS
TO PAY
A LITTLE
MORE FOR
There*s a model
for every need.
Because of all the features that a Standard
offers you! Those really roomy bodies,
for instance, make all the difference. And
all other features you could want: Silent
Synchro-Mesh Gears in 2nd, 3rd and Top;
Free-Wheeling; Buoyant Power Engine
Mounting; X-Braced Chassis Frame;
Automatic Spark Control; Brakes so
smooth and amply powerful; Coachwork
modern and beautiful in appearance.
so
Distributors:
BUCKLE & HARDEN LIMITED,
119-129 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: Ft, 2688
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD,
131 Collins Street, HOBART, Tas,
Telephones: 3061, 3062
Factory Representative:
ROBERT F. LEE,
58-60 Margaret Street, Sydney,
Distributors:
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
81 Franklin St., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Telephone: C 2136
Distributors;
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, PERTH, W.A.
Telephone: B 5174 (4 lines')
TALBOT & STANDARD MOTORS
PTY. LTD.,
568-5 74 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Telephone: F 2154 (3 lines)
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD., COVENTRY, ENGLANI
The long climb up 2 1-5 miles of the
steepest portion of Kurrajong was then
made against the watch, and, although
Two-shoe mechanically-operated brake
assembly.
the time taken, smin. 55sec., was slow,
the test showed that the little outfit could
rev. for an indefinite period on full
throttle without distress or boiling. In
negotiating the acute bends at speed the
car appeared surprisingly steady, never
at any time showing a tendency to skid
or get out of control.
Returning down the mountain a test
of emergency braking was made with
satisfactory results, and on approaching
Richmond the cross-country road to
Penrith via Castlereagh was taken, where
further performance tests were made.
First test, that of covering 350 yards
in top gear as slowly as possible, fol-
lowed immediately by a similar distance
on full throttle, is, as a rule, rather too
exacting for small cars, but the Austin
Seven put up a performance that would
some little time ago have been creditable
for cars of high power. On the slow-
running section the time taken, 3min.
55sec., gave an average speed of 3.1
m.p.h. The accelerated section was
clocked in 21sec., averaging 34.3 m.p.h.,
and the car crossed the finishing line
with the speedometer needle between 45
and 50.
Acceleration in top and third gears
from a steady 10 to 30 m.p.h. was next
determined, the times taken, 13 3-ssec,
and 8 l-ssec., being very fair when engine
size is taken into account. From a stand-
ing start to 50 m.p.h. (this car’s maxi-
mum) the Austin occupied 31 sec.
' In earlier models of the Austin Seven
braking power was not a strong feature,
but now the service and emergency
equipment leaves nothing to be desired.
A test from a speed of 25 m.p.h. indi-
cated a stopping distance of 23ft. —better
than the performance shown by some
full-sized sedans.
Fuel consumed on the journey of 118
miles was measured 2gal. spt., giving a
consumption of almost 45 m.p.g. (31.2
ton miles). The time taken, inclusive of
all tests, was 3hr. 40min., averaging 32.2
m.p.h.—a splendid all-round performance.
The Trouble Lamp.
G.O’D. (Toorak, Vic.). —The hand of my
fuel gauge ( electric ) in a 1934 model jumps
about in an erratic manner when filling the
tank or at odd times when being driven. Some-
times it sticks at 0 or "full” until the jolting
of the car sets it moving again. Can you sug-
gest a remedy ?
This trouble is common, and is due to faulty
electrical contacts. Only remedy is to take
assembly from the rear tank and make certain
none of the moving members are sticking, and
that all electrical connec-
tions and earth leads are
making perfect contact
at all times.
:(c ❖
S. C. C. (Braidwood,
N.S.W.). —My 1926 car
still runs smoothly and
starts easily, but is now
increasingly heavy on oil
and petrol, whilst hills
that some time ago could
be easily climbed in top
now demand the use of
middle gear. Is the
trouble serious, and what
should be done to put it
right ?
A very common trouble
due to old age. The
motor evidently is in sad need of a top over-
haul; carbon should be removed from combus-
tion chamber and valves ground in and
adjusted. When engine is dismantled, wear
in pistons and cylinders should be carefully
measured, for it is here that excessive oil con-
sumption takes place. Only cure where wear
is over 10 thou, is to have cylinders rebored
and new pistons and rings fitted, or, if original
pistons are to be retained, liners can be fitted.
With these jobs done, the car should perform
in a normal manner and oil and petrol con-
sumption should be restored to (he original
values.
* * * *
J.W.W. (Cairns, Q.). —(1) / am thinking
of purchasing a car for family use over
rough roads. It must be cheap to run. Please
give me your opinion of the order of selection
on list enclosed, having regard to first cost,
running expenses and reliability. (2) Is there
any noticeable saving in running of a roadster
instead of a tourer of similar make ? (3) Are
narrow-track cars difficult to drive on deeply-
rutted roads ?
(1) Nos. 1,4, 3, 2. (2) Very slight advan-
tage, due to lighter weight. (3) It is more
difficult to straddle deep ruts with a narrow-
track car, with greater probability of one wheel
falling into trouble.
$ * $ *
L.T. (Rosebery, N.S.W.). —My 11 -year-old
501 Fiat has run 130,000 miles, and brake
bands have never been renewed. Is this a
record ?
Perhaps a record so far as brake bands are
concerned, but with regard to mileage there
are hundreds of cars still in use with far greater
distances to their credit.
j{* $ '!*
L.B. (Milton, N.S.W.). —1 recently noticed
excessive smoke coming through the crankcase
breather of my car, and found the trouble due
to a small hole in the top of No. 3 piston.
I can get a spare, but will it he necessary to
remove the engine to fit the new piston ?
No, although the job is a little awkward.
You can drop the sump, and with a special
spanner take out the connecting-rod big-end
bolts. Split bearing and push piston and con.-
rod assembly up until clear of cylinder block.
Detachable head must, of course, be first re-
moved. After fitting new piston and rings,
C Continued on page 30.)


m
m
mm
Inside . . .
there/s a reputation
at stake !
A cake with beautiful icing—a bat-
tery with an attractive case. They
look alright, but it’s the inside that
counts; Willard quality, which made
Willard’s reputation for depend-
ability, is in the plates, the separa-
tors, the oxides inside the case.
Proof of Willard’s quality lies in
the fact that over 30,000,000 have
given satisfaction.
SEE
YOUR
NEAREST
Willard WILLARD DEALER
l/>
O
n
o i
at
CO D
G 3=
T 3
a o
-C
JD
~o
O
&
a qj a.,2
§ 5*5
> a
_G _C
« -fl
_c *=
<L> •G
> -5
-r* ~C
» -s
«T e c 2
Q. S «S o
U 4-.
CG O
■= ° a ° S
o a is n
s .s.&l'.f 0,
.3 -C <U ."3
V o . « > <U
3 "33
r
??_C
3 *3
'-C.
ZH -2
o
llllilQOi
■■■■■ ■■■■■
2 S > .5 Q-«4H <*) mct a. 2 «
p" ” ,„Xt!|D 61) ~
3
O
"*5 C/1
<u 'T3
SO c
5 c -c
<8 «JL
O O <>l
a o
If you have doubts ... SIMONIZ a Mudguard
and make your own comparisons
We’ll send you samples free
Motorite Equipments Pty M Ltd., 188 Peel Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of ‘‘The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
Buy Effective Circulation
THE (PERTH)
The Sunday Paper with the
HOME CIRCULATION
60% of the circulation is sold
through NEWSAGENTS who
deliver the paper to the HOME,
where Buying Campaigns are
planned.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test * THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com*
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion" Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 84038.
replace by reversing the procedure, but cut
three thin strips of metal to place round
piston when pushing into cylinder in order to
avoid damaging rings. Pull these strips out
when all rings are below top of cylinder block.
* * * *
FJ.A. (Bald Nob, N.S.W.).—Con you supply
a copy of The Bulletin test of the 1930 Ply-
mouth Tour ?
Car tests were not conducted by The Bulle-
iin at that date.
* * * *
R.K. (Randwick, N.S.W.).—(I) i propose
having a new car, and have been made an
offer to trade in old car. Is the new car
( named) likely to give reliable sendee, and is
the deal reasonable ? (2) How can tar spots
be removed from duco ?
Car named is both economic and reliable,
and offer quoted is very fair. (2) Either benzol
or solvent naphtha will remove the tar without
damaging the finish.
* * * *
W.J.S. (Port Macquarie, N.S.W.). —Can you
give me details of motor-cycle (named) ?
No information available. Write to the
“Autocar,” Dorset House, Stamford-street,
London, S.E.I.
* * * *
Puzzled (Warwick, Q.).— l recently bought a
Willys 70T that had been burnt. Though
wiring and instruments have been destroyed,
the motor is otherwise in good order. (1) After
overhauling and reassembling the engine I find
that the inlet port opens at 235 deg. instead
of 205, and the exhaust period at 215 deg.
instead of 235, as set out in the instruction
book. Why ? (2) / should like to look at the
big ends on the eccentric shaft. How can this
be done without disturbing the timing ?
(1) Your calculations of inlet and exhaust
port timing measurements were made without
first replacing the cylinder head. Replace head,
and check timing by means of a tail-light globe
inserted through the spark-plug aperture. (2)
When examining the eccentric you must lift
block and replace with sleeves in position.
* * * *
C.H.T. (Lithgow, N.S.W.).—/ have been
troubled for some time with an elusive miss in
my ’27 Chev. truck. New distributor cap, rotor
arm, condenser and coil have been fitted, but
after 10 minutes’ full-throttle running the
engine begins to cut out and finally stops.
Cause and cure ?
See that points in make-and-break assembly
are opening the correct distance, and that the
breaker spring has not lost its tension. Examine
plugs and see there are no loose connections
behind the ammeter.
jj. .Jc *
E.C. (Shepparton, Vic.). —After my ’27 Hup.
had run 25,000 miles, cylinders were rebored
and new pistons and rings fitted, yet oil con-
sumption is still excessive, and 1 find consider-
; able quantities of oil in the carburettor. I do
| not use oil in the petrol, nor have I fitted an
upper-cylinder lubricator. All local mechanics
are puzzled. What’s wrong ?
You have not stated whether car is six- or
eight-cylinder model. Meanwhile, check up
wear in inlet-valve guides.
* * * *
D.W.W. (Hunter’s Hill, N.S.W.).— How can
I prevent leakage in the water pump of my
Morris Major. The car at present uses nearly
two gallons each week. Pump shaft has been
scored. Will additional washers behind the
spring stop the leak ?
While packing up by inserting washers might
temporarily cure the defect, the best remedy
would be to dismantle the pump and have the
spindle built up and turned to original dimen-
| sions.
* $' * *
! J.L. (Campsie, N.S.W.). —My 14 -h.p. Crossley
| will not start smoothly after engaging first
gear, although in top
no trouble is experi-
enced. What can be
done ?
Trouble is no doubt
due to fabric universal
joints in propeller shaft
being out of truth and
in need of replacement.
Wear in spline, shaft
and clutch withdrawal
mechanism will tend to
aggravate the starting
trouble.
t- *
E.H.O. (P ict o n,
N.S.W.).— My 'll Essex
is now using an exces-
sive quantity of oil.
(1) Can 1 prevent this
waste and stop piston
slap by fitting a piston expander ( described) ?
(2) What clearance should I give valve tappets
after top overhaul ?
(1) Piston expanders are at best but a tem-
porary remedy, and merely put olf for a few
thousand miles a rebore or relining of cylinder
block. (2) Tappet clearance with motor hot
is six thou, exhaust and four thou, inlet.
* * * *
S.S. (Albury, N.S.W.). —Am about to have
the cylinders of my 1-h.p. Citroen rebored.
Would you advise having (1) cast-iron or alu-
minium pistons, (2) cylinder heads sprayed or
polished ? (3) Any further advice which would
tend to increase power of engine ?
(1) Aluminium, if suitable alloy is available,
i (2) Sprayed. (3) Raising compression ratio
would increase maximum brake-horsepower, but
j is inadvisable in a car of this age owing to the
i possibility of breakdown in transmission details.
Motor Oddities.
“Hope Vale”: Was travelling with a
friend on a doubtful road and got stuck
in a gully. “All right,” he said, "we'll
soon pull her out,” and produced about
30ft. of iin. rope. I looked at the car.
up to its knees in mud and estimated our
combined horse-power as inadequate.
However, my friend tied one end to the
front axle and, pulling it taut, tied the
other end to a tree. Then we took hold
of the middle of the rope and pulled
sideways ; the car lurched forward easily.
He then took up the slack, we gave an-
other sideways pull and the car was out.
An engineer may be able to work out
the advantage gained by the anchored
end and the sideways pull. It must be
considerable.
“Barne”: If you have pressed the
starter-button and the starter is dead,
don’t rush away for a garage man. 1
had been put to a lot of minor expense
until one day when I was giving a
mechanic a lift. I pressed the button and
nothing happened. He opened the
bonnet, slipped the band off the starlet
and moved the rotor with a piece of stick.
Evidently there is a dead spot on the
commutator. This is the only trouble
I have had with the starter in my ’27
Chev. The cure is necessary for about
one start in two hundred.
* * * *
“Nothung”: In England last year I
saw the first motor vehicle to ply for hire
on London streets —a Cannstatt-Daimler
(1894 model). It ran in the commemora-
tion run for veteran cars from London
to Brighton—s6|- miles. There was a fine
collection besides, amongst them a
Leon Bollee (1896 model—air-cooled
engine, flat-belt drive, tiller steering,
no road springs, and as a brake the
rear wheel was drawn up to a fixed
brake block!); a Renault (1898—1
h.p., the lowest-powered car); and an
M.M.C. Daimler (1899—tube ignition
only, having four forward speeds and
four reverse). This last bus during
the Great War provided power for mak-
ing bombs, shells and wheelbarrows,
without removal of the engine from the
car. The next most interesting model,
to my mind, was a 1903 Lanchester (low-
tension magneto ignition, wick carburet-
tor, three-speed and reverse pre-selective
gears, worm drive and cantilever suspen-
sion). There were 90 other archaeological
specimens. A 1901 Oldsmobile was
resurrected from a field, and was run —
after a bantam’s nest was taken from the
accumulator and sparrows’ nests from
the hood. A De Dion (1903) was taken
from under a heap of malodorous spuds
at Purley, and made the course. An
Oldsmobile model of the same year made
the run after having been a hen-roost
for years. It had once done the “moun-
tain” course at Brooklands!


RADIO NEWS.
The A.B.C.
and the Drama
Isn’t it about
time the Austra-
lian Broadcasting
Commission
dropped the silly
pretence that it
can aid the production of sincere drama
in this country? Its offering of prizes
for so-called dramatic compositions is
applauded on all sides, and especially by
would-be dramatists. This, with its pro-
duction over the air of prize-winning
efforts, is held to be an encouragement
of this branch of creative effort. It is,
of course, nothing of the kind.
The less the A.8.C., and all radio for
that matter, talks about dramatic art the
better for its own reputation. The very
nature of its circulation insists that it
must enforce the most rigid censorship
ever applied to a medium of entertain-
ment. Nobody with any sense can
quarrel with that.or fail to see its neces-
sity, but it must be an utterly insensible
person who cannot see how that same
necessity makes the production of sin-
cere drama impossible. The,best that
can be produced in such circumstances
is a kind of chamber or drawing-room
entertainment presented through the
medium of broadcast dialogue with
accompanying sound effects. A name is
urgently wanted for this: calling it
drama is a degradation of something fine
beyond any comparison at all.
It can be answered to this that nice
plays are sometimes given over the air.
and to that it can be answered again
that there is a difference between nice
plays and great drama, and that there is
hardly an example of great drama that
the A.B.C. would dare to broadcast in
its entirety. The hypocrisy of the matter
is that it pretends to. To take a recent
instance, it advertised as a production
from a Melbourne studio Shakspeare’s
“King John.” Did it give Shakspeare’s
“King John”? Of course it did not. It
gave a distortion of a drama by
Shakspeare called “King John”—a
weak, flabby, insipid, incredible emas-
culation. And it had the impertinence
to tell its listeners that this thing was
Shakspeare’s “King John” instead of an-
nouncing it in something like these terms:
“We are now about to present a produc-
tion which we have composed by culling
certain lines from a play called ‘King
John.' It is not the understandably
despised version of that play which
helped to make notorious the name of
one Bowdler. Our production is our
own. It out-Bowdlers even Bowdler. It
is, in fact, not the play at all, nor any-
thing like it. It is a number of blank
verse lines which will be spoken by a
number of elocutionists, and from time
to time these recitations will be supple-
mented with our version of the physical
framework upon
which Shakspeare
created his
drama.”
Had that been
done listeners
would have de-
served all they
got. As if was,
this listener, at
least, tuned in ex-
pectantly, felt the
first bump before
the play had pro-
ceeded three
minutes, and
after, that listened
as long as he
could bear the
frightful thing—which was fo the end of
Act II —-just for the satisfaction of know-
ing how completely impossible it is for
radio to deal in drama.
C. M.
* *
“Simber”: Introducing the journalese
of the air, I award the biscuit for “The
time is just one minute off the half-hour
of 12.30.”
“W.”: Eric Colman, chief announcer
of 2GB, is another of broadcasting’s
accidental finds. In the movie game with
the Universal people, he helped Goodie
Reeve to put over a dramatic radio ver-
sion of “Dirigible” as firm advertising. His
voice, thus heard, won him a contract.
Broadcast:
“Advice to
Those in Love”
....in all
colors, and only
four shillings a
pair! Fancy,
only four shil-
lings a pair!
And the dinkiest
colors ! Pastel greens and powdery blues
and every delicate shade imaginable. I’m
sure, now, you’ll all agree that, at only
four shillings a pair, that is really mar-
vellous value for pretty things so inti-
mate, so soft and delicate that every
woman who sees a pair will want them
at once, for herself, knowing the fas-
Miss Upteryer Tricks.
cinating effect
just a glimpse
of them will
have on the
opposite sex
Don’t forget the
address The
Birdshop, Ful-
ler - street, for
choice love-
birds.
And speaking
of lovebirds. Station OIC now brings
to you that increasingly popular session.
Miss Upteryer Tricks’s advice to corre-
spondents. Listeners, Miss Upteryer
Tricks.
Well, now, all my own special charm-
ing correspondents, good evening to you
all! Needless to tell you, of course, I
am charmed to be with you once again
—simply charmed. And I have a very
big mailbag for this evening—very big.
A bloke named Jones.
An d fr o m
e v e.rywhere—
positively
everywhere. I
really don’t
know when*
to beg i n. —
really I don’t.
But I’ll have
to begin some-
where, won’t I?
Why, of course
I will. So I
will just begin
with the teeni-
est, daintiest
little note all
the way from
far-off Jones’s
Bay. Really, I have no idea where Jones’s
Bay is—have you, Uncle Alf?
Hmph. Yes, somewhere near Pyrmont.
Oh, is it? Just fancy that now! Why,
that’s quite near, isn’t it? Well, well —•
you never know where places are these
days, do you? Fancy it being only at
Pyrmont. Well, I never. I wouldn’t
have believed it. Really I wouldn’t. I
wonder why they called it Jones’s Bay—
do you know, Uncle Alf?
Hmph. After a bloke named Jones, I
suppose.
Well, now, listeners, what do you think
of that ? Isn’t it wonderful how
geography is made? Here, years and
years and years and years ago, there was
a pretty little bay, which might have
been called 00110-00110, or some other
lovely name from our sweet and beauti-
ful aboriginal language, with lovely un-
dulating hills all about it, and a little
Dusky lovers of long ago.
crystal stream
running into it,
and you can
imagine can’t
you, listeners? —•
two dusky lovers
of the long ago
coming down
there to plight
their troth and
catch fish, and
. . . and —well, as
1 was saying, I
have here, first
of all, the din-
kiest little letter
from Jones’s Bay,
So I will read it
to you.
“Dear Miss
Upteryer Tricks,” he writes, “I am badly
in need of advice. My wife has just had
twins. Should I divorce her on spec.?
Sincerely yours, Y.Y.”
Well, now, isn’t that an interesting
letter? Really, a human document. No,
dear Y.Y., you should not divorce her.
You should be brave and give her an-
other chance. Think, Y.Y., even / am
one of twins. You would not believe
there could be two of us, would you?
Well, it is true. And my twin brother
has just had the rare —the very rare —
distinction of having a knighthood con-
ferred upon him—-one out of only 480
in the whole suburb for last month. Isn’t
that really too wonderful? So you see,
Y.Y., how strange and involved and
beautiful are the ways of Providence.
And, now, here is another sweet letter.
Oh, I know where this one comes from
—Hymonly-avenue, Bongee. 1 don’t re-
call the avenue, but I know the place
very well —very well, indeed. Bongee, of
course. Well, here is the letter:
“Dear Miss Upteryer Tricks,” she
writes, “I am badly in need of advice.
I am only a lifesaver’s daughter, but I
want to take the plunge. Should I?
Sincerely yours, 0.U.R.L.”
My sweet child, let me speak to you
as a mother. No! Your dear girlish
handwriting tells me you are only very
young, and at your time of life it would
be very dangerous —very dangerous
indeed. I realise, of course, the temp-
tation it is to you to follow the example
with which you are surrounded, but from
the bottom of my heart —positively from
the bottom —I
counsel you
again, No. It
'is all very well,
my dear, for
those who are
hardened to it,
but for a mere
child, such as
yourself, to go
bathing in the
breakers this
bitterly cold
weather would
be simply
tempting Pro-
vidence.
There now.
And here I
have another
Badly in need of advice.
sweet letter. I will read it to you:
“Dear Sarah”
No, no. That, isn’t it. Ah, yes, here
we are, and all the way from far-off
Maoriland —Waiacapuaca, to be exact.
“My Dear Miss Upteryer,” he writes,
“I am badly in need of advice. ' I have
lately been in correspondence with a
fair poetess in your great city, whose
name, I can tell you in the strictest con-
fidence, is Miss Zephyrs Tones. She has
composed poems for me, including the
following, which, as an advanced reader
of poetry, I think is very beautiful:
Two should be one.
One should be two,
Oh, Mr. Perc Tinker,
How do you do ?
Do you think, dear Miss Upteryer, I
am right in assuming that that is some
Only a lifesaver’s daughter.
encouragement to my suit, however
faint? Yours most sincerely, Perc
Tinker.”
Well, dear Percy—why, of course, it
is encouragement, to put it very mildly,
indeed. As it happens, I know Miss
Zephyrs Tones, and therefore I am able
to assure you that she is one of the
nicest and most innocent girls I have
ever met —really ever met. And I know
she has been sending that poem about
ever since she was only thirty-five. She
is really a most lovable girl. I remem-
ber how, as children, we used to call
her auntie. A most charming girl—oh,
most charming. I am told she has had
her hair bobbed, and looks really quite
young again. In fairness to yourself, as
one of my listeners, Percy, perhaps—
well, I don’t know whether I should men-
tion it, but she once did a very mean
thing to me at a ball. But I always say,
let bygones be bygones, don’t you? And,
oh, by the way, she has a slight squint
Advanced reader of
poetry.
in one eye,
and
Oh, dear,
Uncle Alf, is
it? Already?
How the time
flies! Well, I
will have to
keep the other
letter till next
week. Good
night, my dear
listeners.
Good, good,
good night.
Sizzle and A.
All Round
the Dial
“Pitt St.”: He
looked so miser-
able that 1 ques-
tioned him. “It’s
me birthday,” he
said. Tm ten.”
I suggested that a birthday should be a
happy event. “No bloomin’ fear, mister,"
he replied dolorously. “They all think
a man’s a kid. And mum’s written into
for a wireless call. Dicken I
dunno what that bloke’ll say!” He
screwed up his face and imitated a
rather sanctimonious voice; “And naow
’ere’s a call for little Vicky ■. Vicky's
ten to-day. Marny harpay ree-turns,
Vickay, and we know you’re a good little
hoy !” I never heard such concentrated
contempt as Vicky put into those three
words. “And,” he added bitterly, “every
kid in the school’ll be listenin’-in ter-
night. Dicken they won’t chiak me ter-
morrow. Aw, a bloke ought to wag it.”
I felt rather glad that he, and not I,
would have to face that barrage of
mockery on the morrow.
“T.R.”: Frank Hurley, starting oil
from Adelaide on a lone tour by motor
of the centre of Australia, should have
something interesting to give radio lis-
teners when he gets back. Hurley made
radio history in 1927 when he produced
at Station 2FC a series of dramatic ad-
ventures in which sound effects were
used for the first time in Australian radio.
Then, through 2UW last year, he revived
a number of the hair-raising adven-
tures encountered in his varied career,
under the heading of “Flirting with
Death.” Out of the incidents in his
latest adventure special records are to
be made for broadcasting.
“L.L.L.”: Alex. Walker, giving imi-
tations of the lyrebird on A.B.C. pro-
grammes, is one of those rare performers
who make radio really worth while, if
only because, if it were not for broad-
casting, they would remain mute and in-
glorious to all those who can now enjoy
their efforts. Whenever Walker has
appeared he has invariably been the star
turn of the performance, for he is almost
without a peer as a mimic of nature.
Even experts fail to detect his imitation
of the lyrebird from the original.
“Phillip”: A service that Diggers
might care to get going in Australia is
proving a success in Germany. It began
when, one afternoon, an ex-serviceman
named Fritz Horst was startled by hear-
ing the name of an old war comrade
break from the loudspeaker. The trained
guide-dog of his (blind) comrade had
run away, and a radio effort was being
made to trace the dog. Thus Horst got
into touch again with his old war com-
rade, and the incident was responsible
for a new “Where are you, comrade?"
session being included in the national
programme every fortnight. Fritz ex-
soldiers avail themselves of it freely to
trace old mates of the war days.
A 1 Hammett, the dance-band
leader, now giving saxophone items
from the A.B.C. stations, was a capital
violinist before taking to the more ribald
instrument. A pupil of Henri Staell, he
later became a member of the Staell
Quartet, playing second violin. Then he
joined Verbrugghen’s symphony orchestra
and remained with it five years until its
disbandment, after which, pinning his
faith to the saxophone, he made a name
as one of the best dance-band conductors
in Sydney and Melbourne, though when
Verbrugghen paid a trip back to Sydney
he was horrified to find one of his old
orchestra thus engaged. Hammett, how-
ever, thinks highly of modern dance
music, and considers that radio has done
much to influence its improvement, be-
cause listeners have been led to demand
something more artistic than the type of
loud playing which used to be con-
sidered suitable enough for dancing pur-
poses.
“Alpha”: When a radio salesman feels
despondent, he picks up the United States
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Com-
merce handbook, and tries to convince
himself that 53,582,474 “prospects” have
at one time or another bought a set.
Their dials are not crowded, for only 58
long-, 1537 medium- and 136 short-wave
stations supply the lot. North America
owns half the receivers, with 631 stations
to pick from. Europe comes a good
second in numbers, and must top the
list for variety of languages used. If
Mussolini' becomes busy in Abyssinia,
the only natives conversant with the pro-
gress of affairs will be those in the front
line, for only five receivers exist in that
happy land, and then there is no Abys-
sinian station to tune in to. Abyssinia’s
claim to be the world’s best refuge from
crooning, however, is disputed by 45
other stationless lands. Antarctica isn't
one of them, for Byrd’s expedition had
a semi-permanent station there until quite
recently.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kudio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
EVERY note
AS THE Jnilvt PLAYS IT.
Slrombercr
-Carlson 9
Chromo-phonic RADIO
Dealers throughout Australia
BUILD THE D.C. MULTIMETER
DESCRIBED IN “THE BULLETIN,” 29/5/ , 35.
The whole of the parts necessary, including Non-inductive Wire-wound Resistors,
PRICE, . . - £5
Or completely wired ready for use, £5/5/- net cash.
Slade Calston
0-1 Ma. Meter.
High Standard
Calibration.
m
Meters fitted with
staggered face.
Suitable for A.C. or
D.C. Voltages.
CAIvSTON METERS.
This exceptional high-grade meter is equal to the world’s best. It is entirely Australian-
made, the only imported parts being the jewels and springs. Features: Oversize
Tungsten Magnets (artificially aged), Dead-beat Movement of the Knife-edge Pointer,
Sapphire Jewel Bearings (approximate resistance, 62 ohms), Metal Universal Multirange
Scale Dial (with staggered markings for A.C. readings, ohms, etc.), Standard 0-1 Ma.
Complete in polished bakelite case. PKICIC, fl/18/6 net. Can be supplied with any
range of sensitivity from 200 micro-amps at small extra cost.
Obtainable Sydney all Leading Wholesalers, David Jones, Ltd., Murdochs, Ltd.;
Melbourne, A. 6.8. Industries, Ltd.; Brisbane, Chandler and Co.
Write for Free Booklet, “13 Uses for an K.P. Oscillator,” an invaluable guide to the
Serviceman.
SLIA.DEI S Radio, and Radio Manufacturers, Lang St., Croydon, N.S.W.
TEL. UJ5381 and UJ5383.
Colville Wireless Equipment
-- S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Co*
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin" Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 112261
Carter
GENEMOTOR
A NEW AUTO
"B" ELIMINATOR
t
MODEL
1580 A
Input. Output. Inter-Tap.
(3v. 2.2 amp. 180 v. .SOrtia. 90 volts.
Price, £5/10/-.
The smallest and most efficient
eliminator made.
Dimension*.
Height Jim., Width sjpn„ Depth elln. Weight 61bv
Also available with higher out-
puts, ranging up to 300 volts.
WRm FOR COMPREHENSIVE BULLETIN
No. 42 _
AMPLION (A/sia) LTD.
T eleohons
86694
(3 lines).
70 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Telegrams
■‘Amplion
Sydney.
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE.
UNUSUAL SHORT-WAVE DETECTOR
CIRCUITS.
During the last two years much has
been heard about regenerative short-wave
detectors under the heading of “elec-
tron-coupled.” The claims made for
such detector arrangements over the
simple regenerative types are, briefly;
(1) More stable oscillation, (2) reduction
of valve-hiss level, (3) smoother regen-
eration and (4) frequency materially inde-
pendent of voltage supplies. The most
widely used form of electron-coupled
detector is illustrated in Fig. 1. An
indirectly-heated screen-grid or R.F. pen-
tode valve is used. No inductance or
feedback coil is in the plate circuit, the
cathode of the valve being connected
above earth by tapping it to a suit-
able point on the grid coil. The plate
of the valve is short-circuited to earth,
so far as R.F. currents are concerned,
by means of an R.F. choke and by-pass
condenser. Thus, a portion of the coil
is common to both grid and plate cir-
cuits, and voltages set up across this por-
Fig. I.—Tapped coil, cathode-impedance
regenerative circuit.
tion are transferred to the grid circuit
by the R.F. component of the plate cur-
rent, so producing oscillation.
Alternative Methods.
Instead of using a tapped grid coil for
the cathode connection, a separate
cathode coil, inductively coupled to the
earth end of the grid coil, can be em-
ployed with advantage. This is done
in the Wide-World receivers, described
B. 18/7/’34, 15/8/’34 and 2/l/’35. The
amount of inductance in the cathode coil
is very small in proportion to the grid
coil, but has the advantage of being
adjustable for the optimum point of
oscillation control.
Somewhat similar is the arrangement
of Fig. 2. Here the circuit of Fig. 1 is
modified as for the separate cathode coil,
but in this case inductive coupling to the
grid coil is not used. The value of the
inductance L is chosen so that its imped-
ance to the audio-frequency component
Fig. 2.—The use of a separate inductance.
is small, and thus does not in any way
affect the rectifying action of the valve.
This circuit is particularly suitable for
ultra-short-wave receiver design, as the
value of inductance required to supply
the common impedance necessary for
feedback is small. For the usual short-
wave bands this inductance can consist
of about 300 turns of 36 silk-enamelled
copper, wound in slots on a diameter
former. The R.F. chokes made for
broadcast receivers, with several slots
filled with fine wire, are also effective.
Fig. 3 shows a combination of the cir-
cuits of Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, and this
arrangement has the attraction that it
is applied to battery- or directly-heated
valves. Receivers designed on these lines
are the Wide-World Three (B, 20/6/’34)
and the Electronic Battery Four (B.
1515/’35). In this circuit it is necessary
Fig. 3.—A combination of Figs. 1 and
2 for directly-heated battery valves.
to raise the whole of the filament of the
valve above earth potential with respect
to R.F. currents. This is done by con-
necting one side of the valve filament
to the A supply through a tapping of the
tuned .circuit, with the other side con-
nected to the A supply through an in-
ductance. A .005mfd. condenser is con-
nected across the valve filament directly
at the socket in order to maintain the
whole of the filament at the same poten-
tial. If this inductance is correctly de-
signed there is no necessity for the use
of a slightly higher initial filament volt-
age and a series resistor, otherwise the
valve must be used under such condi-
tions. The inductance should be bank-
wound, with low resistance, and capable
of carrying the valve filament current.
To vary the amount of feedback in any
of these circuits a variable potentio-
meter to control the voltage applied to
the screening grid is used, and if this
is of good, noiseless design the opera-
tion will be very smooth and satisfactory.
D. B. K
England Cautious on Television.
The Berlin television service is already
under way, but, because there are no
high-definition receivers yet on sale in
Germany, only a few experimenters are
able to make use of the service. Ger-
many has some outstanding developments
in television technique, and one of her
experts has broadcast that what Berlin
does to-day Britain will copy to-morrow.
But he underestimated British caution.
The facts are that the Berlin service,
operating on a 180-line system, is not by
any means free from flicker. British
television engineers will not be content
with any such defect, knowing that the
public would not, in these days of radio
perfection, be enthusiastic about anything
in the nature of a mere novelty. Con-
sequently, the two London stations will
not make a start with anything less than
240 lines in the picture. Recent demon-
strations of 240-lin© television have been
witnessed, and it is reported that there is
no flicker worth talking about. It is con-
sidered better to wait for a few months
for something really good instead of
rushing into a second-rate service for the
sake of being first in the field. Also, there
is the desirability of deferring commence-
«ment until enough suitable receivers
appear on the market. Actually, if Eng-
land had wished to do so, Baird could
have opened a 180-line service for the
London area on the day after the Tele-
vision Committee published its report.
There is, and has been for some months,
a lOkw. station at the Crystal Palace
ready for instant operation. When the
London television service is launched it
will be the best possible, and both the
transmitting people and makers of re-
ceivers will have had ample time for
experimental development work.
Television Pointers.
George Newnes, Ltd., London, has
published “Television To-day,” to be
completed in about 16 weekly parts.
The editorial in the first issue con-
tains some sound points relative to
the immediate future of television,
thus:—
It is now universally admitted that 30-line
television must only be regarded as the founda-
tion-stone on which the edifice of commercial
television has been built up. The 180-line tele-
vision reception which has been so success-
fully demonstrated both in England by the
Baird Co. and by companies using other sys-
tems in America and Germany represents
the equivalent of the talkies which caused such
a sensation when they were shown a few years
ago. There is certain to' be a great scope in
the wireless industry and in the cinema business
for men who have a thorough understanding of
the principles and practice of television recep-
tion. The demand for such components as
cathode-ray tubes, mirror screws, neon lamps,
mercury neon lamps, rectifying valves, trans-
formers and short-wave accessories is certain
to go up by leaps and bounds within a very
short time. Until some wonderful new dis-
covery is made which will obviate the necessity
for scanning a picture line by line, the basic
principles of television will remain unchanged.
Even if such a discovery were made in the
near future, some considerable time must
elapse before the new system could be per-
fected sufficiently to enable it to be bi ought
into universal use. The man who prefers to
wait until the pioneer work has been done by
other people in the hope that he will be able
to step in and reap the results of then eftoi ts
is the man who will find himself left at the
A.W.A. sound equipment for shipboard
use as installed on several passenger
liners.
post. From the ranks of the men who “get
in on the ground floor” of a new industry
come the leaders of the industry. These men,
if they have an inventive turn of mind, do not
waste valuable time going over the ground
which has already been thoroughly explored.
Their knowledge of what has gone before
enables them to assess the value of a new dis-
covery made by themselves or any other worker
in the same held.
Short-wave Diallings.
Short-wave reception continues very
much a daylight matter now, as, even
though the wave-lengths above 31m. have
a very much lower background noise, the
signal strength is poor at night and in
the early morning. At. this time last
year both DJC and GSA were good
strength and 7LO (Nairobi) very fair.
For those with the opportunity to listen
there is ample short-wave fare in day-
light hours.
The 8.8. C. transmissions from 8 a.m.
to 4.30 p.m., with short gaps between
each, have been coming in recently at
excellent strength, and, on the average,
the 31m. band seems best. FYA must


STILL KEEP WORKINCI The P 5 ,s:
J The P 5 has the great ability to deliver efficient
current down to the lowest voltage stage.
2 There is no overnight collapse with Ps—it will
continue to “carry on” after others have stopped.
2 The very gradual decline of P 5 will give ample
* warning before new Ps’s are required.
4 Thus, P 6 guarantees increased service, absolute
dependability, and unvarying consistency.
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
OTHERS HAVE STOPPED
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CEIXS PTV., X,XD.,
119 Hawke Street, West Melbourne, 0.3,
’Phone; F 1175.
Or. Dalgety Road and Towns Place, Miller’s
Point, Sydney, N.S.W.
Obtainable NOW Everywhere
TELA-VERTA RADIO
announces
Model 844
A new battery-operated Dual-
wave Superheterodyne identical
in performance with Model 644
A.C. Dual-wave reviewed by
the Radio Editor, Don B.
Knock, in The Bulletin
27/3/35.
The set uses
PHILIPS MEW SUPER
SERIES VALVES
and is specially designed and
built for outback conditions.
Write at once for full particulars.
1:1 I i
L
Model 844.
D. W. RADIO COMPANY
210 Willoughby Road, Crow’s Nest, N.S.W. X 5019 and X5OlO.
Victorian Distributor:
C. F. B. WEBER, Chancery House, 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
still be given pride of place at mid-
day and after, the strength and freedom
from fading being amazing. FYA was
heard at 6.30 p.m. on several evenings at
the same strength, but whether this was
an experimental transmission or some
special event is not known, as no English
was heard and the station has not been
heard since.
Another unusual feature for this time
of year has been the reception on
the 19m. band at midnight of DIB, GSF,
PCI and FYA at good ’phone strength,
but there Was rapid fading on all most
of the time.
A few minutes were given to me
League of Nations’ Australian broadcast
on 12/6/’35, and the reception was ex-
cellent, but the usual 8.30 a.m. broad-
cast on Sunday, 9/6/’35, was only fair
copy.
The American amateurs were again
very strong at a recent week-end, and
so many were audible that good selec-
tivity was needed in the receiver to
separate them.
The first speech of the new British
P.M, came over word-perfect, and was
most interesting to listen to.
CTIAA (31m.) was only fair on
9/6/’35, and the English announcements
were hard to follow.
There is a new station just below the
amateur 40m. band in the mornings.
This has not yet been identified, and so
far is only fair ’phone strength. WBXK
has been heard until 10 a.m. in the 25m.
band, but not now during Sunday after-
noons. The Americans in the 31m. band
are still heard only weakly.
NIGHIOWL.
Short-wave News.
Netherlands station, call letters PHI,
built and operated by Philips Radio,
Eindhoven, Holland; wave-length
16.88 m. : 17,775kc./sec. The specifica-
tion of hours as given is expressed in
E.S.T.:
June 27: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40 p.m.,
station orchestra; 11 p.m., lustral feast at
Leiden; 11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45
p.m., records; 12.10 a.m., station orchestra;
12.30 a.m., close.
June 28: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.50 p.m.,
records; 11 p.m., talk by H. M. Merkel-
bach; 11.15 p.m., electrical transcriptions;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
records; 12.5 a.m., electrical transcriptions;
12.30 a.m., close.
June 29: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.35 p.m..
station orchestra; 11.20 p.m., records, 11.30
p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m., micro-
phone debutants: 11.55 p.m., station orchestra:
1 a.m., Mepawafana cocktail; 1.30 a.m., close.
June 30; 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40 p.m.,
violin recital by Nicholas Roth; 11.30 p.m.,
The experimental station W2DC at
Scotia,' N.Y., U.S.A., although purely
amateur, has a decidedly neat and pro-
fessional appearance. Receiver and.
transmitter controls are within instant
reach of the operator.
News from Holland; 11.45 p.m., records;
12.10 a.m., broadcast from the R. Catholic
Broadcasting Association; 1.30 a.m., close.
July 1; 10.30 p.m., opening; 11 p.m., Phohi
Club, announcer answers listeners’ reports;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
Russian music; 12.15 a.m., dance records; 12.30
a.m., close.
July 4: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40 p.m.,
station orchestra; 11.25 p.m., records; 11.30
p.m., news from Holland; 1.50 a.m., talk by
“Old Colonial”; 12.10 a.m., station orchestra;
12.30 a.m., close.
July 5: 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40 p.m.,
records; 11.5 p.m., Phohi string ensemble;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
records; 12.10 a.m., Phohi string ensemble;
12.30 a.m., close.
July 6: Special broadcast for listeners in the
rubber culture; 10.30 p.m., opening; 10.40
p.m., story for children; 11.25 p.m., records;
11.30 p.m., news from Holland; 11.45 p.m.,
the Paradise Garden Hawaiians; 12.5 a.m.,
records; 1 a.m., dance records; 1.30 a.m..
close.
Amateur Chatter.
During the week ending 15/6/’35 Syd-
ney and district 56mc, exponents were
few and far between, for gales played
havoc with antennas arrays. VK2BP
managed to get a signal through on a
makeshift, and reported his aerials to be
a mass of tangled wreckage. At his
2500 ft. elevation he referred to “leaning
against wind” outside the shack!
Stations active during the week were
VKs 2BP, 2CG, 2WD. 2SN, 2UC, 2XK,
2WJ, 2AZ, 2IA, 2AL, 2FL, 2TP, 2UG,
2SA, 2ND, 20D. 2OX, 2XM and 2.TU.
On the evening of 18/1/'35 a unique club meeting by radio was staged
between members of the Zero Beat Radio Club, Sydney, and the Schenectady
Amateur Radio Association, U.S.A. A.W.A. and the G.E.C. Co. made
stations VK2ME and W2XAF available for the purpose. The illustration
shows the “gang” at the American end, and includes members with call-signs
W2DHS, W2ALP, W2ACB, W2CVZ, W2CJP, W2FUS, W2HDY, W2DTS ,
W2CGO, W2CBO, W2BRS, W2DC, W2GTC, G2KB and W2FHZ.
the list is growing, and stabilised trans-
mitters and superhets will be needed
soon in the metropolitan area. 2JU
broke into 56mc. by working VK2BP
(50 miles) for his first QSO. He is
troubled by car-ignition QRM. VK2SA
has a Yagi antenna on 112mc., and has
plenty of R.F. therein.
A test between 2SA and 2NO was un-
successful, but 2NO has a suspicion the
receiver was on 224mc.!
A.W.A. sends a schedule of the
VK2ME 7m. transmission. Commenc-
ing on l/7/’35, the transmitter will be
on the air daily from .9 a.m. to 5 p.m.,
Mondays to Fridays inclusive, and 9 a.m.
to 1 p.m. on Saturdays.
An interesting visitor last week was
Mr. Wooding, VEIET (Canada). He is
W/T operator on the Canadian Cruiser,
and took the opportunity in Australian
ports of looking up friends made over the
air. At his home station 14mc. work
predominates.
VK2ZH
has left B.C.
station 2MO
and is back
in Sydney
with every
intention of
joining the
ultra - s. - w.
group.
A n a n-
n o uncement
of significant
interest con-
cerns the
pending ac-
tive opera-
tion in Aus-
tra 1i a of
E.M.1., Ltd.,
of England,
ostensibly in
radio manu-
facture. This
company is
about the
largest tele-
vision inter-
est in the
world, an d
is building
London's £lBO,OOO high-definition sta-
tion. Progressive experimenters will do
well to forget DX and concentrate on
ultra-shorts for obvious reasons. Tele-
vision in Australia may not be very
far distanct, and when the time arrives
knowledge of u.-s.-w. receiver design
will be very useful.
Latest in the Trade.
Valve Bargain for Experimenters.
Genuine valve bargains are rarities,
and the seasoned experimenter is apt to
look askance when valves are marked
down to a low figure. Too often valves
so advertised are laboratory rejects, and
in practice fall short of the efficiency of
the higher-priced examples of the same
brand. Occasionally genuine price reduc-
tions do occur, and a case in point is that
of the valves illustrated. These are
Osram PT2s’s, 20-watt power pentodes.
A limited number of this type, brand-
new in the cartons, is offered at the
remarkable figure of 15s. each by B.G.E.
Co., Ltd., Magnet House, Clarence-
street, Sydney. To the amateur trans-
mitter these high-power pentodes are in-
deed a “snip.” The English price is
£2 ss. each. The nominal rating is as
follows: Filament volts, 4 (A.C.); fila-
ment current, 2.0 amps, (approx.); plate
volts, 400 max.; screen-grid volts, 200
max.; amp. factor, 100; impedance,
25,000 ohms; plate current, 62.5 ma. ;
plate dissipation, 25 watts; load imped-
ance for maximum undistorted A.C.
power output, 6000 ohms. The applica-
tions of such valves are numerous. As
power crystal oscillators, buffer-doublers,
R.F. power amplifiers and audio power
amplifiers they are decidedly useful to
have around the radio-room, and they
fill also a need for the sound-amplifier
enthusiast. At the time of writing.
B.G.E has about 45 in stock. They will
not remain long at 15s. each, and the
thing to do is to get in early.
What’s What in Radio.
A radio listening installation.on a scale
hitherto unattempted in Australia is in-
corporated in the new wing of the Hotel
Australia, Sydney. By means of an
A.W.A. system of centralised reception,
programmes from eight Sydney metro-
politan stations are available to guests in
every room. A radio-room on the second
floor accommodates master receiving
apparatus, from which the programmes,
after being regulated, are distributed. A
{Continued on page 34.)


"Caused b, SaH*o.sonin9
Dr. Ag<*sse-Lafi
n Chef de CU-Vq-* »*
■
says
lAnCien P cuUv of Wedicin
d_. e Faculty v ,—■
the P° r,s
Rheumatism and neuritis cannot be permanently
overcome unless you get rid of the cause, 'his,
Dr. Agasse-Lafont points out, is autoxima self-
poisoning. Incomplete evacuation of the intestines,
caused by to-day's modern foods, leaves decaying
food-waste adhering to the walls of the colon.
Dnonlnn medicines cannot remedy this. They only
you MUST CLEAR UP THE CAUSE
You may gel temporary relief from rheu-
matism, sciatica, muscular pain, neuritis,
gout or lumbago, by the use of pain-
deadening drugs and tablets, but to be rid
of them permanently, you must clear up the
cause. COLOSEPTIC does this. It gently
stimulates and tones up the colon, thus
restoring life to the weakened walls. Also,
it activates the three other important elim-
inative organs the pores of the skin, the
kidneys, and the respiratory system. Be-
cause it clears your body of poisons,
COLOSEPTIC means a permanent end,
and not just doubtful temporary relief, to
rheumatism and neuritis. Scientists have
traced 95% of to-day's ills to autoxima.
End this menace to your health, happiness
and efficiency with COLOSEPTIC. You 11
be free from the fear of disease. You'll
regain all the vitality of vigorous youth.
YEARS OF SUFFERING ENDED
Bangalow. N.S.W.
"I cannot speak too highly of this wonderful
medicine, for after years of terrible suffering from
constipation and piles, one bottle of COLOSEPTIC
did me more good than all the medicines I had
ever taken, and after taking a course of it I am
overjoyed to be able to say that 1 am now
completely cured."
Mrs. M.C.
(The original of this letter may
be seen at Head Office.)
purge the lower end of the bowels leaving them
irritated and weakened. Autoxima or self-
poisoning lowers your vitality, causes disease*
and leads to serious trouble unless it is checked.
The decaying waste matter in your colon forms
virulent bacteria and acids which seep into the
blood stream. Every vital part of your body
becomes affected, and the way is paved for the
cruel attacks of rheumatism and neuritis as well as
hosts of other complaints. ,
An
A
T
Clogged
Colon
u
_ _ BB UncloQQ^d
Banish COLON CLOG ■ - .JrPk 9 Colon
The left illustration shows
how your colon becomes
clogged. Germs from the
decaying food waste poison
the blood stream, which af-
fects every important organ
in your body. Regular bowel
movements are no guarantee
of safety. It is the encrusta-
tions that must be removed before you can regain full
vitality and health. The right illustration shows the same
colon cleared by COLOSEPTIC, All clogging waste has
been removed, incomplete evacuation is remedied because
life has been restored to the walls and the basic cause
of disease has been swept away. Clean your colon with
COLOSEPTIC now, and know what it is to be really well.
INTIMATE BOOK ON AUTOXIMA FREE
Mail the coupon for a trial sample of COLOSEPTIC. You’ll receive it
by return mail, and, under plain cover, a book telling more about the
vital and intimate subject of Autoxima will be sent to you FREE.
It tells you how you are lowering your vitality, and paving the way
tor disease. Don’t hesitate mail the coupon nowl
(OIOS
[WAY
9
DRINK
(WAYNE'S IMPROVED * f OR MU IA )
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., Box 3415 R. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TU 1.
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
Box 3415 R, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book
on Autoxima in plain envelope.
Also send me my test package of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose
6d. in stamps.
ADDRESS,
Buy
UP-TO-DATE
gJADIO
osa^°
Make sure that the Set you
buy has the advantage of the
latest radio developments.
PHILIPS
SUPER SERIES VALVES
5R23
r
ROSS for HEIGHT/
No Appliance!
—No Drags.
No Dieting.
Client, age 19*, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks,
„ ~ 21 „ S „ in 5 mtbs.
~ ~ 20, 3J ~ in 16 days.
„ ~ 30, „ 2 „in 4 weeks.
„ „ 40, ~ U„in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3|ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from alt over the world.
Fee 42 2s.
►Malcolm Hess
J
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.o. Cox l&.)
small loudspeaker, designed to harmon-
ise with the general appearance, is re-
cessed in the wall in each room, and a
selector switch enables the guest to
choose any of the eight programmes.
Apparatus is also being installed for the
relaying of the hotel orchestra to other
public rooms. The loudspeakers for
this service can be employed for the re-
production of radio programmes when
desired.
* * * *
The Adams (Tattersall’s) Hotel,
Sydney, has been equipped with radio by
A.W.A. Visitors now dine to musical
accompaniment from broadcasting sta-
tions, the hotel orchestra amplifier sys-
tem or recordings. The equipment is
also designed to permit announcements
throughout the public rooms.
* .+. * *
The first Italian television transmitter
has been installed at Turin, and is work-
ing on 5.05 and 8 metres. Receiving
instruments using the Zworykin Icono-
scope tube will shortly be placed on the
Italian market.
# * * *
Two German physicians report that
irradiation of parts of the body by ultra-
short waves has been found effective in
the treatment of angina. It is stated that
in nearly all cases the fever dropped
and pains and swellings were reduced on
the first day of treatment. The angina
did not last longer than three days after
this treatment, and dangerous complica-
tions were avoided. A suitable apparatus
is to be placed on the German market.
* * * *
Two small broadcasting transmitters
have been installed at Kabul (Afghanis-
tan) pending the building of a high-
power transmitter. It is reported that
the work is being undertaken by Soviet
engineers, and that all the material will
be supplied by the U.S.S.R. radio works.
* * * *
France is alive to the value of high-
definition television on the ultra-short
waves, for work has now commenced on
the installation of a television broadcast-
ing station at the Ministry of Posts and
Telegraphs in Paris. It will work on a
wave-length of seven metres.
The Q. and A. Column.
We are unable to use a battery set when the
house-lighting plant is running. The plant
comprises a Lister 21-ampere dynamo and
Edison storage batteries. What is the remedy
for the crackling noise 3—283.
The first possible cure is the use of a con-
denser filter across the dynamo brushes. Ducon
Condenser Co., Ltd., Bourke-street, Waterloo,
N.S.W., will supply special supppressor units
with instructions. The dynamo frame should
be earthed, and the leads from the powerhouse
to the home taken underground if possible.
Lead-covered cable, with the lead sheath earthed,
will help considerably. Receiver battery leads
can also be screened, with the screened cover-
ing connected to earth.
* * * *
I built the Wide-World Two, using a 6C6
detector, with 38 pentode audio, coupled by
a Lekmek 53 8 audio choke. The range of
the receiver is quite up to expectations, and
reaction can even be obtained below 16 metres,
but there is a very bad dead spot on 20
metres, accompanied by extensive hum. which
gradually increases from 31 metres and is still
strong at 16 metres. Where is the double'.
Apart from the dead spot referred to, the
main trouble is what is described as tunaoi
hum.” By-pass one side of the 6C6 ’
directly at the socket, with a .Imfd. con
to earth. Which side is effective must oe
determined by trial. Other cures aie. o
ing of the 6C6 grid lead in copper bra «
(earthed) ; the complete screening m a s
metal case of the grid condenser and ie »
screening the R.F. choke and the audio cno .
braiding (and earthing) the heater leads unde
the chassis, and provision of Imfd. nuixe
condensers across each side of the high vo
age secondary of the power transformer.
* -t * *
/ have been informed that your Radio
Department will pack ready for assembly the
complete chassis of a wireless set. Is this
correct ? —279. .
Your information is incorrect. This rage
is concerned only with a literary service to
readers, and does not undertake trading in
any way. If it is a question of apparatus
described in a constructional article, a firm
specialising in such work, such as Colville
Wireless Equipment Co., will help you. Radio
apparatus advertised in The Bulletin can be
relied upon.
sfc : 1 : *
After six months’ use my Stromberg-
Carlson five-valve set developed trouble. It
cut out, and could be heard only faintly, but
if the switch was shut off and on the set
would work normally for a few seconds and
then cut out again. A mechanic fitted a new 32
valve, switch, three B batteries and a C bat-
tery. He also fitted some form of bias on the
volume control. The set worked well for two
weeks and then started to give trouble again.
The A battery is in order. What is wrong ?
281.
Evidently a case of poor or high resistance
contact somewhere in the circuit network.
Only remedy is a careful inch by inch examina-
tion, which can be done on a process of eli-
mination. Resistors and paper dielectric con-
densers should be tested first. Next, each
point of contact to the chassis should be
examined for corrosion between soldering lugs
and steel base. Valve sockets can be a pro-
lific source of intermittent or poor contact,
and it is a good plan to remove all valves,
clean the pins with fine emery cloth and
examine the sockets for weakened or dirty
springs.
* * * *
My Udisco three-valve set, out of date now,
was giving good results in Southport (Q.) a •
few years ago. I brought it to Central Q.,
about 20 miles from the coast, and cannot get
good results. One night reception was good,
but only on the headphones. The aerial is 40 ft.
away, external, and lift, high, and the earth
is made to a water-pipe leading to a well.
Occasionally the set whistles and makes a fear-
ful noise, but the loudspeaker is in good order.
What is likely to be wrong ? —282.
In the first place, unless a three-valve re-
generative receiver is working perfectly, good
results cannot be expected at a distance of
several hundred miles from the nearest broad-
casting station. Possibly the C battery is run
down, in which case the behavior of the set
would be erratic; valves may be at fault, or
a leaky fixed condenser or faulty gridleak could
also be responsible. In the case where a set
it a long way from the nearest expert, the
only sure test is a process of substitution of
parts, one by one, until the faulty item is
eliminated.


FOR MOOREFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Kogarah Stakes: Frieze; next,
Irish Morn.
Flying Welter: Kaylah; next,
Porcia.
Moorefield Handicap: Serabite
or Touchit; next, Fairoic.
Rockdale Mile: Serabite or Glads-
wood ; next, High Boy.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Form at Caulfield has caused Full
Charge and Redditch to firm again for
the National Hurdle and National
Steeple respectively. With list. 21b. —
161 b. more than he will have to carry
at Flemington on July 6 —Full Charge
was sent out at 2 to 1 in a field of nine—
all National aspirants, bar Shatter. He
scored by about a length from Fulham,
with Akanree half a length farther off;
but the race was by no means one-sided.
Fulham twisted a plate on his off hind
hoof and suffered a cut on the outside
of the off foreleg. Akanree lost several
lengths by hanging out at a hurdle near
the nine-furlong post. Full Charge
took 3min. 47Jsec. to cover two miles
and 65 yards; but the ground was very
heavy.
Healy, as in the V.R.C. Marlborough
Hurdle on June 3, rode a wait-
ing race on the favorite for the first mile,
and his mount had no easy task to over-
haul Akanree and Fulham at the last
flight. When Full Charge took off he
slipped, hit the obstacle and screwed on
landing. With fine determination, the son
of Thracian gathered himself together
quickly, and soon put the issue beyond
doubt. He chipped some flesh away
trom above the coronet of the near fore-
Beqt ' It must be our uw lucky o&v
Qert
QPQt ! We simplv cawt lose ok! the
tJEtfT fSA.CE *
Be err: Wh&t hoese have
Sa.CK.ED ?r
Geqt :" The lot v '
leg, but the injury was stated by S. O.
Wood, the club’s vet., to be negligible.
(Wood, by the way, is a son-in-law of
A. T. Creswick, who owns Full Charge.)
Mystic Peak headed the unplaced
division, and might have been closer if
he had not blundered at the second-last
hurdle, where Douglas was delivering
flail-like blows with the whip. Ras
Kassa, after being deprived by Akanree
of the role of pacemaker, faded away
and ran last. Menelik was only fifth,
but came home well.
In a rather weak field Redditch was
backed from 5 to 4 to evens for the
Wanda Steeplechase, Logically, the only
rival he had to fear was Kenjin, from
S. Aus.; but Kenjin was having his first
, or 3 Fullarton kept
Redditch near the tad of the procession
for the first half of the journey. He then
bcg an to g athei m the leaders, and had
only Hazward to dispose of with four
furlongs to 8°- Approaching the turn it
looked as if the ex-hurdler would make
a + rac u e 4 u , d V but aft ? r e utermg the
straight Redditch smothered Hazward
tor speed and drew away, to win in a
canter. A 100-to-l chance, Wakerife,
finished third. He is in the National
Steeple, and, being a son of Sea Prince,
ought to stay the distance. Membo,
from Maoriland, was a close fourth, and
showed vast improvement on his first-up
display at Wiiliamstown.
Don Miguel (Verbius —Los Gatos), who
paid a profitable visit to Sydney in the
autumn, was rather lucky to beat Pref-
erence in the Minook Two-year-old. If
he had not shifted out from the rails.
Preference could not have lost.
Turf Boy, with five victories on end to
his credit, was favorite for the Richmond
Handicap ; but could not get nearer than
seventh. Gay Star, who comfortably
accounted for Gallibrook and Heroic
Prince, is trained by E. Fisher. The
Rosny Plate went to Jolly Boy, a stable-
companion of Gay Star.
Clever riding by Keith Voitre enabled
Metro to stall off a late challenge from
Skram in the Cambria Welter. Metro is
in the Mentone team of F. W, Hoysted,
who has charge of Redditch.
* * * *
Duke Caledon is justifying the high
opinion of him held by his owner-trainer.
Narrowly beaten by Caramba at Rose-
bery, he won at Victoria Park and beat
a smart field in the Dundas Handicap at
Rosehill on Saturday. Backed at sixes—
Cid and Turbine were favorites —the big
chestnut, galloping smoothly, went past
Cid as soon as they straightened up for
home, and young Thomas kept him
going. A late run by Le Legion was
interesting but ineffectual; Regal Star was
a fair third. Duke Caledon has Bst. 31b. in
the Epsom. The weight won’t trouble him.
Although a 71b. allowance reduced the
weight to Bst. 121 b., the apprentice Foxe,
who recently scored on Oro at Rand-
wick, could not induce the chestnut to
do his best in the Rosehill Handicap.
Tapestry had opened up a 10-length lead
at the seven furlongs. Scratchmere Scar
—laid early at threes, but going to fives
—steadily reduced the advantage, and
was in charge at the Leger. Though he
lugged out, he beat Tapestry by half a
length; with Oro two lengths away.
Headgale, supported from the right quar-
ter, was never in the picture, but Turbu-
lent ran pretty well. Scratchmere Scar
has 7st. 71b. and 7st. 61b. in the Epsom
and Metrop. respectively, but will require
to improve a lot to win among the good
ones in the spring. Still, bookmaker
Jack Roles has found his investment in
Maoriland horseflesh highly profitable.
Ike Foulsham has been patient with
V.R.C. chairman Mackinnon’s colt
Barak (Ronsard—Lady Tattler), who is
said to be a rod in pickle for the Epsom,
in which he has 7st. 101 b. Barak’s per-
formance in the first division of the
Maiden was that of a really good horse.
Burdened with 9st. 71b., he was badly
placed to the Leger, but when he got out
of the ruck he beat Robber and Bel-
gravia like hacks. He was favorite at
evens. The second division went to Nar-
gong (12 to 1), a two-year-old opposed
to a poor lot.
Sydney businessmen Peel and O’Reilly
have a smart colt in Sailor Prince,
winner of the first division of the
Juvenile, at 7 to 2. However, he was
lucky to score, as Bullomin ran wide
turning for home, and lost lengths.
Finishing under the judge’s box, he was
placed third, Sailor Prince beating Man
o’ Mark by a neck. Dungala (5 to 2),
from Newcastle, won the second heat,
leading throughout.
Pike’s riding of Babili in the Parra-
matta Mile was outstanding. It was 7 to
1 the field (Dermid), 8 to 1 Babili and
five others. Curator was anxious to take
the lead ; Pike sat in behind on the rails
and never lost an inch of ground. At
the Leger five horses were fighting it out,
but Pike landed his mount a winner by
a long head from Dennid, Curator being
a close third, just in. advance of Gothlin,
After Money and Cylanta. Dermid was
the unlucky one. Slow away, he was
badly placed for the first half-mile,
* * * *
Peter Pan won his second Melbourne
Cup with 9st. 101 b. on a track which
virtually added 101 b. to his handicap. Can
he win his third with lOst. 61b.? Most
racing people think he can, provided the
going is good ; and The Bulletin shares
their opinion. To Hall Mark he will have
to give a stone, to Sylvandale 161 b., to
Master Bnerley and Limarch 201 b. and
to Journal 2st., but if he strips a fit horse
the market will assuredly rate his chance
superior to those of that lot. Perhaps
the stiffest opposition will come from the
three-year-olds, who are headed by
Young Idea and Garrio (7st. 91b. apiece).
In the Caulfield Cup Hall Mark has
9st, 111 b., Rogilla 9st. 81b., Sylvandale
9sf. 71b., imported Berestoi and Vintage
(M.L.) 9st. 31b., Theo, Limarch and
Master Brierley 9st. each. Sarcherie (Bst.
21b.) may beat them all.
For the Epsom Synagogue (Bst. 1 lib.),
Gladswood (7st. 121 b.) and The Raider
(7st. 111 b.) are nicely handicapped; and,
up only 51b. for his win last year, Wai-
kare is well treated in the Metropolitan
with Bst. 61b. Theo (Bst. 101 b.), Soft
Step (Bst. 41b.), Broad Arrow (Bst. lib.)
and Sarcherie (Bst. 11b.) also fake the eye.
Sarcherie and Peter Pan for the two
Cups and The Raider and Waikare for
the Epsom and Metrop. seem attractive
doubles.
* * * *
“Tuart”: The average racing reporter
is always ready to shed tears for the
pore bookmaker. Two or three bad
days on Sydney suburban courses where
Tommy never holds much have set the
waterworks going again, and it is sug-
gested that unless the Government abol-
ishes the turnover tax and clubs reduce
license fees the brotherhood simply won’t
be able to carry on. The tear-shedders
conveniently forget the last meeting at
Randwick (June 8), when four horses
won at tens, a fifth at fourteens and a
sixth at twelves —the seventh winner was
at 4 to 1, and not a favorite. They also
fail to remember that 20 out of 25 dis-
tance handicaps decided at Randwick
during the present season were won by
outsiders, 11 being quoted at 14 to 1 and
upwards. There is never any pity for
the punter, though 12£ p.c. and fractions
of sixpences are taken from every
amount he places on the tote,
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Bahram’s next job is
the St. Leger. He should manage it.
The Aga Khan won the Yorkshire race
with Firdaussi in 1932.
Footbrawl
Colling wood met its first reverse of the
season in the Vic, League competition
when it unexpectedly went down before
Carlton, a team which had shown appa-
rent signs of degeneration. The ’Woods-
men have for years been weatherproof;
blue skies, heavy rain, gale or calm, they
always played well. But on Saturday the
rain appeared to confuse them for the
first time, while Carlton made a glorious
comeback. Scores were level at half-
time, and so was the game up to that
point. Then Carlton went ahead, run-
ning out winners by 13-9 to 8-10. South
Melbourne, now head of the list, had
little difficulty in disposing of Essendon,
despite wretched goal-kicking: 13-22 to
9-7. The greasy ball and strong winds
failed to bother Fitzroy, which put up a
wonderful proportion of goals to behinds
in its defeat of Geelong. Geelong had
the better of the game up to three-
quarter time, when Fitzroy swept it off
its legs, kicking 10-5 to Geelong’s 6-14.
Melbourne contrived to defeat Footscray
on behinds —4-15 to 5-4. North Mel-
bourne, which has lost every match this
season, made St. Kilda go for all it was
worth: St, Kilda 8-14, North 6-9. Haw-
thorn, second-last on the list, put up a
good fight against the formidable Rich-
mond, but was beaten by 14-7 to 10-13.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne football clubs
are again kicking over inadequate sharing
of gate receipts. In the division of the
spoils a large cut goes to the cricket club
owning or leasing the ground, and there
are other charges to be met by the foot-
ballers. Richmond went up in the air
when it was handed a cheque for £246
out of a £lO3B gate. At two Richmond
matches receipts were £1639, but only
£3BB went to Richmond. Out of that
heavy wage payments and other work-
ing charges have to be met. The V.F.L.
is being pressed to do something, but is
in a pretty helpless position under the
present system.
* * * * .
Two fine tries by O’Brien, a youngster
having his first season in Union big stuff,
helped Northern Suburbs to down Drum-
moyne, 14-11. Apart from line-oufs,
North had the better of the forward
work, and the ball travelled out along
the three-quarters much more smoothly
than it had done before this season.
Gibbons, the half, was in everything, and
he cut over nicely to send O’Brien away
the first time. Without Rankin the
Drummoyne inside men made little
ground, and the wingers were well
marked whenever they got the ball.
Western Suburbs began briskly against
Randwick, getting an eight-point lead.
Then the Greens put on eight tries—
Towers got two and converted two—to
one by West; 30-14. Against St. George,
University, down eight points at lemons,
showed some of its earlier form: 23-11.
Parramatta accounted for East, 27-21,
though the margin would probably have
been the other way had not a couple of
East forwards been sent off.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Australian Rugby
Unionists—which means the Ma State
lot—are sending special representatives
to the International R.U. conference in
London on December 18. It was ex-
pected that they would rely on the ser-
vices of Len Brown, the old Queensland,
Oxford and England forward, who has
lived in England for years and does his
best for Australian Rugby, but M.L.’s
decision to send two of its best officials
has wakened things up. “Billy” Hill,
president of the Ma State R.U., will be
one of the trippers.
* * *
In the most spirited Rugby League
game of the season South Sydney
stoushed the hitherto unbeaten Eastern
Suburbs at the Cricket Ground. The first
10 minutes was a whistling solo with
slather-and-whack obbligato and chorus
of grunts. Deane had to break up a
dozen or so scrums before the parties
could be convinced that the bright idea
was a game of football, but when they
grasped that they delivered the goods
in clinking style. South played through-
out like a team determined to win; East
like a team expecting the barrage to lift
eventually and let it through. South’s
onslaught, however, strengthened instead
of easing, and that’s all there was to it.
Final scores 18-11, with South’s ex-
captain Williams and new captain Lewis
contributing a shade more than the rest
towards the win.
(Continued on next page.)
“Witwatersrand”; I have seen a
report that two of Australia’s Tests in
South Africa may be played on matting
after all, though an undertaking was
given that all should be on grass. In
any case, our men should have nothing
to growl about. Bowlers who can spin
the ball can always get wickets on mat-
ting. O’Reilly should prove a holy terror
on the coir.


WNCHBSTm
TRADE MARK
s£»
Model
27in. 1
Catch,
67, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle,
ilound Tapered Barrel and improved Salety
Elevating Rear Sight. ae /
Freight in N.S.W. 2/3 40/ ■
"MODEIi 62”
£5/10/-
rer
22 Cal. Repeating Rifle for Short, Long*
Long Rifle. Carriage Paid.
£9/5/-
“MODEL 63.” .22 Cal. Automatic Rifle, 10 shot,
chambered for .22 Long Rifle Super Speed.
Carriage Paid.
Above Rifles are all adapted to
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
SPEED POWER EONGEB RANGE
I'UIiIGHT EX't&A.
llsiPsßP
, SIJPER WSPEEDJ
I jSUPEfiWSPEEi
FREIGHT EXTRA.
Short. 2/8 100. Long, 3/6 100. Long Rifle, 4/- 100.
Short H.P., 3/- 100. Long H.P., 3/9 100. Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
VALUABLE INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS
The Budgetary Problems and Loan Requirements of the Various
Governments. The Position in Connection with Treasury Bills. Market
for Industrials. Wool and the Investor. Price of Gold. Small Investors
and Industry. Federal Subsidy to States. Australia’s Wine Industry.
COMPANY NOTES AND REVIEWS.
MINING FROM ALL FIELDS.
NOW ON SALE
THE JUNE ISSUE OR
w
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £ l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rales
Roy de Cans, a colored gentleman
from the U.S.A., is symmetrically built
and game, but he is no boxer. At Leich-
hardt on Wednesday Ambrose Palmer
(12st. 41b.) hooked and drove lefts to the
De Gans face with perfect ease —the
black couldn’t get away from them. He
delivered a few rights in the fifth, and
did fairly well in the sixth until some
more stinging lefts made his mouth
bleed so badly that he seemed certain to
turn it up at corners. He staggered up
for the seventh, but was helplessly
beaten when referee Haines intervened.
If Braddock was really on the dole
last year, it seems amazing that Sydney
promoters should import tyros like De
Gans and Schaaf.
* * * *
“Whoosh”: Billy Murphy, the first
boxer from these parts to bring back a
world championship, has had the worse
of an argument with a Maoriland motor-
cycle. Lightest and, in appearance, frail-
est of the great Australasian pugilists of
40 and 50 years ago—Slavin, Goddard,
Jackson, Dooley, Fitzsimmons, Hall and
Griffo —Murphy has outlived them all.
They were all manual laborers before
they took to the ring; Murphy, though
the fiercest of little fellows between the
ropes, had been a tailor, and returned
to his trade when too old for the game.
Two brothers were also noted boxers.
Tim became middleweight and heavy-
weight champion of Australia; Jimmy
made a great reputation in South Africa
before he died young.
Footbrawl
“Tenakoe”: After weeks of furious
controversy in which brother ranged
against brother, and even husband against
wife, Maoriland has selected its Rugby
team for the English tour. Only 14 of
the 30 chosen have not worn the silver
fern before; of the rest, eight were here
with the All-Blacks last year. New men
brought to the top by the trials are fullback
Gilbert, from the West Coast, and Tin-
dill, of Wellington, described as a surprise
five-eighth. Australians will regret the
omission of Kilby, a fine player and a
good fellow. The forwards are said to
be well up to All-Black standard, but
the backs are criticised ; however, that
is the usual thing when All-Black sides
are selected, and the prospective tourists
are probably as hot a lot as any of their
predecessors. There is not a Maori name
on the list, though Wynyard, of Wai-
kato, carries a name made famous by two
brothers of Maori blood in the M.L.
Native team of 1888-89. The team’s first
match will be against Devon and Corn-
wall at Devonport on September 14.
« * * *
“Jellyfish”: The latest trouble in N. S.
Wales Rugby Union is that players have
been ignoring the residence rule. One
or two have been suspended with a slap
on the wrist. Most of the trouble began
when the Union started to readmit men
who had taken to professionalism. Folk
who openly disobey authority cannot
expect to be regarded as authorities
themselves.
* * * *
“Hooker”; The Sydney C.G. trust has
done something to remove the impression
that it has no backbone by overriding
the Rugby League objections to the use
of the ground by the Rugby Union for
its Maori matches and granting the dates
asked for —July 27 and August 5 and 10.
The League had argued that the Maoris
could not be considered an international
side and that under the terms of the
lease the amateur body had to apply
direct to the professional concern.
“Whistler”: The way of a football
referee is a rocky one. Bad enough in
town among what friends he may pos-
sess, he is in hapless case when dis-
patched into the depth of the country to
supervise matches between husky in-
landers. The N.S.W. Rugby League has
been making a practice of doing this,
and the only result is a sheaf of com-
plaints. For one thing, it is alleged
that referees pay second-class rail fares
instead of the first-class provided and
pouch the difference. One bush League
intends to meet the train and spot the
carriage the arbitrator emerges from.
If the dogbox is second-class, the
traveller will get second-class money and
not a razoo more.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland has been get-
ting a bit of its own back in the State
golf championships, which were last year
collared by N.S.W. In addition to Von
Nida’s win in the • open, those two old
reliables Radcliffe and Francis, who have
shown quite a fancy for the event in the
past, again took the foursomes title with
a card of 155 for the two rounds. Per-
rier, who won last year with Healy, was
partnered this time by Esplin, the pair
filling third place.
Ferrier kept his Queensland amateur
title, battling out the final with another
"You’ve got to forget your profession in this game , Porky , an run
straight .”
N.S. Welshman in Ruwald, of the Kil-
lara club, and finishing 4 up on his oppo-
nent with two to play. The match was
all square at the morning turn, and at the
15th Ruwald was 3 up. Perrier won two
of the three holes remainnig, and was one
down on the first round. After lunch
the youngster bolted, and though Ruwald
hung on grimly the issue was never in
doubt.
* * * *
“Gailes”: The fuss in Brisbane over
the N.S.W, player Bourke, with whom
some of the Sydney men refused to play
in the professional events because he
was not a member of the P.G.A., has
fairly tangled the Queenslanders. Some
of the clubs offering purses accepted his
entry; others refused it. Bourke him-
self took a sporting attitude in declining
to play in events for which his entry had
been accepted. According to the St.
Andrews ruling, he is a pukka pro. The
A.G.U. is of the same opinion.
* * * *
“Carse”: Gazing at a picture of our
revered Premier Stevens, I was reminded
by his coiffure of a tale of Willie Kir-
kaldy, one of the old-time Scottish golf
professionals who were as famous for
their blunlness of speech as for their
play. A German princeling who had
been staying at Balmoral was brought to
Wullie for golf lessons, and the equerry
who introduced him expatiated at length
on his rank and stressed the respect with
which he was to be treated. Wullie sat
as in a dream, and when the equeriy
had finished reached up and passed his
hand over the upstanding hair of the
young German. “Losh!” he said, as
one in a dream, “whit a brassey lie.”
* * ♦ *
“Carnoustie”: St. Andra’s is no so
hidebound as some folk make out. When
it was cabled that Brews, the South
African, runner-up to Cotton in the
British open last year, would have to
stand down this year because his entry
had not been received by the Royal and
Antient, the news was generally accepted
as a rub o’ the green. Now we are told
that, after a palaver with the Professional
Golfers’ Association, the hierarchs have
taken the unprecedented course of allow-
ihg the Afrikander to make what is prac-
tically a post entry.
♦ * * *
“Sandringham”; Naismith has been
playing remarkable golf in Melbourne
this season, and has cleaned up most of
the prizes offering. His latest bag was
the Dunlop Cup and Purse at Metropoli-
tan, which he won in 299 for the four
rounds, being followed home by Jupp
and Harris, who tied for second with 302.
The winner’s short game was a model of
accuracy, and his chance of inclusion
in the team of Australian professionals
for America looks rosier than ever.
* * ♦ *
“What’s Yours?”: Some folk seem
bom to trouble as the sparks fly upward.
Westralia has forgotten the secesh issue
for a moment in discussing the sad case
of D. S. McKenzie, of Perth, who has
just celebrated his fourteenth hole m
one. The world’s record of 17 is held
by Alec Herd, also a Scot. He, however,
is a professional, and exempt by custom
from the time-honored usage of slaking
the thirst of everyone in sight. This is
just as well, because Alec did the tnck
once in an open championship with thou-
sands following him.
* * * *
“Simmer and Jack”: Youth seems to
be coming to the front in South African
golf, as it is in this country. The South
African amateur and open titles were
won by a 17-year-old Jo’burger named
Locke. In the open the professionals
were routed, all the leaders being ama-
teurs. Brews, who was so conspicuous
in the British open last year—he was
runner-up to Cotton —and has finished
tenth in the American open, was not in
the hunt. The title had only once before
been won by an amateur.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: The British women’s
golf team is due in Sydney on September
13, and the local girls are making
elaborate preparations, including the
drilling of the caddies and other earth-
lings in the prunes-and-prisms aspects of
the game. By special request the visitors
are to be known as “British” and not
“English.” They will play “with” and
not “against” Australian sides, and there
will be no “Tests” but just “matches be-
tween countries.” The latest young
woman to be included in the visiting side
is Jessie Anderson, who has represented
Scotland against England, Ireland and
Wales. She has just turned 20.
* * * *
“Sandringham”; Susie Tolhurst, back
from a trip to California, relates that she
was admitted to links even more ex-
clusive than Royal Sydney or Moore
Park. The entrance fee is £lOOO and
the annual sub. £lOO. No wonder, as
the tourist says, one could wander on
the course all day without encountering
another player.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”; The collapse of
the Australian Davis Cup players against
Germany surprised even those who were
dubious about the team’s chances after
Paris. Defeat in the two singles matches
is the worst blow Crawford has suffered
since that awful one at Milan. His long-
standing liability to asthma is a handi-
cap, great player as he is on his day.
As for McGrath, his omission from the
place in the doubles side he has occu-
pied for two tours may have upset him.
He is only a kid after all, and the shock
to his poise would be considerable —much
older players have failed to bite on the
bullet when a similar happening befel
them.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Wimbledon will give
Perry a chance to realise one of his many
ambitions —to win the singles champion-
ship two years running, a feat performed
only by A. W. Gore in 1908-09. If he
wins—and on form he should —Perry
will then have to hold his American cham-
pionship, taken last year. After that he
will come on to Australia, where, if he
again lifts the Australian title, lost last
year to Crawford, he will have done what
no one else has accomplished—taken
French, English, U.S.A. and Aussie
championships in a single year. He is
to settle in Sydney for an indefinite
period as representative of Slazengers—
“money is worth 25 p.c. more there than
in England,” the young man cannily
explains.


0
kc
4c
Ui
2:
12
m
Confidence
in the car-
tridges one uses
not only makes
shooting more plea-
surable, but it assures
BETTER SHOOTING.
With the knowledge that
every cartridge is scientifically
accurate in its production
and tested before market-
ing, the user of Eley &
Kynoch Cartridges
can always depend
upon reliability in
performance.
Obtainable
Everywhere
There's Not
A Faulty
Cartridge In
A Million
Va
&
402
ICI
1094?
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King'* Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Patents.
PROCESS OF MAKING ARTIFICIAL
AGGREGATE FOR CONCRETE OR
BUILDING BLOCKS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
27390/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
oil a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
ELECTRIC IMITATION FIRES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
6729/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IS AAV MOUTH
SO UGLY ?
)P 1
JACK, STOP
-ANN MIGHT /V) COULONT HELP Ij/N
SEE US I / S YOU HAVE THE MOST J
/ BEWITCHING MOUTH j
I M \
NOT AT ALL., ANN \
BUT HERE'S A HINT— |
WHY DON'T YOU TRY A /
SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE f /
IVE EVER. SEEN. /
Irx I
/Cl
ZA
i*
A
LL
WHAT DID YOU
MEAN LAST NIGHT
BY " SPECIAL 1 '
TOOTH PASTE ?
1 MEANT PEPSODENT, THE SPECIAL
FILM-REMOVING TOOTH-PASTE, ANN.
MY DENTIST SAYS YOUVE GOT TO
REMOVE FILM TO GET RID OF THE
FOOD AND SMOKING
STAINS ON YOUR /A -AA V : &
TEETH, / '•
•V
A
vf
A
r X
m
ml
mm
“t-v-
-m
1 USED TO THINK RETA
HAD A FASCINATING
SMILE BUT IT CAN'T
COMPARE TO YOURS. ANN
fc
/ OH DARLING.THAT MAKES
\ME SO GLORIOUSLY HAPPY
nv r
£ S
M;/
/i
s *
Don’t envy the dazzling
smiles of others
when film is removed your own teeth
will delight you with their brilliance
O 9 times out of 10 it’s not the teeth
themselves but a sticky, stubborn coating
that robs teeth of their beauty. When
once removed, teeth gleam again with
undimmed brilliance.
That coating on teeth is film. You can
feel it with your tongue. Film forms
constantly—rapidly.
In film are the acid-producing germs
that cause decay . . . glued by film to
teeth, where they attack enamel and destroy
the part beneath.
This film absorbs the stains from food
—the stains from smoking. That’s what
makes teeth look dingy and unattractive.
Thus removing film accomplishes two
things—keeps teeth gleaming bright and
helps prevent dreaded tooth decay.
The approved way to remove film is
with Pepsodent—urged by dentists and
used by four million people. Pepsodent
contains a special cleansing and polish-
ing material—more effective in removing
film—softer and therefore safer. This
discovery is contained in Pepsodent
exclusively. That’s why it is termed
the "special film-removing’’ tooth paste.
FREE —lO-Day Tube
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. (Dept. 5.8.),
Box 488 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodent.
Name
Address
52m Only one tube to a family.
“Cash Amateur”; The Wimbledon
seedings surprised many by showing
Crawford as third to Perry and Von
Cramm. On his form this season, Craw-
ford can hardly claim the honor, though
no doubt the Wimbledon authorities
regard his lapse as only a passing one.
Menzel is seventh of eight placings;
McGrath and Quist do not appear,
though the latter takes second place with
Crawford to the Allison-Van Ryn couple
in the four doubles pairs seeded. Collins
is tipped to play for England in the
Davis Cup doubles, with, perhaps, Wilde
as a partner. England evidently counts
on winning at least three singles.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Australian women
tennis controllers are urging the Austra-
lian L.T.A. to include Helen Wills-
Moody with Helen Jacobs in the invi-
tation to visit Australia, Helen W.-M.
has been showing fair form in pre-
liminary gallops in England, and would be
a draw. The ladies have put one solid
argument in favor of the invitation ; the
visit of the Englishwomen last year drew
£BOO in two days. After that one expects
that the A.L.T.A. has sent the invitation
by double express wireless.
* * $
“Top Spin”: Vincent Richards will
play no more tennis, a motor smash hav-
ing left him a cripple. Richards shone
most as a doubles player—he won the
American doubles with Tilden when he
was 16 —but he was formidable in
singles. He was one of . the first big men
of the game to turn professional, and is
said to have done well at it.
# :J:
“Conspuez”: The organisers of the
recent tennis match between France and
England in Paris hit on a brilliant idea
for ensuring a good gate. They issued
an invitation to the then Premier of
France, who was at the moment un-
usually unpopular, even for a French
Premier. Tickets sold like hot cakes,
and the stadium was packed with poli-
tical opponents, ready and willing to give
their political antipathy a record rasp-
berry. The statesman justified the
appellation, for he sniffed the coming
storm and was unavoidably prevented
from attending. It says much for the
maligned Parisian crowd that it didn’t
hang the promoters on a lamp-post when
it found it had been robbed of its sport.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The five members of
the American Davis Cup team, plus a
non-playing manager and a trainer, have
quartered themselves at Hurlingham,
famous for its polo, but threatened
with conversion into a children’s play-
ground by London’s socialist council.
The team will have plenty of tennis there
on grass courts as good as any in Eng-,
land. Wood, Allison, Van Ryn, Budge
and Mako make up the quintet.
«
Miscellaneous
In the first Test match with the Afri-
kanders at Notts, England ran up 384 for
7 on the first day, Wyatt (dropped before
he had scored) making 149, Sutcliffe 61
and Leyland 69. It rained overnight, and
Wyatt closed in the morning. On a dry-
ing wicket South Africa went for 220 ;
Siedle 59 and Cameron 52. Nicholls
took 6 for 35 with fast-medium right-
hand stuff, and Verity 3 for 52. Follow-
ing on, S.A. had 17 up for the loss of
Siedle when further rain washed out the
match.
* * $ *
“Amballa”; The conditions under
which the Board of Control will
graciously permit the team of cricketers,
mostly ancients, invited to India by the
Maharajah of Patiala have been published.
All allowances are to be equal, and the
profits are to be devoted to Indian
cricket. A proper financial report must
be made to the board at the end of the
tour, and the team must not be called an
Australian Eleven. No Tests are to be
played, and half the £3OO allowance is
to be paid to players before embarka-
tion. Such conditions tagged on to a
friendly invitation by one of India’s
greatest princes are not far short of in-
solence, especially the one stating that the
profits of an invitation tour for which the
Maharajah is finding all the cost without
thought of reimbursement should be
applied to Indian cricket, with which the
board has nothing whatever to do.
Tarrant says the Maharajah will accept
the conditions without comment. If he
does he must be a milder man than his
fiery old predecessor.
* * * He
“Lansdowne”: Justice Evatt, of the
High Court, contributes an article to this
year’s “Wisden’s” on “Australian
Cricket,” designed, in his own words, to
clear up some misapprehensions which
Englishmen entertain about it —and us.
His Honor reckons that the offensive-
ness of barracking is exaggerated and the
barracker himself often misunderstood
or misrepresented. In proof he cites an
incident that produced a deal of un-
pleasantness at Sydney Cricket Ground
in the fifth Test of 1920. Fender cabled
to an English paper that “the Hill” had
jeered at Hobbs when an injury com-
pelled him to limp to the boundary after
a four. The allegation was cabled back,
and next day Fender found himself the
object of a particularly hostile demonstra-
tion from the same Hill. Mr. Evatt
admits that some of the crowd did
chaff at the spectacle of a lame man
chasing a ball to the boundary, but their
derision was directed at two inconsider-
ate colleagues who could have saved the
lame man unnecessary exertion.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Woodfull and Ponsford
are getting as bad as Borotra with their
positively last appearances in big cricket.
The very latest final blow will be in
October, when the pair will open for
The Rest against the Eleven for South
Africa. On top of that there is already
talk that yet another good-bye to all that
will be staged by the pair in the proposed j
benefit to Richardson and Grimmett in
Adelaide next season.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The medical examination
of the Australian cricketers for South
Africa will be made the last week in
August in Melbourne and Sydney. The
Board of Control has fixed up the matter
of the M.C.C. team for M.L. playing in
the various States while passing through
this country. The All-Black treasury will
draw 75 per cent, of the net Australian
gates, and, as on previous occasions,
these should pan out something prett\
handsome.
* * * *
“John's Wood”: Lord’s has introduced I
new device to decide the always-vexed I
question of whether the light is too bad ;
to continue batting. This is a matter
for umpires, but one of the nuisances of
big cricket has been the wearisome
wangling of batsmen anxious to get a
good start next day to persuade the con-
scientious umps. that visibility is gone to
the pack. The new device is an electric
lamp on the scoreboard. Fading light
acts on a selenium cell which turns on
the current to the warning lamp, and the
action of the selenium can be regulated
to the correct degree of darkness. The
principle has been used for unattended
navigation lights for years.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: “Blood sports,” referred
to in the Commons as relics of barbar-
ism, still exercise a pull, notwithstanding
the clamor. ' The other day a Shropshire
landowner successfully applied for an
injunction restraining a gliding club
from carrying out its flights on the Long
Mynd hills because the gliders fright-
ened the grouse on his property away to
the moors of other owners not so near
the flying ground, to his great hurt and
detriment. With August near at hand
everyone not an anti-blood sportsman
will applaud the Court’s decision.
* * * *
“Spike”: There has been a bit of a
fuss because the Australian National
Games heads have cut sculling, rowing
and female contests out of the pro-
gramme for the Adelaide gathering next
year. Athletics, boxing and wrestling,
cycling and swimming are left in. Scull-
ing presumably drops out because Herb
Turner is too dashed good for any shell-
pusher in sight. The Games will be held
in January, and a rowing event would
clash with the race for the King’s Cup
in May.
* =1: * *
“Cinders”: One of the jobs to be
tackled by the next Empire Games con-
ference, which will be held when all the j
teams are gathered together for the Ber-
lin Olympiad, will be the fixing of a de-
fined programme for future Games. At
present the Dominion staging the Games
and drawing up the programme indulges
its own fancy, with the result that sports
at which that particular country does not
excel are apt to be omitted. An attempt
was made at the last conference in Lon-
don to get this important matter fixed,
but the motion was talked out.
# * * *
“Backwoodsman”: Preparations for the
voyage of the Australian bowling team
to South Africa are pretty well com-
pleted. Nominations from clubs must
be in by August 5. The State associa-
tions take them, and will make recom-
mendations to the Australian 8.C., the
final selectors. Total cost of the return
tour in Australian brass, leaving out
pocket-money, is £216 per head, which
must be found by the bowler himself—a
practice which shuts the gate for top-
notch players who are not flush of
money, while giving affluent fifth-class
bowlers a chance to prance abroad or in
other States as representative players.
The party reaches Durban on January 10,
and will be landed at Fremantle on April
4 in good time to take part in the All-
Australia tourney at Perth.


And intense cold
penetrating every part of your engine!
To avoid slow starts to get an instant-
aneous surge of power and speed at any
temperature fill with Atlantic Ethyl.
This modern fuel has higher volatility
quicker firing and perfect knock control
it gives you all the power your car
was built to givel
For Summer starts this Winter
get Atlantic Ethyl.
THIS WINTER
GET
IW
a
m,
m
1
r
a
ft
%
ATLANTIC
r r'rurvr
JDmJnLmJL
ITN
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD.
E 10.48.&


«r
n
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
I MADE IM AUSTRALIA BY \°-/ >£ S
JohnHcinc
SYDN EY £* Son Ltd • SYDNEY
MCPHERSONS PT V. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide. Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
gjnimiMisi
Leipzig Fair, the World’s most
popular and largest market, offers un-
excelled opportunities for profitable
buying.
Commences
AUGUST 25th.
Comprising
General Samples,
Building, House-
hold and Indus-
trial Equipment
Fair.
llllfl
A
%
Information gladly sup-
plied by Lars G. Brun-
dahl, Commissioner in
Australia for the Leipzig
Trade Fair, 121 Pitt
Street, Sydney, ’phone
B 4006; L. Messey,
Technical Adviser, 29
Bligh Street, Sydney;
C. N. Keppel, Box
1658,G.P.0., Melbourne;
H. C. Ittershagen, West
Subiaco, Perth.
Australian Primary
Products find a ready
market in Germany.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and ;
Cold Water, ’Phone
and Reading Lamp, 1
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at I
Double Rates) \
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Unemployment and Assurance
Australia as a country is one of the
world’s strongest supporters of life
assurance. Partly as a result of the
steady contributions of the thrifty,
the net cost of assuring in the
older-established mutual and semi-
mutual offices compares more than
favorably with world standards. The
net cost of assurance is what you pay
into a life office under the terms of your
policy as compared with what you receive.
Life assurance was designed originally
to provide for dependants in the event of
death of the breadwinner in a family.
Then endowment assurance was intro-
duced, combining saving with a death-
benefit. The endowment was payable at
any arranged age (generally around re-
tirement), and thus made provision for
want when earnings ceased through old
age.
This type of assurance has been very
popular, especially in industrial centres.
It represents compulsory saving against
any anticipated event at any time in life.
The essential feature of life assurance
is provision in the flush years for the
days when circumstances may not be so
kind. The compulsory element —once a
policy is taken out, early surrender
means monetary loss —is strongly in its
favor. If people saved only a few
shillings a week when in full employ-
ment, it is remarkable what a lay-by these
savings would represent in a few years’
time. Five shillings a week put away
represents, without interest, £l3O in 10
years. Eight shillings a week paid under
an endowment policy (on the life of a
man aged about 25) would return £2OO,
with bonuses (usually substantial) added,
in about 10 years’ time, or. at previous
death.
Thrift on the part of people gener-
ally is a great national asset. If,
instead of living beyond their incomes
in times when work is plentiful and
wages high—this is usually the time
when pianolas and other t.-p. * articles
are indulged in—something were put by
for the inevitable rainy day, the saving
would do much to curb inflation during
a boom, and establish a public-spending
reserve when conditions took a down-
ward dip. The spendings of wage-earners
constitute one of the greatest factors in
determining whether business conditions
—-and employment—are good or bad.
As things are in Australia at the
moment, there is no form of obligatory
saving or assurance. Consequently those
in jobs, and those with property income,
are paying heavily in special taxation to
support the jobless. Given, say, 10 years
of fair conditions, a sound unemploy-
ment-assurance scheme with levies on
half the scale of the present unemploy-
ment-relief taxation would have provided
against present industrial hardship in a far
better way than the dole. The very fact
of savings or premiums being taken out
of public spending power during pros-
perous conditions would mean less rise
in boom-time prices, and less fall when
the inevitable slackness came along.
The present is an opportune time to
think about national assurance. The
greatest provision will need to be made
in the good times, certainly, and at
present we ajre only recovering from a
severe doing; but the time to set the
ball rolling is while the memory of
the hardships of the past five years is
still keen.
The matter is not one entirely for Gov-
ernment planning or control. The large
Australian life offices have precious prac-
tical experience of all matters relating to
assurance. They know the extent to which
they can advance money on policies when
the holders are in financial difficulties.
Like the private banks, they have con-
ducted their affairs so ably during these
hard times that the only public concern
about their stability was when politi-
cians were advocating inflation. It would
be folly not to utilise their services.
The factory activity of Australia (B.
19/6/’35), though recovering in a way to
hearten those who have barracked for
such industries, is no greater than
it should be. This year our favorable
trade balance will not meet overseas in-
terest. Efficient local manufacture —
motor tyres, textiles and several other
lines are particularly cheap—is some-
thing to be thankful for where further
importing cannot but damage our credit
abroad. Some Australian industries have
yet to prove themselves; but if the
success of B. H. Pty. and the tyre-manu-
facturing cos. —to suggest only a couple
of cases —is paralleled generally that
proof should be forthcoming.
Last week-end found Broken Hill Prop,
shares a few pence short of 605., a rise of
“Will you please sign this opposite ‘payee’?”
“ ’Taint pay ’ee , mister — it’s pay she.”
10s. in two months. The steelworks’ out-
put of pig-iron for the 12 months to the
end of May (the co.’s financial year) was
49 p.c. greater than in 1934, while the
outturn of ingot steel was up 37 p.c. In
1934 14.3 p.c. was earned on capital,
after providing substantially for depre-
ciation, and a 10 p.c. div. was paid. The
market is reasonable in its hopes of some-
thing better for the latest term. Accounts
are presented late in August, but pre-
liminary figures are generally published
before that.
Industrial shares had a very strong
market last week. In addition to B.H.
Pty.’s spectacular rise. Tooths and
Colonial Sugar touched new high levels.
Australian Glass was also strong. Consols
were unsettled, and bank shares show
little move either way, though they are,
generally speaking, weak. Because of
drought in western Queensland, the
Q.N.’s shares are below par.
•Ji iJj <i' $
“D.A.”: A newspaper controversy is
raging as to whether Sydney or Mel-
bourne is “the financial centre of Aus-
tralia.” Melbourne points to the greater
support it has given to Commonwealth
loans, its bank deposits and the fact that
it houses the head offices of the three
British-Australian banks, the National
and the C.8.A., and the National Mutual,
T, and G. and Colonial Mutual Life.
Sydney has the ’Wales, the Commercial
of Sydney, the Commonwealth, the larg-
est mutual life office in the. Empire (the
A.M.P.) and greater bank clearings than
Melbourne, The C.S.R. has its head
office in Sydney, but B. H. Prop., though
its steelworks are at Newcastle, has its
share-register in Melbourne, and British
Tobacco has its registered office on the
southern side of the Murray. Sydney has
nothing quite like Collins House, either.
The control of Broken Hill companies
from Melbourne is somewhat charactex-
istic of the financial relations between
the two States. The unbiased will toss
up about the “financial” title, but Sydney
carries off the “commercial” ribbon.
The wool clip for the coming season
(1935-36) has been forecast at 2,930,000
bales, 216,000 bales fewer than for the
season just closing. The sales will be
opened in Sydney on September 2, fol-
lowed by auctions in Adelaide, Mel-
bourne and Perth later in the month.
Offerings before Christmas will be re-
stricted to 1,420,000 bales, though the
position may be reviewed in the light
of market conditions.
# ❖ ❖ ❖
Wool broking and pastoral companies
are bringing out their balance sheets ;
the accounts cover nearly a year of low
wool prices. Goldsbrough Mort earned
4.2 p.c. on its capital during the year to
Mar. 31 but paid 6 p.c., as in 1934.
Commonwealth Wool’s showing, exclud-
ing bonuses to clients, dropped from
6.6 p.c. to 3.6 p.c., and the div. fell
from 5 p.c. to 4 p.c. Younghusband,
Ltd., earned 4.9 p.c., as against 7.7 p.c.,
and paid 6 p.c. as compared with 7 p.c.
The prolonged wool sales meant higher
overhead exes., but the fact that distri-
butions to shareholders have exceeded
profits in each of the foregoing cases
suggests confidence in the future of the
staple.
At long last the world price of sugar is
strengthening. Raw sugar (duty unpaid)
has risen from around £4 to over £5 a
ton in London ; that means £6 ss. (Aust.)
to Queensland millers without taking pre-
ferences into account. For years the
return to the Australian grower had
been on a continuous decline. The cut
of id. in the retail home-consumption
price was only partly responsible ; the
return per ton for the export surplus
shrank each year. Improvement in the
world price affects the C.S.R. only in
respect of its Fiji plantations; Fairy-
mead, Millaquin, Gibson and Howes
and individual farmers are the Aus-
tralian interests which will benefit.
Should such a substantial rise in the
world price take place that the return
to the growers and millers’ pool went
above £22 a ton, the consumer would
begin to benefit under the Sugar Pro-
ducers’ Agreement. That point, however,
is still a long way off.
* ❖ ❖ *
Gold was slightly stronger in London
last week, rising to £7 Is. 2|d. on Fri-
day. Better-class gold stocks, such as
Placer (which touched £29 10s.), Golden
Mile shows and Mt. Morgan, display
steadiness in the market. New Middle
Creek shares have been changing hands
freely at £l7 10s.
* * $ *
London commodity, prices of a month
ago—and they have shown comparatively
little variation since—are generally much
stronger than a year earlier. Antimony,
lead, silver, spelter, cocoa, cotton, jute,
maize, oats, wheat, oils, rice and sugar
are all substantially higher. Tin, linseed,
legumes, rubber, shellac and wool showed
moderate falls. Prices of raw materials
are often a key to world conditions, sub-
ject to under- or overproduction of the
particular commodity. The trends noted
indicate greater consumption, which
means greater buying power among the
nations.
* * * *
Meggitt, Ltd., the largest manufac-
turer of linseed products in Australia, has
had comparatively stable conditions in
its sphere of activities lately. The linseed
market overseas has been low, without
violent fluctuations, though the cost of
exchange is something the co. has to
contend with. Recently N. S. Wales pas-
toralists and dairymen benefited from re-
ductions of £2 10s. a ton in the cost of
oil-cake and sheep-nuts. One problem
has been to balance consumption of oil
with output of cake —every two tons of
cake means a ton of oil. The paint trade
(now recovering) was incapable of ab-
sorbing the oil output, so Michael
Naim’s, of Scotland, was encouraged to
come into the Australian linoleum busi-
ness to help absorb Meggitt’s surplus
oil. Lino, is largely made from linseed.
Michael Nairn (Aust.), Ltd., has been in-
creasing its output, and appears to be
well round the corner. If the lino, indus-
try becomes firmly established here it
will be a good thing for linseed-millers.
* * *
Practically all the £96,328 received by
Melbourne Centenary Celebrations Coun-
cil in donations and grants has been
absorbed in costs of the proceedings.
The Vic. Government and Melbourne
City Council contributed £20,000 each.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SHOHS
“Let’s Live To-night” and “Passport
to Fame”
Bane and antidote at Sydney Plaza,
The keynote of “Lefs Live To-night” is
provided by Lilian Harvey’s monstrous
hotel bed at Monte Carlo. It is a Mae
West plus —vulgar without being funny.
Her London bed is equally luscious and
improbable. Miss Harvey, looking child-
ish and ethereal with her ash-blonde hair
hanging down her back, is discovered
gambling by herself in the Casino.
Enter Tullio Carminati. He is masterful
as in “One Night of Love” ; she squirms,
grins, makes eyes and in general works
terrifically hard to be elfin, as in “The
Only Girl.” They part next morning in
anguish, having found true love, but
come together again in time for more
anguish, which is followed presently by
eternal happiness. Luis Alberni is
comic as an Italian butler-valet, and
Hugh Williams is worth listening to as
an exponent of beautifully articulated
English. A couple of years ago the purse-
proud settings and the overacting of the
principals would have been hailed here as
high Teutonic art. Friday night’s audi-
ence seemed bored. Evidently our
cinema taste is improving.
“Passport to Fame” is a perfect pro-
duction of its fantastic kind. Edward G.
Robinson as Jones, a model clerk, is
timid, kind and humble; as his double,
“Killer” Mannion, he is a monster of
cold, efficient ferocity. The police arrest
Jones on suspicion of being Mannion
(diverting satire here on American police
methods), and on learning their mistake
give him a document which states that
he isn’t Mannion. Mannion robs him of
the document. Every imaginable change
is rung on this situation, two of the most
exciting being when Mannion (as Jonesy)
is sent to prison for his own protection
and kills a pimp there, and when Man-
nion (still as Jonesy) gives Jean Arthur
a sound kissing and is recognised by her.
Eventually Jonesy (as Mannion) grabs a
machine-gun, and virtue triumphs. Miss
Arthur is naturalism itself as “Bill,” a
modern office girl; so are most of the
others in poor Jonesy’s office, from Paul
Harvey as “J.G.,” the boss, downwards.
The gangsters are film stereotypes who
atone for the fact that they probably
don’t exist by being highly dramatic.
Though there are two violent deaths, the
thing is essentially a first-class comedy,
with many farcical climaxes and delight-
fully appropriate lines.
“Black Fury”
Paul Muni, a Polish coalminer, is used
as a decoy duck by racketeers who
want to start a strike. Finding he has
led the miners into folly. Muni enters
the mine, from which the men have been
locked out, with a truck-load of dyna-
mite, and threatens to blow it up. A
Federal inquiry having established that
the strike was fomented by crooks, the
management gives way. Scenes of rioting
and evictions are well done, and there is
swift, vigorous action towards the close.
The badly-broken English of Muni and
many of his fellow-miners makes most
of the early dialogue hard to follow, but
the story tells itself without words.
Muni gets under the skin of his part,
and another true-to-life study is given
by Joe Crehan as a miners’ union official.
At Sydney Capitol.
“A Spring Tonic”
Round a deserted inn where Claire
Trevor and her comic maid Zasu Pitts
have taken refuge from a storm stalks
an escaped circus tiger, pursued by
yokels with guns. Jose, a Spaniard (hus-
band of the tiger-tamer), serenades the
ladies with his guitar. Lew Ayres arrives
in search of his fiancee (Miss Trevor).
A tolerable fantasia, of which the best
. g Jo§ . ’ of Walter King , a
versat ji e character actor. He scored
e q Ua u y effectively in “One More Spring”
j n f be vasdy different part of a proud,
poverty-stricken virtuoso. At Sydney
Capitol.
Heart Is Calling”
company
Kiepura is the tenor and
. u . ,
v” fi he , o
d in Monte Carlo. So they do Tosca
outside the Opera House during a per-
tormance by the official company. The
SYDNEY TALKIES.
Conrad Veidt and Cedric Hardwicke in “Bella Donna” at the Mayfair.
(Below) Garbo in "The Painted Veil."
audience gradually filters out, until the
open-air show has stolen the whole house.
Kiepura is slimmer than when we last
saw him. Hale is as funny as ever, and
would probably be no less so if he didn’t
try to get laughs out of his clothes.
“The Phantom Light”
Reminiscent of “The Ghost Train,” but
with a lighthouse setting. The usual for-
mula is followed —the building up of an
eerie atmosphere, the mysterious appear-
ances and vanishings, the suspicious
characters who turn out to be detectives
and the unsuspicious character who
turns out to be the criminal. Gordon
Harker, as the lightkeeper, is splendid in
his biggest movie part to date. Herbert
Lomas, as Harker’s superstitious Welsh
assistant, is the next best. Also at the
Embassy.
Some First Nights
The flame that Menuhin is said to have
lit in Melbourne was fanned into a blaze
at the Town Hall on Saturday night by
Bernard Heinze and Percy Grainger,
working together in perfect brotherliness.
Half-measures are no measures to Percy
Grainger. On the platform was the
Symphony Orchestra, including such dis-
tinguished artists as Bertha Jorgensen,
Stanislas Tarczynski and Edouard Lam-
bert. F. Earle sat at the organ. Mrs.
Grainger and Mauricette MacGillicuddy,
tuneful percussion players, danced be-
fore their instruments, snatching the im-
plements from each other and glancing
up at the conductor with anxious faces;
three pianists worked in shifts at the
grand piano, and there were a baby
grand, cowbells and other means of mak-
ing harmony, each with its eager-eyed
attendant, male or female. And not only
did Grainger, as chief mate under Cap-
tain Heinze, shorten sail and crack on
canvas at various new instruments, but
he turned off one of the pianists in the
middle of a suite and took his place at
the grand piano, where, towards the end
of the item, he became dissatisfied with
the keyboard and, removing part of the
framework, hammered on the wires
themselves with little drumsticks.
The audierice, packed to the ceiling,
sat dumbfounded, shocked or delighted,
according to the condition of their musi-
cal knowledge. Some thought the busi-
ness unusual, to say the least of it, if not
actually disreputable; others, remember-
ing that when Wagner’s “Tannhauser”
overture was first rehearsed in London
the musicians could not get on with it
for laughing, suspended judgment.
There was a variety of experiences in
the exhilarating evening. Three little
pieces for the strings were all remarkably
alike in musical contour, although one
was by William Byrd, who may have
been a personal friend of Shakspeare,
one was by the great Purcell, who was
born shortly after Charles Stuart
perished on the scaffold, and the third
was a melody by Bach brought up to
date by Frederick Stock, conductor of
the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. All
were sober without being dry. Grainger
displayed his remarkable musicianship
as soloist in the lovely Symphonic Varia-
tions for pianoforte and orchestra of
Franck; and a repetition was demanded
of Tasmanian Katherine Parker’s “Down
Longford Way,” a short but stately
fragment for full orchestra and organ,
into which at one point came a most
extraordinary illusion as of voices
singing.
The full Grainger resources were de-
ployed on the new “Festival Overture”
of Cyril Scott, which began with some
strange and alluring grumblings from
the bass viols, wandered discursively
through suggestions of the sights and
sounds of English country life and ended
up in a clamor which beggared descrip-
tion. Pandemonium broke loose once
more with the first performance in Aus-
tralia of Grainger’s “In a Nutshell,”
though not merely pandemonium. The
first part purports to describe the emo-
tions of a person awaiting the arrival of
his loved one from foreign parts on a
railway station; the second is “gay but
wistful,” whatever that means ; the third
chapter, which contains some pretty
pages, is a pastoral, and the whole ends
with one of the insistent marches which
Grainger delights in, but more complex
in structure and more massed and gigan-
tic than usual, as of a whole population
tramping towards some known objective.
It was called “The Gumsuckers,” and the
gumsuckers present had the opportunity
of reading themselves into it, if they
wished to do so.
V rf
Shaw’s “The Apple Cart” was staged
by the Independent Theatre at the Sydney
Savoy. A play wherein nine persons
remain seated throughout the better part
of two acts and exchange political ideas,
it demands almost superlative acting. The
Independents succeeded in keeping the
audience from going to sleep. John
Alden as King Magnus looked regal
and handled the long speeches to his
Cabinet with satisfying ease. Proteus was
played by Alfred Race in a suitably de-
termined manner, William Rees, as the
trade-unionist, might have stepped down
from a soap-box in a public park if it
were not for his comic-opera rigout. Enid
Lorimer furnished a sincere and appeal-
ing study of the Powermistress-General,
and Patricia Cole, as the plebeian Post-
mistress-General, successfully deflated the
pride of her more pompous colleagues.
As the American Ambassador John
Wyndham was highly diverting. The
scenery fitted in with the play, the
chromium-plated steel furniture adding an
appropriate modern touch.
*¥ . »
Most of the “Bare Facts of 1935,” at
Sydney Civic, were familiar in earlier
years, but they go gaily. Mo permeates
the show. With the cheerful assistance
of Connors and Paul, Sadie Gale and
others, he is many things, from Fairy
Queen to an equally-unshaven baby.
“Broadway Madness,” with interpretative
ballet, is the most attractive musical
number.
* V *
Good casting and excellent acting
characterise the production of the Quin-
tero play “Peace and Quiet,” presented
by Sydney Players’ Club at St. James’s
Hall. Edward Cavill, William Wines, Alex.
Boden, Trixie Gore, Valerie Ball, Mary
Hickey and Betty Marshall are ■■ all-
worthy of mention. The play, which, in
addition to sound characterisation, has
more genuine comedy to the square inch
than a truckload of farce, is preceded by
a striking little thriller, “The Safe,” by
Arthur Dibley, in which Jackson Ricarde
and John Appleton figure,
* * *
The W.E.A. of Adelaide’s Little
Theatre has pluckily put up Shaw’s
“Androcles and the Lion.” The quad-
ruped part was played by a girl humor-
ist. Girls had the whole show to them-
selves in a brass band recital at the
Town Hall, except that Arthur Hodg-
kins, from Canada, conducted.


QS»
23 Goulburn
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IN
SYDNEY
• Petty’s Hotel is an historical landmark of
Sydney. It is old; 100 years old; and yet to-day it
is gaining more and more guests through its atmos-
phere of restful comfort; its modern appointments:
perfect service. Tariff; Room and breakfast, 11/6;
Inclusive. 18/-.
PETTYS
Hotel
V
York Street, Sydney
R. J. Langley. Manager
W.A.’S
Leading
Station !
6AM is Western Australia’s leading
commercial station. It is on the air
longer and has a greater radius than
any other similar station in the State,
tetters from satisfied advertisers prove
the value of 6AM.
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Portrait.
She’s as pink and as smooth and as hard
as a shell,
And pretty as silver and sound as a bell;
When life hits her hard she’ll confess to
no pain,
But grins like a bruiser and bobs up
again.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WOOD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Fiddles,
Fiddlers and
Perfection
“C. Sharp” has
invited me to say
why Kubelik,
Heifetz, Elman
and Erica Morini,
playing Strads.;
Krei s 1 e r and
Szigeti, using fiddles by Guarnerius;
Francesco Mores, caressing a Gagliano ;
Balocovic, with his battery of Strads. and
Guarneriuses ; and Daisy Kennedy, mak-
ing an Amati sing, may not be regarded as
perfect fiddlers, operating perfect fiddles.
May I open ray reply by asking why
“C. Sharp” refers to Kubelik’s “Em-
peror” as “one of the three most perfect
Strads. in the world”? Webster defines
“perfect” as “finished, consummate, com-
plete, faultless, blameless, unblemished.”
In short, it is a superlative. Either a
thing is perfect or it isn’t. Admit degrees
in perfection and the term loses its mean-
ing. Webster rightly places the most im-
portant element as “finished.” When
Antonio Stradivarius fitted the last string
to the fiddle that pleased him best the
instrument was finished in one sense of
the term. It may have been —it prob-
ably was —the very best violin that ever,
had been made, but it wasn’t perfect.
As Antonio well knew, age would slightly
improve it. Had Nero been a luthier
as well as a fiddler, and if his violins
were built with the genius of a Stradi-
varius, they should, according to a super-
stition held by most violinists, be superior
to-day to any made at a later date.
But, apart from the cumulatively im-
proving effects of age, which may be
mainly imaginary (in a test in Paris
before virtuosi some years ago a newly-
made French fiddle scored over some of
the best by the old Italian masters), the
violin has never absolutely satisfied its
most talented professors. Paganini, Tar-
tini, De Beriot —all the old masters of
fabulous fame experimented with
special tunings, and continually sought
for better strings and dreamed of better
fiddles. I haven’t sat for 30 years in
vSydney Town Hall with my feet
wrapped in newspapers, but 1 have heard
a mort of fiddles, and not one of them
had an evenness of timbre from bass to
treble comparable to that of a good
piano. Most of them sounded as if the
music were produced from two or three
different instruments.
As to the fiddlers, the best of them
are a lot nearer perfection than the in-
struments they play, but I wouldn’t say
that any mentioned by “C. Sharp" are per-
fect. Sydney daily newspaper critics found
them all immaculate, but in older musi-
cal centres more discrimination has been
shown, and each has been praised for
some special excellence. I’m convinced
that the popular appeal of many of them
rests as much on their personality as on
their music. Paganini scored because
people thought he had sold his soul to
the devil —and he looked the part. Kreis-
ler’s Jove-like masculinity, Heifetz’s hier-
archical demeanor, Daisy Kennedy’s
pretty arms (there’s perfection if you
like!), Balocovic’s romantic marine back-
ground and Menuhin’s glowing youth
mingle with the music. But I’m inter-
ested only in the music, and four decades
of critical listening to it has convinced
me that, while technique improves, instru-
ments fail to keep pace. When I hear
perfect music from a perfect fiddle I’ll
know I’m dead, and in a place where I
have no right to expect to be.
A. MAJOR.
Australian
Actresses
in London
The Queen
paid Australian
actresses the big-
gest compliment
they have yet re-
ceived when she
chose Carol
Coombe's play “Lady Precious Stream”
for her jubilee theatre visit. The little
Perth-Sydney girl we used to know as
Gwen is putting up one of the best shows
in London in the name part of this
Chinese play. With her is Lucille Lisle,
who not so long ago was playing with
other children on Manly beach. Young
Lucille has in her short career done
what most actresses would give a year’s
salary to do—played opposite both Her-
bert Marshall in New York and Sir
Cedric Hardwicke in London.
The two new plays of this last week
of May have both featured Australian
girls in the lead. Coral Brown,, of Mel-
bourne, has big notices for her star part
in the new Embassy show, and Nancy
O’Neill (she’s really the daughter of a
well-known Macquarie-street specialist
An example of the portraiture of A madeo
Modigliani, who drew the essentials of
his draughtsmanship from negro sculp-
ture, which specialises in long noses and
small mouths. “To his sublimation of
design,” says a sympathetic commentator,
“is joined a lustrous clarity of color.”
It looks like mud in the reproduction,
but perhaps not to the eyes of an Ashanti
carver.
(From the “Studio.”)
of another name) carried the new thriller
“Someone at the Door.”
I was talking to one of the best-
known directors in the film world last
week and he was bemoaning the fact
that he cannot get English girls to fill the
roles of his various pictures. “They’re
too darn Tefeened,’ ” he said, “and so
desperately anxious to be pukka all the
time.” It’s a fair criticism in many
cases, though obviously there are bril-
liant exceptions. But there is no doubt
that the old school of English actresses
of the Tempest-Vanbrugh class is not
being replaced by the present-day
“society accent” type who bestrew the
West End stage. Where you find tem-
perament and acting ability you mostly
discover the owner to be Celtic in
ancestry or Dominion in origin.
The director was insistent that Ameri-
can and Australian girls had more “pep”
in their work than the London variety.
“They’re not frightened to live their
part,” he said, “and they don’t care a
damn what the front row of the stalls
thinks about them. They have what the
Yanks call poisonality; yes, sir.”
I think he is right. To begin with, a
young girl who leaves the safety of home
and crosses thousands of miles of water
to seek fame and fortune in a strange
country must necessarily possess both
“pep” and “poisonality,” and she per-
force has experiences which must in-
Hahn Soutine’s idea of a choirboy. "His
color attains a rare luminosity, and the
controlled ease of his design has made
him a leader among the foreign artists
known as the School of Paris” writes
an admirer. Apparently he views his
subjects reflected in a spoon—indubitable
evidence of genius.
evitably help her towards a richer sym-
pathy with the characters she is called
upon to portray.
Aparf from all that, however, there is
no doubt that the Australian girl is
popular here, in contrast to Australian
men, who are still suffering the slings
and arrows of the various so-called
“sporting” writers of some of the London
dailies. Perhaps if we males had served
our Arts as well as we had served our
god. Sport, we would not now have been
left comfortless in our hour of difficulty.
LONDON,
KEITH BARRY.
Australian
Films and
World Market
A representa-
tive of an Ameri-
can film-distribut-
ing firm in Syd-
ney is reported
as saying: “I
hardly think it
would pay an American company to
bring a production unit to Australia.”
One might as well say that it would not
pay an American company to send a
production unit to Siam or Sudan, Tibet
or Tierra del Fuego. Expeditions financed
by film companies go into Africa, the
Arctic circle and other remote places,
and make films which often return far
more than the most lavish of studio-made.
productions.
An Australian adventure picture has
a chance of repeating those perform-
ances, but not Australian pictures which
have purely domestic stories and are
made within the four walls of a studio.
The Australian film-producing industry
will not grow to any size by merely fulfill-
ing the provisions of a film quota which
is framed wholly to stimulate the growth.
It will only grow by producing pictures
which will have world-wide appeal, just
as the industry grew quickly in England
once it was discovered that films must
entertain in Manly and Toorak as well
as in Mayfair and Bloomsbury.
I am certain it would pay an Ameri-
can company to come here and produce
a good Australian adventure picture, to
be made entirely in the country it depicts.
Soon some company will “discover” Aus-
tralia from a film point of view, and
then many other companies will follow to
complete the usual cycle of films of a
new locale.
ERIC BEDFORD.
“Studio”
Moderns
Spring number
of the “Studio”
this year is de-
voted to the
“modern move-
ment in painting,”
expounded in an
essay by T. W. Earp and illustrated by
16 plates in color reproducing works by
painters whose style ranges from the
anatomically respectful Renoir to the
brutally grotesque Modigliani. Mr. Earp
explains that an example of negro sculp-
ture finally weaned Matisse from all
fetters. After he had studied this mon-
strosity (a one-eyed woman with her
nose joined to her mouth) he decided that
“it mattered not whether a drawing or a
painting carried a resemblance to any
specific object either partially or at all,
so long as itself it was an expression of
beautiful form.” How the expression
came to be so violently divorced from
natural canons of beauty Mr. Earp does
not divulge. A less sympathetic view of
the modernist art movement is that it is
due to an inferiority complex. Despair-
ing of improving upon Rembrandt,
Praxiteles and Bach, painters, sculptors
and musical composers vented scorn on
the culture these represented by atro-
ciously violating all its laws. Most of
the productions in this “Studio” issue are
of intense interest to the alienist. If the
standards expounded by Max Nordau
are reliable (and there has never been
an authoritative reply to his exposition)
mental degeneracy is written all over
most of them.
A. D. W.
Current
Artbursts
Tom Garrett’s
picture shows are
always popular in
Adelaide, and the
present one (engi-
neered entirely by.
his wife) has brought crowds to the
Society of Arts Gallery. His sense of
color makes even his mannerisms attrac-
tive ; and his brown trees in the mode of
a century back, his green trees that sprout
and curl till they resemble smoke
wreaths, all “get across.” It is a warm
and comfortable show, rich in odd un-
known bits of Sydney byways. Sales
are, for the period, unusually good ; and
the Art Gallery of S.A. has discovered
the monotypes with enthusiasm and
bought three of them.
Murray Griffin, who shows color-
prints, oils and water-colors at the Gros-
venor Galleries, Sydney, should stick to
his prints. They outshine his achieve-
ments in other media to an unfair degree.
His lino-cuts are the nearest Caucasian
approach this critic has seen to the sim-
plicity and grace practised by the great
Japanese masters of form, line and
color. In “The Wave,” “The Crab” and
“The Hungry One” the designer must
have nearly satisfied his own ideals. The
National Gallery has bought “Penguins”
and “Cannas,” and they won’t need to
feel ashamed wherever they may be
hung.
Daryl, youngest of the four Lindsay
brothers who paint', specialises in flower
pieces, 26 of which hang on the walls of
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. “Phlox”
is the brightest of these designs; in all
the others the color is a trifle sad, a
feature accentuated perhaps by white
frames, a conjunction that calls to mind
pallid marble tombstones. Drawing is
accurate, composition correct, execution
competent, but these flowers simply
refuse to rejoice.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tar iff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL,
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P-O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Lnnch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
dfg4r
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Banners: The Union.
ii, vnam Hotel
s
iir(
m
ills mm
.* rf 3 3,} ll
til
m
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from .. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Says the Girl in the Flat Opposite, “If
you are thinking of going out to the
polo by way of tram and bus, don’t!”
Finances being low last Saturday, and
having read about a special bus to the
ground, she grimly knotted her woollen
muffler about her throat, and set out by
this proletarian transport The trans-
port was all right as far as it went, but
it didn’t go far enough. The bus emptied
her out on a waste of sandy dunes,
bounded by Cook’s River on one far
side and Botany Bay on the other. Then
there was the lofty viaduct, whose sur-
roundings must have looked much the
same in Captain Cook’s day. There was
a mile or so of viaduct, and it marked
the foot-slogger’s way. Prancing midway
in the air, making Princess Marina-like
clutches at her brimmed hat, which was
being snapped at by the savage teeth of
a' head wind, she finally arrived at the
sacred enclosure, her mind dark with sus-
picion that the path her feet had trod
was a sewage corridor rather than the
fresh-water conductor her fellow
marchers declared.
Kyeemagh is a vast open green space
surrounded by pines. An inner border
of cars on Saturday made a modern
frieze around the fence of the playing
fields, A modest outline of garden seats
closer to the fence supplied an old-
fashioned freeze to the legs of the un-
carred and unrugged. Inside the en-
closure Margaret Allen and Phyllis
Curtis Skene ranged about on horse-
back very busy about whatever lines-
men do get busy about. Polo without
Horderns and Ashtons would be like
liver without bacon, so, of course, they
were there. So were Osbornes and Bul-
livants and McKays.
The Tony Horderns were early arrivals,
she in red-and-beige checks. The Jim
Ashtons and the Geoff Ashtons were
among the much-glanced-at; Mrs. M. L.
Baillieu, of Melbourne, was with mother,
Mrs. Willsallen; Mrs. Sam Hordern’s
daffodil jumper was a jocund note, and
Anne Gordon’s sapphire-blue harmon-
ised with her grey tweeds. Dinah and
Mary Hordern were smartness itself in
green and beige respectively ; Helen and
Philippa Stephen and Hazel Grace
(very bright and smiling in her checked
cape), with betrothed Hector Macfarlane,
were keen onlookers. Quite a young
generation of Horderns, too, cheered the
day. They were the E. D. Horderns’
Pamela, Deidre and Maureen. Pretty
Charmian Mack, Joan Tyler, Pat Farqu-
harson, Lela Forsaythe, Noreen and
Patsy Dangar, Mrs. Wallace Horsley
and the Falkiners from Melbourne were
among the thousands.
Saturday’s polo was rounded off by a
dance of ball dimensions in the garden
ballroom of Retford Hall. As usual, the
path from the house was covered and
enclosed with canvas. The flowers were
beauteous and plentiful—standards of
poinsettia, and, in the cardroom, pink
arum-liles and gladioli, Mrs, Tony
Hordern, president of the ball com-
mittee, hostessed in blue splendor.
Mrs. Lennox Bode’s Parma violets flew
a long velvet shoulder scarf; Mrs. Sam
Hordern’s black velvet and silver fox,
Mimi Healey’s green and gold laces and
Mary Hordern’s lilac chiffons are
pleasant sartorial memories.
A Westralian who has spent recent
years in Japan arrived in Sydney by the
Neptuna. She is Mrs. Harold Vincent,
of Yokohama, and with her small son
Tony she is staying with Mrs, Foster
Mattei at Musgrave-street, Mosman.
Later she travels towards Perth and
mother, Mrs. Heppingstone, Her rela-
tions, Lieut, and Mrs. H. Walters, by a
coincidence, were passengers by the
Tanda, which came in on Thursday.
Lieut Walters is stationed at Kohat
in the north-west of India. Three months
of the Walters couple’s extended honey-
moon leave will be spent at Killara to be
near the lieutenant’s mother.
Camilla Wedgwood, the new principal
of the Women’s College within the Uni-
versity, sprayed her speech at the N.C.W.
lunch with humor. She spoke of Nauru,
where she was doing a job of anthro-
pology for several months last year.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was among the
listeners diverted by Camilla’s vivid
description of Nauru’s mum and dad
taking the family for an airing—all on
one bike. Nauru might be the cycle
salesman’s paradise (Miss Wedgwood
estimated that one in every three of the
population owned a velocipede) if the
population were a hundred times greater.
Lady Hore-Ruthven congratulated other
N.C.W. members who had received jubi-
lee honors. Dr. (now Dame) Constance
D’Arcy and president Mrs. Bernard
Muscio were other speakers.
Mary Stuckey, tall and fair and a
trainee of the Board of Social Study, is
very happy over her appointment as club
leader at the University Settlement. Mary
was one of the little group headed by
Aileen Fitz Patrick that recently travelled
through the U.S.A. seeing how that
country sets about the job of bringing
happiness to life’s mean streets.
In the clear, sharp sunlight the tops
of tall palms glittered, and the electric
bulbs were as a crystal garland between
the light standards. A great peace
reigned over all. The stranger within
the R.A.S. gates began to peer about for
the Sheep Show, but the habitue strode
in the direction of quick, eager barks.
These came from the group of dogs
fastened around a pavilion near the ring
waiting their turn to show how well
their owners had trained them in the
shepherding of sheep. And do the
shepherd kings follow these trials with in-
terest? Well, the arrival of Greta Garbo
and Charles Laughton couldn’t have un-
damped their gaze when that cunning
little kelpie was at a critical bit of yard-
ing.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says
she still looks quite sheepish from gaz-
ing for hours at merinos, Longwools and
Corriedales. She says she thinks the
prize merino ram must be the reincar-
nation of some huntsman who wound
his horn persistently. Being an Austra-
lian, her favorites are the Corriedales
(though they were invented in Maoriland),
and she isn’t to be shaken from this by
the rumor that when Sir Alexander Hore-
Ruthven went the round of the pens he
gave his gladdest eye to the British
breeds. The ewes, incidentally, were hav-
ing quite a gossip over the meat quota:
“Ridiculous to keep the members of my
family from travelling whenever they
want to,” said one haughty dame. “Oh,
I don’t know,” replied one of the
younger generation with a pert bleat;
“the English always have had a saying
‘bar, bar black sheep’!”
After the rams and the ewes had been
put in their places, and had stepped out
into the decorated class or fallen back
among the mere rankers, the Sheep
Show was opened by the Governor. Lady
Hore-Ruthven, in a suit of deep-blue
tweed, and black fox furs decorated with
orchids, was among the interested; so
was Fred McMaster’s lady, also clad in
blue. Dinah Hordern and Jean Mc-
Pherson were black-suited ; Cherie Haley
was in beige angora, Mrs. Tony Hordern
snug with silver-fox. Noreen and Patsy
Dangar were among the knowledgeable
visitors;. so were Thelma McMaster,
Laure Falkiner and Mrs. J. H. S. Angus.
Joan Harrison, from Goulburn, and
Joyce Dawkins, from Gawler (S.A.),
were exhibitors of Southdowns. The
Show was a very serious occasion for
them.
Members of the Overseas Club, look-
ing very smart, swept into the lounge
of the Carlton one night last week. White
ties were tweaked, long gloves smoothed
in the corridor, and then the grand
entry was made. In the doorway stood
president Keith Smith, secretary Arline
Waddy, Tom Bavin and Kelso King,
and the glad hand was extended to all.
Little clusters of chairs about the room
indicated that the assemblage would soon
pass over into the silence while music
would speed the hour. To make up,
everybody talked nineteen to the dozen,
and the women took in one another’s
silhouettes. Olive Kelso King’s white lace
frock came under the heading graceful;
Prof. Lambic’s wife wore the increas-
ingly fashionable taffeta in palest green;
Arline Waddy’s long black frock had a
short coat patterned with squares of
silver kid.
Presently the vice-regals were on the
doorstep. Violet Buchanan, all ivory and
black lace ruffles, curtsied and handed
to Lady Hore-Ruthven a cluster of poin-
settia and gladioli. These were in rich
contrast to the dark velvet of her trained
frock with its scarf collar of gold lame.
Clement Hosking sang of the daughter
of a Bailiff of Islington; Mary Bourke
sighed in rich tones for a breath of the
moorland ; Ronald Wilkinson’s violin and
Mary Charlton’s piano notes were
genuine currency, and the accompani-
ments had the right ring. Coffee and
cigarettes rounded off the night.
The Ashtons are Polo Week, and
here’s a photograph by Dayne of Mrs.
Jim Ashton, junior, one of the hostesses
of yesterday’s late-afternoon rally at
No, 11 Onslow-avenue.
Shaw’s “Apple Cart” played to capa-
city at the Savoy on Saturday night. But
it was an audience whose clothes would
have been suitable for a Kosciusko excur-
sion (except the ushers —their garments
were as balmy as spring). This habit of
getting into fur stockings for theatre out-
ings probably exists in no city except
Sydney. And here it is not to be won-
dered at. Everywhere else (so we are
told) theatres and concert halls are
heated, and night-lifers, even with the
temperature at zero, can slip back the
ermine, and expose the diamond pen-
dant on the snowy breast as though it
were midsummer. In Sydney we sink
down into the depths of the rabbitskin
collar, and when the scene ends burst
into salvos of applause —to warm our
hands as well as the actors’ hearts.
Something different is being hatched
by the Kindergarten Union. It’s a dance-
tea in the Manunda on July 11, timed
to start at two and end at seven. Lady
Hore-Ruthven, who promises to become
a fairy godmother to the kindergartens,
is taking the party under her wing.
Who says we’re irreligious? Four
young men of the Oxford Movement
testified that they weren’t, and that
nobody else would be when they got the
leaven of the O.M. ideas working. Very
bright-eyed and very much in earnest
were the young men, and their fervor
held the interest of Westralians and their
friends at a luncheon in Nock and
Kirby’s Pompadour room. There was
loud applause when Mabel Gibson, of
the “Ball at the .Savoy” co., was intro-
duced as “the girl of the Golden West.”
Mrs. W. Carroll, the W.A. Association’s
new president, asked the company to
stand in silence for one minute in
memory of Senator Kingsmill.
White heather and the skirl of the
pipes brought a whiff of the moorland
into the New State ballroom one clear,
cold night last week. Scots College Old
Boys were having their annual dance,
and the kilt was worn by many of the
guests. President E, R. Cox and Mrs.
Cox entertained a group that included
principal Knox Anderson and Mrs.
Anderson, whose frock of ivory crepe
was caped in rose-red velvet, Minister
of Education Drummond and daughter
Helen. There were representatives from
all the great public schools, and the affair
went off as merrily as a cracker in a bon-
bon.
In between concerts Muriel Brunskill
will be busy. Her social engagements
already booked will leave her little time
for communing with solitude. The
Music Lovers have dated her; so have
the Josef Kretschmanns. The Assembly
Hall will ring with the singer’s rich voice
on Saturday.
The silver screen lures them all. The
latest to fall under the spell is Erna
Living, shortly to make a debut in Aus-
tralian films in the character parts for
which she was famed in the days of the
Gregan McMahon Repertorians. Comedy
is the very essence of Miss Living’s
work, though she can bring a tear to the
eye as in such parts as Marta in “Anna
Christie” and the old mother in Gals-
worthy’s “Foundations.” One joyous
memory of Erna is her mayoress in
Shaw’s “Getting Married.” Apart from
her stagework Erna is a great gardener,
as the seedlings and borders and flower-
ing bush around her Earlwood home
testify.
Died recently at a private hospital at
Manly, Marguerite, eldest daughter of
the late Hon. J. Davies, M.L.A. Miss
Davies was for several years secretary of
the Royal Historical Society, and was a
member of the Women Writers’ Society.
Mrs. Roystone Davey, just recovering
after a two years’ illness, is taking the
baths at Moree. Mrs. Davey up to the
time of her collapse was one of Sydney’s
most active workers for good. A lunch
party in honor of the birthday of
nephew Jack Hordern (son of “Googlies”
Hordern) was her farewell flutter to
Sydney, A week or so previously she
put in an appearance at a Victoria
League party.
Miss Vinia de Loitte (widow of How-
ard Vernon) upon the death of her
mother this month inherited the title of
Comtesse de Vilme Hautmont. For hun-
dreds of years the title has been held by
the female branch of the family, and, as
the present Comtesse has no daughter, it
will expire with her.
Edward Carter, secretary-general of
the Institute of Pacific Relations, has
arrived to give Australia the once-over.
The Mariposa brought him, his wife,
Miss Kate Mitchell and Miss Fairfax-
Cholmeley to Sydney last week, and
immediately husband and wife were
plunged into a welter of speech-making.
Every group wanted to hear the much-
travelled and alert couple, and the Uni-
versity, the Arts Club, the League of
Nations Union and the Millions Club
listened while they told of Russia, China,
India and Japan. The three women of
the party were entertained by the
Women’s Union at Manning House.


m
c«*»
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 628 of 1935.
BETWEEN IVY OLGA SARAH CAMPBELL
(formerly Ivy Olga Sarah Winter) of Col-
larenebn in the State of New South Wales
(wife of George Campbell of Goondoobluie
Station Mogil Mogil in the said State
Laborer) Petitioner
And GEORGE CAMPBELL of Goondoo-
bluie Station Mogil Mogil in the said State
Husband of the said Ivy Olga Sarah
Campbell Respondent.
TO GEORGE CAMPBELL late of Goondoo-
bluie Station Mogil Mogil in the State of
New South Wales Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IVY OLGA
SARAH CAMPBELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause of excuse left the said Ivy Olga Sarah
Campbell continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the Sydney office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Nineteenth
day of September One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-five and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Tweftty-first day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. L. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
MOODIE, COLE & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Moree. By PURVES & MOODIE,
11c Casllereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 756 of 1935.
BETWEEN LORNA LUCY MARY YOUNG
Petitioner
And GORDON YOUNG Respondent.
TO GORDON YOUNG late of Newcastle in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LORNA
LUCY MARY YOUNG has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion during three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of June, a.d.
1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors, Eldon
Chambers, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
A westerly right off the ice and driving
rain that turned facial make-up from
pink and white to red, white and blue
played havoc with personal appearance
at Caulfield on Saturday. Things were
so dismal that shower-proof coats and
rubber capes in the brightest of colors
failed to gladden the aspect. Silver foxes
were left at home, and their owners but-
toned themselves up to the chin in mack-
intoshes, Goloshes, in bootee pattern, and
gaiters were ail the rage.
Titian-haired Mary Wren sported Wel-
lington boots with zip-fasteners which she
had picked up on a visit to Germany.
Other women’s eyes nearly popped out of
their heads as they watched her striding
through the puddles. Mrs. lan Sargood
looked Russian about the feet, for her
rubber bootees boasted Astrakhan
finishes. There were big gaps in the
social ranks, but the dirty weather was
not to blame entirely. Many of the
missing figures had gone to Camperdown
to nibble a bit of Vera Thornley’s wed-
ding cake. One lone aide had the
splendor of the v.-r. pen all on his own.
Lady Huntingfield, wrapped in pony skin,
sought the more cosy atmosphere of the
enclosure set aside for the wives whose
husbands manage the affairs of the
V.A.T.C. The weather would need to be
cyclonic to keep some of the enthusiasts
away from a good day’s sport in the
open. Mrs. Ben Chaffey and her boon
companion Miss McPherson came smiling
through, flaunting orchids in their furs.
Mrs. Eric Henty was among the
absentees, so the Major danced attend-
ance on mother, who came prepared for
the worst in long gaiters and a raincoat
of robust black leather.
Seventy-four debs, got their social
wings last week, and the fluttering was
prodigious. Nowadays the debutante is
the last word in sophistication. A fan-
fare of silver trumpets heralded the
approach of the fiair young things at one
of the civic balls. But this ceremonial
gesture was eclipsed by the Newman’s
Society ushering in 44 white-robed
figures to the rhythm of the grand march
from “Tannhauser.” They finished
up dancing the old-time lancers. The
17-year-old daughter of Essendon’s
mayoral couple, Lesley Mitchell, with 15
other snow-white maidens, made her bow
in society, dancing a minuet, with a lad
singing an eighteenth-century air. At the
Caulfield Mayoral Ball the buds, 14 of
them, made a grand entrance, sweeping
down the stage stairway in long velvet
frocks of springtime green. But at Fitz-
roy, where the Mayoral Ball marked the
reopening of the Town Hall after a
fresh coating of paint and gilding, there
were no social launchings. Probably
Mayoress Barrett considered she had
enough to set in order without fussing
over a debutante set.
Owing to the scarcity of flowers, fruit
and vegetables are being utilised for
decorative effects. Lemon-tree boughs,
with half-green fruit dangling, were
strewn over the balcony balustrade to
impart a festive air to the opening
ceremony of the exhibition that brought
more than 500 countrywomen to town
last week. Running a flower-stall at a
charity function in these days of garden
barrenness is no joke. An. auxiliary
bunch getting ready to help the Child-
ren’s Hospital intends tempting patrons to
turn out their pockets by presenting gay
boxes packed with fruit or vegetables,
selected more for their color than their
vitamins, tucked into bright-blue baskets.
The idea of using vegetables as a deco-
rative medium is not new here. When
Lady Stanley was vice-reine she often
decked the drawing-room at Stonnington
with a flame-colored product from the
vegetable patch. Even when the garden
was a riot of color she frequently showed
a preference for decking the room with
a few “turkscaps,” set amid lemons and
bananas, achieving thus a color-scheme
of orange and yellow amid the walnut.
In friendly rivalry The Wranglers en-
tered the lists last week with a provo-
cative argument —Does wealth accumu-
lated signify success? The ayes, led by
Evelyn Syme, walloped the opposition,
headed by educationist Gilman Jones
and Mrs. Julia Rapke, who has come
through many a good fight with the
Women Citizens’ Movement. Elsie Ben-
nett was ready to strengthen the Syme
damsel’s lance, but she was strong
enough to ride to victory on her own,
setting the opposition to rout with stern
logic and a pretty wit.
Thelma, elder daughter of Max Bleech-
more, a well-known figure in the indus-
try that pumps oil into bowsers, has an-
nounced her engagement to a Scottish
engineer, Robert Taylor, whom she met
on a holiday trip to Colombo last year.
They saw each other for the first time
the night Thelma landed in Ceylon, and
practically got engaged on the spot. The
wedding has been fixed for May next,
when the young Scotsman will have his
leave, Robert, a graduate of Glasgow
Uni., has been in Ceylon for 10 years
for the Colombo Commercial Co. The
Bleechmore trip to Ceylon ended in sad-
ness. Thelma’s mother died a week after
the home-coming. Although May is a
long way off, the bridesmaids have been
chosen: Jean Nilsen, daughter of City
Councillor Nilsen, who was with Thelma
when she met Robert, Eileen McFarland
and the Bleechmore younger chick Lor-
raine.
There was rejoicing in the A. V.
Hiskens household when news came that
daughter Violet (Mrs. Ronald Irving),
with her children Sheila and David, was
homeward bound in the Mooltan. The
welcome is being prepared for July 8.
This hat that appears to have been
made out of a black paper-bag sits upon
the brow of sculptress Ola Cohn. Allied
to an academic gown, hooded in white
faille and crimson damask, the headpiece
indicates that the wearer is an Associate
of the Royal College of Art. It was Ola
who carved the Fairies’ Tree in the Fitz-
roy Gardens to lure the children of Mel-
bourne to the land of make-believe. Using
Australian animals, birds and insects with
gambolling elves and gnomes, Miss Cohn
has sculptured her story on what is left
of the trunk of a tree which caught
alight many years ago, and made such
a bonfire that the brigade had to be
called up to put it out.
The Elvin Oak in Kensington Gar-
dens gave Ola the idea for the sculp-
tured story. There is far more detail in
the Australian fairy legend than the one
about which so much fuss is made in
London. Working intermittently it took
three years to carve. From the outset
the sculptress has chafed at the casual
way her gift to the children of Mel-
bourne has been received by the City
Council. Now traps have been set to
catch the bees that had made their home
in the Palace of Gold, the heart of the
Fairies’ Tree.
This artist’s gift for interpretation is
sometimes expressed in nurserv tales.
Her third story of fairy lore, Castles in
the Air, is about to be published, and her
tale of the Fairies’ Tree will be staged
in Adelaide next month by May Harris,
of the School of Arts, from the drama-
tised version by Marjorie McLeod.
India holds no glamor for Mrs, Ronald
Irving now. Before the tragic happen-
ing at Quetta, she found life very
pleasant there. To-day all is Black De-
spair. Ron and his family were only a
few miles from the scene of disaster-
near enough for the Staff College, within
coo-ee of their home, to be damaged by
the upheaval. Ron is remaining to
finish his two years’ service with the
English Army, but he got the wife and
children away at the first opportunity.
Tall, fair-haired and slender, Mrs.
Rupert Fanning, whose lieut.-colonel
husband is secretary of Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital, bears a striking re-
semblance to the wife of Victoria’s ex-
Governor. In figure, type and coloring
Lady Somers and Mrs. Fanning are as
like as two peas out of the same pod; if
either of them went film acting and
wanted a double the exchange could be
made without fear of detection. Mrs.
Rupert figures among the young matrons
who always make a decorative splash in
evening clothes. Before her marriage she
was Marjorie Lindemann. There is a
pigeon pair nestling under the Fanning
couple’s roof in Rockley-road, South
Yarra —Moira and six - months - old
Edward. When the trees are all fes-
tooned in white on the Australian Alps
Mrs. Rupert intends finding out what it
feels liße to slither over snowy slopes in
ski-ing kit. The attractive, picture of her
was taken at the Dickinson-Monteath
studio.
Swedish Consul Henning Helin chose
sister Gertrud’s parting gift with an eye
to his diplomatic obligations. She is
now on her way home to a Swedish town
on the Baltic after a three months’ holi-
day in Australia. Brother Henning gave
her a movie camera long before the day
of sailing so that she would have plenty
of time to gather up a few true-to-life
impressions of Australia to take back to
the homeland. Gertrud will set about'
the showing of the films in the spirit of
the faithful emissary. She intends to use
them as adjuncts to lectures on Aus-
tralia, for which she has gathered the
facts first-hand —at the big public school
where she is assistant-principal, and also
among various public organisations to
which she is linked by her devotion to
social service. The Consular corps gave
the young woman from Sweden a cheery
send-off.
Students at East Melb. Con. have a
new diction teacher, Mrs. Oscar Levy,
a former Melburnian who went abroad
as Nerva McGrath to devote the green
years to the study of dramatic expression
in all its forms. She gave Charles
Laughton his first lesson in dramatic art
at a London Academy. The originality
and character that have helped to make
this actor famous threatened to be his
undoing in a school bent on upholding
the traditions of the English stage. He
could not be moulded to pattern. Thick-
set, with nothing in the way of personal
attractiveness to help him, Laughton’s
chance of stage success seemed hopeless.
Selected to speak some lines from “Mon-
sieur Beaucaire” he made the teacher sit
up and take notice when he declined
with thanks, explaining that his person-
ality did not belong to the affectations of
the period. Mrs. Levy labelled this stu-
dent “highly recommended,” after she
had pul him through the test of regis-
tering his emotions as Macbeth on see-
ing Banquo’s ghost. Laughton’s terror
was so realistically assumed that the
teacher’s own hair nearly stood on end.
The story of Laughton being poverty-
stricken in the early stage of his career
is all moonshine. He always had enough
to keep the wolf from the door, no mat-
ter how long he had to wait for an
engagement, his people being comfort-
ably established in the hotel business in
the north of England. Mrs. Levy made
a start in her new job with the Greek
classics, and recently the Con. girls
showed how well they had digested the
prose of the period in a rattling good
performance of “Trojan Women.”
A holiday cottage at Flinders made
Mrs. R. J. Larking, of Toorak, eligible to
join the C.W.A., and when Lady Hunting-
field handed out the silver cups at the
association’s handicraft exhibition this
grey-haired needlewoman carried off the
trophy for the finest piece of work in the
show —a hand-quilted bed-cover in bud-
green silk padded into an elaborate floral
design. The North of England miners’
wives, whom necessity has driven to pre-
serve the handicraft of quilting, have
found their services in great demand now
that this old cottage industry has come
into fashion again. A specimen quilt
from the English North is on view at this
exhibition, but Mrs. Larking is not
pleased with it: “The stitches arc not
finished off.”
The first time Mrs. Larking came into
the competitive field of handicraft was in
1909 at the big exhibition of women’s
work organised by Lady Northcote.
When asked what she would make, Mrs.
Larking’s answer came pat: “Children’s
clothes or puddings.” She won with the
clothes. In her present handicraft col-
lection is a 1909 exhibit, a toddler’s best
frock of white lawn, smothered with tiny
tucks, feather stitchery and “val.” Two
grandchildren, Maisie and Brenda New-
bold, have worn this exhibition piece on
very special occasions.
Glen Mills, a Tasmanian woman
journalist who has gone to sea in a sail-
ing ship, took the pig-in-a-poke chance
with the travel adventure. Those who
journey by luxury liners generally inspect
the ship before taking a cabin, but Glen
look her passage on the barque C. B,
Pedersen without even bothering to see
whether she liked the look of the
craft on which she was to spend three
months. The first glance was not re-
assuring. From the Williamstown wharf
the four-master, far out in the bay, looked
so small to her that she thought it could
have been been put into a bottle as a
glass-blown exhibit. When she has found
her sea-legs Glen intends to write, and
hopes to have her first novel well on the
way by the time the non-stop voyage
comes to an end at Gothenburg. Violet
Teague, a Melbourne artist who will be
one of her shipmates, has taken pounds
of paint and yards of canvas in her bag-
gage to do seascapes when the weather
behaves. Glen is not looking forward to
rounding Cape Horn, but hopes to fight
through by buttoning down the eider-
down, The passengers may be able to
do a little gardening. Soil and window-
boxes have gone on board so that
vegetables will not be lacking for the
Swedish salads.


%r«n;
rvv.v
- ■■
For EVERY KIND
OF STOCK...
You must have the
Right Feeds and Licks!
fd
Q.P.S. fed the way:
FIRST; In the manufacture of Rick In Queensland.
SECOND; In publishing the FURL ANALYSIS of each
Rick so that the Grazier can see what he pays for.
THIRD: In keeping abreast of latest scientific knowledge
by placing new Ricks on the market.
FOURTH: In making a Special Rick to meet the require-
ments of lambing ewes.
Don’t pay fancy prices for Salt.
Many of the so-called mineral licks on the market contain
absurdly high percentages of salt, which costs 95/- a ton-
no lick should contain more than 50 per cent. salt.
Compare the Analysis of Hibiscus Licks with
Any Other—THEN COMPARE THE PRICE.
HIBISCUS STOCK RICK —Analysis: 40% Salt, 42% Nauru
Phosphate, 6% Epsom Salts, 2% Sulphur, 4%
Sulphate of Iron, 6% Molasses. £B/10/- ton of
20001 b.
HIBISCUS SPECIAL BONEMEAR RlCK—Analysis: 48%
Salt, 83% Sterilised Bonemeal, 6% Epsom Salts,
3% Sulphur, 3% Sulphate of Iron, 7% Molasses.
£9/10/- ton of 20001 b.
JiiiiloCUS SPECIAL EWE LlCK— Analysis: 30% Salt, 25% Cottonseed-meal, 5%
Epsom Salts, 2% Sulphate of Iron, 4% Sulphur, 8% Molasses. £9/10/- ton
of 20001 b.
WE WILL MAKE ANY LICK TO YOUR OWN FORMULA AT BEDROCK
PRICE AND SAVE YOU POUNDS PER TON.
We will place all feeds and licks on rails Rockhampton or Townsville for an extra
£2 per ton.
We are still the largest Suppliers of Fencing-wire, Wire-netting, Groceries, Galvanised
Iron, Joinery and all Building Material—in fact, EVERYTHING for Station, Farm
and Home.
If you have not our 250-page Catalogue, write for it to-day.
HIBISCUS COTTONSEED-MEAL— Easily the cheapest protein concentrate on the
market; 25% Protein. £6/17/6 per ton.
BACAL COTTONSEED sheep NUTS— The unexcelled drought feed. £ll/10/- ton.
The Q.P.S. Feeding Guide—a booklet of valuable information on Feeding
matters —will be sent free on request.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
BOWEN STREET (Off Ann Street), BRISBANE.
BR AS DAL PR'S
&
PENS
%
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample bos
C. BRAND AUER & CO., Ltd., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
AUSTRALIA’S POPULAR 3d. WEEKLY MAGAZINE
ON SALE FRIDAY
FULL DETAILS OF THE FOURTH
KNITTING-DESIGNS COMPETITION,
£lOO IN PRIZES.
CAN YOU KNIT
The illustration shows a completed
Golf Jacket; full instructions for the
making of this smart and useful
garment for these cold days on the
links are in this week’s “Mirror.
1
I
;• 1
“MIRROR” PATTERNS
In addition to the FREE pattern of.
this chic nightgown, the “Mirror”
Pattern Service this week consists
of six valuable patterns for children
and eight for adults.
64 PAGES FOR 3d.
BRIGHTEST AND BEST
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
As a preliminary canter to the Aero
Club Ball, Frank Collopy taxied a ’plane
along St. George’s-terrace and brought
it to rest outside Anzac House, from
which issued music. Four debs. —Nancy
Manning, Dorothy Wood, Billie Kessell
and Edith Graham—wafted their snowy
confections ’neath an archway of crossed
propellers held aloft by airmen, spick
and span in white flying kit. After mak-
ing their bows to the v.-r. group, these
moderns flew back along ’the generations,
and with their partners danced a stately
minuet. Mrs. J. A. Dimmitt ranged her
shimmery black velvets by the side of
her president husband; a silver spider’s
web was spun capewise over Mrs. Va.
Abbott’s black velvets ; the Hobbs lady’s
variegated flowers bloomed in a bed of
lame, and Mrs. J. C. Murray’s electric-
blue laces were sashed with cherry velvet.
Brilliant-hued autumn foliage marked'
the bride’s passage down the aisle of St.
Luke’s, Cottesloe, at the Stephenson—
Roe wedding. Patricia’s Brussels lace veil
spread a mist over her silver-and-white
satin matelasse, with its block pattern
outlined in gold; a long tasselled silver-
and-gold girdle was tied round the
pointed tunic, its silver ends hanging to
the point of the slit in the skirt. At the
end of the bride’s fishtail train stood
Nancy Sadlier and Mollie Montgomery,
their gold-patterned lame flanked with
gold-buttoned Tudor sleeves, and their
heads crowned with semi-circlets of
bright scarlet berries. Rejoicings were
at the Freshwater Bay Yacht Club.
Engineering students for their dance
converted their hall at the Uni. into a
world of wireless. Neon lights were sus-
pended between two tall towers on the
supper-table ; aerial masts in the dance-
room fluttered with red, white and blue
streamer antennas; the orchestra was
ensconced in an O.S. radio cabinet com-
plete with dials and pointer, and revolv-
ing beams cast light of varied colors on
the proceedings. Dean of the Faculty
O. F. Blakey’s better-half draped her
aquamarine matt crepes over the
hostess’s chair; Mrs. H. A. Creswell’s
oatmeal georgettes swung from a lace
coatee; Mrs. O. K. Battye shoulder-
strapped her black velvets with gold.
Ruth Inglis was married at St.
Savior’s Church, Boyup Brook, to Lance
Lee Steere, scion of the house of the
late James Lee Steere and his lady. The
bride’s curd-white satin, agog with lace
and lame, was followed by a quartet
of crimson georgette gowns, gold-lame-
girdled, worn by Kath Elliott, Helen Mc-
Larty, May Ewing and Katie Knapp.
Ten debs, unsheathed their wings at
the Jewish Ball, a colorful gathering of
900 strong, at the Embassy. The Nathan
lady held presentation roses before rich
Benedictine velvets as the white-clad
maidens bowed over their pink posies ;
Rabbi Freedman’s wife nestled her offi-
cial sheaf of golden gladioli against black
peau d’ange lace.
Twenty-seven teams of women hockey-
players lined up on the Esplanade for the
opening of Country Week. The York
team, with its brown tunics, beige shirts
and brown ties, berets, shoes and stock-
ings, collected the trophy.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Kindergarten Ball at the Palais
Royal, featuring a Silver Jubilee Pageant,
drew a huge crowd. Decorations were
in silver and scarlet. All the foliage used
was silvered, and the effect was striking.
The pageant was a parade of girls rep-
resenting all the countries in the Empire.
Betty Burston, in the van as England,
was robed in white taffeta —silver ships
appliqued round the hem, silver roses
and leaves round the corsage—and wore
a silver headdress. Jean Macdonald, as
Scotland, had a plaid design in silver
braid on her white taffeta, a silver tam-
o’-shanter, with a silver quill, and a sheaf
of silver thistles completing the picture.
Margaret Bickford, as Wales, chose a
white Empire frock belted with silver oak
leaves and acorns. She carried, a sheaf
of silver leeks. Joan Watson, as Ireland,
topped her white georgette with a halo
of silver shamrocks, and carried a silver
harp. Kathleen McMichael represented
Australia in a white georgette gown, the
Court train edged with wool. Her crown
was of silver wheat, and she carried a
cornucopia of flowers and fruit. Iris
Hart, as Maoriland, sported a skirt of
cellophane, to represent running water,
with crown and bouquet of silver fern.
For the Free Kindergartens Mrs.
Harold Bickford filled Birk’s Piccadilly
with 150 tablefuls of bridge players. A
lucky dip, with a £5 note as lure,
brought in £23, a picture given by Gwen
Barringer fetched seven guineas, and
sweets added £lO, Black chiffon velvet
was worn by the young and old alike. It
is very becoming. The Bonython lady,
president of the Kindergarten Union, re-
lieved her black velvet toilette with a
black coatee coin-spotted in gold and
narrow belt of the same. Mrs. Bickford
cheered her black velvet with a shoulder
posy of white hyacinths.
Birk’s Piccadilly also housed the ninth
meeting of the Music Salon, another
overflowing function. The original idea
that the members should wander about
and form groups has not worked. By
the time the programme opens the audi-
ence has arranged itself in correct con-
cert style in a formal row of seats one
behind the other. The president. Prof.
H. J. Wilkinson, and his wife welcomed
the guests. Mrs. Wilkinson was frocked
in a flame-pink satin. In addition to the
music Spruhan Kennedy spoke “In De-
fence of the Piano.”
On the same night students of the
Elder Con. danced in the Elder Hall.
The young committee had gone to a
great amount of trouble decorating the
spacious place with trellis work and
rockeries. Dr. Harold Davies’s wife was
in black lace with a black velvet coatee.
Mrs. George Pearce chose pale-pink
flowered chiffon. Mrs. Averd Kurtz re-
lieved her black ninon frock with a trail
of pale-pink velvet roses. Secretary
Dorothea Angus clothed her slim form
in bottle-green crepe. Miss Hart devised
the jazz decorations.
The Fathers’ Association of Scotch
College organised a cabaret dance, which
in spite of stormy weather was attended
by over 300. The hall where the hop
took place boasts two huge fireplaces,
one on either side, where “Yule” logs
burnt brightly.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark threw open Government
House for a monster bridge party in
Red Cross interests. Over 65 tables
were filled. The Governor’s wife, Mrs.
D. C. McLaren and A. D. Cooper were
organisers, and the committee included
Mrs. Wishart Smith, Mrs. E. H. Web-
ster and the Lady Mayoress.
The Rugby team from Melb. Um.
was feted at an at-home at the Con-
tinental by the Southern Tas. K.U-
Knight Elliott Lewis and his lady and
W. J. T. Stops, Chancellor of the Uni.,
were among the guests. At midnight a
“scrum” with balloons for footballs
made a diversion.
Campbell Town Show was blessed by
lovely weather, and there were big crowds.
The Kathleen Mercer Memorial Cup,
subscribed to by the Midland Hunt Club,
was won by the hunter After Dark, so
often ridden by Kathleen. Mrs. Arthur
Bennett’s V.C. distinguished himself
also, with his owner up. His Ex. and
a number of delegates to the Graziers
Convention were at the show.
The Governor was at the unveiling of
the Clive Lord memorial tablet at the
Royal Society’s quarters. His Ex. made
a speech eulogising the good work of
the late Mr. Lord, who played many
parts in the Royal Society’s activities.
Parties to welcome home Mrs. G. H.
Butler and daughter Evelyn, lately re-
turned from England, have been given by
the dozen, welcomes to Mrs. Moore and
Mrs. Ray Lethbridge being worked in
with them. Among the hostesses were
Mrs. Thos. Lyons, Mrs. Ernie Webster,
Mrs, A. Fenn-Smith and Miss Effie
Barclay.
Mrs. Heriot has accompanied her
mother, Mrs. Warrender, back to Mel-
bourne, and, as her husband s term ol
office as District Naval Commandant
expires shortly, it is on the cards that
she may not return to Hobart.


iiiiiijniiiiiiiiiiiniUuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiimiiiniiniiiiiiiiiimmiii
cite
ANHOUR I
“The whole cost of fuel—freight |
and cartage included—is just Id. |
an hour.** |
(Extract from “R-an-D” Diesel |
Engine user's letter.) |
All details from any 'of the following: g
ADHtAIDK: Adelaide Car and |
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTHFIower, Davies, Johnson, I
Ltd. I
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: MacEwun’s |
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE' .IN QUEENSLAND B'r'
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD.
VALLEY - BRISBANE ■ ,
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
■ • b
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin. 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
The Bank of Adelaide
- ESTABLISHED 1865,
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 805 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. • • .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letter’s of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Nai”: The Far Northern Chambers
of Commerce (Q.) have approved of a
scheme, formulated by the Tully chamber
on the advice of sugar experts, for the
production of power alcohol, paper and
starving-stock fodder from sugar-field
residues. It would open up a wide field
for the absorption of unemployed and
the extension of the sugar industry.
Power-alcohol manufacture is established
in a dozen other countries, and, as a
factory can be erected for about £50,000
and by-products include fertilisers and
dry ice, local production would have a
bearing on many avenues of Australian
industry.
' He He He
“El V.”: Tell “Colonel Bungstarter”
(B. 19/6/’35) that The Cruet long sur-
vived in Darwin but now has gone. For
long the Goose Club met there by the
light of cow-dung fires of an evening,
R. G. Mallam, afterwards a Judge, and
Fred Thompson being prominent mem-
bers. If all the aspersions cast on the
Government, the taxes, the weather, the
mosquitoes, the shipping service and the
earth in general which had birth on that
hallowed spot were laid on end there
would be a big hole in the stratosphere.
Only the Tree of Knowledge in Towns-
ville has heard more toasts of confusion
to those in authority.
* * * ♦
“Innisfail”: Lloyd Powell, a visiting
Royal School of Music examiner, has
been throwing bouquets at North
Queensland for its “remarkably high
standard of music and art consciousness.”
He attributes this largely to Italian and
German influxes, remarking on the
number of outstanding students of
those national origins whom he en-
countered. Australia so far has drawn
most of its musical genius from among
the Scottish and the Irish. Italy is intrin-
sically musical, and produces more than
its share of good voices because of its
sunny and fog-free climate. The same
influence has helped to give Australia
its Melba, Austral, Elsa Stralia, Vernon
Redwood, Dawson, McEachern and a
respectable team besides. When British
and Italians blend, as they are blending
in N.Q., it would not be surpris-
ing to see the South Johnstone River
country world-famous for its vocal
prodigies.
* * * *
“Zetta”; The owner of Darwin’s “curio
cottage” has learnt the perils of challeng-
ing the enterprise of the young Austra-
lian even in the “tired North.” Need-
ing a few frogs, he advertised in the
local paper. The plague started at once.
All Darwin arrived with frogs—large and
small, brown, green and pink. Not a
tank or a well but was explored by
small boys. The “house-full” notice went
up early, but the trouble was not over,
for each rejected trapper cast his con-
tribution on the path outside the
buyer’s door. Still, he was luckier
than the newchura mistress of a
small school near Chinchilla (Q.) in the
prickly-pear days. Expressing a wish to
her 37 pupils for a death adder to send
to a southern museum, she next morning
found herself with 41 on her hands.
*** ' *
“Sheepo”; Boulia, the sand-swept
hamlet of far-western Q., has lost its
oldest inhabitant, George Wood. Bom
in England in the ’fifties, “Woody” came
to the district in ’B2, and during the rest
of his lifetime he was in turn mail-con-
tractor, butcher, cordial-manufacturer,
publican and shire clerk. The last-
mentioned job he held for 33 years, ulti-
mately retiring, to be entertained at the
largest social gathering Boulia ever saw.
What “Woody” didn’t know about the
customs of the Kalkadoon abos. could
be inscribed on a cigarette paper,
« * * *
“Queei”: The sort of results obtained
from dividing Australia into watertight
compartments is welt illustrated by tne
sitting of the N.T. Supreme Court at
Alice Springs. The Judge and four other
officials motored from Darwin —over
1000 miles—to hold the assize, rough-
ing it for 10 days on the double journey.
The fact that it would have been cheaper
and far quicker to bring a Judge from
Adelaide by train does not count. A
line is ruled across the map between the
MacDonnells and Spencer’s Gulf.
“What Was all the row about last night?"
“Billy bin come home drunk and gibit me four or five black eye."
“Vic”: The outstanding impression of
Dr. Asmis, the German Consul-General,
after his visit to the N.T. was the
smallness of Darwin and the complete
absence of made roads outside the town.
And well he may be astonished. The
first settlement was laid down at Port
Essington 106 years ago, and to take a
car a few miles out of Darwin is still a
serious business. Though sea transport
was most convenient, the Germans had
not been in New Britain and New Ireland
15 years before there was a highway
round Blanche Bay, providing a magni-
ficent drive for tourists, while Bulowin-
ski was building his road down the
centre of New Ireland—such a road as
rural Australia never saw before the era
of cement. Australian Governments pre-
fer to make visitors work and suffer if
they wish to see the country.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Every Queensland State bat-
tery return catalogues a long list of
crushings of ore which has been carted
dozens of miles for treatment because it
is not worth while erecting even a four-
stamp battery among little nests of
claims. Uncle Sam has developed a port-
able ball mill which can be transported
on a lorry and which could handle effec-
tively the free gold stone in which N.Q.
and the N.T. abound. A dozen or so
of these would make a big difference to
production and to mining costs for the
small man. They could be hired out
for a period and do the rounds of a
whole district. And they could be built
locally for from £3OO to £4OO.
* * * *
“Zeno”: Your bushman is a cheer-
ful cuss. Longreach (Q.), capital of a
drought-stricken district, had to aban-
don its show this year, so it had a
“drought relief” ball to which 500 rolled
up. While dancing was in full swing an
extra guest arrived —Jupiter Pluvius with
a watering-can. He decanted only a small
shower, but even the knowledge that
there was still some rain in the world
opened pockets, and the profits, with sub-
sidy, gave £250 to the local hospital—
10s. per head of the dancers.
* * * ♦
“Ashgrove”: Brisbane trams —estab-
lished by a company in 1895, taken over
by a public trust in 1923 and by the City
Council in 1926 —have had their usual
satisfactory year. They pay their way,
and though they make little profit the
public gets its return in cheapness.
Against the minimum fare of 2d. for
sections in Sydney, Brisbane carries its
passengers over two sections maximum
for the same amount. A 3d. fare covers
a four-mile journey, and 4d. six miles.
Weekly tickets over definite routes are
subject to a 25 p.c. discount. The aver-
age rate charged is nine-tenths of
a penny per mile, which is less than the
fare on London buses, and running costs
have been estimated by the management
to be less than the British tram or bus
average. Most of the concern’s success
lies in the fact that private enterprise,
under the late J. S. Badger, established
it on sound principles, extending the
lines to promote settlement in the further
suburbs, so that there is a maximum of
high-fare haulage without rail competi-
tion.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The new coastal motor-ship Manoora,
arriving in Brisbane for the first time,
was rushed at the afternoon-tea and
dance in aid of Limbless Soldiers
arranged by the Adelaide Steamship Co.
In the afternoon, officials of the co. and
the skipper, George Irvine, D.S.O. —a
Q-boat commander during the war —
piloted visitors round the ship.
Secretary Warne, of the L.S.A., re-
ceived the dance guests at the gang-
way, and passed them on to the
deck, where the Lady Mayoress, as com-
mittee president, did the honors. Lieut. -
Governor James Blair and his lady stayed
until the Anthem. The 200 or more pas-
sengers bought tickets en bloc.
Our terrible tropics again! When the
Mayor and Mayoress of Thursday Island,
Mr. and Mrs. Alex. Corran, celebrated
their golden wedding, 200 guests came
to wish them happy returns. A wallet
of notes was handed to the lady, and
the aldermen, through the Town Clerk
(C. Done), made a presentation to his
Worship.
For the last eight years an annual
pilgrimage, arranged by the Toowoomba
Ladies’ Literary Society, has been made
to the Essex Evans monument in Webb
Park. Last week national bodies, school-
children and the Mayor and aldermen
assembled there, and Margaret Curran
read an address on “Our Contribution to
English Literature.” The monument was
gay with flowers.
A link was forged between two old
Queensland families at Charleville on
June 22 when Laura Lukin, a niece of
Judge Lukin, was married to Dick Wool-
cock, a nephew of the late Judge J. L.
Woolcock. The bride was a nurse at
the Charleville Hospital.
Mrs. Mervyn Bunting, always original,
has created a whole cast of marionettes,
and on June 22 she demonstrated at
the Brisbane Women’s Club to aid the
Creche and Kindergarten. Months of
work went into the making of the
puppets, proscenium and frocking for
chorus girls, nuns, Spanish dancers.
Mickie and Minnie Mouse and a host of
other familiars who play their parts
under the clever fingers of their creator.
Thirty-two debs, at the Mater
Misericordiae Ball were pre-
sented to the Lieut.-Governor
and his wife. Almost 1000
dancers were in the City Hall,
and a few hundred more
gathered round the card-tables.
Dr. Windsor (president of the
Mater Children’s Hospital) and
Mrs. Windsor (president of the
ball committee) received the
guests, the lady wearing king-
fisher-blue relieved with silver.
Violets marked the seats re-
served for lady guests at the
official supper-table, and scented
white flowers were used on the
debs.’ table. There was the
usual debs.’ cake, made by the
Sisters of Mercy at All Hallows’.
Justice and Mrs. Ralph Gore—the lady
was one of the dark-eyed Shand clan,
well known in Brisbane for three genera-
tions—have returned to Papua after long
leave.
For the debut of their daughter
Lynette, Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Corser gave
a dance at the Belle Vue Hotel, where
not many years ago Mrs. Corser herself
“came out.” Mrs. Corser wore black
and silver, and I ynette chose magnolia
brocaded satin, with a full bell skirt. Her
posy was tied with the ribbons originally
used on her mother’s deb. bouquet.
Dr. E. J. O’Sullivan, who has married
in Sydney Addie Fry, of Mosman, is the
third son of former Justice O’Sullivan
and Mrs. O’Sullivan, of Toowong. Mrs.
O’Sullivan was a Macgroarty, daughter
of one of the State’s first school in-
spectors.
About 300 danced in the Belle Vue
Hotel ballroom at St. Margaret’s Old
Girls’ Association Annual Ball. The
walls were decorated with sports pen-
nants, and streamers of school colors —
brown, white and blue —added to the
effect. Mrs. E. A. Hartland (principal of
St. Aidan’s School) was the official
hostess.


THE GENTLEMAN is DEAF
* A m
Tdi
i
1
m.
.V
I
-
sole Australian Agents Jar the “Sonatone” Hearing Aid:
ANGUS & COOTE, 500 Sydney?'"
Angus & Coote’s Interstate
Newcastle; GIBB & BEEMAN,
74 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Queensland. HOUgE OF CHAS gANKEY FRASER,
239 Edward Street, Brisbane;
and Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
'Sonotone” Distributors;
Victoria and Tasmania: B. NATHAN,
115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South and Western Australia:
EAUBMAN & BANK.
63 Gawler Place, Adelaide;
and 64 Barrack Street, Perth.
THE GENTLEMAN is DEAF
but he hears- because he wears
A “Sonotone”
He enjoys his radio. Yet it is tuned quite softly.
The lady is not disturbed.
IF YOU ARE DEAF
Try the “Sonotone.” You owe it to yourself to do so—
and to your friends—who try so hard to make you hear.
Bring them with you. Let them see how easy it is to make
you hear with a “Sonotone.” A trial costs you nothing.
The “Sonotone” is, beyond question, the most amazing
hearing aid ever devised. Australian people who were BORN
deaf and dumb can hear with the “Sonotone.” It’s such a
little thing, too —less noticeable on a gentleman than his
spectacles. When a lady wears a “Sonotone” it cannot be
seen at all. And it’s the lightest hearing aid ever made.
READ WHAT YOUR FELLOW-CITIZENS WRITE OF
THE “SONOTONE.”
Hon. D. H. DRUMMOND: “The ‘Sonotone’ has given me extra-
ordinary help and relief. It has materially altered my whole
outlook.”
A. GALBRAITH, Esq.: “The ‘Sonotone’ is worth untold money to
me. I can now conduct business transactions in an undertone —
hearing perfectly.”
A SOUTH COAST DOCTOR wrote, 27/8/’34: “The ‘Sonotone’ is
delightful —I am leaving to-morrow with it for a Rotary
Convention.”
A. DAVIS, Esq., PERTH: “The ‘Sonotone’ is giving me back that
half of life which I have missed for years.”
Mrs. McCEYMONT, YAEEEROI: “The ‘Sonotone’ is the only hear-
ing aid I have ever been able to wear all day. All sounds are
so soft and clear.”
Mrs. GAEEETEY, MACKAY; “It is marvellous to feel so indepen-
dent. With my ‘Sonotone’ I hear all the speeches at a dinner now—
and join in conversation.”
Read these—and dozens of other letters —in Angus & Coote’s
consulting-rooms. Not one testimonial was asked for. Deaf
people who can now hear with a “Sonotone” write simply
out of heartfelt gratitude.
Vividly-told Dramatic Story on a New Note:—
THE STALKER OF
LONE MEN.
BY ARTHUR W UPFIELD.
THE dummy post lay propped against
the bark-topped, six-feet-high, netted
barrier separating New South Wales
from South Australia. The mulga post
to which the dummy was to be lashed
with wire was rotted below ground. It
had done yeoman service for many years,
and now the stubborn bark still clung
tenaciously to the parent wood.
The boundary-rider’s axe was lifted to
the top of the post and the blade per-
mitted to fall by its own weight behind
the bark in order to make the dummy
fit closely. The bark came away easily,
too easily. The pressure of the axe be-
hind it forced a long slab hard against
Elder’s left shoulder, and the reddish
dust which had lain hidden behind it
became a cloud to sweep into the man’s
eyes.
It was the dust of a long-dead fungus,
a dust more potent than cayenne pepper.
Like pepper it burned, and, again like
pepper, it blinded.
Elder dropped the axe, swayed away
from the fence, tore at his eyes and
swore. With a sleeve of his shirt wetted
with saliva, he endeavored to remove the
dust from his eyes, but after a full
minute of frantic effort, though the pain
eased a little, he was still as blind as a
day-old pup.
Because he had not turned round he
was able to clutch the fence with one
hand. The fence now was the only con-
necting link between him and the real
world, a gateway, as it were, leading out
from the dull-red darkness behind his
tightly-shut eyes into the brilliant world
of a far-western New South Wales July
afternoon.
Elder cursed the dust with the fluency
of a man long accustomed to talking at
inanimate objects and to himself. Then,
sitting down with his back against the
fence, he pressed his eyes into a shirt-
sleeved arm supported on bent knees.
It had hurt like hell, that red powder.
Its action had been swift. For a frac-
tion of a second he had seen it whirling
towards his face, but it had come so
quickly that he had not had time to close
his. eyelids. In an instant the rotted post
and the bark, and the red-brown sand
lying beyond the mesh of the fence, had
been wiped out by a fallen red curtain.
Through the utterly still air came
musical tinkle of the bells
SUS p en ded from the necks of his three
fee 3 ing camels. Other than the ringing
bells, the only sound impinged on the
background of the silence was a blow-
fly’s faint ? thin humming,
At long last the watching spirit of the
bUsh had struck .
r«Lj>ER had been working on the dog-
£, p roo f fence where it crossed a
narrow> rubbish-covered flat. On either
s j de tbe dat was bordered by a massive
ran 0 £ sand footed with stunted mulga
and crownec i here and there with cotton-
bush. This flat and the bordering sand-
ranges were duplicated for miles to north
and south: it was as though a mighty
w i nd bad raised the earth like water into
a rag j ng se&j bad blown up mile-long
billows of clean sand, in the trough of
which lay the narrow clay flats. Cross-
jn g thj s tremendous sea, keeping to the
north . SO uth boundaries of two States, the
f ron tier barrier lay like a switchback
ra jj way track
* For an hour Elder, seated at the foot
of the fence, worked on his useless eyes
wbb a shirtsleeve wetted with saliva,
worke f d ( wi ‘h° ut ticMeving any result
except to redden and make sore the m-
byJ;he fun f us du J’ ~ . r ,
Clear understanding of his plight came
slowly. A mile distant his camels were
feeding in hobbles. Back along the next
A a t northward, amid a clump of mulgas,
was pitched his tent. The nearest habi-
tation was a station homestead twenty-
two miles south of east. The nearest
water supply was at Blackfeller s Bore,
to reach which he would have to travel
the fence southward for three miles, and
then pass through a gate into South Aus-
tralia and follow a taint track for seven
miles.
Everything had been so right and sate
in a crystal-clear world, and the bush
spirit or banshee, or
whatever you may care
to call it, had appeared
to be sleeping or absent
on a long journey.
People who live at
station homesteads,
and those who explore
Australia accompanied
by a great retinue, do
not believe that the bush
has a personality, one
that watches and waits
the opportunity to strike
at lone men. But the
blacks believe it, and so
do the few white men
who, like Elder, live and work for long
periods completely shut off from human
contact.
The bush spirit does not trouble itself
with men in crowds, for men in mass
can defy it. It stalks lonely men and
bides its time to prove its mastery.
Made careless by the beauty of the day,
Elder at last had given the spirit of the
bush a chance, and it quickly proved
that it was neither absent nor asleep.
It had caught Jim Matthews on that
very fence. When Matthews had broken
a leg climbing over the barrier, it had
watched him crawl on one knee and
two hands for slightly more than a mile,
and rhen it had waited outside his tent
during the full week in January until he
died.
There was Mick Hogan. Hogan was
patrolling the great Number One Rabbit
Fence in Westralia when the bush spirit
frightened the camels at the moment
Hogan was climbing up into his heavy-
hooded dray over one of the shafts in-
stead of up the step at the rear. One
wheel of the dray ran up a fence post
and the dray tipped over to crush Hogan
into the track and keep him there for
hours before he died.
They who have been lured away by
the spirit of the bush are legion. Those
victims were shown the cunning and the
malignance of the bush spirit or banshee.
It lay at their feet sparkling sheets of
water —in dry claypans. It painted for
them in the distance pictures of beautiful
houses and running streams and green
gardens—at the feet of sun-scorched
sand-dunes.
When least expected it stuck Elder on
the S.A. Border Fence. It rendered him
more helpless than it had Jim Matthews
when he broke his leg. Although Elder
could hear his camel bells, although by
their aid he could have groped his way
to them, he would still be helpless with-
out one of the noselines hanging over a
tree branch at his camp. And, had he a
length of string or tie-wire to use as a
noseline, it would be unlikely that his
riding beast would take him to the
nearest homestead, as its home was the
twenty-one-mile section of fence now
controlled by Elder.
COR a little while panic raged through
* his brain. Then Sanity touched him
with her cold and soothing fingers,
He must try to reach his camp, and
to do that he must be, and he must re-
main, icily calm. Once at his camp he
could doctor his eyes with Condy’s crys-
tals; once there he commanded water.
At all cost he must find his camp.
It had been cold enough the last night
to freeze into a solid block the tea re-
maining in the billy. It would be as cold
this coming night. With him he had
neither coat nor waistcoat, With A 1 0!
he had not a single match. If he did not
find the camp ...
Not without difficulty he created m
his mind a picture of the next flat
northward. It was about a quarter ot
a mile wide: therefore, it was about 440
yards from the edge of one sand-range
to the edge of the other. The mulgas
among which was his camp grew ! n
the middle of the flat and about six
hundred yards back Irom the fence.
Between those mulgas and the fence all
was clear, hard ground except for a
clump of the same trees growing towards
the southern sand-range. Were he to
walk -, beside the fence northward over
the first sand-range to its far edge and
the n take about 185 paces, he s
arnve opposite his camp about,
by walking straight for six hun ie
y ards he would arrive at the clump ot
mulgas and the camp,
Curse it! There was too much
“ ab .°f” in , th^ e But he
bad to make the e , • h
keep cool, or the bans
be ore tb< T mor ™ in 8- . ... ...
had been ever to work at a job like this!
tbe h lacks ouldn * a e ,' H
There, there !He ™ u ,f ;P '?°°*-
would be lost if he didn t k p .
Ther e was ™ occasion to pamc yet. Ifc
c u ould stlll tell u . th . e from which
* e | un was shining for when he turned
his face to the west the red curtain was
noticeably brighter .
IJAVING reached the place which he
11 thought to be opposite his camp.
i ie sto od with his back against the fence
and squared himself with it by stretch-
j ng oLlt his arms and touching the wire
mes h w j t h the backs of his hands. Then
h e stepped away,
At once the severance of himself with
the object made familiar to him during
three years threatened to submerge his
mind in the whirlpool of fear. He wanted
to turn round and rush back to the com-
forting feel of it. It was the only gate-
way out of that appalling world of red-
tinged darkness.
Then he remembered that as long as
the sun shone, as long as the bells con-
tinued to tinkle, he could find his way
back to the barrier.
Calm now, he stepped forward reso-
lately, counting the paces he took, esti-
mating that at each step he would cover
two feet six inches of ground. The camel


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE 60 SECOND SHAVE
Us
ii
is
ii
§
*
8
m
m
m
m
%
w
■i
mm
m
i
m
\ m
AND THE SIXTY"SECOND
AS GOOD AS THE FIRST!
A Valet shave is as close and smooth
as a barber’s, for the blade is kept
always keen by those few seconds on
the strop. And when the shave is
over a few more seconds under the
tap and a wipe with the towel
leaves your Valet clean and ready
for the next occasion. Nothing to
unscrew, nothing to take apart —the
simplest self-stropping razor in the
world, the original and still the best.
Complete razor sets from 4/6 to 65/-.
10 Secs. to strop
30 Secs. to' shave
4 Secs, to rinse
7 Secs, to wipe
60 Secs.
VALET BLADES
FIVE FOR 2/ -
OF ALL DEALERS
AufosStoop ▼ I.JL/Xy JL Safely Razor
■■■■■■■■■■■■■ BRIT I S H MADE ■■■■■■■■■■■■Hi
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
bells were of great assistance in keeping
him straight. The beasts were feeding
north of east. He must keep the sound-
ing bells at a point left of front.
When he fell the first time, tripping
over a stick, his body received no hurt,
but his mind was emptied of the number
of paces he had taken from the fence.
When he fell the second time, panic
mastered him, although his mind tri-
umphed to the extent of ordering him to
lie still until he had in turn mastered
panic. Thus, when again he stood up, he
faced the same point that he had been
facing when he fell.
AFTER that the bush spirit began its
real work on him. It played with
him as though he were a mouse and it
a cat. It tugged at his trousers, it
scratched his arms, it prodded his out-
thrust hands, and it whipped his un-
guarded face.
He found himself among timber and
low, entangling bushes. There were no
bushes among the mulgas about his
camp.
Grimly determined, he ignored the
teasing bush and plunged onward. At
last he halted to swear loudly at his own
foolishness in not immediately returning
to the fence when he first knew he had
missed the camp.
Obviously he must go back to the
fence and start out again. Through his
closed eyelids he found the position of
the sun, and he did not have to tilt his
head far back to do that. With the sun
and the bells to aid him, he stepped
cautiously, feeling with his feet for
fallen timber and entangling bushes.
Then he was treading loose sand.
Sand! How could sand come between
him and the sun? Ah, he must be at the
edge of the southern sand-range! Keep-
ing the sunlight' to his left cheek, he
presently trod on to the hard clay of
the flat. Then, when he was beginning
to fear that he was again slewed, his
fingers touched the border barrier.
He had regained the fence. That was
something. He was given another chance
to find the camp.
FAR away the camel bells clashed most
unmusically—and ceased to ring.
The beasts had eaten their fill and had
laid themselves down for the night. The
outside world became strangely quiet.
Before he heard the caw-caw-caw of the
passing crow Elder heard the swishing of
its wings. When the crow had gone on
to drink at the bore stream he was left
in the silence.
Men flee from silence as they flee from
pestilence. In the cities they find the
quiet of an empty house too much for
their nerves. The quiet becomes a stalk-
ing phantom. Lonely men in the heart
of the bush pile wood on their campfires
in order to beat back the silence with
crackling flames. Other men living in
huts play an accordion or a mouth-
organ ; and those in homesteads are
blessed with squalling children or the
radio or a piano. All men dread the
silence, the silence absolute, the silence
which thunders on a man’s eardrums so
that they hurt.
The mind is dwarfed by silence. The
bush walls close in on one like the walls
of the Inquisitors, or they fall back into
infinity to leave a man naked and de-
fenceless, like a snail without its shell.
The silence of the bush is worse than
the silence of a dungeon. The wretch in
the dungeon can hear his own breathing.
ELDER shivered when the silence fell
about him like a cloak that he could
feel. It was then that he realised his feet
were cold. In a flash he turned to the
fence. The sun no longer lightened the
red fog before his eyes—not even when
he lifted the lids with his fingers. It had
set, and already the air was brittle with
frost.
Now he could feel the presence of the
banshee. He could feel it! It was all
around him, waiting to rush into his mind
and drive him on and on, anywhere,
whilst he screamed for mercy and fought
it.
Now —now! Steady! He had one
more chance, although he no longer
had the sun and the bells as compasses.
Fool that he was to have wasted time
hanging to the fence! He hurried along
it to find the edge of the southern sand-
range, then to turn and walk back for
185 paces to bring him once again to the
supposed centre of the flat, keeping touch
with the barrier with a hand drumming
against the wire. With renewed hope, he
left it on his second attempt to find his
camp.
They say that a lost man walks in
circles because he makes a longer stride
with one leg than with the other. He had
to chance that. He had to find the camp
before the frost sent him to sleep for
ever. The frost! Already it was tingling
the tips of his ears and his nose.
Then his groping feet trod on sand,
fine, yielding sand.
He is a fool who says there is no sinis-
ter spirit of the bush, no banshee, to tor-
ture a man once it has him at its
mercy. Now it spread beneath Elder’s
feet the soft pile of sand, and tempted
him to lie down and take his ease.
He screamed defiance and stumbled on,
and so came again to clay. Then the
banshee led him to a mulga patch and
tortured him with sharp-pointed sticks.
It tripped him with sticks and whipped
his face with a scourge. It sent trees
marching against him to fling him back
from the camp he must reach or perish.
The silence retreated every time he
cursed the banshee, but it closed again
like a vice when he ceased. The silence
was not the banshee. Oh, no! It was
the banshee’s mate. It joined the ban-
shee in this rough-house wherein a man
played blindman’s bluff for his life.
The reddish smear of color was no
longer before his eyes. Now it was dark
—and cold. He struggled on, tormented
by the bush, fighting it now on sand and
now on hard clay. Just where he was
only the mocking banshee knew. All
feeling had gone from his ears and nose.
Despite constant movement, the frost was
attacking his heart, cramping his chest to
the point of restricting his breathing.
WHEN he tripped for the last time, and
crashed headlong, he lay for a while
sobbing with rage, his face pressed
against one arm, the other stretched for-
ward with the hand clenched.
He had had enough. He could do
nothing more until the sun got up, and
meanwhile he might as well sleep. He
would never find the damned camp in
the dark; he could make no fresh start
to find it from the fence until the sun
brightened the red curtain before his
eyes.
Only in the hand of the outstretched
arm did he feel any pain. The rest of
him was numb, without feeling. The
pain of the hand became worse. It pre-
vented him from sleeping. It cleared
his fogged mind before he could muster
sufficient effort to move his arm.
Then he knew. His hand was being
burned. It lay in a soft bed. With a
strangled cry he lurched forward and
plunged his other hand into that same
soft bed. It was the ashes of his almost
cold campfire. Beyond it, only a few
feet beyond it, was the entrance to his
tent.
The Growing Strangeness.
I have a leafs tongue now and speak
for stone
And cattle’s bony moods I’ve made my
own.
If difference is, it’s one wry silver leaf
Or the faint spiral that the cricket shrills,
A valid phrase, but hardly qualifying
The blunt grey statement of New
Zealand hills.
Yet, while the blackbirds, twittering their
fear
At early owl or innocent brown hare,
Sliver the huddled silver of the brush-
wood.
And the dark hawk floats lonely and
austere
Through coming night that rumbles on
the farm,
Like grey stones trundled through the
watery air.
Aware of me, afraid, the browsing cattle
Lift heads and stare, alert for flight or
battle.
As if I were an alien bull advancing
Wary and dangerous through the evening
cool;
MAORILAND.
As if that leafs-breadth silver wry ness
made me
Stark and grotesque and massive as a
bull.
Even in fields I love I am a stranger.
But beasts that sniffed and stiffened as
for danger
Relax, and with their tongues, those
rasping plumes.
Crop the pale grass and have no more
alarm.
Who turns as I have turned to rove the
fields
From glowing hearth, and talking, and
the warm
Body of his beloved will find me now.
If growing strangeness will his eyes allow,
Too less-than-human to disturb the cattle.
So has that first shrill quibble changed
and grown.
Above the gully, set on the grey hill
Impersonal • • • impersonal I am as
strange and lone
As a dead tree, a pillar of black stone.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


RHEUMATISM
Watch those First Sharp Twinges of Pain, and TAKE ACTION NOW!
Almost before you are aware of your peril, you may find that Rheumatism has
you in its merciless grip, and the result is not pleasant. Don’t let Rheumatism
conquer you. Don’t hesitate and waste precious time while the ailment get a
firmer hold upon you, but go to your chemist now and get a box of De Witt’s
Pills—the remedy that has been successfully used in all parts of the world.
You cannot choose a better remedy. Read this remarkable letter sent us by
a grateful user. Then ask your chemist. He will tell you that De Witt’s Pills
contain ingredients which will prove beneficial in cases of rheumatic trouble.
You may think your case is too far advanced for De Witt’s Pills to
help you. Don’t make this big mistake. If rheumatoid arthritis has already
distorted your limbs you cannot expect a cure, but De Witt’s Pills will
ease your pain and possibly check the progress of the disease. Going
to the other extreme, you may think you can do without De Witt’s
Pills because you only experience rheumatism in a mild form
occasionally.
DON’T BE DECEIVED
* Cl
m
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC, ACID
64/
Those early symptoms need attention, and yon will be acting
wisely if you get a box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist at the
first opportunity. The cost is trifling, and surely it
is worth while taking one or two pills when you ■ *
know that by doing so you will enjoy better health
now and ensure freedom from pain in years to come.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness under
the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen feet
or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains , gravel
or stone. These symptoms usually precede attacks
of Rheumatism, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or
serious Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting a box of
De Witt’s Pills from the chemist and taking them
as directed. Sold only in the blue, white and gold
boxes, price 3/6, or larger, more economical size. 6/6.
Mr. M. Preston, of 193, Elizabeth Street, Redfern,
Sydney, N. S.W., says: “I cannot speak too highly of
De Witt’s Pills. I can honestly say they gave me instant
relief. Having suffered for many years from kidney trouble
and rheumatism, I tried a large number of remedies without
result, until I gave De Witt’s Pills a trial One bottle was
sufficient to show results, but I continued using them until my
trouble had completely gone.”
De Witt’
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
Quietly True Bit of Bush Humor:-
WEATHER FORECASTS.
BY E. DITHMACK.
WE had finished putting up a line
of posts when old Bill Bennett
rode along to criticise.
“Them there posts is no good,” he
told us decidedly. “Ironbark might
sound all right, but when it comes to
wear No, young fellows, y’re only
wasting time putting them in.”
“But you couldn’t get better timber
than this,” I objected.
He got down from his horse and
examined a couple of posts carefully.
“No good,” he said again. “That there
fence 1 put up in the creek paddick—
youse boys’ll know it —well, it was done
with ironbark. I put good work into
that, and it ain’t lasted no time.”
Henry stopped boring to look at Bill.
“How many years ago was that?” he
asked.
“Well, now, let me see.” Old Bill
kicked at a slanting post. “It was just
after young Freddie was born, or it
might’ve been Kate. Anyway, it was
thereabouts—there’s only a year’s dif-
ference atween them. I remember be-
cause I had to knock off to bring the
old woman home from town. That’ll
be forty year ago next May. Yes, forty
or forty-one year ago, and the blamed
things are rotting already.”
Henry went on with his boring. I
looked up at the unclouded sky.
“Going to rain soon, Mr. Bennett?”
I asked, meaning to be conversational.
“Be the looks of things it’s not,” he
answered. “Ye’ve got that there post
crooked, young fellow —a bit more to
the right—more yet.” He shut one eye,
cocked his head and motioned with his
hand which way to move it. “Be the
looks of things there’ll be no rain for
the next three months,” he concluded.
“Well, I hope you’re wrong,” Henry
said. “If the ants would start building
on to their nests we’d know. They say
that’s a sure sign of rain.”
“Would you bet on it?” Bennett
asked aggressively.
“Well, I don’t know that I’d bet on
it.”
“No, and neither would I,” said Ben-
nett, “though, mind you, I did once.”
“And did it rain?” I asked.
He sat under a shady tree on his
haunches and threw bits of sticks and
leaves together.
UV OU’LL remember that there last
* drought we had. Things was so
bad that people was wanting to give
cattle away. That creek paddick of
mine—youse’ll know it—there’s plenty
of water there, but the feed was drying
off.
“Well, Bill Ryan comes along and he
offers me fifty head of steers at ten bob
a head. Fine young things they was, too.
An inch of rain and they’d be worth
anything up to five pounds a head in a
month or two.
“Well, I’d seen the ants building on
to their nests that morning, and thinks
I to meself, ‘lt’ll rain before long.’ Mind
you, I’d no more use for them there
steers than a frog has for hip pockets,
but I closed with Bill. It’s a gamble, and
either the ants is liars or I’m a fool.
Well”
He paused to reach for a distant twig.
“Well,” I prompted, “did it rain?”
“I put them there animals up in the
creek paddick, and the ants is working
hard all the time. Mick Flynn heard
about the steers, and he offered me an-
other fifty head at the same price. I
took them, too, on the strength of the
ants. Well”
He had quite a mound of leaves and
twigs by now.
“You know, it don’t take an extra
hundred head of cattle long to eat a
paddick down, and nearly a week has
gone and still no sign of rain. But the
gambling bug has bit me properly be
now and I can’t stop. Henry’s father —
he’d got about seventy head of young
heifers on his place—you’ll remember
them, Henry?”
He looked up slyly and began to
chuckle.
Henry knocked off work and went
over to put on the billy for dinner.
“Seventy head of the finest young
things that ever came off a place. They
was springing, too. I’d put all my faith
in the ants be now, and I knew that
when it rained forward springers ’ud
be a little goldmine. I makes Henry’s
father an offer—a fairly decent offer,
too.”
Henry’s face was red from bending
over the fire, “Fifteen bob a head,
wasn’t it?” he said in a quiet sort of way.
Old Bill laughed. “But he wouldn’t
come at it, Henry. He ses to me, T’d
rather see them rot than sell at that
price.’ I went up ten bob a head, and he
begins to nibble. It’s an awful drought,
mind you, and I’m taking mighty long
odds.
“ ‘The ants are beginning to build,’ he
ses at last, ‘and that means rain, they
say. I seen that bed at the foot of the
hill all plastered on one side.’
“I wanted them there heifers bad. I
knew that if it rained soon I’d make
enough for a good long spell. ‘You old
fool,’ I ses to Ned, ‘don’t you know it’s
only when the new antbed holds that it
rains? If it crumbles away again that
means a longer dry spell than ever.’
“ ‘l’ll let you know to-morrow,’ he ses,
wavering”
HENRY came over to me. “Get out
the tucker,” he said, “and the
mugs. You’ll have a bit with us, Mr.
Bennett, won’t you?”
„ A ~ , c , . , f
,here for a dnnk ot
, sai Bennett.
He edged closer to the tucker bag,
gathered up a fresh handful ot leaves
and twigs and began another mound.
And did it ram? ! asked
That night,’ said Mr. Bennett, “I
8“ *» the antbed and chips away the
‘rf o *!’
r ? r C ..V °w ed aa
Sir A? h Y ?,V r old dad
uLI I f,, ' U ‘T y n, .
y , awaowed down some hot tea
and dldn t say anything.
* m ° mmg ° Ver C ° meS
“ Them there heifers’ he ses
r 1 c „!f • • •
, Yes? ’ 8 8 anJ ' th,n «
d Vr dy .
“ ‘The ants is still building,’ he ses.
“‘Ah, that’s only bluff!’ I tells him.
‘Come here and have a look.’ I takes
him to the bottom- of the house paddick
and shows him the new antbed all
crumbled away.
“ Til tell you what,’ I ses ; 111 make
it thirty bob and not a penny more, i m
the fool, and you’re on a sate wicket
“He looks at the sky, and then at the
antbed. Then he looks at the sky again
and chews a piece of dry grass,
“‘I think I’ll hang on to them tor
a while longer,’ he ses,
COULD see them heifers with their
1 new ]j tde ca i V es as plain as I can
see youse . i wanted them worse than I’ve
ever wanted anything,
“ ‘Two pounds,’ I ses, ‘and not a
f a rthing more.’
“ ‘Done,’ he ses, and I takes him to
the house and gives him a cheque there
an d then. That afternoon I takes
delivery and feels a bit of a sinking some-
where inside of me. I can’t swear be
them there ants, and the stock’s getting
as poor as mangy dogs. If it don’t ram
in a day or two I’m a goner and Henry’s
father the richer be a hundred and forty
, . .„„ _ . ,
Well, did it ram. I asked. _
He nodded his head and winked,
“Two inches in a storm the next night,
aud the paddicks like Paradise in less
than ten days. Ram every day for a
fortnight. Them heifers and steers
brought the best prices Ive ever had for
cattle. Everyone was wanting to buy
t^le r . a } n ' ~.„ T • . ,
You old scoundrel! I said, marvel-
in ® at Henry s equanimity.
D Henry s quiet voice cut in Mr.
Bennett, he said, how about making
me an offer for those bullocks in the
hill paddock? There’s a hundred and
twen f of them _ aU in good nick stm .”
Thc > |ook of , he deale * instantly , capt
t 0 o|d Bi „. s He j a hed and J shook
his head, “Too risky jus! now. me boy,
toQ ~ J J
„ A , th y re e-te n a head?” coaxed Henry.
“Couldn’t be done until it rains.” He
sot up stiffly and kicked away the
mound “Well, I must be getting along.
You take my advice now, and don’t
put in any more of them there posts.”
He unhitched his horse c |i m bed into
the saddle and rode away.
Henry had resumed boring. I looked
at his face. There was something about
him that did not invite a talk.
M EXT morning as we were putting
through the wires old Bill came
along to watch.
“Good morning, Mr. Bennett,” Henry
said in his quiet way. “What do you
think of the weather?”


*4K£i\C€>Ol*'S Call
*
All IfVRIfTS
Wmm
m
m
m
JO
Famous visiters from all parts c. j V e
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350 ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares,
IN
R
ACU
HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach Powder gives
fastest, surest, and MOST COMPLEiL
remedial action in cases of Indigestion,
Dvsuensia Gastritis, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Acidity Fermentation, etc. Distress stops at
once. y The stomach lining is ,. soot^ ed ’ £ eal ?ft
protected more completely than by the old
bismuth method. Inflamed, ulcerated stomach
gets back to normal, even after years of
dependence on the mere relief of old-style
bismuth or magnesia compounds. Bowels, too
(where 75% of digestion takes place), are
helped by Harrison-Maclean Powder. Thus
the* most thoroughgoing remedial process is
established. Prof. H. Maclean, of the famous
St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, won distinc-
tion through the work upon which this
remarkable formula is based. Relief alone
will cost vou pounds. A restoration to piopei
stomach health is what you need, as well as
quick relief. Take Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Pow'der and recover, as millions have. I he
cost is 2/6, at any good chem sts, or cluect
from Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia
ttausp Svdnev.
Beware of substitutes —get the White Package
with Black and Red Printing.
Pain Dies —Recovery Begins—the moment you
take GENUINE
. rt< tis° n - Mac /e O/1
stomach Powder *
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
money-asmw/
\
m
i
◄
&
- j s
Thrift is not a mean vice, as
has occasionally been said.
Rather is it a mean between
two vices the vice of
luxurious wastefulness and
the vice of stingy hoarding,
for the full meaning of the
word as a virtue comprises
not only the saving of
money, but the wise spend-
ing of money.
We have learned that money is not an end in itself but
stands for many worthwhile things. Mostly, we earn money,
but sometimes it is the symbol of a gift of love and interest.
On the other side, money gives us what we require for three
things—the necessities of life, the amenities of life and the
emergencies of life. Perhaps it is the last two which chiefly
justify the existence of Savings Banks.
The money earned, or given, having provided the necessities,
the convenient interest-producing Savings Bank account makes
easier provision for the others.
Cbmtnoirwcaltl) Savinas JBank of Hustralia
—,
",
1
lit,! 1
81
:
“The scenic route”
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 .William St., Melbourne.
AMD
UNION
dg
Old Bill looked at the sky and then
at Henry. “Well,” he said, after think-
ing a moment, “perhaps I might do
worse than take them bullicks.”
Henry twisted the strainer and drove
in the punch.
“At three pound a head,” Mr. Bennett
added.
Henry didn’t reply.
“Take it or leave it,” old Bill said
indifferently.
“At that price I’ll leave it,” Henry
said, straining the next wire.
“With a dry spell threatenin’ ye’d be
wise to take it,” said Mr. Bennett.
“With the ants building I’d be a fool
to take it,” said Henry.
“Ants!” Mr. Bennett looked flustered.
“I ain’t seen ants building of late.”
Henry paused to use his sweat-rag.
“No?” he said. “Why, I saw them build-
ing this morning. Go home and have
a look at the one in your house pad-
dock.”
“Well, three-ten a head,” Mr. Bennett
said shortly.
“Nor four, nor four-ten.” Henry
picked up the pliers, and the wires sang.
Mr. Bennett looked annoyed. “Look
here, young fellow,” he said; “if you
think I’m fool enough to pay four
pound a head for them bullicks, y’re
mistaken.”
“I certainly am,” Henry said. “The
lowest I’ll take now, with rain coming,
is five-ten a head.”
“Ah, bah!”
Mr. Bennett turned round and
stamped back to his horse. Henry went
on straining the wires.
“Four pound a head, and ye’re the
biggest fool alive if ye don’t take it,
Mr. Bennett shouted.
“Five-ten a head, and a fool to let
them go at that,” Henry replied calmly.
“Ye’re mad, man!” Mr. Bennett rode
up to him, shaking his fist and purpling.
“What’s a few damned ants got to do
with it?”
“Rain,” said Henry.
“Five-ten a head!” Mr. Bennett said
contemptuously. “Why, it’s top price at
the sales 99
“But think what those beasts will be
worth in another couple of months,”
said Henry. “A few inches of rain and
they’ll be rolling-fat in no time. And
the ants are building.”
“Four-ten,” old Bill shouted, turning
his horse around.
Henry used his sweat-rag again.
“Bring that other coil of wire along,
Frank,” he said.
I rolled the coil to the fence. “If
those bullocks are for sale, and the ants
such a sure sign” I began.
“Well, five-ten then, and may I
never be such a born fool again,” old
Bill capitulated. “Come on home with
me and I’ll give you the cheque now.”
WHEN Henry came back, he picked
up a bucket and brought it along
to the creek.
“I was looking everywhere for that
last night,” I said. “What did you want
it for?”
One of his slow grins spread over his
face as he held up a muddy trowel.
“To help old Bennett’s ants with then-
building. I’m square with him at last.”
Crime Study for the Reader's Analysis:-
THE MADNESS
OF DR CAREW.
BY GEORGE RICHARDSON.
BEFORE he took the last walk to the
scaffold. Dr. John Carew, who was
recently found guilty of murder,
handed the following remarkable docu-
ment to the Warden of the prison:
This is a voluntary deposition of me,
John Carew, which I bequeath in the
hope that it will be published, and so
in some measure reward those who have
so ably, but hopelessly, defended my
plea of irresponsibility for the crime I
have committed.
As I sit here and write this missive, I
must admit that I myself am sorely per-
plexed at many of my actions immedi-
ately following my arrest. However, if
the readers will read on, I will leave
them to form their own opinions of those
of my actions that confound me.
THE afternoon upon which I finally
made up my mind that Lionel Base-
dow must die was sultry and dirty.
Away in the hills at the back of
Mareeba a thunderstorm was making
its approach known.
Perhaps the depressing effect of the
humidity of the atmosphere encouraged
me to finalise my decision. Prior to this
I had hoped that something would turn
up that would make my plan unneces-
sary. But I now knew that I could
not wait a day longer. I would have,
to go through with it. |
What a day that was! Besides the!
evil that was eating into my brain, likej
some cankerous growth, there seemed to>
be some gigantic, portentous force letj
loose upon the world—an evil force that,
was tangible; it could be felt.
As I sit here, amidst the stillness of
my cell, I cannot but wonder if it was
myself that exuded that ominous force.
I am inclined to think so.
Well, to get on with my narrative. I
was returning from a visit to a patient
who lived some miles out of the town.
As I neared the centre of the town I
slewed the car off the crown of the road
and brought it to a standstill in front of
the Royal Oak Hotel.
I remember glancing at my watch ; it
wanted a quarter-hour to closing-time.
“Time enough,” I said to myself as I
clambered from my seat
From force of habit, I peered to the
right and left, a precaution a doctor
must take in a small country town; —that
is, if he does not wish to be seen by any
of the town gossips, who would quickly
amplify a petty vice into something of
Gargantuan proportions. No one was
about, so I slipped through the doors
marked “Saloon Bar.”
FINDING the bar was empty, I heaved
a sigh of relief. This meant that the
acting I had to do would not be pro-
longed—a mercy that I was thankful
for. Although I had acted in amateur
theatricals during my ’Varsity days, I was
not at all sure of myself in the part I
was about to play.
Crossing to the bellpush—for there was
no barman present —I pressed the button.
The man was a devil of a time in put-
ting in an appearance, so I rang again,
this time keeping my finger on the button
for a full half-minute.
It’s remarkable how small things like
that are impressed on one’s memory,
while happenings that occurred later that
were of major importance I have the
greatest difficulty in recalling.
At the incessant ringing of the bell,
the barman put in an appearance. Hi
looked annoyed. I expect I had called
him away from a game of whisky poker
a game, I believe, that he is much
addicted to.
“What are you drinking, doctor?” he
asked without preamble.
I was equally abrupt, for I was an-
noyed, and really needed a drink badly.
“The same as usual, man! ” I snapped
Taking a bottle of whisky from a shelf,
he placed it, together with a glass, on
the counter. From an ice-chest beneath
the counter he brought forth a bottle of
ginger-ale, and, after punching the
marble in, placed it with the whisky-
bottle. And then, with the casual instruc-
tion to “Ring if you require anything,”
he re-entered the front bar, whence
impatient shouts were coming.
Once alone, I poured myself a generous
three fingers of whisky and splashed a
dash of ginger-ale into the glass. I
gulped it down, and repeated the dose
twice more. After that, with chin on
hand and elbow on the counter, I fell
to ruminating over events of the past
nine months.
SINCE the arrival of young Basedow
in the town I had watched my prac-
tice dwindle to a shell of what it had
formerly been. God, how I resented
this intrusion! 1 would not have minded
so much if the young swine had offered
me a premium for encroaching on my
practice. But, instead, he had come and
set up his plate without even “By your
leave,” and thus spoilt what had been
formerly a very lucrative practice.
That I resented the intrusion of young
Basedow I prided myself on having kept
well concealed. But for three months it
had been more than resentment —resent-
ment had turned to an all-consuming
C Continued on next page.)


Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the'broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE; F. L. Wilson, Warwick
Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of "The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that "The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern' is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co..
252 George Street, Sydney.
Advertising Efficacy for Nearly a Century ! !
“The Examiner”
is the oldest
and most effi-
cient advertising
medium in Tas-
mania.
For 92 years “The Examiner,” the oldest
daily paper in Tasmania, and now the only
one pubished in Launceston, has been THE
Advertising Medium for Northern Tasmania.
It is a record of Advertising efficacy, based
on known results, and establishes its claim
of being
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors allso of “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
%
aass
5*<5
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
li nay illustration in Ihe Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
hate. Now with each passing day I
felt that hate being blasted into a raging
furnace.
At this moment in my meditation of
hate I glanced up and caught a glimpse
of my reflection in a mirror that was
advertising a well-known brand of
whisky. For a moment I was startled.
1 had the greatest difficulty in recognising
that the face that I saw peering back at
me was my own, so distorted and full
of malignity was it !
A harsh, rasping cackle that I intended
for a laugh burst from my lips. The
sound of it startled me as much as my
reflection had done. Then the thought
struck me—had the cankerous evil so far
entered my heart and brain that it could
change ray otherwise homely face and
rather pleasant voice so completely?
1 could have cried aloud in my anguish
of mind, but, instead, I buried my face
in my cupped hands. Presently, when
my agony had passed somewhat, I re-
sumed my former position and picked
up my trend of thoughts where they had
broken off.
f HAD iplanned well. I knew it, and
*■ applauded myself for it. A scheme
that my medical knowledge abetted —a
scheme that had a certain degree of sim-
plicity in its make-up—yet a scheme that
needed all my ingenuity to carry it out
successfully.
Three months previous to the day that
I was in the hotel I had taken the first
step—a step onward to what would make
me an inmate of a criminal lunatic
asylum. An incarceration that, thanks to
the lax laws of Australia in regard to
her homicidal maniacs, I hoped would
not last longer than four years at the
most—or, if the plan miscarried, the
hangman’s noose.
I shuddered at the thought. The for-
mer penalty I was prepared to pay. It
was practically certain that I would be
crossed off the British Medical Associa-
tion’s roll. Still what did I care for that!
I could l go to the Islands; I had suffi-
cient money saved to give me a start
in some remunerative occupation.
I recalled vividly the night they car-
ried me to my room. How, once in its
. seclusion, T had laughed at the success
of the first step in my plan—laughed at
the astonished look on my guests’ faces.
I had invited a number of the town’s
elite to a dinner. Dinner was almost
over —men were sipping their port and
women still nibbling at dried fruits or
nuts.
As the lady on my right—the wife of
the Reverend John Monteagle—reached
for the almonds, I picked up the nut-
cracker and rapped her sharply over the
knuckles!
To say that the lady was surprised is
putting it mildly. She was too astonished
to think of the injury to her hand or
even to her dignity.
I was glad at the time that it was
Mrs. Monteagle who was sitting along-
side of me. The woman had always re-
minded me of a parrot, with her foolish
chatter. And that night more so than
ever as she sat there cracking nuts and
screeching to her spouse at the other
end of the table.
Well, to complete episode number one,
I sprang to my feet, abused the Reverend
John Monteagle for being a psalm-
singing, canting hypocrite, and my other
guests for being parasites who came to
my home for what they could cram into
their bellies.
“Pigs,” I called them ; “pigs who make
gods of your bellies!”
After this wild outburst I feigned col-
lapse. Queer! Very queer! When I
had fallen to the floor I was frothing at
the mouth. I supposed afterwards that
I had induced myself into such a passion
that this was the natural outcome of it.
They carried me to my room and sent
for young Basedow, whose diagnosis was
that my condition was a forerunner to
neurasthenia —a severe type of nervous
breakdown.
A MONTH later the second episode in
my plan, was carried out.
It happened at a charity bazaar; I
jumped up on a counter of a fruit-stall
and pelted the patrons with much of the
overripe fruit displayed. Why is it that
they sell such overripe fruit at bazaars?
The stuff is really not fit for human con-
sumption. I think I did the patrons of
that bazaar a good turn on that occasion.
I was pulled down from my fort and
taken home by the local constable, who
braved a perfect fusillade of fruit in do-
ing his duty.
After that people began to avoid me,
and my practice suffered more than ever.
A whisper went the rounds of the town
that “Doctor Carew is not right in the
head.” That was just what I wanted.
My next move necessitated a journey
to Adelaide. There, on North Terrace —
the precincts of the city—l found the
man I wanted, a man with the reputation
of being one of the greatest brain special-
ists in Australia.
The medical evidence of such a man
would not be trifled with. It was a great
idea on my part to consult this specialist
—also a great risk. For, if the great man
had not been so wrapped up in his own
importance, he would surely have seen
through my subterfuge.
After being ushered to the august one’s
presence, I was asked the nature of my
trouble. I then told of the incidents at
the dinner and the bazaar.
The alienist had been doubtful of
forming a definite diagnosis at first, but
when I dared to contradict the great man
on several remote questions dealing with
disorders of the brain he had no hesi-
tation in declaring me mentally deranged.
AT this moment in my meditation the
sound of a dinner-gong being beaten
somewhere in the living quarters of the
hotel reached my ears. This brought
me back to the present.
I looked at my watch. It was five
minutes to six. Well, now was the time
to act. But first I had to have another
drink.
I poured more whisky into a glass, and
drained it at a gulp. I was thankful for
the warmth of feeling that immediately
coursed through my veins.
Then, inserting my fingers into the
neck of my collar, I gave a violent
wrench. The tie snapped into two pieces
and the collar came away from its moor-
ings. After removing my hat and tossing
it into a corner I rumpled my hair, and
then surveyed myself in the mirror.
I was not satisfied with my appearance,
so I stooped down and struck my fore-
head on the brass-bound edge of the
counter. The spot where skin and
flesh were cut showed red and angry, and
then a thin trickle of blood appeared and
rolled down my forehead into my eyes,
temporarily blinding me.
Out of my eye I surveyed myself in
the mirror. This time I was satisfied with
the results.
Another glance at my watch. It was
just six o’clock. Closing-time.
I heard the barman calling “Time,
gentlemen, please. Time, gentlemen,”
in the front bar. Presently he would
enter the saloon. *
I picked up the heavy ginger-ale bottle
ready to throw at him as he came through
the door. A sound from the door leading
to the street as it opened caught my
ears. Damn! Someone was coming in.
I wheeled around to see who was enter-
ing. It was Basedow!
HE caught sight of me, and with a
startled look came towards me.
Then I went berserk.
I rushed at him, whirling the bottle
like a club; he stepped lightly aside, and
his fists, first left and then right, crashed
into my face. I hardly felt the blows.
Flinging myself bodily on him, I bore
him to the ground. The lust of killing
was on me, so I struck again and again
with the bottle.
I laughed—how I did laugh! —as I saw
him lying there without a tremor in his
whole body.
After that I do not remember any-
thing clearly until I was lodged in a
cell. That brought me to my senses.
I had not carried out my original plan,
but my enemy was dead. My actions
were a little premature, perhaps, but I
did not think that it would make any
great difference.
I was relieved when I persuaded my-
self that it did not matter. So relieved
that I wanted to shout my triumph to
the whole world! No, that would never
do.
Next, I had an insane idea that I wanted
to crawl. I could not restrain myself.
I looked through the grating of my cell;
no one was about, so I got down on my
hands and knees and crawled. When I
had satiated myself in this pleasure
for pleasure it was —I wanted to bark
like a dog. Once more I yielded to de-
sire.
Queer! I have a remote recollection
of doing these selfsame things in some
bygone day. , ' ' ,
WELL, this is an unvarnished account
of my crime. What took place in the
cell is known to no one but myself, and
will not be until I have journeyed into
the great beyond—for I would hate any-
one to think me insane, especially after
twelve of my fellow-men had thought me
otherwise.
But, again, can it be. possible that,
while I have been simulating madness,
/ am really mad ?
Reverie du Poeme.
How, as the day is leaving,
out of the west they come —
swift wings, whose anxious weaving
carries the dark birds home.
How, as the wind is going
over the outer edge,
pine-treees that feel its blowing
sigh with the moving sedge.
And how the mood —our moving—
comes like the thief by night;
only the ripple proving
one soul has felt the light:
Joy in an instant’s vision,
raising the heart above
life, that is indecision,
meets the immortal Love ’
touches but fails the holding
constantly to that hand.
See, see the dim wings folding;
dead-still the pine-trees stand.
Just as the dear wings’ beating
carries the birds away
(Where is the eastward meeting
of such another day?);
just as the wind’s last quiver
trails to the west, away,
leaving a silent river,
glassy and still and grey ;
so does the Joy pass outward,
out of an alien breast.
Still does the Hand reach downward,
touching the east and west.
QUEENSLAND.
JOSEPH O'DWYER.


dfg
CHERLOCK HOLMES, the
acute mind in fiction!
most
His extraordinary confidence,
his poise, his calm, his 'amazing
ability to penetrate to the essential
heart of a problem rested on “that
blend of close observation and
deduction” which Mr, Lucas is at
pains to point out is an integral
part of the Pelman System.
The analogy between Holmes
and Pelrnanism goes further, for
Pelmanism concerns itself not only
with the material for thought which
observation supplies and with the
exercise of the reasoning faculties
inherent to deduction but also with
quick decision and appropriate
action. Thought is rarely effective
in itself; its logical outcome is
action. Something has to be done,
and Sherlock Holmes in fiction and
the Pelrnanist in real life are alike
in possessing the final qualification
of success: after observing and
deducing, they act.
PELMANISM is a transforming
influence. It transforms by
developing personal qualities and
attributes that make the individual
stand out in any community and
in any circurristances, Amongst
these attributes and qualities the
most important- are:
Observation Self-Confidenc«
Concentration Will-Power
Judgment Initiative
Decision Promptness
And a Reliable Memory.
THESE qualities are the base
on which steadiness, serenity,
stability and energy rest. Pelman-
ism strengthens them by scientific
methods based on natural laws
until they become habitual and are
exercised in all the affairs of life,
in ordinary everyday matters as
well as in crises and oil big occa?
sions.
It is proper to admit frankly
that Pelmanists do not wish to
be transformed into Sherlock
Holmeses. They want to be them-
selves, but themselves at their best,
with all their powers developed,
with their physical and mental
competency at its highest pitch so
that they can in their chosen walks
of life, or in new walks if neces-
sary, acquit themselves honourably,
courageously and successfully.
They seek command of themselves,
they strive for that happiest of all
possessions, a habit of life, thought
and work that earns the respect of
their associates, makes them effec-
tive in their regular employments
and lifts them to the top of any
special occasion that may arise—
but only as themselves, for the
Pelmanist is an individual with his
own name, his own peculiar powers,
his own lawful occasions and his
own personality.
Many other prominent people besides Mr. E. V, Lucas have spoken highly of Pelmanism,
and more than 650,000 people have gone through the Pelman Course. Below are
opinions received recently from some of the 33,000 who have enrolled with the Pelman
Institute in Melbourne. We could fill a whole “Bulletin” with such letters.
PRINTER I. have attained a
si mdurd of efficiency which has enabled me
to secure an executive position. 'l.'he obs'cure
and complex are now clear and simple.
CLERK (14/K)/’54) —I have just received
my Diploma in Economics at the Sydney
fl'diversity, and I am grateful to the liistl-
' l ute for showing me how to use my mind...
Pelmaiiism is an enemy of fear and ignor-
ance: it Is packed with comrnonsen.se and
practical advice and with inspiration to
bigger living.
PLANTATION MANAGER (17/8/’;I4M
I am the youngest plantation manager in
the Solomons,, i undoubtedly owe my success
to P-elmanlsm.
CHEMIST’S ■ APPRENTICE (27/S/’3A)
I wish to express ray gratitude to Fel-
inanisra. I feel entirely remade. My obser-
ration, concentration, personality and. above
all. my memory have improved.
ENGINEERING .DRAFTSMAN (8/6/’34)--
The exercises set certainly made me think
for myself.
SHEEPFA K.IIK R (14/6/’34)—l have kept
an account of the time spent on the Course.
It amounted to a under three months
and the average time per day—4o minutes.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER U5/4/'34)
There are twenty-four Lessons, because on
each Work Sheet returned l have found as
much information and .instruction as was
contained in the Lesson itself.
ASSISTANT GROCER (23/3/’34)~T would
strongly advise anyone who is feeling
depressed or who is weak-willed or who mav
he naturally shy In company to join up
with the Institute.
BANK CLERK (5/5/’32) —I non’ have
ideals, thoughts and an outlook which enable
me to increase my efforts towards the goal
of honest. honourable and successful
endeavour.
ENGINED RIVER (2S/2./'34) —lt Is with a
wonderful sense of ability and security that
I face the future.
ARTICLED CLERK (14/10/’32)—l have
enjojed and appreciated the Pelman Course
a s I have rarely enjoyed anything before.
BANK CLERK (6/3/’33)—-I was a bit
sceptical of all the claims you made for it,
but I know now that they were not exag-
gerated one lota.
CONTRACTOR (23/l/’S4>—Another dark
corner of the mind has been garnished and
made orderly.
dg
m
m
/I
«pELMANISM makes all
* past experience, whatever
its nature may have been, of
service in the present; it is at
one and the same time the spirit
of success and the means to
personal and individual pro-
gress,”
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
TO THE
PELMAN INSTITUTE;
Liege, 1930. Geneva, 1933.
Nancy, 1932. Paris, 1933.
It is the plain truth that no
matter where or how a man or
woman may be placed—in a
big organisation, working with
many others ; in a profession ;
in a small business as proprietor,
manager, clerk or salesman ; on
the land ; in factory or work-
shop ; in any calling whatever—
Pelmanism will help him to
make the most of his circum-
stances, his opportunities, and
himself.
CUT OUT OR COPY AND
POST TO-DAY.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Please send me “The Efficient
Mind,” post free and without
obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
397
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dg
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24 1- {-plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers ~ living outside Australia ,and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
k .>' V„pV d
C?» >N^\^ >e s' \ *
A® o'*- 4
*so* •••■ .•••
\¥
o’
s 5 ■..-••■
..•••■■ ■..•••", o< Y&&
- ...•••
.0^
•• * •*'s<s
< to I^-


ff
e
starting
there’s no need to fume
and to fuss so long
you’ve filled up with
ww w
Papular
Or
C
0
iIKtW
I’
the guaranteed Ist
grade petrol sold at
the ordinary stan-
dard grade price
PLUS [+] POWER ... MINUS [-] KNOCK
THE COMMONWEALTH O/L REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government & Anglo• Persian Oil Co. Ltd.) MELBOURNE : SYDNEY : ADELAIDE : BRISBANE
C101/B/3S
