

k
-A MARVEL »U
MINIATURE -
Loads with 35 mm. film-
offers all the big advantages
yet sells at
the record low
price of . . .
£lO-IO
IP '.l
' ;
y.'
I
«»
O'■ \..<>•;;
Ml
■■ •'
■?
■.. smsmi
Srvv. ; ,
OURS FOR EASTER
s■
fSk
iod
c j
I
9 Photography’s latest thrill—Puts the World at Your
Finger-tips!
9 Retina means unusual, dramatic, interesting pictures you
would never have got otherwise.
9 It’s that fine, high-precision instrument you’ve always wanted
hut could not previously afford. And it’s a Kodak product!
9 Easy to use—nothing new to learn. Amazingly convenient—measures
only 4| x 3 x 11 inches.
£ Daylight loading and unloading with 35 mm. Kodak Panatomic Film
Cassette, for 36 exposures, size 36 x 24 mm. Automatic Exp. Counter.
£ F/3.5 Xenar Lens assures needle-sharp definition for tremendous
enlargement. Compur Shutter to 1 /300th second, stops fastest action.
Price - - £lO/10/- (which is the English List Price).
Call for demonstration or write for folder,
Of all
Kodak
Dealers &
KODAK (Aust.) PTY. LTD.
37!) George Street, Sydney; “The Block/’ 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l: 250-232 Queen
Street, Brisbane; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; J/S Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 663 Hay Street,
Berth; Buthven Street, Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; Blinders Street, Townsville.
stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 70 Princes
Street, Dunedin; 894 Lamb ton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2877.
Germany's Lost Colonies
Wednesday, April 3, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WELLINGTON—
NEW ZEALAND’S CAPITAL CITY
is the centre of what is prob-
ably the most resultful area
in the Dominion for sales
campaign.
This important market de-
mands your attention, and can
be effectively and economi-
cally covered by placing your
advertising in
THE EVENING POST
Wellington’s only evening
newspaper, which offers you a
95% coverage of the homes
in Wellington city and urban
areas.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Proprietors).
v totes and ther pattlruiars
ap y to any accredited ruHviisiog
age -cy.
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
" CUT HERE AND MAID
Pleaxe send without obligation, your New Free
BooUet. explaining how to Write jor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. j
My Name
My Address
SB. 135
“The SATURDAY EVENING EXPRESS”
The only
Evening Paper
in the North
of Tasmania,
(EST. 1924).
T he , S -E. Express gives a guaranteed
circulation in Launceston, the Mid-
lands, and the North-West Coast of
Tasmania.
Besides being a Sporting Journal It
is the Sunday Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania.
ADVERTISE IN THE S.E. EXPRESS FOR WEEK-END READING.
w U,, tJ n i ormation ’ Copies ' Advertising Rates, obtainable from
ProorSSs aL 7 l'P Patereon St., Launceston.
also of The Examiner” (daily) and “Weekly Courier”
. S ‘ Al {s"* at ' loaal Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
• G ~ D ° an ’ Ivemlbla Buildings. Margaret Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning
Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
The Great Creating Force in Bu*‘° e
. o. t-Ke effi ca^*
If you wish to increas jjt u re * n
of your advertising eX P
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” puhHshes ab° u
1,000,000 advertiseme
annually
Advertising rates on in all
the principal Service o
States, or
DAVID SYME &
233 Collins Street, MeU>o“ r " ’
Sydney Office: 43 ■Hnnte'
London Office. 3 Temple
The Red Page
THE WEEK’S BEST
Australian
Period
Fictioneers
Australians do
period fiction
rather well,
especially when
they go overseas.
Phil Lindsay,
while he was
here, tried to get something of the con-
temporary Australian scene into the
shape of novels. Lacking assistance and
inspiration in the poor tradition of writ-
ing that we have, he was unequal to the
task. He was, as a matter of fact, writ-
ing rather badly when he left Australia.
Then, in Here Comes the King, under
the influence of
the English tra-
dition of writing,
he brought freely
to bear on Con-
jugal Henry the
fine sense of
romance that all
these Lindsays
have. He con-
jured up a fus-
tian world of
ferocity, bravado.
Court intrigue and
falling heads,
crowned a Sydney
Helen Simpson.
barmaid Queen of England, and was in
turn crowned a most popular writer by
a satisfied public.
A somewhat similar tale could be told
of sundry others. Brian Fenton’s Land-
takers, though only in an impressionistic
sense historical, is yet a novel written
under the inspiration of times and condi-
tions unknown to the writer except at
second-hand. Fenton did most of the
work on the book in England. So,
apparently, did G. B. Lancaster in mak-
ing Pageant, and Henry Handel Richard-
son in her Mahony period pieces. The
list could be extended, but the examples
are enough, and good enough, to prove
a definite tendency of our best writing
brains to fossick and turn over the past.
That may not be at all complimentary.
I: may be symptomatic of inherent weak-
ness to face up to the facts of the present
—the extraordinarily difficult task, in a
literary traditionless country, of syn-
thesising the peculiar disorders and dis-
tempers, conflicts and confusions of life
immediately at hand and about us. Of
those nairted, Brian Fenton alone escapes
this charge, and he does so because he
does not turn over the past for its own
sake, but to give meaning to the present,
and further because it is to be inferred
that Landtakers is not a complete work,
but only the basis upon which he will
build into the contemporary Australian
scene. If Fenton does this and does it
as honestly as he did Landtakers, he will
stand as Australia’s most significant
writer to date.
Judged by only her latest work —the
artily - entitled Saraband for Dead
Lovers, a “book of the month” in Eng-
land—Helen Simpson could be num-
bered among the foregoing only by
suspending critical standards. She
has, of course, elsewhere proved her-
self worthy of that company, and
maybe even more than that; the
first part of The Woman on the
Beast, to go no further, will possibly
one day be recognised as one of the
finest quasi-historical stories in the lan-
guage. But this current work—this
revival of the love-affair of Sophie-
Dorothee, wife of England’s first George,
and the Swedish adventurer Konigsmark
—is at the best a vacation effort, and
at the worst a reckless frittering away
of a superb talent. It may be that Miss
Simpson is naturally patchy; her 'Van-
tage Striker was even thinner stuff. At
least this current work has one con-
structed woman character (the old lady)
and one well-drawn man (the brutish
George), and it is written with a liveli-
ness that borders on to gaiety, the writer
bringing a self-sufficient sophistication to
the telling which admirably suits the elastic
morality of the period and quickens the
tinselled going with a spicing of naughty
humor. Regarded strictly as light literary
refreshment, it is very good. It is so
good, in fact, so lively and lightly re-
freshing that it can only be adversely
criticised in comparison to her own
better work.
Another
Australian
Novelist
This is one
who has not fled
the land—Wini-
fred Birkett,
whose Earth's
Quality is like
the almond - tree
which is one of its leading characters—
fragrant, clean, fresh and apparently
sexless.
Set in the south-west of N. S. Wales,
in the vicinity of Yass, it opens with as
dire a sentence as can be found even
in our writing; “Through the chill Sep-
tember evening came the distressful
bleating of sheep.” That is not merely
forbidding—it is foreboding. It presages
yet another
doleful tale of
drought and
crows and cow-
bones and de-
spair.
No omen was
ever more
false. If Miss
Birkett had
dope nothing
else her novel
would deserve
cheers for the
champagne of
sunlight which
floods it. It is
a notable addi-
tion to our
Winifred Birkett.
writing for that very reason alone
—that its author declines to accept
the tradition of gloom. That she
goes to the other extreme cannot
be questioned. She will have no-
thing to do with ■ anything unpleasant.
The setting is mixed sheep and wheat
country. Life in that country undoubt-
edly has its gross moments. On these
unfortunate occasions—Nature being the
lamentably crude person she is—Miss
Birkett turns her eyes upwards to the
almond-tree. No harsh censure is in-
Doreen Wallace.
tended: it is
necessary to
emphasise the
complete oblit-
eration of gross-
ness to arrive
at a fair con-
ception of the
book’s worth
and kind.
It can carry
only one de-
scription—it is
an idyll. The
love story which
runs through
its beautiful and
, , . . quiet and sunny
land is as idyllic almost as the affair of
Daphnis and Chloe, and more decorous
being draped. What is much more, it is
as true a love story as that ancient proto-
type. Alec and the quaintly-named
Tmonee love in the beginning-bashful,
pretended-casual, unsophisticated, un-
complicated and finally simply-acknow-
ledged fashion which is the common
experience of the majority of our country
people—if not of mankind at large. Cer-
tainly, among them all there would be
the sex urge in some degree or other,
but nothing in this pure setting seems
to be much inclined that way. It is
not a part of Miss Birkett’s purpose that
any should. The almond-tree is at once
an inspiration and a symbol.
In these circumstances it is all the
more striking an achievement to have
invested characters with the semblance
of reality. Even Charles, who begins by
being a person likely to walk across a
paddock with tears —“perfectly genuine
tears”—in his eyes (apparently to reveal
that he is a poet) turns out a fair figure
of a man. Possibly that is because there
is little need to consider him in an asso-
ciation of sex, and this may account also
for the fact that easily the best character
in the book—a really first-rate construc-
tion—is the very old John Weldon, and
again for the fact that Alec, in whom sex
would seem to be a necessity, is one of
the least satisfactory of all. Oddly
enough, all the men are more real than
the women. The line of criticism already-
carried far enough may account some-
how for that also.
And So to
Cumberland
All that Miss
Birkett does, and
what she does
not do besides,
can be found in
Doreen Wallace’s
latest novel. Latter Howe. The respec-
tive settings and atmosphere form a
thorough contrast. From 'the sunny
clarity of Miss Birkett the move is-to an
outlandish pocket in the Cumberland
hills and a sanitorium and poor-soiled
farm on the East Anglian coast. The con-
trast is so complete, though the people’s
occupations are identical, that the words
ol one character, “I’ve sheep-farmed, as
you know, in Australia, but I dare say
Cumberland isn’t as bad as that,” add
a note of hilarity to a story that is
decidedly not amusing.
Superficially, the place of the setting
and the hinge of the plot are no-
thing short of bleak. Yet in these
surroundings Miss Wallace places and
achieves a story as idyllic as that of
Miss Birkett’s idealistic Eden, and much
more vital and comprehensive. It is not
carping to call Miss Birkett’s charming
story thin—that is simply to state a fact.
Her achievement is an idyll which, in
spite of a somewhat hasty death, a pathe-
tically vacant lad and an accident or two,
is predominantly comedy, in the classic
sense of the word. Also, in the classic
sense of the word, Miss Wallace’s beau-
tiful novel is predominantly tragic—
a classically tragic idyll, the spiritual in-
tensity of which lifts it out of the grim-
ness of its dark surroundings and cir-
cumstances ; a sharp and positive achieve-
ment of beauty compared with which
all the all-brightness books that are
written must seem a little artificial.
It is an achievement reached through
declining to avoid just those very
aspects of life which Miss Birkeit
looks over and above. In other words.
Miss Wallace makes no superficial' selec-
tion from life ; she looks at life steadily,
and she accepts it whole. Miss Birkeit
has the better of it in one aspect ot
this complimentary comparison—she is
never tedious. Miss Wallace is, and very
'much so, in the first half of her book.
Thereafter her dramatic movement is
a steady mounting to a high and splen-
did peak.
CECIL MANN.
{Saraband for Dead Lovers, by Helen Simp-
son (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.); Earth’s Quality.
by Winifred Birkett (Angus and Robertson.
65.); Latter Howe, bv Doreen Wallace (Coi-
Jins; 7s. 6d.),J
Retorts to
the Freelance
Chorus
Freelances suf-
fer from two
main types ot
vermin: (1)
tiddley amateurs
who clutter the
editorial desk and
ruin the editorial temper; (2) the indi-
viduals who have been moaning on tne
Red Page over writers’ rewards.
Freelancing is no job for an arty
crafty writer who expects to grind out
a few hundred words per day and receiv
payment at the rate of several guinea
per thousand. . . .
Asa practitioner who can skite
his earnings equal those of any stre '
cleaner, 1 find it necessary to proo ,
three or four short stories per week a
a serial every few months in older
enjoy beer and cigarettes in, addition
bread and butter. If every freelanc
Australia downed tools in an ,j L„| n
win higher wages, editors could 0
all they wanted from local syndica
and if all the local syndicates weni
strike with the freelances a cable
seas would bring in a few weeks
thing to satisfy an editor’s needs.
Work eight hours a day, turn oI V a,
or eighty thousand words per 0 J
scatter a little stuff overseas, and,
have any success overseas, follow
until you’re able to concentrate
entirely. It’s the only way nY°
to die a natural death.
This chorus of complaint ,^ flCe
“A.E.’s” Is. Bd. for 19 lines of tree
journalism, a fraction over Id* amon g
must have caused many a g ll / 1 . j ger
the old hands, especially on t f l opo iltan
provincial papers and the me j n
weeklies, where good staff
(Continued on pog e 4-)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —our undeviating policy.
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’Phone ; M 2401, Day and Night. PITT, GOULBURN, AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY Postal Address : Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
Guarantee and Recommend
It
5
a
rr
mm
AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AN P THROUGH
2
Regd. Trade Mark
JUMBUK” (Regd. Trade Name)
Quality Underwear Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’
"Jumbuk” Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of
winter. Its native warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected long
staple Pure Woollen Yarn —the soft down-like surface of the fabric is flaw-
less, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
"Jumbuk” Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its
winter warmth the stored-up virtues of our Country’s Glorious Sunshine.
"Jumbuk” Underwear is Guaranteed Unshrinkable, and the wide range of
sizes stocked enables every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
The IDEAL WINTER WEAR for MEN!
No. 220—"Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Light weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 7/ 7/3 7/9 8/6 9/3 10/3 11/6 12/9 14/
Underpants §/ 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/3 12/6 13/9 15/
Trunk Drawers 7/9 8/- 8/6 9/3 10/- 11/- 12/3 13/6
No. 330—"Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Medium weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, Short Sleeves . ... 10/3 10/6 11/3 12/3 13/3 14/6 16/ 17/6 18/6
Shirts, Long Sleeves 1 / extra
Underpants 11/3 11/6 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/6 17/ 18/6 19/6
Underpants, | leg 11/ 11/3 12/ 13/ 14/ 15/3 16/9 18/3
Trunk Drawers 10/9 11/ 11/9 12/9 13/9 15/ 16/6 18/
No. 440—"Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Extra warm, winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 12/ 12/9 13/6 14/6 15/9 17/ 18/6 19/6 21/
Shirts, Long Sleeves 1 / extra
Underpants 13/- 13/9 14/6 15/6 16/9 18/- 19/6 20/6 22/-
No. 660—"Jumbuk” de Luxe, Natural All Wool. Medium winter weight, superior soft finish.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 12/ 13/ 14/ 15/ 16/ 17/ 18/6
Underpants 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/- 17/ 18/- 19/6
No. 750 —"Jumbuk” Wool and Cotton. Light weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 5/ll 6/6 6/ll 7/6 8/6 9/6 10/6 12/
Underpants 6/ll 7/6 7/ll 8/6 9/6 10/6 11/6 13/-
Trunk Drawers 6/6 6/ll 7/6 8/ 9/ 10/ 11/ 12/6
No. 25X.—"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, Short Sleeves . ... 7/6 8/ 8/3 8/9 9/9 10/9 11/9 12/9 14/
Shirts, Long Sleeves 8/3 8/9 9/ 9/6 10/6 11/6 12/6
Underpants 8/3 8/9 9/ 9/6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/9
"Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets, in Cream All Wool, Sleeveless style; bound braid round neck and
armholes. Sizes, 34 to 44 inches chest. Each 5/9
Men’s "Jumbuk” Combinations, Natural All Wool. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Short Sleeves, Trunk Leg 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 27/-
Short Sleeves, Long Leg 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/6 28/- -
Long Sleeves, Long Leg 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/- 27/6 29/-
y* >
$
i
u
MJ-r
t/ >
/ '!
si
i
Men’s Mercery - Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight Paid to all Seaports in the
Commonwealth, and Railway Stations in New
South Wales.
BUY FLEECY "JUMBUK" UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS!
No. 220—"Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Light weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves .... 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/6 6/ 6/6 7/-
No. 330 — "Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Underwear. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches . 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves 5/3 5/6 5/9 6/3 7/ 8/- 8/ll
Trunk Drawers 5/6 5/9 5/3 7/- g/- 8/ll
Combinations, \ Sleeves .. 7/6 7/9 8/6 9/3 9/ll 10/6
Long Sleeves —g- 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/6 11/~
No. 15—"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Light Weight ■— 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6
No. 25X —"Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Winter weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves ... 3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/6 6/3
Combinations 6/3 6/9 7/3 8/- 8/9
Boys’ Mercery—First Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
Seaports in the Commonwealth, and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c C.P.O.


The
Bank of Australasia
enters
its
Incorporated
by Royal
Charter 1835.
101 st Year
• The Bank opened in 1835 in a fairly small way, with one
office in London and one in Sydney, in the one-time town residence
of Sir John Jamieson, George Street, near Jamieson Street (shown
in the small sketch above).
State by State, district by district, as Australia grew, the Bank
established local facilities. And, as trade increased and travel
extended, the Bank developed an increasingly efficient network
of financial and travel facilities for its Australian clientele with
all other parts of the world.
ft
SYDNEY BRANCH *. MARTIN PLACE(OPRG.RO)SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund 2,475,000
Currency Re-
serve (Reserve
Fund used in
the business
of the Bank) 2,000,000
Reserve Liability
of Proprietors
under the
Charter .... 4,500,000
£13,475,000
hundreds all over Australia get little more
than £1 a day at award rates, and look
upon 360 lines or so of 13 ems as an
ordinary day’s work, with 500 lines of
the same measure for a busy eight hours.
At “A.E.’s” despised rate of reward this
would work out at well over £9 and £l2
respectively for a six-day week, and there
would be many experts of 20 years’
standing killed in the rush to get it.
I have often had to tap off more than
900 lines of a feature story in a day for
a metropolitan paper’s front page and
turnover, and it never occurred to me to
write to The Bulletin about it, as I
was receiving the award rate of £8 ss.
for a 46-hour week.
The truth is that for a freelance with-
out special and rare qualifications in Aus-
tralia there is nothing but pocket money,
some reputation and the possibility of a
staff job later. This is due to population,
A.J.A. gradings, amalgamations and syn-
dicates which pour out the work of
alleged experts at mass-production rates.
As an editor I was sent five serials,
each of 70,000 words or so, and 13 short
stories, the shortest running to 5000
words. The Australian syndicate offered
me the right to publish the serials at
from £3 to £5 each, and the whole of the
short stories for £3—and it did not
ask for payment on acceptance. I was
offered my pick of syndicated features,
from Sydney, at an aggregate of 10s. for
a 22-inch column—as much of it as I
needed.
My old harness mate, who has just
joined the literary staff of St. Peter, wrote
good leading articles, averaging a column
and a half in length (230 lines), for a
syndicate for 20 years at 20s. each, and
regarded it as easy money.
The correspondent who accuses editors
of lack of business methods is wrong.
It is the freelances who should make a
businesslike survey of the supply and
demand before dashing off work and
then expecting to be handed the keys of
the safe by the lucky editor who first gets
his eyes on it. Even the champions
cannot cram all their efforts into The
Bulletin and its confreres which can pay
a fair thing, and there are so many papers
struggling along, paying less than The
Bulletin’s rates, that it would swell the
ranks of the unemployed greatly to close
them down by forcing them to pay
higher prices. It would also rob jour-
nalism of some of its brightest stars in
the future by discouraging them fatally
at the outset.
A. E. Y.
[Though there is a Bulletin drawer full of
other contributions to the freelance-and-edtior
discussion, most of it covers only ground
already harrowed (if that is the right word),
and the two foregoing replies are the last con-
tributions that can be considered. It may be
a first-class lesson to some of those who missed
out to know they misspd through hesitating
too long before hopping into the ring.]
Autobiography
of a Thug
Last year T.
Werner Laurie
published Frank
Walford’s
Twisted Clay, a
novel which re-
vealed the mental processes of a half-
educated homicidal maniac—a girl. It
was well reviewed in England and
America, but our censor banned it. Now
from the same publisher comes The
Silver Girl by the same author. The
central figure is a Sydney forger-burglar,
with several murders to his discredit,
who, when the story opens, is on the run
from the police. Like the other book, it
is in the first person.
The appalling heroine of Twisted
Cloy hadn’t a grain of sentimentalism;
it was one of the things that made her
so credible. The hero of The Silver Girl
is rancid with it; and Mr. Walford is
right again, no doubt, for Fred (to use
one of the hero’s aliases ), though homi-
cidal, is anything but a maniac.
There is a stereotype, much esteemed
by certain editors, which goes something
like this:
“Ah, God! ” and the eyes of Art
Kfumps, erst a respected employee in a
fashionable city emporium and leader ot
one of Sydney’s gayest, most exclusive
society sets, were bright with unshed tears.
“Ah, God!” and there was a break in the
cultured voice of one, still in the morning
of life, who revelled erst, so report hath
it, with the cream of the Government
House set; and again he breathed the
suspiration “Ah, God!” and held the hand
of our Special Representative in a vyce-
like grip. “Keep it . . . from” . . . (Would
the tears never fall?) “from ... the little
Mother.”
Our Special Representative bowed a
silent assent.
“And, too,” proceeded the former favo-
rite of fashion, “keep the grim tidings
that Art Kfumps must presently tread his
Calvary from Ah, wife of mine! wife
of mine! Don’t tell Norma . . . how I
died. She is good . . . pure . . . clean all
through” ... ;
It is a fearsome thing*to see a strong
man weep, etc., etc.
Fred would be ravaged by that. Where
mothers and wives are concerned he
uses the stilted language and expresses the
elevated sentiments which are sometimes
heard in court when the letters of the
underworld kings and queens are read
out.
“Do you still love her very much?”
she repeated in a husky whisper.
Again 1 kissed her lips and stroked her
hair. “That is over, little sweetheart,” I
answered. “I did love her, or thought I
did. Now I know that my heart has room
only for you.”
“What was she like, this lady of yours?”
It would have been foolish to evade the
question. Sooner or later I would have to
submit to a cross-examination, and the
wise course was to have it over. “The
antithesis of yourself, wife of mine,” I
replied.
There you have Fred’s emotional form
with his first wife, who, incidentally, is
wanted for killing a would-be seducer.
In another mood he brains people with-
out a qualm.
If only Mr. Walford had laid himself
out to satirise the type of Sydney des-
perado who exudes righteousness out of
hours, and the educational system which
enables our underworld to use platitudes
that Bill Sikes never heard of! But this
isn’t satire. Mr. Walford seems to take
Fred’s moral heroics seriously. It is a
great chance missed.
J.D.
Poet Off
His
Pedestal
The Oxford
Book of Seven-
teenth Century
Verse (R.P.
6/3/’35) has pull-
ed Francis Beau-
mo n t off his
pedestal. Represented in the well-
known Oxford Book of English Verse
by only one poem—“On the Tombs
in Westminster Abbey”—the compilers
of The Oxford Book of Seventeenth
Century Verse credit the poem to
that most prolific of authors “Anony-
mous,” but suggest W. Basse, a poet
whom Quiller-Couch ignores in his an-
thology, although Grierson and Bulloch
find room for two of his poems in their
collection of seventeenth-century poets,
including that asking Spencer, Beaumont
and Chaucer to snuggle closer in their
narrow beds to make place for Shak-
speare in the “fowerfold Tombe.”
Here are sands (ignoble things)
Dropt from the ruin’d sides of kings,
appears in a much fuller form in the
latest Oxford Book, and “Q.” has not
indicated that his ver-
sion of the poem is a
clever patchwork.
Dates for Beau-
mont’s life also vary
in the two antholo-
gies—“Q.” deciding
for 1586-1616, and
Grierson and Bulloch
for 1584-1616. The
scholarship in Claren-
don Press publications
is generally so accu-
rate that later research
may account for the
difference.
A curious omission
in the new Oxford
Book is Drayton’s
magnificent sonnet
“Since there’s no help,
come let us kiss and
part”—surely one of
the glories of English
poetry. “Q.” found
room for it. Per-
haps it was written at
the close of the pre-
vious century, but it
is a pity to put Dray-
Characteristic of Eric Gill’s decora-
tions for the new Dent edition of
the New Testament.
ton before the public plucked of his
golden feather.
G. B.
A Satchel of Books
The State Savings Bank of Victoria:
Its Place in the History of Victoria (Mac-
millan ; 12s. 6d.) is an account of the
early days of Campbell’s Bank, estab-
lished in N. S. Wales in 1819, and the
Port Phillip offshoot of the N.S.W. Sav-
ings Bank (which took over Campbell’s
in 1833) —more particularly, of course,
concerned with the Port Phillip offspring.
Present g.-m. Alex. Cooch is the historian.
The Port Phillip Savings Bank started in
1842 with James Smith in charge, and it
was not until two years after separation
(1851) that the old trustees appointed
from Sydney were removed. Victoria’s
economic welfare was often involved very
directly with the S.B. in the early years,
and in this book chapters deal entertain-
ingly with the Hentys, of Portland, the
golden ’fifties and ’sixties, and the_ land
speculation of the ’eighties. The history
is carried on past the formation of the
Commonwealth Savings Bank right up to
the time of the Premiers’ Plan.
Any way one cares to look at it the
edition of the New Testament being
issued by Dent and Sons is a fine pro-
duction. Compared with its general de-
sign, its neat proportions, the perfect
good taste in its arrangement, the dis-
tinctiveness of its type, the productions
of most of the “special presses” seem
poor or precious. As to cost, instead of
the ambitious, not to say supremely
optimistic, demand for
guineas which kills
pretty well all the
typographical h o t-
houses in the long—
often the short —run,
Dents offer this edi-
tion, of which there
will be four volumes,
at a price that works
out at about 7s. 6d.
per volume in Aus-
tralia. It is being
issued to meet the de-
mand for a good read-
ing edition, and it
should fill that want
completely. It is set
in the beautiful type
designed by Eric Gill,
with notes and refer-
ences in careful index
at the end, so that
there is no distraction
in the reading, and the
size—Sin. by 6in. by
about iin. thick —is
as handy for reading
as the balance and the
binding (flexible red
cloth with gold lettering) are taking to
the eye. Each volume is decorated with
end-paper maps and two symbolic wood
engravings by Eric Gill —much more
attractive work than his rather bare and
angular grotesques in Dent’s new Temple
Shakspeare. The Testament edition is
being issued under the supervision of
Dr. M. R. James and Miss Delia Lyttel-
ton, and the text is the Authorised Ver-
sion, unmarred by the efforts of those
whom Saintsbury described as “the per-
sons who call themselves Revisers.”
On the author’s admission, originally
written for young people, Simple Science,
by E. N. da C. Andrade and Julian Hux-
ley (Basil Blackwell; Bs. 6d. net), is a
600-odd-page vol., most lavishly illus-
trated, and certainly not restricted in in-
terest to the young. Its simpliciy is that
anybody from age 11 onwards ought to
be able to understand every bit of it, and,
since it deals in all those curious aspects
of science which are virtually marvels
to the layman, it holds fascination for
any reader short of a blood-bath addict.
Music in the Modern School, by T. R.
Mayne, M.A., D.Mus., F.T.C.L. (Dent;
55.), is the work of one of the foremost
English authorities on the teaching of
music in primary schools. Intended as a
textbook for teachers, it deals very largely
and very practically with the technique
of class instruction in singing, but the
introductory chapters put forth a very
attractively-written and logical plea for
the inclusion of music in all school cur-
riculums. The chapters on musical
appreciation should bring balm to the
soul of Fritz Hart, whose methods in
the conduct of A.B.C. orchestral recitals
for school-children exemplify most excel-
lently the principles laid down by Dr.
Mayne.
Maorilander Ettie Rout forwards from
England a copy of the twelfth impression
of the revised edition of Safe Marriage.
The later title is Practical Birth Control.
Publisher, Heinemann ; 3s. 6d. net.
A Choice of Verse:—
RAIN IN THE NIGHT.
Spea\ for me, rain in the night. 1 have said overmuch,
And of trivial things.
Surely there must be a city of silence for such
As are humble with grasses and wings ;
And who never wal!{ in the crowds without that backward-turning
Glance which should spell the love of man, if only
The heart of man were not a strange thing and a lonely,
A banned fire slowly burning.
Listen, for this is the truth. Onae on a thyme-steeped hill
There was a harp, and wild music. No harpist was there.
1 had happened upon God’s minstrelsy unaware.
Therefore with lost hands I fumble the chords of Beauty, until
Their meaning shall ripple clear.
Rain in the nights ... torrents of amber, of crystal and blue,
You are the harpstrings, you.
Spea\ for me, rain in the night. It is sweet to lie still.
MAORILAND.
ROBIN HYDE.


LET THE “MASTERPIECE LIBRARY”
8000 Pages—6oo Authors .
A Lifetime's Entertainment .
** m
» wmißm
§K®
M—
■
nsgan«B!
HnnnpHr
v -,<g ✓<#; .
mSSSgZ ™“
'■■ ' ' :'. ~ ■: "'
B
. * 7
ii
lll#lipli
?S%as ; /
\ : ' ' . ■ ■...:,■■■■■■:■ ■
■
I - :
SM
■m
'mW&
m
: ■
WUttk
SHBBBilli
assi
||ii||||: : :
I—
$ ;< ■> & ?® r
AUSTRALIA’S
GREATEST
BOOK
BARGAIN
£lO 10/-
for
£5/5/-
A Library of 10
Double Volumes
■
SSISIII
n
w
:!
ii lIS
. :;: ■
mm
111
■ ■
1 wmm
i
■Hi
■MBH
■Lamm* '"
•v&p |s\ o
wSwS
I
m
I, '
<
mt
'*•,■: j
Jffi
J 5.
si®
I
: ;•. ./V
. ./
n
liil
>■
H
■
n
p i
. I
!■
a
~-.<-w*SBv
*' >
I*l
Ml
>:••• .
' -■ |!l : '
m
. *
■
r*
,a
iJF ./<*?*»
m
IM
- ■ . ~
so^
’ •;*.
■
M
:
■■■■■■
■
llISIl®!
m
ai
m
an
H
MMIBi
wfif iSvS
.: : :■
is m
M
ST::S
: .■[ ;■■
m
m
Delivered to your home [? j
for a first payment of %J j
ii i
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
1000 SHORT STORIES
PROVIDE ENTERTAINMENT
FOR YOU AND YOUR FAMILY
Journey into the story wonderlands of Africa, Asia and
Europe—the romance of Arabia and Persia, the mystery of
China and the East. French gaiety and the passionate
romances of Italy, Spain and Portugal await you. Russia,
grim and forbidding—American humor and thrills and the
clean-cut adventure of the British Isles are all there. Choose
among the best German and Scandinavian authors or in the
brilliant modern creations of H. G. Wells, John Galsworthy,
Stephen McKenna, Frankau, Conan Doyle, Masefield and
Edgar Wallace. There is a special volume of War Stories,
too. In short, a magic carpet of 1000 tales —a lifetime s
entertainment.
The “Masterpiece Library” is edited by
Sir J. A. Hammerton and selected by
the International Board of Critics
below —
Sir William Robertson Nicoll,
LL.D.; Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch; Clement Shorter;
George Saintsbury, LL.D.;
Richard le Gallienne; Brander
Matthews, Litt.D.; Sir Frederick
Wedmore; Sir Edmund Gosse,
C. 8., LL.D.; W. P. Trent, LL.D.;
Carl Van Doren; Thomas
Seccombe.
LESS THAN 4d. PER DAY.
The 10 Double Volumes are yours for 5/- down and 1 1
monthly payments of 10/ less than 4d. per day. In
England this series is valued at £lO/10/-. We offer it
for £5/5/- cash.
Each volume is Sin. high, siin. wide, 1 fin. thick.
ORDER FORM.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
80 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me the “MASTERPIECE LIBRARY OF SHORT
STOR'RS,” 10 volumes. I enclose the first instalment of 5/-,
and agree to make 11 further monthly payments of 10/-.
The Price for cash within 30 days is £5/5/-.
NAME
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Freight is extra, but in no case will it exceed 3/6.
B. 3/4/ 35.


I
■
1
1
ii
H ■
; v
1
w*
i
Q)eli(Mful/


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2877.
April 3, 1935.
JUDGMENT OF LONDON.
“Anyhow, Miss Britannia, you have to admit he’s the prettiest fighter of the three.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
GERMANY’S LOST COLONIES.
It is characteristic of diplomacy that the vital issue
—the one which is at the back of every German
and British mind—should not have been mentioned
for publication during the Berlin conversations. The
Germans won’t be happy till they get some, at least,
of their lost colonies back, and the world won’t be
happy if they do. In particular, Australia and
Maoriland won’t be happy.
In 1914 the Germans had an overseas empire
of a million square miles, carrying a population of
15 millions, all acquired between 1884-99. It supplied
the Fatherland with essential products—copra, linseed,
palm kernels and so forth—and they are still essential.
The colonies had other uses. In the words of the
Note delivered by the Allied and Associated Powers
(16/6/T9), Germany’s colonial empire was “a military
imperialism” which “sought to establish bases whence
it could pursue a policy of interference and intimi-
dation against other Powers.” Tanganyika and South-
west Africa were specified, and these, according to
informed opinion in London and Paris, Hitler means
to recover in his lifetime. Samoa and what used
to be German New Guinea may be allowed to wait.
Colonel Wedgwood, the Labor M.P., who got
his D.S.O. in East Africa, said in the Commons after
the war that the askaris who fought under German
officers were “the most formidable native troops he
had encountered” ; and he had seen British Gurkhas
and French Senegalese on Gallipoli. General Smuts
has put it on record that the Germans “could have
formed from East African negroes one of the most
powerful armies the world has known.” Actually,
when the war began, they had scarcely begun to
organise their blacks as soldiers. Perhaps, as some
of their defenders say, because they didn’t expect the
war; perhaps because they were confident that Britain
would keep out of it.
Admittedly, the ultimate ambition of those who
were preaching Macht-politik quarter of a century
ago was to found a Central African empire stretching
from the Indian Ocean to the South Atlantic, and
incorporating Portuguese East and West Africa and
the Belgian Congo. Since the Armistice the Germans
have expressed scorn of the French for using black
troops in Europe, but most colonising nations have
done it, and there is no reason to believe that the
Germans will forbear if they get another chance.
War-lords who talk of gassing European cities are
not likely to jib at using African soldiers. If the
Germans had waited another 10 years before invading
France they might (to quote Colonel Wedgwood
again) have had a native army capable of “walking
through Africa” to the Suez Canal. There is
nothing to prevent their reviving their former
policies if they are given a chance to do so, and Britain
is no longer all-powerful in the Sudan and Egypt.
Australia and Maoriland are more deeply con-
cerned here, in a sense, than any European country.
Even if the Pacific Mandates were not challenged,
and if a successful march on the Canal never came off,
the possession by Germany of bases on the Indian
Ocean and the Southern Atlantic would be a deadly
threat to Commonwealth and Dominion trade
with Europe during any war in which Britain was
engaged, whether as combatant or neutral. The
“freedom of the seas” vanished when the Royal Navy
lost the power to enforce Britain’s will in peace and
war as a maritime policeman. In future wars the
R.N. may have its work cut out to protect the U.K.
and its trade routes in the North Atlantic.
Hitler is not talking overloudly at the moment
about the return of Germany’s former African
colonies. But that he will do so is inevitable ; and
he has a case which the world cannot permanently
ignore. The Germans proved good colonisers on the
whole. Theodore Roosevelt classed German with
English administrators for all-round efficiency ; Cecil
Rhodes used to say that “Germany had done in its
colonies in 20 years what it had taken England 100
years to do.” When the World War began Germany
had a population of 67 millions, and to-day, despite
the loss of many millions by cessions of territory
and otherwise, its population is again nearly 67
millions. A race of that calibre can’t be kept out
of the sun for ever, or even for long.
The lesson for Australia and Maoriland is to
be warned in time. If they don’t wake up now to
the fact that the R.N. can no longer defend their
trade routes in this hemisphere unless it is given
substantial help, they will wake up one day to the
fact that another World War has begun, a war in
which they may be marooned for the duration.
CHILDBIRTH MORTALITY.
Twenty-two years ago Andrew Fisher established
the maternity-bonus system as an honest expression
of intention to reduce maternal and infantile mortality.
A man of vivid sympathies and small imagination,
he visualised the matter in terms of his own youthful
experience among the Scottish poor. His single-track
mind saw only the immediate benefit of a fiver to
a “working-class” household at an anxious time.
Since the crisis of 1931 the £5 has been cut down
to £4, and an income limit has been fixed. Nothing
practical has ever been done to implement the Act
to Fisher’s original intention.
In 22 years between £14,000,000 and £15,000,000
has been paid out, and, considered from a national
standpoint, it has all been wasted. There has been
a marked fall in infantile mortality, but it has in no
way been due to the bonus. The risk of motherhood
has actually increased. Between 600 and 700 women
in Australia die each year as a direct consequence
of childbirth. Roughly, a third die from septic condi-
tions, a third from eclampsia and kidney complica-
tions, the remainder from various other causes
associated with childbirth. Comparisons with other
couhtries are complicated by the fact that Australia
include certain abortion fatalities among maternal
deaths; but, after allowing for this factor of differ-
ence, it seems clear that there is a higher death-rate
from childbirth among Australian women than there
is among the mothers of England, Scandinavia or
Holland. Further, the maternity death-rate in these
countries is lower to-day than it was 25 years ago.
That of Australia is higher. Why should it be so?
Why has not something been done about it?
Something has been done. In 1929 the Common-
wealth Government invited Dame Janet Campbell,
the British Health Ministry’s Senior Medical Officer
for Maternity, to visit Australia, and obtained from
her some very notable advice. Professors of Obstetrics
at Australian universities have repeatedly urged the
necessity for investigation and action by Govern-
ments. By public utterances and writings, leading
Australian doctors have expressed the need of definite
leadership and direction for the solution of this tragic
problem. A notable recent instance is the admirably
plain-spoken Anne Mackenzie oration of Dr. Con-
stance D’Arcy, delivered at the very seat of inertia
itself, Canberra. At Canberra, too, W. M. Hughes,
Fisher’s old colleague, has been the first Federal
politician to take an interest in the matter. But
maternal mortality goes on increasing, despite reports,
lectures and speeches.
Still there is a hope. Two schemes evolved from
the recent meeting of the Federal Council of Health.
One proposes to allot £50,000 from Commonwealth
funds, and to raise another £50,000 from State grants
and voluntary contributions, in order to establish a
central fund for research and action under joint
Federal and State direction. The other, emanating
from Queensland, suggests restoring the maternity
bonus to the original £5, but handing over the extra
£1 to the State concerned for provision of special
medical and nursing services for maternity cases in
all the principal centres of population, with extensions
as the money permits.
Given active and efficient direction, either should
be effective, and either would be preferable to the
present inertia. But the scope of such a plan will
need to extend far beyond anything which has been
attempted in Australia up to the present. It cannot
with efficiency be applied only to those mothers who
are now alone entitled to receive the bonus.
THE N.S.W. MOTORIST KICKS.
The political campaign which was decided on in
Sydney last week by associations interested in motor
transport represents the culmination of nearly three
years of resentment on the part of owners of com-
mercial motor vehicles. Resentment against the Lang
Government’s Transport (Co-ordination) Act, resent-
ment against its perpetuation by the Stevens Govern-
ment, resentment against the manner in which it has
been, and is being, enforced. Corresponding discon-
tent in Victoria led to the formation of a Transport
Defence Council which made its presence felt during
the recent election campaign. Not by coming out
against any particular party, but by outlining its
grievances and bespeaking support for candidates who
undertook to help in remedying them.
Private car-owners sympathise with the com-
mercial-motor people. They are all for a quiet life,
but they must be assured that there is no underhand
work going on ; that transport laws and traffic regula-
tions are made in a spirit of justice; that, in
administering them. Government departments neither
discriminate between individuals nor enforce penalties
with an eye to increasing the revenue rather than
decreasing illegality. As things are, many motorists
suspect that they are being fleeced; and, worse,
fleeced sectionally.
Any Government that really wants to prevent
traffic being obstructed in important thoroughfares
can instantly do so. There is no parking in Piccadilly,
London, or the Avenue de I’Opera, Paris ; there is
none, as Pitt-street understands it, in Collins-street,
Melbourne. There is parking—legalised parking—
in relatively unfrequented parts of most cities. For
example, hundreds of cars are parked all day in
London’s St. James’s-square, which may be compared
to Sydney’s Wynyard-square. Handling of the alleged
traffic problem in parts of Sydney suggests that
revenue from fines is the main consideration.
Scores of signs forbidding parking between 9 a.m.
and 6 p.m. are to be seen outside the crowded
areas: in Macquarie-street, in the neighborhood of
St. Mary’s Cathedral and so on. In these places the
traffic is obstructed by cars all day. In parts of the
Domain parking is forbidden outright, and here the
law is obeyed. Motorists know that the Government
means it. In Onslow-avenue, outside the home of
the Lieut.-Governor, parking is also explicitly for-
bidden. But here certain car-owners have apparently
decided that the Government doesn’t mean it, and
the scandalous spectacle is frequently offered of
scores of cars parked on both sides of the
thoroughfare. Almost invariably some are faced
the wrong way—a punishable offence in, say, Palmer-
street, Surry Hills.
Lanes A and B are within a few hundred yards
of one of the Government departments. They don’t
display “No Parking” signs. Lane A is on an important
street, and in more or less permanent view of a
traffic policeman. Cars are always parked there on
one side, and some owners have been fined for
obstructing the traffic, though there is no actual traffic
obstruction in Lane A. Lane B is tortuous and
narrow. Cars habitually park there on the wrong side
(some have been doing it for years), and when lorries
arrive to unload complete traffic blocks are created.
Lane B, like Onslow-avenue, seems to be above
the law.
If it is in the public interest to do away with
traffic obstructions, technical or actual, in a given
thoroughfare, or a dozen, or a hundred, then let
the traffic authorities say so, and act accordingly.
Motorists will instantly respond. The existing system
is a failure, except as a producer of revenue in the
form of fines, and it is causing a more dangerous
spirit than resentment. When Brown, who has been
fined for parking in Blank-street, and has desisted
accordingly, sees Smith’s car there day after day and
month after month, he is apt to argue that Smith
must have some sort of pull. When cars park by the
score in areas where parking is specifically pro-
hibited a suspicion is inevitably created that the area
has some sort of pull.
THE WAYS OF NATURE.
A scientific friend assures me that there is nothing
in the old idea that Nature, working in her
unfathomable fashion and taking her time, redresses
the balance between the sexes after the sacrifice
of manhood in a war. “An exploded theory,” he
calls it. After studying the census returns lam not
convinced.
South Australia and Westralia each lost about
8000 men in the late war. In each State the census-
takers found a striking excess of males born since the
war. McPhee thus presents the figures:
Age Last , S.A. — s , - W. A.
Birthday, Years. Males. Females. Persons. Males. Females. Persons.
0-4 .... 23,097 22,043 45,140 20,530 19,767 40,297
5-9 .... 27,031 26,294 53,325 20,781 20,012 40,793
10-14 .... 27,752 26,953 54,705 19,935 19,323 39,258
Totals .... 77,880 75,290 153,170 61,246 59,102 120,348
A preponderance of 2590 male children in South
Australia and of 2144 in Westralia, Such was the
position at the end of the fourteenth year after the
signing of the Peace Treaty; and the excess of male
births was larger than the census figures indicate.
Infant mortality is greater among boys than girls ;in
1933, for example, taking children under five years of
age, 204 out of 386 dead babies in S.A., and 238 out
of 403 in Westralia, were boys.
Nature can be kind, and she can be cruel. She
has a way of avenging crimes committed against her.
For that reason I am glad that Australia has not
gone in for the crop- and stock-destruction schemes
practised by the New Dealers in the U.S.A. —with
no improvement in the general situation, to put it
mildly. Still, I suppose this food-control business,
the craze for which is spreading, is attended with
deliberate waste of the fruits of nature —especially
milk, the indispensable food for babies.
Apropos, the new N.S.W, Minister for Health has
discovered that, in proportion to population, his State
is “the greatest producer of milk amongst civilised
countries, and the smallest consumer.” This would not
be the case if the metropolitan milk market were not
handed over to the limited number of people now in the
business, with the result that the consumer is charged
7d. and Bd. a quart. If the public interest were
the main consideration, milk would be delivered at
the door for sd. at the outside. The Minister’s remark
was prompted by the representations of a deputation
which said that control, in its present form, was
preventing the provision of cheap milk in the schools,
a plan adopted even in conservative and comparatively
ill-supplied Britain, and was threatening to drive
“30 p.c. of the dairy-farmers”— i.e., those permitted
to send milk to Sydney—“out of the industry.”
If people could get all the pure milk they need
at a price suited to the times there would be
fewer deaths of children under five years, and
survivors would be less sickly. If more of the unem-
ployed-relief money were devoted to the purchase and
distribution of good food, of which we have so vast
a surplus—much of it is sold abroad at a loss, and we
have to inflate the taxes to assist the growers—-the
children of the workless would grow up stronger and
healthier. If Government railways were utilised for the
carriage of fresh fruit to outback communities which
rarely see it, there would not be such a yawning gap
between revenue and expenditure, and we might not
have to bounty-feed orchardists. If revenue and
excise duties which force up the cost of living were
substantially reduced or removed, the clamor for
pay- and pension-increases which industry and
Governments cannot afford would subside, and it
would be possible to make comparatively low com-
modity prices payable.
Australia is in a great position to try natural
remedies for its economic and financial ills. It hasn’t
really begun to apply them.
SALMON GUMM.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Without Precedent.”
Two parties allied against a third, whose constitution
forbids alliances, go to the country and are given a
great majority in the popular Chamber —they have
and retain one in the other. They rule for three years,
their Administration being representative of both
parties, with the leader of the larger as Premier.
They go to the country again, and are returned with
a loss of a single seat.
Before the new Parliament meets the leader of
the beaten party which forbids alliances offers to put
the smaller allied party in office if it will smash the
alliance. The president of the party organisation con-
cerned, himself not in Parliament, grabs at the bait
and summons a meeting of his committee, which
has inordinate power without responsibility, and
members of Parliament subject to its authority to
arrange for the swallowing. Their chief representative
in the Ministry has meanwhile become leader of the
Parliamentary group and Deputy-Premier. He, of
course, had had pre-knowledge of the programme on
which his Government fought the election, and had
sat behind the Premier when the policy speech was
delivered. All this notwithstanding, withdrawal from
the Ministry was decided upon at the meeting afore-
said, the majority being chiefly composed of the
outside committee.
The Deputy-Premier, together with his minor-
party colleagues, thereupon withdrew from the
Ministry and hurled a want-of-confidence motion at
it. After the feeblest of attempts to justify the
unjustifiable, the motion was carried, with the support
of the anti-alliance party, and the defeated Premier
went to Government House with his resignation.
What should a Governor do in such a situation?
It is not a Governor’s job to set his seal on political
treachery or to hand over a country to wirepullers.
He is there to see that government is placed in the
hands of elected persons ostensibly capable of carry-
ing on and expressing the will of the people as far
as it can be ascertained. In this instance, he had to
reckon with the fact that the people had not been
consulted as to the extraordinary development which
he was asked to sanction. The only issue presented to
the people was whether the three years’ alliance should
receive continued endorsement or whether the party
against alliances should be placed in power.
Before accepting the resignation, the Governor
sent for the elated ex-Deputy-Premier and asked for
assurances that his minority party could form a
Government with a survival value. He sent also for
the leader of the third party, and inquired how far
it was prepared to abate its hostility to alliances so
that the country might be governed. Forthwith the
lions of that party began roaring at his Excellency ; but
he was absolutely right. He did a thing without
precedent, but the circumstances are without prece-
dent —in Victoria, at any rate. In taking the correct
course he recalled to the triumphant intriguers the
existence of the forgotten man and woman —the
electors.
«
Exit Leninism.
Having by its incessant intrigues raised up formidable
enemies on two fronts, the Red Republic is now all
for peace. So at its invitation the British Lord Privy
Seal, Mr. R. A. Eden, visited Moscow last week to
discuss peace with M. Litvinoff.
Mr. Eden is a baronet’s son from Christ Church,
Oxford. M. Litvinoff is a hardy democrat who for
30 years has been urging the workers of the world to
unite and overthrow kings and trample on aristocra-
cies.
To bring Britain’s emissary from the border, they
sent a special train with bathrooms and jazz laid on.
The royal toast, which Australian Communist
adherents used to refuse to drink after they had come
back from the U.S.S.R., was honored at the Moscow
reception, together with “British Happiness and
Prosperity.”
Other signs of a change of heart are evident.
Russia’s separate internal currency has gone. Private
enterprise in trade has been sanctioned within limits.
The country once more has a favorable trade balance.
Palatial Russian embassies have been opened in
Britain, U.S.A. and other countries, complete with
counsellors, first secretaries, attaches and other old-
type diplomatic officials. Since 1933 Britain has had
a peer representing it in Moscow.
Someone seems to have tied a brick round Lenin-
ism and dropped it into the Moskva. At the rate
Moscow is going Communists in Australia will soon
be compelled to condemn Stalin and co. as Imperialist
reactionaries or lead their May Day processions to
Government House to convey loyal greetings.
♦—
Argyle’s Last Card.
When the days of the Argyle Government were
numbered a strike began among Victorian sustenance
workers —a strike silly in its genesis and far more silly
in its continuance. The pretext, as published, was
that men on award rates had been dismissed and
supplanted by men on sustenance. This was flatly
denied by the authorities.
Before they struck, single sustenance workers
received 12s. a week; married ones, from 20s. to
405., according to family. Deputy-Premier Kent
Hughes offered to increase the rates by Bs. a week
for six months of the year, and for the other six
months to give all the unemployed work at award
rates. Guided by sane leadership, the men would have
rushed Kent Hughes’s table, prepared to sign, before
he could change his mind. But the leadership was not
sane, and so the strike went on, and there was no pay
for the unhappy people at the week-end.
Suspicious-minded outsiders suggest that the
Deputy-Premier’s offer was nothing more than a
shrewd piece of political tactics. He said he would
get the funds by asking the Loan Council to authorise
a special loan of £4,500,000. There are two fatal
objections: (1) The Loan Council would certainly
refuse ; (2) £4,500,000 would be only a fraction of the
money required.
When the offer was made the Argyle Ministry
was in the condemned cell. The three U.C.P. Ministers
had quitted it, and their leader was about to launch
a want-of-confidence motion. The Administration was
in extremis, and knew it. So it drew up a will
bequeathing a liability to the Dunstan party, a liability
which is going to cause Mr. Dunstan a heap of trouble
from the moment his Ministry is sworn in.
Already the U.C.P. has accepted the inevitable
and allowed inspired statements to go forth that it
intends to repeat the Argyle offer —or go one better.
Unless it honors this undertaking at a very early date
its “allies” on the Labor benches will be apt to cross
the floor. Then the U.C.P. will be faced with the
same trouble which Argyle would have struck had he
made such an offer before the breakaway. It will have
to approach the Loan Council, and take the cold
shoulder. Reduction of taxation is one of the cardinal
points of U.C.P. policy. Taxation will have to be
increased to secure any appreciable addition to
sustenance funds.
Dr. Argyle played his trump card at the end of
the lost game.
: #
Not Downhearted.
The old self-reliant and optimistic Australian spirit is
by no means dead. N.S.W. graziers, foregathering
when (as their president, James Walker, said) wool
prices had in a twelvemonth fallen from Is. Bd. to
9yd., refused to be downhearted.
Delegates turned angrily on one of their number
who had arrived with a motion imploring the Gov-
ernment to “evolve a plan of recovery for the
industry, which is already bankrupt.” They denied
that it was bankrupt, applauded a man who said that
spoon-feeding was the only thing that could destroy
it, and rejected the resolution. An equally rough
reception was given to a proposal that importation of
wollstra or other wool substitutes should be pro-
hibited. “Blow it right out,” said an objector. Blown
out it was.
Still the graziers have their grievances. They object
to the draft allowance, which has assuredly had its
day. They think overseas shipping charges are far
too high—“there has been practically no reduction
since 1926,” the president remarked. They lament the
seemingly ineradicable craze for wearing art.-silk
stockings and scarves. One studious delegate said he
had stood on a Sydney corner for an hour seek-
ing evidence on the subject, and had seen only one
pair of legs cased in wool. He was too gallant to
mention what other witnesses have noticed —that wool
mercifully screens, whereas art.-silk accentuates, ugly
bones, sinews and veins.
And taxation continues to hit graziers hard.
The Federal land tax, introduced to “burst up the big
estates,” remains, though it never did any bursting
worth mentioning ; and, though the family-endowment
tax is gone, portion of the proceeds of the so-called
special income tax is earmarked for the same purpose.
Cheques received for wool sold in the one good year
since 1930 have gone to pay back debts. Out of the
mythical margin between cost of production and wool
at 9yd., graziers have to meet the current year’s
special income tax, which is lOd. in the £, and pay
State and Commonwealth income taxes as well.
It is expected in Queensland that the Forgan
Smith Government will announce the abolition of his
special income tax, which bears another name. It
ought to be abolished in New South Wales as well.
So far from promoting employment as alleged, these
imposts are retarding it.
♦
Death-sentence Humbug.
There is something to be said for the view of the
president of the Victorian National Council of
Women, who “deplores the formal practice of passing
on women the death sentence that never is carried
out in Australia.” It is quarter of a century since any
woman was hanged in the Commonwealth —Martha
Rendall was the last, and she might have been saved
had she been young and good-looking enough to set
the evening press sobbing.
Last week a 23-year-old domestic was convicted
of the murder of her child, and underwent the sense-
less ordeal of being sentenced to be hanged.
The baby was born at Albury in November,
1933. The mother, described by the Chief Inspector
of the Child Welfare Department as “a nice type of
hard-working girl, who seemed very fond of her
child,” took it to Melbourne and placed it in
a home. She paid regularly for its keep there, though
she had a struggle to do so, the father having deserted
her. She also visited the home regularly. Last
November she became engaged to a decent transport
driver in Albury, who is still willing to marry her.
He told her he could not afford to keep another
man’s child. Just before Christmas, she removed her
baby from the home,'presumably to secure its adop-
tion. Its body was found in the Yarra.
Accused told a detective first that she had left
the baby with a woman, but later admitted that she
“had thrown it into the river, as she did not know
what to do with it,” an effort to secure adoption
having failed. She said in court that she could
remember nothing that happened on the fatal night.
The jury spent 5i hours finding a verdict of
guilty, to which it added a strong recommendation
to mercy. Even without this palliative, it was certain
that the woman would not hang in a country where
even gunmen usually avoid the rope. Yet the whole
grisly procedure —black cap, hanged-by-the-neck-until
you-are-dead and may-the-Lord-have-mercy—had to
be enacted, the Judge having no legal alternative.
The prisoner gave a piercing shriek and fell fainting.
Courts would be spared these ordeals if the law
were amended to admit of death sentences being
merely recorded in such cases, or deferred for Execu-
tive consideration before being pronounced.
*
Drunkenness and the Police.
N. S. Wales got a shock the other day when a Judge
was reported to have said:
I would rather have the opinion of a sergeant of
police on whether a man is drunk than that of four
doctors.
Usually when a policeman says So-and-so was
“under the influence” he is right, and no damage is
done. Occasionally the policeman is wrong and again
no damage is done. Occasionally the policeman is
wrong and fatal results ensue. There have been cases
of policemen locking up concussion sufferers and the
like as drunks and discovering the mistaken diagnosis
only when the prisoners were found to be dead.
When plain Bill Smith is fined for being drunk
and disorderly nobody bothers ; least of all Bill, whose
job isn’t affected by an occasional binge. It is different
when Dr. Smith or the Rev. Smith has to face a
similar charge in such cases. Conviction means ruin.
So a life may be wrecked because a Judge or magis-
trate believes that the opinion of one policeman is
preferable to that of “four doctors,” or, for that
matter, of one doctor.
A policeman knows no more about the difference
between the symptoms of alcohol and those of, say,
drugs or g.p.i. than the average layman. It is a
matter for scientists, which can only be decided beyond
the possibility of a mistake by a blood test.
♦
The Unrepresentative Senate.
One of the many .undertakings entered into by the
Commonwealth Government before the election was
an investigation of the method of electing the Senate
with a view to reforming it. Nothing has been done.
When the new Senators take their seats in July, the
Senate will be a Yes-House for the Lyons Govern-
ment, just as it used to be a Yes-House for Labor.
If ever there was a legislative body which cried
out to be elected on the basis of P.R., it is the Senate.
Minorities are denied any voice whatever. There
were 683,000 N. S. Wales electors who cast their first
preferences for the three men elected. There were
600,000 N. S. Wales electors who voted the other way.
The margin of about 12 per cent, is, therefore, dictat-
ing to the whole.
In Victoria the position was more ridiculous still;
there the tail is wagging the legislative dog. The
elected Senators received 367,000 votes, and no fewer
than 580,000 electors demanded that other candidates
should be elected ; the minority rules. Queensland
also is a State where the votes against the elected
candidates numbered more than those given to them.
This is not a party question. Labor and its
opponents are equally affected. The question is a
national one, and, like most questions which demand
non-party consideration, it is one that is shelved.
—
The Blundering Board.
When the bodyline row began the Board of Cricket
Control, by its clumsy handling of the situation,
managed to make Australians seem a nation of
squealers. In the matter of the proposed team for
India, it has run true to form.
Frank Tarrant, the old Australian all-rounder,
who has spent many years in India, returned a month
or two ago bearing a handsome invitation from the
Maharajah of Patiala. No Australian side has yet
visited India, and cricketers approached by Tarrant
expressed interest in the project. The Board of Control
frowned on it, as might have been expected.
Protests of cricketers, newspapers and members
of State associations forced a modification of this
attitude. The board grudgingly agreed to take the
opinion of the State bodies, voting by post. Mean-
while conditions were discussed. Members of the
last Australian XI were not to go; neither were
players likely to be among the 15 to visit South
Africa. Even if a majority of the State bodies voted
in the affirmative, the sanction of the board would be
conditional on its approving of the list of names.
Further restrictions might be expected—a repetition,
perhaps an amplification, of the 39 articles to which
Woodfull’s men had to conform.
All this is plain tomfoolery. Because an Aus-
tralian plays cricket well he does not therefore become
the bond-slave'of the board. He should be free to
make his own arrangements —go where he pleases
and play where he pleases, regardless of any board.
There is far too much of this “you mustn’t do this
and you mustn’t do that” in Australia to-day. It is
hard enough to stand from Jacks-in-office who
have bad laws and worse regulations behind them.
There is another side to the picture. Touring
Australian athletes invariably make an excellent
impression on the people of the countries they visit.
Apart from their skill as cricketers, footballers,
runners, oarsmen, swimmers and dirt-track cyclists,
they are almost always decent, modest, likeable
fellows, and in this respect amateur is no different
from professional. If Australia needs advertising, as
is so often asserted, our champions of field, track
and water do it far better than politicians and trade
commissioners, with no cost to the country.
Conceivably the visit of a fairly representative
side might improve our trade with India, which has
been pretty sick since 1931 —imports from India last
year were valued at £2,296,100 sterling ; exports to
India at £610,000. This aspect of the case might
prompt the Acting Prime Minister to address some
plain language to the Board of Control.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Verri”; When the new policeman
arrived at our small township the in-
habitants, particularly the publican,
were seriously perturbed to discover
that he was a stickler for the letter
as well as the spirit of the law. His
views on the Licensing Act lamentably
cramped the style of the hotel and its sup-
porters, who had never hitherto been
asked to retire from the bar at 6 p.m.
sharp. After some months of this stern
discipline Mr. Pintpot, his spirit crushed,
decided to sell out and seek more favor-
able fields, a move that did not surprise
the sympathetic neighborhood. It did
surprise them when J. Hop resigned from
the force and became the new licensee.
He had done considerable thinking while
he turned the thirsty horde from the bar
door at 6 p.m.
* * * *
“Como”: Yallourn (Vic.) has a church
and a hall combining the sacred and
profane—a pulpit at one end and a pro-
scenium at the other. Twice a week,
talkies are screened for the church funds.
The programme for Holy Week includes
“The Man Who Played God.”
* * * *
“Fergus”: For vigorous enterprise I
hand it to Guinea Airways. At the
last general meeting at Rabaul, the
chairman mentioned that approximately
18,000 tons of freight had been safely
landed at the goldfields. Men, stores,
large dredge parts, all kinds of mining
machinery, domestic animals, cars and a
huge variety of other things constituted
the loading. The service, which is car-
ried on over rugged mountain ranges,
was started with a single ’plane. To-day
it can show a fleet of them.
'i* ¥ H*
“H.R.N.”: Hobart saw its second
globe-trotting yacht come up the river
when a Norwegian ex-pilot cutter, the
38-foot Ho-Ho, sailed into port under a
torn jib, all that was left of a complete
suit of sails after a month in the Roaring
Forties. Her three sailors, who sail in
three-hour watches with no skipper, are
still looking for traces of the Koben-
haven, the Danish training ship lost
five years ago with 65 cadets aboard.
The Ho-Ho was to go direct to Durban
from Buenos Aires, but the loss of the
mainsail, boom and all, sent her stagger-
ing into Hobart.
❖ ❖ ❖ $
“Tuart”: One result of the emancipa-
tion and athleticisation of woman is that
girls are apter than ever before to form
close friendships, to the exclusion —tem-
porarily, at least—of the other sex. It
is a fine thing when they are normal,
but when the imagination of one or other
is unhealthy queer things may happen.
A young woman employed in a Sydney
newspaper office gave up her job, saying
she was about to marry a country chum’s
relative, who was going to take her
abroad for the honeymoon. There really
doesn’t seem to have been a man in the
case ; anyway, she went off to see her
chum, who lived in a place called Stock-
inbingal. and who, it transpires, had
showered her with presents and fed
her with fairy-stories about a vast
fortune and a trip to America for both.
The girls set out in a car for Cootamundra
to buy stores. In three hours the car
had travelled eight miles ; then the city
girl staggered to a homestead, bleeding
from a bullet wound in the head, and
muttering that the country girl had shot
her. The country girl, dressed for the
most part like a man, was found dead,
shot through the forehead, in the front
seat of the car; near by were a revolver,
a bullet-holed hat, pieces of a cheque for
£5O and bits of a letter. Now the police
mind is a prey to all manner of specula-
tions.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Carrick, A. 8.”: The Japanese are
more particular than any other race
about their drinking water; the crews
of visiting Japanese naval vessels take
flasks of sterilised drinking water with
them when going ashore, and the crews
of Jap mercantile vessels frequently
observe the same rule. A great deal of
Eyre Peninsula (S.A.) receives its water
supply from the Tod River reservoir.
This water is very hard for washing,
and has a slightly mineralised taste, so
that most of the people served by the
mains drink rainwater in preference.
But the master of a Japanese freighter
which lifted a cargo of wheat from Port
Lincoln recently filled all available tank
"What do you think of ole mans new patent wheelbarrow, mister?”
"Wha's new ’bout un, m'son?”
“ ’Andies in front, and wheel behind.”
space on his steamer with Tod River
water. He explained his action thus:
“I had a sample of your water analysed ;
the analyst reported it superbly germ-
free and a very fine minerals water. On
board my ship we shall keep the con-
densed water for the washing purpose,
but vour river water we shall drink for
the healthful benefit.” So, while Aus-
tralians scorn to use water from a reser-
voir because of a slight peculiarity of
flavor, foreigners recognise it as “a very
fine minerals water” and cart it half-
way around the globe.
* * * *
“Athanasius”: Methods new to M.L.
journalism were adopted by the Welling-
ton “Evening Post” and “Dominion,” the
city’s two daily newspapers, to produce
their editions when the linotype operators
went on strike. Typewriters were used
to set out the news on plain sheets of
paper, which were then photographed
and published by the line and half-tone
block process. The typewritten matter,
in double-column width and scantily
headlined, presented a strange contrast
to the usual machine-set type ; advertise-
ments and a modicum of news continued
to be set on the linotype, and the mixture
looked like a pig’s breakfast. The novelty
of it pleased the public for a day or two,
but it soon wore off. Still, the emer-
gency editions will doubtless be treasured
as rarities by those interested in the tech-
nicalities of newspaper production.
**=!-*
“D.C.M.”: Certain English newspapers
have been raising a fuss because the find-
ings of the courts-martial in the Renown-
Hood case have been varied by the Lords
of the Admirality, it being inferred by the
“Daily Herald” and others that special
influence has been exercised in favor of
the convicted officers. Putting the navy
on one side, writer can speak from ex-
perience of army courts-martial in which,
at one time or another, he has played
every part but the accused. In that ser-
vice the findings of any court-martial—
there are several varieties —are invariably
traversed and often amended by the
general officer who is the ultimate au-
thority. 1 was connected with one case
in South Africa where the C.M. con-
victed a man for sleeping on his post
and sentenced him to death. Plumer
wasn’t satisfied with the conduct of the
C.M., and ordered what civilian lawyers
would call a retrial, with the result that
the accused got off.
* * * $
“0.K.R.”; A paragraph went the
rounds the other day about a black gin
being killed while working in an ochre
mine in Central Australia. A question
was asked in the House of Reps., and the
Minister, a benevolent cow-farmer from
Gippsland, agreed that it was a dreadful
thing that any woman, white or black,
should be called on to work in a mine,
and undertook to see that something was
done about if. The only point that wasn’t
made clear was whether the lubra was
employed by a white man. If she wasn’t,
the Government would have no possible
right to shove its oar in. In any case, the
natives know far more about ochre-mining
than college-bred inspectors can teach
them. They were at it for centuries before
. T „
e white man arrived. In the Weld Ranges
near Cue (W.A.) theie are old native
or ungs where the shafts and stopes
an rives, all effected with the most
pnmi ive to °E, anticipated in a small
way w a goldmining was to do later,
• , L^. as ’. and per b a P s stld IS ’ to the
f ac s one of the most valuable
Of commodities; a good deal of the
little barter that went on between neigh-
boring tribes was done with it.
* *
“Mudurup”: Vosper (B. 27/3/’35) and
“Smiler” Hales were rival editors and
robust contenders for public favor
in Old Coolgardie. They tore each other
to pieces with their pens, and once they
even came to fisticuffs, but they were
dragged apart before any damage had
been done to either. When Coolgardie
was awarded an M.L.A. of its own in
1897, each struggled desperately for
the honor of opposing Morgans, the
mining magnate and representative of
the bloated capita] which all rugged
democrats were expected to condemn (in
theory). Hales won, but Vosper was the
real winner. He went further afield and
captured the Kanowna seat; Hales stayed
at Coolgardie and carpe in a bad second
to Morgans. After that, Vosper forged
ahead as a Parliamentarian and Hales’s
literary star seemed to have set, until he
was reduced to keeping a rather dingy
pub. But you never know when For-
tune won’t come knocking at your door ;
the Boer War arrived, Hales got a job
as a war correspondent (at first with the
flimsiest credentials), made good as a
purveyor of hot copy, and presently be-
came something of a permanent institu-
tion in Fleet-street. Long before that
Vosper was dead.
“Centre”: Here are a few more cases
of The Bulletin coming in useful in
ways which would have surprised its
founders. The red cover was used one
dark night to wrap round a lantern to
flag a train on which we loaded a
wounded member of our patrol. In
Rhodesia I’ve used a piece of the red
cover to stick over the glass of an electric
torch when the red light had failed in the
darkroom ; I found afterwards that the
films had developed O.K. In N.Q. there’s
a man who has repaired his roof with
tiles made of old Bulletins after past-
ing the pages together, allowing the lot
to dry and then painting over with ordi-
nary house paint; it made a lasting job,
too. I’ve used Bulletins folded into
five for splints when setting a cobber’s
broken leg, and was complimented by
old Doc. Sides on the job.
“Yeno Ham”: Uses for The Bulle-
tin? There is one, at least, for which it
has been labelled unsuitable by an ex-
pert. In a recent lecture on botany, Pro-
fessor Osborne, of Sydney University,
said that the paper in The Bulletin was
not sufficiently absorbent for wrapping
botanical specimens in. He had tried it,
and found it wanting. He recommended
“S. M. Herald,” the paper of that august
journal being very absorbent.
* * * *
“Mells”: Some English paper refers
to Joseph Aloysius Lyons as “a typically
Australian Prime Minister,” to the out-
ward eye presumably. What puzzles me,
looking back on Joe’s predecessors, is
to determine what an Australian P.M.
should look like to enable him to be
labelled “typical.” Reid, for instance,
was a stout, humorous Scot, Fisher
a rather lean and thoroughly serious
Scot. Hughes was, and is, Welsh to the
core in his physical composition—though
a German paper once spitefully referred
to him as “an Australian backwoods-
man.” Joe Cook still carries a flavor
of Arnold Bennett’s Staffordshire about
him. Of the native-born P.Ms., Barton
might have been mistaken for an Inns
of Court bencher, and Deakin for an
Oxford professor. Bruce was a Cam-
bridge oarsman. If Scullin were dumped
down in a London debating society it is
doubtful if anyone could confidently
place his nationality. There may have
been a Digger type —more hatchet-faced
and sinewy than the average Briton —
but it certainly hasn’t been observable in
our Prime Ministers, least of all in Lyons.
•I' 'k '}» v
“York and Ainsty”: Whatever the
Englishman’s attitude to the hunted fox
and stag (B. 27 /3 / ’35), I can answer for
his humanity when hunting the carted
deer. It was my privilege once to attend
a meet of the Essex, let us say. The deer
—in this case a matronly hind—was
brought along in a closed van. When
the door was opened the hounds gathered
round and engaged their quarry in
friendly conversation. The deer was at
last persuaded to get a move on by the
whips wielding their hunting-crops. She
disappeared at a leisurely trot, and was
given a quarter of an hour’s start; then
the hounds were laid on. After a run
over fairish country the deer led us to
a green in front of a village pub, where
her cart had providentially cast up.
When I arrived she was the centre of
an admiring circle of hounds. She was
hoisted into the cart with a couple of
hounds which had been ridden over by a
too-ardent horseman, and driven off
home. The rest of the pack went by road
to kennel, and the field dived as one
man into the pub.
“West Darling”: I think if “Whitehall”
(B. 6/3/’35) were to live in the outback
for a while he would change his views on
the attitude of the typical Australian
towards domestic animals. The fact that
a handful of city people stood and
watched a dog being ill-treated doesn’t
prove that the spirit of mateship between
man and dog, as shown by Lawson in
“Macquarie’s Dog,” is not still a part of
the Australian character. I can recall but
one case of cruelty on the station where
I earn my crust. One of the hands kept
his dog on the chain all day, in an ex-
posed position, with the shade tempera-
ture at 105 deg. The explanation he tried
to give to the Old Man, who came on
the tortured animal, was that the dog had
disobeyed him the night before. He got
his cheque—and two hours to reach the
boundary. The funny thing about it—
the humor struck me when I read “White-
hall’s par.—was that the culprit was
neither an Australian nor a Portuguese.
He was an Englishman.
“Hamer”: But is the Englishman so
kind to domestic animals? When did
this country ever allow that horrible
cruelty the bearing rein, or, for that
matter, the docked mane and tail, both a
fashion for carriage horses for decades
in the Cold Country?
THE PILGRIM.
“Mr. Lyons lunched at the Cheshire Cheese in
Fleet-street.”
He did the thing in style, did Joe;
In state he travelled overseas
With an imposing train in tow
To wring from Bull some guarantees
Re beef and lamb and things like these,
And pay his devoirs to the Crown.
Nor did he miss the Cheshire Cheese
When Lyons came to London town.
At civic feasts the wine will flow,
And turtle soup the gourmets please,
The sort of fare that needs must go
With rich and royal jubilees.
He dodged a date to hit the breeze
For that quaint inn of old renown;
They fed him at the Cheshire Cheese
When Lyons came to London town.
They’ll load him up, before he go,
With gifts to contemplate at ease;
Gold boxes soon he’ll have to show,
And university degrees.
One right alone he chose to seize
Unasked, where chops they deftly brown,
The freedom of the Cheshire Cheese,
When Lyons came to London town.
Where custom sawdust floors decrees,
And Johnson’s learned face looks down
On beefsteak pudding’s devotees.
They took his order at the “Cheese”
When Lyons came to London town.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“V.G.”: I suppose our Postal Depart-
ment never stops to think how perversely
inappropriate some of the slogans which
it prints upon stamped envelopes may
prove to the recipients. Recently a
friend of ours lost her husband, and we
sent a wreath and a card of sympathy.
The acknowledgment came back in a
black-bordered envelope with the Bris-
bane postmark. Across the top was
printed in bold letters: “Convey con-
gratulations by telegraph on specially-
designed forms.”
* * . * *
“Nothung”: The tendency to confuse
the Italian word for “enough” with an
English term of opprobrium didn’t have
its origin in Queensland (B. 13/3/’35),
At Covent Garden, London, when Melba
was embarking on an opera season, Brit-
ish workmen were making alterations to
the auditorium and vestibule when mem-
bers of the Italian chorus came along.
I don’t know how the trouble started,
but it was not long before a brisk alter-
cation was in progress, and it is hard for
an argument to be carried on in two lan-
guages. The “Basta! Basta! ” of the
aggrieved singers was naturally taken as
an insult, and it was only the timely
arrival of Melba and her manager that
prevented a fight. The incident was
brought into “Evensong” by Beverley
Nichols ; it is older than the book, lor
it was told me by one of the workmen
concerned. There could be no better
evidence that the book revolves around
Melba.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Prahran (Vic.) is experiment-
ing with the American “boulevard stop,”
and getting into a hopeless tangle,
which will develop into chaos unless
"'Ave a screw at poor
old Tom! 'Ad a row
with ’ees missus on their
Weddin day, an I
don't believe 'e's spoke
to 'er since!"
somebody realises that you can’t do
things by halves. The boulevard stop,
operative in every big Yankee city, makes
it mandatory to pull up a car entering
a main thoroughfare from a side street.
Prahran has adopted this, but without the
safeguard which America imposes. There
white lines indicate which is the main
thoroughfare and which the side street.
Motorists in Prahran are already stop-
ping their cars wondering which is
which ; a couple of white lines, on the
U.S.A. principle, would dispel all uncer-
tainties. With the bouelvard stop prop-
erly arranged, a motorist can skim along
a main thoroughfare at 30, knowing
full well that nobody will dash out of
a cross alleyway to pile up a crash. In
Australia he is always in fear of this,
and consequently crawls along main
thoroughfares, slowing up all movement
and giving the police a lot of unneces-
sary work.
* * * *
“Balbus”: Australia, poorly equipped
with mountain ranges and rivers and
other natural
boundaries, may
nevertheless claim
to have the
world’s longest
fence. This is the
Westralian No. 1
rabbit fence,
which starts at
Hopetoun, west
of the Bight, and
finishes up near
Banningarra on
t h e nor’ - west
coast, 1130 miles
away. There
have been No, 2
and No. 3 fences
constructed since,
inner and less
comp rehensive
and not a bit
more effective
barriers, hut No.
1 remains the
daddy of them
all. After all,
1130 miles is a
good distance for a rabbit-fence, even
when there are rabbits on both sides of
it. The Chinese Wall, or what is left of
that historic structure, is only 1700 miles
in length.
:.k
“Lytton Fort”: Dogmatic or not (B.
27/3/’35), 1 stick to my claim that no-
where in the Brisbane River below Vic-
toria Bridge have there been any trees
calling for axes to prevent them fouling
the yards of sailing-ships. I first went up
that stream in a steamer in the early
1880’s, long before the ancient mariner
who started the axe theory. There are
no trees near the banks save mangroves,
until after passing the Lytton flats the
left bank rises steeply. This used to be
clad with spare upright gums having no
spreading branches. On the right bank
were the open flats of Eagle Farm, with
the hills of Hamilton separated from the
river by a wide road and deep cuttings,
and the open grass flats of Bulimba on
the opposite side. Past the entrance to
Breakfast Creek, the lawns of Newstead
and a line of timber wharves the river
ran round Bulimba Point, with open New
Farm on one side and sparsely timbered
ridges on the other. From Norman
Creek the town proper began. Fhe
“hairpin points” have been cut back since
my day, but I’ll guarantee that the above
rough traverse from memory will not
suffer by comparison with the latest H.
and R. charts, allowing for the addition
of stretches of new wharves and berths
at Bulimba.
:|c %
“Schnorrer”: The Sikhs who regard a
corpse as having been cremated in accord-
ance with the requirements of their faith
if the hair has been roughly singed (B.
20/3/’35) are not the only religionists
who are satisfied with these harmless sub-
terfuges. Jews still “rend their garments,”
the age-old sign of mourning, and they
still sit in sackcloth and ashes. But the
old outright methods have been replaced
by formalities. No expensive modern
clothes are destroyed by the present-day
mourning ; the difference is that during
the period of grief every article of dress
a Jew wears is “rent” in some invisible
place where it does no permanent harm-
under the lapel of the coat, on the inside
“Pardon me. Miss Harpo—Would you mind scratching my neck ?”
of the waistcoat and so on. The precise
size of the rents (which may not be sewn
until the mourning is over) is prescribed
in accordance with the degree of relation-
ship of the person mourned. Cremation
is opposed Jo Jewish views, and when
a few years ago the relatives of a cre-
mated person asked that the ashes should
be buried according to Jewish rites there
was some dissent among the orthodox.
However, the difficulty was got over when
the Chevra Kadisha (Burial Society—liter-
ally Holy Brotherhood) decided that if
an ordinary-sized coffin were used it
was prepared to overlook the fact that
the contents were merely ashes.
* * * *
“Spes”: I have been a sufferer like
“Sandys” (B. 27/3/’35) from films cen-
sorship exercised by certain firms. I took
certain photos, for a medical friend, and,
as they were needed for a scientific pur-
pose, carried them to a developing firm.
They destroyed the lot as “disgusting.”
Threatened with proceedings they said
all film was accepted at owner’s risk. If
you want films on doubtful subjects, then
learn to do ’em yourself for safety.
* * * *
“Omar”: Persia is the latest country
to complain that it is persistently mis-
named by outsiders ; its proper
name is Iran, and it has appeal-
ed to the International Postal
Conference to see that letters
are thus addressed. Persia, it is
added, is merely a corruption of
the name of a small portion of
the country. The claim seems
entirely justifiable (“the king-
dom which we call Persia the
Persians themselves call Iran,”
says “The Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica”); still the confusion is a
very old one. The Greeks
began it; the Bible has a good
deal to say about the Medes
and Persians, and Horace wrote
Persicos odi, puer, apparatus.
Matthew Arnold was more accu-
rate ; he gives the country, if
not the inhabitants, its right name in
“Rustum and Sohrab.” Anyway, if
Persia demands to be called Iran, there
is no reason why it shouldn’t be. But
I suppose Persian cats and Persian car-
pets will remain as they are.
* =K * *
“Como”: Who says that art is not
recognised to-day? Among the puffs
in the programme of the leading Mel-
bourne theatrical firm one finds the fol-
lowing: “The beer consumed during the
performance was supplied by the Wallop
Brewery Company.”
* * * if
“Truthful Ted”; It was early impressed
upon us at Gallipoli that messages de-
signed for mouth-to-mouth transmission
along a line of troops (B. 27/3/’35) had
to be made as short and snappy as a
Bulletin Answer to Correspondents.
The reason was obvious ; e.g., a specimen
order sent on its tortuous way through a
newly-taken Turkish trench by an officer
who should have known better: “Pass
the word to the right to make divisions,
to prevent enfilade fire from the valley
in the morning.” It came to the dead-end
of the trench in this guise: “Pass the
word to the division on the right to open
enfilade fire on the valley in the morn-
ing.” It was also found necessary to re-
strict the radius of air-borne messages by
indicating both source of origin and
destination, as “From Major Smith to
Captain Jones.” A bored infantryman
in the front and only line at Quinn’s
Post once casually asked a trench-mate
for some cartridges. The intimation
“Ammunition wanted” was passed along
until it got into the communication
trench. Thence it went to Battalion H.Q.,
thence per field telephone to Brigade
H.Q. Brigade rose to the occasion with
52 boxes, holding I don’t know how
many hundreds of thousands of rounds.
Battalion sent the lot back. What Brigade
said is in my diary at the Customs.
* Si: * *
“G. Trotter”: A Melbourne artist, just
returned from Paris, tells bitter tales of
the privations of the craft in the gay
capital. In the Place Pigalle, he was
accosted by a bewhiskered youth who
opened before him a portfolio of etch-
ings—genuine, not steeled. He bought
one and paid the price demanded, 2s. 9d.
in English currency. They started to talk,
and directly the Frenchman discovered
that the Australian was also an artist he
tumbled over himself to apologise for
having charged him so much. Those
prices, he explained, were fixed for
wealthy American tourists.
* * V ❖
“Gold B.”: Knocks have lately been
suffered by persons who elect themselves
authorities on art, literature and music
without any credentials save their own.
First, a relative of Millet’s and some com-
panions were gaoled in Paris for having
passed off daubs as works of the master ;
now Kreisler unfolds an equally instruc-
tive tale. When he began fiddling he in-
cluded his own compositions in his pro-
grammes, but found the self-constituted
cognoscenti would have none of them.
Later he presented these and others as
works of allegedly long-dead French and
Italian masters, “Couperin,” “Pugnani,”
“Porpora” and “Vivaldi.” Immediately
they found favor with the elect. The
violinist has now announced that his “old
masters” are figments of the imagination ;
and the pseudo-art world so far main-
tains a stunned silence.
* * t *
“Morita”: Past performances as well
as military usefulness often swayed the
findings of an army Court (B. 27/ 3/’35).
At Armistice-time crowds of the A.l.F.’s
best fighters reckoned their job finished,
and went a.w.l. till shortage of cash or
red-caps brought them back. Many a
C.O. regretted having to send these men
to court-martial in the same category as
the war-dodgers who had begun to drift
back to their units. An appeal for
leniency was made on behalf of men
with meritorious line service, and it soon
became the practice of after-Armistice
Courts to ask a deserter to quote his
actual service in the line. Many men
who could prove they had done their
whack got off scot-free, but it was clink
for those who had deliberately dodged
their issue. Six months was the portion
of one of our crowd who, though sup-
posed to belong to a line unit, after two
years abroad could not quote a single
day spent under shellfire.
STRANGE BEDFELLOWS.
*‘Mr. Cain said he was not voting for Mr. Dunstan’s
censure motion as such, but because it gave him the
opportunity to put the Government out. The U.C.P.
would get Labor support according to its legisla-
tion.”
It’s not a bit because we like you Cockies
Better than Yaps we’ll help you queer their
pitch,
And smash their boat to pieces on the rockies,
And spill their applecart into the ditch.
We’ll join with you to compass their confusion;
For that, and that alone, we’ll coalesce,
And if you harbor any other illusion
You’ve got another guess.
Some proverb says, to beat a canine body
You may employ whatever stick you list.
So gleefully we proffer you the waddy
You need, to fill the bill and fit the fist.
A hefty club to wallop bone and tissue
Is ours, but still it’s well to make it plain
That, when the errant tyke has got his issue,
We want it back again.
We’ll do our best—none cheerier or blither —
To keep you chaps at loggerheads, my oath!
The fact we haven’t any time for either
Ensures our being strictly fair to both.
We’ve helped you give your erstwhile mates a
whacking,
And now you mustn’t grumble or condemn
If presently, when they require our backing,
We do the same for them.
On to the breach then, chaps, with wild
hurraying!
Bang the big drum and toot the loud
bassoon!
Only remember, while you do the playing,
We claim to have a say about the tune.
We wouldn’t threaten you or give your joyous
Visions of office and its sweets a check,
But, none the less, the moment you annoy us,
You’ll get it in the neck.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


A Factory-freshness, distinguishing
Smoothness, Coolness, and Flavour,
await you in every tin of Craven 4 A*
Cigarettes . . . they never vary and
they are absolutely non-irritating.
ss.
&
-a
Trr
o
10 for 9 d *—2o for 1/6
Wrapped in moisture-proof
Cellophane for factory-fresh-
ness.
“They
have not >
provoked
a single
Cough
from me”
Made specially to prevent sore throats—
US
-mm*
. - Am«vyvt<
LV** \V j
POLITICAL POINTS
For eight months of 1933-34 exports
of merchandise showed an excess over
imports of £27,917,000; for the same
period of 1934-35 the balance was only
£4,680,000. Publication of the figures
coincided with another tariff “revision”
affecting apparel, socks and stockings,
agricultural implements, machines and
machine tools, and motor-body panels.
The coincidence was presumably Can-
berra’s way of showing that it is not a
bit alarmed.
Manufacturers are only human, and
the new reduced duties may not produce
the dire results predicted by some of the
interests concerned. But this meddling
with the tariff is having an unsettling
effect on all industries dependent on it.
A Maoriland Minister was in Sydney
when the second-last tariff “revision”
was published, and, the subject being
mentioned, he was asked how they man-
aged in his Dominion. The reply was
“We don’t keep industry on the boil.”
Dunstan found himself in as compli-
cated position as Pooh-Bah when he
moved his want-of-confidence motion
against the Vic. Argyle Government. He
had been a member of it before and after
the general election, and thus shared the
responsibility for misdeeds alleged to be
sufficiently heinous to warrant its being
scrapped. Dunstan, in effect, was mov-
ing a vote of want of confidence in him-
self. And yet politicians deplore the lack
of respect for politicians!
Vic. Parliament is nothing like the
Roman Senate, and Dunstan looks too
well-nourished and self-satisfied for the
part of Brutus; so tragic trappings were
lacking when the Deputy-Premier of the
previous week drove his knife into the
Government’s heart. Labor, however,
provided an appropriate touch. The first
speaker to applaud the act was Cain.
Irish Free State trade suffered a further
slump last year, the adverse balance being
£20,173,000 sterling. Considering that
imports were worth only £35,780,000 in
1933, when De Valera began trailing his
coat, this is fairly staggering. Exports
to Australia fell to £ll7B, imports from
Australia to £49. Saddening, but natural
enough, since immigration from the Free
State to Australia has practically ceased.
As Opposition-leader in Vic. Assem-
bly, Tunnecliffe got an extra £2OO a year.
He will now lose it to Argyle. A touching
example of the sacrifice of pelf to
principle, though it leaves Tunny less
liable to be “touched.”
N.S.W. Government school-teachers
campaigning for restoration of pre-
depression salaries are burbling that “the
country is out of its difficulties,” and giv-
ing Premier Stevens as their authority. If
Stevens said that, the less Stevens he. If
teachers believe it, not only their pupils
need educating.
Ex-Premier Lee, who has had several
terms in the Tas. Treasury and most of
the other departments as well, told
Dwyer-Gray on quitting office last year
that the Treasury job was “so light that
any man could do it in two hours a
day.” His Labor successor protests that
he has not found it so ; but then he is
new to office, though somewhat stricken
in years. Again, like Westralia’s Ken-
neally, the “full-time” Minister for Em-
ployment, he is a Labor unity con-
ferences
‘‘This is the day of the young man,”
said Premier Ogilvie, taking leave of his
civil servants —“but not in Tasmania.
Here unless one is 70 one can’t get
recognition.” Still, Ogilvie’s Treasurer
is a witness that a Labor politician can
get it at 64.
Having already promised to remove
all depresh reductions imposed on N.S.W.
civil servants on the £3OO p.a. mark and
below it, Stevens is restoring 20 p.c. to
all hands. It will cost £BOO,OOO or
£900,000 p.a.; but what’s £BOO,OOO or
£900,000 to a party about to go elec-
tioneering?
C. I. Cerutty, in his last year as
Auditor-General, has contrived to offend
all the parties at Canberra —Ministerial-
ists, because he objects to the Govern-
ment’s way of presenting accounts;
Laborites (both factions), because he
stresses the need for economies, particu-
larly in the payment of pensions to those
who don’t need them. Since Angas was
wiped out there has been no one like
Gabb at Canberra. If a suitable vacancy
occurs in Victoria, Cerutty, though 64,
might be asked to stand. Every Par-
liament needs a member who will fight
against extravagance, regardless of whose
corns he treads on.
With the retirement of Japan from the
League, the necessary two years’ notice
having expired, the Carolines, the Mari-
annes and the Marshalls became Japan-
ese territory. The League doesn’t like
it, but has to lump it. There is unlikely
to be even a protest, unless Japan forti-
fies its new possessions. Such a move
would be disturbing to Australia, seeing
that the nearest islands are within 400
ENDURANCE RECORD.
“Trying to explain why he had quitted and was destroying the combination in which
he had been Deputy-Premier the previous week, Mr. Dunstan pleaded that it was 75 per cent.
U.A.P. and only 25 per cent. Country party.”
LABOR SYMPATHISER: “And the poor beggar’s been doing it for three years!"
miles of Australian Mandated Territory ;
but there is no reason to suppose that
Australia’s friendly customer and faith-
ful ally during the war will become an
unfriendly neighbor.
They soon fade out, and they never
come back. McCormack, Theodore’s
friend and successor, was discovered last
week on an ocean liner, bound for Russia,
which he is to “investigate.” So far has
he sunk into oblivion since 1929, when he
retired from the Queensland Premier-
ship, that, although reporters and press
photographers prowling about Bondi
must have seen him now and then, two
afternoon papers misspelt his name.
One of the advantages of a public
utility is that it can always be used as a
cockshy. Adelaide Council is throwing
a fit about the design of the new Com-
monwealth Bank, asserting that it is a
rabbit hutch and a disgrace to the city.
Whether the charge is justified or not, it
is good to see a display of public spirit
in respect to civic beautification. But,
had the structure been erected by the
Bank of Adelaide or the ’Wales, not a
word would have been heard.
Bruce’s Development and Migration
Commission, generally regarded as a
total loss, did one good job. Asked in
1928 for a loan of £3,370,000 for the
Theodore irrigation settlement on the
Burnett, it inquired whether the site of
the proposed Nathan Dam had been
tested to see whether it would hold water.
It came out that, although over £700,000
had been spent already, neither this
essential detail nor the suitability of the
soil for irrigation had been established.
The McCormacks were blithering that
they needed the money to establish 5000
farms in the “rural heart of Queens-
land.” The Nathan Dam is not yet
built, and only 70-odd settlers remain
in the rural heart that was to be.
Three years ago the N. S. Wales and
Queensland State elections were held on
the same day, June 11, and there was
talk of arranging for the same thing to
happen this time. But Stevens’s Parlia-
ment is still legislating, and, tired of wait-
ing for him, or anxious to get the thing
over before subsidies for church schools
can develop into an issue, Forgan Smith
has named May 11 as what is humor-
ously called the People’s Day of Power.
At present the chances are in his
favor, but those subsidies and the restora-
tion of saints’ days as public holidays
will need verra carefu’ handling.
On the evidence of L. R. D. Stable,
Vic. Country party “is led by a self-
appointed junta of central councillors,
which often makes decisions and arranges
resolutions before ever the central coun-
cil meets to consider its business.” And
Stable ought to know. He is treasurer.
A youth who shot and nearly killed
a Melbourne policeman has been sen-
tenced to 10 years and a flogging. It is
many years since flogging was imposed
in Victoria on any but degenerates, and
Labor is going to see Dunstan about it.
There are two book censorships, it
seems. Robert Garran, defending his
board in an address at Melbourne Uni-
versity, said it dealt wholly with porno-
graphic matter, and he could not recall
an instance of a book having been
banned because of its political color.
Customs Minister White, replying to
Holloway, M.H.R., intimated that he and
his departmental advisers attended to the
rejection of “revolutionary literature.”
This doesn’t improve the situation, but
it is revealing. So Stalin’s “Five-year
Plan” wasn’t barred for indecency, nor
was Hutt’s “Condition of the Working
Classes” adjudged pornographic.
It is a pity Wettenhall lost Lowan to
another Cocky last month. He would
have stood up to the arrogant Hocking,
“president of the central council,” at the
secret meeting which decided the fate of
the Argyle Government. After Hocking’s
storekeeper-candidate was beaten in
the Gunbower by-election last year. Hock-
ing had the face to question Wettenhall’s
loyalty. Wettenhall’s father, a Wimmera
pioneer, was the first Australian-born
Vic. Leg. Councillor, and the son has
been representing land men for 35 years.
He drily retorted that it amused him to
have his loyalty assailed by “a Johnny-
come-lately countryman who tried to get
a Nationalist nomination in 1929.”
One of the “arguments” trotted out
by the Canberra politicians and bureau-
crats who are trying to force a Port
Augusta-Red Hill line on South Aus.
is that it would assist graziers—“permit
of livestock from the trans-Australian
railway being conveyed from the
point of loading to Adelaide in the
same waggon.” Hudd, the S.A. Minister
of Railways, had the curiosity to ask
his department what this traffic amounted
to. The reply came from Commissioner
Anderson himself, and is a classic.
From July 1, 1931, to February 28,
1935, the only movement of livestock from
the trans-Australian railway to the S. Aus.
railways was one sheep in a crate.
In its way, it is worthy to rank with
the minute of a Westralian Minister re-
garding the burial of a boundary-rider
on the rabbit-proof fence —“Charge to
Development of Agriculture, Loan Vote.”
Out-patients’ clinics are being estab-
lished in Melbourne suburbs. Such a
system should make for efficiency, cheap-
ness and improvement in health. At
present the walking sick have to find their
way —sometimes over long distances —to
one of the big metropolitan hospitals, and
frequently spend the greater part of the
day awaiting treatment by a worn-out
staff. Suburban clinics properly equipped
and adequately staffed would distribute
the patients and enable them to be
examined and treated expeditiously.
In “Mein Kampf” Hitler said:
Even as our ancestors did not acquire
the ground on which we now live as a
present from heaven, but fought for it, so
we shall not get the soil and with it life
for our people through the grace of
nations, but only by the force of the
victorious sword... .When, however, we to-
day speak of new ground and new soil, we
can think first of all only of Russia and the
boundary States subject to her.
This passage, which appeared in pages
741 and 742 of the 76th German edition,
was cut when the book was translated
for British consumption.
Dr. Townsend, who aims at restoring
prosperity in the U.S.A. by giving
aged persons £lO a week, threatens to
raise an army of old people to march on
Washington to voice their demands. The
last man who marched on Washington
was Coxey, who led an army of 150,000
during the depression of the ’nineties.
The army dwindled considerably long
before it had covered half the distance,
and, in place of seizing the Government,
as was feared at the outset, it turned up
a ragged handful. The nearest thing to
a revolution was the arrest of Coxey him-
self for walking on forbidden grass in
the White House grounds.


"We must have more babies I sv
0 sV
'They are qhmarkable. consumers ,
s/
"They e>RE*o< things".
" They MUST LEARK TO RESIST
COUD r
// lb BE STRONG, f THAT
SPARK. OP THE PRIMITIVE
MUST BE KEPT AL.WE
enjoy STRUGjQUSiq POR TVUMQSA
M R Hughes is» in
COMPLETE
WITH THE. DU CE.
“GENTLEMEN, THE BABIES!”
“Mussolini, in an interview with a French journalist, blamed the falling birth-rate for the world’s troubles, and suggested an increase as the remedy.”


The Only
"ANTI-KNOCK''
"SUPER-CHARGED'
CRYSTAL CLEAR
Motor Spirit
-y
SHELL
FOR MILEAGE AND POWER
Sl.|
PERSONAL ITEMS
Argyle stood by the old A.I.F. when he
reconstructed his Ministry. In the team
were Major W. S. Kent Hughes, M.C.
(Deputy-Premier), Col. Harold Cohen,
D.S.O. (Education and Solicitor-General),
Lieut.-Col. Knox (Hon. Minister), Cap-
tain T. K. Maltby (Lands and Forests)
and Captain J. A. Gray, M.C. (Hon.
Minister).
“Imshi”: Kent Hughes was staff-cap-
tain of the 3rd L.H. Brigade for a while.
He got his M.C. with his regiment, the
Bth L.H., and served later at Chauvel’s
H.Q. His “Modern Crusaders” is a good
account of the A.L.H.’s work in Sinai and
Palestine. K.H.’s father was a Collins-
street specialist who served as a major
at No. 3 General. Canon E. Selwyn
Hughes, Rural Dean of Melbourne, and
Major-General Fred G. Hughes were
uncles.
Unlike his predecessor, Archbishop
Riley, Archbishop Le Fanu, the newly-
elected Primate, does not affect gaiters
for street wear. A wide-brimmed felt
hat, however, makes him a conspicuous
figure in St. George’s Terrace, Perth. He
attends most of the principal race meet-
ings, and seems to get much satisfaction
out of a good cigar.
Russell Grimwade, who has given
£5OOO for forestry research, is enthusias-
tic about Australian trees. In the acre
or less of land which surrounds his Too-
rak home, he grows gums, one at least
of which is flowering during the year.
A tourist in the U.S.A. recently found
him to be the only Australian author
whose book was a best-seller. It is about
gum-trees, and California loves them.
While Masefield was in Melbourne he
stayed with the Russell Grimwades.
J. H. Curie, mining engineer, tireless
traveller and author of “The Shadow
Show,” is back in Australia. Since he
was here last he has visited the forests
of Yucatan and the Iguaza Falls in
Brazil, traversed Patagonia and inspected
the highlands of Ceylon. His friends
of 20 years ago can hardly recognise
him ; the beard which marked its tall
owner out in a crowd like a red flag in
a desert has gone.
He commanded “Q” ships once.
“Durb”; Tielman Roos, who died last
week in Johannesburg, belonged to a
Boer family that became strongly pro-
British, though all its eligible members
were on Kruger’s side at the beginning of
the century. An elder brother was
Reuter’s war correspondent with the Boer
army. Tielman Roos was a distinguished
Supreme Court Judge, but he retired
three years ago, went back to politics
and devoted himself chiefly to preaching
friendship and co-operation between
Dutch and British.
Bulletin artist Unk White,
wearing his favorite menagerie
aspect in “Hotpoint’s” inspired
contribution to Sydney’s current
Be Kind to Animals
Week, is another of
Maoriland’s pahful of
the black-and-white
tribe. With caricaturist
George Finey, painter
Robert Johnston and
sculptor Frank Lynch,
Unk trained in a
jointly - belittered
studio in Auckland,
and the four of them,
and others, produced
a newspaper, notable
chiefly for the fact
that it didn’t sell.
Link migrated to Australia in
1922, continued his studies at
the Sydney National Zoo, and
later went to France and Lon-
don, where the “Tatler,” “By-
stander” and “Sketch” opened
their gates to his funny ani-
mals. In Paris he was longer
cornered in one patch of
trouble than he would have
been had he known the French
for “Help!” Now, intending
to migrate to South America,
he is making an earnest study
of Spanish and fencing.
“Warrigal” (Harry) Crockett,
who stowed away with a Bush-
men’s Contingent and served in
the Boer War as bugler-
mascot (he was 13 at the time)
has died in California.
He fought with the
Canadians in the World
War. Crockett was
born at Leichhardt
(Sydney).
Kilimanjaro”: Just over sixty years
ago the London “Daily Telegraph” and
“New York Herald” sent H. M. Stanley
to Darkest Africa to find Dr. Livingstone,
fhe last survivor of the expedition, the
Rev. Dr. Henry Cordon, died the other
day in Perth. A retired Baptist minister,
he had led a roving life in Africa, China
and America before settling in W.A
George Irvine, here depicted by
Frith, commanded Adelaide Steam-
ship Co. vessels ere ever he began
to go bald. On the death of Cap-
tain Sunter last September he be-
came commodore of the fleet, and
he was chosen to bring out the
newly-constructed Manoora from
Glasgow with Lady Hore-Ruthven
aboard. He commanded “Q” ships
in the Mediterranean during the war,
and his D.S.O. wasn’t awarded for
his beauty alone.
“M.G.”: “Wi” Duncan, the mighty
athlete of Rotorua (B. 27/3/’35), brought
to Australia the haka team which per-
formed in “Tapu,” a Maori opera written
and composed respectively by Arthur
Adams and Alfred Hill and produced by
“the Firm.” “Wi” used to stand beside
his braves and chant a weird Polynesian
war-song, to which the braves provided
Study of an Artist.
a deafening obbligato of jumping, grunt-
ing and thigh-slapping. Australia has
seen other hakas since, but without “Wi”
Duncan they resembled “Hamlet” with-
out the Prince of Denmark. What an
actor “Wi” was!
“D.”: Nothing runs so consistently in
families as legal ability. Here is W. F.
L. Owen, of Sydney, taking silk at an
early age after a notable career in all
jurisdictions as a junior. A prospective
Supreme Court Judge if ever there was
one. His father became a K.C. 29
years ago and Judge in Divorce 16 years
later, and his grandfather was also a
Supreme Court Judge. This beats the
record of the Windeyers, who have given
a Supreme Court Judge, a leader of the
Bar and a prominent junior (W.J.V.) to
N. S. Wales inside 50 years. But no
legal family in Australia, or
for that matter in the Empire,
can approach the Stephens;
this astonishing dynasty has
been turning out emi-
nent counsel and Judges
in England, India and
Australia for a couple of
centuries.
Edmund Jowett has
discovered that his great-
great-grandmother was a
sister of Captain Cook.
Church registers and
family Bibles prove the
relationship, which was un-
suspected until the arrival of
the last English mail. When
Jowett was a clerk in Golds-
brough’s wool firm in the
’nineties he formed the Young
Victorian Patriotic League—
the forerunner of all the
Fascist movements of the
world. But the Y.V.P.L. died
young, and Jowett turned from
wool-handling to woolgrow-
ing. He bought properties in
Queensland during a drought,
and rain came. It was said
a few years back that he paid
a bigger income tax than any
other man in the
Commonwealth. And
then the slump came-.
He isn’t as rich as he
was, but he still con-
trives to be merry
and bright. A pic-
turesque ballroom
figure, he is believed
to have covered as
much ground on
dance floors as any
man living.
When Dr, Downey, of Liverpool, was
here many prophesied that he would be
the next Archbishop of Westminster.
But he is Irish, and this is an appoint-
ment reserved traditionally by the Vati-
can for Englishmen. Of England’s 38
cardinals only four have been Irish. The
new Archbishop—formerly Monsignor
Arthur Hinsley—is a Yorkshireman who
was educated in England and at the Eng-
lish College in Rome. In early life he
taught at Ushaw, St. Bede’s, Bradford, and
other celebrated Catholic institutions, but
he is best known as Apostolic Delegate
in Africa, where his headquarters were
at Mombasa. He is 70 years of age,
and is persona grata at Court as well as
in Rome, where he was Rector of the
English College till six years ago. He
will, of course, become a cardinal.
“Chalk”: A. G. Butchers, M.A., LL.B.,
etc., is well equipped for the post to
which he has just succeeded—head serang
of the M.L. Government’s Correspond-
ence School. A product of Melbourne
Uni., Butchers has taught and written in
M.L. for the past 18 years. Each of his
four published works on education
aroused a more or less violent contro-
versy, T. B. Strong, Director of Educa-
tion, being particularly critical.
A South Aus. civil servant.
A. L. Read (the second name’s Llewel-
lyn) joined the S.A. public service in
1891. Gradually that bulging forehead
made itself felt, and four years ago he
was appointed Under-Secretary and
Clerk of the Executive Council. His
outstanding characteristics are efficiency,
a pleasant manner and an un-civil ser-
vice-like hatred of red-tape.
The late Sydney Myer, of Melbourne,
left a tenth of all he possessed to “reli-
gious, benevolent and educational objects,
societies and institutions.” The person-
alty of the Victorian estate alone is
valued at £916,312, and there is other
property in South Australia and else-
where, so the “Sydney Myer Fund”
should amount to over £lOO,OOO. Charity
won’t begin to benefit from the fund till
next year; the whole of the first year’s
income from the estate has beeif ear-
marked for probate payments.
About a future G.-G.:
The appointment of John Buchan, the
novelist, as Canadian G.-G. is in accord with
the British tradition which made Bulwer
Lytton Secretary for the Colonies, Macaulay
a member of the Council in India, Birrell
Irish Chief Secretary and Bryce Ambassador at
Washington. Buchan has shared with A. E. W.
Mason the honor of being the leading novelist
in the Commons. Like Mason, he is a sound
businessman, and holds an active directorship
of a big publishing house. The Canadian job
will not give him his first experience of
public administration. He was Milner’s private
secretary during the Boer War, and Lloyd
George’s Director of Information in 1917-18.
Two years ago he was the King’s High Com-
missioner to the Church of Scotland, an office
frequently held by royalty. As befits a son of
the manse, he has a somewhat ascetic look
until he smiles, and he is an easy talker on a
catholic range of subjects. He has found time
to write 49 books, which range from romantic
novels to a work on the taxation of foreign
incomes. And his personal modesty has allowed
him to live 60 years of a life which would
have brought most men an earldom and a
string of ribbons with no British official dis-
tinction other than a C.H.
“S.T.S.”: Nellie Farren “lacked that
faculty for making the audience believe
she was a personal friend” (B. 20/2/’35)!
It is the most astonishing remark seen
in print for some time. Montague
Grover can have known the actress only
when she was in Australia and elderly.
At the London Gaiety she was “Our
Nellie” to everyone, from stalls to gal-
lery, and perhaps the best-loved figure
in theatrical England. Incidentally, she
had the rare advantage in that buxom
era of a boyish figure to suit her ever-
lastingly boyish parts. As the “Pink
’Un” put it delicately, “ ‘Our Nellie’ can
show more and reveal less than any of
them,”


■: •
>
SHHHHBP gHS$»$
" ;
mm
wstemM
>M':: &&M
mm&
: : : ;->;jx|xi:
,# • •
*%
A
/.M
r
pv:
Y
*e
&
*«
\\W"
#2<(
AWVP
H
r
mmm
Nr/
willin'.
ov
Y
ft
b
like Min DEEPER CUT
TREAD
"Chectskid TYRE
Barnet Glass “Checkskid” is a tyre designed especially for today’s
gruelling traffic conditions —of high speed travel over harder,
smoother road surfaces.
Its extra breadth of tread, which contains more actual rubber, gives
extra road grip . . . extra safety ... extra mileage. Its extra
depth of tread gives longer non-skid tyre-life ... increased
economy • . . immunity from skids and slipping.
In Barnet Glass “Checkskid,” you also gel the advantages of
heat resisting design, which reduces the tendency to generated
heat, the main cause of tyre destruction; unique carcase
construction, which gives extra sidewall flexibility; and superimposed
buttresses which strengthen the shoulders and support this new
“more-rubber” tread.
•• /
i i
New tyres call for New
Chechsbid" TYRES
BARNET GLASS
k
TUBES
for Endurance
M. 5475 34-


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST YALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Nell Gwyn”
“Pretty, witty Nellie,” screened at
Melbourne Athenaeum, gives us the
light-hearted orange girl of Pepys rather
than the king’s warm-hearted favorite
whom orthodox historians depict. The
picture lacks the consecutive plot
of the stage version popularised by
Nellie Stewart. Both versions pre-
sent the Merry Monarch as a still,
strong man, whereas both the his-
torians and Pepys tell us that he was a
joyous, rollicking soul. Ann Neagle
(Nell) is as pretty as the Diary implies,
but neither physically nor temperament-
ally is she the Nell Gwyn of history.
Cecil Hardwicke provides a splendid
character study of a Charles who isn’t
a bit like the Charles we are led to be-
lieve ruled England by cheerful indiffer-
ence to dignity and wise toleration of
opponents. Jeanne de Casselis presents
the Duchess of Portland as a Hollywood
vamp, and Laurence Anderson is a hard,
vicious James.
“Are You a Mason?”
This classic, at Sydney Mayfair, is
as reliable a laugh-raiser in its talkie form
as it ever was on the stage. The tradi-
tional story has not been departed from
to any great extent, and it gives Robert-
son Hare and Sonnie Hale good scope.
The former has played the henpecked
husband so often that he must duck in-
Sonnie Hale in “Are You a Mason?”
which is splitting sides at Sydney Mayfair.
stinctively when he hears a woman’s
voice. At one point in the show he has
a chance to be dominant for a brief
moment, and he seems to enjoy it.
“Maybe It’s Love”
At the Capitol. All about Rims
O’Neill (Ross Alexander), an importer’s
clerk, and his wife Bobby (Gloria Stu-
art), who was his boss’s secretary. The
husband loses his job, and the wife re-
turns to hers. Adolph (Philip Reed), the
boss’s son, intrudes, and Rims starts to
regret the separation. As Bobby also
has her regrets, and Adolph isn’t a bad
sort, the reunion soon occurs. The young
couple’s in-laws were chiefly to blame for
the original trouble, and the lesson of the
thing is that pests of the sort should be
kept out of the house at any cost.
“Under Pressure”
In which the old movie firm of Mc-
Laglen and Lowe bawl and brawl their
way through a tunnel, is also at the
Capitol.
“Red Morning”
A Speed Gordon at Sydney Civic, with
Steffi Duna as the girl whose brassiere
remains in position through successive
scenes of violence.
Her adventures begin when the s.s.
Papua, of which she is chief officer, is
seized by mutineers. They knock her
father, the skipper, on the head, and
leave her to drown. Friendly savages,
under a sentimental young chieftain with
a Brian Penton coiffure, befriend her.
Regis Toomey arrives, and is chased by
thousands of inimical savages, who tie
him up. Miss Duna cuts his bonds, and
they are both chased. The mutineers
turn up in a stolen lugger ; all the whites
are chased by innumerable and deafen-
ing savages, and the chief villain blows
himself up with the Papua. So it goes
on till the heroine decides to dress and
get married.
“The Band Plays On”
A maudlin picture of the temptations
which beset American undergrads, who
play football. The villain wants Robert
Young to turn pro. To avert the catas-
trophe Stuart Erwin tears through town
and country in a car and smashes him-
self up. Leo Carrillo, a right-thinking
university tailor, is in time to grab and
burn the contract depriving Young of
his amateur status, but for many lachry-
mose minutes Erwin’s life hangs by a
thread, and Young blubbers unrestrain-
edly. Betty Furness is a co-ed who has
the freedom of the footballers’ rooms.
Some First Nights
The Fuller co.’s “Lohengrin,” at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, was superior in
all respects to the Williamson production
of 1928. Frank Rigo’s staging could
not have been more intelligent. Even
the swan behaved itself. The costuming
was rich and colorful, and the scenery,
except for the unnaturally brilliant light-
ing of the sky in the first and last acts,
excellent. The Brunskill came out
strongly as Ortrud, though her contralto
suffers from the excessive desire of the
singer to achieve volume at the expense
of expression. Thea Phillips is not an
Austral, but she has a calmness and sen-
sibility of action and vocal emphasis that
commanded continual interest in the
woes of Elza. Ben Williams was an
elegant and eloquent Knight of the Holy
Grail, and his voice was a delight to
listen to. Bernard Ross was trium-
phantly malicious as Telramund, and
Sydney de Vries was a town-crier out of
a picture-book.
The thing was done with so much
taste, artistic tact and dramatic discretion
as to constitute practically a new opera
for old theatregoers.
* * H-
Alfred Hill’s “Auster,” written in 1922,
and produced in Sydney in that year,
made its first public appearance in Mel-
bourne at His Majesty’s last week. Hill’s
libretto is derived from the romantic
Ted Simpson; “On with the Show.”
at Sydney Tiv.
poem “Princess Mona,” by Mrs. E. Coun-
geau. Auster, the spirit of unawakened
Australia, emerges from a shell on the
sea-beach when the sun’s rays touch it.
She combines the appearance of a panto-
mime fairy with the voice of Isolda Hill,
the composer’s daughter. The aboriginal
population of the continent is left out
of the picture. Auster’s first suitor is a
buccaneer, who gets away with nothing
more substantial than a rope of pearls.
Don Pedro Garcia, representing the first
Spanish voyagers, then arrives in the
Frank Harvey in the Australian-made
“Heritage,” commencing at Sydney
Lyceum.
handsome, person of Sydney de Vries, and,
declaring that what he wants he takes,
tries to carry off the kicking damsel.
Auster, however, is determined to Buy
British, and after a prolonged struggle
on a rock Don Pedro is providentially
struck by lightning. This leaves the way
clear for Browning Mummery, clad in
morning coat and trousers. He repre-
sents the English occupation.
The action is spasmodic, and the
hiatuses are filled in with ballets and de-
clamation by sundry spirits of the woods
and ocean, represented by Gwladys Gar-
side, Horace Stevens and Frederic Collier.
If Hill were writing the opera now he
would probably select a more effective
story, but there are passages of expressive
music in the work. The composer con-
ducted, and producer Garnet H. Carroll
provided a Maxfield Parrish setting com-
prising gigantic cliffs rising out of the
bluest of blue Pacifies.
* * *
The Concerto Grosse No. 12, op. 6,
No. 1, of Handel, was unalloyed delight
as played by the University Orchestra
under Bernard Heinze’s direction at the
Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday. The
Brahms Double Concerto for violin and
]cello, which followed, netted 6000 ears
in a complicated web of harmony,
through which soloists Spivakovsky and
Edmund Kurtz threaded their dexterous
way. Two selections from Richard
Strauss’s opera “Intermezzo” had a
brittle charm of their own. In an enor-
mously long suite Maurice Ravel tells
how Hop o’ My Thumb goes to seek the
Sleeping Beauty. The work sounded as
if it ought to have been performed in an
arty-crafty drawing-room. Tschaikow-
sky’s overture-fantaisie, “Romeo and
Juliet,” concluded the proceedings.
* * *
Priestley’s “Dangerous Corner,” Adel-
aide Repertory’s first offering for the
year, is not great drama, but it is an
effective stage-play, short and tight-
packed. The return of Ray Walsh to the
stage (as a modern lago) bucked up Don
Downey and the rest greatly. There was
not a weak spot in the small cast, and it
will be remembered as one of the best
things Adelaide Repertory has done.
* * *
The semi-private Torch Theatre in
Adelaide has produced “The Circle of
Chalk,” a Chinese play of (reputed)
“great antiquity,” It is just a local
rendering of the comfortable world-wide
tradition that Heaven will protect the
Working Girl. This one dutifully enters
a tea-house when sold by her mother,
meets a Nanki-Poo prince (thoughts of
“The Mikado” will illogically butt in)
and is bought as secondary wife by a
merchant. When she has a son, the cat-
tish senior wife poisons their husband,
and claims both baby and estate. With
bribed Judge and perjured witnesses,
the girl is pronounced childless and
a murderess. Virtue is down for the
count. But the old Emperor is dead, and
the new one proposes to review all death
sentences. He is the said prince, of
course. By a Solomon-like trick he con-
founds the guilty. Recognition. Rap-
ture. Even the baby is accepted as prob-
ably his.
Patricia Hackett was responsible for
producing, costumes, music and the lead.
Her long part was mainly soft-spoken
pathos; no room for the stark power
which she lately showed as Medea. She
was best supported by Iris Thomas as
she-villain, Oscar Cox as a desperado
whose rugged honesty gains him a Judge-
ship, and L. B. Mathews as the jovial
rascal who forfeited it.
* * *
Frank Neil’s variety company may
now be seen and heard at Sydney Tivoli
in “On with the Show.” The scene in
which Joey Porter’s fiddling is ruined by
an inquisitive child is worth going a long
way to witness. So are his adventures in
a military camp, an estate agency and a
hotel bedroom occupied by three gang-
sters. Alec Halls mismanages a one-
man band, dances and does an amusing
revolver turn —all without uttering a
word. Macdonald and Graham and Ron
Le Brun are polished hoofers ; Les Dia-
mondos pose, and Nice, Florio and
Lubow whirl one another about acro-
batically. Their slow-motion stunt went
particularly well. The singers include
Robertson Hare, at the Mayfair.
Grace Hartigan and Ted Simpson, Rus-
sell Callow and Cora Whittwell, a sou-
brette. The Three Ambassadors do a
little act of their own.
* H- *
Scott Alexander presented “Youth
Knocks at the Door” at Sydney’s Kur-
saal Theatre on Saturday. Once more
Youth is rebuffed in its struggle for free-
dom from parental shackles. The moral-
ising is on the trite side, but dialogue
trips along blithely, and the audience
obviously liked it. Ron Folkard’s study
of a schoolboy was somewhat overdone.
Arch Hull (serving-man), Reg Wilson
(crusty father) and Iris Benassai (cook
with a sherry streak) were good.
J. Russell Oakes’s play “Woolgather-
ing,” produced by the Studio Theatre
Club at the Emerson Hall, Sydney, holds
the interest throughout three lively acts.
A disgruntled station-owner wants to sell
his place. Two bright friends pose as
wealthy South Americans anxious to buy
it, and a psychic female visitor agrees to
pretend to discover gold by means of
her divining-rod. Her uneasy conscience
urges her to reveal that there really is
gold on the property. But by this time
the owner, having found an incentive to
enable him to battle on, refuses to sell.
Madge Fox as lima Wright, the said
incentive, gave an attractive perform-
ance, and Hereward Russell was excel-
lent. Gavin Courtney, Norma Slender,
Rita Freeman and Alan Blaire all
did fairly well. Both Miss Lorimer, who
produced the play, and the young play-
wright deserve applause.


The WILD CAT COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
—Dividends ——^
Pref To Re-
June, Loss. 6 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 516,474 Nil Nil 543
1932349,914 Nil Nil 350,457
Dec.,
1932*. 2,721 Nil Nil 353,178
Profit.
1933.. 134,161 33,696 Nil 100,465 252,713
1934.. 402,333 67,392 Nil 334,941 82,228
*Six months.
What a stunning blow slump dealt the
motor trade and the remarkable recov-
ery of the industry over the last couple of
years are made plain by the figures in the
table. For the two and a half years to
the end of 1932 losses totalled £869,109,
leaving more than one-third of the ord.
capital (£965,800) unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the books. In addition the pref.
div, had fallen £84,240 in arrears.
The co. fused the interests of General
Motors (Australia) Pty. and Holden’s, the
motor-body builders of Adelaide, as from
the middle of 1930. The two old busi-
nesses, which together supplied most of
Australia’s motor transport requirements,
had been very prosperous. But the new
co. was caught with heavy stocks on a
falling market, jazzing currencies com-
plicated the troubles, and the body-
works, planned on a mass-production
basis, came almost to a standstill.
However, cars, lorries and buses have
become essential, and they don’t last for
ever. After providing for depreciation,
taxation and other contingencies, last
year’s net earnings sprang £268,172, reach-
ing £402,333, of which £384,333 came
from the car, truck and parts selling divi-
sions of the business, where sales in-
creased by 104 p.c. The other £lB,OOO was
earned on a net investment of £832,105
in the body-building section. The
£402,333 —it was enough to pay a full
year’s pref. div. (£33,696) and show 38.1
p.c. on ord. capital—enabled the board
to clear the prefs.’ slate to the end of
last month (£67,392, two years’ divs.,
has been paid since the close of ac-
counts), wipe out the deficit and leave a
credit of £14,836 in the p. and 1. account.
Although the bodyworks at Woodville
(S. Aus.) have not earned much profit,
and their prospects have in no way been
brightened by the latest tariff “revision,”
they are a very important economic
feature of the business. Of the co.’s
5450 employees in Australia 3900 are
engaged in body manufacture, which
also accounted for £750,000 of the
£1,400,000 worth of local material which
the co. bought last year. The co. expects
to export between 1000 and 1500 bodies
to Java, Egypt, India and elsewhere dur-
ing 1935.
The marked recovery of the business
is further reflected in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
June, Dec., Dec., Dee.,
1981. 1932. 1933. 1934.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,527,400 1,527,400 1,527,400 1,527,400
Sundry
creditors. 617,993 407,241 107,711 508,350
Premises ~ 607,527 556,095 549,561 539,907
Plant .. 496,654 369,362 262,658 192,176
Stocks .. 779,724 461,568 409,325 1,330,098
Debtors .. 92,684 129,208 191,899 206,159
Cash, etc. 212,519 107,572 77,508 58,300
To carry an extra £920,773 of stocks and
£14,260 of debtors’ balances, cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £19,208 and £400,639
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, mainly the parent in the U.S.A.
Including stocks, the most vulnerable
point in the business, the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,086,207) almost
doubled.
At 225. the prefs. return 5.4 p.c. The
cover is 545. lid. in net tangibles. The
ords. are not listed.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1924.. 97,485 * = 86,083 11,402 120,603
Unexplained additions, £20,786 .. 141,389
1925.. 112,060 12 p.c. = 98,088 14,022 155,411
1926.. 121,010 14 „ „ 114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,616 14 „ ~114,379 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ „ 114,379 16,809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ „ 114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 10i „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ „ 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 70,901 8 „ „ 65,359 5,541 241,076
1933.. 73,798 8 „ „ 65,359 8,439 249,514
1934.. 75,314 8 „ „ 65,359 9,955 259,469
*Div. at rate of 5 p.c. p.a., with 2s. bonus paid in
first half; 11 p.c. p.a. paid on increased capital
in second half.
This is the chief of half a dozen hold-
ing cos. through which the public is in-
terested in Carlton and United Breweries,
the big concern which supplies Victoria
with most of its beer, and has strong
connections in North Queensland and
Tasmania as well. Carlton and its
wholly-owned subsidiary hold 38 p.c. of
C.U.B.’s capital:
C.U.B. Shpres. Book Value.
Carlton .. .. 400,000 ords. £400,000
36,203 prefs. : 45,254
Victoria .. .. 167,500 ords. 167,500
15,160 prefs. 18,950
At the end of Dec. the old brewery
premises figured at £90,000 ; other free-
holds, £78,977 (up £20,788); amounts
due under contract, £9231 ; loans, cash,
etc., £250,579. There was only £9113
coming to outsiders.
The next table shows what the lot
has turned in;
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Dec., Cos.’ Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1926.. £100,883 £27,821 £2366
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106,336 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
1931.. 67,073 24,564 599
1932.. 61,620 20,765 339
1938.'. * 61,620 20,742 1493'
1934.. 63,120 22,113 180
The C.U.B. paid 10 p.c. again last year;
apparently the pup sent along a bit
extra, and a little more was received in
interest and rents. Gross earnings
(£63,120) were £2871 better, and exes.
(£11,388) took £1332 of the increase.
Allowing for reserve adjustments, the net
result was 9.2 p.c, on the £816,992 of
capital.
For the year to June 30 last C.U.B.
netted £249,613. It has since made a
one-for-two gift issue, prefs. and ords.
alike, raising its paid capital to
£2,925,000 in 300,000 prefs. (they carry
a cumulative 7 p.c., and advance with
the ords. beyond that rate) and 2,625.000
ords. On that lot the £249,613 netted
last year was 8.5 p.c. ; a 10 p.c., div.
would call for £42,887 more profit than
was claimed, or £99,000-odd less than the
average annual net earnings for the half-
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1930. Certainly conditions have changed
vastly since ; still, the co. has tightened
its grip upon the trade by the purchase
of a lot of hotel freeholds during the last
four years, and employment has in-
creased.
After reaching 555. 9d. Carlton’s
pound shares dropped to 48s. 6d. last
week-end, due to general weakness of
the market. At the lower figure the
return is 3.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for a shade over
4 p.c. on his money counts on a 10 p.c.
div. The bonus issue will lift the com-
bined holding of Carlton and its off-
shoot in the C.U.B. to 928,294 shares, on
which 8 p.c. would turn in £74,264. On
the basis of Carlton’s other figures last
year, it would thus be able to show 10.4
p.c. on its capital. A 10 p.c. div. from
the C.U.B. would enable the holding co.
to show 12.6 p.c. on its capital.
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
275,415
1926.. 33,904 20 p.c. = 24,000 9,904 285,319
1927.. 34,965 20 „ „ 24,000 10,965 296,284
1928.. 28,570 20 „ „ 24,000 4,570 300,854
1929.. 32,158 25 „ „ 30,000 2,158 303,012
1930.. 26,053 25 „ „ 30,000 299,065
1931.. 32,659 22.9„ „ 27,500 5,159 304,224
1932.. 38 364 25 „ „ 30,000 8,364 312,588
1933.. 81,737 25 „ „ 30,000 1,737 314,325
1934.. 36,069 25 „ „ 30,000 6,069 820,394
Most of the profit comes from a fine pile
of investments, accumulated during 62
years of careful trading. At the end of
last year there was visibly £320,394 assist-
ing and protecting £120,000 of share capi-
tal, of which £113,750 came from surplus
earnings. The lot turned in £22,798 (up
£262), equal to 5.1 p.c. on the £440,394
of capital and reserves combined, or 19
p.c, on capital alone. The other £13,271
(up £4069) was the combined underwrit-
ing surplus from the fire, marine and
accident departments, all of which con-
tributed. Incidentally, the management
has looked askance at workers’ com-
pensation, which, taken as a whole,
hasn’t been very profitable of recent
years. The £13,271 was 11 p.c. on
capital, making the net return from
all sources 30 p.c. on capital as
against 26.4, 32, 27.2, 27.1 and 26.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was kept at 25
p.c., and, unless something extraordinary
happens, it doesn’t seem likely to be in-
terfered with —for a while, at any rate.
The scrip is not listed.
Underwriting figures over the last 30-
odd years compare as follows:
Loss. Expense.
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £33,888 £8,131 £13,765 24.0 p.c. 40.7 p.c.
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44.8 „
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 47.1 „
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 28.3 „ 45.9 „
1926.. 110,336 48,883 50,795 44.3 „ 46.0 „
1927.. 114,440 46,007 66,288 40.2 „ 49.2 „
1928.. 116,020 53,367 57,540 48.0 „ 49.6 „
1929.. 117,143 48,143 59,869 41.1 „ 51.1 „
1930.. 106,336 40,165 67,986 87.8 „ 63.9 „
1931.. 98,886 30,312 63,018 30.9 „ 64.3 „
1932.. 95,965 29,441 49,941 30.7 „ 52.0 „
1933.. 94,292 32,836 52,255 34.8 „ 55,4 ~
1934.. 99,759 32,149 54,339 32.2 „ 54.4 ~
The low loss rate is indicative of a very
careful selection of risks. Of each £lOO
of last year’s net premiums (an extra
£5467 was gathered) exes, made off with
£1 less, and losses were £2 12s. lighter
than for the preceding 12 months.
Policy-holders are exceptionally well
protected, as they always have been.
When the books last closed they could
see net tangibles equal to 441 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is
usually considered adequate. The return
from investments suggests that the assets
are well worth their book value, too:
1926. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . 15,089 12,999 16,377 21,305
Freeholds .. 142,771 142,771 142,771 142,771
Mortgages . . 45,990 31,510 31,971 32,148
Investments.. 157,545 189,501 169,487 169,487
Cash .. .. 82,663 88,665 127,949 137,985
Debtors . . 15,440 12,278 8,525 9,808
Most of the money that became available
last year was put into the bank ; cash
increased by £10,036. The co.’s free-
hold at the corner of Pitt and King
streets, Sydney, has been sold since the
close of accounts for £lBO,OOO,
N.Z, Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 59,163 6-J p.c. = 37,500 21,663 159,039
1925.. 38,329 6J „ „ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 .. .. .. 123,558
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 71 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,104 .. 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,445
Loss.
1929.. 105,342 Nil - 149,103
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500 .. 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil 12,168
Profit.
1931.. 64,402 5 p.c. = 31,815 32,587 44,755
1932. . 283 Nil 283 45,038
1933.. 79,995 5 p.c. = 31.815 48,180 93,218
1934.. 90,953 51 „ „ 34,997 55,956 149,174
In 1919, at the end of the fat wartime-
contracts period, capital was doubled by
a £300,000 bonus issue, which, of course,
made subsequent divs. worth twice the
declared rate to old holders. For the
seven years to October 31, 1925, the
average rate of declared distributions was
8.8 p.c. ; for the next seven the average
was 2.5 p.c., aggregate' losses exceeded
aggregate profits by £70,976, and
£lOO,OOO of inner reserves was disclosed.
Then, following the investigations of a
committee of shareholders, which found
that no specific allowance had been
made for depreciation for the 10 years to
1931, and that executives had been paid
large bonuses, a new set of directors was
elected.
The change in control, however, has
not been wholly responsible for the
marked improvement in earnings over
the last two years. Exchange and a rise
in lamb and mutton prices in the Smith-
field (Eng.) market helped to lift Maori-
land’s export price index (1909-13 =
1000) from an average of 1109 for 1932
(the lowest for many years) to 1165 for
1933 and 1518 for 1934. After provision
for taxation and other contingencies, last,
year’s net result sprang £10,958, reaching
14.2 p.c. on capital, the best result for
15 years. Only half a point was added
to the div., making 5? p.c. for the year,
money being wanted for extension of the
works.
The financial position improved con-
siderably :
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Debentures . . 150,000 150,000 150,000 90,000
Other liabilities 801,954 498,850 486,641 576,034
Pr plant S 780,417 774,184 745,102 717,047
Book debts,
investments,
etc. .. 720,015 456,014 552,883 669,468
Pukeuri deben-
tures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
To carry an extra £116,585 of book
debts and investments, £89,393 was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors.
Whether the reduction of £60,000 in the
debenture debt is due to ah alteration in
the method of presenting the figures or
to payments during the year is not clear
from the published accounts. On fixed
assets £28,055 more was written off than
was spent. The more or less liquid
surplus (£103,434) was £87,192 stronger
than at the previous balance.
The market prices the pound shares at
21s. as against 10s. 3d. two years ago.
At the higher figure the return is 5.2 p.c.
on a 54 p.c. div, basis. The cover is
245. Bd. in net tangibles.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 9,244 3£ p.c. = 9,660 24,106
1925.. 24,948 8 „ „ 22,080 2,868 26,974
1926.. 23,898 8 ~,, 22,079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 „ „ 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough branch, £12,247.. 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,387 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 2J„ „ 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12,207 4 „ ~11,050 1,157 19,200
1933.. 18,283 6 „ „ 16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 „ „ 19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ ~ 20,410 15,096 41,694
Extension of the business to the country,
largely on a t.p. basis, failed to pro-
duce the results expected. So, about
seven years ago, there was a change in
the co.’s trading policy ; it was decided
to concentrate on city cash turnover, and
the last of the branches was closed in
1929 —withdrawal from Maryborough
alone involved a loss of £12,247. Slump
interfered with the new plans, and the
management had to mark time with its
programme. Meanwhile, it made pre-
parations for expansion of the business
as soon as opportunity offered.
In 1928 stocks figured at £191,586,
gross earnings were £167,208, and ordi-
nary trading exes. £158,848. At the
end of January last stocks appeared at
£168,814, the year’s gross earnings were
£186,367, and • trading exes. £132,115.
Thus, over the last seven years, a reduc-
tion of £22,772 in the book value of
stocks has been accompanied by an ex-
pansion of £19,159 in gross earnings
(despite a substantial fall in prices), and
a contraction of £26,733 in exes. It all
reflects a brighter store, provision of
better trading facilities, the weeding out
of dead lines and a tight hold upon
outgoings.
After setting aside £18,746 (up £366)
for taxation and other contingencies, last
year’s net result was £10,479 better than
the 1934 figure at 12.1 p.c. on average
capital as against 9, 6.6, 4.4, 1.8, 7.1, 3.7,
3 and 7.3 p.c. back to 1927. The div.
was kept at 7 p.c.
Toward the close of accounts 139,035
new £1 shares, offered at par, were nearly
three times oversubscribed ; £88,945 of
the fresh capital had been gathered when
the books closed. The new money, and
£26,000-odd besides, was used mainly
to buy the adjoining premises of the
Brisbane Permanent Building and Bank-
ing Co. for £45,000, repay £44,174 of
mortgage money and redeem £31,000 of
debentures. Here is the position as the
published accounts show it:
.1927. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Capital . . £275,993 £276,243 £276,243 £365,188
Liabilities . . 202,412 108,920 102,057 40,269
Freehold ~ 127,935 150,527 153,940 202,046
Plant, etc. .. 27,895 36,915 38,828 38,779
Stocks . . 220,046 145,485 158,039 168,814
Book debts, etc. 137,849 57,164 39,156 39,678
Cash and in-
vestments . . 5,247 16,664 44,505 33,254
The intention is to erect an attractive
new building on the recently-acquired
freehold. Finance has been adequately
arranged by the new share issue,
the chairman says. At the end of
January there was £26,045 in the bank
and £50,090 of capital to’come. Also,
the co. has sold a property next to the
right-of-way in Adelaide-street for an
unstated figure, which shows “a hand-
some profit” on its book value.
With more invested in bricks and
mortar, turnover will need to be lively.
There was a wide. margin between last
year’s earnings and distributions ; but it
is doubtful whether trading conditions
for the 12 months to the close of next
accounts will be as good as for the last
term. At 275. the fully-paids return 5.2
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. Including un-
called capital, the cover is 225. in net
tangibles.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
, Dividends N Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1924 .. 14,606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 5,976 9,297
1925 . . 27,760 8 „ 12§ „ 10,588 17,172 26,469
1926 .. 23,668 8 „ 124 „ 18,902 4,766 31,235
1927 .. 40,127 8 „ 15 „ 27,539 12,588 43,823
1928 . . 48,207 8 „ 15 „ 27,681 20,526 64,349
Share premiums, £15,767 .. .. 80,117
1929 . . 62,757 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,616 105,733
1930 . . 55,568 8 „ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124,160
1931 .. 25,911 8 „ 10 „ 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 . . 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-giase reserve taken in, £458 .. 126,148
1934 . . 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 25,027 488 126,636
1935 . . 30,193 8 „ 10 „ „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Over the last five difficult years, this
drapery concern, which handles largely
the less expensive classes of goods,
earned enough to pay its pref. divs., give
the ords. an average of 9.4 p.c. and
visibly put £7642 on the shelf. The
strength of the business lies mainly in
quick turnover, which has been assisted
by shrewd buying and the suitability of
the site, while a tight hold has been kept
upon outgoings.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, more people came to
the store, and gross earnings (£162,239)
moved up £1529. Including an extra
£5OOO set aside for the taxgatherer
(£11,000), exes. (£132,046) were pulled
back £3148. There was thus enough to
give the prefs. their £BOO and show 12.1
p.c. on the £242,272 of ord. capital as
against 10.2, 10.1, 7.1, 10.3, 20.8, 25.5
and 26.2 p.c. back to 1928. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and the market
doesn’t expect that it will be interfered
with, notwithstanding that the outlook*
is much less encouraging than it was a
year ago.
At 435. 9d. the pound ords. return 4.5
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 30s. lOd. in net tangibles. The well-
protected prefs. (there are only 10,000 of
them) seldom come on to the market.
During the year an adjoining freehold
in George-street was bought for cash,
{Continued on next page.)


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
III
H
"Don't forget to see the
a. m. p:
«n ON’T forget to see the A.M.P., and don’t
| jj\ put it off any longer!”
Oh, what a lot of happiness could be
secured and cemented if every wife were to say
that to her husband! What a lot of unhappiness
could be avoided!
Every man should begin his A.M.P. membership with
a policy that will ensure to his dependents that they
shall not want in the event of his death. That is an.
obligation on him, but, that fulfilled, he can plan a
financial future for himself that will be full of happiness.
Professional or business careers, or farm properties free
of debt, for his children; a trip round the world when
he and his wife are in their forties; a home of their own;
a life of freedom from all money troubles; security for
their old age. All these are within reach of the man
who becomes a member of the A.M.P. and who takes
advantage of the opportunities such membership presents.
Attached to the A.M.P. is a group of men trained to study the
financial needs of citizens and their families, and to advise them
how best to meet these needs, and how best to maintain and
enlarge their assets. The advice of these counsellors costs nothing.
They are trusted men who can keep confidences. Ask that one
of them call and talk this matter over with you. If you live far
from an A.M.P. office, ask that a book, “Investing in Happiness,”
and other booklets be posted to you. This book may change your
financial outlook altogether. It may be the means of putting you
on the road to financial security.
Don’t forget. Don’t delay. Next week may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay,
WELLINGTON.
GOLD AND GOLD SHARES, The Out-
look for Industrials, Trade Restrictions
and other questions vital to the investor
are discussed in the next issue of the
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY,” ready on
SATURDAY, APRIL 6.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
♦ * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (.Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. —Advt.
W. J. STAGG, A.C.1.5., A. 1.1.5.
Formerly a Commissioner for Western Lands and
eight years State Secretary N.S.W. Branch Returned
Soldiers’ League.
General Representative and Broker.
Sound advice on all matters of Land, Real Estate,
Finance, Insurance (all kinds).
W. J. STAGG, A. 0.1.5., A.1.1.5'.,
36 Hunter Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 83731 ; JX2946 (Private),
Box 3050NN, G.P.0., Sydney.
For Sale.
COMPLETE ROASTING, CYANIDE AND
ASSAY PLANT, capacity 40 tons per week.
About 10,000 tons Sands and Slimes, averaging
about sdwt. Good extractions can be obtained
by capable man. Particulars from A. C.
CHAPPEL, Peak Hill, N.S.W.
and £35,000 was knocked off the amount
coming to mortgagees:
1925. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £252,272 £252,272 £252,272
Mortgages . . 163,500 110,000 75,000
Overdraft . . 30,111
Sundry creditors 456 24,920 19,868 18,091
Freeholds, flt-
tinp, etc... 11,583 ) 350 ogo 367 627 40 0,888
Investments .. 17,292 J ’ ’
Stocks .. 58,800 145,359 101,179 94,488
Book debts . . 23,078 23,284 16,682 14,082
Cash, etc. ~ 14,754 86,952 46,246 20,511
The net addition to freeholds, etc.
(£363,558), was £34jB69—the etcetera is
an unspecified amount of investments.
To meet the payments the co. went to
its bankers for £30,111, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £25,735, book debts were
reduced by £2600 and stocks by £6691.
Visibly the shrinkage in the more or less
liquid surplus (£5879, including stocks)
was £28,360.
Petter and Heilbron’s Canberra tin-
mine, Herberton (N.Q.), recently cleaned
up 180 tons of stone for 42} tons of
concentrates, assaying I\\ p.c. tin,
worth approximately £6280. Unlike
most tin shows in the locality, it is in-
creasing in size and value at a vertical
depth of 275 ft. It is about this depth,
however, that many of the tin lodes in
the district have a nasty habit of hiding
behind the door.
* * * *
Fred Cuthbert’s New Misima, Misima
Island, Papua, continues to pay Is. 6d. a
share monthly. For the four weeks to
Feb. 28, 1223 tons was put through
the mill for 927 tons of sands and 256
tons of slimes, the lot worth approxi-
mately £2678 in Australian currency.
* * * *
For the 11 weeks before Graham and
Smeaton handed over their New Guinea
leases on March 19 to the Sandy Creek
Sluicing Co., they recovered 500 oz. of
gold by ordinary box-sluicing methods.
* * * *
A Sydney syndicate has unwatered
the old Carlton on Nobby’s line of lode
at Junction Point, near Tuena (N.S.W.).
Some specimen stone was taken from this
show before it closed down 20 years
ago. The main shaft is down 235 ft.
C. J. Hunter, who has run the rule over
the property, says average value of all
ore won was more than lOdwt. over the
plates ; the sands, assaying from 30dwt. to
20z., were not treated. He puts the
width of the lode, which can be traced
for miles, at from 30fL to 40ft. A
lot more work needs to be done before
a reliable idea of ore reserves and their
average value can be formed,
* * * *
Great Poseidon, 1935, NX.,, has been
put off the stocks in Melb. with a capi-
tal of £150,000 in 6s. shares to reopen
the Poseidon Queen, Great Poseidon and
King Poseidon deep leads at Tarnagulla
(Vic.). J. V. Lake, who favorably
reported on the property, says the lead,
four miles long, contains 356,000 fathoms
of wash. The vendor, Bora Gold, takes
£5OOO plus 130,000 paids, and the original
owners are to get £4OOO out of profits.
* * # He
Nearly three years ago Magnet Silver,
chief prop of Magnet (Tas.), ceased opera-
tions and went into liquidation. The em-
ployees formed a syndicate and made an
offer to carry on. C. V. Hugo was
appointed honorary leader. The McPhee
Government was asked to help, and did
so to the tune of £2400. The results have
been: Weight of ore raised, 21,500 ions ;
concentrates produced, 3067 tons ; aver-
age silver content, 93.13 ounces a ton ;
average lead content, 58.21 p.c.; gross
value of concentrates, £43,157; net
value, £34,522. The average number
of men employed fortnightly over a
period of two years and eight months
was 66 ; the amount paid in wages was
£25,523. During the past six months the
average weekly wage underground was
£4 55., 7d., while those on the surface
averaged £3 19s. It is reckoned that
there is many years’ work ahead yet.
* * * *
Seymour coalmines, East Coast of
Tas,, first worked as far back as 1850,
are again being opened up, this time by
Seymour Coal Pty., Ltd., capital £lO,OOO.
Seymour Coal Mines, Ltd., floated in
Melbourne about four years ago, had a
disastrous run. Heavy south-east seas
washed away about 200 ft. of the jetty,
an explosion caused the death of three
persons, and a chartered vessel, the
Joseph Sims; was wrecked. After that
it was decided to put up the shutters.
The new co. is fitting up a small jetty
in a more sheltered spot, and running
a tram line to it from the pit head, about
three-quarters of a mile away.
* * * *
When fully paid, Triton’s .. issue of
160,000 of its reserve shares at par (10s.)
will advance paid capital to £480,000.
Western Gold and Gold Mines of Aust,
who underwrote the original public issue
of 550,000 shares, each have an option
over 25,000 of the now 240,000 unissued
shares at 15s. apiece until Sept., 1936.
News has reached the market that, owing
to some change in the composition of
the ore at depth, the treatment plant
now being installed will have to be
remodelled. So far the board has neither
denied nor confirmed this.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated is gaining
friends again. It has the benefit of the
supervision of Edquist, of Sons of
Gwalia. Shoots are not of very great
length, but there seems to be plenty of
good-grade ore available when the plant
starts. Divs. of 2s. or 3sr a year by-and-
bye are talked of,
* * * *
Swan Bitter, which is putting the finish-
ing touches to its Westralian gold-extrac-
tion plant, expects to start treating 30
to 40 tons of 14dwt. ore daily about the
middle of April. High-grade official
optimism prevails regarding the future of
this show, but some critics don’t give it
a long lease of life.
* * * *
Results from the sampling of Cool-
gardie Redemption, one of the New Ven-
ture’s odds and ends, have not borne out
the glowing reports broadcast by the co.
at flotation and since. The management
hopes that a narrow lense of gold-bear-
ing quartz in the bottom workings may
prove to be the beginning of something
such as “made the mine famous in the
early days.”
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Options, after a few
months’ prospecting, announces that
“work to date has failed to disclose traces
of gold on any of the 17 areas,” and the
board has decided to abandon the
options. The co. raised £40,000 on flota-
tion.
Lancefield has struck a little trouble
in drying concentrates from oil flotation
preparatory to roasting and cyanidation.
An official report states that no attempt
will be made to put through a maximum
tonnage until the difficulty has been over-
come, and that is not expected to be
long.
* * * *
In one shot the Edjudina Co. recently
fired out 16,000 tons of stone on its pro-
perty at Yarri (W.A.). This is claimed to
be a record. All the machinery for a
mill with a capacity of 120 tons a week,
or thereabouts, has been bought, and a
contract has been let to cart the stuff
from Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
The Argus brothers, who made a new
find near Ora Banda (W.A.), have
cleaned up 122 tons for 218 oz. of gold
over the plates, with B|dwt. in the sands.
A new co., the Argosy, registered in Mel-
bourne, has taken over the claim,
and will immediately sink two shafts to
the 100 ft. level.
* * * *
Promoters of goldmining ventures in
Westralia are now bidding for alluvial
propositions likely to catch on in Adel-
aide, Melbourne or Sydney. Some of
these prospects, said to have been over-
looked in the past, may soon be put on
the market.
* * . * *
Recommendations by experts to
abandon options on shows for which the
purchase consideration is reckoned to be
too high are becoming more frequent in
Westralia these days. The latest is the
Radio, near Southern Cross. For this
gold-carrier £70,000 was asked. Ernest
Bails and T. Victor reckon that winzes
disclose a reef too small to justify the
payment.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.M.: (1) Fair demand for clean antimony
sulphide ore at about £l5 per ton for 50 p.c.
ore, or £22 for 60 p.c. ore. (2) Write F.
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney, or H. G.
Oakes, 70 Eagle-street, Brisbane H.M.:
Know nothing of it; making inquiries
AJ.P.: • You will fare better in the long run
by sticking to the first and second. If you
want cover in that direction, take out a separate
sickness policy W.C.: (1) They are a good
lot to sit tight on —for a while, at any rate.
(2) Because the Government has decided to
fix the price for current; details not yet avail-
able... .J.A.H.: They show a better return
than most other popular industrials, with a
fair chance of appreciation later W.M.:
(1) It is one of the few youngsters expected
to give a satisfactory account of themselves.
(2) After an initial demand for the metal for
hoarding, probably not much; everything
would depend upon the extent of the deprecia-
tion of the paper units. More important is
the relationship between sterling and the
dollar. (3) N 0... .0.8. A.: Doubt about values
at depth. Things have not lived up to market
expectations in west winze, which still has some
distance to g 0... .C.H.0.; Finney Isles,
Castlemaine Perkins and McWhirters worth
consideration... .H.M.8.: (1) It may be able
to continue paying 6d., a share. Lost contract
with A.G.L. and picked up one with Rail-
ways. (2) Conditions in the industry make
scrip speculative at the moment J.S.R.:
Write Australian Mining Trust, 88 Adelaide-
sttreet, Brisbane McEll.: (1) The exchange
is in the best interests of bondholders. Can-
not say what divs., if any, shareholders are
likely to get. (2) Don’t know of any. Co.
still investigating question of markets and
erection of mill. The accounts are regularly
reviewed when published. Last review
B. 20/6/’34... .A.A.G.: Next door to im-
possible. If it did, there would be a collapse
of prices.


MATURE MATERIAL
The Connoisseur of fine cloth, like
that of rare wines and cigars,
appreciates the importance of
maturity.
There are elderly people who still
affirm that the worsteds of today
are not as good as those produced
in pre-war days. In point of fact,
the best present day materials are
of equally fine quality, and of in-
comparable better design. Hudders-
field is producing as fine worsted
as it has ever done before, the west
of England yields Saxonies and
flannels of unsurpassed quality,
while North of the Tweed, Scotch
worsteds, Cheviots and other tweeds
have reached a higher level than
they even touched before the War.
But there is some foundation for
this elderly criticism; and it is based
on the fact that too much of the
present day materials pass almost
straight from the shrinkers to the
cutting board, pausing only, in some
cases, a few brief hours to be
invoiced in and out of the woollen
merchants. The result of this is
that the material is apt to crease
during the first few weeks of wear,
until it has properly matured. A
good cloth will always improve with
time, but it is frequently annoying
to the customer to have to wait two
or three months before he can wear
his new suit with confidence.
In the spacious days of old, every
reputable woollen merchant would
lay up his materials in some large
cool cellar for at least three months
before delivering them to the Tailot.
But in this rush age, merchants do
not care to think too far ahead;
fashions in male suitings change
slightly enough, in all conscience
but they change enough to land a
merchant with bad stock. And,
without wishing to malign those
hardworking and useful interme-
diaries, it cannot be denied that
some of them are only too acutely
aware of the cost, in interest, of a
stock which is idle for three months
or more.
POPE & BRADLEY insist that all
the materials which are each season
exclusively. manufactured to their
own design are stored for three
months under the right conditions
before delivery. This also applies
to all dress coatings and other
standard cloths, and —as far as
possible—to all other materials.
The process of maturing is an added
expense, but it is in accordance
with our policy : it helps to ensure
that we use only materials that are
worthy of the artistry of our cut.
LOUNGE SUITS FROM 10 GNS. DINNER SUITS
FROM 15 GNS. DRESS SUITS FROM 16 GNS.
POPE & BRADLEY
TAILORS
14, OLD BOND STREET,
LONDON
vl^
Simple Economical
100% Efficient
• For economy, efficiency and Simplicity, the Ludowici
Pivot Drive stands unrivalled. The following features
are exclusive to this remarkable drive.
• Belt slip is entirely eliminated.
• Much shorter Pulley Centres and higher ratios are possible
with the Pivot Drive than any other type of drive.
• One endless fiat belt does away with the multiplicity of
belts necessary with Vee drives.
THE LUDOWICI Short-Centre PIVOT DRIVE
IS UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son Ltd.,
I 17 York St., Sydney, 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne
AGENTS — Hoey, Fry Pty., Ltd., 168-170 Edward Street, Brisbane • John
McKell & Sons, 15 Timpson Street, Port Adelaide • William Hart &
Sons Pty., Ltd., Charles Street, Launceston • Chas. Davis, Ltd., 60-64
Elizabeth Street, Hobart • Flower, Davies & Johnson, Ltd., 413 Murray
Street, Perth • G. W. Arnold, Ltd., Box 1535 Wellington, N.Z.
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Spargo’s Reward Gold Mine(l93s)NoLiability
(To be registered under the Companies Act 1893, Western Australia.)
CAPITAL - - £250,000
Divided into 2,000,000 Shares of 2/6 each
730.000 Shares to he offered for subscription at 3/6 per share on application and allotment.
Shareholders in Spargo’s Find Gold Mines, limited, are to have preferential rights
to apply and subscribe for 150,000 of these shares, all such applications to bei
marked “Shareholder, Spargo’s Find Gold Mines, limited.”
200 000 Shares fully paid are to bo allotted to Spargo’s Find Gold Mines, limited, as part
of the purchase consideration for the sale of the Gold Mining leases, plant, etc., as
hereinafter set forth; the balance of the consideration, viz., £30,000, is payable in cash.
1,080,000 Shares are to be held in reserve.
3,000,000
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
Mr EGBERT STEPHEN JOHN DENNIS, Company Manager, 63 Victoria Avenue, Claremont.
Mr ELLIS EATON MORRIS, Chartered Accountant (Amst.), Acting Chairman ot Duectois
. rrij,- latlv 5 Shenton Gold Mines (1934), No Liability, ot Pastoral House, Perth.
Mr. RAYMOND CHARLES WILKINSON, Director of The Lady Shenton Gold Mines (19o4),
Mr HARRY a CRANDON Hicics’ of J. A. Hicks and Co., Ltd., Kalgoorlie.
Mr" CARL BORG of Kalgoorlie, Tributor, Advisory Director of Ora Banda United Mines, Ltd.
Mr. PERCY ALBERT HICKS, of Ward Street, Kalgoorlie, Company Manager.
These gentlemen will be the first Directors of the Companj.
CONSULTING MINING ENGINEER FOR THE COMPANY:
Mr JOHN J. FOX, late Manager Lancelleld Gold Mine, Lavertou.
PROMOTERS: , ~
MINING FLOTATIONS, LIMITED, Pastoral House, St. George s ’terrace, Perth.
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Perth.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. UNMACK & UNMACK, Howard Street, Perth.
SECRETARY;
Mr JAMES LAMPARD PATON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
Pastoral House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
AUDITORS; .
Mr W. F. BROADHURST, O. L. Haines & Co., Chartered Accountant (Aust), Perth-
Mr. H. R. MERRY, Merry <& Merry, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), Perth.
REGISTERED OFFICE;
C/o Messrs PATON and MORRIS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
Pastoral House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY. ,
The Company is being formed with the objects stated in . * ts « Me^or«nbi Ul Find
Association, but principally for the purpose of acquiring from the Vendors, Spargos hind
(told Mines Limited of Pastoral House, Perth, inter alia, the following. — .
Gold 5y 2 4 ) 5325, 5362 and 5363 containing in all 96 acres, situated m
the Coolgardie Goldfields, approximately 28 miles south of Coolgardie, together with
all buildings, plant and machinery erected on the leases, and all tools, stores, equip-
ment etc. in, upon or about the leases, and also all stone broken or at grass or in
transit or awaiting crushing or treatment as at date of incorporation ot the Company.
HISTORY AND DETAILS OF DEVELOPMENT.
The Leases to be acquired include a Reward Claim granted one of the members of a
syndicate which discovered the new field in February of last year. The syndicate dunn»
tbe period prior to the acquisition of the properties by Spargo’s Find Gold Mines Limited
raised 450 tons of development ore mainly from three shafts put down in the ore channel, an
iF crushed and treated 216 tons through the Coolgardie State Battery for a return ol
9dwt 2gr. per ton over the plates, and 3dwt. 15gr. in the sands. . .
The oxidised ore is described by Mr. A. L. Hansen, mining engineer, in his report,
,IS f °^° WS “The ore-bodies, the general course of which is north and south, take the form
1 of a true stratified channel consisting of talc schist with ironstone and quartz leadeis
SpTrgo ? s U Find te Gold n Mines, the Vendor Company, immediately following the purchase of
the properties, put in hand a programme of development to prove the extent and value of
the ore-body which the previous owners had partly developed in the oxidised zone. A huge
body of ore was developed during .the six months that followed, .the whole ot the work
parried out under the supervision of Mr. A. L. Hansen, mining engineer.
At 96ft in the Main Winze geiui-sulpMde and Mgbly mineralised ore was met with, t e
SUI I| U I S Sls Pla ortn?7e , .eCmL!°worlt and value of the ore reserves and ore ot S r M .
are clearly outlined in the mining engineers reports attached to the prospectm.
The Vendor Company’s policy of thoroughly testing its pro pertles b y
before seeking additional capital to provide crushing and treatment facilities all( '
more extensive development is fully vindicated by the following extracts from the icport
of the mining engineers:—
ler Mr. John * ° (fecp o about 50ft. north of No. 2 Shaft a strong body of highly
mineralised sulphide ore is disclosed. The samples from this winze gave more than
the average values of the mine, and by the appearance of the ore-body in the winze
I should say that it will live to a considerable depth.
ler Mr. r e ®g®^’ n d ** over a good length i s assured, and I am certain
the lode will live at depth. The development carried out by present ownexs
proved ore at grass and reserves totalling 27,325 tons, which at the value of <dwt. pel
ton over all and gold at £8 per ounce, Australian currency, gives mn extractable total
value of £68,859. The mine is opened up to such an extent that I have no hesitation in
recommending it as a genuine mining proposition with every prospect of it becoming a
large and payable producer.” _
111 Mr. ‘Workings and Assays’ reveals that good values have
been obtained in the west, which augurs well for a considerable extension of the
ore-body in that direction. I feel confident that the ore-body will live down to a great
depth. As the ore is of good average grade, and in view of the great size ot the
ore-body and the sustained values throughout, I consider that this proposition is one
of l the best opened up for some time.” , ... T
Mr. John Joseph Fox, the well-known mining engineer and late manager of the Lancefleld
Gold Mine, has consented to act as the Company’s Consulting Mining Engineer, and the
future development of the mine and erection of the necessary plant and equipment vill
be under bis capable supervision.
FINANCIAL PROGRAMME. a t
The present issue of shares is to provide for a payment of £20,000 to Spargos hind Gold
Mines, Limited, and the balance of the moneys will mainly be utilised tor the following
P 1 Purchase of plant
Provisional water supply -WM””
Air compressor and winding gear, etc. .. • • tVW
Main shaft and further development in sulphide zone .. 10.000
INTERESTS OF DIRECTORS.
Some of the Directors of this Company are or may be directors and/or shareholders of
Suarso’s Find Gold Mines, Limited, and/or the promoters, Mining Flotations, Limited, anti
as such are or may bo interested in the purchase of the properties to be acquired by. the
Company or in the promotion and formation of the Company, and do or may stand in a
fiduciary position towards the Company, and in the circumstances do or may not constitute
;,u independent Board. The Articles of Association of the Company give*.the Directors,
ot withstanding that they may be directors of the Vendor Company or Mining Flotations,
Jmited, or otherwise interested, authority to adopt and carry into effect the agreement
or« fin after mentioned with or without modification, and to pay to the Vendor Company the
moderation herein and therein mentioned. All subscribers shall be deemed to join the
lomnany on this basis.
1 J APPLICATIONS FOB SHARES.
Applications for shares should be made on the form provided. The subscription list
‘as opened on Monday, March 25, 1935. The Directors may decline any. application
nd reserve the right to close the subscription list at any time. In. the case of oyer-
nbseription. the Directors may make allotment to whom and in such manner as they shall
hiuk fit Jf no allotment is made, or if the number of shares -allotted he less than the
uimber applied for, the whole of the surplus application and allotment money, as the case
my be, will bo returned. , . ... .
Copies of the Prospectus and Form of Application .can be obtained at the tempoiaiy
ftice of the Company, care of Messrs. Paton and Morris, Pastoral House, St. Georges Terrace,
‘ertii, or from O. F. J. Wolff, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ALLOTMENT.
The Directors at their discretion may proceed" to registration of the Company and to
llotraent when 560,000 shares have been subscribed.
AGREEMENTS.
The following agreements have been entered into: — . .
1. An Agreement bearing the date the 16th day of March, 1935, between Spargo s Find
Mines, Limited, care of Patou and Morris, Pastoral House, Perth, of the one part ;
ig Flotations, Limited, care of Paton and Morris, Pastoral House, Perth, of the second
~ ‘ ( Chartered
said Agree-
enr ouuigo » juuu muiu j-vhuco, ijuuucu,. agiro w t-uc ,oa.u ~ „- Alice Broad
irst, on behalf of the Company, the property to be acquired by this Company, set out
xder the heading of “Objects of the Company” in this Prospectus, and more particularly
‘scribed in tbe said Agreement. „„ „ , _ . T , „
2. An Agreement bearing date the 6th day ot March, 1935, between John Joseph box.
insulting Mining Engineer, of Perth, of the one part, and William Florance Broadhnrst,
° • n 11. VGI, , A A ..AAUnknnl. /A n c«4- \ Vx/iliol-P fhICS OmminilV OT
on, and the original of the said Agreements, the originals of all. reports and assay results
xblished in this Prospectus, and the plan referred to in the said reports, and a . draft ot
0 Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company are available for the inspection
1 intending subscribers at the office of the Company, jmo tern,, care of Messrs. Paton and
orris, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Pastoral House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, during
io usual business hours.
An Agreement bearin
1935, between Spargo’s Find
date the 13th day of February
on the sale of Its undertaking. „ ~ . ,
All costs of and incidental to the Agreements and of this Prospectus and of and incidental
the formation, promotion and registration of the Company and the transfers of the leases
i the Company are to be borne by tbe Company.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES.
Applications will lie made in due course to have shares listed on Stock Exchanges ot
idney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blabla”: Fishing in the Namoi River
(N.S.W.) a month ago, when cod
were conspicuous by their absence, I
spreadeagled in the shade. A couple of
small sticks lobbed on the hat covering
my face. Five minutes later bits of
bark started to fall. After a further lull
more sticks and bark fumbled down:
then I became a prey to suspicion. Care-
fully shifting my hat, I focused one
optic on the quarter whence came the dis-
turbance, and presently saw an old crow
drop from the top of the tree to a lower
limb, select a couple of small sticks and,
taking care to conceal himself behind
some leaves, drop them on my head.
He was evidently applying the acid to
ascertain if my tombstone was as good
as ordered. Finally, being satisfied that
the clods could be heard already falling
on my coffin, he hopped down cau-
tiously alongside me, preparatory to
getting in his fiendish work. I bounced
three feet in the air and let out a blood-
curdling yell. He turned two back somer-
saults before hitting the ground, tore the
air to shreds with his squawks and dis-
appeared as suddenly and effectively as
the cockatoo which short-circuited the
electric wires.
* * * *
“Cuchulain”: Old horses seem to be
the best camp drafters. At Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) recently the champion ribbon
was won from a good field of competitors
by A. Turnbull’s Digger, aged 22; the
runner-up was a chestnut which put up
a fine show at 23.
* * # *
“D.C.”: A black-and-tan sheep-dog
owned by A. C. Cox, of Mingoola
(Q.), is the best case of cure by mind over
matter I know. He was run over by a
lorry, and his back was apparently
broken, but for weeks he got about with
his hind legs curled up, scorpion-like,
over his back. Permanently deformed,
as it then seemed, he is now on four
legs again.
;j»
“Kanga”; A bos. on the North Cool-
gardie (W.A.) goldfields, where there are
many cattle runs, divide white men into
three classes: “White pfeller,” “p’lice-
man” and “ ’ Talian” (this covers all
foreigners). Coming home one day I
found some mail had been left at the
camp. To one of my working t boys I
said: “What white pfeller been here,
Tommy?” “Not white pfeller—that one
p’liceman.” Despite all my arguing he
would have it his way: “That one p’lice-
man, not white pfeller.”
* * * «
“Limpopo”: “The O’D.’s” contention
(B. 13/3/’35) that ’planes scattering
poison for locusts or grasshoppers could
not get low enough to do the job prop-
erly on timbered plains won’t hold water.
I can assure him that the Rhodesian
country where the aeroplanes have been
operating is covered with open wacht-
en-bitje scrub calling for a clearance of
at least 50 feet. As a matter of fact the
stuff is sprayed from a much greater
height, as it is in the U.S.A., where
’planes are being used effectively by
forestry departments to deal with pests.
* * * *
“Murlonga”; Old nicknames of the
bush are dying out, and insipid things are
taking their place. Have a look at some
of the following, and weep for the flat-
ness of those now known to fame:
Tropical Frog, a cook ; Bill the Pup, a
mail contractor; Red Dick, a teamster ;
Black Jack and Chunder Loo, station
managers; Roaring Auger, a fencer;
Black Stags and Black Bulls, various
occupations; Storm Bird, a wanderer;
Carney Lizard, a boundary-rider ; Long
Whip, a carrier; Jack the Rager, a
fencer. In the old days a man was
known by his nickname, and the other
part of it was his private property. Then
the ladies: The Cackling Hen, Speckled
Hen, Long-handled Shovel, Black Stump,
Escaped Nun, Disguised Angel—that
seems a fitting name on which to stop.
I’ll stop.
% :\i * h-
“Kariah”: The mistletoe-bird does eat
the seed of the parasite (B. 6/2/’35). For
years I have observed a thick patch of
mistletoe which has thrived on a quince-
tree. The most regular visitors when the
berries are ripe are mistletoe-birds—by
the uninitiated always called robins.
» * * *
“Karaway”: Re kangaroo-tail soup
(B. 6/3/’35). During periodical battues
to keep down the marsupials on his
run, Harry Bracker, of Waroo (Q.), who
died a little while back after 90 years
on the Darling Downs, instructed his
men each day to bring home or to
camp a swag of tails and tongues. The
cook, an expert in marsupial dishes, dis-
carded the tails that were too old or
“But are your bath salts guaranteed?”
"Madam, they carry my personal recommendation."
not fat enough to please him. Often he
had six or eight in a big pot, soup for
all hands, and if allowed to cool it was
thick with jelly. The only “worms” in
those tails were thin sinews, used by the
abos. for sewing. The inexperienced
usually go for the biggest tails instead
of the medium. The swinger of an old
buck is as palatable as an old bull’s. A
few months back a thousand tails, fol-
lowing a sample parcel, were shipped
from Brisbane to a New York provision
firm. The price was 2s. 6d. a tail.
“Worro”: During a recent hot day a
farmer at Mt. Gambier (S.A.) found a
number of blackbirds lying under his
plum-trees in varying stages of helpless-
ness. Other fowls were eating the sun-
baked fruit; one by one they flopped
to the ground in an intoxicated condi-
tion. By night the birds had .all re-
covered sufficiently to leave the ground
and stagger home.
* » * *
“Galinghi”; I camped with old Joe
Eves, tank-sinking at Rocky Dam, War-
breccan station (W.Q.). Up the creek
was a patch of gidya. When the sun was
going to bed he gave one final glance
before pulling a blanket of cloud over
himself, and his rays rested on the gidya.
Instead of being dead-grey, those trees
were flashing red and pink, and the noise
from them would have drowned all the
static imaginable—though that wasn’t
invented then. A mob of galahs were
going to bed. During the night a storm
broke. Wind tore old Joe’s camp about,
ripping tents and otherwise doing dam-
age ; hail pelted down as if the fellow in
charge of the weather were tossing
double-handfuls of pebbles. In the morn-
ing the trees were stripped bare, and
9997 pitiful bundles of grey-and-pink
feathers lay on the ground—all that was
left* of 10,000 living galahs!
* * .f.
“The 0.D.”: I had a fishing cat (B.
13/3/’35), but with a difference. Used
to irrigate lucerne near Echuca (Vic.),
and redfins and carp up to a pound in
weight would be carried out of the main
channel into the bays. Tom used to
prowl the check-banks, wait till he ob-
served a fish flopping about in the
shallow flood, and pounce—often retriev-
ing a nice breakfast for yours truly,
* * * *
“Blackwood”; The north-east coast of
Papua enjoys its issue of earthquakes no
less than Rabaul (B. 13/3/’35), Mt. Vic-
tory, the Possession’s lone volcano at
Cape Nelson, being blamed. Some of
these shakes can be very severe, but as
most of the nobility and gentry there-
about live in native-built houses there
is no danger. At Old Tamata station,
where the R.M.’s house was a big cane-
lashed palm affair standing on piles ten
feet above the ground, a shake produced
a most extraordinary waggle while it
lasted. Crockery was often pitched yards,
and for this reason the whisky, always
hard to replace in that then isolated
region, was invariably kept packed in
mats in a box on the floor.
* * * :!=
“Ghin Ghin”: 1 should like to know
what “Bogaduck” (B. 20/2/’35) advises
for the floor of his tent —concrete, or
just iron girders with hardwood boards.
“B.” says he paints his ridge-pole. What
colored paint would be the most wind-
resisting?
* * * $
“Williami”: The general impression is
that abos. will eat anything from wood-
grubs to death-adders. They won’t. I’ve
never known an abo. who would eat goat-
flesh, though my experience is limited
mostly to the stretch extending from Her-
berton (N.Q.) to Gympie (S.Q.). The
surest way to insult an abo. of any of
those tribes is to give him or her a roast
loin of mutton and spread the news
afterwards that it was goat. A lady at
Mareeba, when I was a youngster, played
this joke on a gin. Then she locked
herself in the house. 1 being the only
white human in sight, the spear meant
to kill her was hurled at me. It stuck
in the wooden wall six inches from my
head, and the quivering shaft smacked
me on the ear. That was the time I
did the mile in 30 seconds.
* -i'
“Humo”: The latest acquisition to
my New Guinea house staff, though able
to converse only in “pidgin,” writes Eng-
lish, and likes writing. I have just re-
ceived one of his innumerable notes:
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
Dear Sir or Madam, —Would you kindly
help us with some asprins as Filizta is much
suffering to day. We will restore them
occassionally. Thanks before hand.
Rakai.
* * ;Js *
“Inglegar”: Binghi’s belief in and
dread of the bunyip can be readily under-
stood by those who have visited the
swamp lands of the Riverina after night-
fall and heard the nankeen in full blast.
A nocturnal swamp heron, rarely sighted
by day, the nankeen is a handsome
member of its tribe. Its predominating
color-scheme is a huffish chestnut touched
up with some black and white, but its
musical performance is only comparable
with that of a choir of hungry dingoes,
a fox or two and (for the soprano parts)
a few curlews.
* * * *
At Weheka (M.L.), Captain
Mercer, piloting a Fox Moth, was
making his final trip for the day with
passengers. Startled steers dashed out
of the scrub and crossed in front
of the machine just as it had left
the ground. Some of the beasts be-
came entangled in the undercarriage and
overturned the ’plane ; the head of one
penetrated the wing and was held there
close to that of a lady passenger, who
suffered severely from shock. The ’plane
was a total wreck. A Maori, discussing
the sensation, remarked, “Py korry, good
t’ing him not happen t’ousand feet up in
te air.”
* * # *
“Scribe”: The discovery of a scrap of
apparently modern cloth embedded in
rock at Taronga Park, Sydney, recalls a
similar mystery of the early ’nineties. Men
working in a chalk-pit at Geelong, 18ft.
below the surface, split open a mass of
chalk and revealed a doorkey, fretted
out of iron like the ordinary keys of
that date. There were a dozen witnesses
to the discovery, there was no possibility
of the key having been placed or having
drifted there, and that chalk, according
to geologists, had been in position at least
10,000 years. It was not a key of ancient
design, and, anyhow, keys of any sort
were not in use 10,000 years ago. The
scientific bodies of the time argued the
matter, put forward various theories,
blew them all out and gave it up.
* * * *
“Hard-a-starb’d”: If “Matlow” (B.
20/3/’35) will peruse the international
agreement more carefully he will see that
it is not incumbent on “all the hardy
mariners of the earth” to give the order
“helm right” or “helm left.” The terms
“port” and “starboard” are still used by
the nations that did so previously. It is
laid down in the agreement that when
the skipper gives the order “port” or
“helm left” the man at the wheel must
now turn it to the port or left. At the
order “starboard” or “helm right” the
wheel goes to starboard or right, the
ship’s head swinging in the direction in-
dicated. Prior to the agreement, when
given the order “port” or “left” the
helmsman swung the wheel to the
starboard or right. It is to this con-
fusing custom that the agreement has
written finis, but in so doing it has sev-
ered another link with the men of the
hoary past who went down to the sea in
ships and steered them with a tiller.
* * *
“Gam”: The mother of a 15-year-old
Mt. Gambier (S.A.) lad gave him a pound
to do some shopping. He started off on
a bicycle, and did not return with the
goods; but in a week’s time he
arrived home with fourteen shillings in
his pocket. He had ridden to Melbourne
and back, a distance of over 600 miles.
* t- * *
“A.E.Y.”: After many years’ absence
from the bush and bush towns, I got
my first glimpse of a South Grafton
(N.S.W.) cattle sale the other day.
Among cattlemen dressed in the old
inconspicuous cattle-country fashion, I
was startled to see Tom Mix, Hoot
Gibson, Buck Jones and several of their
cobbers —four-gallon hats, loud-checked
shirts and swagger complete. Judging
by their accent and other indications,
each was native to the district. The
strange thing about it was that not a
soul seemed to take the least notice of
them. Had anyone dressed like that for
a cattle sale in Charleville, Longreach
or Cunnamulla in my day, there would
have been gales of laughter.
THE KNOW-ALL.
“It’s blokes like him,” said Bill, “that make
a decent man feel crook;
His iggnerance, for all his skite, would more
than fill a book.
You never see me do my block, you never hear
me shout;
But, then, I only talk of things I know a bit
about.
“It always seems to work that way; the less
a fellow knows
The louder he lifts up his voice, the more the
blighter blows.
You wouldn’t hear me roaring if you listened
for a week;
But, then, I get the strength of things before
I start to speak.
“I’ve got no time for blokes like him—they
never know enough;
And when you’ve got them licked a treat they
shout and try to bluff.
It never takes me long, you bet, to show them
where they stand ;
But, then, I get ray facts all straight before
I take a hand.
“1 ve got no time for blokes like him, and
there’s a few around;
I like a chap who can put up an argument
that’s sound.
But there’s a lot of argument we’d easy do
without
If people only talked of things they knew a
bit about.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Time you got a job. Tm sick of keeping
you in the lap of luxury .”
“Dominie”: On Tas. beaches adjacent
to the rocky hollows where crayfish
dwell, innumerable discarded shells mark
the spring-tide line. Many show holes
through which it is hardly conceivable
that fish could wriggle. One large
specimen I found perfect save for half
an inch broken from the tail. I puzzled
how the change of shell was managed, till
a fisherman let me into the secret. He
conducted me to an elderly male cray
that was about to discard his crust. The
ancient had wedged himself between two
rocks, with his tail hard against another,
and was swallowing—very unhappily—
his front pair of legs. When the legs
had disappeared up to the sockets, he
rested awhile ; presently the tail showed
signs of agitation, and I realised that the
end was being withdrawn into the length
as a result of the determined pull of the
swallowed forelegs. This process con-
tinued throughout the length of the body
until the poor blighter had devotedly
pulled himself inside out. We were not
forced to gaze long at the innards. He
had no sooner wrapped himself round his
shell than he gave a violent jerk and was
right side out again, but naked and pale
about the gills ; his shell, still inside out,
lay behind him. I didn’t wait to find
out how that righted itself and become
a normal-looking thing, in keeping with
its fellows along the shore ; but how is
it done?
# * * *
“F.A.4”: There are many ways of
dealing with a snake down a well (B.
27/2/’35). (1) Fall on it —the deeper the
well the more effective this method will
be found. (2) Take quarter of a pound
of pepper, mix in a saucer of milk, and
administer with a spoon. This causes
the snake to cough so violently that he
will turn inside out. (3) Rig engine and
pump and dewater, so that the reptile
may die of thirst. If you think this too
expensive (4) throw stones down the
well until the water rises to the top, -
bringing the snake with it; then shoot.
Finally, of course, seal and abandon the
well.
sjc ;Jc :{«
“Cuckoo”; Another natural weather
prophet with an undeserved bush reputa-
tion is the channel bill cuckoo. Early in
’O2 many stockmen’s hearts were light-
ened by the revels of the “stormie” in
C.Q. What followed nearly wiped out the
feathered Clement Wragge in those parts.
He did his fool act again during ’OS, when
sheep were dying in thousands and water-
holes were drying overnight. And I’ve
heard his idiotic prophecy when Queens-
land rivers were in flood and when
bloated carcasses of stock were floating
down to Lake Eyre.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Hawks, like human brig-
ands, soon learn the places where their
prey is most easily come by. They wait
for homers and then bog in for a ban-
quet. Lunch-takers in Sydney parks and
gardens throw crumbs to the pigeons and
leave scraps which draw them when the
humans have gone ; it is then that the
hawk swoops. In each place it is usually
only one hawk ; like human vultures, the
birds observe the honor-among-thieves
principle to the extent of leaving the
other bloke’s game alone.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Can any Aboliar ex-
plain the science or design of natural
tree-crossing in the bush? At Bargo
(N.S.W.) trees have become so mixed
in species that it is hard to tell the real
article from the hybrid. Ironbarks, blue-
gums, grey-gums, oaks and mahoganies
seem to eschew mixed marriages, but
bloodwoods and wild-apples have no
racial pride, and mix freely together. The
worst offenders are messmates and
stringybarks. The stringies seem to be
disappearing, and it is difficult to find
one that has not been crossed.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Only case of shanghai-
ing I ever heard of on the Murray took
place aboard The Struggler, a
little two-wheeler tramp that
carried anything the skipper
could get money for. “Lano-
line Paddy” was ill of some
sort of scurvy in his camp at
Old Tapalin, and the mob be-
lieved he was a hospital case.
But he resisted strenuously all
suggestions and attempts to
get him down to Mildura. He
retired to his bunk, smoked
morosely, and degenerated into
a pretty bad state. One night
The Struggler pulled in for
■ ■ ;wood, money changed
' inds, and the invalid, full of
whisky, was forcibly em-
barked. He never reached the
hospital. We heard afterwards
that, staggering out of the
fo’c’sle in the early dawn, he
saw the river banks slipping
by, let out a yell and plunged
overboard. The steamer tied
up, and a search was made,
but “Lanoline” had vanished. He turned
up later, cured, building yards at Tammit.
“Hayes Wood”: “Cam” (Patagonia),
who claims that imported hares arc prov-
ing as great a pest in South America as
rabbits in Australia (B. 27/3/’35), has
got his small deer
mixed. The Belgian
hare is not a true
hare at all; it is a
rabbit. Webster de-
scribes it as “a
variety of domestic
rabbit, of rufous-
red color, bred by
fanciers to imitate
the wild English
hare.” It is the sort
that boys keep in
hutches in England
after they have out-
grown silkworms
and white mice—l
once owned a pair
myself. I suspect
there is a strong
strain of Belgian in
our Australian
rabbits; I have
heard old squatters
insist that the breed
was first introduced
into this country in
the form of pet rab-
bits, and the wild
rabbit of English
woods is not easily
pettable or capable
of being domesti-
cated. Again,
“Cam” says that
these imported
rodents have “adapt-
ed” themselves to
local conditions, using wild-cat, skunk
and tucu tucu burrows.” The Euro-
pean hare, with the possible excep-
tion of the Arctic variety, never bur-
rows ; it contents itself with a “form”
in an open field. “The Encyclo-
paedia Brit'annica” says of the Polar hare
(Lepus glacialis ) that it occupies a burrow
of sorts, scraped into a snowdrift—“un-
like all other hares, and resembling in this
respect the rabbit.” “Cam’s” hares are
undoubtedly rabbits, merely a trifle
weightier than ours.
“John Dory”: Locating a patch of
fish, catching them and putting them into
the well of your boat do not end a pro-
fessional fisherman’s troubles —not in
South Aus., anyway. Sea-lice are a
curse. If you run into a calm on the
way home these tiny, beetle-like in-
sects enter the well as soon as it is dark,
fasten on to your fish and eat them piece-
meal. Hanging a hurricane-lamp on
the well hatch sometimes keeps them
away, but not when the lice are numerous
and hungry. And you can’t keep them
out of the well. Then there is the com-
plaint which we call “fish-die” for want
of a better name. Cause is a crustacean,
invisible to the naked eye, which pounces
on the fish in millions and eats it away.
When the first settlers came S.A. coastal
waters were swarming with fish. Beds
of tape- and corkweed were alive
with whiting up to 61b.; schools of
snapper were acres in extent. Abos.
used to swim out and drive tons of
them ashore, as many men still living
can remember. Now in the same waters
it is hard to get a basket of whiting in
a day’s fishing, and many men catch
only an odd snapper or two in a week.
“Bam”; The main tourist attraction of
Mt. Schank (S.A.) is a floating island, but
for some reason or other it has ceased
to float; it is beginning to grow to the
mainland. As there is nothing novel in
a stationary islet, steps will be taken to
make it go on floating.
* * * *
“Tockilly”: How’s this for an un-
lucky job? Five men took on a scrub-
felling contract over in the D’Aguilar
Range (Q.). The bad luck began with
the oldest member of the gang slipping
and falling on a stake which entered
his abdomen. Then a tree “came back,”
pinning another to the ground, but for-
tunately not killing him. The third hurt
his back when he fell off his board. The
fourth had to leave through sickness, and
the last, who happened to be the boss,
left after badly cutting his leg with a
brush-hook.
“R.K.S.”: “X-'Rooer” (B. 13/3/’35)
came down hurriedly with a goanna.
Does he know of anyone going up with
one? Andy Mac. fell down a 20ft. shaft
in the Tingha (N.S.W.) warren, a few
feet of water breaking his fall. He
stopped there till the dawn, when scarcity
of water drove an old-man goanna
down to drink. Andy grabbed the rep-
tile’s tail, and up went the startled go.,
with Andy hanging on behind. He got
out of it with nothing more than barked
shins, caused as he was pulled over the
top.
“G.M.”: Some devoted angler is ask-
ing in the Melbourne ppess why the
streams in which trout have been re-
leased are now destitute of native fish
and even reveal fewer trout than a year
or two back. The explanation is easy.
The trout kills every other fish within
reach —even a big fellow like the Murray
cod is not safe. Having exterminated all
the native fish, the starving trout resorts
to cannibalism, and all the young ones
serve as food for the adults. Introducing
trout into Australian streams has proved
as costly an experiment to our waters
as introducing rabbits has proved to our
land. The trout is only a mediocre eat-
ing fish, and he has been responsible for
streams having been depleted of hundreds
of thousands of good edible native fish of
fair size.
“ Wot’s the idea of the 'older,
George ?”
“ Aw , it saves yr 'ands gctlin'
mucked up with nicoleen."
TACTICS.
“No, 1 ain't married yet,” said Joe, “although
I’ve always done me best.
I'm not too bad as fellers go, but somehow I
can’t beat the rest.
Me tactics, I suppose, is wrong. Jist take the
case o’ me an’ Jean,
Who had me dazzled all along, an’ then you’ll
drop to what I mean.
“She was a quiet sort o’ gal, you might almost
have called her shy;
An’ what she wanted was a pal—I seemed
to see it in her eye.
1 knew it wasn’t any good if I was rash an’
barged straight in;
I’d use her brother if I could—a feller with a
silly grin.
“I’d use him as the bloomin’ bait until his
sister took the hook.
I swore he was the finest mate that ever lived
outside a book.
1 shouted him three times to one to show I was
a cashed-up bloke.
I thought he’d tell Jean what I’d done —an’
p’raps he did. But here’s the joke:
“While I was payin' court to him, another chap
behind me back —
A feller by the name of Jim —had gone an’ got
the inside track!
She’s married to him now,” said Joe, “an’
here’s me still upon the shelf.
To land a fish like her, y’ know, you’ve gotter
be the worm yourself.”
N.S.W.
P.T.F.


HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only. Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
dSL
in
*4 :
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,'
SYDNEY.
■V
N/
CV
KD
O
O'
Don’t Miss!
This Year’s
ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
A Pageant of Progress.
AN EVENT OF NATIONAL IMPORTANCE
TO EVERYONE. INSPIRATIONAL AND
EDUCATIONAL EXHIBITS TO INTEREST,
INTRIGUE AND AMUSE BOTH YOUNG
AND OLD.
Thrilling Ring Events.
NINE DAYS—SIX NIGHTS
APRIL 15th to 24th.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
ANOTHER SUCCESS STORY.
The tale of “The Wild Colonial
Boy,” established near Gosford
(N.S.W):
Fifteen years ago I lost my job with
a city firm and could not find another.
I decided to heed the cry “Go on the
land.”
My wife and I inspected a property
near Gosford—2s acres with a shack
on it ; price £lOOO.
Being city folk, we knew nothing about
land or farming, but the people near by
assured us that the land was good and
the price asked reasonable.
We bought on very easy terms. We
were allowed l 2 months free of rent in
order to clear a portion for cultivation.
The whole amount was to be paid in five
years.
After paying removal expenses, etc.,
we had £l5, and the problem was how
to live until we could produce a revenue
crop.
However, trees sold to local saw-
mills, waste timber (oak and ironbark)
sold to the local bakers and smaller
timber for pit props kept the pot boiling,
and we were able to plant an acre of
beans, which netted £lOO.
That enabled us to pay for the clear-
ing of more land (an expensive item in
these parts), and peas and sweet potatoes
were sown. After that, tomatoes, which
were all marketed at payable prices.
Eventually seven acres were cleared and
450 citrus trees were planted, which
came into bearing in due course. In
the meantime,, my wife was busy with
her fowls and kitchen garden. Neither
did she neglect her flower garden nor her
household duties.
In three years we had saved £3OO, and
the property was so greatly improved
that we had no difficulty in getting a
loan of £B5O to pay it off and convert
the shack into a comfortable dwelling.
In 1931 I disposed of the orchard
block and dwelling, 10 acres in all, for
£1135, retaining 15 acres, on which 1
built a new home. I am now engaged in
making a new orchard.
A few days ago I refused an offer of
£lOOO for my present holding.
We have a full complement of stock
and up-to-date machinery for the speedy
and economical working of the farm.
Our family, which increased from three
to five, has been sent to high school, from
which our eldest girl qualified as a
school-teacher. Our eldest son went to a
Government experiment farm, where he
has had an excellent training, which he
will pass on to his brothers.
Recently I acquired a holding of 50
acres for my sons, who are now prepar-
ing the land for a large crop of peas and
beans.
The Agricultural Department has been
a great help to me.
We are not rolling in wealth, but we
have been able to pay our way, live well,
educate our children and give them a
start in life. Altogether, it has been a
happy time for us all. Had we remained
in the city we should probably have
been among the “also-rans.”
PLENTY OF YARDS.
“Upilio”: Sheep-farmers should aim
to have yards for every paddock. It
saves knocking the sheep about by driv-
ing them long distances, and time and
money as well. At all times of the year
yards are needed for drafting, treating
for flies and dosing for worms. At wean-
ing time lambs can be drafted off their
mothers and left contented in their pad-
docks while the ewes are removed to
other pastures.
The best place to build yards is under
shade trees. The sheep come to like
camping in them. They can also be
worked, if necessary, in the shade dur-
ing the heat of the day without being
knocked about. A second choice is at
paddock gates. Sheep, in the habit of
passing through yards to fresh pastures,
run readily into them. By this method
one set on an adjoining fence often
serves two paddocks. In fact, by the
use of corner entrances a yard can serve
four.
Paddock yards need not be elaborate.
I favor the bugle shape, with one receiv-
ing and three forcing yards and a race,
using ordinary fencing posts for a drop
fence of split or round rails with 10ft.
panels and rails chocked 4in. apart.
Apple-tree makes excellent yard and
drafting gates, split into battens and
bolted securely together.
EXPORT LAMBS.
“Grasshopper”: The ideal dam for
export lambs is the half-bred longwool
merino produced by mating English
Leicester, Border Leicester, Lincoln or
Romney Marsh rams with merino ewes.
The Dorset Horn-merino cross com-
pares well with any of these, its out-
standing characteristics being great pre-
potency, rapid maturity and an un-
usually large number of twin lambs. Cor-
riedales make excellent mothers. In cer-
tain hot, dry districts the merino may be
essential.
The sire for the export lamb should be
drawn from the short-woolled British
breeds —Southdown, Dorset Horn, Suf-
folk, Shropshire, Ryeland and Hamp-
shire. The objective is a rapidly-maturing
beast, compact and shapely in carcass
and giving a satisfactory lambing per-
centage.
The choice of both dam and sire is
limited by district.
“B-gar” (B. 13/3/’35) is incorrect
when he says that fat-lamb competitions
are no guide to cross types. The com-
petitions have proved that in typical
mallee country the Southdown-Border
Leicester-merino and the Southdown-
Dorset Horn-merino stand supreme and
often defeat lambs from much better
districts.
“B-gar” seems to think that because
of their footrot- and fluke-resistant prop-
erties Romney Marsh are suitable only
for marshy country.
He appears unaware of the great work
of Australian Romney flock-masters in
the last 20 years, by which the confor-
mation of the Australian-bred Romney
is now possibly superior to that of other
British longwools and is rapidly becoming
adapted to areas of lighter rainfall.
A STRANGE FOOTROT.
“Winfield”: Perhaps some “M.0.L.”
reader can help me where others have
failed.
There is a footrot in my flock (near
Gunnedah, N.S.W.) which, despite very
dry weather and dry paddocks, continues
to spread. The disease looks like ordi-
nary footrot; but in 12 months, over all
kinds of weather, it has increased from
a few cases to 70.
I have tried every cure that I can hear
of, but still it is not uncommon to see
ewes about the paddocks on their knees,
unable to walk.
I have commenced feeding them to my
pigs.
The C.S.I.R. is investigating.
A NOVEL DIP.
“Currumbede”: I cannot agree with
“G.F.D.” (B. 6/3/’35) who says “Dip-
ping, however much care is taken,
knocks the sheep about.” Further, sheep
should not be lifted into the dip, as sug-
gested by “Albarmount” (B. 6/3/’35), or
pushed in, as mentioned by “W.D.McC.”
(B. 20/2/’35).
The gentlest, as well as the most
scientific, dip that I have ever operated
is under a collapsible floor in the ordi-
nary drafting race. To operate, the race
floor is removed, and a float resembling
it is rigged and floated on the near end
of the dip.
The sheep walk in in the ordinary
way; but the float quietly submerges,
putting them in the dip as gently as by
hand, less the bruises that handling in-
variably inflicts.
MALE OR FEMALE IN SHEEP-
BREEDING.
“Corriedale”: Why do sheepbreeders
select sires purely on their own charac-
teristics, disregarding the influence of the
female? In a few years’ time with
present trends a dairy sire will be judged
entirely by the progeny he gets. To-day
his dam and her records are studied
much more than his appearance; yet
sheepmen invariably select rams without
studying the ewes they come from.
Admitting the ewe is not nearly as
important as the dairy cow in this matter,
she must still be vital. She has to do
all the breeding, and on the average gets
50-50 percentages of ewe and wether
lambs. The bulk of the wethers are
killed before they do much wool produc-
ing, leaving a majority of ewes in the
average flock.
Selecting males on their own charac-
teristics alone means getting those char-
acteristics in the wether drop, at the
same time imprinting on the ewe portion
the male’s mother’s heredity, of which
you know nothing. In breeding, male
attributes are definitely handed down
almost solely to males, the male’s dam
doing a similar job, by infusion, for the
females. In some flocks the males are
fine square sheep, with the females
runty, or vice versa. Hence the need
for better selection methods.
DROUGHT IN QUEENSLAND.
“Sheepo”; It looks like a greasing of
swag straps for scores of woolgrowers in
central and north-western Queensland.
Hope of rain has given way to despair
Early winter rains would take deadly toll
of those sheep strong enough to last an-
other month or two. Frantic searches
have been and are still being made for
agistment country, but sovereigns are
more plentiful.
Storms made a green shoot in spots,
but what the sheep didn’t nibble off was
scorched by dust-laden winds and the
sun’s extreme heat.
Over hundreds of square miles of
Mitchell grass downs country you’d have
a job to find a straw to clean a pipe. The
wonder is how sheep are still existing.
The Queensland Government promises
to spend money galore on watering stock
routes. Meanwhile sheep remain at
home and die in the paddocks owing to
the impossibility of travelling them.
STINKWORT.
“Valerin”: Summer rains have caused
a rapid spread of stinkwort in eastern
Riverina. As a pest, it is not in the same
street with skeleton weed, but if left un-
controlled can become troublesome.
Stinkwort was introduced 70 years ago,
and German settlers, recognising it as a
common and harmless weed in the
Fatherland, did not worry. Many years
later, thousands of acres of wheat areas
were covered with it.
When it is young and growing among
grass and herbage, stock may eat it, but
as a fodder it is valueless. It will taint
milk and butter, and, where plentiful,
affects the flavor of mutton.
Hoeing, mowing or burning off will not
wipe it out. Where infestation is light,
pulling out by hand will get rid of it.
Care should be taken to wear gloves, or
the exudations will blister and poison the
flesh.
On wheat areas, the best methods of
eradication are; early summer ploughing,
followed by discing, and frequent harrow-
ings to kill subsequent growth.
HEATING STACKS.
“Lion”: A showery summer has made
haymaking tricky in my part of
N. S. Wales. Stacks are heating
more than usual this year, especially
lucerne. Where a strong tobacco smell
is given off, look for trouble. Another
sign is the smell with stack falling in
about 3ft. from the eaves. In such cases
it is best to pull to pieces immediately,
taking care that the middle is not already
at firing heat. It is best to have a water-
cart and pump handy all the time work
is in progress. Where the stack is ob-
viously on fire bore holes through the
hay, insert the hose, and pump in plenty
of water. This gets to the seat, and
steam is forced through the rest. We
saved three parts of an internally burn-
ing stack by this method.
Another useful way to test the internal
heat of stacks is by pushing from the
outside wall a piece of iin. steel with a
sharpened point and long enough to
reach the stack centre. Leave for five
minutes. The heat can easily thus be
felt. If it is too hot to hold, the stacK
is sure to fire within a month. The rod
should be long enough to reach the
centre.
LUCERNE.
“Hortus”: It was stated (B. 20/2/’35)
that autumn is the best time to sow
lucerne.
One man won’t agree—J. H. Lindner,
of Springvale, Burrumbuttock (Riv-
erina), who in two cuts got 5000 bales of
lucerne hay from 60 acres in one year—
a great return, seeing that the paddocks
underwent periodical heavy grazing by
stock.
Mr. Lindner prefers early-spring
sowing. His procedure includes six
months’ preparation of soil, during
which the paddocks are worked four
times with a cultivator, scarifier and har-
rows. Finally a roller is run over the
surface to make an even and compact
Seedbed. The< seed (81b. to the acre) and
super. (901 b. per .acre) are mixed and
sown with a drill to a depth of lin. to
Uin. Trailer harrows are used to cover
the seed.
Many people have failures, particularly
with lucerne, by turning sheep on to the
crop after it has been cut before giving
the trimmed plants a chance to recover.
If the paddocks are spelled with discre-
tion, the crop may be grazed fairly
heavily. In six years the lucerne pad-
docks have been cultivated and top-
dressed at the rate of lewt. of super,
per acre. On Springvale there is a pure
merino flock which last season averaged
101 b. a head.
With such a cut and with 200 tons of
lucerne hay on hand from a previous
season, no one need worry about any dry
spell, with its accompanying lack of feed.
There is one important point with re-
gard to lucerne —cheap seed is the dear-
est in the long run.
(“Land” continued on page 24.)


WBm
?
Bfe. ■ ■
1 •
■ ■■ M
-•
■ - '*
I
i
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING.
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Australian
Metropolitan Life
Assurance Company Ltd.
The Australian Metropolitan was incorporated in 1895, and is
therefore now in its 40th year. Its assets at 31st December, 1934,
totalled £1,419,933 12s. 10d„ the whole of which is invested in
Australia.
A Metropolitan Policy is a simply worded document, which abso-
lutely and completely guarantees every undertaking in the Com-
pany’s prospectus. For a definite premium it contracts to pay a
definite amount at a definite time.
HEAD OFFICE:
The Metropolitan Building
Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
DIRECTORS:
DR. A. MURRAY WILL W. A. H. ALLWORTH D. F. STEWART
J. A. HENDERSON F. J. EATON
FREEMAN J. EATON,
General Secretary.
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.,
Assistant Secretary.
W. R. DAY, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
BRANCH OFFICES:
VICTORIA
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
QUEENSLAND
METROPOLITAN BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
J. A. HENDERSON, General Manager.


ķ
The hand-made shoe
wears longer
There’s extra comfort in it, too! No
stiffness, no straining, even when
brand-new. The upper, as a result,
lasts longer. It’s an exclusive
Abbey design, made for perfect,
easy fit of all the foot’s curves.
And the sole is built up of leather
guaranteed to be the toughest
obtainable.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length, and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 707-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 431.
Hospital Expenses
and
Disability
Benefits
are special features of “with profit”
Whole Life, Probate, Family Income
and Endowment Assurance Policies
issued by the Company, in addition
to the usual benefits granted by
other offices.
All classes of insurances and assurances
transacted.
The Equitable
Probate and General
Insurance Coy. Ltd.
Incorporating the businesses of The Equitable
Life Ass. Co. of A/sia, Ltd., and The
Queensland Probate Ins. Co., Ltd.
Equitable Lifeßuilding, Queen Street, Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
APINNT
AMHOUR
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included—is just Id.
an hour.’*
(Extract from “R-an-D" Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY: Moffat, Virtue, Etd. I
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and |
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson, j;
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s |
Machinery, Ltd. £
Or from the Manufacturers .
t ’ . MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
•VALLEY BRISBANE • ■
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BANISHING
STOMACH
ILLS
for over 20years
The Stomach Remedy that
does ALL the makers claim
If there is one remedy you can rely
upon to banish digestive troubles it is
* Bisurated ’ Magnesia the stomach
remedy that does ALL the makers claim,
from relieving flatulence and stomach
pain to protecting an ulcerated stomach
until healing is complete and all danger
past.
One dose of ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia will
stop an acute attack of stomach pain in
a few minutes. Simply take a teaspoon-
ful of the powder, or 2 to 4 tablets, in a
little water. The moment this soothing
draught reaches the tortured stomach it
begins to sweeten the sour, fermenting,
undigested food. From an excessively
acid state the contents of the stomach
become as bland and soothing as milk to
the sensitive stomach lining. The pain
quickly lessens and presently disappears.
By following up the treatment after
each meal, your harassed stomach will
lose its tenderness, it will grow strong
again until you can eat whatever you
wish, and enjoy every meal without
fear of wind and pain to follow.
GASTRITIS ENDED AFTER 29 YEARS
Mr. H, P. Martin, Corn & Seed
Stores, High St., Kelvedon,
Essex,writes:—“l have suf-
fered with gastritis for the
last 29 years and have had
two operations and been in 5
hospitals . .. Seeing your ad-
vertisement for ‘Bisurated’
Magnesia I bought a bottle
and am pleased to tell you I
got free from pain almost at
once. I can now eat my food
without fear of pain and am
better in health than I have
been since I was 20 years of
age.” This is one of countless
cases in which ‘Bisurated’
Magnesia has proved its
curative power.
•4*.
From a recent photo
of Mr. Martin
When you buy Bisurated’Magnesia
you are not speculating on an uncer-
tainty, you are investing in a remedy
which has been banishing stomach
troubles for over 20 years. Get a
bottle, powder or tablets, from the
nearest chemist to-day and try it —
the result will be a revelation to you.
£!SURATEtf
MAGNESIA
The Stomach Remedy with over 20
years’ Proof of Efficacy and is very
economical in use.
Every package bears the
oval ‘ Bismag ’ Trade Mark—lt*
V V •
m- a
V
BETTER
PUMPERS
CHEAPER, lighter and
stronger, too! Economy
Mills are easy to erect. They
fit any old towers. They are
the only mills with hollow,
double-surfaced sails, screw-
pitched and streamlined like
a plane propeller . , . sails
that develop increased pump-
ing power and that work in
the lightest breeze. Write for
folder.
ECONOMY
WINDMILLS
Geo. E. Fortescue & Sons Ltd.
Arncliffe Phone: LW 2634-5
See this improved Mill at
the Show, Stand No. 25,
Machinery Avenue.
RESTOCKING FROM SALEYARDS.
“Upilio”; Some sheepmen are shy
about restocking from country saleyards.
I prefer it, as sheep are bought cheaper;
but a buyer must know exactly what he
wants.
Auction sales do not permit much in-
spection, and allow no rejection. Thus
the buyer who follows this method
should have a fair knowledge of sheep
at a glance. Faults to look for are:
Lack of pink noses —unhealthy sheep ;
wool rubbed, frayed and broken —lousy
and ticky sheep; lameness —footrot;
thick lips, thin fleeces and, in merinos,
staggy horns—old sheep ; noxious seeds
and burrs clinging to wool; wethers
standing about with heads down and
tucked up—pizzly; pot-bellied, poor,
harsh sheep without energy—wormy;
black disease.
The last is hard to spot. Infected
sheep are invariably fat, but minus pink
skins.
Most of the sheep I have bought at
auction over 30 years have been both
safe and profitable. I am convinced the
reason is that at the yards sales-talk is
discounted, and the sheep are bought on
their appearance at current prices.
COTTONSEED-MEAL FOR PIGS.
“Large White”; Owing to its cheapness
and high protein content, cottonseed-
meal appeals to pig-raisers. Unfortu-
nately, rations containing more than a
small percentage have nearly always
given trouble, a constituent, gossy-
pol, having a toxic effect when over 10
p.c. was included. In the U.S.A., where
several millions of tons of cottonseed-
meal are fed annually, 10 per cent, has
usually been considered the maximum
that could be fed with safety to pigs.
Now come reports of 10 experiments
conducted at Ohio Experiment Station
over a long period, involving 500 porkers.
Ordinary meal, high in vitamin content,
even when supplemented by minerals,
still proved seven times more poisonous
to pigs than to laboratory rats. Pig
deaths ranged up to 53 p.c. Special pro-
cess meal proved less dangerous ; mor-
tality 6 p.c. (The special process is
not given.) In these experiments, cotton-
seed-meal, from 18 to 22 p.c., was fed
as the only protein concentrate.
A vastly different result was obtained
when meatmeal supplemented the cotton-
seed. Even when the latter was kept at
20 p.c., mortality was nil, and from this
it is deduced that gossypol combines with
the proteins of the meatmeal and forms
a harmless compound in the digestive
tract.
Australian experiments confirm this
view. At official tests conducted at
Gatton (Q.) College, up to 21 p.c. cotton-
seed-meal was included in the rations,
with varying amounts of meatmeal. No
deaths were recorded. Weight gains
were satisfactory, and quality of pork
and bacon was excellent.
MENDING KELPIES’ BONES.
“Albarmount”: It is a simple job to
set a common fracture, which is distin-
guished from a dislocation by grating
sounds when the bones are moved. Get
somebody to hold firmly the upper por-
tion of the injured limb, then with one
hand steadily pull the lower portion until
the bone ends can be worked into posi-
tion with the other hand. Wrap cotton-
wool around the leg before applying a
splint of thin, board to each side. Bind
the splints on with bandages that have
been soaked in liquid plaster of Paris. As
a rule dogs do not try to bite off this
type of bandage.
A dislocated joint can be replaced in
almost the same manner, extending the
leg and working the head of the bone
into the socket with the fingers of the
free hand. No splints are required, but
the injured joint should be bound with
plaster of Paris bandages.
However, the setting of compound
fractures (when the bone protrudes
through the skin) or comminuted (when
the bone is shattered) is difficult, and
sometimes anaesthetics are needed. In
such cases, unless the operator has had
previous experience, it is advisable to
take the dog to a vet.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“S.J.”: Put the axe-blade into a potato
to avoid spoiling the temper when burn-
ing out. Dig the axe in, and then bury
the spud in moist soil.
“The 0.D.”; Working horses that
graze at night should be protected from
worm infestation by frequent drenching.
A safe drench for a draught is 2oz.
of turps in a quart of raw linseed oil.
The horse should be spelled 48 hours be-
fore being drenched. If there is heavy
worm infestation give plenty of oats and
bran.
“Stump Jump”: More handy than
tartar emetic is the turpentine drench.
One to two eggcupfuls, depending on the
size of the horse, mixed with Ipt. to
Upt. of raw linseed oil, won’t fail to
shift stomach worms (and bots, too).
Don’t forget the week’s greenfeed after-
wards.
“Ryte”: To shoe a bad horse on the
hind feet try this: Tie the horse short
in one corner of the yard or near a tree
with a good leaning limb about 7ft. up.
Now put a hobble-strap on the hind fet-
lock and tie a strong rope to the horse’s
tail. Run it through the strap and over
the top rail or limb. Pull tight. The
foot is now in the right position to shoe,
and the horse can neither kick the shoer
nor hurt himself.
“E.A.C.”: Don’t throw the knife-
drive pitman rods of the header harvester
on to the scrapheap. Cut in half and
draw to a point after heating. Then
barb with cold chisel, and you have a
pair of cheap and effective gudgeons for
a light sheepyard gate. A couple of old
eyebolts on the hanging head of the gate
complete the hinges.
“Upilio”: Plant pepper-trees for shade
in sheepyards. They are hardy and
rapid growers, A few pieces of board
nailed securely across a corner and a
piece of wire-netting will keep the sheep
from them. I grow mine from seeds in
a tin in the garden in spring (Central
Tablelands, N.S.W.), and plant them, tin
and all, in yards during the winter rains,
the tin being split down to enable the |
roots to expand.
“Havelyn”: Two paints, cheap and |
easily mixed. For indoor work use the |
first milk from a cow newly calved, thick-
ened to the consistency of thick white- ,
wash with pipeclay or kalsomine. Color
with Reckitt’s blue, vegetable coloring
or lampblack, and use the same day as
it is mixed. An all-weather paint suit-
able for galvanised-iron or machinery
is made from raddle and boiled oil, with
a little turps as a drier.
“Kanga”: When yarding ewes and
lambs, don’t have a break of lambs. On
approaching the yard, tie up all the dogs
except one, obedient and good. Next
cut off a mob of 60 or 70 ewes and as
many lambs as will go with them. Put
these into the receiving yard. Set
an assistant just inside the gate to keep
the yarded lot from coming out.
The rest of the old girls will waltz
straight in, and you won’t have lambs
disappearing over every rise in sight.
“C.”: “Bitter” melons fed to preg-
nant sows will cause them to abort,
the prussic content destroying the
embryo. A swelling is the first
sign of trouble, and the sow should
be segregated immediately and fed on
boiled vegetable matter and pollard or
milk till the abortion takes place. If
this is done no complications will
follow, and after a few days the lady
can be turned out again to mate. Later
in the season when the melons are well
matured the danger is not so great.
“Beefo”: For a few years past
Queensland meatworks have been buy-
ing their cattle at so much per 1001 b.
frozen or chilled weight over the scales.
Pastoralists in the Springsure district
(C.Q.) won’t have any more of this sys-
tem, It’s hardly likely the meatworks
people will again revert to old-fashioned 1
buying on the hoof, but an arrangement
that would satisfy pastoralists is for the
meatworks to make their payment per
head delivered at the works.


HOTEL
Eert Phillip
METROPOLE
and Young Streets, Sydney
vr:.
Wfmmm
lilo
MM
| fw»i **** *** f
it iMk L Wt \:
*
■
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“A Scotch manufacturer has produced a
cloth combining the virtues of tweed and
serg e.”—“Sun.”
He’s not the first Scotchman to cross
the Tweed.
¥ ¥
Herr Hitler’s greatest strength lies in
the fact that he has never allowed any
woman to call him her Hitler.
“ ‘Failure to masticate hard foods will result
in premature loss of teeth,’ says a doctor.”
Well, this is something to chew over!
¥ ¥
“A scientist states that the structure of the
human face is changing.”
In Australia it was first noticed after
the Federal Government introduced its
“temporary” taxation in 1917. Faces
have been getting more elongated ever
since.
¥ ¥
“When the police raid came everyone en-
deavored to escape except one man, who was
too intoxicated to move.”
Sitting tight!
¥ ¥
■“He went out and drank in the cool
mountain air.” — Novel.
But was that really an advantage over
drinking in any other place?
“That's you all over —always crossing your bridges before you come
to them!”
“One man carries off all the prizes at a
swimming carnival.”— News item.
The item fails to state whether the
police caught him or not.
“How far could the average man throw a
141 b. weight?”—“ Telegraph.”
No more than a stone’s throw.
¥ ¥
PROOF OF THE PUDDING.
Like most brides, mine fondly imagines
she’s a superlative cook. Being desper-
ately in love with her, I suffer torments
of the damned after meals rather than
disillusion her, but
For months she has spent most of her
spare time concocting soul-searing
dishes the recipes for which she enters in
newspaper competitions. She never wins
a prize, but occasionally a careless editor
prints the plans and specifications of one
of her gastronomic novelties among those
“highly commended.”
However, her luck’s changed of late —
within a week she has received cheques
for three and five guineas respectively
from rival manufacturers of digestive
powders!
P. O. M. C.
GLIMPSES AT THE GLOBE.
V. —The Mounties Get Their Man.
The Mounties were after me. Why, I
forget now. Probably something trivial
—the wrong name on a cheque or some-
thing like that. The charge was over
10 years old, and I thought the Statute
of Limitations cleared me, but the
Mounties ignored this rule of fairplay.
They seemed obsessed with the idea that
they must “get their man,” win, lose or
draw.
I was having an easy time at a logging
camp in North-west Canada. A new
hand was signed on. I recognised him
at once. It was Sergeant Steele, of the
Mounted. My long beard and the fact
that I always carried a peach-stone in
my mouth to disguise my voice had
saved me for the moment, but I knew it
would only be a matter of time before
he caught sight of the anchor tattooed
on my left arm. Then the game would
be up. I allowed a 400 ft. redwood to
fall on him.
I then made a hasty getaway, shaved
my beard, disposed of my peach-stone
and went north.
Two years passed by. I was on the
Klondyke. The call of the Yukon had
tempted me out of hiding. The gold
lust was upon me.
For a while I did fairly well. Then
one day a newchum took the claim next
to mine. He had two wooden legs, an
artificial arm and a stiff neck, but I knew
him at once. It was Sergeant Steele.
After a day or so I noticed a habit
he had of jumping down into his claim,
which was only three or four feet deep.
The depth of mine was 70 feet. That
evening I changed the numbers on
our claims, and hid behind a heap of
gold. Presently along he came, and
down he jumped, and off I went. I
hid all the following day in the forest,
and sneaked away in the night. Before
I left I saw them burying Steele. The
hue-and-cry was raised. I was a fugitive
from Justice once more.
Northward, ever northward, I fled. I
had a hazy idea of going beyond the
North Pole and down by easy stages into
Russia. But it’s such a big place up
there, and I soon got lost. For years
I wandered. Food became scarcer and
scarcer. I was starving, and my last
bullet was in my gun when Providence
smiled.
A huge Polar bear was coming towards
me —enough meat for a month. 1
couldn’t afford to miss, so, waiting till
he was almost on me, I dropped him
dead in his tracks.
Whipping out ray knife, I had the
head off the carcass in a jiffy, and was
about to skin the brute when a hand
came out through the wound I had
made, holding a heavy service revolver.
“Stick ’em up!” said a cool, incisive
voice.
It was Sergeant Steele. Once more
the Mounties had got their man.
Jasby.
THE REFORMER.
The new boarder was awakened by
a voice on the other side of the sleep-out
partition.
“Now, listen to me, Wilfred. This
must stop. I’m sick and tired of talk-
ing to you about it. What I say goes in
one ear and out the other. It’s not only a
foolish habit; it’s dangerous. You no
sooner imagine you’re alone than you
begin jabbering away to yourself like a
parrot. You don’t seem to mind what
people think of you.”
The person addressed said nothing in
reply.
The voice began again, more in sorrow
now than anger. “How small you’d feel
if some of the boys were within earshot!
Think of the goat you’d look! It would
serve you right if you were the
laughing-stock of the whole place. A
man who babbles to himself day and
“ Cripes, I've lost me hat!”
night as you do deserves all that’s com-
ing to him.”
The recipient of the lecture still re-
mained silent.
“It’s no use talking to you, though,”
the voice, pained, regretful and peevish,
went on again. “You’re too big a fool
to take notice of what anybody says. I’m
only wasting my breath. But just you
wait! When you find yourself in an
asylum—yes, you may smile incredu-
lously, but that’s where I’m going to put
you—you’ll wish you’d paid a little more
heed to my efforts to help you hold your
tongue!”
There was now a long-drawn-out sigh,
then silence.
The new boarder could not resist the
temptation to peep through a hole in the
canvas blind. The moon, being at the
full in a cloudless sky, revealed that there
was only one occupant of the bed in the
other half of the verandah.
L. R.
SELF-EVIDENT.
The S.M. peered over his glasses at the
defending solicitor, amazement on his
face. “Is this plea made in all serious-
ness, Mr. Bungnoddle?” he asked.
“Certainly, your Worship ; the charge
itself presupposes it. My client admits
to being a bogus rent-collector, though
he is unable to state why. It is patent
to the veriest intelligence that any man
who poses as a rent-collector in the hope
of obtaining any pecuniary benefit can-
not be all there. We therefore plead tem-
porary insanity.”
K.
“In the case of a crooner kidnapped by
gangsters the police objected to ransom being
paid. The gangsters then threatened that, un-
less the money was forthcoming, they would
Return him.”
So the police, of course, withdrew their
objections.
FAVORITE EXPRESSIONS.
Hitler: Holy Moses!
Mussolini: Caesar’s Ghost!
The punter: Gee!
Mr. Lang: Too right!
The quarryman: Blast it!
o. w. w.
¥ ¥
“ ‘Small women are happiest,’ says a doctor.”
A short wife and a gay one.
“The company’s object was the production
of tin.” —Newspaper item.
Isn’t that the object of all companies?
THE CENTRE OF GRAVITY.
An ingenious machine to determine the
centre of gravity in the human body was
brought to the notice of the Science
Congress in Melbourne.
A professor explained that it had
been used to determine the altera-
tion in the centre of gravity due
to the consumption of a pint of
beer. One member said that by
drinking sufficient
pints of beer one
might raise the
centre of gravity to
the point where
equilibrium would
become unstable.
My friend Blod-
gers has also been
conducting similar
experiments. For
many years he has
been trying to de-
termine the exact
centre of gravity in
the human body
after 16 pints of
beer have been con-
sumed. So far his
investigations have
only resulted in in-
dicating that the
centre of gravity is raised by each suc-
cessive pint, but where gravity centres
itself after passing above the back-teeth
level he has never been in a condition
to find out. In fact, he thinks that, at
the 16-pint stage, gravity really abandons
its centre, as well as its gravity, and be-
comes purely a laughing matter.
Triple X.
*
“My wife gives me a pain.” —Brisbane court.
Indigestion?
¥ ¥
COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
The Giant of Commerce pressed the
buzzer at' his side. A trim stenographer
tripped in before the echoes had died
away.
“Why,” demanded the G. of C., focus-
ing his keen brain for a second on the
matter in hand, “have I received a letter
from Steel Filings, Ltd., requesting
£lO,OOO for calls due, the letter” —he
paused deliberately—“being signed by
me?”
“You’re the secretary of that company.
I typed the letter,” explained the girl
efficiently.
The Great Man was equal to the situa-
tion. “Send a letter to the secretary,” he
commanded, “saying I’ll be damned if I
pay. He ought to know that without
being told.”
J. R. M.
CROSSING THE BAR.
The schooner sailed across the bar!
No wilder, more tempestuous night
Had any seen. No single star
They saw,, nor aught else in their
plight.
With all a real seaman’s skill
They hoisted three sheets in the wind ;
They spliced the main brace with a will,
And to their luck their faith they
pinned.
Then came the squall ... a lurching
spar . . .
A crash ! . . . some flying thing was
seen . . .
The schooner sailed across the bar—
And donged the barman on the bean!
S. W. K.
IT WAS MURDER!
The deed was done! His fury, long
suppressed,
A t last had risen in a surging tide !
Then fell the crashing axe; and now his
breast
Felt the fierce urge of hatred satisfied.
That voice he loathed so much would
never more
Torture his weary nerves, for, lying
there.
Battered and prone beside him on the
floor
The radio was smashed beyond repair !
T. W. N.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.unch from 18 noon (Sunday, 13 45 p.m.). Dinner from 6.30 p.m. (Sunday. 6.45
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors — James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Kyan, Esq. ;
F. B. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A, Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of ail general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, wants spare-
time typing work.—6lBo.
Elderly, reliable man, Vic., wants situation
on farm or station as cook or houseman, all
duties. —6169.
Gardener (33), N.S.W., married, one child,
12 years’ exp., wants position city or country.
Refs.—6l2B.
Man and wife, Q’land, well educated,
urgently need position, up-country preferred.
Man, experienced in accounts and stores, do
light farm work; wife, experienced nurse, cap-
able cook and housekeeper.—6lso.
English scholar will revise, punctuate, type
and prepare MSS. for submission to editors. —
6168.
Young married man with hotel exp., £lOOO
to invest, seeks partnership or investment, not
necessarily in hotel business, N.S.W. or Q’land
preferred.—62l2.
Man (37), Sydney, married, two children,
wants work anywhere; capable erecting, main-
taining machinery, pumps, lighting plants, etc.,
and can handle small schooner or yacht.
Knowledge of Barrier Reef. —6201.
Name and address of agents for Morgan
Patent Swinging Sluice. —6175.
To buy Bent, Ross or Walch’s Tasmanian
Almanacks, “The Hermit of 1 Van Diemen’s
Land” (1829) and “Van Diemen’s Land War-
riors” (1827).—6134.
To buy “The Grey Charteris,” by Robert
Simpson.—6l93.
To buy stereoscope. • State size of cards.—
6185.
To buy “Secret History of the Court of
Berlin,” by H. W. Fisher—6lB4.
To buy Lawson’s “While the Billy Boils.” —
6173.
Information Sought.
If one were to buy an aeroplane in Eng-
land and fly it to Australia, would customs
duty he charged on it; if so, at what rate 7
6050.
It depends. Aeroplanes and other aircraft,
including balloons and parachutes, are classified
under Tariff Item 358 a, as follows; British
preferential tariff, free; general tariff, 10- p.c.
Such goods are free of primage duty British
preferential tariff, but are subject to 10 p.c.
primage duty general tariff. They are exempt
from sales tax.
Dimensions and other particulars concerning
the bells of the Sydney G.P.O. clock 7 —6036.
There are five bells, cast by J. Taylor and
Co., who founded the Great Bell of St. Paul’s.
Particulars of their size: First-quarter bell,
diameter 2ft. 9in., note C sharp, weight B|cwt.;
second-quarter bell, 3ft., B, 1 l£cwt.; third-
quarter bell, 3ft. 4in., A, 14|cwt.; fourth-
quarter bell, 4ft. 4in., E, 30cwt.; and hour bell,
6ft. 6in., A, lOOcwt. Each bell bears the
Imperial crown and monogram V.T.R., with
the words “General Post-office, Sydney, 1890.”
The following lines, from Tennyson’s “In
Memoriam,” are also inscribed on the bells —
one line on each commencing from the lar-
gest:—
Ring out the false, ring in the true,
Ring out the feud of rich and poor;
Ring in redress to all mankind,
Ring out false pride in place and blood.
Ring in the common love of good.
There is also a dedicatory inscription on the
hour bell. The last of the bells was placed in
position on July 9, 1891.
Are there vacancies in the teaching service
in New Guinea 7 If so, conditions of em-
ployment 7 How many Queensland teachers
are serving in New Guinea at present 7 —6147.
In the March “Education Office Gazette,”
organ of the Q’land Education Department,
applications from male unmarried teachers are
invited for two years’ service, inclusive of
three months’ recreation leave on the com-
pletion of 21 mopths’ service. The successful
applicant will be paid salary of £354 first year
and £372 second year. His fare from his place
of residence in Queensland to New Guinea
will be paid, and on satisfactory completion of
term of engagement fare to Australia will be
provided. In the event of the appointee not
remaining in the Territory service for 12
months, he may be required to refund the cost
of his passage to the Territory and to make
his own arrangements for his return passage to
Australia. There are four Queensland teachers
serving under the New Guinea Administration
at present.
(1) Customs and excise duties paid in 1933-
34 on (a) ale, beer and porter, (b) spirits, (c)
wine, and (d) tobacco and manufactures
thereof 7 (2) Exports of wine for same period 7
(3) Amount paid under the Wine Export
Bounty Act for same period? —ss63.
(1) id) Gross customs duty paid, £14,822;
gross excise duty paid, £4,798,666; ( b ) £985,891
and £1,111,307; (c) £21,170 and £231,126
(spirits for fortifying wine); id) £3,274,674
and £4,822,680. (2) Sparkling wine, 5289 gal-
lons, valued at £6683 ; still wine, 27 p.c. proof
spirit or less, 320,041 gallons at £56,952; still
wine, over 27 p.c. proof spirit, 2,743,152 gal-
lons at £740,423. (3) Amount paid under Wine
Export Bounty Act was £183,981 on 2,628,294
gallons.
(1) What provision has been made for water
for each lifeboat on deepsea steamers under the
Commonwealth Navigation Act 7 (2) Are life-
boats of standard size, and, if so, how many
people does each accommodate 7 —6090.
(1) Water breakers or tanks, with dippers,
containing fresh water, are fitted in each life-
boat. Each carries one quart of fresh water
for each person the boat is certified to carry.
(2) Lifeboats vary in size according to size
of ship. The most common size of boat
accommodates 40 to 50 persons, but the larger
vessels carry boats which accommodate over
80 persons. Measurement is about 10 cubic
feet for each person boat is certified to carry.
What led to the War of American Inde-
pendence 7 —5882.
In 1764 the Grenville Ministry in England
began a systematic enforcement of the Naviga-
tion Acts. To protect _ the English farmer,
grain raised in the colonies was shut out. In
retaliation, the colonies began manufacturing
for their own needs; this England forbade,
the general aim being to export manufactured
goods to the colonies in return for raw
materials. Grenville decided also that a stand-
ing army should be garrisoned in the colonies
and that the colonies should be taxed for its
support, partly by means of a Stamp Tax (1765).
Opposition broke out everywhere, especially as
the colonies were not represented in the Parlia-
ment which voted the tax. In 1766 the tax was
repealed, but a Declaratory Act was passed
maintaining the right to tax, and import duties
were imposed on tea and other articles. The
Americans refused to use any goods from Eng-
land, smuggling tea, etc., from Holland. In
September, 1774, the Philadelphian Continental
Congress appealed to the King without much
success. General Gage was sent out as
Governor. In April of 1775 he sent a force
of regulars to arrest Samuel Adams and John
Hancock. The troops fired on a small band
of Americans, who retaliated, so starting the
war.
What is the “Index Librorum Prohibi-
torum” 7 What is its history, and how is it
compiled 7 —6073.
It is the title of a list of books prohibited
by the Roman Catholic Church on doctrinal
or:moral grounds.’ The origin of ecclesiastical
prohibitions dates from a very early period in
church history; the .earliest, known instance is
a catalogue of ■ forbidden apocryphal works
issued by Pope Gelasius (494). What may be
regarded as'the first Roman Index was pub-
lished by Pope Paul V. (1557-59). All books
considered pernicious and all versions of the
Bible by unauthorised persons are placed on
the Index by the Congregation of the Holy
Office.
(1) I am in trouble with plaster of. Paris
moulds and casts. Sometimes they come out
very hard, but often the plaster is soft and
chalky. How can I be sure of getting the
plaster to set very hard 7 (2) If 1 have not
made enough plaster to fill a mould, should
I wait until it is hard before I mix more to
complete the filling 7 —6070.
(1) You must seek the fault in your method
of mixing and handling. Only observation on
your part, with comparison of results, will
enable you to check mistakes. Humidity and
temperature are factors. (2) It should not be
necessary to wait for hardening before adding
plaster.
What is the neatest method of converting a
glass bottle into a jar 7 —6020.
Scratch with a file a line where the cutting
is to take place, bend a piece of wire to the
exact size, heat it in the fire to a red glow,
lay it upon the scratch and sink the bottle
into cold water just level with the hot wire.
It rarely fails to break evenly.
(1) Where did Johnson and Burns fight in
Sydney for the world’s heavyweight champion-
ship 7 (2) When was the Rushcutter Bay
Stadium built, and who were the contestants in
the first fight in that building 7 —6144.
(1) At Rushcutter Bay Stadium, December
26, 1908. (2) Stadium was opened in August,
1908; first programme was on August 21, when
Peter Felix met Sid Russell, preceded by a
bout between the Raff brothers, Charlie and
Harry.
A ring valued at £lOO, the property of a
guest at a N.S.W. hotel, was stolen from his
room during his absence. To what extent,
and in what circumstances, could the guest
succeed in an action against the hotelkeeper 7
—6159.
An innkeeper’s liability to make good to a
guest any Joss of property brought into his
house is limited to the amount of £2O, except
where it has been stolen, lost or injured through
the innkeeper-s,neglect or that of his servant,
or has been deposited expressly for safe custody
with him, in which 1 cases the innkeeper is liable
for the full value. To entitle the innkeeper to
the limitations of the law he must exhibit a
printed copy of these provisions in the hall
and in each bedroom of his hotel. In case of
dispute, the guest, before he can recover, must
prove his claim fully—in the circumstances
usually rather difficult.
/ wish to import some dahlia bulbs from
Scotland. What is the rate of duty, and where
can 1 get an import permit 7 —5870.
The bulbs would be admitted free of cus-
toms duty, but subject to 10 p.c. primage duty
and 5 p.c. sales tax. The duty on an impor-
tation valued at £1 would be approximately
3s. 7d. There is no quarantine prohibition, but
it would be advisable for the sender to obtain
from the British Department of Agriculture a
certificate stating that the bulbs are free from
pests and disease. On arrival in Australia the
bulbs will be inspected, and, if found free from
pests and disease, will be permitted entry. If
found infected, they will be placed in quaran-
tine and treated before being allowed delivery.
Is claret that has turned sour through being
opened a harmful beverage, and can it be re-
stored to sweetness ? —6083.
It becomes vinegar, which is injurious to the
stomach, and nothing can be done to restore
its status as a wine.
Seeing that there is no trace of the extinct
Tasmanian aboriginals on the Australian main-
land, can it be possible that they came from
M. 5186.
The extinct Tasmanians link up with neither
the Maoris nor the Morioris. There is some
justification for connecting them with primitive
Melanesians of the New Caledonian type and
for regarding them as having worked their way
down the eastern coast of Australia by land
and simple rafts, or even in canoes which they
were no longer making when white men
arrived.
(1) Fare from Cairns to Port Moresby and
then by aeroplane to Wau ? (2) Must persons
travelling to New Guinea obtain a taxation
clearance, and what is the landing fee ? (3)
Apart from mining, what other industry in the
Territory offers scope 7 (4) How much capital
must a person have before a permit to enter
New Guinea is issued ? (5) Salaries paid to
whites on New Guinea mines and plantations ?
(6) What are living conditions there like ?
6078.
(1) Fare from Cairns to Port Moresby
£5 10s. Fare by aeroplane, Port Moresby to
Wau, £l2. (2) Before a passenger leaves Aus-
tralia he must obtain from the Taxation Depart-
ment a taxation clearance, and must obtain
permission to land from the Administration
in New Guinea. , Also, he must deposit with
the shipping co. £3O, which is held till the
person leaves New Guinea. (3) Copra produc-
tion. (4) £BO. (5) Mine employees get £3OO
p.a. and upwards; plantation employees com-
mence at about £240 p.a. (6) Cost of living
per month for a single man, including meals,
varies from £lO to £2O, according to locality.
(1) Under the Marriage Act in South Aus-
tralia what persons are authorised to conduct
the marriage ceremony other than the Registrar-
General and registered ecclesiastics ? (2)
What is the form of marriage when con-
ducted by a registrar 7 (3) What notification
has to be given a registrar, and what is the
fee 7 —6063.
(1) All registrars holding authority under
the Registrar-General. (2) Each party is re-
quired to call upon the witnesses to witness
that they take each other as man and wife.
(3) By license, no notification is required, and
the fee is £3 10s. By notice, 14 clear days’
notice must be given, and the cost is 13s. 6d.
(1) A has bet B that “The Sorry Six” (The
Bulletin’s sobriquet for certain Test cricketers
at the time of the dispute with. the Board of
Control) was composed of Trurnper, Hill,
Armstrong, Ransford, Carter and Cotter.
B has another version. Who wins ? (2) What
were the bowling figures of T. J. Matthews in
establishing double hat-trick in England ? (3)
What was the best bowling achievement in
Tests of the late G. V. Hazlitt ? (4) Is it true
that Clem Hill once scored 99, 98, 97 and 96
in successive innings in Tests ? —6148.
(1) A wins. (2) The match was Australia v.
South Africa at Manchester, May, 1912, and
Matthews’s figures were: First innings, 12
overs, 3 maidens, 16 runs, 3 wickets; second
innings, 8 overs, 1 maiden, 38 runs, 3 wickets.
(3) In the match England v. Australia at the
Oval in 1912, in England’s second innings
Hazlitt captured 7 wickets for 25 runs. At
one stage he had 5 wickets for 1 run off 17
balls. (4) No. Hill in 1901-2, against A. C.
MacLaren’s team, scored 99 in the second
innings of the second Test, and 98 and 97 in
the third. Test,
Where are the lines :
Thou art my life, my love, my heart,
The very eyes of me;
And last command of every part
To live and die for thee.
—5864.
In “To Althea,” by Robert Herrick.
When was stamp duty on receipts first im-
posed in N. S. Wales, and under what enact-
ment 7 —6037.
Under the Stamp Duties Act 1865.
I am a N.S.W. domestic servant and only
get one afternoon a week off. Can I claim
time off on a Sunday 7 If so, should it be a
full Sunday or half-day ? —5954.
The matter is not governed either by legisla-
tion or industrial award. Conditions of employ-
ment are matters for agreement between the
parties.
How big was the large bed alluded to by
Shakspeafe in “Twelfth Night,” and how many
could it hold 7 —6054.
It still exists, is 12ft. square, and is capable
of holding a dozen persons.
(1) Name of the book which Dr. Johnson
said was the only one that had been published
in the morning and gone into a new edition the
same day 7 (2) Who was the girl in this book,
said to he modelled on the author’s wife 7
6058.
(1) “Amelia,” by Henry Fielding. (2) Mr.
and Mrs. Booth are portraits of Fielding and
his wife, according’ to Lady Mary Wortley
Montague.
(1) Title of the Dickens novel where Laing
of Hatton Garden was the original for a bully-
ing magistrate 7 (2) His name 7 —6085.
(1) “Oliver Twist.” (2) Fang.
How can I qualify as a woolclasser in
N. 7— 5883.
Attend classes at Sydney Technical College.
Full particulars obtainable from superintendent.
Who was the writer of the lines commencing :
Then star nor sun shall waken,
Nor any change of light!
—5879.
Swinburne.
Brief Answers.
G.E.G.: The legal practice is to have a deed
poll—one-party deed—drawn up by a solicitor
and deposited with the Registrar-General. The
registration fee is about 2s. 6d., the solicitor’s
fee a matter of agreement. The change should
be advertised in the press... .J.M.D.: (1) From
the surface of the water to the bottom of
the pump, which distance should not greatly
exceed 25ft. (2) Yes, provided the distance
from the surface of the water in the well to
the pump is not much greater than 25ft
J.8.T.: Napier, Gardiner and Co., Literary
Agents, 79 Pitt-street, Sydney... .A.A.M.: See
chapter on Pelton wheels in Kemp’s “Engi-
neer’s Year Book”... .A.P.: Put in an appli-
cation for an old-age pension. The Invalid
and Old-age Pensions Act provides that, where
a pensioner has property other than the home
in which he permanently resides, the rate of
pension is subject to a deduction of £1 for
every complete £lO by which the net capital
value of such accumulated property exceeds
£50....WJ.L.: Letter forwarded to manufac-
turer, who will send details of latest machine.
. ...A.D.S.: The mean minimum -temperatures
you require are: Brisbane, June 47.6, July
51.6, August 51.0; Sydney, June • 47.4, July
47.8, August 48.3; Adelaide, June 47.2, July
47.1, August 46.5... .A.M.: The “Oversea
Trade Bulletin” is obtainable from the Govern-
ment Printer, Canberra, price 225. posted....
W.J.: The Sonotone gramophone is manu-
factured overseas, and there is no Vic. dis-
tributor. Dealers may be able to obtain sup-
plies from the maker... .J.M.E.: Mix equal
amounts malt extract and mutton-bird oil and
store in airtight containers. From half to one
tablespoon of the mixture may be taken twice
daily, after the morning and evening meal. In-
crease gradually from smaller dose if not well
tolerated. Your chemist can supply the oil
at 3s. 6d. per pint; wholesale from Elliotts and
Aust. Drug, Ltd., Sydney. Retail price of malt
extract (21b. tin) is 2s. 6d .H.L.N.: Mental
and physical rest, change of environment and
a tonic mixture (hypophosphites) are essentials
your case demands. There is every prospect
of recovery at your age. See a doctor about
diet... .C.R.W.; No commercial value
W.J.Y.: No Sydney bookseller has a copy of
the book, nor can any trace of the work be
found in any catalogue....W.D.: The fare
from Bowen (Q.) to Cue (W.A.) (second-class
rail, Bowen to Sydney, third-class steamer,
Sydney to Fremantle, and second-class rail,
Fremantle to Cue), for two adults, one child
of six and two infants, is £42 Is. Id. The
cost for the same family proceeding by rail ex-
clusively would be £5O 11s. Id H.J.M.;
Qualifications for shift engineers in an elec-
tricity generating station under the control of a
local municipal or shire council are not pre-
scribed in the N.S.W. Local Government Act.
.... J.L.R.: “With the Big Herds in Australia,”
by A. J. Cotton (11s. 6d.)... J.8.M.: “Mobile
Caravanning,” by Tweedie (ss. 3d.) 1.C.U.:
The N.S.W. Deserted Wives and Children
Act (1901) provides that every summons under
it may be served personally on the defendant,
or, if he cannot be found, then at his last
or more usual known place of residence. If
personal service is not effected, an affidavit
may be taken. A warrant may then be issued
for the defendant’s apprehension, or the Court
may proceed in the case ex parte G.E.P.:
A list of owners and dealers may be obtained
on application to the Carlrate Rabbitry, 34
Roberts-street, near Queenstown, Adelaide
J.M.0.: No personal introduction necessary.
Post manuscripts to the editor and fair con-
sideration will be given... . 8.M.: Write Dis-
trict Navy Officer, District Navy Office, Bris-
bane... .N.C.F.: Cannot trace any painter or
engraver of that name R.D.F.: (1) W. and
G. Foyle, Ltd., 119 Charing Cross-road,
London, W.C.2. (2) Ye5....M.N.; No such
competition is traceable... .W.M.: (1) and
(2) No. (3) Yes. (4) jThey have not expressed
an opinion so far as can be ascertained. (5) and
(6) Write Commonwealth Statistician, Federal
Bureau of Census and Statistics, Canberra,
F.C.T R. 8.: The Mooltan leaves Sydney
on July 13 for Samarai, and the Strathaird on
August 23 for cruise to Fiji. Fares: Mooltan,
first saloon 18 to 24 guineas, tourist class 11
to 13 guineas; Strathaird, first saloon 20 to 26
guineas, tourist class 13 to 15 guineas
W.C.: The Ly-ee-Moon (745 tons), of Sydney,
a passenger ship, was wrecked off Green Cape on
a fine night, May 30, 1886; 76 lives were lost.
... .M.H.: Water-rat skins are sold at auction,
and can be purchased from any of the well-
known Sydney furriers. The best skins are avail-
able in winter, and last season averaged about
20s. per dozen... .K. 8.: The composition you
refer to is an agreement between an insolvent
debtor and his creditors by which the latter
accept a part of the debts due to them in satis-
faction of the whole. It is an agreement that
operates as a discharge C.R.L.: Kurrajong
timber is soft and spongy, and is not recom-
mended for stockyard gates. It has no strength,
and is durable only under cover in dry situations.
. ...C.K.: See “The Australian Encyclopaedia”
under “Black Trackers,” also books on remi-
niscences of the early pioneers and E. B.
Kennedy’s “The Black Police of Queensland.”
... .T.A.M.W.: Prospects of employment for
cheese-makers are not bright in N. S. Wales.
Adult assistants and casual hands are paid
from £3 10s. to £4 per week.... A.C.: Won
A.J.C. Squatters’ Handicap (1| mile, 7st. 111 b.)
at Randwick on October 1, 1934... .T.S.W.:
Try clear warm water and old soft, clean linen.
Renew both rag and water continually until
both come away clean. Soap of any kind
is injurious to the life of an oil-painting, and
oiling and varnishing should only be done by
an expert W.T.W.; Cattle: Australia (1931),
12,261,000; United Kingdom (1931), 7,955,000.
Sheep: Australia • (1931), 110,619,000; United
Kingdom (1931), 26,374,000... .E.N.: At the
outbreak of the Great War the population of
the United Kingdom was 45,250,000, and of
Germany 65,000,000 W.J.H.T.: “Shoogar”
is as nearly the phonetic pronunciation as can
be printed without resort to signs of emphasis.
.... J.C.C.: All Fools’ Day is the first of
April. The custom of sending one upon a
pointless errand has been explained as a bur-
lesque of the sending thither and thither of
Christ from Annas to Caiaphas, and from Pilate
to Herod (Many others mailed.)


CaKthm
CAN
YOU
a
I
e,
m
DRAW THE BOTTLE
IF you think that you possess Artistic Ability, send us a drawing
or two for FREE CRITICISM.
With our many years of experience as practical Commercial
Artists and Tutors, we can place you on the road to success.
If you have no suitable drawings, we suggest that you write
for our ART ABILITY TESTS.
Those writing for tests, or sending drawings for criticism, should
also enclose Bd, for return postage on our instructive book
“The New Era in Commercial Art.” Mention “The Bulletin.”
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne
V*'
&
4,
l k
p\
uj
MV.
X
V*
v
&
*
LTD
old? leld .:
DtPOI
cpOPTS
.pueoi
Co
Ra
Rolls
Lid
Sydney'
ilia)
l ustr
Street
igh
Uoi'
Sasllere 0
idotsing
you
Sirs
D ,
Rolls
Measure
lane
using
been
an
years
hat>e
seoen
past
illenl
the
exec
most
for
me
giuen
alioays
but
or
ihcr
ra
no
use
illy
faitlrf
oiiv
NOTHING CAN
COMPARE
With the Joy of a
CLEAN, SMOOTH
SHAVE
with this
Aristocrat of
Safety Razors.
The one Hollow-ground
Blade of the Rolls
Razor will last you a
lifetime and save you
the cost of thousands
of wafer blades.
m°~
C*‘
British
and Best.
100,000 Rolls Razors are in daily
use, in Australia, and each one has
been sold by the personal recom-
mendation of a happy user.
Rolls Razors are obtainable at
all leading Retail Stores, Chemists,
Stationers and Tobacconists. If
your local dealer cannot supply,
write direct to
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney,
N.S.W.
Illustrated Catalogue post free on
application.
M llt I IfM
THE WORLDS BEST SAFETY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice {except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped, blame and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.F.C.; You don’t seem to have the gift
of rhythm... .Swagman: No tucker in that
sort of verse... .S.M.: Too many boulders in
“The Languorous Stream”... .J.M.D.: Neither
wins a place... .J.W.; No hope here for rhymed
moralising... .S.T.F.: You must have been
reading Swinburne at his worst... .R.A.
Gunner: Aim all wrong for potting at “Stars.”
• ...8.8.F.: You’ll need to improve a lot.
... .F.W.M.: Didn’t like what we could read
of your golf yarn... .A.D.T.: Sorry we can’t
find a home for your offspring. Try a daily.
. ...0.T.N.: Frankly, then, you’re wasting
paper... .N.N.: Best we can say is that it’s
all right of its kind; but that’s not flattery....
R.D.P.: “The Jewel” might have looked like
a gem in a different case P.F.: Idea; but
you don’t make the comparisons say anything
new... .S.M.: Almost impossible to string
verse in that metre without getting a sing-song
effect... .8.P.: City v. Bush verse theme has
overgrown whiskers... .8.A.8.: “Monot’ny
their soul aim” stretches even the novice-class
poets’ license too far.., Peter F.: Not our meat.
....R.8.: Flat as soup... .A.W.S.: Head pessi-
mist declines accept theory “There is no death.”
. ...A.W.W.: Odd jumble of prose and verse.
... .L.C.L.H.: That sort of verse needs to say
something very arresting to get through, and
there’s little love for it here at its best....
Gemini: Feeble light, friend E.V.8.: Too
slight M.M.N.1.; “I Threw My Glove.”
No stamp, or it would be returned to y0u....
P.V.M.: Not quite; but it’s marketable else-
where S.H.: That applies to you, also
R.L: What’s the use of praying “Oh, to be
idle, have nothing to do,” when you’d only
go and write verse! G.A.McB.: Just so-so.
... .Bellerive: Seems directly inspired:
THE FLEA AND THE BUG.
Said a flea to a bug,
“Good afternoon, pop.”
Said the bug to the flea.-
“How do you do, Hop?”
“Slick,” said the flea,
“I’m as active as ever;
But I don’t like the cold —•
Give me the warm weather.”
“You’re game,” said the bug,
“In your reckless sport,
Though scores of your clan
By women are caught.
In taking risks you’re
A daredevil mug; .
Our span is too brief,”
Did add the old bug,
“I risk,” said the flea;
“But, when all’s said and done,
Though short is my life,
’Tis a merry one.”
G.M.F.: We don’t want dead-and-gone
verses about politicians; yours date back 50
years, and were first fastened to Gladstone
R.M.: A bit immature, like the calves....
J.McL.; Afraid it’s out of our line Atalaya:
On the stodgy side. And there are lots of
rhymes to “tram” besides “damn” C.A.8.:
You versify with all the joyous abandon of a
man breaking stones E.8.G.: Well meant,
we doubt not, but very ragged H.D.: Your
toast is about as palatable as leather
J.R.H.: Beyond having 14 lines it bears no
resemblance whatever to a sonnet H.McL.:
Your Pegasus pulled up lame after the first
two furlongs... .H.M.: Three slabs of con-
centrated silliness M. 1.: Your satire lacks
tunefulness....H.B.: If that’s a fair average
sample, there’s little use in persevering. Copy
need not be typed F.S.: We can’t see what
you are driving at in lines such as —
Think of the slave you might have been
In the blood-gilt reign of a savage queen.
C.B.: “Snoring” nearly sent us to sleep.
E.C.: We wouldn’t call it slushy verse,
but it’s distinctly muddy R.H.D.: Vin ordi-
naire, with no body in it W.C.: Your lauda-
tory ode was returned; the eulogy is due for
the same fate 5.8. E.; It might conceivably
amuse schoolboys... .M.L.8.: You may submit
them anywhere with a light heart and a clear
conscience... .H.H.: There’s something in
them, but the workmanship is very rough
SOP: Thanks for the letter. It was funnier
than any of your Humor Competition entries.
J.F.; We got rather tired of the lonely
grave in the shade of the- coolibah patch after
struggling through to the end of your 13,000-
word short story L.A.R.: Not quite; but
you might try it elsewhere... .F.N.: Has
amusing spots, but not enough.... P.W.:
Eulogy made us blush. Gunman yarn doesn’t
ring true... .C.S.: We call that type “story-
book stories”... .J. 8.: Doesn’t get a place....
N.W.: A Bowral girl should know more about
cricket than that A.A.: A penny novelette
in brief, but not brief enough E.8.G.: Not
impressive ; merely banal... .F.M.: You take
a very rose-colored view of barmaids and
gunners 8.H.5.: Not suitable T.8.G.:
Afraid_ it’s an old idea N.L.; We just
couldn't seem to get interested in that setting
of eggs W.S.S.: The tragedy doesn’t grip
or convince J.F. (S.A.); Too slight to be
amusing C.W.: It doesn’t quite get there.
.... J.D.L.: Don’t see any reason why a drunk
should speak 100 p.c. Amurrican T.H.L.:
Should stand a chance with a woman’s paper.
.... G.St.C.: Your smart lad doesn’t get by....
P H.: Yam missed the Humor Competition. It
was six weeks late, apart from being far too
serious... .A.Mc.D.S.: “Talk to me of the old
days, Ben. I don’t think it will be long now.”
Can’t imagine a dying digger talking like that.
.... .R.F,: Heavens! Isn’t that red kangaroo
dead yet? ... .D.T.: It doesn’t rise much above
the platitudinous C.W.T.: The blood cer-
tainly flowed freely... .S.D.; For unadulterated
gloom it rates as this week’s best... .A.E.:
Not enough in it.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.M.: It would be best to forget all about
them..,.B.C. (“no tuition”): Don’t worry
about taking lessons. It wouldn’t make any
difference... .V.S.: Which are the drunks and
which their shadows?... .G.J.: You’ve beaten
us this time. We haven’t seen the Dampier
joke yet.... Hans: Picture of a bathing girl,
half divested of her costume and about to
don a pair of plus-fours beside a burning bush,
is hereby rejected T.A.A.: The hat is well
drawn... .J.H.D.: Joke old. Drawing shows
promise, but try to be less “Comic Cut”-ish.
. ...R.A.V.: What is it? A pattern for a
doyley? ... .J.H.McG.; Figures wooden and
unattractive L.J.H.: The worst pun for
months.... 8.E.K.W.; No laugh in it L.C.:
There may have been a weaker nudist joke,
but we haven’t seen it W.D.: Used that
scarecrow gag years ago Trigger: Crude, to
say the least... .R.C.D.: Front seat of lorry
is rather like a grand piano R.J.M.: Jokes
very feeble, and no life in the drawings
W.T.:_ Figures look as if they intend to remain
fixed in those positions.
“Wusslean”; The Westralian Gov-
ernor mentioned by “Oxmead” (B.
13/3 / ’35) who said that his first aero-
plane experience reminded him of a pas-
sage in “Rasselas” doubtless had in mind
the exploit of the imaginary airman in
the happy valley. Equipped with wings
modelled upon those of the bat, this in-
ventor “appeared furnished for flight on
a little promontory ; he waved his pinions
awhile to gather air, then leaped from
his stand, and in an instant dropped into
the lake,” from which Rasselas drew
him, “half dead with terror and vexa-
tion.” Johnson’s mechanist, in spite of
his failure, had an excellent notion of
the theory of flying. In this respect he
was actually in advance of H. G. Wells’s
Ponderevo, who, in “Tono-Bungay,”
fooled around with contractile balloons.
In “Rasselas” we find what is probably,
the finest anticipation of the modern
heavier-than-air flying theory; “We are
only to proportion our power of resist-
ance to the different density of matter
through which we are to pass. You will
be necessarily upborne by the air, if you
can renew any impulse upon it faster
than the air can recede from the pres-
sure.”
“Spadger”; “Oxmead” (B. 13/3/’35)
need not go to the Public Library for a
copy of “Rasselas.” I can supply him
with one bound in whole calf afid illus-
trated with numerous steel engravings,
mostly of persons dressed in flowing
robes with tears streaming from their
eyes or with yearning faces lifted to the
sky. If “Oxmead” wishes further to
delve into the fictional past of Abyssinia
I can also.provide him with “An yEthi-
°pian Historic of Heliodorus, no lesse
wittie than pleasaunt.” Having waded
through both books I have certainly
found more witte and pleasauntry in
“Heliodorus” than in “Rasselas.”
. * * * *
Employment continues to recover in
Britain. At Dec. 18, 1933, 17.5 p.c. of
registered workers were out of jobs ; at
Dec. 17, 1934, the figure had dropped to
16.1 p.c. The average unemployment in
1933 was 19.9 p.c. ; in 1934 it was down
to 16.8 p.c.


“SILVER
EDGE"
H&u&aitbis
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
YOUR STOPPING DISTANCE REFLECTS THE
EFFICIENCY OF YOUR BRAKES
“RAYBESTOS” Brake Liners fitted
to your car will ensure reliability.
Use a quality lining.
Why not check the performance
of your car against these
figures?
CONDITION OF BRAKES
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
TWO-WAY, DOUBLE ACTION
TYRE INFLATION
The “RENRUT” QUADRUPLE TYRE PUMP gives a
remarkable service in tyre inflation. Built on the principle
of quadruple compression, which provides a double-acting
main barrel, drawing in air on both the up and down strokes,
this unique mechanism doubles the capacity of the large barrel,
and so halves the time of inflation. The inner high-pressure
cylinder ensures easy delivery of this large volume.
Sturdily built for a long life of faithful service, the “RENRUT”
QUADRUPLE offers quicker and easier pumping than you
have ever known.
"RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
TYRE PUMP
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD,, Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England
JO N A NOLD, 326 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
PRICE...
60/-
With gauge,
5/- extra.
ill 11
The Steering Column.
TESTING THE NEW AUBURN “SIX.”
INTERESTING DUAL-RATIO TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
BY FRED BERRY.
/''COINCIDENT with the general improvement in highway
construction throughout the Commonwealth, engine per-
formance of cars has been boosted to such a remarkable extent
that motorists now expect to cruise at 60 m.p.h. when touring
on the open road. The bigger-powered machines are as a
general rule capable of fulfilling these exacting requirements
without undue pressure, but in a number of instances road speeds
of this order are accompanied by undue fussiness by reason
of high engine revs.
The Auburn “Six,” recently tested over
T he Bulletin course, has, however, effec-
tively solved this somewhat knotty prob-
lem, for, with its dual-ratio axle, once
the car is under way on the road a simple
fingertip movement of a pre-selector
control located on the steering-wheeTre-
duces engine revs, by almost 25
per cent, at any given road speed,
with consequent greater silence, smoother
running and enhanced fuel consump-
tion. In effect, the Auburn, equipped
with dual-ratio axle, provides the
Graceful appearance of the unit-welded all-steel body on the new six-cylinder
Auburn.
driver with six forward ratios with-
out resorting to complicated mechanism,
and one must, in order to fully appre-
ciate its worth, sit at the wheel and put
the car through its paces.
Although rated at but 22.5 h.p., the
six-cylinder engine develops 85 h.p. at
3500 r.p.m. Bore is 3 l-16in. and stroke
4 3-14 in., giving a piston displacement of
210 cub. in. Aluminium cylinder head
of advanced design and a compression
Cutaway section of cylinder block, show-
ing copper water tube and jet holes for
cooling valve seats and valve ports.
ratio of 6.2 to 1 are no doubt respon-
sible for the extremely high-power out-
put.
Rubber Insulation.
Motor is mounted in the chassis at
four points on rubber air cushions, so
absorbing power shock and eliminating
vibration. Crankshaft, balanced statically
and dynamically with flywheel in posi-
tion, runs on four bearings, and is fitted
with Lanchester torsional vibration
damper at the forward end. Connecting
rods are “I” beam section, drop forged,
the lower bearing being spun into the
rod and not provided with shims.
Bohnalite pistons with invar steel struts
are each fitted with four rings, two com-
pression and two oil-control. Piston pins
are |in. diameter.
Driven by silent chain, the camshaft
has centres spaced closely together to
eliminate the necessity for adjustments
due to stretching of the chain. Valves
are side-by-side type, intakes being of
silichrome steel, exhaust nichrome steel,
ensuring long life and freedom from pit-
ting. Valve springs have been treated in
a novel manner to prevent surging or
chattering top and bottom being
machined to a square face whilst under
compression.
Induction System.
Carburettor is down-draught, single-
jet type, an automatic manifold heat con-
trol operated by thermostat ensuring
efficient vaporisation under all climatic
conditions. Fuel, drawn from a 16gal.
tank, is fed to the carburettor by a
mechanical pump driven from the cam-
shaft. An air cleaner and intake silencer
of large dimensions is attached to the
carburettor.
Coil-and-battery ignition system incor-
porates automatic advance and retard of
ignition point, whilst the heavy-duty
generator, air-cooled, is capable of deli-
vering ample current to accommodate
such extra fittings as windscreen wipers,
radio, cigar lighters, etc.
Novel Cooling.
The cooling system on the Auburn
motor has been specially designed.
Bringing cool water from the pump out-
let through a copper tube, a constant
stream is sprayed around valve seats and
valve ports. This tube runs the entire
length of the engine block, tending to
prevent distortion from excessive heat
when running at high speeds. Further
claims are made for this system in that,
due to lower valve temperature, carbon
deposit is reduced and valve life greatly
increased.
Full force feed lubrication is provided
to main, connecting rod, camshaft bear-
ings and chain, the gear pump being
located in the sump.
Avoiding Engine Wear.
Lubrication of piston pins, cylinder
walls and valve guides is by constant
splash whilst the motor is running. Oil
supply from the pump, freed from all
foreign matter, is drawn from a new Oil
Floto device in the crankcase. This con-
sists of a floating-pump inlet provided
with a screen to bring the oil from the
top of crankcase reservoir, and so avoid
sludge and abrasive material usually
present in the power section. A purola-
tor oil-filter is also standard equipment.
Transmission is through single-plate dry
clutch to three-speed and reverse gear-
box, second-gear pinions being helical-
cut, constant-mesh type, with “synchro-
shift” for quiet operation in changing.
Propeller shaft is fitted with needle-
bearing universal joints at each end, a
special device eliminating the necessity
for oiling, except at intervals of from
12 to 20 thousand miles. Rear axle is
semi-floating type, with all pinions, gears
and shafts carried on tapered roller bear-
ings. Final drive is through spiral bevel
gears, with a reduction of 5.1 to 1 in
conventional drive, and 3.4 to 1 on the
“dual ratio.”
Dual Ratio.
Auburn dual ratio, located in the rear
axle housing, is vacuum-operated, and
the selection and locking into position of
either ratio are brought about by move-
ment of a small lever mounted on the
steering column. At the moment the
driver desires the change a slight pressure
of the clutch completes the process,
A multiple disc, synchro-shift clutch
in the rear axle housing ensures quiet
meshing of. the sleeves. In practice
engine revs, in low top would be 3700
for a road speed of 60 m.p.h., while in
high top the motor would drop to
2500 r.p.m., a reduction of 1200 engine
revs., with attendant economy in terms
Sturdy box section chassis, showing “X” plus “A" method
of cross-bracing.
of wear of reciprocating parts, in petrol
and oil and reduction in noise and vibra-
tion.
Sturdy Construction,
Frame is sturdy box section, with
“X-A” bracing, providing extreme rigidity
against torsional vibration. New type
enclosed direct-thrust shock-absorbers are
fitted to each spring anchorage, the
springs being enclosed in metal casings
as a protection against mud and dust.
Spring shackles are rubber-bushed, elimi-
nating necessity for lubrication, while
front end of left front spring is fitted
with a “kick” shackle, in which road
shock to steering gear is absorbed by
three live rubber bushings.
An additional refinement in the sus-
pension system is the ride stabiliser, con-
necting frame and axle above each rear
spring, so preventing rolling or swaying
Differential housing of Auburn “Six,"
showing layout and location of dual-
ratio transmission.
when the car is driven at speed on
corners.
Steering gear, with a ratio of 18 to 1, is
Ross cam-and-roller type, with simple
provision for adjustment.
Hydraulic internal expanding brakes
are fitted to all four wheels ; parking
brakes actuated by hand lever operate
mechanically on all wheels.
Interior Equipment.
Imported body is of all-steel construc-
tion, bolted directly to the frame, provid-
ing an extremely rigid assembly and
reducing overall height of the car.
Draught-free ventilation is fitted to front
and rear quarter windows of closed
types, safety glass being used throughout,
while cowl ventilation is of novel and
effective design.
Interior fittings
and ins t r ument
panel are neat
and dis t i nctive,
and the 120 in.
wheelbase provides
comfortable seat-
in g accommoda-
tion for full-rated
complement of pas-
sengers.
The car taken
over the test
course was a stand-
ard model six-cyl.
series 653 sedan
equipped with all-
steel imported
body. Speedometer
reading stood at
5181, and the car
was driven by S.
F. Hill, of Stan
Hill Motors, Ltd.,
N. S. Wales distributors.
Passing through the busy city traffic
one was immediately impressed with
the lack of engine vibration, and
with the value of the dual-ratio trans-
mission.


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
N
0
o
PANEL
BE AT IN G
It is wonderful what a
modernly-equipped plant,
plus expert artisanship,
can make of your car.
Our plant and personnel
can transform even a veri-
table motoring “Scrap-
heap” into a car of sym-
metrical form and beauty.
Our Panel Beating and
Radiator Departments will
render you an unsurpassed
service.
Try us!
XM
SIN
05
TOHEM
gmnagmaraMMO
itjUumt L 3201 (HIKES)
HAWKINS P. 4.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1934 <
SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
oi posted direct from “The Bulletin,”
252 George Street, Sydney. 3d. extra.
The New cnqluk.
Fordsoiv
Tractor
S cz
r»v i
* \ »
I -4*
a*
777*
• m
A Powerful low-priced Unit
The new Fordson is the only powerful low-priced Tractor of entirely
English manufacture. It has many outstanding features: new cooling
lubrication and ignition systems. “Hot-Spot” vaporiser. New governor
control. Easy-steering. New heavy-duty transmission. Crankcase
ventilation. Optional gear ratios. Optional wheel equipment including
low-pressure pneumatic tyres (as illustrated.) The new English
Fordson is available for immediate delivery. The Fordson Purchase
Plan provides easy payments spread to suit your convenience.
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland; BUZACOTTS
(QUEENSLAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd. Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne. Vic.
South Australia:
ADELAIDE CAR &
TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Waymouth St., Adelaide
Western Australia s
LYNAS MOTORS
LTD.
Hay Street, Perth
ENTIRELY MADE IN ENGLAND
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. E.T2.
Road Performance.
Driving in low top, acceleration is
almost equal to that of other cars using
middle gear, yet immediately the road
ahead is reasonably clear a simple move-
ment of the clutch pedal “selects” the
high-top ratio, when the motor revs, drop
almost 25 p.c. for a given road speed, or,
should the driver so desire, road speed
Carburettor, inlet manifold and distribu-
tor head on Auburn “Six,” showing neat
design and ready accessibility.
will increase in the same ratio if revs,
are maintained.
Through open country between Parra-
matta and Windsor a very high average
was maintained without fuss, and it was
evident that when employing the high-
top gear the best cruising speed was in
the neighborhood of 60 m.p.h.
Approaching Windsor the rolling test
was conducted. Commencing in neutral
from a speed of 15 m.p.h., the car coasted
705 yards before coming to a standstill,
indicating freedom of all running gear
and transmission details.
Maximum speed was then timed over a
surveyed distance of one mile, the time
taken, 48sec., giving an average of 75
m.p.h. Over this section the Auburn
was driven in high top, steering was defi-
nite and safe and roadholding qualities
were very good. Through Richmond the
by-pass road through Grose Vale was
taken, and over this rough and dusty
section suspension and roadworthiness
were further tested at speed with grati-
fying results.
Fast Climbing.
Approaching Kurrajong the speed
climb over 2 1-5 miles of the steepest
portion of the mountain was clocked
from a standing start in 3min. 36sec.
Except in negotiating the several hairpin
bends in the early stages of the climb,
low-top gear was used throughout, and
the car behaved splendidly on corners.
Returning down the mountain a test
of emergency braking equipment was
made, and from a speed of 15 m.p.h. the
car pulled up on loose gravel within its
own length. Continuing towards Rich-
mond the cross-country road via Castle-
reagh to Penrith was taken, and here
further performance tests were conducted.
Engine flexibility in top gear was de-
termined by driving a distance of 350
yards as slowly as possible and imme-
diately accelerating over a similar dis-
tance, still in top.
Flexibility.
Over the slow-running section the
Auburn pulled evenly, taking 3min. and
averaging 4 m.p.h., while the accelerated
section was clocked in 16sec., averaging
45 m.p.h. and crossing the finishing line
at 60 m.p.h., low-top gear being used.
Accelerations from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
low top and second were clocked in
6 4-ssec. and 4 3-ssec. respectively, indi-
cating snappy pick-up, while from a
standstill to 50 m.p.h. using high-top
gears occupied 12 4-ssec.
Service brakes were then tested, the
car pulling up in 22ft. 6in. from a speed
of 25 m.p.h. without swerving.
Turning circle, on right lock is 39ft.
and on left lock 46ft., while minimum
road clearance, taken under the differen-
tial housing, is Sin.
Petrol consumption was six gallons one
pint for the complete test of 118 miles —
19.2 m.p.g. ; gross weight of car, driver
and observer was 34icwt. and ton mile-
age was consequently 32.6 —an excellent
result, particularly if it is remembered
that the total time for the journey, inclu-
sive of all tests (3hr. smin.), averaged
38.3 m.p.h.
The Trouble Lamp.
...
J.B.S. (Normanhurst, N.S.W.) describes the
performance of his present car , and asks if
he should sell it and buy another.
No reason for a change unless you desire
better performance and greater comfort and
wish to keep up to date.
; .
H. (Darwin, N.T .).—What is the process and
what tools are required for fitting cylinder
sleeves ?
Information posted.
N.O’S. (Ipswich, Q.).—My garageman tells
me that graphite in lubricating oil will block
up otlv’ays and is a failure. Is this so.
Flake graphite should not be used in the
sump, but colloidal graphite similar to the
brand you mention will not block up oilways
and has proved an unqualified success.
D.S, (Casterton, Vic.).— Have bought a 7/9
Harley motor-cycle. (1) Where can I find year
of manufacture ? (2) Does the window below
the mechanical pump show oil level?
(1) Send engine number to Bennett and
Wood, Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) The window
is to show the rate of oil feed and not the
crankcase level.
.... , ,
/•i\ « » ~What causes the diff. to hum:
(1) Pulling only, (2) coasting only, (3) pulling
and coasting ? (4) Where can I get instruction
book for 1926 Oldsmobile ?
(1), (2) and (3) Crown wheel and pinion
incorrectly meshed or bearings in diff. housing
badly worn. (4) W. H. Lober and Co.,
William-street, Sydney.
A.N.W. (Goulburn, N.S.W.). —Between 25
and 35 m.p.h. there is a burring hum from
beneath the body of my 6-cyl. car. Test of
• ;
rear wheels shows about 3 in. backlash. If it
is the diff., how can I adjust it ? Should
generator get hot ? I fancy I hear a whistle
there sometimes.
Hum probably comes from differential hous-
ing. Get service station to attend to adjust-
ment of crown wheel and pinion. The job is
too risky for an amateur mechanic to experi-
ment with. The whistle in the generator
probably is due to faulty brush gear. Dis-
mantle, clean commutator and true-up brushes.
Heat is nothing to worry about unless the
charging rate exceeds 15 amps.
F.W.L. (Wellington, M.L.).— My '26 model
Paige is using vast quantities of oil, leaking
front back main bearing. Is there a cheap
method of fixing the trouble ? Big ends were
taken up 3000 miles ago, yet engine is stiff to
start. Also there is a persistent tap at round
about 25 m.p.h.
You can’t take up the rear main bearing and
leave others untouched. Crankshaft must be
removed and all mains remetalled. Stiffness is
almost certainly due to incorrect alignment of
some unit, either timing, crankshaft or clutch
mechanism. Knock in a motor of this age may
be caused through worn valve guides, pistons
or gudgeons.
F.C.M. (Artarmon, N.S.W.). — 1 have been
offered two closed cars, one new, one used
(named). Which is the better at the price ?
The new car is better in every respect.
W.R.C. (Caulfield, Vic.). — Is it possible to
improve the pulling of my 11.9 Morris ’2B
model, which has done 20,000 miles ? I tow a
trailer about 2 cwt. unladen, and with four pas-
sengers on holiday touring the engine appears
overtaxed. Would planing a small amount of
metal off the cylinders, and so increasing com-
pression, give better pulling ?
Your motor is grossly overloaded. Planing
the head would slighly increase maximum
speed ' and acceleration, but unless cylinders
were bored at the same time pulling in top
gear would be worse instead of better.
W.B.N. (Garah, N.S.W.). — My Plymouth
sedan after 1400 miles runs only 18 m.p.g.,
whereas I expected 25. Roads here are black
soil and deeply corrugated. Do air wheels
cause heavy consumption, and can you advise
how I might get belter results ?
Engine is not yet thoroughly run in. Keep
on as at present till 2500, then slightly advance
ignition and have carburettor adjusted. An
average of 20 m.p.g. is all you can expect
on this type of road. Air wheels do not
affect the issue.
J.W.H. (Manjimup, W.A.). — I have a 10-
year-old Hup. fitted with generator and bat-
tery for lights and starter and separate mag-
neto ignition. Car is hard to start on cold
mornings. How can this be rectified ?
Have magneto dismantled and remagnetised,
thus ensuring a fatter and hotter spark at the
plugs. This might cure the trouble. Alterna-
tively, a high-tension coil can be fitted to
take current from the battery and distributor of
magneto used to supply ignition.
TJ.K. (Baan Baa, N.S.W.).— What can I
do to keep my ’24 Overland going for another
year before buying a new model ? Present
troubles are chiefly overheating, lack of power
and engine racing when throttled down.
Symptoms point to excessive wear in all re-
ciprocating parts, and to put the car into good
order would entail a considerable outlay, for
which you would not be recompensed when
finally selling. Overheating may be due to
radiator and water passages rusting and to
weak mixture by reason of air leaks past valve
stems. This latter defect is also responsible
for poor idling and lack of power. Oversized
{Continued on next page.)


Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
LUG
\
LEAD STRIP
Emergency repair to battery
in cases where binding post has
been broken or damaged. A
simple lead strip can be screwed
into the broken post and pressed
into contact as illustrated.
More Motorists Than Ever
Simoniz Their Cars
The New Kleener ma'<es SIMON/ZING easier than ever.
m
w
I
OTHIN<j
V. 19
TO EQUAL IT
fltenrreßEHT
N EPTU NE OIL GO. LIM IT ED ... All 6tates
1
STOCKED BY ALL GARAGES THROUGHOUT AUST, >
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivers
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
n.. MOST
POWERFUL
motor car Battery
of its size ever built!
HI
Willard's
NEW WST-1-15
To meet the demand for more
starting power for light cars,
Willard has produced the new
WST-M5 with 15 plates per cell
instead of the usual 13.
This greater reserve power will
protect you against the annoy-
ance of unexpected battery
failures. It means a hotter spark,
better ignition, quicker starts
and more of them.
ITS REASONABLE PRICE and
its outstanding performance
make the new WST-1-15 a real
economy. Be sure to ask your
Willard dealer to show it to you
before you buy ANY battery.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham.
Waymouth Service Co., Adelaide. Atkins (W.A.) Ltd.,
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and Lismore.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
valves, new rings and a thorough cleaning out
of the cooling system may temporarily give
better results. Book you desire has been posted.
M.B. (Rocky Point, N.S.W.).—(I) My ’33
Vauxhall is not fitted with a heat indicator.
Can I fit one without removing mascot, and
where can it be obtained? (2) Would you
recommend an extra air fitting as a brake-
saver ?
(1) Nearest General Motors agency will
supply you with a temperature indicator screw-
ing into the cylinder block, the dial then being
attached to the dashboard. (2) No. Not worth
the expense in terms of brake economy.
D.H.F. (Sunshine, Vic.). — My 1929 Delage,
13.9 h.p., has now done 31,000 miles, and I
propose to overhaul it before Easter. The car
is very heavy on oil, using one pint each hour
when driven fast. How can I cure this? In
addition, the clutch “snatches” when starting
from rest. Can you suggest a remedy ?
When dismantled have cylinder bores care-
fully measured and see if wear is excessive, in
which case reboring or relining will be the only
certain remedy. If wear is moderate, fit slotted
oil rings in bottom of pistons and drill about
a dozen £in. holes through the piston, spaced
equally behind the slot. Advise fitting a new
fabric facing to the clutch plate, which, together
with correct tension of the springs, should cure
the trouble.
G.B.K. (Seymour, Vic.). — I have a 12 -volt
generator taken from an old English car which
I wish to fit up for charging 6-volt batteries.
Can this he arranged without great expense ?
Yes, a 12-volt generator can be used for
charging a 6-volt battery without any gear,
although a resistance in the circuit will give
better results. The 12-volt generator will also
charge two 6-volt batteries coupled in series.
D.V. (Southport, Q.). — What is the best
method to adopt in starting up from cold in
order to avoid wear of cylinders ? I have been
advised by some mechanics to run the motor
slowly and by others to speed it up immedi-
ately after starting.
To make sure, you should employ some
proved method of upper-cylinder lubrication, in
which case the initial speed at starting will not
matter. Without upper-cylinder lubrication
slow-speed warming up will avoid risk of seizure
but will take longer to circulate the sump oil
to pistons and cylinder walls. High-speed
warming up will certainly throw oil into the
motor more rapidly, but there will be greater
wear and a probability of seizure.
G.O’N. (Goulburn, N.S.W.).—The clutch of
my Morris-Cowley (35,000 miles ) is slipping
badly. Have lifted inspection cover and cannot
find any means of adjustment. Can the
trouble be remedied ?
No adjustment is provided. Evidently cork
inserts are badly worn, and the only cure will
be to dismantle clutch and fit new inserts into
drive plate.
S.P.O. (Windsor, N.S.W.).— My 1931 Dodge
(42,000 miles ) still carries on with the original
set of spark plugs. Motor is firing evenly on
all cylinders, so why should I buy a new lot,
as I have been advised ?
The fact that the motor fires regularly is no
indication of efficient combustion of gases
within the cylinders. A new set will without
question give the motor more “pep” and im-
prove fuel consumption. Further, the old
plugs, apart from risk of breakdown, must soon
cause pre-ignition through electrodes wearing
thin and becoming incandescent when the car
is driven hard.
Motor Oddities
“Ready Always”: I saw Queensland’s
first Cadillac in Ravenswood in 1926
doing service as a truck. She was chain-
driven ; her one cylinder was under the
front seat, and was cranked from the
side. Her bonnet housed only the tool-
box.
* :i: * t-
“Jo”: Saw a quaint car last week, just
landed from Japan, working on the same
idea as a clock ; it went for 40 miles at
one winding. There was no worry
about petrol—only the necessity for
strong hands at the key with which the
car was wound up.
* ;!: *
“32 x 40”: Carrying a heavy load of
mail, passengers and luggage from Sel-
wyn to Boulia (n.-w. Q.) I had to cross
the Burke River, a long patch of loose
sand. In low gear with all hands push-
ing and the engine doing its utmost, I
was nearly across when the motor made
a noise like a machine-gun and stopped.
Post-mortem showed that 11 teeth in the
fibre distributor wheel had been stripped.
The temperature was about 110 in the
shade, the waterbags were nearly empty,
and it would mean a 16-mile walk to get
assistance. Taking a piece of hardwood
board from a jam case I set to work with
hack saw, files and a small drill. Cutting
the broken section out of the wheel I
dovetailed and pinned a piece of the hard-
wood in its place, and then with care
and patience shaped 11 new teeth. With
this makeshift I drove 400 miles.
* * *
“Crash”: At the side of the 20ft. bitu-
men highway that is now the Manawatu
Gorge-road (M.L.) there stands a granite
slab inscribed with a list of names of
motorists who plunged to death in the
fock-strewn river below. The fatalities
occurred when the road was an unfenced
six-foot track winding above the river
for eight miles. It was on this road, late
at night, that the lights of a friend's car
failed him. He decided to carry on, so
pinned a large white handkerchief to the
back of one of his passengers, who then
walked slowly ahead of the car. The
name of my friend is not on the memorial
tablet.
* * * *
“Crash”: For luck let me commend a
bus-driver on the Nelson-Christchurch
route (M.L.). On a
section where the
road overhangs an
almost-dry river he
attempted to take a
corner at too high
a speed. He felt the
inside wheels leave
the road as the car
lurched over, and
knowing a crash was
inevitable, deliber-
ately steered straight
out over the 20ft.
cliff so as to avoid
a side-on fall. The
car landed on four
wheels, no one was
hurt and the driver got the car back on
the road and continued his journey with-
out leaving his seat.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Uadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade. Sydney. MA4357.
t) w
1
This Receiver, Model (ill, was fully
reviewed by file Radio Jiditor. Mr. 1),
B. Knock, in “Bulletin” 87/3/’35.
means
DUAL WAVE
at its best
The Model 644 (illustrated) uses thq
jiew range of
Philips Valves
including the famous
OCTODE AKI
E447.AK1, E 447, E 454, E 463,1867 Reel.
and incorporates Automatic Volume
Control, Pre-selector, one stage radio
frequency on short wave and broadcast,
Special Vernier Dial, “Colacode”
tuning (wave-band changing by means
of coloured lights). The receiver is
housed in a specially selected cabinet
of beautiful design.
Only first-class components are used
in the construction of this magnificent
receiver, which has excellent selectivity
and sensitivity of .5 micro-volt.
rw
D. W. RADIO COMPANY
210 Willoughby Road, Crow’s Nest, N.S.W. X 5019 and X5OlO.
RADIO NEWS.
AUTOMOBILE RADIO
Notes on Installing the Set
and the Elimination of Noise
By DON B. KNOCK.
When it comes to installing a car radio
receiver new problems arise, although
there is nothing very difficult provided
the job is done systematically. The
equipment, however, must be as light
and as compact as possible, built in sec-
tions so that the speaker, the receiver and
the power-supply arrangements, together
with tuning and volume centre s, can be
mounted in places not required for the
ordinary mechanism of the car or for
the passengers
Selecting a suitable position‘for the
receiver, the speaker and the tuning and
volume controls is the first problem.
The receiver must be kept as far from the
car ignition coil as possible, for that is
the greatest source of interference.
-rj. . , j*
Whlh remd u T* 8
i Tk , e a spar a
® so s mus ie moun e .and
a condenser must be placed across the
„ onornfn , c .. . .
generator. Sometimes it is necessary to
, u j ~ , . , x
d r 8 and ta.i-i.ght w.th
.. . s^ r avl .'tS a c.ipaci yof trom
met ? ’I °f '° red “ ce ,, the
cables UP y S,orage - battery
, ,
Suppiessors can never be neglected, for
,r _ i , . ,
!' ! f P 85 act “ ; 1 "l a,ure , s l>f l!
. ~ aausln B lllac,ve mterfer-
ence of sufficient strength to drown all
except the verv strongest signals It is
.. b sg 11S
the passage of the spark along the con-
F 5
Fig. 1.
Fig. 2.
necting wires, acting as small antennae,
which results in a clicking noise being
heard in the speaker each time the plug
fires.
To instal the suppressor (a resistance
of about 25,000 or 30,000 ohms) it is
connected as near the plug as practicable,
with a separate resistance for each plug.
This has no effect upon the spark as far
as the car is concerned, but it rapidly
dissipates in heat the energy fed to the
spark coil after the rupture has occurred,'
instead of sending it forth as radio-fre-
quency energy. Suitable carbon-type re-
sistances specifically designed for the pur-
pose are obtainable, and these have
proved quite satisfactory.
The generator seldom gives much
trouble, this form of interference being
at low tension. If the brushes are spark-
ing it is possible that they will be heard
in the speaker as a continuous noise.
The cure is found in cleaning the com-
mutator and placing a 2mfd. condenser
across it so that any sparking is ab-
sorbed.
The antenna should be one that can
be installed easily, while giving a maxi-
mum pick-up with a minimum amount
of interference. The underslung type
will be found quite satisfactory, because
it is simple to arrange and a very good
collector of broadcasting signals. This
is due to the facts that this type of an-
tenna is close to the ground and that
the electrical energy is secured from the
ground waves, thus ensuring a low
motor-noise level.
The best method for mounting this
type of antenna is on the under side of
the car, opposite the exhaust pipe. Mount
one end on the rear axle between the
differential housing and the wheel, extend
forward along the drive shaft and mount
the front end on the cross member sup-
porting the running boards. The centre
should be attached by a cleat to prevent
sagging and flapping. Connecting the
antenna to the set, the wire lead must
be shielded and the shield earthed to
frame in as many places as possible.
Where a roof antenna is installed it
is advisable to use a counterpoise under
the car. This method will produce a very
efficient signal. In tests made with this
type of antenna system results were
nearly one and a half times better than
with any other type of automobile an-
tenna. With this system there is not
such great necessity for using suppressors
and condensers, as it is less affected by
mptor noises. The counterpoise is
affixed in a similar manner to the under-
slung antenna, but the lead from it is
brought up to the earthed primary side
of the antenna coil.
Some alterations, however, may be
required to prepare the receiver for the
counterpoise antenna. Remove the
chassis from the cabinet or metal casing
and disconnect the primary side of the
antenna coil from the ground. Solder a
wire from the primary side of the an-
tenna coil to a terminal post or direct
to the counterpoise an-
tenna. Connected up in
this manner the receiver
will give the best perfor-
mance of which it is cap-
able. Fig. 1 shows the
antenna circuit before the
change, while Fig. 2 illus-
trates the altered arrange-
ment.
In cases where the coun-
terpoise antenna is not
used it is much more diffi-
cult to eliminate motor
noises. The first step to
minimise interference is to shield the
parts, cables, etc., which would appear
to reduce any stray noises to a
negligible degree. But shielding does
not affect the cause of interference —it
merely confines it within the shielding.
Tests, therefore, should be made with
the bonnet of the car up. Fortunately,
the majority of cars confine the electri-
cal ignition system under the bonnet.
Shielding of the high-tension cables
must be done very carefully, owing to the
possibilities of troubles caused by corona.
In addition to this care, the shields must
be grounded in as many places as pos-
sible. With cables the most desirable
shielding is a loose-braided sleeve allow-
ing space between the wire and the
shield. It is important never to use
a tight shielding on the antenna lead, as
a loss in volume and sensitivity will re-
sult.
Other points where attention may be
necessary to suppress slight interfering
noises are the ammeter, switches and cir-
cuit breaker. To reduce the interference
set up by these parts join across them an
absorbing condenser.
Lastly, a position must be found for
the power-supply arrangements. If B
batteries are to be used they must be
kept comparatively cool to ensure long
life. With one of the many types of
B eliminators used, however, they may
be housed in separate containers in a
position relative to the car battery or
generator and the receiver. A desirable
location may be in a watertight com-
partment or metal box fixed under the
floor.
These differing power-supply arrange-
ments work most satisfactorily, especi-
ally if the car’s generator-charging rate is
advanced to take care of the small addi-
tional load.
Despite the constant rough treatment
to which car receivers are subjected, the
life of valves and apparatus appears to
be the same as with broadcast receivers
used in the home. Corrosion of parts
can be stopped by making the metal
housings for the chassis absolutely water-
proof and carefully planning the in-
stallation.
D. N. L.
JAZZ AND THE “POPULAR CLASSICS.”
Edgar Bainton, who was brought from
Newcastle-on-Tyne to run the N. S.
Wales State Conservatorium of' Music,
is a chap I am beginning to like. I saw
him conduct and listened carefully to the
result, after which I dried my tears over
the departure of Sir Hamilton Harty.
And on a recent Sunday evening, over
2FC, Dr. Bainton gave a little talk about
music that warmed the cockles of my
heart, and must have been like balm in
Gilead to the middle-brow music-lovers.
“Popular” music, said the democratic
Bainton, is the stuff that pleases most
of the people most of the time. “Halle-
lujah Chorus,” “Annie Laurie,” “Flowers
of the Forest,” “Londonderry Air,”
“Blue Danube,” “Spring Song,” “Old
Hundredth,” “Toreador Song,” and “Pil-
grims’ Chorus” were some of the
examples he cited of music that has
managed to remain extremely popular
through several generations.
The temptation to extend the list
without mentioning composers is irresist-
ible; “Traumerei,” “Intermezzo,” “Dying
Swan,” “Valse Triste,” “Naila Valse,’’
“Standchen,” “Elegie,” “Humoreske,”
“Souvenir,” “Anitra’s Dance,” “Air on the
G String,” “Minuet in G,” “Home, Sweet
Home,” “Home to Our Mountains,”
“Marche Militaire,” “Fantasie-Impromp-
tu,” “Love’s Young Dream,” and “Old
Folks at Home” —such things are so uni-
versally beloved that to sneer at them
becomes (apparently) a first duty of
sophisticated musical critics. Some of
these melodies stand condemned in the
eyes of the superior because they express
primary emotions —nostalgia, patriotism,
love, the intoxication of the dance,
sadness.
But is music any use at all unless it
expresses an emotion simply and sin-
cerely? The great pianoforte teachers,
the great singing teachers, the great or-
chestral conductors, the great brass-band
masters have all united in telling their
pupils that without some genuine stirring
of the emotions on the part of the per-
former or performers real music cannot
be made. The simplest emotions run
deepest and make the widest appeal.
Discussing such matters many years
ago with Leonard Berwick, most sensi-
tive and temperamental of pianists, writer
asked him if his mood was ever out of
tune with his programme. “Yes,” he
said frankly ; “at the beginning I very
frequently don’t feel like playing at all.
But one plays to alter one’s mood, and
one can’t be unkind to music one loves.
And as soon as I feel the audience loves
it, too, I’m all right.”
Dr. Bainton had something to say
about jazz. By his standards, it isn’t
really popular, because it is so ephemeral.
THE BULLETIN'S Radio Editor checks up
on 5-metre signals during a mobile test
in the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.).
He calls it “a formula current at the
moment.” The moment has endured for
a great many years. Syncopation lends
itself to dancing. If Johann Strauss the
younger were alive to-day, or Waldteu-
fel or Philip Fahrbach or Offenbach,
they most infallibly would have joined
in the fashion —that was their business,
just as it is the business of all current
writers for the dance orchestra. (Even
the great Rubinstein felt constrained to
compose some polkas.) They might-have
produced between them a few foxtrots or
rumbas comparable in excellence and
staying-power to the “Blue Danube” or


Complete Instruction
in all branches of
Radio Engineering
THE MARCONI
SCHOOL
OF WIRELESS
(Established 21 years)
Australia’s Oldest and Best
Known Radio Training Institu-
tion conducts courses for
RADIO ENGINEERS
R ADIO TECHNICIANS
RADIO OPERATORS
for Ships, Aircraft and Police
Patrols.
RADIO MECHANICS &
SERVICEMEN, also
TALKING PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Combined Home Study and
Practical Tuition or Home Study
Courses, only.
MODERN EQUIPMENT for
Practical Instruction.
Engineering and Technician sections
are under the direct control of Dr.
W. G. Baker, B.Sc., 8.E., D.Sc.E.
Write, ’Phone BW 2211, or Call for
our 40-page illustrated Prospectus.
Marconi School of
Wireless
97 Clarence Street, Sydney
Conducted under the auspices of
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia) Ltd.,
Australia’s ISational Wireless
Organisation.
w
WHEN you want radio that
lives! When you want
high fidelity reception, unmarred
by the background hiss so long
considered inevitable in super-
heterodynes— choose a radio
that is Octode-equipped,
This remarkable new valve
is the nucleus of modern radio
the pivot on which radio
design for 1935 will revolve.
PHILIPS
OCTODE
4R-53
“Sirenes” waltzes. Possibly some of the
airs of Irving Berlin and his colleagues
of the Tir Pan Alley school will endure,
but most jazz is jolty and crooked as
the polka, and the world, despite what
the dance-rooms do, appreciates still, as
it always has appreciated, a graceful
curve in melody—as witness the lon-
gevity of the “popular classics.”
A. MAJOR.
A Neon-type Tester.
Descriptions of neon-tube testers have
appeared in overseas radio publications,
and the writer, having made most, has
finally arrived at an arrangement as
, ■. , u r . ■ ■ r ~ ~, „ ,
described here. It is simplicity itself, and
quite inexpensive. This tester is a useful
accessory to any radio workshop or
laboratory not equipped with expensive
resistance and capacity bridges. Even
lf * h f laboratory rv extra-well equipped,
and lacks little in the way of test gear,
room and use can be found for this
simple type of tester. A sound, reason
why it should be available is that,
no matter how sensitive an analyser meter
may be, it will not search out a high-
resistance shoit in the elements of a
valye, or a.leak ina condenser with the
certainty of this little instrument.
Parts required are;
One bakelite lampholder
Si" e p?nladcs neon P (P
Two* terminals.
A 4in. by 6in. bakelite panel.
An empty cigar-box.
The circuit is as illustrated. The head-
phones may be shorted out when not
wanted. A condenser must always be in
the circuit—from 1 to 2 mfd. will do —
and this is removed only when test by
substitution is required. Any value may
be tested on the ’phones by substitution.
It will be found that the average neon
tube of this type will ionise at about 165
volts, and in so doing will produce a
musical note in the ’phones. The pitch
of this note depends upon the re-
sistance or capacity in the circuit. The
charging and discharging of the con-
denser will cause a flashing effect in the
neon tube, and by substituting different
known values and noting the number of
flashes and the pitch of the note the
value and condition of unknown com-
ponents can be fairly accurately deter-
mined, by checking against the known
components. By using a pair of prods,
connected in place of the resistance, in
the same pin jacks, a ready means is at
hand for testing valves for shorts between
electrodes —particularly handy in these
days of multi-element valves. The ex-
perimenter will find that only a little
practice is required to get the best out of
this useful little gadget.
MAROS.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Reception recently has been good on
practically all bands, and some most
interesting transmissions have been heard.
The 19m. band has been productive at
10 p.m., and on several nights FYA,
PCJ, DIB and GSF were audible.
PCJ has been heard several times
lately at 10 p.m. on 19m. According to
announcements the transmission was ex-
perimental, but may be continued dur-
ing the winter when PHI is not on 25m.
The League of Nations station was
heard on a recent Monday at fine
strength until 6.20 a.m., when it rapidly
faded down. This station (HBL, 31.27 m.)
was calling Melbourne for some time be-
for the talk took place, but both sides
seemed to have some difficulty in linking
up. There was a slight heterodyne on
HBL, apparently from 3LR. The sep-
aration between the two is very little,
so that one of the stations must have
been off frequency.
The 8.8. C. experiments with aerials
continue on the No. 1 and No. 3 trans-
missions. One referred to as “K” has
shown marked increase in strength here
when being used
on GSE. 2RO
has apparently
changed transmis-
sion times ; the
25m. station has
been heard at
fair strength as
early as 10 p.m.,
but the early-
morning trans-
mission on 30.7 m.
has not been
heard for some
days now, nor
does the station appear to be on 25m.
This is unfortunate, as the 30m. station,
has been consistently good between 6
a.m. and 7 a.m. The No. I transmission
from the 8.8. C. is excellent, but has
dropped rapidly in strength after 6.30
a.m. on both stations.
There is to be another test between
1 p.m. and 2 p.m. by the 8.8. C., but
the wave-lengths used (31m. and 49m.)
are not likely to reach Australia in the
middle of the day. The test is primarily
for Canada, and will be run four days
a week for some time to come. The
8.8. C. will appreciate reports from any
part of the world on this test.
FYA is now almost equal to last winter
after 2 p.m., and for many months to
come should be excellent reception in the
daytime. FYA seems to have cut down
talks in favor of more music.
RNE was quite good on a recent Sun-
day. Some of the questions asked were
distinctly hostile, but it. must be placed
to the station’s credit that it read out
the questions and then had a shot at
answering them.
Early-morning reception has been still
very patchy on all hands. The descrip-
tion of the Hunt Club Steeplechase from
8.8. C. sounded rather tame after the
style of the Australian sporting com-
mentators. 8.8. C. does better on foot-
ball.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
The evening of 21/3/’35 was notable
for a lecture delivered by Mr. Partridge,
in conjunction with Rev. John Flynn,
of the Australian Inland Mission, at the
A.R.A. (N.S.W.) monthly meeting, held
at the Y.M.C.A., Pitt-street, Sydney. The
lecturer dealt with the indispensability of
radio communication outback, and aug-
mented his vivid descriptions of the
Northern Territory by screen views. One
gathers that the intimate details of the
great inland reaches of Australia were
intensely impressive to most present, and
(hat, a number of young Australians
learnt a great deal about the mighty
continent they are fortunate enough to
inhabit. To those who have visited the
Territory, the scenes of bush life re-
kindled a desire to camp under the stars
once again. Mr. Flynn laid emphasis
on the service that tire genuinely inter-
ested radio amateur can give in such
pioneering work, and paid a tribute to
Alt' Traegar, VKSAX, and Maurice
Anderson for their years of painstaking
work in the establishment of the mis-
sion radio network. The history of
A.I.M. radio is one second to none in
achievement anywhere in the world, and
deserves the highest praise. It requires
little imagination to visualise the even-
tual breaking down of all inland com-
munication barriers, and the culmination
of a large medical service, interlinked
with aviation and radio, through the
work of “Flynn of the Inland.”
At the A.R.A. dinner this year, a letter
requesting permission to conduct experi-
mental tests on frequencies higher than
A glimpse of
the “works”
in the latest
experimental
transmitter
at VK2NS,
Bathurst
( N.S.W. ).
The final
stage finishes
up with two
R.C.A. 800’s
in push-pull.
Sliding frames
on the rack
and panel
principle
provide ready
accessibility.
The
transmitter
is a fine
example of
workmanship,
and compares
favorably with
commercially
designed
transmitters
manufactured
overseas.
56mc. was signed by a group of experi-
menters and forwarded to the P.M.G.’s
Department by E. B. Ferguson, of Hazel-
brook (N.S.W.). A reply has been re-
ceived giving approval to the undermen-
tioned amateurs to conduct experimental
tests on frequencies above 100,000 kilo-
cycles, using the existing power, for a
period of six months from 14/3/’35:
E. B. Ferguson (VK2BP); D. J. Peell
(VK2WJ); Don B. Knock (VK2NO); S. E.
Chinner (VK2CG); Con Bischofl: (VK2LZ);
W. M. Manley (VK2MW); G. W. Dukes
(VK2WD); A. I. Littlejohn (VK2AL); S.
Nelson (VK2SN); G. F. Lovering (VK2GO);
K. W.* Maloney (VK2UC); R. A. Brown
(VK2QN).
This ready co-operation by the authori-
ties opens up a new and interesting field,
and progressive experimenters will not be
slow to avail themselves of the oppor-
tunity.
At the A.R.A. meeting on 21 /3/’35,
the writer called attention to the record
established by the Queensland 56mc. ex-
perimental group in conducting two-way
ground and telephony communication
between Toowoomba aerodrome; and
Brisbane ; also a duplex ’plane to ground
contact over the same distance, 71 miles.
This was questioned as being a record
for Australia by a group which recently
visited Newcastle (N.S.W.) and reported
hearing the signal from a Sydney-
static n there. As the only check on
signal identification was an unmodu-
lated carrier-wave, there is no evidence
of confirmation. Even if the signal had
been definitely identified, the Queensland
work refers to two-way and not one-way
contacts. It should be remembered that
the number of experimenters available
for work on investigation of the ultra-
short waves is very limited so far in Aus-
tralia, and whole-hearted co-operation is
the only path to achievement. Anybody
organising tests over long distances
should notify all interested in such Work
beforehand. Any records established and
links opened will be to the benefit of
Australian amateur radio in general.
VK2BP Hazel brook had the misfor-
tune to return home after a week-end
away and find his main aerial mast
broken and the 56mc. beam scattered
over the garden as the result of a gale.
In quick time another aerial system was
erected, and VK2WJ reports that VK2BP
is now much stronger in Sydney than be-
fore. VK2BP reports that VK3ML, of
Melbourne, now has a 56mc. complex,
and is working on apparatus and para-
bolic reflector systems in readiness for
tests over the southern city. It is
learned that VK2TX, of Wyong, will
transmit every evening for 30 minutes,
from 8 p.m. to 8.30 p.m., with an un-
modulated carrier, and when the modu-
lator system is completed the times of
transmission will be for 10 minutes, at
7.50, 8.20, 8.50 and 9.20 p.m. every
night except Saturday and Sunday. The
writer has almost completed a new trans-
mitter and modulator system for 56mc.
consisting of a resonant, grid-line oscilla-
tor with two R.C.A. De-Forest 801’s in
push-pull and 46 Class-B modulators.
With this outfit and the directive aerial
now pointing north it is hoped to break
down the barrier past the Hawkesbury.
The resonant grid-line oscillator has the
remarkable faculty of taking charge of
the frequency much in the same way as
a crystal. It is possible to tune the tank
circuit with very little change in fre-
quency, To reach the low-frequency
end of the 56mc. band the grid-
lines (4fn. copper-tube) are 42in. long.
VK2UG, of Mosman, N.S.W., is using
an oscillator of this type with marked
improvement in speech quality.
The pirate using the writer’s portable
call, VK2NU, continues to indulge in
contacts on the 7mc. band daily. Sev-
eral cards addressed to VK2NU are
reaching the rightful owner of the call-
sign weekly, and are promptly returned
to the senders. Amateurs reading these
notes should refrain from working with
the pirate station, as the callsign was
obtained especially for ultra-short-wave
experimentation. The skull-and-cross-
bones merchant will be wise to desist ;
information received gives a line on his
location.' It should be unnecessary to
mention that the penalty is fine or im-
prisonment and confiscation of apparatus.
Poor sportsmanship exists among cer-
tain amateurs. For example, recently
during projected transmission and listen-
ing periods for VK2TX Wyong, a station
was heard in the centre of the 56mc.
band sending “T-E-S-T de VK2TX.”
After repeated calls with no success, a
land-line call was put through to Wyong,
and Mr. Levenspiel stated that he had
not been on the air at all. The identity
of the sender of the false call is known,
and the knowledge confirms a long-
nursed suspicion. ,
Hats off to Con Bischoff, of VK2LZ.
He smashed all 28mc. records on the
morning of Sunday, 24/3/’35, when he
worked with a second-destrict American
and three Californians. VK2HZ, who
passed on this news, states that W6VQ
was a full RB, and several Maorilanders
were, heard strongly. Japanese amateurs
have also been heard by many 28mc.
enthusiasts, including “Nightowl,” who
keeps watch on short-wave broad-
casters.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
Latest radio license figures from the
p.m.G.’s Department total 694,479, show-
j ng a net j nC rease of 6714 since 31/l/’35.
Experimental licenses number 1237.
* * * *
Transmitting amateurs in Peru have
been accused of transmitting news of an
alarmist and subversive nature, with the


AMPLIOH
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker/’
“A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your,
new Radio, and enjoy the best
possible reproduction.”
“Fitted in all quality Re*
ceivers.”
“Publication forwarded on
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
70 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
—— S, V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleeo, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261.
ĸ
22
0
A
“Atrzone's Tone is Air zone's Own"
mms
SS
sass:
m
CA S H
MODEL 62 5
6-Valve All Electric
Console
Superheterodyne
Here is a splendid set emin-
ently suited to either city or
country, reception. It incor-
porates the highest ideals of
modern radio construction
and gives ideal reception
under any and all conditions.
Fully
Guaranteed
If it’s a Dual Wave
Receiver you want
—wait for the Air-
/.one 630 incorpora-
ting: the unique
feature, AIBZONE’S
INERTIA TUNING.
EASIEST
TERMS
HE SURE TO SEE
THE AIRZONE
BXHIHITS AT THE
RADIO SHOW.
RICH TONAL QUALITY. SENSITIVE. HIGH DEGREE OF
SELECTIVITY. FULLY DELAYED AUTOMATIC VOLUME
CONTROL. NEW CLEAR VISION DIAL adjusted to meet the new
wave lengths. IMPROVED AUDIO SYSTEM, 10 INCH MAGNA VOX
DYNAMIC SPEAKER, NEW STYLE TONE CONTROL, 6 NEWEST
TYPE VALVES, CARINET WORK is of highest quality and
acceptable design.
An altogether high quality radio.
EASIEST TERMS ARE AVAILABLE
AIRZONE FINE RADIO RECEIVERS ARE
OBTAINABLE FROM THE LEADING
MUSICAL HOUSES, RADIO DEALERS AND
DEPARTMENTAL STORES OF AUSTRALIA.
Dealers in country districts apply direct to Airzone for particulars of franchise.
Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Limited , Camperdotvn , Sydney. 5.35-84
result that the superintendent of radio
has suspended all amateur licenses in the
Peruvian Republic. The amateur prefix
for Peru consists of the letters OA.
* * * *
The new Berlin interval signal—the
Morse B —is broadcast to the exact fre-
quency of 435 cycles, or the normal
musical note A. By this means orchestras
throughout the country, and especially
in the provincial radio studios, are able
to take this signal as a means of tuning
their instruments.
The Prague station
has also adopted this
method, and puts
out this note several
times daily as a pre-
liminary warning for
the time signal.
* *
A new octave has
been added to the
usable communica-
tions frequencies of
the radio spectrum
by experts of Har-
vard University and
the American Radio
Relay League. For the first time reliable
scheduled communication over a wave-
length of 2.5 metres has been maintained
for a period of days over a distance as
great as 100 miles.
A series of schedules on the frequency
of 110 megacycles was run off with
clock-like precision between the special
hilltop experimental laboratory of the
league and Harvard’s Blue Hill Meteoro-
logical Observatory near Boston. A
unique feature of the performance was
that it was accomplished when the longer
and more tractable five-metre waves,
which have been regularly used for some
time, exhibited very poor conditions.
This is not the first time that radio
transmitters and receivers have been
made to work on wave-lengths of this
order. Spasmodic, “freakish” signals
have even been heard on somewhat
lower frequencies over distances of 50 to
75 miles. But it was not until recently
that signal radiating and collecting sys-
tems were devised and the proper tech-
nique of their operation formulated,
which enabled the performance now
being carried on. This work, which is
another contribution by radio amateurs
to science, is regarded by leading engi-
neers and scientists as the unfolding of a
new radio field nearly as great as that
of the present standard broadcast band.
Experimental work already done, in
which transmissions have been made over
distances approaching 80 miles, indicates
that the next jump to' 1.25 metres soon
will be made.
Luxury Liner Manoora Has Latest
in Radio Equipment.
The Manoora, the Adelaide Steam-
ship Co.’s latest vessel, carries an un-
usually comprehensive range of wireless
equipment. Her short-wave wireless-
telegraph installation enabled the vessel
to establish contact with the A.W.A.
coastal station at Sydney shortly after
she sailed from the United Kingdom.
The ship is equipped with a 1500-watt
marine-type valve transmitter for use on
the 600-800 m. band. This is the appara-
tus that will be used generally on the
Australian coast for transmission and re-
ceipt of wireless messages. There is an
auto-alarm receiver which keeps watch
for the SOS signal at any time when no
operator is on duty.
Passengers find for their entertainment
a system of amplifiers and loudspeakers
equalled by very few ships in the world.
Provision is made for broadcast recep-
tion, reproduction from phonograph
records, and microphones for talks, an-
T.S.M.V. Manoora, Australia’s luxury liner.
Radio-equipped by A.W.A.
; iouncements and concerts by the ship’s
orchestra. In addition, two lifeboats are
equipped with complete wireless trans-
mitting and receiving sets. All this
wireless apparatus was made in Aus-
tralia by Amalgamated Wireless, and
fitted on board before the ship left
Glasgow.
Correspondence.
“H.L.” (Whitewood, Q.) makes some
observations about tuned R.F. and super-
hets: Saw the footnote suggesting that
other N.Q. readers might like to com-
ment on tuned R.F. v. superhets in cer-
tain localities. In my experience, the
T.R.F. receiver is definitely quieter in
operation up here. The secret appears
to be in using just enough and not too
much audio amplification. I had a set
described by “D.8.K.” some years ago,
with two R.F. and two audio stages.
With the five valves, it was impossible to
hear the description of Peter Pan’s first
Cup race, but with the first audio stage
only in use I got my race results nicely.
I am convinced that static is amplified at
audio frequency.* It needs a six-valve
superhet at least to get daylight reception
throughout the day here, and a good
four-valve T.R.F. job will do it easily.
This doesn’t mean a factory-built T.R.F.
either, but one with two stages of R.F.
with coils space-wound on 3in. diameter
formers with Litz 9/38 wire. The R.F.
stages are of the tuned plate variety, with
screen-grid detector choke-coupled to a
pentode output valve. The aerial coil is
separately tuned. This set will deliver
speaker volume on any A- and B-class
station with very little interference on
B-class stations at night. With an aerial
only two feet long this is sufficient to
bring in all Australian A and B stations,
plus many Maoriland stations at night.
If the “dinkum” modern iron-cored coil
becomes the vogue in Australia, the
T.R.F. receiver should get a new lease
of life.
[A T.R.F. receiver with large-size Litz-
wound coils is undoubtedly capable of a
much better performance than the pre-
superhet era factory-made T.R.F. job
with small canned coils, but as such it
is purely a home-constructor or experi-
mental proposition. Separate controls
for each tuned circuit must necessarily
also be ruled out in the set for general
sale. It must not be overlooked that the
superhet also would be materially im-
proved by the iron cores, and the com-
parison under those conditions would be
extremely interesting. *The use of the
tone control in the modern superhet is
useful in this respect.— Radio Ed.]
Casual Comment.
“Popular Wireless’s” television scribe
says: “The non-technical press is still
telling us that ‘television is just round the
corner.’ It is still fashionable, too, to
say that ‘something is still missing.’ There
hasn’t been much missing in the demon-
strations of high-definition stuff that 1
have seen recently. In a televised ver-
sion of a ‘close-up’ from a well-known
film, I was able to distinguish the sepa-
rate eyelashes of the heroine.” Such
detail should be sufficient proof that
high-definition television has passed the
imagination stage.
The Q, and A. Column.
(1) Which of the two circuits (diagrams
enclosed) would you advise me to try ? (2) Is
the R.F. coupling condenser CR of the cor-
rect capacity for this position in circuit 2 ?
(3) Would regeneration control by variable
variable condenser be
suitable in the detector of
circuit 2 ? —249.
(1) Both circuits are
quite practicable, and
should give equally good
results. In either case the
screen grid of the R.F.
valve must be by-passed
to earth. A .Imfd. capa-
city will do. (2) No;
50mmfd. is ample here.
An 11-plate midget vari-
able will do. (3) Yes;
although there is already
the potentiometer con-
trol, the inclusion of the
variable condenser is an
advantage.
I wish to construct a B-battery eliminator for
a nine-valve all-wave superhet. Could such
apparatus be constructed using a coil or coils
from a Model T Ford? Please give a circuit
diagram of such a unit, with value of filter
condensers and choke. —250.
A plate-voltage supply unit of this type will
not {deliver enough current to operate a big
receiver. It is impracticable, particularly with
an all-wave receiver, as the vibrator or genera-
tor is a certain source of noise on the short
C1. 8mld, incordoraled intide the "Ford"
[?] C2. 6mld. C3 6mld. C4. 4mld.
C5 1mld. (oplional) L.F. Choke 40 Hy.
H.F. Choke ordinory.
waves. A circuit, with the necessary values,
is illustrated. The type 7 Westirtghouse recti-
her can be obtained from Amplion (A/sia),
Ltd., Sydney.


T A 9
to-days
aid
to sparkling
HEALTH and FITNESS
‘Pen’ In a Few Minutes
m
m
■
km
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting momentsl
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep feito your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Th omsands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
‘lt has
done me
a lot of
good 9
m
k
m
■
Wm
m
E
ONE
User says:
\
“I find great
relief in Cream
[of Yeast; it has
. lone me good
in several
ways. Had
been in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going hack in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
ray first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
—A.E., Young, N.S.W.
All Chemists* and Stores,
1/11, S/6 and 6/9.
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
%
%
m -
rj>l
■A
*-‘£ :
mm
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-up known.”
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP’
TO-DAY—
Amazing Vitality To-morrowl
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep”
when thousands, once run-down and ill , tell how they
gained Slbs. to ISlbs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply talcing Cream of Yeast.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money wi 11 be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories.
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES:—
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia, in If minutes. * Banishes
Depression, Loin Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion: in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and A bdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., unthin 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “PrjC in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous
A ihides
train on
Cream of Yeast.


FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Opening Handicap: Arachne,
Debut Stakes: Fanfare; next,
Grand Mogul.
Elizabeth Farm Handicap: Care
Free ; next, Roman Spear.
Rawson Stakes; Peter Pan ; next,
Sylvandale.
Jubilee Handicap: Oro; next,
Stonebrook.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Increased attendances at recent meet-
ings augur well for the autumn round
at Randwick. At Rosehill on Saturday
there was an excellent crowd, and the tote
figures surprised the committee. They
would surprise it still more if it installed
5.0., place and doubles machines.
Hunter White’s filly Myra Tip is
becoming costly to her followers. On
the strength of a close second at
Randwick she was made favorite for
the Westmead Handicap. Fractious and
badly away, as a rule, she began
well from the rails, and came into
the straight just behind Cid, Porcia,
Questionnaire and Veilantif; but after-
wards was never in it. Veilantif looked
a winner at the Leger, but Cercello, well
backed at sevens, came with a great run
and defeated her easily, with Question-
naire third. Cid ran well while his con-
dition lasted. Cercello is not engaged in
the Doncaster, and his party must now
regret the omission, for he is a greatly
improved horse.
A moderate, Mystic Spell, was made
favorite for the Club Handicap, a fact
which says little for the class (or con-
dition) of the others. Oro, sweating
freely and looking in need of a race or
two, was second fancy ; there was little
OIERT: *1 don't like your suit?
Bert ' , 1 had it specially made for,
WHEN I GO OUT WITH You ''
<3ERTf Its so abominably uoud''
Bert.‘*l Know, &ut ive c*oj to make
MVSELF HEARD SOMEHOW."
support for King March and Master
Brierly. The locally-trained Stone-
brook was backed at sevens. It was
a long time since he had won, but he had
no trouble in beating off the pacemaker,
Mystic Spell, at the Leger, and he scored
easily from Master Brierly and King
March. Oro was fourth. He, Master
Brierly and King March have respectively
Bst. 131 b., Bst. 101 b. and Bst. 51b. in the
Sydney Cup. If Master Brierly’s doubt-
ful legs stand a preparation he may pick
up a long race at Randwick.
Old Lanacian (6 to 1) proved too good
for the opposition in the Novice. Cock-
pen looked a winner a furlong from
home but tired, and hampered Salted
Almond, whose rider persisted in trying
for a run on the rails. Sally started
favorite with Cockpen ; she weakened in
the straight after leading for home.
For the first heat of the Maiden Hugh
Denison’s colt Heritor was the popular
fancy. He essayed to win all the way,
but Djojka (3 to 1), ridden more
patiently than at Randwick, came with a
last run to down the favorite with ease.
Sweet Annabel, a Magpie mare, was
third. Predicament (6 to 4) won the second
division in runaway fashion. Rogarma
and Codilla filled the places. The winner
carries the colors of George Hansford,
and was turned out in capital trim by
Pat Knowles, who won many races with
the sprinter Foxy. In this race three
horses came down at the home turn.
Jockey Weiss had an arm broken; two
horses, Bosun and Braytina, suffered
fatal injuries.
It had been thought that J. C. Bendrodt
knew more about dancing than racing,
but now the “sports” are not so sure. He
gave 325 guineas for Grand Mogul at the
Melbourne yearling sales, and got hold of
a good one. Well backed at 6 to 1, the big
Beau Fils colt beat his opponents so easily
in the first division of the Juvenile that he
must be considered for the important
two-year-old events at Randwick, especi-
ally as Hadrian was one of the conquered
division. Hadrian made the pace a
cracker, but was of no use to Grand
Mogul at the finish. Silver Standard was
third, Wykeham and Gibson being most
prominent of the others. In the other
division, Pastel, a smart daughter of
Chrystal, led' for most of the way,
but stopped at the Leger. Prittle Prattle
(7 to 1), a good stamp of Heroic
colt owned by Goulburn pastoralist James
Carr, won with a lot in hand from Wee
Dell and Sailor Prince.
Multigris has been backed for the Don-
caster, and he was a strong order for the
Rydalmere Mile. However, Booth’s
Spearhead gelding Vice Royal made him
look like a shearer’s hack. Vice Royal
had been backed from tens to fives. Cap-
tain Rado just beat Speldon for the minor
place. Ranchero met with interference
along the back, and Prowler, after an
effort to steal the race, stopped to nothing
in the last furlong. Regular Bachelor
was ridden in behind, but again failed.
* * * *
A taking performance on Soft Step’s
part has brought him into request for
the Sydney Cup. Carrying 9st. lib., the
four-year-old son of Spearfelt—E’en
Song won the March Handicap at Eagle
Farm, a mile and a quarter, in 2min.
6sec. Second to him was Rivalli, with
9st. 2lb. ; third was Moorenbar, who chal-
lenged Soft Step for favoritism on the
strength of having been first in previous
three starts. One of the also-rans was
Brown Force.
* * * *
At the beginning of last week Dromos
and Journal were substantially backed
for the Doncaster-Sydney Cup double.
Knox had been engaged to ride both. He
figured in the accident at Ascot, and
became a hospital case, but was dis-
charged next day. When it was thought
that he might not be able to ride at
Easter McCarten was provisionally en-
gaged for Journal, but it seems pretty cer-
tain that Knox will be able to accept
both mounts. If he fails to pull round
in time it might make a difference to
Dromos; first-class jockeys who can
ride strong at 7st. 51b. are scarce.
sj- * * #
For the information of remote readers,
The Bulletin now fancies Dromos and
Soft Step for the Doncaster and Cup.
Both are four-year-olds, nicely weighted,
and with good recent form to recom-
mend them.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week J. M. Cam-
eron gave Gold Trail, the Auckland Cup
winner, an outing in a mile race at
Mentone on Wednesday and in the
Autumn Handicap at Ascot on Saturday.
The daughter of Chief Ruler missed a
place at Mentone, but came home suffi-
ciently well to justify warm support at the
former “pony” course. Cameron reckoned
she would be suited by the longer dis-
tance (U miles and 40 yards) and by the
fact that the running track at Ascot
somewhat resembles that at Auckland.
There was a sensational finish in the
Ascot race. Petau, who had deposed
Gold Trail from favoritism, rushed from
the extreme rear to take control at the
back of the course. He led the Maori-
land mare by two lengths into the
straight, and then followed his habit of
hanging out when nearing the judge’s
box. Voitre committed the tactical
error of making his run on the whip-
hand of Petau, who several times col-
lided with Gold Trail, forcing that rival
on to the fast-finishing Yaropian. Ver-
dict went to Petau by half a length from
Gold Trail, with Yaropian three-quarters
of a length further off. The majority of
spectators anticipated an objection and
the reversal of the placings, but in his
long career on the turf Jack Cameron
never has entered a protest. He con-
siders that the stipendiary stewards
should take action where such is neces-
sary. All that the Ascot officials did was
to hold a formal inquiry, at which Voitre
testified that his mount was not suf-
ficiently hampered to warrant a protest.
Cameron has moved on to Sydney with
Gold Trail and Sir Nigel. Sir Nigel
shaped so badly at Mentone that the
trainer contemplated either turning him
out for a spell in Victoria or sending him
straight back home. However, Sir Nigel
displayed amazing improvement in the
Ascot Thousand, finishing particularly
well up the hill to be right on top of
the placed horses. The gelding had
suffered from throat trouble. Cameron
has been encouraged to revise his plans,
and now intends to try to get a race out
of the son of Grand Night at the Easter
meetings in Sydney.
Voitre advised Cameron that Sir Nigel
had no possible chance in the Ascot
Thousand, but the gelding had been paid
up for, and —on that account only—was
sent to the post, Voitre being released to
ride Croden Lad. In some quarters Cro-
den Lad has been esteemed as faster
than Arachne for a few furlongs. The
Adelaide three-year-old revealed plenty
of speed on Saturday, and drew out
for a clear lead from Melason, the fav-
orite. It suited Theo Lewis that Croden
Lad should make the pace for Melason.
Immediately the straight was entered
Melason joined issue with the Crow-
dennis gelding, who collapsed. After that
it was all over, bar shouting, Melason
scoring easily from a 33 to 1 chance, Te
Huon, with Havana a close third.
Stakes at Ascot amounted to £2400.
Apart from the “Thousand” there were
an Autumn Handicap of £4OO and four
events worth £250 each. By comparison
the money distributed at Rosehill on the
same afternoon was paltry ; no race at
Rosehill was worth more than £175. Can
it be wondered that Sydney trainers are
envious of their Melbourne brethren or
that Pike is thinking of settling in Mel-
bourne?
One after another, the leading Mel-
bourne trainers are exploiting the skill
of Voitre to their advantage. “Horrie”
Leek, who captured the Australian Cup
last year with Heroic Prince, has Voitre
to thank for Tattenham’s success in the
juvenile event. A bold bettor, Leek sup-
ported the Manfred colt from substan-
tial odds down to 8 to 1, Strathardale,
who used to be trained in Sydney by
Ike Foulsham, but recently was bought
privately by F. W. Hoysted from L. K.
S. Mackinnon, the V.R.C. chairman,
opened favorite, but was supplanted by
Dazzlement. Luck is dead against Skid-
more just now; Dazzlement failed to
show up. Strathardale had a poor pass-
age, and did well to finish second, though
2\ lengths behind Tattenham.
In 1918 Stage Girl, the dam of Tat-
tenham, won the Oaks. Undoubtedly
Tattenham is the best of her progeny
to date, and he may prove a first-class
three-year-old. Pharsalia, who finished
third, is owned by Telford. The Jumpers’
Flat went to Menelik, and this son of
Ethopian may do Telford great credit
when the Grand Nationals come round.
* * * *
“N.T.W.”; The average Australian
politician is fond of racing, and at least
two have patented inventions designed
to make it safer. It was Arthur Gull, a
Westralian M.L.A., who thought out the
Boya expanding girth and surcingle, now
used all over the world, and an
aluminium saddle-tree has been invented
by J. E. Hardwick, who was in the West-
ralian Assembly with Gull —they are
both native-born. Tried successfully in
Westralia, the saddle-tree has been
brought to Melbourne and thence to Syd-
ney by the former member for East
Perth. Weighing only 41b., it has stood
a test of 20 stone. With advancing
weight. Jockeys are prone to ride in
saddles as light as Boz. A metal tree
would be an obvious safeguard in such
cases.
{Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
“G.M.”: Melb. League matches may be
conducted under revolutionary prin-
ciples this season. Somebody has in-
vented a rubber-covered ball which is
supposed to overcome all the disabilities
of a leather one, especially the difficulties
of handling resultant on wet weather.
The ball is to be thoroughly tested be-
fore adoption, and it remains to be seen
whether the rubber —a new composition
—will keep its shape. If it is not found
suitable the League —indeed, every con-
trolling code of football in every land
might well consider whether it is not a
mistake to use a new ball each match.
The average ball bounces in an erratic
manner when just out of the box.
Players cannot handle it with ease, and
it is not until the last quarter of most
matches that it assumes a shape which is
fair to everybody and good for the game.
First-class matches should be played, not
with an old ball, but a ball which has
been broken in.
* * * *
“0.T.”: One begins to understand why
a good team like St. Kilda (Vic.) never
gets to the top. Colin Watson, last year’s
captain, having announced his intention
of retiring—“chucking the game before
it chucks me,” as he put it—the com-
mittee almost went on its knees to get
him to stay on. Watson owns a farm of
stud cattle at Warrnambool. Coming
up to train two nights a week and to play
on Saturday meant leaving precious little
time for the farm (now a full-
time job). It left the man even less time
to get fit for football.
* * =N *
“Whistle”: Sydney Rugby League
officials are talking of bringing out a
referee from the North of England to
officiate in the matches with Queensland
and other important League games.
Sydney has rejoiced in many referees of
class in both Rugby codes ; the League
games under Tom McMahon were classic
examples of control and gained praise
even from visiting North of England
teams —which is saying something. The
inference that local talent is at such a
low ebb that an importation from Wigan
or Chorlton-cwm-Hardy is desirable is
not flattering to the home product.
{Continued on next page.)
“Foul Fly”: N.S.W. baseballers are
planning for a busy season apart from
the triangular tourney in Melbourne,
which begins on August 4. Two teams
have been dropped from the first grade
and six will now play instead of eight, it
being hoped that the quality of the clubs
will improve. It is proposed to invite a
Victorian team to play N.S.W. in Sydney
on King’s Birthday, and after the Mel-
bourne meeting South Australia will
make the trip to the Bridge City.


iSli
C C _ r\C\ r> C P;
V?
flg&
6c
coC
l&vStcv
c
"TOP-FLITE"-The
Greatest Championship Ball
Identically the same ball that Jimmy
Thomson, winner of the Centenary Open,
used in making his world record of 283.
Multi-dot, in Mesh and Dimple O/
markings each VJ
-rdpaldtiui--
SPALDING "PAR;’- The
Longest Durable Championship
Ball made
This year gives greater distance than ever.
Many Australian National Championships
have been won with Spalding Par. Multi-
dot, in Mesh and Dimple Mark- *l5/
ings each O' "
r “
nC>nr
bC 1
r c
r I C
r^pCfjTjC
(pennon
nn
o
r- r-
WINCHESTER
m.
Model 67, .22-cal. Single Shot, Bolt Action Rifle,
27in. Round Tapered Barrel and improved Safety
Catch. Elevating Rear Sight.
Approx. Freight in N.S.W. 2/6
45/-
k
Model 68,
similar to
Rear Sight
.22-cal. Single Shot Bolt Action Rifle,
Model 67, but with Aperture rf rf /
for Target Shooting o«3'
THE NEW WINCHESTER SUPER SPEED RIM FIRE CARTRIDGES.
ķ
Short
2/5 100.
soperWspeed
Long
3/5 100.
ĸ
Long Rifle
3/10 100.
COWLES and DUNN
'Phone; M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Ur dei the Whip
Soft Step has come to Sydney for the
Cup race, in which he has Bst. 11b. The
best of the Spearfelts so far, he won the
Queensland Cup as a three-year-old, carry-
ing Bst.; a good horse, Rivalli, was second
with Bst. 21b. That same season Soft
Step was second in the Brisbane Cup,
with 9st. to St. Valorey, in receipt of
71b. Piastoon won the Brisbane Cup
with Bst. 41b., and in the following
season led from start to finish of the
Sydney Cup, beating a warm favorite
and a very good horse in Limerick. This
Page has pleasant memories of that Syd-
ney Cup, for it tipped Piastoon, and, after
failing to get 33 to 1 from McShortodds,
had a massive wager —30s. —on him at
tote odds.
There was a disposition in the south
to discount the value of Soft Step’s
Queensland form, chiefly because Wai-
kare had beaten him in the Derby after
failing in the Sydney classic. Waikare
has since proved himself a rattling good
horse. The V.R.C. handicapper was not
one of the scoffers; he awarded Soft
Step 9st. in the Melbourne Cup, the
same as Nightly and Limarch, and only
21b. less than Hall Mark —adjudged the
best four-year-old in the race. Soft Step
did not start. He had an outing in a
mile race at Ascot (Brisbane) on March
16, and finished just behind the placed
horses, after meeting with interference.
* * * *
Smashes are rare on Sydney race-
courses, though Moorefield had a couple
of bad ones a few seasons ago. Almost
the worst on record happened at Ascot
(Sydney) in a division of the Flying
Handicap on Wednesday. There was a
field of 14, and they had gone nearly
half a mile when The Motorist, ridden
by Lightfoot, stumbled, veered outwards
and came down. He had been running
fourth, and in his fall he brought down
nine other horses that were racing in
a bunch ; some fell over him and others
over those prostrate animals. Almost
miraculously Glenwitch, running nearly
last, was knocked clear, and, plunging
to the outside, he continued on, to make
an uncommonly close finish of it with
Staccato, the winner. Behind them were
the favorite, Bim Boy, and Myahmin,
mere half-heads separating the four.
But few had eyes for the finish. Danger
to others brings out the Australian’s most
attractive qualities, and before the judge
had done his job hundreds of spectators
had clambered over the fence and were
picking up groaning jockeys and grab-
bing screaming horses. All the lads were
more or less hurt; McHugh, the rider of
Wuiruna, was the worst case, with con-
cussion, internal injuries and a fractured
wrist. Labor Girl —a good little mare
with many wins to her credit —was killed
outright, and Juanita and The Motorist
had to be destroyed.
M,Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Pietro Georgi, the cruiserweight from
California, improved in his second fight
against Ambrose Palmer at Leichhardt,
but not sufficiently to beat the Victorian.
With a lusty left he nearly knocked
Palmer through the ropes in the first
round, and in the thirteenth Ambrose’s
left eyebrow (in bandages as he entered
the ring) began to bleed. But in most of
the other rounds Palmer had a substantial
lead on points, and his old opponent Jack
Haines awarded him the decision. There
were some protests, excited by Georgi’s
willingness and toughness, but it was
correct.
Footbrawl
“Shrewsbury”: The Australian Soccer
people have for years been keen on send-
ing a team to England, and are still hope-
ful. Sixteen of the leading English clubs
are said to have promised to fix up
matches. One would like to know the
names of the sixteen. The crack
professional teams of the League have
a tremendously congested programme,
which laps over at each end into
cricket. However, there are many
minor leagues and associations with
teams of good quality which can be
depended on to give tourists all they
want in the matter of good football.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: N.S.W.R.U. clubs are
wondering what the dividend out of the
Union’s profits will be this year. The
annual division is a great help to the
clubs, and, considering that the Union has
a solid credit balance, it is hoped that the
handout will exceed the £589 of last
year. There are 120 teams to be helped,
and a lot of money is wanted. The
situation points to the urgent need for
the Union to acquire its own private
ground. The making of Twickenham in
England nearly broke the E.R.U., but
the outlay has justified itself a hundred-
fold. Every year th*' profits e rovn
“Have you backed your fancy?”
“Yes, dear, with such a SWEET bookmaker. He promised me a sedan
car as Well if 1 win”
international games are divided among
the clubs in several ways, the most
popular being advances at very low
interest to enable clubs to acquire their
own grounds. Scotland has also found
the idea a paying proposition. Ireland
and Wales have to depend on club
grounds, the owners taking a whack of
the “gates.”
“Newtown”: Sydney Uni. Rugby
Unionists are entertaining Combined
M.L. Unis, in May. Japanese Universities,
which entertained the Australians so
royally last season, want the Maori-
landers to go from Sydney to Nip-
pon, and may invite an Australian Uni.
team again next year; but many would
like to see the Nipponese over here. The
M.L. visit means the postponement of the
Australian Uni. tourney, which will now
come off in August at Adelaide.
M * * *
“Line-out”: There has been unconscion-
able delay in fixing the dates of the pro-
posed tour of a Maoriland Rugby Union
team in Australia. The trouble seems to
be that the M.L. people want a guarantee
from Victoria. N.S.W. and Queensland
have given theirs, but seem to care little
what happens to Victoria. Yet unless the
striking rise of Rugby in Victoria and
other Australian Rules States is backed
by visits from international teams, it is
hopeless trying to spread the game.
* * *
“Stand Off”: While the N.S.W. Rugby
Union is tinkering with the rules of the
game which it has no authority to alter,
it might turn its attention to one that
sadly needs amending—that relating to
the knock-on. Under the rule as it
stands to-day, a passed or kicked ball
rebounding even an inch from the fingers
of the recipient is a k'nock-on, and the
game is stopped. The fool-idea was not
always in existence. At one time a knock
forward was not taken notice of if the
player caught it again before it touched
the ground—rightly so, since this gave
no advantage to the handler’s side.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Looney Jim”: The latest long-dis-
tance golf ass is reported in an American
journal catering for the obsession as
doing 459 consecutive holes in 39 hours
and covering 109 miles. The affair came
off at Los Angeles, near Hollywood,
which is just what one would expect. The
player, Coy by name, showed one glim-
mer of sense, in that he humped only
one club. He broke up in the end, and
was taken off to hospital in a foundered
condition, as one might expect.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Sydney entertained a
golfing angel unawares last week when
Helen Nimmo, championette of the East
of Scotland, called in from M.L. on her
way back to Britain after a long tour.
A visit to Royal Sydney showed that
the lass plays an astonishingly long game.
In her opinion our courses are short
compared with the British links, where
low-handicapped women play from the
men’s tees. Her handicap in Britain is
2 —much harder to get there than here—
and in winning her championship she
beat the champion of Scotland, Miss
Cooper. She was taken for a drive round
the nearer Sydney courses, and hopes to
see them again one day with a British
team.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Melbourne golf pro-
fessionals had a bright day out at King-
ston Heath club, where they gathered
by invitation for a bogey competition
and a long-driving exhibition. Arthur
Spence, of Yarra Yarra, and Don Thom-
son, of Croydon, tied with cards of 2
up on bogey, both going round with 74’s
in spite of a strong gale. Horace Boorer,
from Woodlands, took the long drive
with a smack of 303 yards, well ahead
of Ernest Wood, the home professional,
who reached 290.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Ma State profes-
sional golfers are busy considering means
of raising cash to send a team of six on
a tour of the U.S.A. The N.S.W. golf
council approves of the idea and has
promised to help in passing the plate;
£5OO will be required per man. The
P.G.A. is considering several money-
raising schemes, and W. Corry, the chair-
man, will welcome suggestions.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: Victoria, which has been
pretty sour over the Ma State’s steady
output of infant tennis prodigies, is at
last satisfied she has drawn a good
marble. In the M.C.C. tournament, prac-
tically another Victorian championship
meeting, an Echuca girl of 16, Sadie
Berryman, scored in the women’s singles.
Miss Berryman has all the marks of
a coming champion, though, of course,
there are still faults which have to be
overcome.
* * * *
“Top .Spin”: The Yankees have pro-
visionally selected six men for their
Davis Cup team: Allison, Wood, Van
Ryn, Parker, Budge and Mako. They
are so happy about the soft thing they
have in the American zone that they
have already engaged quarters for the
team near Hurlingham. There, while
competitors in the European zone are
chasing each other all over Europe, the
U.S. team, under the eye of a special
trainer, will lead a lotus existence, tem-
pered by practice on grass courts.
* * * *
“Crock”: It is disturbing to read that
Crawford has been suffering from a re-
turn of the asthmatic trouble that has
been his bane. It is stated that he is
expected to shake it off during the
voyage. Sea air is the worst thing in
the world for asthma, and the damper
conditions of Western Europe are not
(Continued on page 38.)


&9 APPOINTMENT TO H.M.THS KINO
m
i m
„ v ,
m§
«
«►
R
■$ x ;
i
BORN 1820
STILL GOING
STRONG
ohnnie
a it 11 o u it
falter
ce§ ...
. . . that as from March 30th the Distillers Distributing Company
will cease to represent John Walker & Sons Ltd. in Australia, and
that the business will now be conducted from Kilmarnock House,
15-17 Young Street, Sydney.
. , . that Johnnie Walker Whisky will still be imported direct
from Scotland in sealed casks —remember only from Scotland
can true Scotch whisky come —and will be bottled in
our own warehouse under the supervision of the
Commonwealth Customs and our own Executives, thus
ensuring for you the same unsurpassed quality that
you have always expected in this the most famous of
all Scotch whiskies.
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
SYDNEY . . . LONDON . . . KILMARNOCK
k
ķ
JW. 18.48


Use
DUXBAC
and
KIL SPECIAL
mmmi
CARTRIDGES
Heavy Loads—High Velocity—
Hard Hitting At Long Range.
A 2|" Load in 2\" Shells
Without Excessive
Pressure or Recoil.
Loaded with “ Neoflak ”
Powder—the latest and .
most successful shot-
gun propellant.
The BEST for
Duck Shooting.
'NEOFLAK’
LOADED
O
&
M
Cl
384 a
tl )db 9kaMAS 9to 'DItfOViKCAI
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again:
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. Al l.
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD.. MELBOURNE
PASTORAL & FARMING NEWS
Reports of Shows, Descriptions of Leading
Properties, Special Articles and Pictures of
Rural Interest are given in
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly for the Man on the Land,
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Hows
power
your
mi e
and
age
?
now
l
“Better than ever—
since you advanced
the.— ignition.”
There is, to-day,
but one way to get, in FULL measure,
the power and mileage your car was
built to give. Fill up with Super Plume
Ethyl AND get your garageman to
advance the ignition at the distributor.
DO this and get extra power (without
harmful knocks), swifter acceleration and
better mileage. (If your car has an Octane
Selector, set it to the "High" position).
SUPER PLUME +
k
SUPER PLUME ETHYL
SUPER PLUME ETHYL
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PTY.
LTD.
P 520
likely lo improve matters. Quist is also
recovering from an attack of the same
affliction, which has a regrettable habit
of recurring periodically. To send away
two players subject to this complaint on
a strenuous tour is taking a risk.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Prior to the departure of
the Davis Cup team, the A.L.T.A. threw
out a request from manager Turnbull for
an additional allowance to members on
the ground that they found themselves
out of pocket as a result of their tour
abroad. It was equally unaccommodating
in the case of McGrath, who had some
teeth repaired and had the bill sent to
the Ma State association, which passed
the buck to the Australian body with the
intimation that it was clearly a national
matter.
“Cash Amateur”: Turnbull came at
the A.L.T.A. again before the team left,
this time on his own account. He wanted
to be allowed to write tennis notes for
newspapers while away. Considering that
Turnbull is the manager of the team, he
showed surprising ignorance of the rules
relating to tennis amateurism.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: According to a cable,
the M.L. tennis heads in England are
worrying about getting their team fit in
time for the match against the Austra-
lians on May 11. Malfroy, selected with
Stedman for the doubles, is ill, and
Andrews is showing horrible form
against third-rate players. It is to be
hoped the crocks are fit to start on the
appointed day. A postponement of a
day or two even would handicap our
men for the French championships start-
ing on May 19.
* * * *
“G.M.”: International tennis is once
again burning midnight oil to discover a
method of overcoming the footfault
trouble. A complicated scheme of double
Hnes . s nQw suggest£d But if a p] a ye r is
going to trespass over a line, it makes no
difference where the line is placed. If he
is a trespass addict he will trespass, and
if there is any line he will go over it. All
the rules that ingenuity can evolve will
not prevent a player from breaking them
if he is inclined that way. Why not let
a server wave his leg over the line as
i o ng as t b e other foot is clear? A
cr i c iceter may place one foot outside the
cre ase.
•
Miscellaneous
“Glenelg”: South Aus. oarsmen are
in a c i e f t st ick. The financial cupboard
i§ ag bar£ ag tha expanse of Lake E yre,
and & State may not be able to send
an eight to row for the King’s Cup on the
N ® River in M If not repre-
it wiU forfeit the right to hold
the cup race in South Australia during
*e centenary celebrations next year,
The cost of the eight will be over £4OO
special efforts are to be made to raise
the money, but time presses.
* „* _ * u r
ShrevMbuw: One result of the visit
to Victoria of the London R.C has been
» « e " eral imitation of its methods In
Melbourne the Victorian eight tor the
King’s Cup has had its first spin in the
new English boat left by the L.R.C.,
and has found it a bit of a job
adapting itself to the swivel rowlocks
and to the longer and lower-set slides.
Sydney G.P.S. crews are trying the new
dodges, altering the length and set of the
slides and following the English example
in oar design and measurements. Scots
College has two new eights, both built
to conform to the new notions,
* * * *
“Shabash Bhai”: Australia is to get
a glimpse of the Indian hockey-players,
after all. The team of 16 and two
officials goes to M.L. first, reaching Wel-
lington on May 13. On July 26 it will
leave Auckland, and will put in a fort-
night in N.S.W. before heading back
to the coral strand. Most of the players
are Olympic representatives—lndia won
the hockey at Los Angeles.
* * * *
“Iroquois”: Lacrosse, which flour-
ished in Australia in the mid-’nineties,
has fallen on evil days. The Australian
council has had to decline an invitation
to Berlin Olympiad, since there are no
funds and no prospects of raising any.
The council has been in touch with
Canada and America regarding visits,
and it has been decided to write asking
what guarantees teams from these coun-
tries would require. Years ago the tour
of the Canadian team gave a great im-
petus to Australian lacrosse, and the
experiment is worth repeating. As with
baseball, the trouble is getting hold of
enclosed grounds which will return
revenue.
“Pirnir” • The Mnrvlphnnp Hub k
Picnic . I he Marylebone club is
jMTK not
known whether Australia will be visited
The earns skippered by MacLaren and
their* before
M L. go. a big percentage of die •‘gates"
n?e.tv ma ce e rta a in t“us?r r ata will be
offered a series of malclSThe Result
of the tour may be the discovery of
something good among the younger
tourists. MacLaren introduced us to a
promising youngster in Chapman.
Duleepsinhji was a likely-looking mem-
ber of Gilligan-s side.
hc * * *
“Aigburth”: C. S. Dempster, one of
Maoriland’s finest batsmen, has been
appointed “financial secretary” of Leices-
ter country cricket club, that being
England’s way of permitting an amateur
to receive money and remain an amateur,
Dempster will be an acquisition to
Leicester. For years “Robbie” Mac-
donald, a player once prominent m
Queensland cricket, was hon. sec. for the
hunting county, and did good work for
it with bat and ball; to-day he is repre-
sentative in England of the Australian
Board of Control.
* * * *
“Trent Bridge”; To the writer, the out-
standing feature of the final climb-down
G f Notts county, which a few weeks ago
was threatening to pull the M.C.C. and
t he other counties to bits over the body-
bne row? [ s t he throwing of Carr to the
wo lves. As one speaker complained, Carr
was not eV en thanked for his services as
captain.
* * * *
“Splash”: It looks as if Sydney is to
have a decent swimming-pool at last-
There are now several good ones in the
suburbs but nothing in the metropolis
pro per, ’ save the Domain duck-puddle,
North Sydney Council has authorised
the making of an up-to-date pool, to
u Olympic requirements, on the
site Of the o.§ Long^dge
£°' s^a P t S ed at '£3o,ooo to be raised by
, , ' xha flne Me i bourne
I"* Vnn^‘.he S of
a money- Pn“ £
North Sydney venture, especially as the
N,S Council intends to supplemen. the
bridge and torn services with a special
er, ‘ nom ,
The stradbroke Cup, which
b the Grai , of Victorian polo
. Tr L f +
since the Governor of that name p e-
sented it for mter-State and mter-club
competition, has been won outright by
South Australia. Governor Huntingfield
has dropped into the breach with the
offer of a new cup. In his soldiering
days, the Gov., as Captain Vanneck of
the 13th Hussars, ranked high as a polo-
player in India, where they know some-
thing about the game.


THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Each week four original “Bulletin”
black-and-white drawings are offered
as prizes for Society pars., Aborigin-
alities, Hints for the Farm and gags
for joke-blocks. In addition, all con-
tributions published are paid for at
the ordinary rates.
E CHRISTIE, Royal Hotel, Tom-
ingley, N.S.W.;
HUGH DENNISTON, Estancia Sarita,
Patagonia;
S. J. PULLEY, Wyabing, Westralia;
and
HUGH MOCATTA, Demonstration
Plantation, Keravat, Rabaul,
share the prizes for contributions to
B. 2 7/3/*3 3.
w
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
-comz-io>z
b-ir-zouw*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD,,
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Melbourne)
Remington 12 Ga. KLEANBORE |
Kleanbore Cartridges supply a universal
demand for a thoroughly reliable smokeless
powder cartridge. More accurate and giving
better patterns, they positively protect the
inside of the barrel from rust, corrosion,
pitting, and leading.
With Remington Kleanbore Cartridges you
can depend on the best results in all
climates
Ask your dealer for them.
Wholesale Distributing Agents for N.S.W.
PAUL & GRAY LTD.
82-84 Sussex Street, Sydney
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686 E, G.P.0., Melbourne
5% First Mortgage Deben-
tures of £25 Each.
Currency 20-25 years. Interest at 5 p.c. p.a.,
payable yearly for full period of currency of
Debentures, by coupon attached to the Deben-
tures. Redemption by ballot, in cash of l-sth
of total in each year between 20th a'ml 25th
years, plus an accrued and annually added bonus
of 5 p.c. p.a. (apart from the interest) for two
years, making redemption double the original
value at maturity. Adequate security and interest
payable by lodging coupons at any Bank.
£lOO Debentures worth £125 in 5 years
100 „ „ £l5O „ 10
100 „ „ £175 „ 15
100 „ „ £2OO „ 20 „
Plus 5 p.c. annual Interest.
Debentures procurable for cash, or on easy terms
alternatively, £6 deposit and £5 per quarter,
or £5 deposit and £2 per month, or £2/10/-
deposit. £2/10/- first instalment and £1 per
month. Interest starts first of month following
payment of each £25. Individual subscription
limited to £lOOO. Allotment in order of receipt
of applications. Redemption in cash plus Interest
and Bonus in the event of death of Debenture
holders after 6 years.
Inquire for prospectus and further particulars
from
EMPIRE TUNG OIL PRODUCTS LTD
12-14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W1165.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
How Are We Going Now?
Despite the setback in prices of most
land products, employment and business
activity continue to recover. The out-
look of most people has become re-
adjusted since 1929-31. That was the
period of change from artificial pros-
perity to the darkest part of the depres-
sion. It was such a sudden and stupe-
fying collapse that people’s main thought
was to conserve their money. Assets
such as land, buildings and mortgages
had only a hypothetical cash value those
days ; with prices falling the prevailing
idea was to liquidate property and bank
the money. Crazy politicians added to
the panic.
Wool at the moment, in Australian
currency, is as low as it has been since
depression struck. In gold prices it is
at its lowest. Though this spells diffi-
culty, probably more pronounced later in
the year, it does not mean disaster. In
bad times much depends on the spirit in
which trouble is met, and the present
month-by-month improvement in em-
ployment, building and factory activity
—admittedly it is partly due to last year’s
high wool prices—shows that a good
many of us are not scared of the future.
Fear caused a large part of our troubles
at the beginning of the slump.
So long as we have stable government
we can at least steer some sort of
definite course. Our internal prosperity
is not by a long way independent of
external conditions ; we depend very
much upon world prices. But confidence
is a great asset. The fall in investment-
share prices oyer, the . last mbnth or so
need not be looked upon as a definite
indicator of public feeling. Rather does
it represent a very desirable spirit of
caution. The wool- and wheatmen are
passing through another trying period,
and the unhealthy speculation on ’Change
was a real danger while it lasted. Un-
duly high prices are nearly always fol-
lowed by unduly low ones, and anything
like a collapse on ’Change might do a
great deal to impede recovery.
Investment has to be encouraged to
bring idle men and money together. To
have that effect, stability rather than a
speculative boom is required. There may
still be many listed investment stocks
that are low in price, but they have to
be picked on their individual merits. A
generally buoyant tone for dll stocks is
another matter, and something to be
wary of. We have had far too much
speculative prosperity, especially in gold.
Genuine goldmining deserves full en-
couragement, particularly where large
low-grade propositions are concerned.
But here again scrip-dealing is a danger.
Unless a person is convinced that a mine
has possibilities, that profitable returns
are possible on the capital subscribed,
irrespective of share-market dealings,
such scrip is best left alone. Market
gambling is no good to any industry.
Arthur Robinson said in Melbourne
last week that Australia was only on
the fringe of possible and practical gold
development. The Commonwealth’s
yield (882,0000 z. in 1934) was prepos-
terously low; 2,000,0000 z. a year was
not an over-sanguine figure to look
forward to. But, he also remarked, gold-
mining should not be a means for the
speedy enrichment of speculators ; it re-
quired a high degree of scientific know-
ledge, and called for more than ordinary
resource, energy, courage and patience on
the part of bona fide mining men.
* * * *
Long-dated Consolidated Loans have
suffered the greatest slip in recent months.
In 1933 1950-6 Ts yielded almost the
same as the 1938’5. Towards the end
of that year the return was £3 14s. sd.
per cent, on the 1950-61 issue, and £3 Bs.
p.c. on the 1938. On March 14 the differ-
ence in the yield had spread to 11s. Bd.
p.c. Over three months to that date the
return on the shorter-dated issue actually
hardened Is. 6d. per cent.; on the longer-
dated paper the yield lengthened by 3s.'
lOd. per cent. The inference is that
higher interest rates are looked for in
the more distant future.
* * * *
Professor Gregory, who accompanied
Niemeyer to Australia, suggests that in
well-developed Britain there is little
necessity for heavy capital expenditure,
and consequently long-term interest rates
should remain lower than those considered
reasonable before the depression. The ex-
isting prohibition against raising foreign
loans in London is another factor tending
to keep interest down. On the other hand,
if Britain returns to the gold standard
with less gold in the sovereign, there may
be something of an industrial boom and
a rise in the cost of borrowing.
Output of steel ingots by Broken Hill
Pty. for 44 weeks to March 17 was 50,000
“ Hey! 'Ave you bin washin' the dishes in this ?”
“Oh, no, sir! We use CLEAN water !”
tons up on the outturn for 52 weeks to
May 31, 1934 (387,000 tons), and, if
present production is maintained, it
should exceed 540,000 tons for the full
year. Increase in the production of pig-
iron will be somewhat larger, due to the
co.’s newly-established export trade.
Though reductions of prices in the home
market represent a brake on profit ex-
pansion, the advantages of the increased
output should compensate for this in
lower working exes. Ryland’s wire
works and Lysaght’s galvanised-iron plant
are exceptionally busy, and the pipe-
works are active.
% % % SjC
With the exception of a few odds and
ends like frozen rabbits, Australian ex-
ports to France generally are subject to
severe quota restrictions. A “retaliation”
tax —because we are bad customers of
France—-has been placed on our wheat
and butter, and there is. a 15 p.c. over-
riding charge for “exchange compensa-
tion.” The main hope for Australian
“restricted” products is that French im-
porters might obtain quota licenses. Aus-
tralian beef, butter and wheat have dis-
appeared from the bill we present to
Mam’selle each year, and furred skins,
copra and tallow have shrunk in import-
ance. Still, in 1934 we sold France 11
times more than we bought from her.
sf: #
France’s difficulties with her export
trade point an interesting moral: the
futility of competitive currency devalua-
tion. France’s currency was stabilised
at 124.2 francs to the gold pound in
1928, about a fifth of its pre-war value.
Up to this point the currency deprecia-
tion had given French exporters an enor-
mous advantage over gold-standard
countries. But the transitional nature of
the benefit is now manifest. On debts
incurred since 1928 the borrower gets
no let-off. Costs have come more into
balance with the devalued and stabilised
currency, and as France has already had
her Jag, and is now on the gold standard,
her exporters are suffering at the hands
of those countries whose currency is de-
preciating now. It all comes to the
same thing in the end, even if a currency
is watered down to nothing, as in Ger-
many’s case.
* * * *
A grievance that calls for removal:
In Sydney all the Government departments
and many private offices are closed on Satur-
day mornings, and the shops are empty of
employees by one o’clock. But bank officers
have to keep on working, sometimes till four
o’clock. Tellers are obliged to receive de-
posits up to the stroke
of noon and to attend
to the last of the queue
lined up when the doors
are shut. Four other
sets of officers wait on
the tellers; and if (as
increasingly happens)
a cheap store sends
along its Friday-night
and Saturday-morning
takings in one' huge
swag of small money,
it means an afternoon
sitting for most of the
staff. And then there
is the careless cus-
tomer who turns up
after 12 and who, in
these days of intense
competition, must be
accommodated. It all
means that an oblig-
ing and indispensable
body of public ser-
vants are thought-
lessly deprived of
legitimate rest and rec-
reation ; and this is
true also (though not
to the same extent)
of Newcastle and
other places. Their
association is asking
for an alteration of
opening and closing
hours from 10-12 to
9.30-11.30—by friendly
arrangement if pos-
sible. It is an emi-
nently reasonable re-
quest.
■ The State cannery at Leeton (N.S.W.)
is to be passed over to a co-operative
company composed of Murrumbidgee
fruitgrowers after an unfortunate career
as a State enterprise. Henceforth
profits or losses will be on fruitgrowers’
account.
*.. * * *
Deposits in the Commonwealth
Savings Bank showed an increase of
£3,225,639 during the six months to Dec.
31, reaching a total of £127,291,000,
equal to nearly £2O per head of the popu-
lation. Including State savings banks,
there is a nest-egg averaging over £3O a
head in this torm of saving.
*
At the end or last year there were
four air transport cos. operating in New
Guinea, controlling 20 commercial planes,
their services radiating from Salamaua
to the goldfields. There are 28 aero-
dromes and emergency landing grounds
in the Territory. Flying hours have
mounted from 4878 in 1931 to 11,444
in 1934, passengers carried from 3278
to 12,647, and freight from 2987 tons
to 7679 tons. Last year’s increase in
passengers carried was 42 p.c. and
freight 27 p.c.
* * * *
Municipalities are finding borrowing
mor e expensive since the return on Con-
sols widened. Encouraged by the Com-
monwealth’s pound-for-pound subsidy on
works which provide employment,
money until recently has been borrowed
freely at 3y p.c. The rate has since
gone up to 3| p.c. It should go even
higher.
* * *
, ounst traffic to Australia last year
Sl ° we an increase of 28 p.c., partly
due to the Vic. centenary celebrations.
Temporary visitors totalled 23,051, and
it is estimated that they spent £1,126,600.
A still better year is looked for. Tourist
money is very good money, as countries
much less attractive to holiday-makers
than Australia found out years ago.
* * * *
Helped by the Exchange Equalisation
Fund, Britain’s wholesale price level re-
mains remarkably stable. France, on the
gold standard, showed a gradual decline
throughout 1934, with a sharp drop early
in 1935. In U.S.A., thanks to the dollar
devaluation and other artificial means,
there has been a fairly steady rise, and
prices are now above 1931 level, but still
a long way below 1926 averages. All
gold-standard countries show that their
commodity-price levels are lower than
ever they were.
j}c
Victorians drank an extra gallon of
beer per head in 1934, the average con-
sumption rising to 8J gallons. The
mean for the Commonwealth was eight
gallons a head. Eleven Vic. hotels were
closed during the year, leaving 1749 open
at Jan. 1.
* * :i:
Belgium has left the gold standard, and
the belga is to be devalued provisionally
at 25 p.c. below former gold parity. Be-
fore the war the currency unit, internally
and externally, was the franc, which,
like the lira, the French and Swiss francs
and the Spanish peseta, had a ratio of
25.22 to the £l. During and after the
war Belgian currency depreciated. In
1926 loans were floated in London and
New York, to stabilise the currency at
175 fr. to the £l. Then a new unit for
external purposes was established, called
the belga ; it was equal to five paper
francs, and 35 belgas went to the £l.
This new system worked satisfactorily
until the French currency became over-
valued in terms of commodities; Bel-
gian industry has been in great diffi-
culties for some time, and the deprecia-
tion of the £ has meant less tourist
traffic to gold-standard countries.


Ic
iops
Blue
illlletiei:
ķ
2/- per packet of 5 blades
FIT ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
A Policy
»/ Helpfulness!
T*
HE P. & C. was the first Life Office in Australia to
apply Co-operation to Life Assurance. In adopting
this principle it undertook a policy of greater help-
fulness and service to members. The passing years have
proved how faithfully its aim has been carried out. The
spectacular growth of the Company proves how much
such a plan was needed and appreciated.
In joining the P. & C. you, too, may
enjoy the extra benefits of co-operation.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director:
H. FELL.
Hon.
Chairman of Director!:
A, K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
ĸ
The
Plying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH/'
393 miles In 7$ hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY. SPEED. COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHFLP & CO., DTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
ROSS f° r HEIGHT/
Heat, ace 19t. gains 6 ins. in 6 weeks. I No Appliances
.. 21 .. 5 in 5 mills. I —No Drags.
_ .. 20. 3J in 16 days. INo Dieting.
.. 30, „ 2. „ in 4 weeks. »«——m
40. .. U,. in 6 „ BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3}ins. NEVEB FAILS
Hundred! of Teetimoniaie from all over tke world.
Fee 12 2e. complete. Details Free. Write ae
► A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist,
Scarborough, Eng. iP.O. Box 15.) '
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A North Westralian Cyclone
“Kaloa”: The North Westralian pearl-
ing fleet has been smitten by another of
those cyclones which periodically scourge
it. At the week-end 21 luggers were re-
ported missing, with crews of 170. A
’plane—used for the first time for the
purpose in the N. West—located 18
luggers anchored in creeks, but there
has been loss of life and property.
North Westralia has an average of one
cyclone a year—62 between 1872 and
1921, 27 between 1902 and 1921. In
1917 there were five. Queensland has
records of 130-odd, and the N.T. of over
30, one of which almost wiped out
Darwin.
In 1908 50 lives were lost off Broome
and £20,000 worth of luggers and pro-
perty destroyed ; in 1910, 40 lives were
lost and 26 luggers wrecked. In ’B7
200 lives were lost at Ninety Mile Beach,
in ’94 40 lives at Roebourne and Cos-
sack, and, 24 years later, 50 were
drowned and £140,000 worth of damage
done at La Grange Bay. The Cape Mel-
ville (N.Q.) cyclone which destroyed
almost the whole of Thursday Island
pearling fleet at the end of the last cen-
tury cost over 150 lives.
I was at Thursday Island in 1923 when
the Douglas Mawson disappeared in a
cyclone, and, while Sydney Harbor was
full of anchored destroyers and other
naval vessels, three days’ frantic effort
failed to find in the Strait a seaworthy
vessel which could search and make sure
that settlements along Cape York were
safe. Eventually a futile and lumbering
harbor launch, the Melbidir, had to be
sent put at the risk of the crew’s lives.
There should be Government patrol ves-
sels of adequate size, provisioned for
emergency, at Broome, Darwin and
Thursday Island, always standing by for
shell pirates and cyclones.
“Ready Always”; “The first patient
was transported from Taringa to a private
hospital; the stretcher was of the mili-
tary type, being carried by straps over
the shoulders of the bearers.” This re-
cords the first transport of the Queens-
land Ambulance Transport Brigade in
1893. That year a pair of buggy-wheels
given by Dr. Sandford Jackson brought
the first litter into being. The practice
of towing the litter from the back steps
of cabs and buses gave rise to the first
horse vehicle—a white pony and sulky
with litter attached. (What junior press
roundsman did not carry sugar for the
pony 25 years ago?) This conveyance
only took the bearers to the case ; the
litter was pushed on foot to hospital.
For country use, the covered field
waggon, with stretcher inside, was in-
stalled. The year 1908 saw the first
motor-car, a utility truck, which still
compelled the bearers to walk back with
their patient. Motor transport revolu-
tionised the service. Motor waggons
were also built for the railway line. In-
tensive study of the springing has brought
the ambulance cars to a very efficient
stage, and now the ’plane has superseded
the car for long-distance transport in the
west.
He sfc
“Two-to-One”: Queensland, from being
the sporty place it once was, in which
the ordinary citizen raffled anything that
came to hand when he wanted cash, has
become so virtuous that the police have
prosecuted a Nundah citizen for “having
in his possession an instrument of gam-
ing—one pack of playing cards.” A hor-
rified sergeant found the defendant with
five other youngsters shuffling the deck
in an open yard behind a billiard saloon.
Some of the party left hurriedly. It
transpired that they were indulging in
penny poker. Counsel pleaded that there
was no evidence to show that penny poker
was an unlawful game, and the P.M. dis-
missed the charge. It seems a pity. If
Forgan Smith could get everybody fined
who plays penny card games he might
be able to take off the income tax and
take the rest of the unemployed into
the police force.
* * * *
“B. Calcutt”: “Maskee Mike’s” pidgin
(B. 20/3/’35) brought a lump to my
throat, for it is the real language of Man-
dated New Guinea, in which ladies’ maids
and constables conduct the preliminaries
to the state of matrimony. On the Outer
Marches it is the tongue in which kiaps
“ That'll teach you to say ‘No sugar , thanks ,’ to a Queensland woman!"
order their black soldiers to fire like blazes
or charge like mad. And a plantation
manager, eyeing the Stone Age of 50
tribes at 6 a.m., can curse them. New
Guinea, the climate and the store which
forgot to send his beer in it so that all
will understand. That’s something in
the Tower of Babel which New Guinea
is. Pidgin is a melange of German, Eng-
lish, Gazelle Peninsula, Samoan and
Polynesian, but Australian swear words
have ousted indigenous profanities. Pid-
gin has religious issues. “Onward, Chris-
tian Soldiers!” can be no less reverent
for being sung like this:
This place he got lotu [church] belong alia boy;
Lota he,good fellow. He came down ’long sky.
You no come up nothing—God, he makum
you;
He good fellow Papa, Papa b’long you true.
While singing that, turn your thoughts to
the little church building back against the
foothills at Rabaul where the little danc-
ing fellows of the Stone Age repair in
the cool of the evening after the labor
of the day is ended.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Hundreds of his ex-pupils
throughout Queensland will be interested
in the resignation of B. G. Lawrance
from the headship of Southport School,
to which he succeeded five years ago.
Taking his degree at Jesus College, Cam-
bridge, with classical honors 35 years ago,
he was senior housemaster at Armidale
for seven years, then successively head
of Ipswich G.S. for seven years and for
15 years of the New England G.S. at
Glen Lines (N.S.W.), to which he returns
as proprietor. A humane man, his
methods are based mainly on influence
rather than on coercion, but he can be
strict when he likes, as many a high-
spirited youngster has discovered.
* * * *
“Kano”: If pubs are any guide to pro-
gress the Northern Territory is doing
well. A decade ago, outside Darwin,
Pine Creek and the Alice, there wasn’t a
properly christened hostelry in the whole
500,000 square miles, unless you counted
the one at Borroloola, which had no
liquor. At the last Darwin Licensing
Court there were license applications from
nine country centres, some of which con-
sisted a few years ago of a tin police
humpy shimmering amid a few hundred
square miles of trees.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
While General Evangeline Booth is in
Brisbane she will inhabit Mrs. Eve
Lissner’s New Farm bungalow—one of
our show-places. Mrs. Lissner is the
widow of “Tibby” Lissner, a smart half-
back in the old Rugby Union days.
A bridge afternoon in the Lady
Mayoress’s room at the City Hall brought
some useful shekels into the coffers of
the Travellers’ Aid Society. Mrs. A. E.
Fowles was the convener, and Mrs. Cum-
brae Stewart helped to receive.
The Jewish Women’s Guild, a mighty
worker for charity, is holding its
annual ball on June 3. The Governor
has the date in his engagement-book.
Mrs. J. J. Buchanan gave a luncheon
last week in honor of Alma Stevens,
sister of the N.S.W. Premier, and Mrs.
Forgan Smith and the Blair lady were
among the guests. Afterwards the party
went along to Finney’s to see the manne-
quin parade.
Carrie Barker and Augusta Hobday
arranged the social evening for the Royal
Queensland Art Society at which Mrs.
J. Barnard, home from abroad, talked
about London art treasures.
The Loan Collection of British Con-
temporary Art, which is in the Randall
Gallery at the City Hall, was opened
by the Governor. Trustees of the
National Art Gallery met our Sir Leslie
and escorted him. In the crowd were
Archbishop Wand and his wife. Rabbi
Levine and Mrs. Levine, a sprinkling of
the art world, a slice of society and Lorna
Forbes, of “The Dubarry” co.
The Australian Sugar Producers had a
day out last week, and passed tea in a
marquee alongside the School of Arts.
Mesdames T. W. Crawford, F. C. P. Cur-
lewis and Miss E. V. Stichnoth were
hostesses. Mrs. A. J. Gibson, here from
Bingera to help daughter choose her
trousseau, was among the guests. In-
nisfail contributed Mrs. and Miss Pitt-
man, Mrs. R. Brett and Mrs. R. Jones,
and Mrs. W. H. Wellington came from
Ayr. Other northern visitors were Mrs.
Braithwaite (Mackay), Mrs. Biettens
(Gin Gin) and Mrs. H. M, Lund (Tully).
Miss E. S. Andrews arrived in Brisbane
last week from Mackay, where she has
been staying with her sister. Miss K. J.
Andrews. For 20 years she has been
teaching in a mission school at Kuching,
in Sarawak.
An entertainment in aid of the funds
of the Kedron Presbyterian Church was
held in St. Andrew’s Hall, Creek-street,
when various pretty girls paraded in the
frocks once worn by their mothers and
grandmothers. Mrs. A. K. Denmead
appeared in her great-grandmother’s out-
fit, and Lucy Atherton wore a bridal
gown 50 years old. Lovely old shawls,
including one Spanish beauty almost 200
years old, tiny parasols, dolmans and
other relics of a bygone day were dis-
played.
Art Week concluded with the perform-
ance of “Sixteen” at the Princess Theatre
by the pupils of Barbara Sisley. Nancy
Rennick, on the verge of a two years’
trip abroad, made her farewells to the
amateur stage as Irene Laurence, Jean
Barlow was Jennifer, the mother, and
Vera Tighe scored a success as a Cockney
servant.
The same night saw the lovely Du-
barry swinging her huge panniers over
the boards in a crowded H.M. Theatre.
Among the first-nighters were the Pre-
mier and Mrs. Forgan Smith, Ella and
Pat O’Shea and a party, and Dr. and
Mrs. S. F. McDonald, also with a party.
Australia’s newest Anglican Primate
has a lot of friends in Brisbane, where
he was stationed for many years. Bris-
bane also seems to have a fascination
for the younger members of the family.
Son Stephen lives here, and now elder
daughter has come up to train as a nurse
at St. Martin’s Hospital.


U«*v
dS/ >.aA
■
■
■W
I
“
\
H ■ -i
|L
C*
X^i;
ii«
Mi
i
II
isi ;
K |H; /.,
m
m
i jitJ,m"
: : iioEßAistmismss m m
AcOTAU.ft
11
Wmm
in the T'
tod V^Trl Son * hy^iT l * r °>- its
« : ;
fan:
P R °*l the ~
fine'Tp “So^Tt H h ‘ a
B »t thl'° Ured reSatdeß U
s,n »oth,
" el ev en
infinite/.. f Ua i, ;l .
c ”»« «££■£? '•>. »«, ,„r *■«
SOH5 OH a „ [ er SroJ nSa " hicl > is 2n USiasti ‘
luy o Ul ., J a Se has t reaf , B **>*? of afl , n, ng Ohl
gPeafer Pelf renta *kabU erents -
me *i *ho P teCtion ~~tn " ,e Wo H „ g '"B'
° a rta ,.. fl e ss fo na tural
g ° od in<f Ses . aatio *-*ide
7if£ W -
°Rio
0(0
)(il
d ptau Ce
Of
’ Sp m El
St Md
the
katio
'N’Sp^y
O(J ftITE


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
2"HE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN, In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so saft
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
&QjUtms CMEXICAN)
Vkdnui SiaUv
*ue Miclmresim t'lmui Hotel
11
P *l'
S'
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Static::
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
'Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund .. ..
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,000,000
£2,260.000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,260,000
£3.500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
Tbe delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte;, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply t 0 the Manager for full particulars.
k
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Mayoress Parker flung wide her por-
tals for her first party to our new Gov-
ernor’s lady. It was a woman’s rally,
and the wives of legal, civic, medical and
other potentates were washed up by the
underground from the North Shore
almost on to the Town Hall steps,
emptied from trams, or, still more fre-
quently, ushered from cars. The East,
the West, Darling Point and Neutral Bay
were all represented among the teacup-
jugglers. The hour set was three o’clock,
but a few punctuals arrived even before
that. Lady Hore-Ruthven was terribly
smart. The tunic of her frock was of
parchment chenille velvet, the skirt of
the same toned satin. Over this she wore
a long raisin-brown silk coat with cape
sleeves. Luscious pearls and a brown
hat decked with a posy of delicately-
hued flowers were other enviable items.
The hostess was trig in patterned chif-
fons in yellow and blue tones. Her
leghorn hat sat securely in spite of the
black wings outstretched against the
front of the crown. In the Government
House group were Mrs. Fred Payne, of
Melbourne (just now in a flat at the
Astor), secretary Miss Price, neatly pat-
terned in blue and white, and Priscilla
Feilden* who travelled out in the Man-
oora, and is staying at Government
House before going on to Queensland.
She was checked in green and black, her
sailor hat of black taffeta flying a band
of the same.
It was a fortunate chance for Mrs.
Sidney Myer‘s silver foxes that Thurs-
day was one of those brisk, snappy days.
The foxes, luxurious and glossy, took
the air at the Mayoral lady’s party to
Lady Hore-Ruthven. They swathed
themselves around a graceful black frock
that was frosted with white sequins above
the waistline. The Melbourne visitor
arrived with Mrs. Charles Lloyd-Jones,
who was smart neatness in sapphire-
blue wool georgette and a sailor hat of
the same toning. In the group were
Alexander Gordon’s lady and the wife
of Chief Justice Jordan. Mrs. F. J. Davy
wore a radiant face above prune frock-
ing. All the knights’ ladies came out in
new autumn millinery, tunic frocks,
caped coats and other fashion fancies.
Consuls’ wives exchanged amenities.
The Premier’s wife and Mrs. Bruxner
were seated in the tea-drinking group
about the Governor’s lady.
It was fun the other night, before the
last curtain of “Roberta,” to see the
spotlight suddenly pluck Oskar Denes
from comparative seclusion and make
him the centrepiece of the group in a
stage box. Oskar, who has just arrived
to play Count Ferry in “Viktoria and
Her Hussar,” has one of those faces that
a smile really has room to play on, and
he dazzled Sydney with the whole shop-
front when Cyril Ritchard called on him
for a speech. He is called “Danish,” but
he is Hungarian, and he paid his com-
pliments to the performers in a universal
language. He said, “I saw this show in
New York, and I did not like it. I see
it here, and” At this point a kiss
was wafted gracefully off his fingertips
towards the stage.
Sydney is to have still another arts
society. Its title is the Women’s Indus-
trial Arts Society, and it was duly
launched by Mayoress Parker, Mrs.
Marie Irvine, Mrs. F. Clinton and citi-
zens of renown plus artistic inclinations.
The new group will show its mettle in
an exhibition to be opened at the Educa-
tion Building on May 3.
Friends of Roy de Mestre will be de-
lighted to hear that the earnest Sydney
artist has achieved renown. France has
bought one of his big works “for the
nation.”
Organist Alice Bryant came from
Manly last Wednesday to give one of the
lunch-hour Lenten recitals in St. James’s
Church. Soon after one o’clock there
was an audience of about 100, which
steadily increased by ones and twos.
More than half the listeners, incidentally,
were men, among them Dr. Pope, who
is as keen a lover of the organ as of
cricket. He had seen the musician’s
brother Charlie in London, and had
been entertained by him at both the
Savage and the Sketch clubs.
Last week the Kooroora Club had a
birthday. It was six years old, and presi-
dent Nell Harvey, very sleek and well-
tailored in her creme de menthe crepes,
cut the candle-decked cake at the end of
the dinner. The celebrations filled the
dining-room of the Arts Club with
attractive girls, complete with pretty
frocks and escorts. At the guest table
an imposing array sat behind tall baskets
of yellow dahlias. Among them were
knight Henry Braddon, the Percy Cross-
ings, the Lindley Evans couple and Jean
Bell, of the Red Cross Younger Set.
Each guest had been responsible for at
least one good deed towards the Koor-
ooraites during the year, so the publicity
officer murmured from her swirl of
water-green laces. A Rene Pardon
picture.
The Koorooras are all business girls.
If one marries, or decides to stay home
and devote herself to domestic duties,
she becomes an honorary. Every year
this group (it now numbers 200) raises at
least £BO for St. Luke’s Hospital. It takes
charge of the refreshment tent at the
Ryde Home for Incurables’ fete. The
girls furnish and stock it, and then do all
the waiting. They go down and wash
dishes and peel potatoes at the Far West
Children’s health camp; and their
dramatic club and choir provide enter-
tainments for the sick at Randwick,
Lady Davidson’s home and the' Water-
fall Sanatorium. Kooroora, by the way,
means place of happy meetings; and
the weekly lunches live up to the title.
Some celebrity is invited every week to
address members on a subject of inter-
national, national, civic or commercial
interest.
Faith, Hope and Charity came to the
farewell to Sister Kenny organised by
the United Associations. Also there
were C.W.A. women, Red Crossers,
Feminists and young mothers—particu-
larly there were young mothers. To the
parents of the small victims of infantile
paralysis Sister Kenny stands as a sym-
bol of hope. The earnest groups listen-
ing to her direct statement in David
Jones’s Auditorium showed their faith by
deciding on a petition asking the Com-
monwealth Government to establish a
Kenny clinic in Sydney. Charity came
forward under the banner of the Junior
Red Crossers. These youngsters, untiring
in good deeds, are paying for the charter
of the ’plane that carried five little N. S.
Wales paralysis patients up to Towns-
ville the following morning.
Sister Kenny wore her usual black
velvet hat and black velvet dress with its
turn-down white lace collar, and she
gazed back at the assemblage with the
unwavering glance of one who has con-
fidence in herself. Near by sat president
Mrs. Ken Street and Mrs. R. R. S. Mac-
kinnon, the Junior Red Cross chief-
tainess, who rushed off from the meet-
ing to arrange about thermos flasks of
milk and arrowroot for the ’plane jour-
ney. Mrs. G. Fanning, of the C.W.A.,
voiced some practical ideas, and Joan
McGuire, aged a year and four months,
also raised her voice—she was the young-
est chick to take the ’plane trip. Finally
every woman went off from the meeting
with petition forms. When 10,000 names
have been inscribed the list will be pre-
sented to the Government,
Around at the Royal Empire Society’s
rooms there’s a chair waiting for the just-
homing Hugh Denison. It’s the presi-
dential chair, which, until he left with his
lady last year for a long, long tour that
has brought him back by way of Maori-
land, he had comfortably filled since
1922, the year of the society’s founda-
tion. The kindly Kelso King, who has
been a very popular president for the
past year, proposed the return of knight
Hugh at the annual meeting, and he
slipped back to his old rank among the
vice-presidents. After the business came
pleasure, and Winifred Guy displayed
her posters of many lands.
Helen Williams is the justly-proud sec-
retary of the Manoora Ball, which will
cheer that de luxe ship with 800 dancers
to-morrow evening. Lady Hore-Ruthven,
who launched this ship and travelled to
Australia in her, will make it the appro-
priate scene of her first ball as Gover-
nor’s lady. The committee is very
pleased with the arrangements, which in-
clude a wintergarden and loges on deck
for guests. The Adelaide S. S. Co. is
handing over the ship for the night and
throwing in the supper. Benevolent
Society and Balmain District Hospital
share the profits. Raymond Sawyer
photo.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says the
more formal parties she goes to, the
more she looks forward to the Show.
And there’s something to be said for her
reasoning. At the Show there’s light and
color and movement, and the prize cow
and bull carry sleek hide and shining
hoof with the pride of race. They form
a good eyeful. But representative parties
are sluggish affairs where prize citizens
moo platitudes, droop over the rate of
exchange and moon over the flower
arrangements. The man of to-day arrives
minus repartee as well as rapier, and
woman flashes her diamonds rather than
her glances. Civilisation has us in
thrall, and we are very successfully cut-
ting ourselves to one pattern.
Every London playgoer knows the
name of H. Harwood. He was respon-
sible for “The Old Folks at Home,” a
play which presented Marie Tempest
during a record run to her adoring public
in a part that suited her to perfection.
The Monterey brought the dramatist and
his novelist wife Tennyson Jesse to our
city last week. The lady is keenly inter-
ested in the study of criminology, and
has written much on the subject. She is
related to Lord Tennyson, as is her
second cousin, Admiral Randle Ford.
Mrs, Randle Ford was down on the
wharf to greet the travellers. The P.E.N.
Club entertained the two to lunch on
Tuesday.
The Fourth Machine-gunners’ annual
reunion will be held at the Palladium im-
mediately after the Domain service on
Anzac Day.
The Kindergarten Union turned its
annual meeting into one of the jolliest
parties in town. The unionists appar-
ently had expected a sparkle to bead the
cup after business was done with, for
they filled the Blaxland Galleries. Re-
ports and balance sheets were gone into,
and though there was a deficit there was
also a little legacy brought to light. Kin-
dergarten stalwart S. S. Cohen accom-
panied his remarks with a genial chuckle,
and put in a psean for the press, evidently
pleased that he’d got in before W. G.
Layton. W.G., in impeccable tailorings
and his Jervis Bay sunburn, was one of
the speakers. Mrs. J. C. Windeyer, very
crisp-looking in lettuce-greens topped by
a white hat, rang the praises of retiring
secretary Kathleen Chase.
Lots of fun will be loose about the
Blaxland Galleries at the Authors’ Ball
on April 13. A committee, headed by
Marjorie Quinn, is working overtime
dying quills of giant dimensions which,
crossed rampant, will top pillar and post.
Beneath these, scrolls of quotations, wise
and otherwise, from the home-grown
bard will depend. These quotations
will be linked together to make a
crooner’s merry lay. The actors in the
Pageant will reappear in their mediaeval
and Georgian costumes, and as many
others who can are requested to come
fancy, though no exception will be taken
to plain.
Well-knowns in Sydney’s amateur
theatrical world will take part in
the matinee performance of Mrs. Ada
A. Holman’s one-act plays to be given
on April 10 at David Jones’s Audi-
torium In aid of the Deaf and Dumb
and the Blind Children (Darlington).
Girls from Shirley College will be seen
in “Annabel Goes to a Party.” Pro-
ducers of the plays will be Mrs. Mildred
Hammond, Miss Rita Humfress and
Miss May L. Macnicol.
Last week Maoriland came to Sydney,
and in the Assembly Hall slim brown
girls swayed in the poi and other tribal
dances, hips lightly swinging, hands and
arms flowing, effortlessly as waves, from
one plastic movement into another.
Grass skirts and mats and cloaks stirred
silkily, like the breeze moving through
a field of flax. Young Maori men
laughed, played games of skill or sang,
their notes plaintive and sweet, dramatic
or religious. But no matter how gentle
the gaze, how pensive the music, the per-
formers awoke in the listener primitive
desires for the freedom of open spaces.
Maorilanders in Sydney turned suddenly
homesick for tussocky hillsides with the
sun and wind strong upon them ; for the
wide, unplumbed lakes lying like a for-
gotten mirror at the foot of a snow-
capped mountain. It was just about this
stage that some of the young psycholo-
gists came among the audience selling
group photographs of the artists. They are
known as the Waiata Maori Choir, and
have been selected from all parts of
Enzed. The Reverend A. J. Seamer, of
Auckland, who founded the choir,
accompanies it. The leading soprano is
known as “the Chatham Islands’ Night-
ingale.”


Educational.
THE SOUTHPORT CHURCH
OF ENGLAND SCHOOLS.
THE SOUTHPORT SCHOOL
(For Boys).
Headmaster: B. G. Lawrarice, M.A.
(Cantab.).
ST. HILDA’S SCHOOL
(For Girls).
Headmistress: Winifred L. Fittock, B.A.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to
The Bursar, The Southport School, or the
Headmistress. St. Hilda’s School.
Second Term commences Monday, 15th April.
EYE LOTIOI
For I n-f I amed Eyes and Eyelids
501.0 EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE t Co. Ltd. King St- Sydney
m
SYDNEY
• Petty’s Hotel is an historical landmark of
Sydney. It is old; 100 years old; and yet to-day it
is gaining more and more guests through its atmos-
phere of restful comfort: its modern appointments;
perfect service. Tariff: Room and breakfast, 11/6;
Inclusive, 18/-.
\
PETTYS,,,
Street. Sydney • R. J. Langley. Manager
/
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND. WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(WELLINGTON REGISTRY.)
In Divorce.
No. 4010.
DULCIE ESTELLE MURPHY V. PATRICK
JOSEPH VALENTINE MURPHY.
TO PATRICK JOSEPH VALENTINE
MURPHY formerly of Christchurch
Laborer but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife DULCIE
ESTELLE MURPHY of Wellington has filed
in the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wel-
lington a petition in divorce against you claim-
ing dissolution of her marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards. You
are therefore notified that unless you enter an
appearance and file an answer in the said court
at Wellington within thirty-five days from the
appearance of this advertisement the said peti-
tion will be heard and determined in your
DATED at Wellington this 22nd day of
March, 1935.
(L.s.) C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
WILLIAM PENROSE ROLLINGS is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said William
Penrose Rollings, 100 Lambton Quay, Welling-
ton.
Missing Friends.
IF Nurse KATHLEEN DICKSON, late of
Malvern, would communicate with THE
UNION TRUSTEE CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED, she would hear of something to
her advantage.
Melbourne
Chatter
General Evangeline Booth stepped
from the Adelaide express looking spick
and span and businesslike. Her 69 years
sit lightly upon her; she has wavy red-
dish hair, there seems to be a flick of
powder on her face, and she wears silk
stockings. General Evangeline has a
very strong personality, and her gift of
oratory is beyond question. An im-
mense crowd gathered at Spencer-street
station to cheer the Army leader, and
again in the evening a multitude seethed
round the Town Hall steps. The civic
fastness was packed an hour before the
General arrived, the keenest spirits
among the overflow going off to smaller
meetings in the Town Hall supper-room
and in the Independent Church. Lord
Huntingfield was among the speakers at
the Town Hall. At the Lord Mayor’s
reception Archbishop Head expressed his
admiration for the Army, and Premier
Argyle, on the eve of his ejection, found
time to send a letter of welcome.
Mrs. Ernest Scott, wife of Prof. Scott,
has returned after a wonderful two years
abroad. She went up to Raith in Scot-
land to visit Lady Novar, and was a
guest in several beautiful old English
homes. She spent many months Sin
America, and as a delegate to the Pacific
Relations Conference went to Canada to
stay at the millionaires’ haunt among the
Rockies, the magnificent Banff Hotel.
The management was so eager to get
publicity from the delegates that it gave
them accommodation for about 255. per
day instead of the usual £4 4s.
“Lohengrin” stirred up enthusiasm.
Apart from the music, the plot makes a
romantic appeal—those were the days of
salvation through faith, when knights were
chivalrous, ladies beautiful and good and
witches cast their spells. The Knights of
the Holy Grail wore metal helmets and
mail under their tunics; the damsels of
the Court of Henry the Fowler had long
plaits or flowing tresses and long elbow
extensions to the sleeves of their tenth-
century dresses. Ben Williams as Lohen-
grin glittered with silver; even his gloves
were silver kid. As a contrast Bernard
Ross was an inky-headed, inky-bearded
Telramund. Thea Phillips was an all-
white Elsa, and Muriel Brunskill practised
Ortrud’s black magic in velvet gowns and
voluminous cloaks.
In the audience were Alfred Hill and
daughter Isolda, the Robert Best couple
and Helene, who wore something new in
evening turnouts —a cream lace skirt with
a black velvet blouse, over which was
slipped a short white ermine jacket. The
little Nathan lady, of Perth, was wrapped
in a cloak of gold lame. Dudley Glass
waxed enthusiastic between acts. A
recently-engaged couple in the stalls were
Dr. Bowen Allen and Heather Spry,
whose chiffon frock was sashed with jade
moire. Joan Tait had a spray of rose-
buds at the throat of the trained blue
gown, which she wore under a dyed
ermine coat.
Dr. John Nihill gave a cocktail party,
with the names of Jona, Niall and Flem-
ing-Dunstan heading his guest-list. Mrs.
Jona with her pretty twins, Merri and
Gwenyth (everybody but very intimate
friends is entitled to two guesses as to
who’s who), leaves for England in the
middle of April, and will be followed
later in the year by Dr. Jona and Clare.
Dr. and Mrs. Niall will trot about
Europe, with pauses for the doctor’s
ophthalmic investigations. Mrs, Flem-
ing-Dunstan, with Lesley and Valmai, set
off last week for foreign parts. To the
party Mrs. Niall wore brown with a
golden ripple in the weave and a gold
tassel on her shoulder. Mrs. Talbot
Coate was in mulberry with a black hat.
Mrs. Ivan Gutmann had a peep of ice-
blue under her beige coat with its wealth
of fur. Mrs. Percy Frankenberg was in
black, and Mrs. Stan Frankenberg had
a hat of marsh-green to match her tunic
dress.
Mrs. Desmond Shaw and Mrs. Alan
Catanach stepped from the incoming
mailboat almost straight into their
mother’s welcome-home party at St.
Ives, Grandview Grove, Armadale. Mrs.
Edmond Shepherd received her guests in
a gown of pigeon-grey lace, with tiger-
lilies against her shoulder and a trans-
parent excuse of tulle millinery. Mrs.
Shaw wore one of the new halo hats in
black suede with a jade ribbon tied
across the front, and her tunic dress met
three gardenias at the throat. Mrs. Cata-
nach’s headpiece was a variation on the
theme of Evangeline Booth’s bonnet.
Her flowers were orchids, and her dress
plainly tailored crepe. The Stewart Han-
cocks, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Gubbins,
Valerie and Sheila Wallace Smith, Max
Stewart and John Anderson were among
those who said a word of welcome.
Here is a Broothorn picture of Eleyne,
elder daughter of General Chauvel and
his lady, who has recently announced
her engagement to Tom Mitchell. Miss
Chauvel is delighted at the idea of living
in the country, for she is never happier
than when riding. Fiance Tom is the
eldest son of the late Walter Mitchell
and of Mrs. Mitchell, of Toowong Hill,
Corryong. He shines at ski-ing, is vice-
president of the Victorian Ski Club, and
captained the first Australian ski team to
compete with champions abroad. While
studying law at Cambridge he was cap-
tain of the lacrosse team. Recently he
had a fly at politics by standing for
Benambra —he was defeated but undis-
mayed.
Lady Huntingfield, a keen bridge-
player, booked a table at the bridge-cnm-
garden party held in aid of the nursery
schools at the E. T. Harrisons’ home in
Lansell-road. It was a perfect out-of-
doors day, and many people were
tempted to drift about the lawns puffing
cigarettes, exchanging chitter-chatter and
making purchases from flower-stalls
stocked with spoil from Macedon gardens
and from cake-stalls furbished from
the Emily McPherson and the Home-
craft Hostel’s kitchens. Tea-things were
arranged on the pink-and-gold-clothed
tables, dotted about under the generous
canopy of a weeping willow.
Large glass buttons and a flat shoulder
cape were characteristics of the ripe-
nectarine woollen crepe ensemble worn
by Lady Huntingfield. At her con-
tract table were Mrs. Russell Grimwade,
Mrs. H. W. Parbury and Mrs. Ronald
McDonald. Mrs. Harrison’s black gown
was sprayed with red poppies, golden
buttercups and lilac thistles, and her
large black hat had a touch of red
upon the crown. Among those who con-
tracted or auctioned were Mrs. C R.
Cowper, Mrs. Franc Carse, Mrs. Fred
Knight, sen., Mrs. Phillip Aitkin and the
principal of the Free Kindergarten Train-
ing College, Miss Gutteridge. Mrs. T.
S. Campbell wore inky-blue and black,
and Mrs. Ken Bailey was spring-like in
pale green.
The Graham girls found the general
exodus overseas too much for their peace
of mind, and accordingly dug up their
passports for yet another trip early in
April. Their final packing is being done
at Chevron, where last week they com-
mandeered a private reception-room for
a cocktail party. Among the guests was
Mrs. Stanley Hill, who leaves next week
for England (whence her husband has
been transferred) instead of taking her
usual northern route to Hong Kong.
Mrs. Hill wore a dress of Marina-green
crepe, the centre of its trimming being
an elaborately pleated bib. Clare
Graham was in black with sunray pleat-
ing upon the collar, Nancy’s tangee frock
went with a nut-brown hat, and Grace
gave her silver fox twins an afternoon
in the company of a black coat and black
suede hat. Mrs. Tom Brennan, a charm-
ing American woman who is lingering in
Melbourne with her schoolgirl daugh-
ters, wore a scrap of eye-veil with an
all-brown turnout —her medico husband
has lately returned to Rabaul. Another
guest who hails from the same pinprick
in the Pacific was Mr. Bill Gosse, who
is proceeding on business-cwm-pleasure
round Australia.
Guests of honor at Jean Balderstone’s
dance were the Jack Balderstone couple,
off to England this week. The pair were
placid outwardly, and showed no indi-
cation of the fever-heated rush which
affects so many departing travellers. The
party was held at Eulinya, Mont Albert-
road, Canterbury, among masses of pink,
gold and russet flowers and the vivid
red of maple leaves. There was dancing
in the hall, and a buffet supper, without
speeches, ran all the evening. Mrs. J.
S. Balderstone wore del-blue chiffon
blown with pastel petals ; her daughter-
in-law was wrapped in cream satin, and
hostess Jean was a-rustle with gum-leaf
taffetas. Her sister Betty buckled an
emerald belt round her flowered chiffons.
Betty Cameron was striped with cherry
and white, Jeanne Smiley swirled lilac
tulle and Jean Ogilvie’s fingers held a
pink and silver train just above the floor.
Enid Stobie’s nutmeg net carried white
flowers on the corsage; sister Kath-
leen swished bouffant skirts of dark-red
moire and the long ends of a taffeta sash.
Alison vSyme danced in floral ninon, and
Doris Ball’s crinkle crepe played on a
variation of woodland green. Mr. and
Mrs. Geoff Hutton and Colin Meares
said good-byes to their dancing partners,
for they are also off this week with pass-
ports under their arms.
The Great Reaper struck fast and
silently when Beth Mackey died last
week as a result of injuries received in a
fall from horseback. She was 25, a girl
with brains and charm and enough re-
source to hold down an in-and-out-of-
doors job with a Toorak land and estate
agency. The younger daughter of the
late John Mackey, the Speaker, Beth
inherited her father’s wit and his .gift for
telling an amusing story. From her
mother she received business initiative,
for the Mackey lady has made a success
of her flower shop. Miss Mackey had
dramatic talent, and stepped straight
from school into Gregan McMahon parts
and a professional job with Muriel Starr.
Later she toured M.L., and played for
a season with a J.C.W. production of
“Hay Fever.” She was popular with
people of all ages.
Mrs. Monty Grover and Mrs. S. Cox
shared tea-time responsibilities at the
Quamby Club in honor of Mrs. D. H.
Ross and Mrs. Tim Mclnerney. The
Ross couple—he is the retired Canadian
Trade Commissioner —have recently re-
turned from two years abroad; Mrs.
Mclnerney has also had a recent trip
to England, Her beautiful Aileen broke
the journey to visit friends in Ceylon,
and is now in Adelaide. At the party
Mrs. Grover wore black with a tunic
effect in flame satin ; Mrs. Cox was also
in black with an elaborate embellish-
ment around the neck. Among the
guests were Mrs. John Dye, Mrs. Bal-
main and Mrs. Arnold Woolf, in a black
suit with a cascade of shell-pink frills
upon the blouse, who chatted with Mrs.
Athelstan Saw, a visitor from the West.
Two attractive young women who
motored recently along the Prince’s High-
way had three punctures en route. At the
first they got as far as jacking up the car
and spreading a few tools—none of
which seemed to fit—over the road be-
fore someone came to their assistance.
For the third job, profiting by experience,
they didn’t even get out the jack.
One girl held a spanner and the other
pulled on workman’s gloves, and they
stood beside the car looking hopeful,
The plan worked beautifully.
Here is a Jack Cato portrait of Milli-
cent, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. Beres-
ford Cairnes. Millicent plays A-grade
golf for Commonwealth, and is asso-
ciates’ hon. sec. for Peninsula Country
Club. She’s tall and fair and equally
striking on the links or in a ballroom.
She’s an old girl of Clyde, and last week
her 21st milestone was toasted by a
multitude of young things at a dance
given by her parents at Peninsula.
Caterpillar mats are the thing for
sunny days in the garden, especially if
summer tan is to be retained. The cater-
pillars are made of canvas, and look like
a number of oblong cushions joined
together sidewise. Cane frames pushed
under one end and tied with tapes make
comfortable head-rests. An accessory
for leisured sun-lizards is a low cane
table, only about a foot in height, which
holds tea-tray or glasses. The caterpillar
mattress will roll up and stow away in a
cupboard when rain or an icy nip in the
wind makes even the Spartans take to
their greatcoats.
Motorists help one another for various
reasons, but not often through mechani-
cal interest alone. Sir Charles Royce
was one of this minority; he had to
have his head in the bonnet of every
distressed car he met, for that was one
of his methods of assimilating know-
ledge. But he wouldn’t have the tables
turned on him. His embryo cars let
loose in tests were placarded “If this car
breaks down, please do not ask a lot of
silly questions.” Royce became a speed-
ster of his day, and wouldn’t let any car
pass him on the road. The Hon. Charles
Rolls, son of a peer, was the “sales” side
of the partnership. He was one of the
first air pilots to qualify and to meet his
death in an air crash.


mk\
r
t*r.
Sft
lu
5/
n
*u
'III.
Wi
"i,.»
Sr^VM
Mi
,i"l,„
"MU'
«3>
if
i"!'j
~S\'; I ■
V
50K
R.M.S. MOOLTAN leaves Sydney July 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class :
Fares from 18 and 11 guineas respectively •
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD leaves Sydney Aug. 23
First Saloon and Tourist Class :
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
R.M.S. STRATHNAVER leaves Sydney Nov. 15
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD leaves Sydney Dec. 13
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
6 Bent Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
We have had a busy week socially.
Apart from the polo matches at Birkalla,
dinner and cocktail parties and afternoon-
teas have been featured. Mrs T. E.
Barr-Smith was to have been the hostess
at Birkalla, but illness prevented her;
Mr. Barr-Smith had to do the honors.
The three women who were side-lining,
Misses Phyllis Bray, Louie Sanderson
and Gwen Bakewell, looked smart in
their well-cut riding suits.
Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Porter gave a
dinner party to the visiting polo teams.
Then there was a dinner dance at the
Hotel St. Vincent, Glenelg, when the
hosts were members of the Adelaide polo
team. Mr. and Mrs. Cedric Hayward
gave a cocktail party at Avenal Gardens,
Medindie ; Mr. Frank Downer was host
at tea at Birkalla ; and the Polo Ball and
gymkhana came with the week-end.
Pretty Margaret Davis was married
the other morning to William M. Morgan,
of Bendigo, son of Mrs. A. M. Morgan,
of North Adelaide, and the late Dr. Mor-
gan. The bride, who was given away
by her father, wore a dainty period frock
of cream satin shirred from the waist,
with tight bodice and small puffed
sleeves. The tulle bridal veil was held
in place by a circlet of small velvet blos-
soms, a muff of \Vhite satin and tulle
being carried in place of flowers. The
bridesmaids, Betty Morgan, Nan Holden
and Shirley Bowman, were frocked in
dusty-pink georgette, with large picture
hats of black hatter’s beaver; they, too,
dispensed with flowers, and carried muffs
of black velvet lined with pink. Canon
R. P. Hewgill officiated, and R. N. Irwin
was best man. A cocktail party followed
at Edwin Terrace, Gilberton, the home
of the bride’s parents.
There was a large gathering at the
Town Hall for the civic welcome to Gen-
eral Evangeline Booth. Every religious
body was represented. The Mayoress
wore an amethyst marocain toilette, with
hat to match, and a mink stole. The
General, who removed her bonnet, re-
sponded to the welcome speech of the
Lud Mayor. The room was beautifully
decorated with great bowls of scarlet
cannas and dahlias.
Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Runge, of
Hawker’s-road, Medindie, entertained
about 120 young people at the South
Australian Hotel for the 21st birthday
of their son Maxton. The lounge and
ballroom were gay with gladioli. Mrs.
Runge received in the lounge wearing
rust-red satin with cape effect.
WESTRALIA.
Mabel Teather, the youthful niece of
Lud Mayor Poynton, gave her first official
at-home to wives of councillors and civic
officers at the council chambers. The
municipal drawing-room was dotted with
palms, and bowls of fragrant pink and
red roses showed up the snowy napery
on the tables. The hostess perched a
feather motif on her navy Breton hat, and
wrapped a collar of plaited white-and-
silver braid around the throat of her
navy georgettes.
Beryl Randall and Ted Williams began
their matrimonial cruise from Trinity
Church, St. George’s Terrace, with the
Rev. Lionel Sullivan to launch the craft.
White velvet roses bloomed on the bride’s
corsage of softly draped curd-white satin,
and layers of tulle fell from the cap-
shaped confection of orange-blossom.
Her trails of stephanotis were culled from
the W. G. Randalls’ garden, as were the
masses of Mexican roses which adorned
the reception-rooms and marquee at her
home, where the toasts were honored.
Quills were rampant on the tip-tilted hats
of ’maids Jean Stewart and Shirley Har-
ford, and the foliage of their gladioli
sheaves was arranged quillwise in keeping.
Their blush-pink silk crepes were long of
sleeve, slit-backed and semi-scarfed. Mrs.
Randall’s gold-threaded beige crepes
were flanked by daughter Mrs. Ross
Smith’s fur-trimmed eggshell blue as she
welcomed the guests.
At the W. A. T. C. charity meeting
’tween-season doubts affected feminine
apparel, as winter woollies marched with
summer fripperies, but all-weather black
and navy were the prime favorites. Mrs.
Ernest Lee-Steere, who received the v.-r.
party with her president husband, had a
lace yoke and sleeves to her royal blue
georgettes ; Mrs. H. Cummins sprinkled
louis d’or on the collar of her brown wool
repp, and two inches of veil peeped be-
tween the bandeau of gold lame and the
brown felt of her hat; the pintucks on
Moira Blake’s navy georgettes ran into
fine kiltings; and Mavis Holmes swung
a pleated capelet on her blue-and-white-
patterned marocains.
Silver flowers were embossed on Joy
Hill’s white brocade gown for her mar-
riage to Ned Moss at St. Luke’s, Cottesloe,
where the Rev. Canon P. U. Henn gave
a blessing. Open sleeves and back, a
high neckline and yards of train were
glimpsed through the folds of the tulle
veil which cascaded from a band of silver,
caught over each ear with a cluster of
orange-blossoms; and the bouquet of
gardenias made fragrant the bride’s pas-
sage down the aisle. Mrs. Donald McKin-
non and Betty Wood brought up the rear,
their slinky silver lame gowns topped with
wreaths of Cecil Brunner roses in their
hair and fronds of the same blooms in
their hands.
Mrs. Ayshford Sanford, a grand-
daughter of the late Janet Lady Clarke,
of Victoria, has come from England to
visit her mother, the Hon. Mrs. Robert
Lindsay. Her home is at Chipley Park,
Somerset, on property which has been
in Mr. Sanford’s family for more than
1000 years. A treasured possession is the
copy of the original deed granting the
land to their ancestors in 900 a.d.
Mrs. Dave Freecorn touched her black
and white crepes with scarlet when she
entertained members of the French Salon
at afternoon tea. The guest of honor was
Miss Essie Freecorn, another tripper
about to set off for the jubilee festivities
in the Cold Country.
Molly Murray, youngest daughter of
the late Mr. Basil Murray and Mrs.
Murray, of Perth, has promised her heart
and hand to B. W. J. Antony, who hails
from Surrey.
TASMANIA.
The Thos. Murdochs’ farewell shivoo
to the Premier and Mrs. Ogilvie took
the form of a late-afternoon party at
Hadley’s. The decorations of purple
petunias, mauve daisies and sprays of
silver birch were effective. The tea-table
showed some novelties, savories being
stuck like porcupine quills into bases of
pineapple and large apples. Mrs. Ogilvie
sported navy blue with stone-marten
stole; the hostess wore black-and-grey
satin and satin cape.
A committee of bright young male
things, wearing round their necks black
ribbons with “The Ancient Order of
Bachelors” inscribed thereon, staged a
dance at the Lavender Tea Gardens the
other night, and gave their guests a gay
time. Chinese lanterns lit up the garden,
and the ballroom was a picture with
hanging baskets of begonias and masses
of phlox and other flowers m bowls.
The Snowden lady was given a fare-
well at the Town Hall before taking up
her job of lecturer in the interests of the
Speck on the mainland. She has travelled
from one end of the island to the other,
and examined conditions for herself. One
feels that she will be as good an adver-
hser of the Speck’s attractions as her
late husband was.
Dorothy Macgowan was farewelled at
numerous parties before her marriage to
Russell Piggott. Mrs. Stewart Young
was hostess at a rainbow tea at Hadley’s,
and Margaret Pringle gave a recipe tea
at her own home, Hillcrest, Davey-street.
The Repertory Society ran a social
evening at the imperial, with masks and
fancy-dress and fantastic decorations on
the walls. Some of the costumes had
faced the footlights in former days.
Robert Montgomery’s “Modern Trio ’
caught the eye, with green-and-white
make-up, green waistcoats to their even-
ing dress and green buttonholes.
The Tas. branch of the B.M.A. enter-
tained two distinguished overseas visitors
at its annual dinner at Hadley’s, when
the Governor was present and Dr. W. L.
Crowther presided. The guests were
Sir Holburt Waring, president of the
Royal College of Surgeons, and Sir
D’Arcy Power (London).
Baby Day brought in a satisfactory bag
of shekels to the Child Welfare Associa-
tion. The Nicholls lady and a big
crowd of workers ran a Monday-to-Fn-
day shop in Susman’s Buildings.
Lord and Lady Forteviot, from Scot-
land, paid the Great Lake and Lake
Leake a visit, and reported excellent
sport.
Dr. and Mrs. Coulson (India) put in
a few weeks in the Speck this summer,
and made many friends. They will stay
awhile on the mainland before definitely
leaving for home.
Anne Broinowski is back again after
a long visit to the U.K., where she made
contact with many of the Arnold rela-
tives, of literary and scholastic fame.
Dr, and Mrs. Ramsay put Ruglen gar-
den at the disposal of St. John’s Ambu-
lance Auxiliary, Launceston. Lady Vic-
toria Fletcher and her husband, Miles
Fletcher (an old Launcestonian), were
there on a visit from Kenya. The show
was well attended and well run.


Lesser Romantics.
I love to kiss you on the lips
When you have eaten fish and chips.
The salty tang suggests to me
The always animated sea:
Contrariwise I notice there
The flavor of the pomme de terre,
Suggesting brown and heavy earth
Wherein potatoes have their birth . . .
With fish and chips the land and sea
Are joined in happy harmony.
This queer conceit makes me repeat,
With passion mild and gesture sweet —
I love to kiss you on the lips
When you have eaten fish and chips.
N.S.W.
RIP.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Celebrations
for Music’s
Two G.O.M.
We are in the
midst of mild
celebrations con-
cerning Bach and
Handel, both born
250 years ago.
They might be
called the two Grand Old Men of Music,
the position of each having been badly
interpreted by their too fervent admirers.
Handel, the jolliest of secular writers,
has been forced into historic prominence
as the high priest of ecclesiastical music
by virtue of his “Messiah.” Bach’s name
has been handed down to the man in the
street as the king of fugue-writers,
whereas he was tremendously steeped in
religion as seen from the musical angle.
Born in the same year, and treated in
their later life by the same doctor for
the same complaint, they never met, in
spite of the fact that they were quite the
two outstanding men of their generation.
History has yet to give Bach and
Handel their proper place in perspective.
The twentieth century has found Bach
returning on a sudden wave of popu-
larity? and since the war, that war which
took romance and tunefulness out of
everything, including music, he has been
pronounced to be the greatest of them
all. The more one knows of music the
more is one aware of musical fashion,
and it is not a very dangerous prophecy
to say that, whilst Bach’s genius will ever
be paramount in the minds of music-
makers, there may come a time when Jiis
fiercest followers will occasionally admit
that he could have done with one or two
of Handel’s attributes. Bach’s best efforts,
in keeping with his religious outlook on
life, were given to the Church in the
form of choral music. It is in such works
as the “B Minor Mass” that we find the
divinity behind the man. No less im-
portant than the “B Minor Mass” was
the “St. Matthew Passion.” Despite these
monumental efforts, Bach never was as
happy in writing for the voice as was
Handel. You feel that he looks on the
voice purely as an instrument and some-
times forgets that human beings are not
necessarily skilful in imitating flutes and
violins.
Handel, the giant of the theatre in
his day, betrays that fact in his after-
work. Historical association of ideas had
made us link the “Messiah” with churches
and cathedrals. Personally, I always feel
it to be splendid drama rather than pure
theology. The “Hallelujah Chorus” con-
veys a dramatic picture of the heavenly
host singing their loud hosannas rather
than a plain man giving praise to his
God. “He Was Despised” is too splen-
didly colored with emotionalism to be
religion pure and undefiled. No greater
contrast could be found than between
Handel’s “Messiah” and Bach’s “St.
Matthew Passion.” Handel, above every-
body else, knew perfectly how to write
for the voice and how to get the best
effect from choral sonority. It may be
that in our time someone will rediscover
the many magnificent things which lie
buried in Handel’s scores, and that we
shall have a Handel revival just as we
have had a Bach revival in the early
part of the century.
The Grand Old Men of Music were
the stepping-stones between the poly-
phonic and harmonic schools of music.
They shone in both fields. They had a
lot to say, and said it magnificently,
wherein they differ from a lot of the
moderns, who have extraordinarily clever
tongues but remarkably barren minds.
LONDON.
KEITH BARRY.
A Masterpiece
Turned Down?
The Gaumont-
British film
“Man of Aran”
collected overseas
the Mus s o lini
Cup and also
America’s greatest award for screen
merit. Is it true that this film, slighted
by almost all Australia’s alleged critics —
The Bulletin’s was an exception—had
difficulty in finding accommodation in a
Sydney theatre; that it was advertised
(for those with eyes of umpteen eagle-
power to see) as a minor feature to
“Princess Charming” ; that it was cut to
conform to the requirements of the pro-
gramme ; that it was heaved out after a
bare week’s showing?
If that is true —I understand it is, and
would welcome contradiction and ex-
planation if it isn’t —it seems to prove
that we still take our cultural peas with
“Fete” an outstanding example of design among the current showings at
the Macleod Gallery, which has just marked an anniversary by issuing a
statement covering total sales of Australian artists’ work to date. The total
amount of sales is more than £4480, representing the sale of 71 oil-paintings,
62 water-colors, 19 pen-and-ink and pencil drawings, 149 etchings, 10 prints,
10 pieces pottery.
a knife ; that not champagne but “pinky”
or “metho.” (preferably swilled out of a
trough) is the brew for our palate.
Because “Man of Aran” is as great an
example of dramatic art as the cinema
has yet given us. “Epic” is the word it
demands. Magnificent as is the technical
standard throughout—exemplified princi-
pally in the storm scenes and the studies
and hunting of the basker shark —it is not
as a sort of de luxe model travelogue or
a supreme example of photographic art
(and it is both) that “Man of Aran” pri-
marily demands homage, but as a study,
a delineation, of the lives of men and
women maintaining the sanctity of their
independence as they eke out a pre-
carious existence on a stump of wave-
and wind-assaulted rock. Men and
women —not symbolical figures (though
the picture is gravid with symbolism), not
various concepts of humanity, not gods
and goddesses, not kings and queens, not
commercial barons and fine ladies, not
demagogues and harridans, not gigolos
and wantons .. . men and women! That,
and no more —that, and no less.
Seeing it here —even as I had to see it
—it recalled the Gall ion’s Reach charac-
ter who said there was “something
damned fine in this ordinary stuff.” And,
from the same source: “Without the cer-
tainty of the artless and profitless fidelity
of simple souls the great ocean would be
as silly as the welter of doom undesigned,
and the shining importance of the august
affairs of the flourishing cities worth no
more homage than the brickbats of
Babylon. These people give to God
any countenance by which He can be
known.”
In short, “Man of Aran” has the dig-
nity, the august and austere beauty of
great art. In its sincerity, simplicity, in-
tegrity it bears the imprimatur of authen-
tic genius.
What happened to this work in this
enlightened country?
W. B. LAYCOCK.
In re Hall:
Grover in
Reply
J. S. MacDonald
is a careful drafts-
man. He never
puts in a line
without deciding
its position, its
value, its form.
Also, he controls Sydney National Gal-
lery. I hope his control of that
institution is as careful as his draw-
ing and not so careless as his reading of
my article on the late Bernard Hall
which he criticises in Sundry Shows (B.
20/3/’35).
J. S. MacDonald appears to start with
the idea that I am hostile to the memory
of Hall. By some subtle process of
psychoanalysis, he reads hostility into
all I wrote and bases his attack, not on
all I wrote, but on scraps of it. The great
part of his attack on me is answered by
other parts of the original article which
J. S. MacDonald overlooked.
J. S. MacDonald alleges that I accused
Hall of superiority. I accused him of
“apparent superiority,” which is a totally
different thing. Had I not known many
facts which proved the contrary, I might
have been misled into omitting the adjec-
tive.
J. S. MacDonald contradicts my state-
ment of the militaristic atmosphere of
the Gallery when Hall arrived as com-
pared with the democratic attitude of
McCubbin. J. S. MacDonald was not a
student when Hall arrived; I was.
Whether Hall’s method or McCubbin’s
method of dealing with the students was
the better is a matter of opinion. My
opinion is that McCubbin’s was.
I did not say that “Welcome News”
was a subject which would disqualify a
well-painted picture. What I maintain
is that to set any subject is to confine the
imagination of the student, and to set
such a trite subject as “Welcome News”
—so done to death in every Christmas
supplement—intensified such confinement.
J. S. MacDonald challenges me to name
the famous artist whom Hall declined to
admit as a student. 1 shall not do so. I
make J. S. MacDonald a present of my
silence ; but I had the statement confiden-
tially from the man himself.
Regarding the water-colors of S. T.
Gill, I said that Hall recommended their
sale. I admitted that they were possibly
not works of art, but contended that they
were irreplaceable historic documents. J.
S. MacDonald asks sneeringly what gal-
lery would house them. I inform him
that the National Gallery of Victoria
houses them, as it did before the advent
of Hall.
Finally, I may recall to J. S. Mac-
Donald that, while I contended that Hall
lacked imagination, I referred to him as
a draftsman of a high order, a man who
had never drawn badly, and finished by
saying that, if some of his students did, it
was not his fault.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
Color-music
—ls It
Absurd?
Neither A. B.
Hector nor myself
had our withers
wrung by “Cau-
boy’s” clever pep-
per i n g of the
color-music busi-
ness (B. 20/3/’35). Hector’s aim in life
is to co-ordinate all the sciences and
arts —far too much of a job in my
opinion for a whole university, let alone
an individual —and the results of his
excursions among colors and sounds
probably are not more impressive to the
specialised scientist, the sophisticated art
critic or the cultured musician than were
the combinations of sound and form de-
vised by Chladni. Though it isn’t done
by Chladni’s sanded plates, the translation
of form into sound is to-day a common-
place of talkie technique, Sound and
light are vibrational effects. The talkie
technicians can derive any sort of music
from microscopic monochrome wriggles
on the edge of a strip of celluloid. Hec-
tor (though, like Chladni, he has honor-
able mention in “The Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica”) hasn’t found an exact chemi-
cal or photographic nexus between coloi
and sound. But his proposition that
there is a nexus is no more absurd than
was the idea of transmutations of sound,
light and electricity in pre-Marconi days.
There may be lurking in the offing a
selenium cell with spectroscopic sensitivi-
ties. There is, of course, already a chemi-
cal-color nexus. Hydrogen-iron, solution
one in 14 million, shows analytical
chemists an amazing range of colors and
shades. “Cauboy” should remember that
art grows ever more complex. Even the
smell-music he jeers at may be a com-
monplace within a generation.
A. D. W.
Current
Arthursts
Dora Wilson’s
exhibition at Mel-
bourne Fine Arts
made as interest-
ing a contribu-
tion to Victorian
history of the mid-Victorian era as did
S. T. Gill’s water-colors of the earlier
days of Ballarat and Bendigo. Miss Wil-
son seemingly covered the history of Mel-
bourne, from La Trobe’s Government
House in Jolimont and the Henty home-
stead at Portland to the M.U. building
and the new Bank of N. S. Wales, opened
only recently. But it is not fair to praise
them merely as historical documents—
they are primarily works of art; Miss
Wilson has even succeeded in making a
picture out of the Dedication of the
Shrine.
Out of 80 entrants, Murray Griffin Was
placed first in the Crouch memorial prize
at Ballarat. Griffin’s picture was a land-
scape, which Louis McCubbin, the judge,
says strikes a new note in Australian
painting. Hitherto, Griffin’s reputation
has rested largely on his lino-cuts, which,
unlike most of the stencil-like contribu-
tions to this form of color design, are
veritable works of art. Daryl Lindsay
was placed second and A. E. Newbury
third. The also-rans comprised names
of considerable reputation—Will Ashton,
Violet Mclnnes, Buckmaster, Dora Wil-
son, W. Rowell and Archibald Prize
winner Hanke. The Crouch endowment
was made by Lieut.-Col. Crouch, for-
merly M.H.R.
S jt
“Monodist”: “Gee Gee” (B. 20/3/’35)
declares Lionello Cecil (Cecil Sherwood)
to be one of the few Australian male
singers to adopt a foreign-sounding name.
I can name five other well-known if not
famous Australian male songsters who
take the stage under foreign names—
Lorenzo Poerio (Lawrence Power), Batti
Bernardi (Bernard Batty), Andre Navarre
(Alexander Wright), Allan Priora (Allan
Prior) and Stanley Mont Clair (Stanley
Allan).


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
L
tSBS
5
aaasa>
rf?
<s=
aav
■%
*e~
ss
a
mm
■
mm i
UNION
For the King’s Jubilee
Fortn igh tly Set ilings,
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
royal mail lines
A Study in Self-improvement
THANK YOU M. M. KENZIE
■by R. D. BARRY
Drawings by ARIA
DEAR Mr. McKenzie,
I’m second assistant in the dis-
patch department of Messrs. Black-
lough and Cos., importers and distributors
of hardware and fancy goods, and I find
myself greatly impeded, as it were, by an
addiction to blushing, lack of confidence
in my bearing, and the inability to de-
velop that hard-boiled appearance so
necessary to the successful businessman.
I have begun to fear that I will never
become head of the dispatch department,
nor win the girl I love, unless something
is done about it.
Seeing your advertisement in the daily
press that you guarantee to add three
inches to the chest, imbue the eye of
futility with the fire of confidence, re-
place hesitancy with virile red-blooded
punch, cure blushing, stammering and
nervousness by correspondence, I am
writing to put the whole facts before you.
Know then that there is a young lady
of my acquaintance for whom T have
She calls me “Unconscious.”
conceived a species of devotion com-
monly termed love. In her presence I
feel overpowered by a sense of my own
unworthiness, and in her eye I see it re-
flected. I might overcome this, Mr.
McKenzie, were it not that her speech
also confirms my opinion. She calls me
“Unconscious,” Mr. McKenzie, and, but
for brief intervals of careless kindness, is
contemptuous and derisive in her bearing
toward me. I have impoverished myself
in the purchase of gifts, and worn myself
out in sleepless tossings on a couch where
slumber is now a casual acquaintance.
I feel it is my natural diffidence that pre-
vents the happy consummation of our
association, and I implore your expert
advice.
The result of meeting no appreciation
in the quarter referred to has its effect
on my job, Mr.
McKenzie. Only
the other day Mr.
Lignum, the head
dispatcher, and one
whom I aspire to
emulate, said,
“Look here, Snow”
(he calls me Snow)
—“look here, Snow.
Are you in love?”
and that made me
blush, Mr. McKen-
zie, because on a
dispatch slip for
goods ordered by
H. S. Dove I had
“Look here. Snow. Are you in love?”
absentmindedly written the words “stars
above,” that being the way I am all the
time, Mr. McKenzie, since I have known
Phyllis.
This has not done me any good with
the firm, Mr. McKenzie, as you may well
imagine, and my colleagues do not re-
frain from calling me “Duckums,”
accompanied by smacking noises with the
lips, in gross exaggeration of voluptuous
osculation. All this I could sustain, Mr.
McKenzie, if my suit were to prosper ;
but to be derided on every hand for ex-
hibiting an honest passion has, as it were,
shattered my will, Mr. McKenzie.
If you can help me to set myself right
with myself, Mr. McKenzie, win the girl
I love, and imbue me with sufficient of
your hypnotic power to cow my col-
leagues, I will remain your ever faithful
friend and admirer,
Edward Tonks.
DEAR Mr. McKenzie,
I wish to state that Lessons 1 and
2 duly arrived, accompanied by your per-
sonal talk, and all
have been much
appreciated.
It certainly was in-
teresting to learn, Mr.
McKenzie, that the
secret mystic power of
a Yogi fakir is de-
rived from prolonged
contemplation of his
duodenum. I’m not
criticising, Mr. Mc-
Kenzie, but you can’t
contemplate the duo-
denum in a dispatch
office of a hardware
firm during office
hours ; but I have put
into practice your in-
The Man-of-
Purpose look.
structions regarding face culture.
As you say, Mr. McKenzie, it is rea-
sonable to assume that face value is a
man’s biggest asset for all purposes. I
am now practising before the mirror
nightly to develop the Man-of-Purpose
look by setting the features as described
in Fig. 1, page two. I find it uncomfort-
able to maintain the position, the lower
teeth placed in front of the top denture,
but the protrusion of the lower lip pro-
duces a pleasantly revolting contour,
suggestive of Wallace Beery.
I have also commenced the physical
exercises prescribed in Lesson 2, Figs.
6,8, 9 and 12, including eyebrow mas-
sage. It would be greatly appreciated,
however, Mr. McKenzie, if you could tell
me the best place
to practise fencing.
I have jumped the
back fence so often
people are begin-
ning to notice.
I am very enthu-
siastic about the
course, Mr. Mc-
Kenzie, and go to
bed every night in
a wet sheet with a
light heart, certain
that dynamic
power is beginning
to seethe within me.
—Yours,
Edward Tonks.
DEAR Mr. McKenzie,
It is now nearly six months since
I completed the course, as you know, and
I will now place you in full possession of
the facts which cause me to believe your
course to be everything you claim and
more, Mr. McKenzie.
I was assiduous and painstaking in
following your directions, Mr. McKenzie,
thinking dynamically all the time, rising
daily at six and massaging the spine with
ice as directed ; and, except for a slight
attack of pleurisy contracted from stand-
ing in a draught, I felt fine, and con-
tinued to feel better, being sustained, Mr.
McKenzie, by the thought that very soon
certain people would begin to realise it
was dangerous to trifle with a man
packed with dynamic punch. My col-
leagues continued to taunt me during
this time, Mr. McKenzie ; but that did
not worry me at all, and I just bided the
time for that period which you so origi-
nally describe as “a tide in the affairs
of men which, taken at
the flood, leads on to for-
tune.”
It came, Mr. McKenzie,
when the first assistant in
the dispatch department
was transferred to the
patent medicines. Now or
never, I told myself, Mr.
McKenzie, and, rehearsing
a little talk beforehand, I
waited on Mr. Lignum,
cur head dispatcher, determined to win
promotion. While waiting for Mr. Lig-
num to look up, I assumed the facial ex-
pression in Fig. 1, page 2, whereby the
lower jaw is advanced to permit the
bottom teeth to be placed in front of the
top denture, with the lower lip protrud-
ing. Whether it was I assumed the posi-
tion with too much haste, or whether I
neglected to relax the glottis muscle as
instructed, I cannot explain ; but I think
the reason I dislocated the jaw was be-
cause I ad-
vanced the chin
too far and too
fast. The re-
sult was, Mr.
McKenzie, that
when Mr. Lig-
num glanced up
to attend to me
he observed me
in the position
stated, plus the
expression con-
v e yed by
my eyes,
which, as
you may
well imag-
ine, Mr. Mc-
Kenzie, was one
of complete sur-
Dynamic power is be-
ginning to seethe within
me.
prise, not to say
horror. In addition, Mr. McKenzie,
trickles of saliva, which I found it im-
possible to control, emerged at this point
from both corners of the mouth.
I had every reason to believe, Mr. Mc-
Kenzie, that Mr. Lignum was a man of
iron nerve, not by disposition given to
take alarm at an untoward occurrence ;
but the disorderly speed with which he
now moved did much to disturb that
opinion. I should say Mr. Lignum is a
man of some sixteen stone, yet he rose
in one bound from his chair, spurned the
table lightly with the left foot and dis-
appeared over the partition which
separated his office from the dispatch
floor in the space of an eye-wink. A
sound which is adequately described as
People are beginning to notice.


Gulicura
SOAP
to cleanse
to soothe
and to heal
If you suffer with pimples,
rashes, eczema, chafings, erup-
tions or other distressing skin
trouble, begin today to use
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment. Bathe with the Soap,
anoint with the Ointment.
Emollient, medicinal and anti-
septic, they bring quick relief
and soon heal. Depend on
Cuticura to keep your skin
at its best always.
WESTRALIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY,
CARRIES MORE
NATIONAL AND LOCAL
ADVERTISING THAN
ANY OTHER WEEKLY
ISSUED IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Representative:
MR. HAL. J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. MERVYN S. ALLAN,
771 Collins St r eet.
'me ea*/ /eer^/.. eon
ancf se> ca*t
its Film on Teeth!
9 Film must be removed from teeth . . .
for beauty and for health.
Film is that slippery coating on your
teeth. Film contains the germs associated
with tooth decay. Film invites tooth and
gum disorders. Stains from food and
smoking lodge in film —make teeth look
yellow when they’re really not.
Film sticks like glue. To remove it you
must use a special film-removing agent.
Pcpsodent is known throughout the world
to-day as the special film-removing tooth
paste.
Due to scientific formula
Pepsodent’s unique power to remove film
from teeth is due to the formula. A new
cleansing and polishing material has been
developed. This material is far safer than
any leading tooth powder—far softer than
polishing materials used in any other lead-
ing tooth paste. Yet it removes film with
striking effectiveness.
This special film-removing material is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively—and in
no other dentifrice whatsoever. That’s why
Pepsodent gives results not possible with
other kinds.
Dentists use Pepsodent
That is why thousands of dentists have
told us that they make Pepsodent their
personal tooth paste.
That is why millions of people will
not risk their own teeth or their
children’s teeth with harsh, abrasive
pastes or powders.
Don’t take chances on cheap
dentifrices, when Pepsodent leaves
teeth brighter, gives higher
polish. Use Pepsodent twice
a day see your dentist
at least twice a year.
P ii P S 0 l> t N T
FREE 10-Day Supply
To the -Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. (Dept. 5.8.),
Box 488 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-Day Trial
Tube of Pepsodent.
Name
Address -
k2054m/a Only one tube to a family.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
m
:• ,
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
a dull, sickening thud announced his
arrival on the other side.
It became imperative, Mr. McKenzie,
that I obtain some aid in my predica-
ment, and with this idea prominently in
mind I opened
the door of Mr.
Lignum’s office
and passed out.
Someone hit me
a crushing blow
with a blunt in-
strument and I
knew no more. It
turned out, Mr.
McKenzie, that
Mr. Lignum,
under the impres-
sion that I was
mentally de-
ranged, had dealt
me one with a
door stopper.
Although I have only one leg, I’ve got
the person who knocked it off. She’s
my wife.
I regret to say, Mr. McKenzie, that
this incident severed my connection with
the firm, and caused me to think hard
thoughts, even of you, Mr. McKenzie,
which were increased in intensity after
an interview with the cruel Phyllis,
I regret to say she laughed, Mr. Mc-
Kenzie. True, she shed some tears when
I told her all my troubles—how for her
sake I had embarked on a rigorous cam-
paign of betterment; but her tears were
the result of flooding of the lachrymal
ducts induced by laughter. When I re-
lated the unfortunate ending of the inter-
view with Mr. Lignum, she begged me
to leave before I killed her. This finally
convinced me, Mr. McKenzie, that she
was lacking in womanly sympathy and
understanding, and unworthy of an
honest love.
These happenings so worked upon me,
Mr. McKenzie, that I decided to end it
all, and in this
frame of mind
applied my intel-
lect to the prob-
lem of finding a
way out, at once
swift, painless
and certain. So
engrossed did I
become in the
search for a solu-
tion that I
stepped from the
pavement directly
under the wheels
of a large and im-
posing car, whose
four-wheel brakes
were applied just in time to skid over
me.
The driver was the daughter of a prac-
tising publican whose hotel chain extends
from Booligal to Bingee, and to-day, Mr,
McKenzie, I am managing one of those
hotels in Winnawingadee ; and, although
I have only one leg, I’ve got the person
who knocked it off. She’s my wife.
And now for what you did for me.
Mr, McKenzie, I am your lifelong
friend ; and, for the sake of others who
may now be in the predicament you
rescued me from, you have my full per-
mission to make use of this testimonial
in any way you think fit. —Yours,
Edward Tonks.
An Unusually-told Tale of Black Magic:
THE SORCERERSDRUM
By MUNRO TURNBULL.
Low and vibrant, as though the
voice of the moonlight itself, comes
the sound of Kaimari’s drum ; soft,
yet appallingly loud against the
scented stillness of the night, and
oddly muffled like the thud of a
gloved hand upon an oaken door.
“Dum - dum ! Dum - dum - dum !
Dum-dum !”
Here an old man stirs on his
sleeping-mat, hearkening fearfully ;
there a child whimpers; a woman
sits bolt upright, scarcely daring to
breathe, nerves aquiver.
LIGHTLY as the tap of a leaf against
bough, faintly as the flutter of a
night bird’s wing, Kaimari the Sor-
cerer is beating a drum.
The village lies in sleep, the hag-
ridden, tormented sleep of a Stone Age
village, broken only by the despairing
wails of the widow Bukara, the mut-
tered raving of Kaimari the Sorcerer and
the sullen thrumming of his drum.
Outside the low doorway the towering
palms make a sharp black pattern against
the luminous sky ; the slender arecas stir
darkly; the black plumes of their pen-
dent fronds scrape and rustle in the
faint night breeze, making a tune like
elfin castanets. Beyond the palm grove,
where the waves whisper softly to the
beach, a path of silver runs along the sea
straight up to the moon ; and, far away,
the stark immensity of the mountains
looms monstrous in the darkness.
Low and vibrant, as though the voice
of the moonlight itself, comes the sound
of Kaimari’s drum; soft, yet appallingly
loud against the scented stillness of the
night, and oddly muffled like the thud
of a gloved hand upon an oaken door.
“Dum-dum! Dum-dum-dum! Dum-
dum ! ”
Here an old man stirs on his sleeping-
mat, hearkening fearfully ; there a child
whimpers; a woman sits bolt upright,
scarcely daring to breathe, nerves
aquiver.
“Dum-dum! Dum-dum-dum! Dum-
dum ! ”
A night for dancing and the making
of songs, but no man ever danced to the
grisly monotony of Kaimari’s drum. A
night for love-making under the moon,
but no woman ever crooned to her mate
to the hateful malisons of the drum of
death.
All night Kaimari, eyes shut and face
distorted, will tap out his ghostly tattoo ;
all night the widow Bukara will cower
in the place set apart for her, mourn-
ing her dead lord ; all night the young
men, eating nothing nor smoking nor
chewing betel-nut, morose, immovable,
dumb, will stand guard in the longhouse.
To-night the spirit of the dead man,
summoned from the Great Darkness by
Kaimari’s drum, is abroad, haunting the
places with which he was familiar in
life. At the break of dawn, if the signs
be propitious, feasting, singing and danc-
ing will speed it to its rest.
Mr. patrol-officer tolliver,
camped with his police detachment
on the beach, heard Kaimari’s drum. His
pyjama-clad legs swung out of his
stretcher, and he groped for his flash-
light.
“Corporal!” he hissed. “What’s that?”
Tolliver was young and alert and a
hundred per cent, efficient. Moreover,
the signature on his letter of appoint-
ment was scarcely dry, and he was tast-
ing the first sweet savor of independent
command.
Corporal Saki stirred, blinked, yawned.
“One pfeller man bin die, I fink so, 1
taubada,” he grunted. “The villis people
makum pourri-pourri I fink so”
“You think ! Don’t you know, man?”
The subtle vibrations of Kaimari’s
drum throbbed through the night. There
was a scream—long, wailing, heartrend-
ing. Tolliver reached for his trousers.
“Something queer going on,” he mut-
tered. Then, aloud: “What you say, cor-
poral? These people starting to play up,
hey?” !
Saki’s shoulders moved ever so
slightly. “They no savee play up, tau-
bada,” he declared indifferently. “Long
time they finish humbugging the Gava-
mani.”
The drum beats rose, fell; died, quick-
ened ; hammering on Tolliver’s brain in '
a sickening, maddening rhythm. There
was fear as well as anguish in the
screams that cut the air. Tolliver’s skin
prickled. His heart was beating faster
than its wont.
“There’s some devil’s business going
on,” he began. |
“True, taubada,” Corporal Saki agreed
complacently. “Plenty debil-debil walk-
about night-time, taubada.”
“Idiot!” Tolliver snapped.
He took a long-barrelled Luger from
its holster, slipped back the jacket, forced
in a cartridge and brought the catch to
safety.
“Rouse the men out, corporal,” he
ordered grimly. “We go look-see.”
SISTER ANNE, in the privacy of her
bedroom at the mission house, heard i
the drum of death. And to it she chose to
attribute her wakefulness. Her tousled ]
and pummelled pillow was hot under
her head ; wide-eyed she stared at the
white-painted ceiling, while mosquitoes
whined and shrilled about her net.
There were lights in the grass-thatched
bungalow beyond the village. What hours
(Continued on next page.)


RHEUMATISM
Watch those First Sharp Twinges of Pain, and TAKE ACTION NOW I
Almost before you are aware of your peril, you may find that Rheumatism has
you in its merciless grip, and the result is not pleasant. Don’t let Rheumatism
conquer you. Don’t hesitate and waste precious time while the ailment get a
firmer hold upon you, but go to your chemist now and get a box of De Witt s
Pills-—the remedy that has been successfully used in all parts of the world.
You cannot choose a better remedy. Read this remarkable letter sent us by
a grateful user. Then ask your chemist. He will tell you that De Witt’s Pills
contain ingredients which will prove beneficial in cases of rheumatic trouble.
You may think your case is too far advanced for De Witt’s Pills to
help you. Don’t make this big mistake. If rheumatoid arthritis has already
distorted your limbs you cannot expect a cure, but De Witt’s Pills will
ease your pain and possibly check the progress of the disease. Going
to the other extreme, you may think you can do without De Witt’s
Pills because you only experience rheumatism in a mild form
occasionally.
DON’T BE DECEIVED
Those early symptoms need attention, and you will be acting
wisely if you get a box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist at the
first opportunity. The cost is trifling, and surely it
is worth while taking one or two pills when you
know that by doing so you will enjoy better health
now and ensure freedom from pain in years to come.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness under
the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen feet
or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains , gravel
or stone . These symptoms usually precede attacks
of Rheumatism, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or
serious Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting a box of
De Witt’s Pills from the chemist and taking them
as directed. Sold only in the blue, white and gold
boxes, price 3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6.
I
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC7ACID
m
Mr. M. Preston, of 193, Elizabeth Street, Redfern,
Sydney, N. S. W., says: “I cannot speak too highly of
De Witt’s Pills. I can honestly say they gave me instant
relief. Having suffered for many years from kidney trouble
and rheumatism, I tried a large number of remedies without
result, until I gave DeWitt’s Pills a trial One bottle was
sufficient to show results, but I continued using them until my
trouble had completely gone."
DeWitt’s
Kidney 6c
Bladder
Pills
that man Shane kept! Drinking, she
shouldn’t wonder, carousing with his
dreadful friend the German anthropolo-
gist. The fine lines about Sister Anne's
eyes crmk|ed; her Wide, good-humored
mouth quirked at the corners Larry
the Gunner was not like that at aU He
ought to be, but he wasn t. Not that
she had any real cunosity about him.
Traders were the despair of missionaries,
the bane of Governments, an affront to
g V ood y, r h epo g r,. ,hat ™ beaU “ fU ' ° f
. u 11 j ry., . , ... ,
Sister Anne chueUed. The old libels
died hard in New Guinea. She had a
of fruit and fish, beaming with pleasure
when she smiled her thanks. Making
eves at her I It was incredible ridicu-
lous • but it anneased something within
her ’something that had gone starved
and cravin" • something that hurt a little
and clamored. In all her thirty-six years
Larry the Gunner was the only man who
had looked at her—like that
There cmmrtpft the enft “nad-naH” of
footstens A shadow flitted across the
nnen w ndnw and for a moment the
tureless The smile faded from Sister
Anne’s face, to be replaced by a look of
sternness. Swiftly she drew the mosquito
netting and darted to the window.
“Laroni'” she called
The running figure halted hesitated
Ihe running figure• fiattea, nesuatea
and was off again, writhing pixy-like m
the vague, lightless deeper darkness
splashed with moonlight at the jungle’s
edge- .
“Laroni!” Sister Anne’s voice was
angry. “Come back, you little wretch!”
Laroni had been mooning about all
day, restive, fretful, distrait. Her own
knowledge of native mental processes
ought to have warned her that the girl
was working herself up to some such
flagrant breach of the rules as this. Sister
Anne sighed. The village and all its evil
influences had won again. Laroni should
have her wayward head. To-morrow,
tearful and protesting, she would be ex-
pelled from the mission—hers would be
but another name added to the already
too long list of failures.
, That decided Sister Anne. She would
not acknowledge defeat. She would save
LarOM irhe h r er bfrng rotate
tTtnduct. A
new tight kindled in Sist^ r .Ann e Veyes.
Two spots of battle showed in her cheeks.
She turned up the lamp, slipped a wrap
over nightdress donned her shoes
and climbed through the window.
„ noktnr Krantz sighed gustily
THEth? offoSip
* B at . heaad “P *‘ Jerv writina which
covered with ®P
littered the table-top and slutted tnem
without older or sequence, into his
'"MS bid good-night to his good
fn’pnH T arrv • drink mavbe a bottle of
£“tito hfm goto bed. But Larry
Veer at this hour
of He would wish only
to-what was the word?-yes-burble
about the horse-faced missionary wo a .
Such foolishness! Better he should talk
about Jutland and the Coronel and Zee-
brugge. And that was foolishness more
worse than the other. .
Then the doctor’s eyes gleamed behind
their thick lenses. He was aware of an
intruding sound, a sound well within the
scope of his recognition, the thrumming
Kaimari’s drum. For a moment he
stood combing his beard with his fingers,
nodding his great
w .™ d no , sle £ p f ‘° r J?S
nl Bht Though he craved for rest the
scientist m hirn won n _ . T
He sharpened a P e^ cd , n ed a bulky
notebook and headed a page. Death-
RlteS ai \ d Ceremonies. fhen making
no sound he went down the back steps.
'
| ARRY the Gunner, ex-Chief Petty
L officer, R.A.N., and ex-many-other-
things, lifted his head sharply.
“Somebody snuffed it,” he told him-
se ]f. “Old Isugapa, I’ll bet a quid.
Looked pretty crook last time I seen
him.” . , .
He slapped at a mosquito that buzzed
about his ear, settled back in his deck-
chair and tried to read more deter-
minedly than ever. It was no use. The
figure of a woman kept insinuating itself
between him and the story of the great,
wide, open spaces. He found himself
reading and re-reading passages that were
entirely meaningless_ to him. He had
covered two pages without knowing what
had happened to the red-blooded, two-
fisted, hairy-chested hero. And without
caring. , . , ,
th “mag S
verandah®
P P 8 , burn-
Th that
mg tn the teachers bedroom the m»
moment wcnt out, and was burning
brightly again. A woman, revealed by
the pale light of the moon, stood by the
window through which she had obviously
climbed. With a flare of illumination he
sister Anne. Suddenly she
8 the shadows. Then Larry
saw her again, striding swiftly and
silently down the track which led to th
village.
“Here!” Larry said. “She didn't ought
to do that. Not a lady like her ; brought
up nice and all.”
For a long mmute e vv: ! M .: '
divided in his mind, fearful of intruding.
The village people were all keyed up.
Terror of the unseen, the unknown, im-
bibed with their mothers’ milk, was clutch-
ing a t their hearts. The intervention of
even such a favored one as Sister Anne
might well precipitate an explosion. Any-
thing might happen— anything!
Larry the Gunner had been brought
up in a schoo i wh ere to think is to act.
T
grabbed a revolver, shook his head, and
rejected lt m favor of a stout black-palm
stick. Then he vaulted lightly ovei c
verandah rail.
«- AIMAR i t h e Sorcerer, toothless and
w ; 7Pn ed crouched like a grotesque
wizened, arouen.* j” front
S aC t L Tonghouse bearing f out his invo-
f lhe The shrieks
from the widow Bukara carried a
, ut termost fear and anguish to
.. He heard tde d j s tant, blood-
curdli ' scream Q f a death-owl, ’and the
nearer answering call of his mate. A
. , f urt i V elv oast him, and the skin
* K • • t witd gi adnes s because
. . . not f oraot ten.
, dum , Dum .
Dum-dum! Dum-dum-dum. uum
dum. ... . , ,
Kaiman was singing now in a crack ,
quavering voice, a wild, barbanc c •
The words were but
the tune had m it, blended together,
beating of drIUI ? S ; * e '
jupgle, clash of s P ears t fet He
s ,. ,° . th armed men w fi o had
sheepish grins on their faces.- He did
not see the automatic in Mr. Patrol-
officer Tolliver’s hand, but he heard the
rasp of that young man’s voice.
“Hey, you! What’s going on here?
A sudden silence descended on the
village. Corporal Saki ostentatiously
fashioned a cigarette and placed it be-
hind an ear. For a moment Kaimari
the Sorcerer was stricken motionless,
dumb. The muscles of his face twitched
nervously, his brow furrowed into a mass
of wrinkles, but his beady, lashless eyes
were focused unblinkingly on the white
man’s face.
“Taubada,” he demurred at lash with
a vast dignity, “it is not fitting that
“Answer me!” Tolliver snapped.
“And get on your feet when you speak
to me.”
The Herr Doktor Krantz emerged
from behind the swelling butt of a cocoa-
nut palm. .
“That young man!” he sighed. What
a fool, what a —yes —silly ass, that young
man is!”
He shut his notebook with a snap.
“And the missionary woman! Ach,
Gott! Missionaries! Governments!”
He took himself off, muttering gutturals
in his beard.
“Laroni! Where are you, Laroni?
Oh, you wicked girl!”
Sister Anne, clasping her wrap about
her shoulders, thrust herself determin-
edly through the ranks of the now thor-
oughly uncomfortable police.
“What have you done with Laroni?”
she demanded of Kaimari. “Don’t blink
at me, you bad old man!”
Kaimari turned his back on her. “The
girl is with her mother ; Isugapa, her
father, being dead,” he said rudely and
crossly. “Moreover, she is a very good
girl, and it is fitting that”
“Better come away, miss,” Larry the
Gunner joined the party, “and leave ’em
to it. No place for you, miss,” he
coughed nervously, “if you know what
I mean.”
Mr. Patrol-officer Tolliver’s jaw had
sagged a little. His pistol felt like a
Gatling gun, and he bolstered it sheep-
ishly. His eye lighted on Sister Anne
and the embarrassed little man by her
side, and he sought refuge in a grin.
“My hat!” he ejaculated. “I say, you
know, this is a dashed funny turnout.”
“Hold your jaw, you!” Larry the
Gunner snarled, with withering emphasis.


A Javanese butcher
Java—
jfor -your holiday
Visit this wonderland of colour with its picturesque
people, strange customs, ancient temples and towering
mountains. A further attraction has been added to the
trip by the installation of talking pictures on the Burns
Philp Line t.s.s. "Marella." This vessel sails regularly
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane for Java and
Singapore. The round trip occupies about seven weeks
and fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be pleased to fonuard you Folder No. 25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7 9 0 1
ķ
ERVICE
Since 1899 the Rural Bank has assisted 54,728
persons to establish farms and 33,823 families
to acquire homes on easy terms. It will be
seen, therefore, that the Bank has played an
important part in providing employment and
increasing rural production. Those who bank
with the Rural Bank know that by so doing
they are enabling it to increase its useful
services. Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all sections of the
community.
/%£ RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office - 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch - - - - 350 George Street
(Opp. Wynyard Street)
BRANDALERS
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box.
C. BRANDATJEB & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
<ef‘
A
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
ĸ
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office:
343 George Street, Sydney.
DARVALL,
General Manager.
“What’s funny? If you want to laugh
take a peep at yourself, and have a good
’un.” He turned to Sister Anne. “Come
away, miss,” he pleaded earnestly.
“Laroni! I can’t leave Laroni in this
of 7“ .
Something stronger than you is pull-
mg at Laroni,” Larry interrupted
soberly. Just for the time being, y
know, he hastened to explain.
Corporal Saki edged himself to Tolh-
Ve «w Slde V
More better you-me go sleep, tau-
ac * a » t “ e suggested with great earnest-
ness. I t ink so. ’
_ vt .
I pHmKpH fhp ter- • nne LMi Cr eSCOrt
“Thnnaht mission ill.
Thought you might have been m a
bit of trouble,” Larry the Gunner mut-
tered when they reached the door. He
felt excited, exalted. The moonlight
seemed to wash about him like a gentle
wave. “When I seen you running, y’
know, like that . . .” his voice trailed
off in inarticulate abashment.
“I quite understand, Mr. Shane,”
sister Anne assured him. “It was most
kind and thoughtful of you.” She felt
an absurd inclination to become a help-
less, giggling, almost coy young girl.
xhen her eyes crinkled. A low,
chuckling laugh escaped her. “I won-
der> fy[ r Shane,” she went on a little
hurriedly, “if you’d come to tea with
me to-morrow afternoon? If you can
possibly spare the time. Will you?”
There was an indescribable soaring
sensation under Larry the Gunner’s front
.. J
; ,
My oath, I will, he said.
My Political
Life
By W. A.HOLMANS
RECRUITING
SCHEMES
Our own inde-
pendent recruit-
ing efforts which
now began were
continued without slackening up to the
very end of the war. They began, about
the middle of 1915, as an isolated effort
in our State. On the resignation of
Fisher and the assumption of the Pre-
miership by his clearer-headed and very
much more active lieutenant, Hughes,
they were merged to some extent in the
wider general efforts then set on foot. It
can be fairly claimed that in New South
Wales, when the serious Federal effort
commenced, much preliminary work had
been done and a response to the call
set going which never actually ran dry
even to the end of the war.
1 treated the whole thing practically
like an electoral campaign, with publicity
and propaganda and personal appeal
conducted along well-established lines. I
flattered myself that I understood the
handling of these agencies better than
most people in Australia, and it must,
I believed, go very hard if with the
united effort of all parties—and such a
united effort was clearly within practical
politics at that moment —we could not
make some very deep impression upon
the hitherto somewhat somnolent con-
sciousness of the community.
There is no need to burden this
account with the details of the efforts
made. They largely paralleled similar
efforts made during the earlier stages of
the war in Great Britain. Posters, the
press, advertising in all its branches, the
theatre, sport, amusements of every kind
—all these agencies were pressed into the
service ; and, in addition to these, definite
campaigning tours, to be undertaken by
the whole of the available members of
the House (which was to go into recess
for the purpose), were organised to cover
the State throughout its length and
breadth.
THE FIRST
RECRUITING
CAMPAIGN
Great success
attended the first
recruiting cam-
paign. The House
adjourned, a
committee repre-
senting both sides met, some 40 members
offered their services and a number of
tours through the country and meetings
in the suburbs were mapped out. It was
arranged that Wade and I should speak
together from one series of platforms,
and other couples, representing Minis-
terialist and Opposition, take others. At
the last moment Wade was ill (the first
serious indication, I believe, of the health
failure which was ultimately to carry
him off), and I took my tour alone. Even
without the interest which the presence
of the two leaders would have given, it
was a great initial success. Excellent
reports, too, were brought in from every
side. The attendance at the meetings had
been enormous. Many of those present
had heard something like a rational and
intelligible account of the war for the
first time. The feeling shown was admir-
able, and, although the immediate result
in recruiting was not large, this had not
been expected. The men to whom we
were appealing were the sober citizens
of the State—young workmen and
farmers —who had affairs to settle and
problems to adjust before they could
join up.
A.W.U. CHANGES
FOR THE WORSE
The most im-
portant purely
industrial organi-
sation in the
Commonwealth is the A.W.U. It has
branches in most of the States, the
largest being naturally in New South
Wales. It controls enormous funds, a
large proportion of which has always
been devoted to political purposes.
Its officers in earlier days of struggle
and depression had been men of great
strength of character and sincerity.
They had been opposed to us on many
questions of Labor policy, but they were
men with whom it had been possible to
get on with mutual respect. They were
now being replaced by a different type.
At the conference of this body which
met under the presidency of R. D.
Meagher, the business paper foreshad-
owed half a dozen definite votes of cen-
sure directed against us for various fail-
ures. Some of the grounds alleged were
ridiculous, but any one of them might
be fatal to us.
The most serious was one directed at
our omission to take any steps to abolish
the Legislative Council. Its abolition had
been for many years a leading plank
upon the Labor platform. During the
election of 1913 it had been put by me
discreetly into the background. We had
quite enough trouble on our hands.
The case for our critics, put in its most
crudely damaging form, was that we
were ignoring the Labor platform, that
prime repository of all benign proposals.
To this the obvious reply was that we
were ignoring only one plank. It struck
me that this reply could be put more
effectively if I prepared a small pamphlet
in which the planks were set forth in
order in one column and a statement of
the action taken by the Ministry in a
parallel column. We did this, and; were
thus able to show that in the 15 months
since the election we had taken definite
steps in connection with every plank
except eight or ten —none of first-class
importance, except the Council abolition.
On the evening of the debate one of
these was distributed to every delegate.
The Upper House vote of censure was
triumphantly defeated.
W. M. HUGHES
ATTACKS
Another ex-
tremely dangerous
vote of censure
was one based
upon our acceptance of the Norton-
Griffiths works proposal. This also
gave rise to a full-dress debate occu-
pying the whole of one evening.
Again I stated the case for the
Government. As I rose to speak towards
the close of the evening Hughes, present
as Federal Attorney-General, rose with
me. He gave way to me, and I, natur-
ally assuming that, as the representative
of another Government, he had risen to
explain the immense difficulties of the
time and reinforce my statement with
experiences of his own, saw the possi-
bility of his speech following mine with-
out any misgiving.
When I had finished he rose, was
called upon, and made what was, in fact,
the winding-up speech of the debate. To
my stupefaction, and I think to that of
o Continued on next page.)


Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
S 5
f
i
II
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of "The Bulletin for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve tne
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom the mines alone.
•‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details trom F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted teat THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE;
<< The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 86241.
everyone there, this speech turned out to
be an attack upon our Government in
connection with the agreement. Nothing
could have been more improper. As an
individual member of the movement, he
was entitled under the rules to speak for
five minutes. He spoke actually—in
bitter invective against us —for nearly
three-quarters of an hour, a privilege
which was given only to the representa-
tives of Governments, thus adding to the
force of his attack the weight of the
Commonwealth Ministry.
His effort, however, defeated itself.
He was interrupted again and again and
called upon to state what alternative our
Government had had. He failed alto-
gether to respond to this challenge, and
displayed, as was to be expected, little
familiarity with the actual facts of the
financial situation. At the close of his
speech the vote was immediately taken,
and resulted again in a substantial vic-
tory for the Government.
The conference realised that the war
altered everything, and that the Govern-
ment must be aided and not harassed.
POLITICIANS
KILLED AT THE
WAR
With April 25
came news of
Australia’s defi-
nite entry into the
war. A few days
later came news
of tragic and special significance to the
House. Braund and Larkin, our two re-
presentatives in the first contingent, had
both been killed within a few days of
the Landing. Such an occurrence, which
in the long-drawn tragedy of the war
became commonplace, was at that
moment almost incredible. Again I re-
strain myself from dwelling upon the
sentiments of sorrowful incapacity to
comprehend the truth which were
shared by every portion of the House.
There followed necessarily two by-
elections. Braund had represented the
Armidale seat, and was a Liberal; Larkin
held a city seat as a Labor man. The
compact was observed by our party, and
no Labor candidate was nominated for
the Armidale election. To our great
annoyance, however, the Willoughby by-
election was contested.
For a second time the tactics were
adopted of permitting an independent
candidate to carry the Liberal flag. These
tactics would probably have proved as
profitless as before had not our move-
ment now made an appalling blunder
in the selection of its candidate. He
had been in the Government service,
holding some position in the Tramway
Department, had been a militant mem-
ber of the trade-union which had been
formed amongst the employees of the
department, and in this connection had
obtained a certain degree of prominence
in the trade-union world. There he had
characterised himself by the extreme
nature of his utterances, which had
already earned him a reputation which
did nothing to endear him to the ordi-
nary elector. This he now proceeded to
accentuate by a series of pronounce-
ments on the war which were unfor-
tunate in the extreme. The seat, which
had never been in the true sense of the
word Labor, had been won at the elec-
tion of 1913 on Larkin’s great local
popularity, and long before the conclud-
ing date it was obvious that our man
would be defeated and the Liberal can-
didate returned.
ACCUSATIONS OF
PRO-GERMANISM
While one sec-
tion of our move-
ment was thus
beginning to take
up an attitude of disaffection —an attitude
which was perhaps first clearly expressed
on a platform by our nominee for Wil-
loughby—another section was joining in
the chorus raised by our enemies that
the Government was “pro-German.”
The ground of this extraordinary
allegation was as follows: There were
at the outbreak of the war some 250
persons in the State’s employment who
were of German birth. I had caused a
list of these names to be prepared and a
report upon each individual officer sub-
mitted. All those in casual or temporary
employment or not naturalised had at
once been quietly dispensed with. Those
in permanent employment were dealt
with on their merits. In cases where
superior officers! and colleagues gave
guarantees of fidelity, and there were
supporting circumstances, they were re-
tained in their positions. Where there
was any doubt they were dismissed. In
some instances considerable hardship was
thus imposed on deserving people who
had come out to Australia 15 or 20 years
before, had become naturalised, joined
the public service and given absolutely
faithful service; but the Government
took the view that the benefit of the
doubt —where doubt existed —must be
given to the State.
This left about 60 who continued to
exercise the duties of their offices. Many
were boatmen, gardeners, attendants at
hospitals, etc. A few, however, were in
superior positions.
The agitation, begun in papers which
were prepared to publish anonymous
letters from members of the public ser-
vice, wasi supported in a somewhat shame-
faced way by the more respectable press,
and finally taken up with great vigor by
that section of the Parliamentary Labor
Party whose primary purpose in life was
to replace the existing Ministry by others
of more vigorous patriotism and intelli-
gence.
I dealt with this trouble in compara-
tively short order. A statement had
already been tabled in Parliament show-
ing the Germans retained in the public
service, their positions and the grounds
we had for assuming they were loyal
British citizens. This paper was brought
up at a party meeting, and the critics
were challenged to point to the individual
cases where they thought there should be
further dismissals. This they were quite
unable to do, and it was apparent that
there was a solid majority which sup-
ported the Government’s attitude. And,
in truth, it was not easy for them to do
anything else. The 60 cases I have re-
ferred to were almost all those of men
who had sons or some other relations
who had gone to the front with the
A.I.F.
PARLIAMENTARY
MOTION
The voice of
uninformed
criticism was, as
so often, definitely
checked by the facts. But a motion had
also been tabled in Parliament attacking
the Government on this very matter. In
the ordinary way it would not be reached
before the end of the session. I pointed
out, however, that if we liked we could
give priority to it at any time; if the
agitation were persisted in we should
be compelled to do so in order to
ventilate the matter. The fate of
the Government would then be at
stake, and by the party rules it would
be essential that a solid vote should
be taken. The solid vote would be de-
cided upon at a party meeting, and the
minority would have to follow the
majority.
This caught the minority on the solar
plexus. They dared not show them-
selves in the fierce and unfavorable light
beating upon men caught “ratting” on
a party decision. On the contrary, ft
was the very essence of their policy to
show themselves overwhelmingly loyal to
the movement. If a choice could be
made between 'the Ministry and the
movement, well and good. But they
could, see only too clearly that any
voting with the Opposition would put the
. movement definitely against them. From
that time onward, although the “pro-
German” cry continued an important
means of attack in the hands of our
enemies, it got little support from our
own men.
PRESSMEN OF
GERMAN
EXTRACTION
We scored
equally gratify-
i n g 1 y, too, off
another of our
natural enemies
during this melee.
The “Daily Telegraph” had improved the
shining hour, and had made the most pf
the pro-German agitation. Now the
“Daily Telegraph” itself had upon its
staff two pressmen, personally the most
estimable of men, but both of unques-
tionable German extraction. Both these
gentlemen were born in Australia, and
both were known to members of the Gov-
ernment as beyond all question in the
matter of loyalty and attachment to our
cause. But it was felt by all of us that,
at a moment when the Government was
in jeopardy because it was declining to
discharge men with German
names, a big newspaper which was, how-
ever rightly, doing the same thing should
“keep its head shut.”
A question in the name of a supporter-
appeared therefore on the business paper
towards the end of one week in Septem-
ber. Had the attention of the Govern-
ment been called to the employment by
the Sydney press of Germans? Was it a
fact that the “Daily Telegraph” had
some on its literary staff? Was it em-
ploying others on its mechanical and dis-
tributing staffs? (This was a piece of
purely gratuitous malice.) Were its Ger-
man employees, if any, engaged in writ-
ing up the war cables? Would the Gov-
ernment have full inquiries made?
THE GOVERN-
MENT SCORES
Never did so
simple an exercise
of the divine right
of curiosity cause
greater-' consternation. Like most life-
long critics, the guiding minds of the
“Daily Telegraph” could not bear to be,
for an hour, the subject of criticism
themselves. The questions had appeared
on'a Thursday night, and our answer was
deferred until the following week. Dur-
ing the week-end an elaborate statement,
a column Tong 5 r appeared in the “Daily
Telegraph” itself, in which all the facts
of the employment of the two unfor-
tunate journalists in question were ex-
culpatorily set forth. Their parentage
and birthplaces, their functions on the
paper, were all expounded, with, no
doubt, thoroughly justifiable emphasis.
The fact Ithat the paper had no other
employees whose descent could even be
suspected was insisted upon with becom-
ing firmness, as was also the folly of
attacks upon private businesses of the
kind which the question was' supposed to
portend.,
As a matter of fact, the “Daily Tele-
graph” in its private capacity had be-
haved with perfect decency and perfect
propriety towards these two gentlemen,
and its directors (if indeed the matter had
ever come before them at all) had clearly
had no idea of penalising a couple of
loyal and devoted employees because they
had the bad luck to carry German
names. But, this being so, the paper
should have kept quiet about us, who
were attempting in a large and more
difficult sphere to deal with a similar
problem in a similar way. We resolved
this time to give it something to go
on with, and I prepared an answer with
some care, in which I found considerable
satisfaction.
Since the honorable member had given
notice of his question, I stated, the
management of the “Daily Telegraph”
had published a quantity of information
upon its subject matter in the paper’s own
columns. From this I learned certain de-
tails about the nationality of the paper’s
employees, which I set forth under the
heads of the various questions raised.
As for the writing up of “Daily Tele-
graph” war cables, I was now in a
position to say that this work was in
the hands of journalists of British
origin. “The German section of this
paper’s staff,” I added, “is presumably
exclusively engaged upon politics.”
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given m next week’s Bulletin.]


THE BERNARD
CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE
ID LESSONS.
Mr. Cronin’s course is a masterpiece of
expert practicality. The components of
a story —theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description — the
very names of which excite the imagina-
tion, and the awe, of literary aspirants,
are considered in detail with a wealth of
illustration and practical advice that at
once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons
and three supplements. Mr. Cronin’s
own enthusiasm is so great, his sympathy
so large and his handling of the practice
work sent in so competently confident
that the interest of his pupils never flags.
Those who have a real flair for writing
very soon make a good job of every
piece of work they send in. They are
helped the more inasmuch as they are
never kept waiting for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work.
Mr. Cronin is not content with less than
the best they can do ; and neither are
they allowed to rest content until he has,
by instruction and illustrative revision
of parts, trained them , to polish and re-
polish until the whole is a finished piece
of work truly expressive of the writer’s
intention and individuality.
Later, in the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier story, and in the light of his—
and frequently her —added experience *
and increased knowledge improve it to
publication standard. Mr. Cronin is
most insistent, however, on his pupils
submitting to editors none but good
work. Not, of course, the best they ulti-
mately will do, but work of such a stan-
dard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as per-
manent mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Some are given in detail in
Friendships,” copies of which can be
had on request.
In addition to teaching story-writing,
Mr. Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of great
value to many whose work, through
minor faults of construction or presenta-
tion, has just failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is
fully described in an illustrated pamph-
let, “Writing to Win.” Copies will be
sent post free to any reader of The
Bulletin who would like one.
Newspaper Articles and Paragraphs.
Those specially interested in the criti-
cism of MSS. or in the writing of news-
paper articles and paragraphs are
requested to mention the fact.
Letters can be addressed to Mr. Ber-
nard Cronin, c/o E. H. Welford, 398
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Key to a
9
Career
s
DR. NORWOOD says that “ A Proper Grasp of
P elmanism would save any life from Futility .”
Amongst the many Australians who have achieved distinction in Great
Britain, none is regarded more highly, either there or in Australia, than Dr.
Norwood. Dr. Norwood is the Minister of the City Temple, London. He
has travelled much, has had a wide experience of men and of life, is a keen
observer and a great thinker.
k
Dr. I'. \V. Norwood, D.l).
Of the Vlty Temple,
London.
Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood says, <4 is
sound Psychology and an admirable
system of Mind-training. It is more
than mere Memory training. There is
no co-ordination of knowledge without
a retentive memory, but the mind is
more than memory. It involves the
whole man.
Pelmanism reduces to a coherent
system what every person who lives
intelligently and strongly must at least
partly carve out for himself. A proper
grasp of it would save any life from
futility and would cause many to dis-
cover powers latent within themselves
of the existence of which they had not
dreamed. It teaches that man has the
hey to his own career and enables
many to find the hey itself which, for
want of self-knowledge, had lain un-
discovered.”
Amongst other well-known Pelmanists
are:
ķ
k
I)mile Sybil Thorndike.
Lord Riddell.
Sir Arthur Quiller-
' Couch.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike,
Lady Keeble.
Lord Baden-
Povvell.
Sir Herbert
Barker.
Sir Herbert
Austin.
And many others.
Pelmanism does, indeed, bring out
the mind’s latent powers and develops
them to the highest point of efficiency.
It strengthens Will-Power; it develops
Personality; it gives. Courage, Initiative,
Forcefulness and Determination. It
banishes the defects which interfere
with the efficient working of the mind,
and in their place it develops such
attributes and qualities as:
ower
Initiative
Self-confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
Cheerfulness
and a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong,
positive, vital qualities contributes to
one’s earning capacity and makes it
possible to live intelligently in the
present and build strongly for the
future. What is of equal importance
is that there is increased happiness
and a keener appreciation of the
beauties of Nature, the Arts and Life
generally.
In a sentence, Pelmanists live a
fuller, happier and more successful
existence.
This is borne out by the letters re-
ceived from those who have taken the
Course, some extracts from which are
given here:
AN ACCOUNTANT states that Pelmanism
has shown him “how to overcome that
paralysing feeling of inferiority."
A STUDENT writes: “I have now an aim
in life. I have become more Observant. My
Concentration is more developed. My
Imagination lias increased.’'
A SHOP ASSISTANT reports'that he has
secured rt better position, and attributes
this to Pelmanism.
A FARM WORK EH writes: “Thants to
Pelmanism, 1 am feeling more confident
and more alive.”
A MANAGER reports an Increase in self-
confidence, “which has brought me the
respect of my colleagues.”
AN ENGINEER writes; “I feel especially
an increase in Self-confidence, which gives
professional status.”
A TYPIST says that she has abolished
groundless fears, and now leads a much
happier life.
A CLERK writes that he lias improved
in memory, concentration and will-power,
and that his mind is quicker and more
alert.
A DOCTOR writes, that he has improved
his powers of Observation, ' Concentration
and Memory, and has increased his .Self-
confidence.
AN INSURANCE CLERK writes:
“Financially I am over 30 per cent, better
off than before; mentally and physically I
am hundreds per cent, better off.”
A WOMAN CLERK writes: “I can con-
centrate for quite a long period without my
mind wandering. 1 observe things far more
quickly, and have ever so much more con-
fidence in myself and my abilities. My
thoughts are far more orderly.”
A TEACHER writes: “Tills Course has
had a remarkable effect on my physical
and mental health. What pleases me most
is tlie certainty that I have lost my fear.
My self-confidence has returned and ray
whole outlook on life seems to be recon-
structed.” i
A CARPENTER says Pelmanism has
helped him both physically and mentally.
A CLERGYMAN writes; “I luive experi-
enced much benefit, and wish I had under-
taken the Course. earlier in life. Had 1
known at the age of 30 certain things
which I know now largely through the
Pelman lessons—-! think I could have
avoided one or two painful, nervous break-
downs . . . To summarise (and employ a
fashionable word), 1 think I have gained a
better orientation towards life.”
A BANK ('KEEK writes: “This Course
lias enabled me to see clearly what I want
In life and how to get it. It has taken me
out of the rut. It has shown me that,
whatever the circumstances may be, life
holds Infinite possibilities of enjoyment and
inn tit.”
Thousands of similar letters could be
printed did space permit.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
TO THE
PELMAN INSTITUTE.
Liege, 1930:
Diploma and Medal.
Nancy, 1932:
Diploma and Medal.
Geneva, 1933;
Diploma and Medal.
Paris, 1933 :
Diploma, Gold (V.edal
and C ross.
... “The Efficient Mind,” you will
ind a full explanation of the Pelman
Course and much interesting inforn
UNO if
THE EFfICICMT NINO
To 'sSttr
tion on the subject
of Mental Training.
This book will be
sent you free on
application to the
Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Write for it to-day.
and it will, be in your hands by return
of post.
All correspondence is regarded as
confidential. We have no outdoor
representatives. S'.
Pelmanism is scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation
of 30 years standing. Its headquarters are in London.
There are 650,000 World Pelmanists; 31,000 are in Australia and New Zealand
CUT OUT OR COPY AND POST TO-DAY
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
408
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
Sc
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
o
,o
p
p
*> 1 /,
e
bj>- 0 ■*';
v*
ity y / ,*
f ■- ■' ■••••*.
...-••,
<-
(jy J
VO
(tfv'
M
\\e
.••• .v-s£>
°' ..•••• ..•••■ o«f>^


lo, molonnff
, m
ImvMxiimMi 42
mm '
Mia
L
.M
K ,: j? \
v. •::•:■
iiiiiitl
n :
H
: - • ;
, > l
•>- ■ j
m
innrffinffPii •’•'•"'•
■MMI
t S
38a
T/ie Princes High -
wear W-'a/er-
/a//, a stretch
WMWiSWW ?#pV o/ modern road -
■4v •: way. joy /or
' motorists to drive
WMMmSb> tv ".... ' on -
Jlk -j
— 4 ■■
s* 6 M V W " - -
Another important milestone on the trail of better motoring is the greatly improved
standard of performance achieved by Atlantic Ethyl. This true Ethyl fuel is unrivalled
for anti-knock* mileage* and acceleration.
ATLANTIC
WITH'
ETHYL GASOLINE
CORPORATION
r ;.-. -
FTHYL
ir Don’t fail to hear “JANE EYRE ” Atlantic s
Dramatic Radio Feature, Every Tuesday
Night, 8.30-9 p.m. 2UW and Country
Stations.
Even better performance is yours when your
engine is specially tuned for Atlantic Ethyl •
It costs a few shillings only. See your
garage-man!
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND.
