

NEW
A
V
A
4
A
4
m
w*
r 4
<2
K
s :
Perfect
Christmas
Gifts!
Equip yourseu
for the holidays!
HI
■fl T
mm
476
From
28'6
NEW KODAK JUNIORS represent amazing values. Just
imagine securing a fully-equipped model with an f/8,8
Anastigmat lens, for popular 2 4 in, x 3 4 in. pictures, for
only 47/6! Others—52/6, 67/6, 80/- upwards.
CLEVER JIFFY KODAKS—one touch and Jiffy opens
for action —another and a happy snap is safely captured.
What could be simpler? In three popular sizes—-for
pictures 2| x If inches, 2 \ x 3 4 inches, and 2 -| x 44-
inches respectively—28/6, 55/- and 60/-.
BABY BROWNIE 6/-. BOX BROWNIES FROM 14/6.
MINIATURE KODAKS DE LUXE —You’ll find a Kodak
to suit every miniature requirement. Kodak Retina offers
all the big advantages of work on 36 exp. 35mm. film for
only £10/10/- (f/3.5 lens, Compur Shutter to 1/500).
Write for special folder.
Kodak Pupille, complete with range-finder and acces-
sories is marvellous value at £13. Vollendas 48 and 52,
from £5/15/-, are ingenious in design—put miniature
photography within the reach of all. Ask for booklet.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK ( AUSTRALASIA ) PTYLTD.,
379 George Street. Sydney; Kodak House, 253 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l; 250-252 Queen
Street, Brisbane; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street,
Perth; Buthven Street, Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; Blinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by Kodak New Zealand, Ltd., 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 70 Princes Street,
Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street. Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Charles Kings fo
VoL 56.—“No* 2910.
Wednesday, November 20, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Story
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL -
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
—
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of. prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
MANKIND’S
HERITAGE
Historians, in
common with ele-
phants and the
baobab-tree, are,
as_a rule, blessed
with singularly
long life, and Will Durant, making, with
The Story of Civilisation, a notable
bid to be numbered among the great,
will need the full Biblical share of time
to complete the tremendous job he has
undertaken.
It is a vast task, a colossal story to
tell. Durant, after 20 years of prepara-
tion, 50 years of his life over, and one
huge volume of a contemplated five com-
pleted, has no illusions about what he
has undertaken:
I wjsh to tell as much as I can, in as
little space as I can, of the contributions
that genius and labor have made to the
cultural heritage of mankind—to chronicle
11 j contemplate, in their causes, character
and effects, the advances of invention, the
varieties of economic organisation, the ex-
penments in government, the aspirations
of religion, the mutations of morals and
manners, the masterpieces of literature,
the development of science, the wisdom of
philosophy and the achievements of art. I
do pot need to be told how absurd this
enterprise is, nor how immodest is its very
conception; for many years of effort have
brought it to but a fifth of its completion,
and have made it clear that no one mind,
and no single’ lifetime, can adequately
compass this task.
Few will wish to disagree with him.
Nevertheless, his achievement, with this
one volume, is already so considerable
that the majority of those who read him,
while accepting that the occasion calls
for some display of modesty, will hardly
fail to appreciate his courage and his
great ability together.
. The work, both by reason of its subject
and the bulk of the book (Vol. I weighs
just on 51b.), might seem to promise de-
cidedly heavy going ; but the happy fact
is that Durant, if he errs at all as a
historian, errs op the side of levity. He
speaks of history as the greatest of
humorists, and whenever possible he in-
sists on some of that quality in his Clio.
“As in our own days,” he will say of
some past dynasty, “there was absolute
equality before the law—whenever the
contesting parties had equal resources
and influence.” Or; “Even Alexander,
who was not above dying of drink-
ing, was shocked by the morqls of
Babylon.” “....the Persians won
through the superior stench of their
camels. ’ “The jolly story of Samson,
who burned the crops of the Philistines
by letting loose in them three hundred
foxes with torches tied to their tails,
and, in the manner of some orators, slew
a thousand men with the jawbone of an
ass.” Or he will speak of tea as “this
gracious remedy for the tastelessness of
boiled water,”
Not that any normal reader is likely
to quarrel with Durant on that acc'ount;
only there are times when it may seem
to jar slightly on the magnificence of his
great story. At any rate, it is all in the
nature of his presentation of history. His
appeal is not to pedants, but to the
people— to the average normal run of
readers whose intelligence does not stop
short at Blood on the Rabbit-o. He calls
it The Story of Civilisation, and it is, in
every sense of the word, a story that
he makes of it — of 900 large
pages of story, and hardly a dull one
among them. It is story enlivened with
battle, assassination, toppling thrones;
with .strange beliefs, quaint customs,
wicked tortures and other curiosities of
human behavior. It holds a balance
between violence at its crudest and gov-
ernment, philosophy, letters, religion and
art at their highest.
Throughout, too, there is thought for
the present significance of all this; it is
contrasted and compared with the
affairs of our existing civilisation. The
origin of the work was a series of lec-
tures on the history of philosophy and
literature which the author began in
1914 before audiences of “mostly
working-men and -women, who de-
manded complete clarity, and some con-
temporary significance to all historical
material worthy of study.” In 1921 he
organised the Labor Temple School,
“which became one of the most suc-
cessful of recent experiments in adult
education,” and in 1927 he “retired” to
begin his huge work.
From Ancient
Times
This first
volume deals with
what Durant has
called “Our
Oriental Her i-
tage,” sweeping
from ancient Sumeria, Egypt, Babylonia,
Assyria, Judea, Persia and a motley of
other lost civilisations, through to those
that can be considered in both their
ancient and existing states—lndia, China
and Japan. The succeeding volumes, the
next of which “should be ready by the
fall of 1940, and its successors should
appear, by the grace of health, at five-
year intervals thereafter,” will deal in
turn with “Our Classical Heritage”
(Greece and Rome), “Our Mediaeval
Heritage” (up to the Italian Renaissance),
“Our European Heritage” (up to the
French Revolution) and ‘‘Our Modern
Heritage.”
He begins with a general survey of
the emergence of civilisation from bar-
barity ; then in successive chapters he
tells the stories of all the known different
Oriental peoples who have contributed,
and, in a few instances, are still con-
tributing, richly to the curious progress
of mankind. Each chapter is a blending
together of all the affairs of life of its
particular people. No one aspect is
taken separately ; all flow together into
a close pattern of life, just as the chap-
ters in turn flow into each other, cor-
related to' make a vast progressive nar-
rative. The richness of the material alone
would seem a safe guarantee to its hold-
ing the interest of anyone who had had
the courage to begin it, for the huge size
of the volume might seem to call for
some courage in the reader in what we
are led to believe are timid literary
times, and what the material cannot do
can be safely left to one of the lightest
pens that ever turned to the writing of
history.
This lightness is everywhere in his
free-moving style and his outlook. He
speaks of the Chinese idealist who “took
delight in pointing out how many quali-
ties kings and governors shared with
thieves,” and he is not above sharing that
delight himself. He obviously enjoys the
quainter titbits that reward the historical
delver, and brightens his pages with them
with a gusto that is perhaps only to be
expected of a countryman of the in-
comparable Mr. Ripley. There are a
thousand such things borrowed from
mythology, archaeology, anthropology,
Egyptology and the less lavishly poly-
syllabic branches of human record. “One
traveller describes a boy of twelve who
had learned to smoke before he was
weaned.” “The Yahuts have been known
to eat forty pounds of meat in one day ;
and similar stories, only less heroic, are
told of the Eskimos and the natives of
Australia.” In Nigeria “a woman of
even moderate pretensions must be one
who cannot walk without a slave under
each arm to support her ; and a perfect
beauty is a load for a camel.” In ancient
Egypt “apes were tamed and taught to
pluck fruit from the trees.” The noble
and poetic Chinese Minister Lu “was
wont to hang a thousand pieces of gold
at his gate as a reward to any man who
should better his compositions by so
much as a single word. (His son did not
inherit these literary tastes.”); and then
the story of the most famous of all
burnings of books ordered by that same
son. It must have been a great blaze,
since the books were in the form of
large lengths of bamboo, of such size
that a student required three carts to
convey a small reference library about
with him.
Several columns could be written by
merely filching from Durant’s filchings
of such items. The curiosities would
range from the astonishing things that
men at different times have regarded as
gastronomical delicacies to such pleasant
tales of the marvellous as that of the
Chinese artist who, when he had lived
long enough, “painted a vast landscape,
stepped into the mouth of a cave pic-
tured in it, and was never seen again.”
To Modern
Japan
All that, how-
ever, is the
lighter side of
the story. On the
other side are
such pure riches
as almost the whole of his magnificent
chapter on Judea, and coloring it all his
warm admiration for the great past that
he has managed to recapture much more
fully and finely than his natural mod-
esty will allow. He objects to the method
of writing history in separate longitu-
dinal sections, as doing “injustice to the
unity of human life,” and holds to the
ideal of historical writing which seeks to
“portray in each period the total com-
plex of a nation’s culture, institutions, ad-
ventures and ways.”- Among the peoples
that permit of it, such as those of India,
China and Japan, his story moves on out
of the times of mythology to contempla-
tion of their present state, with even a
glance at possibilities of their future.
In this latter regard he is, naturally
enough, most interested in Japan, the
nation which seems most ominous as
far as his own country is concerned. So
he concludes his story of this land with
these thoughts:
By the sardonic irony of history that
same Japan which America awoke from
peaceful agriculture in 1853, and prodded
into industry and trade, now turns all her
power and subtlety to winning by under-
selling, and to controlling by conquest
or diplomacy, precisely those Asiatic
markets upon which America has fixed
her hopes as potentially the richest outlet
for her surplus goods. Usually in history,
when two nations have contested for the
same markets, the nation that has lost in
the economic competition, if it is stronger
in resources and armament, has made war
upon its enemy.
Such a war, of course, would be a bitter
conclusion to America’s opening of Japan.
But there is a tide in the affairs of States
which, if uncontrolled before it gathers
strength, sweeps a nation into circumstances
where its only choice is between humilia-
tion and war; and men above military age
tend to prefer war to humiliation. The
danger of a conflict with Japan is not les-
sened by the apparent likelihood of war
between Japan and Russia; for if these
nations throw down the gauntlet to each
other again we shall be sorely tempted to
intervene on the ancient principle, so
richly illustrated in our time, that it is
wiser to help destroy a competitor who is
already attacked than to wait for victory
to strengthen him dangerously.
After which thoughtful remarks
Durant gathers up the threads of his
great story in a brief envoy, and con-
cludes with “the stage set for the three-
fold drama of Plato, Caesar and Christ.”
Red Page.
[The Story of Civilisation, by Will Durant
(Simon and Schuster, New York; per Angus
and Robertson; 31s. 6d.).]
The New
“Webster”
G. and C. Mer-
riam, of Spring-
field, Massachu-
setts, U.S.A., be-
ca m e identified
with Noah Web-
ster when that great lexicographer’s locks
were raven, his vigor unabated and his
habit of sitting in a well-stocked library
and slinging books in all directions, so
that they covered the floor like leaves in
Vallambrosa, was at its prime. He died
in 1843, and the earliest specimen of his
great dictionary cherished in The Bulle-
tin office is that of 1874, edited by
Noah’s son-in-law,- Chauncey Goodrich,
D.D. Yale gave, Noah Webster his
LL.D. as a reward for his word-compil-
ing labors. He had studied law at that
seat of learning, and near the end of a
career in which pedagogy, law and jour-
nalism were impartially mingled he
served for a while as a Judge of the
Court of New York State. His first
dictionary contained 12,000 definitions.
The edition published this year boasts
600,000. It is, as nearly as can be com-
pressed into one publication, not only a
list of words but an encyclopaedic index
to the present condition of Anglo-Saxon
knowledge. From it one could recon-
struct all the major discoveries in
mathematics from Newton and Des-
cartes, down through Cayley, to Einstein,
for formulae are given. It recognises all
the tremendous achievements in physics,
psychology, therapeutics and industrial
technology that have characterised the
first third of the present century.
Its editor-in-chief is a graduate both
of Edinburgh and Harvard. Its assistant
editors have been chosen with dis-
crimination from every land. Australia’s
contributions to the language were sifted
by Prof. E. R. Holme (Sydney Uni.), the
late J. Je Gay Brereton and librarian
H. M. Green. Such Bulletin coinages
as “Billjim” and “Maoriland” find place ;
“bonzer,” “Digger,” “Anzac,” “bingey”
(The Bulletin spells it Binghi) and
“furphy” are correctly defined. The aim
of the editors has been to include in
their purview “the livelier levels of the
speech of the educated,” and judicial big-
wigs of a pedantic type who object to
slang must in future watch their step,
for many Australian (and English) col-
loquialisms have now received recogni-
tion at the hands of a standard authority.
This commentator was sorry to find
that the beautiful word “gutzer” had
been omitted, and the significance of
“lead-swinger” had been given a. miss.
On the other hand, it was reassuring to
find that the field of card-playing
(watched over by R. F. Foster) had been
given intelligent attention. Maori termin-
ology, too, is given some space—-
“toheroa,” “tiki” and “haka” are listed.
The up-to-date jargon of musical criti-
cism (words such as “atonality” and
“polytonality”) is there, ■ and the only
notable omission of a musician in the
biographical section is Bela Bartok. That
wine, however, is very new in the bottle.
“Montage,” a cinema technical term ex-
pressing something the same as “mount-
ing” in regard to stage performances, is
not there, but the editors have an alibi.
They say they sifted more than three mil-
lion words and rejected those that were
too technical, too rare, too ephemeral, too
local or palpably self-explanatory. Even
o Continued on page 4.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Always
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
NOW is the time to do your Christmas shopping in
unhurried deliberation. NOW is the time to see at its best
the wonderful array of seasonal merchandise displayed at
Anthony Horderns’—Sydney’s Wonder Store. The pleasure
of Christmas-gift seeking will be lost in the last-minute
crowds. Therefore, shop NOW.
Solve the problem of
what to give at
Give her Gloves ...
5ii
5ii
... •'
O S# V
■
■-Wim
■*/
I
mmmm
or Hosiery...
/,
“Lady Ella" Pure
Silk Hose are
made specially for
us, and we recom-
mend them for
that extra wear.
Fully fashioned,
with Lisle tops
and feet. Well-
fitting panel heels.
New tonings, in-
cluding Black and
Gunmetal.
Price, pair, 4/11.
511
/
/ '' •' /
411
(
or Handkerchiefs
7s
4ii
lOfc
J
wm
m
yc**
«
■
m
i k
......
if®
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
I—The ever-popular Fabric
Gloves in a smart slipon
style. Black and Grey.
Price, pair . 5/11
Special Price, pair, 4/11.
2 Smart Simplex style.
Fawn, White, Black anc 1
Black-trimmed White.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
pair . . 5/11
3—These fine Fabric Gloves
are available in Navy,
Black/White, all Black and
Fawn. Price, pair . . 5/11
4—Dainty, yet serviceable!
Well-fitting Fabric Gloves
in White and Fawn.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
pair 4/11
“Nemesia" Pure Silk Hose have
gained a wide reputation for service-
able wear. Made expressly for us
in a smart service weight with Lisle
tops and feet. Fully fashioned,
panel heels. Wanted shades, also
Gunmetal and Black.
Price, pair 5/11
Three pairs for 16/6.
“Sheer Loveliness,” a beautiful clear
Sheer Silk Hose that is dependable
for service. Made with dainty Lace
Garter tops, panel heels and strongly
reinforced heels and toes. Delight-
ful summer tonings, including Gun-
metal. Packed in an exquisite gift
box. Price, pair 5/11
A special Christmas offer! 3000
pairs of first-quality fully-
fashioned Hose in new dull Sheer
Pure Silk. Dainty lac© tops
and perfect fitting panel heels.
All new tonings. Save 3/- on
every pair! Price, pair, 7/11.
Special Price, pair 4/11
Anyone would be delighted to receive
a box of these pretty Hankies for
Christmas! Swiss embroidered, in
plain White, pastel colours, or White
with coloured embroidery. Six packed
in dainty box, with greeting card en-
closed. Price, box .......... 2/6
Attractive box containing
six Irish Linen Handker-
chiefs daintily embroidered
in pastel shades. Also in
plain White if preferred.
Price, box 7/6
Beautiful fine quality Irish
Linen Hankies trimmed
with spokestitching and
embroidery. Six in box.
Price, box 10/6
More elaborate boxes.
Prices ranging to 29/6.
Six Pure Irish Linen
Hankies, packed in small
fancy box that is con-
venient to pack or post.
Plain White, very neatly
embroidered.
Price, box 4/11
9 Gloves, Hosiery, Handkerchiefs New Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


Every Sufferer from INDIGESTION knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
’f’ Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
[|| Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt’s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
ITT Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt’s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
De WITT'S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
so, this great dictionary gives evidence
that the Anglo-Saxon tongue grows like
a microbe in a jar of culture-jelly.
A. D. W.
[ Webster’s New International Dictionary,
Second Edition, Unabridged, G. and C.
Merriam Co. (our copy from Angus and
Robertson. Sydney; £9 155.).]
The
Australian
Rural Scene
D. H. Law-
re nc e (whether
we liked it or
not) contributed
to our literature a
novel, Kangaroo,
in which, under
the thin disguise of a character, Lovat,
he records his Australian impressions.
Lovat is seated with Harriet by the sea
a few miles north of Sydney with then-
backs to a landscape:
loused over with small promiscuous
bungalows built of everything from patch-
work of kerosene-tins to red brick and
stucco.... like forlorn chicken-houses....
fly-blown shops with corrugated-iron
roofs beyond which lay a whole aura
of rusty tin-cans chucked out over the
back fences
“I love the sea,” said Harriet.
“I wish,” said Lovat, “it would send a
wave about 50 feet high round the whole
coast of Australia.”
“You’re so bad-tempered,” said Har-
riet. “Why don’t you see the lovely
things?”
“I do,” said Lovat, “by contrast.”
In Blue Coast Caravan, for which
(see foreword) I am almost wholly re-
sponsible, and which Red Page reviewed
fB. 30/10/’35), I am at one with Lovat
on all three counts.
The book records eagerly and at
length every beautiful thing we saw and
every pleasant experience we enjoyed
on our trip from Sydney to Cairns. The
greater part of it. is devoted to that;
but it also records, briefly, and perhaps
acidly, the ugliness that we Australians
have created in the clean new continent
that is our heritage. Our countryside—
as distinguished from the unhandled
bush —is in many places a scene of
ravishment rather than of husbandry;
our country towns are, mostly, distress-
ingly bald statements ; and our wayside
cottages are, as often as not, as ugly as
lumps of congealed sin.
Red Page, while refraining from a
direct opinion as to the reasonableness
of my complaints in respect of these
things, disapproves of my neglect to wax
humorous over them at all times.
I respectfully submit that I fail to see
why I should. There is humor enough
in Blue Coast Caravan, but indignation
also has its uses. And anyone who con-
siders the possibilities for beauty in the
Australian scene by contrast with the
ugliness that has been, in general,
achieved must sometimes be moved to
exasperation.
It was exasperating, for instance, to
see, as did we, the hacked about condi-
tion of any bit of bush that had the
misfortune to stand close to a village ;
hillsides ringbarked above the level of
pasture growth, so that above the grass
and below the withering tuft of trees
that crowned the hill the eroded earth
was red and raw ; the infertile but lovely
stretch of wasteland axe-murdered for
the sake of a few blades of inferior
grass; the lagoon decked with mauve
water-lilies and overhung by ancient
gums—-dead, for the idiot axe had killed
them all; and to discover on the Barrier
Reef that the coral gardens, in the com-
paratively few places where they are
accessible to humanity, are in process of
being destroyed by roughshod tramp-
ling and by being broken and over-
turned by visitors spear-hunting a few
miserable fish. Things similar to these
are touched upon in the book—in be-
tween long accounts of more pleasurable
things—with, I admit, marked absence
of humor.
It is equally difficult to find cause for
mirth in the ugliness of our country
towns and many of our rural dwellings ;
an ugliness that few will be found to
dispute. It arises in some instances from
lack of attempt at beauty—sheer insen-
sibility—and in other instances, it seems
to me, from what all but the Philistine
among us would wish to see established
—a sound testhetic tradition. There
appears to be an idea that beauty is
something bought by the yard and added
to intrinsic ugliness as an afterthought;
something hung on the front of the
house to impress the passer-by. If only
the idea could get abroad among us that
beauty has nothing to do with cost; that
it can be achieved with the simplest
materials ; that, in so far as house archi-
tecture is concerned, it resides in repose-
ful lines, pleasing colors—and a little
foliage—we would be some distance on
the way to making this land of ours
what it should be.
D. H. Lawrence, in the same novel
from which 1 have quoted, gives us a
five-page description of the bush that is
one of the loveliest and most sensitive
passages in our literature. He saw the
bush, as any sensitive observer would,
“by contrast” with the distasteful addi-
tions we have made to it.
F.D.D.
Mr. Davison is quite right to defend
his book against what he appears to
consider misrepresentation ; but mis-
representation it was not. He says: “Red
Page, while refraining from a direct
opinion as to the reasonableness of my
complaints in respect of these things, dis-
approves of my neglect to wax humor-
ous over them at all times.” All the
rest of what he has to say, as far as the
criticism is concerned, depends upon
the accuracy of that.
As to the first clause in the sentence,
the criticism said: —
Their purpose is sincere, and it would
doubtless be to the good if their pertinent
advice to these coastal town-dwellers to
do something to bring beauty to their
towns could be taken as seriously as it is
offered.
So much for “refraining from a direct
opinion as to the reasonableness of my
complaints.” In regard to “disapproves
of my neglect to wax humorous over
them at all times,” this is what the
criticism expressly suggested: —
Not a funny book; just enough of that
saving grace to take the frown off the
face of Solemnity.
There is surely a wide difference
between that and “disapproves of'my
neglect to wax humorous over them at
all times.”
Red Page.
A Satchel of Books
Mingled Yarn, by “Shalimar” (Black-
wood ; 7s. 6d.). Nine fine stories packed
with red-blooded romance swept by clean
sea-winds; tales of peril off the Horn
in windjammers, and battles against
wintry North Atlantic gales. They are
racily told by an author who thoroughly
knows his subject, has a fine sense of
dramatic values, and a knack of clear
writing that brings the scene he portrays
vividly before the reader.
James Hunter’s Book of Indoor Enter-
tainment (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). A thoroughly de-
pendable investment for anyone likely to
have to provide home or party amuse-
ment for either children or adults.
Games, problems and tricks, quiet,
middling quiet and boisterous, are packed
into it —more than 600 pages of them,
all arranged and indexed so that they
can be found immediately.
Darby and Joan, by Maurice Baring
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). Considering the
brevity of this novel, the author is guilty
of an extraordinary amount of literary
murder. The two main characters first
lead him into temptation by marrying
the wrong people, and that’s two he has
to kill off. The woman then marries
again, and that’s another. There are
other deaths —seemingly an uncon-
scious obsession with the thought of
death. Even so, the novel is not dismal.
The deaths are necessary to the author’s
convenience, and so the people pass out,
and that’s all there is to it. He doesn’t
mind a bit, and spins a good yarn as
well as ever. ‘
Little Flowers of St. Pancras, by Hugh
Talbot (Dent; ss. net). Sheer delight
here for anyone who likes reading about
youngsters. The publishers give the in-
formation that the author is, under his
real name, the headmaster of a notable
preparatory school in England, and in
this book, the chuckle in the title of
which ripples continuously throughout,
he tells of the behavior, antics and des-
perate deeds of 17 little slum children
invited down to his home for a week
or two of sun and fresh air. The child-
character portrayal is exquisite. Joyous
child drawings by John Reynolds give a
completing touch to something that goes
close to perfect in its kind.
Feminine Attitudes in the Nineteenth
Century, by Dr. C. Willett Cunnington
(Heinemann ; 12s. 6d. net). What women
wore and how they behaved through-
out the nineteenth century, treated from
the point of view that sex was the prin-
cipal guiding influence, and written in a
bantering style. Through it runs a light
historical survey of woman’s gradual ap-
proach towards the goal of equality, and
the general picture is one that males, at
any rate, will find fully satisfactory and
certainly diverting. Women, because they
have a gift for finding amusement in
their own past behavior and dress that
men rarely have the sense of humor to
see in theirs, may probably enjoy it even
more.
The Romance of Fur, by Samuel Biber
(Penfold and Co. ; from Angus and
Robertson; 55.). Quite evidently the
author, who deals in furs in Sydney, has
not studied his goods only for what profit
might be made out of them. His whole
manner in telling of furs —the story of
their adoption through the ages as human
covering, the kinds of animals that wear
them, and how they are gathered all over
the world—conjures up the idea of one
who follows a particular occupation be-
cause he would rather be doing that
than anything else on earth. The result
is a most admirable bit of reading, alive
with the author’s enthusiasm and genuine
feeling for his subject. He just talks
away, in much the same tone of voice
that he has been heard to use over the
air, and more than those thirsting for
knowledge about furs should be able to
enjoy him. He makes good general
reading.
The Old Testament Omnibus Book
( Williams and Norgate ; 6s. net). The
editor, A. C. Hannay, extracts the great
stories from the Old Testament and the
Apocrypha, and presents them so that
they may be read as stories purely. He
attempts nothing so foolish as the retell-
ing of them, but takes them as they are
found in the Authorised Version, and so
presents them, with very slight editing
for the sake of clarity and an occasional
call upon the Revised Version. The
reader must not look here for the power-
ful narrative effect that is given by a
full reading of such books as Exodus,
but he will get something much more
satisfying than mere extracts. The im-
pression is of reading a collection of
short stories that overshadow all modern
collections.
Little Memories of Big People, by
Max Montesole (Imperial Printing Co.,
Perth ; 55.), has been written by a gentle-
man favored by life above the ordinary.
He took Ellen Terry to the seaside for
shrimps and wine, and was with her in
the first performance of “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion.” He was a com-
panion of O. Henry in long nocturnal
rambles across New York. He sat at a
cafe table in Paris with W. H. Crosland
and Poincare, discussing the progress of
the Great War. He was engaged by
Henry Irving as understudy in the days
of Loveday’s stage management. Maeter-
linck sent him to America to direct “The
Burgomaster of Stilemonde.” Little
Willie Hohenzollern chatted confiden-
tially with Mr. Montesole; Woodrow
Wilson liked him so well that he left a
function at Harvard to go and drink
mint juleps with him in a Boston pub ;
when Foch visited the U.S.A. he spent
two days almost in the sole company of
Mr. Montesole, who knows Winston
Churchill —well enough to “kidnap him
and take him off to Kensington Gardens”
for a confidential chat about war tactics.
And, of course, he knew all the really
great Americans—Jack Dempsey, Gene
Tunney, all the Barrymores, Norma
Shearer, John Gilbert and Paul Robeson.
A most entertaining book.
Children’s Christmas Books. It would
take an outsize stocking to hold The
Princess Elizabeth Gift Book, but it goes
comfortably enough into a pillowslip.
Published by Hodder and Stoughton
(copy from Dymock’s; 6s. 6d.), its sales
will benefit the Princess Elizabeth of
York Hospital for Children. For jacket
and frontispiece it has a color reproduc-
tion of the painting of the Princess by
Philip de Laszlo, and its rich array of
contents includes two double-spreads of
boisterous Disney Mickey Mouse in color
and page pictures in color and line to
stories and verses by J. M. Barrie, Kip-
ling, Francis Brett Young, Chesterton,
Algernon Blackwood, Compton Mac-
kenzie, W. H. Davies, Elizabeth Bowen,
Walter De la Mare, and as many more
again. The publishers have made a book
quite beautiful enough to be worthy of
those people. For the child —boy or girl,
but perhaps girl especially—who likes a
story that lasts a long time and has a
touch of unusualness, originality about
it, there is something quite out of the
way in Mr. Hermit Crab, by Mimpsy
Rhys (Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net). Sub-
titled “A Tale for Children by a Child,”
it is an extraordinary performance for
its fourteen-year-old author. Its authen-
ticity is vouched for in an introduction
by Noel Streathfield, who pictures its
young author, brought up in a house full
of books, one of a family who, owing
to their father’s health, had to live in
lonely places, miles away from other
people, on the Scilly Isles and elsewhere.
The story, set round about and beneath
the sea on the Cornish coast, has to do
with young adventurers releasing Mr.
Hermit Crab from a spell, with happi-
ness and a wedding at the end. If the
author does not develop into a successful
novelist there is nothing in literary
promise.


w/.
&
V.vSf'f" w-'i*
[fail vv.j*.:
>&.«»•,« I
w - 11 *. .i\./ \lI » - « • •' ll • i.
77%
/•*
*m&
\/f
wj
j ; 'M^
M
r>
the progeny of a
pedigree ram repeat
the characteristics of
their sire, so do EVER-
READY batteries main-
tain their high pedigree
with regular depend-
ability.
Equip your radio with an
EVE R-READY
Superdyne, and specify
EVER-READY refills
for your torch.
m&SL
UKCrCEII
S?U4
Ever Ready
■ I'M———
E.P.6
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
MANUFACTURED BY THE ever. READY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY AND LONDON


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
111*11
mm
m
m
■
m
■ m
mm
mm
*rJT
■
—i
m . __
f
■
LSTfj
n m
L: m y
4 :
** ' ''- A £
1-
* » f . .
J?
■
I
1
Grape Picking in Seppelt’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard,
j4 tfhtlitme Wie mellmma&midlmuj/uel


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2910.
November 20, 1935.
SUSPENSE.
“Kingsford Smith, lost somewhere about the Bay of Bengal on the flight from England to Australia, had been missing for nearly a fortnight.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia;
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6 d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas i 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.: 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE VALUE OF SMITHYS.
An Australian airman who-reached London last week
over the well-worn route expressed the opinion, shared
by thousands, that “record-breaking is idiotic.” Yet,
but for such idiocy, with all the courage, dangers and
difficulties it involves, it certainly would not be pos-
sible for comfortable persons to loaf along at some
100 or so miles an hour over tracks blazed and proved
feasible by the implicitly soft-headed.
Other things—perhaps more important things—
would not be possible, either. If there had not earlier
been idiotic attempts to make aeroplanes fly faster,
longer and further than any reasonable, comfort-
loving person could require, Kingsford Smith would
never have flown the Pacific. Then, but for that rash
act of his, arrangements would not have been com-
pleted the other day for an air-service between
America and Maori! and. This, in turn, has stirred
British interests to a sense of their rights. Thus
there is the probability of two air-services over a
route that was considered so fantastic eight years ago
that all but extreme measures were taken to prevent
Kingsford Smith from attempting to fly it.
Then there were those mad dashes that Kingsford
Smith made between Australian capital cities, setting
up speed records between this one and that and break-
ing them on the way back. This he accomplished, not
by straining every nerve as an athlete has to do, but
because the machine he had was a good 60 miles an
hour faster than any commercial ’plane in the country.
Now, because of the knowledge acquired and the con-
fidence imparted by these and other such flights, a
company is to spend £50,000 on new ’planes for
services that will link Melbourne with Townsville,
besides lifting an Australian ’plane-building enterprise
out of liquidation, starting a network of feeder ser-
vices and contributing something to make Australian
defence seem a slightly less hollow term.
It is hardly exaggeration to say that this, with
every safe flight that is made —and there are service
’planes flying safely and efficiently all up and down
the country—-is a result of some idiotic person having
risked his neck to make it possible.
And such things are but the plainly observable
contributions of these foolhardy men. In the less
tangible spheres of life, where practical results are
not the whole sum of human existence, such men as
these contribute something more valuable still. It can-
not be stated in terms of figures or weighed and
appraised at so much a pound. It is to be valued
along with the Revenge, and Drake’s bowls, and
Nelson ablaze with decorations on the quarter-deck.
It requires no great feat of observation or
patriotism to recognise that Kingsford Smith has
place among such men as these. His story, unlike
the tales of wonder in the Arabian Nights, requires
no imaginative eloquence in the telling, and no
magical aid, except a map of the world. Here can
be traced how he flew high round this world in a
sweep wider than its widest circumference. The tracing
finger can follow him in a great series of fights—
first, down the Pacific to Honolulu ; thence across
those vast unflown breadths to Fiji and on to Bris-
bane, missing this final goal at first by a hundred
miles, so uncertain the means of navigation which yet
had served to find those pinpoints on the map. After
that flight—a span of more than 7000 miles of
ocean —the line sweeps upwards and across to Eng-
land, thence over the Atlantic and across America, to
be completed in the same field from which he had
set out to fly the Pacific.
Additionally—remembering only the major flights
—there are those that helped to make the England-to-
Australia route a track so familiar that flying it has
become a pastime for holiday-makers and honey-
mooners. On this route Kingsford Smith flew the first
official air-mail to Australia in the Southern Cross, and
the first from here to England in the Southern Star. He
made the first flight across the Tasman, and five others
after it, so that this route, too, has become a track
over which a regular service will shortly be flown.
Then, with Taylor, after he had made cross-continental
flying a commonplace, he flew the Pacific again from
here to America ; and the list may close —omissions
duly acknowledged—with the most hazardous, perhaps,
of all his flights—that early one with Ulm in a seven-
year-old ’plane completely round Australia.
Forced down by rainclouds on that round-
Australia flight, Kingsford .Smith and Ulm flew in
bursts of 50, 60 and 100 miles at less than 50 feet —
flying to blanch the bravest, let alone those who like
their comfort. When they were in America before
the first Pacific flight they had to report; “Because we
could not raise train fares, we flew to Los Angeles!”
Such things are not to be lightly passed over.
They are mere examples of scores of dangers, diffi-
culties, narrow escapes that need to be thought deeply
on if we are to get at a sense of these men’s value.
Then we will see the light of their gesture, flaming out
against the background of what we are assured is a
prosaic, material, defeated world. This sense of defeat
is to-day the theme of literature, the chain-and-ball
shackle upon statesmanship, the spectre of existence.
In the main it is explicable enough: a common conse-
quence of the loss of life and spirit in wasting wars.
A defeatist acceptance, it is susceptible to defeat only
by triumphant achievement, by deeds such as Kings-
ford Smith’s, lifting men's eyes from the gutter to
the stars again.
THOSE SPECIAL GRANTS.
Keith C, Wilson, chairman of committees of the
Young Liberal League (S.A.), writes from Adelaide:
In B. 30/10/’35 you criticise the payment of grants to
South Australia, Westralia and Tasmania in terms of the
report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. You say
no one interrupted Mr. Curtin “hy mentioning that the other
three States were finding most of the money, and might have
a grievance on that account.”
The richer parts of any country, whether in a unified
State or in a Federation, must make contributions to the
poorer parts if anything approaching a uniform standard is
to be maintained. It is from the wealthy Eastern States that
the pressure for an Australian standard comes. For example,
in the textile industry a common rule was forced on South
Australia by pressure from the Eastern States in spite of
opposition by both employer and employee in South Australia.
The Eastern States cannot have the advantages of an Aus-
tralian standard without the obligation of finding the revenue
necessary to maintain that standard.
South Australia dislikes being classed as “a mendicant
State,” but agrees with the commission that grants are a
permanent feature of Federation, and that the devolved powers
must be constitutionally protected. Grants always have been
a feature of Federation; firstly, under the Braddon Clause,
secondly, under the Per Capita Agreement; finally, under the
Financial Agreement, The fault of these grants is that they
ignored the relative financial position of the States.
If Federation is to survive, grants from the Common-
wealth to the States must continue, but must be constitution-
ally protected, and must adjust the relative inequalities of the
States.
You suggest handing over income tax and education to
the Commonwealth. Perhaps you will suggest how this will
assist South Australia to pay its way. For 1933-34 South
Australia would have lost £1,302,083 in income tax and
£1,150,000 in special grant: total, £2,452,083. It would have
been saved on education £928,408, leaving £1,523,675. Add
its deficit, 1933-34, £843,816, and its total deficit under The
Bulletin’s redistribution would have been £2,367,491.
In proposing that income tax and education
should be banded over to the Commonwealth, The
Bulletin was influenced by the fact that in the last
three years for which the Commonwealth Statistician
gives figures, expenditure on “education, science and
art” in the six States exceeded ordinary income-tax
receipts. In 1931-32 income taxes yielded £9,288,200
and education cost £9,937,000 ; in 1932-33 the totals
were £9,607,200 and £9,677,500 ; in 1933-34 they were
£9,005,700 and £9,321,400. Figures for each State
were:
Income-tax Cost of
Receipts. Education.
N. S. Wales .. ’3l-’32 .. £3,411,100 £4,175,200
’32-’33 .. 3,870,600 3,844,800
’33-’34 .. 2,808,800 3,731,800
Victoria .. .. ’3l-’32 .. 2,061,500 2,607,000
’32-’33 .. 2,117,000 2,570,000
’33-’34 .. 2,329,600 2,428,400
Queensland.. .. ’3l-’32 . . 1,652,300 1,424,300
’32-’33 .. 1,689,300 1,373,400
’33-’34 .. 1,677,300 1,400,800
South Australia .. ’3l-’32 .. 1,484,000 869,200
’32-’33 .. 1,254,900 870,700
’33-’34 .. 1,302,000 874,700
Westralia .. .. ’3l-’32 .. 436,700 614,200
’32-’33 .. 366,000 607,400
’33-’34 .. 364,100 633,100
Tasmania .. .. ’3l-’32 .. 242,300 253,800
’32-’33 .. 339,200 244,400
’33-’34 .. 523,700 252,600
Tasmania in 1933-34 added to income-tax receipts
revenue from its lottery tax —which, of course, is
chiefly paid by mainlanders. South Australia, though
it takes more from income than any other State, has
no separate unemployed-relief tax. If education
and income tax were transferred to the Common-
wealth, adjustments would obviously be necessary,
in South Australia’s case especially ; and naturally in
each instance administration would have to be
decentralised to a far greater extent than exists now.
Other transfers would follow —manifestly all forms
of transport and regulation of industry will have to
be placed under national control —and the Common-
wealth might well abandon land tax to the States, as
it has abandoned taxation of amusements. Admittedly
the central authority is doing too little for the money
it is getting, and it must take more on its shoulders
and help the States until they can stand on their own
feet.
All the same. The Bulletin cannot admit that
grants other than those to which the Commonwealth
is constitutionally bound by the Financial Agreement
are “a permanent feature of Federation,” Mr. Wilson
mentions the Braddon clause (87), but that was
expressly limited to ten years, “and thereafter till the
Parliament otherwise provides”; and South Aus-
tralians voted for the Federal partnership (by 65,990
to 17,053 in 1899) in that full knowledge. When the
ten years were expiring politicians tried to get a poli-
ticians’ agreement for the payment of 255. per head per
annum voted into the Constitution, but the people
would have none of it (South Australia rejected it
by 51,250 to 49,352). After that, though payments
were continued for 18 years, there was no constitu-
tional obligation on the Commonwealth’s part to
make them until the people ratified the Financial
Agreement. That instrument was designed chiefly to
secure a steady reduction of public debts, but insen-
sate .State borrowing, weakly countenanced by Com-
monwealth politicians, though resisted by the Com-
monwealth Bank Board, threatens to postpone debt-
reduction till the crack of doom.
Nor does The Bulletin admit that “the richer
parts of any country, whether in a united State or in
a Federation, must make contributions to the poorer
parts if anything approaching a uniform standard is
to be maintained.” Mr. Wilson is mixing up wages
matters with matters of government. The case he
quotes may be matched by that of the goldmining
industry, in which for 30 years or more wages have
been higher in Westralia than in Victoria. Is Victoria
therefore entitled to a Commonwealth grant so that
it may increase goldminers’ wages to the “Australian
standard?” Commonwealth grants are not applied
to pay-increases, except in the cases of politicians and
“Crown employees.”
Australia is a Federation ; the U.K. is a “united
State.” The Union of England and Scotland has been
the most successful partnership in political history,
but it would not have lasted long had it begun with
a crude share-the-wealth programme. Can anyone
imagine Scots, Yorkshiremen or Lancashiremen sub-
mitting to the principle that “the richer parts should
make contributions to the poorer parts in order to
maintain a uniform standard”?
The Bulletin refuses to believe that all “the
pressure for an Australian standard comes from the
Eastern States,” or that these States are “wealthy”
and the others poverty-stricken. The Commonwealth
Statistician has shown that Westralia leads in wealth-
production per head—its average in 1933-34 was
£5l 7s. 5d., compared with £45 12s. lOd. in N.S. Wales.
It is indeed in a far better position all round than
heavily-taxed, deficit-ridden, unemployment-cursed
N. S. Wales (Westralia has only 784 persons on the
dole). Yet the Commonwealth is this year bestowing
a special grant of £BOO,OOO on Westralia —an increase
of £200,000 ; and at least £320,000 of the £BOO,OOO
is being extracted from N.S.W. taxpayers.
“If Federation is to survive”.... Unless inter-
state Freetrade is restored, and the drift to bureau-
cratic tyranny is arrested, and States are prohibited
from taxing income from other States, and the
Commonwealth ceases to drag money from the
majority and hand it over to minorities for uncon-
ditional expenditure, and the staggering cost of gov-
ernment is reduced to reasonable proportions—unless,
in short, urgent constitutional and financial reforms
are seriously tackled. Federation may not survive.
Australia will become a real Union, in which an
honest man carrying goods or samples may travel from
one end of the country to the other without being
held up by hordes of “inspectors” and taxgatherers (he
can in England, but he can’t in Australia), and with a
Parliament as supreme as that of the U.K., or it
will split into colonies again. Only in the latter case
there will be more than six colonies.
LIQUOR, JUSTICE AND CAUCUS.
The Forgan Smith Government has achieved some-
thing like a record in stampeding through Queens-
land’s one legislative House, in a few hours, some
45 pages of Liquor Act Amendment Act. A sur-
prised Opposition offered a few amendments, which
were defeated with machine-like precision. There
was no pressure of public business —for weeks mem-
bers on quorum-fatigue had done nothing more than
fill “Hansard” pages with electoral propaganda. The
subject, though one deserving attention, was by no
means urgent. And no forewarning of the bill had
been given during the election campaign.
The measure abolishes local option and sets up
a commission of three with uncontrolled powers over
all matters relating to the issue, transfer, distribution,
control and cancellation of liquor licenses. In each
respect it violates “Labor principles,” of which so
much is heard; but it does a great deal more. By
providing that there shall be no appeal from the
decisions of the commission it revives the Star
Chamber. Home Secretary Hanlon regards this as
an advantage, in that it will prevent unscrupulous
lawyers from cheating innocent publicans by persuad-
ing them to defend themselves in the courts against
any injurious action of the commission. Certainly
Mr. Hanlon didn’t put it quite in that way, but that is
what his explanation amounted to.
Further, the Act gives to the commission the
specific power to regard persons “suspected” of the
illegal sale of liquor as guilty until they are proved
innocent, and to take action accordingly. This nega-
tives the most fundamental principle of British law —
that by which accused persons are regarded as
innocent until proved otherwise.
Another remarkable feature is the fixing of the
number of liquor licenses as that existing at the
passage of the Act —roughly 1300. No better
method of enhancing the value of existing licenses
could have been devised. If big financial interests
are not tempted to set about systematic acquirement
with the ultimate purpose of controlling the industry
it will be because big financial interests are more
proof against temptation or less keen on taking advan-
tage of opportunity than mob-orators assert.
Certainly, the number of licenses may be varied
in future by amendment of the Act. Judging from
the manner in which the present “amendment” has
been gagged through, alterations will present no diffi-
culty should they seem desirable.
Liquor Act Amendment is one of three
important pieces of legislation prepared or to be
prepared for the present session. The others are a
new Health Bill and a new Police Bill. Each is of
greater moment to individual freedom than is any
licensing bill, and, because of its matter and the
manner in which it was passed, Liquor Act Amend-
ment is engendering grave doubts concerning both.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
J.B. Goes to the Poll.
The British electors have given the Baldwin Govern-
ment a majority good for five years. They have
decided, in effect, as they did in 1931, and as Aus-
tralians have done time and again, that Labor is not
the party for a crisis.
The main issue was foreign policy. Labor, as its
Sir Walter Citrine put it, proposed to “defend Russia
by defending Abyssinia” through the imposition
“sanctions, involving all the possibility of war. ’ Mr.
Attlee, the successor to Mr. Lansbury, talked of
“closing the Suez Canal.” So did Mr. Lloyd
when not blithering about his “New Deal.” The
Government stood for “collective sanctions” and for
rearmament, and for rearmament the nation has
unequivocally declared.
In 1931 the combination of Conservatives,
National Liberals and National Laborites won 554
of the 615 seats. Sixty-two by-elections resulted in
10 seats being gained by the Opposition parties. With
the results from 609 electorates in, the Conservatives
have 383 seats (a net loss of 73) and the Laborites
154 (a net gain of 95). The Conservatives were pre-
pared for greater losses ; the Laborites—banking on
the unpopularity of the means test —anticipated far
greater gains.
The other groups fared badly. Twelve Opposition
Liberals, five Nat. Libs, and five Nat. Labs, went
down, leaving the totals 15, 31 and 8 respectively.
Among the casualties were the two MacDonalds and
Sir Herbert Samuel. The Conservative party could
rule alone, and may decide to do so. In any case,
Britain is obviously returning to the two-party system.
♦
Defence Is Now Popular.
Defence has suddenly become safe, politically speak-
ing. No seats are risked by a proposal to spend money
on it. On the contrary, it is a really good investment to
lift the defence estimates for next year by £2,000,000.
The public happens to be seeing particularly clearly
just now that possibilities of future wars are not so
remote as seat-preserving idealists had led it to sup-
pose. Therefore, something can now be done about
defence without fear, and even with a probability
of profit.
That, with what it is proposed to do, is completely
in accord with the kind of' government in which
policy is dictated by temporary expediency. The sop
to the temper of the moment will include increasing
the numbers of the navy by 92, of the army by
220, and the air force by 563 —fewer than 1000 addi-
tions to three services, one of which alone was reduced
three years ago by more than double the total figure
of the proposed increase.
Of a plan designed to prevent such casual reduc-
tion during moments of temporary aberration of
government or temporary unpopularity of defence
there is not a word. The air force is being sensibly
strengthened by the addition of a new squadron each
in Victoria and N.S.W., and an increased amount of
£50,000 will be spent on civil aviation: no hint of a
Commonwealth air-defence scheme, nor any thought,
apparently, of providing one. Yet an expert such as
P. G. Taylor, who could provide a plan for a really
effective force, linking civil and military aviation
together as a working unit, is allowed to fly loose —as
Kingsford Smith was allowed to do.
And that represents the best side of the picture.
The navy personnel, splendidly increased by 92, will
total 4172. The fleet will have a sloop added to it, if
the construction is finished in time, and two oil-tanks
will be put up at Chowder Bay, Sydney, and three at
Darwin. Thus the navy remains at one-tenth the
strength that would make it a useful defence
instrument.
As for the army, it remains the saddest joke in
the land. With the 220 to be added to it, it will
reach the grand total of 2025, 58 of whom are quarter-
masters, approaching 300 officers, and the remainder
other ranks —figures that would cause loud laughter
anywhere else in the world. The militia, which this
year has been officially estimated at 27,078, is showing
a decrease of approximately 1000 a year. Even the
official 27,078 is authoritatively declared to be con-
siderably exaggerated ; it probably boasts a strength
of not more than 15,000 in the fighting units for the
whole of Australia.
This has got well beyond bearing the description
of dangerous. It is wildly, uproariously ridiculous.
Yet the volunteer scheme responsible for the wreckage
“is to be continued,” and employers of prospective
volunteers are being “urged to give more support.”
That is defence in Australia. Its future is unpre-
dictable, since there is no hint of plan or direction.
It is left to the whimsy of any temporary politician to
abolish it utterly.
♦
Melbourne and Its Hospitals.
As he sees no method of finding funds for the erection
of a new Melbourne Hospital, Premier Dunstan
calmly proposes to raise them by selling the existing
site. This recalls the vaudeville Irishman who
lengthened the cloth by cutting a piece off one end
and sewing it on the other.
Melbourne does not need another hospital. What
it wants is more hospital accommodation, and to
secure that by demolishing an immense pile of build-
ings in one place to erect another and more immense
pile of buildings in another place is neither economical
nor sane.
The existing Melbourne Hospital is not as up to
date as it should be, but it will stand comparison
with most of the big hospitals of the world. With
the sole exception of St. Thomas’s, it is probably far
better planned than any of the big hospitals in Lon-
don. It was erected by a leading architect, as a result
of a competition with other leading architects,
and thirty years ago was regarded as the last
word in hospital construction. It would serve well
for another century as it stands, and, had the depres-
sion not driven more and more people to seek accom-
modation, probably little would be heard of the
necessity for removal.
Even before the present structure went up there
had been a movement in favor of shifting the institu-
tion to the Pigmarket site, which was away from the
noise of the city and close to the Medical School of
the University. But the main object of the suggestion
was to clear the centre of the city of any sort of
hospital and permit an important thoroughfare to be
put to better advantage. Premier Dunstan’s proposal
will mean that it will be put to worse advantage, and
that more shops and hotels will be erected further to
disfigure a quarter from which tourists are carefully
steered away.
The suggestion to utilise the site as a cultural
centre is of recent date, but is obvious from the fact
that the Public Library and National Gallery build-
ings adjoin the block. Both these institutions are
starved for space ; their cellars are filled with books
and works of art which the public has no opportunity
of seeing. Extension to the hospital site would relieve
them, serve the public and enable the erection of a
block of buildings which would convert the area into
one of civic beauty.
It would be better to postpone all action for a
few years than to permit such a site to be lost—as
it surely will be if it is put up for sale. It would be
simple to provide the required additional hospital
accommodation in another spot. Even the Pigmarket
site might be used, and on it erected a portion of
the projected hospital—sufficient to relieve overcrowd-
ing. This would enable the existing hospital to function
as now, and preserve the site for future cultural pur-
poses at some happy time when Victoria has more
money or no Dunstan.
*
The Real Cure.
A speech by Garden, M.H.R., delivered in the Sydney
Domain, should bring home to Mr. Lyons the futility
of the clauses in the Crimes Act which introduce
Ogpu principles into Australian legislation. Mr.
Lyons’s bill is directed against “unlawful associations”
—which, of course, means the Communist party and
its progeny—and when it becomes law it will be pos-
sible to drag members or suspected members or the
friends of suspected members to the questioning
gallery and make them reveal their knowledge and
the complexion of their souls, under threat of the
most awful pains and penalties.
Fifteen years ago Mr. Garden would have had
everything to fear from such a measure. At that
time he was known only as the founder of the Com-
munist party in Australia, as its link with Russia, its
Moscow delegate, its prime advocate, the introducer
of its principles into union organisation, the custodian
of all its secrets.
Pushing the barrow of Communism, Mr. Garden
became a notoriety. He espied the motor-car of
power, and like many another, forsook his barrow
for it.
In Australia power is attainable even by Com-
munists, if they go the constitutional way about get-
ting it. In Russia, Authority, had Mr. Garden
disagreed with its methods as violently as he disagreed
with ours, would either have banished him, as it did
Trotsky and Zinovieff, or “liquidated” him. Here,
Authority, as represented by the Commonwealth
Parliament, merely took Mr. Garden to its bosom.
The change which has been wrought in him by
this kindly procedure was illustrated by his speech in
the Domain, in which he attacked the Communist
party for agreeing to sanctions against Italy. Italy is
the home of Fascism —that Fascism which a few years
ago he designated as “the curse of the world, which
workers should combine to destroy.” It is evident
that Mr. Garden is no longer a Communist. If Bligh-
street isn’t careful he will be joining the U.A.P. next.
♦
“Family Farmers.”
Quebec has a race of “family farmers,” who support
themselves without competing to any extent in the
business of growing produce for export. The family-
farm scheme works so well that Lord Bledisloe, back
in Britain after five years as Governor of Maoriland,
urges the Maorilanders to try it.
They have tried it in a measure, and, oddly
enough, it has been more successful in rough, hilly
North Island parts than in the South Island. It is
explained that South Island flats do not readily lend
themselves to settlement on small holdings; Lands
Minister Ransom recently informed the House that
there were only eight successful eases of close settle-
ment in Canterbury. With irrigation it might be dif-
ferent ; “irrigation,” the Minister says, “offers wonder-
ful possibilities.”
If Maoriland decides to take its late G.-G.’s
advice, it possesses the necessary legislation and
machinery: there is a Small Farms (Relief of Unem-
ployment) Bill in operation. A corresponding measure
was passed in the N.S.W. Parliament when the Stevens
Government was young and enthusiastic; and it
looked a very good measure, being inspired by shire
councillors, themselves land men, who promised
co-operation. But for some unexplained reason it has
been added to the pile of enactments that have never
been applied. C. R. McKerihan, president of the
Rural Bank, is evidently of opinion that it should be
rescued from its strange obscurity.
Mr. McKerihan says it would be a feasible pro-
position to establish 3000 smallholdings in good-rainfall
districts. And this bank president is not addicted to
talking through his hat.
Melbourne’s “Little” Streets.
At last a move has been made to reform Melbourne’s
“little” streets. The Town Clerk has recommended
that the council should insist on all future buildings
being set back a certain distance from the existing
building line, so as to provide at some future date
for uniform widening sufficient for two-way traffic.
The late Sidney Myer revealed considerable
public spirit during his lifetime, and never more than
when he caused the Myer frontage to Little Bourke-
street to be carried back 10 or 12 feet. He thus
voluntarily surrendered many feet of a valuable
frontage to anticipate the action which the Town Clerk
now suggests. Since his death the directors of the
concern have carried their window display out a few
feet, but the main building still stands on the line
he marked —one of the best monuments to his fore-
sight that could be devised.
As well as cutting off strips of sufficient width
to provide for two-way traffic, provision should be
made for broader footpaths. This could be done by
stipulating that all new buildings should be arcaded.
In the past, Melbourne’s “big” streets were a
source of civic pride, but to-day nobody is inclined
to boast much about them. Development of motor
traffic has altered the whole position, and even streets
of 99 feet are too narrow to accommodate all
the vehicles with safety when there is a line of
parked cars along each kerb, as there always is.
Further, the footpaths of Melbourne “big”
streets could be another five feet wider with advan-
tage. Paris has no qualms about widening its foot-
paths.
The city of the future will have its main
thoroughfares 150 feet from building to building.
♦
“Down with the Little Ports!”
Another board has been appointed to take over
control of port affairs in N. S. Wales, and a warning,
evidently inspired, has been issued that outports may
expect to get it in the neck. It is alleged that “rail-
way lines and good roads running along the coast
have reduced the need for a large number of ports.’
The good roads, of course, may not be used for
transport of produce, except under a system of taxes
and regulations which become virtually prohibitive
beyond “the 50-mile limit,” and N. S. Wales railways
are designed so as to give the longest maximum
haulage to deep-sea ports other than Sydney,
Queensland has pursued a different policy; and
it is no mere fortuitous coincidence that it is the State
which suffered least during the depression and has had
the smallest proportion of unemployed. Gladstone,
Rockhampton, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns
are well-established ports, and most of them are profit-
able largely because feeder and developmental rail-
ways were built into the country behind them.
Townsville’s export trade overseas was last year
112,000 weighed tons, against 185,000 tons which went
direct from Brisbane. By weight Cairns shipped nearly
a fifth of Queensland’s overseas exports; Mackay an
eighth, Bowen an eleventh, Gladstone and Rock-
hampton between them one-tenth —in all, £5,500,000
worth. And they handled 187,000 tons of incoming
goods. But N. S. Wales sub-coastal districts continue
to pay Mr. Hartigan 80s.-odd per ton to send their
wool 500 miles—more than half the freight to London
—instead of the 335. which they would pay him if they
were within 100 miles or so of a North Coast port.
And butter-producers who have the makings of
efficient ports handy pass out 255. or so per ton to
get their product 100 miles to Newcastle.
Only 26 vessels, aggregating 12,572 tons, called
at N. S, Wales ports other than Port Jackson, Port
Hunter and Port Kembla in 1934. Ten times that
number called at Queensland provincial ports, which
serve a population less than that of northern and
north-western N. S. Wales. That represents decen-
tralisation and port development as it should be.
Centralisation is the object of N.S.W.’s “country-
minded” Government and its Railway Department.
♦
Checking Floods.
Care will need to be exercised regarding an attempt
to cut the timber on the Upper Yarra (Vic.) forest
areas. Australia has suffered much in recent years
from the wild desire to “clear” land, irrespective of
the possibilities of the future.
Had a sane system of cutting timber prevailed
in earlier years, the destruction caused by Vic-
torian floodwaters in the past two years would have
been greatly minimised, had it occurred at all.
Removal of the timber permitted the torrents to sweep
the hillsides of their surface soils and leave barren
wastes where previously there had been good arable
country. With such experience, it is necessary to
approach the denudation of further areas with care, if
not suspicion.
The area in question is covered with good, large
timber —timber which would prove useful and valu-
able to the community. If it is permitted to remain
longer it will deteriorate, according to those who advo-
cate its felling. On the other hand, there is a fear
that, if too much is cut, these hillsides will go the
way of others in Gippsland: the surface soils will
be carried away, and the waters will rush into the
creeks, to carry damage and destruction before them.
There is a further question to be considered: the
trees are at present included in a reserve for the water
supply of Melbourne, and therefore constitute a sanc-
tuary which, according to the Metropolitan Board,
must remain a sanctuary. The board, in fact, possesses
the power of veto.
The position is one which calls for expert advice
carefully weighed. The water supply must not be
contaminated; the possibilities of flood and soil
erosion must not be further developed, and on the
other hand, valuable timber should not be allowed to
go to waste. There is surely, in the community, suffi-
cient sane judgment to satisfy all three requirements.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS"
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Recent press
references to Starlight, the old-time
negro boxer (now 84), recall his battles
with Creedon and other fistic lights of the
’nineties. Born in British Guiana, E. W.
Rolins by name, he first put up his
dooks to the world at the age of nine,
as cook’s boy on a Yankee schooner. I t
was a hard life, but he won through to
A.B.dom, with cooking as a side-
line, adventures into pearl-
diving and shark-catching, and
fighting as a hobby. The last
proved a useful accomplishment
for a sea cook. A fo’c’sle bully
“scooted” successive cooks from
one of the old A.S.N. steamers,
until Starlight was signed on. As
the bucko mariner came slowly
back to consciousness following
their first argument, Starlight’s
massive hand, containing the
steak which had formed the
basis of discussion, was before
his eyes. “Is dat good steak?”
demanded the cook. “Sure, it
is,” answered the fallen war-
rior. “Den eat it up, boy ; it’ll
do you good,” said Starlight in
his quiet tones. Despite a sorely
damaged jaw, the fo’c’sle terror
ate it, and trouble ceased,
* * *
“1.M.R.”: One of the pupils came
from another room and asked for some
exercise-books his own instructor had
left. There were two piles on the desk ;
the teacher, taking up the nearer one,
asked if this was the one required. “Yes,
sir; them’s the books,” acquiesced the
messenger. “Is that English?” he was
asked reprovingly. “No, sir; them’s
arithmetic! ”
“Morita”; “Exdig” (B. 13/11/’35)
should have got a few whiffs of home
in the scent of burning gumleaves that
had been squeezed into parcels and news-
papers sent to France. They came in
papers through the Red Cross, and I
have seen lots of misty eyes, apparently
staring at nothing, as the leaves smoul-
dered, I still recall a boozy pair in the
canteen at Dranoutre who, after passing
the usual stage of showing each other
the family photos, for the umpteenth
time, bought a candle to set afire a spray
of leaves lying on the counter. One
closed his eyes to dream of campfires
and gullies ablaze as the other set the
leaves afire, but in his lurching he started
his forelock sizzling in the candlelight.
His cobber sighed with deep contentment.
“I can kid myself I can even smell the
possums scorching in the fire,” he hic-
cupped.
* $ ❖ *
“Nagheer”: Something should be
done about this Arctic neurasthenia, or
whatever it is, that is spoiling the
stamina of the youthful inhabitants of
Canberra. Thirty of them, Scouts and
Girl Guides, fainted under the excessive
heat on Armistice Day. They could not
have been stunned by political oratory,
for only Sir Isaac Isaacs and Mr. Casey
spoke, and, anyhow, Canberra children
should be well used to hot air of any
description. At Cairns and Townsville
and other N.Q. localities supposed, in
-Canberra, to be unfit for white popula-
tion on account of the Awful Climate,
no kid ik-known to have fainted, even
though exposed to speakers infinitely
worse than the Canberra children had to
listen to. I am coming to the conclu-
sion that it is Canberra that is unfit for
whites, and that the seat of Govern-
ment should be moved to Cooktown or
Thursday Island.
Hs :{; $
“Bo”: Complaints are heard that we
make our gaols too comfortable for
their inmates, but in that regard we are
still a long way behind the U.S.A. Two
Illinois penitentiaries run correspondence
schools. The chief “professor” of one
is Richard Loeb, who shared in the
revolting murder of a fellow-student
and is undergoing a 99-year sentence.
His “staff” includes murderers, kid-
nappers and forgers, and among the
subjects taught are history, Latin
and Spanish, although the utility of
the last for long-term prisoners, some
of whom may never be released, seems
questionable. The danger of pupils using
a correspondence school to communi-
cate with each other in code is appar-
ently regarded as negligible.
* * * *
“Six and Eight”; The successful de-
fence of a man charged with a serious
crime (B. 6/11/’35) reminds me of
one put up years ago by a bank clerk.
The manager had gone out to the hotel
for lunch, leaving the clerk in sole
charge. Returning, he found the cash
“I want some lipstick, please — but, mind, it MUST be kissproof."
missing and the clerk lying on the
floor apparently in a fit. The latter’s
first story was that he had been knocked
insensible by a robber, but an unbeliev-
ing police sergeant put on the third-
degree so successfully that the delinquent
confessed it was a fairy-tale, and showed
where he had concealed the missing cash
in an outhouse on the premises. At his
trial the defence entered was that the
clerk was playing a practical joke on
the manager. The Judge, summing up,
told the jury that the only joke he could
see in the affair was the putting up of
such a defence. I don’t recall what
’Sonah said when the jury brought in a
verdict of not guilty!
* * # *
“Uramao”; The wave of hostility in
Italy to everything English (B. 13/11/’35)
makes me curious as to the fate of a
hotel I frequently passed in Genoa dur-
ing the war. The proprietor had ap-
parently consulted an English directory
for a name for his albergo which would
appeal to British sentiment. The result
was the Hotel Smith.
* * * #
“Kwakprak”: M. Spahlinger, the
Swiss gentleman who received a good
deal of free advertisement some 10 years
ago over his claim to have discovered
a specific serum for the immunisation of
human beings against t.b., has turned up
again. This time he proposes to immu-
nise cattle, I gather that he meant cattle
all along, but wicked persons misrepre-
sented him as offering the cure for
humans, so he locked up the formula in
a bank safe. During the inquiries into
the human chapter of Mr. Spahlinger’s
activities, it was elicited that his serum
was prepared from t.b. germs cultivated
on media made from turtles, which
slowed their growth and rendered them
non-infectious to man. At least, that was
the only definite statement that was
elicited, except that he required a large
sum of money to reveal his formula. A
stricken world would have paid millions
had any reasonable tests proved its
efficiency.
“Cet.”: When and where did “R.H.P.
discover that the blackfish stranded in
Tasmania (B. 13/11 /’35) have no bones?
These small whales are vertebrate
mammals, with the usual framework to
carry the rest of their anatomy. They
have a certain amount of oil also, but
there isn’t much of it, and even that is
poor. Yet in the great days of sperm
whaling the chance of gathering in a
shoal of these cetaceans, which could be
harpooned by the dozen, was rarely
missed by deep-sea whalers if there was
none of the real stuff about. The oil
was mixed with the sperm oil, and what-
ever buyers might have thought at the
end of the voyage they could do nothing.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: After 46 years it doesn't
seem to greatly matter how Rudolph,
Crown Prince of Austria, came to his
death, but the Austrian Government,
according to a recent cable, is seeking to
seize and suppress a book published in
Germany by Countess Lonay, Rudolph's
widow, purporting to clear up the sorry
business for good and all. It really wasn’t
much of a mystery after the first few
months, during which all sorts of wild
stories were current about what happened
at the close of a hectic night in the royal
hunting lodge at Meyerling. The Prince
had been murdered, it was said, by an
aggrieved husband, a jealous lover or an
irate father —the last was generally repre-
sented as a gamekeeper whose daugh-
ter had attracted Rudolph’s errant
fancy ; and perhaps this was the most
popular version. But gradually the
suicide theory came to be accepted.
Countess Lonay’s book does no more
than establish it by the publication of a
letter announcing that the Prince and
his mistress of the period, a youthful
baroness, had decided to die together.
❖ ❖
“Notaden”: Talking of humpback
whales recalls how, years ago, my friend
Bill was struggling simultaneously with
farming and rheumatics near Corner
Inlet (Vic.). A humpback stranded on
the beach, and Bill, having read that
whale oil was a certain cure for his ail-
ment, begged the neighbors to help him
try the remedy. To oblige him we dug
a hole in the blubber and covered Bill
up to the neck. With alcoholic aid, Bill
did well through the night. By morning
the whale had expanded considerably,
but a few spots elicited from Bill the
assurance that the rhoomatiz was doin’
fine. We rigged a ladder, and friends
brought more refreshments. The whale
kept on expanding, so that, when
Mrs. Bill arrived, Bill was 15 feet aloft
and almost out of sight. Mrs. Bill be-
came very fussy, and insisted that we
should rescue Bill from his perilous
plight. A hiccupy voice from aloft bade
us take no notice of her, but to bring
up some more rum. With this end in
view someone began to cut footholds
from where the ladder ended, when,
with a terrifying blast of gases, the
whale subsided. We rescued Bill unhurt,
but his wife wasn't in the least grateful.
Years later, he confided to me that she
had made him sleep in the stable for a
fortnight, and that the rheumatics were
as bad as ever.
•f
“Kellick”: Strange accidents? I know
a man who had three fingers amputated
by a dead shark. A 14ft. grey-nurse was
captured at Lizard Island by one of the
ship’s company of the old H.M.A.S.
Sydney, and when it “blew” a rush was
made for the teeth, a highly-prized
souvenir. A thick stick was used to hold
the mouth open ; the mishap occurred
when it slipped.
* * * *
“Pub Roundsman”: Judge Curlewis,
the literary precisian of the N.S.W.
Bench, who chides offenders misusing or
mispronouncing words, occasionally com-
mends those who avoid popular errors.
Thus a detective witness was praised for
deposing that one of the leading figures
in a case “frequented hotels,” ’Sonah re-
marking gratefully how rare it was to
hear this particular verb accented in the
correct place. This may be so, but the
phrase itself strikes me as a quite un-
necessary piece of Johnsonese. In
articles of apprenticeship that used to
be drawn up the prospective master
undertook to see that the lad to whom
he was going to teach a trade didn’t
“haunt taverns,” among other reprehen-
sible pursuits. “Frequenting hotels”
seems a stilted substitute for “haunting
taverns.”
* * * *
“Bokio”: Marvellous have been the
advances in plastic surgery. A Queensland
lad, splashed from head to foot
with nitric acid when a bottle he
was carrying fell and broke, suf-
fered such terrible bums that
his life was at first despaired of.
Now not only has a series of
operations at Sydney R.P.A.
Hospital made a new man of
him, but the surgeons have actu-
ally equipped him with a new
face. A photograph was used
to make the new features as like
as possible to the old. Even a
new lip and eyelid had to be
fashioned, flesh from the chest
and ribs being used. This is the
first known case of extensive
nitric-acid burns yielding to surgical
treatment.
“Steelman”; It is 134 years since
Lawson died and David McKee Wright
wrote in The Bulletin:
Henry is dead! Australia has not heard
In her short life a word that touched her so.
No writer of our time has made so strong
and wide an appeal to Australians in
the bulk, and the indications are that it
will be lasting. There is a Lawson statue
in Sydney ; not long since a suggestion
was made in the House of Reps, that
the poet’s boyhood home at Eurunderee
(N.S.W.) should be acquired and pre-
served as a literary shrine. The Henry
Lawson Society of Footscray —the
pioneer organisation of the kind in the
Commonwealth —has taken up the pro-
ject warmly, and is circularising all those
to whom it may appeal for publicity and
support. The fact that Lawson admirers
are to be found in every State makes it
one that only the national Parliament can
handle.
* * *
“D.8.K.”: Swift bombing attacks by
single or twin machines were often more
demoralising and effective than massed-
formation stunts (B. 13/11 / ’35) simply
because of the element of surprise. Long
after Diggers had forgotten about
Mudros, this island harbor was the
scene of a memorable parting shot by
German fliers from Constantinople.
R.N.A.S. squadrons from Mudros and
Imbros had given that city an uncom-
fortable time through 1918, but they
eased off before the negotiations began
between Turkish and British authorities
on board H.M.S. Agamemnon. One
sleepy Sunday afternoon, two Germans
were suddenly discovered circling over
Mudros. By the time the marine A.A.
gunners and others awoke they were
gone, but apparently they had learned
all they wanted to know. A few nights
later they slid down from a moonlit sky,
placed pills from a hundred feet or so
fair into the seaplane hangars—they
contained Short ’planes with 2301 b. bombs
loaded in the frames—and, as the search-
light beams shot out, waved a cheery
parting as they sped for home. They left
a smoking crater where the two hangars
had been; luckily nearly all the men
were over at the Y.M.C.A. marquee.
ANTIS ALL.
“An anti-war meeting was held in Melbourne.”
Wc all agree that war’s a curse:
These days, the chance is scanty
Of finding anyone averse
From being labelled “Anti.”
The only point—a knotty one—
Whereon our ways have parted
Consists in what should best be done
To obviate it being begun
Or stop it —when it’s started.
Some hold it truth —and some a lie
As gross as aught on vellum —
That Latin aphorism Si
Vi_s pacem, para helium.
A Pagan dictum? Well, I’m not
Proposing to defend it.
But until men turn angels—what?—•
There’s still a devil of a lot,
I think, to recommend it.
Some say the world may muzzle Mars
And check Bellona’s prattle
By mild harangues and solid pars.
Depreciating battle.
Some hold a massive stick’s the stuff
To deal with bluff and bluster
And make aggressors cry “enough”;
Some advocate a powder-puff,
And some a feather-duster.
I hold no brief. I’m just a chap
Whom nobody coerces
To get his notions on the map
Or voice his views in verses.
But, still, as I’ve remarked before,
It leaves me broken-hearted,
It hits me hard and leaves me sore,
The sheer conviction, nothing more:
The world can never block a war
Or stop it when it’s started.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“CP. 10”: The first Tuesday in
November found us working afternoon
shift (4 p.m. to midnight) in a mine in
mountainous north-eastern Vic. We
toiled at the bottom of an incline shaft,
150 ft. below the adit-level, a quarter-
mile from the surface and some miles
from the nearest ’phone or radio. The
shift was well advanced when a descend-
ing skip was seen by the shoveller to
carry a message. The winchman, on the
level above us, had taken part of a
gelignite package, blackened one side
over the flame of his light and then
inscribed, with a nail’s point:
1. Marabou.
2. Sarcherie.
3. Sylvandale.
* sit * *
“Visitor”; The Colonial Mutual Life,
which has put up one of Adelaide’s
loftiest buildings,
is about to tack an-
other on to it;
cost, £30,000. It
bought the King
William corner of
Hindley-street, but
the cas t e 1 lated
s t r u c ture erected
thereon is too
narrow for com-
plete symmetry.
Having now ac-
quired a slice of
frontage along
Hindley-street, the
society will amend
that. In any case,
it is a pleasant
change from the
solid cube charac-
teristic of most sky-
scrapers.
* , *
“Sailor”: I note
that the old Tin-
gira is for sale
again, and the
ominous wording
of the advertise-
ment “particu-
larly high break-
ing-up va 1 u e” —
sounds like the end
of another famous
ship. As the old-
timer is built of
teak, however, she
is unlikely to finish
up in suburban
grates. It is just 68
years since the tall
ship Sobraon, the
world’s largest
windbag, let go her
lines at the Aber-
deen dockside on
her maiden voyage
to Australia. In
those days she was
looked upon as the
acme of luxury,
and her maiden
trip to Australia
took' no more than
75 days. After 26
years of creditable
service she was
bought by the
Parkes Government as a reformatory ship.
In 1911 the Defence Department took her
over, and she became the Tingira ; also,
she gradually deteriorated from an ele-
gant clipper into an ark of corrugated
iron and galley-pipes—a doubtful orna-
ment to Rose Bay, where she lay for 17
years. Then she was purchased by pri-
vate enterprise, and anchored in Berry s
Bay.
:’i * *
“Double Disc”: A picture in an
English paper of the Royal Marines
marching through the City of London
with fixed bayonets reminded me that
during the war the jealously-guarded
privilege was extended to Dominion
troops. On this occasion the Marines
had finished a tour of duty as guards at
the royal palaces and were en route to
Chatham ; it was the first time for over
200 years they had exercised their
ancient right to tramp through the city
with fixed “winklers.” The concession
originated in a seventeenth-century
royal warrant for raising recruits with-
in the city walls by “the beat of the
drum.” It is shared by a few other
British regiments, notably the Royal
Fusiliers (City of London Regiment).
* * * *
“Upta”: The old tradition about the
planting of parsley foreshadowing a
visit from the Stork (B. 30/10/’35) no
doubt arose from the fact that the herb
is a biennial; hence, to keep up a
domestic supply, plantings would need
to be made every second year. In the
good old days, the two events doubt-
less synchronised often enough, but
nowadays, the Stork’s schedule having
been interfered with by Marie Slopes
and others, there would be a consider-
able shortage of parsley if tne plantings
had to wait for the new arrivals.
* * *
“Selma”: A damsel who applied for a
job as junior typist in our city office
told the boss that her mother was outside
and would be in directly. Mum duly
arrived, seated herself at the table,
answered all questions, gave the full
history of herself and the girl, made
extensive inquiries as to salary and con-
ditions, and announced that she would
accept the job on behalf of her daughter.
It wasn’t until then that the boss, who
had worn a dazed expression under the
torrent of words, acquired sufficient
courage to remark that he was afraid
the applicant wouldn't suit —“too
young.” We all heard the altercation
that followed, and we weren’t altogether
surprised when our employer emerged
by the side-door and asked the senior
clerk to show the ladies out. Daughter
“You put that hen back with her chicks! You, bein'
on'y a boy, can't understand the feelin's of a
mother!"
went quietly enough, but mum hit the
safe a resounding and ominous wallop
with her umbrella as she passed. “This
is the tenth office I’ve been to this week,”
she remarked to the world in general.
“Laetitia”: A Uni. professor put in
several days fishing from the Queensland
Government’s patrol ketch Melbidir. The
savant possessed a treasured pair of knee
boots for wading through snake-infested
swamps, and one day these were drying
“Ai want to take you just as you look when you go down into the—ex—
stomach of the earth."
on the deck beside him when a clumsy
“boy” brushed one of them overboard.
With a burst of petulance and an unpro-
fessorial injunction to “go and join your
mate,” the old sportsman hurled the
surviving boot into the sea. Some halt
an hour later he hooked, played and dex-
terously landed half of his own footgear.
* # * *
“Kwakprak”: A Roma (Q.) resident
may regard himself as lucky enough to
warrant the purchase of a ticket in the
next Golden Brisket. Whilst asleep, he
swallowed his dental plate with four
attached teeth. He was rushed to Bris-
bane in a ’plane ; the missing denture
was located by X-rays, some 23 feet
along his intestinal tract. After some
uninteresting meals of mixed porridge
and cotton-wool, it was recovered with-
out operation. It is a very unwise thing
to go to sleep wearing a small denture —
a full-sized one is also risky, but in far
less degree. Amazing what young chil-
dren will manage to swallow and sur-
vive. Twice I have known infants to
surround full-sized safety-pins and to get
rid of them without much apparent in-
convenience. In one, the pin was swal-
lowed open, in the presence of a horri-
fied father, left in charge of the (only)
child for a few minutes. Two days later
the pin was recovered, closed, but daddy
was in bed for a fortnight from shock.
* * * =i=
“Grasspan”: Premier Dunstan and
others who wish to sell the Melbourne
Hospital site would do well to turn up
the file of the “Australian Sketcher,” a
publication which flourished in the
'seventies. The other day 1 was looking
over the volume of 1874 and, to my sur-
prise, found that nearly all the public
buildings which exist in Melbourne to-
day were either built, in construction or
projected then. Illustrations of every
building which Melbourne regards with
pride appeared on the pages of the paper.
Seeing that Melbourne had fewer than
200,000 people in 1874, the fact speaks
volumes for the foresight of the old boys
who handled the place 60 years ago. If
those in control to-day had the same
amount of vision, there would be no
question about the formation of the cul-
tural centre on the land where the hos-
pital now stands.
r ..j * * *
“J.G.”: Almost before the ink was
dry on The Bulletin par. about the
Hoffman quarry (B. 6/11/’35), two boys
climbed the high fence surrounding the
excavation and began playing round a
harmless-looking waterhole at the
bottom. One youngster slipped, and was
drowned in 40 feet of water. These
unused quarry holes are a problem that
the Brunswick Council has so far failed
to solve ; filling them up seems to be a
task beyond its resources. An ad-
joining quarry hole was the scene of a
curious fatality a few years ago. A
quarryman lighted several fuses at noon
and retired to a hut to have his lunch.
One blast dislodged a flat piece of slate,
which hurtled through the air with terrific
speed, entered the wooden wall of the
hut edge on, and sheared off the man’s
head as cleanly as a sword could have
done.
“Boorara”: “Desert Column (B.
6/11/’35), criticising my par. about the
occupation of Damascus, mentions the
official report.” What official repoi .
Gullett, in the Official History, Vol. VIL,
pages 760 and 761, records that t e
Third Brigade scouts, closely trowed
by Todd’s Tenth Regiment, with Major
Timperley’s squadron leading, galloped to
the bridge over the Barada River, from
which could be seen a huge crowd out-
side the Serai. Major Olden (second-in-
command of the Tenth) and Major Tim-
perley, followed by their men with drawn
swords, charged through the crowd ; dis-
mounting, the officers entered the build-
ing, and at _ revolver-point demanded
from the Civil Governor (Emir Said) a
written assurance that the troops would
not be molested. This was readily given
“in the name of the civil population of
Damascus.” The account makes it abun-
dantly clear that the city was surrendered
to the first troops who entered it—the
Tenth (Westralian) Light Horse,
* . * * , *
“Comic Strip’ : Canberra s Red-Tape
dance marks another extension ot the
censorship craze ; admittance was denied
to persons "immodestly or improperly
attired.” It recalls the crisp warning
on the tickets of the Parisian Ball or
the Four Arts: The nude is prohibited,
Nevertheless, it is recognised that the
embargo against the altogether applies
until midnight only; after that hour
numbers of the more-shapely dancers
park their costumes on the side benches
and revel in their own selves. Even early
prohibition is liberally interpreted; one
year a damsel won a prize by wearing
a big spider on the right shoulder, and
nothing more. If the Bal ties Quatre Arts
—pronounced as if it had something to
do with cats—were in the hands of the
Canberra committee, its glory would
depart. #
- * ” oe . Kll -
Junglewallah : The establishment
of prison farms in Queensland reminds
f that 1 saw in India the most up-to-
date penal settlement m the world. In
the Andaman Islands theie are
convicts, most on file sentences. On
deportation from India they spend six
months in gaol, alter winch they are le
out on ticket-of-leave. They are given
plots of land to cultivate, as well as
advances to buy buffaloes to work their
ricefields ; they may even send to India
for their wives and families. Those who
are not agriculturally minded are given
household jobs with Government offi-
cials. If a visitor stops to think about it
(which he rarely does) his water-carrier
may be a murderer, and his cook a
poisoner. The minimum for a convict
is 11 rupees a month. And nobody evei
rakes up his past. There is one case
of a criminal tribe to whose activities
96 murders were traced settling down in
the islands. When I last saw them they
appeared to have become respectable
members of society.
SONG OF THREE LADIES.
“Her triplet daughters, Doralda, Dorinda and
Doreen ” —Queensland newspaper.
Come, shy men and sly men and piemen,
Abase ye, as pork before pearls!
Here's a mother thrice blessed of Hymen:
Three children—and all of them girls!
You brave men and slave men and cavemen,
Behold! as in visions I’ve seen
Doralda, Doreen and Dorinda,
Dorinda, Doralda, Doreen!
Doralda, gold shingle, one guesses,
Moon-misted as chrysolites are;
Her lips are a lute of caresses!
Her smile is the faith of a star!
She is fair, on the word of a rhymer,
The blonde of the trio, I ween;
Dorinda, Doreen and Doralda,
Doralda, Dorinda, Doreen!
Dorinda, .1. dream, is red-headed,
And slender and supple as lire;
She’s the vitamins (four of ’em) wedded
To the spirit of change and desire;
Like a summer sea’s glimmering shallows
Are her eyes’ chrysoberylline sheen.
Ah! Doralda, Doreen and Dorinda,
Dorinda, Doralda, Doreen.
The dusk is Doreen, to my fancy,
That follows the first dawn of spring!
As dark and as bright as a pansy
Or the flash of a regent bird’s wing!
Her mouth’s a red lily for lovers,
And I would 1 were just seventeen—
Like Dorinda, Doreen and Doralda,
Doralda, Dorinda, Doreen!
Doralda, Doreen and Dorinda
(I cannot conceive you apart!),
Mere maids, like Lucilla or Linda,
You are three —and yet one in my heart.
A supernal triangle, I crown you
Tripartite, unseparate queen!
Doralda, Doreen and Dorinda,
Dorinda, Doralda, Doreen.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


c^Av
20/^r6
10 for
J. 855
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
the CORK T I P P E
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERATI
POLITICAL POINTS
One (1) Douglas Crediter stood in
Britain last week—-for a Birmingham
division. He lost his deposit. It’s no use
hawking brummy things in Brummagem.
Maoriland’s Marine Department has
erected another automatic wireless beacon
at Tiri Tiri Island—the second in the
Dominion. Australia, with a coastline
roughly equal to the distance from Syd-
ney to London, has none.
The Dutch League of Nations Union
has awarded a Peace medal to the Italian
Baron Aloisi for his services in the solu-
tion of the Saar problem. A highly prac-
tical present. Now that Holland is apply-
ing sanctions” to the baron’s country, it
should melt down into at least three
bullets.
A horse called Country Party won the
V.R.C. Batman Stakes, and at the Lord
Mayor’s dinner that night Premier Dun-
stan said he hoped his Country party
(which staggered the public by winning
the Treasury Bench Stakes in flagrant
reversal of form) would “prove to be a
very good stayer, like its namesake at
Flemmgton.” It looked quite apt till the
other Country Party and all concerned
were rubbed out for 12 months.
Battling against the inevitable, Ramsay
MacDonald was a figure of pathos. At
one of his last addresses to the grim Dur-
ham miners the doomed old man said in
a faltering voice “Some of you think I
have moved away from you. Nothing of
the kind.” Promptly came the grim re-
mark “You are going to move this time”
and move he did. Emanuel Shinwell,
who was in the two MacDonald Labor
Ministries, beat him hands down.
Blackburn, M.H.R., voted against his
party on the Sanctions Bill and did not
attend the next Caucus. Now, it seems, he
has “automatically placed himself out-
side the movement.” He was given till
Friday last to “dissociate himself from
the Victorian Council Against War,”
which the Vic. A.L.P. executive labels
Communist. Friday found him still
grappled to the Council Agin War by
hoops of steel or balderdash or some-
thing.
The extraordinary spectacle of Stevens
and Lang voting the same way was wit-
nessed during the Wheat Bill debate.
The proposal was that there should be
two consumers’ representatives on the
inevitable board, and each celebrity
whose face annoys the other so much was
against it. Both are for what they call
“producer-control,” or say they are ; but
they wouldn’t dare to put it to a referen-
dum. In matters like these the average
man is not represented by any of the
parties now in business.
Westralian Labor is evidently resigned
to defeat at the general election, other-
wise it would scarcely have shown such
contempt for the electorate as it has shown
this last year or so. When the Duke of
Gloucester was in the State, a private
dance was arranged in the Crystal Cave
at Yanchep, which is in a public park,
and special police were posted to see
that none of the common people entered
their own property. Now the Auditor-
General reports that the “Labor” Gov-
ernment paid a bill of £69 15s. in respect
of this silvertails’ party and granted £l2O
to “the Secretary to the Premier and
staff” for “special services,” incident to
the Yanchep affair, among others.
According to Hanlon, the Queensland
Home Secretary, suppression of s.-p.
betting would be practicable but for the
Post Office. Not only are broadcasting
facilities supplied by A.8.C., of which
the Post Office is fast taking control, but
the lawless fraternity can get all the
telephones they want.
. One organisation carrying on illegal bet-
ting throughout Queensland has 400 shops,
trom which it draws a revenue of £20,000
p.a. Half goes to the Post Office for
telephones.
The “half” may be exaggerated ; but if,
as seems probable, the vogue of s.-p.
betting forces curtailment of racing in
N.S.W. and Queensland, the Post Office
will derive much less indirect income
from lawbreaking. Still, sufficient for the
day is the tainted money thereof.
Premier Ogilvie, who has apparently
quite forgotten his promise to tell us “the
truth about Ireland,” has been telling the
truth about the banks and the Loan
Council, as he sees or imagines it. One
of his ’orrible revelations was that “two
leading banks” unloaded £6,000,000 of
Commonwealth stock “in one week.”
They would have been quite within their
rights if they had, though their sanity
might have been suspected. Repetition
of the fantastic yarn drew from Casey
the retort that it was “a complete distor-
tion of facts presented to the Loan
Council.”
Casey was twice stirred out of his
composure last week. Cerutty, the re-
tiring A.-G., let fly for the last time at
“Now I know what it feels like to be a Peter Pan."
“the misleading presentation of ac-
£ oun I s ’ A l 6 stuffing into “trust funds” of
h , uge unnecessarily wrung from
, ® taxpayers, and the inflation of the
° i( l -a gc pensions bill by “fraud”;
Old-jigc pensioners include large numbers
wo. jom extravagance, laziness, drink and
general worthlessness in their early years,
have become a burden on the community!
There he went too far; but so did Casey
in imputing “malice” and small-minded
members on both sides in suggesting that
he should be punished by being deprived
of £1750 for accrued leave The old-age
pensioners wouldn’t agree with that
though they might warrantably compare
their Jot with that of their critic and
maintain that there are among them men
who have done as much or more for
Australia for a fraction of the reward he
is getting. For example, prospectors who
sowed where other men have reaped.
Stevens and co. took nearly three
weeks to shove their Wheat Bill through
a justly critical Assembly; and, because
Butler is hostile and Collier reluctant
(naturally, Ogilvie is not interested), it
will probably be labor in vain. While
the guillotine was being oiled, Stevens
blurted out a secret —at least, he sug-
gested it was a secret:
Commonwealth and State representatives
conferred on the wisdom or otherwise of
attempting to amend Section 92 of the
Constitution [the inter-State Freetrade sec-
tion] by taking a referendum. But even
the lawyers had difficulty in arriving at a
tomiula that would express the comments
and wishes of the people, and the result
was deadlock.
It is just as well. The wishes of the
people would have been reflected in an
80 p.c. No vote.
There have been complaints from
various quarters that the N.S.W. Trans-
port Department did not strictly observe
the two minutes’ silence on November
11. Still, running trams while the
nation was remembering its dead is only
of a piece with imperilling lives in one-
man buses, demanding the right to in-
spect private books so that feeder-bus
services which are showing profits may
be grabbed without compensation, seiz-
ing private commercial vehicles on the
King’s highway and compelling tram-
mies to work overtime to avoid putting
on more hands, though the union would
rather more hands were put on. There
is not a meaner-souled concern in this
Commonwealth than this Government
department.
In the first four months of the last two
financial years, customs revenue in-
creased from £8,875,000 to £9,515,000,
excise from £3,946,000 to £4,283 000
sales tax from £2,750,000 to £3,029,000,’
and Post Office from £4,572,000 to
£4,851,000. Already it is reported at
Canberra that Casey is thinking out ways
and means of distributing the surplus. It
is expected that he will use it, not for re-
ducing taxes (Casey and his crowd don’t
believe in that), but for swelling the
special grants of the three States which
are this year dividing £2,750,000 of easy
money. If any condition is made—
though hitherto all special grants have
been unconditional —he may stipulate
that part of the addition shall be applied
to something useful, such as the manu-
facture of lorgnettes or armorial
bearings.
A member of the U.A.P. “electoral
college,” 113 members of which presented
the Gordon (N.S.W.) Assembly seat to
Goldfinch, decided to come out against the
C.S.R. man. His nomination was rejected
by the returning officer on a technicality ;
but before this happened H. W. Hors-
field, the U.A.P. secretary, denounced the
presumptuous fellow (one of 20,000
electors) for “putting the country to the
expense of an election.” This explosion
is understandable, but why have elections
at all? Where is the necessity for even
“electoral colleges” or selection ballots?
It would save heaps of time and money
and trouble to hand the whole job over
to Mr. Horsfield and Mr. Sydney Snow,
to Mr. Graves and Mr. Paddy Keller,
and to Mr. Trethowan and Colonel
Munro.
Disquieting are the figures as to re-
jections of volunteers for the services;
Duntroon, 70.6 p.c. ; naval college, 43.3
p.c. ; army (permanent) 55 p.c. ; navy
45.1 p.c. ; air force, 43.62 p.c. Scientists
should be asked to discover where the
weakness lies. The future of the nation
may depend upon our knowing, and
knowing quickly.
Reporting on the first four months of
1935-36, the Commonwealth Government
announced a surplus of £1,990,000, and
the Victorian Government a deficit of
£1,980,000. As usual, there was whoop-
ing over the surplus, and there was weep-
ing over the deficit. Actually each is a
reflection on the financial ability of
the Government, as well as an indict-
ment of the outworn distribution of
functions which admits of such results.
Jackett, M.L.A., is no jolly miller when
he discusses the home-consumption price
tor wheat, as he does whenever he can.
Backed by supporters of that measure,
he said a thing that stung:
The wool industry is the one land
industry that has suffered no Government
interference, and it is the one land
industry that is on its feet.
Alter that there was a blessed interval
ol silence. Spoken truth has that effect
sometimes, even in Australian Parlia-
ments.
The Italian Government has lodged a
formal protest against the imposition of
sanctions, and a copy has reached Can-
berra. It describes the prohibition of all
Italian exports as “a real act of hos-
tility” which amply justifies “the inevitable
counter-measures that will be adopted.”
Sanctions and counter-sanctions will
have very grave consequences of a moral
and psychological kind, increasing the eco-
nomic unrest of the world.
This seems only too probable, unless
the Abyssinians crumple up quickly. The
way of the transgressor is hard, and not
only for the transgressor.
From Macquarie-street:
The atmosphere in the N. S. Wales U.A.P.
is anything but happy. A cave led by Foster
has raised Cain about the Transport Depart-
ment’s ways and fought clause after clause of
(he Wheat Bill ; on one the Government’s
majority—nominally 31—fell to three. And
the election of a deputy-leader to replace
Weaver this week is not likely to be cele-
brated with a unanimous “‘For Fle’s a Jolly
Good Fellow.” The battle between Spooner,
Martin and Dunningham is the sterner because
there is a revival of the rumor that Stevens
will move to Canberra at the first opportunity.
From a back-seater:
N.S.W. Industrial Commission has finished
taking evidence and argument respecting the
State basic wage, and will now make investiga-
tions on its own account. Sixty-four witnesses
stepped into the box, and 39 sitting days were
occupied, many being devoted to the question
of what a working girl requires in the way of
clothing, underclothing, shoes, paint, powder,
toothpaste, hair-waves, dance equipment, beach
wear and warpaint in general, and what she
ought to pay; and there were exhibits enough
to stock a shop. The three Judges bore it all
philosophically, but the limits of their patience
were overstepped when the Public Service
Association presented a claim for a basic wage
of £6 9s. IGd. Over and above food, cloth-
ing and rent, it included “miscellaneous, £2
12s. 5d.,” and the Court did not contradict the
counsel Tor the employers when he said that,
if applied to Australia, it would cost
£700,000,000 p.a. The last official estimate of
annual wealth production was £293,000.000.


GOOO-BVE, vs
don't poroet to write
If
Get op»= youß back.
6.MD STOP SKIORIMG,''
y/ Mo Dear, /ou cant possißuv go down THERfeT—-
that's- the steerage.''''
> i
VAEV VOU TOE THE MARK .
* Ves, t BE A Dark worse StR’AVJ Btzßßy. B»ut voure A PWR cow
'A.VA VvMSvW MA WITHER COULD
SEE KAE. MOO "
KJOT A Sad S.HIP But the tables not ALU
IT MlOHt BE
A PLEASURE CRUISE.
“A vessel which is bringing out prize cattle from Glasgow to Sydney has been specially fitted ‘with such comforts as electric fans.’"


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary, Managing Director.
How Much Time
can yon give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much (o yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time—your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert B. Lysaght, Shepheard E. Laidley
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. B. Knox,
B. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H, V. Douglass, Manager
Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Stanley Lough—Luff, please—has been
in the rubber and tyre trade most of his
life, but it was not the worries of busi-
ness but Mother Nature that gave him
silvered hair as part of the good looks
mitigated in the accompanying drawing.
He is well known in all the State capitals,
S. LOUGH, manager in Victoria for
Dunlop Perdriau.
particularly in Brisbane and Melbourne
—where he is now manager of Dunlop
Perdriau.
Fifty years after he raised the Camden
Light Horse in a year of military
fervor, J, A. K. Mackay died in his
native Cootamundra (N.S.W.) district.
He was born at Wallendbeen in 1859 on
property which his father had held since
the early ’thirties. He commanded the
6th Imperial Bushmen in the Boer War —
C. 8., five mentions in dispatches.
Politics had caught him by that time.
He was M.L.A. for Boorowa for a time,
but in 1899 went to the Upper House,
Vice-President of the Executive Council
for the Lyne, See and Waddell Minis-
tries. Mackay was an M.L.C. till the
Stevens transformation in 1933. He
was Director-General of the Austra-
lian Army Reserve from 1916 and
major-general on retirement in 1920.
In his day, he was a noted rough-
rider, and wrote a lot of bush verse—
Stirrup Jingles and Songs of the Outback
—and some novels. Donald Mackay, the
explorer, is his brother.
Out of the £6OO a year he will receive
as member of the Commonwealth Bank
Board, Prof. Giblin, of Melbourne
University School of Economics, intends
to devote £4OO to the endowment of a
research fellowship in economics. He
is not a rich man as the term is generally
understood, but he has the Digger
spirit.
Group-Captain Sidney Smith, who is
conducting the R.A.F. search for Kings-
ford Smith from Singapore, is one of the
old guard who entered the war as Terri-
torials. He went to France at 28 in com-
mand of a howitzer battery, began his
flying by doing a bit of observing in a
cranky old “pusher,” and in seven
months had become a pilot and risen to
the rank of Squadron Commander
(Major). He won the D.S.O. and A.F.C.
and the Croix de Guerre with palms.
S.S. is thorough and businesslike, and
few fliers can teach him much about
Empire air routes or the handling of
heavy machines.
“Dollar” on a honeymoon couple:
Young George Vanderbilt, in Australia with
his bride, is not “a grandson of Cornelius
Vanderbilt, founder of the family fortunes,”
as he was labelled by a Sydney daily. The Vs.
are an old Knickerbocker family—they reached
America, poor Dutch immigrants, in 1650. By
1685 Aert Jansen van der Bilt held a large part
of Flatbush Village on Long Island. Cornelius
—the “Commodore” —was his great-great-grand-
son, born in 1794. During the 1812 war
Cornelius fell in the way of money-making—
land and ferry routes were his hobby in a
later day. He died in 1877, worth $90,000,000,
having stood unbowed during the financial
panics of 1857 and 1873. The old man ex-
plained his financial success by saying; “All
you have to do is to attend to your own busi-
ness, then go ahead.” A granddaughter in
1895 married the late Duke of Marlborough,
whom she divorced in 1920. The present Duke
is their son. The George Vanderbilt now in
Australia is a great-grand-nephew of the
“Commodore” and a son of Alfred Gwynne
"Vanderbilt, who was drowned on the Lusitania.
Though he inherited only some of the Vander-
bilt millions, there are plenty of them to go
round even a prolific family.
“J.”: Still smiling at Father Time,
Ludwig Kurth, of Ipswich (Q.), has
celebrated his 102nd birthday. Aus-
tralia’s oldest German, he has been in
the country 70 years. He helped to build
the first bridge over the Brisbane River —•
at Spencer’s Crossing. Then he took up
farming in the Brisbane Valley district,
and could wield a crosscut saw till two
years ago, when a leg injury forced his
retirement.
Knight Francis Wylie, who is in Mel-
bourne for the wedding of his daughter
to one of his old charges—Lewis Wilcher,
now Dean of Trinity College, Mel-
bourne —passed a lot of Australian
Rhodes scholars through his hands while
he was secretary of the Rhodes Trust
from 1903-31. He was a Balliol man —
many scholars followed him there —and
is an honorary fellow of Brasenose, of
which he was a tutor in his younger days.
He was bom in an unexpected city for
a confirmed British Imperialist—Petro-
grad.
Frank Villeneuve Smith, of Adelaide,
was a K.C. at 35, and in his early forties
he represented Australia at the world Bar
conference in 1927. His spare time is
given over to briefing horses after the
best English Bar
tradition; he was
indulging in thisi
pastime during
Cup week when
Stuart Peterson
drew him in Mel-
bourne. Criminals
usually have a
good word for
“Villeneuve,” and
the innocent re-
gard him with
gratitude, for he is
one of the best de-
fenders in Aus-
tralia. He has been
confused with a
Perth namesake,
and with an uncle
who was called to
the Bar in 1842
and died in 1909 at
90, 25 years after
he retired from the C.J.-ship of Tas-
mania. That Villeneuve Smith had a way
with him which led an old-vintage lag to
ejaculate when he left the Bench: “Fancy
old Frankie not bein’ there to send y’
up! It won’t be like goin’ ’ome at all.”
More than 60 years ago William
Rogers started with Anchor Shipping
(M.L.) —as a purser on boats on the West
Coast. To-day he is g.m. and a director
of the co., and chairman of the N.Z.
Shipowners’ Federation. Half a century
ago, in gold-fever days, he sometimes
swam ashore with lines or dived to dis-
entangle ropes from propellers in un-
FRANK VILLENEUVE SMITH, K.C.
familiar harbors. Add penny-farthing
cycling to his list of youthful pastimes
and there is less cause for surprise that
he still looks so vigorous.
Henry Perdriau, who was on the board
of the big Dunlop Perdriau Co. till
a few months before his death at 90,
was founder of Australia’s first rubber
factory in 1881, as his father before him
was the initiator of the steam ferry ser-
vice from which Sydney Ferries grew.
The factory rose from a mistake in a
cabled order for supplies for railway
purposes. There was a huge surplus over
requirements, and the demand for it
proved so great that Henry decided to
Start manufacturing rubber goods. By
the time his company merged with
Dunlops in 1929 the capital was
£1,500,000. He was a keen supporter of
the kirk, of which he was an elder, but
this did not prevent his taking a lively
interest in sport. He was active in the
Balmain rowing and bowling clubs for
60 years, and latterly was most seen in
public on the Warringah green near his
home in Mosman, Sydney.
R. W. G. Mackay, the former Sydney
solicitor and Uni. lecturer, failed to
become M.P. for the Frome division of
Somerset, being a thousand down against
a lady. Mackay is a clever chap and
had a bit of a following in Sydney, but
he alienated admirers by saying that he
would stay in Australia if he saw any
hope of carrying reforms on which he
had set his heart. The disillusioned ad-
mirers concluded that, though Mackay
had some gift for exposition as a lec-
turer and a voice which sounded rather
nice over the air, he was deficient in
fighting spirit.
“Tuart’s” appreciation:
Claude de Bernales, back in Perth after
having been the means of introducing millions
of British capital into Westralian goldmining
and finding work for a thousand men, is being
lionised and is finding it a novel sensation. For
30 years or more he had to put up with ridi-
cule, chiefly the outcome of envy, which found
expression in remarks about “his raining-in-
London pants,” “his scrap-iron machinery” and
the like. The cheap carping was never uttered
in his presence (that would have been un-
healthy), but he was conscious of it, and he
took it calmly. Time has vindicated the man’s
business acumen and his faith in Westralian
shows. De Bernales must be nearly 60, but he
would pass for 45 anywhere. He is handsomer
than most moving-picture stars, and if his
energies had taken the same direction he
might have beaten the Clark Gables and Gary
Coopers at their own game. He has been con-
tent to be a mining investor—never speculator;
his friends say he could have made heaps more
money in Wilunas but for his steadfast refusal
to become a mere scrip gambler.
Len Matters, who is not to return to
the Commons as M.P. for Kennington, is
a picturesque-look-
ing chap in the
early fifties, with a
mane like Lloyd
George’s. He got
in for Kennington
in 1929, and was
one of the hun-
dreds of Laborites
who lost their seats
in 1931. Matters
was not the first
member of his
family to find a
place in House of
Commons history.
About 24 years ago
his sister Muriel,
one of the suffra-
gettes, brightened a
dull debate one
night by interrupt-
ing it from the
ladies’ gallery.
Peelers rushing to put her out found that
the young woman had chained herself
to the grille and put the key down her
back.
Many Australian travellers know Tom
Mildren, but few who come into con-
tact with him realise that he hails from
Adelaide. One does not expect such an
origin of the manager of an Oriental
tourist hotel which is known from one
end of the earth to the other. Yet he is
—the son of aS. Australian hotelkeeping
family, he has made the Repulse Bay
hostelry in Hong Kong the Mecca of
every holiday-maker who sees the lights
of Mt. Victoria. He is revisiting Aus-
tralia, and comments on the fact that 60
p.c. of all tourists to the North Pacific
these days are fellow-countrymen.
The N. S. Wales State Opposition is
finding Philip Goldfinch, g.m. of the
C.S.R. and new member for Gordon,
very poor material to bait. He has a
habit of regarding a vociferous tormentor
with complete lack of interest as if he
were idly contemplating the pattern on
PHILIP GOLDFINCH, M.L.A.
the wallpaper. But one day he will
wake up and there will be a few legis-
lators about suffering from badly bruised
self-esteem. No man in Australia knows
better how to silence an unruly com-
mittee and get his own way by a sort of
mental jiu-jitsu in which his opponent
produces and uses all the effort.
Most of the work of James Chadwick,
who gets the Nobel Prize for physics at
42, has been done in conjunction, with
Maorilander Lord Rutherford and C. D.
Ellis. They—all F.R.Ss. now —have
been the Three Musketeers of radio-
activity at the Cavendish Laboratory,
Cambridge, of which Rutherford is the
head and Chadwick the Director of
Radio-active Research. In 1932 Chad-
wick became the Columbus of the
neutron —an awkward if diminutive
electric customer whose discovery is
likely to cause more changes in civilisa-
tion than did the sighting of America.
Rutherford—the only Antipodean with
an O.M. —won his Nobel Prize for
Chemistry in 1908 when he was 37, and
if Ellis earns one, as he should if he
goes his present gait, the trio will be
unique.
“El V.” says so-Iong:
When I first saw Ramsay MacDonald in
1907 he was anything but the “done-in old
man” he now says he is. His pow was
just beginning to get frosty, but he was up-
right and gallant and very Scotch —he spoke
beautiful lowland English which, even in a
day when Australia had men like Reid and
Deakin, was remarkable. Seventeen years later
he seemed little changed physically, but there
was a subtle change in his expression. His
mien had been sobered by the death of his
wife —her memorial in Lincoln’s Inn Fields is
one of the most beautiful in England—and by
his war-time pacifist experiences and a short
and difficult Prime Ministership. He has
always been a man of many friends, for his
politics are conducted on strictly impersonal
lines. He was probably happier with his
books than on his platform. He writes a prose
of beautiful clarity and restraint, and even his
works on dry subjects like socialism are emi-
nently readable. And he has courage even if
he is “old and blind.”


gsgegms
■
ill
mi
1
ki
I
M
11
■ ■ ■
■M
m
- -'
m
in;
m
Bstmim
r
< •
'
■
1
Si
H iiiiiiiillilii 4,
% #
•#
#
:
II
ssm
iliii
< c*
iiipw
f
■■ I
VOfe;.; ' v ,. v ,
n jx, , ; S'to*. "'"
* .
‘-■■vxvkx.
X;X;X x : X;X;,.
■ : : .... :
M I
as
(3) The Cricket Thirst
There’s more than a thirst to be
quenched at the end of a great day’s
cricket There’s the pleasant talk about
the day’s play and the season’s pros-
pects, and comparisons with old games
and feats. It’s grand to relax while the
cool of the evening is coming on ...
to enjoy your Vickers ... to refresh and
revive your body and mind too.
II _ __
VICKERS GIH
issmm subs©! m®


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN-PRODUCING COMPANIES IN MALAYA
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD.
For the Quarter ended 30th September, 1935.
Company.
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd.
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd. . .
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd. . .
Rawang Concessions, Ltd.
NOTE.—AII figures are expressed in English sterling. The yields represent the entire
quarter; the financial figures include total working costs and the estimated mine pro s
value of the carry-over stocks as at 30th September, 1935.
Estimated Mine
Profit (Stg.).
£67,550
21.470
16,440
14,175
145 Loss
18.470
14,026
875
production for the
after adjusting the
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
r- —Dividends— —^
Pref. Ord. To He- Nominal
June, Profit. 15 p.c. 15 p.c. serves. Reserves.*
£j £* & £> &
1925.. 298,405 30,000 168,750 97,155 880,847
16+ p.c. 16+ p.c.
1926.. 410,260 32,500 284,375 93,385 974,232
17 i p.c. 17+ p.c.
1927.. 439,521 35,000 306,250 98,271 1,072,503
1928.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
1929.. 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1930.. 332,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
Hi p.c. Hi p.c.
1931.. 240,992 22,500 196,875 21,617 1,320,108
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349.035
1933.. 234,540 20,000 175,000 39,540 1,388,575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
This is the big operating co. which amal-
gamated the interests of half a dozen
then-sick Melbourne breweries in 1907,
paying £BOO,OOO (in scrip) for goodwill,
etc. For the next 20-odd years it was
busy consolidating its position, financial
and otherwise. During the post-war de-
cade it tightened its grip on the trade by
welding the hotel and brewing interests
of the very prosperous Melbourne Co-
operative, Fitzgerald’s (Castlemaine) and
Cohn’s (Bendigo) into the organisation.
The div. shot up from 7 p.c. in
1919 to \l\ p.c. eight years later, and
remained there until slump intervened,
when the rate dropped to 10 p.c. De-
clared net earnings shrank by nearly 50
p.c. during the four years to the close
of accounts in ’32, when they reached
their lowest point, 11.4 p.c. on capital.
While values were low the co. further
widened and anchored its turnover by
the purchase of hotel freeholds, and,
with the growth of employment and gen-
eral upward surge of trade activity, earn-
ings are climbing again. Partly to avoid
extra taxation imposed after 1934, the
board scattered 975,000 bonus shares—
-100,000 prefs. and 875,000 ords. —one for
two, in Dec. last, raising paid capital to
£2,925,000 in 300,000 prefs. (they carry
a cumulative 7 p.c. and advance with the
ords. beyond that rate) and 2,625,000
ords.
After providing for contingencies, the
improvement in the gross return from
trading last term (£272,002) was £5556 ;
rentals, etc. (£95,562, after deducting
compensation fees, etc.), were £22,696
better, making the total improvement in
gross earnings £28,252. Exes. (£96,896)
took £7197 of the increase, leaving the
net result £21,055 better at 9.2 p.c. on
capital. The div. was lowered to 8 p.c.,
which called for £39,000 more than 10
p.c. did in the previous term, being equal
to 12 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the gift. Though earnings may continue
to improve, it is doubtful whether any-
thing better in the way of divs. may be
expected for a while.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion of the business and a very
strong financial position:
1924. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £1,950,000 £1,950,000 £2,925,000
Sundry creditors.. 168,078 189,763 271,315
Deposits .. .. 112,523 410 410
Brewery freeholds 103,393 246,657 260,925
Hotel freeholds . . 126,486 637,227 664,186
Leaseholds .. 7,104 6,724
Plant, etc. .. 271,043 310,662 339,967
Stocks and excise
stamps .. .. 201,027 208,225 229,130
Book debts, etc. . . 602,832 817,291 845,185
Cash, investments,
etc. .. . . 119,510 653,695 672,464
To add £14,268 to the book value of
brewery premises, £29,305 to plant,
£26,959 to hotel freeholds, carry an extra
£20,905 of stocks and £27,894 of book
debts, and strengthen cash, etc., by
£18,769, the board went outside
for only £81,552. Owing to the outlay
on fixed assets, the more or less liquid
surplus (£1,475,054, including stocks)
was £13,984 less than at the previous
balance.
The next table shows how the half-
dozen holding cos. through which the
public is interested in the C.U.B. fared
at the party:
Shares in C.U.B.
After Last Market
Paid Present Bonus Div., Price
Capital. Holding. Issue, p.c. Scrip.
Carlton .. £816,992 618,863 928,295 IO.Ot 52/6
Melb, Co-op. 431,981 650,000 975,000 15.8 40/6
Castlemaine.. 175,000 117,414 176,121 10.0+ 40/-
Foster .. 57,600 83,049 124,574 13.2 72/-
Shamrock .. 78,525 83,049 124,574 10.5 58/6
McCracken’s. 41,625 41,625 62,438 7.5 36/-*
* Buyer. f Includes sd. paid out of reserves
accumulated prior to 1914. + Interim.
The market expects the operating co.
to continue paying 8 p.c.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
f Dividends—
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £/ £ £ £
1925.. 41,457 11,177 8 p.c. =26,000 4280 6,421
1926.. 49,358 13,687 9 „ ~ 29,250 6421
Reserves.
Inner reserves disclosed, £10,000.. 10,000
1927.. 50,213 14,920 9 p.c. =29,250 6043 16,043
1928.. 48,492 15,025 9 „ „ 29,250 4217 20,260
1929.. 43,794 15,736 9 „ „ 29,250 18,968
1930.. 33,005 16,000 3£ „ „ 11,375 5630 24,598
Loss.
1931.. 20,357 Nil Nil 4,241
Deficit.
1932. .165,978 Nil Nil 161,737
Premiums on leases, £1963 . . . . 159,774
Profit.
1933.. 10,206 Nil Nil 149,568
Reserves.
Capital written off. £150,000 . . 432
Premiums on leases, £3387 . . 3,819
1934.. 15,284 Nil Nil 19,103
Premiums on leases, £4209 . • 23,312
16.2 p.c.
1935.. 16,287 23,145* Nil 16,454
*Two years at 6 p.c. p.a. plus £6OOO on account
of arrears.
Headquarters are at Townsville (Q.),
where Samuel Allen put the business on
its feet over half a century ago. During
the post-war decade the co. developed
a large indenting and agency business in
the capitals of the Eastern States. To help
finance this £200,000 of 8 p.c. pref.
capital (half firsts and the other half
seconds) was gathered ; it is preferential
as to dividend only. For the eight years
to the close of accounts in 1930 the ords.,
whose scrip was provided largely out of
reserves, averaged 7.8 p.c. Then slump,
exchange and the tariff made the business
unprofitable ; the Brisbane, Sydney and
Melbourne branches were closed, and
more attention was given to trading in
North Queensland. The loss of £165,978
in 1932 was mainly on account of bad
debts and unprofitable southern trad-
ings. To clean the slate £150,000 was
lopped off capital (prefs. and ords. alike),
reducing it to £375,000 in 71,428 first
and a like number of second prefs. and
232,144 ords.
The prefs. have now agreed to accept
£24,000 (= 4 p.c. p.a.) in settlement of
their arrears (£48,000) to June 30, 1933,
and to reduce the rate of div. from 8 p.c.
to 6 p.c. cumulative from that date, with
the right to advance with the ords. after
the latter have had 6 p.c. Some holders
of this scrip got a nasty shock when their
capital was cut.
During the last term three hotel free-
holds and three small retail stores, to-
gether with a controlling share interest
in a retail business in Townsville, were
bought at unstated prices. The net addi-
tion to the book value of freeholds was
£27,235, and to shareholdings £59,128: —■
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £525,000 £525,000 £875,000 £375,000
Overdraft .. 121,341 120,014 99,367 137,771
Sundry creditors 83,491 93,622 73,062 114,902
Freeholds .. 243,529 276,760 282,672 309,907
Shares in other
cos., etc. .. 14,623 61,886 25,345 84,473
Stocks ... 99,103 43,953 57,012 62,737
Rook debts . . 405,175 195,519 206,047 213,600
Gash .. .. 8,793 67 224
To meet the outlay, add £5725 to stocks
and £7553 to debtors’ balances, the
overdraft was increased by £38,404, and
the amount coming to sundry creditors
by £41,840. There was thus 12s. 10d.
of outside money at risk in the business
for every pound belonging to share-
holders. Including stocks but not shares,
the more or less liquid surplus (£23,888)
was £66,809 lighter than at the previous
balance.
Gross earnings (£108,280) sprang
£9144. Exes. (£91,993) took all but £lOO3
of the increase, leaving the net result at
£16,287, or enough to pay the prefs.
6 p.c. and show 3.3 p.c. on ord. capital.
Actually, two years’ pref. divs were paid,
plus £6OOO on account of arrears, which
together called for £6,858 more profit
than was claimed. That leaves out of
the reckoning £4209 received as pre-
miums for unexpired hotel leases, which
was sent direct to reserves. For the next
three years the prefs. will call for
£14,572 p.a.
Prospects are for a better showing at
next balance, though the weight of the
debt will make itself felt. The firsts at
18s. and the seconds at 17s. 9d. return
6.6 p.c. and 6.7 p.c. respectively on a
6 p.c. div. basis, plus lOd. a share for
arrears for the next three years. The
more speculative ords. are priced at 9s.
Subject to intangibles in the sharehold-
ings, the net tangible cover is 20s. lOd.
all shares.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
r Dividends
f —Pref. —s
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1915.. 76,730 14,000 20,000 7 p.c. =36,542 152,416
inner reserves disclosed, £15,226 .. 167,642
1926. . 41,780 14,000 20,000 5 p.c. =30,452 144,970
1927.. 66,453 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,971
1928.. 64,240 14.000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,759
1929.. 44,673 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 126,980
June,
1930*. 30,577 13,272 18,972 Nil 125,313
Loss.
1931.. 88,845 14,000 15,000 Nil 7,468
Deficit.
1932.. 72,731 Nil Nil Nil 65,263
Profit.
1933.. 1,670 Nil Nil Nil 63,593
Reserves.
Ordinary capital written off, £152,258 88,665
Legal exes., £1264 .. .• .. 87,401
Unexplained reduction, £30,000 .. 57,401
5 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 14,478 5,000 10,625 Nil 56,254
1935.. 11,812 5,000 11,250 Nil 51,816
*ll months 12 days.
With the growth of the Australian tex-
tile trade, development of the specialty
house, chain-store and other retailing
methods, softgoods wholesalers have seen
much of their business slip away. To
make up their volume of trade they have
had to gather a multiplicity of small
orders, thus increasing overhead as well
as credit risks. Then slump, exchange
and the tariff made things worse.
It all left Robert Reid and Co. over-
capitalised. To lighten the burden the
overdraft was reduced, the debenture debt
(£lso,ooo—held in London) was repaid
and £162,500 of pref. capital was re-
turned, stocks and book debts being
worked down for the purpose. Also, ss.
per share (£152,258) was slashed off the
ords., and the pref. divs. were reduced
to 5 p.c. firsts and 6 p.c. seconds, with
the right to advance to the original rales
(7 p.c, and 8 p.c. respectively) with the
ords., after the latter have had 6 p.c.
Arrears of pref. divs. were paid mostly
at half the new rates, the amount
(£30,000) being charged direct against
reserves.
What the future holds for the soft-
goods wholesaler it is difficult to say ;
much depends upon the extent to which
he is able to work in with the Australian
manufacturer. What is plain is the diffi-
culty of squeezing satisfactory profits out
of the business available. During its last
term the co, was faced with competition
from Japanese imports. Net earnings
were £2666 lighter at £11,812 ; so reserves
had to be tapped for £4438 to give the
prefs. their minimum requirements.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1929. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Ord capital.. £609,035 £609,'035 £456,777 £456,777
Pref. capital.. 450,000 450,000 287,500 287,500
Debentures, etc. 150,469
Mortgages .. 82,387 77,107 77,149 77,12.6
Overdrafts, etc. 203,454 87,946 91,386 79,247
Creditors .. 219,080 123,536 181,525 121,302
Properties . . 236,104 239,030 238,797 238,289
Plant, etc. .. 76,823 21,279 18,929 15,938
Stocks.. .. 913,054 416,689 406,139 396,106
Book debts .. 649,552 367,389 832,164 339,091
I n v e stments,
cash, etc. .. 100,714 296,882 161,327 140,449
To clip £12,139 off overdrafts, etc., and
£10,223 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, stocks were reduced by £10,033
and cash and investments by £20,878 ;
debtors’ balances were up £6927. The
more or less liquid surplus (£597,971,
including stocks) was £1599 less than at
the previous balance.
Doubtful of the future, -the market
prices both the firsts and the seconds
at 17s. At these figures the return is
5.8 p.c, and 7 p.c. respectively on the
basis of minimum div. rates. The net
tangible cover is £7 19s. 2d. firsts and
£3 14s. 3d. seconds. The ords. are not
listed.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends
Pref. Writ- Re-
July, Profit, (8 p.c.) Ordinary. ten Off. serves,
£ £ £ £ £
1925. .26,380 4000 10 p.c. = 20,000 38,511
1926.. 26.337.4000 8 „ „ 16,000 44,848
1927.. 24.765.4000 8 „ „ 16,000 5000 44,613
1928.. 20.554.4000 8 „ ~ 16,000 5000 40,167
1929.. 20.435.4000 8 ~ ~ 16,000 40,602
1930.-16,260 4000 6 „ „ 12,000 40,862
Loss.
1931.. 6,027 2000* Nil 32,835
1932.. 9,040 Nil Nil 23,795
1933.. 3,316 Nil Nil 20,479
1934.. 2,395 Nil Nil 18,084
1935.. 3,161 Nil Nil 14,923
♦Half-year.
The co. used to specialise in imported
lines. For the 13 years to the close of
accounts in 1925 it paid a steady 10 p.c.,
with a bit extra in the fat years, and scat-
tered £40,000 of bonus scrip. With the
swing of the shopping centre to Bourke-
street and the rise of Coles and Wool-
worths, trading became more difficult;
extensive alterations were made to
premises, and the co. went into debt for
the purpose. Slump brought a fresh lot
of troubles, and the co. has been trading
at a loss for the last five years.
During the last term gross earnings
(£66,035) improved £7517; but exes.
(£69,196) took all the increase and
£lOlO besides, making the loss £3161, and
reducing the book value of the support
for the £250,000 of capital to £14,923.
The prefs. (there are 50,000 shares, 8 p.c.
cumulative) have gone without since
1930, and it is difficult to say when their
slate is likely to be cleaned.
During the eight years to the close of
accounts in 1931 £129,812 more was
spent on premises and plant than was
written off, and £128,940 was added to
the debt: —
1923. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 86,327 228,282 179,132 180,029
Property .. 106,000 244,000 244,000 244,000
Plant, etc. . . 46,188 39,000 36,125 40,734
Stock.. .. 153,776 185,051 123,067 116,550
Book debts . . 69,833 68,794 43,725 43,468
Cash ~ , . . 8,202 300 300 200
The remodelling of the men’s-wear sec-
tion and the opening of a coffee-inn
added £4609 to plant during the last
term. This and the year’s loss increased
the excess of outside liabilities over more
or less liquids by £7771, raising it to
£19,811. The debt was made up of mort-
gages, £115,000; overdraft, £31,480;
sundry creditors, £33,549.
On the market the ords. fetch 6s. and
the prefs. 18s. or thereabouts.
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1924.. 21,951 14 p.c. = 16,800 5151 86,716
3925.. 24,388 14 „ „ 18,900 5488 92,204
1920.. 24,615 14 „ „ 19,600 5015 97,219
1927.. 22,472 14 „ „ 19,600 2872 100,091
1928.. 26,693 14 „ „ 19,600 7093 107,184
1929.. 25,175 14 ~ „ 19,600 5575 112,759
1930.. 22,447 14 „ ~ 19,600 2847 115,606
Profit sale freehold. £13,440 .. 129,046
1931.. 16,099 9 p.c. = 12,600 3499 132,545
1932.. 8,552 6 „ „ 8,400 152 132,697
1933.. 9,882 6 „ „ .8,400 1482 134,179
1934.. 11,342 6 ~ „ 8,460 2942 137,121
1935. 32,510 « M 00) 2no 139 231
To provident fund, £2OOO )
The job of administering estates is not
so profitable as it used to be. Although
complications arising from slump and
recent legislation have kept more busi-
ness in the hands of the trustee cos.,
there has been a corresponding increase
in the work and expense. Also, corpus
and other commission earnings and
interest and rents have contracted.
Hence the shrinkage in this co.’s net
earnings and the drop in the div., which,
after remaining steady at 14 p.c. for seven
years to the middle of 1930, was lowered
to 9 p.c. and then 6 p.c.
During the last term the revival in
real estate and other markets continued,
but there was a net growth of only
£486,051 in the volume of new business
(Continued from page 18.)


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
MODERN (Non-Licensed) HOTELS LIMITED
(Incorporated under The Companies Acts of New South Wales.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £250,000, divided into 250,000 Shares of £1 each.
Of which 164,000 are now offered for subscription, payable two shillings a share on application, two shillings a share on allotment and the balance in calls of two
shillings a share a month. 7500 Shares are allotted in pursuance of an agreement mentioned in this prospectus and 78,500 Shares are to be held in reserve. Interest
at the rate of 4J p.c. per annum will be allowed on all moneys paid in anticipation of calls.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
(Five to be appointed.)
FRANCIS EGERTON BARRACLOUGH, ES*Q.
(Solicitor),
1 Werambie Street, WOOLWICH.
MALCOLM SHORE STANLEY, ESQ.,
M. 0., A.M.I.E. (Aust.),
Bank of Adelaide Chambers, George Street,
SYDNEY.
FRANK GROSE, ESQ.
(Organising Secretary),
22 Nundah Street. LANE -COYE.
GEOROE MATTHEW FOSTER, ESQ.
(Managing Director),
“The Raymond,” ELIZABETH BAY.
BANKERS.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
SOLICITORS.
Messrs. BOYCE and BOYCE,
79 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
AUDITORS.
J. A. L. GUNN and PAUL COHEN,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
STEUCTUBAL ENGINEER.
MALCOLM S. STANLEY, A.M.I.S. (Alist.)-
ASSOCIATED ARCHITECTS.
L. G. H. McCREDIE.
D, FORSYTH EVANS.
SECRETARY.
A. OLUNIES ROSS, B.Sc., P.C.A, (Aust.).
REGISTERED OFFICE.
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
The original signatories to the registration
of the company are:—
F. E. BARRAOLOUGH, Esq.
GEORGE M. POSTER, Esq.
FRANK GROSE, Esq.
REV. CANON R. B. S. HAMMOND.
L. G. McCREDIE, Esq.
M. S'. STANLEY, Esq., M. 0., A.M.I.E. (Aust).
JOSEPH WRAY, Esq.
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed with the objects mentioned in
its Memorandum of Association, but particularly for the fol-
lowing purposes:
(а) To acquire certain land by purchase, and to erect
thereon a modern Non-Licence Hotel, to be known
as “The Governor Game,” or such name as may be
decided upon.
(б) To co-operate with similar hotels in other States.
(c) To promote and/or invest in hotels having the same
or similar objects.
THE NEED FOR SUCH A HOTEL.
Interstate and overseas visitors are impressed by the beaches
and Harbour, and then ask, “Why is it that this —the Queen
City of the Southern Hemisphere—the terminus of most of the
ocean-going shipping that comes to Australia, does not possess
a single modern non-licensed hotel in the centre of the city,
to cater for its profitable tourist traffic?” The sixth “white”
city of the world, with one and a quarter million of people,
yet unable to welcome the best of its visitors with the accom-
modation they desire. Thousands of such visitors come to us
annually and express amazement at the failure of our business-
men to establish a hotel on similar sound lines to those found
in every other city of importance in the Empire.
Melbourne has its splendid “Victoria” adjoining the Mel-
bourne Town Hall. This hotel, now containing 650 bedrooms,
has a remarkable and outstanding record of achievement that
constitutes a veritable business romance. It has paid its hand-
some and regular dividends, as high as 22\ per cent., and
through the depression they have only fallen below 10 per cent,
in one year, namely, in 1932, when the remarkably high divi-
dend of 7 per cent, was declared. The 10/- shares in this
company are priced in the investment market as being worth
20/-.
The “Chevron,” the hotel established within the last twelve
months on St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, has also been so success-
ful that its £1 shares were being sold on the Melbourne Stock
Exchange on September 5, 1935, at 21/6.
In Brisbane, the “Canberra,” a hotel which was launched
only a few years ago, has met with such wonderful success that
it has had to enlarge its building, and now accommodates 600
guests. Its appointments are exclusive and up to date. It is
the first hotel in Australia to supply a broadcasting system,
including radio points in all bedrooms. Public functions were
so featured as to make it necessary for the board of manage-
ment to make extensive provisions for this class of business,
and the ninth floor is almost entirely devoted to this purpose.
In Adelaide there is “The Grosvenor,” and in Hobart “The
Imperial”—both non-licensed hotels, doing excellent business.
All of these hotels prove conclusively that not only visitors
with families, but professional and businessmen, as well as
sporting representatives, prefer to stay at a hotel where the
continuous serving of liquor is absent. “Comfort without
cocktails” is becoming more than ever popular with the better
class of travellers in every walk of life.
While this discriminating section of the travelling public is
catered for in these other States, Sydney, with all its advan-
tages, has had little to offer.
LOCATION.
The land referred to in (a) of the Objects upon which it is
proposed to build is situated in Hunter-street, next to a modern
building which is being erected for the City Mutual Life
Insurance Company. It has a frontage of 115 ft., with an
average depth of 165 ft.
BUILDING.
Plans are being prepared from sketches that have been
approved, and the Company’s engineer and architects will
give expression to all that modern thought and skill can
provide in a building of 400 bedrooms.
The dining-room and lounges will breathe the air of comfort
and service. All that science and art can wrap within this
structure must be considered. The bedroomsi will be equipped
with hot- and cold-water services, telephones and desks, in
addition to furniture of quality and merit.
Bedrooms and bathrooms will be spaciously planned, and
the appointments will conform to the best standards.
The installation of every device for the comfort and welfare
of guests will be carefully thought out, the aim of the Directors
being to cultivate an atmosphere of home in association with
all that is most desirable in hotel life.
In “The Governor Game” attention is being given to provid-
ing conference-rooms equipped with all conveniences for
luncheons and the meetings of delegates and representative
bodies.
FURNISHINGS.
Luxuriously appointed suites will be provided, with private
sitting-rooms and separate bathrooms to each. These will be
situated in the best positions in the hotel, and have beautiful
panoramic views of the Harbour.
Furnishings, differential in colouring and layout, will allow
a choice suitable to the individuality of the guest. Ideas are
being obtained from which selective designs for suites will give
the finest apartments obtainable in the Commonwealth.
CUISINE.
With a view to offering meals that are not only selective in
character, but prepared and served under the best methods
obtainable, the kitchens will be fitted with all the latest improve-
ments that have been found practicable.
It is also the intention of the Directors to consider the
acquisition of a farm for the purpose of ensuring a good and
permanent supply of milk, eggs, poultry and flowers. The
proposal has been found to work well in other places, and is
a good investment for the Company.
SERVICE AND THE STAFF.
The Directors consider the Company fortunate in securing
the services of Mr. George M. Foster as Managing Director.
His wide experience, knowledge of finance, and outstanding
capacity to handle a staff is of very great value to this
Company. Canon R. B. S. Hammond says of him: “Mr.
Foster has brought to bear on the problems of the Hammond
Hotels and the Pioneer Homes a devotion, an enthusiasm, an
experience and unusual gifts that have been priceless.”
The Company will advertise for the best house manager,
chef and housekeeper that can be found in Australia. These
will, with the staff, be under the control of the Directors
through the Managing Director.
The acceptance of “tips” by the staff will be prohibited. It
is believed that, by paying better than the usual rates of
wages and the planning of real benefits for the employees,
it is possible to build up a staff which will be glad to work
with and for the hotel. Guests will know the limit of their
costs.
INVESTMENT POSSIBILITIES.
The success of the hotel should be assured, as all estimates
of revenue and expenditure have been carefully examined in
the light of experience in other States.
The Financial Editor of the Melbourne “Herald,” in the
issue of Thursday, September 5, 1935, criticising hotel com-
panies’ earnings, makes the following remarkable statement:—
“Hotel companies operating in Melbourne throughout the past
six years provide a striking contrast in results. Figures show
that, while those conducting non-licensed houses have enjoyed
a fair measure of success, and given shareholders a reasonable
return on their capital, the section possessing liquor licenses
experienced a lean period of profit-earning, and in most cases
dividends fell into arrears
From investigations conducted in Sydney during the past
three years, and opinions sought from those best qualified to
judge and advise, the opinion is formed that a very profitable
field for investment is open to shareholders in “The Governor
Game.” From the financial backing that is assured and the
goodwill expressed from that section desiring to combine the
possibilities of profitable investment with ethical features, the
principal objection that has been raised is that plans for 400
rooms will be inadequate to cater for the demand.
It is pointed out that shareholders’ funds will be principally
represented by real estate in valuable land and a modern
building in the heart of the city.
BUSINESS AND CHARITY.
The Directors of “Modern Hotels, Limited,” are, in the
erection of “The Governor Game,” committing shareholders to
what a great many citizens and businesses do as a matter of
principle.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the
Directors shall allocate to such charitable objects as they may
determine a sum equal to ten per cent, of any dividend
declared.
While a great many contribute largely to hospitals and
philanthropic institutions in a very fine way, we desire to set
a lead in fixing a definite percentage.
Such a departure is at once a challenge to those who are
in the habit of declaring that ethics and business cannot mix.
It will also provide an opportunity for investment to those
who support the principles upon which this decision rests.
ARCHITECTS' ESTIMATE.
“We have carefully estimated the cost for the proposed build-
ing, and have adjusted the plans to meet with your desire not
to exceed £152,500. After consultation with Mr. Malcolm S.
Stanley, A.M.1.E., and a leading builder, we are able to say
that this figure would include the building contract, demolition
of old buildings, hot-water service, lifts, electrical fittings,
telephone installation, architects’ fees, quantity surveyor’s and
clerk of works’ fees.”
(Signed) L. G. H. McCREDIE and D. FORSYTH EVANS,
Architects.
ESTIMATE OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
Land and Building Costs (including Architect’s fees
and all charges incidental to erection), not more
than .. £195,000
Furnishing and Equipment .. .. .. .. 35,000
Establishment Expenses, Legal Costs, Stamp Duties,
Brokerage, Printing, etc. .. .. .. .. 18,000
Working Capital, Vendors, etc. .. .. .. .. 16,000
£264,000
Summary of estimates of revenue and expenditure in con-
nection with the erection of hotel, based on a total of 400
bedrooms, of which 20 per cent, are reckoned as always vacant.
While the tariff; for boarders shown is inclusive of everything
from morning-tea to supper, it will be noted that no incidental
revenue, such as luncheons, meals, etc., has been included.
These figures have been checked by an accountant in a
similar hotel, whose name, for obvious reasons, cannot be pub-
lished, but can be given in confidence to intending investors.
ANNUAL REVENUE.
The above figures are very conservative, particularly as they
are based upon room capacity. Allowing for 20 per cent, ol
the 400 rooms to, be always unoccupied, the estimates given are
for the minimum returns from single rooms only. If the num-
ber of double rooms is taken into account, it will be apparent
that the hotel will have ample accommodation for over 500
guests, and. if the estimates were based upon the number of
guests, the figures might be improved by 25 per cent. The
amount shown, therefore, as estimated revenue is for only
60 per cent, of the guest capacity.
Public functions of various kinds will, it is anticipated, be
an additional source of income, but these have not been taken
into the estimates. With these additional possibilities of income,
enhanced dividend-earning capacity seems assured, as full
provision has been made for expenditure.
CONTRACTS.
An agreement between Raymond Charles Manning Boyce
(as Trustee for the Company) of the one part, and" George
Matthew Foster (for and on behalf of a syndicate) of the oilier
part, for the purchase of certain land and rights for the sum of
£15,000, payable as to £7500 in cash and £7500 in shares.
An agreement between Raymond Charles Manning Boyce
(as Trustee for the Company) of the first part, and Malcolm
Shore Stanley of the second part, and Ludovick George
Houston McCredie and Douglas Forsyth Evans of the third
part, for the structural engineering and architectural services
of the building, for which payment is to be made by shares
in the Company.
These agreements may be inspected at the offices of the
Solicitors to the Company.
VENDORS’ CONSIDERATION.
The syndicate which is transferring its rights to this Com-
pany will have spent several thousands of pounds in preparing
the groundwork, including a deposit of £2500, stamp duties,
etc., and the registration of this Company. A profit of £lO,OOO
was refused for the land, and the Directors consider that these
facts more than justify the statement that they have made a
splendid purchase for the Company.
All requirements in connection with the registration of the
Company’s shares upon the Stock Exchange will be complied
with so that if the shareholders so desire the Company may-
be listed
As, however, it is believed that the issue will be entirely
subscribed by those looking for a sound investment on the
lines indicated, no arrangements will be made that might
enable other interests to get control of the Company.
BROKERAGE.
Brokerage not exceeding 10 per cent, will be paid in respect
of application for shares to recognised members of the Stock
Exchange or such other persons as may be approved of by
the Directors.
“Bulletin" readers desiring a Prospectus or any
further information are invited to communicate
with
The Managing Director,
Modern (Non-Licensed) Hotels, Limited,
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
'Phone: B5835.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
All preliminary expenses, legal charges, etc. (other than those
provided by Modem Hotels Syndicate), will be borne by the
Company.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Applications for shares should be made on the accompany
ing form, and forwarded to the Secretary, together with ..
remittance of two shillings a share. Cheques should be made
payable to “Modern (Non-Licensed) Hotels, Limited,” unt.‘
marked “Not Negotiable.”
The Directors reserve the right to reject any application.
The Company will proceed to allotment upon incorporation,
in order to acquire the land mentioned ii this prospectus.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To THE DIRECTORS, Date 1933.
Modern (Non-Licensed) Hotels, Ltd.,
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
Sirs, —
1 request you to allot me Shares
of £1 each in the terms of the Company’s Prospectus, dated
November 9, 1935.
I enclose herewith the sum of
(£ ), being two shillings per Share on application.
1 undertake to pay a further sum of two shillings per Share
on allotment and to pay the balance on the Shares in
accordance with the terras of the Prospectus.
1 agree to accept the said Shares or any smaller number that
may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as
the holder of the Shares so allotted to me.
Name in full.
Address
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Occupation
If Applicant be a Married Woman, show Husband's Initials
Usual Signature
Cheques should be made payable to “Modern (Non-Licensed)
Hotels, Ltd., or Order,” and should be crossed.
EXCHANGE MUST BE ADDED TO COUNTRY AND
INTERSTATE CHEQUES.


/
V.
J-'i
\
ll
0
A harmonium player of Leicester,
When the zest of Schweppes Tome posseicester.
Used to stand up and beat
On the keys with her feet
Till the Vicar and Sidesmen suppreicester
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- cdfreA tjvu
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
NOBEL;
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL!
i
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRAL.ASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, 8.A.; Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.; Dalgety & Company Limited,
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.s W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZBEHAN, TAS.: J. 8. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company Limited.
put on the books, as against £833,432 in
the previous term: —
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. income. Exes. income,
mo!: isSosi £ 41,924 26,538 60.9 P ;, C '
1925.. 15,776,909 62,202 87,813 60.8 „
InlV. SSss? ??:“? tt’Sl tli :
1930.. 23,574,354 76,260 54,373 71.3 „
1931.. 24,746,447 69,521 53,422 76.8 „
1932.. 26,675,821 63,161 - 54,609 86.4 „
1933.. 27,009,070 69,260 58,378 86.0 „
1934.. 27,842,502 72,040 60,698 84.2 „
1935.. 28,328,553 73,818 ei.sos 83.0 „
Gross earnings improved £1778, and
exes, took a trifle of the increase, leav-
ing the net result £ll6B better (no allow-
ance was made for taxation) at 8.9 p.c.
on capital, as against 8.1, 6.1, 11.4, 16,
17.9 and 19 p.c. back to 1928. That was
before setting £2OOO aside for provident
fl ,„ j ,iT,r „ i . 4. /z * / i
fund. The div was kept at 6 p.c (equal
o a shade under 3 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined). Prospects of a lift
m the dtv. are encouraging; the volume
of trust business is expanding, and
revenue is recovering. >•
At June 30 shareholders’ funds were
invested in freehold, etc., £136,611 (up
£16,011); mortgages, £21,767 (down
£300); Government securities, £124,802
(down £4700); book debts, £4177 (up
£456); and cash, £1073 (down £7357).
Creditors don’t figure in the accounts.
Capital is £140,000 in 60,000 £2 10s.
shares paid to 30s. and 100,000 paid to
10s. The former are priced around 525.,
and buyers offer 18s. 6d. for the latter,
At these prices the return is 3.4 p.c. and
3.2 p.c. respectively on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 395. lOd. per
pound of paid capital.
n „ , K . , . v w ,
CranwelU (Au.ivalas.a), Ltd.
This is the co. which recently acquired
the residuary assets of the Primary Pro-
ducers Bank (in liq.) for £200,000. It
has lately passed oyer its investment bust-
nesr to Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd., and
has practically ceased activities in the
direction of placing shares in other com-
panics. As the P.P.B. assets are liquid-
ated, surplus funds are to be diverted
mto the discount and finance business.
The co.’s share-selling and investment
transactions last year appear to have been
highly profitable. Gross profits (on a
paid capital of £174,994) amounted to
£67,540, including commission, dividends,
interest, etc. Overhead exes. (£35,977)
and provision for taxation (£6000) re-
duced the net trading result to £25,563.
The P eri °d covered by the accounts is
Oct, 1, 1934, to Oct. 28, 1935—applOxi-
-13 m ° nths - Net earnings were
at the rate of more than 13.5 p.c. p.a.
on capital as at the close of accounts;
HividpndQ aeoreffatino IS nr nn rnnital
oiyiaenas aggregating la p.c. on capital
called for £22,700, leaving £2863 to be
carried forward
G00dwi11—£34,766 of the item was
created by the issue of that much bonus
scrip—was written down £14,130 during
the year out of share premiums, the
figure now standing at £43,204. In addi-
tlon there is £11,277 of prehmmary ex-
penses making total intangiblesi £54,481,
equal to 6s. 3d. per share. The only
v £ ible reserves (o P utside the RP . Bank
transaction) are £14,873 in investments
fluctuation account and the p. and 1.
ba i ance
But finances, which show a strong
liquid position, are sound, subject
to the nature and valuation of
shares in other cos. (£94,072, partly offset
by the reserve already mentioned). This,
prior to the P.P.B, purchase, was the
principal asset. In addition to £14,292
of cash, the co. was holding £48,429 of
Commonwealth bonds at balance-day;
they stand in the books at cost, and
slightly under the market value prevail-
ing on 28/10/’35. Sundry debtors and
odds and ends total £5149 ; ordinary
liabilities amount to only £705, leaving
surplus liquids of practically a cash
nature amounting to £62,016.
The P.P. Bank deal had just been
negotiated at balance date ; including a
reserve for cost of acquisition, the
liability appeared at £209,339 and the
asse t at £210,000. The co. should have
no difficulty in financing the deal,
The £30,000 payable on receipt of the
Court’s sanction was well provided for
j n the accounts at October 28 ; a propor-
tion of the bank’s debts due as at March
28, 1935, has since been turned into
cas h, so that the co. will have to find
something less than £170,000 to com-
plete the purchase on January 31 next.
Finance should not be difficult to obtain,
and, if rural conditions get no worse, the
collection of the debts should eventually
bring in a tidy profit, Cranwells is pay-
ing less than half book value for the
assets.
Zinc Corporation at present has the
longest probable life of any mine at the
Barrier. A new lode has been located of
which a great deal has not yet been heard ;
and though the bodies of ore at present
being treated are considerably lower in
values than either the North or South
mines, when the necessary development
has taken place on the new levels (it
may be some time away) people who
should know speak of much higher aver-
age values. The geological survey of
the co.’s leases, commenced last year,
is to be merged into a general survey of
the three principal mines by the co-
operation of the North and South Cos.
* * * JR
Natural Gas and Oil Corp. has
cemented in the casing of its Balmain
(Sydney) bore, and the pumping-out of
sludge and water in the borehole should
shortly be possible. The co. may pre-
fer to drill further before it removes
the water, which has the effect of reduc-
ing the pressure (and danger) at the sur-
face. Permanency of pressure has yet
to be proved, but that isn’t to say that
the chance of proving it is unreasonably
remote. The venture has highly inter-
esting possibilities. The fact that gas in
the Cremorne and Narrabeen bores gave
out is no criterion; they weren’t down
to anything like the depth (4177 ft.)
reached at Balmain. On the other hand
the strata underlying Sydney are believed
to be comparatively undisturbed by earth
movements ; faults and fractures produce
pressure and heat, and indications of
earth pressure, so far lacking at Bal-
main, Would make the outlook much
more definite.
* * * jR
Triton (W.A.) is better in every way
than the market indicates. The mine is
looking well and steadily increasing in
intrinsic value, the treatment capacity
of the plant is about to be lifted to
6000 tons a month, and the extraction
from the 7dwt. ore going through the
mill is close. A report attributes dul-
ness of the market to the pressure of
offerings from the Klug estate, but it
lacks confirmation.
* * JR *
W. S. Robinson is again en route to
Australia, with A. J. Brett, a co-director
of Gold Exploration and Finance, Ltd.,
and the London general manager Mason.
Brett is also a director of, and consulting
engineer to, Central Mining and Invest-
ment Corp. On arrival the party will,
with a retinue of geologists and mining
experts, first visit Gold Exploration’s
Kalgoorlie interests. These include
several erstwhile producers which the
high price of gold, it is declared, has
made as valuable as ever they were. An
early amalgamation of the ventures
and others with the North Kalgurli, fol-
lowed by a big London float, is tipped
in the West.
* sR sR *
Western Mining Corporation has lately
been taking options and more options
at and around Cox’s Find, north of
Laverton (W.A.). Sampling of gold-
carriers of various widths is proceeding,
and a geological reconnaissance is likely.
Another Westralian gold find where the
option-seeker has lately been busy is
that of Corbett and Murray’s, near Mt.
Ida, north of Menzies. Carbine and
Groundlark Cos. have taken areas there
on approval, and other concerns are
anxious to get some.
Yellowdine Areas, which is next door
on the south to the rich mine at Yellow-
dine, has been recommended for four
months’ exemption. Go. was floated in
January last to pick up the southern
continuation of the Yellowdine shoot (if
there is any), but so far hasn’t had any
luck. The cash position of the co. is
good. Most of the other cos. on whom
shows were unloaded during the Yellow-
dine boom have dropped their bundles
and gone elsewhere. One, Yellowdine
Options, is battling with the Three Boys,
a small venture at Southern Cross, which
it recently tried to sell to L. C. Cutbill,
of London.
* * * *
New Golconda (W.A.) is promising,
and the management is described as
satisfactory, which in these days is
greatly in its favor. It will be some time
before the real value of the mine can
be judged.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated (W.A.) is
having serious trouble with its pumps.
The shaft is being drained at the rate of
over 1000 gallons a minute, but up it
comes again. So far the co. hasn’t seen
the bottom of the mine; when it does
there may not be the loud cheers
expected in some quarters.
* * * *
Western Queen, a Perth no-liability
concern, hopes to reach the production
stage by the end of the year. It will
kick off with a 10-head mill and 7000
tons of 12dwt. ore. The directors see no
reason why the gold-bearing shoot, which
so far has been proved over a compara-
tively short distance down to 200 ft.,
shouldn’t continue, but there is no
guarantee that it will. It seems that this
is a case where development has not been
sufficiently advanced to justify the instal-
lation of a mill.
sR * * *
Golden Valley, at Kanowna (W.A.), is
having difficulty in securing payable ore.
Although underground work isn’t all it
might be, an expensive surface plant,
valued at several thousand pounds, has
been erected without any gold being
won. The co. is now paring down exes. —
rather late in the day. The Last Chance
mine, which ditched the Kangaroo Co.,
may, however, do something for the
district; Western Mining Corp., which
now has the show under option, is re-
ported to have found something in the
drills that seems worth investigating.
To permit Melbourne Bitter Syndicate
to investigate other shows, arrangements
are being made in Melbourne to form
the Bright Star Gold Mines, Ltd., which
will take over the option held by the
syndicate near Wiluna, from which a
trial crushing recently returned lOfdwt.
a ton.
* * * *
North Enterprise and Ora Banda
North, which were working in harness a
property at Bardoc, north of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), have decided to call it a day and
have abandoned their option.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Auvt.
=R * SR !R
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
JR !R H: *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * sr
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
1935 General Catalogue.—Advt.


w
BY APPOINTMENT
7A
W
7/,
//,
7»
?y_
0
y
■vr
V/.
A
%.
y
//,
77
n
m
1
csss
m
vx
f
(i
M
* fXL;
\
ft t
i
ii%t^
w
8m
v a\\\
%
VW
V
m
f? 5
k 7
/
7/
y
rx
A
7T2Z
&
V
pv
k
V\
\
r'
cv-
-5^
THE CASTLE OF DOUNE (Perthshire)
“What time when Lear and Genius fled, frae bar and town,
To Teith’s clear stream, that babbling played by Castle Doune.”
In response to many requests} Dewar’s have
ordered for their patrons a supply of etching
reproductions of this picture on heavy Esparto,
measuring 12 x 10 inches, and free of all
advertising matter whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name and
address to John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.,
.Melbourne or Sydney.
H igh above the rolling Teith, flanked by the torrent of Ardoch, stands
the Castle of Doune, a fortress which tradition ascribes to Murdoch. Duke of Albany,
who sat on the throne of Scotland in the fifteenth century. One time residence of
the unfortunate Mary, Queen of Scots, scene of many desperate and glorious deeds,
and theme of more than one pathetic ballad, Doune Castle remains on its lofty
promontory . ♦ ♦ like Dewafls, “unchanged amid a changing world/ 7
DEWAH'S scorcfwKisKy
TH E SPIRIT OF OLD SCOTLAND


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: We
took pity on the
ancient struggling
under his swag on the
Euabalong - Condobolin
road, and gave him a
lift. He asked to be
set down on the wrong
side of the bridge at
Condo. “Thanks,” he
grunted; “I’m makin’
f’r Moonbi pub. That
town [with a contemp-
tuous wave at Condo,
over the bridge] is
finished. Mister, there’s
blokes as’d turn in
their graves if they
could see what I’ve
seen. There’s old hands
who won’t believe
what I have to tell
’em! That town’s a
wowser’s paradise.
Mister, them Greeks’ll be the ruination
of this country, fair dinkum! ” He shoul-
dered his swag and headed upstream.
After dark that night I discovered the
explanation. A Neon sign flared in the
main street, advertising a milk bar !
H*
“Mat’s Mate”: The boss had plenty
of money, but was a rough diamond, and
was often the despair of his socially-
minded wife. During the visit of a
notability to the station the boss’s small
daughter fell from a swing and received
a severe jar. The visitor was concerned.
“Most dangerous, really,” he protested
to the boss and his missus. “The little
thing might have broken her neck, you
know!” “Don’t be silly,” snapped the
boss ; “how the Hades could she, when
she fell on her rump?”
* * * *
“C.C.C.”: Out on Cawnpore (W.Q.)
we picked up a small stone axe-
head. Nothing unusual about that —
plenty of them about—but nobody here
(and they’re a well-travelled lot) had ever
seen the smooth, green stone of which
it was made, except on the coast —a long
way off. That axe-head must have done
some travelling to reach these parts. And
it wasn’t imported by a white man.
* * * *
“Vamac”: In Rockhampton (Q.) I
heard the long-drawn, querulous squeak
of a green frog, which always means that
his feelings are being hurt in some way
—generally by a snake trying to swallow
him. I hurried out with a lantern and
stick, and found a huge greyish toad (or
frog) taking a friend to dinner. A fully-
grown green frog was the friend, and he
was protesting volubly because he was
also the dinner. 1 got the surprise of
my life when I tried to upset the party,
for the grey fellow went off in quick 3ft.
leaps to cover, carrying the green rela-
tion still in his mouth. If any Aboliar
can resist the temptation to cry “more
water, more water,” I’d like him to tell
me the name of that big grey cannibal.
* * = *
“Whipsnade”: Britain’s attention has
been diverted from Abyssinia and the
general elections by the death of the rare
okapi, the first of its kind to reach Eng-
land and only the third in Europe. It
is barely 30 years since this rare forest
animal was described by Sir Harry John-
ston, who hunted for it in its Congo fast-
nesses ; it was probably the last of the
greater wild beasts to remain undis-
covered by civilised man. The English
specimen belied its reputation as a forest
dweller by ambling about an open en-
closure at Regent’s Park, and proving the
best of mixers with the populace. The
approach of winter gave the Zoo people
some concern, and they had just finished
special quarters for it.
* * * H*
“Coper”: Flat croup and length to
the hock (B. 6/11 /’35) are no monopoly
of the Arab horse. Both are charac-
teristic of many thoroughbreds, the
length of the upper leg in particular.
Ineradicable brands the Arab steed leaves
on his stock are the small neat head, with
its tiny chiselled ears and semicircular
jowl, and especially the panache-like car-
riage of the tail when walking. This last
“ Ha! Triangle, eh ?”
“Wrong!—a square. There's a bloke under the bed.”
infallible anrl ran be traced
ls r a Sl § n infallible, and can be traced
a f ter generations. The Arabs, who
specially admired this jaunty swagger in
horses and ladies, have a proverb about
it which, I regret to say, will not bear
translation in this country.
*** . . *
“Avis”: Southern bird migration seems
f? be in full swing. The other day the
liner Marama was boarded by a couple
°f golden plover in the middle of the
Tasman. These fowls go north to
Eastern Siberia and Alaska for nesting
m the northern spring, and then make
back to Australia about this time of the
Y ear - A $ they are off again m March or
April, it seems a lot of trouble to take
to rear a family, especially as some of
their plover cousins are content to nest
in this country.
*,* * *
“Granpa’s Understudy”; Tell “War-
wick” (B. 30/10/’35) that the Victorian
tow n of Creswick takes its name from
the Creswick family, not from any vil-
la ge of a similar name in Britain,
which is probably the reason why the
correct pronunciation has been retained.
Henry Creswick arrived in 1840 and
entered into pastoral pursuits with his
brothers; one of their holdings was near
where the town of Creswick now stands,
A. T. Creswick, whose Feldspar won the
V.R.C. Derby, is a son.
* * * *
“5.8.”: The other day, 17 miles from
Armidale (N.S.W.), the chap driving the
car pulled up and hauled out his revol-
ver; across the road an eagle was wait-
ing to gather in some lambs just being
dropped. He hit the bird with the first
shot, missed with the second, and settled
it with the third. In measuring the lamb-
snatcher we found its wing-stretch just
over 7ft. 6in., with talons almost as large
as Camera’s hands.
* * * *
“Runa”: In volcanic country in North
Auckland (M.L.) you can see nags go-
ing full speed over ground strewn with
volcanic rocks that tip disastrously if
stepped upon. Only horses bred on this
type of country are ever really safe gal-
loping over it; experienced riders give
the steeds their heads and let them do
their own steering. They neither trip nor
falter.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: On his own analysis
“Der Jong’s” aasvogel (B. 6/11/’35) as
a counter to blowfly must be ruled out.
He says of the fowl that “it is not a
danger to any living thing unless it be in
a dying condition.” During any drought
thousands of sheep reach “D.J.’s” dying
condition, but sometimes a few pull
through. I can just imagine the havoc a
flock of the suggested S’African birds
would create among bogged sheep.
* * * *
“Swansea”: The porpoises “Marra”
wrote about (B. 23/10/’35) may have
come after the blackfish, or they may
have been trying to rub against the
boat. It is their favorite pastime. The
coal-barge Platypus, trading between
Belmont colliery and Dora Creek (Lake
Macquarie, N.S.W.), used to be met,
each trip, at the beacons by three of the
fish and escorted to the mouth of the
creek ; they would gambol round and
rub against the barge’s sides as they
went. A newcomer on board couldn’t
resist poking one with a pole. It sheered
off, and never came back. Later one
was shot, and the survivor carried on
alone. Then it was joined by a mate, a
smaller one with a gashed tail. The pair
haunted the lake waters together for a
couple of years, and then the smaller
porpoise disappeared—also, it is be-
lieved, shot. The bereaved one hung
around the beacons until it was joined
by yet another from the sea. This, after
a time, also disappeared. The big
old fellow is still to be seen swimming
back and forth by the beacons.
Jjc * *
“Verri”: It happened at an outback
picnic. The English visitor was saying
that in two months in the backblocks he
had never glimpsed a snake. Then he put
on his hat. He had it off next instant to
investigate the chilly object already in
possession of the hard-hitter. Only the
fact that the object was too cramped to
be immediately aggressive saved the man
who had never seen a snake from being
bitten by one.
“0.P.”: It was a bucks’ party, and
Bert was the last to arrive. As he turned
in his bed we heard him mutter, “Sheems
as if there’s a shnake in this (hie) bed.”
In the grey light of early morning we
were awakened by a shout of “There is
a blasted snake in this bed!” The rest
of the party, drawing the clothes securely
over their heads, yelled instructions and
interrogations as Bert pursued the ser-
pent around the hut. After about a
quarter of an hour he made contact
with a blunt tomahawk. The wriggler
escaped, but after daylight was tracked
to a rusty billycan embedded in the
ground. Quite dead, he was coiled neatly
up inside —a sft. black.
* * * *
“P.R.M.”: The blue, varying to
lavender, hibiscus found away from the
coast (B. 30/JO/’35) is sometimes called
the desert rose. Although the flowers are
identical with the coastal variety, ex-
cepting that when full-blown they retain
their bell-like shape, the leaves have
adapted themselves to dryer conditions
by reducing their size and changing their
shape and color. Cultivated, the flowers
will be as large as, or larger than, the
ordinary kind, though they fade more
quickly.
“N.K.”: That hibiscus grows in the
bush about Dora Creek (Lake Macquarie,
N.S.W.), and I’ve seen it in the Cess-
nock district also. In Westralia a flower
exactly similar grew on a large tree in
the Doodlakine district. It should
flourish there yet, unless the local habit
of making yard-brooms out of its smaller
branches has finished it.
* * *
“Barang”; The P.M.G.’s Department
has a tough job in front of it in re-
pairing the Goode Is.-Thursday Is. sec-
tion of the submarine cable, which has
developed a fault in rubbing on sharp
coral growths. As the tide runs very
strongly between these islands the job
will be difficult and dangerous. The
cable in shallow water presents an amaz-
ing sight when lifted ; coral growths and
marine flora make it as thick as a man’s
waist, and the added weight causes it to
part under the strain of lifting. Practi-
cally all cable trouble is caused at the
shore ends. The line lying in deep water
sinks into the ooze on the sea bed and
remains in perfect condition indefinitely.
“Oont”: Yes; be-
fore these amateur
camel iers get putting
100 much reliance on
the ship of the desert
they want to learn a
thing or two. First, an
untrained camel is no
more use than a horse
when it comes to dry
stages—that’s the big-
gest fallacy of the lot.
A camel must be
trained to abstain. Give
’em a drink and take
’em out. bush, hobble
them and see that they
don’t get water for two
days. Give ’em a drink
then (and they will
drink), and take them
out for three days.
Repeat the issue until
those humpies are
going the week to eight
days, keeping strong
on it, and, when they
come to water, they
know they have to load
up. A camel’s trained
then. Untrained, he’s only a vile smell
and nuisance.
* * *
“Dominic”: Aboliars having had some
conversation regarding fish that come
out of the water for a walk, let me in-
troduce a mollusc addicted to the same
practice. A tiny fellow not much larger
than a threepenny-bit, he is to be found
in season on any W.A. beach from
Geraldton to the Leeuwin. A perfect
bivalve in form, he indulges in pedes-
trianism over the wet sand, his method
of locomotion being by a tiny “foot”
which shoots out from between the
slightly-opened shells. He takes some
catching, too, for at the slightest touch
he disappears into the sand—no doubt
his evolved method of evading an
appearance on the beach gull’s menu.
* * * *
“Groper”: It’s the little points that
count! Reading Warburton’s Buffa-
loes one comes to where the hunters
had a ghastly experience making tea
from a nearly-dried-up swamp which
was teeming with wildfowl. In Searcy’s
In the Australian Tropics one finds a
similar experience, except that the water-
hole was stirred to almost undrinkable
sludge by the wallowing of buffaloes.
Whilst kangaroo-shooting across the
Ashburton (W.A.) Old Tom showed us
how to overcome such trifles, even when
the waterhole was polluted with the
carcasses of long-dead sheep and the in-
sect fauna that had attended the ban-
quet. Digging a hole a foot or so back
from the edge he let the water soak
slowly through. It would then be quite
free from visible organic particles,
though it would still smell a bit. But
that was easily overcome by the boiling
necessary for the making of tea.
AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SHED.
With the ploughing and the cropping, and the
cream to cart away.
And a host of pigs to fatten, I am busy all the
day.
She has got to watch the kiddies, keep us
clothed and get us fed,
So we scarcely see each other till we’re milking
at the shed.
Till we’ve yarded up the cattle and the milk
begins to rattle
In the empty burnished buckets as we earn
our daily bread;
And we don’t waste time in chatter, for we
settle things that matter
In the bail beside the dairy, at the bottom
of the shed.
If we argue over trifles, as a wife and husband
will,
We postpone the final reckoning for an hour
or two until
All our varied tasks are over, and we settle
it instead
When we start to milk together at the bottom
of the shed.
For we find there’s something soothing, some-
thing softening and smoothing,
When the pails of milk are foaming, frothing,
gurgling to a head.
For there’s always calmer weather when we
settle down together
In the bail beside the dairy, at the bottom
of the shed.
There we settle all our quarrels, there we make
our future plans,
To the separator’s droning and the clatter of
the cans.
Though the wife’s the better milker, and she’s
soon a cow ahead,
Still we always start together at the bottom of
the shed.
There she drops her sly
suggestions, there she
asks her leading
questions,
Since the milking when
I asked her if she’d
take a chance and
wed,
And we moved together
rather furtively away
from father
To the bail beside the
dairy, at the bottom
of the shed.
vie.
A. G. Burnet.


“Boonee”: Bill was not lazy; he just
didn’t like work. There was a job going,
“light,” and both Bill and Sam applied.
“What?” said Bill, when the boss ex-
plained the work. “A shovel? I’d
rather pick up a death adder!” Sam got
the job.
* * * *
“R.J.F.”; “Jachris’s” (B. 6/11/ ’35)
photo, of Haile Silassie dismounting on
the right-hand side of his horse is not
surprising. Mounted men in the A.I.F.
were taught to mount and dismount on
either side of their nags. Right-hand is
as easy as left once you are accus-
tomed to it.
* * * *
“Samarai”: Any Aboliar know this
queer contraption? At Green Lake
(Vic.), fishing for red-fin, I noticed near
the edge of the very clear water a small
piece of twig, about an inch long, swim-
ming about. It just dropped to the
bottom when touched, but when all was
quiet off it went again. Grabbing the
animated stick, I could find nothing un-
usual about it until I replaced it in the
water; from one end of the twig (and it
was no thicker than a match) came some
species of water insect, showing about
3-16ths of an inch of its body. It looked
like a very small caterpillar, and the sec-
tion showing had a number of small
hairs on it. These were working over-
time, and propelled the. strange craft
along. Touch it with a stick, and that
live end disappeared quicker than a pot
of beer on a hot day.
“C.H.F.”: The place next door, of the
roughcast variety, was undergoing a coat
of whitewash. Suddenly an annoyed
“Dear me,” repeated several times, made
us stop gardening to investigate. The
whitewasher’s ladder had slipped, and
whitewash was everywhere. But, more
than that, the ladder had gone clean
through the roughcast wall, revealing a
gaping hole. I’m not sure whether it was
the reiterated “Dear, dear me” or the
comical look of mingled amazement and
consternation on the man’s face that
rendered us helpless with laughter.
ht H* •!•
“Birwurli”: Catching sleeping turtles
(B. 6/11/’35)? The NT. blacks have a
different method. The boat is steered
alongside and a native jumps almost on
the top of the dozer. He lifts up its head,
and thus prevents it from diving. A rope
is thrown, fixed round the flippers, and
the catch is pulled aboard the lugger.
If, when grabbing the reptile’s head, a
finger slips near its mouth there is
a danger of its being snapped off.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”; If “Groper” (B. 23/10/’35)
wishes to see a fish more like a human
than an old-man snapper (I admit the
likeness), let him search for the Red
Indian. No one to whom he shows the
fish will be in any doubt as to its name.
It is caught in N.S.W. coastal waters,
but not frequently.
Hi * * *
“Walkabout”; Where did “Pagewood”
(B. 30/10/’35) see the Binghi fraternity,
except for a few individuals, with teeth
“worn to the gums”? Those like me
who have gone baldheaded from crawl-
ing into wurlies won’t agree. Decades
ago it was decided very definitely by
scientific gentlemen that charcoal and
ashes adhering to Binghi’s coals-cooked
tucker acted as a tooth-preserver and a
pyorrhoea antidote. “P.” puts up another
new one on me —Binghi baking his food
“in hot sand.” Just how did he light
that sand? All my abo. chefs used wood-
coals or -ashes.
“F.C.J.”: Our old dogger struck
something new the other day. In each
of two of his traps was a pretty red
animal with a bushy tail and a strong
smell. Having been out here for 40
“Cant you go somewhere else to get unuressed ?”
years or so it took him some time to
work it out that they were foxes. They
have just arrived in the regions about
the Boulia-road (W.Q.); and they’ll soon
put a scatter in the plain turkeys.
jN jH * *
“E.O’N.”: The other day I came
across eight apparently deserted young
emus about the size of a full-grown fowl.
I’d ridden a few yards through the scrub
when I saw Ma trying to kill a hawk (of
the species commonly known as “car-
rion”). With a few sharp picks and many
kicks—she didn’t miss once —she soon
had the chicken-stealer a corpse.
❖ $
“Borewater”: Droving out on the
Mulligan (W.Q.) I was about to kill
a sheep for rations. An Afghan camel
man, an old acquaintance, arrived in
need of tucker. Taking the knife from
me, and murmuring what I presume were
the appropriate words from the Koran,
"I Want a small piece of cheese .”
“And a trap, too, sir ?”
he cut its throat. Hoping, in my un-
mannerly fashion, to get a “rise,” I
asked him why he used those words ’ He
refused to be drawn. “When I kill
sheep, I say [whatever it was] All right •
meat then very good, tender When you
Aussie man kill sheep you say ‘Lie still
you blanky blank.’ No good then’
Meat dam’ tough.”
“T. Essbie”: Dippy birds (B.
30/10/’35)? A sparrow has come to my
bedroom window every morning for six
months to bash his beak against the
glass. The result is always the same ; he
eventually flutters wearily down to earth,
gasping for breath and struggling for
strength to fly away on his more lawful
occasions.
“M.R.P.”: A magpie has put the wind
up every tradesman in the district.
Walloping only makes him lie in wait
for a surprise attack. But show him a
golliwog and he’ll retreat to the bottom
of the yard muttering! He’s as super-
stitious as a gin when it comes to dolls.
* *
“Laetitia”: The sucker- or pilot-fish,
which defies the Transport Acts by rid-
ing passenger on migratory sharks, exerts
a powerful suction through the fleshy
suction disc on its cranium. I have
placed a soup-plate against the disc and
then swung the fish round the cabin of
a lugger by its tail without detaching the
plate. There is reciprocity between the
sucker and its host; when likely prey is
seen the fish detaches itself and cruises to
the spot, and then returns to the shark,
apparently to report on the find. At all
times the sucker seems to enjoy immunity
from attack by its patron.
* * * *
“Williami”; “Rindy’s” cobber (B.
9/10/ ’35) wasn’t the first bloke to catch
a domestic cat with a fishing-hook. I
hold the record, and I’m standing up for
my rights. Our cat was about the same
age as myself and about the same size.
Fd gone fishing against orders from
headquarters. To save time I pinched the
half-cooked corned-beef joint out of the
boiler for bait. And further to save time
1 slipped into a shed and stood the rod
in a dark corner just at the moment the
investigation began into the mystery of
the stolen joint. My suggestion that it
had boiled away didn’t go ; yet the lid
was on and the meat was gone. But the
lid was on a lot tighter next day when
Tom, pierced through the cheek by the
hook, dragged the fishing-rod into the
kitchen. He must have snapped at the
bait like a cod, for the corned-beef stuck
out both sides of his mouth and gagged
him.
* * * *
“Kellick”: “Ghealug” (B. 16/10/’35)
doubts my theory of the cause of diver’s
paralysis, but we appear to agree that
bubbles of air do enter the bloodstream.
The difference seems to be as to how
the bubbles get there—via the lungs or
the pores of the skin. Airmen flying at
high altitudes aren’t encased in a pres-
sure of air like a diver; nevertheless, air
under pressure is supplied for breathing
purposes. How often do we hear of
these fliers getting paralysis? I’ll stick
to the pore theory.
* A- * *
“A.McP.”: “Oloc’s” list of words fre-
quently mispronounced by bushmen (B.
23/10/’35) reminds me of a farmer
named Haig who came to our district,
and was commonly referred to as Mr,
'Aig. One of his neighbors, disgusted at
the ignorance displayed by other people,
was determined that he wouldn’t make
the same mistake. He called the new-
comer Mr. Egg.
♦ * * $
“Llanrh”: Taking what my fond
parents called an interest in ballistics, I
used to experiment with an old .22.
Noticing, among some bygone Abo-
riginalities, a recipe for “hotting up” .22
cartridges by ramming the shell full of
blasting powder with a pencil, I tried it;
also various powders dug from shotgun
cartridges. Fair success until I found a
12g. shell full of little black flakes that
rammed into the .22 splendidly. The
rifle wasn’t much good afterwards, the
remains of the shell being, as it were,
soldered to the ruins of the breech. The
barrel had a Mae West bulge, and little
bells rang in my ears for three days.
Yes, it was ballistite. I use factory loads
now.
* * * *
“Kali”: Wonder if “Jayaren” (B,
30/10/’35) has ever tackled a bald coot.
On my first visit to the Murray I brought
back one among a dozen ducks, and my
host said he'd get it cooked. That even-
ing a beautifully-browned bird was
placed in front of me, and I started in.
I have never experienced anything quite
so tough ; the knife was useless, and T
threw the lot out to the dog that had
bitten me the previous day. An hour
later he was still trying to tear a few
pieces of flesh away from the carcass.
* * * jf
“Oloc”: One dark night, on an un-
fenced western Queensland station,
another jackeroo and I were doing watch
over 2000 head of recalcitrant cattle and
blaming each other for our inability to
hold ’em. “Get round your own side,
you •ass!” I yelled as a shadowy horse-
man loomed up beside me for the
umpteenth time. The head stockman’s
voice replied: “You get round there,
you useless !” He had ridden out
from camp unknown to me. Next
morning, as we were droving the
bovines off camp, I rode over and apolo-
gised. “I understand,” the H.S. assured
me, with one of his rare grins. “Just
before that I told the manager off,
thinking he was you.”
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: “Vamac’s” rock-cod
that tried to extract vitamins from a tin
lid (B. 16/10/’35) reminds me of a
leather-jacket I caught in Lake Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.) recently. In its youth
it had evidently become fast in a jam-tin,
the body of which had disappeared,
leaving a solid ring of tin around the
fish’s body. The flesh had grown out
and around the ring, in some parts con-
cealing it altogether.
* ♦ * *
“3.0”: Another that carries a “jewel”
in its head (B, 30/10/ ’35) is the whiting.
In appearance and situation it is exactly
as in the case of “Beach Rod’s” jewfish.
* * * *
“Rindy”: Two dozen beauties had
been hauled in and been shoved into the
sugarbag floating alongside to keep them
alive. At the fag-end of the day Bill
quitted fishing to clean the catch, only
to find there wasn’t any. That bag, we
learned, had previously housed Charlie’s
Christmas rooster on its last and fatal
journey, and the hole cut to allow
the fowl to breathe still remained a hole.
BALLADE OF A BUCOLIC BANE.
From north to south, from east to west.
On range or flat, on hill or plain,
Wherever cockies seek to wrest
A crust from cattle, sheep or grain,
They’ve one inevitable bane,
What you might call a sorrow’s crown,
Denoted by the words profane:
“Who left these blanky sliprails down?”
When blowflies all the sheep infest,
And crops die off for want of rain,
They swear with fluency and zest;
Likewise when ’hopper swarms obtain
The fruits of labor spent in vain,
Leaving the ground all bare and brown.
But fiercer yet do they complain;
“What blighter left the sliprails down?”
Perhaps some person may suggest
(’Twill need a good, inventive brain)
Some gadget that, on being pressed
Would shoot the rails in place again
Wifhout the need to stoop and strain.
Twould gain the inventor great renown,
And save us from the galled refrain:
“Who left these blasted sliprails down?”
Envoi. t
Alas! I but the truth sustain
When vowing that a heavy frown
Goes with the roar that’s heard amain:
“Who left these blanky sliprails down?”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


a
ms
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
&
'
w
k.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
The Mutton Trade.
The Imperial Economic Committee
reviews the British mutton and lamb
trade in 300 pages. Sheep populations
in the mutton-producing countries of the
world have fallen since 1930 from
369.000. to 345,000,000, or 7 p.c., and
present totals are only 18,000,000 more
than in 1913. The recent fall was mainly
due to drought, from which four princi-
pal countries Australia, S’Africa,
U.S.A., Uruguay—suffered. Aggregate
mutton production was about 1,642,000
tons in all countries in 1934, which
shows an advance of 25 p.c. in a decade.
The facts assembled about Australian
export require careful study by those
who are now urging farmers to “get
into the crossbred and grow mutton,” as
if there were an immense trade waiting
in these lines. Britain absorbs 96 p.c.
of all sheep-meat that finds its way into
international trade. The percentage has
varied very little — it was 2 p.c. higher
last year than in 1931 and 1924.
But quantity has been falling off at
the average rate of 10,000 tons p.a. since
1931.
Five countries supply all but 2 pc.
of international mutton—Maoriland,
Argentina, Australia, Uruguay and Chile.
Absorption of S. American mutton has
fallen steadily since 1929. Despite the
growling of politicians, the Argentine in
1934 sent Britain only 46,081 tons of
mutton and lamb, whereas for 11 years
prior to 1931 the average was 76,600
tons. Chile’s British quota last year was
only half the 1929 quota; Uruguay’s
only one-third.
If the three leading S. American
countries were wiped out as exporters
there would only be an additional British
trade of 62,766 tons available—that is,
assuming that the 10,000 tons p.a. decline
in trade does not continue.
On the M.L. basis—sheep population
there is 29,000,000 and annual slaughter-
ings about 14,000,000, to produce 249,000
tons of mutton and lamb another
6.000. mutton sheep would enable
Australia to take over the whole of the
existing export trade of the three leading
S. American countries. Our last year’s
export—a record—was 87,587 tons, or
almost exactly half the Maoriland ex-
port. Maoriland in some previous years
has exported 20,000 tons more than its
1934 quota.
According to the I.E.C. review:
M.L., although only seventh among
sheep-rearing countries occupies the
premier place as an exporter of mutton
and lamb the fact of prime import-
ance being the resemblance of English and
M.L. sheep types.
Since 1929 M.L. has taken up about
half the American slack, while Australia
has taken up most of the other half. At
the present rate of progress six years’
development would divide the whole
foreign mutton-and-lamb trade between
Australia and M.L., and 3,000,000 more
export-type sheep is all we should need
to do it with. So far, the new access of
export business has not menaced our
position as a merino country. Last year
merino wool auctioned was 85 p.c. of
the clip, which was higher by 3 p.c. than
in 1929-30.
At the same time, Australia should go
carefully.
Down with the Fluke.
“Ghanam”: This is the time to go
after the fluke, whose bread and meat
are wet places and the fresh-water snail,
on which it must live part of its life.
Springs, slow creeks where sheep drink
and boggy ground are all dangerous and
need treatment. Do the job by mixing
four parts sand with one part copper
sulphate—ordinary bluestone. See that
the sand is fine. Broadcast the mixture
freely in bogs and marshes.
Springs are best treated by agitating
a bag of bluestone in them till the water
is tinged. And running streams should
have small bluebags dropped into them
every few yards. It is best to broadcast
when weather is showery.
Where bluestone is broadcast, stock
should be removed for a week after-
wards. This does away with all risk of
poisoning.
The country should have a second
dose in winter. Carbon tetrachloride dos-
ing of sheep in districts where fluke is
picked up in December should begin not
earlier than the end of February. It takes
the fluke at least eight and perhaps ten
weeks to reach the bile ducts. So earlier
treatment is useless.
Classers and Pressers.
“Bungaree”: So “Fergus” thinks it is
beyond the classer’s province to
“instruct” the presser (B. 30/10/’35)!
It is likely that the presser would resent
being told some things by some classers,
but not if the classers knew their busi-
ness. Collectively, pressers are hard and
intelligent toilers, but there must be
definite co-operation between presser
and classer, and how can this be
effected if the presser is to remain
isolated from the grader of wool?
Any mention of “instructing the
presser” was not intended to mean that
the classer had to teach him how to use
the press or put down a bale. Though
classer and presser have worked together
through several sheds, each new shed
will involve a modification of practices.
Would “Fergus” leave it to the presser
to find out which was the AA bin and
what the contents of the others to be
branded were? Or, supposing the owner
wants his bales pressed lighter or heavier
than the average—or branded in a
certain way —who is going to convey
these “instructions” to him if the classer
is barred? Or, when a cut-out is immi-
nent, is the presser to remain uninformed,
regardless of whether lighter or heavier
bales may have to be made to clean out
the bins?
If these remarks apply to the presser
who knows what is required by the
classer, what about the new presser?
In some States, a classer may have
four or five different pressers in as many
sheds.
In spite of “Fergus’s” remarks there
are pressers whose ideas on keeping bins
and around presses swept clean are
original and elementary.
It is far better for the classer at the
start of the shed to tell the new presser
exactly what he wants done. No presser
who knows his job will resent it.
Blackhead Persian Sheep.
“Sambo”: As a breeder of export
lambs I cannot agree with Messrs. Butler
and Spafford (Deputy-Director of Agri-
culture, S.A.), who hint that the black-
head Persian sheep of S’Africa may be
of interest to Australian export breeders.
The B.P. are not wool sheep. A cross
with British breeds will produce very
coarse wool, but even then black, pie-
bald or grey often results. Skin value is
out of the question.
The 8.P., and also the first crosses, are
inclined to be leggy and slight in build.
An exception to this is a B.P. crossed
with a Ryeland. This cross has a good
depth and is less lanky. If crossed a
second time with the Ryeland ram the
characteristics of the sire are more pro-
nounced. In color, white predominates.
The lumps of fat apross the rump and
the 6in.-wide tail can be bred out. In
these crosses, the further the charac-
teristics of the B.P. are left behind and
those of the British breeds developed,
the better the result.
If the B.P. were to come to Australia
we should have to nurse them.
Locks, Broken and Pieces.
“Warrego”: “Lion’s” par. on locks,
broken and pieces (B. 16/10/’35) is mis-
leading to those who lack knowledge of
the subject, and his methods, in my
opinion, are uneconomic.
By the time the board boy in a three-
stand shed had picked the dags from the
fleece on the floor, the shearer would be
out of his pen with another sheep and
falling over him. Sometimes two or
three fleeces leave the sheep’s backs
simultaneously. The boy has to attend
to three shearers.
Better adopt the usual procedure of
having dags removed on the wool-rolling
table and throw any that become de-
tached on the board into a basket.
And there is only one place for leg
pieces (trimmings)—with the locks. On
no account should they go into pieces ;
they are always hairy, kempy and have
no length. Pieces “comb.” Leg trim-
mings are pure waste.
Butter Marketing.
T. F. Plunkett, chairman of the
Australian Dairy Produce Export Board,
who recently visited England, suggests
changes in Australian marketing methods
in line with those which The Bulletin
has been advocating. He says:
Denmark’s methods of giving uniform
quality of fresh high-grade butter over the
whole year, during many years, have
created a demand for its butter that
enables it to keep on supplying its cus-
tomers to the extent of 2000 tons per week,
irrespective of price of other butters.
Until the Dominions can do what Den-
mark has been doing —supplying a choice
fresh butter daily over many years—we
should avoid comparisons with Danish
prices and look upon the latter only as
a spur to greater effort on our part in any
direction that promises price improvement.
N.S.W. butter, he declares, is recog-
nised as having a big percentage of good,
even quality ; Victorian is least uniform
—deteriorated shipments nullify the good
done by some really first-class produce.
There are now 270 head offices and
3314 branches in England and Wales
regularly stocking and identifying butter
as Australian, and 29 head offices and 318
branches doing the same thing in Scot-
land, while “thousands of branches” sell
Australian butter as “Empire.” Mr.
Plunkett suggests impressing the word
“Australia” on the face of the contents
of every box.
About 30 p.c. of Australian product
is blended in winter and 25 p.c. in sum-
mer ; but the blender pays top price, as
Australian butters are highly suitable for
blending.
He thinks, further, that “a determined
effort should be made to lift the per-
centage of choicest butter exported” and
to standardise colors, appearance, tex-
ture, salting and flavor.
Mammitis Prevention.
“Silky Bag”: Though research goes
on continually, by the time most men
have diagnosed mammitis the case is
hopeless. When yellow, ropy, odorous
or bloodstained masses come from a
quarter, most of the milking tissue has
been irreparably damaged.
Salvation lies in early recognition of
infection.
There are dozens of types of mastitis
infection. Any cow, innoculated or other-
wise, is capable of getting the disease.
Some types of causal germs are perman-
ently present in many cowyards. Whether
the cow becomes infected or not depends
entirely on the set of conditions about
her, and more particularly on her own.
Nearly every case is helped in develop-
ment by faulty teat nipples. These are
Nature’s own protectors, and quite
perfect when sound. They must be
guarded, however, against cuts, tears,
shortening or hardening, whilst the use
of dilators, bistouries and syphons
should be cut right out, except for rare
emergencies. Syphons are only excusable
when a teat is injured and too sore to
milk.
The cow’s constitution is her second-
greatest safeguard. If in good health she
can keep out mammitis infection in spite
of injured nipples. Leucocytes attend to
this. But, if a quarter is bruised, chilled
or milking too heavily, they find too
much work to do, and infection spreads.
This is where early detection helps.
Any bruise, injury or hardening must
be viewed as suspect for mammitis, and
treated before the disease takes hold. It
means work in fomenting, bathing and
oil-rubbing, but it is the only even fairly
effective method.
Paddocks for Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: 1 have long since
come to the conclusion that a lot of the
Australian pig farmers’ troubles are due
to methods more suitable to the Ark
than to a wide open land where space
is free. Even European countries these
days do not coddle their swine as we do
ours.
The paddock system is undoubtedly
the right system. Grass and clover —
plenty of them. Abundance of whey
and separated milk. Fair quantities of
roughage. Clean, running water, Sun-
light and shade in the right proportions.
These are the ingredients which make
good bacon. I know a lot of old-fash-
ioned farmers will deny the virtues of
the paddock system. While their own
families have become twentieth-century
in habit and their herds are bred on
commonsense lines they insist on re-
maining mid-Victorian whenever they
hear a grunt.
Maoriland has seen the light lately,
and several pig recording clubs are ex-
perimenting testing paddock and sty
side by side. The former will win. It
needs to be impressed on producers that
the sty always produces an animal
overfat for the bacon trade. It is lean
meat which the British buyer wants.
Improving Victorian Wheat.
‘J. Want”: The Victorian Wheat
Quality conference has decided to recom-
mend that “a material improvement in
the quality of Victorian wheat can be
effected by larger sowings of Ghurka
throughout the State and Ranee through-
out the Mallee.” The suggestion was
framed by an advisory committee made
up of bakers, millers, merchants and
officials, with the Director of Agricul-
ture (H. A. Mullett) in the chair.
Last year’s sowings were:
Wimmera.—Black Land: Ghurka, Free
Gallipoli. Red Land: Ghurka, Ranee,
Free Gallipoli. Limited Sowing: Rajah.
Mallee. —Northern Mallee: Ranee,
Ghurka. Limited Areas, Northern Mallee:
Rajah-Sepoy. General Sowing, Southern
Mallee: Ghurka, Ranee, Free Gallipoli.
Northern. —Ghurka, Ranee, Free Galli-
poli. Limited Sowing: Baldwin, Major.
Mr. Miller, an agricultural inspector,
spoke up strongly for Ghurka, which he


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
■
M
DOUBLED!
Four thicknesses of tough, top-
quality leather give this Abbey
Boot a sole of unusual dur-
ability. And it’s great for
comfort . . . easy-fitting and
pliant. The upper is an exclu-
sive Abbey design, made of
fine calf. Your foot can be
fitted exactly.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF ... 43/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 464.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
FILLS
FASTER
QUICKER! BETTER!
Here’s an entirely new kind of pen that is
absolutely the ‘last word’ —simpler to fill,
and 10 ft rone that It cannot go wrong. Try
it for yourself to-day at any good Stationers
or Jewellers.
PRICES: The New LEVERLESS ‘Swan’ from
21/-. Other ‘Swans' from 15/-. ‘blackb.rds’ from
10/-. 'Jackdaws' from 6/6.
Mable, Todd & Co., (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings,
255 a George Street, SYDNEY.
The LEVERLESS
CWAN
** PEN
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAM’ INK
4-3-35
92 STORIES FOR 4/-
GREAT TALES OF YOUTH
1000 Pages—24 Illustrations—92 Stories by 74
Tbipresentative Authors. The Cream of the World's
Tales of Youth and Adventure over 500 years.
.Special offer to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Weekly. From all newsagents, Price 6d
HE3
STOPS SEA SICKNESS
1
rtii/jIK
CrrCaLLunis
c
ScoHQlhiskv
■ ■
m
ft
I
: ill
i
m
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
said at 12 centres had beaten Free Gal-
lipoli in yield. Apart from which,
Ghurka’s disease-resistance powers made
it worth while.
Maize in Tanks.
“J.W.”: It is vital, in storing maize, to
provide some means of dealing with
weevil and other insect pests, and to
make sure that grain is too dry to become
mouldy or to heat. Moisture content
should be below 14 p.c. If there is any
doubt any Agricultural Department will
pass judgment on a sample.
The weevil is the greater problem.
Grain may be quite healthy, but may
carry eggs which hatch out when it is too
late to deal with them. However, oxygen
is the insect’s weak spot, and with that
expelled from the tank the maize is
reasonably safe. There are two popular
ways of doing it. Some favor filling the
tank nearly full. Then a lighted candle
is placed on top of the grain. The tank
is sealed, and the light burns till it has
eaten out the oxygen.
Another plan is to fill the tank com-
pletely, ramming down the final loads of
grain. If the tank is then made airtight
the grain itself will clear out the oxygen
and turn on carbonic acid gas.
But both these plans have to be per-
fectly carried out to ensure success. A
tiny hole or a crack may cause disaster.
If the tank cannot be made completely
airtight, fumigation is needed. A 1000-
gallon tank will hold about 130 bushels
of maize. On top of the grain 11b. of
liquid carbon bisulphide should be
poured. This, when it evaporates, forms
a gas 2\ times heavier than air which
soon diffuses itself through the whole of
the grain.
But don’t try to discover whether this
has happened with the aid of a match
or a candle unless you have an ambition
(o play a harp on a cloud. Carbon bi-
sulph. will explode like petrol if a light
is dropped into it.
Hush, Hush.
“Valerin”: “Thistle” (B. 30/10/’35)
is right about the alarming growth of
weeds. But nobody’s interested —least of
all landholders and politicians.
Some time ago I started a campaign
in Wagga (N.S.W.) for the eradication
of weed pests, and was assailed as a
crank and meddler trying to wreck the
reputation of Riverina and destroy land
values. The Government calmly side-
tracked our proposals.
Thirty years ago, there wasn’t a
dangerous noxious weed on the Riverina ;
to-day the infestation claims millions of
acres, and is relentlessly widening. On
many areas weeds are out of control
and the land is practically valueless.
Skeleton weed, St. John’s wort, Pater-
son’s curse, stinkwort, hoary cress,
common bindweed, St. Barnaby’s thistle,
saffron, star and other thistles, devil’s
claw —all exotics —are amongst the
worst.
Unless prompt action is taken it’s only
a question of a few years until the pro-
ductive capacity of rural lands will be
irretrievably ruined.
The man who tries to keep his farm
clean is faced with an endless struggle.
Tree Murder.
“Larrapinta”: In my S.A. district there
is a large swamp. Nothing save trees ever
grew in it, as it holds water in the driest
seasons. It used to be a beauty-spot —
acres of water dotted with giant red-
gums. They were ringbarked; and a
wilderness of tree skeletons remains—a
monument to a piece of folly which
brought no good to anyone.
Fifty miles away is another property
of 6000 acres which used to resemble a
beautiful park, dotted with a big red-
gum to every two or three acres. The
redgum is not a soil-robber, for good
grass grows right to the trunk. The
property changed hands, and the first act
of the new owner was to ringbark 2000
trees. Again skeletons in place of good
shade and a splendid reservoir of humus.
The stock now drink more water in
summer, and the land saves less for them
to drink. And, there being less shelter
from wind or frost in winter, they eat
more grass to keep up their body
warmth.
There are some varieties of trees
under which no grass will grow. Nobody
can object to the clearing of this sort of
timber to make room for grass. We have
a great deal of country carrying useless
brush which, when cleared, can be
turned into good pasture. But when
trees do no harm, and are useful as soil
binders or producers and as nesting
places for insect-eating birds, their
slaughter is a crying shame.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: Sweet-potato tops,
generally wasted, make good greenfeed
for cows and pigs. They should be cut
short or chaffed.
“Granova”: Wide gates will not sag
if, when shut, the latch end is supported
by a metal rest. Slope the rest down
to ground-level to facilitate closing.
“Underwood”; Whitemetal bearing-
bushings can be renewed by pouring
molten whitemetal between the spindle
and worn bearing. Beforehand, wrap
several thicknesses of brown paper
around the spindle. This will char and
prevent the spindle from fitting too
tightly.
“Wrash”: Rafters of an open-fronted
weathershed or of a lean-to skillion
should be strapped to the wallplates with
ribbon iron securely nailed. Fastened
down in this way, it takes a good wind-
storm to lift the roof off the building.
“Underwood”: When you have
finished with harvesting machinery for
the season, make a note .of any repairs
necessary, as an inspection months later
may not reveal all the faults. It pays to
overhaul machinery in winter, when
wages are low, rather than make a rush
job at the last minute.
“Bill R.”: Fencing posts that stand
in a hollow often lift as the wires are
strained. Bore the bottom and drive
through an iron rod or length of piping.
Let it project about 4in. on each side.
Ram the post firmly. A surprising
amount of upward strain will not shift
a post so anchored.
“Dimon”: A pest to the farmer where
there is ripening maize, the white cocka-
too gets no credit for the good work it
does. Part of its natural food are the
eggs of grasshoppers and other insects,
which it digs out of the ground. That is
what the birds are doing when a flock
is seen like a white patch on an open
space. If they were not persistently
hunted and shot, less would be heard of
crops and pastures ravaged by ’hoppers.
“J. Want”: The grasshopper seems to
have “done his dash.” Small swarms
are being seen in various centres, but
the type of weather which the south of
Australia has had this year has not
suited the invader. Drought has placed
a barrier between him and the prolific
districts of Victoria and S. Australia,
and poisoning and birds have polished
him off locally. At the same time, even
the smallest egg-bed should be carefully
cleaned up.
“Radish”; N.S.W. has acquired a new
plant disease in downy mildew, which is
affecting market gardeners’ crops of beet
and will also attack mangolds and sugar-
beets. The pest establishes itself on the
leaves and crown of the plant, the leaves
“resetting” and the root ceasing to grow.
It is a serious and highly-infectious
affliction —six years ago 40 p.c. of the
Californian seed beet crop was ruined
by it. It is seed-borne, and, as yet, a
technique for dealing with it has not been
established, though 2-2-10 Bordeaux mix-
ture may be effective as a spray once the
crop is smitten.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What causes mandarins to split on the
trees ? Remedy ? —9277.
Some varieties are more prone to this trouble
than others. The most common cause is un-
even water supply. Once the crop has set,
the water should be applied in small quantities
at regular intervals to keep the sap moving,
rather than in large quantities at long intervals
between the waterings. Uneven watering allows
the skins of the fruit to harden between water-
ings, and, the next application causing a sudden
rush of sap in the trees, the skin of the fruit
is unship to ptow rmir-Hv enough to permit
the development of the fruit.


time: savers.
L. C. SMITH
THE OFFICE
TYPEWRITER.
The L. C. SMlTH—the machine
with the feather touch, possible only
by its entire Ball-bearing Construc-
tion—the machine that will give
you Typewriter Superiority.
The SILENT L. O. SMITH —quiet as a mouse—offers you what has
hitherto been impossible in a standard full-view machine, “SILENCE
without SACRIFICE.” Noise is reduced to a minimum, whilst efficiency
is retained to the maximum.
Let the L. C. SMITH, with its famous Floating Shift, prove to .you
that your typistes, along with the aid of other exclusive features, can
produce more work than is possible with other machines.
As an additional feature, the L. C. SMITH, with its interchangeable
platens, will handle a wider range of work than is possible with any otlfer
typewriter. Silent Speed—L. C. SMITH; easy to operate, easy to buy.
dsfds
fdsf
as
CORONA
THE PORTABLE
TYPEWRITER.
CORONA—the machine with the
interesting refinements, standard
features, the machine that affords
you the modern means of handling
your correspondence.
The CORONA —with, its completeness, portability and compact appear-
ance—leaves nothing to be desired. It’s great fun owning one ! You will
be surprised at the ease with which you learn to use a CORONA, and
your letter writing in turn becomes a pleasure.
In choosing a CORONA you are choosing a partner for life —-a sturdy,
cheerful and "faithful little companion.
To attain SUCCESS one has to think. Those thoughts have to be
expressed. Why not express them with a CORONA—the machine that has
the Piano-key ‘action, the famous Floating SMITH-SHlFT—the machine
that is built like a battleship?
MACDOUCALLS LIMITED,
“Stanton House/’ 131 Pitt St.. Sydney; “Penfold House,” Cr.
Sts., Melbourne; “Widows’ Fund Buildings,” 40 Grenfell St.,
(Q’land) Pty., Ltd., 399 Queen St., Brisbane; H. Hardman,
Queen and X,t. Collins
Adelaide; Macdougalls
35 Barrack St., Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
Intending celebrators should soon com-
mence training for the Christmas season.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At White Biff (Tennessee) a negro was
lynched for slapping a woman.”
What’s in a name?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Alarm.
7 a.m. —Smith rolled over, swore at
the alarm, and turned it off. There was
no need to hurry ; the train did not leave
for the city until 8.20. He smoked a
cigarette and fell into a light doze. The
room grew lighter, and at last the sun-
light touched his face. He stirred sud-
denly and sat upright.
“Wake up, Mary,” he exclaimed agi-
tatedly, shaking her until she stirred and
opened her eyes. “Hurry up, Mary, or
you won’t finish getting my breakfast in
time for you to catch your train to work.
And you’ve been late once this week
already. The next time’ll mean the
sack.”
Mayle.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Bathing belles teach us that brevity
is the soul of “it.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
Rumors from Rome.
“In Italy butchers are not allowed to sell
meat on Tuesdays. They are allowed to sell
anything on Wednesdays except beef, mutton,
pork, goat’s-meat, horseflesh and sausages.”
— “S.M.H.”
The problem in other spheres is also
becoming acute.
Men’s clothing has now come under
partial restrictions. On Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays all shops are
closed. On the other three days free
selling is permitted, except for suits,
overcoats, underwear and shirts.
11 Duce has ordained that red and
white wines are not to be sold except on
Saturday nights ; no wine of any descrip-
tion may be sold between Friday and
Sunday. Vignerons haven’t yet worked
it out, but they would protest were it
not for the fact that protests are
not permitted except on Mondays, when
the public is allowed to mention any-
thing except protests.
Bread-making is absolutely prohibited
except on Tuesdays, when bakers may
engage in their occupation with the ex-
ception of making bread.
Orders have now been issued to
the C.-in-C. Colonial Forces that no
munitions are to be used except on
Thursday afternoons, when anything
may be fired except shells, bombs and
bullets,
Keo.
Investment.
For three days Boodles had been turn-
ing the problem over in his mind. He
had neglected his work, become dis-
interested in his meals,- and lost hours
of sleep over it. Was it a safe invest-
ment? He had lost in similar ventures
before, but here he had the chance to
recover.
There were so many things to be
thought of, but even the weather had
been taken into his reckoning ; and the
more he thought about the matter the
better it seemed. Time, however, was
pressing. It would soon be too late.
With the determined gesture of one
who has at last made a great decision, he
brushed the papers aside and strode to
the telephone.
“Hullo,” he called. “That you,
Grabbit? Two bob each way Butterfly
for the Maiden.”
S. Esq.
“The British railways are the largest hotel-
owners in the world. They have 79 of them.”
—News item.
The idea is to run the trains from one
hotel to another.
•I* v 4* *l*
“As Cecily entered he rose from the bridge-
table and bowed deeply.”: —Short story.
Keen, of course, on a grand salaam!
4* 4* 4* 4*
True Knowledge.
In answer to the question the man with
the massive forehead looked up, smiling.
“1 know,” he said, “enough to
realise how little I really do know. I
am still only a student. All the same, I
have learnt all the knowledge we have
of the stars ; I have studied to the full
the mysteries of chemistry and physics.
I can tell you, if you wish it, most of
the things about the material facts and
the forces of energy of the universe. I
have investigated all the philosophies and
the religious beliefs, and have been able
to form an opinion of my own.”
The sporting-looking man turned away
disgustedly.
“I asked ’im,” he said, “what ’e knoo ;
and ’e doesn’t know the name of a single
’orse! ”
H. M.
Making Our Railways Pay.
VII. — Inter-State Expresses.
No one will deny that there is plenty
of room for improvement in this branch
of the service. Inter-State steamers have
got it all over the trains. The obvious
remedy, therefore, is to disguise the
trains as luxury liners. Engine funnels
should be painted attractive colors (tax-
payer blue would be the most appro-
priate), masts and wireless should he
rigged up and portholes substituted for
windows.
The trains should, of course, be named.
The 8.15, 5.10 and 6.40 would be much
more attractive to passengers if they
were given names that tripped lightly off
the tongue. Hartigan’s Hope, Clapp’s
Climax and Anderson’s Antelope (for
crossing the Mt. Lofty Ranges) are
names that immediately suggest them-
selves.
Oh, yes. The slogan:
Why risk your life by sea or air ?
Hartigan’s Hope will get you there.
Sleepers must become staterooms. At
present many people confuse the sleepers
that passengers pay extra money to rest
in with the sleepers that the rails rest
on. Even seasoned travellers sometimes
doubt whether there is much difference.
Each train must be put under the
command of a captain—ex-naval men on
half-pay could probably be procured
at fairly reasonable rates, and would be
able to supply their own uniforms.
These will at once raise the tone of the
trains. Double fares will be charged for
a seat at the captain’s table, and if the
applications for seats exceeds the accom-
modation, extra captains will be pro-
vided. The guards and ticket-collectors
will also be ex-naval men. They will
wear attractive uniforms and will be
rated “officers.”
Clapp’s Climax will steam slowly out
of Spencer-street, its flags floating proudly
in the breeze, its band playing and a
sea of farewell streamers adding color to
the scene.
Everything will be done to make the
journey interesting. At present the only
sport available besides cards is counting
white horses or pill advertisements. L
shall introduce deck quoits, shove ha’-
penny and follow-my-leader. A swim-
ming pool will be provided and the train
roof converted into a promenade deck
and sun-baking space.
Escorted tours through the engine-
room and kitchen will be arranged, and a
sweep on the day’s run organised. Other
guessing competitions will be to guess
how late the train will be, how many
children the engine-driver has got and
how many deadheads are on board.
Jasby.
“As he smikd at the waitress he slipped.”
—Sydney paper.
It is in such circumstances that many
men slip.
4*
“The track for pedestrians is just twelve
inches wide.” — “Herald.”
In short, a foot path.
•S* 4* 4* 4*
Gardening Hints.
When unable to tell the difference be-
tween plants and weeds, collect some
snails (if they do not come willingly)
and release them on the doubtful area.
The things that are left are the weeds.
To ensure a good supply of cut flowers
all the year round, live somewhere near
a florist’s shop.
To find what tools you need in your
garden, carefully watch your neighbors
at work. It is advisable to buy anything
indispensable which they haven’t got.
Sef.
Enigma.
Why do men drink and kill the hope
Of wedded bliss ? Why do they fill
Their bodies with infernal dope,
Imagining they get a thrill ? ■
Why do they waste their hard-earned cash
To build a poison-seller’s wealth?
Why do they joy in orgies rash
That wantonly destroy their health ?
Why do they drink what dulls the brain
And weakens virtue, will and pluck?
Why do they drink ? I cry again.
It baffles me .. . Oh, well! Here’s
luck !
NAT.
A Comer in Goats.
“To provide milk for Tennant’s Creek, 500
goats have arrived after a gruelling journey
from Mt. Isa.”
Reading that brings back vividly a
goat-droving experience of my own,
A mushroom town had sprung up at
Friuppanigga, a goldmining centre
about a thousand miles n.-w. of Oodna-
datta, following a report that “color”
had been seen there. It wasn’t until a
year or so later that it was found to be
curry-powder that some prospector had
spilt—but that’s by the way.
My cobber was shrewd enough to see
the prospects of a milk monopoly, so we
pooled our resources and I went back to
Oodnadatta to buy up a few hundred
goats. Luckily I found that there were
plenty of strays, so 1 rounded these up
and had to purchase only about 50.
Eventually I set out with about 600 on
the long trek.
It took me three weeks getting beyond
the outskirts of the town, which is plas-
tered with hoardings. They flatly refused
to leave until the last vestige of paper
"No, I Wont serve you boys. You've had quite enough!"
had been chewed off. Then I was forced
to camp for a week alongside a rubbish
tip. They had an ecstatic time among
the rusty tins and cast-off clothing. They
were the most ravenous goats I’ve ever
seen, and ate up the countryside as we
passed through. Fencing wire seemed
their favorite titbit, and I lost several
that were trying to masticate the rail-
way track and ignored an oncoming
goods train,
I had a terrible time getting across
the desert with them. At first I tried to
lie down and sleep at night, but they
clustered around me and I was nearly
asphyxiated; their beards also kept
tickling my face. In the end I was
forced to sleep standing up.
At last, after four months of awful
hardships, I arrived, the entire popula-
tion turning out to greet me. There
was a light following wind, so I was at
the rear. By the time 1 got them into
the main street, however, the place was
deserted; nor would anyone venture
back until I got the flock to leeward of
the town. It was just on nightfall, so I
handed them over to my partner, stag-
gered into the tent and fell asleep. A
horizontal slumber seemed quite strange.
I was awakened early next morning by
a savage roar. I looked up to see my
partner, his face livid with fury, at the
tent flap.
“Y’ stupid hound!” he bellowed.
“You would mess it up.” I thought he
was going to choke. “Y’ bring 580, an’
all bar 17 are blasted billies!”
S. W. K.
To Women.
Because I love you all I grope
In search of my true mate;
But, since love’s blind, how can one hope
To differentiate ?
P.O.M.C.


-Carlson
RADIO
i
travel
m :
•••
A Commonwealth Savings Bank
pass-book disposes of all the money
worries that usually trouble the
traveller.
Whether the journey be undertaken
for business or pleasure purposes,
and so long as it is confined to
Australia and the Mandated Terri-
tories, the Commonwealth Savings
Bank Service will operate through-
out. Money can be transferred to
any point, and withdrawn or
deposited at any one of the Bank’s
4,000 Branches and Agencies
without cost.
Ensure the utmost convenience and
safety by travelling, not with a
dangerously large amount of money
in your pocket, but with just your
pass-book to see you through.
commonweoLTH
•r&sai
SAVINGS BANK
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
"U
A K » « K
Cf Cv ti 1 1
pLacxoe—
WHAT man wouldn’t be pleased! A Gillette
safety razor is pretty near to being the ideal
Christmas gift. Beautifully finished, long-lasting
and really useful. And with those new Blue Gillette
electrically-tempered blades, a man can look forward
to a perfect shave every day of the year. Complete
Shaving Outfits from 2/6 to 35/-,
No. 88 Set. An entirely new and
improved razor —the guard and
handle are now comlined in one
piece complete in velvet-lined
nickel-plated case with three of
the new Gillette slotted blades
in a specially designed
hinged holder .. .. 10/ -
14:
For the man
who already has a
Gillette Razor, there
is the Blue Gillette
S pedal Christmas
Box containing 25
electrically tempered
Gillette Blades — io/-
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
A MIXED GRILL.
“Fixed and Flashing”: Recent Eng-
land-Australia air dashes through every
kind of weather suggest that the link-
ing of Empire air routes by a chain of
meteorological stations should no longer
be neglected. Such a service must
become a necessary adjunct to day- and
night-flying. No doubt, too, when wire-
less is fully utilised a weather service
will be an essential and natural part of
certain activities now played with capn-
ciously by atmosphere and climate. Aus-
tralia, M.L., Argentina and S.A. could
do a lot worse than interest themselves
in a study of observations in the Southern
Ocean and Antarctica. Polar climatic
variations are recognised as of possible
importance to the nature of weather in
both temperate zones.
* * * *
Arrah : Half-page ad. in a recent
New England (N.S.W.) papei.
wirbe Wi tU°d tTgeiS, •SSrfSTS
Friday nights and Saturdays of each week,
reasons for which are as follows: God in
the Fourth Commandment says, ‘‘Remem-
lt r^B S r«Se k | e aCh ho S;h e
Lord thy God.”—Exodus xx, 8-11.
The advertisement comes from a Chinese
firm.
* * * *
“Billy See”: We’re becoming more
Americanised every day. According to
a consensus of Aboliars, bush folk are
cultivating a dialect—aigs for eggs, laigs
for legs, paigs for pegs, and so on ; just
like U.S. “hicks.” On the other hand city
folk are ready to cultivate a tradition —
that of the noble savage. A Sydney
weekly has started it in one of those pic-
torial serials for kids, both juvenile and
adult, and is making a fair job of it; so
good, in fact, that one can look forward
confidently to the time when the denizens
of overgrown eastern capitals will have
Binghi on the same pedestal as is now
occupied by the noble Red Man. The
rude forefathers of the modern Yank
used to hold the belief that “the only
good Injun was a dead one” —just as our
forefathers used to look on the aborigi-
nal as “more part of the fauna of the
country than as a human being.” Time
is said to be a great leveller, but it is
also a great uplifter.
* * ¥ *
“Double Express”: I fancy I’m cor-
rect, all the same, in saying explosive
bullets were never used in Warfare (B.
6/11/’35). Certainly, in a very long and
close experience of firearms, I never heard
of them. The dates of the international
conferences mentioned by “Geneva” co-
incide with the introduction of the
sporting “shells” of which I wrote, and
these probably inspired the conferences
to ban such projectiles in warfare. Con-
sider for yourself the job it would be
introducing h.e., detonator and other
gadgets to the tiny bullet of the .276
Mannlicher and yet maintaining the
weight and balance necessary to make
the projectile function properly. The
“shells” of which I wrote were designed
for 12-bore smoothbores for short-range
shooting, and even then they were a
dismal failure. “D.8.K.,” on his part,
rather begs the question when he refers
to the Pomeroy bullet as an explosive
one used in warfare. This was de-
signed specially to bring down Zeppe-
lins and not for general use in warfare,
the gas balloon being the objective rather
than its human occupants. No one could
call the tracer bullet an “explosive.” It
contained a tiny bit of a phosphorus
preparation which marked its path by
the white streak given off. Here again
the bullet was not so much for killing as
for showing the gunner how he was aim-
ing at the enemy ’plane.
* * * *
“G.M.”: Misgivings over the value of
sanctions should impel doubters to study
the history of the boycott. Nationally,
industrially or commercially, it has
proved a weapon against which there is
no defence, provided only it is faithfully
carried out. Not only in small, isolated
parts of Ireland has the boycott achieved
more than all the wars, all the internecine
strife. China in recent years has applied
two or three boycotts, with the result
that it got its way without any appeal to
arms.
* * * *
Knight Charles Statham, Speaker of
M.L.’s House of Reps, since February,
’23, has retired to live quietly in Dunedin,
although, at 60, he looks 50 and is very
active. Statham was 36 when he was
elected M.P. for Dunedin Central, where
he was partner in the legal firm of Stat-
ham, Brent and Anderson. He was born
in Dunedin and was re-elected regularly
for Dunedin Central from 1911.
* * * *
The N.S.W. transport-strangulation
policy has had the unlooked-for effect of
giving the Parramatta another innings as
a commercial waterway. There is a 50-
mile limit for road competition (heavily
taxed, of course) with Government rail-
ways. By barging goods up the Parra-
matta, carriers can deliver to mountain
towns by road and keep within the 50-
mile limit. Of course, the transport
strangulators will try to get the law
“amended,” but with a U.A.P. cave
forming, largely because of transport
strangulation, Stevobruxner won’t be
keen on it.
* * * *
“Laham”; Queensland papers print a
photograph of “A thousand wallaby
skins, portion of a bag of 90,000 shot
in the Burketown district.” Poor, gentle
little Greynose pays a heavy penalty
for being a grass-eater.
* * * *
“Onehunga”; The Auckland he-man’s
reputation for chivalry has suffered. The
place is thick nowadays with nautical
girls who sail their own craft and win
their proportion of races. Thinking it
time equal status was granted, the
lasses applied to the Yacht Squadron for
admission as members. Some time ago
the Y.S. proposed to admit women as
sailing members only. This useless con-
cession the girls rejected with contumely
—the social distinction of belonging to
the very swanky Y.S. is what they really
want —and asked for the whole roast pig
or nothing. They got the latter.


| OPENINGS 1
I ENGINEERS! 1
There really are thousands of opportunities
around you but unless you know where they
are and just how to prepare for them your
opportunity will pass by unheeded.
Our unique guide, "ENGINEERING OPPOR-
TUNITIES" clearly explains the steps you must
take to secure one of the good jobs that are
within your reach. The book explains how we
can quickly prepare you in your own home for
all salary-increasing qualifications, such as
Uii suiuiy-mt.l euiiny aut-ii
A.M.I. Mech. E., A.M.1.C.E., A.M.1.E.E.,
A.M.1.A.E., A.M.1.R.E., etc., and contains
the world's widest selection of courses in all
branches of MECHANICAL, CIVIL and CON-
STRUCTIONAL. ELECTRICAL, MOTOR. DIESEL,
RADIO, TELEVISION, and AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERING.
Write for this book to-day. It is sent FREE
and POST FREE and without any obligation.
THE BRITISH INSTITUTE
W. OF ENGINEERING
jjfc TECHNOLOGY
Centres throughout the World
Offices for Australia, New
Zealand & the Far East:
58 MARGARET STREET.
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
KISMET
GAUGE
40 YEARS TO
rfO MAKE A.
F GAUGE/
You may buy many tyre gauges cheaper than a
KISMET, because accuracy and finish are sacrificed
to price. They lack the forty years’ experience
which has produced the KISMET’S “Accuracy above
all.”
The KISMET is made to the highest possible standard
of perfection.
11b. units clearly marked on wide, flat surfaces,
smartly finished in plated metals, and complete in
a leather wallet.
Remember that the KISMET represents the accumu-
lation of experience gathered over 40 years—no other
gauge has a record such as this.
Price
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, 0/0 FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
The Steering Column.
SAFE SUMMER DRIVING.
HARMFUL EFFECT OF DIRECT SUNLIGHT.
BY FRED BERRY.
DRILLIANT sunlight and long hours of daylight urge motorists
to use their cars frequently. Yet few are aware that the
rays of a midsummer sun have a damaging influence on many
parts of cars, unless precautions are taken.
Strong sunlight, for example, has a de-
cided influence upon the life of the
modern type of lacquer finishes.
Motorists who “valet” their cars know
that a certain amount of color is shown
on the cleaning cloth every time it is
applied, no matter what the cleansing
medium. What has happened is that,
disintegrated by the sun, the lacquer
comes away on the cloth. It is only a
matter of time before the undercoat
begins to show and renovation is
necessary.
It is on top of the bonnet and metal
tyre covers that lacquer will first show
signs of wear. Door panels, rear panels
and protected parts of the car that have
been lacquered are usually in a good
state of preservation.
If from the first the car is not left
standing in strong sunlight, rapid dis-
integration of its finish will be avoided.
Removing Tar.
Summertime driving also brings worry
seldom experienced in other weather,
tar, thrown up by the wheels, being de-
posited on the rear panels of the car.
In such a case, naphtha poured on a piece
of cheesecloth or towelling is the best
cleansing agent. No damage will be
done to the lacquer, and an application
of polish will restore the lustre.
The effect of higher air temperature on
the cooling system is another summer
problem.
Until six or eight years ago, cooling
systems generally were a source of worry
in the average car, and a long drive over
Rolls-Royce adopts independent front-
wheel suspension on the latest model
12-cylinder Phantom.
hilly country, loaded to capacity, would
seldom be accomplished without boiling.
Recently the situation has been reversed ,
the chief difficulty is to raise the tempera-
ture of the cooling water to a degree
permitting efficient operation. Because
of its low operating temperature the
driver does not get maximum value from
l^e consumed.
Possessors of cars not more than four
years old which overheat in summer
should look for some defect other than
a au !. m t^ie circulating system. In
l?° lated case * a “ lla Pf d hose connec-
tion or a defective thermostat might
cause a stoppage of the water passing
from the motor to the radiator; but in
most instances it will be found that over-
heating troubles are attributable to badly-
adjusted valves, excessive carbon deposit
in the combustion chamber, or, in odd
M.G.’s surprise for 1936. The two-litre Sports Saloon, with built-in jacks, brakes
and shock-absorbers operated hydraulically and a six-cylinder, high-efficiency,
O.H.V., pushrod-operated motor.
(Drawing from the “Motor.”)
cases, excessive wear in the cylinder
bores. Adjustment of valves, however,
is a simple matter, even for the owner-
driver, and the correct clearance can be
determined by reference to the instruction
book.
Effect of Carbon.
Carbon in the combustion chamber
causes overheating, because every milli-
metre of deposited
carbon means an
equivalent increase in
the compression ratio,
which results in pre-
ignition and detona-
tion. As the motor was
not designed to operate
at such high pressures,
efficiency also is re-
duced.
It is advisable, where
persistent overheating
troubles are experi-
enced, to check cylinder
wear, and, where necessary, have the
cylinder block rebored and new pistons
and rings fitted.
Summer conditions have also a dis-
tinct influence upon tyres and wheels.
In winter, over wet highways, the car is
being driven under ideal conditions, as
the life of a tyre is greater when cooled
on a wet road surface than when driven
on a dry surface. Hurried repairs of
punctures, apparently satisfactory in
cold weather, will almost certainly break
down when the car is driven in summer.
It is wise to remove tyres, examine cases
and tubes, and, if necessary, have repairs
vulcanised. Experiments have revealed
that the difference between correct tyre
pressures for summer or winter driving
is so small as to be for all practical
purposes negligible.
Cool Tyres.
Metal or wire wheels not only are
more resistant to stresses imposed in
cornering and less liable to collapse in
the case of accident, but the continuous
metal structure in contact with the rim
upon which the tyre is fixed acts in the
nature of a radiator. It reduces the
temperature of the tyre, with consequent
less wear than is the case with the old-
type wooden artillery wheel. A wooden
wheel tends to shrink under sun heat,
and the spokes begin to work in the
felloes. Not infrequently it squeaks,
owing to the movement of the spokes.
Whenever this occurs the wheel should be
wedged or rebuilt. To drive with the
spokes slack is to invite wheel collapse
and serious accident.
In winter, the drain on the battery
when starting up is very much higher
than in summer, and besides, owing to
the lesser hours of daylight, headlights,
tail-light and interior lights are in use for
longer periods. Drivers of cars not
fitted with the control for regulating the
charging rate would be well advised to
visit a service station, which should be
able to make summer adjustments that
will reduce the charge by from 10 p.c.
to 15 p.c. To drive with headlights burn-
ing is a crude way of arriving at the de-
sired end. By reducing the charging rate,
the motorist at one stroke so regulates
the input to the battery that, whilst it is
maintained in a fully-charged condition,
it is never at any period so overheated
that the electrolyte is lost, and the equip-
ment is kept in efficient condition with-
out more than ordinary attention from
the motorist.
Closed-car Ventilation,
In most modern closed-in cars, pro-
vision is made for adequate ventilation,
but those on the driver’s seat, even in
some of the latest types, may become
uncomfortable on a long drive because
of the radiation of heat through the
metal bulkhead. Where this trouble
exists, all that it is necessary to do is to
buy a strip of asbestos board of sufficient
area to cover the bulkhead between
driver’s compartment and the engine,
and sufficient asbestos
cord to wind round
the exhaust pipe lead-
ing from the exhaust
manifold beneath the
floorboards. Each
type of car will neces-
sitate slightly altered
arrangements so far
as fixing is concerned,
but generally it is best
to rivet the asbestos
board to the engine side of the bulkhead,
extending down to the floorboards and
carried rearward underneath the driver s
compartment. Then the asbestos cord
should be carefully wound round the
exhaust pipe, continuing until underneath
the floorboards. Both ends of the cord
should be firmly fastened by clips similar
to those used on the radiator hose. If
these precautions are taken, the front
compartment of a closed car will be as
cool as the rear.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
G.S.S. (Murwillumbah, N.S.W.). —Because of
the heavy outlay required in reconditioning
my ’26 Crossley, fitted with a B.T.H. mag-
neto, your advice is
asked as to the
possibility of con-
verting the ignition
system to coil-and-
battery type. The
magneto is driven
in tandem with gen-
erator, so that it is
not practicable to
fit the conventional
distributor, even if
obtainable. How
connect the H.T.
lead from coil to
collector brush; and
what about the con-
denser ?
The sketch shows
how to convert
magneto ignition to
coil and battery.
Drill the H.T. pick-
up of the magneto as shown, and couple
up the lead from coil. Dismantle magneto,
and disconnect armature primary leads from
condenser, and connect negative coil terminal
to earth return on magneto breaker cover as
shown.
K.S.C. (Colbinabbin West, Vic.). —(1)
Could you tell me how to adjust the steering
box on a ’26 Dodge Six so that play can be


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Im
m
“Makes
Finish
LAST LONGER
v
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL. 2/6; LARGE, 5/-.
SPARKING PLUGS
give better
performance
in every
engine
5
frA
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
J
ACROSS
m
TO ENGLAND
=1- -- - ---
--- -
:- - -
/
lilWti
invi
f.P.M
You’ll drive “from the mountains to the
sea” on broad Wilshire Boulevard in Los
Angeles; circle the romantic piers of San
PVancisco’s Embarcadero; sense the differ-
cnee of New Orleans’ New Canal Street; feel
the brisk lake breezes on Michigan Boule-
vard in Chicago; follow park-centered
Commonwealth in Boston; thrill to Wash-
ington’s celebrated Pennsylvania Avenue,
from the White House to the Capitol!
... hut first you will have threaded the
South Seas—on the superb, new Matson-
Oceanic ships “Mariposa” or “Monterey”
with delightful stops at New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii...
... then compare this new travelway to the
famous boulevards along its course. It's
more than just a “route” — it's a thorough-
fare, for those who expect pleasure, exact
service, and who know values ..,
... like a many-armed speedway, the great
railways which place Wilshire just7shours
from dazzling Broadway in New York!
Their swift, frequent schedules group into
easy access every city and scenic objective.
Comfort is engagingly defined by Pullman
sleepers, club cars where you may lounge
and play, renowned cuisines, constant ser-
vice. Trains are air-conditioned; their tem-
perature controlled to even coolness. With
barber, valet, ladies' maid, helpful porters
—here is smart hotel-life in rapid motion!
And, as throughout this exhilarating
journey, expenses are tamped down to
common-sense levels. Train fares are lotv;
incidental costs negligible; stopover
privileges liberal (and no extra charge) ;
plans are simple and flexible, and may
be arranged before you start . . . altered
as occasion demands.
For complete details of this short, modern, thrill-
ing boulevard to England, secure our illustrated
booklet “England Across America”—it is yours
without cost or obligation.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
taken up between worm and sector ? Mileage,
23 000 ; tyres, 5.50 x 90. (2) Is it because of
“these new tyres that steering is loose ?
Steering box is cast in two pieces and split
fore and aft, inside box holding worm, outside
worm wheel. Four bolts hold it together.
Slack them off, and the one with an eccen-
tric head should then be turned until worm
and wheel are properly meshed. Tighten up
other nuts and play should be removed.
(2) No. Check up after adjusting steering
box.
* * * *
A.C.C. (Oakey, Q.). —(1) What does brake-
horsepower mean ? (2) How is it calculated ?
(3) What is meant by R.A.C. horse-power?
(4) What is the purpose of a supercharger ?
(5) What is the h.p. (R.A.C.) and h.h.p. of
a ’27 T Ford?
(1) Brake-horsepower is actual power output
of an engine measured at the flywheel. (2)
Engine is direct coupled to either a water
brake or dynamometer, and maximum output
determined. B.H.P. is then calculated in water
brake by using the formula: 1 h.p. = 33,0001 b.
lit. in Isec. and the dynamometer 1 h.p.
746 watts. (3) Merely an empirical assessment
of an internal-combustion motor, using bore
and number of cylinders as factors. Does not
take into account stroke, compression ratio
or r.p.m., and consequently is of little value.
(4) As the power output of any petrol engine
—other things being equal—depends upon the
weight of gas taken into the cylinders at
every revolution, the supercharger is used for
the purpose of forcing a greater weight of gas
on each suction stroke, with consequent in-
crease in power output. (5) R.A.C., 23 h.p.;
b.h.p., 40.
+• * * *
J.A.S. (Brisbane). —(1) What is the correct
pressure to use in 6.50 x 19 tyres in a Graham
Eight Sedan ? (2) What pressure would be
used with six passengers and luggage ?
(1) 241 b. (2) 281 b. ,
W.T. (Long Island, N.Q Propose filling
up an electric-light plant. Details enclosed.
(1) Is this a fair proposition, and who in
Sydney could give me further advice ? (2)
I have a Republic truck engine installed in my
launch. Where can I secure an instruction
book ?
(1) If the set is in fair mechanical condition,
price is reasonable. Write C. H. Banks,
Young-street, Sydney, for further details. (2)
Republic truck engines are of several different
types. Write Larke, Neave and Carter, Ltd.,
William-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Rufus (Indooroopilly, Q.). —Am contemplat-
ing a holiday trip, mainly on good roads.
Car is a 12/14 Austin, ’33 model; tyres, s in. x
19. Will be taking five passengers and lug-
gage. (1) How much additional luggage could
be carried on luggage grid and running
boards ? (2) What tyre pressure, fully
loaded?
(1) If the car is a 13.9-h.p. Light Four it is
not fitted with luggage carrier as standard, but
if you have secured factory equipment it will
carry 1001 b. to 1201 b. of luggage. Running
boards are of ample strength to carry ordinary
suitcases, clothes, etc. (2) Tyre pressure 231 b.
to 251 b., according to load.
* * !>: *
L.C.C.—(I) Customs duty on used U.S.
car purchased in England for £2OO ? Would
primage and sales tax have to be paid, and at
what rate? (2) Approx, cost of freight and
charges to Adelaide ? (3) Would car have to
be packed or not ? (4) Is it possible to pur-
chase the car in the name of a friend returning
by boat and so secure lower rates ?
(1) Duty, subject to inspection of car on
arrival, would be between £BO and £l2O.
Primage would vary on each individual unit,
and would range from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c. Sales
tax would be charged at 5 p.c. (2) Freight
approximately 60/- per ton (40 cubic feet
measurement). (3) Depends upon shipping
co. Some insist upon crating. (4) No benefit.
* :\i j|: *
N.K.M. — Can benzine be pumped out of,
and allowed to run back info, a bowser ?
Depends on type of pump used. In some
older models it is possible to set the slip tube
at, say, five gallons, pump up full capacity,
then, after the “fill-car” handle is pulled,
lower the slip tube and allow some to drain
back into the tank. Safest to watch the
operator when doubt exists.
(Continued on page 28.)


PERFORMANCE DATA OF CARS TESTED OVER “BULLETIN” COURSE.
1934 Series.
One-fifth Mile
Gross
Make of Car. R.A.C., Weight,
Reduce Harvesting Costs—
Increase Profits . . .
with a FORDSON
ns
ZJ
J
n
'J®
T7*
Fordsoiv
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
New South Wales :
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Willlamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
South Australia: ADELAIDE CAR
& TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Waymouth Street, Adelaide
Western Australia : LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. in Victoria) F.28.18.T
LOW COST POWER:
14 H.P. at Drawbar—26 H.P. on Bet.
(Tests by Mr.E.J.C.Rennie,Melb.University)
The pneumatic-tyred English Fordson has
proved its ability to reduce costs of primary
production. That is why it is establishing
new sales records. This unit is adaptable to
all classes of ploughing and harvesting . . .
its high top gear ensures quick transport of
5-6 ton loads. You can buy Fordson on
easy terms spread to suit your convenience.
Features of the English Fordson :
CLUTCH PULLEY . . . POWER TAKE-OFF
(Optional at Extra Cost) . . . GOVERNOR
CONTROL . . . “HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER
. . . HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION . . .
COUNTER.BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
. . . SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM
. . . CRANKCASE VENTILATION.
FORDSON PRICE HAS BEEN REDUCED
Oil
or
of
W orU
he (; >.> A
As, Mai • l h, i P -'ia\
(ia Z als of
c “t,„ k n Ve f tad , "■odd-
%-Zfizz fts-
n °*her
***or e
0
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
a.
sa
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21 /■ ; with guard, 21/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each iazor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for gin., fin. and Jin.
blades. 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITICEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razor* *“
oak case): Black, /
}Jof.
Ivory
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in
widths, fin- and i •
All are set ready
use, guaranteed, a£ o
keot in order lor tw
years free oi cha
Chevenger (Gawler, S.A.). —My ’29 model,
27,000 miles, has developed a loud engine
knock. Engine was dismantled, and a new set
of gudgeon pins fitted. Should I fear a re-
currence of trouble ?
No. Slack gudgeon pins were responsible.
sfc 4 s 'l*
A.O.H. (Goondiwindi, Q.). —My generator,
stopped charging. 1 found that the third brush
was touching the brush next to it. Reset, the
generator shows only about half its rated
charge. Armature and brushes are in good
condition. Cause and cure ?
Either a breakdown in the winding of the
armature, or brushes are not set in correct
positions.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Pick”: In 1908 a solid-tyred motor-
buggy began conveying passengers and
merchandise from the railway to a Bun-
gendore (N.S.W.) hotel. Displaced by a
car, it stood perishing for a decade in
the hotel yard. Then a Bywong bee-
keeper converted it into a horse-drawn
waggonete for carting his hives as he
followed the flowering gums. With tyres
worn but serviceable, and ball-bearing
wheels running sweetly, the ancient con-
traption is still in action.
* * * *
“De Bee”; Was employed by a car-
rier, and had my first puncture on a
bush track. When slipping the spare on
it stuck ; couldn’t get it off. After a
lot of work it eased. Next move was
to remove both covers in order to use
tube out of spare. Couldn’t find tyre-
levers, but some good Samaritans lent
theirs. Eventually got going, and had a
fresh puncture every few hundred yards.
We levered the tyres off the heavy rims in
each instance, a task which required the
combined strength of three of us. The
trouble ended after we removed boot
tacks from the inside of three covers.
Next week I was told that the queer-
looking contrivance in the toolbox was
a tool for contracting the rims to make
it possible to remove the tyres. Also
found the tyre-levers in the bottom of
the box.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Enrich from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.43 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAVMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young lady (25) wants position as governess
in W.A. or New Guinea. Refs.—9274.
Married Digger, with dependant, Sydney,
literary, clerical and Customs experience, wants
work. Refs. —9227.
Man, Samoa, would like to correspond with
experienced boot-repairer and leather-worker.
—9210.
Young lady, Sydney, senior typist and tele-
phonist, requires work, city office.—9190.
Young man (28), university, five languages,
six years’ administrative exp. in Asia, accus-
tomed to handling Indian labor, seeks posi-
tion, preferably in Fiji or the Islands. —9233.
Whereabouts of Ronald Newton, English-
man, at Forrest, Albany (W.A.), in 1929.—
9246.
To exchange Royal Academy Supplement to
“Magazine of Art” (in five parts complete) of
1896 exhibition for golf clubs. —8239.
To buy McCrae’s Colombine, illus. by
Norman Lindsay, and other Lindsay-illus.
books. —9197.
Information Sought.
What are the chief records between S. Africa
and Australia in Test cricket ? —9288.
Highest totals: Australia, 578 at Melbourne
in 1910-11, and 450 at Johannesburg in 1920-
21; South Africa, 506 at Melbourne in 1910-11,
and 472 for 8 wickets at Johannesburg in
1921-22. Centuries scored: Australia, 23 —
D. Bradman 4, C. Hill 3, W. Bardsley 3, W.
Armstrong 2, C. Kelleway 2, C. Macartney 2,
V. Trumper 2, K. Rigg, J. Ryder, H. Collins,
W. Woodfull and Jack Gregory 1 each;
S. Africa, 11—G. Faulkner 3, J. W. Zulch 2,
J. Sinclair 2, C. Frank, S. J. Snooke, A. D.
Nourse and K. Viljoen 1 each. Bradman’s
299 not out at Adelaide in 1931-32 and
Faulkner’s 204 at Melbourne in 1910-11 are
the highest individual scores. W. J. Whitty
(Aus.), with 37 wickets at 17.08 in 1910-11,
scored the best bag. Hill, Bardsley, Bradman
and Rigg made a century at first appearance.
* * * *
(1) How old were Sullivan and Corbett when
they fought at New Orleans on September 1,
1892 ? (2) How long did the contest go, and
was the match considered a fight for the heavy-
weight championship of the world ? —9250.
(1) Sullivan, born October 15, 1858, was
almost eight years older than Corbett, who
was 26 that day. (2) Corbett won by a knock-
out in 21 rounds. Sullivan was world’s heavy-
weight champion under London Prize Ring
rules, having knocked out Paddy Ryan in
1886 and outpointed Jake Kilrain in 1889 for
the title. Corbett was considered to be the
first Marquis of Queensberry world’s heavv-
weight champion.
•i*
What 10 countries have figured highest in
the lists of imports into and exports from Italy
within recent years ? —9252.
Figures are for 1933: Austria: Imports into
Italy, 176,600,000 lire; exports from Italy,
131,900,000 lire; Czecho-Slovakia, 88,200,000
lire and 92,800,000 lire; France, 409,700,000
lire and 458,100,000 lire; Germany,
1,089,900,000 lire and 727,800,000 lire; Great
Britain, 724,900,000 lire and 681,500,000 lire;
India, 297,400,000 lire and 113,800,000 lire;
Yugoslavia, 188,900,000 lire and 124,400,000
lire; Switzerland, 270,400,000 lire and
482,700,000 lire; United States, 1,113,200,000
lire and 517,700,000 lire; and Argentine,
248,500,000 lire and 383,200,000 lire.
* * * *
What prospects are there in Fiji for a man
wifh mining knowledge either as a prospector
or as a mine employee ? Does the Fijian
Government require any financial guarantee as
to standing ? Is a knowledge of the native
language needed? —9217.
All European labor for mines is taken on in
Australia by Emperor, Loloma, Mount Kasi
and other such concerns. Application should
be made to the Australian offices of these
companies. Goldmining in Fiji is a highly-
capitalised proposition, and there is no oppor-
tunity for individual miners except as em-
ployees of the companies. If, however, they
desire to go prospecting they will require to
obtain passports, and on arrival in Fiji lodge
deposits of £50 each with the Government as
a guarantee that they will not become a charge
upon the community. They will then require to
take out a prospecting license, and obtain the
necessary equipment for prospecting. Their
Australian money could be changed into Fiji
money at the Bank of N.S.W. or the Bank of
N.Z., which have branches in Fiji. Quite a
number of local people are engaged in pros-
pecting, and local experience and a knowledge
of the language are definitely advantages.
* * * *
What advantage, if any, does a person deriv-
ing a taxable income from New South Wales
receive in respect of income tax thereon if he
elects to reside permanently in Jersey (Channel
Islands ) instead of in Sydney ? In addition
to the local tax, which I understand is 6 d. in
the £, I presume he is subject to N.S.W. and
possibly Federal absentee tax.—9140.
No material advantage, though being 10,000
miles or so from taxgatherers might be re-
garded as a moral advantage. Income derived
from N.S.W. by an absentee, whether a resi-
dent of Jersgy (Channel Islands) or elsewhere,
is subject to tax at the ordinary rates. Ex-
emption for State purposes is £SO, less £1 tor
every £8 by which net income exceeds £SO;
it is £250, less £1 for every £8 by which
the net income exceeds £250, in the case of
residents. No exemption is allowed to absen-
tees for Federal purposes, either for income
tax or special property tax.
* * * *
In what circumstances are permits which
allow old and slow workers to work for less
than the award wage granted in N. S. Wales ?
—9147.
Under Section 27 of the N.S.W. Industrial
Arbitration Act, 1912, any aged, infirm or
slow worker who may deem himself unable to
earn the minimum wage prescribed by any
award may apply to the Registrar for a permit
in writing to work for less. A permit may be
granted to an employee of any age, whether
trade-unionist or not. The application should
be made to the Industrial Registrar, Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry, 142 Phillip-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What are the penalties under Australian
law for offences in connection with abortion ?
(2) Is there any civilised country where abortion
may be performed legally? —9l9l.
(1) Abortion is an offence throughout the
Commonwealth. The Crimes Act (N.S.W.)
embodies the principles followed in the sister
States. It provides that any woman adminis-
tering to herself drugs or using any instrument
with intent to procure miscarriage, or any
person who administers to her drugs or other
noxious things, or uses an instrument or other
means, is liable to penal servitude for 10 years.
Persons supplying or procuring drugs, noxious
things or instruments for such purpose are
liable to penal servitude for five years. (2)
Yes, in Russia the Soviet recognises abortion
as a legal act, and abortoriums are established
there.
* * * *
What is the approximate area of Easter
Island ? Is the island inhabited, and who was
responsible for the totem structures upon it ?
—9271.
The area is 46 sq. miles. The inhabitants
number about 250, and it is believed that at
no time did the population exceed 6000; it was
estimated at half that figure at the time of its
discovery in 1722. It is believed by some
that the ancestors of the present inhabitants
erected the huge stone statues for which the
island is famous, but the matter remains a
mystery.
# $ * $
How long does the Commonwealth Savings
Bank keep unclaimed balances ? What is done
with them then ? Are lists published ? —9127.
All accounts, with the exception of those of
minors, which have not been operated on for
a period of seven years are transferred to the
Depositors’ Unclaimed Fund, and cease to
bear interest. A list of the amounts is pub-
lished annually, usually about October, in the
“Commonwealth Gazette.” If after a period
of 10 years from the date of their mclusmn in
the published lists accounts are still unclaimed,
they become the absolute property of the
Savings Bank, and are not claimable, though
the Treasurer may give his consent if satisfied
that “special reasons exist for the allowance
of the claim.” (Section 51 of the Common-
wealth Bank Act.)
* * * *
Ten years ago I patented an article, but it
was not manufactured. Does the patent
therefore lapse ? —8955.
No. The Act provides that, after the expira-
tion of three years from the grant of the patent,
any person may apply for the grant of a com-
pulsory license, or, alternatively, the revocation
of the patent, upon the ground that the reason-
able requirements of the public with respect
to a patented invention have not been satisfied.
Therefore the patent is safe from this point
of view unless or until such application is
made. The Courts are very loath to grant a
compulsory license, or to revoke a patent,
unless an exceeedingly strong case is made
out.
* * * *
What is the difference between “sleepy sick-
ness” and “sleeping sickness” ? Which, if
either, is caused by the tsetse fly of Africa ?
9073.
The so-called sleepy sickness, or Encepha-
litis lethargica, has no relation to tropical
(African) sleeping sickness transmitted by the
tsetse fly. Both maladies are definite in origin
and effect, the former developing as a brain
congestion, whereas the latter originates in
a parasitic blood disease that invades lym-
phatic glands, cerebrospinal fluid, etc.
Although usually found in the blood on
microscopic examination, the infective organ-
ism of sleeping sickness may escape detec-
tion owing to limited occurrence in the
surface blood. In treatment, there is no
exact specific; medical research (tropical medi-
cine) has greatly reduced the mortality rate.
Sleepy sickness is practically anew disease,
first reported from Eastern Europe in 1916-17.
Whooping-cough, measles,' scarlet fever, etc.,
may precipitate an attack.
* * * *
(1) Is “pruritus ani” curable ? (2) Treat-
ment ? —9163.
(1) It is a troublesome complaint, and the
response to treatment is slow and uncertain.
Examination is advised for location of the
cause; both local and constitutional faults
possibly aggravate the trouble. Mild degrees
of itching may be due to congestion caused
by constipation. (2) The subject of acidity
demands attention in all cases. Acids, condi-
ments and excess of sugar in the diet must
be avoided. Take a tepid soda bath at night;
dust freely with zinc and starch powder during
the day. An astringent anaesthetic ointment
might be prescribed under medical supervision.
* * * *
What is the difference between a hydatid
cyst and a lipoma ? Is an operation necessary
to remove a cyst ? —9226.
Simple fatty tumor (lipoma) can be removed
by operation—it is readily distinguished from
hydatid cyst. Hydatid disease is caused by the
larval form of a parasitic worm ( Tcenia echino-
coccus). The adult worm does not infect man,
who in this instance acts as an intermediary,
while the dog or other household animal acts
as the definite host. When the ova of the
parasite reach the stomach of man, the small
booklet embryos begin to burrow through the
intestinal wall. They may reach the liver,
lungs, kidneys or other important tissues to
develop into definite hydatid cysts. The con-
tents of these cysts consist of a clear fluid
containing no albumin (unless repeatedly
tapped). They may calcify following death of
the parasite, or may rupture and cause sup-
puration. No medicinal treatment is of any
avail. Such cases demand surgical attention.
* * * #
How can superfluous hair be removed from
the arms, legs and hack of a newborn child ?
—9177.
Hirsute growth on arms and legs occasion-
ally develops in infants as a congenital fault,
originating in a pituitary gland disturbance.
In older children and adults, a peroxide bleach
may be used, but avoid depilatories and the
like on large areas if the skin is sensitive.
Meanwhile, calamine lotion should serve the
purpose of a covering liquid if the disfigure-
ment is pronounced.
* * :K .1!
How to remove tobacco smoke stain from
dental plates ? —9208.
Either pumice powder (lightly applied with
brush), hydrogen peroxide or cusol liquid may
be used. Add from 20 to 30 drops of the last-
named to a tumbler of distilled water, and
leave the dentures in this solution overnight.
Rinse with clean water in the morning, and
dry. For more rapid cleansing, a stronger
eusol solution with warm water may be used;
this is best alternated with an ordinary paste
dentifrice.
* * * *
After whom was Jardine-slreet, Kingston,
Canberra, called? —9048.
After Alexander William Jardine, who car-
ried out explorations in Queensland in 1864
and 1865.
* * * *
(1) How to clean a panama hat ? (2) How
to remove mildew from clothing ? (3) How to
remove ink stains from cotton fabrics? —9212.
() Make up a bath of warm water contain-
ing a little ammonia, then scrub the hat in
this with white Castile soap applied with a
nailbrush. Rinse freely in warm water with
a little ammonia again but no soap, and in
the final rinsing water place a little glycerine.
Dry off surplus water with a towel, press the
hat into shape, and dry on a folded towel
in a sunny spot. (2) Boil soft soap in
one quart water. Soak the mildewed articles
in this when cool, lay them out on grass and
sprinkle with salt. As they dry, sprinkle with
water to keep wet, and keep in the sun for
about 12 hours. Repeat the process if neces-
sary. Rinse clean in cold water containing
some ammonia. (3) Soak the stains in cold
water, wring as dry as possible, then stretch
the stained part over clean blotting-paper.
With a brush, apply a weak solution of oxalic
acid in water, and with bits of blotting-paper
soak up the acid and remove ink as it is
freed from the fabric. Wash up the part with
clean water containing a little ammonia to
neutralise the acid, and finally rinse in cold
water. This acid is hard on materials and
must be used carefully.
* * * *
Recipes for obliterating (a) typewriting, (b)
handwriting in ink, from paper? —9l74.
Almost impossible to suggest a solvent or
bleach without knowing the composition of the
ink. Typing inks usually yield to applica-
tions of alcohol, either pure or in methylated
form; lay the paper over blotting-paper, and
apply the alcohol with a brush, using blot-
ting-paper to take up the moisture. For hand-
writing, spread the paper over blotting-paper,
and apply with a fine brush a weak solution of
oxalic acid in water. Dry with b]otting-paper;
apply clean water and again blot dry. Both
recipes are liable to fail on poor-quality paper.
* * * *
(1) How is citric acid extracted, either in
liquid or powder form, from fruits such as
limes ? (2) Plant and machinery required ?
(3) Cost ? (4) Probable buyers or markets in
Australia ? (5) Price of citric acid in the
world market ? —8979.
(1) Full details of the methods of manu-
facture of citric acid are given in Commercial
Fruit and Vegetable Products, by W. V.
Cruess (published by McGraw Hill). The com-
monest method briefly involves extraction of
the juice, its fermentation, boiling and filtra-
tion, the precipitation of calcium citrate, fil-
tration to recover calcium citrate, decomposi-
tion of the citrate, filtration to remove gypsum,
concentration of acid liquor and crystallisation.
The resulting crystals often require purification.
(2) For details of plant, see Cruess above.
(3) Costs rather difficult to obtain. However,
of late years the production of citric acid by
the fermentation of sacchariferous materials has
become increasingly important; at present the
Sicilian industry, which is based on the pro
duction of acid from fruit, is in serious straits
in consequence. (4) Firms dealing with chemi-
cal supplies. (5) Crystals (U.S. Pharmacopaeia)
packed in barrels of 2301 b. are quoted at 28
cents per lb.
Does Anybody Know?
Whether leather or rubber boots have been
used successfully on a working dog that suffers
from tender feet? If so, can anyone supply a
pattern?—9261.
Brief Answers.
I.N.: Apparently your husband lived in
Queensland when you married him, and is
still residing there, so you will have to take
proceedings in Queensland, where the required
period of desertion is five years... .C.H.C.B.:
Write Mick Simmons, Ltd., George-street, Hay-
market, Sydney... .W.J.: A resident of N. S.
Wales is liable to N.S.W. special income tax
on Queensland property income if his net
assessable income exceeds £100 p.a A.A.B.:
Write Buzacott and Co., 7-11 Market-street,
and Dangar, Gedye and Co., 10 Young-street —
both Sydney... .R.A.S.: (1) The agency was
given up in Sydney over 15 years ago. (2)
Small Boat Building, by H. W. Patterson
(8s. 3d., post free), and Practical Boat Building
for Amateurs (6s., post free), from Dymock’s,
424 George-street, Sydney... .J.W.: Obtain-
able from Boat Supplies, Ltd., yacht chandlers,
7 Barrack-street, Sydney; 27s. 6d. bored, 22s.
unbored... .C.L.: Cannot trace quotation
R.F.O.N.: Write Ducon Condenser, Ltd., 73
Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney... .R.G.: John
King was the only survivor of the four mem-
bers of the Burke and Wills expedition which
left Cooper’s Creek for the Gulf of Carpen-
taria in 1861. He died in Melbourne in 1872.
F.M.: Yes, the N.S.W. Public Library
issued in 1928 A Bibliography of Captain James
Cook, giving information on the MSS., printed
books, etc., of Cook and his voyages... .L.H.:
Full lists are printed in the “Daily Commer-
cial News and Shipping List,” published in
Sydney... .R.B.W.: The coin has no value....
B.R.: A full list is published in The Australian
Authors and Artists’ Handbook (2s. 6d.)....
A.W.B.: Write Territories Dept., Canberra,
F.C.T G.F.: Joseph Cook was Prime
Minister and Minister for Home Affairs from
June 24, 1913, to Sept. 17, 1914.... J.A.R.:
Exact analysis costly; from £4 upwards for
general estimation. Refer to local chemist, or
Dixon and Byrn, Reiby-lane, Sydney... .J.L.:
Submit to Elliotts and Australian Drug Co.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney. Little scope for such
remedies T.B.C.: He has won 21 races
W.L.M.: (1) From Wormald Bros., Young-
street, Waterloo, Sydney. (2) From Anthony
Hordern and Sons E.B.: Magellan’s ships
sailed westward round the world in 1083 days,
leaving Seville on September 20, 1519, and
returning on September 8, 1522. Magellan him-
self was killed in the Philippines... .L.D.:
Sergei Rachmaninoff was born at Novgorod,
Russia, in 1873.... J.G.: The Eiffel Tower is
the highest, being 1000ft.; the Great Pyramid
is 480ft., and St. Peter’s 448ft N.M.L.:
Yes, the French Foreign Minister, Louis
Barthou, was killed with King Alexander of
Yugoslavia on Oct. 9 last year....A.O.:
Archer was a five-year-old when he won the
first Melbourne Cup (1861), carrying 9st. 71b.
He won the second with lOst. 21b C.M.:
Australia’s contributions to the League of
Nations were highest in the first year, 1920-21,
at £68,350, and lowest (£23,994) in ’27-28....
K.W.: The German Ministry of Defence pub-
lished the final figures regarding that country’s
war casualties in June of this year. Total dead,
including those who died from injuries, is put
down as 2,036,893. The number of wounded
was 4,814,557, and of these 89,760 were com-
pletely crippled and 2734 blinded... .T.J.S.: It
is not proposed to include the Vatican City in
any of the “sanctions” imposed on Italy. The
area is 108.7 acres, and the population (Decem-
ber, 1932) 1025 E.J.: The correct version
is Ense petit placid am sub libertate quietem
(“With the sword she seeks quiet peace under
liberty”). It is the motto of the State of Massa-
chusetts, U.S.A J.F.C.: The first cricket
matches between Australia and S. Africa were
played in S. Africa in 1902-3. Australia won
three and three were drawn... .G.K.: The
squadron flight led by the Italian airman
Marshal Italo Balbo in July, 1933, took 42
days from Rome to Chicago and back again,
including stops. Savoia-Marchetti flying-boats
were used E.H.: Besides Blackshirts
(Fascists), Brownshirts (Nazis) and Redshirts
(Socialists), there are Greyshirts (an English
anti-Fascist league), Greenshirt Fascists in Aus-
tria, and Blueshirts (members of the Solidarity
Frangaise in France and, in the Irish Free
State, followers of General O’Duffy). By this
time there may be others... .K.L.: Children
7-15 who live not less than three miles from
the nearest school (and who are unable to
attend an existing school with the aid of the
department’s conveyance or boarding subsidy)
are eligible for enrolment in N.S.W. correspon-
dence schools. These schools do not enrol child-
ren beyond sixth-class standard... .K.M.L.: If
you sold the copyright you cannot resell the
right of publication to any other journal. The
usual receipt runs: “in full payment of property
and copyright.” Your informant was sub-
stantially correct J.M.: If a resolution is
proposed contradicting one previously passed it
is necessary to rescind the original resolution
before passing the new one. Should the motion
to rescind be duly proposed and seconded it
cannot be put aside because in the opinion of
the chairman the original motion was “legally
and morally right”... .G.F.D.: Of the world's
known production of wool and wheat Australia
contributes about 25 p.c. and 3£ p.c. respec-
tively... .S.S.: Bower and Gwynne-Vaughan’s
Practical Botany for Beginners, Scott’s Flower-
ing and Flowerless Plants, Coulter’s Plant Struc-
tures, Brewster and Le Plastrier’s Botany for
Australian Students and Campbell’s A Univer-
sity Textbook of Botany K.B.: While the
Kindergarten Training College, Sydney, does
not guarantee positions for its graduates, it
assists them in obtaining desirable positions in
free kindergartens, private schools, and in
families N.W.: From Houghton and Byrne,
2 Bridge-street, Sydney... .A.W.N.: The motto
of the Australian Pioneers’ Club is Primi in
Terras Australes, and the crest an eighteenth-
century plough with a rising sun T.T.:
Write Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney... .F.J.: N.S.W. Lands Dept., Sydney,
will forward you on application a list of Crown
lands gazetted as available... .(Many others
mailed.)


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XVI.
I.
THINGS were far from going well with Colbert
Carfrae. His Parents and Citizens’ Association
was in irruption about the curriculum at the
school; his first assistant preferred to spend his leisure
time in theatricals, which Mr. Carfrae regarded as a
lure of the devil; his second-year Latin was going to
pieces because Miss Alwin was away with laryngitis.
And now, to crown everything, he had received an
anonymous letter. The anonymous letter was really
none of his business, and that made it all the more
annoying, because he did not know quite what to
do about it.
“It is outside my province,” he said gloomily,
discussing the letter with Mrs. Carfrae, “to interfere
in the matter, but it is certainly my duty to bring
this —this communication to the notice of the
inspector.”
“He’ll be here shortly,” Mrs. Carfrae suggested.
“Why not leave it till then?”
Mr. Carfrae snorted impatiently. “I’ll have some
more coffee,” he responded. “And I wish you would
leave me free to deal with these matters as I think
best, Grace.”
Mrs. Carfrae busied herself with the coffee.
“I’m practically certain that Barnes is right. He
should know the writing of the Warning Hill people.
He tells me it is Mrs. Mulver’s writing.”
Mrs. Carfrae stayed tactfully silent.
“Why send me anonymous letters? It’s none of
my business. If the Daunt girl is having trouble, let
them annoy her with their communications. Pack of
nonsense! Never heard of such ridiculous foolish-
ness ! ”
“You’ll have another attack of indigestion, Col-
bert, if you eat so fast,” his wife reminded him. “The
same thing happened last Saturday with the curry.”
She received her reward. “Here,” Colbert said,
“see what you can make of the thing.” He tossed
over the grubby piece of exercise paper upon which
the letter was written.
“Its time,” the missive began without preamble,
“that you putt a stop to the woman whoes suposed
to teach them chuldren in the Warning hil scol. Stand-
ing a litle boy on the verander most of the day and
just recuvered from hooping cof for torking if she
payed more time to learning the kids somthing instead
of galivanting with men and one in perticular his
farther and brother horse theives and the sisters no
beter than they shuld be. Pretty sort of way to
beave and then stand desent chuldren on the verander
why dont you put a stop to her seeing your head
scoltecher,”
Mrs. Carfrae handed back the letter in silence.
“Well,” her husband snapped, “why don’t you
say something?”
“It may ruin the girl’s whole life,” Mrs. Carfrae
said timidly, “if you lake any notice of it, Colbert.
This is her first country appointment.”
“Do you think there is any truth in it?”
His wife hesitated. “Well, I don’t like to say
anything unkindly of her. She seemed a very lady-
like young girl. But Mrs. Mac Leary hinted to me
that Mrs. Darch had told her —I think I mentioned
that Mrs. Mac Leary dropped in with that recipe for
the orange cake you liked so much—Mrs. Darch told
her that even the rector had noticed the way Miss
Daunt was going about with that young White at
Dwyers’. Practically everyone has noticed it—not
only the rector —and you know it must have been
fairly evident for him to comment on it. He hardly
ever notices anything like that.”
“What did Mrs. Mac Leary say?”
“Well, she just asked me if I had heard anything
about Miss Daunt, and I said, ‘Well, I can’t say
that I’ve heard anything, but there was a rumor going
about that she was engaged to Paul White,’ And she
said, rather disappointedly: ‘So you have heard then?’
And 1 said: ‘Well, if that’s all there is, I suppose I
really have, but there didn’t seem to me that there
was so much to hear.’ And she remarked: ‘Well,
dear, I believe there are reasons for the engagement,
not that one can say anything definite yet, of course.’
And I said; ‘Perhaps you’re right. It certainly seems
very strange that a well-bred girl like Miss Daunt
should be engaged to a farmhand without a reason.’
So I”
“All right,” Colbert said gloomily. “I had the
same sort of gossip for, months before Miss Bird was
married. And look how that turned out. Do you
think I should reason with the girl, Grace? You
know her better than I do,”
“After all, dear, you reasoned with Miss Bird,
and remember how unreasonably angry she was.”
“Yes,” said Mr. Carfrae gloomily. “Perhaps I
had better let her go her own way to the devil.”
“I think I’d send her the letter and forget all
about it.”
Colbert was preparing in his mind to do this
very thing; but he had just had a heavy tea, and it
affected his temper.
“I shall do nothing so foolish. I trust I know
my duty, Grace. I shall forward the letter at once
to the inspector.”
“He won’t take any notice of it.”
“That is his affair, not mine,” said Mr. Carfrae
stiffly. “I wash my hands of matter.”
“After all,” Mrs. Carfrae said, “it doesn’t do
to make a fuss,”
Silence.
“It’s her first experience of country life.”
Mr. Carfrae reached for a cinnamon bun and
raised his eyes significantly as the sound of stamping
on the verandah denoted the return of the Carfrae
children. Colbert Carfrae never spoke of anything
improper in front of the children.
11.
Mrs. Mulver had disliked Jessica Daunt from
the first. She resented the fact that Jessica was young,
accomplished and childless. Mrs, Mulver always
had something to annoy her. In turn she had tried
a number of grievances, like a hypochondriac shifting
from one fashionable ailment to another. Mr. Mulver
was rather relieved that Miss Daunt annoyed Mrs.
Mulver. It diverted some of Mrs. Mulver’s dis-
pleasure from himself. Not all. He was one of her
permanent complaints.
She complained that Australia was totally unlike
the “Gold Countree.” She complained about the chil-
dren. She pestered her spouse into jobs. She nagged
him about his lack of ambition. This was hardly fair,
seeing that Mulver’s glory lay behind him. He had
been in everything, from the battle of the Wazir to the
extra rum issue ; had held a crown-and-anchor board
against allcomers from Port Said to Sydney ; had had
thirty-two operations and had the invalid pension,
having blewed the lump sum presented by a grateful
country.
To please Mrs. Mulver, he got jobs, although
personally he considered that they managed quite
nicely on his pension and the child endowment. He
had been in turn chauffeur, dairy-farmer, debt-collec-
tor and carrier. His last job had been sewerage
carting at the Royal Hotel; but he had had an
“attack” ahd had been forced to lie on his back for
a month, in which time someone else took the job.
That had furnished Mrs. Mulver with a griev-
ance for some time.
Her next was that she could not find a house to
live in. She was not willing to pay more than eight
shillings a week, and she nearly drove Orry Smith,
the estate agent, into a decline. She would come and
sit in his office by the hour and tell him her troubles,
and make him show her every empty house in
Tiburon, whether its rent was two pounds or ten
shillings, until he got to the stage when he refused to
have anything to do with her house-hunting. He
explained that he was a busy man. Then he really
got the full force of Mrs. Mulver’s eloquence on the
shamefulness of poor people having to live in bag
humpies.
“Ah have ta give fi’ shellin’s a week ta pay Mr.
Darch for that coorrugated-ir’n for tha ruf, an’ tha
foire that smoky ya can’t cook tha meals, an’ tha dust
coomin’ thra tha bags on ta tha food, an’ the flies
an’ that! Oh, dear, oh, dear!” Whereupon Mrs.
Mulver burst into tears, and Orry Smith had to pat
her miserably on the shoulder and give her five shillings
and a pair of old boots for Mulver before she would
stop.
Among Mrs. Mulver’s grievances the travellers
ranked high. “Low-doon, durty scoom” was her
best epithet. She always warned her children of the
most gruesome and mysterious horrors that would
befall them if they ever spoke to a traveller, and the
younger ones trembled in their beds at night at the
thought that a traveller might come and steal them.
“An’ then where would ya be wi’ noo muther an’
feyther ta look efta ya?” she would say. This was
unanswerable, and even Oscar could be cowed into
submission by the threat to give him to a traveller.
Then came Jessica. Mrs. Mulver had preserved
an affability until she discovered that Jessica had
no old clothes. Jessica’s distaste for Mrs. Mulver
was something just as unreasonable as Mrs. Mulver’s
dislike of her. Perhaps it was a feeling that Mrs.
Mulver, with her sagging, dirty clothes and hair fall-
ing over her face in grey wisps, was letting down the
standard of What a Woman Should Be. Jessica also
found the Mulver children trying. What mother
and dad said was infinitely more binding than what
Miss Daunt said.
The passage of arms when Mrs. Mulver came
down to the school in her warpaint to complain of
the way her Oscar had been treated was a notable
episode in Miss Daunt’s pedagogic career.
“Ah ain’t sayin’ ye meant ta be crool ta ’im,
don’t think Ah’m sayin’ that. But whin ya ain’t got
inny av ya oon ya don’t oondastand ’ow tha poor
little luv feels et. Ts little ’cart’s that tinder ya can’t
do nothin’ ta ’im. Ef ’e ain’t a good boy, an’ Ah
know ’e will be, it’s only because ’e ain’t got ’is
muther ta oondastand ’im. ’E’s a real wonderful boy
at ’oom. ’E arlwes was a good boy f’r Mr. Barnes.”
“He’s not been a good boy while I’ve been here.
If he spoke to you as rudely as he spoke to me I’m
certain you would have felt that he needed correc-
tion.” Jessica was keeping her temper with an effort.
She had stood a good deal from Oscar Mulver. “1
feel he would do better at the school in Tiburon,
where he could have men to teach him.”
“Oh, ya think so, do ya?” Mrs. Mulver said
rudely. “An’ mebbe ya’d like ta walk arl tha wey
inta toon ta school an’ beck every day ya’self.”
“Other children do it. If you are not satisfied
with the teaching he is receiving here, there’s your
remedy.”
Mrs. Mulver immediately became conciliatory.
She patted Miss Daunt’s arm fondly.
“Eh, dear, na, don’t ya git angry, hinny, Ya
dunno what it is ta ’arve nothin’ but worry aboot
tha children, an’ ma ’oosband wi’ silver toobes where
’is inside ought ta be, Tha pains ’e soofers in tha
night ya woulden beliv! Wakes oop a-screamin’
an’ a-moanin’ until Ah could cry, Ah’m that woorried.
An’ ’im wi’oot any warm oondapants, an’ tha house
that draughty an’ coold! An’ would ya beliv it!
Not a house can Ah git f’r luv a money!”
Jessica, feeling vastly uncomfortable, was re-
duced to murmurs of sympathy.
“Eh, deary, dear” —Mrs, Mulver shook her head
and blew her nose drearily—“what’s ta becoom av
oos, tha Lord knows!”
She proceeded to complain bitterly of the coun-
try’s failure to provide her husband with a war
pension; but when Jessica offered to write to the
Repatriation Department Mrs. Mulver hastily
declined the offer. She showed a decided eagerness
to get away before Miss Daunt made any further
inquiries. “Nasty, sneakin’, pryin’ piece av goods,”
she defined Jessica to her husband.
“Ah,” said Mr. Mulver. He did not dare dis-
agree for fear of being accused of infidelity. Mrs.
Mulver suspected a number of girls, not excluding
Ella White, of having designs on Mr. Mulver, silver
tubes and all.
“Eh, deary, dear,” Mrs. Mulver moaned. “Ah’m
not goin’ ta stey on tha ’lll ta ’arve tha children
bullied an’ bounced by me ’igh an’ mighty ledy.”
If only she could get a house in Tiburon the
children could go to school there. It was a shame.
Miss Daunt didn’t have to live in a bag hut or be
thankful for second-hand clothes. She didn’t have
to worry about money, and, if she lost her job, her
family would very probably find her another. It
was sinful that some people shouldn’t have anything
She patted Jessica’s arm fondly.
to worry about. With the charitable intention of
providing Jessica with something at least in the worry
line, she bought a bottle of ink and painfully expended
thought and time composing the epistle to “Mr.
Carfrae, Head Scoltecher, Tiburon.”
“An’ Ah ’ope that fixes ya, ma ledy,” she breathed
triumphantly. “That’ll teach ya ta sneer tha other
side av ya face ”
Chapter XVII.
I.
ORRY SMITH (Auctioneer, Estate Agent, Midland
and National Insurance, as his brown window
proclaimed in chipped gold letters) hardly used
his office for more than an hour a day. The most
familiar part of it was the closed door with the notice
“Back in ten minutes.” The office contained piles of
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, new schoolmistress at
Warning Hill, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
The White family, the chief of Tiburon s
“unwanteds” live in humpies on Warning Hill.
Paul White works for the Dwyers, with
whom Jessica lives. Uneducated, in the usual
sense of the word, he has an intense love of
poetry.
Mrs. Mulver, a Cockney, also lives on
Warning Hill.
Sergeant Moore and Constable Scorby
are ‘‘the Law” in Tiburon.
Colbert Carfrae is headmaster at
Tiburon school. A petty tyrant.
Jingo Barnes is one of Carfrae’s assistants.
Last week his Dramatic Society produced a
musical play.


dusty papers, a table, press and chair and little else.
There was really no necessity for Orry to have an
office at all; but, as he explained to his brother-in-
law, Jeffery Harper, “I’ve always been used to it.”
Orry made a great show of strolling over from
(he hotel to his office about ten to five, looking furi-
ously busy for a few minutes, and then coming out
a tired businessman, so that home-going townsmen
could say, “Had a hard day, Orry?”
“Oh, well, I’ve got to bustle about a bit to make
a crust,” Orry would respond. “I’m out most of
the time on business. Hardly ever see the office.”
Orry was a born bustler, a busy man with an
admiration for Hitler and others he thought rather
resembled himself. He really had no need to work,
seeing that his son Harry ran the radio shop and
made quite a good thing out of it, while his wife
owned the Braemar boarding-house. But that was
Orry’s way. He just had to be busy. “Keeps him
from being underfoot” was the way Mrs. Orry
referred to the office.
The Braemar boarding establishment, known to
its more irreverent inhabitants as “the morgue,” was
a sagging vine-covered weatherboard structure with
a front verandah about four feet from the footpath.
The plan of the house had obviously been thought
out by some expert in acoustics, for a whisper in
the double front room would carry right through to
the laundry. An itinerant agent of the Bible
Society made the whole household blaspheme the
society and all its work, for his was the most rever-
berating snore that ever made man throw boots at
a wall. “Enough to turn you off religion for life,”
as Jingo said. It was one of those admonitory ecclesi-
astical snores with a touch of the last trump about it.
“The front room,” in which boarders could enter-
tain guests if it so pleased them, and if the other
boarders hadn’t got there first, was a cramped apart-
ment full of chairs covered in prickly plush, cane
chairs, whatnots, mirrors with dead grass tastefully
arranged in green china vases so that the glass
reflected nothing but a tangle of leaves, little tables
with hand-painted covers, covers with threadwork,
covers with tassels calculated to gather what dust the
plush did not collect, and pictures of uncles and aunts
of the Great First Era of Photography against
backgrounds of woven cane chairs and grass. “Give
me,” said Jessica Daunt after her first view, “the
simplicity of the Dwyer parlor. I feel like a rabbit
smothered by a blackberry bush.”
Everyone loved Mrs. Orry, even if her mind
was lined with red plush and her resurrections of left-
over mutton were far too frequent; but as for Orry
“Every boarding-house,” said Jingo, “must
have somebody to bore the boarders, so it N
might as well be Orry.” Luckily he was never V
present for breakfast; and at lunch-time the
school-teachers and bank clerks were less
officials than so many attacks of indigestion.
They had time for a rapid “ ’Lo, Lorry ; how’s
Hitler?” and before Orry got into his stride
they had gulped dessert and gone. Tea-time was
the only time when, as he said, he “had a chance
to converse with educated people on matters of
international importance.” He would pick his
mark and edge up under cover of the newspaper.
“I see Greece is in trouble again,” he would
offer. No answer. “It looks as though there’s
going to be trouble in Greece. I saw it coming.
1 said months ago ‘What is Greece going to do if
Russia takes that attitude?’ And there you are.”
Unless the victim made a quick getaway he
would be forced to listen to a monologue which ter-
minated only when Orry glanced at his watch and
remarked: “Well, afraid I’ll have to leave you. 1
have an appointment to talk over some business;
rather important. Have to bustle about to earn a
crust these days —ha, ha! No sure cheque, like you
chaps. Well, I must say I have appreciated our little
talk. It’s a rare pleasure in this town to meet an
educated, liberal man.”
He would then call through the hall towards the
sounds of washing-up in the kitchen: “Going out for
half an hour, Alice. Won’t be long.” The side door
of the Royal Hotel knew his knock, and he passed
to the more appreciative companionship of Dave
White, Sam Jordan, Souter and Hinton. They, at
least, encouraged his witty remarks on Miss Alwin,
who complained about the food. They applauded
his descriptions of the flighty underwear of Nancy
Coombes. “And her with a face like something hacked
off with a chopper. What does she want with a
clothes-line full of frills? Never get anyone to appre-
ciate them.”
When the rusty gate squeaked open at eleven
o'clock, every one knew it was Orry. They also
recognised the double thud as he dropped his boots
beside his bed. Mrs. Orry, a shapeless mass of white
nightgown topped by steel curlpins, would merely
turn over and sigh as Orry sat down heavily on the
creaking mattress and stared at the water-jug in the
moonlight for some minutes before he remembered
that he was getting into bed.
Orry Smith appreciated life cheerfully. He had
the murders in his newspaper, the troubles in Europe,
together with the local scandals, to interest him. He
had married into a comfortable boarding-house.
He had a digestion that even Mrs. Orry could
net affect and plenty of congenial company. But,
now and then, something whispered to him
perhaps at eleven o’clock, when he was staring
at the water-jug that his life was stale and
second-hand. There was no more savor in it than
in one of Mrs. Orry’s resurrections. His muddled,
amiable mind wondered why this should be so.
Greece had not taken his advice. Mrs. Orry had soon
discovered that he was very far from the dashing
blade she thought she had married ; and he sometimes
believed that even the school-teachers avoided him.
“It’s th’ town,” he would mutter. “No scope, no
outlet, no ’portunity f’r a man like me. Tiburon,”
he would confide to the water-jug—“what a place!
Tiburon!”
11.
The inhabitants of Braemar lived a life as self-
contained as that of a tribe on a desert island. Besides
Jingo Barnes, Bevan (the manual-training teacher),
Miss Alwin and the infant mistress, there were Nancy
Coombes, Wilfred Parboy’s clerk, Joe Nesty and
Peter Conn (from the Commerce Bank). Most of
the other clerks lived in a “monastery” boarding-
house further up Atkinson-street, and, after a split
with Mrs. Orry on the matter of baths, most of the
other lady-teachers had gone to live in a “nunnery”
boarding-house near the school. “For which, thank
heaven,” Jingo remarked ; “they can gloat as much
as they like about their bath-heater, but freedom is
greater than cleanliness.”
Jingo was the only teacher who went visiting in
the town, and he went mainly to the Gordons. As
Olive Gordon was hoping to marry him, the others
insisted that this accounted for his popularity. Olive
was, economically speaking, one of the best proposi-
tions in Tiburon, old man Gordon being one of the
“leading” citizens. He was typical of those shrewd,
sturdy men whose acumen brings them to the top
in any line of life. You could not start a beehive
in Tiburon without finding, sooner or later, that
Gordon was holding a half-share. His daughter had
inherited the knack of setting her mind on something
and getting it. “Though anyone who wanted to
marry Jingo,” Nancy Coombes remarked to Miss
Alwin rather cattily, “has never shared a house with
him. Imagine having to live all your life with a man
who sings ‘Don’t You Remember Sweet Alice, Ben
Bolt?’ while he’s shaving!”
It amused Jingo to hear his forthcoming marriage
discussed.
“People in Tiburon,” he commented, “know a
week ahead when you are going to change your
underpants.” He took a mischievous interest in the
rumors, and gave them plenty of nourishment. School-
teachers were always subject to rumors. The town
looked with suspicion on them. They were birds-of-
passage, and to them were attributed many and
“What’s up with you?”
mysterious vices. For one thing, the teachers symbol-
ised “culture” ; and Tiburon, with its whole heart,
detested this sniffing, sneering culture which declared
that what had been good enough for parents and
grandparents was not good enough now.
This was apparent in the attitude of the Parents
and Citizens’ Association towards the school library
which Colbert Carfrae was trying to establish. “Not
that we want,” said Mrs. MacLeary, “not to see the
children have their proper school-readers ; but, don't
you think, Mr. Carfrae, that reading books outside
school hours will take the children’s minds off their
work?”
Mr. Carfrae explained that the reading of
Dickens, Scott and other standard authors, with whose
works he proposed to stock the library, was not calcu-
lated to take anybody’s mind off anything. The
Parents and Citizens were again cowed into a state
of hostile submission.
Mr. Carfrae, however, failed to realise that Jingo
Barnes could not be trusted to select the books, and
when the assistant’s carefully-planned little consign-
ment arrived Colbert again realised that Jingo was
a drawback. There were omnibus volumes of creepy
stories —detective stories, W. W. Jacobs, P. G. Wode-
house, Jeffery Farnol, Edgar Wallace and Rider
Haggard. Colbert attended the next meeting of the
Parents and Citizens’ Association, intending to explain
that there had been a mistake. There was no need.
The Parents and Citizens, of their own accord, voted
an increase in the grant to the library. Most of them
had spent the week-end reading the books their off-
spring had brought home. If this were “culture”
they were all for it.
“That’s the first night,” Jingo boasted, “that that
P. and C.’s been half-friendly.”
The Tiburon P. and C. had always been famous
for its fighting blood. It was not a year since it had
passed a motion of censure on all the staff and tried
to get them shifted in a body because they smoked
in the staff room. It was scarcely six months since
MacLeary, by a happy coup d’etat, had had himself
elected president, and immediately moved a motion
that teachers of ancient history, in explaining the
origin of the species, be instructed to keep strictly
to the Book of Genesis. As MacLeary had not been
to church for ten years this was considered rather a
good jok.
For the past three months war had been raging
because one of the sections, led by Perry, the baker,
wanted to cut out agriculture and substitute Latin and
French. Perry had four daughters, and did not see
the use of agriculture. The opposing faction, while
admitting that agriculture, as taught by a school-
master, might not be of much use, contended that
Latin and French were of even less value. Bill
Sinclair, the science master, had been standing the
brunt of the attack with Carfrae, who, whatever his
private faults, was a lion in the fight. Carfrae was
suffering from the enthusiasms of his predecessor. He
himself detested agriculture and delighted in Latin
and French ; but from necessity he had to maintain
the usefulness of agriculture.
Matters reached a climax at the meeting next
after Jingo’s play, the meeting ending with the Tiburon
Parents and Citizens’ Association, cowed into sub-
mission by the mention of “culture,” voting con-
fusedly for Latin and French and the abolition of
agriculture, the one subject all the boys really enjoyed,
111.
“And that,” said Jingo, as he and Bevan trudged
home, “apart from the picture show next Saturday, is
the only entertainment available in Tiburon this week.
It’s come to a pretty pass when one has the choice
of sitting through old Traves’s anecdotes at the
P. and C. or sitting at the morgue listening to a lot
of static.”
“It’s a funny thing,” Bevan responded. “Carfrae
had them well under his thumb last year. It’s Mac-
Leary being elected president that has changed them.”
“Gentlemen” —Jingo quoted in Carfrae’s best
manner —’“it is time this unseemly and altogether
undignified acrimony was discarded. We—-all of us,
I am sure —have the highest regard for Mr. Sinclair’s
agricultural work, and I know that I personally
esteem his work as a member of my staff above
rubies.” He stopped to laugh.
“There’s a ligjjt in the nunnery,” Bevan remarked.
“Let’s go and telf the girls. They’ll still be drinking
tea if I know them.”
As usual at that hour the female members of
the staff were all gathered in the bedroom of the
infant mistress, and a hail through the window pro-
duced the expected invitation.
“How did the ‘travelling grave’ get on?” Miss
Alwin asked as she handed Jingo his cup from the
washstand. The school stretcher was always called
the travelling grave because it had canvas flaps which
would fold over the victim if required.
“It’s got its blankets.” Jingo sat down carefully
on the bed.
“Kath Stinson will be pleased.” Kath Stinson
was the senior mathematics mistress. “She’s always
fussing about it.”
“Where is Kath?” Bevan inquired. “It would
be terrible if we told our tale and she missed it.”
“She’s at choir practice.”
“At this hour?” Bevan raised his eyebrows.
“She’s probably eloped with the rector,” the third-
class teacher cooed. “Before you know it I’ll be
in the Salvation Army myself. I think the Salvation
Army captain is perfectly gorgeous.”
“Darling,” the infant mistress cried, “you in a
bonnet! Too horrible for words.”
“I wouldn’t blame you,” Bevan said gloomily.
“Anything for diversity.”
“Speaking of diversity, did you hear that young
Jessica Daunt is going round with”
“They had another row at the P. and C. to-night,”
Jingo broke in. “You ought to have heard Mac Leary
and the boss.” He gave an imitation, amid shrieks of
unkind laughter.
“After all, though,” Jingo concluded thoughtfully,
“I can see what they are driving at. They feel there’s
something wrong with Tiburon, though they won’t
admit it. They do in their hearts want to make this
town a place fit for heroes to live in, and they think
they can do it by sweating their kids on Latin and
French and Sir Walter Scott.”
“Culchah! ” said Bevan nastily. “Carfrae’s
culchah! ”
“What is wrong with this damn’ town anyway?”
Phil Alwin asked. “Lord, I’ve been in the country
ever since I first came out. All the towns have been
pretty foul, but there’s something about Tiburon.
It’s—it’s like a smell. You can go into the best houses
or the hovels, and it’s the same smell.”
The others looked at her in open astonishment.
Phil usually listened to their ravings and smiled. It
was a new thing to have her break out herself
“What’s up with you?” Jingo asked.
“Oh, I don’t know. Perhaps because they’re
getting their fangs into Jessica.” She looked at the
infant mistress, who almost blushed.
“I know what you mean about the smell,” Bevan
said. “A smell of small, sour virtues, misbegotten
convictions and conventional stupidity. You want to
open the window.”
“Red plush”—from Miss Alwin.
“Dust and stale beer on the street corners.”
“Bad drains and sewerage.”
“Down with Tiburon,” said Jingo cheerfully.
“Blest if we aren’t all back on our old grouch.”
“But every place is the same,” said the infant
mistress, anff pouted her rosebud mouth at Bevan,
who merely scowled. “What do you want, you silly
things?”
The others stayed silent. What did they want?
Jingo had a vision of nature-study classes in the open
air and field clubs, bird clubs, building clubs, dramatic
clubs, camping parties, debating societies, study groups
and sports teams. And he saw the face of a woman
—not Olive —who would help him build them.
Miss Alwin was contemplating a miracle whereby
the dreariness of the balls she never attended now
because nobody asked her might be changed into a
gaiety that no one in Tiburon understood. She saw
people dancing. Dancing because they felt like it.
Dancing down along the river banks —children in
(i Continued on page 50.)


Increase Your Valve Sale “PALEC”
’
,
m mi
m
7WN
■
Emporium Valve Tester
TESTS ALL VALVES; Will test all standard
" —— American (including
metal series), English and Octode types without
Adaptors.
HANDSOME APPEARANCE: Will attract
————— attention, and
inspire the confidence of clients.
NOISY VALVE DETECTION: Subjects each
———— e i emen t of a
HOT Valve to a micro leak test. Complete with
framed chart and window sign.
Price £l3/10/- {plus tax)
Standard A.C. or D.C. model ... £ll/5/- {plus tax)
Send for particulars of the “PALEC” range of
Equipment: Cathode Ray Oscillographs, the New
k Motorless Frequency Base, the Analyser-Oscillator
* Combination, the 0-1 Milliamp. Meter, etc., etc., to
THE PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.,
Melbourne: A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd. Sydney: All Leading Distributors.
90 VICTORIA STREET,
ASHFIELD, N.S.W.
Telephone; UA1960.
95
RADIO
ENGINEERING
SCHOLARSHIPS
SEND FOR FULL
PARTICULARS TO
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO COLLEGE
BROADWAY. SYDNE.V
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Ktuiio Accessories at give-away prices. AU
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
RADIO NEWS
LONDON’S LATEST SETS REVIEWED.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Australian radio designers have for years been inspired by America
because in the early days of broadcasting the average English receiver
design did not suit Australian conditions. To-day, in many respects,
Australian manufacturers could benefit from paying attention to modern
English and European developments.
It was expected, erroneously, that the
keynote of Britain’s 1935 Radiolympia
would be extensive television displays.
But new television services for London
were not in action officially, and public
Fig. 1.—The H.M.V. 15-valve high-
fidelity autoradiogram.
demonstrations would necessarily have
been of an experimental nature. Next
year’s Radiolympia probably will in-
clude them.
Radiolympia, however, did include
many television accessories and a lot of
equipment of interest to experimenters.
Indeed, it showed that, now television
has gone over to the cathode-ray tube
and advanced mechanical scanning sys-
tems for high definition, manufacturers
have wasted no time in meeting require-
ments. Some English experimenters have
created successful high-definition trans-
mitters ; and there are many cathode-ray
and other receivers awaiting the signal.
Manufacturers had the foresight to sup-
ply experimenters with essential parts to
work at while official wheels were turn-
ing slowly. Radio exhibits showed that
the English manufacturer has little to
learn from other countries. Technically
and artistically, England’s 1935 radio is
of a high standard.
Fig. 2. —Lampex Superhet Six. A nine-
stage superhet in inlaid walnut cabinet.
Neither, the smaller mantel-type re-
ceivers nor the expensive autoradiograms
exhibited in London differ in finish.
Comparison in this respect is shown in
Figs. 1 and 2. Fig. 1 illustrates an
H.M.V. de luxe receiver (HOgns.), Model
800, 15-valve, high-fidelity autoradiogram
for A.C. operation.
The 15 valves in-
clude two rectifiers.
It is a radio-gramo-
phone combination,
and the radio side
includes all - wave
(not merely dual-
wave) reception. Fig.
2 illustrates a Lam-
pex six-valve super-
het (12|gns.). A
nine-stage superhet
com p r i sing R.F.
pentode, Hep tode
frequency - changer,
A.V.C. detection,
buffer audio and pentode output, plus
rectifier, it is housed in an inlaid walnut
cabinet. It is not for short-wave coverage.
All-wave receivers are obtainable with
an overlap coverage from 12 to 2000
Fig. 3. —Climax Model 534, A.C. An
all-wave superhet.
metres. The 2000-rru
apply to Australia, bu
tage in receivers
capable of taking in
all short-wave
channels. The
Climax Sports
Model 534 (16gns.)
is shown in Fig. 3.
It is a seven-stage
all - wave superhet
covering four bands,
including 10-30, 28-
80, 200-550 and 900-
2000 metres. Refine-
ments are A.V.C.
delayed, noise sup-
pression, tone con-
trol, 34 watts pen-
tode output, visual
light tuning over all
wave-bands, special
geared control for short waves at 150-to-
-1 ratio, dial calibrated in station names,
wave-length and degrees and gramophone
pickup and speaker extension sockets.
Unusual in cabinet design is the Aus-
tin Dorchester (19gns.), Fig. 4. This
example of modern “cocktail” furniture
is supplied with plate-glass shelves and
nickel-plated fittings. There are neat hous-
ing for glasses and bottles, and a cup-
board for gramophone records. The
wood is striped walnut with inlays.
Since the advent of the Hivac midget
valves the really small portable has been
given an impetus ; one of the popular
Fig. 5. —The Empiric pocket portable. A
2-valve super-regenerator with a 100-
mile range at £4/10/-.
attractions at Radiolympia was the
Empiric (Fig. 5), described as the most
compact of all portable wireless sets. It
is modelled on the lines of the Brighton
police super-regenerator (B. 11/9/’35).
There are two valves ; weight is lib. 3oz. ;
B-battery consumption is .Bma., and
L.T. battery .12 ampere. Size, 6in. by
4|in. by l|in., in a bakelite case ; range,
50 to 100 miles on the 200- to 550-metre
broadcast band; price, £4 10s. It can
be carried in a lady’s handbag. It is
surprising that in Australia the portable
battery receiver is not more popular.
The Variband I.F. design (17s. 6d.),
in which two I.F. transformers are ar-
ranged for front-panel coupling varia-
tion, is illustrated in Fig. 6. It enables
the use of a wide frequency band for
high fidelity or a narrow band for
selectivity. This is made by the Varley
Co., well experienced in coil design with
modern iron-cores.
Fig. 4. —The radio cabinet for the cock-
tail party! A beautiful piece of work
by Austin —the Dorchester cabinet.
D. B. K.
Short-wave Diallings.
Conditions have been variable, and
there has been weak signal strength in
the 25-metre band. This is unusual for
this time of the year. RNE has dis-
appeared, and is not in the 49-metre
band. W8XK, in the 19-metre band, has
been heard as early as 9 p.m. Several
mornings in the same band two Ameri-
cans, W8XK and W2XAD, have been
heard, and another, very weak, W2XE
probably.
ORK (Belgium), recently on the air
longer, has been heard as early as 5.30
a.m., strength being greater then than
later. VUB (Bombay) has
but coming in very late. The wave-
length in the 31-metre band is close to
the strong commercial FZR, which has
been interfering at times.
The B.B.C. No. 1 transmission has
been excellent. In the test transmissions
GSF has been ahead of GSI. PHI has
been the best of the 25-metre evening
stations, and GSD, which has been re-
placing GSE during test transmissions,
has been good, but not equal to GSE.
Radio Coloniale has not improved in the
7 p.m. transmission, and has been good
’phone only. It has been strong later in
the 19-metre band, which is capable of
alone providing a good evening’s enter-
tainment. PCJ thanked listeners on
6 /11 / *35 for reports and mentioned many
Australians. The D.E.I. station in the
31-metre band has been excellent, but
neither DJN nor DJA has been as good
as usual. 2RO has continued good, but
was heard one morning on the 31-metre
band with bad interference. After 11.30
p.m. there has been an unidentified
station between DJA and the D.E.I.
station. CT1AA has been strong, bnt
Fig. 6. —The Varley Variband I.F. unit
for variable selectivity in superhets.
fades after 6.30 a.m. The English
announcer is more easily understood.
A sure sign of summer conditions
has been the reappearance of VK3LR, a
useful station last summer, when extreme
static made the broadcast band hopeless.
The 49-metre band has not been worth
bothering about. Above that frequency,
summer conditions have made reception
generally unpleasant.
NIGHTOWL.
Short-wave Programmes.
Station PHI, Philips Radio, Eind-
hoven, Holland. Wave-length 25.57 m.,
11,730kc./sec. Opens 11.30 p.m.
Nov. 21: 11.30 p.m., Dutch national
anthem; 11.40 p.m., music; 11.50 p.m., “Short
Waves —Long Distances,” talk by Mr. Spruit;
12.5 a.m., music; 12.10 a.m., piano recital
by Mr. Cor de Groot —Chopin programme;
12.25 a.m., music; 12.30 a.m., latest news from
Holland; 12.45 a.m., Alfredo Campoli and his
orchestra; 12.55 a.m., second part of the piano
recital; 1.10 a.m., music; 1.15 a.m., dance
music; 1.30 a.m., closing down.
Nov. 22: 11.30 p.m.', Dutch national
anthem; 11.40 p.m., music; 11.55 p.m., talk by
Mr. G. de Josselin de Jong; 12.5 a.m., Phohi
select trio; 12.30 a.m., latest news from Hol-
land ; 12.45 a.m., Phohi select trio; 12.55


COMPARISON IC4 AND 34.
34
1C4
Economy
Con-
ditions.
1C4
Nonttal
Con-
ditions.
Filament volts
2.0
2.0
2.0
Filament current
.06
.12
.12
Plate volts
135
135
135
Screen volts
67.5
30*
67.5
Grid volts (min.)
Grid volts (cut-
-3
0
0
off) ..
Plate current,
—22.5
*
—16
ma. ..
Screen current.
2.8
0.65
2.5
ma. ..
Mutual con-
1.0
0.25
0.9
ductance
Amplification
600
600
1000
factor
Plate resistance,
360
1525
800
megohms
Valve amplifica-
tion, plate load
0.6
2.54
0.8
.3 megohms
Valve amplifica-
tion, plate load
120
161
218
. 5 megohms
163
250
308
GREATER ECONOMY IN OPERATION
WITH THE
TYPE IC4
VALVE
Radiol ron
A new High-Gain, Non-Microphonic, Super-Control Radio-Frequency Pentode
is the latest Radiotron release, using less "B" battery current and giving better
selectivity than any other equivalent purpose valve.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Limited
a.m., musical talk by Herman Rutters; 1.15
a.m., Phohi select trio; 1.30 a.m., closing
down.
Nov. 23: 11.30 p.m., Dutch national
anthem; 11.40 p.m., the Troubadours; 12.25
a.m., microphone debutants; 12.35 a.m., the
Troubadours; 12.45 a.m., latest news from
Holland; 1 a.m., the Troubadours; 1.30 a.m.,
news talk by Mr. L. Aletrino; 1.55 a.m.,
the Troubadours; 2.35 a.m., closing down.
Amateur Chatter.
The 28mc. European conditions do not
appear to be holding up so far as
N.S.W. is concerned. VK6SA can often
be heard working Frenchmen and South
Africa at 7 p.m. S.M.T., but extreme
DX is rare on the eastern side of Aus-
tralia. J2IS puts a strong signal into VK
consistently. On the morning of
10/11 /’35 Americans were patchy, al-
though VK4EI could be heard at inter-
vals QSO W6AHZ. Experience shows
that the average amateur receiver,
although suitable for frequencies of
14mc. and lower, is seriously lacking at
28mc. For those taking up this band in
earnest, a special receiver, preferably of
a superhet type, is worth while, to say
nothing of 56mc.
At intervals listening has been done
on 56mc. In Sydney VKs 2CG, 2WD
and 2ZD are active, and Manly Radio
Club, VK2MR, is testing. Commercial
activity in the vicinity of the five-metre
band is noted. The 56mc. to 60mc.
range must be reserved for purely
amateur experiments. Apathy in this
respect may lead to encroachment. There
are plenty of frequency ranges between
28mc. and 112mc,, exclusive of the ex-
perimental bands set aside by the P.M.G.,
where people interested only in commer-
cial development can work.
A.R.M.P.A.L. announces ultra-short-
wave television for Sydney in three
months. If those responsible for the
technical side have the good sense to
benefit by amateur conclusions, a Blue
Mountains site is the place for the
transmitter.
Interesting news is the arrival of
ceramic binder iron-dust cores from
U.S.A. Only the core material is avail-
able for manufacturers, not completed
I.F. or R.F. assemblies. Soon, amateurs
in Australia will be able to make up
some really high Q superhets.
The news of the passing of W6HM
comes as a shock to many. He was a
man with amateur radio interests at
heart. In Sumner Young, W9HCC, he
leaves an able lieutenant to carry on his
work before Cairo in 1938.
On 14mc. DX has been good for
Europeans. One evening at 6.30 p.m.
S.M.T., the writer was surprised at the
exceptional conditions. A CQ was
answered by FBDR in Paris on ’phone
at R 9. He appeared to be dubious as
to the genuine origin of the writer’s
signal owing to strong reception at his
end also. Verification proved, an inter-
esting chat took place for half an hour,
with all the ease of local working. As
an example of the DX to be obtained
casually on 14mc., the following stations
were worked on eight consecutive
evenings, with operating time at an
average of one hour each evening:
G2AS, G2GK, GSGI, GSSY, GSBD
England, FBBC Madagascar, OE7JH
Austria, FBDR France, VU2LZ India,
SMSWK Sweden, J2LB. J2CN Japan,
VS3AC Johore, VPSAC, VPSPZ Jamaica,
KSAM Panama, X2N Mexico, PK3LC
Dutch East Indies, HHSPA Hayti,
VEIHK Canada, WSQU, WIDUK and
W6LDF U.S.A., and OH3NA Finland.
There is little to say about 7mc. other
than its hideous nature in Sydney. Good
telephony is a pleasure, but there is far
too much of the other kind. Ignorance
is not bliss when unfortunate listeners
have to endure it. Modulated A.C.
carriers are bad enough, but when dozens
of parasitics appear over the band on
either side black thoughts upset the
equilibrium of the most tolerant of ex-
perimenters. Transmitting equipment in
wrong hands is productive of sheer un-
pleasantness.
L. G. Petrie, general secretary of
A.R.T. (M.L.), writes concerning the sug-
gested organisation of five-metre tests
between VK and ZL amateurs: Nearly
all Hutt Valley amateurs are on
“five” for the purpose of making the
first trans-Cook Strait 56mc. contacts with
Blenheim amateurs. We are endeavoring
to stimulate activity in trans-Tasman
contacts, particularly among New
Plymouth experimenters, as that seems
to be the ideal locality. Should contact
be made with New Plymouth and care-
ful observations made, some interesting
facts would come to light.
VK2NO.
W6HM’s Signal Fades.
VK2NO writes:
Colonel Clair Foster, of W6HM, champion
of world amateur rights, who died suddenly
at Denver, Colorado, was always ready for a
lengthy conversation when on the air. Since
amateur signals first crossed the Pacific in 1924,
his signal was a West Coast (U.S.A.) land-
mark. Opposing injustices and cramping re-
The late Colonel Clair Foster, W6HM.
strictions in international amateur regulations,
the last two years saw him battling hard for
reformation. His memory will inspire others
to carry on his work.
Latest in the Trade.
Palec Cathode-ray Oscillograph.
Paton Electrical Instrument Co., Vic-
toria-street, Ashfield, N.S.W., has, in
addition to its well-known range of
laboratory test equipment as applied to
radio, recently produced a highlight in
laboratory instruments in the form of
an extremely well engineered cathode-ray
oscillograph. Mr. A. H. Mutton, B.E.
Stud. LE. Aust., formerly of the Radio
Research Board, and now on the staff
of the Paton Co., is responsible for this
interesting production. The application
and scope of the cathode-ray oscillograph
are almost unlimited, and in these rapidly-
moving scientific times no progressive
manufacturer of radio apparatus for re-
ception or transmission should be with-
out such a visual indicator, A few of
the everyday uses are:
(1) Wave-form examination at low and high
frequencies.
(2) Checking of distortion in audio stages.
(3) Checking overall audi-frequency response
(fidelity).
(4) Selectivity check (discrimination against in-
terfering stations).
(5) Selectivity curve (correct alignment of I.F.
transformers and adjustment to get band-
pass of desired width). An external-fre-
quency modulator is required for this test.
(6) Detector circuit efficiency (correction of
bias and observation of R.F. in plate cir-
cuit).
(7) Ammeter and voltmeter at ali frequencies.
(8) Percentage modulation of radio stations and
signal generators.
(9) Static and dynamic valve characteristic
curves.
(10) Checking and power factor tests at H.F.
on resistances, inductances and capacities
and combining of same.
Detailed instructions for all these tests
are supplied with each instrument, and
the specifications include the following:
Valves. —The Palec cathode-ray oscillograph
employs six valves in all, namely, one 906
cathode-ray tube (three-inch screen), one 885
gas triode, one 879 high-voltage rectifier, one
80, one 57 and one 56.
Sensitivity. —The 906 tube operates up to
very high radio frequencies at 74-volts-per-inch
deflection. From 74- down to one-volt-per-inch
deflection is obtained with the amplifier cut in.
Sweep Circuit. —A linear sweep oscillator
covering 35 to 50,000 c.p.s. is included. An
adjustment will enable operation on frequencies
as low as one c.p.s. and as high as 70,000
c.p.s. Controls for external and internal syn-
chronisation provided, together with sweep-
amplitude control. This oscillator is an Aus-
tralian development, and is definitely in advance
of anything at present available.
Amplifier. —An ampli-
fier can be cut in on
vertical plates. This
gives a controllable gain
up to 100, and is per-
fectly linear for all audio
frequencies, and effective
up to more than 100,000
c.p.s.
Controls. —The controls
include focus, intensity,
vertical and horizontal
shifts, amplifier and time-
base switching, in addi-
tion to those outlined
above.
Portability. —P anel.
chassis, case and screens
are of aluminium, which
accounts for the ex-
tremely low weight of
approximately 201b. The
dimensions are 14in. x
8in. x 9in.; crystalline
finish.
In addition to the
manufacturer, the
Palec cathode-ray os-
cillograph has a defi-
nite appeal for the advanced radio ser-
viceman, and also dealers with exten-
sive servicing business. Operation neces-
sary to actually view the wave-form of
any circuit under consideration is very
simple, and the acquisition of such an
instrument will naturally result in its
utilisation in the test room more than
any other unit. The price, £3B 10s., plus
tax, is a reasonable figure for such a
high-grade piece of equipment.
New Radiotrons.
Since the Australian Radiotron valve
factory got into its stride a year or so
ago it has been responsible for several
improvements on overseas design, with
the result that some Australian valves
have no actual counterpart. The latest
efforts are an improved two-volt battery
R.F. and audio pentodes, the new valves
being marked as types IC4 and ID4.
The IC4 is the R.F. pentode, and is de-
signed to supersede the 34. Similarly,
the ID4 has improved performance over
the 33. The advantages of the IC4 over
the 34 are summarised;
Considerably higher gain (over 80 p.c. in-
crease). Lower plate and screen currents. If
desired, the IC4 may be operated with a total
plate and screen current of o.9ma. to give a
stage gain 25 p.c. higher than the 34, using
3.Bma. Lower inter-electrode capacity, giving
greater stability. Lower output capacity, giving
improved performance, particularly on short
waves. Zero minimum bias, thus simplifying
the A.V.C. system. Note that no grid current
flows at zero bias. Small bulb to fit standard
shield cans. Dome shield as 6D6. Short grid
bias, giving improved A.V.C. Excellent per-
formance as an R.F. amplifier on short waves.
Higher amplification factor (800-1525). High
plate resistance (equal to the 6D6), giving in-
creased selectivity.
♦Using series dropping resistor approx. 0.15
megohms from 67.5 volts; cut-off depends
only on screen supply voltage, and in this
case will be —l6 volts.
The ID4 audio pentode may be
operated, if desired, at 135 v. on plate
and screen and 4v. bias. This is jmr-
ticularly of value when a 6v. A battery
is used and the bias is obtained from the
A battery.
The filament current is in accordance
with the new R.M.A. standards, whereby
all filaments in battery valves are to be
(Continued on next page.)


FRE E !
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write («•!«& -sing oil. in •taint*) f° r I' lo 30 x2O
inch Lavishly lUustruled Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
Will definitely TEST
METAL TUBES
SLADE D.C. Valve Tester, Type
D.C. 203
COMBINING all the features that modern scientific engineering has developed,
the Slade D.C. Valve Tester/ type D.C. 303 (illustrated here), checks all
valves —METAL or glass—American or European
Modern multi-element valves positively require a valve tester to show high
resistance leakages between the elements, as more often than not this is the
cause of noisy and intermittent reception and distortion. Modifications have
been made in the circuit of the D.C. 303 to take care of the advances made in
radio engineering practice. It accepts or rejects valves according to their
“GOOD or BAD”
The D.C. 203 is a definite boon to the
Serviceman in the country, where A.C.
current is not available. It works off the
car battery with an exceptionally low cur-
rent drain. This is an exclusive Slade
feature, as it is the first D.C. valve tester
to operate in this manner. A turn of
the rotary switch will pick out and
test each element of a heated valve,
identifying a “short” or “leakage”
and recording same on the NEON
even if it is as high as 500,000
ohms or more
OTHER FEATURES;
(1) Calibrated Chart in booklet
that includes practically
every valve sold in Aus-
tralia. Full range of stan-
dard American as well as
over 60 of each of the
following: Philips, Mullard
and Osram Valves.
(2) Direct reading coloured Dial,
with GOOD-BAD sections in
conjunction with scale showing
percentage readings of each.
(3) Line check with line adjustment.
(4) Heavy panel of three-quarter-inch English
ebonite in oak case.
(5) Tests all second plates and Diode plates.
Send for price list of full range of Slade Precision Test Equipment.
A Calstan meter for any instrument —an instrument for any test.
qualities.
Price:
16 Guineas.
SLADE RADIO
Precision Test Equipment Manufacturers,
LANG STREET, CROYDON, N.S.W. ’PHONE: UJ5381-2.
Obtainable at
Martin De Launay, Ltd. Bloch & Gerber, Ltd.
Murdoch’s, Ltd. Fox & MacGillycuddy,
Ltd.
Melbourne: Australian General Electric, Ltd.
Adelaide; I). Harris & Co.
Brisbane: Chandler & Co.
Perth: Carlyle & Co.
Improved A.C. Mains
type, A.C. 202 —11 guineas.
HIBISCUS VENTILATED
COLD SAFES
HlQ|s c
US
V CNt
l 4t
C 0l D
(p at e >E
T Eoi
of 26 e .. P» ton. «K. .K.JJ- 9ft , oft ,
2/2 2/7 3/- 3/5 3/11 4/6
MOTOR TYRES No one can beat our prices. Write for Price List. We
invite comparison.
PLOUGHS AND PLOUGH HARNESS— New Pioneer Ploughs, 7in„ from 70/-.
Plough Harness from 50/- set. Plough Chains, Bd. per pound.
AUTOGRAPH —For adding efficiency to your motor oil, 3/- and 27/6 tins.
WELDMESH —Latest fencing for cattle and pigs and sheep, from 22/- per
roll of 5 chains. Write for maker’s list.
HIBISCUS FENCING WIRE —We are Sole Agents. No other firm can supply
the genuine Hibiscus, therefore order direct from us.
TANKS—TANK MATERIALS—TROUGHING, ETC.— Manufactured in our
workshop, hence it is impossible to equal our prices. Tank material,
complete, for 1000-gallon, price 70/-. and 2000-g.llon, £3 /1 0/-.
26g. Ridging. 1/3. 26g. Spouting. 1/- per 6ft. length. Galv. Batas,
32/6 each, . ~ .
JOINERY— We likewise manufacture in our own works and give you direct
factory prices. Standard Doors, best grade 6ft 8m x 2ft. Bm. x
Uin., M. P and T. Moulded, 1 7/6 each. Equally low for all other joinery.
NEW ERA CREAM SEPARATORS— Best by test We guarantee money c an’t
buy a better machine. As direct agents for the factory you can buy
af 10-gal., £5; 15-gah. £6; 22-gal., £9/10/-; 30-gal.. £ 2/IV-.
45-gal., £l7/10/-; 60 gal., £2l; 90-gal., £25. Less 10 p.c. for cash.
Wire, Wire Netting and Most Groceries We Pay Freight Free by Boat to Mam
Northern Queensland Ports.
Write for our Big Illustrated Catalogue. It will save you pounds.
Lowest also for —• r .„ mn 12 ; eac h- and Exhibition Stretcher
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
BOWEN STREET (Off Ann Street), BRISBANE.
Keep your
without ice.
food fresh and cool
Buy now and have the
benefit right through summer.
Small, 14in. x 14in. x 20in. inside
measurement £2/2/6
Medium, I Sin. x 1 Sin. x 28in. inside
measurement £3/5/-
NEW GALV. CORK. IRON —Special
Offer: Grade B, 6ft. 2/-, and
Bft. 2/6. No other firm can
supply, as we take the full out-
put from the works.
ALSO BEST BRITISH CROWN
Another 100 tons just landed
Large, 28in.
measurement
. x 24in. x 32in. inside
£4/15/-
multiples of 60ma. This feature enables
it to be in series parallel arrangement
with other valves having filaments draw-
ing .06 and .12 amp.
The bulb and base are similar to those
of type 33, and the socket connections
are identical. If a larger power output
is desired, two lD4s may be used in
push-pull or in over-bias push-pull
(Q.P.P.).
The grid swing is so small that one
of these valves when fitted to a receiver
increases the sensitivity over that of a
receiver using a 33 or similar type of
pentode.
All Round the Dial.
“A. Major”: What the dickens is the
use of the A.B.C. doing its opera broad-
casts in English if the language is as
badly enunciated as it has been in
“Boris Godounov” sessions? In the
death scene the only recognisable bit of
Anglo-Saxon came from Dutchman De
Vries, who, as Czar Boris, announced
that he was dying, seemed to be in a very
bad temper about it, and continued to
die for a long, long while with orchestral
and choral trimmings. The Pushkin-
Mossourgsky-Rimsky-Korsakotf opera is
inchoate and bewildering enough when
seen on the stage with every advantage
of setting. Heard through a hole in a
box it is interesting only to folk who
have seen the opera adequately per-
formed, and who are able to supply 75
p.c. of the entertainment through their
own imaginations. Anyway, whence
comes this newborn enthusiasm for Mos-
sourgsky, a half-fledged musical amateur
who left everything he attempted in a
sort of inarticulate muddle?
* * * *
“Greenhide”; The grouping of the new
relay stations, when the system is com-
pleted, will still leave the north-western
portion of the continent very poorly served,
owing to the scanty population not justi-
fying the expense of linking,. according
to the P.M.G. For the sake of fairplay
one of two schemes should be adopted.
The first is additional short-wave facili-
ties to relay the normal broadcast pro-
grammes, involving a shade more trouble
for the average listener in his tuning.
The second is functioning smoothly in
Norway. Listeners whose reception does
not show a definite signal strength on
measurement by the officials are entitled
to a second-class listeners’ license at a
quarter of the cost of the full license.
The Q. and A. Column.
I live ot an altitude of 2700ft. here in M.L.
An old two-valve set which has been out
of use for four years has been recommissioned.
The valves are Radiotron 20\A’s, batteries two
45 -volt Ever-Ready blocks and four \\-volt dry
cells. Aerial is 130 ft. long and 40 ft. high.
Reception is excellent —all M.L. A and B
stations on headphones —but the A batteries
run down quickly. (1) Is this due to out-of-
date valves ? (2) What valves do you suggest ?
(3) What kind of speaker would be suitable?
—337.
(1) Yes. A six-volt accumulator should be
used with 201A valves. The drain is too
heavy for dry cells. (2) Two Radiotron or
Philips type 30. These are two-volt valves,
and would work from one dry cell.
Three or four cells could be connected in
parallel for long service. (3) Any good 2000-
ohm magnetic-type speaker, such as the Philips
Sevenette.
* * * *
Built a superhet a month ago, and every-
thing was normal until now. With volume
increased, the speaker develops a tinny sound,
which is also produced after receiver has been
in action for a long period. Valves are 5Ts
and 58’.y, with a 2A5 audio. Speaker is a
Jensen D 18 type, field resistance 2500 ohms.
This gets quite warm after receiver has been
in use some time. (1) Cause ? (2) There is
a bluish glow in the 2A5. Is this normal ? —
334.
(1) Possibly due to speaker; more likely to
be due to faulty receiver. A valve down in
emission could be responsible where, after
standing idle, action is normal but falls off
later. Test all valves first. Examine tubular
condensers, particularly for leakage, and, if the
grid-coupling condenser to the 2A5 is of this
type (probably a .Olmfd. paper), replace with
mica type forthwith. (2) Bluish glow in a
pentode is normal, unless a brilliant aggressive
color, indicating softness. Normal glow is
fluorescence, caused by electron bombardment.
SK H= * *
In Samoa, KFI, KNX and WLW come in
strongly; but I have difficulty in raising M.L.
and Australia with my R.C.A. Victor Model
R4 Superette, 105/125 volts, 50/60 cycles,
which is three years old. 1 YA is fairly good,
but over 1000 kc. reception does not compare
with the lower-frequency end of the range.
(1) Any improvement possible? (2) Suggestion
for aerial efficiency ? —335.
(1) Trouble probably due to geographical
limitations and weather conditions affecting
wave reflection. The set may not be tracking
properly, and falling off over part of the
tuning range. Careful adjustment of condenser
trimmers (not the oscillator one), padder and
I.F. trimmers with a tool shaped like a screw-
driver from a bone knitting-needle might
effect improvement. Care is necessary. Carry
out adjustments on a strong station, working
later on weaker ones. (2) A tuned aerial
system would help. Connect a coil tuned by
a condenser, to cover broadcast band, one
side to aerial, the other to earth. Connect th:
aerial side through a small midget variable
condenser to the receiver aerial terminal. Still
use the earth . connection. In effect, this
arrangement is a preselector, but tunes the
aerial to resonance and raises the signal pickup.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.M.: Haunted pubs leave us cold
F. Not quite K.M.; A long way off.
H.W.T. (N.G.): Not in <mr line. Try a
travel magazine... .J.C.R.: Might make a par.
of it; not worth the length you’ve spun it
out to C. 0.8.: You’re still on the way.
We don’t like people who talk in italics
Teebeedee: It has now been denied that any
such resolution was passed N.S.: “Ah, do
not tell me what the gulls are crying.” Very
well, we won’t A.G.V.: “War-moor” is a
bad rhyme; “dene” certainly rhymes with
“scene,” but that appears to be the only excuse
for being in the poem at all. “Splash on
splash” is more suggestive of a communal
bathtub than of a storm at sea... .M.C.W.:
There’s an easy swing about it, but the
thoughts are echoes 0.T.J.: What has
“Friendship” done to deserve such treatment?
M.S.: Album-verse only J.M.K.; Your
sonnets aren’t sonnets at all, but merely 14
lines of chopped-up prose A.G.; Out of
place in an Australian paper A. de R.:
Too slight 8.A.5.; Verses praying for con-
tentment fill too much space in too many
papers... .H.L.W.: Still misses... .C.S.: It
came very close. Give it a try elsewhere....
G. The tale of the tangled twins isn t
sufficiently convincing Bleasdale: Doesnt
make the grade.... The Witness: If you send
us any more verse like that you’ll be the de-
fendant J.G.: Over-written and unconvinc-
ing R.A.H.: A long way off F.A.D.:
The meat in your “red-blooded” yarn tastes
like tinned stuff K.F.: Fear knocked, but
Faith didn’t answer E.A.S.: Humor too
strained Old Joe: Few readers would be
interested in your drive through National Park.
M.R.: Style all right; subject unsuitable.
M A. 8.: Not quite up to the laugh-stan-
dard H.C.: A bit too sentimental....
D.A.C.: “Grasshoppers” now feeding off all
the green ink in the \v.p.b Bellerive: By
all means let us have it;
E.O.S.; Doesn’t get past this time....
R W G.: Haven’t they caught that old brumby
yet? E.W.; Artificial and humorless
E.W.F.: Account of vice-regal visit to country
town lacks general appeal W.M.: One
poignant verse:
Hopeless and helpless and beaten
Ah pity ! But do not upbraid
The do wntrod den —w ea vy—def ea ted,
The man that a woman betrayed.
F.S.; You seem to be bent on having a
miserable time... .F.F.; Not suitable....
R.F.S.: “Time” rolling back to you -•. .Emel :
Neither quite rings the be 11... .F.0.L.. *
have a fair gift of versification, but me
samples submitted lack meat and spirit... •
H. Honestly, we dont think me
wind has any such designs upon y0u....
I. Plot doesn’t sufficiently convince
M.L.S. (M.L.).: Can’t place tennis skit....
C. 8.: We grow very weary of yarns about me
chap who only thought he was bitten by a
snake.... A.R.: Surely all artists don t drivel
such inanities... .M.E.; Dialogue too stilted,
plot too trite. Get off the beaten track....
W.R.L.P.: Conversations with New York s
master criminals of no interest to Australians.
J.T.; Nothing doing R.R. : Boarding-
house sketch not for us; try elsewhere.. ••
K. 5.8.: Jack dominoed with his own black-
smith’s hammer... .T.D.: “Kooka gets the
bird DG.; Good authors can make their
yarns virile without swear-words in every
second paragraph... D.G.W.: l our lines that
might hold some interest lor Lyons:
And dare he swear, that native bear whose shaky
perch beneath him rocks,
That he has jput old Billy where he cannot give them
further shocks?
At threats of war they sweetly snore, though they
can wake to raise their screws,
And lest he spoil their beauty sleep they try to
silence Billy Hughes!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P D • It is far from being the masterpiece
you' claim....R.L.F.; The drunk who wants
to present his overcoat to the statue arrives
here periodically... .W. 8.; Mere echoes. Be
yourself... .S.J.: The gag is barnacle-encrusted,
and the drawing wretched GK.: Hard to
decide what the cartoon is about .. .W.W.:
More like a Chinese coolie painted black than
an Australian abo 1.M.: Well, all we can
say is that Billy has grown a lot since we saw
him last... ,F.W.: You’re just a hopeless
scratcher C. 8.: The gentleman bulges in
the wrong places... .A.R.G.: Interesting lay-
out, but the linework is too harsh and heavy.
S.N.H.: Wait another five years D.C.:
Both joke and drawing might have strayed
from an American magazine W.A.: If you
take more pains you should soon score....
BF ■ Dull G.S.W.: Hard to say where
the parson ends and the pulpit begins....
N.C.: The pen drawings are the better, though
they are nothing out of the b0x....T.R.:
Gag recently appeared W.P.C.: Neither
bouquets nor brickbats T.M.D.: Yes, call
in and see us and we’ll show you what our
originals look like.
TO THE MEMORY OF FRED ARCHER.
(Former Celebrated English Jockey.)
Fred Archer of England
Prevailed in his time.
As a great judge of pace.
And rider sublime.
By daring and skill
'During a fall of snow.
The english derby he
Won long years ago.
Prominent men of the turf.
With pride would comment.
On the fine jockey’s chance
In a important event.
Unparalled he reigned
The foremost and best.
Till broken in health.
When he sank to rest.


FOR CAULFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Consolation Stakes: Valiant
Chief; next, Art.
Rosstown Plate: Heros; next,
Phenomenon.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Farm Novice: Bulletin; next,
Merrie Miller.
Horsley Handicap: Medallist;
next, Windbird.
November Handicap: Fairoic
next, Mainlaw.
Leumeah Handicap: Foxhunter ;
next, Autoland.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sydney trainers flopped badly in their
attempts to win big spring handicaps in
Melbourne. After Flemington Oro, Jour-
nal, Satmoth and Tapestry remained
behind to have a crack at the Williams-
town Cup, worth £2500, apart from a
£lOO trophy. On Victorian form neither
Oro nor Journal looked to have a bolter’s
chance. Tapestry fell into the same cate-
gory, but Satmoth was somewhat recom-
mended by his V.R.C. Veteran Stakes
win, and by the fact that he was runner-
up to Yarramba in the Williamstown Cup
of 1932.
Punters rightly assessed the claims of
Oro, Satmoth and Tapestry, who were
quoted at 14 to 1, 20 to 1 and 25 to 1
respectively. They erred egregiously in
making Journal a 4-to-l favorite. It was
a case of blindly “following the money,”
which poured in by telegraph from com-
missioners in Sydney, the odds shorten-
ing from 8 to 1 with dramatic suddenness.
Journal ran just as badly as might have
been expected after his wretched display
in the V.R.C. Final Handicap. At Flem-
ington, with Pike up, he began slowly,
and failed to improve his position materi-
ally at any stage of the race. Andy
Knox had the mount in the Williamstown
Cup. He failed even more signally than
Qert Why this sudden burst of
ENERGY ?"
. " ■/ w
Bert ’. Ivi getting, into training.
Gert : " What for ? "
Bert The Empire Ga-vies, Theyrh only
THREE VEA.RS OFP*,
Pike to get the Treclare gelding to show
his best form. Passing the stand for the
first time Journal was practically last. He
galloped like a horse that was either sore
or sick of the game, and finished 14th in
a field of 21. Satmoth and Oro did
precious little better, and Tapestry even
worse. The last Williamstown Cup vic-
tory achieved by a horse from N. S.
Wales was that of Amounis in 1928.
Amounis, a horse and a half, had 9st. 91b.
The Williamstown Cup added to the
■Spring triumphs of the Robertson-Voitre
combination. Among the races pre-
viously won by Voitre for the Mordialloc
trainer were the W. S. Cox Plate on
Garrio, the Victoria Derby on Feldspar,
the Melbourne Cup on Marabou and the
Oaks on Nalda. Seeing that Garrio had
registered a very close third in the Derby
and was handicapped at a pound under
weight-for-age at Williamstown he looked
to have a lien on the seaside Cup, and
would have been favorite except for the
unjustifiable plunge on Journal. Garrio
amply repaid the confidence of his sup-
porters by cutting down Panto and Bus-
tard at the turn into the straight and
scoring, running away, by three lengths
from Panto, with Bustard a good third.
Nalda ran very creditably,
Garrio set 2min. 32|sec., for the lj
miles. Though the track was rather
heavy, in consequence of overnight rain,
A. T. Creswick’s colt could have reduced
the time considerably if necessity had
arisen. The record for the race is 2min.
30fsec., established by Yarramba three
years ago. Garrio (5 to 1) was next in
request to Journal,
Punters got it in the neck when
Heroic Dove (33 to 1) ran away with the
Altona Trial, and Royal Tour (100 to 1)
finished with a terrific burst of speed to
land the first division of the Ozone High-
weight. Heroic Dove (Heroic —Turtle
Dove) is a provincial performer. She
cost only HOgns. as a yearling, but is
beautifully bred, with the blood of The
Welkin, Grand Flaneur and Trenton in
the veins of her dam. Royal Tour
belongs to W. R. Kemball; he was bred
at the Seymour stud of A. G. Hunter,
being by Windbag.
**** * « *
Voitre maintained his phenomenal run
of success as a jockey by landing the last
event —second division of the Ozone
Highweight—on Desert Dream, a 7-to-I
chance. The young man was aided by a
big streak of luck, such as often comes
to a horseman when on the wave of suc-
cess. Voitre waited behind two leaders
until the straight was entered, and timed
his run beautifully. Yet even this artistry
would have missed fire if Rondeau had
not hung out so dreadfuly that she fin-
ished right under the judge’s nose.
Desert Dream got up in the final stride
to score by a head. Some impetuous
spectators hooted the judge, but he didn’t
deserve such treatment. At Wiliiams-
town it is impossible for anyone but the
man in the box to determine a close
finish.
“Tuart”: “Young Jim” Wilson has fol-
lowed “Old Jim” over the hill. Vic-
torians both, and as shrewd as they make
’em, the father owned and trained Briseis
when she won the Victoria Derby, Mel-
bourne Cup and Oaks in 1876 ; and the
son trained Merriwee, winner of the
Derby and Cup in 1899. Between those
23 years father and son were associated
with many good horses: Newhaven was
one, though they sold him as a young-
ster to Jones and Cooper. Herbert
Power was a steady patron of both ; for
Power “Young Jim” brought off the coups
with Merriwee and with Diffidence in the
1899 Sydney Cup: 1899 was his best
year. The last first-class horse “Young
Jim” had in his stable was Sir Andrew,
with which, racing in his own colors, he
won the A.J.C. St. Leger and Metropoli-
tan in 1923. No fitter horse ever
stripped ; but then “Young Jim” had a
genius for getting them well, and placing
them. •
“Try”: “Young Jim” Wilson missed a
fortune by selling Newhaven as a two-
year-old for 2000gns. The son of New-
minster won the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup, and, sent to,England, landed
the City and Suburban Handicap. At a
much later period Wilson did consider-
ably better by disposing of Outlook for
2000gns. to Sam Mackay. This was after
Outlook had annexed the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes and Champagne Stakes.
* * $ *
“Pytchley”: Nimblefoot won the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1870 in the nomination
of Walter Craig, of Ballarat, who died
before the day of the race arrived. The
long-accepted story is that Craig had
his death foretold in a dream which
also envisaged the Cup victory of
Nimblefoot, whose jockey wore mourn-
ing armbands. These so-called histori-
cal facts have been discredited in large
measure by Sam Griffiths, who was a
sporting journalist before he became
handicapper to the V.A.T.C. There
were romantic trimmings to the Nimble-
foot yarn, which dissolved to almost no-
thing under the acid of established fact.
But after the lapse of 65 years the hand
of tragedy rested on the big two-miler
at Flemington when Joseph Fell, who
raced Marabou in conjunction with his
friend Hogan, saw the Marconigram stal-
lion lead home the Cup field, and passed
into the Beyond 36 hours later. Hogan
has given the gold cup to Mrs. Fell
and announced his retirement from the
game. He had no keenness for racing,
and only became a horseowner through
the friendly persuasion of Fell.
* * * *
Peter Pan should have been scratched
for the Cup after that astounding
failure at weight-for-age on Derby Day.
Rodney Dangar and Frank McGrath
both knew that their idol had slipped ;
but faith had to be kept with the multi-
tude of Australians who made the chest-
nut a hot favorite from the moment
that Cup handicaps were issued. Peter
Pan is spelling at Sol Green’s Bacchus
Marsh property. He may come back
in the autumn, but the chances are that
the last has been seen of him on a race-
course.
Another on the retired list, but only
temporarily, is Fidelity, probably the
fastest filly to win the Maribyrnong
Plate since Traquette, who scored in
1913. Traquette did not stay beyond a
mile. History is likely to repeat itself
in the case of Fidelity.
* * * *
“Homebred”: Sons of Spearfelt were
first (Soft Step), second (Spear Prince)
and fourth (Glen’s Spear) in the Brisbane
Cup (B. 13/11 /’35), and all three beat
Marabou’s time for the Melbourne Cup.
Soft Step, indeed, cut the Australasian
record to 3min. 21fsec., and Spear Prince,
only a “short” head behind, ran the two
miles in faster time than has ever been
clocked at Flemington. Anyone in search
of a Cup winner could scarcely do better
than buy a couple of Spearfelt yearlings
and put them away till they are
seasoned ; and the outlay wouldn’t be
great. The biggest price paid for a Spear-
felt at the March sales was 300 guineas.
Silver Jubilee is not one of those horses
that can win races from barrier-rise ; in
that respect he has been tried and found
wanting. At Rosehill, ridden by Jack
O’Sullivan, he was allowed to run behind
the leaders in the Clyde Handicap until
the turn was reached, and there asked to
do his best. It answered perfectly; the
Maoriland horse quickly settled the pace-
makers, Rembrandt and Falstaff, and at
the finish had a lead of two lengths from
Gold Digger, Windbird being half a head
back, just in advance of Falstaff and
Black Laughter. Silver Jubilee was
backed from 7 to 2 to twos, the solid
support causing Windbird to ease to
fours. Rembrandt proved too much of
a handful for his jockey.
Bonny Royal (12 to 1), trained at War -
wick Farm, made hacks of her opponents
in the Novice. In the straight she cleared
right away from Royal Bird and Ashpan,
who were placed. The favorite, Adye,
was not suited by the big field, but
Grand Warbler and Wolfie were always
in the picture, and the latter shaped
well for a maiden performer.
Backers were well on the mark in the
three divisions of the Two-year-old
Stakes. In the first heat for fillies little
Peg’s Pet (4 to 1) scored after a thrilling
tussle with Midinette, a sister to Gold
Digger, and Lady Eleanor. Kinsfolk (3
to 1) won the second division ; she was
favored by her condition, which was a
credit to her trainer, Leahy. The favor-
ite, Real Joy, owned by Hugh Denison,
was fourth, after being wide out at
the turn. Havilah Gift, carrying the
Rogilla colors, and not unlike Rogilla in
color and conformation, took the colts
and geldings’ division in really good style.
He was backed from 5 to 2 to 5 to 4.
Bobby, from Newcastle, was second.
Broccoli’s last three outings have been
marked by a degree of consistency
which he had never before shown. Nar-
rowly beaten by Foudroyant and
Measure at Moorefield, he won at Can-
terbury, and again at Rosehill, taking
the November Handicap. Starting at
fours he beat the favorite, Measure, by
a “short” head ; Cockpen, tailed off in
the early stages, ran third. Irish Bard
set up a big lead to the half-mile, but
was beaten as soon as heads were turned
for home, and Buonarroti found the 10
furlongs too far. Broccoli is a son of
Rivoli, whose progeny seem to improve
with age.
Handicapper Jim Tanner must have
been pleased with the finish of the Rydal-
mere Mile. It was most exciting; Auto-
land (7 to 1) beat King Moab by a head,
with Rose Gem a similar distance away,
Spearbelle a close fourth and Foxhunter
fifth. Foxhunter eased in the betting
from fives to tens; he covered a lot of
unnecessary ground. An early winner
this ; he evidently needed the race. Phae-
dius was nursed by Darby Munro for a
final run, but was in trouble before they
reached the judge.
“Silver P.”: I pasted a Sporting Notion
in my scrapbook; the date is August 7:
Last season’s two-year-olds looked good
to Bulletin writers, and the best of them
will give no end of trouble to the older
brigade, Peter Pan perhaps excepted, in
the spring and autumn.
Since that was written, in important
races for “three years and upwards,”
three-year-olds have won the Under-
wood and the Sir Herbert Maitland
Stakes (Young Idea); the V.R.C. Stand
Handicap (The Trump); the Superior
and Quality Handicaps and the Linlith-
gow Stakes (Valiant Chief); the Caul-
held Stakes (Feldspar); the Caulfield
Cup (Palfresco); the W. S. Cox Plate
and the Williamstown Cup (Garrio). And
T wasn’t on one of them.
“Poneke”: Nepia has succumbed
to professional blandishments at last,
his fine form with the Union Maoris
in Australia having evidently con-
vinced the English scouts that there is
money in him yet. George gets £5OO as
a signing-on fee from London Highfield,
one of the clubs trying to establish the
code in London. The money is a record
for Rugby League football, and no doubt
the weekly wage will measure up to it.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia is incor-
porating the Australian National Games
in its centenary celebrations, and a swank
opening ceremony on Olympic lines is
forecast. The Games will last from
January 25 to February 1; the pro*
gramme includes boxing, wrestling, swim-
ming, cycling and general athletics, the
idea being to try thoroughly under
Olympic conditions our candidates for
the Berlin Games. Women are to be in
the athletic and swimming sections.
Cycling will include the Olympic 1000-
metre time trial and 1000-metre scratch
race. Diving and swimming take place
at Henley Beach, where there is a pool
of 50 metres measuring up to Olympic
requirements.
{Continued on next page.)


GIFTS
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14—16-plait Handle, 6ft. x 12-plait Thong, 377-
No. 15-16-plait Handle, 7ft. x 12-plait Thong, 397-
No. 16-IC-plait Handle, Bft. x 12-plait Thong, 41/0
No. 17-24-plait Handle, 7ft. x 10-plait Thong, 457-
KINGFISHER STOCK WHIPS
Kangaroo llight Through—Steel-lined Handles.
No. B—lo-plait Handle, 7ft. x 10-plait Thong, 19/6
No. Sx-10-plait Handle, Bft. x 10-plait Thong, 217-
No. 9 —12-plait Handle, Bft. x 12-plait Thong, 257-
Post on Whips: 1/- N.S.W.; 1/0 Q., Vic.
83
No. 300 HAIR SADDLE
CLOTH
21/-, Shaped; 26/-, Square.
Easy to Wash—Lasts for Years.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE ST., BYD. (oj.p. Dymock's).
MICK SIMMONS
feature the newest “Mossberg.”
*
£7/15/- o Carriage Paid .)
AMAZING VALUE . . .
. . . the only possible verdict following complete
examination and test of the new
MOSSBERG MODEL 46,
a superbly-accurate heavy-barrelled bolt-action tubular-magazine repeating rifle,
chambered for the .22 Long Rifle High-speed Cartridge, and equipped with the
following outstanding features:
—Hooded ramp gold-faced front sight.
—Micrometer receiver sight with dead-centre 4-hole aperture disc,
adjustable to 4 minute of angle (-J inch per 100 yards).
—AND a 4-power quick detachable TELESCOPE SIGHT with micro-
meter adjustments reading to -J minute adjustment lock screw,
standard cross-hair reticule focus and parallax adjustments, and
rubber eye-cup.
Add to this a one-piece, well-figured genuine American walnut stock of the most
up-to-date design; built with wide beaver-tail fore-end and cheek piece, regulation
width steel sling swivels, corrugated steel butt plate, etc.
In order that the ’scope may be brought into approximately the same plane as the
receiver sight (there is only k inch difference), the latter is cleverly pivotted and may
be instantly swung out of line . . . when the receiver sight is in use the telescope
may be raised above it and used as a “spotter.”
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
714-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“ Australia's Largest Distributors of Firearms.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two pugs from this part of the world
figured against North Americans in
interesting matches at Wembley. Strick-
land, the Maori!and heavyweight, was
beaten in a 12-rounder by Loughran,
who fought Camera when the Italian
was champion, but is now getting up in
years ; and Ambrose Palmer outpointed
a little-known Canadian cruiserweight,
Wenstob. British newspaper critics
differ as to the merits of Palmer’s exhibi-
tion, but agree that he was far too clever
for the Canadian, If he stays in England
he will be matched with Harvey or
Peterson, but Mrs. P. has asked him to
come home at once.
* * * *
After the Jeffries-Johnson affair, the
U.S. Government prohibited the screen-
ing of moving pictures of black-white
fights, but the old ban has been removed,
and pictures (chiefly silent) of the Louis-
Baer mill have reached Australia. They
exhibit Louis as a smart two-fisted
boxer, his right especially being charged
with powder; but if Johnson, Langford,
even McVea, could be brought back
into the ring as this country remembers
them, few Australians would back Louis
against any of the three. This writer,
for one, can’t imagine him getting past
McVea’s wonderful left, or coping with
Johnson’s all-round stuff, or standing
up to Langford’s fearful punches.
Though powerfully built, he does not
look nearly as strong as did Johnson,
and would have had no show against the
gold-toothed coon in close work. He had
an easy time against Baer, who has
either gone to pieces through fast living
or has never really been able to fight
his way out of a paperbag.
Baer had no guard for a spear-
ing left, no notion of ducking
and no footwork; and his only
offensive operations were a few
attempts to get home with a
ponderous but always ill-aimed
right.
ins and Outs
“Ibn el Issar”: The Tarran-
tulas have been crawling all
over the opposition in India,
having won three of their first
four matches, not counting
that at Colombo—a better per-
formance than Jardine’s lot put
up at the start of their tour.
Wendell Bill, Macartney and
Ryder have scored centuries, while
Oxenham has taken 40—14 for 44
against Rajputana. The Queenslander
should finish the tour with an astonish-
ing average, for he is a proved stayer.
Odd that the selectors should have
ignored the claims of this player, for
years one of the finest spin bowlers Aus-
tralia has produced, when picking Aus-
tralian Elevens.
“Tenth Slip”: We are to have Aus-
tralia v. the M.C.C. after all: a four-day
match starting on December 6 at Sydney
C.G. The N.S.W. selectors are to act.
They will have to pick a team without
Bradman, who is—very wisely—-not over-
doing it this year.
% jfc ifc Sfc
“Glenelg”: Though they faded at the
finish the M.C.C. cricketers in Adelaide
beat S.A. by 36 runs. It was a close
thing, for, after the locals had replied
with 322 to the M.C.C. score of 371,
the travellers did poorly in their second
shot —175 ; Ward 4 for 62. Had Brad-
man (50) been supported the verdict
would have gone the other way, but
good bowling by Sims (three wickets),
Baxter, Read and Parks (two wickets
each) saved the English bacon, the inn-
in § s ending at 187.
n *. * * *
i§ ot . a start f° r tbe
p r - e , K e d beatln S N.S.W. in
, l! ) , a I I -f. - rL L ns on tbe first innings,
J?., a , ltlor l ?.° a . ne century by Allen,
~, Cl S a fai lure in these games he got
al f° top P ed tbree fi § ures
u r 528. Good
Up, by left-hander Wyeth (5-51) kept
. ro s^? ond ' ln ™ a 8 s score down
_ • * , made in 148
™ lnutes ’ Little 78 )- Queensland went
• , outright win, but had lost three
s anc . was P lun f short at stumps.
“Gabba”; .Bensted is the only member
of the State eleven that took part in
Queensland’s first appearance in Sheffield
cricket. That was at Brisbane in 1926 •
N.S.W. won the match by eight runs’
Since then Bensted has played in 53
matches for the State, more than double
the tally of Andrews, who comes next on
the list. At the end of last season Ben-
sted had made over 2000 runs, averaging
26.98, with a highest score of 155. As
a bowler he has bagged 66 wickets ; and
he is a good slip field —a very rare’fowl
indeed in Queensland,
* * * *
“Germiston”: Poor Horace Cameron,
who died in a blaze of cricket glory the
other day, left £ll3 to keep his wife and
“ Cripes , 'e's takin it!"
“ Yairs , but ’e don't know Wol to do with it."
family going. Abe Bailey and others are
starling a fund to augment this princely
reward of 10 years’ first-class perfor-
mance in cricket, and with the wealthy
anti-Hitlerite at the head of affairs the
result should be satisfactory for the
widow. All the same the situation is a
bitter commentary on the life of the
average famous athlete.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hotham”; The V.C.A. has decided
to give the new l.b.w. law a trial in club
matches for the remainder of the season,
beginning on November 23. It has not
been slow to realise that the law will
apply to all cricket next season. Other
States may follow suit by way of get-
ting some practice. So far in the games
with the M.C.C. Eleven, none of the
evils prophesied as certain to follow in
its train has been noticeable.
* *. * *
“Tenth Slip”: By the look of things
the N.S.W, cricket team will welcome
Kippax back to the fold even if it is
only for matches in Sydney, since he is
firm in his determination not to go
a-travelling again. Also, he is not taking
on the captaincy at any price. Last
season he refused it in favor of McCabe,
who could not take it up through injury.
This meant that Oldfield, who also hates
the job worse than a parson hates a
trouser-button in the plate, had to carry
the baby. It is the fashion nowadays
to assume that the duties of captain
seriously affect the playing ability of the
leader, and much rot has been spoken
and written on the subject. I cannot
recall that the playing form of Grace,
Stoddart, Maclaren, Noble, Armstrong
and many others was ever seriously
affected by the so-called “cares of cap-
taincy.”
❖ * * *
“Valley”: Leo O’Connor, the former
Queensland captain, has been ordered
by his doctor to give up cricket for good.
Since dropping out of Sheffield cricket
Leo has been the mainstay of the Valley
grade club ; a son has helped. A really
class batsman, O’Connor had a great
season in 1927, scoring 103 and 143 in
the Sydney match against N.S.W.; he
finished with an aggregate of 625 and an
average of 69.44. In his 22 matches for
Bananaland his total was 1772, his
average 44.30. He was a first-flight
’keeper in addition.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Susie Swattit”; N.S.W. women
golfers are considering a plan to send
Joan Hammond abroad to continue her
studies in the important spheres of golf
and music. A meeting will be held this
month to count the cost and consider
the raising of sufficient funds.
% :Jc ijc
“Divot Digger”; In spite of gloomy
forecasts to the contrary the Australian
golfers will leave for America on
December 19, returning by the end of
April, perhaps through Japan. They
will show at Honolulu on Boxing Day,
and reach ’Frisco on January 2, play-
ing in their first tourney at Los Angeles
nine days later.
“Brassey”: The operations for appen-
dicitis which have laid W. Bolger and
Richardson low will not prevent them
going to America, as was feared. Both
should have made a complete recovery
by the time the boat sails. Other
N.S.W. members of the team will be
Kelly and Cohen, while Victoria has
already enough funds in hand to send
the Naismiths.
*
“Sandringham”: Arthur Smith, for
some time past assistant to Le Fevre, of
Royal Melbourne, has been placed in
charge of Geelong’s golf. Smith, for
several seasons with Wood at Kingston
Heath, is one of the coming young pro-
fessionals. He made a splash in the
centenary open last season by beating
Ky Lalfoon in the first round.
Racquet and Bawl
The N.S.W. men’s singles champion-
ship was, in some respects, disappointing.
Perry pulled out after a scratchy win in
the first round; McGrath retired after
reaching the quarter-finals; and Craw-
ford, whose form had been good, went
under to Quist in four sets. The Davis
Cup trip has done Quist the world of
good. In the final he took the first two
sets from Hopman, but couldn’t hold the
Victorian in the third and fourth. At
the end he came again, to win 6-2.
The junior champion, Thelma Coyne,
didn’t give Joan Hartigan a chance in
the women’s singles: 6-2, 6-4. Of course,
Miss Hartigan is not yet in top form, but
Miss Coyne is a real champion.
* * * *
“Top Spin”; Perry’s decision, backed
by medical opinion, to play no more
tennis in Australia this season will come
as a shock to the organisers of State
championships and those in control of
the games for the national titles, who
were looking forward to record gates as
(he result of the champion’s appearance.
His back injury is more serious than
was supposed ; this was evident when he
tried his luck on the courts after treat-
ment in Sydney. Complete rest
from tennis is ordered.
* • * • •
“Cut Shot”; Perry will have to
leave for England sooner than he
intended. He is anxious to con-
f suit a specialist there in whom he
has great faith, and in anticipa-
tion has cut out his tour of South
Africa. He is not likely to depart
before Christmas, but all tennis is
now taboo. Perry’s luck hasn’t been of
the best of late, and his many Australian
admirers will wish him a complete re-
covery for the Davis Cup final, on win-
ning which again he has set his heart.
t $ *
“Toowong”: Queensland offered
Cochet 33 T-3 per cent, of the gross for
his Brisbane matches, and the French-
man clicked by cable. Decent opposi-
tion and partners have been found for
him in Cummings, Baker and England.
It is probable also that hardcourt matches
will be played by electric light if the
visitor is willing. Victoria is backing
down on its refusal to receive him, and
the State Association now says he can
have the Kooyong courts if he applies
for them. The V.T.A. says it feels the
public ought to be given a chance to see
such a master.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Sydney boasts a one-
legged tennis-player of some ability.
North Sydney has gone one better, and
produced a one-armed artist who plays
the game better than many of his club-
mates, in spite of his handicap. He gets
round the service problem in a curious
way. Leaning his racquet against a leg,
he tosses the ball extra high into the air;
as it comes down he grabs the banjo
and with the same action sends in a
warm service,
“Centre Court”; W. V. Armstrong,
president of the N.S.W.L.T.A., is back
from a tour of Europe and America
with the tip that Australia will get a visit
from a team of American tennis-players
next year, the side including Mako,
Budge and Allison. The U.S.A. wants
Australia to challenge in the American
zone, and in this the president concurs.
Presumably the Americans would come
along after the Davis Cup and their
own national fixtures, which would make
the visit late in 1936 or early in 1937.
# * * *
“Sick Devil”; Reformed Chicago is
abandoning the taking of people for a
ride and bumping them off. Now the
thing is to drive them out to the tennis
courts and bump a few fast services at
them. Statistics show that in July 600
public tennis courts were used by
150,000 players. Play begins at day-
break and ends at dark. No charge is
made for the courts, each player or group
being allowed an hour ; play is in order
of arrival. Recently the Public Parks
L.T.A. held a tourney which drew 2250
players. Australian municipalities which
often thank Providence they are not as
Chicago might do worse than imitate
this phase of the wicked city’s activities.


.
-ff
He
.FI
C*
T
•n
INGOT
TWEED TROUSERS
for Hard-working Conditions
Where the work is hardest . . . and wear
and tear is greatest—lngot Work Trousers
will prove their worth.
They keep their shape and are colour-fast.
Even repeated boilings will not give them
that “washed-out” appearance. And wear
—you’ll be pleasantly surprised at the
length of time it takes to wear them but.
Made in Australia from
Australian Cotton
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES
IMPERIAL
AIRWAYS
THE EMPIRE
AND THE AIR
Below are extracts from the speech of the
chairman (Rt. Hon. Sir Eric Geddes), at the
Annual General Meeting of Imperial Airways
Ltd,, on Thursday, 51 October 1935
The Chairman said:
AT ‘We have been informed officially of the Government’s
decision that our Company is to continue as the Govern-
ment’s chosen instrument for the development of the
existing Empire lines
AT The Government has decided, as a matter of principle,
that in the future letter mails within the Empire will, as
far as is practicable, be carried by air
A With the knowledge and consent of the Government, we
have placed orders for new aircraft. . . . The standard of
accommodation for passengers will be superior to anything
yet seen in aircraft
A During last year, and taking the Continental routes in
J and out of London as a whole, our Company carried more
passengers than all the foreign air companies put together
A During the year under review, Imperial Airways and its
subsidiary and associated companies flew a total of over
5,500,000 miles; for the current year this figure will pro-
bably exceed 6,000,000 miles, representing an average of
nearly 17,000 miles per day
A The through service from England to Australia has now
been in operation for about ten months, and the traffic,
particularly mails, has grown to an extent that warrants an
increase of frequency from once a week to twice a week
A We started the England-India service in our financial year
1929—30. Taking that year’s traffic as 10 for the purpose
of comparison, the total for 1933—34 had risen to 31, and
for the year under review to 44. In other words, the traffic
carried was over four times more than it was five years ago
A On the Africa service as a whole traffic has increased by
4 1 % over the previous year
A Arrangements have been concluded with the Air Ministry
for the establishment by the Company of an air connexion
between Khartoum, on the main England—South Africa
line, and Nigeria . , . The Company is now carrying out a
number of experimental flights between Penang, on the
main Australia route, and Hong Kong ... It is expected
that this air connexion with Hong Kong will in one way
or another be continued as a permanent service’
A dividend on the Ordinary shares of the Company of 6%
plus a bonus of 1%, both less tax, were, declared as compared
with a dividend of 6%, less tax , for the previous year. The
net profit for the year was £133,769 . 3 . 1 as compared with
£78,571 . 13 . o for the previous year
Full report on application to the Company
IMPERIAL AIRWAYS LTD
Airway Terminus, London, S.W. 1, England
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
«SILVER
EDGE 19
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Rayhestos” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight”: Commenting on the
huge scores made in the N.S.W. Rifle
Association meet, I pointed out that the
new ammunition made a further reduc-
tion in the size of the bull’s-eye impera-
tive. Bisley has backed this opinion by-
reducing the bulls for the next All-Eng-
land meeting to the 1929 standards—
Sin. at 200 yards, 7|in. at 300 yards and
15in. at 500 and 600 yards, instead of
6in., 9in. and 18in.
t. ♦ * *
“Old Q.”: Detailed accounts of the
Maoriland-Oxford match show that a
field goal nearly won the day for the
Dark Blues. It gave them a handy lead
until an All-Black try at the last minute
was converted, which put the tourists a
point ahead. Incidentally, Prince Obolen-
sky scored Oxford’s solitary try. Princes
are rare birds in Rugby football, though
cricket has known an assorted variety of
them.
* $ * *
“Jacob”: Like Issacher, the Vic-
torian F.L. is joined to its idols and
cannot be separated from them. The
meeting of the National Council (B.
13/11/’35) turned down every motion
for wiping out some of the blots on the
rules. One in particular, alteration of
the out-of-bounds rule to permit the
ball to be thrown in, as at Rugby, was
backed by many delegates, but failed to
get through.
* # # #
“Rover”: The sacred lamp of Aus-
tralian football is kept burning overseas
with an annual match between Oxford
and Cambridge. This year Oxford won
9-8 to 1-4.
H= * * *
“Gate”: There were revelations at a
Sydney Rugby League meeting. One
club secretary wanted to know why
several men of his club whose names
were not on the “retention” list of
players entitled to a bonus to keep them
in Sydney had received “gratuities” total-
ing £95. A statement to the effect that
the payments were for “creating good-
will next year” received a mixed recep-
tion, and there were anxious inquiries
as to whether other gifts of the kind
had been made. The League is none
too flush, but no doubt the prospect of
a big clean-up from the English tour
next season has promoted a benevolent
feeling.
H: * * *
“Sale”: Tell “Ex-Englishman” (B.
13/11/’35) that I had not forgotten the
Arcadian days when the Old Etonians
and Corinthians divided Association Cup
honors between them, nor had I for-
gotten that Alcock, of Surrey, was one
of the founders of the British Associa-
tion. But after the North Countrymen
came into the game the professional
teams soon monopolised the Cup ties,
though sides like the Corinthians and
Old Carthusians, with other amateur
clubs, are still eligible, and occasionally
have a shy at the Cup, It is true also that
the South monopolised the finals. But
that was because of the vast gates drawn
at the Crystal Palace and later at
Wembley, gates which brought in hoggins
o’ brass. As to the schools, there was
no marked abandonment of Soccer until
after the war. Even now old foun-
dations like Westminster, the Charter-
house and Shrewsbury remain faithful to
the round-ball code. The reason for the
change-over is that, while Rugby gives
many openings for international honors,
there are none worth going after in
Soccer, though I understand there is an
amateur international competition of
sorts.
<!>
“Centreboard”: I can see some fun
coming in Sydney 18-footer circles.
Hitherto the League has avoided blood-
shed by doing its sailing on Sundays,
Saturday being reserved for the old
original Flying Squadron, which is as
fond of the other show as the Devil is«
supposed to be of holy water. Now the
League proposes to race on Saturdays as
well, and over the same harbor course as
the F.S. Anyone who has seen the Sow
and Pigs course on a Saturday afternoon,
with its throng of tacking craft weaving
in and out of ferry and other steamers,
will have a good idea of what the con-
gestion is likely to be when the new lot
comes along. With the rivalry existing,
collisions and sets-to with sweeps and
tillers may be joyfully anticipated. In
the past, when there was no inter-club
rivalry, mills of the kind were far from
uncommon.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Yankee speedway riders, the
first to come this way for some years,
are the brothers Milne, both of whom
have held the American championship.
With the Danish champion, Hansen, and
visiting Britons, we have three overseas
nations competing against our own men,
which will be all to the good of the
gates.
* $ # ' #
“Backwoodsman”: An old ghost raised
its head and gibbered at the annual
meeting of the N.S.W. Bowling Council
when the chairman of the pennant com-
mittee declared that 33 per cent, of the
bowls in use were illegal. Every year
one hears the same complaint. The
cricketer who used an illegal ball or bat
or the footballer wearing armor-plated
boots would not last long. But estimable
old gentlemen go on for years using
bowls which give them an advantage
over their opponents without anything
being done.
* * * *
“Sleuth”: The amateur-status hounds
continue hard on professionalism’s traces.
A Sydney surf club tried to attract
promising boy swimmers under 15 to its
ranks by offering free membership. The
Ma State swimming heads have ruled
that to accept free admission is an act of
professionalism, and that an entrance fee
of some kind must be paid if the infant
is to remain an unspotted amateur. To
those with a knowledge of history this
smug attitude is enough to make a cat
laugh itself into half a dozen of its nine
graves.
He * *
“Splosh”: As soon as it found out
that M.L. had invited a team of three
Japanese swimmers for the season
N.S.W. hopped in with a request for a
visit from the tourists on their way
home. Details and dates are not yet
available, but Ma intends to stage a
special championship series in Sydney
after the regular meeting on January 4,
8, 11. It is likely that the visitors will
give Queensland a look-in on their way
back to Nippon, time not permitting of
a trip to Victoria.
*
“Spike”: Queensland Olympic Coun-
cil wants the Federal body to incorporate
the Australian swimming championships
in the national games in the years in
which the latter are held. It suggests
holding the swimming championships in
the odd years and the national games,
with swimming included, in the even
years. This time we will have the
anomalous spectacle of the swimming
championships being held a week after
the national games, which also include
swimming. Many swimmers have no
time to spare for the double event.
* * *
“Lightnin”’: You can’t hustle the
croquet player. Some months ago an
invitation was received from British
addicts, inviting an Australian team to
do battle on the other side for the inter-
national croquet cup. The Victorian
C.A., which practically controls all the
croquet there is in this country, has
accepted after deep thought, and replied
that a team will leave, these shores in
March, 1937. Intending players will
thus have plenty of time to undergo
special treatment for their lumbago and
rheumatic afflictions before dashing into
the fray.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1545 of 1935.
BETWEEN ISABELLA PARKER (formerly
Isabella Pettit) Petitioner
And ERNEST EDWARD PARKER Re-
spondent.
TO ERNEST EDWARD PARKER late of
Victoria Street St. Mary’s.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ISABELLA
PARKER has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of your
desertion without reasonable cause by reason
of your failure to comply with the Decree for
restitution of conjugal rights in a suit Number
1641 of 1934 made against you by this Honor-
able Court on the Thirtieth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the 23rd day of January One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of October,
1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 169 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1721 of 1935.
BETWEEN EDITH JANE MAUD BROOKS
(formerly Edith Jane Maud Hall) of Moree
in the State of New South Wales Peti-
tioner.
And PATRICK JOHN BROOKS of
Moree in the said State Husband of the
said Edith Jane Maud Brooks.
TO PATRICK JOHN BROOKS late of Moree
in the State of New South Wales Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH JANE
MAUD BROOKS has commenced a Suit
against you in this Honorable Court applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse left the said Edith Jane Maud
Brooks continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-ninth
day of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
MOODIE, COLE & CO., Solicitors for
Petitioner, Moree. By PURVES & MOODIE,
lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 676 of 1921.
BETWEEN ERNEST ALEXANDER FER-
GUSON Petitioner.
And ELIZA ANNE FERGUSON Re-
spondent.
TAKE NOTICE that this Honorable Court
will be moved on Tuesday the Tenth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five before the Honorable Francis Stewart
Boyce Judge of the Matrimonial Causes Juris-
diction of the said Supreme Court at the
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney at
ten o’clock in the forenoon or so soon there-
after as Counsel can be heard on behalf of the
abovenamed Respondent for an order that the
Decree Nisi pronounced herein on the Thirtieth
day of September One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-one in favor of the abovenamed
Petitioner be now made absolute AND FOR
AN ORDER that the Respondent’s costs of
and incidental to these proceedings be paid
by the abovenamed Petitioner AND for such
further and other order as to the Court may
seem meet upon the grounds appearing in
and by the affidavit of Eliza Anne Ferguson
and Keith William Gunn both sworn on the
Eighteenth day of October last and filed herein.
DATED this Sixth day of November, a.d.
1935.
KEITH W. GUNN,
Solicitor for the Respondent,
16 Barrack Street, Sydney, j
To the Registrar in Divorce,
And to the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
!IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 661 of 1935.
BETWEEN MATILDA PRATT Petitioner
And CHRISTIAN EDWARD PRATT
Respondent.
TO CHRISTIAN EDWARD PRATT late of
Parkes.
JAKE NOTICE that the said MATILDA
PRATT has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your desertion with the said Matilda Pratt
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Seventeenth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 27th day of September, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. WACHSMANN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1018 of 1933.
BETWEEN AGNES DEWAN Applicant
(Petitioner)
And CORNELIUS JOSEPH DEWAN
Respondent (Respondent).
TO CORNELIUS JOSEPH DEWAN late of
46 Packington Street Prahran Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that this Court will be
moved on Tuesday the Seventeenth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five at ten o’clock in the forenoon or so
soon thereafter as counsel can be heard on
behalf of the abovenamed Applicant for an
order under Section 56 of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 that the land known as Lots
92 and 93 Woodbine Street Bankstown (Cert.
Title Vol. 2571 Fol. 78) should be transferred
to the said Applicant as beneficial owner upon
the grounds appearing in and by the affidavit
(inter alia ) of the said Agnes Dewan sworn on
the Seventh day of November One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-five and filed herein.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
LORTON, LINKS & DUKE, Solicitors for
(he applicant, 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. t
TO EDWARD CHARLES MORRIS formerly
of Wellington New Zealand Wireless
Specialist but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Palmerston North citing you to
appear and answer the petition of HELGA
THERESIA MORRIS of Palmerston North
Married Woman wherein she prays for a dis-
solution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion and that for a period of
three years and upwards you have continued
to desert her without just cause AND such
citation intimates that in default of your so
doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that ‘for the purpose
aforesaid you are not later than forty-two days
from the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Palmerston North and there
enter an appearance without which you will
not be allowed to address the Court at any
stage of the proceedings. A copy of the said
citation and petition will be supplied to you
on your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Palmerston North.
DATED this 26th day of October, 1935.
H. B. REID,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
SIDNEY THOMAS TINNEY, of Pahiatua,
is the Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address
for service is at the offices of MESSIEURS
JACOBS & GRANT, Solicitors, Rangitikei
Street, Palmerston North, New Zealand.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Jft&nthh
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue, now on sale, discusses—
THE OUTLOOK IN SECURITY AND OTHER MARKETS.
TRADE DEVELOPMENTS.
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION.
BASE-METAL PRICES.
THE MONTH’S BALANCE SHEETS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 2\- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Douglas Credit in Alberta
Figures which have reached me
indicate that the Alberta election wasn’t
such a great Douglasite triumph after
all.
In Calgary and Edmonton, six-
member electorates with proportional
representation and the single transfer-
able vote, the D.Cs. polled 37,000 votes
out of 88,000 and won six seats —half
<the total. The rest of the Province has
single seats with first-preference voting.
Mr. Aberhart and his friends polled
123.000 votes and got 50 seats; the
Liberals polled 47,000 and got one seat;
and four other parties divided 49,000
votes and won none. In the total,
161.000 Douglasites have 56 seats and
137.000 others have seven seats.
It doesn’t look as if it is the financial
system of Alberta which most needs
reforming,— Barcoopoo (Q.).
The Bureaucrat Rules
Your persistent attacks on the restric-
tions imposed on commercial motor
transport meet with no response in gov-
erning circles in South Australia. The
whistle of a railway engine is the only
sound capable of penetrating official
deafness.
S.A. Parliamentarians, like their con-
freres in other States, criticise transport
restrictions when their side is “out,” but
not when it’s “in.”
Parliamentary government is practi-
cally non-existent in Australia. No
matter who is in office the civil service
is in power. This is particularly apparent
with regard to transport. The railways are
the principal trading activity of the Aus-
tralian bureaucrat, and therefore any
competitor is singled out for punitive
treatment, no matter how beneficial his
operations may be in developing our
continent, extending our commerce, add-
ing to our security, and increasing the
general happiness and health. This con-
dition of affairs will continue until tax-
payers awake to the fact that democracy
has been replaced by bureaucracy and
that Ministers of the Crown no longer
control their departments but have be-
come merely gramophone records for
their “master’s voice.” — E. D. Scammell,
President, Country Common Carriers’
Association (S.A.).
On the Sheep’s Back
| It is refreshing to turn from “sanc-
I dons” and the manoeuvres of Premiers
at the Loan Council to the continued
rise in greasy-wool prices. Fleece avail-
able for sale for the whole season will
be about 2,950,000 bales, of which
2.755.000 bales should go to auction. The
total should be 288,000 bales fewer than
last year.
Had last year’s prices and last year’s
scale of buying prevailed, this would
I have proved a miserable Christmas for
I the country, but the patron saint of
shepherds always seems to come to the
rescue at the right time.
Of the new clip, to the end of October
722,135 bales had been sold, carry-over
wool bringing the total to 762,026 bales.
For this, £12,549,328 was received. Dur-
ing the same portion of the season last
year, only 603,434 bales were disposed
of for £7,628,912. The rise in average
prices has been from 9.6 d. per pound
(£l2 12s. lOd. per bale) to 12.9 d. per
pound (£l6 9s. sd. per bale).
Allowing £2,640,000 for the extra wool
sold as against last year, the loss of
140.000 bales by shortage has been re-
couped by price increase, with only a
quarter of the whole clip sold. And at
the first November sale prices rose |d.
per pound, or 9s. per bale.
Reckoning prices at the October limit
and allowing for a carry-over of 100,000
bales—a little more than last season —
the Total return should be at least
£47,000,000, counting wool sold pri-
vately. But, except for depression years,
the market generally rises slightly in the
New Year quarter. Bradford and Japan
now are buying keenly, Germany and
France freely; and Italy and Belgium
also have been in the market.
The effects of sanctions have yet to be
seen, but last year Italy and Switzerland
together absorbed only 1 p.c. of pur-
chases, and in previous years only 5 p.c.
to 6 p.c.
In effect, the situation is none too
bad, and it will improve if Governments
allow the graziers whose sheep are earn-
ing the money to spend more of it on
themselves, and put more into general
circulation, where it will expand produc-
tive industry. —E. to I. (Q.).
Face-saving and Nose-cutting
In the course of a discussion in Mel-
bourne on the resumption of trade with
Russia it was stated that Russia had three
years ago offered to buy Australian
wool to the value £3,000,000-odd, to
be paid for by petrol credited at 4d. a
gallon. That offer was turned down, not
because Australia did not wish to sell its
wool, not because Australia did not wish
to buy petrol at a cheap price, but
apparently because Australia did not
approve of Russia’s political system,
Russian methods of political control
and its rulers’ manner of attaining those
methods may be all their critics aver ;
but there are more logical ways of ex-
pressing disapproval. Nobody objects to
selling wool to Germany to-day because
Nurse Cavell was murdered, or because
innocents were drowned in the Lusitania.
On the contrary, Australian politicians
are scared stiff because German scientists
may contrive to evolve a synthetic article
as suitable for clothing as natural wool.
Russia possesses sheep of its own —
lanky beasts of which the champions
turn in three pounds of wool annually.
Before the embargo was applied to the
export of stud merinos Soviet agents
were permitted to purchase numbers of
these in Australia and take them to sup-
posedly favored spots in Siberia. From
all accounts they have deteriorated, and
Russia will not gain much of a supply
from their descendants ; but that doesn’t
affect the principle.
A charming satire it is on the intelli-
gence of Australia’s rulers that they gave
every encouragement to the Soviet to
build up competition against the Aus-
tralian woolgrower and, almost at the
same time, refused to give that same
woolgrower the benefit of entrance into
a market of almost illimitable possibilities.
—Grasspan (Vic.).
Standardising “Character”
Melbourne University aims at appoint-
ing an official called a warden for the
avowed purpose of forming the charac-
ter of the students. To embark on the
task of forming the characters of young
men who have already reached the age
of 16 or 17 seems belated, and the
scheme has in it dangerous possibilities.
Great public schools profess to place
character-building first and education
second, but in many instances all the
character-building a boy gets at these
institutions is a drilling in snobbishness
and an impression that he is of superior
clay to his fellows. Hitler’s Youth
Movement was supposed to owe its
origin to a desire for character-building,
and its pupils have learned that Hitler
can do no wrong and that the noblest act
of man is to “crack” a Jew. Mussolini’s
brave lads were gathered almost in
infancy to have their characters built,
and we can see the results in Abyssinia.
There is a grave fear that what is
called character-building is merely an-
other word for indoctrination, and that
the result will be to prevent men who
should be the leaders of thought from
themselves doing any independent think-
ing.—M. G. (Vic.).
The Transport Tangle
Every effort made by the State author-
ities to sort it out seems to aggravate
the position. On the one hand motor
transport enables goods to be delivered
from door to door, cutting out useless
handling; on the other, it competes un-
fairly with the railways by taking all the
profitable freight, leaving the State to
meet the loss incurred by carrying goods,
often below cost, to encourage primary
industries. The railway departments
erred, in the first instance, by lack of
foresight. Had they got busy and inaugu-
rated a system of motor-transport feeders
to their lines, there would be no trouble
to-day, and customers would be better
served. Even at this late date the rail-
ways should jump into every opening
with motor transport of their own wher-
ever such services are justified.— Como
(Vic.).


c
H
I
N
E
MADE IN (3
AUSTRALIA y
Mffi
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
□nr-zoui-p*
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No" just consider haw a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
cmiTxi' Collins Street, Melbourne; 6. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
wpsTi-ini ' 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
" *■’ 1 AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
mm
iff
m
A. truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
m
•m.
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Emperors and Others
The 10s. shares in Emperor Mines, Ltd.,
E. G. Theodore’s biggest Fiji interest, fell
below 20s. last week, but had recoverec
a bit at the close. On September 2f
they sold to 295., giving the under-
taking a then market valuation ol
£2,175,000. Friday’s market appraisemenl
was down £600,000 on that figure.
In B. 21/8/’35 it was emphasised that
punters about that time were paying on
the basis of £1,875,000 for interests in the
Emperor, an unproved mine, while Mt.
Morgan, now paying 60 p.c. dividends,
was capitalised at £1,860,000. It has been
a bad time for gold investors generally
since the Abyssinian disturbance, but
Morgan’s market loss since then has been
only £120,000, as against £300,000 in
the case of Emperor. The large, low-
grade Queensland mine was mentioned
when its shares were at their peak ; the
difference between peak and present
prices in the other case is given in the
first paragraph.
It may be worth repeating that punters
followed a foolish policy in bidding up
for unproved mines in an unproved field
in the glamor and excitement of the
moment. However rich Em-
peror, Loloma (also down)
and Koroere may eventually
prove to be, there was no
warrant in actual develop-
ments for prices paid. Those
who paid them will be feeling
much the same as those who
made heavy market losses
when the Westralian new-
flotation welter tripped over
itself.
In its first monthly crush-
ing under the new ownership
the Emperor produced 3600 z.
from 365 tons (19.7dwt. to the
ton). The second monthly mill return
was 4530 z. from 470 tons. The old co.
crushed 1633 tons for an average of
15.5dwt. Those figures prove nothing
more than (hat a small quantity of fairly
rich ore has been mined and treated.
Several Westralian shows of minor
market importance have done as well, or
better.
On October 3 chairman E. G.
Theodore told shareholders that the
width of the structure had yet to be
proved, “but already it was known that
there was a large tonnage of valuable
ore.” By the end of this month the plant
is to be treating 2000 tons every four
weeks, estimated grade being 12dwt.
Development and treatment results with-
in the next year “may justify a 20,000-
tons-a-month mill. The mine should
have no difficulty in providing this
tonnage.”
The market is now getting a little
definite information about the mine’s
progress, as well as further views of
the chairman on its prospects, and it
doesn’t appear to like either. Yet, on
actual evidence available, prospects seem
somewhat better now than when the
prospectus was issued. What is worry-
ing September’s precipitate buyers is that
shares have come down disconcertingly,
and that henceforth the Emperor, like
any other mine, will have to bring forth
the goods in order to sustain a high
market.
Punters, too, have probably realised by
this that the £600,000 taken by the
vendors (half in cash and the rest in
shares) leaves the co. with a big valua-
tion on mine and plant that has yet to
justify itself. They will have plenty of
time for thinking about other aspects of
their dabbling before production reaches
20,000 tons a month.
In the Money
Other interests besides Governments
are after money just now. Four years
or so ago Nestles, Edwards Dunlop,
R. H. Gordon, Peters and several other
cos. handed large sums of excess capital
back to shareholders. Business then
being done didn’t warrant the retention
of all the funds. This was one factor in
the cheapening of money that enabled
public bodies to borrow at such low
rates of interest.
Business is reviving, despite oppressive
taxation and bureaucratic interfer-
ence ; despite unbalanced Parliamentary
Budgets, vote-catching and lack of public
conlidence in the expenditure of loan
money.
The Commonwealth Bank is to under-
write £7,500,000 at £3 15s. sd.
p.c. in order to help finance Budget
deficits and provide State Premiers with
money for works that will relieve
charges on the unemployment relief
funds. (Not that it will be much re-
lief to the providers of those funds.)
The Premiers wanted more, but the
Commonwealth Bank, which has seen
"No, darling, I can't come home yet — I'm held up at the office.”
all sorts of Treasurers come and go,
didn’t see eye to eye with them.
The rate is Bs. p.c. above the previous
one. That issue, which went out at
£99 10s., is now at £97. The float prior
to that (3 p.c.) is at £93.
Private enterprise, whose capital out-
lay must prove reproductive if deprecia-
tion, obsolescence and shareholders’
dividends are to be provided for, has
also come into the market in a com-
paratively big way during the past three
months. It is one of the most hearten-
ing signs seen for years, and is in keep-
ing with the trend of recent banking
statistics. Idle capital is being absorbed,
and the absorption of idle men will
follow.
Six established companies have
asked, or are asking, shareholders for
£2,960,553 of fresh capital, including
premiums. The concerns are as fol-
lows : i
Broken Hill Pr0p. —£1,493,854 of
new ord. capital in £1 shares, at a
premium of 10s. a share, in the ratio
of one for two. Issue oversubscribed.
New capital required to help finance
expanding business and projected tin-
plate and other allied enterprises. Yield
obtainable on scrip, ex rights at 585., £4
6s. 2d. per cent.
Australasian Paper and Pulp.—
311,207 new ord. shares at a premium
of ss. New capital is required by the
subsidiary, Australian Paper Manufac-
turers, to finance extensions to plant for
new lines. All shareholders, pref. and
ord., participate in new issue on basis
of 27 new for every 100 old. Yield on
ords. at present price, when rights are
fully paid, £4 Bs. per cent.
Cumberland Paper. —B9,s2B new ords.
at a premium of ss. Capital required
for same purpose as Australasian Paper.
Pref. and ord. shareholders participate
on basis of one for four. Yield, when
new issue fully paid, £4 18s. per cent.
General Industries, Ltd. —170,125
new ords. of 12s. 6d. each, at par. Turn-
over in manufacture of stoves, baths,
enamelware, etc., increasing satisfac-
torily, and new money required to
lighten debt and finance expansion. One
new ord. share for every five old ords.
held. Yield on a 71 p.c. p.a. div. basis,
£5 per cent,
Newbold Firebrick. —lssue of 49,400
new £1 ords, at par to finance business
expansion brought about by increased
activity in iron and steel, other manu-
facturing and mining industries. One
for three. Yield, including new issue
when fully paid, £5 17s. 7d. per cent.
McDowells, Ltd. —50,451 new £1
ords. at ss. premium, one for five.
Yield, with new shares, £5 Is. 2d. per cent.
On this page (B. 23/10/’35) it was
mentioned that, owing to the general
trend of interest rates and trade condi-
tions, a change from preference to ordi-
nary shares should be profitable. A
transfer from David Jones second prefs.
(then at 30s. 6d.) to the same co.’s ord.
(41s. cum Is. div.) was especially sug-
gested. The prefs. are now 295. buyer
(last sale was 305.); the ords., ex div.,
are 425. buyer, and last sale was made
at that figure.
* S' * *
From the “Bismarck Bulletin,” pub-
lished “for the information of share-
holders in Bismarck Range (Lucknow)
Gold Exploration, N.L., and its sub-
sidiary and associated companies”:
Lasseter’s Reef Area.
The Bismarck Range Co. and its associ-
ates, Bismarck Deeps Co., Mount Mar-
shall Co. and Lucknow Gold, N.L., have
acquired rights over one mile each along
the line of reef on this new discovery close
to the border of Western and Central
Australia.
As titles are a first consideration of the
discoverers no official announcement has
as yet been made of this new goldfield, but
to those privileged to know the full cir-
cumstances the find is regarded as one of
the most important ever made in the Com-
monwealth, and Bismarck Range Co. and
its associates are very fortunate in having
big, well-placed blocks.
The sharemarket by this must be very
familiar with “most important finds ever
made in the Commonwealth” ; but, unless
official unofficial information such as the
foregoing is able to convey to share-
holders more of the essential facts in
the possession of those “‘privileged to
know the full circumstances,” it were
better not given at all.
* * * *
Supply and demand govern the price
of tin, subject to the operations of specu-
lators, and supply is controlled by
the International Tin Committee. De-
mand lately has been pronounced, and
the price has been erratic —made more
so by the sudden increases in the pro-
duction quota of countries signatory to
the restriction scheme. This year the
permissible production has been raised
from 45 p.c. of 1929 tonnages (187,000)
to 80 p.c.; there has been a rise of 30
p.c. in the last few months. The spot
price (£234), owing to the continued
shortage of the metal—increased sup-
plies are only beginning to arrive in
European and American markets —com-
mands a premium of £2O a ton over
metal to be delivered in three months.
During October production (10,305 tons)
exceeded consumption by 1334 tons, and
world stocks (12,132 tons) were that
much higher at the end of the month.
Though the quota for tin
production throughout the
world has been raised from
70 p.c. to 80 p.c., Anglo-
Oriental (Malaya), Ltd., re-
ports that the Malayan quota
has been lifted only from 54
p.c. to 62 p.c. Still, it is
making a great difference to earnings of
cos. operating in the F.M.S. Recent
quarterly figures for several shows in the
Anglo-Oriental stable show that working
profits are increasing at a greater rate
than production, indicating that reduced
overhead costs and the higher price of
tin will bring considerable benefits to
shareholders so long as present demand
for the metal lasts.
* * #
During each of the past three months
Bulolo Gold Dredging has produced
more than 16,0000 z. of bullion, yielding
over ll,ooooz. of gold a month. The
impurity is silver. Value of the quarter’s
mineral output has been approximately
£300,000 (Aust.), averaging 25d. (Aust.)
per cubic yard, and working profit has
been £220,000 (Aust.). This month’s out-
put will be affected by the closing-down
of No. 2 dredge to extend its digging
depth and to increase its gold-saving
capacity. There has been some recovery
in share prices.
jf: sj« %
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of pig-iron
for the four weeks to October 27 rose by
10,148 tons to 46,926 tons. Ingot-steel
production mounted 4308 tons to 49,403
tons. The works are operating at high
pressure.
* * * *
Chairman J. A. Agnew, at Lake View
and Star’s silver-jubilee meeting in Lon-
don, said that, with the certainty of lodes
traversing the co.’s properties persisting
at depth, and with the enhanced price of
gold, the outlook seemed more favorable
than at any time in the co.’s history.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Raven”
This thriller at Sydney Capitol owes
very little to the poem from which its
name was taken. A mad surgeon (Bela
Lugosi) spouts a couple of the verses,
but the rest of the plot derives from
“The Pit and the Pendulum.” A notori-
ous criminal (Boris Karloff) is a sort of
butler to the surgeon, who has changed
the man’s face so that one side is horrible
and the other side pathetically handsome.
The doctor will complete the job only
if his protege obeys him implicitly. The
goil in the case (Irene Ware), despite
hypnosis, does not love the wicked
doctor, so to bring! her to heel the
surgeon captures her aged father, ties
him on a table and sets a pendulum axe
Richard Tauber in “Heart’s Desire,” at
Sydney State.
swinging over his breast. The goil and
her lover (Lester Matthews) are decoyed
into a chamber whose iron walls
contract. But, of course, Karloff saves all
the intended victims, and, though shot in
the stomach by the mad doctor, sets
moving machinery whereby that gentle-
man is ground to a pulp.
“Champagne for Breakfast”
Also at Sydney Capitol, Title sug-
gests the unconventionally modern, but it
is ancient melodrama, set to a jazz
accompaniment. Even the missing title-
deeds are featured. These papers, all
that is left to two orphans, are sought
by a moustached villain. Just when
needed by the hero (Hardie Albright)
to unmask the smirking rogue, it is dis-
covered that they have disappeared. Bui
not for long ; the chief comedian (Sydney
Toler) flourishes the brief-case contain-
ing them, and the foiled villain, now
gnawing his mo., is led off by the
police, whose appearance at that junc-
ture is extremely convenient. In the cast
is Lila Lee, a pre-talkies favorite, as the
elder sister; Joan Marsh is the other.
Dialogue contains some snappy gags.
“Accent on Youth”
In this Sydney Prince Edward feature,
Herbert Marshall takes the part of a
nearly-middle-aged playwright who has
written a play based on an attachment
between a man of 40 and a girl of 20.
He is dubious about the plot being con-
vincing, and is on the point of scrapping
the play when his girlish secretary, played
by Sylvia Sidney, unexpectedly declares
her love for him. Reassured, he takes
steps to have the play produced, and has
the part of the young girl assigned to
his secretary. Simultaneously, of course,
Marshall and Miss Sidney re-enact the
play in private life. There enters—to
duplicate his stage part —the youthful
male intruder in the shape of a young
actor (Phillip Reed). As one would ex-
pect, Marshall chivalrously steps aside
and allows Reed to marry Miss Sidney.
At this point the story parts company
with the play within the play. Miss
Sidney is soon wearied by her athletic,
empty-headed husband, and is glad to
rush back into the arms of her lover.
There are bright lines, a few chuckle-
some situations and a priceless butler
(Ernest Cossart), but the film is spoiled
in parts by an air of artificiality. Sylvia
Sidney is as competent as she usually
is in such parts, and Holmes Herbert,
Catharine Doucet and Astrid Allwyn fill
minor roles delightfully.
“Every Night at Eight”
At Sydney Prince Edward. A light-
weight romance, plus a dash of merri-
ment and a couple of mediocre songs.
It chronicles the rise to fame of three
warblers who, before they became pro-
fessionals were telephone operator,
stenographer and bottle-packer in a
mint-julep factory. Dismissed for croon-
ing and clowning, they enter a radio
contest. They finish among the also-
rans, but the winner, George Raft,
conductor of an amateur orchestra, takes
a fancy to them, and under his guidance
they become the Swanee Sisters. Mr.
Raft wins the heart of the erstwhile
stenographer, who can sing her best only
when George is gazing tenderly into her
eyes. Alice Faye, Frances Langford and
Patsy Kelly are the girls. It is a flap-
pers’ film.
“The Guardsman”
Liking for or dislike of this film, shown
first at Sydney State some three and a
half years ago and now revived at Syd-
ney Variety, has become almost a test
of appreciation. Husband finds himself
ranged against wife, swain against sweet-
heart and brother against brother. Based
on a comedy by Ferenc Molnar, the thing
provides plenty of scope for criticism.
It is long; there is nothing of surprise
in it. A Viennese actor, full of conceit
Paul Graetz in “Heart’s Desire.”
and insanely jealous, makes love to his
actress wife in the guise of a Russian
officer. His make-up is admirable; he
is convinced she cannot penetrate it.
She responds to his lovemaking. He
accuses her of infidelity and she tells him
she knew from the first, and that she,
too, was playing a part. The audience
is allowed to guess whether she lied or
not. Not very original material, but the
acting is superb. Alfred Lunt, who had
the part in the original New York pro-
duction, is the husband, and Lynne Fon-
taine, who played opposite him then, is
the wife. Lunt is the conceited and
jealous actor; the way he looks in the
mirror, pats his hair and quotes from
parts he has played, his dramatisation
of himself —all ring true. The wife is
very little less realistic, and Roland
Young and Zasu Pitts fill minor roles
with credit.
“The Keeper of the Bees”
The apiary part of this fantasia from
the pen of Gene Stratton Porter couldn’t
Victor Jory as Oberon in “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream ” at Sydney Embassy.
be faulted by anyone, being played by
bees. It is charitable to suppose that
Mrs. Porter knew something about bees.
The rest of the plot concerns a young
American hero of the World War (Neil
Hamilton), stretched out by mustard gas
and given only six months to live. He
decides to go on a bender and thus end
all, but meets a saintly old bee-keeper on
the verge of dissolution and promises to
look after his pets for a while. There’s
a little girl who masquerades as a little
boy, but is found out when the kids go
in swimming; there’s a heroic lass (Betty
Furness) who marries Mr. Hamilton to
get a wedding certificate for her erring
sister. It all comes right in the end.
The censor pronounces it fit only for
adult eyes. At Sydney Lyceum.
“The Student’s Romance”
Also at the Lyceum. Lineal suc-
cessor of those musicomedy stage suc-
cesses “The Student Prince” and “In
Old Heidelberg.” Save that the students
drink wine in their beer-mugs and that
the music, though pleasantly tuneful, is
not quite up to the standard of Romberg,
Lehar or Straus, the piece, which is very
competently recorded, is just like the
other Heidelberg operettas.
“Heart’s Desire”
The heroine in this musical play at
Sydney State is a young lady who prefers
a slim figure and an elegant Oxford
accent to the plump outlines of Richard
Tauber. The plot is said to be based on
Tauber’s own history, and it may be
there is some truth in that. There is
no attempt to make Tauber a seductive
figure of romance. He is a Viennese
striving to learn enough English to com-
port himself respectably in London,
where he has been induced to go by a
young, rich and beautiful woman. After
operatic and concert stage successes
(Tauber sings some of the Schumann
lieder most beautifully), he returns to his
native city and his old sweetheart. Very
little plot, but the sound-recording is
superb, and Tauber, playing himself, is
a miracle of naturalness.
“Joy Ride”
Also at the State. An English bed-
room comedy without the slightest claim
to originality, but distinguished by
sprightly acting. Cast is composed
mostly of newcomers to the screen,
but they are people of talent, and extract
a fair amount of fun out of machine-
made situations and commonplace dia-
logue.
Some First Nights
Sydney Phil, celebrated its fiftieth
year of music-making by a performance
at the Con. Hall of a work with which
most of its members must be well
acquainted—“ The Seasons” of Haydn.
Choir and orchestra, under the baton ol
Howard Carr, romped through the lively,
vigorous melodies with spirit, and soloists
Phyllis Thomson, Colin Chapman and
Robert Scott were adequate to the arias
that fell their way.
»T« *j«
The revival of “Miss Hook of
Holland ” at Melb. His Majesty’s is well
presented. Nellie Barnes makes a de-
lightful Nina, and Marie Bremner acts
with charm and sings well, though the
music does not appear to suit her
throughout. John Fraser is an easy
singer but a stiff actor, and Elved Jay
adds Slinks to the list of first-class
comedy characters he is accumulating.
Cecil Kellaway excellently fills the part
of the genial Pa Hook. Chorus and
ballet are up to the Firm’s usual
standard.
-I- 'l* -I- *
The fillip given to interest in “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” by the screen
production was reflected in the bumper
house that witnessed Scott Alexander’s
presentation of the fantasy at Sydney
Kursaal. Atmosphere was achieved, and
tasteful settings and incidental music
helped the illusion. Maureen Leeper.
Ruth Pettersen, Wilson Irving, John
Rybak, Arch Hull, Treasure Richardson
and Marjorie Griffiths were the princi-
pal players.
Adelaide Repertory ended a success-
ful season with four short plays. The
most ambitious was a local effort, “The
Intruder,” by George Shaw ; scene, the
large tomb of a respectable Victorian
couple, to which two young revellers of
to-day stray by night, being met by a
variety of departed spirits. In Laurence
Housman’s “Bird in Hand” a science
prof. (Arthur Fay) sought to capture and
Herbert Marshall in “Accent on Youth,"
at Sydney Prince Edward.
classify a fairy. Recent English Rep.
successes presented were “The Folly of
Faith,” with Nellie Kerr as an empty-
headed wife, and “Security” Lisa
Gunnell as a typist who has become
“part of the office furniture.”
Current Artbursts
Excellent portraits are shown by Aileen
Dent at the boardroom of the National
Trustees’ Co., Melbourne. “The Artist’s
Mother” is particularly attractive ; flesh
tones, boldly but delicately treated, stand
out from a dark, old-masterish back-
ground. “Miss Olive Parnham” is
colorful, and boldness of approach is


% MEW POWER
' un tAa
MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY
i
I
PIGTURI
of the famous
TOEPLITZ
1150.000
Super Productions...
SPARKLING
4 SEQUEL
Amments
P‘
I
New
mkiW^ffWß
CHEVAIERf
* BELOVED.
VAGABOND
W. J. LOCKE’S world popular
romance—set to the rhythm of
haunting melodies—and brilliantly
translated to the living screen on a
superlative scale with A NEW
CHEVALIER in the title role
-the role this great artist was
horn to play!
“3a
'Corruns to OTitertaui
All Australia/
(/tskyourjoealjieatreTHmaqerdoutit.
WORLD {TRDDRRD PRODUOIOIK
revealed in “Mr. Magnus Lagerlof.”
Besides other well-painted portraits, there
are flower pieces, “Petunias” being a
canvas of great charm. Landscapes are
less satisfying, the most striking showing
the Harbor Bridge in a fog. “Henty
Beach, Portland,” is the only noteworthy
water-color ; the washes are used in an
original manner.
.j. 4, .j, .j,
Peter Bousfield, who has a show of
water-colors at Rubery Bennett’s galleries,
Sydney, is a confirmed caravanner, and
his pictures have open-air freshness.
Almost all ol them seem to be on-the-
spot impressions, and the differences be-
tween N. S. Wales and Victorian light
and landscape are conveyed m a conyinc-
mg manner. That very accomplished
decorative artist Harold Herbert was
Eousfield s associate on many a sketch-
mg expedition, and there is much
that is similar in their water-color tech-
nique. As examples of conscientious im-
pressionism this critic liked best “A Hot
“Ruins by Moonlight,” a modernist composition by James
Flett, recently shown in Melbourne.
Day,” “The Woolshed” and “Mt.
Bogong.”
4* + 4*
“F.S.”: Melbourne Nat. Gallery
authorities are so pleased with the atten-
dances since the pictures were thrown
open for inspection at night that it is
proposed to make the sessions per-
manent. This has raised the question
whether it is fair to the painter who
has painted, his picture by sunlight,
lamplight, moonlight or any other sort
of illuminant to let his work be seen
under artificial light. Concerning this
there is a lot of confusion in the public
mind.
The ideal method of showing a pic-
ture is in the light in which it was
painted, but this is so seldom possible
that a compromise is necessary if pictures
are to be exhibited at all. It is popularly
supposed that persons who are color-blind
cannot make a picture look like nature,
but this is a fallacy. If the color-blind
individual sees pink as blue in nature
he will see pink as blue in his pigments,
and in making his selection will dip his
brush into the appropriate color, just as
if he had the vision of normal men. But
if he paints in sunlight, with sunlight
on his canvas then the values will be
changed when the picture is shown in
any other sort of light. All that one
can say as to this is that the change
should be made as even as possible so
that an illuminant which lights every
part of the picture equally is the desir-
able one, and the relationships are then
unchanged.
Nine people out of ten who buy
pictures in exhibitions hang them
in their own homes under the worst
possible conditions, and this is an insult
to the artist and destroys the artistic
value of their property. But painters
are even worse offenders in this respect
than the public, as they ought to know
better.
I maintain that it is impossible to paint
by moonlight with any degree of accu-
racy, and that the
same thing applies
to painting against
the sun. The ab-
surdity of even at-
tempting to do
this can be realised
by any layman
who essays t o
look at objects
with a powerful
electric light shin-
ing directly in his
eyes. If the sun
itself is in the pic-
ture or even in
front of the ob-
server nothing but
lies can be told
about the scene.
Being far brighter
than the whitest of
white paint it is
outside the
painter’s medium.
One cannot make
a drum sound
louder than it sounds, so what your
painter does is to falsify the shadows
to make his contrasts plausible.
The Gallery experiment won’t matter
as far as most of the pictures in the
national collection are concerned, be-
cause they never were like anything that
ever was on sea or land. But there are
a few works which will benefit by being
seen in the most appropriate light. These
are the pictures that were themselves
painted by electric light. A few years
ago there was an illogical prejudice
against painting by electric light. One
critic said that the method was artificial,
forgetting that Rembrandt and dozens
of other masters painted by lamplight,
which is as artificial as electric light.
Necessity has overcome the prejudice,
and it is probable that the majority of
portraits and still-life one sees nowadays
were painted with the involuntary co-
operation of the State Electricity Com-
mission. There is this to be said in
favor of the S.E.C.’s illuminant —it is
safe, reliable and unchanging, except to
an imperceptible degree.
“General Prac.”: I doubt that para-
graph about the mediaeval hunger-
striker, Cecilia de Rygeway (B.
13/11/ ’35), having survived for 40 days
without food or drink. Modern authori-
ties on the dismal topic of starvation
say that no healthy adult can stand de-
privation of liquid for more than 10
days, while very young and very old
people pass out much sooner than that.
The water supply makes all the dif-
ference between life and death. Given
water, and only water, a man has hung
on for more than eight weeks, and
several more, including one stupid
doctor, have carried on for periods
varying between 40 and 50 days. The
business frequently brings in money.
Great Britain, in the ’sixties, got its leg
well pulled by one Sarah Jacobs, the
Welsh fasting girl, aged 13. Her parents
announced that their offspring had volun-
tarily refused food for two years, though
they indulgently moistened her lips with
water once a fortnight. To clear up the
mystery, four nurses kept guard over the
girl, who refused all foods and liquids.
As a result, she died in exactly nine days,
never admitting any trickery. The fit-
ting end to the affair was that the father
and mother, convicted of manslaughter,
did a stretch of 12 and six months re-
spectively. I’ve always felt annoyed that
the four nurses didn’t accompany them.
* * * *
“Chloride”: Abyssinia has become
“air-raid conscious,” and even tiny tots
are aware of the risk of death if masks
are not worn in a gas-attack. In proof
of this the “S. M. Herald” has pub-
lished a photograph, obviously posed, of
five black, self-conscious children, disci-
plined hands pressed tightly to their
sides, one wearing a mask ; the caption;
“Children in Addis Ababa soon con-
quered their first terror of gas-masks,
and have now become adepts in their
use.” I’m reminded of a “Daily Ex-
press” man who, setting out to prove
Londoners were similarly sophisticated,
strolled about with a gas-mask on.
Because no one took any notice of him,
regarding him as a crank or a joker, he
concluded that everyone was “air-raid
conscious,” and had an “Express” camera-
man snap him buying a paper from a
boy who was too busy doing his job to
bother raising a laugh. Clearly, he didn’t
reflect that if war appliances ever be-
came “news” to that extent we’d be liv-
ing in a terrible time.
* * * *
“Kellick”: Further to these home-made
wines, during a recent stay in England
I was pressed to “try a wee drop of man-
gold.” It proved palatable enough, and
my host’s assurance that it had been in
the little stone jar “since poor old gran,
died 17 years ago” fully accounted for
its potency.
* * * *
“Brix”: One Sydney citizen who
doesn’t underrate the shark menace is a
stout solicitor whose pastime is surfing.
One morning at Bondi he found himself
in a huge breaker with a surfer who,
keeping level with him, swam with such
ease and grace that the stout fella slowed
down to study his companion’s stroke.
He afterwards declared he lost con-
sciousness on discovering that his fellow-
surfer was equipped with fins and a
forked tail, and that he recovered only
when he was heavily dumped. Ever
since, he has been in the forefront of
the scramble when the shark-bell rings.


COME TO THE
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIR
Make 1936 a record year by purchasing your trading
requirements at the Leipzig Fair, in the heart of
beautiful Germany.
This historical World Market offers unexcelled oppor-
tunities for profitable buying.
Commences March 1, 1936.
Comprising General Samples, Textiles, Office
Equipment, Furniture, Sjiorts Goods, Engineer-
ing and Building, and Photographic Fairs.
All information, including Barter Arrangements, from:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the
Leipzig Trade Fair, Challis House, Martin Place;
G.P.O Box No. 3127 P, SYDNEY. Phone: 84006.
L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser, 29 Bligh St., SYDNEY.
C. N. Keppel, C/o Marcard & Co, 360 Post Office
Place; G.P.O. Box 1658, MELBOURNE.
11. O. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, W. AUSTRALIA.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The indomitable Jean Batten has
brought it off again. Maoriland no
doubt is one bonfire of celebration from
Auckland to The Bluff, for Jean is an
Enzedder. She is the first woman to fly
solo across the South Atlantic, and she
broke a record in doing so: 13 hours 15
minutes from Dakar in French West
Africa to Araruama in Brazil. Jean’s
’plane is a Percival Gull, designed by
Sydney’s own Captain E. W. Percival; a
happy and history-making Maoriland-
Australia alliance.
It is plain that Satan himself is among
the unemployed. There can be no idle
hands left for him to find mischief for.
The Hobbies Exhibition proves it. The
whole of the ground floor of the Grace
Building in York-street is filled with the
weaving and building, the carving, paint-
ing, broidering and what not with which
Sydney men, women and children occupy
all the time left over from the daily
job or school work. Ships of all kinds
are here —galleons, clippers and barges.
Here are a model of a church and a
grandfather clock made of matches;
there a rug made from old stockings and
blanket. Here are carved wooden toys.
Stamp and book-plate collectors (John
Lane Mullins one of the latter) display
interesting examples of their love. The
Industrial Arts Society has joined forces
with this exhibition, which is to aid the
Industrial Blind Institution.
Lady Isaacs opened the exhibition on
Friday, supported by Sylvia Purves and a
sheaf of roses and gladioli, and Sydney’s
smartest were among her listeners. The
Stamp Taylors, the A. C. Davidsons,
organiser Mrs, A. V. Roberts and C. M.
C. Shannon were actively in the picture ;
so were artist Franki Payne (Mrs.
Clinton) and Mrs. Toby Browne, yvho,
besides the Hobbies, had two confer-
ences (perhaps they are her hobby) on
her mind: the Country Women’s and
the Catholic Women’s. That gifted musi-
cian Mrs. Hoogstoel (blind these ten or
more years), who has arranged the pro-
gramme for each day, was surrounded
by groups of friends. The McKelvey
lady, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, Barbara Lane
Mullins and Viki Gordon were among
the interested.
The Governor-General and Lady
Isaacs, Priminister Lyons and Premier
and Mrs, Stevens were a few of the
nation’s great who attended the wedding
of Mary Page to Wilfred Bailey Tart.
Mary is the only daughter of Dr.
Earle Page, and, in addition to being
pretty and well liked, she added the
romance of having been rescued from
drowning by Mr. Tart, and then be-
coming his bride. St. Philip’s, on Church
Hill, was crowded. Mary, slimly emerg-
ing from ivory satin and a surf of tulle,
was married with full choral honors.
Daffodil chiffons tied with long, red
sashes were worn by ’maids Madge
Thomas and Pat Mulholland. The
Governor-General toasted the bride and
’groom and Mr. Lyons proposed the
health of the bride’s parents at the recep-
tion in Elizabeth Bay House. Mrs. Earle
Page’s outfit was in pastel tones, and in
her bouquet gladioli and Cecil Brunner
roses were mingled. Mr. Tart’s home
town is Stoke-on-Trent, England.
Lome Wilson was the soprano in the
choral service that lent beauty to the
Page-Tart wedding. She is booked to
sing in the Izal production of “Faust”
at the Australian Hall on the 23rd.
Hugh McCrae, his blue eyes shining
with laughter in the suntan of his face,
was the guest of the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers last Wednesday. The
David Jones auditorium was the scene
of action, and marooned in the middle
of the floor, like an island of the blessed,
was a table surrounded by women. They
were the members of the Society of
Women Writers, who, hearing that Hugh
was to be given a huzza, decided to be
in the cheering, and moved their lunch
holus-bolus from the Blue Room. Be-
side the guest of honor sat Mrs. Hugh,
her burgundy crepes edged with fur, and
before her her presentation posy of
pink flowers. President Flora Eldershaw
made pleasant introductory remarks, and
speeches were made by “Bill” Moore,
Elliott Napier and Inglis Moore.
Mary Gilmore was in a deserved place
beside the guest. The brightest smile and
the most gaily flowered frock were worn
by Mrs. Frank Clune, who sat between
her husband and C. J. A. Moses, of the
A.B.C. Hugh’s speech in reply was as
witty and pretty as you’d expect from
the author of Georgiana’s Journal and
My Father and My Father’s Friends.
He told that one day, travelling along
the milky way that lies between Camden
(the residence of Hugh as well as of
the Macarthur Onslows) and Sydney, he
was introduced to a schoolgirl, who said
in an awed way “Not Mr, McCrae the
poet?” “Not at all,” was his reply ;
“just a mute, inglorious milkman.”
Bertie Kelly is president of the Dante
Alighieri Society ; last week he and Mrs.
Bertie coo-eed the members of the D.A.
to their new Italian villa at Darling
Point. Here, amid an atmosphere of
lovely old spinets painted with lakes and
swans and Florentine lamps and other
objects of delight, the guests listened to
a programme of Italian music. The party
was in honor of Dr. Baccarini, the
society’s past-president, so the flower
pieces were all in tones of red, green
and white. The hostess’s satins were
dahlia-red. The supper was a banquet.
If your Italian was a hundred per
cent., there were red and white, still and
sparkling wines to go with it, not
forgetting the whisky of the Gaels.
Dame Constance D’Arcy, her black
frock Van Dyckish with a white lace
collar, her hands filled with blooms as
bright and clean-washed as those in the
pictures, opened Vida Lahey’s show.
This brings a blaze of color to the
Grosvenor Galleries, and the Queensland
artist’s reputation ensured an attentive
concourse of southern admirers. Among
the visitors were anthropologist Olive
Pink, the Eccles Snowden lady in
attractive millinery, Oswald Cheeke (who
brought a group of English visitors, and
was the first to buy a picture), Esme
Mayo, Frieda Willis, and crowds of
young things in summery raiments.
Besides being secretary for drama
week Marcia Collins is acting in the
pageant. This is the big rocket for the
afternoon of December 7, and its bright
flight will be watched from the lawns
of Elaine, the Hubert Fairfax home at
Double Bay. Falk photograph.
The flowers at the wedding of Elsa
Stralia to Adolph Christensen were
abundant enough to have carpeted the
way from St. Stephen’s, where the vows
were blessed, to the Australia, where the
wedding meats were served. Posies and
sprays for all the women guests, a great
armful of November lilies for the bride,
and pink roses, carnations and gladioli
in the reception-rooms were a small part
of the horticultural display. Elsa, of the
rich soprano that made its Covent
Garden debut in company with John
McCormack in “Don Giovanni,” looked
very handsome in an unusual arrange-
ment of black and white. Her frock of
black net was appliqued in white daisies,
and her cape was a cascade of black-
and-white frills. An outsize in black
hats topped off the whole.
Some of the wedding guests and the
wedding cake came over from Maori-
iand with the two principals. Elsa was
there on a broadcast tour, and Mr.
Christensen’s home is in Patea, in
Taranaki. The two were engaged three
days after they met at a supper-party,
but as most of the singer’s family is in
Australia they decided to come to
Sydney for the wedding. Ruth Mann
’maided in peach-pinks and delphinium-
blues; sister-in-law Mrs. Hugo Fischer
(the bride was Elsie Fischer) was matron
of honor. Mr. Christensen was one-time
Mayor of Patea.
This is Barbara Smith, one of the
three stage-minded daughters of Dr.
S. A. Smith. The eldest is known to the
London stage and film world as Nancy
O’Neil, (This Letter saw her acting
with Seymour Hicks in “Vintage Wine.”)
The youngest is Lorraine Grey, and is
almost entirely occupied with film work.
Barbara has been three years in Eng-
land, and played wtih repertory com-
panies. Photo, from Montgomery Dunn
studio.
Queensland girl Maureen Leeper was
just right as Puck in Scott Alexander’s
production of “Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” The midget stage of the Kur-
saal Theatre sustained the fairy madness,
and Maureen in her woodland-green suit
blew about, light as thistledown. The
night was oppressively warm, and the
tiny theatre was packed; still, something
of the cool deeps of flower-starred glades
was carried to the audience by the poet’s
words. Oberon, Titania and her sprites
and Bottom in his ass’s head brought out
the fairy flavor to a nicety. Undeterred
by the fact that just around the corner
Mr. Max Reinhardt’s company of expen-
sive Hollywood actors was producing the
same show, the young earned
Sub 1 1
g e '
Ruby Rich, back in Sydney after an
absence of some years, not only looks
exactly the same, but seems prepared to
take up the feminist’s burden in exactly
the same way. Women’s organisations—
no fewer than twenty of them—welcomed
ami and~hi
the guest’s honor, no doubt—old friend
girdled the,u. There was time to admire
ihem, for the guest spoke for over halt
an hour, and was interesting all the way.
A cigarette-box modelled as a settler’s
hut was the star turn of Theo Cowan’s
pottery show at the Women’s Club. The
treasure was bought by Mrs. George
Hall. Theo’s glazes are always worthy
of note, and this year she has experi-
mented with cigar and cocoanut ash
mixed with her clay, the result being a
soft amber and a green flecked with
purple. The show drew a procession or
art-lovers, and the fruit-stand around
which native-beais climb and pose won
every woman’s heart.
Old Venetian point that had been
worn by her mother was used by Joan
Badgery for her wedding dress. Mounted
on ivory chiffon it swished a pointed
train. Her tulle veil was also ivory
tinted, and fell from a mother-of-pearl
coronet. She carried magnolias. Joan
is the only daughter of the W. T. Bad-
gerys, of Scone, and her ’groom, Henry
Grattan Guinness, a son of the late Di.
Grattan Guinness, of London. The
wedding was an afternoon one. St
John’s, Darlinghurst, heard the vows and
Elizabeth Bay House the toasts. Dr.
Cedric Cohen was best man and Cohn
Hall the groomsman. Joan’s couSjin,
Pamela Richards, from Cootamundra,
and Nuttie Mackellar trailed mushroom-
pink chiffons girdled in brown cire in
the wedding procession. An important
person, too, was little Sally Bragg in
cream organdie, and crowned with pink
roses. Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Badgery
were the principals at the reception.
Valerie Bavin, Anne Bevan and Patsy
Dangar distributed programmes with
such a will at the music parly for
the Adult Deaf and Dumb Society
that the late-comer had to go
without and look wise when the items
came on. The rooms of Mayoress
McElhone were crowded, one row ol
listeners being almost on top of the
palms that banked the fireplace. The
Bavin lady had organised the success, and
a group of the city’s bright songsters and
clever musicians made up the programme
arranged by Mrs. Walter Swinson. Mrs.
Swinson, who is a brilliant pianist, was
billed to appear with ’cellist Athos
Martelli, but was too ill to do so.
Mildred Hill took her place at the key-
board. Mrs. Bernard, Enid Conley,
Clem Williams and Kynaston Franks
were others who played and sang.
Philip Street’s lady and Mrs. A. Mc-
Elhone were the guests of honor. The tea-
serving was hostessed by a group ol
smiling girls, among them Felicia
Garvan, Hilary Long and Mary Went-
worth.
For the next few months that young
airwoman Nancy Bird will know the
saffron sunsets of Bourke. Nancy goes
off in her new Leopard Moth to be the
flying unit of the Far West Children’s
Health Scheme. The ’plane, which
glitters with scarlet and chromium and
grey, has room for two passengers; the
work will mostly consist of taking the
Far West nurse on her round of visits
and bringing patients from outlying
centres to hospital. Miss Bird has both
her A- and B-class air pilot’s licenses.
An important visitor to Sydney last
week was Mrs. Judah Green, who came
with a dream of canned peaches in her
eyes, a sound argument for bottled apri-
cots on her lips. Mrs. Green is presi-
dent of the Leeton branch of the
C.W.A., and last year she championed
the cause of the fruitgrowers in the irri-
gation area so well that the sale of pre-
served fruit increased by 6,000,000 cans.
Roland Foster and Hilda Mulligan
have a job after their own hearts in the
producing of Stanford’s Shamus
O’Brien.” Roland’s maternal grand-
father was president of the Royal Col-
lege of Physicians, Dublin, and an uncle,
Barry M. Gilhooly, a well-known Irish
composer. Hilda’s mother was of the
rebel Fitz Gerald family, so the two feel
right in their element working on this
story of Shamus, who fought in 98. The
Con. opera school will present the opera
early next month.
If the background of millions can make
a person significant, then the George
Vanderbilts, who arrived in Sydney by
the Wanganella last week, are tremen-
dously important. Apart from that, they
are as nice a pair of young honeymooners
as this city has seen. She has a vivid
face, and wears her curling hair rather
long. For her arrival she crowned this
with a small gnomelike hat, stabbed
through with a quill. The ivory clasp
on the belt of her navy frock showed
an old-castle motif, and her white jabot
had battlement edges. The sort of
wristlet-watch that most of us only
dream about and a diamond ring with
superb radiations were the only hints of
great money glimpsed as the two dined
and danced about Sydney. The young
man is a son of the Vanderbilt who
went down in the Lusitania. The Barrier
Reef, where they go in a special
schooner, and then India for big-game
shooting are the two other items on their
honeymoon programme. The two first
met on the cruise of the Lurlme three
years ago. And if that’s not a splendid
advertisement for cruises, what is?
{Continued on page 44.)


EYE LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
_H. A. ROSE &■ Ce, Ltd. King St. Sydney
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
. Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Desire
' Homely com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni-
tance of the
WENTWORTH ftotel
BRIDGE PARR
business centre
of Sydney.
ent walking dis-
SYDNEY
8W1361
WE OFFER/
WHAT /
Mott |
Melbourne
Chatter
In a gale guests were blown into
Rondo, Fordham-road, for the late-after-
noon party given by Dr. and Mrs. F. V.
Scholes. The weather prevented wander-
ings in the lovely garden, which, glimpsed
through the windows, seemed to be full
of flowers despite the loads of del-
phiniums, lupins, roses and lilies which
adorned the lounges and hall. Mrs.
Scholes wore a tunic ensemble with a
black skirt and a turquoise blouse, to the
shoulder of which she had pinned some
of her husband’s pet roses. The guest
list was pungent with medicoes. Dr. and
Mrs. Tim Millar were there, Mrs.
Millar very petite in navy, with a cute
little Peter Pan cap. Dr. Lois Duncan
wore navy and an antique brooch
fastened to her collar of old lace. Mrs.
Alan Robinson and. Mrs. Harry Melville
were also in the navy brigade. Betty
Nicholas looked particularly attractive
in her little white cap with its lamb’s-
wool. edging and stiffened horsehair veil.
The shaker used at the cocktail party
on board the Canberra was a milk-bucket;
the mixing was performed per medium
of an egg-beater and the physical jerks
of the marines. At 7 p.m. the band
played the Anthem, for there are no all-
night sessions about warships, especially
when they are due to put to sea in the
next early dawn. Hosts of the party
were Rear-Admiral Ford and the
Canberra’s officers, the only persons pres-
ent in uniform. Commander and Mrs.
H. T. C. Walker were there, Mrs. Walker
in black of ankle length. Commander
Burnett’s wife wore a short fur coat
over her tailored dress. The Hon. Sara
Vanneck, who returned from her trip
abroad just too late for all the race
gaieties, chose a flowered frock and a
navy-blue coat. In the crowd were
Elizabeth and Margaret Pearson, Mrs.
Keith Tolhurst, whose beret obliterated
one eye, Mrs. Jim Sargood, all in blue,
and Mrs. Charles Reed, who bestowed
white revers upon a black dress, and
clusters of flowers upon a small black
hat. There was to have been dancing,
but rain spoiled the floor of the quarter-
deck. People who relieved the conges-
tion by wandering below on tours of
inspection discovered that the placid
ship’s cat has two fighting kittens.
The Duntroon was a very hospitable
ship last week. Trestle-tables were un-
folded upon its wide decks when the Mel-
bourne S.S. Co. gave tea-parties on two
successive days. The 1500 guests were
split up according to their initials, the
A to M people on the first afternoon,
and the N-to-Zs on the second. On both
occasions the Blind Institute Orchestra
officiated from the music-room. Captain
I. L. Lloyd is now in a daze of faces
after charity balls and receptions, at
which, with Mr. David York Syme, he
has received some 5000 guests at the
top of the gangway. The most notable
figure on deck last week was the Rev.
Huey Steele, who wore his knee-
breeches, lace ruffles and tricorne hat.
Knight Ernest Wreford was probably
the tallest man present among the M.L.
people. Knight William Brunton accom-
panied his lady; Mrs. Charles Cunning-
ham in brown and white spots and Mrs.
R. H. Wilkins with ospreys round her
shoulders were escorted by their hus-
bands. Captain and Mrs. Urquhart
walked the plank together. Mrs. Harry
Furnell was smart in a grey suit and
navy blouse. Colonel and Mrs. Tom
White were there, Mrs. White dressed
for the storm which on the afternoon
of the second reception did several thou-
sands of pounds’ worth of damage to
Melbourne in ten minutes.
A man’s reaction towards a garden
party is a mutinous “I won’t go”" when
the invitation arrives. The wives are un-
perturbed. They order new dresses,
examine frock coats for moths, brush up
tall hats or bowlers. At the party the
men look miserable, but, while sympathis-
ing with one another, they know in their
hypocritical hearts that they’d have been
furious if they hadn’t been invited.
The Archbishop and Mrs, F. W. Head
were given perfect weather for their
annual garden-party. There are senti-
mental memories about the garden at
Bishopscourt; the passing of the years
adds to the dignity of the old trees, the
roses bloom each year, the same faces
are seen on the lawns. Members of the
Synod were special guests of honor.
The Bishop of Geelong was accom-
panied by Mrs. Booth ; Bishop Stephen
and Archibshop Herring each had the
support of their “right-hand helpers.”
Mrs. Richard Sherwood, who came with
the precentor of St. Paul’s, was in a
summery frock of blue-and-white chiffon.
Mrs. William Parbury wore black and
a dash of silver stitchery; Mrs. T. H.
Laby black with a mild dose of green;
Mrs. J. K. Merritt black, and the sway
of a feather in her hat. In the black
brigade also was Mrs. E. Snodgrass, with
a flutter of shell-pink at the throat as
the only concession to color.
During two afternoons last week
students of the Emily McPherson Insti-
tute displayed their efficiency at all kinds
of home-making and mothercraft. Judg-
ing by the exhibits, an infant who gets
one of the Emily’s needlework girls for
its mother is a very lucky child. Par-
ticularly attractive were the little frocks
beautifully smocked, the quilted crib
coverlets and the knitted woollies. There
was a safety-swing of canvas to hang
under the backyard tree ; there were teddy
bears, kangaroos complete with families,
and elegant gentlemen penguins in their
meticulous evening dress. Something
vitalising for furnishings, bags and odd
ornamental bits were the machine-made
Cornelly embroideries. A mountain of
show tickets, each ticket denoting a prize
at a town or country show, were on
view as a record of how one girl, still a
student, has succeeded among competent
and experienced needlewomen through-
out the State. She is Juanita Aguir, of
Spanish extraction. But one speculates
that all the cookery students must make
treasures of wives. The hearty-meal
dishes lose their savor when exhibited
with the steam gone out of them, but
the sweets, cakes and savories were en-
ticing as they were artful. Decorated
with ears of wheat and miniature
sheaves were the yeast efforts, loaves,
buns, rolls, some shaped like long-
necked ducks. The Emily’s interpre-
tation of the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester’s wedding breakfast included
a meringue shaped like a jewel case, with
crystallised cherries and strawberries
spilling through the half-opened lid.
To-morrow night (21st) at the King’s
Theatre Irene Mitchell, whose photo, is
by Kelvey Luke-Ruskin, will play
Romeo in the Louie Dunne Shaks-
pearean Players’ production of “Romeo
and Juliet.” The effort with an all-girl
cast is a repeat performance of the
Players’ effort last June at the Garrick.
Funds will go towards a scheme which
is being sponsored by Mrs. I, H. Moss
for helping Eda Wills to go abroad. Miss
Wills, a Melbourne playwright, has been
advised by several critics to aim high
and to personally knock at the office
doors of London publishers and pro-
ducers and film magnates.
Mrs. Harley Styles was welcomed back
from her travels with tea, some bridge
and a great deal of chatter at Bermer-
syde, Mrs. Ernest Heymanson’s home
in Kooyong. In the lounge serious-
minded guests concentrated upon bids
and doubles while the frivolous ones
occasionally stopped their animated dis-
cussions upon current topics to ask what
were trumps or whose deal it was. The
hostess wore ink-blue velvet, over which
was slung a little quilted cape; Mrs.
Styles chose a halo hat to go with a
black dress trimmed with red pretzel
buttons. Mrs. Roly Fink, also just re-
turned from the other side of the world,
wore a midnight-blue ensemble. Mrs.
Lytton Stephens was in navy and white,
with a white bow poised upon her cart-
wheel hat, and Mrs. W. Gray (of
Donald) chose blue accessories for a
grey suit. Tea was an interlude in the
dining-room, decorated with tall vases
and wide bowls of mixed flowers.
The mannequin parade is becoming
more and more a means of raising money
for charity. Last week lingerie was the
subject chosen for the parade at the
Embassy, a repeat performance with tea
and later with cocktails. Layers of make-
up camouflaged the gooseflesh which
played tunes under the skin of the seven
young mannequins, for the thermometer
had collapsed to a midwinter reading.
Marjorie and Patricia Finney, Mrs. Lex
Rentoul and Pat Mein were on the organ-
ising committee. Some of the exquisite
nightgowns fitted so perfectly that one
could get away with them as evening
dresses. A dashing suit of pyjamas
christened “Flaming Youth” was of navy
dotted with white, with a patent-leather
belt and a spate of frontal buttons in
vivid tomato. Some of the dressing-
gowns were of stiff, heavy satin with
quilted collars and gauntlets—just the
thing for an uncertain climate.
Here is an Athol Shmith picture of
Mrs. Wilfrid Tennent Hunter, who is on
a holiday visit to her parents, Mr. and
Mrs, P. C. Holmes Hunt, People with in-
clinations towards travel must envy Mrs.
Tennent Hunter her across-the-world
jaunts—she and her husband live half
the year in England and the other halt
in the Argentine.
From town and country cars drove
along the gale-swept roads of the
Western District for the wedding of
Margaret Black and Russell Stokes. The
link was made secure at the Presbyterian
Church, Noorat, and the reception was
at Glenormiston, where 1000 leaves, each
leaf separately wired, decorated the
marquee on Mr. and Mrs. Steuart
Black’s lawn. The bridal gown of ivory
silk sheer was mounted on taffeta, the
collar was high and pointed, the sleeves
long and finished with tiny buttons.
White roses lay in the bouquet, and
Honiton lace, worn by the bride’s grand-
mother at her wedding, made the veil.
The bride’s sister Cara, her cousin (an-
other Margaret Black) and Joan Bostock
attended in plumbago-blue ninon dresses
and white picture hats secured to their
heads by bandeaux of taffeta leaves,
similar leaves balancing them for’ard,
with semicircular wreaths round the
shallow crowns. The ’maids’ flowers
were early white and cream rhododen-
drons.
There were lots of parties afterwards.
The Walford Manifolds gave a buffet
meal at Mortlake ; the Neil Calverts had
a dinner-party at Hopkins House and the
Don Moffatts a dinner at Corra. Alison
and Elsa Armstrong, like everybody else
in the district, had their guest-rooms
occupied for the week-end. After all the
cocktail parties and dinners there was a
further shuffling round, for the Allen
family, of Boorook, gave a dance in
honor of Joan Allen’s homecoming.
Mrs. Allen, Joan and Muriel all wore
black as the mainstays of their color
schemes. Eileen was in nettle-green
satin with winged shoulders.
Artist Miles Evergood, son of “old
Philip Blashki,” saw Marabou win from
the flat, just as he saw Carbine romp
home with his lOst. 51b. on a hot day 45
years ago. The visitor says that the cli-
mate has changed as much as the course.
In Carbine’s year the bustles, the feathers
and the straw-deckers melted and sizzled
through a week with an average tem-
perature of 105 deg. Mr. Evergood has
lived many years in America. His son
Philip, also an artist, has become famous
through his satirical treatment of con-
temporary life through figure subjects.
Miles has been twice married; his wife,
who is considerably his junior, is an
American and a clever designer of rugs.
This is her first visit to these parts.
A young man whose interests are in
sheep and wool went to the Cup, where
he lost money to the books and had £9
stolen out of his pocket. That evening,
still cheerful, he went to the circus, but
arrived so late that Voitre had received
his presentation whip and most of the
show was over. The lad didn’t feel like
a dead-end finish to a bad day, and,
declaring how much all animals loved
him, he had a word in the ear of the
elephant trainer. When the coast was
clear Alice, on a signal from her keeper,
swung her visitor aloft in her trunk.
Somehow she managed to take a par-
ticularly deep breath while sniffing at the
braid on her cargo’s trousers; a few
more snuffles and the braid was ripped
right off and the pants came to pieces.
To make things worse Alice’s caresses
were particularly damp and slobbery—
she’s nearly 100 and should know better.
By cable we hear that the 8.8. C. is
seeking a “superwoman” as the first tele-
vision announcer. The “super” must be
charming and tactful, and must possess
a low-pitched voice and a good memory,
because there’s to be no reading in
front of the television mike. She must
photograph well, but the acid test is that
she must please women listeners. Her
only hope of success therefore is to be
natural. Women with affected manner-
isms will do well to save their fares and
ambitions, for the mike always carica-
tures vocal idiosyncrasies. Nina Mur-
doch was an example of one of our rare
easy-to-listen-to women broadcasters.
Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred Heron, with
Rose Clapperton, who has been their
guest in Rabaul, arrived in the Neptuna
expecting to find Melbourne in spring-
time. Instead they have discovered an
out-of-season dose of winter, and are
rummaging in the bottom of their trunks
for little-used woollies. Mrs. Norman
Clapperton and her daughter, Mrs.
Ronald Forbes, gave a sherry party for
the three last week at Mr. and Mrs.
Forbes’s home in Domain-road.
The Bright family’s busiest day of the
year was on Saturday, when eldest sister
Mary held a gymkhana in the grounds
of Carbrook. The competitors were 40
young equestriennes, pupils of Toorak
College, and all the officials were old
girls of the college. In between races,
jumping events and racquet and ball
competitions, the children, who had their
tea in the garden, paid visits to their
parents and friends with cars and
hampers—for there is nothing more con-
ducive towards appetite than a day in
the open air. Mrs. Bright entertained
Miss Hamilton and her sisters, some of
the mistresses and the officials at tea in
her drawing-room.
Back to the lettuce-leaf and the
thimbleful of black coffee, curves may
be what the doctor ordered, but not what
the great dressmakers designed, for this
season. To begin with, white is the
chosen for evening wear —white crepe
and georgette draped horizontally and
vertically—and only the lean can enter
into that kingdom. Lame and satin cling
to the thighs, all revealing of line, and
flirt slender fishtail trains. Shirrings
are among the last word, and long
bodices gain character from horizontal
shirrings. No really smart one is without
an evening cape. No longer pretty-
pretty, these have a military or tailored
cut. Art jewellery of any and all periods
is worn with everything.


Personal and Missing Friends.
Henry Clarence Reilly.
LAST heard of some seven years ago near
Richmond, in Queensland. The above is re-
quested to communicate with MESSRS.
MORGAN & FYFFE, Solicitors, Chancery
House, 485 Bourkc Street, Melbourne, Vic-
toria, when he will hear of something to his
advantage. Anybody knowing his whereabouts
(or, if dead, giving proof thereof) is re-
quested to communicate with above firm, when
they will be rewarded.
CHRISTOPHER KILLEEN, formerly of
Euroa, Victoria. Anyone knowing of his
whereabouts or that of his descendants, please
communicate with SHAW & TURNER, Solici-
tors, 94 Queen Street, Melbourne, re interest
in deceased estate.
IF WILLIAM LEDGERWOOD, formerly of
Girvan, Ayrshire, Scotland, last heard o( in
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, about
five years ago, will apply to the subscribeis, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
MURRAY & TAIT,
Solicitors,
Girvan, Scotland.
THE HAPPIEST
BOOK OF THE
YEAR
ALL-ABOUT
By Mary and Elizabeth Durack
From the preface by Sir James Mitchell, Lieut.-
Governor of Western Australia, congratulating
the young Western Australian authors, Mary and
Elizabeth Durack, on this happy book:
This tale of station life will appeal strongly to all real
Australians, and I believe it will have a wide audience
in other countries. Its great value is that it is written
from life out of a knowledge possessed by people pro-
foundly interested in the natives, and who have always
treated them well. The drawings, I think, are striking
caricatures. All interested in the natives as human beings
should read this book. 1 have never read anything
on the subject that I like better. In congratulating the
artists, I thank them for having contributed something of
permanency to the literature and art of our young
country.
PRICE
3/6
(Postage 3d.)
ON SALE THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
AT AN EARLY DATE
Published by
252 George Street, Sydney
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
and Wellington (N.Z.)
What does Boadicea dream in her long,
long sleep? Of Empire, according to the
girls of Hopewood House. In pageantry
they traversed the history of conquest
and colonisation ; and with a wardrobe
that would have staggered Boadicea even
in her wildest imaginings they glittered
and shone, emblazoned with heraldry,
starry with crowns. Isabel Mackenzie,
Lorna Mac Smith, Lyle Mason and
Gloria Stewart, as England, Ireland, Scot-
land and Wales, walked in the magnifi-
cence of gold and ermine and lions
couchant and rampant. British Guiana
made a colorful entry, a tropic bird with
sweeping plumage on her right wrist, a
cascade of orchids from her left
shoulder ; above the exotic hues of her
robes, a green and scarlet hat, light as
jungle grasses, trembled and swayed.
Antarctica was a glittering whiteness
opening on to glacier blues. India blazed
with gems, and a princess of Maonla
brought in a breath of the South Sea
saga. Principal Miss Jobson, very hand"
some in flowered satins caped in black,
lace, arranged the pageant.
Guinea prizes—five, two and one
are offered for the best Christmas
cakes entered for the Sydney Day
Nurseries’ competition. All the entries,
of course, become the property of the
association, and will be sold for thw.
benefit of the nurseries. Mrs. Harold
Weigall, an ardent worker, says she is
confident that nearly £2OO will be raised.
Delegates from all the States and one
from Maoriland spent most of last week
conferring on matters pertaining to the
moral and spiritual welfare of Catholic
women and girls. Miss Kate Egan was
the capable chairman, and the conler-
ence drew a great attendance to Nock
and Kirby’s Pompadour room. The needs
of deaf mutes and unemployed girls,
were stressed on the opening day. The
conference was notable for its fiank-
ness. Polite reservations were no part
of it. If manners and morals can be
governed by human plans, the C.W.C.
should achieve success.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The waters lapping Freshwater Bay
Yacht Club’s premises were colorful with
the reflection of rainbow lights outlining
the craft moored to the jetty at the
opening-of-the-season dance. Aboard the
Pollyanna the Roland Smiths poured
cocktails after guests had exchanged
handshakes with Commodore Bacon,
who had his lady’s gold-corsaged black
satins alongside. The suggestion of
summer brought to light a collection of
fluffy florals. Mrs. Smith’s were in
pastel ninon, Mabel Teather’s red
poppies grew on white chiffon, Mrs. Len
Glaskin’s blooms were soft pink, Mrs.
Hubert Parker, Hetty Forbes, Lorraine
Godden and Mrs. Reg Long mixed their
posies, and Rua Christoe’s were china-
blue and pink.
Hazel Hatfield kept her tryst with
Philip Adams, of Mount Helena, at St.
Theresa’s, Nedlands. A lei of satin
flowers outlined the neck of her ivory
charmeuse gown, which was draped into
a train and flanked by full bishop sleeves.
Her all-over tulle veil semi-concealed a
trail of orange-blossoms and copper-
gold rosebuds. Beige georgette was
draped on attendants Jean Hatfield and
Marjorie McMillan, whose garlands of
delphiniums and gold roses matched the
wreaths which encircled their tulle halo
hats. Mrs. Hatfield’s beige laces graced
the portals of the Myola Club for the
aftermath.
The committee that arranged the
Perth Golf Club ball did its job well.
Colored lights twinkled in the labyrinth
of trees near the clubhouse, were
festooned in the supper and sitting-out
marquees and girded the closed-in
verandahs ; a log crackled merrily in the
lounge and gladioli reared their spikes
in every nook and cranny. Committee-
man Bill Broadhurst escorted his wife’s
trailing rust-red georgettes. The Ron
Oldhams were there, the Otto Vetters
(she with a lattice of silver thread on her
pink taffetas) and Mrs. Theodore
Ambrose, with a skilful cut to her
black phantom crepes. Others who
danced were the Stanley Craigs (her
black silk nets banded with taffeta),
Phyllis and Gwen Brazier, the Keith
Woodroffes (louis d’or gleamed on her
black moire), the Evan Saws, the Wallace
and Claude Unmacks, the Stan Brear-
leys, the Reg McKissocks (her corn-
flower blues were self striped), and the
Frank Cockshotts.
Madame Lauri Alwyn has married J.
C. Doyle, of Queensland, at Perth.
A wedding cake adorned with Grecian
figures held pride of place on the
supper-table in the Piccadilly ball-
room, where the Alwyn Physical Culture
Club put on a dance in honor of its
president, Vice-pres. Mrs. W. H. Taylor,
with silver pinspots on her luminous
black silks, accompanied the guest of
honor, whose weblike white chenille
georgette fell into a slinky train and was
sprayed with pink roses across the neck-
line.
The Karrakatta Club wound up its
social season with a musical and
dramatic evening in the main hall and
supper in the winter garden. President
Mrs. D. D. Paton, with finest lace over
rustling black taffetas, stood next vice-
pres. Mrs. W. H. Vincent, whose black
georgette glistened with jet. Nora Coal-
stad’s piano solos and Alice Mallon’s
soprano voice admirably filled the first
part of the programme, and Mrs. Miller’s
production of “Memoirs” came after the
interval.
Ruth Clifton’s coming marriage to
Langlois D’Arcy has started a series of
bride-elect parties. Louie Shenton’s tea
at the Palace was the first effort, with
the hostess in red-and-white floral
georgettes and Ruth combining brown
and green in her figured silks. Grace
Stapledon, swathed in silvery-blue mate-
lasse, set out bridge tables for a score
or more at her home in West Perth.
Members of the French Salon gathered
at Madame Brisbout’s gladioli- and rose-
decorated lounge for tea and talk.
Madame discoursed on her recent trip
to Europe, and Miss Gertrude Walton
gave a French reading.
Athole Clifton arrived back from
England complete with trousseau. Her
marriage to Gerald Weldon takes place
early in December.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Bishop of Adelaide’s second
daughter, Katherine, married Bishop
Baddeley, of Melanesia, in St. Peter’s
Cathedral. The bride’s father officiated,
and her mother, Mrs. Nutter Thomas,
gave her away. It was a very early
morning affair, followed by Communion
service. At the reception at Bishop s
Court the bridal couple, with the Bishop
and Mrs. Nutter Thomas, received the
guests in the hall, passing on afterwards
into the dining-room and drawing-room,
where the wedding presents were on view'.
The wedding breakfast was served in a
large marquee on the lawn. The bride was
gowned in magnolia satin fitting to the
figure and merging into a train. Her
Limerick lace veil was held in place by
orange-blossom, and she carried a sheaf
of white gladioli. Her bridesmaids,
Nancy Douglas and Barbara Hamilton,
were frocked in fawn and tango floral
georgette with sashes of brown velvet,
and a touch of tango in their wide-
brimmed brown straw hats.
Amateur movies are becoming popular
here. Don Turnbull, on his return after a
tour with the Davis Cup team, provided
cinema entertainment at the Mount
Osmond Country Club. In addition to
tennis scenes Mr. Turnbull had taken
pictures of the jubilee procession in
London.
St. Peter’s College Memorial Hall was
crowded when the prep, school gave a
night of play-acting. The programme
included Act V of “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” a one-act comedy. “The
Little Father of the Wilderness,” and
Eden Phillpotts’s “The Purple Bedroom,”
the last-named being performed by
adults. John Duncan and Christine
Anderson scored honors.
For the match of the English team
against S.A. our bright young things one
and all turned up at the Oval with dark
glasses in colored frames. Row after
row of them in the stand gave the im-
pression of a lot of bright-plumaged
owls. It was almost impossible to
recognise anyone.
Gawler races were attended by a
smart crowd, and, the day being warm,
new spring frocks were much in evidence.
Mrs. F. A. Tennant wore a delphinium-
blue three-quarter coat embroidered in
Oriental shades over a white silk sports
frock, and her black velvet hat had a
turned-up brim. Mrs. Harold Bickford’s
navy patterned marocain was worn with
a black straw hat. Mrs. A. F. Lynch’s
navy-and-white flowered silk frock went
with a navy coat and hat to match. Her
daughter Patricia chose a blue linen suit,
with a Breton sailor hat in the same
shade. Mrs. F. L. Barnet, who entertained
at afternoon-tea, was frocked in chutney-
green figured silk, and wore a wide-
brimmed black straw hat.
f
TASMANIA.
The Northern T.T.C. held its first race
meeting at Mowbray, and generously
handed the proceeds to the Anzac Hos-
pital building fund. Cold and showery
weather dashed the hopes of those who
wanted to be swish in summer finery. A
good crowd turned out, however, and
the committee entertained freely in the
private room.
Mrs. G. R. Collins welcomed home the
Roy O’Connors (Connorville, Cressy) at
a lunch party at her home in Kenyon-
street, Launceston. Mrs. O’Connor
wore a smart dark-navy suit and a pale-
blue blouse. The travellers had a de-
lightful trip abroad, and Mrs. O’Connor
was presented at one of the June Courts.
Mr. Nat Oldham’s lecture on old inns
and taverns in the Speck’s early history
was so interesting it leaves one hoping
the subject will be pursued ; that some
glimpses of life at the old Steam Packet,
the whalers’ favorite house on the wharf,
not long since pulled down, will be given.
Oatlands Golf Club burst forth with
a highly-successful ball at the Town
Hall the other night. Campbell Town
orchestra made the music, and dancers
came from all about the district, with
a leavening from Launceston. P. Bur-
bury was hon. sec.
Prospective matrimony this month —
and next —in Launceston is responsible
for a lot of entertaining among the
bright young lasses and lads of the vil-
lage. Mary Weedon’s party for Viva
Beamish was a successful affair. The
guest of honor left the scene the richer
by a set of green crystal fruit bowls.
The H. P. Ritchies will soon be leav-
ing Launceston, Mr. Ritchie having been
given the chairmanship of the No. 1 war
pensions assessment appeal tribunal.
Probably they will live in Sydney. They
will be missed by a big social circle in
the northern capital.
The Repertory Society’s production of
“Belinda” was a creditable show. W.
E. Fuller’s “Murder Premeditated,” his
prizewinner in the all-Australia com-
petition for broadcast plays, also filled
the bill. Mrs. Olive Burn was respon-
sible for the production of “Belinda,” R.
Hudspeth for the second.
Trooping the color at the North
Hobart Recreation Ground drew a big
crowd. The ceremony was carried out in
the presence of Deputy-Governor
Nicholls. Most lookers-on wore the day’s
emblem, the scarlet poppy, the sale of
which brought in a good sum to the
R.S.S.I.L.A.
Mrs. Tom Giblin and sister-in-law
Betty are home again from their Adel-
aide trip.
The Royal Society at its last meeting
presented the society’s gold medal for
outstanding service to Dr. A. N. Lewis.


So writes the user of an “R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine.
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
I'EKXH: Flower, Davies, Johnson.
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, X.Z.:
Machinery, Ltd.
Mac Ewan’s
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEEN SL AAJ D BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD.
• VALLEY •; ■ ; BRISBA/flif* '
■ s
.. .
I
~7teat tb- ynubeM-
B.V.D H3t:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
or the well-known
. . Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
• UNDERWEAR
The “BRIDGE”
Brocaded Semi-Grecian Slippers,
In a color combination of black and
rose, and also blue and rose.
Soft cushion soles and high covered
heels. Price 16/9 per pair.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
N.T, Police Troubles
“Vic”: All is not as well as it might
be with the N.T. Police in their contacts
with natives. The average strength of
the force is about 40, or one to every
120 inhabitants. Within the past three
and a half years there was, firstly, the
Murray inquiry into the shooting of
blacks at Brooks’s Soak. The constable
was supported and retained his job.
Then Stott, an old-established officer,
was prosecuted on two charges of ill-
treatment of natives. He was alleged to
have beaten a lubra to death with a stick
as thick as a man's wrist, but the official
doctor could find no mark of the beating
on her corpse. The Judge made caustic
remarks. After the Government had
lost Stott’s services for months, he went
back to his job. Later Constable McColl
was speared on the ill-advised expedition
to Caledon Bay. Next Constable Mc-
Kinnon was suspended while a commis-
sion headed by a professor inquired into
a charge that he had shot an escaping
native who had been arrested for murder
at Ayres Rock (Central Australia).
The board found that the shooting was
“legally justified, but not warranted.”
The report, according to a Ministerial
statement in the Reps., is “not to be made
available to the public.” Why a lay com-
mission, not specially trained in legal
inquiry, should be appointed when there
are magistrates and a Judge in the N.T.
to deal with charges of illegal shooting
is not patent. I make no reflection on
the board or its finding.
Another constable—a very old servant
—is now explaining (he is off duty, of
course) why he did not bring in native
witnesses to the coroner’s inquiry held
under a banyan-tree at Daly River with
the aid of thrilled newspaper reporters a
few weeks ago.
The constable’s reply is that there were
no witnesses worth a dump among the
wild natives whom he had interviewed,
and that anything they could have told
was vague hearsay.
Someone else conveyed some of them
to the inquiry, and two alleged murderers
were committed for trial on their evi-
dence and afterwards acquitted. The
constable is on his way to Canberra.
vStill another of his brethren is under
suspension—again a native matter. Five
suspensions—all of experienced hands—
with some trials and judicial inquiries,
seem a lot in a force of 40, and suggest
that there is something radically wrong.
Perhaps it ought to be sought for at
Canberra.
“X.T.”; Merthyr, home of Australia’s
first Chief Justice, Samuel Griffith, for
half of his life, has been sold for £5OOO.
The friendly old house with its two
acres of garden saw a lot of history
made. Before Federation, many a
gathering discussed the building of a
Commonwealth there, and to it the old
man retired in his later years to revel in
his books. It is a pity that it could not
have been preserved as it was, both as
a memorial and as a type of the Queens-
land home of the spacious days of not
so long ago, when every Brisbane house
of consequence had a paddock round it.
Bui —tempus fugit —it is to be a “resi-
dential/’ and its beautiful old grounds
will be cut up into building allotments.
“Zedo”; It is curious that, with all its
progressiveness, Queensland has only one
woman municipal councillor. She is
Mrs. Thompson, of Croydon, the old
goldraining town in the Gulf country.
“Murrinjingi-ya”: The burghers of
Sydney had better oil their rifles. I read
in a Sydney paper that a movie-man has
‘ arranged with the Queensland Govern-
ment to bring a large party of Myall
aboriginals from Palm Island to appear
in studio scenes.” These P.I. Myalls are
terrible fellows. .Some of them do not
even use toothbrushes, and they leave off
their pants and put on lap-hips' and kopi
when the tourist ships arrive. Judging
by the variety I encountered last time I
was there, only a .303 will prevent some
of them from making political speeches
about the rights of the abo., and we
already have enough political speeches.
* * * *
“Gain”: The possibilities of treating
low-grade gold ore (B. 30/10/35) are
well illustrated by the plans which are
“ Aren't you ever troubled by poachers, sir ?”
being put forward at Mt. Morgan. Thirty
years ago the mine’s chlorination pro-
cess, which worked payably on 7dwt., was
considered one of the wonders of Aus-
tralia. Wages were then from 6s. to 7s.
a day, with “pannikin bosses” getting 9s.
and expert artisans Bs. Now, with wages
and other costs doubled and taxation
multiplied to the nth degree, 4dwt. has
been paying since the price of gold in-
creased. But this is not the end —the
co. now intends to put in a plant which
should pay on 2.7dwt. On present esti-
mates of 7,000,000 tons, there is still over
£10,000,000 worth of gold in Mt. Morgan.
There must be a good many more treat-
able millions in low-grade lodes and
tailing dumps throughout the North.
* * %
“East Point”: Darwin’s new Don
Hotel revolutionises the hostelry business
in the IS. Y. It has accommodation for
20 boarders, and its cream-and-white
rooms would make old hands stare.
The Territory likes it all the better be-
cause it is not the product of company
modernism, but realises the dream of
Mrs. Gordon, who has been the chief
hostess of the northmost capital for a
decade. Nobody can say she is not a
pioneer. She reached the N.T. via Hall’s
Creek in a dray before most modern
Darwinites were born, on a trek on
which the dogs had to be killed and
shifts between drinks of water measured
24 hours at a time.
* * * ■ *
“X.T.”; A frontage has been sold in
Edward-street, Brisbane —it is occupied
by a milk bar —for £4OO a foot; 30 years
ago it could have been bought for £4O
a foot or thereabouts. Nobody is likely
to grudge the vendor his price, however.
He is “‘the right type of immigrant.”
An English public-school boy, he came to
Australia with an introduction to a rela-
tive who offered to help him into the
public service, which was still a “county
family” hunting-ground. He took the first
job that offered—-in a softgoods house. He
learnt the business. Then he rented a
little one-man shop in Queen-street,
Brisbane, served his own customers,
cleaned his own pavements. He stuck
to its management until he owned not
only a flourishing concern, but the
highly-valuable block on which it
operated. When war broke out, he was
well over 40, but he promptly abandoned
his own concerns to attend to Fritz.
Rejected, he was given an honorary
specialist’s job in England. A few years
after he returned, he retired compara-
tively wealthy, putting his employees—
Australians who had grown up with him
—in the way of acquiring the business.
•i' : i : $ &
“El V.”: I am not surprised that my
old friend Arnold Wienholt is off to
Abyssinia. He would have made a niche
for himself as an Elizabethan. Born
comparatively wealthy—his father was a
pioneer who reached affluence after a
fierce battle with early Queensland con-
ditions—he has never found the world
wide enough. He fought in S. Africa
against the Boers, and ever afterwards
the Dark Continent fascinated him. Just
before the Great War, an over-enthu-
siastic lion shook hands with him—the
lion got the grip—and when he returned
to Queensland his friends w'ere only bow-
ing acquaintances for a little while. He
was. however, a godsend to a number of
eager Bayards who found themselves un-
able to pass the doctor—he helped some
to go to England so that they might
satisfy the easier standards of the R.H.A.
and other corps which wanted men who
could handle horses. So soon as he was
fit, he plunged into the East African
campaign, and came back with a D.S.O.
and an M.C. Thrice Wienholt has braved
the rigors of Parliament, State and
Federal. His independence and frank
speech made him about as welcome in
both Houses as the lion that bit him. He
is probably the only M.P. in history who
has resigned three times.
* * * *
“Petrie Terrace”: I was reminded
when I read Con Drew’s name in
November birthdays (B. 30/10/’35) that
at this time 35 years ago he sent to us
fellow-members of the Brisbane Safety
Bicycle Club a bit of his last course of
Christmas dinner —a tough ship’s bis-
cuit on which he had inscribed in ink
characteristic greetings. It was badly
knocked about in the post, but we had it
pieced together, framed behind glass and
hung in the clubrooms. I hope it was
returned to him when (he club disbanded.
When he sent it he was chasing Oom
Paul somewhere in the Transvaal.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
On December 18, the Russian Christ-
mas Day, the new Russian Church of St.
Nicholas will be opened at Kangaroo
Point. Madame Driguine has been work-
ing hard to raise funds for an altar gift
to the new church, and Freda Bage lent
her (he drawing-room at the Women’s
College for a lecturette on Russian feast
days.
More than 200 bridge enthusiasts
gathered at historic Newstead House to
shuffle and deal in aid of the Brisbane
Welfare Society. Our Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. A. Jones, arranged the party, and
wore a frock of white silk crepe with a
self-toned pattern. Newstead House pro-
vided a roof for the King and his elder
brother, the Duke of Clarence, when they
visited these parts a long time ago.
Joan Marchant, a 10-year-old, was the
only student in Queensland to obtain
honors in the recent operatic dance
examination conducted by Felix
Demery, and Bridie Ross, 14, who col-
lected her diploma, was the first in Pat
Mead’s school to become a member of
the R.A.O.D. (Eng.).
In Corinda is the A. Davies home ;
there was staged the Presbyterian garden
party, a reunion. Rev. F. W. Gresham.
Moderator of the General Assembly of
the Presbyterian Church, officially
opened it, after being introduced by Rev.
Brian Cavanough.
The Anglican Archbishop (Dr. Wand)
has launched his first appeal. He wants
£5OOO to transfer St. Francis’s College
for the training of clergy to the new
buildings at Bishopsbourne. The old
property at Nundah, bowed down with
debt, will be sold to wipe this off. New
buildings provide quarters for students
and staff, lecture-rooms and the rest.
Already £2OO has come in, including a
large gift from Dr. Wand and £5O from
Dean Barrett. The £5OO raised by the
Bishop of N.Q. helps the fund to start
off well.
Since Hugo Brassey started a tourist
resort on Dunk Island, the Barrier Reef
has had more publicity than ever before.
Now Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Pollok (he is
Lady Hore-Ruthven’s brother) are going
to Dunk to live; and wealthy George
Vanderbilt has hired the Bareto,
Bundaberg auxiliary yacht, for a month’s
cruise round Queensland’s loveliest holi-
day resort. His wife is with him —this
is a honeymoon tour —and they hope to
land some big fighting fish. The Bareto
has been converted, as far as possible,
into a luxury yacht.


k
~ •
m
■jjifeK
.
L r
mm
m.
s*»
L "
WflßwfP
a®®
d*
mm
-T
e^n
sP
*•1
i#n
Ms
I
Make Payments by Bank Drafts
A Bank Draft is an order to pay money. Issued by any branch of a bank,
it requires another branch or Bank to pay a certain sum of money to
some specified person or firm.
These Drafts provide a simple, safe, and inexpensive method of remitting
money when payments have to be made in another city, town or country.
Here is an example: —The cost of sending £2O from the Bank of New
South Wales in Wagga to some person in Lismore would be eight pence.
The Bank of New South Wales issues Bank Drafts for any amount, payable
at any place where banking facilities are available, in Australia or abroad.
This service is provided for the public generally and is not confined to
clients of the Bank.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
A
For Christmas*
An English pipe! And a quality
pipe at that, from the briar so
carefully selected to the skilful
craftsmanship that shaped it into
a "Plus Four” Pipe. Finished
with a first quality Vulcanite
mouthpiece and available in ah
shapes. Look for the Red Spot
on the mouthpiece—the sign of
the "Plus Four" Pipe.
Individually boxed, 12/6.
Sent Post Free to any address.
7
DAVID JONES
h POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0.. SYDNEY
Introducing a “Unique” Character:-
THE LAST OF THE
BEER-MUG
READERS
BY J.B. BLAIR.
FOR once the Crown was almost
deserted. I stood there, one foot
resting on the brass rail in the tradi-
tional manner, pondering the difficult
problem whether a sausage-roll or a
pig’s trotter would be better suited for
the important role of partner to the mug
of beer that rested on the bar at my
elbow.
“Nice day,” said Phoebe, not in the
manner of one who has just made a
momentous discovery, but rather defi-
antly, as though daring me to dispute it.
1 agreed, as I always do with all re-
marks, discoveries or otherwise, about
the weather. She turned to wash some
glasses. I decided on the trotter, hesi-
tated, moved my hand almost to the
sausage-roll dish, then finally claimed a
trotter.
It was then that 1 first saw him. He'd
apparently been there all along, but
somehow or other he had escaped my
notice.
At times I think that he hadn’t been
there all along ; that he materialised as
I picked up the pig’s trotter ; but my
reasoning self tells me that this is impos-
sible.
A tall, cadaverous man, he wore an
old black suit turning green. His hair
hadn’t been cut for months, except where
he had trimmed it himself around the
ears. His face was clean-shaven, or per-
haps I should say shaven. It was his
eyes, however, that attracted me. Black,
in deep-sunk sockets, they gave the im-
pression of belonging to someone else
that they’d been put there by accident.
“I see old Jenkins has been here,” he
remarked to Phoebe as he put down a
beer-mug he had been holding.
“Yes,” said Phoebe, not encouragingly,
but just politely.
He picked up another mug and glanced
inside.
“Johnson, too.”
“Urn,” agreed Phcebe.
“I’d like to be in their shoes,” he
sighed. “They’re going to clean up a
pot of money to-day at the races.”
Phoebe evinced no interest.
Neither did I, for that matter. At
least, not intentionally. But I couldn’t
for the life of me take my eyes off him.
He edged nearer and addressed him-
self to me.
“Yes, they’ll clean up a whole heap,”
he repeated.
Thus addressed, I felt that some reply
was called for.
“What are they on?” I asked.
“Dunno,” he replied sadly.
“Then how do you know”- —
“Gimme those mugs!” he interrupted
as Phcebe lifted the two handles off the
bar.
“What for? They’re empty.”
“Never mind. Gimme!”
Phoebe obliged.
HE lifted each mug and gazed intj it
long and earnestly, then pushed them
over to her with a sigh.
“No ; can’t tell you. Wish 1 could.
But they’re going to clean up all right.”
“Now perhaps you’ll let me clean these
up,” remarked Phcebe a trifle nastily.
She whisked them away without further
protest.
“A beer for the gentleman,” said I.
“You’ll join me, of course?”
He nodded gloomily. “Delighted, I’m
sure.”
The beer came —and went.
“Perhaps you may wonder,” he be-
gan as he wiped his mouth, “how I am
so sure of my facts?”
“I suppose they told you they were on
a cert.”
He shook his head. “I haven’t seen
either of them for days.”
“Then someone else must have told
you,”
“No. When I entered this bar I had
not the slightest knowledge of it. Hadn’t
even thought of them all the week.
Same again, Phoebe.”
Phoebe looked at me. I nodded. He
continued. “I saw it in their mugs.”
“But I thought you hadn’t seen them?”
“Their beer- mugs, I mean.”
“I don’t follow.”
He glanced quickly around the bar,
then lowered his voice and said softly,
“I’m a beer-mug reader. The Last of
the Beer-mug Readers.”
He stood back to observe the effect of
this disclosure. I’m afraid I looked rather
dubious. I pushed his drink towards him
and grasped mine. Phoebe grasped my
shilling.
When the tide of his glass was three-
parts out he paused and repeated, “Yes,
the Last of the Beer-mug Readers! Never
heard of ’em, have you?”
I murmured that I was afraid not.
“Heard of teacup readers, haven’t
you?” he accused truculently.
I had.
“You believe in them, and yet you
don't believe in beer-mug readers! Call
yourself a man? D’you mean to tell me
there ain’t more character in a beer-mug
than a teacup? A beer-mug that’s
handled by all sorts ■ and conditions of
men! ”
It sounded quite reasonable, and I said
so, though it didn’t occur to me till
afterwards that I really didn’t believe in
teacup reading, either.
“My father was a beer-mug reader,”
he continued sadly, “and his father was
a beer-mug reader, and his father was a
beer-mug reader, and”
“It must run in the family,” I mur-
mured inanely.
“Oh! Must run in the family, must
it? Well, that’s just where you’re wrong.
At least, you’re not quite wrong ; but
you’re not quite right, either. See?”
1 didn’t, and I said so.
“Well, if it ran in the family —really
in the family, I mean —then my brother
would be a beer-mug reader, too,
wouldn’t he?”
It seemed feasible.
“Well, he’s not! My brother’s not a
beer-mug reader, and my uncle’s not a
beer-mug reader, and my great-uncles
weren’t beer-mug readers, and”
“What about your sister?” I inquired,
hoping to break this genealogical chain.
“No, she’s not a beer-mug reader, and
my aunt”
“Isn’t a beer-mug reader, and your
great-aunts weren’t beer-mug readers,” I
concluded.
“Gee! that’s right,” he agreed won-
deringly. “You know as much about
them as I do.”
HIS gaze wandered around the room.
There was a far-away look in his eyes.
Then he looked at Phoebe. She ignored
him, and went on serving a newcomer.
He sighed, picked up his mug and
gazed into it fixedly, as one who would
probe the depths of some dark mystery.
I watched him, fascinated. His gaze
was fixed and unwavering. There was
something uncanny about it. At length
I spoke.
“Can you see anything in it?”
The spell was broken. He looked up.
“No ; it’s quite empty.”
I signalled Phoebe, and she pulled two
more pints.
As she placed one before him he
beamed approvingly. “He knew my
gr?/idmother,” he confided to her, nod-
ding towards me.
“You don’t say!” commented Phoebe
in mock surprise ; “and what did gran pa
think of thatV
She moved away.
The beer-mug reader turned to me
again, mug in hand.
“Here’s to the old lady,” he said, gulp-
ing down half a tankard and drawing his
left hand across his mouth. “Here’s to
granny. A fine old lady she was,” he
added reminiscently. “You ought to
know that. Wasn’t she a fine old lady ?
1 felt sure she must have been, so 1
had no misgivings in agreeing.
“Yes,” he went on, “she could knit
and sew and crochet; and she could
cook, too. And chop wood and drive a
plough. Yes, she could. And drink her
beer like a man. A fine old lady. Here’s
to her!”
We drank to the old lady’s memory.
1 felt quite enthusiastic about her.
“A fine old lady,” I repeated
reverently.
“Who said she was?” demanded the
beer-mug reader.
I wasn’t prepared for this, but felt that
it was up to me to defend the grand-
parent’s reputation.
“Why, we agreed on that,” 1 said. “She
could knit and sew and crochet and cook
and chop wood and plough. Of course
she was a fine old lady! And she could
drink her beer like a man.”
“Yes, but she wasn’t a beer-mug
reader,” he broke in triumphantly, yet
with a note of challenge in his voice.
I had to admit it.
He seized a sausage-roll, and passed
me the dish. Once again his gaze began
to wander.
I VOICED the question that was
trembling on my lips:
“Tell me something about your pro-
fession. How do you do it?”
He swallowed the remains of the roll
and cleared his throat impressively.
“Beer-mug reading,” he began, “is a
unique profession. It can’t be learnt and
it can’t be taught.”


HUMOR COMPETITION
The first of the competition
stories will appear next week.
“LEMON SAGO 77
By C. SHARF
A Boarding-house Comedy.
The Rural Bank provides a truly State-wide service
at no cost to the taxpayer. Its assistance to farmers
and home builders promotes rural and urban pros-
perity. The bank depends on the support of the
public for the funds that make the credit possible.
Fixed Deposits are accepted and cheque
accounts opened at all branches.
RURAL U\\ l.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office ...... 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch: 350 George Street, (Opp. Wynyard Street.)
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (Preddent) H. Rogers B. Kearns
camvf..ycu cam see it
..amd.sc cam
if* Film on Teeth!
• Film must be removed from teeth . . . for beauty
and for health.
Film is that slippery coating on your teeth. Film
contains the germs associated with tooth decay.
Film invites tooth and gum disorders. Stains from
food and smoking lodge in film—make teeth look
yellow when they’re really not.
Film sticks like glue. To remove it you must use
a special film-removing agent. Pepsodent is known
throughout the world today as the special film-
removing tooth paste.
y
ym
Due to Scientific Formula
Pepsodent’s unique power to remove film from teeth
is due to the formula. A new cleansing and polishing
material has been developed. This material is far
safer than any leading tooth powder—far softer
than polishing materials used in any other leading
tooth paste. Yet it removes film with striking
effectiveness.
This special film-removing material is contained in
Pepsodent exclusively—and in no other tooth paste
whatsoever. That’s why Pepsodent gives results not
possible with other kinds.
Dentists use Pepsodent
That is why thousands of dentists have told us that
they make Pepsodent their personal tooth paste.
That is why millions of people will not risk their
own teeth or their children’s with harsh, abrasive
pastes or powders.
Don’t take chances on cheap tooth pastes, when
Pepsodent leaves teeth brighter, gives higher polish.
Use Pepsodent twice a day—sec your dentist at least
twice a year.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery ”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street ).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
“I see,” I replied. “Either you’re a
beer-mug reader or you’re not! Just like
that?”
“Just like that. Either you are or
you ain’t. Mostly you ain’t. In fact,
always you ain’t. Except me. I’m unique.
I’m the Last of the Beer-mug Readers.”
We seemed to be going around in a
circle, but I kept silent. He continued:
“My grandfather had a method. You
knew him, of course?”
“No.”
“What! You must have. You knew
my gran’ma. You must have known
him, too.”
“Oh, yes. Of course,” 1 said hastily.
“Yes. Well, he had a method ; but
you couldn’t learn that. No one could
learn it. It was just his method. You
follow me?”
“Quite.”
“Then there was my father —the old
dad. He had a method, too. It was dif-
ferent from gran’pa’s ; but you couldn’t
learn that, either. No one could. It was
just his method.”
“I see.”
“Now, take me. I’ve got a method.
It’s different from gran’pa’s, and it’s dif-
ferent from dad’s. The old gran’pa, he
couldn’t use my method, and I couldn’t
use his. And neither of us could use
dad’s. See? We couldn’t learn it. No
one could.”
He paused.
“Of course,” he said, “even the old
gran’pa and the old dad couldn’t do it
without something to work on.”
I took the hint and pushed another
shilling across the counter to Phoebe.
Someone was chalking up racing results
on a blackboard. The beer-mug reader
quivered with excitement, almost spilling
his beer.
“Look at that,” he said. The Flying
Handicap. Bokio, twenty to one! I
bet those lucky guys were on that. And
look at Toes Up in the Hurdle. Fifteen
to one, mind you! And they backed
him, too, I’ll guarantee.”
“Who did?” I asked.
“Why, Jenkins and Johnson, of course.
The two blokes whose mugs I read.
Didn’t I tell you they’d clean up big?
Didn’t 1 tell you?”
“You certainly did, but”
“Well, there you are. Do you believe
in beer-mug reading now? It’s got a
good bit on teacup reading, ain’t it?
Give me the name of a teacup reader
who could’ve told you that. Come on,
just one name ; that’s all I ask.”
I was unable to supply the necessary
information, so contented myself with
swallowing my beer.
“You and your teacup readers!” he
said contemptuously. “Do you know
what I think about teacup readers?
Well, I think they’re a lot of frauds. A
lot of hypocrites, that’s what they are.”
His eyes wandered to the race-board
again. “Fancy, a fifteen and a twenty!”
he murmured.
Taking advantage of my momentary
freedom from the spell of his gaze, I
slipped out.
TOWARDS closing - time I again
dropped into the Crown for a quick
one. This time the bar was more or
less crowded.
“There’s your boy friend,” said Phoebe
as she handed me my drink. I looked
around. The Last of the Beer-mug
Readers was at my elbow. I tried to
avoid his gaze, but failed.
“Make it two,” I said to Phoebe.
“They’re just coming in,” he whis-
pered.
“Who?”
He put a finger on his lips. Two men
ranged up at the bar alongside us. They
had fieldglasses slung over their shoul-
ders.
■‘Good afternoon, Mr. Jenkins. Good
afternoon, Mr. Johnson,” said the beer-
mug reader.
The two nodded—not very cordially,
I thought. The beer-mug reader was not
discouraged, however.
“Been to the races?” he asked.
More nods.
He turned to me. “There you are!
What did I tell you?” he whispered.
The other two were gloomily engrossed
in their second beer.
Ignoring the basic law of drinking
etiquette, he interrupted them.
“1 suppose you cleaned up a heap on
Bokio?”
Two half-empty mugs were replaced
on the counter simultaneously.
“That goat!” spluttered Jenkins indig-
nantly. “He shouldn’t have won an egg- «'
and-spoon race. It was scandalous.”
The beer-mug reader was rather taken
aback.
“You didn’t back it?” he asked
dazedly.
“Back it? ’Course I didn’t back it. I
back horses —not hatracks.”
“But of course you were on Toes
Up?”
Jenkins gave him a look of supreme
disgust.
“We were not! And if he ever wins
a race again I’ll never back another horse
for the rest of my life.”
The Last of the Beer-mug Readers
looked quite crestfallen. He looked at
me doubtfully, then launched another
question. He spoke rather anxiously, I I
thought.
“How did you do on the other races?”
Jenkins was finishing off his beer.
Johnson replied for him.
“Lousy! A rotten day.”
“What? D’you mean to tell me you
didn’t win at all?”
Johnson spoke feelingly. “Well, since
you’re interested, that’s just what I do
mean. This is Black Saturday for us.
We're cleaned right out. The bookies
got the lot. Come on, Joe.”
The two punters walked out.
THE beer-mug reader’s eyes no longer
* had that compelling look. At the
moment he seemed quite a pathetic
figure.
I ordered two more beers.
“Cheer up! ” I said as we paused at
the half-way mark. “Everyone makes
mistakes sometimes.”
He threw off his lethargic look and
became dynamic again.
Cept me,” he said. “I’m unique. 1
never make mistakes. The Last of the
Beer-mug Readers.”
This seemed a bit too tall, in view of
his recent bloomer; but 1 didn’t want
to rub it in, so 1 said nothing.
“Well, of all the fools,” he said, “those
two must be the biggest. Fortune knocks
at their door and they pretend they’re
not at home. It was in their mugs, mind
you. I read it. You saw me do it. It
was in their mugs. They were going to
clean up heavy, and make a big pile.
And the fools had to go and back the
wrong horses!”
From a High Hill-road.
From a high hill-road I saw.
Against a line of low crests in the
night.
The city’s glitter and the city’s glare
A wide white sea of light.
Monotonously lapping round
Dark bays and capes without a sound.
Then inward swept a shadow-sea:
Dimmed-green, night-silvered mystery ,,
With starlike red-glow here and there,
And faint shouts of corroboree.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.


*PAT.
APPL’D.
FOR
A THERMOMETER
WITHOUT A SCALE IS
LIKEAPEN WITHOUTA
.WORD
GAUGE
The CONKLIN
Nozac Word
Gauge Pen.
You get a Lully-
equipped Pen when
you buy a
Conklin Nozac
—it is the only pen
with the Word Gauge
which tells you how
many words you have
written or can write
without refilling.
Here is the really per-
fected sackless pen
with a visible ink
supply that “Winds
Like a Watch.”
Available in 3 Modern
Colours at 30/- and
40/- each.
Pencils to Match, 25/-
each.
Front all Stationers,
Jewellers and Depart-
mental Stores.
k
STOMACH ACIDITY
RESPONSIBLE FOR
90% OF ILLNESS
Quite apart from the pain and dis-
comfort of indigestion, stomach acidity
is the cause of almost all illness. Excess
acid disturbs the alkaline balance of
the system and reveals itself in such
conditions as HEADACHE, INSOMNIA.
CONSTIPATION and even RHEUMA-
TISM. For perfect health and vitality
it is essential to neutralize excess acid and
stop food fermenting in the stomach.
If you take, immediately after meals, a
little * Bisurated ’ Magnesia, the stomach
remedy which doctors prescribe and
hospitals use, you will quickly overcome
indigestion and other painful conditions
due to stomach acidity, your health will
improve and you will feel better in
yourself and with the world in general.
Get a bottle of ‘ Bisurated' Magnesia,
powder, or tablets, from your chemist
and start your recovery to-day.
BISU RATED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach I/fs
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the * Bismag ‘ Trade Mark
BISMAG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS;
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway.
(I WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
r 7 AUTO TOP DRESSING
' Dm
DUCO CLEAN ER e- POLISH
K 7 TOUCH-UP BLACK
Use diese 3 DUCO
on your car
A shabby car is a handicap; resale or trade-in
value is at a minimum.
For a few shillings you can make your car as
bright and glistening as it was in the showroom
with these three “Duco” Specialities.
“Duco” Specialities are made by the Manu-
facturers of “Duco” Lacquers—specialists in
car finishes. You can’t buy better products.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
782
m
JuTM<Gl
J
M*VM»
M'jaiiii
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE!
Supply Seventy Household
Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GJXMOUK, COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Tragedy on an Unusual Note:—
THE FALLING SHAFT
BY A. CONNELL.
FRANCES WALSH was thirty when
she first came to Lee Hills. She was
tall, primitively beautiful and emo-
tionally fierce. She had a sister with her:
Maza, a lovely child in her teens who
lived with the quiet of candlelight.
Frances loved Maza more than anything
in this world or any other. It seemed
that she needed the softness of the girl
to balance the steel-strength of her own
honesty and straightness.
“I want you always at my side now,”
she told Maza. “You must never leave
me again. I’ve got the power to protect
you from people like —like Storey. You
needn’t be afraid now. You can walk in
the streets. No one will know you. No
one will talk about you.”
Frances built a house with her own
bare hands, a few poor tools and her
unconquerable, vital strength. She built
it on the edge of the town —rough wood,
floors of earth in the two rooms. Men
offered to help her —men who did not
like to see a woman work, and men
whose questing eyes betrayed them —but
she refused them all.
All except one man —Lade Varney.
He came one day when she was
struggling with the intricacies of an un-
planned roof, and stood below her, look-
ing up.
“What are you doing?” he asked with
amused contempt.
She turned her black eyes down at
him. “I don’t want any help. You can
go away.”
Even as she spoke she felt a new
rhythm enter her blood. She looked at
Varney appraisingly, noting the power
of his features and aware of the magni-
ficent animal beauty of the body beneath
his rough clothes. She linked him with
the wild prairies and forests of the land
she had left. The danger of him
gripped her—and in one instant she
had determined that some day, incalcu-
lable as yet, he would be hers.
Varney said, “Your centre logs are
slipping.”
“What should I do?” Frances asked.
She had leaned a little forward, so that
her hair fell loose. The attraction of the
pose she had well estimated.
He laughed triumphantly and climbed
to her side.
“This,” he said, “and this.” And he
began to labor with a flawless grace
and precision.
She obeyed his small requests unerr-
ingly, and for once she had veiled the
fierceness of her eyes.
“American?” he asked.
She told him that she was a prairie
Virginian by birth, but that she had lived
in Sydney for a dozen years before com-
ing to Lee Hills.
AT night, its hundred lanterns glowing,
Lee Hills was transmuted into a
bizarre realm of black roofs and stag-
gered chimneys, empty streets and
byways.
In the temporary room that Frances
had rented in the dirty residential Maza
came to her feet and crossed the floor
with fawnlike hesitancy. The door
opened. Frances stood leaning against
the frame, her eyes half-closed.
Maza clasped her hands in fathom-
less distress. She knew that Frances was
drunk. It was as though a goddess had
fallen from a pedestal.
“Maza,” said Frances, “don’t stare at
me. Why do you stare at me, child?
How dare you stare at me, Maza!”
She experienced a retrogression of the
memory.
“Maza,” she said, “to-day I met a man
who is a man. Siyah 1 Maza, I’m going
to have him. Nothing in heaven or earth
is going to stop me!
“Maza, stop your staring. Do you
think I’m drunk? Well, so I am. Why
not? This afternoon I saw a dream
come alive. Maza, I’m going to have
him. Nothing in”
“Fran, please sit here. Please do.”
“Siyah! I can stand. Look at me!
Maza, what do you think you are? You
dress in all that lace, let down your
hair and light the room with candles —
you think you're half an angel already,
don’t you? Well, 1 know you’ll be a
whole one some day. Surely. But you
needn’t think you’re better than me yet,
just because I’m drunk. You think
you’re better than me when you’re
just”
“Fran! Please! Please! ”
“Siyah! Now that I’ve found a man
I’m going to look after myself—not like
you,” Frances said evilly. “It’s a month
now since you gave yourself to Dick
Storey and he left you. Siyah! The
busybodies—damn them! —how they
talked, and—and I don’t think you’ll
be an angel after all.”
“Oh, Fran, he’ll come back. He will
come back. He loved me, oh, so much.”
“A baby of twenty. What did ne
know about love? He wanted to be a
man, and he took your body, which is
pretty in its soft way, 1 suppose. The
busybodies—damn them!—the way they
talked and talked” . . .
Maza cried in a fashion that made her
whole body shiver. In her terror she
searched for some glimpse of the strong,
direct Frances who had strode like a
shield between her and a scandalised
town. She found none.
“Fran,” she said in frightened com-
plaint, “you don’t love me any more?”
Frances frowned. Her mind was aim-
lessly adrift again. She could not even
mentally conceive the meaning of love
as applied to Maza. She sat down and
made fitful attempts to capture the flame
of a candle in her cupped hands.
IN the summer wheat bloomed brown
n an encircling plain on the slopes and
flats below Lee Hills.
Maza, immeasurably lovely in the
change of season, spent her time wander-
ing and dreaming, imbued with the
pathos of youth’s sweetest longing. Dick
would come back —one day he must
return to her—for she could not conceive
that his love for her could be one atom
less than her love for him. Dick must
come back ; and, because the summer-
time was beautiful, it was then that he
would return.
“Poor child,” Frances thought, paus-
ing in her work in the rude garden she
had built. “Poor child.”
Frances’s resolution to possess Lade
Varney was as yet unfulfilled. Lade was
casual—he still saw in Frances only a
woman, and he thought he had known,
and still knew, many women who were
her equal and more free with their
favors. Frances threw all the bright,
fierce power of her personality into her
effort to win him, but she saw that his
mentality still insisted that she was a
woman with a woman’s body. It did
not occur to her that he might be in-
capable of loving her.
She had one strong rival, she knew, in
Mary Cammer, a soulless harridan of a
girl with a restless, vulgar body, and who
was, worse still, already married.
Over the western slope from the town
was a crag overlooking a sheer gigantic
drop. Frances was aware that Lade and
Mary Cammer met on this crag three
nights of every week, for she had crept
through the bush fringe under the moon
and watched them embrace against a
background of star-filled sky. On these
occasions she found that she did not
envy Mary Cammer; nor did she re-
proach Lade. Man was man; and
surely in all Australia there had never
been one more irrefutably male than
Varney.
MARY CAMMER had been down in
the wheatfields with her gross hus-
band. Close to nightfall she returned to
Lee Hills alone to prepare a meal to
satisfy her husband’s appetite. Her path
took her past the wooden shack Frances
Walsh had built; and in the side garden
she saw Frances bending to till the earth
from which she hoped to produce a
little green food.


SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience-
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
UHi
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
a/
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George .St., Sydney. 59 William St.. Melbourne
m
.•* i
c
* V
mm
■■ - ?:
■
The World's Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company.
Incorporated in 1923, N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS, LTD., has planted 163,000
acres with over 130,000,000 trees, and
built 250 miles of roads.
AMOUNT SI BSC KIBE I)
E O K E O It E S T K V
INVESTMENTS
£4,000,000
KESERVE EOR MAIN-
TENANCE AND REALI-
SATION (APPROX.)
£1,000,000
Mill sites have been selected and secured and
internal transport system surveyed.
Initial Sulphate Pulp and Paper Making
Plant Secured.
While there is still an opportunity to partici-
pate in the Company’s investment issues of
£30 Investments, apply for full particulars to:
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
(Incorporated in New Zealand)
Head Office for Australia:
KEMBLA BUILDING,
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
WATCH
YOUR MONEY
GROW
No connection with any
other Forestry Company.
Mary Cammer, in her vulgar way, was
well conscious of the rivalry that existed
between her and Frances Walsh.
She said insolently, “Growing rabbits’
food?”
Frances looked at her, her eyes
brilliant.
Mary Cammer was earthy enough to
recognise the emotion, but too ignorant
to gauge its strength and danger.
“Keep some for your rabbity sister,”
she said, and laughed at her poor joke.
She realised too late that in mentioning
Maza she had chosen unfortunately.
Frances went to her in two swift strides
and took her thin arms in her own
powerful fingers.
“Let me go!” Mary Cammer shrilled
“Keep your cheap little mouth closed
Understand me?”
“Let me go!” Mary Cammer said,
writhing her wiry body viciously. “You
damn’ thief! I know you want Lade.
I had him before you came, and I’m
keeping him!”
She closed in, grappling like a beast.
Feet, nails, teeth —all these she used, and
supplemented them with blows from her
futile fists. Frances seemed to wilt, then
recover. A moment of struggle, and she
caught Mary Cammer in a grip that
twisted her arms high behind her back.
Mary began to scream piercingly.
Maza, watching from a window,
pressed her hands against her frightened
eyes. She felt that in all the world
there could be nothing so degraded and
bestial as two women fighting . . .
Frances had thrown Mary Cammer
from her. Mary staggered, balanced
agilely, cursed foully and said in part-
ing: “To-morrow night I meet Lade. I’ll
throw myself at him, you! Throw
myself at him, you hear? Then we’il
know who he wants, you .”
She ran down the road.
It was dark now. Lanterns had begun
to gleam along the clay streets.
Frances touched a scratch on her
cheek. She had been brawling—like any
lost thing of the alleyways . . .
She remembered that her fine garden-
ing tools were lying in the earth, prey
to marauders and morning dews. She
searched for them, gathered them and
carried them into the house.
jyiAZA had a letter by the weekly mail.
* Frances had slept fitfully through the
hot night, and now she was heavy-eyed,
surly, brooding; but Maza took the
letter to show her, for its contents made
repetition an unconquerable necessity.
“Fran, I’ve had a letter from Dick!
He’s coming soon —to-day—coming back
to me . . . He was in gaol for something
—I don’t know . . . Fran, he’s coming—
and it’s summer, when I always knew
he’d come. Oh, Fran, I’m so, so glad!
Fran, please be happy with me!”
Even the heart of Frances, hard and
unstirring as it felt now, could not help
but be moved to pity by Maza’s faith.
Maza had given herself to a youth, but,
like a child, she remained undefilable
and eternally pure—and purity, Frances
saw, was something quickly departing
from her relationship with Lade Varney.
And she did not have it in her to care
now; she had resolved to follow the
path to the end.
“I’m glad,” she said. “Yes, of course
I’m glad, Maza.”
She went out into the bush. She began
to search for a suitable tree. Several
she tried, but either they were too brittle
or too flexible, too thick or too thin. At
length she found a sapling of a species
unknown to her. From this she cut a
rod four feet in length. She tested it
between her strong arms ; it had a re-
silience and strength that delighted her.
She returned now to the shack.
She was going to make a war-bow of
a power but slightly less than that used
by the Tankee Indians of Virginia. It
was from the Tankee themselves that
she had learned her art. In her early
youth on the prairies she had mixed
with the nomad Indians, and the con-
struction and direction of their old war
weapons had come naturally to her. She
had not forgotten.
For a moment she had a nostalgia for
Virginia and conceived a hatred of the
harsh, colorless land that was Australia ;
then she shrugged and went on with her
work.
Lack of an adequate string halted her
for a time.
She went into the town and returned
with a strip of tanned hide. She notched
the bow and bound the leather.
She had the requisite confidence in her
marksmanship to think that one arrow
would be sufficient. She made it from
a tooled sliver of wood, tipped with
metal and plumed with feathers.
She ffield the completed weapon in her
hands, and at the thought of its powers
a fresh surge of hatred shook her. Even
now, with . the emotion-deadening influ-
ence of her sleepless night wearing away,
she could feel no regret for the thing
she contemplated.
She looked at the sun and saw it was
on the downpath. She took the war-bow
to a corner and sat staring at it.
Maza ran backward and forward
through the house, her face alive with
anticipation. “I’ve spoken to old
Gregory,” she said. “He’s going to send
Dick to a meeting-place. Dick will come
to me as I always wanted and dreamed
and Oh, Fran” . . .
Frances felt a cold wrenching at her
heart. She thought: “Maza, who started
wrongly, has now reached this perfect
fulfilment. And I—l began honestly and
truly, and see where I am now” . . .
She saw the shadow of the war-bow
stealing like a breath of venom up the
wall, and still she could not regret.
T*HE moon was high. Frances crept
4 through the bush, the war-bow across
one shoulder. Her steps were ungainly,
and she sought in vain to correct them
and silence them. She was nervous as
she had never been nervous before in
her life. She stumbled once, and only
the chance collision of her hand with a
branch saved her from falling.
She grew confused. It came to her
that she should have reached the crag
by now. She stopped and pondered :
and in an instant of lucidity she saw
that she had been retracing her footsteps.
She turned and went forward again.
The brush thinned. She halted and
sat on a rock. From here she could see
the overhang of the gully, and beyond
it the gulch itself, lightless and silent as
though here the world ended.
She put the bow across her knees and
looked down at it. For a minute she
could not fathom its purpose ; her eyes
were throbbing. This scimitar of wood
with the uniting string—it was a thing
from a demoniacal, extra-mundane ob-
scurity. Then she was aware of her own
mutation, and it became clear that she
was as one with the weapon.
Frances the strong began to cry be-
cause she knew she was now pitifully,
humanly weak. She knew that her
first meeting with Lade Varney had
been a zenith, and after that her path
had been always downward. She cried,
and her hands clasped over her fore-
head in sudden pity of the wreckage that
was herself . . .
A figure moved against the sky out
on the crag. A girl. Mary Gammer!
Frances felt a new upsurge of hate.
She lifted the bow and lowered it again.
She had heard the scrape of footsteps
away to the left, and she guessed that
Varney was coming. It occurred to her
that it might be well for him to be
present when Mary Gammer died.
A man came on to the crag.
The figure waiting for him there threw
back breeze-swept hair (did Mary
Gammer possess such tresses?), stretched
out her arms and went to meet the man.
Frances fitted the arrow in the war-
bow, hastening while impulse still re-
mained in her. The shaft sang in its
sudden rush from the released string.
Frances had chosen the bow because it
was silent and deadly in her hands. She
knew that she could not miss.
The girl on the overhang had said in
a whisper: “You did come back to me.”
Then she screamed, and something
snatched her and hurried her over the
cliff in one diabolical rush.
France’s mind swam. She thought that
now. surely, had she reached the end
of her fall; but she was wrong, for
something in the timbre of the scream
began to haunt her.
She dropped the bow and came from
the bushes.
“Lade,” she said. “Lade.”
The man turned to her. She saw the
brown face of the youth Dick Storey.
She knew then, indisputably, whose
heart her falling arrow had pierced, and
now she had reached hell’s most fearful
limits.
The youth was looking at her, his face
drained to the hue of the moon. He
wanted to hate and curse her, but he
could find a place for only one emotion:
the matchless agony of loss.
She found that she could creep away
and that he did not stop her.


“THE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
dll Tasmania you
must use
Cbc mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD,,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD.,, Representatives. '
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Tell S.A. your
Sales Story when it’s
got the time to read
“THE NEWS”
(Afternoon Daily)
and
“THE MAIL”
(Midnight Saturday and deli-
vered Sunday all over the State)
Both offer this very; dis-
tinct advantage . .
Adelaide is too busy to
read by day.
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor, Newspaper House, Collins
street.
- SYDNEY- P, A: Messenger. Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
. ONDONJ-P A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill,, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from tne mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
THE EXAMINER ANNUAL, 1935
NOW ON SALE j
THE FIRST ISSUE is acclaimed everywhere as the best yet
produced in TASMANIA. “A beautiful publication,” “Has
reached a high standard,” “Above anything I have seen in the
field of Annuals,” are among some of the opinions received.
Copies obtainable from
Gordon & Gotch (Aust.) Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, or Perth.
Published by W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., Launceston,
Proprietors of The Examiner (Daily) and Saturday Evening Express.
Representatives: R. R. Brett. London; Mervyn S. Allen, Melbourne:
W. Dougan. Sydney.
Business Going West
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that .will buck up your
sales.
dsf
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
short white tunics dancing, and men and women.
And singing—everybody singing, not synthetic jazz
tunes, but songs they made themselves. There would
be music and dancing and laughter and graceful move-
ments —not the dragging of the feet, the stooped
shoulders, the sagging bodies of the women who
couldn’t afford corsets and were worked so hard at
unnecessary household drudgery that their fat was a
deformity and their whole appearance a horror. And
she saw the face of a man who would understand her,
and with whom she could live even in Tiburon.
Bevan had a beautiful vision. He was no idealist;
but he wanted a flat to himself, with hot and cold
water laid on. Bevan was a good cook, and he wanted
to cook for himself, where no one would laugh at
him for doing it. He wanted to furnish a flat and
give dinners to the other teachers, and, preferably,
some men who would talk about engineering and
jade and the oil-wells of Baku and the latest develop-
ment of the cactus-fibre industry. He would like to
sit in a room with a decent light— not one that was
robbing him of his eyesight. He would like to have
big wood fires and etchings on the walls. And he
would be quite alone, without the embarrassment of
a strange girl in the next room who could hear him
getting into bed.
“Come on,” said Jingo gloomily. “It’s late.
Back to the morgue.”
They walked down the road in silence, turned
in at the gate and said good-night to Nancy Coombes
and Peter Conn, who were still sitting in their accus-
tomed corner of the verandah.
Peter Conn and Nancy Coombes sat together, not
because they really liked each other’s society, but
because they realised that there was none of their
own scale for them to mix with. Nancy Coombes
was seven years older than Peter, getting stout,
getting spiteful, getting plainer every day, but
still careful of her plump hands and her fair hair.
Peter Conn bored her to tears, but there was no other
eligible man in the town whom she could honor with
her company and yet feel she was not associating
with an inferior. But, oh! how Peter Conn bored
her! What a fool he was!
Peter was not in love. He thought Nancy one
of the plainest girls he had ever seen ; but she was
willing to listen while he talked about himself. It
was the price he exacted from her for his society.
It pleased him to think that he was bringing a bit
of happiness into her life because, after all, a girl
as plain as all that deserved a little attention, just
to comfort her.
“I hear that young Jessica Daunt is getting herself
talked about the way she carries on with that White
fellow,” Miss Coombes said for want of something
to say. “Horrible how the people in this town talk.”
Peter grunted. “The boss was saying to me only
to-day what a talkative town this was.”
Silence.
“Fve been asked to play with the Tiburon Tennis
Club next season,” Peter remarked.
Nancy murmured approval rather wearily.
“Did I tell you my mother wrote to say that my
brother Alfred —that’s the one who works in the
Treasury —has just won a What Is It competition?
Two hundred pounds. Not bad, eh?”
“Wonderful,” Miss Coombes murmured.
“Yes, it is. Take my elder brother Warwick.
Always winning something. When that chap was at
school he used to make even the masters sit up.
My elder sister Angela, the one who married the
big squatting chap from Queensland, was the same.
Always lucky. Always getting her own way, too ; but
sisters are like that. Still, I must admit she had
brains.”
“It runs in the family.”
“Yes,” said Peter, oblivious to any sarcasm.
“Now the family meant me for the Air Force. Never
saw myself stuck away in a potty little hole like this,
although, as Ilford says, one must go through the
mill. It will lead to better things.”
“Of course, with a brain like yours”
“Oh, you naughty, naughty girl.”
“I say,” said Peter suddenly, “you're not being
funny, are you? Sort of throwing off?” He looked
injured. “Of course, if”— —
Nancy was struck by the sudden panic of being
bored by loneliness rather than by his company. “Oh,
no,” she said earnestly. \ “Of course not, Peter. I
really meant that you have a wonderful chance of
advancement. Go on. What were you saying about
the Air Force?”
By the time the school-teachers tramped up the
path Peter had reached his great-uncle Cornish, who
had left a fortune which the Irish branch of the family
had successfully disputed with the Australian Conns.
“You see, if it hadn’t been for that I wouldn’t
be here now,” Peter was saying. “Funny, isn’t it?
The pater is always saying that if we had the money
that went to the Irish branch I wouldn’t be here now.”
“That would have been a tragedy,” Jingo
remarked. “You ought to be damn’ glad the Irish
branch got the cash if that’s the way your father felt.”
Miss Alwin went inside very quickly.
“You know,” Peter said heatedly, “these school-
teachers think they’re too darn clever. They think
they’re funny.” ..
Nancy soothed him. “Well,” she said presently,
“I think I’ll go to bed.” ,
She always gave Bevan a start because she reared
she snored a little sometimes, and Bevan had been
horribly caustic about the Bible salesman. Round
the corner came a solitary, rather unsteady figure.
It was Orry Smith returning to the bosom of his
boarding-house. .
“Well, good night,” said Peter hurriedly. He
wanted to get inside before that bore of an Orry
could catch him and talk to him.
Chapter XVIII;
6C\T°, 1 certainl y won t give you a reference >’
|\J Mrs. O’Brien said between tears and indig-
* nation. “Oh, you naughty, naughty girl!
After being with me five years! And then to ask
me for a reference!”
She sniffed and touched her nose with a hand-
kerchief smelling strongly of eau-de-Cologne.
“If you want a situation, you come straight back
to me, do you hear? You needn’t work, my dear.
Come and stay as.long as you like whenever you
like. If you haven’t your fare, you can always write
and I’ll send it. Don’t tell me you won’t be able to
afford a tuppenny stamp. You’ve been just like my
daughter.” Mrs. O’Brien sniffed again. “Apart from
being the neatest, quickest girl I ever had in my
dining-room.”
For Vera was going to be married. She had
been going out with young Phillips for three years,
and Mrs. O’Brien had been purring like a pussy-cat
and encouraging her because she knew young Phillips
would never have enough to marry on. And now
here was Vera announcing her engagement and her
intention to start for Sydney as soon as she had
married young Phillips.
, “If you must marry him,” Mrs. O’Brien
demanded indignantly, “why not do it and stay in
Tiburon?”
“He wants to go,” Vera declared. “He can’t get
relief now they’ve put the single men off. He broods
over that strike.”
“Let him brood. ■ Don’t marry him, dear. Let
him brood.”
“ Tisn’t, fair to me.” Vera shook her head
decidedly. “We’re neither of us getting any younger.
He sees other chaps getting married who haven’t any
more chance than him, and it just worries me the
way he’s been looking. No, we’ll go to Sydney.”
“And then what?” Mrs. O’Brien demanded.
She assumed the advisory air of a grandmother who
has lost thirteen children.' “You can’t trust any man,
Vera. They are all"the same, my dear.” She shook
her head. “TheyTe all the same. No damn’ sense.
And this young man of yours, he hasn’t any means
of supporting you, my dear, has he?”
“Well, I can support him,” Vera declared
stoutly. “ ’Tisn’t as though we couldn’t work.”
“But you’ll have children to think of, my dear,”
Mrs. O’Brien said severely.
“Oh, no, we won’t.”
“I don’t know what I’m to do about you, Vera,”
said Mrs. O’Brien. “You’ll come to ruin, my girl.”
She cheered up. “Anyway, I shall see you have the
very best wedding breakfast, and I insist on giving
you away myself.”
{To be continued next week.)


HOSPITAL
iAJJJ
V I
a
»•
Si
\
3®g
y^'4
Nature has decreed an inflexible rule
that the bowels must operate every day.
They are the main channel which Nature has
appointed to carry away what is unnecessary,
and it is impossible to tell how large an amount
of sickness has been caused by constipation or costiveness; in
other words, by not keeping the bowels regular—it is the main
road to most illnesses; it is the cause of unnatural irritation to
the mucous or lining membrane of the bowels. Having lost their
natural strength they object to doing what is required of them.
Hence the bowels become inflamed, and unless you find a speedy
relief a thousand other complaints are ever ready to drag you
through a miserable and wretched life. Such medicine must be
given as will cleanse the stomach and bowels, and thus help to
restore their natural activity. To accomplish this there is no
compound so valuable as Dr. Morse’s INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are purely vegetable and do not gripe.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are also an excellent
medicine for Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Rheumatism,
and Skin Blemishes due to irregularity of the bowels.
Morses
u
PILL
They Make You Feel Brighter
Mirpil
Is Idea! for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until dry.
The cleansing and cooling actions of
this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or will be sent
post paid upon receipt of postal
notes or stamps by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or direct from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney. N.S.W., or 6 Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN ,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
f/Mk
ll
X
<b
&
.el
O
0
\P d 6^\
o
V<^ > eo'y;-e q 9>
►V B?V*
aW* ::.
.•tf
o \' e #''
# S '
#•’
# SS
■o»'
,•••■■ ~■•■■' ,4<s
.••‘ A VV^ 0<
■•■ t >»


«
■f
y
v
o
a
N
. - * t f- . . ■/: ,A> --*■. ■ ■ A^S»
... •' *i
V
■■■
•e
1
...V
mm
Tll¥y WHETTE
f&f-: 'KfK'' ■' '<? iM
■* * • > "§'■
SSSSm
*'» :
:
||:p ; S
» >
Hi
• - < ;^M'v" ' - y . ,Y ' v - ,-
■■ , my:?-.. , >;y£ v 3 >’ ■; m'X '' v - '. , -T- '' -
few. '..X S'
% ■ ' : -'■
91
m
fS&*
***
Ik
SS
ir
,53. ,;; J
jgHHI
\l
I
I
• V-'. *
. Mk
F,
mmm
»iii
ill
lliiii
/■
. - .■ '
■.'■ :
li
ll
: 1
%
®;»a
N
mm
f#'iiir?
-v
is
i*
■
Christmas Time is Gift Time
mis KAZCR
The World’s Best Safety
serted by THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Pacific,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Interstate Representatives: QUEENSLAND—ButIer Brothers (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane. M
VICTORIA and TASMANIA—The Rolls Razor Company of Victoria. 4SO Bourkc Stieet, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, I erth.
