

•'*
M A.
m
■ om,:
, A
.
■ 'mk
■m sm3i'
SI
I
........ f
RADIOS LATEST
D EVELOPMENT *• • THE
DIAL
pEAUTY that calls a halt
beauty that casts a spell; not
mere prettiness or superficial charm,
but beauty which endures! Because
TASMA receivers have brought a
new beauty oi tone to radio, it is
fitting that they should be housed to
fascinate eye as well as ear. lo
artists of faultless taste and wide
knowledge, TASMA entrusted the
designing of cabinets for its new
series of receivers, . . *and to skilled,
painstaking craftsmen was given the
task of building these cabinets
from the most beautiful of selected
timbers.
a
ms
m
-
■m
%
MS
£sa
£
m
■ h-
c /cUmu
DETAIL-BUILT RADIO
A PRODUCT OF THOM & SMITH, LTD., 55 Dowling Street, East Sydney.
THE TASMA “ CRUISER ”
Illustrated above is the latest type of all-
wave battery-operated radio. The “Cruiser
employs 7 valves and receives overseas and
all Australian stations.
Tasma receivers are available in all types
to fit every need and purse.
Prices range from £l5/19/6 to £4B/10/-.
y.s. W.COUXTBT
INTMBSTA TE D 1 S T R 1 B V TORS.
distributors.
ERIC CUPITT, 25 Perkins Street,
Newcastle.
District Representative.
C. R. DONNELLY, 45 Cathcart Street,
Lismore.
Northern Representative.
QUEENSLAND:
Q J GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Also at' Rockhampton, Cairns,
Maekay, Townsville.
ROSENSTENGELS PTY„ LTD.,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
VICTORIA:
WARBURTON FRANKI (MELB.),
LTD., 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 597 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne..
JOHN HOLLWAY A SONS,
40 Armstrong St. North, Ballarat.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
OLIVER J. NILSEN & 00.. LTD.,
49 King William Street, Adelaide.
NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
T.TD.. 89 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MILLER ANDERSON, LTD.,
Hindley Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
UNBEHAUN k JOHNSTONE. W.A.,
LTD., 381 Murray Street, Perth.
THOMSONS. LTD., 674 Hay Street,
Perth.
Also at Fremantle, Narrogin and
Bunbury.
The Bulletin
Australia’s Court of Jamshyd
Vol. 56.—N0. 2894.
Wednesday, July 31, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
ndw ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street* Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Stom Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet. explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
8.8. 136
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
The Red page
HIS
BOOKS
DEVIL
AT ELBOW
The devil at
the elbow says
that none of these
three writers is
really worth cele-
brating—not, that
is, on his present performance. Not one
of these novels, he insinuates, that is not
an excellent target for shooting peas
through. Take the biggest of them, he
says, this one with the resounding title,
Twenty Thousand Streets Under the Sky ,
by Patrick Hamilton
Hold hard,-.,Nick, you say, slightly
adapting Adam Lindsay Gordon. Hold
hard, Nick surely you, of all people,
should appreciate this work, seeing it has
a street-walker for heroine and all! And
a pub for setting, with excursions, on the
shady side, into some of those twenty
thousand streets of London, notably
those converging upon Leicester Square!
And a barman for hero! And eccentric
old reprobates barging into the pub!
And an introduction by J. B. Priestley!
What’s coom over thee, laad —hast gone
and got saved ?
You give me a pain in the tail, replies
the Old Boy. You speak of it as if the
first part of it, called “The Midnight
Bell,” after the pub, was the whole lot
of it. What about the second part, called
“The Siege of Pleasure,” and the third
part, called “The Plains of Cement”
(there’s a title for you!)—aren’t both of
them melodramatic and-redundant and
dull? What sort of an author is this,
•who repeats in both these parts what
he’s told you well enough in the first
part—that the Midnight Bell is a pub,
that Bob works there, that Ella is the
barmaid there? Thai’s all right when the
three books appear at different times,
but is it nice when you get them
all together, like this, as one book? It
isn’t a novel at all; it’s simply three
awkward pieces of fiction lumped to-
gether and thrown at the reader’s head
is that a nice thing to do?
It is considered polite enough, Nick,
by many poets. And, speaking of poets,
let me recite to you :
The cataract of the cliff of heaven fell
blinding off the brink
As if it would wash the stars away as
suds go down a sink,
The seven heavens came roaring down
for the throats of hell to drink . . .
Admitted, says Nick, reminiscently;
and who was that saying here recently
that there are no living poets? Though
I must say that 1 personally prefer the
bridge scene from “Tarn o’ Shanter.”
But we were talking about Patrick
Hamilton, his book. And wherever have
you seen so ugly a book? It’s a fat,
square, ugly little block. Why in the
name of Charon do you want to talk
about it? Why don’t you discourse upon
“Wandering Willie’s Tale,” in which, 1
might remind you, I myself play a
modest part? Or “Thrawn Janet” or
“The Tale of Tod Lapraik”? This craze
for new works, fresh from the printing
presses-
Exactly,,Nick. And if your eyes were
not so full of coke dust you’d see that
that is precisely what makes Mr. Hamil-
ton well worth talking about—to be fresh
from the presses, being what he is.
*
Admitted all you say about parts two
and three. They, as you so elegantly put
it, give one a pain in the tail. But this
first part, which is a complete novel in
itself, though it does end inconclusively,
isn’t at all a bad performance for these
days. Take its story, which is possibly
fantastic, being the pure love of Bob the
barman for that little twit, Jenny the
streel-walker. It is, nevertheless, very
finely told ; mannered, of course, but how
well mannered! Which is very rare in
fiction just now, let me tell you ; and, in
respect of that, there are other rarenesses
about Mr. Hamilton, too. He has, what
novelists of to-day almost seem to forget
ever had a place in story-telling, that
curious onward movement which we can
describe as the narrative gift. His story
is a story. He has chapters, but the flow
is forward continuously. It is not a suc-
cession of separate scenes, at the end of
each of which you hear the stage manager
yelling “Curtain!” which is so in the
novels of those who don’t happen to
have that particular gift. Such writers
gel along without it, but the devil of it
I beg your pardon, old man the pity of
it is.their pretence that narrative is un-
necessary in a story. Again, Nick—-and
this is very, very, very rare these days—
there is this fellow Hamilton’s good-
natured feeling towards his characters.
There are bad eggs among his people,
rotten eggs; ladies of the pavement,
reprobates, bores, sots and soaks; but
there is none upon whom his good
humor does not sprinkle a little of the
milk of human kindness. In a word,
Nick, he likes his characters ; he is not
out to work off grudges against people
he knows, but only to enjoy the company
of people at large. What is more —and
again very rare—he is content to stay
on their level. He does not retite to a
near-by mountain the better to observe
them. He moves among them as a man.-
For instance, he looks at the Governor
(of the pub), and this is the sort of thing
he sees: “The spectacle of his waistcoat,
and all it-contained, was doubtless an
indecent spectacle to snobs, but a pure
delight to the naive. It was the same
shape as the world, but a little smaller.”
Every second sentence in “The Midnight
Bell” is as good as those, Nick.
Alington’s
“Donaldson”
True enough,
agrees Nick, with
customary gener-
osity, but 1 had
previously de-
monstrated un-
answerably how peas might be shot
through the performance as a whole.
Frankly, 1 doubt if they’d read the
second part even to kill time in the
Seventh Circle. And as it was you who
mentioned the idea of an author retiring
on to a mountain and regarding his
characters from there—which is to say,
of course, holding himself above them—
that is exactly what another of these
authors you insist on talking about—
Adrian Alington, the author of Donald-
sem —seems to me to do. Personally, as
you might possibly realise, 1 am some-
what accustomed to that sort of scrutiny
myself ; but isn’t this what is called hav-
ing “detachment” from your characters?
And isn’t that a very admirable literary
thing to have? 1 think, for example, of
Faulkner’s Light in August, which seems
to me, if I may use the word, as pure a
piece of fiction as we have had since
that author, among others, was with me
in the doings in France.
We speak of those doings as the War,
Nick—some with distaste. And, yes,
Faulkner is a check to undue exuberance
against an author holding himself
detached from his characters. But have
you noticed, Nick, how it would be, if I
may use the word to you, a-sort of sacri-
lege to illustrate Faulkner in color? I
mean that his novels seem to call for
illustrating in woodcuts. And 1 think
that is so because of his detachment. He
is so removed from the scene that all that
he sees is black and white. And, in any
case, Alington is not detached in quite
the same sense—at least, not in this book.
In The Career of Julian Stanley Williams,
perhaps yes, and in C hay tor’s too —and
those are something like novels—but here
in Donaldson he is merely superior to his
people. He does not contemplate this
poor worm Donaldson or Donaldson’s
best-seller-writer wife fwhat an acquisi-
tion for literary circles, this delicious
woman!) —he does not contemplate these
from any mountain, but merely from a
pair of stilts he has temporarily mounted.
Surely, Nick interrupts, it is now my
turn to recite:
When X deceased and passed below.
Earth jumped for joy: "Tor you 'tis
well,”
Said Nick. “hut I should like to know
Why was this monster sent to hell .?”
You have been going to the pictures
again, Nick, Poor Donaldson is not that
sort of person
I was thinking of the woman
Or the woman, either. She is only,
like Hamilton’s Jenny, a poor twit,
though a different kind of twit. She is
one who writes a sickly novel which
turns out a best-seller, and who then
continues to write best-sellers, mounting
in her own estimation with their sales,
and becoming more and more an insuf-
ferable snob, what time the wretched
Donaldson, 'ter husband, becomes more
and more effaced. You will agree, surely,
that the' first part of the novel, in which
this matter is studied, is really excellent.
And what of the rest? says Nick, with
some spirit. Isn’t it dull and tedious to
a degree?
Admitted. Even so, it is not a wholly
bad light study of Donaldson’s curious
temporary madness good, in fact, be-
cause it is so very lightly handled. In
any case, if I may speak of one who may,
with reason, be anathema to you, Nick,
we must remember the curate’s egg, and,
as he was with that notorious goog, be
tolerant enough to take joy from a novel
which, in parts, is so very good as this
is—in parts.
“Three Men in
the Snow”
There are
times, Nick as-
serts, when you
sound uncomfort-
ably like a mis-
sionary. Still, 1
am used to them. But surely you will
now get out that nice bright blowpipe I
gave you for your birthday and blow
some peas through this piffling perform-
ance entitled Three Men in the Snow, by
—let me look—yes, Erich Kastner. 1
find Eric awfully hard to pronounce with
the *‘h” on the end, don’t you?
You swallow the “h” as in “whisky.”
And admitting that this is a piffling per-
formance, that its story is egregiously
silly, that its people are fantastic and in?
credible—yet still, O Nick, it becomes
us to celebrate it a little. It is, plainly, a
fairytale for grown-ups—perhaps especi-
ally for men grown-ups—for all who feel
the weight of the world heavy upon
them, who are oppressed with their in-
significance, who, in a word, seek escape
—who would like to do just what these
fools in this fool book do —win prizes
in an advertising stunt which lake them
free to a highly fashionable hotel in the
Alps, where they have an incredibly
fantastic time of it. Those reading it
might 'prefer to be the millionaire who
wins second prize in the competition he
himself has run, and goes to the hotel,
masquerading, with unaccountable suc-
cess, as a poor eccentric. Or they might
prefer to be the genuine poor youth who
genuinely wins the first prize in the same
competition and goes to the hotel and
has the role of eccentric millionaire
foisted on him. Or they might like to
be the millionaire’s butler, who also goes
there, ostensibly as a shipping magnate,
but really to keep an eye on his beloved
boss. Whatever the preference, it is a
gate to escape. In the world just now,
Nick, escape is a very urgent matter.
Might 1 suggest a resort I personally
know of?
But do you laugh down there, Nick?
That is important, and you certainly can
laugh at some of the damfoolery in this
damfool book.
We laugh quite a lot down there, thank
you. And what do you think of the
sticky sentimental end of this minor
masterpiece?
As we say good night, old boy, let us
be charitable. Let us think that here at
the end the author has abandoned fan-
tastic tomfoolery, not for crass senti-
mentalism, as it might seem, hut for pure
satire that he is nicely satirical at the
expense of the melodramatic happy end-
ing. 'Unit is a nice thought; is it not?
It is certainly a charitable one. Good
night. I’ll he seeing you,
(T<»i Mann.
\Twenty Thousand Si reels Under the Sky, by
fiat lie t Hamilton (Constable; from Angus and
Robertson: Bs. Ml.); iJoualdson, by Adrian
Alington ((’halto,;aml Windus: 7s. 6d.t; Three
Men in the, Sno\y, by Kriofi Kastner. translated
from the German by Cyrus Brooks (Gape;
Moore’s Bookshop; 7s. M 1,).)
S.H. Prior
Memorial
Prize
Judging of en-
tries in the first
year’s competi-
tion for the S. H.
Pride Memorial
.Prize is now suffi-
ciently advanced
to make possible the announcement of
the winner in next week’s Bulletin.
For the present it can be stated that
this first competition of the annual Prize
has attracted one or two manuscripts
that seem to be of first-rate importance
in Australian writing and several others
well worth publishing in book form.
Thus, a number of writers here will,
through the institution of this prize for
literature, benefit in as practical and
direct a manner as possible -by the cer-
tain publication and distribution of their
work.
That, of course, is, the practical pur-
pose of the Prize, instituted, as the con
ditions for the annual competition slate,
“to recognise the, services to Australian
literature of the late Samuel Henry Prior,
editor of The Bulletin for 18 years.”
It coincides, therefore, with what has
always been an outstanding principle in
the general policy of The Bulletin -
something more than a mere lip-service
in the encouragement, the huilding-up
and the enlarging of Australian litera-
ture.
Such manuscripts, as are, under the
conditions of (he Prize, chosen from the
judges' recommendations by the trustees
for publication in book form will be
printed and issued by The Bulletin,
which, as those who have even the
faintest knowledge of Australian litera-
ture will not need to be reminded, was
a book-publishing house 30-odd years
before the Endeavour Press venture. And
just as the Endeavour Press has been a
medium for adding one outstanding novel
to Australian literature-—that is. Land-
takers—so did The Bulletin, as a pub-
lishing house close on 40 years ago, help
to add one outstanding work —Such Is
Life— to the literature of Australia.
Nobody not completely ignorant of
Australian literature and book-publish-
ing will need to be told that Such Is Life,
though the most outstanding, was not
the only work of at least temporary
worth that was then issued by The
Bulletin. Just a few other books which
(Continued on page 4.)


ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
!»••••«
|P «jjj
iniiiiiii
111
Ilium
mil
mi
alii
|||liiiiiiiiii
mu
In
Kiimiiiiiiiin
miiiiiiiiimiiiii
r
.idl
iiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii
J. o. ANDER.SON
Si P E
,1 1
f IX
, '''
This is the Special Reserve Model, made to the specifications of the
famous Australian and Davis Cup Champion in 1934. It is his
genuine autograph model, strung with Edwards fine-quality new
gut at high tension. Oval or Flat-top frame. The powerful frame
is laminated and the shoulders reinforced. Leather grip. ■ Fully
guaranteed. Price, 65/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 32/6.
45/- Slazenger’s “Shaftesbury”
The latest laminated frame in triple layers
hickory, ash, hickory. Wonderful resilience and
balance, stout overlay shoulders, leather grip.
First-quality gut at high tension. Price 45/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 32 6
55/- Slazenger’s “Primoris”
The latest 1935 model of a racket famous on the
Slazenger lists for a quarter of a century. A
racket for class play under all conditions. Fully
guaranteed. Price 5 5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . 49/6
49'6
Tennis
Racket
The most popular |T j
intermediate racket of m
the Alexander series.
Four laminations of English ash.
Strength and balance are excellent.
Strung with quality gut at high
tension. Price 32/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 25/-.
SmM
Swa I
MSI
r
PM
38/6 Tennis Nets, 35 -
Made in Australia from champion
ship heavyweights to lighter weight
hemp. 42ft. long by 30in. deep.
Double tops with extra strong white
canvas bands. Wired complete and
spliced loops ready for immediate
use. Fully guaranteed.
Prices, each
38/6 45/- 50/- 57/6 67/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices—
-35- 39/6 45/- 52/6 59/6
GOLF
BARGAINS !
50/- Golf Sets, 45/-
Beginners’ Golf Sets, comprising
Brassie or Driver, Mid-iron,
Mashie, Putter and Golf Bag.
Price 50/-
Sale Price 45/-
68/6 Golf Sets, 62/6
Spalding Golf Sets, comprising
Brassie or Driver, Mid-iron,
Mashie, Putter and Golf Bag.
Price 68/6
Sale Price 62/6
93/- Golf Sets, 85 -
Dick Carr Steel-shafted Golf Sets,
comprising Brassie or Driver.
Mid-iron, Mashie, Putter and
Golf Bag. Price 95/-
Sale Price •• • 85/-
BICYCLES
reduced
price
n
w
The Famous English
ROYAL ENFIELD
("Made like a gun")
£7 / 19 / 6 value at
£7 7 12'6
Exclusively distributed in Sydney for the Royal Enfield Company of Redditch, England,
by Anthony Horderns’. One of the world’s most famous bicycles. Finest quality English
parts throughout. English Dunlop tyres. Full equipment, including Brook’s saddle,
detachable mudguards, Eadie Coaster free wheel, inflator, bell, tool-bag, tools, reflector.
Fully guaranteed. Price, complete £7/19/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £7/12/6
The "Challenger"
makes riding
easier!
£6 / 19 / 6 value at
tew-
ŵ
Built in our own cycle works, and fully guaranteed. Best quality English weldless steel
tubes, pinned and brazed. Fully guaranteed tyres. Completely equipped, with good
saddle, inflator, bell, tool-bag, tools, reflector everything except the lamp. Mens
Model. Price £6/19/6. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price ........ £6/10/-
Same model as above fitted with Eadie Coaster free wheel. Price £7/15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £7/5/-
7\ Vf\
The "Marathon"
Cents' Tourer
£10 7 - 7 - value at
tZ'W*
This Is the celebrated cycle which, for all-round
use and reliability, has no parallel In Australia.
It is built to order in our own cycle works, and
is finished in any desired colour scheme. It is
fully guaranteed, both as to frame and tyres.
The “Marathon” is a cycle to be proud of—a
sturdy, fine machine built to give years and years
of faithful service. Price, £lO. Sale Price, £B/10/6.
Lady's “Marathon” Tourer., a companion type
to the men’s model. Price £ll
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £lO/10/-
• Special features of the “Marathon”
Finest British fittings. Highest quality English (weldless) steel tubing. Brazed and
pinned lugs. Nickel-plated rims. Wheels 28 x If inches. Major Taylor handle bars.
Fully guaranteed best Dunlop tyres and tubes. All bright parts heavily nickel-plated.
Mirror-finish British enamel (triple coated). Eadie Coaster free wheel. English saddle.
Full cycle equipment.
# Sports Department—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street, Freight paid on Tennis Rackets, Tennis
Nets and Golf Sets only to all Seaports in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD
’Phone: M 2401
Day or Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Every Sufferer from
INDIGESTION
knows this to be true
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De s Antacid
Powder.
if- On entering the stomach De Witt s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
f|T Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain, the genuine product —
DE WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
2/6
bear that early Bulletin imprint: A
Southern Garland (verses by Rod Quinn,
Hubert Church, Bernard O’Dowd and
others); Phil May in A ustralia; Fair
Girls and Grey Horses, by Will H. Ogilvie
(how our verse-writers were read then!
This was in its eighth thousand in
1899!); At Dawn and Dusk, by Victor
Daley ; On Our Selection, by Steele
Rudd ; The Bulletin Slory Book : The
Red Pagan, by A. G. Stephens; and
some dozen or two others.
The future book-publishing policy of
The Bulletin will be identical with that
which guided that earlier venture —that
is to say. books which appear to be worth
adding to Australian literary effort wifi
be published as they become available,
beginning with those selected from the
judges’ recommendations in this first
competition for the Prize. It is not, of
course, suggested that all such books will
be permanent additions to our literature.
The most that the policy shapes towards
is the publishing of books considered
worth publishing.
New
Australian
Work
The verse of
C. H. Souter is
the work of a
careful crafts-
man, neatly
joined, well-
balanced. strong
on its feet. It soars not to heights nor
plumbs depths, but is warmed by a good
heart and makes pleasant music. Souter
is, of all Australian writers, the best
practitioner of the English narrative
ballad, and has, moreover, a deft hand
with the chanty, the ballad’s maritime
sister. In his latest volume, The Lonely
Rose, verse culled from the pages of
The Bulletin and other journals, he is
at his best in these forms. He com-
mences a song of the old coaching days
with a flourish of whip and jingle of
harness:
When Old John Bax drove the mail to
Coonabarabran
His reins were made of raw-hide, his
lash of kangaroo;
He’d four grey waters in his old brown
shandrydan.
And we all set our watches when the
coach-horn blew !
The flavor is of the Australian soil, nos-
talgic.
A tale of life in Java, The Garden of
Bitter Sweet, by Esme Rees Dufrayne.
commands respect for the authenticity of
its background and the terseness of its
style. There is not sufficient shading to
give much body and soul to the charac-
ters —some of the chapters occupy only
three-quarters of a page —but events are
made to speak for themselves and the
Dutch-Javanese flavor is intriguing. The
stories (two or three of them inter-
mingled) are frankly told, without senti-
mental varnish and with devotion to
reality.
Probably every writer has at some time
toyed with the notion of doing a thriller.
That the job isn’t as easy as it looks is
demonstrated by Leon Brock’s essay,
Love Among Thieves, the background of
which is alleged to be Sydney. Mr.
Brock has failed signally to make that
background, which presumably he ought
to know as well as the back of
his hand, interesting or convincing.
A master criminal, Julian Marsh, lives
in a castle on the cliffs, attended
by various crooks, mostly of Yankee
extraction, and by a hunchback known
for some obscure reason obscure
because his identity is thoroughly well
established—as The Unknown. When
the crooks perpetrate a fraud on the “dis-
tinctive purveyors of distinctive jewellery
to a distinctive clientele” they find the
manager is a Frenchman whose English
is fragmentary. The crooks’ chauffeur.
Hall, has been a king of Sydney’s under-
world. He lives for a while at' King’s
Cross, which, we are informed, has a
“collection of curious shops, some of
them quaint and exquisitely artistic.”
Julian Marsh brings to his castle his
dead brother’s 18-year-old daughter, to
wreak on the defenceless lass a hideous
vengeance, but he weakens in this inten-
tion, and instead gets slain by the hunch-
back. Such few incidents as the book
boasts are bedded like currants in a large
pale bun of irrelevant society chit-chat.
The people don’t live, and the setting is
equally divorced from nature.
K. Langford Smith, a young missioner
in Arnhem Land, a district which he
patrols by aeroplane, makes a readable
book out of his adventures. He calls it
Sky Pilot in Arnhem Land. His style is
straightforward and unaffected ; his love
of and trust in mankind bespeak the true
missionary spirit, and he has a boy’s
lively sense of humor. A clean breeze
blows through this unpretentious
chronicle, which is well-illustrated with
photographs.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE
| The Lonely Rose and Other Verses, by
Charles Henry Soutcr (Rigby, Adelaide; 3s.
6d.); The Garden of Biller Sweet, by Esmc
Rees Dufrayne (Houghton, London; 3s. 6d.);
Love Among Thieves, by Leon Brock (Jack-
son arid O'Sullivan, Sydney); Sky Pilot in
Arnhem Land, by K. Langford Smith (Angus
and Robertson, Sydney; 65.).J
Modern
Poetastery
Cecil Mann argues
attractively, but it’s
a vain quest. I
have read volumes
and volumes of
modern verse,
always with the
same result —vacuity.
Take Cecil Mann's own extracts from Recent
Poetry: scan, analyse and diagnose them, and
do any one of them “point a moral or adorn
a talc”? What conceivable meaning, even
without wresting the line from its context,
although Mr. Mann describes it as brilliant
in their brittle brevity,” is there in
/ have measured out my life with coffee spoons.
Why coffee spoons or, better still, butter knives?
Are “coffee spoons” selected because they are
small or silvery; or is it that this versical
measure of valuing life is unpoetic and value-
less?
Take two other lines that Cecil cites from
Pamela Travers, again without wresting them
from their context:
Moaning desire of vermin lovely rat
ineffable mouse altar of felicity.
Is there any appeal of sense in such “in-
effable” (.which word seems to be essential
with the poetasters) rubbish, and what does this
kind of mouse “felicity” really mean? Surely
as readers and critics we arc entitled to know.
Why is it that these poetasters and critics
never get down to reality? What is poetiy
after all? It is “the art of apprehending ideas
by the faculty of imagination.” Matthew
Arnold, who ought to know, adopted this view,
and Shakspeare in the familiar passage com-
mencing “The poet’s eye in a fine frenzy roll-
ing” confirms it. Yet where are the “appre-
hended ideas” and “the faculty of imagination
in the stuff we complain about?
Take another test. Would any of this “in-
effable” verse be selected for any examination
in our schools, primary or otherwise? Would
our boys be asked (following the practice of
such tests) to “explain and state what you
know about the following lines and their
author”? Could Pamela Travers or Cecil Mann
give any intelligible meaning to satisfy the
examiners? No doubt they could write pages,
discovering some occult meaning in the effu-
sion ; but one can imagine the expression on
the face of the examiner as he read them.
It is really an open question who is to blame
—the critics or the poetasters. If critics would
not read into poetastery extraordinary meanings
that arc not there and allow rhymsters to drivel
on no one could complain. Yet critics must
earn their living as other mortals do; but by
exalting literary nonsense they delude the public
and create an altogether false taste.
Summarising what has been written by
Pamela and Cecil —poetasters and critics
though they disagree and their discovery of
hidden and wonderful and imaginary meanings
by so-called critics, one can only sum up as a
well-known English Judge did: “It is like a
dark man groping in a dark room for a black
cat that isn’t there.”
W. J. Denny.
The Fashion
of
Fat Books
How seldom is
it suggested that
the big books en-
joying a fashion
just now might
have been im-
proved consider-
ably had they been rewritten into 300
pages! A Woman’s Soul, by De Maupas-
sant, probably the finest novel of its
kind ever written, runs (in my copy) to
only 292 pages, and most outstanding
novels are from 90,000 to 100,000 words,
possibly up to 150,000 words. (In those
instances where George Eliot, Hugo and
Dickens rambled on to great length the
quality of the story suffered definitely.)
No sane person would suggest that,
for instance, Brian Renton’s fine study
Landtokers, or one or two other equally
notable exceptions, should have been
crammed into 90,000 words. I should
not like to be misunderstood in this
direction. But anyone who reads much
will readily recall many recent dodder-
ing. expansive and expensive big hooks
which might have been quite readable
stories had they been rewritten into half
their size.
Once upon a time there lived a noted
scientist who had a happy custom of slic-
ing into two pieces all books that were
too big to be held conveniently in one
hand. If he lived to-day, and could be
induced to read some of these 600-page
novels, you could well imagine him slic-
ing them in two —and forgetting to read
the second portions. These fat novels
(again I make certain definite reserva-
tions) are of comparatively recent —and,
let us hope, of passing—fashion. No one
other than an idiot wants a six-hour con-
cert. Why should it be presumed that
people want these dreary and dreadful
fiction stories stretched beyond all
reasonable length?
R.R.PERRY.
A Satchel of Books
Fer de Lance, by Rex Stout (Cassell ;
Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). Nero Wolfe derives
from Sherlock Holmes; but where
Holmes was lean Wolfe is obscenely fat;
Holmes drugged, Wolfe drinks ; Holmes’s
worshipping olfsider was an ass, Wolfe’s
is as astute as he is valiant. The story,
which deals with the overthrow of a
young Napoleon of crime, is remarkably
well told. Present critic found the inces-
sant wisecracks of the American Watson,
who is the narrator, rather trying, but they
may seem side-splitting to others. A
matter, largely, of familiarity with the
lingo.
The Donkey of God, by Louis Unter-
meyer (Gollancz ; Moore’s Bookshop :
165.). According to publisher’s announce-
ment, this is a joint winner of a prize
awarded by the big Italian Tourist Cor-
poration for the best book about Italy
by a non-Italian. It is a curious mixture
of excellent travel writing and juvenile
legends fabricated by the author to
amuse his children. These imaginary
legends are fair enough as such, but they
tend to make what otherwise is a capital
travel book a little of neither one thing
nor the other.
The Glorious Pool, by Thorne Smith
(Barker ; 7s. 6d.). Typical Thorne Smith
uproar, not so good as his little master-
piece The Stray Lamb, being cruder, but
having enough of riotous fun to satisfy
Thorne Smith addicts. The principal
figure of fantasy this time is a shame-
less hussy who springs to life from being
a statue at a garden pool. To that Thorne
Smith adds sundry of his particular
eccentrics, among them a funny Jap.
warranted to raise a laugh out of any-
body with a taste for the ribald.
Wilderness, by Derrick Leon (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d.). One thing is likely to
make whoever starts this novel want to
finish it —the neat excellence of the
craftsmanship. For the rest, it is the thin-
nest of faint tales, concerning a slightly
neurotic girl, who is infatuated with a
married chap, gives herself to him (as
they say), finds the infatuation was a bit
one-sided, cuts one of her wrists in the
bath, this failing to help, cuts the other
one, and then, this also failing, comes
at last to her senses.
Hashish, by Henry de Monfreid
(Methuen ; Angus and Robertson ; 165.).
Adventure, as colorful and dangerous as
ever it was, is still available in the world,
and this author has it in plenty in and
about the Red Sea. He takes up the
slory of his gun-running, piracy and the
like where he left it in Secrets of the
Red Sea, and turns after a while to
hashish smuggling. Not so fresh as the
earlier book, because the author and his
methods seem now a little too familiar,
but good he-man adventure stuff, never-
theless.
Land of Women, by Baroness
Katharine Dombrowski (Putnam ; 7s. 6d.
net). For those who must have history,
even when fit its most wildly fantastic,
served up to them in the chocolate-coat-
ing of fiction this is a thorough and de-
tailed representation of the reign of the
monstrous Lopez, whose ruthless sadism
destroyed Paraguay. The merit of such
fictional treatment is that it can give a
sense of present actuality to long-past
proceedings, and the work of the Baroness
has that merit. The defect, which the
work also has, is that a great deal of
irrelevant stuff has to be woven around
the cold facts to provide that warmth
which the fiction addict requires. Those
who would like to have the fictional
treatment of this fantastic piece of his-
tory can rely on being well suited by the
Baroness. Those who’d prefer to have
it in a piece of vigorous, clean, clear-cut
and sharply pointed statement should go
back 12 months or so to Cunningham-
Grahame's Portrait of a Dictator, which
is the same story without any fictional
redundancies.
Selected Poems, by Hugh Macdiarmid
(Macmillan ; Moore’s Bookshop; Is.
6d.). Apropos of recent Red Page dis-
cussion on modern verse, in which Mac-
diarmid’s was called into question.
“Crowdieknowe” is hereby lifted bodily
from these recently-issued Selected
Poems by way of allowing the poet to
speak for himself:
Oh to be at Crowdieknowe
When the last trumpet blows.
An see the deid come loopin’ owre
The auld grey wa’s.
M tickle men wi’ tousled beards,
/ grat at as a bairn
’ll scramble frae the croodit clay
Wi’ feck o’ swearin’.
An' glower at God an’ a' his gang
O’ angels i’ the lift
—Thae trashy bleezin’ French-like folk
Wha gor’d them shift!
Fain the weemun-folk’ll seek
To mak’ them hand their row
— Fegs, God’s no’ blate gin he stirs up
The men o’ Crowdieknowe!
That—which does Macdiarmid the bare
justice of quoting at least a slight full
piece of his —is, of course, no "Ode to
Autumn,” and neither is Keats Dante,


Do you realise that
your kidneys may be the
cause of your poor health?
M ost people do not realise
how much work the kidneys
are required to do every day.
Every drop of blood in the
body must pass through and be
filtered by the kidneys hundreds
of times a day.
How can they do their work
well if they are sick?
If your kidneys need treat-
ment, Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
the reliable Kidney Remedy, will
prove to be just the medicine
you need.
0
A
Take 2 Gin Pills
to-night you’ll feel
better to-morrow .
Hear
“The Sheldon Follies”
2SM, Sundays, 8.30—9 p.m.
2TM, Mondays, 8.30—9 p.m.
4BH, Mondays, 9—9,30 p.m.
Joint Pains and Rheumatism
are caused by WEAK KIDNEYS
When the kidneys cease to filter all impurities from the
bloodstreams, Uric Acid accumulates and causes Joint Pains and
Rheumatism. Vitality will be lowered, and your general health will
suffer.
One Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pill taken after every meal will
quickly remove any inflammation or soreness, leaving the
kidneys in a strong, healthy state.
Excess Uric Acid will be banished from the system, and, with
healthy kidneys keeping your bloodstreams pure. Joint Pains,
Rheumatism and Backache will disappear, good health will return,
and you will face each day with renewed life and vigor.
Have the health that can be yours—begin
taking Dr, She/don’s Gin Pills to-day.
27 Pills. 1/9
i> > MieMmu
RHfOMATISM
JUB^l
SCIATICA
w


c
'A
k
i
r
i
• ■ /*
.*-
*
j*4
J>J*
‘iimm
... *•
Pi
/
-*f
m
m£\
■
t #
ac
✓
3*
JsemdiMv sahmedm£.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2894.
July 31, 1935.
CONVERSATION PIECE.
“Them guys caint go on for ever, Jahn. One of ’em’s sure to get clergyman's sore throat.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: 7. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must he added to Country
and inler-Slate cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE TAXGATHERERS’ PARADISE.
At this moment perhaps 400,000 Australians arc
struggling with their income-tax returns. There arc
a dozen (axes on income where one would suffice —
as one suffices in Britain, which has about seven times
our population—so the many incidental operations,
beginning with the filling-in of forms and ending
with the filing of receipts for payment, involve great
economic waste. But it seems to be beyond the
capacity of our 616 politicians to effect or even
suggest a remedy, though it is obvious enough.
Because (he imposts are so numerous and the
laws relating to them are expressed in such an incom-
prehensible jargon it is necessary for people conduct-
ing businesses in more than one State to employ
taxation agents or a special staff, and to have lawyers
on hand always. The average taxpayer, for his part,
has to do the best he can with the bewildering puzzles
spread before him, and trust to the battalion of asses-
sors among the brigade of taxgatherers to calculate
aright. What can a man who is not a mathematician
make of the Commonwealth formulas for calculating
tax on personal earnings and property income? A
few arc quoted:
Personal exertion: —
If the taxable income does not exceed 85 f T 1
£6900, the rate of tax for every ! 3 -| ! pence
pound of taxable income shall be 100 { 160 j
If the taxable income exceeds £6900,
the rate of tax for every pound of 85 I 69001
taxable income up to and including 3-1 pence
£6900 shall be 100 ( 160 J
Property income:—•
If the taxable income exceeds £l5OO, T X 23
but does not exceed £3700, the rate 4|4 pence
of' tax for every pound of taxable 2000
income shall be
The N. S. Wales box of tricks is equally baffling;
Personal exertion: —
Where taxable income does not exceed £7OOO, the rate
equals:
85 / Taxable Income\
I 7-| I pence per pound.
100 V 250 /
Property income:—
Where taxable income docs not exceed £5500, rate equals:
85 / Taxable Income X 3\
- ( 9-1 I pence per pound.
100 \ 500 /
Queensland propounds other posers:
Personal exertion: —
When. the taxable income docs not exceed £BOOO, the
rate on each and every £ of the taxable income shall be 6d.
6
plus as many limes d. as there are pounds in the taxable
1000
income.
Property fate:
When the taxable income does not exceed £3OOO, the rate
on each and every £ of taxable income shall be 12d., plus
4
as many times d. as there arc pounds in the taxable
1000
income.
With utter impudence, the Queensland Govern-
ment has authorised the Public Curator’s office to
offer to prepare income-tax returns for fees, in effect
piling a tax on a tax, Pelion on Ossa.
Westralia and Tasmania likewise employ compli-
cated graduated systems. South Australia’s is not
quite so confusing, and Victoria discards German
formulas altogether; a man liable for “ordinary”
income tax in that State can really calculate what
is to be taken from him without getting a
headache. But, disregarding an equally salutary
English precedent, Victoria, though its tax on
personal earnings is less than the average for
the States, exacts double rates on property income.
Why people past earning should be penalised because
they have provided for their old age without asking
the nation’s help is one of the unexplained mysteries
of taxation practice.
Victoria, it is true, allows unemployed-relief tax
as a deduction from property and personal income.
The Commonwealth exempts all amounts paid in
State income taxes, whatever they may be called.
N. S. Wales pretends to regard even tax-money paid
to itself as income enjoyed by the victim. If he is
a salaried man, and, in obedience to its law, £4O
or £5O is deducted from the source for its unem-
ployed-relief tax, it makes him pay on the £4O or
£5O as well as on what he actually receives. Inci-
dentally, N. S. Wales taxes go up to ss. Id. in the
£ of income, real and alleged ; Commonwealth, up
to Bs. 8 2-sd. of what is left.
As a result of an arrangement made by the
Stevens and Argyle Governments, persons living in
N. S. Wales and drawing income from Victoria, and
vice versa, are not now obliged to pay unemployed-
relief tax in both States, as used to be the case, but
only in the State in which they reside. They are
still liable for ordinary income taxes in both States
as well as the Commonwealth tax, which becomes
two taxes if property income exceeds £250
(there is a “special” 6 p.c. tax on property
income), and they have to render three separate
returns with all pertinent information—one to the
Commonwealth, one to the State in which they reside
and one to the State from which the income is
derived. And. because N. S. Wales relief-rates are
higher and concessions allowed in Victoria arc
refused, many N. S. Wales people affected by the
“reform” will pay more than if Victoria had been
left to tax them.
They order these matters much better in Britain.
There, as already stated, there is only one tax with
a “standard” rate ; exemptions and abatements arc
lucidly set down, and administration (here madden-
ingly centralised) is decentralised to such a point that
a man who has paid too much lax can gel the excess
refunded on furnishing proof to an inspector at (he
nearest town. And the tax is imposed at the begin-
ning of the financial year, so (hat people with modest
means have plenty of time to prepare their individual
budgets. In Australia half (he financial year elapses
before taxpayers know what (hey arc to be slung
for, and even then any improvident provincial Govern-
ment is apt to bring in an increase at the eleventh
hour.
The remedy? Transfer of .State income taxes
(they yielded £9.607,200 in 1932-33) (o the Common-
wealth, the latter to retire from the land-tax business
and to assume control of education, which cost the
States £9,677,500 in 1932-33. Only the poltroonery
of some politicians and the false pride of others stand
in the way.
AUSTRALIA’S COURT OF JAMSHYD.
Australia House was conceived in spacious days.
It was to be a sort of gateway through which untold
trade and population would flow into the Common-
wealth. An island site at the end of the Strand, near
the mouth of Kingsway, the new thoroughfare to
Euslon station, was bought for £400,000, and £600,000
was added to provide what London’s leading guide-
book describes as “an imposing building in the Doric
classical style.”
It has an overdecorated doorway, with statues —“a
female figure and a shearer, symbolising prosperity” ;
“a dying explorer and companion surmounted by a
figure symbolising awakening Australia.” The effect is
somewhat mournful, and a prospective tenant is apt
to be depressed even before another of his senses
becomes conscious of the “exhibitions” of chilled
produce which freeze in the lower halls, and of the
unwashed who use the cinema as a substitute for a
public library on winter days.
Upstairs there is a library, in which, throughout
the summer, you can find trippers demanding any-
thing from tickets to Lord’s to presentation at Court.
In various dens are hidden advertising men, vets.,
members of marketing boards and clerks who deal in
passports.
Before Australia House was built all the States
had their London offices, widely separated for the
most part. Some of them were soon gathered in.
Victoria installed itself in gloomy quarters in the
rear of the new building, but proudly declined to use
the name Australia House on its notepaper: its
address was “Melbourne Place,” the side street from
which the bit of Victoria was entered. N. S. Wales,
South Aus. and Tasmania followed. Westralia pre-
ferred the brighter lights of Savoy House, on a
corner site higher up the Strand. Queensland stuck
to what it chose to designate “Marble Hall.”
It was not long before the tenant States, along
with other tenants, found the island site inconvenient.
It was a good enough place for an official to
dream in so long as he did not carry his dreaming
beyond the front door. To get to the mausoleum
from anywhere, or to anywhere from it, it is neces-
sary in daytime to cross a flood of the heaviest traffic
in London racing through the widest of thorough-
fares ; and there is a general consensus of opinion
that it is not worth the risk.
So not one passer-by in a hundred sees any-
thing of Australia’s London gateway except a vision
of the expiring explorer, viewed from afar. There
are few shops in the vicinity to make them loiter.
And Uncle Sam set up Bush House, one of the biggest
commercial buildings in London, in such a way that
it completely blocks out Kingsway and makes our
temple seem as if it were a sort of Pinchgut Island
in his backyard. At night—which includes a good
many hours of summer daylight—and at week-ends
Australia House lies in a desert. The brightness of
the western part of London ends at the Gaiety Theatre,
some distance away. While busy crowds throng
the footpaths in front of the displays of Canada
House and South Africa House, which are always in
a whirl of Trafalgar-square traffic, Australia’s pros-
perous shearer often has nothing brighter to gaze at
than a church and empty footpaths.
The other day the last of the Agents-General—
the South Australian gentleman-decided to fold his
tent and steal up the Strand, heedless of the cries
of the Commonwealth, which was offering to reduce
his rent. Perhaps the cries were not very convincing,
since Mr. Lyons and his staff had taken up their
quarters in a suite of offices in the Aubusson-carpeted
Savoy Hotel. In this Mr. Lyons followed tradition-
other visiting Prime Ministers had contrived to forget
that they could be accommodated at Australia House.
It is suggested that the States may be asked to return
rent-free, and that it would be a good business pro-
position, “since the taxpayer bears the cost of other
premises” and “disintegration can benefit none.”
But even this may not tempt them.
Apart from interest on capital and the High
Commissioner’s salary, for which £2475 was set aside
last year, Australia House is costing £46,000 p.a.
There are an “official” secretary who gets £l7OO
p.a., an assistant-secretary at £822 and 77 “clerks,
typists, storemen, messengers, telephonists and
assistants,” at £18,935 altogether. Office requisites
and stationery cost £6OO p.a., which is modest; but
postage, telegrams and telephones come to £lBOO
p.a., and general upkeep of the building runs away
with £9950. The “maintenance staff" in 1934 drew
£5996 in wages ; rales and taxes ate up £6950 and
£lBOO p.a. is spent on a West End residence for the
High Commissioner, perhaps in order to enable him to
live up to the statuary. The High Commissioner, of
course, is S. M. Bruce, and he is doing a good finan-
cial job for Australia. But he could do it more
conveniently in the City a mile or so away in premises
which could be hired for a fraction of the amount
annually lavished on Australia House.
THE FOLLY OF DEFAULT.
“The time might come when default would be the only
honest course and the best for all, said Professor Giblin, of
Melbourne University, in a talk over national stations.”
Strong though the professor may be on economic
theories, he seems to be weak on the realities. What
shall it profit a nation if it defaults 40 times over
and still has no money? Real money.
Money is not inconvertible notes or token coins
or cheques ; it is bullion or standard coins or promises
to pay gold or silver on demand. When a Bank of
England note was automatically exchangeable for
122.5 gr. of gold it could buy that much worth of
goods or services with equal ease and certainty in
Central Africa and, Central London. Since 1931
nobody knows what an English £1 note will buy
from month to month. With the franc at 75.50, £1
sterling needs to have Jss. added to it to buy a
sovereign's worth of French goods.
The Australian £ is in a worse way. When
the rush on gold began five years ago our bank rate
went from six to nine to 19 to 25, where it is pegged
with a London backing of sterling. A trip to England
that used to cost an Australian £lOOO now cosh
£1250, and if the tourist offers one of his own £1
notes to a Continental he will be lucky to get 10s.
worth of goods for it. if sovereigns were saleable
i( would take over £2 in Australian currency to
buy one.
The Bank of England itself is not solvent in
terms of the Bank Charter Act (1844). It may be
able to redeem its promises to pay with Government
stocks, bonds or good mercantile bills, but it can't
redeem them in gold. Neither, paradoxically, can
the only two countries that possess gold in bulk;
France and the United States. The French found
this out last May when owners of francs began turning
them into gold ingots worth about £3(X)O apiece for
transmission abroad. The Bank of France paid out
for a while, and then the Government intervened
with an embargo. The Americans have more real
money than the French (about £1,000,000.000 in gold,
and the Government has been authorised by the
Silver Purchase Act to buy £400,000,000 worth of
silver in all), but they can’t use it as currency. Gold
is actually being used in America to depreciate the
currency: the New Dealers have been buying the
metal at higher and higher prices in dollars in order
to send the exchange value of the dollar down and
make it easier for foreigners to buy American cotton,
cars, etc.
So some civilised nations have practically no
gold, and others for various reasons (because they arc
owed war debts in gold and want to keep its value
up; because they fear another war; because cur-
rencies can be manipulated by the owners of
gold) mean to keep all the gold they have, and add
to their hoards where possible.
It means that currencies no longer have fixed
values, only regional values. The Australian £1 is
worth 20s. in Australia, almost as much in M.L..
4s. Id. less in London, Us. Jess in France, 7s. Bd.
more in Japan ; and, since it is not only inconvertible
but is virtually without a gold backing, it may be
said to have no value but the good repute of the
Commonwealth. Real money the “object of
Oriental splendor” that will procure anything —
having to all intents and purposes vanished, and the
possibility of a world war —the only development
capable of putting gold in circulation again—being
fortunately remote, civilisation will eventually have
to find another standard of value or devise a work-
able method of barter. Meanwhile, one thing stands
like stone: the will to pay, which is the foundation
of credit. It is worth much more than gold.
Because the British keep stressing that it isn't
their fault that they are unable to offer their creditors
gold, and because the world realises that the gold-
hoarding countries are making it impossible for
debtors to pay in goods or services, the moral initia-
tive rests with the countries that are deferring their
debt-payments —notably Britain. It was to England
that most of the privately-owned French gold gravi-
tated last May. What madness for any country that
is honest by intention and solvent in terms of the
things money stands for to play into its trade rivals
hands by declaring itself a defaulter!


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Boards, Committees and Councils.
Dairy-farmers are getting an inkling of what was
in Dr. Page’s mind when he proposed “national
councils” to control this, that and the other thing.
In April, at the Acting-P.M.’s invitation, dele-
gates from dairy-farming organisations in the six
Stales gathered at Sydney “to consider the reorgan-
isation of the Dairy Export Board.” For two days
they talked ; then —exhausted perhaps—they passed
resolutions favoring the recohstitution of the board
and suggesting a new basis of representation. But
they reckoned without the Standing Committee on
Agriculture, a child of the Australian Agricultural
Council, which is Dr. Page’s own recent creation.
The Agricultural Council is composed of the Com-
monwealth Ministers of Commerce and Develop-
ment (two) and the State Ministers of Agriculture
(six). The Standing Committee on Agriculture has
for members the six heads of the State Departments
.of Agriculture, three C.S. and I.R. professors, (he
Commonwealth's Director of Health and the Secretary
of its Commerce Department,
The Standing Committee considered the recom-
mendations of Dr. Page's Sydney conference —“most
representative,” he said it was —and turned them down.
It insisted that seven of the 13 persons to be appointed
to the Export Board should be State Government
nominees, the chairman to be a Commonwealth
Government man. Before the reconstituted Export
Board dots its “i's” and crosses its “t’s,” it must advise
(he Agricultural Council, through the Minister of
Commerce. The information will be passed on to
the Standing Committee, members of which will be
dragged from the six capitals to arrive at an opinion,
That opinion will be considered by the Agricultural
Council, necessitating another happy pilgrimage from
the four corners of the continent; and the Council
will remit its opinion to its chairman, the Minister
of Commerce, who will report to Cabinet. Not till
then can the “i’s” be dotted, the “t’s” crossed.
This is called “reforming the dairying industry,”
and presumably the “national councils” to control
“finance, transport, health and social services” would
be worked on the same lines. In the process of
“reform” the industry loses its Dairy Council—com-
posed of practical farmers who have done good work,
particularly in developing the grass-sense among cow-
farmers —and acquires two irresponsible bodies on
which civil servants and politicians predominate. It
looks a very clumsy and costly form of bureaucratic
control, but Dr. Page has fine words for it—“an
organised system of Commonwealth and State co-
operation, in conjunction with the authorities.”
* ....
“Emulating Britain.”
Mussolini claimed last week that he was “emulating
Britain’s splendid achievements in the Empire-building
field” ; but it won’t do. His technique is radically
different. The colonising English may have been
on the make at times, but they kept quiet about it.
Mussolini has proclaimed, bellowed, that he is after
loot: “Italy needs the raw products of Abyssinia for
her development.”
Brutal frankness is good business inside a Fascist
State so long as the Dictator has control of the army
and navy and friends of freedom are on the run ;
it is fatal in international affairs. The Abyssinians
would be utterly spineless if they took their enemies’
claims lying down ; the Italian rank and file would
be different from any soldiers in history if they were
ready to die in such an admittedly sordid cause.
Thirteen years of absolutism seem to have made
Mussolini forget that fighting men are essentially
idealists. So, in a sense, are all the civilised nations ;
it is centuries since buccaneers were widely admired.
For over a hundred years Britain has been build-
ing up a tradition that a strong nation’s only justifi-
cation for invading a weak one is a desire to better
the latter’s methods of government, raise it culturally
and economically. On this principle the defeated
Boers were given self-government three years after
the S’African War.
If Mussolini’s innovation becomes fashionable the
first necessitous and prolific nation, white or colored,
that believes itself strong enough to subdue a rich
neighbor will be in a position to make the attempt,
pointing to (he example of a great European Power
in justification. Australia, which is at least as open
to attack as Abyssinia, is vitally concerned in this
threat of international anarchy.
♦
“The ‘ltaJo-Australian’ Objects.”
Luigi Gariglio writes;
As president of the Italian Chamber of Commerce in
Australia I look back with legitimate pride over 13 years
of continuous effort which this body has directed to the
cultivation of improved trade relationships between Italy and
Australia. It was with genuine amazement that I read the
catch-cries on The Bulletin’s pink poster-boards, “Australia's
Defence Policy Irritates Italians.”
Your leading article of July 24, to which the posters refer,
increases my bewilderment at seeing a national organ with the
authority and prestige of The Bulletin starting an irresponsible
hue-and-cry on the basis of an article in a privately-owned
and -operated periodical which cannot claim in any way to
express the views of the Italian community in Australia.
The “Italo-Australian,’-’ which in its issue of July 13
pilloried Australia’s improved defence policy, in an article
headed "Unjustified Extravagance,” is the property of an indi-
vidual, and expresses the individual’s opinion alone. It does
not in any way represent the mental attitude of Italians
resident in Australia.
Surely a paper such as The Bulletin should investigate a
matter of such vital importance to Australia and to Italy
before imperilling cordial relationships between the two
countries, or, in any case, creating misunderstandings.
The facts about responsible Italian opinion in Australia are
actually the reverse of what The Bulletin has rashly inferred
from a hasty reading of the “Italo-Australian.”
A central idea in Italian policy is the principle of main-
taining and upholding European civilisation against the
menace of competing Asiatic social, economic and cultural
standards. Italy and the Italian community in Australia
regard the defence of Australia as of the utmost importance,
as being essentially the defence of a stronghold of the white
race. That Australians should be prepared, through taxation,
to make sacrifices to provide adequate and modern defences
is a courageous, independent and manly attitude which
99 p.c. of Italians will applaud. In particular, no supporter
of the Fascist regime would criticise Australia for fulfilling
its obligations to itself, to the white race and to European
civilisation.
I trust that The Bulletin will endeavor to repair the
damage done by your editorial. Tell Bulletin readers the
truth —that the Italian community in Australia stands solidly
behind the Commonwealth Government in its new policy of
bringing Australia’s defences as far as possible up to date,
and, to the extent that the national resources will permit,
adequate to the needs of an immense and sparsely-populated
territory in a world jostled by the rivalries of nations densely
populated, heavily armed and alert for opportunities to exploit
untapped sources of raw material.
The Bulletin is glad to have Signor Gariglio’s
assurances ; but it started no “irresponsible hue-and-
cry,” indulged in no "rash” inferences, and will not
“endeavor to repair the damage done.” It stands by
every word of its reply to the newspaper, printed
chiefly in Italian, that “pilloried Australia’s improved
defence policy” and published grotesque comparisons
of Australian and Italian defence expenditure.
*
Codlin’s the Friend.
SOME of our new masters are keen on demonstrating
to their subjects that Codlin’s the friend, not Short.
Rushing into the controversy which succeeded
the ban on road transport of goods to the Rivcrina,
now suspended, Clapp and co. declared that freight-
rates on Riverina wool carried over the Victorian
and N. S. Wales railways “must be considered in
relation to the operating results of the two systems.”
Actually the N.S.W. railway deficit is substantially
greater than that of Victoria.
So it is, but the reminder will vex Mr. Hartigan.
Similarly, a Bulletin reference to the gall of the
Queensland Public Curator’s office in advertising that
it would help people with their income-tax returns
for fees prompted a virtuous announcement from the
Sydney taxation department that it kept “a special
staff of interviewing officers for the convenience of
taxpayers who have difficulty in completing forms.”
Taxpayers, of course, pay indirectly for the “con-
venience,” and it wouldn't be necessary if Australia
had one income tax, framed intelligently and expressed
in understandable English, as England has.
-♦
The Tin Gods of Cricket.
Seemingly there is no limit to the stupidity of the
Board of Cricket Control. It selected the moment
when the Australians were clearly losing a Test match
at Adelaide to send a protest to London that persist-
ence with a form of bowling to which it objected was
“likely to upset the friendly relations existing between
Australia and England.” Now, after taking several
months to think about it —perhaps distant delegates
have yet to learn that there are such things as inter-
state telegraphs and telephones—it has vetoed the
visit to India of Woodfull, Ponsford, Kippax, Oxen-
ham, Nitschke, Chilvers and Rigg as guests of the
Maharajah of Patiala, who is finding all expenses.
Woodfull and Ponsford did not want to go
(though it was sheer impudence to tell them they
mustn’t). The others did, and it should be entirely
a matter for themselves whether they go or stay.
Australia is becoming a board-ridden country, but it
has not yet accepted the position that any board may
constitute itself master of the movements of Austra-
lians who play games to amuse themselves and the
public. The tour of India is really no concern of this
board’s, though it was apprised of the project out of
courtesy, and the impertinent conditions it prescribed
from time to time —such as that the team must not be
billed as an Australian XI —were accepted. It is the
concern of the Maharajah of Patiala, who issued the
invitation through the old Victorian cricketer Frank
Tarrant, and the athletes who were asked to be his
guests. The public has an indirect interest, since
an Indian tour of Australian cricketers would prob-
ably do more for Australian trade in those parts than
the efforts of a dozen of the Trade Commissioners
whom the Commonwealth has been appointing at a
great rate.
There must be some form of cricket control, but
it should be intelligent and large-minded. By impos-
ing its ban on the seven bishops—no, cricketers ; seven
seems to be a fatal number in this connection—the
board, as at present constituted, has written its own
death-warrant.
*
Dunstan Strikes the Rock.
The Western District of Victoria, from Camperdown
to Warrnambool, is at length to have a modern water
supply, and the Dunstan Government will get the
credit.
Camperdown is a large town, the centre of a
grazing and agricultural area almost drought-proof.
Ten miles from it is Cobden, whose butter sets a
standard to the State. In another direction lies
Terang, another thriving place ; and interspersed are
numbers of small townships. Each and every one
of these places is dependent for its water supply upon
galvanised-iron tanks, wells, creeks and waterholes.
To the south lies a vast area of country, reaching
almost to the Otway forest, which relies wholly upon
nature to quench its thirst. This last area has been
opened up only in recent years, but Camperdown,
Cobden and Terang are old and important places.
The projected pipeline will terminate westward
at Warrnambool. This is one of Victoria’s largest
towns, and it has won a prize for the best country
town in the State. But. with all its honors. Warrnam-
bool gets its water from a neighboring river—water
of such inferior quality that Premier Dunstan regards
it as essential to provide it with a better supply,
carried from the Camperdown storage basin, 17 miles
distant. The water, in the first instance, will be
impounded at Wyelangta, close to the Otway ranges,
flowing west through the new country to Camper-
down, there to be distributed to the more populous
centres.
The work is a necessary one, and presumably
it has been planned in an economical way, for the
cost, estimated at £310,000, is far from being exces-
sive, considering the needs of the people. The
astounding thing is that Victoria should have passed
its hundred years without such an essential service
being provided. Camperdown especially is surrounded
by the stations of prosperous families whose names
and whose influence are known to all Victoria, The
district has been represented by able men, some of
them Cabinet Ministers. Possibly the good rainfall
has quietened any possible agitation; had it been
subject to droughts there would have been a network
of pipelines a generation ago.
While Camperdown and Cobden and Terang
have been living on roof drippings, millions have been
frittered away in other rural experiments—-some of
them obvious failures before the plans were com-
pleted. Not a voice will be raised against the con-
struction of the Camperdown scheme.
*
The Divided Cities.
In the past 20 years petrol-driven launches have
improved as much as curs. Yet most Sydneyites still
consider their harbor —calm in all weathers, without
dangerous currents, shoals or rocks, and no wider in
many parts than a fair-sized river—a barrier rather
than a heaven-sent means of communication.
If by some miracle its 9000 acres of water were
frozen over to a depth of a foot or so the social life
of Sydney would be revolutionised. Streams of pedes-
trians and vehicles would begin passing to and fro
on business or pleasure bent. This has been proved
by the recently-irtstiluted service of water-buses. One
does the trip between Rushcutter Bay and Taronga
Park in 10 minutes. On Sundays it is packed on
practically every journey, and running costs arc so
low that the return ticket is included in the ordinary
admission charge to the Zoo.
A resident of Watson’s Bay who wants to visit
friends in Clifton Gardens (or vice versa), and who
doesn’t own a car, has either to travel in uncomfort-
able trams by way of the bridge, and waste the best
part of two hours in the process, or spend an exor-
bitant sum on a taxi. A water-bus or water-taxi would
run him from wharf to wharf inside 15 minutes. In
all the populated parts of the harbor’s 75 miles of
foreshores there are people who don’t visit friends
or relations, and don’t do business with traders, across
the way because of a convention that the strip of
water which is all Port Jackson amounts to away
from the vicinity of the Heads is impassable except
by means of ferryboats or the bridge. An effect is
that the north and south shores constitute two cities
as widely separated, to all intents and purposes, as
if they were divided by a mountain.
The organisation of water-bus services for the
thickly populated centres is an urgent need. It is as
desirable that people should be able to get from, say.
Rose Bay to Mosman by water-bus as that they should
be able to get from, say, Potts Point to the railway
station by trolley-bus.
Water-taxis might be an even greater boon than
water-buses. They would supply a demand which was
met to an extent by rowing-boats when the popula-
tion of Sydney was half its present size. Much of
the chronic traffic congestion of the city and inner
suburbs is caused by superfluous taxis and taxi ranks.
Hence the price-wars that make taxi-driving a
sweated calling, and the risks taken by many taxi-
drivers with the desperate object of pleasing their
fares. If 25 p.c, of Sydney’s street drivers could
transfer their activities to the harbor, they would
benefit in earnings, and the citizens would learn for
the first time in nearly 150 years what it means to
live in a single city.
— *
Labor Finds a Surplus.
Brisbane’s annual accounts have just been produced,
and Labor Lord Mayor Jones has discovered with
delighted astonishment that, while he budgeted for
a deficit of £85,000, he has a surplus of £123,000.
This, he thinks, is due to “careful administration,”
and to “increases in rate collections” and in returns
from tram fares and electricity charges (both reduced),
though he thinks also that his real success lay in
“increasing employment and placing greater purchas-
ing power in the hands of the people”—of course,
in the form of relief work on borrowed money.
His Ludship’s opponents of the Citizens’ Muni-
cipal party are vehement in their scorn of his financ-
ing. Alderman Massey calculates that there is a
deficit of £149,000 —on the rating departments,
anyway.
The position seems to have been:
Receipts. Payments.
General fund £1,112,247 £1,161,311
Electricity 319,368 267,807
Tramways 726,083 665,260
Power house 119,802 127,921
Water supply, sewerage 705,258 805,966
Totals £2,982,758 £3,028,265
These figures cover the “City Fund.” Only the
Tramways and the Electricity Department—both with
a tradition of sound management derived from older
private enterprises—came out on the right side. No
remark is made by Mr. Jones about the fact that
during the past year the loan liability of the citizens
was added to by £755,000 —more than £2 per head
of population—or that another £1,400,000 loan is
being negotiated.
Total expenditure of the council from all sources
was £4,516,000, £1,416,000 of loan money included.
Rate-revenue amounted to £1,589,000 nearly
double the tax-revenue collected in the whole of
Queensland in 1913-14 (£887,798). In that year South
Aus., Westralia and Tasmania taxed their communi-
ties only £1,488,000 altogether. In 1915 the Lud
Mayor, then plain Alf Jones, was a member of the
Labor party which was placed in office to write finis
to what its leader described as the “extravagance and
rapacity” of the Denham Government.


SOCIETY
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Becks”: The crowning insult to the
Yarra was offered by a man who admitted
having jumped into it “in a fit of depres-
sion.” Relating his experiences in a
police court later, he said:
I found I could not drown. 1 could
not swallow the water, and when I found
myself sinking I started to swim. I
would not do it again.
As soon as the weather warms up a bit
a rush is expected of indignant Mel-
burnians eager to prove that the Yarra
is suitable both for drinking and drown-
ing in.
# * * *
“M.G.”: Melbourne is about to extend
its traffic-lights system to Latrobe-street,
which will carry it well beyond the area
of congestion. But there is no reason
why traffic lights should not be extended
indefinitely ; in California it is customary
to be held up until the light shows green
at spots quite distant from the down-
town areas, where there are no police
for a mile. I asked a Yankee driver
once if people paid due attention to these
lights. He replied that probably some
dr. 'ers disregarded them, but he had
never seen or known of a case.
:fc • * * *
“Callan Park”: The chain-letter craze
has died swiftly in America, the get-rich-
quick fraternity having got too busy with
it. One rather crude racket consisted in
posting letters apparently containing
silver dollars to writers, coins being per-
mitted in American letters. When
opened by eager contributors the dollars
turned out to be iron washers. The lid
went on when the curator of N.Y. Zoo
got a letter asking him to send an ele-
phant, with the assurance that he was
certain to get 15,625 elephants in due
course. After that the Federal authori-
ties told the post offices to carry no more
chain letters.
“Becks”: A variation of the chain-
letter idea which has altruistic motives
is being employed by the Brompton
(S.A.) Public .School old scholars to
make a success of their jubilee celebra-
tions next year. Letters are posted to
known old scholars, who pass them on
to old schoolmates, at the same time
sending to the secretary their names and
addresses, together with the names and
addresses of the persons to whom they
have sent the letters. The latter pre-
caution enables a check-up if the chain
is broken.
“Cinnabar”: The National Library at
Canberra, it is announced, has acquired
a valuable manuscript volume of court
records dealing with convicts in the
Hunter River (N.S.W.) district a century
and more ago. This record of the bad
old days will not be available to the
general public, “only to bona fide
historical students.” One wonders if
discrimination won’t be a little difficult.
The item recalls that David Christie
Murray, who wrote capital fiction in
his day, laid it to the account of
the Tasmanian Government that, some
80 years ago, it sold a stack of
convict-day records for waste paper.
Murray, who visited Australia in the
early ’nineties, made the alleged in-
cident the subject of an ingenious plot,
involving blackmail and other nefarious
practices, upon which one of his novels
hinged. I wonder what truth there was
in the indictment,
* * * *
“Jeames”: One of the objects of the
Lyons delegation was to gel hold of a
British Governor-General. Preferably a
royal duke; that failing, nothing less
than an carl. It seemed an easy job to
Joseph's masters in Melbourne; it has
evidently taken on a different com-
plexion in London. A diverting feature
is that Mr. Lyons is largely responsible.
His former party did most to bring the
G.-G.-ship into politics. (Not that a
G.-G. can be kept out of politics under
our Constitution, but Federal Labor
habitually dragged Gs.-G. into rows.) And
Mr. Lyons had most to do with the Isaacs
appointment. Governor-General Isaacs
has set a standard which few, if any,
“Seen the admiral?"
"Well, sir, he WAS siandin in front of our gun when he gave the order
to fire."
British aristos. will wish to live up to.
He never was a social butterfly, and he
has long since reached a lime of life
when the less he foregathers with merry-
makers the better he is pleased. Can-
berra, probably the dullest city on earth,
suits him. It would seem like a tomb
to an active young peer accustomed to
the innumerable interests, social, political,
intellectual, sporting and so on, of
London —or even Liverpool, Birming-
ham or Edinburgh.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: There’s nothing puzz-
ling in the name of the Yorkshire skipper
of the Peregrine (B. 17/7/’35). Mclsaacs
is simply the old scriptural Isaac pre-
faced by the Celtic Mac, which means
“the son of.” Scriptural names were
popular with the Anglo-Saxons, and with
their derivatives are still common in the
North of England. Often the Hebrew
name was translated into Saxon, Isaac
becoming “Higgin,” which in its turn
took on many variations. Few would
say offhand that Maclsaac and Higgin-
son are just different versions of the same
name. But they are, both meaning simply
Isaacson, as does the Arabic pen-name
at the head of this par.
# * * *
“Binduli”: A Sydney Judge has been
commenting acidly on “the present absurd
system of granting bail”— i.e., the unfair-
ness of expecting the police to find out
whether a man who offers himself as a
surety is worth what he guarantees him-
self to be worth. But the absurdity is
sometimes carried further in other States.
I can recall a case in Kalgoorlie where
a bank clerk was committed for trial,
and a couple of reporters who happened
to be in court were accepted as bailsmen
for a sum which neither of them could
have raised by hook or crook. Their
responsibilities sat lightly on them until
the man they had befriended bolted, and
then they began to look worried. But
the sergeant of police bade them be of
good cheer: the Crown Law Depart-
ment would always strain a point when
bailsmen had acted in good faith and
had no idea that the man whose
appearance they had guaranteed would
disappear—a comfortable if sadly
illogical doctrine. In the end the fugitive
was recaptured, so it didn’t greatly
matter. Otherwise, I suspect that the
Law would have jibbed at the notion of
accepting any further sureties from the
press table.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A useful ocean current indi-
cator has been picked up on the beach
at Robe (S.A.), about 100 miles from the
Vic. border. It is one of the message-
bottles authorised by the Hydographic
Office of the U.S.A., and the letter inside
shows that it was dropped, nearly four
years ago, from a vessel 46 S. and 46 W.
—or, say, 700 miles from the Falkland
Isles in the South Atlantic.
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: A visitor to The Bulletin
office when it was nearer Circular Quay
once asked S. H. Prior whether Aus-
tralians could write. S.H.P., gazing
thoughtfully at the piles of manuscripts
upon his desk, answered “I don't know,
but you can sec that they do." The
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize competition
fully bears out the statement. This year
there were 215 entries. Allowing 80,000
words for each novel, the number ex-
ceeds 17 million. A copying office would
charge about £2OOO to type the lot.
The P.M.G.’s Department will be about
£5O to the good when all the entries are
returned to their owners. And the com-
petition is only in its infancy. Next year,
when the second S.H.P. Memorial Prize
will be open to any kind of prose work
that can be regarded as a contribution
to Australian literature, entries may touch
the thousand mark.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”; The task of oakum-picking
was doubtless a hard one (B. 17/7/’35),
but it could scarcely be worse than using
the finished article. There is no job on
earth more monotonous than caulking
the seams of a wooden ship. The per-
sistent clang of the mallet ringing on the
caulking-iron with which the oakum is
forced into the cracks is a constant irrita-
tion. Most caukers who have been at the
game for any time become afflicted with
deafness.
“Jan”: When I talked back at a
tyrannous sergeant in Egypt I got my
first job of picking oakum in the Military
Prison at Abyssia, near Cairo. Fortun-
ately the stuff we teased, or that teased
us, was old dusty fibre, as sharp as
steel wire. Whilst picking it the operator
sneezed continuously and his fingertips
ran blood. In spite of this, however, I
think most of us preferred picking oakum
to the sickening task of scrubbing the
camel rugs which came to the compound
in cartloads from a hospital for sick
beasts down the line. The prisoner who
could wash one of these atrocities with-
out becoming violently ill was regarded
as an iron man without sensibilities.
“Aunt Lou”: The Alberts (B. 24/7/’35)
were never as exciting as the lancers,
also now returning to ballroom favor.
They probably lasted longer in Maori-
land than anywhere else in the Empire,
and were frowned upon only when they
almost proved the end of a Governor s
wife. The lady happened to get tangled
up in a university shivoo, and. though her
party was dancing with safe dignity,
some riotous students higher up the hall
skidded into the vice-regal arena and
knocked the Governor’s missus over.
The v.-rs., retired in a terrible silence.
* $ # *
“Diamond”: In his category of loyal
West Indians, “Sinnik” (B. 24/7/’3*s)
unaccountably omitted the Barbadians.
They supply the best of the West India
regiments, or did, and played a fine part in
the Great War, when many of them were
included in the W.l. regiments which did
such good work in Palestine. The Bar-
badian is unique among W.l. negroes in
that he is a solid worker. For this reason
his services arc in great demand outside
his own isle —Barbadians did most of
the laborious work on the Panama Canal.
The reason is that dry Barbadocs will not
support a population that won’t work
hard for its tucker. The Capuan delights
of Jamaica and elsewhere are not for
the ’Badians.
3|c :|e sj« ♦
“Alcatraz”: Cabled that the wife of
Buster Keaton, the film actor, is suing a
Mrs. Leah Sewell for £40,000 damages for
“alienation.” This is a recognised offence
in the U.S.A., though unknown in English
or Australian law. A petitioner for
divorce may sue the co-re. for damages
for alienation of
affection, which, of
course, is much the
same as claiming
damages for adultery
itself. Alienation
suits may be brought
even where no pos-
sibility of adultery
exists. Seeing that the
law recognises that
other injuries entitle
the injured person to
monetary compen-
sation, the provision
appears quite logi-
cal, In an action for
breach of promise
the injury is usually
only a sentimental
one, and the mental
suffering of a jilted
maid or man is surely less intense than
that of one who has been robbed of a
life partner’s love.
* * * *
About a sign of the times:
The transformation of Elizabeth Bay House
from a mouldering eyesore whose windows
were cockshies for small boys into a Sydney
party-throwers’ Mecca points the way to
owners of outsize mansions in other capitals.
Already Sydneyites who entertain on a large
scale in their own homes can be numbered on
the fingers of two hands; soon the rich will
be 100 p.c. flat-dwellers, and all balls and
most cocktail parties will occur at hotels, golf
clubs and made-over mansions. Elizabeth Bay
House —an example of Colonial Georgian
which required the attentions of a couple of
dozen servants, indoor and out, when the
Macleays lived -there —may be rather big for
its new purpose. Burdekin House would have
heed ideal both as regards size and site. But
the derelict, which is to be given a new lease
of life, has some wonderful advantages. A
central hall and glorious staircase such as few
Mayfair houses possess nowadays. A view
down the harbor in the very eye of the rising
full moon. A drawing-room which is a natural
ballroom, a library which is a Natural supper-
room, and facilities for parking side and back.
The dungeons would make ideal sitting-out
places.
* * * *
“Sinbad”: The sailor always pays.
Here’s a case in point. In 1913 the
Australia spent a few weeks in Port
Lincoln (S. Aus.). Laic in 1914 she called
in at Fiji during her hunt for the German
fleet. Stepping ashore for an afternoon’s
leave I was accosted by a small white
boy who asked if Sub-Lieutenant X was
aboard. On being told that he was, the
child said implacably: “Well, ask him
when he’s going to pay me mother for
the washin’ she done for him in Port
Lincoln.”
* * * *
“Second Brigade”; “Horgeov” (B.
17/7/’35) quotes Bean in support of his
statement that there was no barbed wire
at Anzac. Nevertheless, Bean, writing
of the Turkish preparations there
prior to The Landing, has left it on
record that “the Turks strengthened
their positions every night, the engineer
companies putting wire upon or above
beaches where they expected a land-
ing.” It is true that no barbed wire
was met with at The Landing, but
not many hundred yards on the right
from Ari Burnu, and between that knoll
and Gaba Tepe, there was plenty of it
criss-crossed over the beach and into the
water; and the 29th Division found plenty
at Helles. Those of the A.I.F. who later
went down there for the attack on
Krithia dipped their lids to the men who
fought their way ashore from the River
Clyde through those cruel entanglements.
I WONDER.
How long is it, 1 wonder, since
Our Joseph Aloysius said
He hoped to get a royal prince
To be the country’s figurehead?
Now even earls seem hard to snare,
Yet soon there needs must be a new
Frame in Sir Isaac Isaacs’ chair.
I wonder who.
This Labor schism’s hate and heat
Arc fast abating, reckon some;
Accord will come on nimble feet.
On healing pinions Peace will come,
When Lang shpll fall with contrite tears
On Scullin’s heck and hug him, then
There’ll be an end to doubts and fears —
I wonder when.
t he statesmen reckon war a scourge
And frowning armaments must stop,
While Mussolini’s braves converge
Upon the hapless Ethiop.
’Most any day the clash is due.
It keeps you guessing, does it not,
What will the League of Nations do?
I wonder what.
The world’s a-glut with wheat, we know,’
Along with other needful things;
The more the patient farmers grow
It follows that the less it brings.
Withal we bid them keep their groove
Beside the furrow and the plough
And times will presently improve.
I wonder how.
Mines with alluring tales of gold
Are floated weekly, old and new,
But, oh! the blanks are manifold,
The prizes singularly few.
Fain would I seek some land, I trow.
Where all prospectuses declare
Is gospel truth. But where’d I go,
I wonder, where?
But, come! this speculative tripe,
With ceaseless search for artless rhymes,
It makes you want to wet your pipe
(In Long John Silver’s phrase) at times.
My Pegasus is in a fix;
His dash is done, my throat is dry,
And tavern doors are closed at six—
-1 wonder why!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate”: A very ancient delusion
was shattered by a Sydney magistrate
when he told a landlord’s agent that the
mere nailing of a notice to quit on the
door of premises was not service upon
the occupier. There are other legal
documents which are often badly served,
which means that technically they are
not served at all. Not long ago a
Divorce Court Judge stopped a case
(temporarily, at all events) when he heard
that “service” of the petition had been
effected by tossing the document into
the respondent’s lap with an airy “Here’s
a love letter for you, missus.”
* * * it
“Matje”: “Purser” tells us, absurdly
enough, that “a deep-sea tow-rope is
of hemp and floats along the sur-
face of the water” (B. 17/7/’35). Deep-
sea tow-ropes are not ropes at all, but
steel hawsers, shackled to cables at each
end. Even then, where a heavy job has
to be done, the centre is weighted, the
.spring effect thus obtained neutralising
that of heavy seas and avoiding sudden
tautening, disastrous even to steel. Only
when shallow water is being approached
is any weight dropped or line shortened,
and here the cable (steel chain) disquali-
fies itself for the job on account of its
liability to foul the bottom.
* * * *
“Bouveroo”: Conversion of the West
Melbourne cable tramline has lifted the
lid oft’ convention in that area, and the
love of loot inherent in humanity is
having full sway. From the lime the first
navvy dislodged the first wood block
from the roadway, youngsters swept in
and grabbed the blocks as they came
out. Prams, billycarts, cornsacks and
battered motor-cycles with side-cars
were loaded up all day long, and when
night fell looters got out blocks as well
as they were able. The Tramway Board
took no action, apparently thinking
that it was a fair thing that people on
the dole should have some extra fire-
wood during Melbourne’s Arctic spell.
“Yes, that's the wife's boodoir; but Wait till you see my cocktail bar!"
But now commercialism is invading the
enterprise; trucks are being loaded up
to be driven round the suburbs selling
blocks to householders, and no doubt
the whole practice will be jumped on
hard> 1
“Bosun’s Mate”: “Billy See” is right
in saying that the cat which required
room to be swung in was of the nine-
tailed variety (B. 24/7/’35). The phrase
originated in the Navy in the glorious
days of salt junk, weevily biscuit and
gangway floggings. The reason that the
gangway was used for tricing up was
that, in the smaller craft at least, the
deck was so cluttered up with running
gear, guns, snotties and other impedi-
menta that there was no room anywhere
else.
* * ♦ *
“Morpheus”; Somnambulists have
been known to perform physical feats
in their sleep which they could never
have done, and wouldn’t have thought
of attempting, had they been awake, such
as walking precariously but securely
about the roofs of
high buildings. The
idea still lingers that
it is dangerous to
waken them abruptly.
But the Lismorc
(N.S.W.) girl whose
escapade provided
some newspaper copy
the other day must
surely have experi-
enced the most abrupt
awakening on record
when she dived 50
feet off a bridge into
the river and,
promptly recovering
her senses, swam to
shore. She doesn’t
seem to have been
damaged by her ex-
perience, either. The
only parallel I can
think of is supplied by the gentleman in
the Ingoldshy Legends who had con-
tracted the habit of going forth and bury-
ing his pants in his sleep, and who was
bending down to inter his last pair when
somebody came behind him with the flat
of a spade. A 50-feet dive into cold
water ought to be an equally efficacious
remedy.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Another muzzle-loading
smooth-bore (B. 17/7 / ’35) deserves a
word the American backwoodsman’s
gun. The barrel was 3ft. 6in. long and very
heavy ; the bore was little larger than a
big pea, and every bullet was made to
lit the barrel tightly. Powder charges
were measured with scrupulous accu-
racy, and nothing but a bit of solt,
greased linen was used for a wad. It
took a full minute to load these weapons,
but they did as much as anything
mechanical to win the War of Independ-
ence for America. Most of the British
soldiers who fell were shot between the
eyes at langes up to 100 yards ; a modern
rifle couldn’t beat that by much. One
of these deadly old guns is still a cher-
ished relic in an Adelaide home.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Why is it that nobody can
cook like the mass-production factories?
There may be something in the prejudice
against tinned food from the point of
vitamin content, though why the cook-
ing of fresh food on a kitchen stove
should not destro\ just as many vitamins
as cooking it in a lacton stove I fat
to fathom. But. as far as palatabihty
goes, the tinned sco . res t e%e 3
time, bor > ears * ac | eatei ) mineu
salmon and tinned lobster in Aits-
tralia; when I visited England I
looked eagerly forward to getting the
real thing. I found the salmon, fresh
from Scottish rivers, second-grade food
compared with the British, Columbia
article to which I had been accustomed,
The same thing occurred with lobster;
if the tinned article had tasted like the
“ Wot’s the hurry, lady? Where's the fire?"
“In your beautiful big eyes, darling!"
fresh, I’d have sent it back to the grocer.
For years I had longed to regale myself
on herrings in their native haunts, but
I found the kipper fresh from the sea a
flavorless fish—very different from the
delicacies we get in tins. So it is right
through; all the really capable chefs
appear to have been cornered by Big
Business,
* * * *
“Q.E.D.”: Last week a new law term
began in N. S. Wales, and 10 Judges set
to work to dispose of 2595 cases —a
record for any Australian Slate, and
probably for any community of 2,600,000
inhabitants. A factor very largely
responsible is the depression. When
business is booming people are too busy
to go to law ; it pays better, as a rule,
to settle. During a slump every shilling
is fought for. The N. S. Wales Judge
in Divorce, though a quick worker, can
get through only an average of about
1.5 cases a day; he is now 600 cases in
arrears, and a couple of thousand more
have been set down for hearing. Divorce
statistics always rise during depressions.
* * * *
“Hamer”: “Genuine Sydney native,
born in the ’Loo!” was once something
of a certificate of racial purity; but
the ’Loo has become a
curiously mixed place
nowadays. There is
one little patch which
interests me particu-
larly. A man from
Honolulu, whose wife is
a quarter-caste from
Queensland, occupies
one house; Maltese
families are in two,
side by side; a negro
family adjoins them. A
Hindu with a white
wife resides next door
to a French household ;
further on there is a
Polish-Serb amalgama-
tion. and hard by are
unmistakable Mexicans.
Walking past frequently
on a short cut to the
city, 1 was puzzled
about the nationality of
a Creole-looking man
usually lounging there-
abouts, and learned
that he is a native of
Honduras. Probably a
tendency for race-odd-
menfs of the population
to group together helps
the creation of little nests like this. It is
only fair to add that this quaintly cos-
mopolitan street has a very clean appear-
ance in spite of the antiquity of the
mean houses.
* * * *
“D.”: I can endorse H. T. Gibb’s
statement (B. 24/7/’35): “Works of liv-
ing [Australian] poets and novelists in
many cases vanish soon after they
appear.” Three novels of mine which
were published in London a few years
ago are as hard to come by now as
sovereigns. Being about Australia, they
were imported by local booksellers, and
each edition eventually sold out. So
somewhere in Australia there are nearly
3000 ; yet I haven’t seen one or heard of
one being seen since the last edition was
exhausted. Although 1 have advertised
and offered booksellers 7s. 6d. a copy
for second-hand specimens in reasonably
good condition there have been no
results. I have no copies myself, though
the publishers sent me the usual free
allotment of six as each edition appeared,
and efforts to trace these 18 volumes or
any of them have failed. They were
mostly given to friends. Where do Aus-
tralian works go when they die?
* * * *
“A.N.S.”: As a wearer of one of the
new militia uniforms 1 can tell “R.T.A.”
(B. 17/7/’35) that the breeches qf that
uniform (my uniform, I should say, for
there is a difference in both breeches and
boots issued, even to men in the same
sections) are as ill-fitting, coarse and
rough as any that could have been issued
in 1921. The hat, also, is still partial to
sunburn on the left side of the lace. I
do not mind having a fair complexion,
or a dark one either, but I dislike having
both at the same time.
* * * *
“Scribe” meets a lady;
One night years ago 1 walked into Russell-
street (Melb.) police barracks and found halt
a dozen demons and cops cross-examining an
intelligent, attractive girl of about fourteen.
“Here!” cried one; “you have a shot. 1
tried my hand at the third degree, but was as
helpless as the professionals. The damsel told
a remarkable story of having left with
a theatrical company, touring India and China,
and finishing up stone-broke in Melbourne,
where the manager had left her stranded in the
street. She had appealed to the nearest con-
stable, and had been taken to the barracks. Her
vain was obviously all lies, but she was never
faulted on matters of fact and she never varied
her story by a hairbreadth. They handed her
over to one of the societies for looking after
girls. Next morning her mother came from
Brunswick to collect her. She had never been
out of Brunswick, had never been on the stage
and had never been on a ship. For a couple
of months nothing more was heard of her.
Then came the report that she was missing
from home once more. A few days passed;
then the papers starred a wild story of melo-
drama, fire, crime and abduction from Auck-
land —a story told to the local police by a girl
of fourteen who claimed to be a Chilean
educated in the U.S.A. I made my suspicions
known to the police, and they cabled to Auck-
land ; my heroine broke down before the mass
of evidence, and she was returned to her
Brunswick home. Another six months passed;
then she disappeared again, i scanned the
inter-State news eagerly each day. The solu-
tion came from Perth, this time with a tale ot
flight from a bold, bad businessman in Bris-
bane. Of course, it was dear little Elsie again.
During the succeeding two years, Elsie disap-
peared from Brunswick half a dozen times,
turning up in Sydney, Brisbane, Hobart and
three or four country towns. She always had
a new adventure story, and a good one —one
good enough to get into the front pages of
every metropolitan journal in Australia. Then
she dropped out of sight. At twenty she
experienced a genuine adventure —the heroic
saving of a couple of kiddies in grave danger.
Later I learned she had married and settled
down. But 1 sometimes wonder whether she
has reverted to her old self.
THE WILES OF GREECE.
“Fines totalling £7OO were imposed on the Sydney
shipping agent for three vessels from which seven
prohibited immigrants, Greeks, escaped.”
These birds from Greece, these birds from
Greece,
Where songful Sappho loved and burned,
They’ve cost a hundred quid apiece
To steamers where their pay they earned.
There’s seven of ’em did a get,
And nary one's been collared yet.
A cap. stood on the vessel’s bow,
A bos’n hailed him from the poop.
He yelled—and gloom was on his brow —
“Another Greek has Hew the coop.”
The Old Man growled: “The hell you say!
Another thumping fine to pay.”
And where are they? Ah! no one has
The faintest notion where they’ve gone.
He’s left no trail, Leonidas,
Nor any clue, Anacreon.
It’s just a cheerful guess of mine
They’ve joined the steak-and-oyster line.
Fill high the bowl with Queensland rum!
We will not dwell on themes like these.
It means another risk, by gum!
For tramps that sail our Austral seas:
One hundred sterling back they’re set
For every Greek who docs a get.
N.S.W.
IFPRD.


CRAVEN A
CELLOPHANE
[Reg’d]
• Moisture-proof “CELLOPHANE” keeps the moisture-content of
CRAVEN “A” Cigarettes UNIFORM, ensuring fine smoking under all
conditions of weather and stock-keeping. CRAVEN “A” reach you
FACTORY-FRESH, wherever and whenever you buy them.
9 d
ill IP^
o
or
20/
or
50/
m
or
,
■u A
. : '
■ Si
m
Sir
XvX^: : : : ;;:>:;;:x:;-;-;'
&•■■■■ '■■ ■:■ ■ _ • •’
M
m
91
$ WSii#
SSSssS
TO
OPEN
just a touch
with the
right thumb
breaks the
Freshncee
scab
POLITICAL POINTS
In addition to “the truth about Ireland
and Russia,” Tas. Premier Ogilvie is
bringing back a blind faith in Douglas
Credit. He said this, and more, at a
Douglas dinner in London, where he felt
“lost in the presence of a financial
genius like the Major”:
I shall not rest until I have done some-
thing toward taking from the predatory
banks in Australia the control of credit,
which they now possess to the detriment
of the community.
All this while Bruce was launching a
conversion loan. There are too many of
these petty Premiers about.
Ogilvie, gassing about “monetary
reform” to his new Douglasite friends in
London, boasted that he could “speak
for one-half of the population of Aus-
tralia.” Actually his Government repre-
sents —very precariously—66,ooo Tas-
manians (52 p.c.) out of an electoral
population of nearly 4,000,000. A great
many Australians never heard of him.
In a final performance on the pibroch
before leaving London, Westralian secesh
delegate MacCallum Smith (“b. Lochin-
dorb, Morayshire”) blew up Dominions
Secretary Thomas for his “entire absence
of frankness” and the Government for
its “extraordinary” and “deplorable in-
difference,” Perhaps the gentleman is
going to secede from Britain.
Sydney, already studded with monu-
ments to the vainglory of bureaucrats,
built and building, is to have yet an-
other—“a five-storey structure to house
the staffs of the Road Transport and
Tramway Commission.” It is to cost
£lOO,OOO. Says “S. M. Herald”:
The Government, it is understood, has
concurred in the erection of the building.
It is more likely that the Government’s
(and Parliament’s) “concurrence” has
been taken for granted. That has come
to be the rule.
Forgan Smith’s notion of the dead-
meat agreement is that it is a dead
failure.
The joint representations of the Aus-
tralian Eleven have led to nothing. The
biggest delegation that has ever gone from
Australia to England is on its way home
with results that boil down to nil.
A true bill, except in one particular,
Australian Elevens are out of date, among
touring cricketers and politicians alike.
The Australian Sixteen would have been
nearer the mark.
Since Paterson and Casey went on
their travels, Canberra has rarely had a
gHmpse of a Commonwealth Minister.
Bruce made a point of seeing that at
least one was always in residence, but
Lyons’s lot won’t even hold Cabinet
meetings at ’Berra if they can wangle
them elsewhere. People were induced to
take up leases and establish businesses at
Canberra by the pretence that it was to be
the Commonwealth’s administrative, as
well as legislative, centre, but that is con-
sistently forgotten by its alleged friends.
Adelaide has upwards of £4,000,000
invested in its municipal tramways. A
lot of the capital will go west when the
trust replaces trams with trolley- and
motor-buses, as it plans to do. “It is
recognised,” says Lord Mayor Cain, “that
permanent-way trams are becoming
obsolete” —but not by the transport czar
who bosses Sydney,
Perhaps because Stevens has become
alarmed at the dimensions of his third
deficit, £2,800,000, “the administrative
section of the Premier’s Department has
been remodelled” and one or two officers
have been placed on the surplus list. But
no doubt the Under-Secretary will con-
tinue to have two secretaries. If the poli-
ticians had had a proper regard for the
public purse, Australia would never have
been bothered with Premiers’ Depart-
ments. They are unnecessary even now.
Victoria has in Harold Clapp one of
the greatest railway managers in the
world, but because Dunstan, its acciden-
tal Premier, can’t see beyond the cow-
paddock, it may lose Clapp’s services.
Before the depression Clapp’s salary was
£5OOO a year —he could have got more
in another country. When the pruning
knife was applied all round he was re-
duced to £3650. Last year Argyle made
certain restorations which increased his
actual receipts to £3987. Dunstan now
wants the man to be satisfied with £3OOO
(less three income taxes), and Clapp may
leave. Dunstan’s idea is that experts
grow on trees, and that it is as easy to
secure a specialist of high rank as it is
to get a wharf-laborer at the pick-up.
Queensland woolgrowers, licking the
wounds inflicted by the drought and the
freeze that followed it, have been in-
formed that Minister Bulcock has a
grand new plan for them—“a money
reserve against drought requirements,
based on an annual levy of 3d. a sheep."
They, of course, are to pay the levy and
the cost of administration by a “central
trust and local boards.” They would
fare better if they sold their sheep and
tried to grow wheat. Nobody would
want the wheat, but, instead of being
plagued with sky-high Crown rents, taxes
“ Ah , if I could only be like him!"
and freight-rates and demands for levies,
they would receive Federal bounties on
acreage and production, a fertiliser
bounty, reduction of mortgage debts,
interest and storekeepers’ accounts, “re-
habilitation” loans and what not —that is,
until the money gave out.
In one respect Australia, with its 74
Ministers, has cause to envy Italy, That
country gets along with a Cabinet of six.
The Duce is “Prime Minister, Chief
of the Government, Minister of the In-
terior, of Foreign Affairs, of War, of
the Navy, of the Air and of Corpora-
tions.” Yet he finds time to help with
the harvesting, learn a new language each
year and fly his own ’plane.
The Westralian A.L.P. executive is at
loggerheads with the Eastern Goldfields
district council over the selection ballot
for Kalgoorlie. The final figures saw
Cunningham, the sitting member, nine
votes down. A protest on the ground
that uncounted ballot-papers had been
discovered was dismissed ; then another
batch turned up. The council suggested
endorsing the three candidates offering :
but this is too democratic for the
executive.
During a hot debate over the election
of a vice-president and a treasurer of Mel-
bourne’s National Gallery, it leaked out
that the trustees have been in the habit
of lending sundry works of art to
Government House. Why pictures and
statuary supposed to be the property of
the people and purchased for the artistic
education of the people should be placed
behind anybody’s locked doors is a
mystery.
Senator Guthrie, who breeds Corrie-
dales near Geelong, has had a Govern-
ment “training farm for migrants” added
to his property. Members of his family
got it for £20,482, £7 15s. 2d. an acre
(£6 was the best bid at auction); Gov-
ernment paid £42,000 (£l5 15s. an acre),
and spent £25,000 on 40 houses and other
improvements, “operating costs” running
away with another £50,000 or £60,000.
It was a migration-loan venture, so
Britain will share in the losses, reckoned
at £100,000; but if the Old Man in
London wants any more migration-loan
settlement he will have to shoulder the
whole burden.
The Lyttelton (M.L.) electorate has
achieved a unique Parliamentary record
by electing in succession father, mother
and son. When it was constituted in
1894, having previously been part of
Akaroa, John Joyce, who had been
Liberal member for the larger area, car-
ried on as Lyttelton’s representative till
he died in 1899. He was succeeded by
George Laurenson, who rose to Cabinet
rank and held the seat till he died, in
1913. Jimmy McCombs (Labor) suc-
ceeded Laurenson. When Jimmy died his
widow won the seat, becoming M.L.’s
first woman M.P. She died a few weeks
ago, and now the electorate has chosen
her son, T. H. McCombs. There have
been only two changes of surname in
“Port’s” representation in half a century.
I. W. Williams, the Queensland rail-
wayman whom the A.R.U. sent to
Russia, is back with news of “a notable
step forward in the U.S.S.R.”:
Democratisation of elections, resulting in
direct voting on a system very like that
in Australian municipal, State and Federal
elections.
Perhaps the next lot of May Day pro-
cessionists will be garbed in Australian
flags and have railway ashes smeared on
their brows.
Sydney’s Milk Board, which adminis-
ters a “control” system under which out-
rageous retail prices (7d. and Bd. a quart)
obtain, asked Stephen, J., to rule that it
was an agent or instrument of the Crown
and as such immune from such measures
as the Small Debts Act. His Honor re-
fused, saying that the concern was an
“independent board.” A very wise judg-
ment, and one that opens up some pros-
pect of relief from the tyranny of these
concerns. It would be iniquitous if the
Crown could be dragged in to justify
restriction of food supplies resulting in
the overcharging of many of the King’s
subjects and the undernourishment of
many more,
Vice-Chancellor Priestley ticked off the
boisterous element in Melb. University
by warning it against disturbing politicial
meetings there, holding that there
was no place in the world in which pro-
gressive thought should be better safe-
guarded. The warning followed the
release of tear-gas at a meeting held to
denounce war.
The U.S.A. Treasury announces that
relief and recovery expenditure totals
$10,081,000,000 (say £2,016,200,000), all
but £200,000,000 being under the New
Deal. About £800,000,000 of loans “may
be recoverable,” but a third of the
dahlars went in direct relief. Mr.
Stevens, who continues to pile up deficits,
may find these figures useful. Trotting
out the Lang millions as an excuse for
extravagance has ceased to impress.
Doney, M.L.A., secretary of the West-
ralian Country party, announces that his
group is pledged to secession, and will
not admit that the thing has turned up
its toes.
Senator Brennan [lie spread the news
of the decease] will find that secession is
anything but dead.
A politician who can’t recognise a corpse
when he sees one is a political cadaver
himself.
While statistics show a decline in
tuberculosis among Victorian males,
the figures for females are stationary.
Dr. Robertson, chairman of the Health
Commission, attributes this largely to
the fanatical devotion of flappers to
slimming, the notion being that the more
bony angles they can show the greater
their beauty. Added to this, he blames
cocktail-drinking and the flimsy clothing
worn at dances.
Victorians, who are expected to have
to face another deficit of £450,000 in the
coming year, in spite of a new share-
transfer tax and stamp duties on top
of present imposts, can at least thank
their stars that they are not in France,
where public salaries, pensions and loan
interest are to be cut 3 p.c. to 10 p.c.
and mortgages and rents 10 p.c. And
there are to be a 50 p.c. supertax on
incomes over £lO5O, an armaments profits
tax of 25 p.c. and increased duties on
Stock Exchange securities. But at least
the French do try to give the taxpayer
something in return —“provision is made
for reductions in the prices of electricity,
gas, bread, coal and water.”
A moan from “Grasspan”:
A deathly blow to art has been struck by
the decision of the Vic. Health Department that
butchers may no longer enhance the beauty
of tripe by alkali treatment. The tripe-lover
in future must buy his favorite food naked
and unadorned, and rely upon his cook to
transform it into a thing of beauty. Thus is
humanity having whittled away from it all the
loveliness which was once associated with things
you eat. Not many years ago people would
be tempted to buy sides of lamb by the im-
pressionistic pictures cut and painted on the
dressed animal in the butchers window. Some
of these butchers were real artists, turning out
colored masterpieces of ballet girls and pugi-
lists and patriotic emblems with blood and lard
and bluebag. But an inartistic authority
stepped in and jumped hard on the practice,
which probably accounts for the fact that the
modern Australian eats much less meat than his
father did. Just before the war there was a
journeyman butcher in Pitt-street, Sydney, who
held out a standing challenge to the world to
meet him in a contest for meaty art. None
was found sufficiently daring to accept.
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


A LONG WAY AFTER HANNIBAL.
“In emulation of Hannibal, an American gentleman set out to cross the Alps into Italy. Unlike .the African general, he started with one elephant and had to coax the animal
with sugar.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Comoany never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
t ERECTORS;
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Rraddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wjn. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN,
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Queen Salote Tubou, who arrived in
Sydney on Tuesday, is one of the only
two ruling queens in the world (the
Queen of Holland is the other), and the
only queen in history who has been
either a Methodist or a D.B.E. Cook
knew an ancestor in Tonga over 150
years ago. Salote Tubou is 6ft. 3in. and
generously proportioned; she plays a
fair game of golf, and was educated at
Auckland (M.L.). Her son, the Crown
Prince, is at Newington College, Sydney.
Clarence Roy McKerihan, president of
the Rural Bank of N.S.W., was born at
Tenterfield (N.S.W.) and joined the
N.S.W. Government Savings Bank at
C. R. McKERIHAN, of N. S. Wales
Rural Bank.
Casino when he was 16. He enlisted at
18 in the 4th Batt., served on the Penin-
sula and in France, and wound up a
sergeant. After the war he re-entered
the G. 5.8., and was later transferred to
the Rural Bank.
Melb. “Argus” editor Curthoys resigned
suddenly last week. Curthoys came
from Westralia originally, and, after a
distinguished career on the reporting staff
of the “Argus,” was promoted to the
chair when he was just over 30. His
place has been taken by Bill Hirst, editor
of the “Australasian,” also a former
member of the reporting staff. Hirst is
a Queenslander, and was one of the men
who handled the Gatton murder for one
of the Brisbane dailies.
C. A. Morris, chairman of the Q-T.C.,
who has died in Brisbane, was senior for
many years of Morris and Fletcher, one
of the most curious legal partnerships in
the North. Sidney Fletcher, his opposite
number, a brother of the editor of the
“S. M. Herald,” was serious; Morris
was expansively cheerful, and loved
nothing more than a court tussle with
his fellow-committeeman P. J. O’Shea
(they both joined in 1896). A few years
ago the big, kindly lawyer retired from
the firm through ill-health, and at 65 was
called to the Bar.
“Vil N.” sees another pioneer off;
Left suddenly for the Greenest Pastures, Frank
Grace, the elder, G.O.M. of the rich Nambucca
River (N.S.W.) dairying district. A straight
six feet plus, broad-shouldered, with close-
trimmed white beard and bird-bright eyes, he
lacked 14 years of his father’s 102. Sixty-five
years ago he and his brothers came overland, by
bullock-dray, from the Hunter to the Nambucca.
After cutting most of their road through the
bush, losing bullocks one by one and jettisoning
prized household gods, they finally dragged
into the cedar-getters’ camp that has grown
into Bowraville. His brothers went after cedar
while Frank worked the farm. He sent his
first crop by sailing ship to Sydney—6o bags
of corn, which, after freight charges had been
paid, returned him Is. 9d. He had his last
great night when he ofticially plunged the switch
that filled the streets of Bowraville with electric
light and himself with reverent wonder.
The Very Rev. Monsignor Otto Raible,
recently elevated from Administrator
Apostolic to Vicar Apostolic of the
Vicariate of Kimberley (W.A.), which
implies his consecration as bishop, has a
diocese of 387,359 square miles. Not
yet 50, he is a native of Westphalia, was
educated in Germany, has labored in the
Cameroons and was appointed to Kim-
berley in 1928. A fluent linguist, with a
perfect mastery of English, he is also an
organist of repute.
Ben Nathan, who died, aged 70, last
week in Melbourne, was a Relative of
Mick Nathan, old-time champion pug.
He partnered John Wren in the Ascot
pony course, and was part-owner of
some big furniture stores. When the
Sargood estate at Elsternwick was cut up,
he bought the house, with 20 acres of
land surrounding it, and turned it into
probably the most elaborate garden in
Australia.
A fine old soldier died at Lane Cove,
Sydney, last week in the person of
Robert Barnes (86). A Welshman, he
was a British Tommy at the same time as
Harry Finn, who became Inspector-
General of the A.M.F. in 1904, and
Hector MacDonald, who finished a bril-
liant fighting career as Military Comman-
dant in Ceylon. Barnes fought at
Tsandhlwana. Emigrating to Australia, he
joined the N. S. Wales. Lancers. He
enlisted for overseas service in 1914,
and spent his sixty-fifth birthday at
Lemnos. He was a sergeant in the
C.M.F.
Mrs. A. Eureka Warde, who has cele-
brated her 83rd birthday in Melbourne,
claims to have been the first white
child born at Eureka. Her great-grand-
father was John Shortland, lieutenant of
the Sirius, whose “narrative” is affixed
to some editions of Phillip’s Voyage to
Botany Bay. Her father, John Boyce,
was employed by the Hentys in the early
’forties to build the road from Port
Fairy to Portland.
Melbourne’s City Health Officer, Dr.
Dale, is an unconventional official. He
is a Douglas Crediter, a devotee of
art and one of the inner group of the
Meldrum cult. (His portrait has been
painted by Colin Colahan.) Every now
and again he hits out at housing con-
ditions in the slums or at unscientific
methods of feeding.
Dr. Sugden, a past president-general
of the Methodist Conference of Aus-
tralia, and ex-Chancellor John MacFar-
land, who died within a few hours of
each other in Melbourne, aged 82 and
84 respectively, had most to do with
establishing the college system at Melb.
University. Sugden was a Sheffield man
and a B.A. of London University ; Mac-
Farland was born in Omagh (Co.
Tyrone) and educated in Belfast and at
Cambridge. MacFarland was as promi-
nent in Presbyterian as his friend was
in Methodist circles.
Monsignor Coonan, who died at
Lewisham Hospital last week in his
eightieth year, was Vicar-General of the
Archdiocese of Sydney, and perhaps the
ablest and most tactful administrator his
church has known in N. S. Wales. Per-
fect manners cloaked an iron will and a
sharp eye for humbug. A product of
St. Kieran’s, Kilkenny (his birthplace),
the monsignor was ordained by Cardinal
Moran (then Bishop of Ossory) and sent
to Adelaide 55 years ago. He came to
Sydney a year later, and worked there
for the rest of his life. He got on won-
derfully with children, and crowds of
them were at an early requiem mass in
his old parish, Forest Lodge.
“A. de G.”: Prince Charles Leopold
Schonburg-Waldenbourg, who has been
in Sydney on his way to Tahiti, is a
member of the mediatised sovereign
house of Schonburg (Saxony). They have
held the lordship of Glauchau since
1182, of Waldenbourg since 1300, of
Lichtenstein since 1318 and of the county
of Hartenstein since 1442. Prince Charles
belongs to the senior branch, being a dis-
tant cousin of the present Prince of
Schonburg-Waldenbourg, and is entitled
to the prefix “Serene Highness.” He is
33, married, and a Catholic who spends
much of his time in Rome.
“El V.”; J. P. Abbott, the new presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association,
is the youngest son of Joseph Abbott,
Speaker of the N. S. Wales Assembly
from 1890-1900 and a member of the
Federal Convention of 1891 and the
National Convention of 1897-98, which
drafted the Commonwealth Constitution.
He manages a property at Wingen
(N.S.W.) which his family has held since
1860, looks like a prosperous busi-
nessman and makes a hobby of
economics. He is a graduate of
Sydney Uni., was a stretcher-bearer on
Gallipoli (A.1.F.), got a commission in
the R.F.A. after leaving hospital, won a
M.C. and was with the Army of Occu-
pation in Germany.
The new Trade Commissioner to China
is cosmopolitan or nothing. Sydney,
Bedford and Darmstadt shared in his
education. He learned the fine points
of the raw-silk trade in France, and was
in business later in Canton and Tokio.
He was in Yokohama when the war
began, served with the R.A.S.C. in
VIVIAN G. BOWDEN. Trade Commis-
sioner to China.
France and was at Cherbourg at the
Armistice. A London trading firm sent
him to the Black Sea afterwards, and
since then he has been in business at
Shanghai, which will be his h.q. as Trade
Commissioner.
“K.N.”: Young Holt, the U.A.P. can-
didate for Fawkner, has a dour opponent
in Don Cameron. Labor’s elect fought
against the Boers, but was an anti-con-
scription speaker in Westralia. He came
east in ’lB, and has been prominent at
Vic. Trades Hall ever since. Past presi-
dent of the State executive, Don is now
assistant sec. of the Trades Hall Council,
H p Marked, K.C., who has suc-
ceeded Judge Edwards as District Court
Judge, i s the only member of the N. S.
Wales judiciary who can claim to have
JUDGE MARKELL, of N. S. Wales.
spoken from a New Guard platform. He
supported Eric Campbell with an elo-
quent oration at Sydney Town Hall a
few years ago. The new Judge took silk
in 1928, and was an acting Supreme
Court Judge during most of last year.
He is president of the Orchid Society,
and owns one of the show gardens of the
North Shore.
Some August birthdays:
Justice Halsc Rogers (N.S.W.), 52, Coadjutor-
Bishop Dixon (Bris.), 66, and Prof. Robt. Wal-
lace (Vice-Chancellor, Syd. Uni.), 53, on Ist;
R. B. W. McComas (Melb.), 73, and S. H.
Smith (formerly N.S.W. Director of Educ.), 70,
on 2nd; Rev. Dr. Borland (Scots Church,
Melb.), 68, merchant-knight Wallace Bruce
(Adel.), 57, and Air-Commodore Williams
(Vic.), 45, on 3rd; Rev. Dr. Dey (“Christian
World”), 87, on 4th; Gov.-Gen. Isaacs, 80,
knight M. M. Anderson (Syd.), 68, E. A.
Southee (Hawkesbury Agric. Coll.), 45, and
poetess Marie E. J. Pitt, on 6th; poet E. J.
Brady, 66, and knight Lennon Raws (Melb.),
57, on 7th; E. T. Fisk (A.W.A.), 49, Min.
for Commerce Earle Page, 55, and H. W.
Champion (Papua), 55, on Bth; ex-N.S.W. Chief
Justice Street. 72, on 9th ; Speck’s C.J. Nicholls,
67, A. C. Hall, V.C. (N.S.W.), 39, Prof. A. K.
Macbeth (Adel.), 46, and Hugh McConaghy
(C’wealth Tariff Board), 58, on 11th; knight
Keith Murdoch (Melbourne “Herald”), 49, on
12th; Prof. Morris Miller (Speck), 54, and
knight Fred Stewart (M.H.R.), 51, on 14th;
Prof. Elliot Smith, 64, Bishop Baker (Bendigo),
53, and novelist Eric Cox, 62, on 15th; Dr. H.
Herman (Melb.), 60, and poetess Mary Gilmore,
on 16th; Frank Anstcy (former M.H.R. for
Bourke), 70, Prof. J. D. Stewart (Syd.), 66, and
Dean Talbot (Syd.), 58, on 18th; Jas. Fraser
(former Chief Rlys. Com., N.S.W.), 74, Prof.
Laver (Melb.), 69, and John Garlick (Syd.),
60, on 20th; Vic. Methodist minister A. T.
Holden, 69, poet Will Ogilvie, 66, and W. B.
Gcddes (N.S.W. Justice Dept.), 55, on 21st;
Judge Curlewis (N.S.W.), 66, and N.S.W. Min.
of Agric. Hugh Main, 52, on 22nd; Lieut.-Gen.
knight J. T. Hobbs (W.A.), 71, and Prof. F. A.
Bland (Syd. Uni.), 53, on 24th; former Fed.
Attorney-Gen. Latham, 58, and Prof. F. R.
Beasley (Perth), 38, on 25th; Bishop Ash (Rock-
hampton), 53, knight Prof. T. R. Lyle, F.R.S.
(Melb.), 75, Prof. W. A. Osborne (Melb.), 62,
and knight John Bowser (Vic.), 79, on 26th;
Justice Dwyer (W.A.), 60, Prof. Angus (St.
Andrew’s Coll., Syd.), 54, and Min. for Defence
Archdale Parkhill, 56, on 27th; Vance Palmer,
50, on 28th; Brig.-Gcn. Cannan (Q.), 53, J.
Spencer Brunton (Syd.), 74, J. W. Pennington
(Vic.), 65, and Fed. Assistant Treasurer R. G.
Casey, 45, on 29th; ex-Gov. de Chair, 71, and
ex-Principal Ronald Macintyre, 72, on 30th;
R. Ewing (Fed. Taxation Com.), 64, and Am-
brose Pratt, 61, on 31st.


m
The O
isky
vfth*
vt &i\bi %*€ $
i
s
......
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD
and J.ONDO*>
i issiSf"
o C fj
“I judge
White Horse
to be
\
the best...
It’s equal to a fine liqueur’’
The Whisky sampler speaks with
authority and from experience.
He recognises the inviting aroma,
the peat and heather flavour, and
the smoothness to the palate
which tell him that it is White
Horse. Follow his lead and that
of particular people who demand
this Real Old Scotch, Equal to a
Fine Liqueur.
“He can even tell it blindfold"
WHITE
SCOTCH
HORSE
WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
V


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
launch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), .'Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45
Tables or Seats may be reserved byT’hone. M4OOl.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend's affairs ? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, Shepheard E. Laidley,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. K. Knox,
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
5271 Practical B usiness Ideas
in the Modern Business Course and Service.
•"THE thing which makes the Institute Course different from any other
is just this: You can dip into it at any point and find immediately a
practical method, plan or idea, worked out and proved by the biggest men
in business, which you can put to work at once. Often a single chapter
will pay a busy man ten times for his investment. Altogether there are
5,271 definite practical business ideas. For example, there are:
169 Ideas on finance
513 Ideas on accounting
174 Ideas on office methods
182 Ideas on credits and collections
647 Ideas on advertising and sales
278 Ideas on factory management
Send in this advertisement (or tell your secretary to), and we will immedi-
ately forward yon a free copy of “What A Business Man Must Know
Today.” This will explain why over 300,000 business men keep this
course on their bookshelves for reference purposes.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Executive Training in Business
A Division of Hemingway Sr Robertson
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l. 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
IS
THE WILDCAT
COLUMN
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1925.. 30,203 7 p.c. = 29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25,003 7 „ „ 29,570 0,925
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928.. 10,110 3 p.c. = 12,073 7,095
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
oil ss. per share.
1929.. 33,340 10 p.c. = 28,101 5,185 12,280
1930.. 19,695 7 „ „ 19,713 12,202
1931.. 14,108 5 „ „ 14,081 87 12,349
1932.. 18,651 5 „ „ 14,081 4,570 10,919
Surplus on liquidated subsidiary, £23,550.. 40,475
1933.. 15,984 5* p.c. = 15,489 495 40,970
1934.. 23,411 7 ~ ~19,713 3,698 44,668
1935.. 29,491 8 ~22,529 0,962 51,030
This co. gives the public the cheapest
and one of the most efficient transport
services in the metropolis. During the
last term a late summer affected excursion
traffic ; but the loss in this respect was
more than offset by increased returns
following the Duke of Gloucester’s visit,
and by a growth in the number of regu-
lars, The board wrote net earnings
£2765 better than the previous year’s at
£22,491, and lifted the div. a point, mak-
ing it 8 p.c., which called for a trifle
more than the profit declared. That
leaves out of the reckoning £7OOO (£3685
in the previous term) dropped from
somewhere into reserves. Including this
unexplained addition, the net result was
£6OBO better at 10.4 p.c. on capital as
against 8.3, 6.2, 6.6, 5, 6.9 and 11.8 p.c.
back to 1929.
The market, which likes the co.’s pros-
pects, prices the lOs.-paid shares at 20s.
lOd. as against 18s. a year ago. At the
higher price the return is 3.8 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for a shade under 4y p.c. on his money
counts on a 9 p.c. div. Since the cover
is visibly only 11s. lOd. in net tangibles,
fixed assets appear to be well worth their
book value.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
1932. 1933. 1934. 1936.
Liquid assets £77,282 £9,489 £11,209 £21,959
Sun d r y
creditors . . 3,511 5,003 5,229 6,083
Surplus
liquids.. £73,771 £4,486 £5,980 £15,876
Fixed assets £236,655 £326,548*£331,570*£328,635■ !,
‘lncludes investments.
During the year £10,750 was added to
liquids and £854 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, making the net im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus £9896. The position is better
than that, because fixed assets include
an unspecified amount of investments.
The net reduction in the blanket item last
year was £2945.
In 1929 ss. per share (£140,808) was
struck off capital in order to write down
the book value of the fleet, which had
been multiplied by three in the 1920 re-
construction. In 1932 liquidation of the
insurance subsidiary turned in a profit
of £23,556, which was added to reserves.
Then the co. built one of the best
bathing enclosures in the State, handy to
its wharf, on the harbor side of the
Village. This, the growth in the number
of new buildings in Manly and continued
decrease in unemployment augur well for
the current year’s earnings. Also, con-
version of the Bellubera from steam to
Diesel-electric power is expected to
reduce costs and shorten the time occu-
pied on the journey. The board claims
that she will be the first electrically-driven
vessel in Australia. Current to operate
the propelling motors, etc., will be
generated by four Diesel units, each
developing 450 b.h.p.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, senes.
1925.. 18,671 10 p.c. = 15,006 3,071 16,337
1926.. 18,213 10 „ „ 15,000 3,213 19,550
1927.. 18,551 10 „ „ 15,000 3,551 23,101
Premiums on shares, £15,573 .. .. 38,674
Old plant revalued and specific reserves
(£11,299) taken in 49,973
1928.. 18,190 10 p.c. = 10,054 2,136 52,109
1929.. 24,002 10 „ „ 21,000 3,002 55,111
1930.. 23,944 9 „ ~ 18,900 5,044 60,135
1931 .. 7,771 24 „ „ 5,250 2,521 62,070
1932.. 8,805 3 ~ „ 0,300 2,505 65,181
1933.. 13,522 5 „ „ 10,500 3,022 08,203
1934.. 18,757 74,. ~15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 29,959
1935.. 22,152 7* p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
Half-way through the last term £42,001
of bonus scrip was issued, one for five.
This surprised the market, and the
pound shares rose sharply from 335. 6d.
to 40s. They are now fairly steady
around 325. 6d. The return at 325. 6d.
is 4.6 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis, and
1\ p.c. is worth 9 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the gift. The cover is 225.
7d. in net tangibles, all represented by
property which has a pleasing record
as a profit-earner, and by an extensive
goodwill—the hotel has always been very
popular among country visitors—of
which no account is taken in the books.
For 20 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 shareholders got a steady 10 p.c.,
sweetened with £75,000 of bonus scrip
and special cash distributions totalling
£67,500. To provide accommodation for
an extra 170 guests, making total capa-
city 500, a new wing was erected about
seven years ago, and the old building
was modernised. Shareholders put up
an extra £60,000 of capital, which
brought with it £15,573 of share pre-
miums, and the board didn’t go outside
for much:
1927. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £210,007 £210,007 £252,010
Liabilities .. 8,880 30,331 17,502 12,692
Fixed assets.. 104,630 311,317 302,317 299,317
Stock. . .. 2,247 3,770 2,524 3,200
Book debts, cash,
etc 35,663 1,927 13,127 17,989
The debt, down £4BlO last year, is being
gradually reduced. When the books last
closed, stocks, debtors’ balances and cash,
etc., exceeded liabilities by £8503, an
improvement of £33,137 over the last
four years. Over the same period the
value of the property has been reduced
by £12,000 in the books.
The most notable • feature of the
accounts is the quick recovery of earn-
ings over the last five years. Although
the 1931 net result was the lowest since
the beginning of this century, only twice
has the co. shown better than the
£22,152 (up £3395) claimed last year. It
was 8.7 p.c. on capital as it now stands,
or 10.5 p.c. on capital as it stood at the
close of accounts in 1934. That was after
striking £3OOO net off the book value of
premises, and leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained addition of £750 to re-
serves. There is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest that the 1\ p.c. div.
is likely to be interfered with during the
current term.
Wilsons (N.Z.) Portland Cement, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 70,384 8.3 p.c. e= 50,000 20,384 03.335
1926.. 93,022 10 „ ~ 60,000 33,022 90,357
1927.. 94,819 10 „ ~ 00,000 34,819 131,170
1928.. 94,856 10 ~ 00,000 34,856 166,032
1929.. 88,049 10 „ „ 00,000 28,049 194,081
1930.. 91,783 124 „ ~ 75,000 16,783 210,864
1931.. 75,833 124 „ „ 75,000 833 211,097
1932.. 64,287 10 „ 60,000 4,287 215,984
1933.. 40,327 10 „ 60,000 196,311
■'1934.. 40,070 10 '30,000 16,070 212,381
1935.. 47,595 13} „ 41,250 6,345 218,720
For seven years after this co. amalga-
mated Wilsons Portland Cement and
another concern, in 1918, it paid a run
of moderate divs. Meanwhile, it bought
the Northern Coal Co.’s mine at Hiku-
rangi—the nameplate was changed to
Wilson’s Collieries—the idea being to
lower costs and, perchance, minimise the
effects of industrial troubles in the ever-
turbulent coal industry. Also, the board
carved off portion of each year’s earnings
for depreciation, using a heavy hand. With
the growth in demand for cement for
road and other construction work, net
earnings went up with a rush, the div.
was lifted to 10 p.c. and kept there, with
2\ p.c. added in ’3O and ’3l. For the
seven years to the close of accounts in
1930 £178,529 of the admitted profits was
added to reserves. Together with the
allowance for depreciation, the money
was invested mostly in Government
securities.
When slump pulled down the earnings
of the plant, the co. was able to return
half its capital in Government 3| p.c.
stock, maturing 1952, at a premium of
£2 per cent, (face value), reducing the
capital to £300,000 in 10s. shares. Thus
the co. is now able to declare a rate of
dividend equal to twice what it would
be on the original capital (£600,000).
Last year there was a better demand
for cement for road and other construc-
tion work. After writing off £23,526
more than was spent on fixed assets —
their book value was reduced by an aver-
age of about £40,000 p.a. from ’2B to ’3l
—declared net earnings were £1525 better
at 15.8 p.c. on capital as it now stands.
The div. was lifted from 10 p.c, to 13£
p.c., of which p.c. was labelled bonus.
Despite the return of capital already
referred to, the remaining £300,000, and
more besides, was represented by surplus
liquids when the books last closed:
1930. 1934. 1985.
Paid capital .. .. £600,000 £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. .. 01,122 29,434 32,230
Freeholds, plants, quarries,
etc 297.932 191,373 107,847
Wilson’s Collieries, Ltd. 49,993 ) , 0Q - 0 .,
Investments .. .. 338,177 J IJy ’" G “" ,7U ’ 3
Stocks 57,719 14,930 15,075
Debtors 72,770 24,144 32,003
Cash 100,390 127,092 134,544
The £222,793 of investments consist of
shares in Wilson’s Collieries, £49,996 ;
other shareholdings, £20,599 (up £8294);
mortgages, £13,633 (down £4777); N.Z.
Government securities, £138,565 (up
£20,000). The cash holding (= 4s. 6d.
per share) was strengthened by £7452.
Including stocks, the year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£373,379) was £37,371.
The market notes this and the slightly
better trading outlook and prices the 10s.-
paid shares at 375. 6d. as against 295. 6d.
a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is 3f p.c. on a 13£ p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 17s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserve*, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 13,142 10 p.c. = 15,000 47,324
1926.. 13.055 9 „ „ 13,500 155 47,479
1927.. 7,553 4 „ „ 6,000 1553 49,032
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929.. 3,145 Nil 3145 54,020
1930.. 409 Nil 409 54,429
Loss.
1931.. 29,990 Nil 24,439
1932.. 19,508 Nil 4,931
Deficit.
Assets written down, £72,431 .. 07,500
Reserves.
Capital written off, £75,000 .. 7,500
1933.. 2,324 Nil 5,176
Profit.
1934.. 2,662 3 p.c. = 2,250 412 5,588
1935.. 3,022 3 „ „ 2,250 772 0,300
Owing to the revival in building, there
was a further increase in the physical
volume of this timber merchant’s turn-
over during the last term. Still, the
management was able to squeeze only
£360 more profit out of the larger
trading. Competition, with means price-
paring, was the trouble ; there are still
too many in the trade for the business
available. The £3022 of profit claimed
was 4 p.c. on capital, and a 3 p.c. div.
was paid, the second thing of its kind in
eight years.
The 3 p.c., however, is worth only
H P-C. on old holdings. That is because
half the capital was jettisoned in 1932,
enabling the co. to rub out its trading
losses and bring the book value of its
assets more into line with their earning
power. For the five years to the close of
accounts in 1930, net earnings averaged
only 3.5 p.c. on £150.000 of capital, as
against 10.5 p.c. for the preceding quin-
quennium. Competition from reinforced
concrete and imported timbers, etc.,
altered the outlook ; then slump sent
old-established timber concerns to the
wall, and the market became flooded
with stocks.
What the future holds for the busi-
ness it is difficult to say. The co. has
re-established itself on a profit-earning
basis, its mills are set up in good forest
areas, there is nothing uncomfortable
about the finances, and there is only half
the capital there used to be to feed. Still,
the market notes the overcrowded 'state of
the industry, and prices the 10s.-paid
shares at Bs. At that figure the return
is 3.7 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis, or
4.3 p.c. on a 3] p.c. distribution. The
cover is 10s. lOd. in net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it;
1082. 1084. 1935.
Paid capital £150,«W) .675,000 .676,000
Liabilities . . . . 40,482 24,400 43,051
Country mills, etc. .. 08,010 )
City wharves, freeholds, | 85,510 85,080
mills, plant, etc. .. 18,531 J
Vessels .. .. .. 12,040 10,740 10,050
Book debts, etc. .. 34,012 23,205 37,585
Stocks 22,821 24,302 31,085
Cash, investments, etc. 43,003 18,452 13,202
To carry an extra £6733 of stocks and
£14,290 of debtors’ balances, the co. leant
upon outsiders for an extra £19,491. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£37,871) was £1282.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 30,535 22* p.c. = 21.318 2,900 17,301
1927.. 40,575 85 „ „ 85,428 2,051 25,802
Goodwill written up £93,307, and that
amount capitalised ~ .. .. 67,505
1928.. 41,421 15 p.c. = 31.034 11,855 08.973
1929.. 40,182 15 „ „ 31,322 3,724 03,837
1930.. 88,270 lli„ ~23.059 3,617 52,843
1931.. 24,291 0 „ 12,745 0,735 48,032
1932.. 17,275 2 ~ 4,208 17,455 52,420
1933.. 32,853 7*., ~15,741 15.391 50,099
1934.. 30,002 9 ~ „ 18,830 7,795 40,722
1935.. 37,708 10 .. ~20,970 2,841 54,013
The early success of this co. and of
Gordon’s, and the continued scattering
of loan funds, brought a crop of these
vendors of credit on the pay-as-you-earn
principle into the field. Then came
slump, and some of the cos. got their
toes severely trodden upon. Bad debts
were the trouble. In this respect, A.C.O.’s
experience (shown as written off in the
table) has been comparatively mild,
which speaks well for the management's
ability in estimating the credit-worthi-
ness of clients.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts unemployment continued
to decrease, and there was more money
about. Sales in the furniture section
increased by 30 p.c., cash orders by 11.2
p.c. and cash collections by 8.5 p.c.
Gross earnings, which fell from £85,570
in ’29 to £52,754 in ’32, sprang £14,629,
reaching £76,590. Administrative charges,
etc. (£38,882), were up £5244. After
striking off £2841 (little more than one-
third of the previous year’s figure) for
bad debts, etc., the net result was £6060
better at 16.8 p.c. on capital, compared
with 13.9, 8.4, a loss, 8.4 and 16.7 p.c.
back to 1930. The div. was lifted a point,
making it 10 p.c.; and there is nothing
in sight at the moment to suggest a reces-
sion in earnings during the current term.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in an all-round increase in
balance-sheet figures:
1926. 1932. 1934. 1935.
I’aid capital.. £98,774 £206,900 £206,905 £206,905
Liabilities .. 52,589 34,845 39,863 41.343
Freeholds . . 39,065 39,135 44,194 60,337
Furniture, etc. 2,038 2,640 2,458 4,367
Stock . . 1,805 4.705 7,074
Book debts, etc. 135,028 126,192 131,554 135,213
Loans on
mortgage .. - 20,000 16,000 16,000
Cash. ... 3,700 17,591 18.920
Liabilities, up £l4BO, include amounts
received in advance, etc. The growth
of £6143 in freeholds was due to pur-
chase of a block at the rear of the co.’s
(i Continued on page 18.)


MACHINERY
BREAKDOWN
INSURANCE
Refer to: —
For Details of:
ROYAL INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
INSURANCE AGAINST REPAIR COSTS with or without
Loss Of Profits And Standing Charges
ẃ
OF POWER
PLANT
ẅ
m
m
S
ff
m
j|J i|
ST
i
I'C
-
*
V
: n
ir"
w
« mi
I
i. »•“
\h
4iy
c V fJ. Iw.| J V, v
|tjr ;
/.
w
BRANCH OFFICES AT;—
MELBOURNE:
414 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY:
CR. PITT & SPRING STS.
Royal
\ Insurance/
'(company/
\ LIMITED. /
ADELAIDE:
GRENFELL ST.
ŵ
ẁ


:
■
X--
Dfy Ginger Ale
WITH A SLICE OF LEMON MAKES AN
IDEAL DRINK
Low-grade and Complex
TIN ORES.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. Write
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates.
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine. Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Companj s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current on pr
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, I ort Kembla.
furniture showrooms in Pitt-street. The
net increase in debtors’ balances was
£3659, stocks £2369, and cash £1338. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£135,873, including stocks) was
£5886.
Only the B shares are listed —there
are 167,068 of them fully paid to £1
and 19,315 paid to ss. each, with priority
as to capital. At 30s. the return is 6.6
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is £1 9s. sd. in net tangibles. All shares
rank equally for divs.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests
In order to place holders of bonds in
forestry and other ventures in a proper
position to deal with the realisation of
their forest products, etc., the Maoriland
Government recently passed legislation
providing for the incorporation of bond-
holders in separate realisation cos. One
of the protective measures of the new
law is the creation of a Bondholders’
Incorporation Commission, whose ap-
proval of all proposals for the formation
of realisation cos, is necessary before
registration.
The largest of these realisation cos.
will be the one connected with N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, which has sold bonds
to a face value of approximately
£4,000,000. The co. has planted
160,000 acres, and the most advanced
trees are now 10 years old. Its contract
with bondholders provides for transfer
of the freehold, and for planting and
maintenance, etc., until the forests are
realised at the discretion of bondholders
or for 20 years, whichever is the earlier.
The co. has made arrangements to
become selling agent in connection with
the realisation of the forests ; it has also
agreed to make loans to the representative
of the bondholders to prepare to market
the forest products, and to invest some
of its own money in any undertaking for
the realisation of the forests. For bond-
holders, who are entitled to the net
proceeds of the forest products, the
critical period of selling the products at
a profit, if possible, lies ahead.
A realisation committee on which both
the co. and bondholders are represented
has been investigating the problems
since 1931. It is now announced that “the
present intention is to concentrate mainly
on timber-milling and box-making, with
the production of pulp and paper.” The
co. has taken an option (price not
slated) on a sulphate pulp- and paper-
making plant, with an output up to 20
tons of paper per day, according to class.
It is claimed that this plant can be used
for the production of a variety of com-
modities using wood-pulp as a base, and
that its component parts can be incor-
porated as units in any larger scheme
for the production of “these classes of
commodities which can be developed
later.”
The immediate outlook for profit-
earning from pinus insignus in the timber
or pulp- and paper-making trades is not
bright.
The London spot price of tin rocketed
from £223 ss. in June to £245 on July
22, and then fell to £232 ss. five days
later. Forward prices for the correspond-
ing dates were £216 17s. 6d., £224 16s.
3d, and £220 ss. July 22 was settling
day. The comparatively moderate move-
ment in forward prices suggests that the
rather violent fluctuation in the spot
figures was due to speculative rather than
legitimate trade transactions. Appear-
ances are, therefore, that there was a
“bear” squeeze; someone was caught
short. The International Tin Committee
is said to be holding about 6000 tons
of the metal in a buffer pool, the declared
purpose of which was to iron out undue
price fluctuations.
* * * ♦
Placer Development has added yet an-
other string to its bow. For 300,000
U.S. dollars it has bought a 15 p.c.
interest in the Golden Queen, a co.
recently formed in the U.S.A. by Gold-
fields American Development (the Ameri-
can subsidiary of Consolidated Gold-
fields of S. Africa) and associates to take
over and equip a goldmine at Mojane,
California. Golden Queen’s engineers
figure that there will be enough profit
from already “reasonably assured ore”
to repay the capital. Incidentally, Placer
is dividing each of its 200,000 five-dollar
shares into five shares of one dollar each.
Over the last five weeks the five-dollar
shares have advanced from £27 to £3l
15s. on the Sydney market.
* * * *
Nasivi (Fiji) Syndicate is a Melbourne
concern formed in March last to join in
the rush to Fiji. Here it soon abandoned
its options on the Tavua field, but con-
tinued the hunt. At Raki Raki, about
32 miles east of Tavua, it has unearthed
what looks like a large formation with
very rich surface indications. The out-
crop has been traced for more than three
miles, with a width of 60ft. in one place.
A depth of 600 ft. has been mentioned,
but that is a guess, based on the fact that
the lode, exposed on a hill at an alti-
tude of 1200 ft., has been met with again
in the valley 600 ft. below. Early reports
referred to three lodes, 20ft., 15ft. and
4ft, in width. Samples taken from cos-
teens assayed Boz. to 15oz. per ton, Aus-
tralian and overseas interests are reported
to be nibbling at the venture. In the
market the co.’s £5 shares, paid to £2
shot up from £5 to £5O over the last few
weeks.
* * * *
Bismarck Range, Lucknow (N.S.W.),
claims that its unorthodox method of
mining, namely, “production ahead of
development,” has been more successful
on the Lucknow field than “development
ahead of production.” In other words,
the co. is following a policy which makes
appraisement of the future value of the
scrip the merest guesswork. The ore-
bodies at Lucknow consist of replace-
ment deposits along a contact joint in
a sheer plane. They are spasmodic and
irregular.
Diamond-drilling continues on the old
Lefroy goldfield (Tas.), where most of
the rich reefs petered out at about 400 ft.
So far the drill has gone to a depth of
760 ft. through schist and slate. At
664 ft. eight inches of quartz was passed
through, containing a little mineral, which
is being assayed.
♦ * * *
At Triton, about 35 miles north-east
of Cue, on the Murchison field (W.A.),
the Emu North ore-shoot (it occurs in a
belt of greenstone schist along the main
line of shearing) has been proved by
driving on the 160 ft. level over a length
of 1000 ft. The width is 64|in., and the
average assay B.9dwt. At the 300 ft. level
the length proved is 885 ft., and the assay
10.5dwt. over a driving width of 69in.
Stripping, however, suggests that the
actual width of the lode here is approxi-
mately 14ft., over which samples aver-
aged 11.9dwt. Two drills have inter-
sected the lode between 600 ft. and 700 ft.
from the surface. At 425 ft. a crosscut
from a winze from the 300 ft. level passed
through 25ff. of 9dwt. stone. To the
south the ore-body appears to widen out,
but values fall away. The oxidised zone
extends to a depth of about 180 ft. The
plant, now nearing completion, has been
designed to treat 60,000 tons of ore annu-
ally. This co. has tackled its job very
systematically.
* « * *
Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co., which
handles the stone from Boulder Persever-
ance and North Kalgurli, expects to have
its new treatment process in working
order by the beginning of 1936. The
association of gold with pyrites in North
Kalgurli ore gave results below those
expected. The new method of treatment
consists of fine grinding in cyanide solu-
tion, with recovery of free gold over cor-
duroy tables as at present, followed by
filtration and flotation of the tailings.
This will not produce a high-grade con-
centrate, since 65 p.c, to 75 p.c. of the
gold will be recovered before flotation,
but it is expected that the loss in the
tailings will fall below 14 grains a ton
compared with Hdwt. at present. It is
figured that the saving will pay for the
additional plant in eight months.
* * * *
United Westralian Gold has exercised
its option over the Kiora and the Gould-
bourn leases at Kunanalling (W.A.). Dur-
ing the past 12 months it sank four shafts,
over a distance of 1000 ft. The main
one is down 163 ft. and the other three
120 ft. each. The lode was driven on
for over 450 ft, with payable values over
the whole distance. An average of 9dwt.
was returned from 700 tons. Ore in sight
to the 120 ft. level is reckoned at 12,000
tons, and every 100 ft. of lift is estimated
to disclose a similar tonnage. A five-head
mill and treatment plant are expected
to be handling 600 tons a month in
November. The co. will then add an-
other five-head of stamps. The ore-body
at 163 ft. has improved in size and value ;
present width sft. 6in., average 12dwt,
* * * *
Like J. A. Agnew, P. Fitzgerald left
Maoriland at the beginning of this cen-
tury to become interested in goldmining
in Westralia, and afterwards bossed big
producers at Kalgoorlie and elsewhere.
Now he has undertaken the job of re-
opening Youanmi, which a new London
co., with Viscount Lee of Fareham as
chairman and the Rt. Hon. L. C. Amery
and others as directors, has raised from
the dead. Youanmi used to be promi-
nent among Westralia’s gold-producers,
and it is tipped to be still more promi-
nent in the future. For a start, a return
of £216,000 a year sterling is expected.
Fitzgerald will act as consulting engi-
neer to the co, and to other London-
controlled associated concerns.
* * ♦ *
According to the prospectus of Edju-
dina Consolidated Gold Mines, N.L.
(W.A.), a recent London flotation, a
profit of over £200,000 a month is ex-
pected, and that from the first reduction
unit only. The first issue of 1,800,000 2s.
shares is stated to have been rushed by
the public, while an additional 1,800,000
were calmly taken by the vendors as pur-
chase consideration, together with a
further 125,000 “for other services.” Sub-
scribers have six months’ option on one
new share at 3s. for every two held, and
a similar option on 1,550,000 shares has
been given the vendors and others. The
area held by the co. covers 1564 acres.
* * * ♦
Divs. paid by Westralian goldmining
cos. now total nearly £32,000,000. of
which roughly £29,000,000 was paid prior
to 1929. After that South Kalgurli be-
came the sole distributor. It was soon
joined by others, and by 1933 the sum
handed out rose to £850,000, and by
1934 to over a million. Div.-payers now
are South Kalgurli, Boulder Persever-
ance, North Kalgurli, Gt. Boulder, Lake
View, Sons of Gwalia, Golden Horse-
shoe (from retreatment of old residues)
and Wiluna. Ora Banda, Triton, Yellow-
dine, Lady Shenton and others are ex-
pected to join the list in 1935.
* * * *
The Laverton gold area (W.A.), which
has some of the most consistent ore-
bodies outside the Golden Mile, con-
tinues to attract prospectors, A new find
has been made five miles from the old
Childe Harold, and Dr. C. W. Laver
intends to reopen one of the old shows
where rich specimens were picked up
years ago.
* * ♦ *
From the Compensator, Linden (W.A.),
which is under option to Gold Fields
Australian Development, 120 tons re-
cently averaged 15dwt., making the total
yield 3420 z. from 280 tons. The ore-
shoot, a quartz schist formation, has been
proved at 50ft. to extend for 90ft. The
co. is sinking a shaft to intersect the lode
at greater depth.
* * * «
Tanami Syndicate is now wholly in-
terested in Kenya Colony goldmining
ventures, and it is pleased with its pros-
pects. A new article gives the directors,
as from Jan. 1 last, a fixed remuneration
at the rate of £lOO a year plus a per-
centage of surplus profits after payment
of a dividend of 10 p.c,
* * * ♦
United Westralian, a small Perth-and-
Adelaide-controlled concern with limited
cash, has taken over a show a Kunanal-
ling. Princess was there first, but the
vendors’ terms were considered too high,
and it stepped out.
* * * *
Anxious to cheer up the market by in-
stallation of treatment plants, several
Westralian cos. are chafing at the delay
in deliveries by the Kalgoorlie foundry,
whose hands are on strike. Marvel Loch
had cancelled its contract, and arranged
to remove machinery already manufac-
tured and to do (he job of erection itself.
Others talk of following suit.
* * * *
Rothsay, which is resurrecting Wood-
ley’s Reward on Yalgoo field (W.A.). has
entered the producing list. During June
the co. cleaned up 800 tons for a return
of £2OOO.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
K.F.; The bank is the safest avenue. If you
ship wool (exchange is included in the local
price) you enter upon a more or less specu-
lative transaction; the price may rise or fall
before you sell it....G.J.: Accounts reviewed
B. 21/11/’34... .P.L.: The bonds are a long-
term speculation, and guesses as to what profits
bondholders are likely to get aren’t worth
much... .G.H.C.: Wound up voluntarily
20/4/ ’2B. Shareholders received 2 f.p. shares
in Malayan and General Tin Trust for every
live Oroya shares held, plus one f.p. 2s. share
in North Kalgurli for every three Oroya
shares, plus 2d. a share ip cash. At end of
March, 1927, Malayan and General paid capital
was £33,105. Co. reconstructed in 1934; paid
capital now £93,593 in f.p. 2s. shares.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting'/
Griffith, I [asset and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydnev,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Adv’t.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 48.'!
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B.' Davies.
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Abvt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Abvt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, hilly illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, ' Mining
Supplies, . Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies.
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.


TOURIST CLASS
Tourist Class Accommodation is now
available on Seven P & O Royal Mail Liners
R.M.S. MOLDAVIA . 16,556 TONS
R.M.S. MONGOLIA . 16,600 TONS
R.M.S. NARKUNDA . 16,632 TONS
R.M.S. MALOIA . . .20,914 TONS
R.M.S. MOOLTAN . . 20,952 TONS
R.M.S. STRATHNAVER 22,283 TONS
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD . 22,284 TONS
The standard of comfort is unusually high, cuisine and
service are excellent, the public rooms are tastefully fur-
nished and ample deck space permits the full enjoyment
of sports and entertainments or quiet restful days at sea.
FARES FROM £39 PLUS EX CHANGE
O
ROYAL MAIL LINER


ABORIGINALITIES
C. Cove”; Fhere’s money to be
picked up by the peregrinating trades-
man even these times. The tinker, for
example. But the biggest hit was the
chimney-sweep who came to a N.S.W.
southern tablelands town. He put in
at the unemployment camp, canvassed
the city for jobs, and cleaned up £l6 in
11 days. The pubs got his money, and
the hospital got him, with all trimmings,
d.ts. included.
t ■* * *
“W.H.D.”: On a recent silent moon-
light night near Bourke (N.S.W.), a thun-
derous clatter on the iron roof of the
shearers’ huts caused the startled suspen-
sion of cards. A flock of whistler-ducks
had mistaken the iron roof for a near-by
Jake (now dry), and had dived. Three
dead bodies were found next morning.
# ❖ *
“Yelarbon”; Coming from Nyngan
(N.S.W.) by car, we noticed a large eagle-
hawk on the road, about 50 yards ahead.
Speeding ticklishly close, we thought we
were over the bird. It suddenly flew
straight up, but was fouled by the bon-
net of Ihe car, to which it clung for
about 200 yards with its head only
visible to the driver and passenger. The
fowl then managed to get free, and flew
oft' to a near-by gum-tree.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: An odd feature of the
gales over the s.-e, corner of the Com-
monwealth was the tinted snow which
tell on some of the higher mountain
peaks. “It’s been snowing cocoanut ice,
pink on top and white underneath,” was
the comment of one visitor to Mount
St. Bernard. Cocoa was the prevailing
tint at Mt. Hotham. The theory (some
dispute it) is that the winds brought
red and brown dust from the Malice
and Centralia which, encountering the
falling snow, colored it pink and brown.
Red Malice dust can travel. Some years
ago it colored snow on the lower Maori-
land Alps pale pink. On the Tasman
sea-floor there is a layer of ooze sup-
posed to have been formed by the same
dust.
* * * *
“Dewey”: Bundaberg (Q.) was invaded
a few months back by flying-foxes;
now it’s peewits. They get together
towards evening, and I’ve counted 200
on one span of the electric-light wires in
Bourbon-street. Again, I saw two lying
on their backs between the metals where
the railway crosses the same wide
thoroughfare. That time about 20 others,
which seemed to be dealing out salutary
punishment for some offence, were div-
ing at the two prostrate fowls, which
were yelling repentance. But as a result
of the near-cyclone that wrecked the
Maheno —we got most of the force of
that—l counted 15 peewits in the length
of one block the other day. They were
on their backs for good,
jjc
“W.F,”: During the earthquake
tremors at Taupo (M.L.) the level
of the lake rose. It happened a few
weeks after a heated discussion at a
Rotorua Council meeting as to the con-
nection, if any, between the level of the
lakes at Rotorua and thermal activity.
Maoris contend there is a definite rela-
tion, and for long have urged that the
level of Lake Tarawera (on which they
say a phantom war canoe appears before
any major disaster) is a trustworthy
guide. White experts pooh-pooh the
notion; anyway, the Rotorua Council
decided not to control the lake level.
The Taupo experience may remind us
that the Maoris knew Rotorua’s little
tricks before the white man sighted
Maoriland, and can scarcely have for-
gotten their ancient lore.
* * * *
“Sprat”: If lobsters might carry sand-
grains for ballast (B. 26/6/ ’35), can
“Oruncha” explain why hook-nosed
trevalli always have a bundle of worms
in their head, just behind where the
brain should be? This sac, which has
no visible outlet, might be an inch or
so in diameter, almost spherical, and the
thing is always tight-packed with a
wriggling mass. Away from Queensland
waters the fish might go under the name
of yellowtail. It has a telescopic mouth,
and frequents sandy tidal flats, foraging
in with the tide. Any soldier-crab that
hasn't dug deep is taken with that
extended trunk with a hole in the end
of it.
* * * *
“El V.”: Judging by the methods of
“Ohno” (B. 24/7/’35) there must
be some strange bushmen about these
days. Instinct alone is a poor thing, and
all (he superlative bushmen I have ever
known have discounted it in favor of
practical methods. In the north and
centre of Australia, regular seasons fill
the whole landscape with, direction posts
“I'll refund her train fare after six munce if she ain't sootable."
—weather marks, lean of the timber, set
of magnetic antheaps, roughly regular
direction of hills and creeks and sand-
hill conformation play their part in
various regions. And, anyway, since the
wristlet watch came into fashion, who
needs instinct when he can roughly find
the north by setting 12 o’clock to the sun
and reading half-way between it and
the hour hand? I have my own idea
about the direction instinct of animals.
Most dingoes, for instance, hug a beat
all their lives.
• • Z • • •
“Salmon Gums”: Not all men who
spend a lifetime in the bush make good
bushmen, and not all good bushmen can
invariably keep a straight course, par-
ticularly over unaccustomed terrain. I
directed a fellow towards a hill some
distance to my right—it was in wild
country east 'of Laverton (W.A.), Later
on I met him galloping back across my
tracks. “I’m making for that hill,” he
said, pointing it out. It' was opposite
the one to which I had directed him ;
and he had been born not a hundred
miles away. Almost everyone travelling
through the bush passes to the same side
of every obstacle. Thus if the first tree
in your path is passed on your left, so
will the secohd and third be, and so on.
This is my explanation of why men so
often travel in circles.
“Hillsider”: An albino kookaburra is
a rarity ; but a Mt. Perry (Q.) resident
has a lusty specimen in captivity. Cap-
tured in the bush a few months back, the
laugher is white except for the tail
feathers, which are grey. As with all
albinos, the big kingfisher’s eyes are red,
but in other respects it is much the same
as the average laughing-jackass. It did
not take well to captivity at the begin-
ning, but seems now fairly contented
with its lot.
* * * *
“Bogan Boy”; A fig for Inspector
Fargo and his 117 snakes in a week (B.
3/7/’35)! In one day 273 were killed
at Durrie station, Birdsville (Q.). It hap-
pened during the ’29 flood, when the
homestead was surrounded by the flood-
waters from the Diamantina and Farrar's
Creek.
* * * *
“Alpha”; Our district hermit was
forced to employ chooms for his cattle
work, as no Aussie lasted long under his
drastic spit-and-polish regime. Shirts,
breeches and socks had to be changed
daily, as he required daily burnishing of
spurs and blacking of leggings and
boots; also the lads were obliged to
stand to ’shun and say “Major” before
delivering a message. I dropped over
for a yarn one night, and asked the mar-
tinet to verify a few particulars about
the Boer War. He hadn’t been there, and
he wasn’t old enough for the Crimean
business. It turned out that his great-
grandfather had been a major in (he
militia about (he time Napoleon was
massing his army of invasion at
Boulogne. None of his descendants had
seen service of any description, but the
title had become traditional in the family,
together with insistence on the duty of
menials to be properly respectful to au
officer.
* * * *
‘‘Laetitia”: A Torres Strait mission-
trained flapper, after a tiff with her girl
friend, supplied a variant of the tradi-
tional “never darken my doors” in beche-
der-mer English: “Look good you no
more flatten out sittum-down belong you
in my house.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: The case of the Alsatian
that cobbered up with a steer fB.
17/7/’35) reminds me of an equally
queer friendship in the scrub south of
Lucindale (S.A.). Many years ago deer
escaped from a private park near by—
they are now something of a pest in the
Government pine forests —and one fine
old buck, with splendid antlers, left the
rest of his kind and went wandering off
with an old ewe. The queerly-assorted
pair roamed about for a couple of years,
and were often seen together; I saw
them one evening near a waterhole. The
ewe went wool-blind and the buck re-
fused to leave her. He fell to a rabbit-
trapper’s gun.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”: “Senojo’s” Kanaka planta-
tion laborers (B. 10/7/’35) must be
clumsy fellows. In Fiji the natives never
cut their feet when making one pfeller
copra. I’ve seen the husks coming off
at the rate of 10 a minute; and the
clamping of the foot on the nut and
the slashing with the tomahawk were
movements too quick for the eye to fol-
low. But a more poetic sight is the
cutting-open of a nut and the scooping
out of the meat in one action. How
many nuts can “Senojo’s” Brown Brother
skin and gut in a day? Mine can do up
to 500. But he only works in fits anil
starts, and sometimes takes a month to
think it over.
* * * ♦
“Purinthy”; We’ve had a look at
orthodox goannas lately ; how about a
deep-sea go. for a change? He’s usually
found at the.edge of the reef, where it
falls off sheer into depth, and he forages
among the crevices in the coral. He’ll
take a bait and be hooked like any other
self-respecting fish. He has (he shape of
a goanna, with fins instead of legs, and
peacock-eye markings along his ribs
which harmonise with his coral sur-
roundings, and he has the skin and gills
of a. shovel-nosed shark. His head is
shaped like a goanna’s, and his mouth
is as near to an even break as it is pos-
sible to get between his two supposed
progenitors. The thing runs up to about
3ft. in length, with a hide which can't
be pierced by an ordinary spear.
* * # *
“Darral”: “Vante" wonders how long
a snake can live without food (B.
10/7/’35). A little over three years ago
J. A. Rechka, who has a snakebite-anti-
dote, secured a large live brown from the
Ganmain (N.S.W.) district. It was shut
up in a box and kept without food,
though during the hot weather it was
given a drink twice weekly. In the winter
months it received nothing. It died the
other day; the very cold snap may have
been partly to blame.
* * * *
“Kariah”: The oyster blenny is rival
to the lung-fish when it comes to living
out of its element. Have had the pretty
little fellows curled up id an oyster shell
for three days ; they have shown no ill
effects when replaced in water. If left in
a heap of oysters, with no moisture other
than that originally contained in the
mass, the blenny will live more than a
week. What he lives on, whether in the
water or out of it, is a mystery. He’s
usually found in a dead oyster shell with
the lid still clinging to it.
* * * *
“Ophir”: Other Aboliars can find
queer things in bore drains. The rum-
niiest joker I, as an old hand, have found
is the red snake with a black head which
lives in the drains just so far as the hot
water flows. This fellow, who might be
up to 30in. in length, is invariably turned
up with the mud when the delver passes
through it. I’ve never seen him out on
the downs; neither have I found him
past the point where the water cools.
He turns up his toes in the very hot
water near the bore-head, though he
seems to flourish in the shallow' mud be-
neath it.
* * * $
“ I wo Mile": Some recent comment on
decadent Cooktown (Q.) reminds me (hat
up to 40 years or so ago it w'as the g.h.q.
of China in Australia, and was thought
worthy to be the residence of the Chinese
Consul-General. The incumbent of my
day was a most dignified old mandarin
who never condescended to European
dress. I am ashamed to say I have for-
gotten his name, though I have enjoyed
his hospitality at the New Year, when he
kept open house for the local magnates
and more or less important: visitors to
Cooktown. In the days of the Palmer
rush in the ’sixties it is estimated some
40,000 Chinese coolies passed through
Cooktown to the back country before re-
strictive legislation stopped the flood. It
was to watch the interests of these that
the Consul-General was stationed in
Cooktown, where he remained years
after most of his compatriots had drifted
aw'ay,
* * * *
"Old Warden’’: Reading a par. about
an entirely reputable N.G. concern, 1
was reminded of one N.G. discovery
which fell short of shareholders’ expecta-
tions. A prospector turned up in Mel-
bourne with a nugget which he said he
had found near the mouth of the Fly
River —the whole island was “New ;
Guinea” in those days. People rushed
the shares of the co. which was to work
the new Eldorado. The fatal mistake of
showing the nugget in a Collins-street
window was made. A Tasmanian jeweller
swore that he had bought it from the
finder and resold to a man the year be-
fore. Confronted with the alleged N.G.
prospector, the man from the Speck
identified him as the chap to whom he
sold the nugget, and everyone went out
and drowned his sorrows as best he
could.
THE CHANNEL-CLEANERS.
From Birchip north to Mittyack, then west to
Ouyen town,
By lonely farmsteads far outback we send the
water down.
Wc are the men who give the land the life to
grow the wheat;
We arc the men who move the sand that
through long days of heat
I his drifted o’er the channel banks and piled
up feet on feet.
Sand, sand, sand!
What care we how i( drift?
Ihe more the miles ‘long which it piles
I he more there is to shift.
When cockies’ tanks arc nearly dry and there’s
no hint of rain,
Wc welcome each day’s cloudless sky—(heir loss
will be our gain.
Willi “wonks” and- “skids” in dirt and dust
wc clear the channel way:
' And every yard’s another crust, each mile
another pay.
The Malice’s curse is drifting sand; for us it’s
stall' and stay.
Sand, sand, sand!
I here’s sixty miles to shift;
And year by year it’s bread and beer,
Ihe drift, the good old drift!
N.S.W.
P.T.F.


“ Wot'll y' ’ ave , Bill— ‘Tiptoe through the Toolips with Me' or ‘ Just
Hummin' Along'?"
“Over-plumb”: My friend Potshot
was a nice bright lad when he first be-
came interested in beagle-hounds. Now
he wears a lugubrious expression, his
forehead is wrinkled, his ears tend to
droop, and he has formed a habit of
walking with head and shoulders sway-
ing forward as though they were too
heavy. One moonlight night I came
upon him examining footprints on the
path in front of my house and making
peculiar wailing noises. When requested
to explain his conduct he said he was
yodelling to the lady who does our wash-
ing—clearly an instance of the dog’s
psychology being too strong for its
owner. Another case was that of a
man of a retiring character who lives in
my street. He adopted an Irish terrier,
and within a month was arrested three
times for public brawling. Formerly a
baldheaded, clean-shaven man, he now
has rusty whiskers and an aggressive
manner. But the most outstanding
case is that of Bragg, a next-door
neighbor. A relative returning from
abroad with a wolf-hound persuaded him
to look after the animal for six months.
Came a day when Bragg addressed me
as comrade. Soon after that he began
to study Karl Marx and practise oratory
from the chopping-block at the bottom
of his yard. He is now the leader of the
Movement in our locality, and harangues
the proletariat regularly on the benefits
of Communism. He has grown a beard
and changed his name to Braggski.
* * * *
“Mid-Sussex”: I wonder if any Abo-
liar knows how Bird Island, a small
speck in the Barrier Reef, got its name.
There may be birds there in the summer,
but in three winter cruises I’ve only
seen one, a pigeon ; and that was shot
by Rear-Admiral Evans on his last trip
before rejoining the British Fleet. It’s
a desolate isle ; it is dotted with a few
shells and even fewer scrubby trees.
“Stylus”: 1 can sympathise with
‘Mpha’s” uncle (B. 12/6/’35) who was
denied a smoke on his fishing trip. Simi-
larly occupied in wintry weather, I
dropped my matches overboard, and
although I retrieved them they wouldn’t
dry. Back on land an old seadog showed
me the trick. Under a tap he moistened
a lucifer, and then vigorously rubbed the
business end of it in the short hair on
the back of his head for a few seconds.
The first rub on the box ignited it, and
I still think the tip was well worth the
drink I bought him. I’ve never known it
to fail.
* * * «
“Gam”: After dark, when returning
home across a paddock, a Mt. Gambier
(S.A.) newchum had the misfortune to
turn the dray over and break a shaft. As
it was a level track, his employer couldn’t
understand how the vehicle could pos-
sibly have capsized. Then Strawberry
was noticed to have a large piece of skin
off her side. Choom confessed that the
cow had been asleep on the track and
the wheel had mounted her back. Wak-
ing up hurriedly she tipped the cart over.
* * * *
“Outback”; I nominate the fresh-water
crayfish (or yabbie) as the staunchest
withstander of droughts. The mud-
tunneller lives in outback tanks and
dams, always riddling the banks, but
when the water dries up his nibs goes
down. I’ve dug as deep as 15ft. when
deepening dams, and still the cray was
well ahead. Even after a two-year
drought, replenished waterholes were full
of the pests again. Water-birds take
great toll, but the crustaceans are more
prolific than rabbits. The abo. regards
them as titbits, while they are easy fishing
with a well-tainted bone on a string.
But they’re not a hungry man’s meal.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Chinamen I have met
who have risen above the rank of market-
gardeners include three who grade as
bosses. The first was a carrier who em-
ployed only white Austra-
lian drivers. Second was
the leader of a prospecting
party, organised and
financed by himself. He.
too, employed all white
labor. The third I mei a
few days ago. He was in
charge of a gang of road-
workers. In all three
cases the men accepted their circum-
stances cheerfully and obeyed the bosses
without question.
“Walkabout”: During the Queensland
drought bush prads daily walked six miles
for a drink to the only water available —
the troughs at a well. Heavy rain brought
the creeks down bankers; the horses
swam the flood in order to drink at the
troughs.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Can’t agree with “C.H.”
that “Hey!” as a bush-call outrivals
“Wa-hoo!” (B. 3/7/’35). The first is
only good for the brief, sharp call across
a short distance; the latter, given the
correct, long-drawn mounting note, is a
howl that will raise echoes on a treeless
plain.
“Echo”: I’d like to add another call
to the' “coo-ee”-“wa-hoo”-“hey” con-
troversy; it’s a blast blown through the
barrel of a 12g. shotgun, as one would
blow a bugle. It is surprising how far
a long-drawn-out noise will carry down
the gullies. It is advisable to remove
cartridges and release hammers before
taking a breath, or the blast from the
other end will be even more surprising.
“Bill Oliffe”: The bump
of gratitude is very
strongly developed in
some abos. On Stuart’s
Creek station (Centralia) I
used to pay a bonus of
£1 to stockmen for every
horse they broke in. An
abo. named Peter Fergus-
son mounted a real out-
law, and was thrown. He
had a second try, with
more painful results.
Admiring his plucky at-
tempt, I offered Peter the
pound. He refused, so 1
J gave him an easy horse to
"break,” and then made
him take the sovereign.
Years later Peter came
back to the station and
handed me a beautifully
shaped and carved stock-
whip-handle. “What you
think that ’andle worth,
boss?” he asked. “A
quid,” I replied, produc-
ing it; but he stopped me.
“No fear—you takeum.
Now we square about the quid you pay
me for tho ’orse I never ride. That bin
worry me for years, boss.”
* * * >H
“Brix”: Add Corsica to the foreign
lands in which the gum-tree flourishes as
if it were indigenous. A youthful Aus-
tralian who joined a cruising party in
England found herself, when wandering
round near Ajaccio, clutched by an en-
thusiastic Frenchman who insisted on her
accompanying him to see “les gommiers.”
Thinking she was about to meet some-
thing unusual in the tree line she
hastened along with him, to listen to his
rhapsodies on a clump of gum-trees
which would not have won a second
glance from her in her homeland.
* * * ♦
“Magpie”; There’s nothing surprising
about the number of waterfowl to be
found along the N.Q. coast from Mackay
to Townsville (B. 17/7/’35), and I’m glad
to hear the birds are still plentiful. That
area is full of swamps, and years ago,
when it was much less infested with
humans than it is now, was a natural
game preserve. In addition to many
kinds of duck, the big black-and-white
N.Q. geese were thick, and in the season
everyone who could muster a gun
thronged from the towns to the swamps.
The geese in particular were shot while
“flighting” at night, being almost un-
approachable in the daytime. I never
heard of this particularly English form
of shooting being practised elsewhere in
Australia.
“Hope y' don't mind a friend telliri' y' , Joe, but you've got B.O. bad
this mornin'!"
“Bungle”: At a Lismore (N.S.W.)
coursing match one dog had all the morn-
ing been terrorising everything coupled
with it, and generally managed to spoil
the runs. But in the last run it was
swooping down triumphantly on an
apparently tired-out hare when the
creature suddenly attacked with both
paws. The howl of the hound as he
turned and fled and his crestfallen air
brought boisterous laughter from the
crowd.
“Walkabout”: “Eureka” (B. 12/6/’35)
is right about the romantic notions some
Bourke-street bushmen have of the time
a buckjumper spends in action. Only a
corn-fed prad and one bred to stay can
carry on its evolutions for much longer
than 60 seconds. Minutes though they
may seem to rail-sitters and, inci-
dentally, the bloke on top —the great
majority of buckjumpers peter out, if
only temporarily, after about 45 seconds.
There’s another feature to which little
consideration is given—the rider. Even a
balanced roughrider couldn’t remain on
top after a few minutes ; the strain’s a
bit greater than that exerted at playing
bowls. Several times 1 had the watch on
Carrandotta. When ridden right out, a
rare feat in his younger days, Carran-
dotta reckoned he’d done his darnedest
after 50 seconds, and he was no squib,
as scores of topnotch roughriders found
out.
* * * ♦
“Nordbo”: Jewfish of record weight
were caught recently in fishtraps near
Cairns (N.Q.). Fred West, a fisherman,
got the first, a beauty of 161 b., and a
few days later E. Range, who owns a
trap a mile nearer to the southern lip of
the inlet, discovered another giant in his
box. It scaled 2511 b. Is not this the
champion jew of Australia?
* * * *
“Western”: The best way to cook a
mullet is to grill it just as it comes from
the water, without gutting and with the
scales still on. This conserves all the oil,
while the cooked gut shrinks to very
little and is in no way offensive. An
even better way is to wrap your fish in
green paper-bark, and tie with a rush
gathered at the water’s edge. Tossed into
the coals, the fish is cooked by the time
the green wrapper begins to burn. An-
other good dish for those with strong
stomachs is the roes and livers of
snapper and jewfish. In season we
send all the other parts of the fish to
market, but decline to part with these
titbits even at 3s. a pound. The flavor
of fried fish-liver is unique, and surpasses
that of any land animal.
**, * *
“0.T.”: If Sydney dailies carrying
the story of the mild ’flu outbreak
reached Euston (N.S.W.) they should
have raised a reminiscent grin or two.
It was one Sunday morn in 1919, when
pneumonic ’flu was pandemic, and the
State ordered all citizens to wear masks.
The trooper at Euston issued the ukase
on the Saturday, and by the time “Pian-
gil” Bill and “Agitato” reached the vil-
lage from Tapalin the store had sold
out of mask material. The astonishment
of Bill and “Agi” on seeing the dis-
guised populace was succeeded by exas-
perated sarcasm when the trooper
ordered them to mask. By the Sunday
morning, fed up with a night of trying
to talk and drink through their face con-
traptions, the pair decided to go home.
Harnessing the mare, and still rankling
with inhibited revolt, Bill noticed a slight
dribble in one of her nostrils, and his
eyes gleamed. He made a large, red-
bordered kerchief into a mask and tied
it to the winkers over Doll’s nose. “Agi”
promptly produced a similar kerchief
and masked their brindled dog. Whh the
mare fiery-eyed and snorting, the dog
trying to shake his off, and Bill and
“Agi” whooping, they drove round Eus-
ton. “Will that do y’ blanky law?”
Bill roared as his masked cavalcade
vanished down the river road.
THE WAY OF THINGS.
’E was startin’ an ’ole with a four-foot drill,
and knockin’ ’is ’ands about,
When I saw im workin’ on Logan’s ’lll as I
was travellin’ out.
1 opened ’is eyes to a thing or two, but 1
couldn’t ’elp but grin
At ’im tellin’ me what / oughter do when I
was travellin’ in.
’E was goin’ down on a leader there that carried
only a trace,
So I stopped a while an’ I showed ’im where
there was a likelier place.
I could see that ’e was new to the game; ’e
said ’e ’adn’t a crab,
But I wasn’t reckonin’, all the same, on ’im
droppin’ fair on a dab.
1 couldn’t but see ’e ’ad lots to learn the
minin’ game about;
So I thought I’d do ’im a decent turn when
I was travellin’ out.
I said to meself, “ ’E’s willin’ enough, an’
we’ve all got to begin.”
But I said to meself, “It’s pretty tough,” as I
was travellin’ in.
But still, as I’ve told you, I ’ad to smile at ’im
wantin’ me to see
That, though ’e’d been out there on’y a while,
’e knew as much as me.
But that’s ’ow it goes; as you knock around
you will find that this ’olds true:
To-day you give ’em advice that’s sound;
to-morrow they’re tellin’ you.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


HTTS
LYS
&
PROOF
ẅ
w
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
j
■Vi
3 &&
m
3*
d
m
..-T
'V. ‘
t 1 - *;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Pigs—and Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Queensland is about
to introduce a new pork- and bacon-
grading system, because the Agricultural
Department thinks that in some districts
quality is a “little backward,” and that
there arc still too many parasites abroad
causing a check on growth.
If this was all that was needed to put
the Australian pig on the map, it would
be a happy position, but yet awhile it
seems to be a case of “first get your pig
and then grade him.”
Denmark long ago adopted a national
animal, standardised him, made him
a business, and developed a bacon
trade with England alone worth, at
present, about £18,000,000 sterling per
annum—more than half as much as our
return from wool last year in Australian
currency. The area of Denmark is
16,576 sq. miles—10,000 sq. miles less
than Tasmania. It holds over 3,000,000
pigs. Australia’s export of pork in 1933-
34 was worth £300,000. It has about
1,500,000 hogs.
The Argentine has 3,700,000, and has
only begun to go into the business on
a large scale. Its growers arc applying
(heir knowledge gained in the beef busi-
ness, and a writer recently returned from
Buenos Aires to Australia records that
the animals are bred in numbers up to
5000 on a ranch, grazed on lucerne and
maize and cured to suit the European
market.
The first things which arc needed in
Australia before pig-breeding can be de-
veloped on a large scale are one or two
standard breeds of pig, approved by
British importers, a rigid official outlook
on disease and the abandonment of the
idea which our forefathers Jprought from
Britain—that Denis must be kept in a
sty, in as close confinement as possible
and only in small numbers.
Buflalo-fly.
“X.T.”; The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is shortly to send an officer to
discover whether the buffalo-fly pest has
abated.
Four years ago Professor Handschin,
an East Indian authority, was brought to
Australia to investigate the fly’s rapid
spreading. He was chosen because,
though the fly exists in Java, it does
little damage.
‘He recommended the release of 15,000
parasitic wasps, which were let out in
the N.T., W.A. and North Queensland
in 1932-33.
The results will be hard to check, and
it would be worth while to establish an
area where the fly is prevalent and make
a close examination following a fresh
release.
The fly now costs the beef industn r
about £25,000 p.a., but if it were to push
itself southward and attack dairy herds
this figure would look a trifle beside the
damage which it might do.
In the present dry era, there is not a
great deal of danger, but a succession of
wet years would put a different com-
plexion on the situation.
Baby Beef.
“X.T.”: E. F. Sunners, manager of
(he Brisbane Abattoirs, says he notices
a progressive improvement in the
condition of Australian export beef since
his arrival in London, and he thinks that
“as quality improves and cattle are mar-
keted younger” Australian meat will com-
mand the attention of the best retailers.
He further declares that during the
season, if we are to succeed, there must
be daily “pitchings” on the market.
Argentine meat is thus dealt with—
most of it is sold before it arrives, and
is on its way to provincial markets within
a few hours of the arrival of the ship
which carries it. Before wc can get to
the stage of regular supply a lot remains
to be done, and the industry must be
organised on lines which will create a
seasonal reservoir of young cattle in
coastal and semi-coastal districts for top-
ping off quickly with grain and farm
fodders before being sent to the chill-
ing works as baby beef.
Australia has always looked askance
at dual-purpose breeding on farms, but
it may be wrong. It certainly does not
seem to be uneconomic in Britain, where
dairy and beef cattle often live together,
the latter being brought to a killablc
stage with a solid turnip ration.
Sixty years ago, many a N.S.W. dairy-
man invested in a beef bull and sold the
produce in the Sydney market, and if the
pedigrees could be thoroughly investi-
gated it would undoubtedly be found
that much of the foundation of lllawarra
breed rested on bulls like Royal Butter-
fly 6th and Robin Hood, famous cham-
pions from the pick of the Booth and
Bates blood, which flourished in the best
N. S. Wales milk districts in the 'seven-
ties, This blood is now distributed the
whole length of the coast from Atherton
(Q.) to the Victorian border.
It would bo a worth-while experiment
to try a modern early-maturing bull or
two —preferably one of the .Scotch strains
built on the same foundations as the
early Australian pure Shorthorns —on
lllawarra heifers, with a view to the pro-
duction of farm beef.
Inbreeding and Line-breeding.
“El V.”: Few people understand the
principles underlying the two systems
which may be regarded as the very
foundation of modern beef-cattle breed-
ing two correspondents wrote last week
taking exception to the use of polled
Shorthorns from the naturally hornless
U.S.A. families, on the ground that they
must be “hopelessly inbred.” There is
no such thing, except where the animals
are bred to faults instead of virtues; and
where this happens the “hopelessness” is
very soon apparent, and the end of (he
strain is the abattoir.
Like all building, inbreeding and line-
breeding, which differ only in blood pro-
portions, must have a basis if they
are to secure continued prepotency and
fixity of type. Australia has a good
example of what may be achieved. Few
Australian Shorthorns in the second or
third generation do not descend from
the Summerton Derrimuts through some
part of their pedigree. And Roan Sum-
merton (raced every line of her descent
from the sixteenth generation backward
to Favorite (252), sometimes via his son
Comet (155), the first bull in history to
be sold for 1000 guineas. Comet’s own
breeding was a splendid example of
inbreeding:
Favorite (252) {
Young Phcenix { “ C 52).
Phcenix was sired by the same bull as
Bolingbroke—Foljambe.
Inbreeding is not for the novice. Its
basic requirement is a knowledge of the
material on hand and its potentialities.
Its results are not definite inside a genera-
tion. It was not until the varying strains
of the Favorite blood had been thor-
oughly built up for half a century that
it achieved the height which has made
it the solvent and stabiliser of nearly all
Australian Shorthorn blood. First, Fav-
orite himself was pounded into the off-
spring strains for two or three genera-
tions, giving them his marvellous con-
stitution and some of them his not very
good looks. Then came the persistent
admixture of the rich-milking breeders,
the Favorite Princesses, which were
almost unexampled for the size of their
families and the magnificent milking
qualities which helped to breed Thomas
Bates’s peerless Belvedere (1706) and
Duke of Northumberland (1940).
Finally, style was infused through
Bates’s Oxford Duchess blood.
It can be a dangerous game even an
old hand becomes enamored of certain
lines of slock, and is too much in a
hurry. Witness the cases of Bates him-
self and his barren Duchesses.
Line-breeding, of course, is merely
inbreeding where the mated individuals
have not less than 25 p.c. and less than
50 p.c. of similar blood, and trace their
descent through a succession of sires to
the same individual—the growth of the
Summertons again provides many ex-
amples worth study by breeders.
The New Blowfly Dressing.
“Olin”: Great hopes arc centred by
the C.S.I.R. in its new blowfly dress-
ing—l3lb. glycerine to 31b. boric acid,
heated as a paste and kept in airtight
receptacles. The average cost per sheep
works out at 2d. per animal, or Us. per
gallon.
The dressing is applied to the fly-struck
part, and laboratory results seem like
magic after years of discouragement
which research workers' have gone
through. Flies at once leave the sheep
alone. Fever abates. Within 24 hours
maggots are killed. Affected skin be-
comes healthy, and, so far, restrikes arc
unknown, though efforts have been made
to achieve them.
Application is slightly laborious, but
not more so than most of the other
methods in vogue.
The effectiveness of the recipe under
ordinary pastoral conditions is by no
means proved, and the C.S.I.R. is anxious
to sec it widely tested during next
season and results reported to the
Division of Economic Entomology, Can-
berra.
Another Drafting-race.
"Liss”: “Pick’s” “handy sheep-race”
(B. 17/7/’35) is too Jong and too wide.
And why only one drafting gate? Apart
from being able to take off the stragglers,
two gates give the drafter more control
of his sheep, especially of ewes and
Jambs, The big mob should be allowed
to go straight through, the rest into (he
yard ahead, and the stragglers into the
one behind.
The race should be 15ft. Jong, 3ft. 6in.
high and 20ft, wide at the mouth and
3ft. high and 16in. wide at the exit. There
should be 2ft. between the drafting-gate
posts, which should be 3ft. 6in. long. The
walls of the race should be 6in. x l|in.
hardwood spiked to 6in. x 6in. posts, but
round rails faced with an adze will do.
The latter should be scarfed into the
posts and wired with a double twitch (the
“Cobb and Co.”), knots outside.
The end posts of the race must be
recessed so that the drafting gates will
lit into them, leaving the sides flush when
the run is straight to the centre pen.
Heads and butts of the drafting gate:,
should be of 3in. x 2in. hardwood, mor-
tised to take six 3in. x lin. battens.
Heads should be left 6in. longer than
butts and rasped into handles. Earmarks
arc more easily checked if check-pens
arc long and narrow. Corduroy or pave
the floor of the race and forcing-pen to
minimise dust.
Pear and Drought.
“G.F.D.”: S. Queensland graziers
missed the prickly-pcar during the
drought.
Saltbush and scrubs arc good standbys,
but they do not supply food and water
like pear.
I can remember a mob of pear-fattened
wethers in the middle of the ’l9 drought
averaging £3 per head—-the tops brought
£3 195., and they hadn’t seen water for
it) mbnths.
The owner was carting water for and
feeding his saddle horses.
Salt-poisoning.
“Argo”; Salt-lick remedies should be
accompanied by the warning that there
is such a thing as salt-poisoning, and that
usually it comes to salt-hungry sheep
which tackle a lick too voraciously. Or.
again, it sometimes happens after rain,
through water in a lick trough absorbing
the salt into a concentrated brine.
Symptoms begin with heavy thirst,
failure to eat, and hot dry mouth and
nose. There are abdominal pain and
diarrhoea, staggers, paralysis, pupil
dilation, and death often within four or
five hours.
Treatment needs to be prompt, but it
is simple—abundant water drenches and
a couple of ounces of linseed oil.
Subdivision.
“Granova”: On mixed-farming prop-
erties. all wheat paddocks should be
sown to grazing oats or pasture in turn,
so as to control weeds.
This calls for subdivision, especially
for oats, as it is advisable to allow portion
of (he crop to mature for hay or grain.
Permanent strainers spaced 10 chains
apart across big paddocks will not in-
terfere with big-team cultivation. Ring-
lock fencing, reinforced with posts a
chain apart, can be quickly erected be-
tween the strainers.
The fencing material can be shifted
to each paddock as required.
Rust Fungus.
“Hortus”: There are several parasitic
strains of wheat-rust fungus. Some
attack most wheat varieties, others only
a few. When germs of two or more
different rust strains become associated
on common barberry “crossing” takes
place, and new races of rust arc born.
The first natural occurrence of wheal
rust on barberries in Australia was near
Bathurst in 1933. Now orders have just
been issued to destroy every common
barberry in N.S.W. Fortunately the
climate does not suit the plant, except in
cooler districts.
But it might acclimatise itself thor-
oughly, like other pests.
The barberry has numerous stalks
rising from below the ground surface.
It ranges from 6ft. to 10ft. high. The
leaves arc saw-edged. On the branches
are stiff thorns in clumps of three, with
bright-red berries in bunches. It grows
readily from seed, and is very easily
scattered about the country by birds.
Salt and kerosene applied to the crown
of the plant will destroy it. Digging is


.Illfg
r
, , , »!Rj£ < «' * ■ < ■;■ ■ -v£
i
■ *r, ■ ■>#»
fSiifeo
**•' I' =
: ■
v, ip
.
■ ■;
.
Vv/l
S l
-
:
1
m 1
: :
m
*
■ V 3
i
■
Ar*-*
V
S;
'v; ‘ 7
f >7 '
■:
■
V
If-
■
m V & ••;•?
ŵ
Because "Light of the Age”
is clean and pure, it is free
from smoke or odour.
“LIGHT OF THE AGE’’
MEANS A BETTER HATCH
FROM EVERY BATCH
For strong, sturdy chicks, hatched with 44 n0 effort at
all”* you must have perfectly even temperature right
through the hatching,
“Light of the Age” burns so evenly that there is practi-
cally no variation of heat in the incubator.
Given first-class eggs and a good machine, * 4 Light of
the Age” will give you a trouhle-free hatch every time.
ẁ
not recommended, unless the plants are
small, when the complete root system
can be removed.
If people want to keep barberries as
decorations they can safely grow the
Japanese variety, which is rust-immune.
Wild Poppies.
‘‘Stump Jump”; “Mangaratta’s” pop-
pies (B. 10/7/’35) usually get a hold
because of a soil deficiency which pre-
vents the crop smothering the weeds.
A long fallow, from March or April
ploughing, lends to shoot the poppies if
the soil is rolled or well worked about
May. They should be allowed to grow'
well before scarifying. A deep, narrow-
point cultivation will be needed in spring.
Super, and ammonia give a good kick
to a stubble crop- double the normal
quantity of super, and 401 b. to 601 b. of
ammonia. This, combined with late sow-
ing of early-maturing wheat, is effective.
Poppies and oats do not agree. Early-
maturers —Mulga or Palestine —sown late
and cut at the first chance, remove stray
poppies which may have shot. Tas-
manian white oats can be sown very late,
and are not to be sneezed at for hay.
One good year’s work is not enough.
Poppy seed seems to last a number of
seasons, and may get into the stripped
grain.
Super. Is Cheap.
"Yeoman”: Rarely has pasture top-
dressing been so profitable as now. With
first-grade super, selling at £3 7s. per
ton (reduced from £4 10s.), and a super,
subsidy of 15s. per ton from the Com-
monwealth (except on wheal land sown
for grain), actual net cost is only £2 12s.
per ton.
Where the rainfall varies from lOin. to
Isin. p.a., from 561 b. to 1121 b. of super,
per acre should be applied every three
to five years. But with rainfall from
Isin. upwards the dressing should be
from 1001 b. to 2001 b. every three years.
Top-dressing benefits are more appar-
ent in the over-15in. zone than with a
lighter rainfall, because the soil is usually
more deficient in phosphoric acid.
With a dressing of lewt. per acre on
a three-year rotation, the cost per acre
per annum at present prices would be
about Is.
Manning River Maize.
Yields in the fifteenth Manning River
(N.S.W.) seed-maize competition were
lopped with 133.11 bushels, produced by
E. H. McLeod with Manning White.
Only once has this figure been beaten,
and that by a strain of Mr. McLeod’s
production—l 42 bushels 361 b. on a plot
owned by L. and J. Richardson. Pride
of Hawkesbury, with from 121.35 to
129.11 bushels, held second, fourth and
sixth places. Large Red Hogan,
developed from a sound old-fashioned
standby, stood well, as did Fitzroy, which,
however, did not produce as high yields
as in previous years.
Manning White led in more than out-
put, for it is a high-percentage shelter
and shows unusual resistance to disease.
Keeping Potatoes Weed-free.
"Bimbo”: A method which could be
more widely used to check weeds among
young potatoes is one I use.
The potatoes are planted behind a
three-furrow mouldboard plough with a
single harrow trailing after it.
When planting is finished, the paddock
is cross-harrowed and another stroke
given just as the plants are beginning to
show through.
A little later the harrows are again
used, and a final treatment given with
a light harrow when the plants are 4in.
or sin. high.
I entered a paddock treated in this
way in a competition and secured first
prize with a yield of 12 tons 6cwt. pci
acre and 984- points out of 100 full
points for freedom from weeds.
When the judge inspected this crop at
(lowering time, he could find only one
{Contimu'd on pope 24.)


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J, Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A MASTERPIECE OF
HANDCRAFT
Comfort . . . smartness . . . and
wearing qualities not to be bettered
are the features of an Abbey Hand -
sewn Shoe. The perfectly shaped
upper delights you with its easy fit
right from the start. No breaking-
in needed I And the sole is amaz-
ingly tough. You actually save
money with Abbey Hand-sewn
Shoes . . . they last longer and wear
better.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact clean-
ing outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 707-
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 448.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP. Written
in simple form for novice and experienced
player. At all bookstalls and newsagents 2/-,
or posted direct from The Bulletin, Id. extra.
ẃ
HOV) W W A ~ps ; vvj)
k *
m
t’“
It is safer, and your cheque book provides a permanent
record of your expenditure.
The opening of a cheque account with the Bank of New
South Wales is a simple matter, and the various services
that the Bank renders to its customers will be courteously
explained at any of the Bank’s 730 branches.
It is not necessary to keep a large credit balance, and
whenever you have a surplus of five pounds, you can
place it on Fixed Deposit with the Bank, and arrange to
have the interest paid in regularly to your cheque account.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Established 1817)
The Oldest and Largest Bank in Australasia
140 A-1935
ẅ
small weed in the whole paddock, despite
the fact that the hand hoe had not been
used.
The manure which gives best results
on my land (Mt. Gambier, S.A.) is six
and one super, and ammonia, 4cwt. per
acre. Drill in the mixture before plant-
ing. It then becomes thoroughly and
evenly mixed with the soil.
A strip alongside my 12-ton crop
tested without fertiliser yielded only six
tons per acre!
Sweet Potatoes Are Good.
“Julius Want”: It puzzles me why
there is not a greater market for sweet
potatoes. On the Queensland coast they
are used universally, and they are just
as good, in the right varieties, baked in
the ashes of a hot campfire as they are
with a Sunday roast. Yet in the southern
capitals of Australia the average house-
wife rarely sees them.
As a farming proposition, they are
sound in northern N.S.W., and there is
no reason why they should not be accli-
matised in the County of Cumberland
around Sydney—l have grown them in
a Sydney suburb. At the Grafton and
Wollongbar experimental farms, aver-
ages of some varieties for four seasons
recently ran over eight tons to the acre.
In Brisbane markets they bring at present
from Is. 6d. to 3s. per sugar-bag.
Cultivation is simple in sandy soils.
Plants are propagated from small tubers,
one of which will often yield 40 or 50
shoots, which are separated after sprout-
ing in a hot bed or cold frame. At Sin.
long, they are ready to be planted out.
The present (late July) is the best time
to set the tubers in the frame, close to-
gether and covered with 3in. of soil. The
frosts should be well over before the
plants, about Sin. high, are ready to
plant out. A hundredweight of small
tubers will produce 4000 plants.
After shoots are separated, they should
be placed in a bucket of cowdung and
water, not too strong, until they are
planted about 3ft. apart in ploughed
land. A skilled planter with a spade
can put in 4000 plants per day. Soil
must be set well round each plant with
the foot. In cold districts, ridging is
beneficial. Cultivation with a small-
tooth scuffler begins when the vines
cover the ground—they grow like weeds
once they get' a start. Growth continues
till the first frost, the yield increasing
with the last two months of the season.
Super.—lewt. to the acre —with a little
bonedust, helps.
Sweet potatoes have few diseases. Two
of the best varieties are the Southern
Queen, a white-fleshed, rounded tuber of
good-keeping quality, and the Nancy
Hall, an early-maturing type, very sweet
and smooth-textured.
The Green Tomato Bug,
“S. Gumm”: A war on the green
tomato bug, which attacks other vege-
tables, fruit and flowers as well as the
tomato, is being waged by the Westralian
Department of Agriculture, which has a
very active entomologist in L. J. New-
man. Mr. Newman imported a parasite,
a tiny chalcid wasp, from Egypt, and
though there was some doubt whether it
would thrive in its new environment it
has established itself and has multiplied.
Last summer evidence was gathered
that the wasp was rapidly spreading and
doing great execution among the green
tomato bug, which is a confirmed sap-
sucker. Hundreds of rafts of parasitised
eggs have been supplied to the public.
Growers are asked to collect and forward
to the department rafts of green bug
eggs. These eggs are submitted to the
wasps in breeding cages; when para-
sitised, 50 per cent, of the eggs supplied
are returned by the department to keep
up the supply of wasps.
In some instances growers have im-
provised breeding cages, and have reared
and distributed the parasite about their
own and their neighbors’ properties. A
beneficial insect can be spread by arti-
ficial means in the same manner .as the
destructive one.
In Westralia free distribution of rafts
of parasitised eggs is now departmental
practice. And no doubt experimenters in
other States could get some on applica-
tion—our agricultural departments are
not parochial in these matters.
Swedes and Mangolds.
“El V.”; In relation to our needs, the
turnip is the most neglected vegetable in
Australia. The poor, bleak country of
Eastern Scotland and the Hebrides has
waxed fat on the “neap,” building up
cattle herds solely with its help. Here it
is neglected largely because it needs more
attention than many other crops, and ex-
perience has not taught the average
farmer what a good standby it is.
As drought feed for sheep, either
swedes or mangolds are hard to beat.
Water content varies from 88 p.c. to
93 p.c., which is as almost as good as
prickly-pear. Protein is about 1.2 p.c.,
carbohydrates 7.5 p.c. and fat .2 p.c.
Nearly all the dry matter will digest.
Swedes are an autumn crop and do
not do well in summer, when they are
subject to attack by aphis and other
diseases ; but mangolds can be sown both
in autumn and in August-October. They
will grow in most 20in. rainfall country.
Swedes and most other turnips suit
almost any kind of soil. Moisture means
more than rich nutrition. Land should
be ploughed deeply two months before
sowing, and given lighter ploughing be-
fore the crop is put in. Finally, it should
be brought to high tilth with harrow and
cultivator, as the seed is fine. Sometimes
rolling pays.
Seed should be sown in drills 2ft. 6in.
apart in moister districts—2lb. to the
acre. Broadcast, double quantity is
needed. In drier districts, l£lb. drilled in
should be enough. The flatter the land
the better. Super.—£cwt. to lewt. per
acre —will supply phosphoric acid. When
the plants reach about 2in. high, thin out.
For field purposes, they should be Ift.
apart at least in the drills. A hoe will
do the job quickly.
Autumn-sown crops may be left for
paddock-feeding in winter, or the roots
can be stacked or pitted with straw and
soil covering. Swedes keep well for
two months in the ground or on the
surface. All stock will fatten on theni.
and for sheep they make a good sole
ration. When fed to cattle, they should
be chopped up.
One of the disadvantages is that they
are a soil-tiring crop—especially man-
golds. They should never be sown on
the same land twice in succession. At
the same time, they are worth while on
any farm.
Hints for the Farm.
Oats lose some of their nutri-
ment near maturity. A ton of hay from
oats in flower equals in feeding value
nearly 25cwt. of ripe oaten hay. The best
time to cut for horses, however, is while
the grain is still in the milky stage, about
12 days after flowering, to avoid scours.
Cows do well on the flowering plant.
“Hope Vale”; A very handy trailer to
carry up to 30cwt. can be made from
the frame of an old harvester. Shift the
forecarriage part to the right till the
front wheel is in line with the middle
of the back axle. Then build a square
wooden platform on the frame, with the
axle as the point of balance.
“Granova”: Erect a strong rail pen
3ft. high, sft. wide, length depending on
number of animals to be fed, and you
have a good hay feeder. The hay is
placed in the pen, and the stock stand
around it.
“Win”; A few days ago I saw a pig
die with symptoms which suggested
strychnine, but the poison was not avail-
able to him.
He would leap in the air, give a pierc-
ing squeal and race about and fall on
his side in a fit. After the performance
he would walk leisurely back and lie
down again. This continued for about
a week before he died in a fit.
Can any M.O.L. reader diagnose?


SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘There are 500,000,000,000 nebulae in the
universe,’ states a professor.”
A chain-letter enthusiast wants to know
whether they’re all inhabited.
* * * I-
“The Karoola struck the full force of a
westerly gale. Mountainous waves swept over
the stern, smashing an iron door ripping
iron bedsteads from their places Six win-
dows were smashed ventilators swept down
There were no deck sports during the
voyage.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Well, well!
*l* * * *
Setback.
“A Melbourne thief stole 60 women’s shoes.
They were travellers’ samples, and all for the
left foot.” —“Sunday Sun.”
That thief is a bit stiff. His chances of
unloading them are somewhat remote.
“There you are, sir. Fits you like a glove."
" Well, it certainly covers my hands."
However, he can take consolation in re-
flecting that he’s not the only one who>
has had some fruitless work.
There was the sad case of Flat-footed
Harry, who broke into the premises of
a manufacturer of E.P.N.S. ware and
snaveiled a huge sackful of goods marked
“special consignment.” It took him four
hours’ dodging about back streets until
he got home with it, and he had to carry
it up three flights of stairs when he got
there. He collapsed under the terrific
strain, and was in hospital for months
with a badly-strained back. It wasn’t
until he was quite strong again that his
wife dared breathe the news to him that
the “special consignment" turned out to
be several hundred pairs of an improved
type of handcuff to the order of the
Police Department.
Keo.
»|« *2*
“An aboriginal in Darwin tried to cut his
throat, claiming that members of were
‘singing him to death.’ ” — “S.M.H.”
So crooning has spread to the natives!
■ *l*
“The Broadcasting Commission claims that
it has made the programmes what they are
to-day.”
Well, it’s darned decent of it to take
the blame like that.
A
“The police rifle had the longest barrel of
all.” — “Age.”
The long arm of the law.
“When I awakened I discovered that thieves
had robbed me of every stitch of clothing I
possessed.”
A nude awakening.
-I- v v
“A rider who was kicked by a horse said
that he enjoyed the excitement.” — “Herald."
He got a kick out of it, anyway.
•F 4* 4*
“By Their Speech” . . .
“Must ring the wife up and tell her
I’m working back,” explained Gaydogg
as he picked up the telephone receiver.
“Hullo,” he said a moment later; “it’s
Bill here. I won’t be home till well after
midnight.”
“Very well, darling,” came the voice
over the wires.
Gaydogg slammed the receiver down
in disgust. “Ah,” he groaned; “wrong
number again.”
D. S.
“A large wholesale softgoods warehouse has
vacancies for two boys, not over 76
age, to learn the trade.” —Auckland “Star.”
And yet there are people who complain
that youth isn’t given a chance.
4* 4*
The Deceiver.
Once again I’m finished with women.
After all my experiences I should have
realised that fidelity can’t exist in a
female heart.
Only two nights ago, in a nook by the
moonlit waters of the harbor, my arms
enfolded Nancy.
“Darling,” 1 said passionately, “I love
you! I love you!”
“How exasperating, John! I par-
ticularly Wanted to see the
elephant, and I've come without
my glasses."
Trembling in my embrace, and resting
her head against my heart as though to
hear its pounding pulsation, she whis-
pered, “And I love you I"
“Nancy!” I gasped, “I will be true
for ever! Will you?”
“For ever,” 1 she replied, quivering.
For ever—bah! To- night, in that same
nook, I saw her in the arms of another
man.
Such is the love of woman!
My blood boiled at the sight. But,
no! I didn’t do anything rash! I didn’t
strike him down or tell her what 1
thought of her ; I didn’t even say a word.
L couldn’t very well, because I was with
Elsie.
T. W. N.
* T * *
‘‘Professor Osborne says that many authors
make mistakes.”
Yes, some of them even expect to sell
their books.
*l* *l* * *
Tribulation.
The poet leaned over his manuscript,
his brow furrowed.
How could he concentrate while he
was being tortured thus? It was gel-
“How much did YOU get, dad?"
ting unbearable. He had suffered it for
over an hour, his sensitive soul being
worked into a higher and higher tension,
until now he seemed on the verge of
madness.
At last, dramatically flinging the'manu-
script aside, he rose.
“I will bear it no longer!” he cried.
“I am going to end it!”
Then, gathering his long, sable cloak
about him, he rushed forth to the local
ironmonger, and purchased a new washer
for the dripping tap in the bathroom.
Han.
Rake’s Retrospect.
If I, instead of going gay
With girls who led a shallow life,
Had spurned the weak desire to stray,
And settled down with home and wife
If I had only filled myself
With knowledge in my early days,
Instead of wine; and saved the pelf
I squandered in the cabarets —
If 1 had thought, amid my bliss,
About the future bare and lean;
If / had only done all this —
Oh, what a mug 1 would have been !
T. W. N.
Letters That Might Have Been
Written.
V.
One of King John’s minor barons to a
friend in France, telling of the signing
of Magna Charta.
London, June 20, 1215.
Dear Denis, —
Well, we’ve made Mad Jack toe the
mark at last. As you know, he’s been
playing old Harry for years —burning
down villages whenever he happened to
feel a bit cold, and all that sort of thing ;
and, as for money—well, for my part,
hardly a week went by without his put-
ting the nips in, and my case is no worse
than scores of others. We got that
way that we’d say “How much, your
Majesty?” almost before he opened his
mouth.
“What d’you mean, ‘how much’?” he’d
grunt. “How much have you got?”
And you never saw such a chap for
knowing when you were holding out on
him.
If you showed any reluctance to part
up he’d fly off the handle and start
chewing up all the rushes on the floor
like a dog eating grass to cure the croup,
and start talking of torture.
I tell you it was no laughing matter.
No sooner had a chap’s wife strewn the
floor with nice fresh rushes than this
mad vegetarian would come along and
chew ’em to shreds. No incentive for a
woman to keep the place tidy!
Anyhow, some of the chaps decided it
was time to show him where he got off.
We took him down the river to Runny-
mede, telling him there were villages to
burn there. When he found the place
was just an empty paddock with a tent
in it he hit the roof.
“Come off' it,” said one of the fellows.
“We’ve got something here that’ll inter-
est you.”
He produced about
25 yards of parch-
ment, closely written.
John snatched up a
pen and was about to
sign.
“Wait a bit,” they
asked him. “D’you
know what you’re
signing?”
John said he sup-
posed it was a list of
executions or some-
thing, but they said
no, it was a list of all
the things he was
going to promise not
to do in future.
You should have
heard him moan.
They stuck to their
battle-axes.
“But I can’t read,”
he howled.
“N ever mind.
They’re all there. We
haven’t left anything
out. Sign on the
dotted line.”
“1 can’t writ e,”
shrieked Mad Jack.
“Well, put your
cross there. Or would
•you prefer one in Westminster Abbey?”
He chose the former. Then we all
walked out on him and left him chewing
the rushes.
We’re going to call the list Magna
Charta. I don’t know exactly what’s in
it —I can’t read Latin —but they tell me
he’s promised not to bite our ears with-
out giving good security and reasonable
interest, so I’m all for it —the repudiat-
ing old cow.
JASBY.
Mixed.
“He had raced the dog repeatedly. The
first Sunday he was a gingery color, and won
him £2O. The next Sunday he was dyed
black, and again won.”
—Evidence in dog dispute.
“Amachewers! Merely amachewers!”
said Schlenter Paddy contemptuously.
“We ’ad a dawg called Streakerlong
when ’e wasn’t Yellerbandy or Jimjam or
Puzzlewit or Lastin, accordin’ to the
color we ’ad on ’im when we wanted ’im
t’ win. When we didn’t, o’ course, we
’ad other dawgs made up like ’is different
characters.
“We decided t’ maka big ’aul an’
get out before the confusion became
’opeless. We picked on th’ race. Blimey,
when it came on, the only entries
was Streakerlong, Yellerbandy, Jimjam,
Puzzlewit an’ Lastin—our own dawg, as
you might say—and one other, Straypin.
It didn’t matter much, of course. On
account of recent
wins, Yellerbandy
an’ Puzzlewit were
such ’ot favorites
that y’ could gel
money by the ton
on the others,
especially Streaker-
long, which, not
’aving been ’imself
for a long time,
was completely
fergotten by the
punters.
“We ’ad other dawgs that ’adn’t an
earthly made up t’ represent the field,
and the forchune we reckoned on pick-
ing up seemed as safe as ’ouses.
“It was a tragerdy. Most of the dawgs
wasn’t in it; but we cottoned that some-
thing was wrong when Stray pin went
along, giving Streakerlong a nose-to-nose
go fer it, an’ suddenly dives a’ead an’
wins.
“An’ then it suddenly dawns on us.
Streakerlong, as Straypin, ’ad beaten
’isself by a ’ead!
“Don’t arsk me ’ow it ’appened. It’s
one of them things that, when matters
become thoroughly confused, can’t be
explained. Y’see, we’d forgotten all
about our idea of ringin’-in Straypin;
an’ some’ow we’d made two dawgs of
Streakerlong.
“ ’E’d beaten ’isself. ’E’d beaten us,
100.
“1 don’t ’ave nothin’ to do with dawgs
now. It’s too confusin’.”
H. M.
Double or Quits.
“It is reported that Hitler’s double is almost
indistinguishable from the Fiihrer.”
— “Telegraph.”
This quality of indistinguishableness in
one’s double is an excellent one. Yet it
can have its drawbacks, as I can testify
from experience.
As the leader of a successful Friday
afternoon insurrection in Soporifica, I
automatically became that distracted
country’s thirteenth President. The previ-
ous 12 had died in office at the hands—a
couple of them at the boots—of the
infuriated mob. Though not superstitious,
I ordered my secre-
ta r y to find a
double. He got one
all right, after adver-
tising for a “small,
fat, scrubby man
with ferrety eyes and
a murderous look.”
I had him shot.
My double cer-
tainly bore a strik-
ing likeness to me.
He quickly picked
up every trick and
mannerism of mine,
as well as the gen-
eral run of my
duties. I began to
think him too per-
fect when one day
my dark-eyed Con-
chita said to me:
“Ducky, I want
some more of those
long, beautiful kisses
like you gave me
this morning!” I
couldn’t remember
having kissed her
that morning.
I arranged for my
double to imper-
senate me at a bullfight the next after-
noon, my spies having told me there was
an assassination plot afoot. The fellow
must have smelt a rat, though. He de-
nounced me as an impostor, and ordered
my arrest. He so deceived my stupid
staff that I was forced to flee the country.
My present anomalous position is that
I, Diaz Quikazell. '‘-President, am plot-
ting the downfall of Diaz Quikazell,
President. Fve never forgiven him for
ousting me before I had time to tickle
the national peter.
S. W. K.


Our Service Department
Wants
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Signwriter, Tas., exp. with interior and
theatre decoration, marbling and graining, seeks
position.—7753.
Typist, Sydney, own machine, requires liter-
ary work, stories, novels, plays, etc., to type;
neat and accurate, able correct grammar and
punctuation.—7799.
Young lady, Brisbane, senior typist and tele-
phonist, sound knowledge office routine, requires
position.—7793.
Young Salvationist going to England about
November is willing act as companion or secre-
tary for passage. Capable chauffeur and
exp. traveller. —7795.
Youth (18), N.S.W., two years Hurlstone
Agricultural High School, can milk and plough,
strong and willing worker, good pass in the
intermediate exam., wants position on a mixed
farm.—7789.
Information Sought.
What has become of Al Foreman, who fought
Kelso and others at the Sydney Stadium in
1933 ? Did he have many contests after leaving
this country, and is he still boxing ?—■’ 7Bo3.
Foreman returned to Montreal in 1933, and
defeated Tommy Bland for the Canadian light-
weight championship on September 19. After
losing a 10-round decision to Pete Sarron on
June 29, 1934, he retired, and now conducts a
gymnasium in Montreal
* $ $ *
Is there any N.S.W. police regulation or law
regarding the maximum candle-power of car
headlights ? If so, what is the maximum ?
7466.
There is no maximum. The law demands
that each vehicle with two wheels in front
travelling at night shall be equipped with two
lighted headlamps, on opposite sides, of
approximately equal candle-power and capable
of showing white light only at the front. Such
headlamps must be not higher than 4ft. 6in.
from the ground. All the rays of the light from
the headlamps are projected on to the ground
at a distance not exceeding 60 yards in a
direct line in front of such vehicle. Each such
headlamp is of sufficient candle-power to illu-
minate and render easily distinguishable at a
dislance of 25 yards any person or other sub-
stantial object in front of such vehicle. The
experience of the Police Department shows that
headlight bulbs of more than 32 candle-power
give a glaring effect, and therefore do not
comply with the Regulations for Motor Traffic.
# ' * * *
What sculptors were responsible for the fol-
lowing statues and pieces of statuary in Syd-
ney: (1) Queen Victoria, (2) King Edward VII.,
(3) Prince Albert, (4) Governor Phillip, (5)
Captain Cook, (6) Matthew Flinders, (7) Cardi-
nal Moran, (8) Archbishop Kelly, (9) Dr. Lang,
(10) Thos. Sutcliffe Mart, (11) Henry Lawson,
(12) William Bede Dailey, (13) Robert Burns,
(14) the Shakspearean group outside the Mit-
chell Library, (15) the figures on the Cenotaph,
(16) the figure on the war memorial in St.
Mary’s Basilica, (17) the Archibald Memorial,
and (18) the figures on the Anzac Memorial ?
—7798.
(1) Joseph Edgar Boehm, (2) Sir Thomas
Brock, (3) W. Theed, (4) Achille Simonetti,
(5) Thos. Woolner, (6) W. R. Colton, (7), (8),
(14) and (15) Bertram Mackennal, (9) Giovanni
Fontana, (10) Pierce F. Connolly, (11) and (16)
George Lambert, (12) James White, (13) F. W.
Pomeroy, (17) Francois Sicard, (18) G. Rayner
Hoff, assisted by Eileen McGrath, O. Steen,
J. H. Moorfield and others.
* * * *
What unemployment-relief tax is payable per
week on wages and salaries in N. S. Wales ?
—7773.
Where income from wages, salary, etc., does
not exceed £3 10s. per week, the tax on earn-
ings not less than £2 and not more than £2 10s.
per week is 9d.; on earnings exceeding £2 10s.
and not more than £3 per week, Is. 3d.; on
earnings exceeding £3 per week, Is. 9d. Where
income from wages, salary, etc., exceeds £3 10s.
per week, the tax on the first £2 of earnings is
6d. in the £1; on the next £2 the tax is Id.
m each 2s. 6d. thereof; on the remainder of
earnings in excess of £4 per week the tax is
Id. in each 2s. thereof.
* * * *
(1) How many members of Parliament are
there in Australia? (2) Total salaries? (3)
Separate membership for Commonwealth and
Slates ? (4) Cost of each ? (5) Where can I
get further details? —767l.
(1) Including the voteless member for the
N.T., 616. (2) For the year ended June 30,
1933, the latest for which figures are available,
they amounted to £343,502. (3) Common-
wealth: Senate, 36; Reps., 75. N.S.W.: Coun-
cil, 60; Assembly, 90. Vic.: Council, 34;
Assembly, 65. Queensland: No Upper House;
Assembly, 62. S.A.; Council, 20; Assembly,
46. W.A.: Council, 30; Assembly, 50. Tas-
mania: Council, 18; Assembly, 30. (4) Includ-
ing all allowances—railway passes, postage, elec-
tions, Royal Commissions, Governors’ expenses
and the like—cost of Parliamentary govern-
or 1932-33 was; Commonwealth,
£366,802; N.S.W.. £234,389; Vic., £90.017;
Queensland, £95,102; S.A., £82,359; W.A.,
£98,223; Tas., £32,728. Total for Australia,
£999,620. (5) In the latest Commonwealth Year
Book, page 75.
* * * *
Should shags or cormorants be destroyed on
account of damage they do to our fish ? Do
they eat edible fish ? —7532.
Cormorants are usually regarded as destruc-
tive _to N.S.W. inland and estuary fisheries,
particularly when they congregate in large num-
bers. Because of this they have been placed
on the First Schedule of the Birds and Animals’
Protection Act, and are totally unprotected. It
is believed, however, that they destroy eels
and crustaceans which eat the fry of useful
fishes.
* * * *
How is the yield to the investor of £3 Bs. s d.
per cent, on the recent Commonwealth loan
calculated ? —7730.
The price of issue of the stock is £99 10s.
If this were the amount paid on maturity, the
half-yearly rate of interest would be 1.696 per
cent. |) X 3| X 100 divided by 99£). But
on maturity £lOO is paid; therefore a small
sinking fund must be set up, and accumulated
at half-yearly rests over a period of approxi-
mately 14 1-3 years, to provide for a bonus on
conversion of 10s. (= £5). Reference to a
sinking-fund table shows that a series of half-
yearly payments of 1 stretching out over 28 2-3
periods at the appropriate rate of interest will
accumulate to approximately 36. Therefore, the
amount of sinking fund must be divided by
36, or .0139 nearly, making the half-yearly
interest involved 1.696 per cent., plus .0139
per cent., equalling 1.7099 per cent. Annual
interest, therefore, equals 3.4198 per cent., or
very nearly £3 Bs. sd.
* * ♦ *
(1) Recently I presented a cheque ( open and
to my order ) to a bank for payment, properly
endorsed. The ledgerkeeper requested me to
endorse again more legibly, which I declined,
on the ground that it was my usual signature.
He then referred me to the manager, who sup-
ported his officer; consequently, to obtain pay-
ment I had to clear it through my own
hank account. I have always understood a
bank cannot compel anyone to endorse a
cheque. Is this so ? (2) In event of my not
having had an account, how could I have
enforced payment if the hank cannot compel
an endorsement? —7710.
(1) The bank was within its rights in requir-
ing you to re-endorse the cheque legibly. The
fact that it was your usual signature did not
excuse its want of legibility. (2) You could
have made the required order, or endorsement,
on the back of the cheque and a friend, or a
tradesman to whom you arc known, could have
cashed it and paid it into his own bank account
for collection.
* * * *
(1) Is there any truth in the belief that moon-
light will turn fish bad? (2) That it will dis-
tort the features of anyone sleeping in the
moon’s rays ? —7702.
(1) and (2) There does not appear to be any
scientific foundation for these and similar
beliefs, some of which are very ancient. In
Faiths and Folklore W. C. Hazlitt writes: “At
Melbourne, in Australia, if not elsewhere, it
is believed that fish caught in the full of the
moon, and afterwards left exposed to its rays,
become poisonous, but perhaps this phenome-
non is referable to climate and atmosphere.”
The Encyclopedia of Superstitions enumerates
the following beliefs: “If the moon shines
on your face you will be insane unless you lie
with your head ,to the north.” “Moonlight
will decay fish-meat and dull razors.” “The
Romans believed that all crazy persons had
been made so by the moon.”
* * * *
How did Kissing Point, near Ryde (N.S.W.),
get its name ? —7756.
One legend is that Governor Hunter (or
Governor Phillip) was present at a picnic-party,
which landed at Blaxland Point, and was
caught dozing by one of the ladies, who kissed
him. According to another story, the spot was
a favorite picnic-ground with Governor Hunter.
A boat grounded on the rocks, and, as it re-
mained hard and fast, the gentlemen of the
party removed their shoes and stockings and
carried the ladies ashore. The Governor fol-
lowed their example and received —or gave—a
kiss.
* * * *
Origin of the phrase “hell for leather”? —
7780.
It means to “speed recklessly,” and belongs
both to west Yorkshire and Suffolk, deriving
from “hell faladderly, “faladderly” being an
old west Yorkshire word meaning “recklessly.”
In course of time the phrase was written as
“hell-fer-lather” or “hell-fef-luther,” and
finally arrived at its present form.
* * * *
Who is Archer Russell, who recently pub-
lished “A Tramp Royal Through Wild
Australia” ? Has he written any other books
of personal adventure ? —7554.
Russell, a South Australian, has travelled
widely and contributed stories and articles to
papers in Australia and abroad. He is a Fellow
of the Royal Anthropological Institute, and
served in the war, being at the Gallipoli Land-
ing. He is the author of Padding It Through
Africa, Wild Life in Bushland and Sunlit
Trails.
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about a newspaper
called the “Gleaner,” once published in
Sydney ?— 7757.
The “Gleaner” was a weekly, edited by
L. H. Halloran, who was also the proprietor
and publisher, and was printed by G. Eagar
at 19 King-street. The first number appeared
on Thursday, April 5, 1827. On September 17,
1827, a tobacconist named T. Horton James
obtained a verdict of £25 damages and costs
against the editor for libel, contained in some
satirical verses. Halloran refused to pay, and
the last number (No. 26) appeared on Septem-
ber 29.
* * * *
What and where is “the little church
round the corner” ? —7790.
Popular name given to the Church of the
Transfiguration in Twenty-ninth-street. New
York, a short distance to the east of Fifth-
avenue. In 1870, when the veteran actor
George Holland died, Mrs. Holland, who
attended a fashionable Fifth-avenue church,
desired to have her husband’s funeral services
performed by the clergyman under whom she
worshipped; this was refused, on the ground
of the deceased’s profession, the clergyman
suggesting that possibly at “the little church
round the corner” the request might be acceded
to. it was. Mark Twain wrote an impassioned
diatribe about the affair. Since then the
"little” church has become a favorite for
theatrical weddings.
* * * *
In what country did glass originate ? —7BOO.
Probably in Egypt, for the oldest examples
of glasswork come from Egyptian tombs of
the fourth millennium b.c. These took the
form of beads, amulets, and the like. The
invention of glass-blowing did not take place
till the time of the Emperor Augustus, at the
Phoenician city of Sidon.
♦ * * *
Difference between a gun and a howitzer ?
—7792.
Formerly the howitzer was a low-velocity
weapon fired at a high angle of elevation,
while the gun was a high-velocity piece with
a flat trajectory. The howitzer conveyed the
shell to the target with a much smaller propel-
ling charge than the gun, and consequently
lasted much longer before it was worn out. At
present all guns are mounted so as to fire at
high angles of elevation in order to attain their
extreme range, and use reduced charges as well
as full charges and super-charges in order to
save wear. The distinction between the two is
therefore tending to disappear.
* * * *
(1) To what species of snake does the asp
belong ? (2) Cleopatra is said to have ended
her life by the bite of an asp. Is this true ?
—7783.
(I) To Vipera aspis, a species of venomous
snake closely allied to the common adder of
Great Britain. But the snake to which the
word “asp” has been most commonly applied
is the hajc of Egypt and the spy-slange, or
spitting snake of the Boers. (2) The snake
by which Cleopatra is said to have ended her
life is generally supposed to have been the
cerastes, or horned viper of northern Africa
and Arabia, about 15in. long, exceedingly
venomous, and having curious horn-like pro-
tuberances over each eye.
* * * ♦
In what manner is cormorant-fishing prac-
tised in Japan ? —7767.
A harness is placed about the cormorant’s
wings and a ring about the lower portion of
neck. The bird is then held from the boat,
and darts at the fish, swallowing its ca-tch as
far as the ring will permit; it is then taken
from the water, held up by the leg and the
fish shaken into a basket.
* * H> , *
Is there any special name for the weapons
used by a matador to kill the hull in a bull-
fight, or are they just ordinary daggers ? —7590.
The weapon used in present-day bullfighting
is a, sword with a heavy flat blade, called an
estoque; should the bull need a coup de grace,
however, it is usually given by a chulo with
a dagger which pierces the spinal marrow. Pre-
vious to 1700 a lance or short spear was used,
but in that year a famous matador introduced
the estoque, which ever since has been the
regulation weapon.
* * * *
By whom and in what circumstances was
“La Marseillaise’' composed ? Is it true that
the air, or part, was adopted from some
German composer? —7s29.
Both the words and air of “La Marseillaise”
were composed on the night of April 24, 1792,
by Claude Joseph Rouget de Lisle, a French
captain of engineers, and followed an evening
spent in the company of his friend the Mayor
of Strasburg, who had spoken of the need of
a marching-song for the French. The name
was originally jiChant de TArmee du Rhin,”
but later the present title was adopted, owing
to the, song having been sung with especial
enthusiasm by the troops from Marseilles on
their march to Paris. Authorship of the air
was claimed by one Boucher, and also on behalf
of Holtzmann by virtue of a Mass allegedly
written in 1776, but the Mass was never pro-
duced, and a comparison of dates effectually
ruled out Boucher’s claim.
$ * * *
(1) What type Pelton wheel will 1 require to
drive d 110 -volt dynamo' capable of supplying
about 20 lights ? . (2) Horse-power of same ?
(3) Quantity of water taken to drive the wheel
with a fall of 50 ft. ?■ (4)' Cost, and where
obtainable ? (5) Cost of dynamo, and where
obtainable ? (6) Power delivered by dynamo ?
—7593.
(1) A No. 15 wheel. (2) and (3) 1.7 h.p.
at 22 cub. ft. per minute, the h.p. being con-
trolled by regulating the flow. (4) £llO f.o.w.
Sydney; obtainable through W. G. Watson
and Co., 279 Clarence-street, Sydney. (5)
About £2O; obtainable from Machining and
Electrical Co., 29£ Oxford-street, Sydney.
(6) About 500 watts.
... * * * ♦
Value of the exports from Australia of
primary and secondary industries (flour to be
counted as primary) ? —7460.
For the year to June 30, 1934: Primary,
£114,793,237; manufacturing (secondary),
£4,773,355. For the purposes of the classifica-
tion flour, sugar, butter, etc., have been in-
cluded under primary produce. Figures are
in Australian currency.
* * * *
(1) For what purposes may municipal loans
be raised in Vic. ? (2) Any limit to amount ?
—7680.
Loans may be raised for permanent works
or undertakings or to repay previous loans.
Permanent works include construction or
alteration of streets, roads and bridges and the
construction or purchase of waterworks,
electric-light works and gasworks, municipal
offices, pounds, abattoirs, workers’ dwellings,
baths and pleasure-grounds. General limit
for any one loan is ten times the average
income of the municipality for the previous
three years from general rates not exceeding
2s. in the £l. Loans having a currency of
not more than 30 years, raised for permanent
works or undertakings upon the security of
certain income, and not upon the credit of the
municipality, by the issue of debentures or by
mortgage, must not exceed five times the
average amount of the security income.
* * * *
Is the Constitution of N. S. Wales framed
completely in the Constitution Act of 1902-
1933 ?— 7673.
It is drawn from several diverse sources,
among them certain Imperial statutes, such as
the Colonial Laws Validity Act (1865) and the
Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act
(1900); the Letters Patent and the Instructions
to the Governor; an element of inherited Eng-
lish law; some Federal statutes, including
amendments to the Commonwealth of Australia
Constitution Act; certain State statutes:
numerous legal decisions; and a large element
of English and local convention.
Brief Answers.
ŵ


ADDED TO LUXURY
FDR 19 3 3
or,
ALL-STEEL CLOSED BODIES, NEW BEAUTY OF
APPEARANCE and CENTRE-POISE RIDING COMFORT
The Ford V-8 for 1935 is today’s greatest motor car news. Thousands have inspected these mag-
nificent models with their handsome new closed bodies . . . Everyone is marvelling at the amazing
advance they represent in car design—at the unprecedented value they offer. The added luxury of
their new beauty, comfort and roominess, their riding and driving ease, their mechanical excellence
these are the points that have compelled enthusiastic approval. One phrase aptly sums up the
general opinion of the new V-8 : "It could be priced anywhere from £6OO to £l,OOO and still be
the finest buying proposition on the market ”... And yet 1935 Ford V-8 prices have not been
increased. With the introduction of All-Steel closed bodies, Centre-poise riding and many other
refinements, Ford has again anticipated public demand. No other car within hundreds of pounds
of Ford prices offers an entirely All-Steel body. Safety glass windscreen is standard equipment
in all models. Drive this splendid new Ford V-B—your Ford dealer will gladly loan a car for
you to test in your own way. He will explain also the convenient Ford plan of easy payments.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
SEE YOUR NEAREST FORD DEALER
|RD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) Fa
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Another triumph has come the way of
Edgar Percival, who, sick of scratching
for a living in Australia, betook himself
to England a few years ago and designed
the Percival Gull in which Kingslord
Smith broke the light-aeroplane record
between London and Australia. His next
venture was the Mew, a sensationally fast
and original type. Now he has evolved
a modification of the two types. Count
de Chateaubrun won the Paris-Deau-
vilie annual race —the “Kings Cup of
French flying—with it at an average of
187 m.p.h.
* * * *
From “Also-R.A.N.”:
Among promotions caused by the retirement
of Sir Roger Keyes is that ol Capt. R. H. O.
Lanc-Poole to Rear-Admiral. He came out to
Australia 10 years ago as captain ol the
Jervis Bay college. His hobby is sketching—
he is descended from Gainsborough, by the
way. The amateur theatricals at J.B. may not
have reached dizzy heights as regards acting
while he was there, but the scenery was always
first-class. He painted a lot of it himself.
Later, as captain of the Cambrian, he organ-
ised a R.A.N. officers’ hockey team that chal-
lenged and defeated most of the ships in the
Atlantic Fleet. He last served afloat as Com-
modore of the South American station, and
is now in command of R.N. Barracks, Dcvon-
port. C. E. Lane-Poole, of the Forestry Com-
mission, is a brother.
♦ + * *
“Eritrea”: “Oxmead” is right, of
course, when he says that the pure
Hamitic blood of the Ethiopian has be-
come tainted with that of the African
negro (B. 10 /7 / ’35). It would be a
wonder if it hadn’t, much the same hav-
ing happened to almost every nation on
earth, as far as the admixture from time
to time of alien blood goes. Yet it would
seem that the Ethiopian aristocracy re-
tains most of the characteristics of the
Hamitic race, this being largely due to
intermarriage with their own kind. No
one seeing a photograph of the present
Emperor, with his finely-cut features and
light color, would say there was any
negroid touch there, and in a picture
made in England most of the ruling
chiefs he took there with him are of the
same type. My point, after all, was that
to call an Ethiop a negro is a deadly
insult, though he may be another Jack
Johnson in outward appearance.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: When I revisited Eng-
land a few years back, 1 noticed a distinct
change in the dialect of Londoners com-
pared with what had struck my ear in
1903. At that time East End and
West End spoke distinct dialects ; it was
almost possible to draw a dotted line of
demarcation across a map of London
and know that those east of that line
would say “ ’ere” and “broight loights”
and those west of that line “heah” and
“brate lates.” But the post-war speech
revealed an approach to uniformity. The
extremes had, to an extent, been wiped
out. An English professor to whom 1
mentioned my observation agreed with
me, and attributed the change to the fact
that East and West had mingled so freely
for years in the trenches that the rough
ends had been rubbed off both, and the
speech of one now approximated to that
of the other. Certainly the old-type
Cockney who used to amuse me by talk-
ing like Chevalier had to be sought and
found with difficulty when I wanted,
during the post-war period, to entertain
some Australian visitor by showing him
the sights of London.
* * * ♦
“Whitehall”; I see (B. 17/7/’35) that
“a Yorkshireman named Isaac has had
to go to endless trouble to convince
Hitler he isn’t a Jew.” Yet names in
Britain rarely indicate race where Jews
are concerned. In pre-war days a cele-
brated identity on Inverness railway
station was a red-headed porter who had
a profile that would have blended with
any ghetto: his name was Sandy Mac-
something, and his family had lived in
Inverness for generations. The Earl of
Rosebery is 50 per cent. Hebrew, and
looks it; his mother was a Rothschild.
Lady Louis Mountbatten, who was in
Australia the other day, is 50 per cent.
Hebrew; her mother was a Cassel.
Oswald Mosley, whose children are 25
per cent. Hebrew (their maternal grand-
father was Levi Leiter), claimed recently
that most of England’s ruling families
had Jewish blood. And then there are
the obscure Jews —moneylenders, tip-
sters, commission agents, etc. —who
assume names like Douglas, Maltravers
and Fitzgerald for business reasons. I
was at school in England with a Jew
named O’grien. My experience of both
French and German anti-Semites, which
goes back to early in the century, is that
they go on noses rather than names.
There have always been restaurants in
Berlin where an English duke would
stand a chance of being jostled if he had
the wrong sort of proboscis.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Waldun: Crude to worthlessness L.R.8.:
Opens quite promisingly; sags away into a
petulant tirade against a whole class on the
strength of a single experience... .8.D.: Not
a bad yarn, but you’ve rhymed it diffusively
and untidily J.C.D.
Thp ancient realm of Prester John
May feel the Duoe’s scorching breath
Across the fated land sweep on
To glut itself with vengeful death.
Maybe, but can breath glut itself with death?
. ...F.McC.: He may be all you say, but we
never heard of him 8.D.: In the "Tit-Bits”
class S.S.: One is a very distorted echo of
Gilbert; the other wouldn’t make an election
lampoon... .F.A.P.: Story of anatomy student
and the corpse consigned to the morgue....
M.H.T.: Bluey brings forth no tears....
G.W.S.: Not enough pay-dirt in it....W.P.:
Yarns about South American prisons don’t
interest U5....N.F.: Not very likely, is it?....
Z.V.W.: There’s something in the idea, but
the treatment is faulty... .5.D.8.: It’s a theme
that has been worked to death... .R.S.: It
points too obviously to one man... .E.L.K.:
Of very limited interest Jacko: Yours also.
... .H.R.McD.: Too long-winded... .A.F.8.:
None of them rings the bell H.A.L.: No
quarrel with the facts, but the yarn doesn’t
appeal... .E.H.: Both women give the impres-
sion of being exaggerated to emphasise your
point... .W. 8.: Can’t help feeling it isn’t quite
the style of Trollope... .D.McL.: Don’t like
the type, but you might place it elsewhere....
M.R.P.; It shows the wisdom of the old
adage “Never go back”... .G.H.S.: “it seems
a shame that such a harmless creature as a
dugong is hunted for its flesh.” Of course,
harmless creatures like cattle, sheep and pigs
are used to it V.T.: Has been done before.
... .C.L.R.: Still misses... .R.S.H.L.; Not
much in it... .R.C.; Can’t see a gang of men
hunger-striking in order to get rid of the
camp cook. They’d use more forcible
measures Jir: It touched us on a very lender
spot, but we didn’t flinch E.N.V.: Don’t
think that sort of thing would happen in the
respectable suburb of South Melbourne....
W.R.E.S.: Merely an anecdote stretched out.
. ...H.S.S.: Not sufficiently convincing....
R.H.: Far too long; shortened, it might stand
a chance... .R.8.F.: Doesn’t make the grade.
. ...8.5.: It reeks with artificiality C.R.H.:
The father seems rather overdrawn... .C.J.M.:
Plot not very interesting, and conversation too
much of the “Hullo! Good-bye” type
D. : Gloomy, and doesn’t get anywhere.
J.J.: Don’t use plays; and a war yarn
must be above that level C.H.S.; It
isn’t a winner J.G.; Old, old tracks....
E. : Not far off... .F.W.: Came c105e....
G.S.C.: One winner; one loser H.D.: Too
much prose in that poem W.L.M.: Nice
work for a youngster. Can’t attempt to say
where it might lead, though.... Mother of 13:
Bright idea T.E.McC.; Fell immediately for
the lady
Who had a face
That you might dwell upon.
P.N.: Advise you to forget about por-
celain shepherds; look at what you can see,
and write.... R.E.D.: Get someone to read
some good sonnet aloud and yours immediately
after. Note the difference in sound, to begin
with... R.C.C.: Something in it. You put down
what you see, for one thing. But it fails as a
whole... .Shadow Rule: Bright idea, but not
workable with the Novel Competition.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.G.; Whatever the point is you have
concealed it... .E.M.R.: Wooden... .J.H.: No
use poaching on Pryor's preserves... .W. 8.;
The child with kettledrum sticks for legs tot-
tered to the basket V.P.: A labored artistic
effort and a very stale gag... .W.J.T.; You are
still many leagues from the printer and his devil.
... .T.M.F.: They are all on the return journey.
A.R.H.: That mouldy wheeze about the
young man who wanted to press his suit!
E.W.: Good idea; treatment inexpert Anon.:
Unsigned pencil sketch depicting a newchum
declining boiled mutton for breakfast went to
the basket F.F.: An awful assemblage of
ill-shaped parts... .C.W.8.: Restrain such long-
ings until you can draw.... M.J.: Tame jest
which doesn’t improve with age....R.M.D.;
You might as well draw with a darning needle
or a crowbar... .A.H.: It fails, but not by
much.... W.W.J.: Black-and-white is not your
game R.E.K.: Gently discouraged T.D.:
Looks like the trail of an agitated cockroach
with tar on its feet W.S.: Drawing has some
appeal; don’t work on such a small scale
H.C.D.: As three of the jokes were old, the
rest fell under suspicion... .D.W.: Flappers’
conversation devoid of humor... .P.T.J.: This
week’s longest-winded gag and most deplorable
drawing... .R.K.: You can’t draw a runaway
horse... .E.D.P.: It looks as if you did it in
a f0g.... A.G.M.: Among the misfits... .A.C.:
Hopelessly scratchy K.A.: Something in the
gag, but the drawing is atrocious... .R.W.P.:
Dreadful.
"Jcames”: The new Ambassador to
the Vatican (Francis Godolphin Osborne,
formerly Envoy Extraordinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary at Washington)
has no Catholic affiliations. His father
was the son of a clergyman (the Rev.
Lord Sidney Godolphin Osborne, brother
of the eighth Duke of Leeds) and his
mother was an Eden —one of a family
that numbers eight Anglican clerics
among its collaterals.


••SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS!
SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS."
RAYBESTOS-8 F LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, V C.
TO
KEEP YOUR CAR
YOU NO
replace
worn plugs w 11h
CHAMPIONS
■ PI ON
'SSSf- SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at
all leading garages
The Steering Column.
NO DOUBT ABOUT THE FORD TEN.
SPLENDID RESULTS OVER “BULLETIN” TEST COURSE.
By FRED BERRy.
FIORD’S latest production, the English-built 10-h.p. de luxe
* model, has been favorably commented upon in overseas
journals. Tested over the difficult “Bulletin” course under
Australian conditions, its reputation for economy, high per-
formance, reliability and comfort has been worthily upheld.
Convention has been thrust aside in designing this remark-
ably efficient unit. New ideas of proved value have been freely
adopted where calculated to give the modern motorist a car that
will meet his desires in an unusually satisfying way.
Appearance of the Ford Ten is dis-
tinctly pleasing, the all-steel body being
well-proportioned and efficiently stream-
lined, while rear-seat comfort is uncom-
monly good for a car of short wheel-
base-
General performance is remarkably
good, and the instant response to throttle
opening when cruising in top geai is
comparable with that expected ol much
larger cars.
Particular attention has been given to
balance and distribution of weight, the
engine being located well forward, allow-
ing passengers to sit between the front
and rear axles. This feature, coupled
with outswept chassis side-members, per-
mits a seating area in excess of that
usually found in light cars. Mechani-
caily the Ford Ten is a happy compro-
mise between extreme Continental and
American design, the most useful and
reliable features of each school being
incorporated.
The four-cylinder L-head motor has
a bore of 2.5 in. and stroke of 3.64 in.,
Built for comfort, speed and economy, the neat all-steel Australian-built body
of the new 10-h.p. English Ford.
giving a swept volume of 71.5 cub. in.
a 172 c.c.). The R.A.C. rating is 10 h.p.,
but, owing to the high compression
ratio of 6.6 to 1 and the special com-
bustion chamber design, 36 b.h.p. is
developed at 4000 r.p.m. Even when
operated on straight fuels no “pinking”
occurs.
Cylinder block is cast integral with
upper half of crankcase, cylinder head
being detachable. The crankshaft runs
in three large-section main bearings,
The pistons, made from aluminium
alloy, are of the split-skirt type, each
with three piston rings—two compres-
sion and a slotted oil-ring. The cam-
shaft, running in three bearings, is driven
by helical gearing from the crankshaft,
thus eliminating the need of a timing
chain or idler gears,
side-by-side valves arc fitted, the valve
s^ems being “mushroom”-ended, a special
p orc j feature which, in conjunction with
solid tappets, avoids the possibility of
faulty va lve adjustment and maintains
engine e ffi c i ency over long periods,
„ , . ... ~ , . . ,
Fud >! car [ led >“ a , 6 h teaL * ank al '? e
rear - a " d » *»»" •» Ihe carburdl °' *
a mechanical pump driven by an eceen-
tnc on the camshaft. Sediment or water
collected in pump assembly can c
drained oil ihrough a plug in e pump
casing.
The carburettor is of the down-draught
type, entirely automatic in action, and
equipped with a special starting device
which enables the mixture to be enriched
sufficiently for cold starting while pre-
venting raw petrol being drawn into the
cylinders.
Coil-and-battery lighting, starting and
ignition system is used, the battery being
located in an accessible position under
the bonnet. The generator is at the front
of the engine, above the cylinder block,
Generator and fan are driven by flexible
rubber belt from a crankshaft pulley, ten-
sion being easily adjusted by lowering or
raising the generator mounting. Ignition
is automatically advanced and retarded,
the distributor head being in an
accessible position above the cylinder,
block.
Engine lubrication is full-pressure sys-
tem, fed by a submerged gear pump to
crankshaft, camshaft and big-end bear-
ings via oil-ducts cast in the cylinder
block and drilled crankshaft. Gudgeon
pins and cylinder walls are splash-
lubricated. Sump oil capacity is 54 pints.
The engine is suspended in the frame at
three points on live-rubber mountings.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch, permanently adjusted, to
a three-speed-and-reverse gearbox, boiled
directly to the engine. Pinions in the
gearbox are helical-cut, constant-mesh
type, and synchronising cones are fitted
to top and middle ratios to ensure quiet
and easy gear engagement at all speeds.
Power is transmitted to the rear axle
from the gearbox by means of a drive-
shaft running on roller-bearings and
totally enclosed, the single universal
joint being of special Ford design.
The load is carried on the axle hous-
ings, thus freeing the axle shafts of all
stresses other than power transmission.
All road thrust is delivered through
torque tube and stays to the frame. Rear-
Special Ford easy-start, down-draught
type carburettor. Note simplicity of
adjustment.
axle assembly is three-quarter-floating
type, with crown-wheel and pinion of
spiral-bevel type. Final reduction is 5.5
to 1. Roller-bearings are used through-
out. The front axle is held in position
by radius-rods pivoting on frame cross-
members.
The chassis frame is double-drop type,
with side-members outswept, conforming
in shape to body design. Three sturdy
pressed-steel cross-members and four
diagonal braces and tie-rods ensure
rigidity.
Steering geaP is worm-and-nut type,
with provision for taking up wear in
box. Turning circle is 33ft. on left and
right lock.
Suspension is Ford transverse design,
eight leaves in front and ten leaves in
rear assembly. Hangers are steel-bushed
and lubricated by Tecalemit-type nipples.
Double-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers
are fitted to all four wheels, and all link
joints are bushed with rubber.
Mechanically-operated internal-expand-
ing brakes are fitted to all wheels, and
are actuated by foot pedal; emergency
brakes by hand-lever on rear wheels
only.
Bodywork is all steel, with chrome and
rustless-steel furnishings. The instru-
ment panel is lighted indirectly, and is
fitted with large-diameter speedometer,
ammeter, electric fuel gauge, combined
lighting and ignition switch, idling and
choke controls. Headlight beams are
controlled by a foot-operated “dipper"
switch. Windscreen is adjustable by
central control gear, windscreen-wipers
Section of the mechanical fuel pump,
with eccentric drive from camshaft.
being operated by vacuum from the
engine. Front seats are adjustable foi
driving position. Wheelbase is 90in.,
track 45in., and minimum ground clear-
ance B|in.
The car taken over the test course
was a four-door sedan with speedometer
reading of 2166 miles, and, as the
machine had only been driven around
the city for purposes of demonstration,
the engine was still “stiff’' and should be
capable of better performance when
further run in. Driver was C. Meggett.
of Hastings, Deering, Ltd., Sydney
distributors. The weighbridge docket,
including driver and observers, showed
19cwt.
First impressions when driving through
congested traffic were those of remark-
able stability when rapidly changing
direction and splendid top-gear pick-up
from 25 m.p.h. onwards. These features,
coupled with semi-sports-type steering
and efficient brakes, allow the Ford Ten
to give a performance superior to that
of many larger cars.
On the open road, after leaving Parra-
matta, the speedometer was kept steadily
on the 40 mark, main-road hills being
taken without any diminution of speed,
whilst, on the level, acceleration from
Cutaway section of the 10-h.p. engine,
showing highly efficient cooling system
and accessibility of major units.
1 Filler cap, 2 header tank, 3 outlet hose,
4 fan, 5 water jacket, 6 inlet connection, 7
outer shell, 8 overflow tube, 9 cylinder jacket,
10 fan belt, 11 water drain tap, 12 inlet hose.
this high average was instant and post
live on further opening the throttle.
At Pitt Town the rolling test was con-
ducted. Commencing at a steady speed


USEFUL DATA ON FORD TEN.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 23 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 10
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 6
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft.
Maximum speed, 62.9 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 34.6 m.p.g.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
ANNOUNCEMENT
INTERNATIONAL
MODEL C-30
35-cwt., 6-cylinder
Gross Capacity, including
body and payload, 55 cwt.
mm
mrr
Ki
; / <■ - '
LOWEST PRICE in
International history for 35-cwt., 6-cylinder truck
Motor truck users throughout Aus-
tralia have long awaited the day when
they could purchase the highest quality
truck and service at a low price.
We are now able to announce a sub-
stantial reduction In the price of the
International Model C-30 truck. The re-
duction has been made possible by a
greatly increased demand throughout
the world for this International model
which has in turn caused greater factory
production resulting in reduced manu-
facturing costs. This reduction is now
being passed on to buyers. At this re-
duced price Model C-30 is only a little
more expensive to buy than the lowest
priced truck of similar capacity on the
market.
This truck is not a new re-designed
model manufactured to sell at a cheaper
price. It is the regular International
Model C-30. Its quality is unchanged
and will be maintained at the recognized
high International standard. It is a truck
for which you would expect to pay many
more pounds than the price now quoted.
The price has not been whittled down by
reducing tyre and other equipment.
These remain the same.
Model C-30 is International built, with
International quality In every part. Full
International equipment backed by
International service.
This truck meets the demand for 75%
of all haulage jobs. You owe it to your-
self to examine this International truck in
detail. .Do it to-day.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA]
5-11 PYRMONT BRIDGE ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Chassis Prices from
£359
(PLUS TAX)
Convenient Terms Available
Quality and Equipment—
still the same.
QUICK FACTS
ABOUT
INTERNATIONAL
35-cwt., 6-cyllnder
Model C-30
Six-cylinder engine 78.5
horse-power hardened ex-
haust-valve seat inserts full-
floating rear axle—l 33 or 157-
inch wheelbase any desired
body style most economical
in operation ,of all trucks in its
class—lowest priced 35-cwt., 6-
cylinder truck in International
history. Other International
sizes range from half ton to
five tons.
F. 4978
THE HI G HEST QUALITY AT THE LOWEST COST
of 15 m.p.h. in neutral, the car rolled
715 yards before coming to rest —con-
clusive proof of correct alignment and
freedom of all transmission details.
Between Windsor and Richmond, on
a surveyed mile of concrete roadway,
maximum speed was tested, the time
taken (57 l-ssec.) averaging 62.9 miles
per hour. Over this section steering and
road-holding were excellent, but, owing to
One of the reasons why the Ford Ten rides so well over
rough roads. Engine position is well forward, and passengers
sit between axles.
the newness of the engine, appeared
somewhat harsh. With a further thou-
sand miles’ running a smooth maximum
of 65 m.p.h. would be possible.
Leaving Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong Heights, the rough unmade
by-pass road through Grose Vale was
taken, and over this bumpy section the
Ford suspension showed to advantage,
front-end steadiness and absence of
“pitching” being particularly noticeable.
Any doubts as to the splendid road-
worthiness of the Ford Ten were set to
rest in the speed
climb of 2 1-5
mi 1e s o f the
steepest portion
of Ku r r ajong
Mountain, which
occupied 4min.
I7sec. Road
speed seldom fell
below 30 m.p.h.,
and cornering
was safe and free
from skidding.
Middle and top gears were used, the
intermediate ratio being extremely quiet.
Returning down the mountain, a lest
of independent brak-
ing equipment was
made, the car coming
to rest on loose road
surface in 12ft. from
a speed of 15 m.p.h.
The cross-country
road through Castle-
reagh to Penrith was
now taken, and here
slow-running, accel-
eration and braking
tests were conducted.
A run of 350 yards in
top gear as slowly
as possible was fol-
lowed immediately by a similar distance
accelerated, in order to determine the
inherent flexibility of the motor. This
test is usually rather exacting for low-
powered cars, but the Ford Ten made
light of the task, covering the slow-
running section in 2mm. 31 sec. (averag-
ing 4.8 m.p.h.), and the accelerated
section in 20sec. (averaging 36 m.p.h.j.
speed at the finishing-line being 50
traffic tests were then ma de
* acc J lcra ion in gcar s from 10 to 30
h Jn gcar time was 10 4-ssec.;
(Continued on page JO.)


TheNeivSiMomz Kleener Restores
Gar Beauty Quickly and Easily
WHILE YOU DRIVE WITH
AUTO
TRAVE LT ONE
SIX-VALVE SUPERHET
RADIO
Telephone and arrange a demonstration, or Write for full particulars
’Phone: MA1336.
Merchant Distributors, Ltd.,
20 Steam mill Street, Sydney
Greater Reserve Power
in the new
S:>v.
r
£55
' ir
m
A
• . • •. a
"r 'jk
Ns ’•• '
•']:• );^
Jf
. -.--sjl
s/
:-V *
II
z
Wf
Sis
i
1
98^
m.'.
w\\
U'
*w
11 I
11
1
iiuiMU
Willard
WST-t-15
c:
\
WILL PROTECT
YOU AGAINST
UNEXPECTED
BATTERY
FAILURES.
Willard's New WST-I-I5 for light
cars has 15 plates per cell instead of
the usual 13, making it the most
powerful motor car battery, for its
size ever built.
115 Amperes! That's engineering
language for a new triumph in bat-
tery building. Installed in your car it
means better performance better
lights—and Extra Power Reserve for
a hard starting motor.
See your nearest Willard dealer.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham.
Waymouth Service Co., Adelaide. Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and Lismore.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
in Second gear, 6 3-ssec. ; while from a
standing start to 50 m.p.h. was clocked
in 2 3 sec
. ~
Service braking equipment was then
tested from a speed of 25 m.p.h., the
car pulling up in 22ft.
Fuel consumed on the journey of 117
m ;i e o Inis averaeinc 34 6
miles was Jgat. 3pts., averaging a-i.o
m.p.g. (32.8 ton-miles). Average speed,
inclusive of all tests, was 35.2 m.p.h. — a
splendid all-round performance.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
B.R.J. (Keith, S.A.).— My car is painted with
enamel, which has faded. Easy method of
relacquering ?
Unless you completely remove old finish from
the paintwork on panels there is a risk of
lifting the undercoat when certain lacquers arc
applied. Suggest using Duhix brushing lacquer,
which can be thinned down with turpentine.
% * : l :
R.A.B. (Broken Hill, N.S.W.).—(I) What
m.p.g. should 1 get from my 1929 Graham-
Paige sedan weighing 29cwt. ? (2) Where can
1 get an instruction book, and where arc spare
parts obtainable ?
(1) 18-20 m.p.g. on long runs; 16-18 m.p.g.
city driving. (2) Write Garratt’s, Ltd., Elizabeth-
strect, Sydney.
:|t >‘f * *
7629.—(1) Does the Rolls-Royce use a vacuum
tank or a fuel pump ? (2) How many cylinders
have the Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost and
Phantom 11. models, and what arc the horse-
powers ?
(1) Early models, pressure feed (pump); late
models, vacuum tank. (2) Ghost, six cylin-
ders, 40-50 h.p.; Phantom 11., six cylinders,
40-50 h.p.
* * * *
W.P. (The Summit, Q.). —I have a four-
cylinder truck, bought in ’33, and am
having trouble with oil escaping past main
bearings and leaking out back of sump. Have
had main bearing replaced twice, fitted nev\’
gaskets and cleaned out oil-return pipe, but
still I use a quart of oil every 70 miles.
Remedy ?
Apparently your truck has done consider-
able mileage and you have serious blow-by in
pistons. In this case, if you have restricted the
opening in the crankcase breather, oil will pump
out, of rear bearing. Alternately, the back
end of the sump may be buckled and a bad
lit on joint. This will lead to serious oil
leakage.
’** * *
W..T.A. (Bilbul, N.S.W.). —My car is a ’2B
model 12-32 -h.p. Singer. Please advise: (1)
When removing cylinder head must I interfere
with ignition or valve timing ? (2) Cost of
cylinder-head gasket ? (3) Cost of clutch plate
complete with fibre facing ? (4) Is any provi-
sion made for taking up wear in differential
assembly?
(1) Magneto ignition and push rod-operated
valves are not disturbed when head is removed.
(2) 7s. 6d. (3) Facing, 55.; plate. £2 10s.
(4) No outside adjustment. Unit will have to
he dismantled and packed to take up wear.
. * *
Anxious (Bathurst, N.S.W.). ■ Considerable
pjay jms devetoped ~, lhe steeri f
English car. How can this be tightened up'?
hirst make sure all steering connections and
ball joints are not loose, and then, if wear is
apparent in the box, loosen the nut below the
steering wheel, give the adjusting nut a slight
ffi’ -
cured by removing steering arm and replacing
after turning the steering wheel a quarter-turn.
Finally replace stop plate.
* * * *
K.J. (Welanegang, N.S.W.). —Most of my
driving is done at 25 m.p.h., and, although
total mileage is only 2400, 1 cannot better 20
m.p.g. in my 14 -h.p. car. When I start by
handle the engine kicks back violently even
when cold. Can I do better with smaller jets ?
At speeds mentioned change of jets will
not give improved results. This low speed is
uneconomical, as the motor is merely idling.
Try driving at 30 to 35 m.p.h., slightly retard
ignition point, and see if there is any improve-
ment.
* * * *
F.J.R. (Moree, N.S.W.).—(V> Please give me
your opinion of the car (named) as regards
wearing qualities and suitability for the rough
roads of this district. (2) Which of the cars
(named), and in what order, do you consider best
for one Who does a lot of travelling in this
type of country and who desires economy and
durability ?
(1) This car has been tested over the Bulletin
course, and has proved entirely reliable and
economical. (2) A, C and B.
* * * *
W.C. (Longreach, Q.). —•/ am thinking of
buying a six-cylinder sedan of well-known
make. The clearance is a little too low for
country conditions, and I have been advised to
fit 20 in. wheels. (1) Will this affect the effi-
ciency of the car? Would it lose power in
top gear, and would the car lose much speed ?
(2) Is the six-cylinder model fitted with similar
engine to lower-priced car made by same co. ?
(1) Larger-diameter wheels will raise the
centre of gravity of the car and correspond-
ingly lessen its stability on corners, in practice,
this would be observed only at extremely high
speeds, and for your purpose is not nearly so
important as the increased road clearance.
Top-gear pulling will not be so good as with
standard-sized wheels, but middle gear will
handle any emergency. Maximum speed should
not alter more than 5 p.c. Before titling larger
wheels, make sure about mudguard clearance.
(2) Yes.
* * * «
G.P. (Tweed River, N.S.W.). —Is petrol-
saving device (named) worth cost of filling ?
You may improve petrol ‘consumption by
filling this device. But almost every motorist
can achieve better ligurcs if he carefully tunes
the carburettor, keeps valves a perfect gas-
tight tit, and makes sure the brakes arc free
and that there are no leaks in fuel line or
gas lank.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Kuni Kuni”; Recent pars about
bogged motorists and their ways and
means show that few know the crank-
handle trick. Simply put the bus in gear
(switch the ignition off, of course) and
wind her out. If the compression is too
solid lake out a plug or two.
* * # ♦
“Wodgil”: From a column contributed
to London “Sunday Pictorial” by the
Earl of Cottenham, no less:
It is a sign of the times that the Japanese
are now trying to sell small cars in South
Australia at a price of about £25. 1 do
not know what success they are having.
Probably not much.
None at all, m’lud ; none at all!
* * * «
“Blue H.”: A boiler for the
Valentine G.M. Co., was shifted from
Bathurst to Hill End (N.S.W.) on a 50cwt.
Bean truck and trailer recently. The dis-
tance covered was 53 miles of hilly,
winding road, including the famous
Wyagdon Mountain and Monkey Hill.
The latter, which is four miles long, in-
cludes Halpin’s Pinch, a gradient of one
in seven, and here the family car was
hooked on to assist the truck. The
grievously overloaded vehicle arrived
safely after a 10-hour haul, and the
springs once more resumed their wonted
concavity. They treat ’em rough in the
country.
* * * *
“Stucle”; Interesting proof of how
lubricating oils have improved. Mel-
bourne Engineer-Professor Kernot had a
very pre-war “one-lunger” rated at 1-Ioth
h.p. Maker’s instructions were that oil
was on no account to be used in the
cylinder, only graphite. Resurrected
recently by a student and coupled to the
dynamometer, the old-timer registered
one-half h.p. “Sounds impossible,” said
the prof, “Did you oil the cylinder?”
“Certainly,” was the answer. Investi-
gation showed that 80 p.c. of the engine’s
power had gone in pushing the piston
up and down the cylinder, since in those
days they hadn’t developed an oil able
to stand up to cylinder-wall heat.
* # * *
“M.G.”: When the first motor-cars
came to Australia a trio of cycling en-
thusiasts —they are leaders in the motor
business to-day —got a car and drove it
enthusiastically around Melbourne. But
one thing puzzled them. Sometimes the
car would stop and refuse to budge,
though they studied the textbooks and
fooled round with its internal organs like
fanatical surgeons. Then, after they had
spent half an hour or so in theories and
advice, the car would unexpectedly spark
up when they turned the handle and go
on its way as if nothing had happened.
These hold-ups were frequent, and
always resulted the same way after
a lapse of time everything would
be 0.K., just as if the car had felt
inclined for a rest. Then one day the
wisest of the bunch noticed that the
vehicle always stopped after passing over
a gutter, and on investigation the secret
was solved. The electrical connections
beneath the bonnet were in those days
made with uninsulated wires, and the
splashing of the water caused a short-
circuit which lasted until the moisture
had dried up. They wrapped some
adhesive tape around the wire, and had
no trouble of that sort thereafter.


RADIO NEWS.
Why I Growl
at National
Radio
“Q u aycau”
thinks the A.B.C.
gives full value
for its less than
a penny a day
(B. 10/7/’35). The
comrnission gets
only half of that tiny sum and the
P.M.G. the other half, but these mites
mount up when they roll in from
thousands and thousands of B-station
listeners as well as from A listeners.
And both the A.B.C. and the P.M.G.
have their sins of omission and com-
mission.
The P.M.G. continues to operate an
appalling lot of ancient equipment,
although it has been accumulating big
chunks of license money for years. Now,
in spile of these accumulations, it is
threatening to close down on a lew
isolated improvernents because the supply
of loan money for P.M.G. works is dry-
ing up a bit. What happens to the un-
spent listeners’ fees?
The A.B.C. pays thousands a year to
the P.M.G. for relay lines that should
be part of the already-paid-for technical
service, and more thousands for multi-
tudes of telegrams of sporting results
that local newspapers would supply at
a fraction of the cost. It also gives the
P.M.G. a lot of free advertisement,
although the department is far from be-
ing a charitable organisation. The com-
mission is also ever-ready to distribute
something or other to listeners who will
write in about it—an effective means ol
swelling the postage revenue. What
right has the commission to fritter away
our license money giving listeners and
others free pictures of Bradman and
Wood full, free lists of sporting fixtures,
free books on “Careers for Boys” and
“Careers for Girls” or free anything else
when this money could well go into pro-
gramme improvement?
Opinions as to where the programmes
can be improved probably differ widely,
and I have no wish to press for my own
preferences, but the commission should
realise that many listeners can receive
two and more stations satisfactorily, and
centralise programme control sufficiently
to ensure such listeners a reasonable
choice of programme type. 100 often
one finds the four or five stations in
reach all doing dance music.
Many of the plays presented are adap-
tations of old material. Won’t the people
writing original and competent drama,
here and abroad, sell to the commission,
or is it that the commission can’t afford
the price because of “Careers for Boys”
and “Careers for Girls”?
If the commission wasn’t falling down
on its job it wouldn’t need to resort to
stunt sensationalism in competition with
B stations and the yellow press.
SOLOMON SHICKER.
Broadcast:
“Preserving
Peace”
.... realise the
enormous devas-
tation worked by
this scourge. The
operation of
Bunk’s Mechani-
cal Silverfish
Exterminator is simple, and there is no
pungent powder to irritate the nostrils
and get into the butler. All that is
necessary is to place the silverfish on
the tablet marked A and press firmly
with the tablet marked B, and the
destructive insect is beyond repair.
And now, listeners, sponsored by
Bunk’s Mechanical Silverfish Extermina-
tor, Limited, Mr. Eugene Fakesby,
R.S.V.P., the eminent authority on
Foreign Affairs, will tell you the inner
secrets of international politics and
describe how the peace of Europe was
preserved during the critical periods of
last year. Mr. Fakesby.
Ladies and gentlemen. You have read
this afternoon’s cable news and seen
how Mussolini is once again threaten-
ing Abyssinia, and I wish to reassure
you all by telling you that there is a
probability that it may all come to
nothing. Abyssinia may climb down and
submit to the demands of Italy—which,
though they may be dictatorial and arro-
gant in places, are founded, in others,
on good sound reason. On the other
hand, if wiser counsels do not prevail,
grim war may be upon both nations, and
how it is to all end is difficult to fore-
cast. Other nations may be drawn in.
and, if they should unite to support
Abyssinia, I am brave enough to predict
Mr. Eugene
Fakesby.
that Italy could not
long hold out before
a united world. But
if, on the other
hand, they decide to
throw in their lot
with Italy, I have
grave doubts
whether Abyssinia
could long endure a
war of attrition
which they would
enforce upon her.
I am not alone in
this view. The last
time 1 was in Addis Ababa I was rung
up one morning, before I was out of
bed, to go to the palace at once to see
the Emperor. I told him I hadn’t shaved,
and his reply was characteristic. “Don’t
bother,” he said. “Nobody shaves in
Abyssinia. I’ll take it as a token of
esteem and regard.” So I rushed over,
arid he put to me the very possibility
I’ve been talking about. “Look here,
Fakesby,” he said. “There’s nobody
knows the feelings of the European
nations belter than you. You’ve got
your finger on the pulse of the world.
Now I want to ask you something con-
fidentially. If Mussolini starts talking
fight and is backed by the military
Starts talking fight.
power of Eng-
land, France,
United States,
Germany and
Russia, do you
think we’ve got a
dog’s chance? I
want your honest,
confidential
opinion, not for
publication.” I
pondered for a
while, making
estimates of the
various military
forces and equip-
ment of all the
nations—for, for-
tunately, I have
means of obtaining these—and I
replied, “I’m sorry to tell you, but
you’ll get it in the neck.” The
Emperor sighed. “I had a fear of that
myself, but I wanted to consult a com-
petent military authority before I started
throwing out my challenges.” He
thanked me warmly for my advice, and
the Order of the Blue Elephant of
Abyssinia was pinned on my coat before
I left the palace.
Of course, that conversation was abso-
lutely confidential, but the valuable in-
formation I gained in that interview I
was able to use with telling effect later
on, when I was talking to Hitler in his
favorite beer-hall in the Unter den Lin-
den. Personally, I like Hitler; he re-
minds me so of Charlie Chaplin— not
only in his appearance, but in his actions.
Of course, I could never violate the
information given me in confidence by
the Ethiopian Emperor, but I was able
to turn the conversation into the right
“Heil, Hitler!”
lines and show Hitler that it would never
do for Germany to declare war on Abys-
sinia, because Italy would regard it as a
sort of international duck-shoving and
would be liable to turn and tell Germany
to take its place in the queue. Hitler
listened attentively to my advice. Then
he rose and made the sign of the swas-
tika, raised his hand, honoring himself
with the Nazi salute and the cry of
“Heil, Hitler!” drank my stein of beer
and left the room. Next morning I
found he had made full arrangements for
my travel, and accorded me the honor
of a guard of schweinhelms as far as the
frontier.
Later on I discussed the matter with
Laval in France and Baldwin in Eng-
land, and exchanged a few cables with
Roosevelt, securing replies which con-
siderably strengthened my hand and en-
abled me to cross over to Roumania
with a few draft protocols and pacts
to lay before Jacescu Jonescu, the
most able statesman they have. When
I entered the office Jacescu looked
up with surprise, “Something doing,”
he murmured, as he took me warmly by
the hand. “Whenever I find you turn-
ing up in Bucharest I know there’s some-
thing doing.” It didn’t take me long
bringing Jonescu round to our side ; it
wasn’t a question of persuasion. He’s
so reasonable, he always recognises facts
when he sees them ; and, fortified by
his assurance that Roumania would
stand by us through thick and thin, 1
caught my aeroplane to Moscow and
was just in time to catch Stalin as he
was about to leave the Kremlin.
There was a strong
guard ol me Ogp.u
outs i d e, but, of
course, they alii
knew me, so I had
no difficulty in get-
ting straight to head-
quarters, just as Joe
was putting on his
overcoat. He was
just as surprised as
Jonescu. had been,
but his face clouded.
“What’s wrong?” he
asked. “I’m always
"Nabody shaves in Abyssinia.”
dead scared when I see you turn
up, though personally I’m delighted
to see you, old man. But don’t
bring any of your wars along here.
We’ve been bothered with too many
canvassers already to-day.” I smiled to
reassure him. “You want peace here?”
I suggested. “Too right we do,” he
replied in the soft Georgian vernacular.
“Well,” 1 went on, “I’m selling a nice
new line of peace to-day,” Joe laughed
loud. He always liked a joke. Then
he went to the door and yelled out,
“Tell Comrade Ivan Ivanovitch not to
bother waiting in that food-queue any
longer. I won’t be home to dinner.
Now, Gene” —he turned to me —“give
“ You want peace here?”
me the lowdown on the whole game.”
So we had a good long talk, and the
upshot was that I was able to get back
in the ’plane 'that night, with all the
protocols signed and pacts sealed and
ready for delivery; and Stalin made me
an Honorary Worker of the Soviet just
as I hopped into the ’plane.
I returned to London with my work
done, and the peace of Europe was safe.
But, listeners, that was nearly two years
ago, and, unfortunately, I’m out of it at
present and can do nothing. What is
going to happen to-day I am unable to
tell you, though, confidentially, I have
a very good idea from several confiden-
tial cables I got this morning from my
old friends Oswald Mosley and Huey
Long. Possibly events may so shape
themselves during to-morrow that I may
be able to give you some startling facts
in my talk to-morrow night. Till then,
listeners, an revoir.
MONTY.
Some Female
Announcers
Despite the im-
pr o v ement in
wireless pro-
grammes during
the last few years,
there is still one
blot on the ethereal escutcheon. I refer
to a certain type of female announcer
who, thrilled at the thought that several
thousand people are listening to her, dis-
cards simplicity and directness of speech
as unworthy mediums for the expression
of her thoughts (or lack of them). The
result is a flow of eloquence which sug-
gests that the lady is suffering from an
over-indulgence in second-rate society
novels. Virtually everything is “naice”
ẅ
O. JAMES.
All Round
the Dial
“A.W.”: The
most powerful B-
class broadcasting
station in N.S.W.
is going up at
Orange. This
station, which will be owned and con-
trolled by Country Broadcasting Ser-
vices, Ltd., has been organised by the
Graziers’ Association
and other country in-
terests. Equipped by
Amalgamated Wireless,
2GZ, as it will be
called, will give pro-
grammes designed for
general entertainment,
the influence of the
station being directed
to furthering rural in-
terests. It is expected
on the air about the
end of October.
“Jackaburra”: “Radio
has already made the gramophone a
blaring anachronism,” says C. Macdonald
(B. 3/7/’35). Well, I can’t help contrast-
ing the mellow lifelike tone of my
own anachronism with the stuttering,
crackling, shrieking, homicide-provoking
blare of my neighbor’s exquisite marvel
of radio modernism. A very big per-
centage of the worth-while items of the
radio stations consists of obsolete records
played upon the despised gramophone.
The truth, of course, is that, whilst radio
has largely replaced the gramophone as
an adjunct to home entertainment, just
as a couple of decades ago the gramo-
phone itself superseded the piano, the
two can go hand in hand.
“Seam”: If the pay is all right, broad-
casting must be a good thing for those
who formerly appeared chiefly on a
limited number of concert platforms in
the capitals. Stella Power, for instance,
has given 80 recitals since she began
her tour for the A.B.C. in February.
The tour has been one of the outstand-
ing broadcasting successes of the year.
“Quayeau”: As a rule ecclesiastics
bring to the microphone that dirge-like
sing-song cadence which, delivered from
the pulpit, has contributed towards atten-
dances being sparse. A refreshing excep-
tion is Uncle Scrim, of the Friendly
Road, who, eschewing the lugubrious,
speaks his piece with humor, animation
and good cheer. Another broadcast-
ing gentleman with the circular collar
whose ether voice possesses an exhilarat-
ing joviality is Canon Hammond. His
talks, shot through with good-fellowship,
are strangely at variance with what many
would expect to hear from one who has
been a lifelong blue-ribbon enthusiast.
“Don Pip”: Station SCL-5CK’s (S.A.)
new broadcast studios are as modern as
any in the world. Fitted with performers’
platforms and galleries for the audiences,
they resemble miniature theatres. The
installation of up-to-the-minute moving-
coil microphones and remote-control
audio equipment has increased the fidelity
of tone of broadcasts, while the acoustic
properties of the studios have been
greatly improved. Higher power is soon
to be provided for the SCL transmitter,
and then Adelaide will have a central
station second to none in Australia.
“L.L.”: Audrey Anderson, whose
piano notes have been heard from 2BL,
is a young Brisbane pianist, already well-
known to 4QG listeners for her perform-
ances with Loraine Henderson, violinist,
and Gwynneth Lascelles, soprano. Born
in Brisbane, Miss Anderson studied at
the N.S.W. State Conservatorium in 1927,
raining her performer’s and teacher’s
diploma. Then she had three years’ study
in Europe, with Max Pauer, director ot
the Leipzig Conservatorium (Germany),
in with Professor Steuermann,
and in Munich with Professor- Ruoff.
Before returning here she gave recitals at
Wigmore Hall (London) and at Munich.


O Q.P.21
Qum&cent
(puAh-puU
Clci&A "S"
ŵ
Cdouble
Pentode (Salve
The OSRAM Q.P.21 is a double
Pentode designed to operate with
sufficient grid bias to restrict the stand-
ing H.T. current to a very low figure.
The actual H.T. current drawn from the
battery is proportional to the strength
of the signal applied.
Price
27/6
each
Stocks available throughout
Australasia.
Socket supplied with every
valve, at no extra cost.
Advert of
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
Magnet House, 104 Clarence Street, Sydney
ẁ
For
Broadcasting
and Amateur
T ransmitters,
Power Filter
Circuits
ẃ
Power Factor
Correction,
Elimination
of Radio
Inductive
Interference
Manufactured by DUCON Condenser Pty., Ltd., the most extensive and
up-to-date Condenser organisation in the Southern Hemisphere. Used hy
leading Australian Broadcasters, including complete installation new Relay
Station 4AK Oakey. Queensland.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
Complete Specifications and Quotes
on request.
DUCON
CONDENSER
PTY., LTD.,
73-83 Bourke Street, Waterloo,
Sydney, N.S.W.
II
ẅ
Don B. Knock’s
PAGE .
THE HIGH-GAIN BATTERY PORTABLE.
This receiver has been designed in response to numerous requests for a
descriptive article on a modern type of self-contained portable receiver.
As the illustrations show, it was built to suit the dimensions of an old
Airzone carrying-case. Of the five valves, two are multi-purpose types. A
tuned R.F. circuit is used, making design and construction simple. The
set is Sensitive, needs no external aerial for average use, and gives good
audio quality with economy.
For some intangible reason the truly
portable broadcast receiver, either in ex-
perimental or commercial form, has
never been widely popular in Australia,
For an open-air-loving people, this is
somewhat remarkable. In distinct con-
trast is the status of the portable in Eng-
land and the Continent, where not only
in summer but all the year round port-
ables are in great request. The demand
has been for many years so insistent that
some radio manufacturers find portables
constitute the major portion of their
business. Consequently, the portable re-
ceiver has been under constant considera-
tion, and with improved valves and com-
ponents this type has progressed in keep-
ing with home-set developments.
Reference to overseas radio publica-
tions shows a goodly sprinkling of port-
able superhet designs, but the majority
of these consist of a simple tuned R.F.,
detector, and audio arrangement'. Com-
plexity in design is not considered neces-
Fig. 2. —The circuit of the new portable receiver, using five two-volt valves in a tuned R.F. and Q.P.P. audio arrangement. This design can be taken as a basis
for a good T.R.F. battery set, other than for portable work.
sary, owing to the large number of high-
powered broadcasting stations well within
a radius of a few hundred miles. A
modestly-designed portable, used any-
where in England, will tune-in all or most
of these stations with little fuss. Bring
the same portable to Australia and, un-
less it is used comparatively near a broad-
casting centre, it tells a different story.
Tt is necessary to hitch on an external
aerial to build up a signal originating a
fair distance away, and thus the portable
loses its convenient portability. Austra-
lian broadcasting stations are not yet
using hundreds of kilowatts of radiated
energy, and to receive the stations of
to-day at reasonable distances without
fussy tuning adjustments a portable re-
ceiver designed for frame aerial reccp-
tion must primarily be extra-sensitive,
Sensitivity in a high degree is of little
use unless the tuned circuits are stable,
At the same time too much must not be
expected of any portable,
Several readers have asked for details
of such a receiver, if one could be de-
signed, and the High-gain Battery Port-
able is the complete answer. The writer
has long intended to pay attention to the
possibilities of advanced tuned R.F. type
receivers, and for many reasons considers
that this old friend will be the focus of
attention in some form or other in the
near future. Apart from valves, the
main consideration is that of the type of
coils to use, and at present the per-
meability tuner and compact iron-dust-
cored coil are only seen in print, in the
pages of overseas radio journals.
Coil and Circuit Details.
For the present, air-core coils must
be used. Careful consideration of types
revealed that Radiok.es has available
an ideal kind in its 5-65 series. These
coils are of conveniently small overall
dimensions, and three of them can be
arranged in line in a very small space,
The coils comprising secondary and pri-
mary are made after the fashion of the
usual I.F. transformer for superhets, and
are honeycomb-wound. A generous de-
gree of coupling space is provided
between primary and secondary, with the
Fig. 1.—An old job with a new interior. The High-gain Battery Portable
built into an old portable-receiver case.
advantage that a high-impedance pri-
mary without the usual instability is
applicable. The primary is thus the
larger of the two coils.
Reference to the circuit diagram shows
the essentials of a receiver embodying
three of these special Radiokes coil units.
As the receiver was built in the case of
an old Airzone portable, the existing
frame aerial in the lid was used. This is
separately tuned by a single .OOOSmld.
variable condenser Cl, the first valve
being a 34.
Note that the primary of the first R.F.
coil is shunted by a 50,000-ohm resistor.
This is not strictly essential, but may be
effective in reducing any tendency to
oscillation in the first R.F. stage.
The second and third R.F. valves are
also 34’s, but the detector is one triode
side of a 19 (Class-B valve). These three
circuits are tuned by a midget three-
gang condenser, C, and R.F. chokes and
by-passes are liberally used in the plate
and screen voltage supplies to the 34’s.
Volume control is by a 50,000-ohm poten-
tiometer in the grid returns of the R.F.
stages, and for this reason the bottom
ends of the frame aerial and first two
R.F. coils are connected through a .Imfd.
condenser to earth (chassis),
Grid-leak defection is employed, with
the leak returned to A+ . The second
triode portion of the 19 valve is used as
the driver stage for the audio amplifier,
and is resistance-coupled to the detector
by the network shown.
The output of this stage is through a
special Gladstone push-pull audio trans-
former to an output valve little known in
Australia. This is a dual valve compris-
ing two audio pentodes in one in
“quiescent push-pull.” It is an Osram
QP2I, and has material advantages over
the usual Class-B output.
Economy is better m B-battery con-
sumption, and quite a large audio output
is possible with only 120 volts of B
supply. Unlike the Class-B valve, the
QP2I needs a small negative bias; in
this case six volts. Bias voltage is taken
from the nine-volt C battery, across
which the volume potentiometer is con-
nected. The primary of the Gladstone
transformer is decoupled, and 100,000-
ohm resistors are connected across each
half of the secondary. A twin poten-
tiometer volume control could be used
here in place ol the resistors, but would
introduce constructional complication.


Why Not Own An
Efficient Portable ?
HIGH-GAIN PORTABLE,
complete with case, as /) jpyi ft
z'r h :,,jr k ‘ r ilo///o
//If/. I'O/A' 0/-/> AIRZOXK REBUILT
17 .1 REASONABLE PRICE.
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
Sydney'* Radio Specialist*,
5 & 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
T HOUSANDS OF REAL
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
HIGH QUALITY AUDIO AND
POWER TRANSFORMERS
For receivers and transmitter modulator
or power equipment.
The High-gain Battery Portable designed
by Don B. Knock uses exclusively a
Gladstone Class A Push-pull Transformer.
Wise experimenters will use Gladstone
Transformers and be certain of correct
design and operation.
KEITH H. JONES,
Transformer Specialist, 5 Gladstone St.,
Bexley, N.S.W. ’Phone: EW4187.
&
\
M
Buy a receiver which has
the advantages of the
latest developments.
INSIST ON
PHILIPS
SUPER SERIES VALVES
5R24
The filament switch is connected be-
tween the junction of the 50,000-ohm
potentiometer and A— and the chassis.
When “off,” there is thus no drain from
the nine-volt C battery.
General Details.
The grid leads of the three 34’s and
the detector are screened in copper braid,
also the leads from the condenser gang
to the three R.F. coils, and the braid is
“earthed” to the receiver chassis. The
advantage of this procedure is that such
screening plays a big part in holding a
multi-stage T.R.F. tuner stable and per-
mits higher R.F. gain. For general edi-
fication, the receiver chassis dimensions
Fig. 3.—Opened up for inspection. The R.F. portion is on the left, nearest the
frame aerial in the lid, and the. audio channel on the right.
are given in the parts list, and these
dimensions suit the old Airzone receiver
space. For those making a receiver up
of different dimensions to (he one
described here, layout and general con-
struction must (it the individual size. The
frame aerial windings must also suit
varying space, but a general size for
tuning by .0005mfd. is 30 turns of 28
D.vS.C. on a frame 16jin. by 14in.
The loudspeaker should be essentially
a permagnetic dynamic, and it would be
possible in careful case design to fit in
a full-size Amplion 01. The speaker
used in the case of the original receiver
is a Rola midget, fitted with push-pull
pentode transformer.
The fact that the aerial is tuned by an
unganged condenser is no objection, for
if a four-gang condenser had been used
for the tuned circuits, to include the
aerial, a trimmer would have been
necessary. The aerial control is practi-
cally the final operation in tuning, but
the gain from the tuner is so high that
even a weak signal will show up on
the dial with Cl well off resonance. Of
course, the correct position of the frame
aerial must not be forgotten. This is
highly directional, and, being inside the
case lid, is swung by moving the lid on
its hinges. Even a very strong local
will be weak when the plane of the aerial
is definitely opposed to the station. Note
that in the C negative bias lead to the
QP2I is connected a 100,000-ohm re-
sistor. This guards further against para-
sitic oscillation in the Q.P.P. valve grids,
and helps the audio quality. The actual
layout of the chassis will depend upon
the method of individual construction,
but a 2in. space is left under the sub-
panel for R.F. chokes, by-passes, volume
control, filament switch and sundry re-
sistances. An old type semicircular dial
is fitted, but this could be an Aero type
if sufficient space is available behind the
front panel. A drum dial could be used
with advantage, enabling a lengthways
mounting of the condenser gang.
The performance of the High-gain
Battery Portable is dependent on cor-
rect R.F. stage alignment. After track-
ing up the circuits, distant stations could
be heard with the receiver on the test
bench without much trouble. All local
stations showed absolute freedom from
overlap ; in fact, unless an operator knew
beforehand, he would class the set as a
superhet. The four tuned circuits pro-
vide excellent selectivity in addition to
high gain. Tested later in a city office
surrounded by machinery and totally en-
closed, the volume control had to be
retarded considerably on all locals —
ample proof of high sensitivity. If a two-
volt accumulator is used for the fila-
ments no resistance is necessary, but if
two 14-volt large capacity dry cells are
fitted a 1-ohm resistance should be in
series with A+ or A— to protect the fila-
ments against slight over-voltage.
This receiver was an experiment, but
turned out to be something exceptional.
For those who desire an economical bat-
tery receiver, it is a different and easy
design to work on, and as a broadcast
portable has (he advantage of plenty of
R.F. and audio gain from five valves
doing the work of seven.
Components Used in the High-gain
Battery Portable.
Aluminium chassis to suit portable case used.
For old Airzone case panel is 15in. by 6iin.,
with sub-panel 14in. by S^in.
Two sub-panel brackets or wood end supports
required.
Frame aerial to suit portable case dimensions
(see text).
One three-gang midget variable condenser unit
(C).
Three special Radiokes R.F. coil units
(screened), type 5-65.
One .00035mfd. or .0005mfd. variable conden-
ser (Cl).
Six slot-wound R.F. chokes (R.F.C.).
One 50.000-ohm potentiometer (volume control).
One Gladstone 3-to-l push-pull audio input
transformer.
One vernier dial.
Seven .Imfd. tubular condensers.
One .00025mfd. mica grid condenser.
One .0005mfd. mica condenser.
One .Olmfd. mica condenser.
One 2mfd. condenser.
Two Imfd. condensers.
One toggle battery switch (s.w.).
One 2-meg. grid leak.
Two 50.000-ohm resistors.
Three 100.000-ohm resistors.
One 250.000-ohm resistor.
One 25,000-ohm resistor.
Three four-pin valve-sockets (34’s).
One six-pin valve-socket (19).
One special seven-pin valve socket (QP2I, sup-
plied with valve).
Two feet of copper screening braid (grid leads
in tuner).
Three valve screens (to suit 34-typc valves).
Three bakelite knobs.
Valves: Three type 34 (R.F. stages), one 19
(detector and first audio), one Osram
QP2I (combination Q.P.P. pentode!.
Batteries: Two 60-volt light-duty blocks, one
2-volt small accumulator, one 9-volt C
bias battery.
Speaker: One permagnelic midget-type with
push-pull pentode-type transformer.
Wiring flex, screws, nuts, battery cable, connec-
tions, etc.
D. B. KNOCK.
Amateur Chatter.
According to “R 9” (U.S.A.), the U.S.
Federal Radio Commission is likely to
start the enforcement of the “minimum
power to carry on satisfactory com-
munication” clause. In describing a tele-
phony outfit for “local” work, “R 9” says
it is “hoggish and unnecessary” to use
500 watts to talk across town. “Five or
10 watts of carrier is all one needs to
talk up to eight miles or so, and if the
antenna is any good you will still be
R 9.” Although VKs in the metropolitan
areas (and elsewhere) don’t use 500 watts,
many of them are using a lot more
power than is necessary or desirable
for “cross-town” telephony. So much is
this in evidence that spurious transmis-
sions appear with startling forcefulness
on the dials of broadcast superhets in
the near and even the not-so-near
vicinity. The B.C.L. gets annoyed, and
the QRO ’phone merchant gets “in
Dutch.” The remedies are obvious:
special QRP ’phone transmitters, pre-
ferably with Telefunken, where frequency
modulation is unlikely owing to the
average 57 p.c. depth ; or more use of
10m. and sm. The two ultra-s.-w. bands
are begging for use, but if the amateur
does not utilise them more other people
are likely to in the near future.
The ultra-short-wave channels are
too valuable to be neglected, and the
“cross-town” ’phone exponents could do
worse than try them. Possibly the
trouble with 10m. and sm. is that a little
exercise of grey matter is needed to use
them, whereas any Tom, Dick or Harry
can make a noise of some kind on 80
and 40 by slavishly following handbooks.
There are “experimenters” who take
months to find the 10m. band on a simple
RX, and to them sm. is something only
to read about and wonder. In Australia,
a license is granted for experimental pur-
poses, and not just to provide a pastime,
“Amateurs” of the “playing-soldiers”
type would be better off with some
indoor amusement that didn't involve
cluttering up the air with ghastly
noises serving no purpose beneficial
to the science of radio communi-
cation. There are several matters in-
creasingly demanding drastic attention.
They include piracy, the case of the
unlicensed second operator, and abuse of
the useful DX bands by ’phone trans-
missions of the tomfool kind.
In Sydney a few of (he famous DX
chasers are attracted to sm. They include
the worthy W.I.A. Federal president,
VK2HZ, and the 10m. world annihilator
VK2LZ. Of all Australian experimenters,
Bischoff, 2LZ, is supreme for taking his
radio seriously. No doubt his energies
will be doubled on the. ultra-shorts.
There is plenty of room for expansion
there, anyway. 2LZ has approached sm.
from the right angle from the start by
adding another P.A. stage to his 10m,
crystal transmitter. The signal was heard
over Sydney at R 8 on the first test. A
Sydney radio engineer (2XA of early
years) is concerned with forthcoming
high-definition television experiments,
and is reported to have a laboratory
table full of u.-s.-w. gear for test.
Another old-timer is planning a series
of experiments with a view to the linking-
up of a chain of u.-s.-w. stations over a
large area of country for certain com-
rdercial applications.
VK2NO.
Ten-metre DX Holding Up.
A few months ago amateurs found
that the little-used 10m. band had
developed long-distance tendencies. In
Australia nothing much had been done
other than purely local communication
on this band since 1929, when the last
American faded into the silence. Har-
monic behavior showed possibilities of
a return to long-distance fundamental
signals, and, with Australians, Maori-
landers and Americans on the lookout,
the indications were proved to be
reliable. The Radio Society of Great
Britain last year organised a 12 months’
10m. international contest, with points
scored on a mileage basis. Highest score
among Australians is that of VK2EP at
Canberra, F.C.T., with 760 points. His
log shows the following recent contacts:
“July 7, W6VQ ; July 8, W6VQ, XI AY,
W9GBJ, W6AAA and W6BNF; July
10, W6VQ, WSQL, W6RH. VK2LZ and
W6BNF; July II and 12, W6VQ ; July
13, W9FM and W9NY; July 14, W4AJY,
W9QBJ and W9FM; July 15, W6VQ
and W4AJY.” He finds that infinitely
better results are obtained with a beam
aerial, signals being well audible and
workable on (his when they are entirely
inaudible on non-directive aerials. A
few years ago the 10m. region was con-
demned by radio engineers of big over-
seas cos. as being thoroughly unreliable
and little better than useless. Since then
amateurs have turned 10m. to good use.
It is unwise to jump to conclusions in
this infant science of radio!
Tasma Modulated Oscillator.
Thom and Smith, Ltd., makers of
Tasma radio, arc catering for the
requirements of the progressive radio
dealer. The co. has produced a modu-
lated oscillator, independent of AC or
DC power supply, for battery operation.
It is designed specially for the aligning
of receivers by service mechanics, and as
such is suitable for use only by those
conversant with the requirements. The
metal shielding-case is of black crystal-
line lacquer finish, and measures Sin. by
Sin. by s]fin. Batteries required are a
single l£-volt dry cell or 2-volt accumula-
tor for filament supply and a small 45-
volt block for plate voltage. Two 30
type valves are employed, one as oscil-
lator and the other as modulator. The
frequency range is wide, covering 150 kc.
to 60l)0kc. in four bands. The bands
are: (1) Short waves, (2) broadcasts, (3)
445 kc. intermediates, (4) 185 kc. inter-
mediates. Band selection is by a switch-
ing system, thus dispensing with plug-in
coils, and the attenuator is a six-step
resistance network type. A shielded
output cable is provided with a standard
dummy aerial for coupling the oscillator
to the receiver under test. Thom and
Smith, Ltd., Dowling-street, Sydney, can
give delivery within three weeks from the
date of order. The price is £l2 12s net.
Latest in the Trade.
Too much cannot he said about ultra-
short waves, for they are destined to play
an increasingly important part in radio
and television. To get the best out of
these very high frequencies special valves
must be used. Illustrated is the latest
“acorn” tube, the Radiotron-De Forest
954. The hand gives an idea of the small
size and the reason for the acorn simile.
This valve is a veritable work of art for
its size, being an indirectly heated R.F.
pentode. It is very useful as an R.F.
amplifier for wave-lengths below 10ra.,
and gives a gain of 3 at Im., and 10 or
more at sm. Taking 6.3 volts at .15
ampere on the heater, plate voltage is
250 maximum at 2 milliamperes. .Screen
voltage is 100 at .5 milliampere. In
addition to the obvious application in all
forms of ultra-short-wave receivers, it
can be used as a self-contained vacuum
tube voltmeter with probe arrangement,
with the valve itself placed at the end of
a connector cable. The 954 and 955
“acorns” should play an important part
in the development of highly-efficient
(Continued on next page. )


"K'r
*
k
S=l
/ 7/
r ■ /!j
:77
rl
" *
** 7
STIRLING CASTLE x
(STIRLINGSHIRE)
L> \
*4/
/
<Z?'yy
u* -v
HIGH on the Castle Hill, from which twelve battle-
fields are seen, the ancient Castle of Stirling dominates
the valley of the Forth. Here is the theatre of Scotland’s
pageant of history, the scene of her most tragic and
romantic dramas . . . here Scots fought with Scots, with
Romans, Danes, and English . . . and Mary, unhappy
Queen, resigned her kingdom. But still stands Stirling
. . . proud bulwark of a nation . . . typifying, like Dewar’s,
the unchanging and unchangeable spirit of Scotland.
D E WAR’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
G 577.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
■ S, V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney. '
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin" Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, ColvUleoo, Sydney. ’Phone: BtSOl
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant, am)
embodies the confidence ot readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daiiy, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium lor reaching
the New Zealand public.
Cbe Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
"The Dominion’’ Older., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian llepresentative:
W. J. HESI.EHDHST,
17 Castlercagh Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
‘The Evening Post’’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
ultra-short-wave superhets for high-
definition television development. They
are stocked by A.W.A. Valve Co., 47
York-street, Sydney, and are now avail-
able to experimenters.
* * * *
Amplion (A’sia), Ltd., 70 Clarence-
street, Sydney, forwards details of the
new Darwin aluminium nickel steel mag-
nets now incorporated in Amplion per-
manent magnet dynamic speakers. The
combination of metals is expressed in
the trade name adopted for this new
alloy, “Alni.” It is necessary to make
an actual comparison between the exist-
ing Amplion types 01 and 03 speakers
with the new Alni 01 and 03 types to
realise the difference. The increase in
efficiency over the tungsten and cobalt
magnet steels is indicated by the typical
demagnetisation curves illustrated. In
this graph it will be observed that the
Darwin-Alni alloy has a very flat
curve with a high coercive force and a
comparatively low remanence when
compared with tungsten or cobalt magnet
steels. Consequently, magnets correctly
designed on these curves show a short
magnetic length, resulting in a definite
saving of space for a given result and a
reduction in the leakage factor. This is
advantageous in the construction of
apparatus and instruments where a
limited space is available. This is clearly
indicated in the case of Amplion per-
manent magnet dynamic speakers, types
01 and 03, using this type of magnet,
In spite of the fact that each type of
weaker has an increased flux of 400
lines, the reduction in weight and bulk
has been considerable. This is a material
factor in avoiding the possibility of ser-
vice problems through the speaker break-
ing away from the cabinet by reason of
the heavy magnets employed heretofore.
Praise for Wide-World Four.
This battery receiver, described B.
18/7/’34 and 2/1 /’35, is praised by
numerous readers in Australasia and
New Guinea. E.W.8., Cowra, N.S.W.,
observes: “I made this ‘wonder’ Four,
with a slight change in the way of a
second audio using a Milliard PM22A.
The volume is equal to any all-electric
receiver. Even in daytime volume must
be cut down on any and all stations,
local and Continental. The loudspeaker
is always used. The receiver is acknow-
ledged by all who hear it as a real
wonder set. You will have a job to ever
design a better one.”
Casual Comment.
Referring to the article on accumula-
tor maintenance (B. 12/6/’35), L. M.
Wilson, of Malboona station, Mudgee
(N.S.W.), offers the following suggestion
for keeping the A battery charged. Simply
run the return wire from the light in the
room where the receiver is situated,
through the A battery and thence to the
32-volt house-lighting battery. This dims
the light slightly, but fitting a larger-size
lamp will compensate for the drop. The
correct polarity of the connections of
the accumulators for charging must, of
course, be observed.
♦ * * *
“Spotlight”: A new aluminium alloy
possessing remarkable properties has been
perfected. It is fireproof, will not cor-
rode and can be hardened to such an
extent that it will cut glass as easily as
a diamond. An interesting feature of the
alloy is that it can be produced in any
color, with a permanent lustre, and it is
stated that the surface renders the com-
plete metal non-conductive to electricity.
The inventor is a Welshman, and the
alloy is the result of continual experi-
ment since the war. Seventeen factories
have already started work on the material
in Germany, and it is to be used in the
Zeppelin works. The alloy should pre-
sent some new ideas in metal radio-
chassis design and color schemes.
The Q. and A. Column.
(I) 7 own a Philips five-valve broadcast set
of 1928 or ’29 make in a bakelite box, with
a detached speaker. Could this be converted
into an all-wave model ? (2) If so, please give
directions. (3) Approximate cost ? —297.
(1) Possibly, but an entirely new receiver
would not cost much more, and would be
more satisfactory, being designed for the pur-
pose from the start. (2) Discuss the matter
with a competent radio engineering firm. (3)
At least two-thirds the cost of a new receiver.
t * * ♦
Is it possible to light the filaments of four-
volt valves, .08 and .15 amp., from 120 -volt
D.C. supply ? —294.
Yes, but the application is necessarily waste-
ful. A resistance of 500 ohms to carry 20
watts will be required in series with the valve
filaments, connected themselves in series.
* * * *
What is your opinion of valve repair or
rebuilding ? —295.
Not much. The only people competent
to repair broken filaments, damaged elements
and to treat the glass envelope with its con-
tents as would be done in the case of a new
valve are the valve manufacturers themselves.
They don’t undertake to do it, except possibly
in the case of special and expensive transmit-
ting types.
i" * * *
Name of a good elementary hook on wire-
less ?— 296.
The following should be useful: Everyman's
Wireless and Wireless for Beginners, by C. L.
Boltz; The Book of Practical Radio, by Scott-
I aggart; the Radio Amateur’s Handbook, by
the American Radio Relay League; and Drake's
Cyclopredin of Radio and Electronics —all from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What is the source of the time signals
given over the wireless by 2FC at eight o’clock
every morning ? (2) Can this be taken as con-
stantly exact ? (3) The series consists of eight
short and one long buzz at second intervals,
the number of series varying from one to
three, so that the whole may cover almost
half a minute. What particular buzz indicates
the exact eight o’clock hour ? —298.
(1) .Sydney Observatory, through 2FC and
2BL at 8 a.m. and 12 noon. (2) Yes. (3)
Commencing the last half-minute before 8 a.m.
or noon, the signal is made up of a series of
dots and dashes which read thus: Eight dots
and a dash on the 40th second, eight dots and
a dash on the 50th second, eight dots and a
dash on the 60th second. The commencement
of the final dash corresponds with the hour.


ẃ
SPORTING
NOTUONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne turf followers allowed Neil
McKenna’s gelding Sixteen Annas to go
out at 12 to 1 for the V.A.T.C. Leaming-
ton Hurdle on July 20, but he was
made a red-hot pot for the Aberfeldie
Hurdle at Moonee Valley last Saturday.
Stable money went on at 5 to 4 against;
late supporters had to lay 10 to 9 on.
Hynes kept Sixteen Annas rather far out
and near the rear of the field for half
the journey. Moonee Valley lacks the
long galloping stretches obtainable else-
where in the Melbourne metropolitan
area, and no doubt Hynes wanted his
mount to familiarise himself with local
conditions. When the time came for seri-
ous action, Sixteen Annas ran up to the
leaders at his leisure. He quickly wrested
control from Cape Don, and, without
being extended, scored by a length from
Martext.
Dress Suit, who may be the only rival
that Sixteen Annas has to fear in the
Australian Hurdle next Saturday, was
scratched on the course for the second
successive occasion. It rained in the
morning, and after the wretched way
he shaped in the mud at Mount Gambier
a few weeks ago those associated with
Dress Suit may have feared to send him
to the post. Actually, the going at the
w
ŵ
ẁ
w
Valley was far from bad; only slight
showers fell there.
Already Sixteen Annas has won £6OO
in stake money on his Victorian trip,
which will be very profitable to his
owner-trainer, whatever may happen
later.
Martext is a stable-mate of Dungan-
non, the former being owned by H. N.
Leonard and the latter by his brother
Clive, of the V.A.T.C. committee. Dun-
gannon is an Australian Hurdle aspirant,
but his display in the race won by Six-
teen Annas at Caulfield was far from
encouraging. This Bulletin scribe ex-
pects the big event places to be filled by
Sixteen Annas, Dress Suit and Fulham.
Hynes has an excellent chance of land-
ing the jumping double at Caulfield. His
mount in the Australian Steeplechase on
August 10 will be Buckler, from F. W.
Hoysted’s stable. Buckler was ridden
in the Lindsay Gordon Steeplechase at
the Valley by Healy, who piloted
Riawena to victory in the G.N. Steeple.
His trainer expected Buckler to be well
forward all the way, but Healy did not
exhibit so much dash as Doran, the
amateur who won the George Watson
Hunters’ Cup on Buckler at Flemington.
Kept too far out of his ground, Buckler
failed by four lengths to overtake Char-
acter. Pactolus, a 5-to-4 favorite, fenced
poorly, and discounted his Australian
Steeplechase prospects by being beaten
into third place. Character was seen at
his very best on this occasion, and he
may be the most dangerous of the Aus-
tralian Steeple lightweights. The Bob-
niak gelding is trained by C. P. Cox,
whose cousin, J. P. Cox, landed the
Grand National and Australian Steeple
of 1910 with Grafnax, trained by Frank
McGrath.
Divisions of the juvenile handicap at
Moonee Valley brought mixed luck to
backers. A Tasmanian colt. Beau Barton,
made his opponents look cheap in the
first division, for which he started at the
cramped price of 6 to 4 ; but The Greek
caused a boil-over in the next division.
The Greek, a colt by Thracian (brother
to Heroic), is owned by S. O. Wood, a
son-in-law of the breeder, A. T. Cres-
wick; he is so strongly built that he
looks more like a steeplechaser than a
youngster entering on his three-year-old
career. Odds of 33 to 1 were freely
quoted against The Greek. He came
home with a brilliant dash of speed to
win by a comfortable margin from
Mallacy, who was a half-head in advance
of the pacemaker, Romany Faith. Latter
disputed favoritism with Fine Feathers,
from the stable of James Scobie. Begin-
ning slowly, Fine Feathers did rather
well to finish a length behind the third
horse.
Rightspear, a six-year-old gelding by
Spearhead, though only fourth favorite,
was substantially supported for the
middle-distance Glen Orla Handicap,
which he captured in good style from a
rank outsider, Count Orloff. It was not
a lucky day for Voitre. He attempted
one-act victories on Romany Faith and
Jeldiwallah, and had to be content with
third place each time. Seeing that Jeldi-
wallah started from the extreme outside
of the field, the son of Dignity was not
disgraced. His former owner, If. R.
Telford, registered two seconds, with
Pharsalia and Handsel. Both should be
winners before long.
All at Sea, an exceptionally fast young
thoroughbred, triumphed over difficulties
in running to annex the first division of
the Sunset Welter. The next division —
and last of eight races —fell to Radiant
Boy, who was made the medium of a
betting coup by supporters of F. W.
Hoysted’s Mentone stable.
* * ♦ *
If Waikare stands a preparation he
will have to be reckoned with this spring.
At Victoria Park on Saturday the
Limond horse put up a sterling per-
formance in a division of the Flying
Handicap. Burly in appearance and
running out of his distance, he was first
to leave the barrier, but dropped back,
and was sixth into the straight. At the
Leger McCarten brought him along with
a fine run. He failed to beat the New-
castle-owned and -trained Teravale,
backed from fifteens to sevens, and Cane-
grass also headed him, but his finish
impressed everyone. A protest on Cane-
grass’s behalf was rightly dismissed.
In the second division of the Flying
Porcia had such a commanding lead at
the Leger that defeat looked out of the
question. The Heroic mare, however,
has never been a good sticker, and Lady
Baeda, responding gamely to Darby
Munro’s urgings, beat her by a head, the
favorite, New Tip, being a length away.
Lady Baeda started at 9 to 2.
Kersil, one of Tom Murray’s team,
was backed to twos in the third division.
High Disdain set up a big lead, and
backers laid odds on him turning for
home. But the old chap wilted at the
Leger, and Kersil, making a wild dash
from the outside, took charge, defeating
Fernacre and Sleepmond. Sleepmond
was almost knocked over by Kersil,
whose rider, Maxwell, was suspended for
a month.
Ramrod (3 to 1) outstayed the oppo-
sition in the Victoria Park Handicap.
The long stretches suit him, and Knox
wisely allowed the Spearhead gelding to
become well balanced before he made
his run. The favorite, Gladswood, was
in the ruck early, and did not get a clear
run, but he was in front at the Leger,
only to be cut down by Ramrod ; St.
Globe was third, just ahead of First
Balloon. Ramrod is a nice cut of a horse,
and the best may not yet have been seen
of him, though he will be “aged” to-
morrow.
Lorncello did the bookies a good turn
at Moorefield, and another in a division
of the Nursery. Going out at tens he
beat the well-backed Dungala and Black
Fern in a thrilling finish. The second
division went to Dark Gipsy (2.t0 1), who
will run a distance. She is raced by
Mrs. E. T. O’Sullivan.
M.L. colt Golden Chance was unlucky
not to win the first heat of the Novice
outright. Pattie’s Gift ran a dead-heat
with the chestnut, who was in lots of
trouble in the straight owing to tired
horses hampering him. The second divi-
sion was won by Veritus, a stable-mate
of Rogilla. She just got home from
Slinger and Sped.
* * * *
“Parmelia”; Hoping to frustrate the
tricks of s.-p. bookmakers, Perth’s pro-
prietary racing clubs issued an order that
no press ’phones were to be used until
late in the afternoon. A harassed editor,
w
holiday, walloping South Tasmania in
Hobart by 16-9 to 8-12.
* * * *
Over 28,000 people saw the Maoris
beat N. S. Wales at the Sydney Cricket
Ground. The closeness of the scores—
the Maoris won 6-5 after being down 3-5
at half-time —rather than any brilliance
on either side made the match interest-
ing. In the first half bad handling by
both sets of backs was responsible for a
number of opportunities being missed.
N.S.W.’s three-quarters were speedier
than their opponents, and its forwards
had somewhat the better of the set
scrums, but the inside backs failed to
make openings. Hodgson was respon-
sible for Ma’s only try, following down
on a kick by Towers and outpacing a
couple of tacklers; Towers converted.
For the tourists Hemi kicked a penalty
goal and winger Smith crashed through
two or three tackles for a try. After-
wards N.S.W. tried desperately and the
football improved, but the defence was
excellent. Nepia at full-back was never
rattled, and kicked superbly with both
feet. He and his opposite number
Storey, more spectacular than the
veteran, were the best men on the field.
“Coogee”; Towers, the N.S.W.
skipper, was playing his 39th match for
the State. This passes the record of the
late Fred Wood as far as N.S.W. is con-
cerned, and as Towers on his present
form looks a good thing for the other
two games at Sydney on August 5 and
10, and has more than a fair chance
of figuring against the Springboks, bar
accidents, he should set a high figure for
future competitors. Fred Wood was a
scrum-half who played for N.S.W.
against all-comers from 1905 to 1914 and
for Australia from 1905 to 1914 also.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Westralian footballers had
their glorious hour against South Aus-
w


WINCHESTER
MODEL 60.—THE IDEAL ALL-SERVICE LOW-COST RIFLE.
.22 Cal. Bolt-action Single-shot, 23in. proof steel round
tapered barrel, bright chromium finished bolt and trigger,
safety- firing pin, one-piece pistol-grip walnut stock, full rounded
well-proportioned forearm with convenient finger grooves, shotgun
type butt plate, Lyman gold bead front sight, sporting rear sight with
sliding elevator, handles short, long and long-rifle standard and 07 111
Super-Speed cartridges. Take-down model only. Weight «5 // D
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3.
IMPROVED MODEL 60.— .2’ CAL. SINGLE-SHOT
BOLT-ACTION RIFLE.
27in. round tapered barrel, improved bright chromium-finished bolt
. with safety firing pin and indicator. Lyman gold bead front sight,
sporting rear sight, walnut pistol-grip stock, finger grooves in fore end, shotgun-
type butt plate, handles short, long and long-rifle standard and Super- /
Speed cartridges. Weight about 4-Jlb. Price 'TU/-
Freigbt in N.S.W., 2/3.
IVER JOHNSON
THE
Speed-
NEW
MODEL 2X, .22 CAE. SINGLE-SHOT BOLT
ACTION’ SELF-COCKING SAFETY RIFLE.
24in. round tapered barrel with partridge-type non-blur sights, screw
adjustable rear sight, military style walnut stock with full pistol-
gnp, hand checkered and with finger grooves, formed steel butt phi to.
chromium-plated bolt unit and trigger, chambered for short, long 00 In
and long-rifle standard and Super-Speed cartridges. Weight '4£lb. *5“/ D
Freight in N.S.W., 2/3.
WINCHESTER RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES.
Power —— Longer Range
Short. 2/8 100.
Siiort 11. P., 3/- 100.
Long, 3/C 100.
Lone 11. P.. 3/9 100.
FREIGHT EXTRA.
Long Rifle, 4/. 100.
Long Rifle H.P., 4/3 100.
COWLES & DUNN, 71 King St., Sydney
’Phone: M 3388
The Prontac
(.Pa term..
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
Under the Whip
There was an almighty smash in the
fourth race at Rosehill (N.S.W.) on Wed-
nesday. It was a seven-furlongs handicap
for maiden three- and four-year-olds.
There were 25 starters —too many, it is
now plain, though not in excess of the
maximum fixed years ago in an agree-
ment made by club officials with owners,
trainers and jockeys. The field had gone
two furlongs or so when Booral, a filly
of Booth’s, fell and seven others came
down. Five jockeys—Zensky, Marsden,
Skelton, McEvoy and Gates—were
taken to Parramatta hospital with nasty
injuries, (hough none exactly serious.
Booral and Blighty, both trained on the
course, had to be shot.
The stewards opened an inquiry, and
before the day was out they had started
another, though here the only damage
discernible had been done to punters’
pockets and feelings. At Moorefield four
days before Stonebrook, unbacked, had
run last in a 10-furlongs handicap. At
Rosehill, briskly supported from tens to
sevens, he was always within striking
distance, and at the finish he cut down
Confab, who had led into the straight,
to win by half a length, Gothlin being
another length away. One of the beaten
horses was Limbohm, who wound up
sixth. He had been fourth in the Moorc-
ticld race.
Three-year-olds were conspicuous at
the meeting, disconcertingly so for
backers. In a division of the Flying
Welter the Bullhead colt Bulldozer (20
to 1) beat a 5-to-2 favorite in Kaylah,
and in the Carlingford Mile Prince High-
born (also 20 to 1) relegated Leone (7
to 1) to second place after her victory
had been proclaimed. In the Brush
Hurdle Greensea outpaced and out-
jumped Del m a gar despite his 13st. 121 b.
To Delmagar, a winner on the previous
Saturday, he was giving 611 b., and he
got to the end of a mile and a half in
2min. 43sec. Worse time has been made
on the flat.
* * * :!-•
“Eagle Farm”: N. B. D’Arcy, who has
given up handicapping for the Brisbane
A.T.C. to go to the Durban Turf Club
as stipendiary steward (the first in South
Africa), comes from a well-known N.S.W.
country racing family. He has had a lot
ol experience of the game, including three
years in the Rosehill club's office and a
term as racecourse detective foi the Cen-
tral Western Racing Association of
N.S.W. After a spell at Warren as secre-
tary of the club (here, he was a stipe-
(7/m-handicapper in N.Q. before going to
Brisbane. He served over three years
with the 35th Battalion, winning a com-
mission and the M.C.
“Thormanby”: When Douglas Stuart,
the English turf commissioner, bought
Windsor Lad, the Derby winner of 1934,
from the Maharajah of Rajpipla, the
intention was to send the colt to the stud
after the Leger, which he won. But this
year he has been raced to some purjiose,
finishing off a good season with the
Eclipse Stakes at Sandown. The horse
has won £38,000 in stake-money, but.
as be bas keen booked up at the stud for
years ahead at a 400-guinea fee. Stuart
vv 9 n 1 grudge the £50,000 he paid for him.
Windsor Lad has Carbine blood in him :
bis third dam was by Carbine out of
Gunshot,
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Roles
That tough country lad Blandon bul-
locked his way to a popular points vic-
tory over Miller at Leichhardt on
Wednesday. He kept tearing-in and
after roughing Miller to the floor in the
second round, outfought the 31b lighter
lad for several rounds. Miller ‘'then
began connecting with solid rights, one
of which nearly put Blandon down in
the ninth. Blandon, for his part, dropped
Miller with a left to the ribs in the
twelfth, and won the last three rounds
“Wot's the damage ?”
“Back seats a tanner, front seals a bob, 'cept those be the beer barrel.
THEY'RE 'arf a dollar!”
by a wide margin. The boys are feather-
weights, and the fight was announced to
be for some championship or other.
Foolbrawl
Half the League clubs in Melbourne
are taking a holiday for a couple of
weeks and sending teams to play in other
States. It is questionable whether the
players themselves —much as they enjoy
these outings would not prefer to have
the cost handed out; in increased playing
fees. When the trips were instituted,
times were comparatively good and most
of the players were earning fair wages
at their trades. To-day, half of them
are out of work and depend on football
for a living.
* * * *
‘Rover”; The prize for the champion
long-distance footballer is surely due to
Butler, of Pira (Vic.), near Kerang.
Butler started senior football at the age
of 14, played 140 games with Irymple.
96 with Woorinen and 98 with Pira.
He is 37 now. and has played his last 71
games without a break.
itnl , .. _. . . ~ , ~ ,
Blackout : rhev'S'tollheSoiilh
Mclboi"ne loolball leam lo Brisbane ie-
calls SowlhS ( first lour m 1882. Sowth
may be said to have k o.d the national
game, which then had a monopoly in
Bananaland. by administering to the
locals the horrible hiding of 50 goals to
five. An immediate result was the for-
mation of the Northern Rugby Union in
Brisbane—later the Q.R.U. 1 regret to
say that most of the players who figured
with the Queensland A.R. team against
“Sowth" were prominent in the first R.U.
match with N.S.W. that same season.
* * *
“Grasspan”; Rugby barrackers affect
to despise the Australian game as a
“sissy” business, and certainly it does
not appear to the onlooker to be fraught
with such danger to life and limb. Yet
results prove that it is a far more dan-
gerous game ; scarcely a season passes in
Victoria without loss of life. The first
fatality of the present season is reported
from Swan Hill, on the Murray. A
young fellow of 19, playing for Boundary
Bend against Kooloonong, rose for a
mark and sustained injuries from which
he died the same night. His father was
playing in the same team.
Ihe Maoris had their first experience
of a “dirt” ground when they played
Western Districts at Dubbo (N.§.W.).
They made a good fist of it under the
unfamiliar conditions, winning 38-3 (10
tries), but found that the khamsin in
the scrums and rucks interfered a good
deal with visibility.
# ;>
“’Wick”; And why not reduce the
point-value of the dropped goal in Union
Rugby (B. 24/7/’35)? Scoring of tries is
the primary purpose, the supreme
achievement, of the Rugby game. It is
the inspiration and aim of the solid slog-
ging of the forwards as of the spectacu-
lar passing bursts of the backs. That
being so, it is illogical to rate any goal
at a higher or even at an equal value.
Goals are merely incidentals. Of late
years the dropped goal has not been
sufficiently exploited ; but that it is com-
paratively easy of accomplishment is
proved by its prevalence in the score-
tallies of matches this season. The Union
should fall into line with the League and
rate all goals at the same two-point
value ; it should also follow the League
practice of allowing an unrestricted one-
man kick at goal from a try.
* * * *
“Nil Desp.”: Finding it impossible to
extend its game beyond two Stales in
Australia—and there are growing doubts
concerning the future in Queensland —
the Rugby League is being urged by its
militants to conquer Maoriland. A pro-
posal of League secretary Miller is to
form an Australasian board of control,
The outlook is not promising. M.L.
doesn’t care to hitch up in any team.
Witness the failure after some years’trial
G f the Australasian Athletic Union which
held meetings alternately in Maoriland
and Australia. It was M.l . that jibbed
an( j finally pulled out.
!
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandwich”: All' Perry, the Leather-
head (Eng.) professional who came from
nowhere and scooped the British onen
began playing golf when he was six!
spec j a j clubs having lo be made for him
ln spite of , hjs |K , shows • j
cramp i„g orthodoxy, but has a line, free
style-slatherumwhack, perhaps, but
none the less effective-while he is very
fast over lhc ground , aki Mllk . , ilm .
over his shots A curious “ hi about
Perry was that from baby-
hood until quite recently he
played as a left-hander. He
decided to change over and
learned his game afresh.
* * ♦
Kelly scored a grand win
in the Dunlop Cup for pro-
fessionals, played at Ken-
sington (N.S.W.), taking the
trophy and purse with a
score of 285 for the 72
holes, a stroke ahead of
Bolger and Howard, Luck
smiled on Kelly, for an
apparently out -of - bounds
second at the thirteenth,
which would have lost him
the match, bounced off the
boundary fence on to the
course again, instead of
costing the young man a
stroke and distance.
“Sandringham": Ihe English women
goiters will not be kept waiting long for
work. They arc due in Melbourne on
August 21, and will have a pipe-opener
in the Australian foursomes on August
27. By (he time the championship
rounds begin on August 29 they should
have got: the kinks out of their game.
The opposition is likely to be the best
Australia can provide. The Victorian
women have been playing very hot golf
this season.
* * * <:
' “Divot Digger": The Lakes (N.S.W.)
golf team, which was largely responsible
for the successful visit of the American
professional team last year, has resolved
to keep up the open tournament which
was such a success on that occasion. It
will be held on the club’s course on
October 25 and 26, and. will consist of
stroke play over 72 holes. Prizes for the
professionals range from £5O to £2 I Os.:
the amateurs will play for trophies worth
£lO and £2 10s. respectively. The
Americans mopped up most of the brass
last year, with Craig Wood taking the big
purse,
* * * *
"Hoylake”: Australian golfers of Scot-
tish lineage intending to visit England
are advised to paste the name of the
Exeter golf club in their hats. Seven
years ago, soon after the Exeter course
was opened, a member endowed one of
the holes with £25, the interest on which
is to be paid to the member to hole in
one from the tee. The hole is a short
one, and many have tried for the plunder
without success. At last advices the in-
terest had climbed to £7, which should
more than pay for the customary ritual
at the nineteenth when the feat is at last
performed.
* * * *
"Hoylake”: There is a move in British
golf in favor of restricting the number
of clubs used by some players. The
Americans introduced the habit, and in
U.S.A., as in Australia, wretched caddies
stagger round with bags holding many
implements—3o in some cases. The


hcome tax return
RConcUßardßollaW.^^
Federal and N.s.w. r
sretin* fRO * w ~
Gold X«w»g
tottr*t*»e P«A« :
Sptta ItWOO» a 3 *
1
F-C-A
STEVENSON
By H. RAWSON
s» £*
Now !
Before you prepare your Federal and
N.S.W. State Taxation Returns purchase
a copy of
Income Tax Returns
By H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aus.).
just published by the Endeavour Press,
and meeting with great success. This
valuable and informative book may save
you much worry and many pounds in
taxation.
Simple, concise and reliable, it makes
compiling taxation returns an easy matter.
PRICE, 5/- (postage 3d. extra).
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS.
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George St., Sydney
DA\fJOHi
Peter
Dawson
'SPKIAI'
Scotch Whj
a
I
if
=IM
« SAME STRENGTH
4 S A M E PMCE
4 SAME MELLOW
SMOOTH NESS
Should you experience any dilll-
culty in sneering your require-
ments of Messrs. Peter Dawson's
Wliisky front your usual suppliers,
kindly eonununlca te with the
Sole Apents,
COOPKR NATHAN & CO.,
184-186 Kent S't reet, Sydney.
’Phone: 85783.
A WHISKY which lives up to its tradi.
ton of excellence, Peter Dawson’s
n jvv conies to you in a new container,
streamlined in the modern manner,
tasier to hold and to pour; with
attractive coloured drinking cup and
needing no corkscrew, the new bottle
has a decorative grace that is a fitting
accompaniment to this whisky of
good taste.
PETER DAWSON
SPECIAL
SCOTCH WHISKY
BUY BUILDING MATERIAL
CALV
IRON
r LIHk/
CEKENT
/
ROOF PAIHT
DIRECT
FROM Q.P.S.
AND SEE THE BIG SAVING.
We Invite Comparison !
GALV. CORR. IRON Another 100 tons just landed of the New Iron,
B Grade, 6ft. 2/-, and Bft. 2/6 per sheet.
BEST BRITISH CROWN: 26g.. £24 per ton or by the sheet—
-sft. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. I Oft. sheets.
2/2 2/7 3/- 3/5 3/11 4/6
JOINERY—We Manufacture our own Joinery and give you direct factory
prices.
Best Queensland Pine Doors, 6ft. Sin. x 2ft. Bin. x I-Jin., M. and F.
and Moulded, 17/6 each.
Standard Sashes or Windows, 3ft. I Oin. x 2ft. 4in. x I-Jin., 12/-
per pair. Write for full list.
PAINTING MATERIAL —Standard Crown Paint, Non-poisonous, I 1/6 gallon.
Best Grade Blundell Spence’s, 17/6 gallon. Linseed Oil; Raw, 4/8
gallon; Boiled, 4/10 gallon.
CEMENT—Best Portland. Small lots, 4/9 per bag, or £5/7/6 per ton.
FIBRO. CEMENT SHEETS—Q.P.S. Price. 2/4 square yard, less 3 p.c.
Also PLYWOOD at lowest prices. 5-32, 14/- and 14/9 100 sq. ft.
STOVES AND RANGES—AII the latest Stoves and Ranges at wholesale
rates to anyone. We instance Standard Dover Stoves No. 7, 60/-;
No. 8, 70/-. 4ft. piping free.
HOT WATER SYSTEMS Hotels, Hospitals and Homes quoted for. Also
Sinks, Lavatory Basins, etc.
NEW ERA CREAM SEPARATORS—Best by actual test. We guarantee
money can't buy a better machine. As direct agents for the factory
you can buy at:
lOgal. Isgal. 22gal. 30gal. 45gal.
£4/15/- £6 £9/10/- £l2/15/- £l7/10/-
60 gallon .... £2l. 90 gallon .... £25. Less 10 p.c. for Cash.
WIRE AND NETTING AND WELDMESH FENCING—We are the largest
suppliers in Queensland. Bg. Galv., 16/6 cwt.; 12-Jg. Barb from 17/6
coil of 440 yards. Write for full list and see the saving.
With Wire Netting and Most Groceries, we Pay Freight by Boat to Main
Northern Queensland Ports.
LOWEST ALSO FOR—Water Piping; Tanks and all Tank Material (manufactured
in our own workshops); Hibiscus Double-strength Cattle Dip, 1 in "00. at 45/-> drum
of 5 gallons: Sheep Salt: Rock Salt: Camp Beds. Tents and Tarpaulins: Farm
Gates: Furniture: Cattle and Sheep and Pig Troughing; Water Boring Plants,
£125: Incubators; Lucerne Seed: Telephone Goods: Plows: Saddlery, etc.
Write for our Big Illustrated Catalogue. It will save you pounds.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
BOWEN STREET (OFF ANN STREET), BRISBANE.
craze chiefly affects the mug. A sym-
posium among first-class British golfers
showed that nine clubs at the most are
all that any golfer can possibly need—
driver, brassie, spoon, two irons, two
mashies, a niblick and a putter.
Racquet and Bawl
America beat Germany four rubbers
to one for the right to challenge England
for the Davis Cup. Von Cramm downed
Allison in four sets, but Budge won both
his matches. The doubles was one of
the hardest ever: Allison and Van Rvn,
3-6, 6-3, 5-7, 9-7, 8-6.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: It was with
mixed feelings that Australia heard that
its Davis Cup team had downed the
English in a match before the challenge
round for the Cup. Crawford beat both
Perry and Austin, and Turnbull success-
fully partnered Quist in the doubles.
This form would have been welcome
against Germany, The doubles combina-
tions —Crawford and Quist and Turnbull
and Quist —have certainly earned their
oats. Beginning at Paris, the pairs have
won every major doubles tourney they
have started in, including the worlds
championship at Wimbledon.
# >K * *
“Top Spin”: If Norman Brookes's
dream of a Pacific Davis Cup zone, with
Australia and Japan playing leading
parts, does not come true it is certain that
Australia will challenge next lime in
America. Results there have not been
very satisfactory, but the Americans
were at their top in those days. In any
case the change would spare our side
much travelling and save a lot of money.
* * * *
“Not Done”: It is difficult at this dis-
tance to know what is coming over the
once-vaunted British aplomb and adher-
ence to good form. Regrettable senti-
ments have been expressed in newspapers
about English cricket captaincy, and now
we are told that a Wimbledon crowd not
only hooted an umpire’s decision, but
threw its cushions on to the court. One
has learned to expect that sort of thing
from French and, Italian crowds, to say
nothing of the Australian cannibals, but
its appearance in England, and at
Wimbledon, seems to lend truth to the
theory that the national fibre is de-
teriorating.
Miscellaneous
“Dumper”: For a couple of years
plans to send abroad a team of surf life-
savers have been discussed in N. S.
Wales, but as they have all depended on
a sub. from the Government have come
to nowt. Now it is stated that one of
the Tails will underwrite the balance of
the cost, estimated at £lO,OOO, provided
the Government, Federal or State, planks
down £5OOO for a start. The proposal
does not appeal.
* * * *
“Spike”: A team of six athletes from
Maoriland is due in Sydney on August
12. It is headed by Savidan, one of the
greatest distance runners M.L. has pro-
duced, and is to run in the Australian
cross-country championships on August
17 and in the N.S.W. 10-mile scamper
the following week. M.L. pays the
visitors’ travelling expenses and N.S.W. is
expected to house them.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Provided the Empire
Games heads in London don’t go sour,
Australia, which has already applied for
them, may hold the next Games in
Sydney—starting on January 22. 1938.
and ending a week later. Allowing for
about 75 competitors from Britain and
overseas Dominions and 50 from the
other Australian States, it is expected
passage money will come to over £6OOO.
Much to the delight of the promoters the
N.S.W. Government is guaranteeing
£lO,OOO.
“Tenth Slip”; Dr. Dolling, recently
returned from a longish professional
visit to Europe, has something interest-
ing to say of English cricket. His
opinion is that the heroes of the last 10
years or so are finished and that a flood
of young talent ought to be turned on.
But in spite of intensive coaching at
schools and universities —or, perhaps,
because of it—the young talent is not
appearing among the amateurs, and
though the counties are unfailing in their
endeavors to find and encourage new
talent among the professionals that is
also hiding its light under a bushel.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Aigburth”: When I referred to two
’keepers in a team (B. 24/7/’35) I did
not intend, as 1 do now, to fill a column
of The Bulletin with instances, (What?
Oh, all right!) From the beginning
almost, there have been two stumpers
in every team coming from England to
Australia, and vice versa. But I would
like “S.T.S.” to tell me the team in which
Storer and Lilley figured together, as he
says they did. Storer was here with
Board as his otfsider in 1897-98. Lilley
came in the next team with one Garnett
as second string, and in 1903-04 with
Strudwick.
* * * *
“Kelly, Jr.”: A Sydney cricket writer
deplores the “lobbying” that goes on
before the selection of a team (with
manager) for England. It can't be worse
than in (he good old days when the heads
bluntly told a new candidate that he
would have to lake a smaller cut than
the oldsters or stay out of the team.
The classic example is the take-it-or-
leave-it offer to Trumper of £l5O.
Some of those old cricket-tour balance
sheets would make interesting reading.
* * • *
“Aigburth”; I regret to have to report,
as our Boer War generals used to say in
their dispatches, that there is a sinister
atmosphere developing on the English
cricket front. Following on the draw
with South Africa, the press unanimously
gave poor skipper Wyatt a hiding for not
winning. The once very correct “Daily
Telegraph” lets a horde of cats out of
the bag by asserting that English cap-
taincy should “be animated with a win-
at-all-costs spirit.” This flattens the good
old sporting English slogan of “Fairplay,
and may the best man win,” and is most
regrettable. It was not in this spirit that
the Eton-Harrow match was won on the
battlefield of Waterloo.
* * * *
“Third Base”; The tour of Australia
by two teams of American professional
baseballers can now be reckoned a cer-
tainty, for it is announced that the teams
leave California on October 12. The
man responsible is C. Root, the Chicago
Cubs’ pitcher, who was here last year.
Babe Ruth, who told England recently
that cricket was a “sissy” game, will be
one of the travellers. The tour will clash
with the Sheffield and M.C.C. cricket
season, and some of the big grounds will
not be available. .Still, the reputation of
the visitors should draw the necessary
money, given good weather.
* ♦ * *
“Ring”; Something like a homer
pigeon is a black chequer cock belonging
to W. Haylock, which put up a Queens-
land record by cutting out the 720 miles
from Kinalung, in the Broken Hill dis-
trict, to Brisbane in 30 hours dead. With
129 other Queensland birds the pigeon
was released at 8.30 a.m. on July 12 and
was in Brisbane at 2.30 p.m. next day. A
second bird, E. Parker's blue hen, was
only an hour later, but was also ahead
of the record. As both birds had to
camp for the night on their journey, it
is impossible to compute actual flying
time. Only two other pigeons in Queens-
land have homed from 700 miles, both
from Winton to Brisbane.


PRICE
REDUCTION
MADE POSSIBLE BY RECORD-BREAKING
SALES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The CfU/lhA,
Fordsoiv
Tractor
The unprecedented demand for the English Fordson
Tractor has effected further economies in its co& of
manufacture. In accordance with established Ford
policy, these savings are now handed back to agricul-
tural and industrial uses by means of an immediate
price reduction. Your local Ford dealer will supply
further particulars and will also explain the special
Ford purchase plan which provides easy payments
spread to suit your convenience.
DISTRIBUTORS ;
New South Wales::
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &.
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania t
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
South Australia: ADELAIDE CAR
& TRACTOR CO. LTD.
Wav mouth Street, Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS
LTD., Hay Street,
MOTORS
Perth
FlB. 18. T
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
ENTIRELY MADE- IN> ENGLAND
METAL, GRAVEL & SAND PLANT FOR SALE
Excellent business proposition in Metal,
Gravel and Sand is offered for immediate
working. The deposits are extensive and valu-
able. The plant., which has a capacity of 600
tons daily, was closed during the depression
owing to the very low prices ruling for metal
and gravel products.
Reconditioning and supply of necessary
equipment could be effected and the Plant
put in excellent running order for a small
outlay.
The proposition is well worth immediate
close examination.
For full particulars apply to
W. L. MAIDEN, Receiver,
Room 9, 7th Floor, Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Spatial Scotch
C
I
WHISKY
KNOWS/
THE
FOR
MAN
WHO
BUSINESS, ROBBERy, ETC.
The Conversion Loan
The rapid response to the 3 p.c. con-
version issue of £13,469,981—it was fully
subscribed within five minutes —is an
indication of the eagerness of London
investors to get their money into short-
term rather than long-dated securities.
The last loan, floated in January,
offered a slightly higher rate of return,
3| p.c., but was not redeemable until
1955-60. Result, over 40 p.c. left in the
hands of the underwriters.
The present issue will mature in 1941,
with an option to redeem in 1939.
There will be no more compulsory
redemptions to meet this year, but it is
highly probable that conversion of some
high-rate optionals wiil be arranged, in-
cluding a N.S.W. 5 p.c. parcel of
£21,657,000, a 4} p.c. of £10,954,600 and
a Wesfralian 4 ! p.c. of £2,631,165, though
the £35,242,765 may be harder to raise
than the present small issue.
The assumption of the market that
current low rates are unlikely to continue
for more than a few years may be taken
as sound, and it would probably be wise
to offer a somewhat higher rate on the
larger conversion, at the same time ex-
tending the term. Previous floats at
26 and 40 years did not meet with ready
responses, but a 12-15-year term at 3i
p.c. would probably find plenty of takers.
Such a loan would, from the Common-
wealth point of view, have the additional
advantage of maturing at a time when
it had comparatively small commitments
to meet in London.
Gold and Silver
The U.S.A. Treasury continues to mop
up both gold and silver. From the end
of January, 1934, when the dollar was
first devalued, to the end of March last,
no less than $1,416,000,000 worth of
gold flowed into the country from
abroad. Foreign purchases for the
next two months amounted to over
$277,000,000, due partly to the flight of
capital from European gold -bloc coun-
tries.
Together with small quantities of
domestic gold bought, the country’s total
monetary stocks of the metal reached
the record figure of $8,762,000,000. One
effect has been a growth in bank reserves.
According to the City National of New
York, member banks’ reserves are now
sufficient to carry a volume of credit
50 p.c, above the maximum reached
during the 1928-29 boom. The tempta-
tion to further inflate the currency is
certainly great.
For the 10 months to the end of May,
the actual amount of silver bought by
Washington was 421,497,0000 z., or
265,000,0000 z. more than total world
production for that period. The Secre-
tary of the Treasury says the Government
will probably not reduce its buying price
for newly-mined domestic silver, even
though the world price of the metal
continues to fall. Appearances are that
the silver-purchase plan will not achieve
the ends desired, namely, a lift in com-
modity prices. Still, it has helped to lift
the earnings of Australian silver pro-
ducers.
The balance of trade for 1934-35 is
now said to have been “£16,000,000 on
the right side.” As a £23,500,000 excess
over imports is required to meet overseas
liabilities, the balance was really
£7,500,000 on the wrong side. “No
increase in the exchange rate is likely to
be considered,” but some increase in the
tariff on superfluous imports should be.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Sydney may yet be lighted
with natural gas, as are Edmonton
(Canada) and towns in the U.S.A, Gas
was struck at 4177 feet in the Balmain
colliery, and when ignited at the end of
a testing tube it “burnt with a bright
yellow flame”—as did also gas escaping
between the casings of the bore. Samples
are being tested at Sydney University to
“What about that fiver I gave to the Memorial Fund? Can I take
that off me income ?”
“ ’Course you can —comes under the statuary exemption.”
determine whether or not the gas is
petroliferous.
„* * .
Ex-Attorney-General Macfar lan has
fhii «
through the committee stage in Vic.
Assembly. The quotas arc:!
_. ~ 7 , ....
4 5?, S r J'Tear“ 7i
third year, 10 p.c. and p.c.; fourth
year, 124 p.c. and 10 p.c.; fifth year,
15 p.c. and 12 2 p.c.
A new clause, accepted by the Assem-
bly, strikes at “blind booking.” It gives
exhibitors the right to reject 25 p.c. of
films arranged for (other than Australian
,or British) without incurring a breach of
contract.
«e „ r t u * , u , %
S. Gum ; In the me hod of pre-
venting blue mould which the C.S. and
IR. scientists investigating tobacco-leaf
bS S is mTe S extensiveW° V rae
r r f T o Ht n imnort enn
C.S. and I.R. won t need to import sup-
plies, for benzol is one of the Broken
Hill Prop, products. If the scientists
want ammonium sulphate, solvent
naphtha, naphthaline, toluol or xylol,
Broken Hill Prop, can supply them, too.
* * * *
“Grasspan”: Have we turned the
corner? The engaging of labor for the
re-laying of the North Melbourne tram-
line brought so many men clamorous for
work that the fire-hose had to be turned
on them to preserve order. The first
pick-up was timed for 7.30 a.m., but
long before midnight applicants began to
gather. And there were 2000 applicants
for 10 vacancies as City Council traffic
officers. They included an ex-professor,
university graduates, ex-officers of the
A.I.F. and numberless accountants, com-
mercial travellers and shopkeepers,
Wages? Four pounds five a week, and
small chance of a rise,
* * * *
“Siporu”: One unlooked-for conse-
quence of the Italian move against Abys-
sinia is the switching of the Italian lemon
crop to Eritrea to combat scurvy among
the troops. Italy is one of the biggest ex-
por{ers G f lemons in the world, and the
result of the diversion to the Red Sea
~. . . .
bas I be ‘f l. s 5 r !°“ s ,cmo " 10
England, which takes most of the Italian
crop. South Africa has hopped into the
breach, and is rushing increased consign-
ments of lemons to London. Australia
might have tumbled to the situation
sooner.
* * * *
l n Greater Melbourne during the year
ended June 30 last, £1,386,000 more was
S p ent on building than in the pre-
vious year. The betterment as gauged
on 1930-31 conditions was over
£4 000 000 lhe suburbs there was
co^id ; rab]e activily in flat construction;
f > d j p rahran ,
Brighton Hawthorn was, not great!,
i n excess of A at values, and in St. Kilda
jt f 115 flats valued at £255,000
“.rL ~ ’ r .u
t, 1 , ? i
£lO,BBO. High la c < g \
s P onsib e ‘
* * * *
The Australian Agricultural Co.,
formed in England in 1824 by John
Macarthur, jun., is considering returning


Meetings.
PITT, SON & BADGERY, LIMITED
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual Gen-
eral Meeting of the Shareholders of Pitt, Son
& Badgery, Limited, will be held at the offices
of the Company, 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney, on
Wednesday, August 14, 1935, at 11.30 a.m., to
deal with the following business:
The reception of the Directors’ Report and
Balance Sheet for the year ending June 30,
1935.
The declaration of a Dividend.
The election of a Director in the room of Mr.
W. H. Mackay, who retires by rotation, but
is eligible for re-election.
The election of Auditor in the place of Mr.
H. Y. Russell, who retires, but is eligible
for re-election.
The transaction of any other business that
may be brought before the Meeting in con-
formity with the Articles of Association.
The Transfer Books of the Company will be
closed from the 31st day of July to the 14th
day of August, 1935, both days inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
S. R. TAYLOR,
Acting Secretary.
N.B. —Pursuant to Clause 67 of the Articles
of Association every Candidate for the office of
Director must give notice of his intention, in
writing, at the office of the Company, seven
clear days prior to the date of election.
Sydney, July 24, 1935.
Office: 4 O’Connell Street,
10
to
1
’S
it
a
CAPSTANS ARE
NOW MADE IN
3 STRENGTHS
w
VM^FULL
924-0-7-S
Legal Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND—TOWNSVILLE.
IN the Will of FELIX BUGEIJA (usually
known as Felice Bugeia and sometimes
known as Felice Bugeja) late of South
Johnstone near Innisfail in the State of
Queensland Cane Farmer deceased in the
Will described as of 139 Borg Street
Carlton Melbourne.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that after
the expiration of fourteen days from the date
of the publication hereof application will be
made to this Honorable Court that probate
of the will of the abovenamed FELIX
BUGEIJA (usually known as Felice Bugeia and
sometimes known as Felice Bugeja) deceased
may be granted to ANTONIO BUGEIA of
South Johnstone near Innisfail in the said State.
Cane Farmer the sole executor named in the
said will Any person interested who desires to
object to the application or to be heard upon
it may file a caveat in the Registry at any
time before the grant is made.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of July,
1935.
J. R. BOYETT,
Solicitor for the said Antonio Bugeia,
Edith Street, Innisfail.
Town Agents: ROBERTS, LEU & NORTH,
Solicitors, Denham Street, Townsville.
Brisbane Agents; MACNISH, MACROS-
SAN & DOWLING, Solicitors, Brisbane.
Missing Friends
NELLIE SCOTT (nee Parsons).—lf Nellie
Scott, widow of the late Ninian Bannatyne
Stewart Scott, or her son Charles with com-
municate with the undersigned they will hear of
something to their advantage. —NORMAN A.
MILLER, Solicitor, 100 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
WILL MR. JAMES HENRY, late of 22 Caro-
line Street, Redfern, or anyone knowing where-
abouts, please write to MRS. D. STEPHEN,
16 Dunblane Street, Roslyn, Dunedin.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK, to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usua.
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again,
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenn>
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
o*
&
.0*
&
o*
So writes the user of an R-an-
D” Diesel attached to Refrigerat-
ing Plant and Sausage Machine
All details from an;/ of the following.
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car ami
Tractor Co. p Ltd.
I’ERTII: Mower, Davies, Johnson.
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan's
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD
■ BRISBANE • ■ .j
If acv illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who wiu
quote you price for the original.
some capital. In London it has over
£550,000 of Stock Exchange securities,
and it doesn’t favor further investment in
the Australian pastoral industry at
present. The A. A. Co. dates back to
an epoch when the first financial and
commercial corporations were being
formed in Australia. The Bank of N. S.
Wales was established in 1817, the Bank
of Australia in 1826, and the Australian
Marine Insurance Co. in 1831. The A. A.
Co. had a virtual monopoly of the New-
castle coal industry for 21 years. In
1845 James Brown, the founder of the
old firm of J. and A. Brown, opened a
pit near East Maitland, and loosened the
A.A.’s grip. The co.’s present interest in
Hcbburn, Ltd., figures in the books at
£160,000. It has considerable pastoral
interests.
• * • •
“Wodgil”: In Commonwealth Taxa-
tion Commissioner v. Payne, it was ruled
than an Australian owning British
Consols and collecting the interest in
Britain is liable for income tax on the
interest plus exchange, even though the
money has not been remitted to Australia.
An appeal from the High Court judg-
ment is going to the Privy Council. Tax-
payers in a corresponding situation are
warned that they must submit returns:
Assessable income must be expressed in
Australian currency. Accordingly, the
benefit derived or derivable from con-
version to Australian currency of assess-
able income from sources outside Aus-
tralia is taxable, and any benefits of ex-
change so derived must be specially shown.
Where ex-Australian assessable income has
not been remitted to Australia, the debt
on which it was derived or credited over-
seas must be stated, in order that the
income tax may be assessed in Australian
currency.
Where British income tax is levied, Com-
monwealth tax may not apply.
* * * •
Private enterprise has discovered new
ways of using gold in settlement of inter-
national trade and other transactions. If
a merchant in one of the gold -bloc coun-
tries has future commitments to meet in
sterling, the orthodox method of obtain-
ing protection would be to buy sterling
forward. Another and probably less
costly method is to sell gold forward.
He can buy gold spot in his own coun-
try when the lime for settlement arrives,
or he may prefer to be in physical pos-
session of the gold he has already sold
forward. In well-informed circles it is
believed that large quantities of gold are
now held by traders and others as a
hedge against future international trans-
actions. Much of the arbitrage business
now going on is similarly based on gold.
A dealer may buy gold in London, ship
it to Paris and sell it for francs, and
finally sell those francs for sterling. In
these ways gold moves backward and
forward in settlement of international
transactions without affecting internal
credit, in the same way as if the move-
ments of the metal took place between,
say, central banks.
* * * *
Mastercraft Film Corp., the Sydney
co. formed late last year to buy “The
Avenue” picnic grounds (Lane Cove
River), to establish a studio and to pro-
duce talking pictures, has gone to allot-
ment. The prospectus stipulated the
minimum subscription for this purpose
at 50,000 10s. shares. Of the promoter's
consideration, only £250 was payable in
cash, the remainder —£2750—being in
ord. shares. Raymond Longford, the
promoter, gets a contract as producer for
five years at £1250 a year, and passes
over two scenarios.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Annie, Leave the Room” and
“The King of Paris”
The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic was
enthusiastic about the first of these films.
So was the Sydney Mayfair audience on
the first night. Melton Selten’s Lord
Spendlove resembles Colonel Blount of
“Vile Bodies” ; a confirmed film-fan, he
is childishly delighted when an American
movie magnate suggests making a picture
at Spendlove Hall. The fatuous old
peer’s little vanities and phobias make
him very human and likeable, and he has
some grotesquely funny lines and situa-
tions. The conjuring act which he
muddles through complacently, assisted
Alma Alclous at Sydney Tiv.
by bored members of his family, is a
gem. Davina Craig repeats her study of
a half-witted maidservant.
“The King of Paris” is another of those
bowdlerised French farces which were
first popularised in England by Seymour
Hicks. It has a great part for Cedric
Hardwicke. The monarch is an actor-
playwright, absurdly egotistical, com-
pletely humorless. He transforms Marie
Glory into a star, but she remains dis-
satisfied. She wants Love—personified
by a boneheaded electrician (Ralph
Richardson). So preoccupied is her
dreary mentor with his art that he spends
their wedding night writing a play. So
she bolts with the electrician, leaving the
monomaniac to begin life afresh —that
is, make a star of another girl. It is
hitter satire on a well-known type of
mummer, and Hardwicke makes ever}'
point with the effortless certainty of a
champion billiard-player. The leisurely
manner in which he builds up the
character is the most interesting feature
of the film. There are some startlingly
unfilmic and hence lifelike pictures of
Paris—its drab inhabitants and minor
restaurants, the bookstalls on the left
bank of the Seine, and so on.
“The Dictator”
The story loses some of its interest
through following similar historical films
released during the past 18 months.
Nevertheless, judged on its own merits
it is good entertainment.
Clive Brook is splendid in the part of
Struensee, the obscure Hamburg doctor
who, from the position of Court physi-
cian to Christian VII., made himself the
ruler of Denmark, introduced many
reforms, became the queen’s lover, was
overthrown and executed—all within
the short space of three years.
Madeleine Carroll is the unfortunate
Queen Caroline, daughter of George 11.
of England, and married to the mad
king Christian VII. (Emlyn Williams) at
the age of 15. Her part is not as com-
pelling as some she has appeared in, but
she acts with restraint and dignity.
At Sydney Embassy and Melbourne
Majestic.
“Heat Wave”
This comedy, also at Sydney Embassy
and Melbourne Majestic, shows Cyril
Maude as the President of a Latin-
Arnerican republic, with Vera Pearce,
rather larger than when Australian audi-
ences knew her, supplying most of the
laughs. Not a side-splitter, but it has
its moments.
“Air Hawks”
Ralph Bellamy is head of an airline
whose competition is not relished by a
rival corporation. Egged on by a wicked
banker, these rivals hire a German genius
who constructs for them an electrical
death-ray, capable of setting fire to an
aeroplane at a distance of a mile. With
this contrivance three of Bellamy’s
planes are brought down. A cabaret
dancer-singer (Tala Birell) is used as a
lure by the villains, but, of course, she
falls for Bellamy and enables him to en-
compass the downfall of his enemies.
Wiley Post, with eye-patch and strato-
sphere helmet, plays a walk-on part. The
death-ray mechanism is elaborate, and the
acting is smooth. At Sydney Capitol.
“Orchids to You”
The love affair of a young lawyer
(John Boles) and a florist (Jean Muir).
The lawyer’s wife is unfaithful, but the
florist refuses to testify against her in a
divorce suit. However, true love is made
smooth by means of other evidence.
Nicely acted, and raised above the aver-
age by Charles Butterworth, quite as
effective as Ralph Lynn in a silly-ass
part. Boles’s pleasant voice is heard in
song once or twice.
“The First World War”
Some months ago Laurence Stallings
published a photographic history of the
war made up of “stills’ 4 taken from
authentic moving pictures. Here they
arc as a film, with a laconic, completely
objective elucidation spoken in a clear,
cool voice by Pedro di Cordoba. As an
One of the Broadway Boys at
Sydney Tiv.
introduction there are glimpses of King
George and his Queen reviewing troops ;
of the Prince of Wales as a boy, drilling
his sister; of the Kaiser and, always
close at hand, his magnificently-trained,
goose-stepping army; of Franz Joseph ;
of the Czar ; of the Archduke Ferdinand.
And then the mutilated, bloodstained
tunic and the funeral with the two
coffins side by side.
Next the war. Except that no reference
is made to gas it is practically all there,
Infantry, artillery, cavalry; now German,
now Ally. Plane and Zeppelin; Rich-
tofen and d'Annunzio ; Jutland and the
sinking of the St. Stephan in the
Adriatic, with crowds of distracted specks
that are men dotting her decks; sub-
marines and some two dozen or so vessels
going down. The tragedy ends with the
Frank O’Brian, in vaudeville at
Sydney Tiv.
belligerents fraternising while their
leaders demand more wars. At Sydney
Lyric.
“Twin Husbands”
Also at the Lyric. Suave cracksman
of the Jimmy Dale variety and pretty
girl. Entertaining enough.
Some First Nights
The turns that get the most applause
(and deserve it) in Frank O’Brian’s revue
“One Exciting Night” at the Tivoli are
the tumbling acts. The Kiraku Brothers,
Japanese acrobats, perform multi-jointed
manoeuvres with an air Of absolute non-
chalance, and the Velesco Trio play violins
in all manner of precarious poses. The
Broadway Boys present a slow-motion
study of a duel which is a splendid
piece of pantomime, and Jandy, the
musical clown, is a clever fool. The
weak part of the show is the straight
humor, which is flat and lifeless. Not
so the ballets.
V * , -V
The conducting of Maurice de Abra-
vanel produced effects from the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra which were
outside the experience of most of the
immense multitude that flocked to the
Town Hall last week. In the “L’Apres-
midi d'un Faune” of Debussy it was the
melodic structure and the fluting fore-
ground which impressed itself on the
attention, while that part of the piece
which is supposed to suggest the sultriness
of the afternoon and the woodland noises
retired far into the distance. In the Beet-
hoven Symphony No. 7, the tempo of
the scherzo was as fierce and the rhythms
as emphatic as it was probably possible
to make them. The “Egmont” overture
was given the utmost degree of dramatic
contrast. The “Procession Nocturne” of
Henri Rabaud received a first perform-
ance in Australia, and proved to be of
orthodox cut and excellent finish.
Richard Strauss’s symphonic poem “Don
Juan” concluded the first programme. As
music it gave the present listener great'
pleasure but no corroboration of the
opinion of Ernest Newman, quoted on
the programme, that “it keeps adding
fresh points to our knowledge of the
psychology of the character it is portray-
ing.” The orchestra has seldom re-
sponded so enthusiastically to the original
views of a guest conductor, and De
Abravanel received an ovation at the
end of the performance.
V
To leave the Town Hall, where De
Abravanel was conducting the gods into
Valhalla with full orchestra (“Das Rhein-
gold”), and repair to the Assembly Hall
in Collins-street on Saturday night was
like escaping from a major bombard-
ment into a dugout occupied by a ser-
geant-major with an accordion. Just
after The Bulletin arrived Muriel
Brunskill sang a song by Armstrong
Gibbs, with words by Walter de la Mare,
about three black cats who watched the
bin for thieving rats, and it provided
little outlet for the contralto one had
previously heard soaring through a suc-
cession of grand opera arias. Neverthe-
less, the full range of the singer’s voice
was employed in “Sailing Homeward”
and “February,” by the same composer,
and the final bars of the last-named ditty
caused the oak rafters of the ecclesiasti-
cal-looking concert chamber to ring
again. An audience decimated by the
competing Town Hall fixture gave the
singer and her solo pianist. Carl Barl-
ling. a good reception.
* * *
A good play and one well acted is “A
Sleeping Clergyman,” by James Bridie,
produced by Gregan McMahon at Mel-
bourne Comedy. It deals with medical
life in Scotland, and therefore recalls
“The Wind and the Rain” ; but it is more
ambitious and contains some remark-
able situations, in one of which suspense
and relief have rarely been better de-
veloped. When the prophylactic of the
research man succeeds and the score ol
sufferers are snatched from death, the
hysteria of his staff is carried over the
footlights. The play is a study in hered-
ity. The first Cameron is a medical
student, one of the few men of his time
who take Pasteur and Lister seriously.
He dies from t.b., drink and all-round
blackguardism, leaving the sister of his
best friend to give birth to his illegiti-
mate daughter. The daughter is a bad
egg, murders her lover and leaves illegi-
timate twins—a boy and a girl. In both
the better parts of the ancestry prevail,
though the taint shows through in spots.
The boy carries on the torch of science
and achieves the means of saving the
world from a pandemic. Opening with
a prologue dated 1940, the period
switches back to 1869 ; then the play pro-
gresses through the generations to 1938.
Paul O'Loughlin never faults either as
the selfish genius under sentence of death
Clive Brook in “The Dictator," at
Sydney Embassy.
or as his grandson who achieves what
the fanatical ancestor craved for. Cath-
erine Neill is satisfactory first as the
girl friend, unsatisfactory as their daugh-
ter the murderess, but excellent as the
middle-aged, tolerant cynic of 1938.
David Reid gives a fine study of the one
character that runs right through the
play—the friend of all the generations—
the brother of the girl led astray by his
friend the genius. The assistant in the
laboratory of Thelma Besant, the shrew-
ish landlady of Phyllis Bones, the
pompous benefactor of Frank Desbrowe.
and the two speaking characters of
the “Chorus,” Thomas Skewes and G. H.
Crosby, are all'good.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Tuning Up.
By what right do we laugh when we are
told
How some impassive eastern potentate
Was left quite cold,
Sitting in state,
By our grand opera played from end to
end,
Yet found, to our bewilderment, when
pressed
To tell a friend
What he liked best,
Something he loved and longed to hear
again,
Which, after long and fruitless ques-
tionings,
Anxious and vain,
Proved, of all things,
To be, no theme or melody in the score,
But the pinkety-plunk of tuning violins
You hear before
The work begins;
For don’t we think our deeds and selves
sublime,
As if there were ahead no further peak
Or range to climb,
Or goal to seek,
While our wise children, when the
theme’s begun,
Who see us bungling on by grope and
guess,
Will smile upon
Our foolishness ?
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
The Repertory
Talkie
At the risk of
being told that 1
have no commer-
cial instincts or
provoking the
ultimate insult
that I am a highbrow. I’m going to pul
a suggestion to Australian makers ol
moving pictures—a suggestion which,
though it will probably be received with
snorts of contempt from the big shots in
the game, may possibly strike some
owners of motion cameras who have
bizarre notions like my own having
something in it.
There are numerous excellent Austra-
lian one-act plays—some tragic to the
point of passion-tearing, some quaintly
humorous, some pathetic, but every one
of those 1 have in mind distinctly racy
of the soil without straining after the
national note. I have seen the plays 1
am thinking about acted by amateur
casts, and admirably acted at times
possibly better than they would be by
professionals whose whole training has
been to present English or American
types. My suggestion is that some enter-
prising person with a motion camera
should persuade three or four good ama-
teurs to stage one of these plays; that it
should be taken and filmed and that it
should be made available for exhibition.
Apart from film, the cost of produc-
tion of such plays would be nil. T here
are only three or four characters in each
of them, the costumes are any old thing,
and the scenery, when it docs not con-
sist of gum-trees and a three-rail fence,
depicts the inside of the nearest barn.
There are plenty of amateur actors —
many of them good actors —who would
be only too ready to “give the local lad
a chance.”
Of the plays I have in mind, the
late Frank Brown’s “Mates” is a good
example. As a talkie short, I’m betting
on its “going big.” Vance Palmer’s "T he
Black House” is another capable, with
good casting, of making an excellent film.
Louis Esson’s “Dead Timber,” taken in
the setting of desolate Gippsland hill
country, preferably in winter, would be
something to make the public sit up.
And there are many other short plays
of the sort that are 100 per cent. Aus-
tralian, but are so human that they
have a universal appeal, which, I’m con-
vinced, could be filmed with ease, their
inherent artistry carrying them if the
acting is adequate.
Were one of them —say “Mates ’ —put
on the screen at some suburban hall, 1
venture to predict that it would be
noticed and talked about. That could
lead to more screenings and continuous
runs, until the big city houses would find
it profitable to include among the fill-up
section of the programmes at least one
short, written and acted by Australians.
In fact, the danger 1 see is that the plays
would prove so attractive that the big
producing firms would take them out of
the hands of the repertorians, buy the
scenarios and have them “prepared ’ for
the screen by the inclusion of a suffi-
ciency of gangsters, detectives and bath-
ing-beauties to make them indistinguish-
able from the masterpieces of other
lands.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
The Monash
Memorial
On November
15 last year com-
petitors in the
John Monash
Victorian
Memorial Com-
petition were told to send their models
to Melbourne. On the 27th they were
told to hold until further notice. A
month later, the closing date was ex-
tended, the rules were changed and
“Drying Sails, Hobart Docks” by John Eldershaw, at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney.
models had to be sent to London. Judg-
ing finally took place there this month
[June].
There was no Australian on the judges'
committee, and the whole affair had
slipped into the hands of the Royal
Society of British Sculptors—though
Melbournites are paying for the
memorial, and they and their offspring
will have to look at it. Unlike any other
competition of which I have ever heard,
representatives of competitors were re-
fused admission to assemble and place
models. Mb’ exhibition was held of the
models, either before or after judgnient.
The three placed designs were exhibited
for one day only, at Australia House, yet
48 models in all were submitted. The
winning model had no pedestal, though
the rules make it clear that a pedestal
should have been submitted. Anyhow,
an equestrian statue without a pedestal
is not a monument.
Why, one asks, should the Melbourne
committee allow itself to be overcome
by the name of the Royal Society of
British Sculptors? There are not more
than three men in the world who are
really capable of judging an equestrian
statue, and none of those three is a
member of the R. 5.8.5.; but Australia
must have three men who know what
Monash looked like, who know what a
horse looks like, and who can be told
what the effect should be in combination.
As you know. Bully, there is a great
difference between a model and a com-
pleted equestrian statue. You look at a
model on eye-level, but you look at
the statue from 20 feet below. The
locals could be made to realise this, and,
being locals, they would know better
than anyone in London what allowances
should be made for the surroundings in
which the statue will stand. It should
be easy to find three Australians who
could give as good a judgment as the
Londoners, and not hard to find three
who could give a better one.
There’s one thing can be done. Hold
the competition again, since the rules
state that the winning design need not
necessarily be accepted. In Melbourne,
this time, and let it be a real competition,
with Australian judges who will let the
public compare the winners with the rest.
After all, it is better to delay another
year, and give and get satisfaction.
Monash was a very great man, Austra-
lian art should be a very sacred thing,
and the statue will be up for a very long
time.
Rome.
ALAN HALL.
I Stoop to
Conk Him
“A.D. W. ” (B.
17/7/’35) seems to
have succeeded in
swallowing my 12
cunningly - placed
little hooks without
even suspecting their
presence.
(I) Phis Praxitcles-Rembrandt-Bach concate-
nation. A painter understands such provisory
equations Brahms-and-Browning or Chopin-and-
Rembrandl; just as those familiar with poetry
and music would accept without cavil the
cqua Brahms-and-Browning or Chopin-and-
Keats. Rembrandt’s was a romantic, Bach’s a
classic, mind: they have no more in common—
except, of course (thanks, “A.D.W.!”), their
“capacity for expressing the beautiful” —than
Raoul Dufy has with Josquin du Pres.
So when (2), in my naive way, I ask
“A.D.W." which works of Praxiteles have sur-
vived, and he quotes me the names and
addresses of these pieces, naturally I feel I
haven’t the heart to tell him that, according
to my authorities —of more recent date than his
—there are no Praxitclean sculptures.
(3) Confidently assuring us that Max Nor-
dau’s long-since-cxploded thesis had never been
refuted, “A.D.W.” was asked “if he would
maintain that Nordau’s Degeneration had 10
readers to-day where The Sanity of Art, Shaw’s
annihilating answer, finds thousands.” ‘‘Can’t
say,” the irresponsible answer comes winging
back; “the respective publishers might be able
to enlighten you.” Gosh! a can't-say, two-way,
could-before, can’t-behind controversialist!
(4) Some mystifying nonsense about Matisse
having been “weaned” from certain “fetters”
prompted me (having followed Matisse’s career
as 1 have since 1911) to ask from what fetters.
Why, “principally from the fetter of drawing
Caucasians as if they were Caucasians. I take
it that “A.D.W.” means that Matisse was so
engrossed with negro art that he was led at
some subsequent phase to represent even whites
as negroes. ’.ln which case he ought to be
able to quote biographical data concerning this
fantastic trick, and produce the pictorial evi-
dence as well. As it stands, this fetter-weaning
business is merely much ado about nix.
“A.D.W.” certainly does say that Matisse
studied “an example of negro sculpture: a one-
eyed woman with her nose joined to her
mouth”; but here again, with characteristic
glibness, he hands out fallacy instead of fact.
There was no one-eyed statuette. There were
drawings of negroid women, and they were
prompted by the discovery of a negro statuette,
admittedly; but those drawings were by Picasso,
not Matisse. Henri Matisse was never at any
time influenced, as Picasso and Modigliani
were, by the carved gods of the Gaboon and
the sublime masks of the Ivory Coast.
As for the comment (5) that Matisse’s earlier
reputation as a draughtsman was “grounded
on saner work” than his present world-fame as
a master of plastic form in rhythm and color,
this, 1 perceive clearly enough, is but a shot
at a venture. “A.D.W.” knows nothing what-
ever about Matisse. Why should he?
(6) Asked to name one (I wanted only one)
contemporary artist of repute who ‘scorns tra-
dition” or “despairs of improving upon” the
great masters, “A.D.W.” skids evasively past
me: “Several of them scorn tradition,” he
says; “nobody expects them to exhibit
modesty.” I asked for one name. Echo
answers, blah! There’s nary a one.
(7) Modigliani was a “brutally grotesque”
painter. My assertion that thousands of sensi-
tive people delight in his work and consider
him an exquisite painter, no less, won’t cut
any ice, I know, except among those who per-
ceive, as 1 do, that he was a subtle, delicate and
distinguished artist. There’s nothing gained,
except uproar, by slamming “It is!” against
“It ain’t!” But why couldn’t the maker
of this rash and futile commentary have applied
his terms “brutally grotesque” to Soutine or
Rouault, examples of whose works were pro-
vided in the volume he was reviewing? Sou-
tine is an artist; and Soutine is brutally gro-
tesque. Nothing could well be more grotesque
than to attach those adjectives to the work ot
the erudite Modigliani.
(8) “A.D.W.” evades my next question, as
to the relationship between art and life. But
need he have thumped down on top of it so
stodgy and dogmatic a dictum as that “the
object of sane art is to express beauty”?
Sane art! Dreams, my dear pundit, are not
“sane”: the making of a symphony is not
what you'd call a conspicuously sane proceed-
ing, is it? Does one expect an artist to
approach his problems with his commonsense
all shovelled up in the forefront of his mind,
like a plumber or a traffic-cop? As for that
old hag “beauty”—or shall we avoid that one,
too, and the headache it presages? But, Rem-
brandt’s face in the mirror? The flayed ox in
the shambles? Velasquez’s dwarfs? The dead
Christs (seen in the morgue) and the butchered
Sebastians of the Renaissance? “Oh, but that’s”
Yes, brother, I know. I know what it is
all right. It’s the sort of ugliness you've been
looking at for six centuries and more. You’re
not thinking of modern art when you shy at
these pictures: you’re thinking of modern
subject-matter.
(9) Of course it was “A.D.W.’s” view_ that
“modern art is the expression of an inferiority
complex.” I knew that. Consulting “any
directory” for further evidence, as he quaintly
recommends me to do, wouldn’t help the issue
any, would it? This one escapes my reach.
(10) He tricked me for a moment with his
footwork there. But this is a very important
one. Space! Space! “Draughtsmanship, color
and design,” “A.D.W.” rightly says, are the
foundations of all good art; his implication that
the modernist gets along without these things
being disallowed by the referee. Now, there
is in Melbourne a brilliant modernist painter
(how he hates that appellation!) who spends
his days and nights inculcating these same old
ineluctable principles among a set of students
of varying promise, whose sole concern one
and all is to draw well, design well and build
well in color. A recent exhibition of the work
of this school is reviewed in The Bulletin
in the column next to that in which “A.D.W."
parades me his answers. I recommend it to
Ids attention.
(! 1) “A.D.W.” is merely silly (as why
shouldn’t he be?) in supposing that the writer
who “finds beauty in ugliness and distortion”
“isn’t qualified as an authority on art.” No-
body finds beauty in ugliness. Ugliness is only
part of the material of art —conquered, it be-
comes beauty. Structural distortion and color
distortion are as necessary to-day as they always
have been in plastic art.
(12) I asked for the name of the alienist
who found modern art of “intense interest'
to him as an alienist. “A.D.W.,” of course,
gives no names. He doesn’t seem to know
where to look for them. Let me introduce
him, then, to Dr. Cachet, in whose asylum the
mad Van Gogh spent his last days. This
little doctor was himself a connoisseur and
collector of good art; and Van Gogh’s work
delighted him. He was proud to add some
of these pictures to his collection. This, and
he was a judge of it, was art to him.
ADRLAN LAWLOR.
Current
Artbursts
John Elder-
shaw, whose
latest harvest of
water-colors
decorates the
walls of the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, has a strong
feeling for the mellowness which a scrap
of century-old architecture gives to
landscape. In his earlier Tasmanian
browsings he discovered dozens of stone
bridges of respectable antiquity (coloni-
ally reckoned) and he has lately been
pursuing his archaeological researches in
Victoria with good results. His color is
growing warmer. In a quiet-toned land-
scape he will let a red cow live, and the
scene looks jollier in consequence. Of
the latest offerings this critic liked best a
Hobart water-side study—tall yachts and
their reflections; a glimpse of Henley
bridge, in which a winter morning's haze
is nicely caught, and thirdly a pink hop-
kiln.
Kenneth Mac Queen's water-colors at
the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, are
land and sea seen through the eyes of a
poet. Mac Queen looks for beautiful
curves, and when he finds them sky and
trees and all else must dance attendance.
On the seashore the intricate geometry
of the wave fascinates him. He comes
nearer to catching the dynamic grace of
its surge and curl with each experiment.
One of his latest essays in this direction
exhibits Japanese lightness and direct-
ness. Mac Queen’s color is almost
ethereal in its purity and transparence,
but his results are never wishy-washy.
Latterly he has found allure in big
stretches of calm water and clear sky,
and has learned to give luminance and
depth to both.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN'S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
1
i
12
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
(A good Single Bed-
room, with Hot and
Cold Water, ’Phone
and Reading Lamp,
from 7/- per day;
Double Room at
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Thank goodness, it wasn’t the Lake
poets but the fiery Giosue Carducci who
was the reason for the muster at the
Forum Club. The night was chill, and a
draught straight off the Antarctic stiff-
ened the ankle and made creaky knees
sound like a wheezy concertina. How-
ever, when Dr. Baccarini, who delivered
the centenary oration on Italy’s dead
poet, got into action, his words flowed
like molten lava. For this Carducci was
no meek poet, but a sort of human
Vesuvius. Possibly he may have had
a greater, a more dramatic exponent than
Dr. Baccarini; but it seems unlikely.
The doctor, who in his youth made a
hero of Carducci, walked and talked
with him as late as 1903,
I he Dante Alighieri Society engineered
the celebrations, and president Bertie
Kelly said the introductory piece. Mrs,
Bertie, in a rosebud-pink satin coat, was
in the front row, and near by sat the
Chief (Justice Jordans (he is one of the
city’s noted Italian scholars). Law was
on every hand. The Halse Rogers couple
and the David Maughans, with daughter
Jennifer, were among the keen admirers
of the slides which accompanied the
address. The one showing an imaginary
reconstruction of Rome as it was in the
time of Augustus brought a salvo of
applause for the Fritz Burnells, who had
lent it. Sir Hugh Poynter and his wife,
Prof. Shaw and Mrs. Fiaschi were lis-
teners ; so was Mrs. Waterhouse, whose
professor seconded C.J. Jordan’s vote of
thanks. Then the Dante Alighieris, hav-
ing pinned their medal on the anniversary,
departed. There were no libations —not
even coffee. It was one of those medal-
without-bar decorations.
There are 568 little dancing buds eager
to burst their calyxes and become bal-
lerinas —beginning ballerinas or full-
blown ones, according to the certificate
issued to them by Felix Demery. Felix
has already examined, wondered at and
admired the work in Perth, Adelaide and
Melbourne. On the way to vSydncy he
dropped off the train at Wagga to
examine a clutch of young toe-pointers
and pirouetters. “All passes,” he told
this Letter with a smile over tea and
toast at the Wentworth on the morning
of his arrival. He reaffirms the old, old
story that sweeping and scrubbing are
marvellous beautifiers of the female
form. He also says that all day Jong,
unconsciously, the body falls into dancing
poses. That’s right; no fewer than two
dozen ferryites were observed doing a
complete freeze on the Neutral Bay
wharf, the very mom of his arrival.
Aren’t the women members of the
Automobile Club stepping on the gas?
The men, wanting to make the club one
of .Sydney’s most popular spots, have in-
voked their aid. Now, they just have to
make a suggestion about carpets or
flowers or dressing-tables and the sug-
gestion materialises in the next delivery.
Afternoon parties as a means of cement-
ing friendly relations among the women
are being launched by a committee of
which the president is Mrs. H. L. Teb-
butt. The wife of the club’s president,
Bradley, K.C., will be the honored guest
of the music party which threatens to
overflow the club’s reception-rooms to-
morrow. Clem Q. Williams is the singer ;
he will be accompanied by the new Mrs.
Williams (Enid Conley), whom he mar-
ried in Auckland (M.L.) a few weeks ago.
Here’s the latest story about a young
Sydney actor who went by way of Lon-
don to Hollywood, Arriving in London,
the sharp lad had his vowels groomed
and his consonants valeted according to
Mayfair. Then he went to Hollywood.
There, meeting with favor, he was
snatched from small to bigger and better
parts, and finally, through somebody fall-
ing ill, he graduated to a role in one of
the world’s film classics. Unhappily his
parts of the dialogue were the only bits
not spoken with an American accent.
He was packed off to have his vowels
barbered and lawn-mowered, and when
he had got the right amount of
nose into his speech the scenes were shot
all over again.
Hilda Mulligan, the producer for
the Conservatorium presentation of
‘ Orpheus" on August 3, has made a
special study of opera, and is among
(hose privileged to have studied “Madame
Butterfly” with its composer, Puccini.
Miss Mulligan has years of study in Italy
among her assets, and she has sung at the
Del Verme in Milan and at Covent
Garden. As a girl, hers was a voice that
carried Melba’s endorsement to Europe,
but singing and the nicer appreciations of
opera arc inherited, for Miss Mulligan is
a great-grandniece of Vincent Wallace,
composer of “Maritana.”
Sydney's well-known legal woman
Sibyl Morrison is off on her travels
again. This time she intends to feel alto-
gether foot-free, so she is selling the
furniture and antiques that have made
her home at Point Piper such a pleasant
place. And aren’t her friends whetting
their claws for the sale to-morrow! Sibyl
said farewell to her household gods to
the accompaniment of a cocktail shaker.
Neridah Cohen, whose picture appeared
on this page some weeks ago, was called
to the Bar the other day. The Tamworth
girl’s admission was moved by Williams,
K.C., and Chief Justice Jordan smiled
approval on the lass, who, not content
with the foothills of the law, is now
about to face the higher peaks (not
beaks!). Sydney is not prolific of women
barristers; the last one admitted was
Mrs. Sybil Munro Morrison in June,
1924.
Nearly two hours of last week’s
Masonic Ball was taken up with cere-
monial trumpetings heralding the ap-
proach of inter-State groups. Many of
these had come to Sydney for the instal-
lation of the Governor as Grand Master
of the United Grand Lodge of the State,
and now walked the aisle of red carpet
under an archway of steel. Hardly had
their Exes, got into position in the vice-
regal stronghold when sixty-nine debs,
approached under an archway of peach-
blossom. Mrs. J. T. Pattinson, who pre-
sented this white-clad regiment of youth,
was dignity in black velvet and pearls;
Mrs. F. A. Maguire, who was with her
doctor husband, swathed her blossom-
pink chiffons with a fuchsia sash; Lady
Hore-Ruthven wore handsome rose-and-
silver brocades.
Under the admiring gaze of hundreds
of youngsters Lady Hore-Ruthven, wield
ing a gold trowel, planted a new wishing-
tree. The young tree is not far from
Sydney’s old friend in the Botanic
Gardens, and its planting was quite a
ceremony. The Minister for Justice,
the Minister for Agriculture and Mrs.
Main, Girl Guides and Boy Scouts
were in the grouping of this pastoral.
Curator of the Gardens Hawkey was
one of those who smiled brightly when
Lady Hore-Ruthven unearthed an old
horseshoe near the root of the baby
Norfolk pine. Farmer’s Radio Birthday
Club for children subscribed £BO for the
new tree and its setting.
Six o’clock on Saturday evening saw
the outside of Cinesound Studios gar-
nished with cars. The Film Players
Corporation was making merry over the
completion of its first talking picture,
“The Burgomeister.” It will cost £lO.OOO
—isn't that a good argument in favor of
the film quota? And, while we are on the
subject, what about an Australian play
quota?
Fifteen hundred lads and lasses look
possession of the Palais Royal when
“Shore” Old Boys held their dance. The
affair was happy and glorious, and the
souvenirs need a word all to themselves.
There were very high hat-bands of navy-
and-white diagonal stripes on the tables,
and the menus suddenly popped up as
straw “boaters” garlanded with “Shore”
bands. Then, too, there were the fans.
These are still treasured by the lucky
partners of the representatives of the
various G.P.S., who were official guests.
The fans were black and blazoned with
school crests, and some had the initials of
every G.P.S. A. H, Mack can be thanked
for the pretty compliment. A committee
of girls had helped hatch the success, and
Barbara Balls (in two tones of violet)
shepherdessed a very big group. Head-
master L. C. Robson and Mrs. Robson
were among the entertainers. Her crepes
were flower-spattered in palest pinks and
blues.
Here’s Betty, the younger of the
Rayner sisters, who have travelled the
world as “Troubadours.” The two. who
for some years ran the T.O.Y, in Sydney,
left four years ago to try their luck in
Europe and the U.S.A. Their pro-
grammes are made up of folk songs,
poems and intimate playlets with Eng-
lish, French, German and Swedish set-
tings. As they travelled they added to
their repertoire songs and stories of the
country they were passing through. They
travelled the road almost daily, Betty or
Joan at the wheel of their caravan ; at
night they camped in friendly gardens.
They put on their shows at such varied
addresses as Rhodes House (the lovely
bit of Oxford where novelist John
Buchan, now Canada’s G.-G., opened the
Royal Empire Society’s summer school
last year), the University of Gothenburg,
Montparnasse, and the fairy-story glitter
of the stage of the Grand Hotel at Stock-
holm. it was all mirror and gilt embel-
lishments. Joan and Betty (Maori-
landers, incidentally) open their season
at the Savoy on August 8 in “Scarlet and
Grey.”
Streamers of laughter floated out into
the corridors of Greenknowe every time
the door of Violet Roche’s flat opened
last Friday. This was every few seconds
after the clock chimed five. The Rayner
sisters .held levee in the middle of' the
room, Betty in a sky-after-rain-blue
frock that wore its swagger coat falling
nonchalantly from a large deep-blue
button at the neckline. This button was
quite flat, and scored lightly round and
round like a miniature gramophone
record. Joan was in nut-brown, highly
collared in fur. Violet wore the supreme
cocktail-party frock, in melting greys
and lilac. Friend Dora Payter gave
a hand with the salted almonds. There
were simply dozens of men—the room
seemed crowded with them. 'Cellist
George Ellwood’s wife struck a bright
note in smiles and millinery; John
Wood’s mother answered unending ques-
tions about John’s doings in Hollywood ;
Beaupre Bassett blew in fresh as the
breeze. A nice party.
By Monday afternoon the Second
District Base was beginning to lift its
head alter the dance on Saturday night.
The Imperial Service Club itself almost
felt in need of an ice bag to the bn
after the fun. The party was in honor
of Brigadier J. L. Hardie and Mrs.
Hardie, and the supper-tables were
resplendent with regimental colors.
At Frances Scully’s party, at which
Felix Demcry was introduced to Sydney’s
dancing teachers and the artistically
inclined, a ballerina all white tulle and
pointed toe poised opposite a sedate
kookaburra on the long table where
mauve cocktails (served with tiny blobs of
sugared ginger) hobnobbed with a regi-
ment of savories. One of these had a
red pepper coat and a sharp interior.
Asked its title, a young woman who wore
her tarn beret at a cute angle declared
it to be an “Abyssinian Front Line.”
Frances, from the shoulder of whose
smart black suit dangled a plump and
glossy silver fox, faithfully presented
each teacher to the guest. Mr. Demery,
who is not tall, but has the dancer’s lithe
compactness of figure, confessed he had
thirty years of dancing experience behind
him. An address of welcome bound in
tooled leather was decorated with wattle
and flannel-flowers and signed by the
teachers, among whom were the fair
Tistie Grant Cooper (with a fur-bordered
cape to her black ensemble), Patricia
Page, Mary McMahon, Undine Clarke
(from Maoriland) and Tess Scully, as
well as a great crowd of others. Paling’s
Walter Dibley was there, and among the
invited were Pat White and Carl Thomas.
D. G. McDougall rushed in and out
again, his mind set on the city’s 1938
celebrations. Doris Beattie and Margaret
C halmers brought their new spring hats.
“Ring-a-ring-a-rosy, and pick up your
posy of ten-bob notes!” So crooned the
serpent, so sang the siren. “Forge two
links of this chain letter, and riches will
shower upon you.” The girl who
dropped blobs of vegetable soup on the
skirt of your best costume murmured
about a man a friend of hers had seen
drive up to the bank with a “suitcase
packed with bundles of ten-shilling notes
—all got in one week.” Liftmen whis-
pered hoarsely about a bloke who was
collecting his “£2 10s. a-day regular out
of the mail.” There was the story of the
youth who had to plead sick leave from
his office in order to keep his letter-box
from bursting asunder with currency.
“There was a boy in a jam factory,” so
said the girl you talked to, casually, over
a sixpenny bun and pot of tea, “who had
made £3OOO, and was still going strong.”
The main thing was to get in early. But,
of course, it was sickening the way the
press and the police were crabbing a late-
comer’s luck. Capitalist myrmidons both,
they hated to see an honest working girl
picking up a bit of money she hadn't
broken her back to earn. Still she had
managed to buy two sixpenny letters and
a bob one, and she picked up her tea
docket with the sort of smile that must
have been worn by the South Sea Bubble
blowers.


cu^
co'**"
70 YEARS REPUTATION
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager jor full particulars.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
w
A
Quiet*
Exclusive*
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
Phones: F 2191 (14 lines), j
B. CORDINGLY* LTD.* Proprietors j
- ,
I {
» m.'
g
C l\
/ u
v
!/
/
A
INGOT
TWEED TROUSERS
for Hard-working Conditions
Where the work is hardest . . . and wear
and tear is greatest—lngot Work Trousers
will prove their worth.
They keep their shape and are colour-last.
Even repeated boilings will not give them
that “washed-out” appearance. And wear
—you’ll be pleasantly surprised at the
length of time it takes to wear them out.
Made in Australia from
Australian Cotton
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Originality is the fashion. At a party
last week a woman appeared wearing a
spray of violets and daphne, and the
green stuff at the back was parsley—-not
just the plain common variety but extra
triple curl. They do such things in
America, but on a much grander scale.
A rich woman living on Long Island has
recently had her apartment completely
done over in oilcloth, glass and polar-
bear rugs.
One night last week International Club
members and their friends went on an
armchair tour to the north-west of Aus-
tralia, through Java and Bali, to Cam-
bodia and on to Japan. The medium ot
the journey was J. Balfour and his movie
camera. In the Kimbcrleys Mr. and Mrs.
Balfour photographed corroborces and
sacred ceremonies at which no woman is
supposed to look under penalty of death
or the loss of her eyes (fortunately, Mrs.
Balfour is alive and well after the experi-
ence). In Bali the couple managed to film
a cremation ceremony ; the corpse had
been dead a year. From Angkor they
brought a record of temple ruins, Irom
Saigon a panorama of river file, minus
the heat, smells and mosquitoes as big as
swans. Mr. Balfour’s most artistic film
depicts Japan in the autumn. He has
caught the splendor of red and gold
leaves, the softer tints of chrysanthe-
mums and the blue of sky and sea. A
feminine personality at the lecture was
Dr. Wu Chi Moy, Canton’s State Com-
missioner for Public Health. Dr. Wu,
who studied medicine in China, is having
a look at health conditions of other
countries on a trip round the world. She
has flashing white teeth, a charming smile
and a low-pitched voice. To the lecture
she wore a black velvet coat, a narrow
blue scarf and long and lovely earrings
made of jade.
The Budapest Siring Quartet is like a
cocktail composed of all sorts of un-
suspected ingredients. Stephen Ipolyi and
Mrs. Roisman. wife of the quartet’s
leader, are the only Hungarian members
of the group of visitors. Mrs. Alexander
Schneider, who comes from Munich,
speaks the best English of the bunch.
An accomplished and charming young
woman and a bride of only a few weeks,
she has held responsible commercial jobs
in her own country, and was for several
years secretary to the Paris correspon-
dent of the “Frankfurter Zeitung.”
At the International Club’s reception
for the quartet Mrs. Roisman was very
smart in a black velvet suit with silver
foxes and a wide-brimmed black beret.
In his address the A.B.C.’s T. W. Bearup
mentioned that one night last week he
had danced with this attractive little
woman, who said to him, “Your dancing,
it is like my English.” He hasn’t been
game to inquire if she means rather
quaint or very bad. Mrs. Mischa
Schneider couldn’t appear at the party,
for she has a very young baby to look
after. Mrs. Ipolyi came in a shower-
proof coat and a black felt hat. The
Consul for Czecho-Siovakia brought Mrs.
Peacock, whose burgundy coat was
trimmed with lamb’s wool. Mrs. Hylton
Dale wore a navy coat collared with the
soft inky-blue fluffiness of dyed blue fox.
A noticeable figure was a Frenchwoman,
Mrs. H. K. Reddin, all in brown, with
a dashing little Cossack cap. When sec.
Mrs. M. R. McMillan invited everybody
who spoke the languages of the guests of
honor to come forward and be intro-
duced there was a hold-up for a few
minutes. But when one or two more
confident spirits plucked up their cour-
age the rush began, and the clatter of
divers tongues drowned the rattle of tea-
cups.
Mary Cecil Allen is having a grand
home-coming—parties in studios, parties
in clubs, parties in private houses. The
Herbert Brookes couple contributed an
at-home at Winwick on Saturday night.
Mrs. Brookes wore leaf-brown lace, and
Jessie was in lime-green, with an eddy of
tulle whisked round her neck. Miss
Allen, who has poise and presence and a
coiffure of Katharine Hepburn forehead
curls, as distinctive as one would expect
from a young woman who has lived nine
years in the U.S.A., wore a flame crepe
garment with wide hauri sleeves of gold
lame.
Miss Allen has noticed that in Mel-
bourne nobody ever seems to have
any spare time. Uncle Sam’s newspapers
are full of “What to Do with Leisure.”
After summer vacations everybody
always asks everybody else, “Well, what
arc you doing now?” for Americans
don’t stick in a groove with one career.
They chop and change and often start
upon new occupations and hobbies quite
late in life. Miss Allen has proved her-
self particularly versatile ; she’s been suc-
cessful as an artist, a writer and a lec-
turer. On behalf of Melbourne artists
Arthur Streeton made a speech of wel-
come. Among the guests were members
of the Budapest String Quartet and their
wives and a visitor from America, Mrs.
Bryce, whose nutmeg-lace gown was cut
with overseas smartness. Dr. J. A. Bisset
brought his wife, a symphony in half-
tones ; a misty-grey dress with a niched
hem, a velvet coat and a spray of pink
rosebuds. Knight Arthur Robinson
escorted his wife, who decorated the
corsage of her black gown with a
camellia. Mrs. Chris Cowper wore parch-
ment lace, and daughter Beryl white
taffeta with a white ribbon in her hair.
Here is a Jack Cato glimpse of Mrs.
Steinlc’s younger daughter Loric. Giselle
and Loric were born in Germany (their
father was German, their mother is Irish,
and Australian by adoption), and were
educated on the Continent and in Eng-
land. Last week Loric played lead in
Sacha Guitry's very modern and sophisti-
caled little play, “Lc Renard et la
Grenouille,” produced by J. Studer, Vice-
Consul for Switzerland. The Cerclc
Chante-Clair is a very young and small
society. Its members have commenced
to rehearse French plays more for the
fun of the thing than through any
motives of serious study.
Dancers swam through a sea of bal-
loons to get to the “Dogs Ball ; the
lightsome baubles became tangled up
with noses, chins and flowers pinned in
hair, and occasionally got in the way of
eating and drinking. A crooner from
Kansas City, Joyce Prosser, put over
glutinous sentiment in black-and-silver
lam<£. Mrs. Barry Thomson’s gumtip-
green lace waved ospreys upon the
sleeves. Cassi Fanning wore a pierrot
ruffle of enormous proportions and a
lilac sash round her lily-green waist.
Thelma Scott’s black skirt was hitched to
a tangerine corsage of criss-cross bands.
Joan Neuendorf buckled a six-inch width
of gold leather belt round her white-and-
gold frock. Joyce Walker rustled bouf-
fant taffetas of porcelain-blue, and
Louise Lovely’s diamond bracelets
flashed as she juggled glasses and counted
change for thirsty folk.
Girls in the brightest of hockey tunics
have kept things merry on St. Kilda
Cricket Ground this week. Teams came
from all the States and M.L., and in be-
tween matches players were entertained
by drives up to see the snow, by theatre-
parties and with tea and chatter. Presi-
dent of the Vic. Women’s Hockey Associ-
ation Mrs. E. F. Herring was among
hostesses to invite the athletic lasses to
her home. On Saturday night 200 players
let up on strict training and dined at the
Federal at tables extra-specially decorated
in the teams’ colors.
Behold Mrs. Rupert Downes, wife of
the president of the Vic. branch of the
B.M.A. There are lavish plans afoot for
the entertainment of visitors to Mel-
bourne for the association’s meeting.
Besides official functions there arc to be
many private parties; already there is
scarcely a line to spare in the engage-
ments books kept by the wives of our
mcdicoes. Mrs. Downes, who is one of
the most charming people the visitors
will meet, is organising with a committee
of six wives of executive officers the ball
which the Vic. B.M.A. will give at Earl's
Court on September 12. A Ronald
Esler camera produced the portrait.
On an afternoon last week Werribee
councillors were invited to a picnic by
the Women’s Vigilance Committee. The
afternoon was warm and sunny ; there
were tea and sandwiches ; the councillors
drowsed and pulled at their pipes ; the
women let off a prepared stream of viva-
cious gossip. Cars rolled along the
smooth Altona-road. Everything was
delightful. Then suddenly the road
ceased to be. On the edge of a frog-
filled swamp the ladies shed their cloaks
of amiability, and the men were ordered
out of the cars and immediately sur-
rounded by swarms of people who had
apparently been lurking behind, bushes
and up trees. The councillors were
walked round the lake and up the flooded
streets. Having fallen into the trap so
blithely, there was nothing to do but
surrender. They have promised that in
future no tadpole will be able to get
a decent swim in Altona.
Fewer and fewer sports are left sacred
to man. Recently feminine eyes have
turned speculatively towards that “real
man’s game” lacrosse. At a meeting
held last week at the Y.W.C.A. a motion
was carried that lacrosse teams would
be formed, and practice will commence
as soon as the hockey season is over.
A private room in one of our hospitals
has been filled with the most glamorous
orchids, creeping, climbing in bunches
and in single seductive blooms. Visitors
to the patient, Wallie Hogg, have pon-
dered on the identity of the lasses who
apparently provided such expensive
cheering-up for the popular patient. But
Wallie has a brother Bruce who owns
a hothouse —which explains the mystery.
A cosmopolitan audience filled the
Town Hall for the De Abravanel con-
certs. The countries of Europe were well
represented—in the foyer one heard a
burble of many languages. There were
the musical, the pseudo-musical and the
backbone of the box-office —the people
who turn up at concerts because it’s the
right thing to do. There were men with
long hair, women with short clips, people
of all ages wearing all manner of clothes.
To the first concert Florence Austral
trailed rust-red and gold lame as she went
backstage to speak her congratulations.
Mrs. Leslie Benjamin was swathed to the
chin in a pictorial garment of Persian-red
satin. Mrs. Oswald Benjamin wore a
little dyed ermine cape. Mrs. Esmond
Kiernan, just returned from sunny days
in Queensland, was wrapped up among
grey squirrel. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann had a
golden arabesque brooch at the throat ot
her moss-green lace gown, and dangling
pearl earrings were a decorative detail of
Mona Nugent’s toilette.
For her first Melbourne concert
Muriel Brunskill was regal in white satin.
Clusters of diamente ornamented her
sleeveless corsage, and a diamond
pendant made a burst of color at the
singer’s throat. Madame’s long train was
almost the undoing of pianist Carl Bai-
ling, a nice-looking young man who plays
beautifully but who has yet to learn how
much floor space elongated feminine
draperies arc liable to occupy.
Gertrude Johnson, who will give a
concert in Melbourne Town Hall on
August 7, has a sense of humor, and
tells many bright stories of her adven-
tures abroad during the last 14 years.
When she was engaged to sing at Arling-
ton, a coal-dusty suburb of Newcastle
(Eng.), the theatre was booked for the
week following by a wild animal-con-
juror-strong-woman troupe. The co. with
its menagerie arrived a day early and
couldn’t get board in the town, so they
distributed themselves in unused parts
of the theatre. As Miss Johnson warbled
her exquisite “Cara Nome” a lion began
to roar, a lioness joined her mate, a tiger
added his baritone and a cockatoo started
to shriek. The singer (metaphorically)
set her teeth, stuck out her chin and kept
on to the bitter end. After the interval,
in which the audience cheered the con-
certed effort, Miss Johnson and her
accompanist, Edgar Bainton (now ol
Sydney), started on a group of classical
songs. From the opening bar it was
a race to get in on the loudest note.
The jungle cats kept up their bellowing,
a monkey started to chatter, a seal bkrked
and the strong woman in a noisy burst
of temperament offstage hit the con-
juror over the head with a fire bucket.
A couple who received on their wed-
ding day good wishes from over a net-
work of country telegraph wires were Mr.
and Mrs, J. C. Pennington, who chose
All Saints’, Kooyong, as their trysting-
place. The bride was Elizabeth, only
daughter of Mrs. D. Buick, of Majorca,
and the ’groom was John, son of the
J W. Penningtons, Holcombe Park, St.
Arnaud. Bruce Buick gave away his
sister, who was robed in creamy satin
and a veil of Brussels lace. The sheaves
of early blossom carried by ’maids Mar-
garet Clark and Phyllis Balfour brought
a whiff of spring to the church and after-
wards to Grosvcnor.


ROSS/or HEIGHT/
Uent, age 19}, gains S Ins. in 6 weeks. I No Appliances
m >2l > 5 >in 5 rnths. I —No Drugs.
. >2O, > 3} „in 16 days. INo Dieting.
> >3O, . 2 „in 4 weeks.
.. > 40, > U„in 6 ~ BOSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3|ins. HEVEB FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from aU over the world.
Fes 12 2s.
ass Comi ett£nt mmy '
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Box 15.)
Mothersills
2ZHQ
STOPS TRAVEL
SICKNESS bu
SEA. AIR ana
TRAIN 2
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
GOWNS THAT WHISPER ROMANCE
Love r y Modes from London
u
AOS I. R A t I A N
woman's mirror
A Fashions Letter from Margot Hill-Manners this
week features dance and dinner frocks—up-to-the-
minute, yet simple enough to be worn to the usual
dances and parties of the season. Here arc three
of the six gowns illus-
trated in Friday’s issue.
FREE PATTERN
Simple House Frock
PATTERN SERVICE
14 Modish Patterns am)
Special Price Discount
COOKERY FEATURE
Bread-making at Home
ON SALE FRIDAY, 3d.
w
Patterns based on photo-
models available from “Mirror - ’
Pattern Department in stock sizes at
1 1- the pattern, post free.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Advertising Arts Ball kept up to
its standard with attendance, decorations
and novelties. The orchestra played from
a fairy bower of jade foliage and rain-
bow twinkly lights; the publication
“Jubilee Jinks” was distributed; baskets
of samples smacked of an Agricultural
Show, and variety turns were club-
sandwiched between the dances. Mrs.
Harry Wilson’s black taffetas were
flecked with gold, Mrs. W. H. Perry-
man’s orchid matt crepes were liberally
bejewelled, diamente glittered on Mrs.
Max Lambert’s black cotelle, Joan
Anderson swung a length of shrimp silk
crepe, Peggie Henderson was enmeshed
in a web of green lace, and Mrs. George
West’s black velvets were wrought with
silver.
Joy Halbert and Charlie Burns crossed
the matrimonial bridge at Guildford
Grammar School chapel. White satin
moire swooped from the bride’s tight-
fitting bodice to a split skirt and a long,
pleated train ; the Honiton lace veil had
seen service in the bride’s family for
many generations. Hope Halbert (in
pastel pink) and Agnes Burns (whose
choice fell on leaf-green) had layers of
frills on their spotted nets and wound
wreaths of pink roses and green leaves
round their heads.
Artillery officers burnished their
buttons, put brigade and battery trophies
in conspicuous spots and invited friends
to dance at the Naval and Military Club.
Gay uniforms vied with the colorful
array of feminine gowns, just a handful
of the dancers appearing in black —to
wit, the Hobbs lady and daughter Nancy,
Mrs. Bessel 1-Browne, Mrs. Martyn, Mrs.
Donald Smith and Mrs. Brendon Garner.
Mrs. Robertson-Smith wound a silver
girdle around her powder-blue silver-
striped cellophane, Marjorie Butler was
in keeping with the spirit of the function
with a white taffeta military cape over
her rustling gown, Mary Bessell-Browne’s
white-striped cotelle was brushed with
rose madder, Grace Stapledon splashed
silver lame over ice-blue cotelle, and
gold pin-spots studded Nancy le Souef’s
flame matelasse.
The hardy souls who braved the ele-
ments for the King’s Park Tennis Club
dance voted the function well worth the
effort. A welcome fire crackled merrily
in the wide fireplace, round which easy
chairs were drawn as close as possible.
Mrs. Karl Knapp warmed her toes in
rich black satin coated with silver lame,
Lou Shenton’s lame sheathing glittered
in the firelight, Mrs. Basil Kirke touched
her moon-blue moss crepes with silver,
gold sequins sparkled on Peter Smith’s
black velvets, Bonnie Spencer’s lam6
gleamed pink and silver, and Gloria
Nelson combined blue and black in her
figured velvets.
The Children’s Protection Society
benefited from the proceeds of the Mt.
Lawley Younger Folk’s dance at the
Stirling Institute. Sheila Gill’s gold-
beaded apricot georgettes occupied the
committee’s chair, Nancy Manning’s
ninons were patterned in softest green,
and Ida Robinson combined floral tinsel-
striped chiffon and black georgette in a
tunic frock.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The lacrosse clubs in Adelaide gave
good support to the ball held at the
Palais Royal to raise funds for the
lacrosse tourney that is to be one of
the features of the centenary celebrations.
Decorations featured mimosa and Ice-
land poppies. A match was played on the
dance floor between Blacks and Whites,
and falls were numerous. The ball used
was a soft one —fortunately, for it fre-
quently dropped on the heads of the on-
lookers. In the absence of the president,
C. L. Abbott, and his wife, Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. Hodgetts officiated, the lady in
black chiffon velvet with fur-trimmed
cape effect. Others in the official box
were Mr. and Mrs. Lancelot Parsons, the
A. J. Lees and Don Bradman and his
wife. Mrs. Parsons was in black silk
crepe, Mrs. Lee favored black lace and
Mrs. Bradman chose Lido-blue romaine.
Mamie, eldest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. T. J. Horgan, of Glenelg, became
Mrs. J. J. Davoren at the Memorial
Chapel of the Sacred Heart College,
Glenelg, decked for the occasion with
almond-blossom, camellias and poppies.
A princess robe of white satin with cowl
neckline and long, tight-fitting sleeves clad
the bride, whose long tulle veil was held
in place by a coronet of orange-blossom.
Her sisters, Peg and Kit, attended in ivory
chiffon patterned in gold thread. They
wore wreaths of frangipanni, and car-
ried long trails of yellow flowers. Mrs.
W. J, Denny’s little daughter, Mary
Elizabeth, was a flower-girl in white satin
and tulle. Bridegroom is a solicitor at
Broken Hill (N.S.W.). There were re-
joicings afterwards at the South Aus-
tralian.
The Pageant of Dolls, opened by the
Moulden lady, promises to bring in a
considerable amount towards the Lord
Mayor’s Relief Fund. There are 550
dolls in the show. The judging was done
by the acting-Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dun-
stan) and Misses E. Robin and J. Warren.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre staged
“Dumb Wife of Cheapside,” a farce by
Ashley Dukes, based on a Rabelais ori-
ginal. Produced by Thomas Nave in an
Elizabethan setting, it has lots of rough
humor of the Shrew-taming sort. The
doting husband (Frank Johnston) had his
dumb wife (Mimi Mattin) cured; on
which she talked his head off, so he got
the same surgical gang to make him deaf
—and so couldn’t hear them when they
asked for their fees. Other good points
of the evening were Robert Rouffe as
a gentleman burglar and Iris Thomas, in
a Clemence Dane playlet, bluffing her
way out of the hands of women revolu-
tionaries (complete with axe). At the
end of the evening the Rep. entertained
and toasted its old member Jean Robert-
son, afterwards an actress of note, and
now here on a visit as Mrs. Prof. Brose.
TASMANIA.
Those who engineered the Lord
Mayor’s Charity Ball in Hobart City
Hall won a just reward for their labors
in the success of the affair. Over a thou-
sand dancers were on the floor, and the
galleries were packed with onlookers.
The bush had been brought to town for
the occasion, and electric lights found
lodgment in gum-boughs. The stage was
turned into the official lounge; the
orchestra played from a rustic platform
of bark logs near the entrance door. His
Ex. was still convalescing, but Lady
Clark received the bobs of eight debs.,
supported by the Lieut.-Gov.
Lady Clark was in deep-prune georgette
with floating cape-ish sleeves. The Lady
Mayoress sported metal lame with a
touch of petunia velvet on the bodice.
The Lewis lady was in her favorite
blue, Acting-Premier Dwyer-Gray’s wife
chose pale-yellow lace, and the C.J.’s lady
sported green. The Mayoress of Laun-
ceston, Mrs. von Bibra, was in dull
pink and silver. Debs, who broke the
eggshell were Marjorie Inches, Marie
Skeels, Lyndsay McDonald, Amy Rigby,
Helen Richardson, Eileen Rigby, Molly
Williamson and Margaret Hope,
The Light Horse Annual Ball at Rich-
mond Town Hall was a bright affair,
about 400 guests, including folk from
Hobart, rolling up. Lieut. Geoff Swan
was responsible for most of the organis-
ing. In the official group were Lieut.-
Col. Donald Cameron, Miss Cameron,
Major and Mrs. Locke and Captain T. B.
Macleod. Decorations were in purple
and gold.
The Lieut.-Gov. (knight Elliott Lewis)
had to deputise for his Ex. at the
unveiling of the memorial stone to the
southern pioneers in St. David’s Park,
Hobart. The ceremony was followed by
the planting of the first tree at this end
of the Memorial-avenue, destined to
make the old Main-road a thing of
beauty. As the idea emanated from the
50,000 brains of the Launceston League,
Mayor von Bibra came south and planted
the first sapling.
Without any fuss Susie, daughter of
C.J. Nicholls and his lady, and Malcolm
Urquhart, lecturer in maths, at Melb.
Uni., took their matrimonial leap in Mel-
bourne. Sister Mary Nicholls, who is
studying music at the Uni. Con., and
the bride’s uncle, Malcolm Sprent, were
the only relatives present. Both the young
folks are Tasmanians by birth.
Mrs. C. Hartnoll, Evandale, has passed
over at the venerable age of 94. Mrs.
Hartnoll and the late Miss Fall were
sisters, and their gifts and legacies
benefit many institutions and associa-
tions, among others the fund for anew
X-ray deep-therapy plant for the Laun-
ceston Hospital.


KANGAROO
HIDE BELT
A belt is a very personal {
thing to a man.
Experience a new idea in
trouser comfort by
wearing one of Pike
Brothers 10-strand
hand ridge-plaited
Kangaroo Hide Belts,
The finest and strongest
made.
PIKES
of QUEEN STREET,
/ BRISBANE.
A
%e tyiid
I m
VALUABLE JOURNAL FOR INVESTORS.
August issue on Sale next Saturday.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Aust. Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
N.Z. Paper Mills, Ltd.
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
Jantzen (Aust.), Ltd.
Vic. Butter Factories Co.-op Co., Ltd
Bank of New Zealand.
Malley’s, Ltd.
Marchant’s, Ltd.
Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
N. Coast Steam Navigation Co., Ltd
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
w»'Ss
c
H
I
N
E
MADE IN R
AUSTRALIA y
SYDNEY
Representotivrs: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD... Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A.. Brisbane
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Gain”: The suggestion of Dr. C. M.
Deland, of New Guinea, that the British
Solomons should be handed to Australia
is sensible. The present situation is Gil-
bertian. The old German Solomons,
under the mandate, have representation
in the New Guinea Legislative Council
and are run by Australians via Rabaul.
Across a dotted line on the map are the
British Solomons, mainly populated by
Australians total whites, 497. They
are served almost exclusively by Austra-
lian shipping, and governed by a British
Resident, who is responsible to London
via Fiji, with another advisory council,
also largely Australian. The present pro-
tectorate boundaries embrace about
375,000 square nautical miles. Exports
are about £ 190,000-p.a. when copra prices
arc normal. Two or three Australian
parties are prospecting less frequented
islands, which remain as savage as when
the Portuguese touched at Isabel nearly
400 years ago. Several gold finds have
been reported.
* * * *
“X.T.”: There is a gloomy lack of
enthusiasm in Queensland for the scheme
which the Government has invented to
“combat drought.” On the basis of
20,000,000 sheep, the fund would pro-
vide £250,000 p.a., and out of this the
usual swelling collection and adminis-
tration department would have to be
kept, freights on fodder paid and storage
facilities built in districts where timber
is scarce and labor dear. Even a grazier
with 1000 sheep would pay £l2 10s. a
year, which would probably represent
over 4 p.c. of gross wool income. There
is certainly need for drought cover and
fodder conservation. Freight and tax
remissions to those adopting some agreed
scheme would help ; but before any insur-
ance scheme is entered upon somebody
with proper actuarial facilities —say the
A.M.P. —might he asked to decide what
cover is necessary in different districts.
* * . * *
“El V.”: W. M. Hughes has been
having the time of his life in Brisbane,
which he has scarcely seen since the war.
He has been making up for his previous
visits, when his only recreations were
listening to decoded war cables, which
used to occupy most of the 24 hours in
those hectic days, or dealing out sauce to
Ryan and Theodore. Mainly, his asso-
ciates have been Diggers, and his travels
have brought him into contact with many
old friends —one with whom he and
Joseph Cook played housie-housie on a
troopship. Of course, somebody shouted,
“Do you remember Warwick?” to which
the victim of the egg replied:
Well, now, I was reading about the
Belfast riots. They had more casualties
than wc had then; but they didn’t have
nearly so much fun.
Which seems to show that the little
man has lost some of the eloquence
which filled bystanders with admiration
on the historic occasion.
* * * *
“Lon”: Queenslanders are not look-
ing kindly on N. S. Wales police methods.
Mr. Mackay, the N.S.W. Commissioner,
has been very active, and former Sydney
haunts of crooks have been transformed
into highly respectable suburbs, while
a loophole discovered in the Queensland
Consorting Act, which compels the police
lo proceed on summons instead of under
warrant, is bringing undesirable immi-
grants from the south “in droves.” Mr.
Carroll, Queensland’s Police Commis-
sioner, says between 200 and 300 have
arrived during the past few months, and
are keeping the police busy. A simple
Act which would declare all suspects
lo be commercial motor-drivers deemed
to be competing with the railways should
relieve Mr. Carroll of his worries,
* * * *
“A.C.”: City-dwellers who complain
of the cost of living would not like
Tennant’s Creek (NX). Sugar there costs
od. per pound, bread Is. per 41b. loal.
Water in 44-gallon drums it comes
“Ain I you cornin' lo the picnic, Mary?"
"No. I'd rather stay home and have my meals in comfort."
from seven miles away, and there is
plenty of wild life in it as a premium—
is about 3d. per gallon, but as beer is
Is. 6d. a glass—3d. dearer than a nip of
whisky—some people have to drink
water.
* * * *
“Vic”: J. G. Hides, the Papuan R.M.
who has returned safe from his risky
Strickland-Purari expedition, was born
in Port Moresby, but his family reckon
themselves North Queenslanders. His
father was a Victorian who first lived
at Herberton (N.Q.), then went to Port
Moresby, where he was in the civil ser-
vice for a time and later was in the
sandalwood trade. When he died 10
years ago. the family moved to Brisbane,
where Jack worked for a time in the
office of a co-operative company. Eight
years ago, he returned to Papua with his
brother. His promotion has been
meteoric.
* # * *
“Kieta”: Nauru, which is under Aus-
tralian mandate, is surely the happiest
island in the Pacific. It exported 418,000
tons of phosphate last year—off an area
of 5396 acres. Its £19,798 revenue was
collected from 2700 inhabitants. About
£15,000 comes from import duties and
phosphate royalty, so that extraction is
almost painless except for the capitation
tax, which is £2 per European, £1 per
Asiatic and 15s. per native on all
physically fit adult males under 60. It
has a reserve fund of £26,698 instead of
a national debt, and, though only 26
miles from the equator, it is more than
ordinarily healthy. In 1933-34, tor the
eighth year in succession, there were no
maternity deaths, though births range
from 50 to 60 p.a.
* * * *
“X.T.”; New Guinea as a gold-
producer is beaten in Australia only by
W.A. Last year its gold export was
257,51 loz., valued at £1,367,616, and,
apart from whites. 5142 natives are now
employed on the mining fields.
* * * *
“No, 2”: Queensland, which has pro-
duced abundance of musical talent
(even a member of Parliament aban-
doned his gold pass to transmute
himself into Signor Redwoodi), has
a new hopeful—James Benedict Guley
(aged 5), of Goodna, on the Brisbane
River. Play him a tune, and he will
reproduce it on the piano, whether it be
“Little Man, You’ve Had a Busy Day,”
or the “Coppelia” ballet. The whole
keyboard is his domain, but apart from
his musical memory he is a normal,
sturdy young Queenslander.
* * * *
“Wynnum”; Queensland now claims
to own the two oldest Diggers—Gunner
Patrick McCafferty, of Wynnum (86),
and Maurice Sutherland, of the 24th Bat-
talion (Vic,), who has just turned 80 in
Rosemount Hospital, Brisbane. The
latter, with the help of the doctor, cut
his age from 59 to 43 when he enlisted.
This northern climate certainly does
carry them off young.
♦ * * *
“0.5.”: The Stirling Castle (B.
17/7/’35) did not actually go ashore on
Fraser Island, but on Swain Reef, further
north. The crew, including Mrs. Fraser,
who saw her husband speared and the
mate of the vessel cooked by the blacks,
was brought south to the mouth of
Hervey Bay in the ship’s boats. Jeffery,
an authority on early Australian wrecks,
says in The Australian Encyclopaedia that
“these horrors took place about 12 miles
from Sandy Cape,” which is the north
point of Fraser Island.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Crowds gave a wildly affectionate fare-
well to Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard,
and the station when they left was
thronged. Madge looked very smart in
brown frock and hat and greyish furs.
Jean Campbell, the Melbourne novel-
ist, and Miss G. A. Bertram, who hails
from Maoriland, were the guests at a
lea parly given by the president (Mrs.
G. L. Byth) and members of the Brisbane
Women’s Club.
W. M. Hughes proved in visiting the
Anzac Hostel and Rosemount and other
Digger institutions that he has not lost
his old charm over Australia’s fighting
men. He was voted more sympathetic
than some of his predecessor Rcpat.
Ministers.
Mrs. Kelvin Lahey, who will be matron
of honor when Jocelyn Hudson says “1
will” to Gordon Ridgway, gave a party
to the bride-elect at Rowe’s —one of
many, for Jocelyn has as many friends
as Kipling’s Kim.
Before Joyce Smith went home to
Warwick, uncle and aunt Mr. and Mrs.
R. W. Dowling gave a cheery dance for
her at §t. Ann’s, Ascot. Poppies and
yellow roses in the lounge and pink and
mauve sweet-peas on the supper-
tables harmonised with Mrs. Dowling's
blossom-pink draperies.
Mrs. W. G. Woolnough, whose husband
is geological adviser to the Common-
wealth Government, left Sydney on June
3, and since then has travelled by
utility truck and train from Alice Springs
to Darwin and so to Brisbane by sea.
One of the most interesting bits of the
trip was the visit to “the Elsey,” birth-
place of Wc of the Never Never.
Mr. and Mrs. S. W. Jarvis, of London,
are visiting Brisbane, and with them is
their attractive daughter Rita, who is by
way of becoming a star at Wimbledon.
About 300 employees of the City
Electric Light Co. gathered at All
Saints’ Hall to entertain managing
director W. M, L’Estrange. A handsome
electric clock and a lot of good wishes
were passed on to the guest by Mr. E. S.
Cornwall (chief assistant) and J. T. Ryan
(secretary).
The midnight' air these times resounds
with the anguished cries of householders
who have securely locked up their
premises before going out, and have mis-
laid the key when they find themselves
on the doormat again. All the locking,
which is foreign to Brisbane’s usual atmo-
sphere, is due to an epidemic of burglary.
One couple returned from a very pleasant
little beano to find that all their wedding
presents had vanished.


This winter ~
enjoi] a month of SUMMER
TAKE one of the big Trans-Pacific liners via
Auckland, N.Z., and a few days will see
you in Fiji, islands of enchantment.
Every day you spend in Fiji will be notable—
swimming, tennis, hiking, driving, golf, bowls,
idyllic days by lagoon and river; brave sport
with giant fish among the coral reefs; colourful
inter-island trips of 5 to 14 days’ duration, and
on beautiful Viti Levu a 250-mile motor drive
over good roads—one of the most perfect
scenic drives in the world.
Now is the time to plan your holiday in Fiji.
From now till September the climate is perfect
—calm, sunny days, cool nights. First-class
hotels will cater for your comfort. Post the
coupon below for Fiji tourist literature and full
particulars of steamer sailings, etc.
Post coupon to any of these addresses:
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOS. COOK & SON, Sydney and Melbourne
UNION S.S. CO. LTD., Sydney and Melbourne
MATSON NAVIGATION CO., Sydney
Please send me booklets and pamphlets on
Fiji and all information regarding travelling
to, and holidays in Fiji.
Name
Address
3H
m
m
.. come to
FIJI
ISLANDS OF ENCHANTMENT
VAT
*satf 69
in town
T]r{^gv,
W 69 #
at home
Next time you have a glass or
buy a bottle of whisky switch to
Vat 69. Find out how smooth
and mellow a pure liqueur
Scotch Whisky can really be.
It’s better but costs no more.
VAT 69
Pure Liqueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, Leith,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
69.1
Another New-Settlement-Country Story by the Author of “Man-Shy”:-
SOLDIER OF FORTUNE
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
IWAS boring the posts of a subdividing
fence on the selection preparatory to
running the wires. The afternoon
was pleasant, and so was the job. The
former was warmed by a mellow April
sun and cooled by a light breeze that
kept the body dry and set the leaves of
the box-trees twinkling. The job was
light and speedy—about four minutes
to each post—with the tally of bored
posts increasing appreciably hour by
hour and the distance yet to be covered
as appreciably diminishing. The posts
were of sandalwood, and the twirling bit
released, along with the brown friction-
heated chips that dribbled from it, the
smell of joss-house incense belonging to
that timber.
Con Douglas had ridden over from
his place to ask if he could borrow one
of my heavy horses during the coming
week to help draw a load of pine boards
from the mill. The purpose of his visit
having been fulfilled, he had stayed,
neighbor-like, for a few minutes, ex-
changing current gossip.
It was from him that I got news of
the passing of the Campbells from Glen
Lomond. 1 had begun to miss their irre-
gular but fairly frequent appearances in
the pattern of life, and at odd times
during the past week had wondered when
we were to see any of them again.
“The old fellow must have been in
pretty deep with the mortgagees,” said
Con.
I had long since surmised that, but 1
refrained from comment.
“Who’s at Glen Lomond now, Con?”
“Nobody. The same crowd that was
behind Campbell owns Myrtlebank.
They’re working both places together.”
1 turned over in my mind for a few
moments the thought of Glen Lomond
homestead lying empty and the Camp-
bells gone. I felt like one who has come
to a disastrous ending to a pleasant tale.
Con's manner implied that regret which
all decent people must experience for
others who have met with misfortune ;
but it was an impersonal regret. He was
among those who had not been brought
into contact with the Campbells.
I spoke of the stand of dry feed and
the general prospect for the coming
winter. His thoughts were easily
diverted. It was not until he had short-
ened his reins and turned his horse’s
head that I asked him: “Where have the
Campbells gone? Have you heard?”
“Dunno,” said Con. “I saw the young
fellow the last time 1 was in Wilgatown,
but I wasn’t speaking to him.”
AS Con’s horse carried him oft' through
the timber at a smart walking pace 1
bent again over the brace and bit. News
of the Campbells’ departure, the know-
ledge of their absence henceforth from
the round of familiar things, produced
a sharp sense of loss. It was like com-
ing upon the chopped-off stump of a
roadside tree in which one has taken
pleasure for its sturdy girth or generous
spread of branches, its contribution to the
beauty of the earth.
All afternoon, as I breasted up to the
heel of the brace or knelt to bore the
lowest holes, thoughts of the Campbells
ran through my mind. Busyness, each
with our own affairs, had prevented us
seeing very much of each other, but
there had been pleasure in the thought
that they were there, only fifteen miles
along the track that ran below the foot
of the range, and that there was a stand-
ing invitation to visit at our convenience.
They had come to the district about
two years previously—shortly after the
new settlement came into being. 1 was
cutting rails for the stockyard when I
saw a stranger approaching. He had
dismounted and held the reins of a flea-
bitten grey in the crook of his elbow.
I don’t know when 1 have seen a more
noticeable little man. I thought of a
large gnome or a diminutive Father
Christmas. He was of less than medium
height, and was dressed in tight white
cords, concertina leggings, elastic-side
boots and a soft white shirt pulled on
over a grey flannel. He was about fifty
years of age ; but he had the sprightly
tread, nimble-looking limbs and supple
body of a lad of twenty. He had a
bushy, coal-black beard and bright, black
eyes in a nut-brown face. His nose was
smallish.
“Good day,” he said in friendly tones,
looking up at me. His voice, as well as
his body, was at variance with his years.
It Tiad a boyish lilt.
I answered his greeting.
“My name is Campbell,” he an-
nounced. “I am the new occupant of
the grazing property Glen Lomond.”
His enunciation was remarkably clear ;
each word sparkled as he uttered it.
We shook hands after 1 had mentioned
my own name, and he hastened to make
an explanation concerning himself. He
—as he chose to express it—was tres-
passing. He was on his way from Glen
Lomond to the railway, and he had
taken —as he put it—the liberty of enter-
ing my property through the gate in the
back boundary. Passing through my
place saved him about four miles of
travelling. He hoped that he had not
been guilty of too great a presumption.
I WAS a small selector : his manner of
address made me feel like a proprietor
of extensive acres. Had he said, in the
tongue I was accustomed to hearing, “I
hope you don’t mind a man cornin’
through,” I’d have answered him readily
enough. As it was, I had to catch up
with myself before I assured him in suit-
able words that he gave me cause for
pleasure rather than for complaint.
The thought in my mind when I put
the gate in the back fence had been
that, in addition to conveniencing myself,
I might snare an occasional caller. I
kept this to myself; disclosure might
have followed ill upon his display of old-
world punctilio.
We talked a little, sizing each other
up, the way folk do, under cover of an
agreeable exchange of commonplace
observations. He remained longer than
courtesy strictly required, appearing, as
I took it, to have decided that I was not
a person to be later avoided, so I in-
vited him to the camp. He was stand-
ing on my land ; his manner in accept-
ing the invitation accorded with that of
a pleasant and dutiful guest.
We were living, at that period, in a
box-bark humpy ; neat, clean and com-
fortable of its kind, but small and very
crude. As far as Campbell’s behavior
was concerned it might have been a large
and luxuriously appointed homestead.
But he would, I imagined, have paid
equal respect to another’s dwelling-place
had it been no more than a blanket and
a billy beside a campfire. After being
introduced to Molly and saying some-
thing pleasing over the baby, he accepted
a real on an upturned kerosene case with
a slight bow of thanks.
I have never known such a big little
man. Just being himself, he drew atten-
tion and gave forth an emanation ; he
was like a bright, crackling fire. His con-
versation was spirited, well-informed and
polite. He asked no questions and as-
sumed that we were incurious. His
manner toward Molly was courtly. Not
forgetting for a moment that she was
present, his remarks invited her comment,
and he gave full attention and careful
reply to whatever she had to say. (She
appreciated this; her manner said
plainly, “Here is a man, indeed!”)
It was nearing noon. He accepted an
invitation to have dinner with us. He
was obviously not a man languid in the
pursuit of his affairs. I measured the
time gained by the four miles of travel-
ling he had saved by what he lost in
being with us. I concluded that break-
ing bread with us, on this first bidding,
was part of (he seal of friendliness and
his duty of the moment, and that busi-
ness had been told to wait while he
paid an obligation in another direction.
DURING dinner he did not flag. Molly,
I could see, was troubled by a house-
wifely concern because there was avail-
able, on such short notice, only ordinary
fare to set before the stranger. (Corned
beef and boiled potatoes probably, with
steamed pudding and syrup to follow.)
But she need not have bothered ; at his
neighbor’s table he was above noticing
the quality of the food —had it been a
dish of larks’ tongues or a plate of saw-
dust. Indeed, 1 formed the impression
that it was to himself that the little man
paid respect; that he would behave with
dignity toward Campbell, under a gum-
tree, in the presence of no one but
Campbell.
While allowing me the appearance of
taking the lead, he talked with animation
throughout the meal. It was a social
occasion, and as such, to be made as
agreeable as possible to all. His bushy
beard wagged industriously above his
plate, his words and his bright, dark eyes
were directed here and there in turn


SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA. LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Dan-all. General Manager.
A
S*:->--” ;
674
11
\yHEN you invest in N.Z. Perpetual
Forests, Nature is your partner
in producing profits.
Pine, the product of Nature, has over
1000 commercial uses.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD
The World’s Largest Commercial
Afforestation Company.
Amount subscribed for v or- r i oa a aa a
estry Investment exceeds XO,OUU,vIUII
■;—for maintenance ronn AAA
lisation exceed i/UVjUUu
Area Planted 150.11.1 acres; over 100,000.0011
trees.
N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS LTD.
Head Office for Australia
A
y-i
KEMBLA BUILDINGS,
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
WATCH
TOUR MONEY
CROW
No connection with any
other Forestry Company
Q refree
r
K
to
CANADA
and
U.S.A.
via
Pacific Islands
and
Weu; Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings.
Full particulars from
IMOX STEAM SHIT
Co.. 1-td.,
•i»7 (ieorff Street
Sydney.
59 William Street
M Hltourne.
OA^UNION
(even an unintelligible remark trom the
cradle evoked suitable comment), and his
alert sensibilities were studious ot the
sensibilities of others.
I had no idea there were so many up-
personal topics to be interestedly dis-
cussed. He appeared to open door after
door, moving from one pleasant room to
another. I discovered a peculiarity in
him. He was difficult to move to mirth.
Everything seemed to be a matter for
cood cheer, but nothing a matter foi
hilarity. He -took the most facetious
statement at its face value and answered
with an air of having given it serious
and courteous consideration. Laugh ho
would, briefly and hollowly, if it was
clearly not to be avoided ; but in laughtei
he seemed to suspect a pitfall, and was
clad when the moment passed.
The meal finished. He took his depar-
ture at the earliest moment consistent
with politeness.
At parting I expressed a hope that
Glen Lomond folk would make tree use
of my back gate, and would call at the
camp when passing. He thanked me in
well-chosen terms; made his bow to
Molly, then walked briskly to where he
had left his horse. He swung into the
saddle, and, standing in the stirrups,
hushman-fashion. with his knuckles and
body-weight resting on his horse’s
withers, moved off at a brisk canter along
the track leading to the front gate. We
watched until his horse’s heels and his
behind disappeared round a bend ; then
we looked at each other with twinkling
eyes. He was perfectly true, but, until
our thoughts could accustom us to him,
a bit incredible.
I wondered if we would sec him again.
I had heard mention of Glen Lomond,
the property he had taken over. It was
a grazing lease of twenty thousand acres ;
a large place or a small one according
as one looked at it from the standpoint
of a settler on a two-square-miles selec-
tion or that of a station mustering eight
or ten thousand head of cattle. The
station occupied by the new settlement
had comprised over a quarter of a
million acres.
THE next Campbell to make an appear-
ance was son Wally, a youngster of
about twenty. He came one afternoon
about a week after his father’s visit, and
from the direction in which the latter
had departed. Campbell was away in-
specting stock with a view to purchase.
Wally was going up to Glen Lomond to
prepare the homestead for occupation.
1 was building the stockyard when he
came. Though unlike his father in
appearance, in that he was in no way ex-
traordinary, he had the old man’s breed-
ing and good speech. It was combined
with a youthful diffidence that sat him
well. He came toward me, a smile mak-
ing it clear that I was known to him by
repute, and that he felt sure I would
guess his identity.
He stayed half an hour, sharing a billy
of tea and some brownie that Molly
brought across to the job, and lending a
hand when an adzed rail was ready to be
lifted into the post mortises. Then he
left, after expressing his pleasure in look-
ing forward to seeing us again.
Campbell must have returned during
an absence of ours from the selection.
We saw him again when he and Wally,
riding knee to knee, came next from
Glen Lomond.
“We are on our way to get our cattle,”
said Campbell. His use of the plural
possessive, the acknowledgment ot others
whose interests were linked with his, was
characteristic.
One day, a week or two later, there
was a lowing and a volleying of whips in
the distance. I am not one to chase after
the affairs of others, but there is some-
thing exciting about a herd on the move.
We went out to the front gate to watch
them go by.
With a single horseman in the lead and
the murmur of many feet on the earth,
they came along the fenced road, those
in front pausing to snatch a bite or trot-
ting a few paces from the press of those
behind. They were strung out to give
them coolness and the chance to take a
mouthful as they went; and were mov-
ing slowly because there were calves not
long dropped among them. A dust cloud
hovered above them, and into it ascended
their voices.
A well-bred beast is something into
which a lot of human care has gone -
hundreds of years of it —and the result
is satisfying to see. Campbell’s cattle
about four hundred head were a fine
lot; he must have culled heavily and
paid high. They went by with the click-
ing of cloven hooves. They were
Shorthorns mostly, with a few Here-
fords; dark red. roan and milk-white.
There were breeding cows, yearlings in
the bloom of late babyhood, steers,
heifers, a sprinkling of lumbering curly-
pated bulls and, here and there, a wobbly-
lesged calf trotting trustfully beside its
anxious dam. Pure-bred body lines;
large, dark, liquid eyes ; dewy muzzles ;
sleek hides; soft lowing as they passed ;
the smell of wholesome bodies, dust, dung
and the fragrance of their breath. They
poured by like a river of splendid life.
Behind came Campbell, Wally and one
of the hired drovers. Campbell dis-
mounted and came over to us. If he
was hoping to hear a word in praise of
his cattle he got it. It was the only occa-
sion on which I knew him to lower the
reserve with which he guarded himself.
“I’m glad you think well of them. 1
paid high, but I fancy I’ll recoup myself
when I have cattle to sell!” He stood
with us a little while, looking after the
retreating herd, with the following horses
throwing up their heads and snorting to
clear their nostrils of the dust. He said
no more, but was appreciative of sym-
pathetic interest, and was obviously
warming himself in the recollection of my
remarks. 1
Acquaintance ripened, chiefly
through Wally, I got two rooms of
what was to be a house erected, and he
stayed with us overnight once or twice.
He had a sense of the comic, a head full
of Banjo Paterson and aspirations toward
(he footlights. On the occasions of his
visits we staged a show with a cast of one
and an audience of two. He gave us such
merry stuff as “Father Riley's Horse” or
the one about
.... the outer Borcoo where churches are
few, and men of religion are scanty.
We never met Mrs. Campbell. Travel-
ling by buckboard on the day of her
arrival, and on the few occasions when
she subsequently left the homestead, she
had perforce to go around by the out-
side track ; and each time something un-
foreseen prevented her paying us a call.
But we got to know her fairly well.
Piecing remarks of Wally’s together we
gathered that she was white-haired, short,
stout, a good cook and wore gold-
rimmed glasses.
From tentative beginnings she and
Molly worked up to an exchange of
compliments and novels, per medium of
the menfolk. Molly also gained, for
what she hoped would some day be a
garden, seeds from the pepper-trees that
brushed the white pise walls of Glen
Lomond, grape cuttings from the vine
that embowered the verandah and slips
from the pink-flowering oleander-tree.
We began to hear the Campbells’
name mentioned at the township and
elsewhere among our neighbors ;‘evi-
dence of chance contacts made by them
in going about their business. It was
noticeable how people—even some from
whom it might not have been expected—
were eager, when the name was spoken,
to come forward with a good word about
them ; this with special reference to the
old man. His behavior toward people
seemed to have the effect of giving them
increased dignity in their own eyes ; not-
withstanding that, in common with the
other small graziers, he was a member
of the scrub aristocracy, and a long way
ahead of us small selectors in material
things.
He continued making use of my back
gate, always stopping to pay his com-
pliments in passing ; either detouring to
where I was at work, if he saw me about,
or halting for a few minutes at the house.
Those few minutes in his company were
always a pleasure; he left a little glow
behind him. And yet it was surprising
how little else he left. He was never the
subject of his own discourse.
IT was Wally who, from time to time,
let fall statements that eventually, to-
gether with what was to be observed,
formed an intelligible pattern. Campbell,
it appeared, was born on one of the
North Queensland goldfields. He was of
poor but educated parentage. In early
life he’d been a teamster. He'd gone in
for stock-dealing, and then had followed
a succession of occupations such as a
man of adaptability with a determination
to improve his position might try his
luck in. He'd been a station manager,
and at one time had even owned a
bakery. But the main thread of interest
had been livestock. The ultimate aim
had been the occupation of broad acres
and the possession of herds; with a
rider, I think, that the herds should be
of a quality to satisfy a cattleman's
dream of perfection.
- Opportunity to accomplish this, on a
scale sufficient to satisfy ambition, had
occurred when the Glen Lomond lease
was secured. Campbell had mustered his
resources and put fortune to the test.
“He must have been in pretty deep
with the mortgagees,” Con had remarked.
That left little more to be said. We
were in the middle of a big slump in
cattle values. (Stockmen whose memo-
ries go back more than a decade
will recall the time.) Not less san-
guine than the rest. Campbell had bought
o Continued on next page.)


sBs
• > 'A* -
ill
Oft
-1 - fii
■ * ■
t
1 ' %
V%\ •:• Ilw '-k praS••
A I ' V- "a
K
iv;
a.:
OO
yameis -
(FCdlums
(U/ysAi/ is-
Distributors tor the House oj McCollum:
GoJdsbrough, Mort & Co.. Ltd.. Sydney. Lionel Samson & Son -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros and Co.
M'S
- Fremantle
- • - Hoban
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/G ; with guard. 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24 '6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each iaxor
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin.. Jin. and Jin.
blades, S/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
' 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, jin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
rears free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Queensland's
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: B. Jackson. 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Keoresentative: B. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
.London Representative: A, J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street.
in, in part with borrowed money, at the
very crest of a long, steady rise in prices.
Then came the crash. The London
market collapsed. Queensland meat-
works closed one after another. Bul-
locks that had been worth fifteen pounds
a head found no buyers at half that
figure. The nor’-west stock routes were
empty, for cattle, on the outback stations,
were scarcely worth the cost of droving
and trucking to market. All through
Queensland stations were mustering their
cattle and knocking the calves on the
head to save the five-shilling poll-tax on
the natural increase.
Campbell, with others, had gone under.
“What do you think!” These were
Molly’s words when I got back to the
house in late afternoon, driving the milk-
ing herd before me. She’d been in to the
I railway in the sulky. I knew what was
coming. “Where have they gone?” I
asked when she had (old me.
“Carmody, in Wilgatown, has put
them into Donovan’s place.” She paused
on that, awaiting comment.
Carmody was a slock and station
agent. ' Donovan was a teamster carry-
ing between the railway and some of the
more distant stations. The property —•
Carmody’s really—was about twenty
miles down the line. It comprised about
two thousand acres; rough and barren
except for three or four hundred acres of
box flats and ironbark ridges around the
homestead. It was a bad stand for any
man and a poor hopping-off place for
even a good man. Campbell, so Molly
had heard, had taken over Donovan’s
team,
IN the days that followed we thought
and spoke a lot of the Campbells. The
thought that they would not come again
along the track from Glen Lomond was
unwelcome with us. That they should
not have spoken of the disaster that was
impending was characteristic. In substi-
tute for a courtesy call, at leaving, there
came a brief note, written by Wally, ex-
pressing their regret, referring to pres-
sure of affairs at the time of their de-
parture, and ending with good wishes
and the greetings of his parents. That
was all.
We wondered how they were getting
along— not in a material sense, for specu-
lation did not allow of much room with
regard to that. Wally could be supposed
to be at work on the property ; very
likely, as their circumstances would
obviously suggest, getting a milking-herd
together. The old man would be on the
road. It was their condition of spirit we
wondered about; particularly that of
Campbell. He had been sent back to
his beginnings. We wondered had the
man —the inner man —survived the
experience.
Campbell’s story, in our knowledge of
it, was like the final measure of a piece
of music, suspended, and awaiting its
resolving chord. Our imaginings, we
felt, would lack validity until we had a
glimpse of him in his altered circum-
stances.
That did not come until about six
weeks later. We were on our way to a
dance at the old outstation, and had
with us—one on the driving-seat of the
buck board and two on an improvised
seat at the back—Nugget O’Reilly and
his wife, and the daughter of another
neighbor.
We had left at about six, after an early
milking, and at about eight, through a
dark but starry night, were nearing our
destination. As we approached Stock-
yard Creek we heard the bells of slock
grazing along the Hat among the timber.
A snort identified them as horses ; their
number suggested a carrier’s team.
ft s Campbell.” The words came from
Nugget, at the back. Their tone told of
interest pitched somewhat above the
ordinary. We were on the road along
which Donovan had been wont to ply.
and were a day’s travel from the selec-
tion he had occupied. Campbell, camped
with his waggon, was near at hand.
We descended the creek crossing—
pitch-black under the overhanging trees
—and as the horses drew us slowly up
the steep grade we saw the hump of a
loaded tabletop looming, like a sugar-
loaf hill, against the stars. As we reached
level ground we caught a whiff of wood-
smoke, and a spot of pink embers came
into view. From the darkness, near the
waggon, a dog greeted us with his warn-
ing but not unfriendly growl.
We passed at a walking pace. From
under the waggon—where the sleeper
would be safe from the dew of early
morning—a voice called to us, “Good
night!”
It was a fine, cheery voice ; and, com-
ing from one who had retired to his
blankets, it was surely a gratuitous salute.
We answered in chorus.
A Sheep-stealer Caught—and Then:—
MODUS OPERANDI.
BY W.CHARNLEY.
MILLIGAN whipped out his skinning-
knife and bent over the still-
quivering sheep. He was sweating
—partly with heat, but mostly with ex-
citement. One had to be quick, for one
never knew but what somebody, a
boundary-rider perhaps, might happen
along ; though no one ever did happen
along— at least, not on any of his pre-
vious killings, which had been fairly
frequent.
A stroke or two with the knife, a few
whacks with the tomahawk —and the loin
was his! He smacked his lips in antici-
pation ; he would have the leg for tea
to-night, baked in the camp oven, while
the loin could go into the brine cask on
the camel cart —it would last for a week
that way, be a change from the infer-
nally dry ’roo meat that he had been
living on. Fancy a man eating kangaroo
day after day, week after week, when
the country was absolutely crowded with
sheep. What did these damned station-
owners think a man was, anyway? He
bought cartridges to kill off the 'roos
so that their sheep would have more
grass, and then they begrudged him a
taste of mutton! Well, he was taking
his helping, anyway! One jumbuck out
of a flock of five hundred—who would
miss it?
Slipping the loin into the gunny sack
which already contained the leg, he next
proceeded to cover up his misdeed. One
had to be careful about that—those Js.P.
would hand a man two whole years for
killing a sheep. Lifting the carcass, he
carried it to a clump of low-hanging
scrub and shoved it well under, at the
same time keeping the untouched side on
top and tucking loose skin out of sight
underneath.
A VOICE, harsh, metallic, startled him.
“A very neat job you've made of it!”
Still kneeling, Milligan turned his head
slowly. It was possible that a rifle or
revolver might be pointing at him and
abrupt movements were apt to prove
dangerous.
“Stand up! ”
Milligan obeyed. He found that he
was correct about the rifle ; his own .33,
which he had reloaded before starting
operations on the sheep.
“Do you know who I am?”
Milligan somehow fancied that he did,
but for the moment was ready to admit
that he did not.
“Well, Fm Oliver, the owner of this
run. And you’ve just killed one of my
sheep, which makes about the hundredth
that you kangaroo-shooters have slaugh-
tered inside the last twelve months, and
time I made an example of some of
you.”
Milligan nodded. He had guessed that
much before the information had been
given. Well, it would mean twelve
months at the least, might mean more,
though he had often sworn that he would
never do time for killing a sheep—not
while he had his gun, anyway.
“I heard your shot about half a mile
away and rode straight across,” Oliver
was saying. “Been watching you quite
a few minutes: just studying your modus
operandi. Quite interesting, I found it.”
Milligan permitted himself to smile
slightly. “That’s, a good word— modus
operandi. I’ve heard it before.”
“Oh! ” snapped Oliver without interest.
“Well, maybe you’ll hear it again. But
I guess we’d better be moving. Where's
your camel cart?”
Milligan indicated a flat a couple of
miles away; he had come well away
from his camp to collect his bit of
mutton.
“But, say,” he urged, “you don’t seem
anyways interested about where I heard


TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY
BY THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS
KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG
by HERBERT BASEDOW, M.A., M.D., Ph.D., B.Sc.
PRiCfcl
s'-
1
w
U
PRICE
s'-
Intensely interesting and authoritative descriptions of aboriginal
customs and rites, together with unique personal experiences
during years of service among the aborigines of Central,
North and Western Australia.
Illustrated with photographs by the Author.
that modus operandi before. It s rather
a favorite expression of yours, isn’t it?”
The station-owner bared his teeth in
a snarl. “Trying to be funny, are you?
Well, you’ll find that maybe you’ve
struck the wrong man!”
MILLIGAN indulged in a wry grin.
“No, not the wrong man, but the
right one. The way you showed your
teeth just then and your saying modus
operandi just about make it a certainty.
I'll tell you what the modus operandi
was. In the back wall of the police
station there was an iron grating locked
on the outside. With a hacksaw blade
you could just reach it and saw it
through, a little at a time, provided some-
body kept nit for the coming of Condon
the gaoler. 1 was the somebody who
kept nit and you were the one that did
the sawing. You got clean away, but 1
got six months cumulative for being an
accessory. I was in for gold stealing, but
you were in for murder. You explained
the modus operandi before you started
sawing. Remember?”
Oliver forced himself to laugh.
"Where did you gel that yarn, old
sport? Trying to spring something on
me, arc you? Well, you’re wrong, for
1 never was in Kalgoorlic in my life.
I'm Oliver the station-owner!”
Milligan’s eyes narrowed.
“Who said anything about Kalgoorlie?
Though that’s just where it did happen!
And you haven’t owned this place so
terrible long. I've heard about you—
how you blew along one day and got a
job boundary-riding, and then married
old Watson’s daughter. Then the old
man died, and that’s how you came to
be owner. Oliver's luck, they called it.
You’re my old gaol pal, all right—Oliver
. . , Jackman!”
Oliver felt his world rocking. With
the recalling of that affair of years ago.
he recognised the man before him ;
recognised the face that once had been
clean-shaven, though now it was covered
with a thicket of dust-stained, grizzled
whiskers; recognised the gaunt form
which twelve years ago had been stout
enough. Dan Milligan!
The irony of it—just when he had
come riding in his pride of station-owner
catching a sheep-killer red-handed! And
there was Lucy and the children!
He tried to bluff.
“You’re making a mistake, my man,
and your impudence won’t assist you in
the least. You’d better get ready to
walk!”
He would walk Milligan a mile or two
at the point of the rifle, and then let him
go with an injunction to get off the
property without delay.
Milligan laughed sneeringly.
“Mistake! Well, hardly! Look at the
middle finger of your right hand. You
had the tip cut off in a bicycle chain,
didn’t you? Remember telling me how
it showed up in your finger-prints? And
you may remember'it was your finger-
prints that put you away at the bank —
you left them on the electric-light globe
that you took out when you rigged your
electric drill. Then the buzz of your drill
brought the watchman, who you thought
was asleep, and, when he shot at you. you
returned and killed him with your first
bullet. You remember all right, Mr.
Oliver Jackman! I guess, too. that
they’ve still got your finger-prints!”
Oliver’s finger tightened on the trigger.
,Thc thought of murder stirred fiercely in
his brain. It would be easy to put a
bullet through this Milligan and leave
him for the boundary-riders, or the din-
goes, to find! Or he could even come
back with a shovel and bury him like a
dead sheep! He had never really com-
mitted wilful murder —the affair of the
bank watchman had really been an acci-
dent, since he had merely fired to frighten
and had proved himself a bad shot —but
now, confronted with ruin, wreckage ol
all his hopes, parting from Lucy and the
children, he felt that murder would be
the merest trifle. Sooner than go back
and face a trial—life imprisonment—
the gallows perhaps . . .
MILLIGAN read his eyes.
“Don’t think to shoot me. Jackman.
I've got a mate, and he knows the way
1 came. He’ll soon report it if I'm
missing."
There was no mate, but Oliver could
not be sure of that. His finger pressure
relaxed.
“I'm not thinking of shooting you, Mr.
Whatever-your-name-is ; I’m merely won-
dering if the entertainment you re giving
me isn't sufficient payment for the sheep
you shot, and if I oughtn’t to let you go,
just to save time and bother.”
Milligan grinned pleased agreement.
“That would be good of you! It’ll
save bother, all right. But you won’t be
keeping my gun?"
“I think I should, if only for the sake
of my sheep!”
Milligan began to plead.
“But how will I earn my living with-
out a gun! Guns don’t grow on trees.
Nor ’roo-skins either. And, look. Mr.
Oliver, I’ll get straight off your pro-
perty.”
Oliver thought quickly. He had
bluffed Milligan, after all, and now only
needed to carry the bluff right through.
“All right,; here’s your gun. Take it
and get.”
Milligan’s fingers closed on the weapon
—and instantly his manner changed.
Jerking the stock to his hip he covered
the station-owner.
“Different now, Mr. Oliver Jackman.
We’ll forget this bit of mutton and talk
real business. You're worth five hundred
pounds to me! That’s the reward that
was offered, and J reckon it still holds
good. What do you say—shall I collect
it off the Government or off you?”
Oliver realised that his bluff had failed.
“So you’d squeal for the sake of five
hundred, would you?” he sneered.
Milligan grinned like a wolf,
“I’d do almost anything for five hun-
dred. Anyway, you’re a squatter, ain’t
you? You've got plenty. And you
wouldn’t have had anything at all if I
hadn’t helped you out of the jug. You’d
have swung or still been doing time.
So, whether you cough up out of grati-
tude or just for safety, I’m collecting.”
Oliver could think of no way out
Five hundred pounds! Yes, he could
spare that at a pinch. But would £5OO
be the end? Wouldn’t Milligan, like all
of his kind, be continually coming back
for more? There would be no end to it ;
he would be bled dry. His peace of
mind, too, would be gone, for the threat
would be always hanging over him.
Milligan might get drunk and boast!
His mind reverted to the thought of
murder. There was a narrow passage
through the hills, the main road leading
out of the property; a man could lie
among the rocks and pick off anyone in
a camel cart just as easy as shooting a
’roo. just a bullet whizzing from no-
where. And no need to go near the road
at all.
“All right, then! But you'll have to
come to the house to get the cheque. I
don't carry my cheque-book around the
run.”
“Don't suppose you do.” Milligan
agreed easily. “I’ll be along.”
OLIVER turned his horse towards
home. The home which a bare
quarter of an hour ago had seemed the
solidest thing on earth, but now de-
pended for its bare existence on a crimi-
nal’s goodwill. What cursed fate had
brought him to hear that shot. Better
that Milligan should have killed a thou-
sand sheep!
The children came running to meet
him—a well-grown boy of nine and two
smaller girls. Lucy herself came to the
door at the sound of their shouts. Comely
Lucy. Old Watson’s only daughter, who
had given herself and a half-million-acre
run to him. And he had taken all she
had offered, thinking his ignoble past
was hidden for ever, left behind a full
thousand miles away—and now here it
was risen up against him!
“There’ll be a man along some time
to-day to see me, a Too-shooter with a
camel cart. Tell him to wait if I’m not
about.”
His wife nodded. Such a visitor would
be not unusual.
Passing straight through to his office
Oliver wrote out the cheque. "Pay
Daniel Milligan the sum of £500.”
That would be the first of them.
With the cheque in his wallet he went
outside.
Home! He gazed around the place
with eyes that had never realised its
beauties so vividly before. And, indeed,
it was a pleasant enough place, though
it did stand in the dry north-west of
Westralia. A six-roomed wooden house
with a verandah all round. Old Watson
had considered it a mansion, for he and
Lucy’s mother had started with a slab
hut. There was also a garden, watered
by a windmill and tanks; and a thick
pine windbreak which kept the place
cool in summer and sheltered it from
the bleak winds of winter. The pines
had been planted nearly thirty years ago
and were now enormous. The ground
was littered with their debris. Time
some of these lazy niggers did a bit of
cleaning up! He would see about it
when he had finished with Milligan.
His wife was speaking.
“There’s a big smoke going up from
the south-east paddock this last hour.”
He turned his eyes in the direction in-
dicated. Normally he would have
noticed the smoke as he rode in.
“The south-east paddock! That
adjoins Scorfield’s place. Perhaps it’s
on his properly?”
“Black Darby says it's on ours,” his
wife insisted.
(Continued on next page.)


THE AGE
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its nows columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
ou will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Cbe mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home,, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
‘‘The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
DON’T TAKE CHANCES
when planning your
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
USE THE
the weekly journal with
the HOME circulation.
Used by all the leading LOCAL
ADVERTISERS during the past 37
years, who naturally place their
business where they get RESULTS.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
’‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
“THE EXAMINER”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the Best
Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest Overseas, Interstate
and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
THE BOOKS OF THE DAY—
serious, humorous, descriptive, biographical—
are reviewed by experts in the Literary Pages
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
See “The Australasian” also for Short Stories.
Literary Notes and an Interesting Literary
Questionnaire.
’ve never heard
of them/
This damns any business with
faint praise. Make sure that
your logical prospects know who
you are. Use 6AM and be sure
that your sales message reaches
every market in the State.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
THE south-east paddock was about five
* miles away, and when Oliver
reached there he found that Black Darby
was right. The fire, moreover, had
obtained a good hold. Three black and
four white station-hands were making
strenuous efforts to prevent its spread.
Forgetting Milligan, everything, and
remembering only the acres of dry
summer feed that was going up in smoke,
he joined in.
The afternoon galloped away. Other
station-hands, white and black, came
riding to assist. But the fire was not to
be easily extinguished. Fanned by a
strong wind, which seemed to have risen
almost in a spirit of malignancy, the
flames continued to advance, spreading
over a wide front and at times racing
along with the speed of an express train,
though luckily, so far, not directly to-
wards the homestead.
Night came on, and still the blazing
battlefront stretched for miles. Men
came from Scorfield’s to lend a hand.
But despite this assistance the fire con-
tinued to gain: only a change of wind
that would drive it back on to the
already burnt area would be an effective
check.
Watching its fiery progress Oliver
thought of his wooden house with its
girdle of summer-dry pine-trees. Of
course, a wide firebreak had long ago
been ploughed around at a safe distance
out ; but what if the fire got started in
that direction and the wind lifted the
sparks and dropped them into that litter
under the pines!
The crisis arrived. Creeping un-
noticed along the bed of a dry creek
which had been overlooked in the tur-
moil, the flames suddenly leaped to life
on a wide, well-grassed flat, and started
to race towards the homestead.
A black boy had charge of the horses,
working them back all the time to keep
them out of the zone of fire, and it was
some time before Oliver could find him.
His bay was fairly fresh after the long
spell, and, shouting for others to follow,
he raced off.
For a mile he galloped, and felt him-
self winning. He would get there, but
would he be able to save the house?
If the windbreak caught—no! But, in
any case, he would be there with Lucy.
Suddenly his horse went down. Kick-
ing his feet free of the stirrups almost
by instinct, he managed to leap clear.
Then he dragged the bay up. A glance
showed that it was done—for the present,
at least. A leg had gone down where a
mulga stump had been eaten out by
white-ants, and the shoulder was badly
sprung.
A LIVER started to run; but (he fire
was an easy winner now. While
yet nearly a mile away he saw the wind-
break flare up like a gigantic torch. As
he panted on he saw the wooden house
lake fire, the whole wall adjacent to the
blazing windbreak seeming to flash spon-
taneously into flame.
Lucy? The children? They must
have gone to bed before this—had she
got them out?
He could see his home now as a mass
of incandescent rafters, ready at any
moment for the final crash into embers
and ashes.
As he won nearer he caught the
silhouette of a little group clustered
alongside a large object on what was
obviously the ploughed firebreak.
Nearer still, and he made out the large
object as a camel cart. Milligan’s, of
course! He had forgotten Milligan!
He could almost have laughed insanely
at the thought of that curse loaded on
top of his present tragedy! Five hun-
dred pounds blackmail!
Stumbling, he reached the camel cart
and those gathered beside it. He was
speechless with exhaustion, but his eyes
gathered in the situation.. The three chil-
dren were there—thank God for that!
Also a couple of kitchen gins. Lucy
was kneeling on the ground attending to
something—Milligan, wrapped in a
blanket!
Milligan! Drunk —or what?
He looked closer. Milligan’s whiskers
were gone. His face resembled a half-
burnl hat. Milligan had been in the fire
somewhere.
UIS wile rose. “This man got burnt
11 saving Robin. I got them all out
iii time, but Robin would go back for
his gun, the one you gave him. The fire
cut him off, and he couldn’t get out.
I his man went in after him—through
the window. He got Robin out, but his
own back is terribly burnt.”
Milligan was sharp-eared.
“Me back’s burnt, is it? Well, I don’t
feel any pain in it.”
Oliver bent and unrolled the blanket.
“No pain, eh, Dan?”
“None at all!”
Oliver recalled something that a doctor
had once explained to him —that a
person badly burnt and yet feeling no
pain was doomed.
Milligan was doomed! He, Oliver,
was saved! There was no doctor, any-
way, within two hundred miles.
Escape! Then his conscience smote
him a little. Milligan was dying just
because he had saved Robin! Beneath
the hard old criminal crust was a gener-
ous heart. Anyway, hadn’t Milligan
kept watch in that long ago when he,
Oliver, had got out of gaol? Perhaps
he would never have come back for the
second £5OO.
Opening his wallet he took out the
cheque.
“Here, Dan, is the money I promised
you.”
Mulligan fumbled the paper, then
passed it back.
“Keep it till I get on my feet again,”
he said.
Brief Human Sketch:—
FISH
up ISH!” snorted Sandit, the city
grocer, as he sat on the verandah
of the seaside boarding-house
(excellent cuisine ; fish served with every
meal). “Don’t talk to me about fish.
I’m sick of it! It’s fish for breakfast,
fish for dinner and fish for tea ; fried,
boiled and baked. I’ve ate that much
of it that I’m beginning to break out in
scales and develop web feet. Of course
there’s meat, but you can tell by the
look of the landlady’s eye that she hates
to see you hoeing into the eggs and
bacon, and reckons you ought to be
gormandising on fish. Gets it cheap, I
suppose; stands in with some of the
fishermen and takes all (hey can’t sell.
“Anyway, I’m fed up with the stuff,
and if it wasn’t that I’ve booked for a
month I’d chuck this holiday and get
back to where a man can get a bit of
beef, A cattle station is the next place
where I’m taking a holiday—where a
man can get a chunk of steak and worry
it round the floor like a dog—which is
just about how i feel every time I sec
them bringing that darned fish in.
“And as for fishing! Well, every lime
1 see that mob down on the fishing stage
I get the notion that it’s an overflow
meeting from the lunatic asylum. Fish!
Ha, ha! ” ‘
DUSHER. the commercial, called out
* from his car.
“What about a bit of a run, Sandit?
We're off down the coast a few miles for
a day’s fishing. Oh, never mind about
tackle ; d’ve got plenty. And bait, too.
Just get your coat, and we’re off.”
Arrived at the fishing rocks, Sandit
accepted a rod. “Might as well have
a go while I’m here.”
For a full six hours the party angled
without experiencing more than an occa-
sional nibble. Then, just when the beer
was giving out, Sandit broke the ice.
With a shout of triumph, a loudly whir-
ring reel and a terrific final jerk he
landed a fish.
“By gad!” he gasped in amazed self-
admiration.
Pusher produced a tape measure
“Throw it back,” he advised. “It’s
only a bare eight inches; nine is the
legal minimum size.”
“Oh, yes!” sneered Sandit. “Throw
it back! The only fish caught all day,
and you say throw it back! Sandit. the
mug fisherman, caught it, so you say
throw it back. I do like some of youse
blokes. Great sports. Oh, yes!”
CANDIT stepped blithely into the
boarding-house kitchen. “Look here,
missus, see the nice fish I caught—the
only one caught by our party all day.
I'd like it cooked for my breakfast.”
“Certainly, Mr. Sandit,” beamed the
landlady,
«VES,” said Sandit as he lapped up
*■ his porridge next morning. “Had a
bonzcr day. The only one in the party
who caught any fish was me. 1 had a
good haul. Great sport. Always do
me! Say, Mary, you won’t forget to
ask the cook for that special fish of
mine, one off my own rod.”
“Right-o, Mr. Sandit.”
“Mr. Sandit’s special fish!” demanded
the waitress in a voice loud enough to
reach the dining-room.
“Rycbuck!” grinned the cook as he
flicked the eight-inch tiddler to the cat
and then shovelled a two-pound mullet
on to Sandit’s plate. “’Ere yer are!”
Sandit surveyed his fish in a sort of
ecstasy when Mary deftly placed it in
front, of him.
“What price that for a fish! Took
some landing, I can tell you! Bent the
rod nearly double.. Best one caught all
day. Nobody else got any except me,
and I was the mug fisherman of the
crowd. Some size, eh? Three pounds
if it’s an ounce. And cooked to a turn.
One thing I like about these seaside
places is that a man can get a bit of fish.
Catch it himself and then have it cooked
to perfect satisfaction. And, mind you,
1 like a bit of decent fish!”
Poplar in the Mimi Valley.
A slate-blue storm is brooding to the south.
And northward looms Mount Messenger’s surly
bulk, *
But at the pinpoint centre, yellow-gold,
The poplar burns and mocks the stunted growth
Of native trees to bony east and west
That have their thicker beauty, but must sulk
To darker green when autumn and unrest
Warn them of rains and the tremendous cold.
She holds a golden coin between her teeth,
This winter-singer who is not afraid.
And wind or the dark audience of trees.
Watching and envying, on the grass beneath
Have showered tribute, even as I do now,
Guinea on guinea, a golden cannonade;
And I have thought that milkers of the cow
In this harsh valley would be glad as these.
Bronze tempest torrents over from the west
And gongs upon the eastern hill’s nude bones.
And one sharp torch torments the skinny jungle
That to the gashed-out gully clings hard-
pressed,
So dark-grey green to greenish yellow glares.
All swirls, all like a driven water moans
Save that one tree that in the centre flares
And in all turmoil sings like golden shingle.
She holds a golden coin between her teeth.
And. like a young girl in a darkened house.
Showers the unasked rich plumage of her sap
To crafty eels in the thick creek beneath
And brutal earth and sour, determined grasses.
Bui / have thought a milker of the cows
Who heavily through the surly valley passes
Might put a golden feather in his cap.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. SIEWART.


ŵ
ẁ
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 301-.}
%
&
o
&
-
V> S e ilp
V* vr
A' o^o Vv A O
& '*y
,*&■ >’ 56 ><> ee .••• ■■
•
,\» 3 tA' s .••• .••■
o' ....•;■ ...•■••
M-’


It's a SURE and
PLEASANT way
When you suspect a cold, or the 'flu,
sink yourself in your most comfy
chair, pour out a generous noggin
of Gilbey's, add lemon, sugar and
piping hot water „ . . drink deeply
and then . . , bed and sleep.
Gilbey's works out the evil influence
while you sleep and next day your
res olution will be ...
'‘Every night a Gilbey's Toddy
Keeps you fit in mind and body
mm
gw
©i
BY APPOINT HCM t
TO H H THf HINQ
mmm
\
Jon/ soy C 7//?, say- GJ//>ey*
